Produced by Robert Connal and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team
from images generously made available by the Canadian Institute for
Historical Microreproductions.


                     *     *     *     *     *


GENERAL PLAN OF KERR'S COLLECTION OF VOYAGES AND TRAVELS--Taken from Volume 18.


PART I.

Voyages and Travels of Discovery in the middle ages; from the era of Alfred
King of England, in the ninth century, to that of Don Henry of Portugal, at
the commencement of the fifteenth century.

PART II.

General Voyages and Travels, chiefly of Discovery; from the era of Don
Henry in 1412, to that of George III. in 1760.

PART III.

General Voyages and Travels of Discovery during the era of George III.,
which were conducted upon scientific principles, and by which the Geography
of the globe has been nearly perfected.

PART IV.

Historical Deduction of the Progress of Navigation, Discovery, and
Commerce, by sea and land, from the earliest times to the present period.


TABULAR VIEW OF THE CONTENTS OF THE SEVENTEEN VOLUMES.


       *       *       *       *       *


VOLUME I.


Discovery of Iceland by the Norwegians.

Voyages of Ohthere to the White Sea and the Baltic.

Remarks on the situation of Sciringe-heal and Haethum, by J.R. Forster.

Voyage of Wulfstein in the Baltic.

---- of Sighelm to India.

Travels of John Erigena to Athens.

Geography of the known world as described by King Alfred.

Travels of Andrew Leucander.

Voyage of Swanus to Jerusalem.

---- of three ambassadors from England to Constantinople.

Pilgrimage of Alured to Jerusalem.

---- of Ingulphus.

Original discovery of Greenland by the Icelanders in the ninth century.

Early discovery of America by ditto, in 1001.

Travels of two Mahometans into India and China, in the ninth century.

---- of Rabbi Benjamin from Spain to China, in the twelfth century.

---- of an Englishman in Tartary, in 1243.

Sketch of the Revolutions in Tartary.

Travels of Carpina to the Moguls, &c. in 1246.

---- of Rubruquis into Tartary about 1253.

---- of Haitho, in 1254.

---- of Marco Polo into China, &c. from 1260 to 1295.

---- of Oderic, in 1318.

---- of Sir John Mandeville, in 1322.

Itinerary of Pegoletti between Asofand China, in 1355.

Voyages, of Nicolo and Antonio Zeno, in 1380.

Travels of Schiltberger into Tartary, in 1394.

---- of the Ambassadors of Shah Rokh, in China, in 1419.

Voyage and Shipwreck of Quirini, in 1431.

Travels of Josaphat Barbaro from Venice to Tanna (now Asof), in 1436.


VOLUME II.


Various early pilgrimages from England to the Holy Land, between 1097 and
1107.

Discovery of Madeira.

Discovery and conquest of the Canary Islands.

Discoveries along the coast of Africa; and conquests in India, from 1412 to
1505.

Discoveries of the world, from their commencement to 1555,
by Antonio Galvano.

Journey of Contarini into Persia, in 1473-6.

Voyages of discovery by the Portuguese along the western coast of Africa,
during the life of Don Henry.

Original journals of the Voyages of Cada Mosto, and Pedro de Cintra, to the
coast of Africa, from 1455.

Voyages of discovery by the Portuguese along the coast of Africa, from the
death of Don Henry, in 1463, to the discovery of the Cape of Good Hope in
1486.

History of the discovery and conquest of India by the Portuguese, between
1497 and 1505, by Herman Lopes de Castanecla.

Letters from Lisbon in the beginning of the 16th century, respecting the
discovery of the route by sea to India, &c.


VOLUME III.


History of the discovery of America, and of some of the early conquests in
the New World.

Discovery of America, by Columbus, written by his son Don Ferdinand
Columbus.

---- written by Antonio de Herrera.

An account of the Voyages of Americus Vespucius to the New World, written
by himself.

Discoveries and settlements of the Spaniards in the West Indies, from the
death of Columbus, to the expedition of Hernando Cortes against Mexico.

History of the discovery and conquest of Mexico, written in 1568, by
Captain Bernal Diaz del Castillo, one of the conquerors.


VOLUME IV.


History of the discovery and conquest of Peru, written by Augustus Zarate.


VOLUME V.


Continuation of the history of Peru, extracted from the Commentaries of
Garcilosso de la Vega.

History of the discovery and conquest of Chili, taken from various sources.

Discovery of Florida, and ineffectual attempts to conquer that country by
the Spaniards,--from the General History of America, by Herrera.


VOLUME VI.


Early English Voyages of discovery to America.

Voyages of Jacques Cartier, from St. Maloes to Newfoundland and Canada, in
1534-5.

Continuation of the discoveries and conquests of the Portuguese in the
East; with some account of the early Voyages of other European nations to
India.

Discoveries, &c. &c. from 1505 to 1539.

A particular relation of the expedition of Solyman Pacha, from Suez to
India, against the Portuguese; written by a Venetian officer in the Turkish
service on that occasion.

Account of the Voyage of Don Stefano de Gama, from Goa to Suez, in 1540;
written by Don Juan de Castro.

Continuation of the account of the Portuguese transactions in India, from
1541 to the middle of the 17th century; from De Faria's Asia.


VOLUME VII.


Voyages and Travels in Egypt, Syria, Arabia, Persia, and India, by Ludovico
Verthema, in 1503-8.

---- in India, &c. by Cesar Frederic, in 1563-81.

Second Voyage to Barbary, in 1552, by Captain Thomas Windham.

Voyages to Guinea and Benin, in 1553, by Captain Windham and Antonio Anes
Pinteado.

---- in 1554, by Captain John Lok.

---- in 1555, by William Towerson, merchant, of London.

Second Voyage to Guinea, in 1556, by William Towerson, merchant, of London.

Third, in 1558.

Instructions for an intended Voyage to Guinea, in 1561.

Voyage to Guinea, in 1562; written by William Rutter.

Supplementary account of the foregoing Voyage.

Voyage to Guinea, in 1563, by Robert Baker.

---- in 1564, by Captain David Carlet.

---- and to the Cape de Verd Islands, in 1566, by George Fenner.

Account of the embassy of Mr. Edmund Hogan to Morocco, in 1577; by himself.

Account of the embassy of Mr. Henry Roberts from Queen Elizabeth to
Morocco, in 1585; by himself.

Voyage to Benin, beyond Guinea, in 1588, by James Welsh.

Supplement to the foregoing.

Second Voyage of ditto in 1590.

Voyage of Richard Rainolds and Thomas Dassel to the Senegal and Gambia, in
1591.

Some miscellaneous early Voyages of the English.

Voyage to Goa, in 1579, in the Portuguese fleet, by Thomas Stevens.

Journey over-land to India, by Ralph Fitch.

Supplement to ditto.


VOLUME VIII.


Voyage of Mr. John Eldred to Tripoli, and thence by land and river to
Bagdat and Basorah, in 1583.

Account of the Monsoons in India, by William Barret.

First Voyage of the English to India in 1591, by Captain Geo. Raymond and
James Lancaster.

Supplement to ditto, by John May.

Voyage of Captain Benj. Wood towards the East Indies, in 1596.

---- of Captain John Davis to the East Indies, in 1598.

---- of William Adams to Japan, in 1598.

---- of Sir Edward Michelburne to India, in 1604.

First Voyage of the English East India Company in 1601, under Captain James
Lancaster.

Account of Java and of the English at Bantam, from 1603 to 1605.

Second Voyage of the Company, in 1604, under Captain Henry Middleton.

Third Voyage of the Company, in 1607, under Captain William Keeling.

Narrative by William Hawkins during his residence in the dominions of the
Great Mogul.

Observations of William Finch, who accompanied Hawkins.

Voyage of Captain David Middleton, in 1607, to Bantam and the Moluccas.

Fourth Voyage of the Company, in 1608, under Captain Alexander Sharpey.

Voyage of Captain Richard Rowles.

Fifth Voyage of the Company, in 1609, under Captain David Middleton.

Sixth Voyage of the Company, in 1610, under Sir Henry Middleton.

Journal of the same, by Nicholas Downton.

Seventh Voyage of the Company, in 1611, under Captain Anthony Hippou.

Notices of the same, by Peter Floris.

Eighth Voyage of the Company, in 1611, under Captain John Saris.


VOLUME IX.


Ninth Voyage of the Company, in 1612, under Captain Edward Marlow.

Tenth Voyage of the Company, in 1612, by Mr. Thomas Best.

Observations made on the foregoing by different persons.

Eleventh Voyage of the Company, in 1612, in the Salomon.

Twelfth Voyage of the Company, in 1613, under Captain Christopher Newport.

Voyage of Captain Downton to India, in 1614.

Supplement to ditto.

Journey of Richard Steel and John Crowther, from Agimere to Ispahan, in
1615-16.

Voyage of Captain Peyton to India, in 1615.

Proceedings of the factory at Cranganore, by Roger Hawes.

Journal of Sir Thomas Roe, ambassador from James I. to the Emperor of
Hindoostan.

Voyage to India, in 1616, by Mr. Edward Terry.

Journey of Thomas Coryat from Jerusalem to the Court of the Great Mogul.

Wrongs done the English at Banda by the Dutch, in 1617-18.

Fifth Voyage of the Joint-Stock by the Company, in 1617, under Captain
Pring.

Voyage of the Ann-Royal from Surat to Mokha, in 1618.

Voyage to Surat and Jasques, in 1620.

War of Ormus, and capture of that place by the English and Persians, in
1622.

Massacre of the English at Amboyna, in 1623.

Observations during a residence in the island of Chusan, in 1701, by Dr.
James Cunningham.


VOLUME X.


Historical account of early circumnavigations;
of Magellan, in 1519-22.
of Sir Francis Drake, in 1577-80.
of Sir Thomas Cnmlish, in 1586-8.
of Van Noort, in 1598-1601.
of George Spilbergen, in 1614-17.
of Schouten and Le Maire, by Cape Horn, in 1615-17.
of the Nassau fleet under Jacques Le Hermit, in 1623-6.
of Captain John Cooke, accompanied by Captains Cowley and Dampier, in
1683-91.
in 1703-6, by William Funnell.
in 1708-11, by Captain Woods Rogers and Stephen Courtney.
in 1719-22, by Captain John Clipperton.
in 1719-22, by Captain George Shelvocke.


VOLUME XI.


Voyage round the world, in 1721-3, by Commodore Roggewein.

---- in 1740-4, by Lord Anson.


VOLUME XII.


Commodore Byron's Voyage, in 1764-6.

Captain Wallis's Voyage, in 1766-8.

Captain Carteret's Voyage, in 1766-9.

Captain Cook's first Voyage, in 1768-70.


VOLUME XIII.


Captain Cook's first Voyage continued and concluded..

Abstract of Bougainville's Voyage, in 1766-9.


VOLUME XIV.


Captain Cook's second Voyage towards the S. Pole, in 1772-5.


VOLUME XV.


Captain Cook's second Voyage concluded.

Captain Cook's third Voyage, in 1776-80.


VOLUME XVI.


Captain Cook's third Voyage continued.


VOLUME XVII.


Captain Cook's third Voyage concluded.

Commodore Byron's narrative of his shipwreck, &c.; written by himself.

Bulkeley's narrative of the same.


                     *     *     *     *     *


GENERAL HISTORY AND COLLECTION OF VOYAGES AND TRAVELS,

ARRANGED IN SYSTEMATIC ORDER:

FORMING A COMPLETE HISTORY OF THE ORIGIN AND PROGRESS OF NAVIGATION,
DISCOVERY, AND COMMERCE, BY  SEA AND LAND, FROM THE EARLIEST AGES TO THE
PRESENT TIME.


BY

ROBERT KERR, F.R.S. & F.A.S. EDIN.

ILLUSTRATED BY MAPS AND CHARTS.

VOL. I.


  TO

  HIS EXCELLENCY, THE HONOURABLE

  SIR ALEXANDER COCHRANE, K.B.

  VICE-ADMIRAL OF THE WHITE,

  LATE COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF HIS MAJESTY'S NAVAL FORCES ON THE LEEWARD
  ISLAND STATION,

  NOW

  GOVERNOR-GENERAL OF THE ISLAND OF GUADALOUPE, &C. &C. &C.


  Dear Sir,

  Unused to the adulatory language of dedications, I am well aware that
  any such mode of address would offend your delicacy. While, therefore, I
  gratify my own feelings by inscribing this work with your valued name, I
  only use the freedom to assure your Excellency, that I have the honour
  to be, with the warmest sentiments of respectful esteem and sincere
  regard,

  Dear Sir,

  Your affectionate friend,
  and gratefully devoted servant,

  ROBERT KERR.

  Edinburgh, 1st March 1811.


PREFACE.


In this enlightened age, when every department of science and literature is
making rapid progress, and knowledge of every kind excites uncommon
interest, and is widely diffused, this attempt to call the attention of the
public to a Systematic Arrangement of Voyages and Travels, from the
earliest period of authentic history to the present time, ought scarcely to
require any apology. Yet, on appearing before the tribunal of public
opinion, every author who has not cherished an unreasonable estimate of his
own qualifications, must necessarily be impressed with considerable anxiety
respecting the probable reception of his work; and may be expected to offer
some account of the plan and motives of what he proposes to lay before the
public.

The present work is the first of the kind that has ever been attempted in
Scotland: and though, as already avowed in the Prospectus, the Editor has
no wish to detract from the merits of similar publications, it might appear
an overstrained instance of false delicacy to decline a statement of the
circumstances which, he presumes to hope, will give some prospect of the
work being received with attention and indulgence, perhaps with favour. It
certainly is the _only_ General History and Collection of Voyages and
Travels that has been hitherto attempted in the English language, upon any
arrangement that merits the appellation of a _systematic plan_. And
hence, should the plan adopted be found only comparatively good, in so far
the system of arrangement must be pronounced the best that has been as yet
devised. If this be conceded, and the fact is too obvious to require
extended proof or minute elucidation, the Editor shall not feel mortified
even if his arrangement may be considerably improved hereafter.

The only work on the subject that has the smallest pretensions to system,
and that is fanciful, involved, irregular, abrupt, and obscure, is PURCHAS
HIS PILGRIMS. Even admitting the plan of that work to be in itself
excellent; although it may be a _General History_, so far as it
extends, it certainly is in no respect a _Complete Collection_ of
Voyages and Travels. In a very large proportion of that curious work, it is
the _author_ who speaks to the reader, and not the _traveller_.
In the present work, wherever that could possibly be accomplished, it has
uniformly been the anxious desire of the Editor that the voyagers and
travellers should tell their own story: In that department of his labour,
his only object has been to assume the character of _interpreter_
between them and the readers, by translating foreign or antiquated language
into modern English. Sometimes, indeed, where no record remains of
particular voyages and travels, as written by the persons who performed
them, the Editor has necessarily had recourse to their historians. But, on
every such occasion, the most ancient and most authentic accessible sources
have been anxiously sought after and employed. In every extensive work, it
is of the utmost consequence that its various parts should be arranged upon
a comprehensive and perspicuously systematic plan. This has been
accordingly aimed at with the utmost solicitude in the present undertaking;
and the order of its arrangement was adopted after much deliberation, and
from a very attentive consideration of every general work of the same
nature that could be procured. If, therefore, the systematic order on which
it is conducted shall appear well adapted to the subject, after an
attentive perusal and candid investigation, the Editor confidently hopes
that his labours may bear a fair comparison with any similar publication
that has yet been brought forward.

In the short Prospectus of this work, formerly submitted to the public, a
very general enunciation only, of the heads of the intended plan, was
attempted; as that was then deemed sufficient to convey a distinct idea of
the nature, arrangement, and distribution of the proposed work. Unavoidable
circumstances still necessarily preclude the possibility, or the propriety
rather, of attempting to give a more full and complete developement of the
divisions and subdivisions of the systematic arrangement which is to be
pursued, and which circumstances may require some elucidation.

An extensive and minutely arranged plan was carefully devised and extended
by the Editor, before one word of the work was written or compiled, after
an attentive examination of every accessible former collection; That plan
has been since anxiously reconsidered, corrected, altered, and extended, in
the progress of the work, as additional materials occurred: yet the Editor
considers that the final and public adoption of his plan, in a positively
fixed and pledged systematic form, any farther than has been already
conveyed in the Prospectus, would have the effect to preclude the availment
of those new views of the subject which are continually afforded by
additional materials, in every progressive step of preparation for the
press. The number of books of voyages and travels, as well general as
particular, is extremely great; and, even if the whole were at once before
the Editor, it would too much distract his attention from the division or
department in which he is engaged for the time, to attempt studying and
abstracting every subdivision at once. The grand divisions, however, which
have been already indicated in the Prospectus, and the general principles
of the plan, which are there explained, are intended to be adhered to; as
no reasons have been discovered, after the most attentive consideration,
for any deviation from that carefully adopted arrangement, the heads of
which are here repeated.


GENERAL PLAN OF THE WORK.

PART I.

_Voyages and Travels of Discovery in the middle ages; from the era of
Alfred, King of England, in the ninth century  to that of Don Henry of
Portugal at the commencement of the fourteenth century_.


PART II.

_General Voyages and Travels chiefly of Discovery; from the era of Don
Henry, in_ 1412, _to that of George III. in_ 1760.


PART III.

_Particular Voyages and Travels arranged in systematic order,
Geographical and Chronological.

Note.--This part will be divided into five books, comprehending, I.
Europe.--II. Asia.--III. Africa.--IV. America.--V. Australia and
Polynesia; or the prodigious multitude of islands in the, great: Pacific
Ocean. And all these will be further subdivided into particular chapters or
sections correspondent to the geographical arrangements of these several
portions of the globe_.


PART IV.

_General Voyages and Travels of Discovery during the era of George III.
which were conducted upon scientific principles, and by which the Geography
of the globe has been nearly perfected_.                   .


PART V.

_Historical Deduction of the Progress of Navigation Discovery  and
Commerce by sea and land, from the earliest times to the present
period_.


In the deliberate construction of this systematic plan, it has been a
leading object of anxious consideration, to reduce the extensive and
interesting materials of which the work is composed under a clear,
intelligible, and comprehensive arrangement, so combined in a geographical
and chronological series, that each successive division and subdivision,
throughout the whole work, may prepare the mind of the reader for that
which is to follow, and may assist the memory in the recollection of what
has gone before. By these means, an attentive perusal of this work must
necessarily be of material usefulness, in fixing distinct and just ideas of
geography, history, and chronology in the minds of its readers; besides the
important information and rational amusement which it will afford, by the
frequent description of manners, customs, laws, governments, and many other
circumstances, of all the countries and nations of the world.

In determining upon an era for the commencement of this work, the Editor
was naturally led, from a consideration of the accidental discovery of
Iceland by the Norwegians in the _ninth_ century, as coincident with
the reign of the great ALFRED, who ascended the throne of England in 872,
to adopt that period as the beginning of the series, both because the
commencement of modern maritime discovery took place during the reign of a
British sovereign, and because we derive the earliest written accounts of
any of these discoveries from the pen of that excellent prince. Templeton
proceeded to explain to him that it was inconvenient and expensive sitting
for places where one's family was known, and Lumley fully subscribed to
all.

"As for the settlement of the peerage, that is all right," said Templeton;
and then he sank into a reverie, from which he broke joyously--"yes,
that is all right.

I have projects, objects--this may unite them all--nothing can be better--you
will be the next lord--what--I say, what title shall we have?"
"Oh, take a sounding one--yon have very little landed property, I think?"

"Two thousand a year in ------shire, bought a bargain."
"What's the name of the place?"
"Grubley."
"Lord Grubley!--Baron Grubley of Grubley--oh, atrocious! Who had
the place before you?"
"Bought it of Mr. Sheepshanks--very old family."
"But surely some old Norman once had the place?"
"Norman, yes! Henry the Second gave it to his barber--Bertram Courval."

"That's it!--that's it! Lord de Courval--singular coincidence!--descent
from the old line. Herald's College soon settle all that. Lord de
Courval!--nothing can sound better. There must be a village or hamlet still
called Courval about the property."
"I am afraid not. There is Coddle End!"
"Coddle End!--Coddle End!--the very thing, sir--the very thing--clear
corruption from Courval!--Lord de Courval of Courval! Superb! Ha! ha!"
"Ha! ha!" laughed Templeton, and he had hardly laughed before since he was
thirty.

The relations sat long and conversed familiarly. Ferrers slept at the villa,
and his sleep was sound; for he thought little of plans once formed and half
executed; it was the hunt that kept him awake, and he slept like a hound
when the prey was down. Not so Templeton, who did not close his eyes
all night.--"Yes, yes," thought he, "I must get the fortune and the title
in one line by a prudent management. Ferrers deserves what I mean to do for
him. Steady, good-natured, frank, and will get on--yes, yes, I see it
all. Meanwhile I did well to prevent his standing for C------; might pick
up gossip about Mrs. T., and other things that might be unpleasant.
Ah, I'm a shrewd fellow!"

CHAPTER III.

"/Lauzun./--There, Marquis, there, I've done it.
/Montespan./--Done it! yes! Nice doings!" /The Duchess de la Valliere/.

LUMLEY hastened to strike while the iron was hot. The next morning he went
straight to the Treasury--saw the managing secretary, a clever, sharp
man, who, like Ferrers, carried off intrigue and manoeuvre by a blunt,
careless, bluff manner.

Ferrers announced that he was to stand for the free, respectable, open
city of C------, with an electoral population of 2,500.

A very showy place it was for a member in the old ante-reform times, and
was considered a thoroughly independent borough. The secretary congratulated
and complimented him.

"We have had losses lately in /our/ elections among the larger constituencies,"
said Lumley.

"We have indeed--three towns lost in the last six months. Members do die
so very unseasonably."
"Is Lord Staunch yet provided for?" asked Lumley. Now Lord Staunch was one
of the popular show-fight great guns of the administration--not in office,
but that most useful person to all governments, an out-and-out supporter
upon the most independent principles--who was known to have refused place
and to value himself on independence--a man who helped the government
over the stile when it was seized with a temporary lameness, and
who carried "great weight with him in the country."

Lord Staunch had foolishly thrown up a close borough in order to contest
a large city, and had failed in the attempt. His failure was everywhere
cited as a proof of the growing unpopularity of ministers.

"Is Lord Staunch yet provided for?" asked Lumley.

"Why, he must have his old seat--Three-Oaks. Three-Oaks is a nice, quiet
little place; most respectable constituency--all Staunch's own
family."
"Just the thing for him; yet, 'tis a pity that he did not wait to stand
for C------; my uncle's interest would have secured him."
"Ay, I thought so the moment C------ was vacant. However, it is too late
now."
"It would be a great triumph if Lord Staunch could show that a large
constituency volunteered to elect him without expense."

"Without expense!--Ah, yes, indeed! It would prove that purity of election
still exists--that British institutions are still upheld."
"It might be done, Mr. ------."
"Why, I thought that you--"
"Were to stand--that is true--and it will be difficult to manage my
uncle; but he loves me much--you know I am his heir--I believe I
could do it; that is, if you think it would be /a very great advantage/
to the party, and /a very great service/ to the government."
"Why, Mr. Ferrers, it would indeed be both."
"And in that case I could have Three-Oaks."
"I see--exactly so; but to give up so respectable a seat--really it is a
sacrifice."
"Say no more, it shall be done. A deputation shall wait on Lord Staunch
directly. I will see my uncle, and a despatch shall be sent down to
C------ to-night; at least, I hope so. I must not be too confident.
My uncle is an old man, nobody but myself can manage him; I'll go
this instant."

"You may be sure your kindness will be duly appreciated."
Lumley shook hands cordially with the secretary and retired. The secretary
was not "humbugged," nor did Lumley expect he should be. But the secretary
noted this of Lumley Ferrers (and that gentleman's object was gained), that
Lumley Ferrers was a man who looked out for office, and if he did tolerably
well in parliament, that Lumley Ferrers was a man who ought to be
/pushed/.

Very shortly afterwards the /Gazette/ announced the election of Lord
Staunch for C------, after a sharp but decisive contest.

The ministerial journals rang with exulting paeans; the opposition ones
called the electors of C------ all manner of hard names, and declared
that Mr. Stout, Lord Staunch's opponent, would petition--which he never
did. In the midst of the hubbub, Mr. Lumley Ferrers quietly and unobservedly
crept into the representation of Three-Oaks.

On the night of his election he went to Lord Saxingham's; but what
there happened deserves another chapter.

CHAPTER IV.

"Je connois des princes du sang, des princes etrangers, des grands seigneurs,
des ministres d'etat, des magistrats, et des philosophes qui fileroient
pour l'amour de vous.

En
pouvez-vous demander davantage?"* /Lettres de Madame de Sevigne/

  * I
  know princes of the blood, foreign princes, great lords, ministers
of state, magistrates, and philosophers who would even spin for
love of you.

  What can you ask more?
  

  "/Lindore./ I--I believe it will choke me. I'm in love * * * Now hold
  your tongue.

  Hold your tongue, I say.

  

  "/Dalner./ You in love! Ha! ha!

  
  "/Lind./ There, he laughs.

  "/Dal./ No; I am really sorry for you."

  /German Play (False Delicacy)/.

  
  * * * "What is here?

  Gold."--SHAKSPEARE.

  

IT happened that that evening Maltravers had, for the first time,
accepted one of many invitations with which Lord Saxingham had
honoured him.

His lordship and Maltravers were of different political parties, nor were
    they in other respects adapted to each other.

Lord Saxingham was a clever man in his way, but worldly even to a
proverb among worldly people.

That "man was born to walk erect and look upon the stars," is an
eloquent fallacy that Lord Saxingham might suffice to disprove.

He seemed born to walk with a stoop; and if he ever looked upon any
stars, they were those which go with a garter.

Though of celebrated and historical ancestry, great rank, and some
personal reputation, he had all the ambition of a /parvenu/.

He had a strong regard for office, not so much from the sublime
affection for that sublime thing,--power over the destinies of a
glorious nation,--as because it added to that vulgar thing--importance
in his own set.

He looked on his cabinet uniform as a beadle looks on his gold lace.

He also liked patronage, secured good things to distant connections,
got on his family to the remotest degree of relationship; in short,
he was of the earth, earthy.

He did not comprehend Maltravers; and Maltravers, who every day
grew prouder and prouder, despised him.

Still, Lord Saxingham was told that Maltravers was a rising man,
and he thought it well to be civil to rising men, of whatever party;
besides, his vanity was flattered by having men who are talked of
in his train.

He was too busy and too great a personage to think Maltravers could
be other than sincere, when he declared himself, in his notes, "very
sorry," or "much concerned," to forego the honour of dining with
Lord Saxingham on the, &c., &c.; and therefore continued his
invitations, till Maltravers, from that fatality which undoubtedly
regulates and controls us, at last accepted the proffered
distinction.

He arrived late--most of the guests were assembled; and, after
exchanging a few words with his host, Ernest fell back into the
general group, and found himself in the immediate neighbourhood of
Lady Florence Lascelles.

This lady had never much pleased Maltravers, for he was not fond
of masculine or coquettish heroines, and Lady Florence seemed to
him to merit both epithets; therefore, though he had met her often
since the first day he had been introduced to her, he had usually
contented himself with a distant bow or a passing salutation.

But now, as he turned round and saw her, she was, for a miracle,
sitting alone; and in her most dazzling and noble countenance there
was so evident an appearance of ill health, that he was struck and
touched by it.

In fact, beautiful as she was, both in face and form, there was
something in the eye and the bloom of Lady Florence, which a skilful
physician would have seen with prophetic pain.

And, whenever occasional illness paled the roses of the cheek, and
sobered the play of the lips, even an ordinary observer would have
thought of the old commonplace proverb--"that the brightest beauty
has the briefest life."

It was some sentiment of this kind, perhaps, that now awakened the
sympathy of Maltravers.

He addressed her with more marked courtesy than usual, and took a
seat by her side.

       "You have been to the House, I suppose, Mr.

Maltravers?" said Lady Florence.

"Yes, for a short time; it is not one of our field nights--no
division was expected; and by this time, I dare say, the House has
been counted out."

    "Do you like the life?"

    "It has excitement," said Maltravers, evasively.

   "And the excitement is of a noble character?"

   "Scarcely so, I fear--it is so made up of mean and malignant
motives,--there is in it so much jealousy of our friends, so much
unfairness to our enemies;--such readiness to attribute to others
the basest objects,--such willingness to avail ourselves of the
poorest stratagems!

The ends may be great, but the means are very ambiguous."

"I knew /you/ would feel this," exclaimed Lady Florence, with a
heightened colour.

"Did you?" said Maltravers, rather interested as well as surprised. "I
scarcely imagined it possible that you would deign to divine secrets so
insignificant."

"You did not do me justice, then," returned Lady Florence, with an
arch yet half-painful smile; "for--but I was about to be impertinent."

"Nay, say on."

For--then--I do not imagine you to be one apt to do injustice to
yourself."
"Oh, you consider me presumptuous and arrogant; but that is common
report, and you do right, perhaps, to believe it."

"Was there ever any one unconscious of his own merit?"

asked Lady Florence, proudly. "They who distrust themselves have good
reason for it."

"You seek to cure the wound you inflicted," returned Maltravers,
smiling.

"No; what I said was an apology for myself, as well as for you. You need
no words to vindicate you; you are a man, and can bear out all arrogance
with the royal motto /Dieu et mon droit/. With you deeds can support
pretension; but I am a woman--it was a mistake of Nature."
"But what triumphs that man can achieve bring so immediate, so palpable a
reward as those won by a woman, beautiful and admired--who finds every
room an empire, and every class her subjects?"
"It is a despicable realm."
"What!--to command--to win--to bow to your worship--the greatest, and the
highest, and the sternest; to own slaves in those whom men recognise
as their lords! Is such a power despicable? If so, what power is to be
envied?"
Lady Florence turned quickly round to Maltravers, and fixed on him her
large dark eyes, as if she would read into his very heart. She turned
away with a blush and a slight frown--"There is mockery on your lip,"
said she.

Before Maltravers could answer, dinner was announced, and a foreign ambassador
claimed the hand of Lady Florence.

Maltravers saw a young lady with gold oats in her very light hair, fall
to his lot, and descended to the dining-room, thinking more of Lady
Florence Lascelles than he had ever done before.

He happened to sit nearly opposite to the young mistress of the house (Lord
Saxingham, as the reader knows, was a widower and Lady Florence an only
child); and Maltravers was that day in one of those felicitous moods in
which our animal spirits search and carry up, as it were, to the surface,
our intellectual gifts and acquisitions. He conversed generally and
happily; but once, when he turned his eyes to appeal to Lady Florence for
her opinion on some point in discussion, he caught her gaze fixed upon him
with an expression that checked the current of his gaiety, and cast him
into a curious and bewildered reverie.

In that gaze there was earnest and cordial admiration; but it was
mixed with so much mournfulness, that the admiration lost its
eloquence, and he who noticed it was rather saddened than flattered.

After dinner, when Maltravers sought the drawing-rooms, he found
them filled with the customary snob of good society.

In one corner he discovered Castruccio Cesarini, playing on a guitar,
slung across his breast with a blue riband. The Italian sang well;
many young ladies were grouped round him, amongst others Florence
Lascelles. Maltravers, fond as he was of music, looked upon Castruccio's
performance as a disagreeable exhibition. He had a Quixotic idea of the
dignity of talent; and though himself of a musical science, and a melody of
voice that would have thrown the room into ecstasies, he would as soon
have turned juggler or tumbler for polite amusement, as contend for the
bravos of a drawing-room. It was because he was one of the proudest men in
the world, that Maltravers was one of the least /vain/. He did not care
a rush for applause in small things. But Cesarini would have summoned
the whole world to see him play at push-pin, if he thought the played it
well.

"Beautiful! divine! charming!" cried the young ladies, as Cesarini ceased;
and Maltravers observed that Florence praised more earnestly than
the rest, and that Cesarini's dark eye sparkled, and his pale cheek
flushed with unwonted brilliancy.

Florence turned to Maltravers, and the Italian, following her eyes, frowned
darkly.

"You know the Signor Cesarini," said Florence, joining Maltravers. "He is
an interesting and gifted person."
"Unquestionably. I grieve to see him wasting his talents upon a soil
that may yield a few short-lived flowers, without one useful plant or
productive fruit."
"He enjoys the passing hour, Mr. Maltravers; and sometimes, when I see
the mortifications that await sterner labour, I think he is right."
"Hush!" said Maltravers; "his eyes are on us--he is listening breathlessly
for every word you utter. I fear that you have made an unconscious conquest
of a poet's heart; and if so, he purchases the enjoyment of the passing
hour at a fearful price."
"Nay," said Lady Florence, indifferently, "he is one of those to whom the
fancy supplies the place of the heart. And if I give him an inspiration,
it will be an equal luxury to him whether his lyre be strung to hope or
disappointment. The sweetness of his verses will compensate to him for
any bitterness in actual life."
"There are two kinds of love," answered Maltravers,--"love and
self-love; the wounds of the last are often most incurable in those
who appear least vulnerable to the first.

Ah, Lady Florence, were I privileged to play the monitor, I would venture
on one warning, however much it might offend yon."
"And that is--"
"To forbear coquetry."
Maltravers smiled as he spoke, but it was gravely--and at the same time
he moved gently away. But Lady Florence laid her hand on his arm.

"Mr. Maltravers," said she, very softly, and with a kind of faltering in
her tone, "am I wrong to say that I am anxious for your good opinion?
Do not judge me harshly. I am soured, discontented, unhappy. I have no sympathy
with the world. These men whom I see around me--what are they?
the mass of them unfeeling and silken egotists--ill-judging,
ill-educated, well-dressed: the few who are called distinguished--how
selfish in their ambition, how passionless in their pursuits!

Am I to be blamed if I sometimes exert a power over such as these, which
rather proves my scorn of them than my own vanity?"
"I have no right to argue with you."
"Yes, argue with me, convince me, guide me--Heaven knows that, impetuous
and haughty as I am, I need a guide,"--and Lady Florence's eyes swam with
tears. Ernest's prejudices against her were greatly shaken: he was even
somewhat dazzled by her beauty, and touched by her unexpected gentleness;
but still, his heart was not assailed, and he replied almost coldly,
after a short pause:

"Dear Lady Florence, look round the world--who so much to be envied as
yourself? What sources of happiness and pride are open to you! Why,
then, make to yourself causes of discontent?--why be scornful of those
who cross not your path? Why not look with charity upon God's less endowed
children, beneath you as they may seem? What consolation have you in
hurting the hearts or the vanities of others? Do you raise yourself even in
your own estimation? You affect to be above your sex--yet what character
do you despise more in women than that which you assume? Semiramis should
not be a coquette. There now, I have offended you--I confess I am very rude."

"I am not offended," said Florence, almost struggling with her tears;
and she added inly, "Ah, I am too happy!"--There are some lips from
which even the proudest women love to hear the censure which appears to
disprove indifference.

It was at this time that Lumley Ferrers, flushed with the success of his
schemes and projects, entered the room; and his quick eye fell upon
that corner, in which he detected what appeared to him a very alarming
flirtation between his rich cousin and Ernest Maltravers. He advanced to
the spot, and, with his customary frankness, extended a hand to each.

"Ah, my dear and fair cousin, give me your congratulations, and ask me for
my first frank, to be bound up in a collection of autographs by distinguished
senators--it will sell high one of these days. Your most obedient, Mr.
Maltravers;--how we shall laugh in our sleeves at the humbug of politics,
when you and I, the best friends in the world, sit /vis-a-vis/ on opposite
benches.

But why, Lady Florence, have you never introduced me to your pet Italian?
    /Allons/!

I am his match in Alfieri, whom, of course, he swears by, and whose
verses, by the way, seem cut out of box-wood--the hardest material
for turning off that sort of machinery that invention ever hit on."

Thus saying, Ferrers contrived, as he thought, very cleverly, to
divide a pair that he much feared were justly formed to meet by
nature--and, to his great joy, Maltravers shortly afterwards
withdrew.

Ferrers, with the happy ease that belonged to his complacent, though plotting
character, soon made Cesarini at home with him; and two or three slighting
expressions which the former dropped with respect to Maltravers, coupled
with some outrageous compliments to the Italian, completely won the heart
of the poet. The brilliant Florence was more silent and subdued than usual;
and her voice was softer, though graver, when she replied to Castruccio's
eloquent appeals. Castruccio was one of those men who /talk fine/. By
degrees, Lumley lapsed into silence, and listened to what took place
between Lady Florence and the Italian, while appearing to be deep in "The
Views of the Rhine," which lay on the table.

"Ah," said the latter, in his soft native tongue, "could you know how
I watch every shade of that countenance which makes my heaven! Is
it clouded? night is with me!--is it radiant? I am as the Persian
gazing on the sun!"
"Why do you speak thus to me? were you not a poet, I might be angry."

"You were not angry when the English poet, that cold Maltravers, spoke
to you perhaps as boldly."

Lady Florence drew up her haughty head. "Signor," said she, checking,
however, her first impulse, and with mildness, "Mr. Maltravers neither
flatters nor--"
"Presumes, you were about to say," said Cesarini, grinding his teeth.
"But it is well--once you were less chilling to the utterance of my
deep devotion."
"Never, Signor Cesarini, never--but when I thought it was but the common
gallantry of your nation: let me think so still."
"No, proud woman," said Cesarini, fiercely, "no--hear the truth."
Lady Florence rose indignantly.

"Hear me," he continued. "I--I, the poor foreigner, the despised minstrel,
dare to lift up my eyes to you! I love you!"
Never had Florence Lascelles been so humiliated and confounded. However she
might have amused herself with the vanity of Cesarini, she had not given
him, as she thought, the warrant to address her--the great Lady Florence,
the prize of dukes and princes--in this hardy manner; she almost fancied
him insane.

But the next moment she recalled the warning of Maltravers, and felt as if
her punishment had commenced.

"You will think and speak more calmly, sir, when we meet again,"
and so saying, she swept away.
Cesarini remained rooted to the spot, with his dark countenance
expressing such passions as are rarely seen in the aspects of
civilised men.
"Where do you lodge, Signor Cesarini?" asked the bland, familiar
voice of Ferrers. "Let us walk part of the way together--that is,
when you are tired of these hot rooms."
Cesarini groaned. "You are ill," continued Ferrers; "the air will
revive you--come."All the land on one side of this river was inhabited, and
tolerably well cultivated, but he had not met with any inhabitants till
now, since he left his own country; the whole land on his right being a
desert, and without inhabitants, except the fishers, fowlers, and hunters,
before-mentioned, who were all Fins; and the open sea lay on his left hand
during his whole voyage. The Beormas [6], indeed, had well peopled their
country, for which reason he did not venture to enter upon it; and the land
of the Terfenna [7], which he had passed hitherto, was all a desert, with
the exception of the hunters and fishers already mentioned.

The Beormas told him many particulars about their land, and of the
neighbouring countries; but he could not rely on their accounts, as he had
no opportunity of seeing with his own eyes, but it seemed to him that the
Beormas and Fins spoke the same language [8]. Ohthere stated, that his
motive for this expedition, besides some little curiosity to explore these
countries, which were unknown to his countrymen, was principally in pursuit
of horse-whales [9], which are valuable, because their tusks are excellent
ivory, some of which he brought to the king, and because their hides serve
for making into ropes for ships. This species of the whale is much smaller
than the other kind, being seldom more than seven ells in length; while the
other species is often forty-eight ells long, and sometimes even fifty. In
this country was the best whale-fishing that Ohthere had ever seen, the
whales being so numerous, that he was one of six who killed threescore in
three days[10].

Ohthere was a very rich man in those things which are considered as
valuable in his country, and possessed, at the time when he came to the
king, six hundred tame deer, none of which he had bought; besides which, he
had six decoy deer, which are much in request among the Fins, as by means
of them, they are enabled to catch wild deer. Yet, though one of the
richest men in these parts, he had only twenty head of cattle, twenty
sheep, and twenty swine; and what little land he had in tillage was
ploughed by horses. The principal wealth of the Norman chiefs in that
country consisted in tribute exacted from the Fins; being paid in skins of
wild beasts, feathers, whalebone, cables and ropes for ships, made from the
hides of whales or seals. Every one pays in proportion to his substance:
the wealthiest paying the skins of fifteen martins, five rein-deer skins,
and one bear-skin, a coat or cloak made of bear-skin or otters skins, and
two cables or ship ropes of sixty ells long each, one of which is made of
whale hide, and the other from the skins of seals.

According to the description given to the king by Ohthere, Northmanna-land,
or Norway, is very long and narrow, all the land which is fit for pasture
or tillage being on the seacoast, which is very rocky in some places. To
the east of this, and parallel to the cultivated land, there are wild and
huge mountains and moors, which are inhabited by the Fins. The cultivated
land is broadest in the south[11], where it is sixty miles broad, and in
some places more; about the middle of the country, it is perhaps thirty
miles broad, or somewhat more; and where it is narrowest in the north, it
is hardly more than three miles from the sea to the moors. In some places,
the moors are so extensive that a man can hardly travel across them in a
fortnight, and in other places perhaps in six days.

Opposite to the south part of this country is Sueoland[12], or Sweden, on
the other side of the moors, and opposite to its northern part is Cwenland.
The Cwens sometimes pass the moors and mountains to invade and plunder the
country of the Normans; who likewise sometimes retaliate, by crossing over
to spoil their land. In these moors, there are some very large _meres_
or lakes of fresh water, and the Cwenas[13] sometimes carry their small
light ships over land into these lakes, and employ them to facilitate their
depredations on the Nordmen. Ohthere says, that the shire or district which
he inhabited is called Halgoland, and that there were no inhabitants beyond
him to the north. There is likewise a port in the southern land, which is
called Sciringes-heal[14], which no one could reach in a month's sailing,
even with a fair wind, at least if he lay to at night. During this voyage,
the navigator must sail near the land, or make a coasting voyage along the
coast of Norway towards the south, having _Iraland_[15], and the islands
which are between that country and Norway, on his right hand; for this
country continues all the way on the left hand of the navigator, from
Halgoland to Sciringes-heal. As he proceeds again to the northward, a great
sea to the south of Sciringes-heal runs up into this land, and that sea is
so wide, that a person cannot see across it. Gotland[16] is opposite on the
other side, or right-hand; and afterwards the sea of Sillende[17] lies many
miles up in that country.

Ohthere farther says, that he sailed in five days from Sciringes-heal to
that port which is called Haethum [18], which lies between Winedum, Seaxun,
and Anglen, and makes part of Dene. When he sailed to this place from
Sciringes-heal, Dene, or Denmark, was on his left, and on his right was a
wide sea for three days; as were also on his right, two days before he came
to Haethum, Gotland, Sillende, and many other islands, which were inhabited
by the Angles before they came to Britain; and during these two days, the
islands belonging to Denmark were on his left hand.


[1] Anglo-Saxon Version of Orosius, by Alfred the Great, translated by
    Daines Barrington, p. 9.--Langebeck, Script. Dan. II. 106-118.--
    Forster, Voy. and Disc. in the North, p. 53.

[2] Ohthere here calls the inhabitants of the desert Fins, and it would
    appear that the Laplanders are actually Fins, or Finlanders; the name
    of Laps or Laplanders being of modern origin, and the Danes and
    Norwegians still call this country Finmark.--Forst

[3] In former translations of Alfred, this passage is rendered as follows:
    "He was within three days sail of being as far north as the
    whale-hunters ever go." This expression is vague and ambiguous, and
    rather means that the residence from whence he set out was within
    three days sail, &c.; whereas the next member of the same sentence
    distinctly indicates a preceding three days sail, as in the adopted
    translation.--E.

[4] This is not quite accurate, as the coast of Norway, in the course of
    Ohthere, stretches N.N.E. He was now arrived at the North Cape, whence
    the coast towards the White Sea trends E. and by N.--E.

[5] This doubt, of whether the sea lies within the land or not, probably
    refers to the numerous inlets or fiords along the whole coast of
    Norway and Finmark, and may mean, that he did not examine whether the
    land might not be parcelled out into innumerable islands.--E.

[6] The Beormas are the Biarmians or Permians of the northern writers; and
    Perm or Permia is still mentioned among the numerous titles of the
    emperors of Russia.--Forat.

[7] The Terfennas are mentioned as different from the Scrite-fennas. These
    were distinguished by Guido, the geographer of Ravenna, in the seventh
    century, into Rerefinni and Scritifinni.   The latter lived entirely
    by hunting, and wore snow-shoes in winter, called Schrit. The former
    subsisted on their herds of rein-deer, and perhaps ought to have been
    therefore called Rene-finni. The name in the text ought perhaps to
    have been Rhane-fenna, as he tells us they had rein-deer, and employed
    decoy deer to catch the wild.   Perhaps Fer-fenna, from their
    travelling in sledges; from farra, to travel in a carriage.--Forst.

[8] It is highly probable, from this remark, in which Ohthere could not be
    mistaken, as it will appear in the sequel that he must have been
    perfectly well acquainted with the Fins, that the Biarmians were a
    branch of the great Finnish stock. The principal difference seems to
    have been, that the Fins continued to be wandering hunters and
    herdsmen, while the Beormas or Biarmians had advanced to the state of
    fixed cultivators of the soil. They had likewise an idol called
    Jomala, which is still the name of one of the deities of the
    Finlanders.--Forst.

[9] The morse is here named horse-whale by king Alfred, with infinitely
    greater propriety than the appellation of sea-horse, which long
    prevailed in our language.  The tusks of this animal are still
    considered as excellent ivory, and are peculiarly valuable for the
    construction of false teeth; and leather made from the hide is still
    used in Russia for coach-harness, but stretches more when wet than any
    other leather.--Forst.

[10] It would appear, from the vast number killed, that this successful
    fishing must refer to the morse or horse-whale, not to the ordinary
    large whale.--E.

[11] In the original, the broad and comparatively fertile part of Norway
    is said to be in the _east_: the correction adopted in the text
    is obvious and necessary.--E.

[12] In former translations, this passage is: "opposite to this land,
    _to_ the south, is Sueoland." The alteration in the text removes
    the ambiguity--E.

[13] Cwenland and the Cwenas appear to refer to Lapmark, and its
    inhabitants, the Finlanders.--Forst.

[14] See Sect. iii. p. 12, in which this place is supposed by Mr J. R.
    Forster to have been where Stockholm now is.

[15] Iraland obviously here means Scotland, with the Faro, Shetland, and
    Orkney islands.--E.

[16] This is plainly the isle of Gothland.--E.

[17] Apparently the Baltic proper is here called the sea of Sillende, and
    may have been named from the isle of Zeeland. Yet in this passage it
    seems to refer to the gulf of Bothnia, as running far up into the
    country.--E.

[18] See Sect. iii. p. 14, in which Forster endeavours to fix this place at
    Aarhuus in Jutland.


SECTION III.

_Remarks by J. M. Forster, respecting the situation of Sciringes-heal and
Haethum_[1].

The name of this place, Sciringes-heal, has given a great deal of trouble
to former commentators on Alfred; viz. Sir John Spelman, Bussaeus, Somner,
John Philip Murray, and Langebeck, who have all chosen spots totally
different, in which to place Sciringes-heal. Spelman, and others, look for
this place near Dantzic, where, in their opinion, the Scyres formerly
resided. But, first, the spot where the Scyres lived, is by no means
satisfactorily determined; and, next, it is evident that Ohthere went
continually along the coast from Halgoland to Sciringes-heal, and that this
coast was on his left-hand during the whole course of his navigation. The
late Mr Murray placed Sciringes-heal at Skanor, in the southern extremity
of Sweden; but I cannot think that this place could be five days sail from
Haethum in Jutland, as it is expressly declared to have been by Ohthere.
Langebeck is for carrying Sciringes-heal to Konga-hella, on the Guatelf,
near Marstrand; and insists, that the name, in Alfred's account of the
voyage, ought to have been written Cyninges-heal instead of Sciringes-heal.
If the word had only once occurred, I might have allowed Langebeck to be
right; but we meet with it five times in the space of a few lines, and
always without the slightest variation in orthography. 2dly, The voyage
from Halgoland to Konga-hella is not of sufficient extent to have employed
a month in the passage. 3dly, Konga-hella is too near Jutland to have
required five days for the voyage between it and Haethum.

Having demonstrated the insufficiency of these conjectures, we shall now
endeavour to point out where Sciringes-heal was really situated. Paul
Warenfried, in his Historia Longobardorum, Lib. i, cap. 7. and 10. makes
mention of a district, named Scorunga, in which the Winili, or Lombards
resided, for some time before they removed to Mairinga and from thence,
farther on to Gotland, Anthabet, Bethaib, and Purgendaid. This Scorunga was
not far from Gotland, and consequently in Sweden; and seems to have been
the district in which Sciringes-heal was situated. Add to this, that
Ohthere, after having described Sueoland, or Sweden, as being to the
southwards of his habitation, immediately says, "there is a port in this
southern land which is called Sciringes-heal." By this, he seems plainly to
indicate, that this place certainly was in Sweden; and all this will
appear, still more evidently, if we carefully follow the course of the
voyage which he describes. First of all, he has Scotland, called Iraland,
evidently by mistake, and the Orkney and Shetland islands, which lie
between Scotland and Halgoland, on his right hand; and the continent is
continually on his left hand, all the way, until he arrive at Sciringes-
heal. But farther, a large bay stretches to the northward, deep into the
country, along the coast of which he had been continually sailing; and this
bay commences quite to the southward of Sciringes-heal, and is so broad
that a man cannot see across, and Gotland is directly opposite to this
bay[2]. But the sea, which extended from Zeeland to this spot, goes many
hundred miles up into the country to the eastwards.

From Sciringes-heal, Ohthere could sail in five days to Haethum, which lies
between the Wends Saxons and Angles. Now, by this voyage, we are enabled to
determine, with still greater exactness, the situation of this place which
we are searching for. In order to get to Haethum, he left Gotland on the
right[3], and soon afterwards Zeeland likewise, together with the other
islands which had been the habitation of the Angles before they went to
England, while those which belonged to Denmark were on his left for two
days. Sciringes-heal, therefore, is consequently in Sweden, at the entrance
of the Gulf of Bothnia, which runs up into the land northwards, just on
that spot where the Baltic, after having passed Zeeland, spreads into a
wide gulf, extending several hundred miles into the land. Just in this
place I find the Svia-Sciaeren, or Swedish Scares, a cluster of little
islands, surrounded by rocks. Heal, in the northern languages, signifies a
port, as in such places a ship might be kept in safety. Sciringes-heal,
therefore, was "the harbour of the Scares," and was probably at the
entrance of the gulf of Bothnia, and consequently where Stockholm now is;
and the tract of land where these Scares lay, towards the sea, was the
Scarunga of Paul Warenfried.

The port of Hasthum has occasioned much difficulty to the commentators, as
well as that of Sciringes-heal; but all have agreed that it must be
Sleswic, as this latter is called Haitha by Ethelwerd the Anglo-Saxon. A
Norwegian poet gives it the name of Heythabae, others call it Heydaboe, and
Adam of Bremen Heidaba; and this, in their opinion, is precisely the same
with Haethum. It appears to me, however, that the difference between the
words Haethaby and Hasthum, are by no means so inconsiderable. And I think
the situation of Sleswic does not at all accord with the descriptions which
are given of Haethum by Ohthere and Wulfstan. Indeed, if Sleswic be
Haethum, I must confess, that I cannot in the least comprehend the course
of the voyages of these ancient navigators. Ohthere tells us, that in
sailing from Sciringes-heal to Haethum, he had Denmark to the left, and the
open sea, for the space of three days, to the right; but that, for two days
before he reached Haethum, he had Gotland and Zeeland to the right, and the
islands which belong to Denmark to the left. If he had gone to Sleswic, he
must have found all the Danish islands on his right hand, and not one
besides Femeren on his left. This being considered, I ask how it is
possible, consistent with his own description of the voyage, that the
situation of Sleswic can be made to correspond with Haethum? As, in the
district of Aarhuus in Jutland, there is an extensive track of land called
Alheide, which is in fact a heath, I shall take the liberty to suppose,
that the town, in the ninth century, lay higher up towards Al-heide, or
All-heath; for the town of Aar-huus is new, and its name signifies in
English Oar-house. The old town, therefore, may have been called
Al-haethum, or Haethum; so, that if Ohthere set out from Stockholm for this
place, Gotland was on his right hand[4], and so was Zealand. And as he
sailed between Zealand and Funen, or Fyen, all the Danish islands were on
his left hand, and he had the wide sea, that is, the Schager-rack, and
Cattegat to the right. Farther, when Wulfsten went from Haethum, or Aarhuus
to Truso, he had Weonothland, that is Funen, Fionia, or Fyen to his right;
and to the left were, Langeland, Laeland, Falster, and Sconeg; together
with Bornholm, Bleking, Moehre, Oeland, and Gotland. But Wendenland
remained on his right, all the way to the mouth of the Vistula.


[1] Forst. Voy. and Disc. 67.

[2] It appears to me, that the description given by Ohthere, implies,
    that Gotland was directly opposite to Sciringes-heal, or to the east.
    --E.

[3] Not surely on going southwards, but after he had again turned to the
    northwards, after doubling the southern point of Sweden.--E.

[4] This is certainly true during the latter part of his voyage, after
    turning round the south end of Sweden, and standing again to the
    northward, between Zealand and Fyen; but in coasting down the shore of
    Sweden to the south, he must have left Gotland to the left,--E.


SECTION IV.

_Voyage of Wulfstan in the Baltic as related to Alfred_[1].

Wulfstan said that he sailed from Haethum to Truso[2] in seven days and
nights, the ship being under sail all the time. Weonothland[3] was on his
right; but Langaland, Laeland, Falster, and Sconeg, were on the left, all
of which belong to Dene-mearkan[4]. Burgendaland[5] also, which has a king
of its own, was on the left. After leaving Burgendaland, the islands of
Becinga-eg, Meore, Eowland, and Gotland, were on the left, all of which
belong to Sueon[6], and Weonodland[7] was all the way on the right to the
mouth of the Wisle[8]. This is a very large river, and near it Witland[9],
and Weonodland are situated; the former of which belongs to Estum, and the
Wisle does not run through Weonodland, but through Estmere[10], which lake
is fifteen miles broad. Then runs the Ilfing[11] from the eastwards into
Est-mere, on the banks of which is Truso. The Ilfing flows from Est-land
into the Est-mere from the east, and the Wisle through Weonodland from the
south. The Ilfing, having joined the Wisle, takes its name, and runs to the
west of Estmere, and northward into the sea, where it is called
Wisle-mouth[12].

Est-land is a large track of country, having many towns, in each of which
there is a king. It produces a great quantity of honey, and has abundance
of fish. The kings, and other rich men, drink mares milk, while the poor
people and slaves use only mead[13]. They have many contests among
themselves; and the people of Estum brew no ale, as they have mead in
profusion[14]. There is also a particular custom observed by this nation;
that, when any one dies, the body remains unburnt, with the relations and
friends, for a month or two; and the bodies of kings and nobles remain
longer, according to their respective wealth, sometimes for half a year,
during all which time it is kept in the house, and drinking and sports
continue until the body is consumed[15]. When the body is carried to the
funeral pile, the substance of the deceased, which yet remains, after the
sports and drinking bouts, is divided into five or six heaps, or more,
according to its value. These heaps are placed at the distance of a mile
from each other; the largest heap at the greatest distance from the town,
and the lesser heaps gradually diminishing, so that the smallest heap is
nearest to the town where the dead body lies. Then all are summoned who
have fleet horses, within the distance of five or six miles around, and
they all strive for the substance of the dead person. He who has the
swiftest horse, gains the most distant and largest heap, and the others, in
just proportion, till the whole is won; then every one takes away his
share, as his own property: and owing to this custom, swift horses are in
great request, and extremely dear. When the wealth of the deceased has been
thus exhausted, the body is taken from the house and burnt, together with
the dead man's weapons and clothes; and generally, they expend the whole
wealth of the deceased, by keeping the body so long in the house before it
is burnt, and by these heaps which are carried off by strangers. It is the
custom with the Estum to burn the bodies of all the inhabitants; and if any
one can find a single bone unconsumed, it is a cause of great offence.
These people, also, have the means of producing a very severe cold; by
which, the dead body continues so long above ground without putrefying; and
by means of which, if any one sets a vessel of ale or water in the place,
they contrive that the liquor shall be frozen either in winter or
summer[16].


[1] Alfred's Orosius, by Barrington, p. 16. Langebeck, Scrip. Dan. II. 118-
    123. Wulfstan appears to have been a Dane, who had probably become
    acquainted with Ohthere, during his maritime expeditions, and had gone
    with him to reside in England.--Forst.

[2] There is a lake still called Truso or Drausen, between Elbing and
    Prussian Holland, from which, probably, the town here mentioned, which
    stood on the Frisch-haf, took its name.--Forst.

[3] It is necessary to distinguish accurately between Weonothland, which is
    probably Fuehnen, Funen, or Fionio, now called Fyen; and Weonodland or
    Winodland, afterwards Wendenland.--Forst.

[4] Denmark obviously, called simply Dene, in the voyages of Ohthere.--E.

[5] Probably Bornholm.--E.

[6] Called Sueoland in the voyages of Ohthere, is assuredly Sweden, to
    which all these islands belong. Becinga-eg, is certainly Bleking; the
    _l_ being omitted in transcription, called an island by mistake.
    Meore is indisputably the upper and lower Moehre in Smoland; Eowland
    is Oeland; and Gotland is doubtless the modern isle of that name.
    --Forst.

[7] Weonodland, or Winodland, extends to the mouth of the Vistula; and is
    obviously a peculiar and independent country, totally different from
    Weonothland, belonging to Denmark.--Forst.

[8] Wisle, or Wisla, is the Sclavonian orthography for the Vistula, called
    Weichsel by the Germans, and Weissel by the Prussians.--Forst.

[9] Witland is a district of Samland in Prussia. It had this name of
    Witland at the time of the crusades of the Germans against Prussia.
    The word Wit-land, is a translation of the native term Baltikka, or
    the white land, now applied to the Baltic Sea.--Forst.

[10] Est-mere, a lake of fresh water, into which the Elbing and Vistula
    empty themselves; now called Frisch-haf, or the fresh water sea.
    --Forst.

[11] This is undoubtedly the Elbing which flows from lake Drausen, or
    Truso, and joins, by one of its branches, that arm of the Vistula
    which is called Neugat or Nogat.--Forst.

[12] The Ilfing, or Elbing, comes out of Esthonia, yet not from the east,
    as here said by Alfred, but from the south; except, indeed, he mean
    that arm of the Elbing which runs into the Nogat, or eastern arm of
    the Vistula. But the Vistula comes out of Wendenland, called
    Weonodland in the text, from the south; and the two rivers discharge
    themselves into the Frisch-haf, which stretches from west to north, or
    in a north-east direction; and at Pilau, goes northwards into the sea.
    It is certainly possible that this entrance may have been formerly
    called Wisle-mund, or the mouth of the Vistula, as well as the western
    mouth of that river.--Forst.

    This concession is not necessary to the truth of Wulfstan and Alfred.
    There is a cross branch from Elbing, which joins the Nogat and Vistula
    proper; and which is probably meant in the text, where the Ilfing and
    Wisle, united, are said to run to the west of Est-mere, or the haf,
    and then north, into the sea at Wisle-mund.--E.

[13] This circumstance is singular; yet may be explained from the custom of
    the Tartars. The mares milk, drank by the kings and rich men, was
    certainly prepared into cosmos, or kumyss, the favourite beverage of
    the great; while mead, a much inferior liquor in their estimation, was
    left to the lower orders.--E.

[14] Mead was called Medo in Anglo-Saxon, in Lithuanian Middus, in Polish
    Miod, in Russian Méd, in German Meth, in old English Metheglin:
    perhaps all these are from the Greek verb [Greek: methuo], to
    intoxicate. Alfred naturally observes, that these drinking-bouts
    produced many frays; and notices the reason of the Estum or Esthonians
    brewing no ale, because they had abundance of mead.--Forst.

[15] In a treaty between the Teutonic knights, and the newly converted
    Prussians, the latter engaged never to burn their dead, nor to bury
    them with their horses, arms, clothes, and valuables.--Forst.

[16] This power of producing cold in summer, so much admired by Wulfstan
    and Alfred, was probably the effect of a good ice-cellar, which every
    Prussian of condition had in, or near his house.--Forst.


SECTION IV.

_Voyage of Sighelm and Athelstan to India, in the reign of Alfred King of
England, in 883_[1].

Though containing no important information, it were unpardonable in an
English collection of voyages and travels, to omit the scanty notice which
remains on record, respecting a voyage by two Englishmen to India, at so
early a period. All that is said of this singular incident in the Saxon
Chronicle, is[2], "In the year 883, Alfred sent Sighelm and Athelstan to
Rome, and likewise _to the shrine_ of Saints Thomas and Bartholomew,
in India, with the alms which he had vowed." [Bartholomew was the messenger
of Christ in India, the extremity of the whole earth.]--The words printed
in _Italics_ are added in translating, by the present editor, to
complete the obvious sense. Those within brackets, are contained in one MS.
Codex of the Saxon Chronicle, in addition to what was considered the most
authentic text by Bishop Gibson, and are obviously a note or commentary,
afterwards adopted into the text in transcription.

This short, yet clear declaration, of the actual voyage, has been extended
by succeeding writers, who attribute the whole merit to Sighelm, omitting
all mention of Athelstan, his co-adjutor in the holy mission. The first
member of the subsequent paraphrase of the Saxon Chronicle, by Harris,
though unauthorized, is yet necessarily true, as Alfred could not have sent
messengers to a shrine, of which he did not know the existence. For the
success of the voyage, the safe return, the promotion of Sighelm, and his
bequest, the original record gives no authority, although that is the
obvious foundation of the story, to which Aserus has no allusion in his
life of Alfred.

"In the year 883, Alfred, King of England, hearing that there existed a
Christian church in the Indies, dedicated to the memory of St Thomas and St
Bartholomew, dispatched one Sighelm, or Sithelm, a favourite ecclesiastic
of his court, to carry his royal alms to that distant shrine. Sighelm
successfully executed the honourable commission with which he had been
entrusted, and returned in safety into England. After his return, he was
promoted to the bishoprick of Sherburn, or Shireburn, in Dorsetshire; and
it is recorded, that he left at his decease, in the treasury of that
church, sundry spices and jewels, which he had brought with him from the
Indies."

Of this voyage, William of Malmsbury makes twice mention; once in the
fourth chapter of his second book, De Gestis Regum Anglorum; and secondly,
in the second book of his work; entitled, De Gestis Pontificum Anglorum;
and in the chapter devoted to the Bishops of Shireburn, Salisbury, and
Winchester, both of which are here added, although the only authority for
the story is contained in what has been already given from the Saxon
Chronicle[3].

"King Alfred being addicted to giving of alms, confirmed the privileges
which his father had granted to the churches, and sent many gifts beyond
seas, to Rome, and to St Thomas in India. His messenger in this business
was Sighelm, bishop of Sherburn, who, with great prosperity, which is much
to be wondered at in this age, penetrated into India; whence he brought on
his return, splendid exotic gems, and aromatic liquors, of which the soil
of that region is prolific."

"Sighelm having gone beyond seas, charged with alms from the king, even
penetrated, with wonderful prosperity, to Saint Thomas in India, a thing
much to be admired in this age; and brought thence, on his return, certain
foreign kinds of precious stones which abound in that region; some of which
are yet to be seen in the monuments of his church."

In the foregoing accounts of the voyage of Sighelm, from the first notice
in the Saxon Chronicle, through the additions of Malmsbury, and the
amplified paraphrase by Harris, we have an instance of the manner in which
ingenious men permit themselves to blend their own imaginations with
original record, superadding utterly groundless circumstances, and fancied
conceptions, to the plain historical facts. Thus a motely rhetorical tissue
of real incident and downright fable is imposed upon the world, which each
successive author continually improves into deeper falsehood. We have here
likewise an instance of the way in which ancient manuscripts, first
illustrated by commentaries, became interpolated, by successive
transcribers adopting those illustrations into the text; and how many
fabricators of story, first misled by these additaments, and afterwards
misleading the public through a vain desire of producing a morsel of
eloquence, although continually quoting original and contemporary
authorities, have acquired the undeserved fame of excellent historians,
while a multitude of the incidents, which they relate, have no foundations
whatever in the truth of record. He only, who has diligently and faithfully
laboured through original records, and contemporary writers, honestly
endeavouring to compose the authentic history of an interesting period, and
has carefully compared, in his progress, the flippant worse than
inaccuracies of writers he has been taught to consider as masterly
historians, can form an adequate estimate of the enormity and frequency of
this tendency to romance. The immediate subject of these observations is
slight and trivial; but the evil itself is wide-spread and important, and
deserves severe reprehension, as many portions of our national history have
been strangely disfigured by such indefensible practices.


[1] Harris, I. 873. Hakluyt, V. II. 38.

[2] Chron. Sax. Ed. Gibson, p. 86.

[3] Hakluyt, II. 88.


SECTION V.

_Travels of John Erigena to Athens, in the Ninth Century_[1].

John Erigena, of the British Nation, descended from noble progenitors, and
born in the town of St. Davids in Wales; while the English were oppressed
by the cruel wars and ravages of the Danes, and the whole land was in
confusion, undertook a long journey to Athens, and there spent many years
in the study of the Grecian, Chaldean, and Arabian literature. He there
frequented all the places and schools of the philosophers, and even visited
the oracle of the sun, which Esculapius had constructed for himself. Having
accomplished the object of his travels, he returned through Italy and
France; where, for his extraordinary learning, he was much favoured by
Charles the Bald, and afterwards by Lewis the Stammerer. He translated into
Latin, in 858, the books of Dionysius the Areopagite, concerning the
Heavenly Hierarchy, then sent from Constantinople. Going afterwards into
Britain, he became preceptor to Alfred, King of England, and his children;
and, at the request of that prince, he employed his leisure in translating
the Morals of Aristotle, and his book called the Secret of Secrets, or of
the Right Government of Princes, into Chaldaic, Arabic, and Latin;
certainly a most exquisite undertaking. At last, being in the abbey of
Malmsbury, where he had gone for his recreation, in the year 884, and
reading to certain evil-disposed disciples, they put him to death.


[1] Hakluyt, II. 38.


SECTION VI.

_Geography of the Known World, in the Ninth Century as described by King
Alfred_[1].

INTRODUCTION.

Though not strictly conformable to our plan, as being neither a journey or
voyage, it yet seemed incumbent to present our readers with this curious
British production of the great Alfred King of England, which gives a
singular record of the geographical knowledge of the world in the ninth
century. It was originally written by Orosius, a Spanish Christian, who
flourished in the end of the fourth and beginning of the fifth century, and
who published a kind of History of the World, down to A. D. 416, which
remained in good repute among the learned till about an hundred years ago,
but is now much neglected. Near a thousand years ago, the work of Orosius
was translated into Anglo-Saxon, by Alfred King of England, but, with great
freedom and much licence, often using his author merely as a foundation for
a paraphrase; omitting most of the introductory chapters to each book,
sometimes leaving out considerable passages, and often inserting new
matter. This is peculiarly the case with the first chapter of the first
book, containing the whole of the geography, and which is all that has any
reference to the nature of our work.

The Honourable Daines Barrington, who published the Anglo-Saxon version,
with an English translation, informs us that the original MS. is in the
Cotton Library, _Tiberius_ I., and is supposed to have been written in
the ninth or tenth century; but that, in making his translation, he used a
transcript, made by Mr Elstob, occasionally collated with the Cotton MS.
and with some other transcripts. But, before publishing a work of such
curiosity and interest, he ought to have made sure of possessing a perfect
copy, by the most scrupulous comparison of his transcript with the original
MS.


In the following republication of the geographical chapter, much care has
been taken to correct errors, chiefly in regard to direction, as east,
west, north, and south, are often used interchangeably in the translation
by Mr Barrington. Most of the notes are from that edition, or from J.R.
Forster, who reprinted so much of this chapter as referred to northern
geography, and who appears to have studied that part of the subject with
great care.

As a specimen of the Anglo-Saxon, or the language of England near a
thousand years ago, we have given the first sentence of this geographical
chapter in the ordinary Roman letters, with a literal translation.

_Anglo-Saxon_.

  Ure yldran calne thysne ymbhwyrft
  thyses middangeardes, cwaeth
  Orosius, swa swa Oceanus ymbligeth
  utan, wone man garsecg hatath, on
  threo todaeldon.

_Literal Translation_

  Our elders have divided all of
  this middle-earth, quoth Orosius,
  which Oceanus surrounds, which
  men calleth _garsecg_ into three
  deals.


_Geography of Alfred_.

§ 1. According to Orosius, our ancestors divided the whole world which is
surrounded by the ocean, which we call _garsecg_[2], into three parts,
and they named these divisions Asia, Europe, and Africa; though some
authors only admit of two parts, Asia and Europe. Asia is bounded to the
southward, northward, and eastward by the ocean, and thus divides all our
part of this earth from that which is to the east. On the north, Europe and
Asia are separated by the Tanais or Don; and in the south, after passing
the Mediterranean[3] sea, Asia and Africa join to the westward of
Alexandria[4].

§ 2. Europe begins, as I have said before, at the Tanais, which has its
source in the northern parts of the Riphean mountains[5], which are near
the Sarmatic[6] ocean; and this river then runs directly south, on the west
side of Alexander's temples, to the nation of the Russians[7], where it
runs into the fen called Maeotis, and thence it issues eastwards with a
great stream, near the town called Theodosia, into the Euxine. Then
becoming narrow for a considerable track, it passes by Constantinople, and
thence into the Wendel sea, or Mediterranean. The south-west end of Europe
is in Ispania or Spain, where it is bounded by the ocean; but the
Mediterranean almost closes at the _islands_ called Gades, where stand
the pillars of Hercules. To the westward of this same Mediterranean is
_Scotland_[8].

§ 3. Asia and Africa are divided by Alexandria, a city of Egypt; and that
country is bounded on the west by the river Nile, and then by Ethiopia to
the south, which reaches quite to the southern ocean. The northern boundary
of Africa is the Mediterranean sea all the way westwards, to where it is
divided from the ocean by the pillars of Hercules; and the true western
boundaries of Africa are the mountains called Atlas and the Fortunate
Islands. Having thus shortly mentioned the three divisions of this earth, I
shall now state how those are bounded by land and water.

§ 4. Opposite to the middle of the eastern part of Asia, the river Ganges
empties itself into the sea, whilst the Indian ocean is to the southwards,
in which is the port of Caligardamana. To the south-east of that port is
the island of Deprobane[9]. To the north of the mouths of the Ganges, where
mount Caucasus ends, is the port of Samera; and to the north of this port
are the mouths of the river called Corogorre, in the ocean called Sericus.
Now, these are the boundaries of India: Mount Caucasus is to the north, the
river Indus to the west, the Red Sea[10] to the south, and the ocean to the
east. In this land of India there are forty-four nations, besides the
island of Taprobana or Ceylon, in which there are ten _boroughs_; and
also many others which are situated on the banks of the Indus, and lie all
to the westward of India. Betwixt this river Indus, and another to the west
called Tigris, both of which empty themselves into the Red Sea[11], are the
countries of Orocassia, Parthia, Asilia, Pasitha, and Media, though some
writers call the whole of this land Media or Assyria[12]. The fields are
much parched by the sun[13], and the roads are very hard and stony. The
northern boundary of this land is Mount Caucasus, and the southern is the
Red Sea. In this land there are two great rivers, the Hystaspes and Arbis,
and twenty-two nations, though the whole has the general name of Parthia.
To the westwards, Babilonia, Chaldea, and Mesopotamia are between the
rivers Tigris and Euphrates. Within this country there are twenty-eight
nations, the northern boundary being Mount Caucasus, and the Red Sea to the
south. Along the Red Sea, and at its northern angle, are Arabia, Sabaea,
and Eudomane, or Idumea. Beyond the river Euphrates, quite westward to the
Mediterranean, and northward to Mount Taurus, even into Armenia, and
southward to near Egypt, are many countries, namely Comagene, Phenicia,
Damascena, Coelle, Moab, Ammon, Idumea, Judea, Palestine, and Sarracene,
all of which are comprehended under the general name of Syria. To the north
of Syria are the hills called Taurus, and to the north of these are
Capadocia and Armenia, the former being to the westward of the latter; and
to the westward of Capadocia is the country called the lesser Asia. To the
north of Capadocia is the plain called Temisere, and betwixt Capadocia and
lesser Asia are Cilicia and Isauria. Lesser Asia is entirely surrounded by
salt water, except to the eastward; having the Euxine on the north, the
Propontis and Hellespont on the west, and the Mediterranean on the south.
In it is the high mountain of Olympus.

§ 5. To the northward of _hither_ Egypt is Palestine, to the eastwards
the land of the Sarracens, to the west is Libia, and to the south the
mountain called Climax. The head of the Nile is near the _cliffs_ of
the Red Sea, though some say it is in the western part of Africa, near
Mount Atlas, whence it flows over a large track of land, till it sinks;
after which, it proceeds in its course, till it becomes a great sea, or
wide river[14]. The spot where the river takes its rise is called by some
Nuchal, and by others Dara. Hence, for some distance from the wider part,
_before_[l5] it rises from the sand, it runs westward to Ethiopia,
where it is called Jon, till it reaches the eastern part, where it becomes
a wide river[16], and then it sinks again into the earth; after which it
appears again opposite to the cliffs of the Red Sea, as I mentioned before,
and from this place it is called the Nile. Then running from thence
westwards, it divides its stream round an island called Meroe[17]; then
running to the northward, it empties itself into the Mediterranean. There,
in the winter season, the current at its mouth is opposed by the north
winds, so that the river is spread all over the land of Egypt;[l8] and by
the rich earth which it deposits, it fertilizes the whole country. The
_farther_ Egypt lies along the southern part of the Red Sea, and to
the east is the ocean. To the west is the _hither_ Egypt, and in the
two Egypts there are twenty-four nations.

§ 6. Having before given an account of the north part of Asia, I shall now
speak of its southern parts. I have before mentioned that Mount Caucasus is
to the north of India, beginning eastwards on the ocean, and running due
west, till it join the Armenian mountains, which the inhabitants call
Parcoatrae, from which the Euphrates takes its rise; and from the
Parcoatrian mountains mount Taurus runs due west, quite to Cilicia. To the
north of these mountains, quite to the ocean which environs the north east
end of the earth, where the river Bore empties itself into the ocean, and
from thence westwards to the Caspian sea, which extends to Mount Caucasus,
all the land is called Old Scythia, or Hircania. In this country there are
forty-three nations, all situate at great distances from each other, on
account of the barrenness of the soil[19]. Then to the westward of the
Caspian unto the Tanais or Don, and the Palus Maeotis, thence south to
Mount Taurus[20], and north to the ocean, is all Scythia, and is divided
among thirty-two nations. The country on the east side of the Tanais is
inhabited by a nation called the Alboari in the Latin tongue, which we now
call Liobene. Thus have I shortly stated the boundaries of Asia, and shall
now state those of Europe, as far as we are informed concerning them.

§ 7. From the Tanais westwards to the Rhine, which takes its rise in the
Alps, and runs northward, till it falls into that branch of the ocean which
surrounds Bryttannia, and southward from the Tanais to the Donua or Danube,
whose source is near that of the Rhine, and which runs to the northward of
Greece, till it empties itself into the Euxine[21], and north even to that
part of the ocean which is called the _Cwen_ sea[22], there are many
nations; and the whole of this extensive country is called Germany. Hence
to the north of the source of the Danube, and to the east of the Rhine are
the people called eastern Franks[23]. To the south of them are the
_Swaepas_[24]. On the opposite banks of the Danube, and to the south
and east, are the people called _Baegth-ware_[25], in that part which
is called _Regnes-burh_[26]. Due east from them are the Beme[27]. To
the north-east the Thyringas[28]. To the north of these are the Old
Seaxan[29]. To the north-west of these are the Frysan[30]; and to the west
of _Old_ Saxony is the mouth of the _Aelfe_ or Elbe, as also
_Frysan_ or Friesland. Prom hence to the north-west is that land which
is called _Angle_, with _Sellinde_, and some other parts of
Dene[31]. To the north is _Apdrede_[32], and to the north-east the
_Wolds_[33], which are called AEfeldan[34]. From hence eastwards is
Wineda-land[35], otherwise called Sysyle[36]. To the south-west, at some
distance, is the Macroaro[37], and these have to the west the Thyringas and
Behemas, as also part of the Baegthware, all of whom have been already
mentioned. And to the south, on the other side of the Donua or Danube, is
the country called Carendrae[38].

§ 8. Southwards, towards and along the mountains which are called the Alps,
are the boundaries of the Baegthware and of the Swaefas already mentioned;
and then to the eastwards of the Carendrae country, and beyond the
Waste[39], is Pulgara-land or Bulgaria[40]. To the east is Greca-land[41]
or Greece; and to the east of the Moroaro or Moravians, is Wisle-land[42];
and to the east of that is Datia, though it formerly belonged to the
Gottan[43] or Goths. To the north-east of the Moroara or Moravians, are the
Delamensen[44]. East of the Delamensen are the Horithi[45]; and north of
the Delamensen are the Surpe[46]; to the west also are the Syssele[47]. To
the north of the Horithi is Maegtha-land[48], and north of Maegtha-land is
Sermende[49], quite to the Riffin[50], or the Riphean mountains.

§ 9. To the south-west of Dene or Denmark, formerly mentioned, is that arm
of the ocean which surrounds Brittania, and to the north is that arm which
is called the _Ostsea_[51] or East sea; to the east and north are the
north Dene[52], or North Danes, both on the continent and on the islands.
To the east are the Afdrede[53]. To the south is the mouth of the AElfe or
Elbe, and some part of _Old Seaxna_[54] or Old Saxony. The North Dene
have to the north that arm of the sea which is called the East sea, and to
the east is the nation of the Osti[55], and the Afdrede, or Obotrites, to
the south. The Osti have to the north of them that same arm of the sea, or
the Baltic, and so have the Winedas and the Burgendas[56]. Still more to
the south is Haefeldan[57]. The Burgendas have this same arm of the sea to
the west, and the Sweon[58] to the north. To the east are the Sermende, to
the south the Surfe[59]. The Sweons have to the south the arm of the sea
called _Ost_, and to the north, over the wastes, is Cwenland[60], to
the north-west are the Scride-finnas[61], and the North-men[62] are to the
west[63].

§ 10. We shall now speak of Greca-land or Greece, which lies south of the
Danube. The Proponditis, or sea called Propontis, is _eastward_ of
Constantinople; to the north of that city, an arm of the sea issues from
the Euxine, and flows _westwards_; to the _north-west_ the mouths
of the Danube empty themselves into the south-east part of the Euxine[64].
To the south and west of these mouths are the Maesi, a Greek nation; to the
west are the Traci or Thracians, and to the east the Macedonians. "I feel
it--I saw it--I know it."
"Whom do you suspect?"
"That accursed Maltravers! He crosses me in every path--my spirit quails
beneath his whenever we encounter. I read my doom."
"If it be Maltravers," said Ferrers, gravely, "the danger cannot be great.
Florence has seen but little of him, and he does not admire her much;
but she is a great match, and he is ambitious.

We must guard against this betimes, Cesarini--for know that I dislike
Maltravers as much as you do, and will cheerfully aid you in any plan to
blight his hopes in that quarter."
"Generous, noble friend!--yet he is richer, better-born than I."
"That may be: but to one in Lady Florence's position, all minor grades
of rank in her aspirants seem pretty well levelled. Come, I don't tell
you that I would not sooner she married a countryman and an equal--but I
have taken a liking to you, and I detest Maltravers. She is very
romantic--fond of poetry to a passion--writes it herself, I fancy.
Oh, you'll just suit her; but, alas! how will you see her?"
"See her! What mean you?"
"Why, have you not declared love to-night? I thought I overheard
you.
Can you for a moment fancy that, after such an avowal, Lady Florence will
again receive you--that is, if she mean to reject your suit?"

"Fool that I was! But no--she must, she shall."
"Be persuaded; in this country violence will not do. Take my advice, write
an humble apology, confess your fault, invoke her pity; and, declaring
that you renounce for ever the character of a lover, implore still to be
acknowledged as a friend. Be quiet now, hear me out; I am older than you; I
know my cousin; this will pique her; your modesty will soothe, while
your coldness will arouse, her vanity. Meanwhile you will watch the progress
of Maltravers; I will be by your elbow; and between us, to use a homely
phrase, we will do for him.

Then you may have your opportunity, clear stage, and fair play."

Cesarini was at first rebellious; but, at length, even he saw the policy
of the advice. But Lumley would not leave him till the advice was adopted.
He made Castruccio accompany him to a club, dictated the letter to
Florence, and undertook its charge. This was not all.

"It is also necessary," said Lumley, after a short but thoughtful silence,
"that you should write to Maltravers."

"And for what?"
"I have my reasons. Ask him, in a frank and friendly spirit, his opinion
of Lady Florence; state your belief that she loves you, and inquire ingenuously
what he thinks your chances of happiness in such a union."
"But why this?"
"His answer may be useful," returned Lumley, musingly. "Stay, I will
dictate the letter."
Cesarini wondered and hesitated, but there was that about Lumley Ferrers which
had already obtained command over the weak and passionate poet.
He wrote, therefore, as Lumley dictated, beginning with some
commonplace doubts as to the happiness of marriage in general, excusing
himself for his recent coldness towards Maltravers, and asking him his
confidential opinion both as to Lady Florence's character and his own
chances of success.

This letter, like the former one, Lumley sealed and despatched.

"You perceive," he then said, briefly, to Cesarini, "that it is the object
of this letter to entrap Maltravers into some plain and honest avowal of
his dislike to Lady Florence; we may make good use of such expressions
hereafter, if he should ever prove a rival. And now go home to rest: you
look exhausted. Adieu, my new friend."
"I have long had a presentiment," said Lumley to his councillor SELF, as
he walked to Great George Street, "that that wild girl has conceived
a romantic fancy for Maltravers. But I can easily prevent such an accident
ripening into misfortune. Meanwhile, I have secured a tool, if I want one.
By Jove, what an ass that poet is! But so was Cassio; yet Iago made use
of him. If Iago had been born now, and dropped that foolish fancy for
revenge, what a glorious fellow he would have been!
Prime minister at least!"
Pale, haggard, exhausted, Castruccio Cesarini, traversing a length of
way, arrived at last at a miserable lodging in the suburb of Chelsea.
His fortune was now gone; gone in supplying the poorest food to a craving and
imbecile vanity: gone, that its owner might seem what nature never
meant him for: the elegant Lothario, the graceful man of pleasure,
the troubadour of modern life!

gone in horses, and jewels, and fine clothes, and gaming, and printing
unsaleable poems on gilt-edged vellum; gone, that he might not be a
greater but a more fashionable man than Ernest Maltravers! Such is the
common destiny of those poor adventurers who confine fame to boudoirs
and saloons. No matter whether they be poets or dandies, wealthy
/parvenus/ or aristocratic cadets, all equally prove the adage that
the wrong paths to reputation are strewed with the wrecks of peace, fortune,
happiness, and too often honour! And yet this poor young man had dared to
hope for the hand of Florence Lascelles! He had the common notion of
foreigners, that English girls marry for love, are very romantic; that,
within the three seas, heiresses are as plentiful as blackberries; and for
the rest, his vanity had been so pampered, that it now insinuated itself
into every fibre of his intellectual and moral system.

Cesarini looked cautiously round, as he arrived at his door; for he fancied
that, even in that obscure place, persons might be anxious to catch a
glimpse of the celebrated poet; and he concealed his residence from all;
dined on a roll when he did not dine out, and left his address at "The
Travellers." He looked round, I say, and he did observe a tall figure
wrapped in a cloak that had indeed followed him from a distant and more
populous part of the town. But the figure turned round, and vanished instantly.
Cesarini mounted to his second floor. And about the middle of the next day
a messenger left a letter at his door, containing one hundred pounds in a
blank envelope. Cesarini knew not the writing of the address; his pride
was deeply wounded.

Amidst all his penury, he had not even applied to his own sister. Could it
    come from her, from De Montaigne? He was lost in conjecture. He put
    the remittance aside for a few days; for he had something fine in
him, the poor poet!

but bills grew pressing, and necessity hath no law.
    
    Two days afterwards, Cesarini brought to Ferrers the answer he had
received from Maltravers.

Lumley had rightly foreseen that the high spirit of Ernest would conceive
    some indignation at the coquetry of Florence in beguiling the Italian
    into hopes never to be realised, and that he would express himself
openly and warmly.

He did so, however, with more gentleness than Lumley had
    anticipated.
    
    "This is not exactly the thing," said Ferrers, after twice reading
    the letter; "still it may hereafter be a strong card in our hands--we
will keep it."

So saying, he locked the letter up in his desk, and Cesarini soon
forgot its existence.

CHAPTER V.

"She was a phantom of delight, When first she gleamed upon my
sight:
A lovely apparition sent To be a moment's ornament."

--WORDSWORTH.

    MALTRAVERS did not see Lady Florence again for some weeks;
    meanwhile, Lumley Ferrers made his /debut/ in parliament.

Rigidly adhering to his plan of acting on a deliberate system, and
not prone to overrate himself, Mr.

Ferrers did not, like most promising new members, try the hazardous ordeal
    of a great first speech. Though bold, fluent, and ready, he was not
    eloquent; and he knew that on great occasions, when great speeches
are wanted, great guns like to have the fire to themselves.

Neither did he split upon the opposite rock of "promising young men,"
    who stick to "the business of the house" like leeches, and quibble
    on details; in return for which labour they are generally voted
bores, who can never do anything remarkable.

But he spoke frequently, shortly, courageously, and with a strong dash of
    good-humoured personality. He was the man whom a minister could get
    to say something which other people did not like to say: and he did
    so with a frank fearlessness that carried off any seeming violation
of good taste.

He soon became a very popular speaker in the parliamentary clique;
    especially with the gentlemen who crowd the bar, and never want
to hear the argument of the debate.

Between him and Maltravers a visible coldness now existed; for the
latter looked upon his old friend (whose principles of logic led
him even to republicanism, and who had been accustomed to accuse
Ernest of temporising with plain truths, if he demurred to their
application to artificial states of society) as a cold-blooded and
hypocritical adventurer; while Ferrers, seeing that Ernest could
now be of no further use to him, was willing enough to drop a
profitless intimacy.

Nay, he thought it would be wise to pick a quarrel with him, if
    possible, as the best means of banishing a supposed rival from the
    house of his noble relation, Lord Saxingham. But no opportunity for
    that step presented itself; so Lumley kept a fit of convenient
rudeness, or an impromptu sarcasm, in reserve, if ever it should
be wanted.

The season and the session were alike drawing to a close, when
Maltravers received a pressing invitation from Cleveland to spend
a week at his villa, which he assured Ernest would be full of
agreeable people; and as all business productive of debate or
division was over, Maltravers was glad to obtain fresh air, and a
change of scene.

Accordingly, he sent down his luggage and favourite books, and one afternoon
    in early August rode alone towards Temple Grove. He was much
    dissatisfied, perhaps disappointed, with his experience of public life;
    and with his high-wrought and over-refining views of the deficiencies
of others more prominent, he was in a humour to mingle also censure
of himself, for having yielded too much to the doubts and scruples
that often, in the early part of their career, beset the honest and
sincere, in the turbulent whirl of politics, and ever tend to make
the robust hues that should belong to action
"Sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought."

His mind was working its way slowly towards those conclusions, which sometimes
    ripen the best practical men out of the most exalted theorists, and
    perhaps he saw before him the pleasing prospect flatteringly exhibited
    to another, when he complained of being too honest for party, viz.,
"of becoming a very pretty rascal in time!"

For several weeks he had not heard from his unknown correspondent,
    and the time was come when he missed those letters, now continued
for more than two years; and which, in their eloquent mixture of
complaint, exhortation, despondent gloom and declamatory enthusiasm,
had often soothed him in dejection, and made him more sensible of
triumph.

While revolving in his mind thoughts connected with these subjects--and,
    somehow or other, with his more ambitious reveries were always mingled
    musings of curiosity respecting his correspondent--he was struck
by the beauty of a little girl, of about eleven years old, who was
walking with a female attendant on the footpath that skirted the
road.

I said that he was struck by her beauty, but that is a wrong expression; it
    was rather the charm of her countenance than the perfection of her
    features which arrested the gaze of Maltravers--a charm that might not
    have existed for others, but was inexpressibly attractive to him, and
    was so much apart from the vulgar fascination of mere beauty, that
    it would have equally touched a chord at his heart, if coupled
    with homely features or a bloomless cheek.

This charm was in a wonderful innocent and dove-like softness of expression.
    We all form to ourselves some /beau-ideal/ of the "fair spirit" we
    desire as our earthly "minister," and somewhat capriciously gauge
and proportion our admiration of living shapes according as the
/beau-ideal/ is more or less embodied or approached.

Beauty, of a stamp that is not familiar to the dreams of our fancy, may
    win the cold homage of our judgment, while a look, a feature, a
something that realises and calls up a boyish vision, and assimilates
even distantly to the picture we wear within us, has a loveliness
peculiar to our eyes, and kindles an emotion that almost seems to
belong to memory.

It is this which the Platonists felt when they wildly supposed that souls
    attracted to each other on earth had been united in an earlier
being and a diviner sphere; and there was in the young face on which
Ernest gazed precisely this ineffable harmony with his preconceived
notions of the beautiful.

Many a nightly and noonday reverie was realised in those mild yet smiling
    eyes of the darkest blue; in that ingenuous breadth of brow, with its
    slightly-pencilled arches, and the nose, not cut in that sharp
    and clear symmetry which looks so lovely in marble, but usually
gives to flesh and blood a decided and hard character, that better
becomes the sterner than the gentler sex--no; not moulded in the
pure Grecian, nor in the pure Roman, cast; but small, delicate,
with the least possible inclination to turn upward, that was only
to be detected in one position of the head, and served to give a
prettier archness to the sweet flexile lips, which, from the
gentleness of their repose, seemed to smile unconsciously, but
rather from a happy constitutional serenity than from the giddiness
of mirth.

Such was the character of this fair child's countenance, on which Maltravers
    turned and gazed involuntarily and reverently, with something of
    the admiring delight with which we look upon the Virgin of a
Rafaele, or the sunset landscape of a Claude.

The girl did not appear to feel any premature coquetry at the evident,
    though respectful admiration she excited. She met the eyes bent
    upon her, brilliant and eloquent as they were, with a fearless and
unsuspecting gaze, and pointed out to her companion, with all a
child's quick and unrestrained impulse, the shining and raven gloss,
the arched and haughty neck, of Ernest's beautiful Arabian.

Now there happened between Maltravers and the young object of his admiration
     a little adventure, which served, perhaps, to fix in her recollection
    this short encounter with a stranger; for certain it is that, years
after, she did remember both the circumstances of the adventure and
the features of Maltravers.

She wore one of those large straw-hats which look so pretty upon
    children, and the warmth of the day made her untie the strings which
    confined it. A gentle breeze arose, as by a turn in the road the
    country became more open, and suddenly wafted the hat from its proper
    post, almost to the hoofs of Ernest's horse.
    The child naturally made a spring forward to arrest the deserter,
and her foot slipped down the bank, which was rather steeply raised
above the road.

She uttered a low cry of pain. To dismount--to regain the prize--and to
    restore it to its owner, was, with Ernest, the work of a moment;
    the poor girl had twisted her ankle and was leaning upon her
    servant for support. But when she saw the anxiety, and almost the
    alarm, upon the stranger's face (and her exclamation of pain had
    literally thrilled his heart--so much and so unaccountably had she
excited his interest), she made an effort at self-control, not
common at her years, and, with a forced smile, assured him she was
not much hurt--that it was nothing--that she was just at home.

"Oh, miss!" said the servant, "I am sure you are very bad. Dear
    heart, how angry master will be! It was not my fault; was it, sir?"
    
    "Oh, no, it was not your fault, Margaret; don't be frightened--papa
    sha'n't blame you. But I'm much better now." So saying, she tried
    to walk; but the effort was in vain--she turned yet more pale, and
    though she struggled to prevent a shriek, the tears rolled down her
    cheeks.
    

It was very odd, but Maltravers had never felt more touched--the tears
    stood in his own eyes; he longed to carry her in his arms, but,
    child as she was, a strange kind of nervous timidity forbade him.

Margaret, perhaps, expected it of him, for she looked hard in his face,
    before she attempted a burthen to which, being a small, slight
    person, she was by no means equal. However, after a pause, she took up
    her charge, who, ashamed of her tears, and almost overcome with
    pain, nestled her head in the woman's bosom, and Maltravers walked
by her side, while his docile and well-trained horse followed at a
distance, every now and then putting its fore-legs on the bank and
cropping away a mouthful of leaves from the hedge-row.

"Oh, Margaret!" said the little sufferer, "I cannot bear it--indeed I cannot."
    
    And Maltravers observed that Margaret had permitted the lame foot to
    hang down unsupported, so that the pain must indeed have been
scarcely bearable.

He could restrain himself no longer.
    
    "You are not strong enough to carry her," said he, sharply, to the
servant; and the next moment the child was in his arms.

Oh, with what anxious tenderness he bore her! and he was so happy
    when she turned her face to him and smiled, and told him she now
scarcely felt the pain.

If it were possible to be in love with a child of eleven years old,
    Maltravers was almost in love. His pulses trembled as he felt her
    pure breath on his cheek, and her rich beautiful hair was waved
    by the breeze across his lips. He hushed his voice to a whisper as
    he poured forth all the soothing and comforting expressions which
give a natural eloquence to persons fond of children--and Ernest
Maltravers was the idol of children;--he understood and sympathised
with them; he had a great deal of the child himself, beneath the
rough and cold husk of his proud reserve.

At length they came to a lodge, and Margaret eagerly inquiring "whether
    master and missus were at home," seemed delighted to hear they were
    not. Ernest, however, insisted on bearing his charge across the
    lawn to the house, which, like most suburban villas, was but a
    stone's throw from the lodge; and, receiving the most positive
promise that surgical advice should be immediately sent for, he was
forced to content himself with laying the sufferer on a sofa in the
drawing-room; and she thanked him so prettily, and assured him she
was so much easier, that he would have given the world to kiss her.

    The child had completed her conquest over him by being above the child's
    ordinary littleness of making the worst of things, in order to obtain
    the consequence and dignity of being pitied;--she was evidently
unselfish and considerate for others.

He did kiss her, but it was the hand that he kissed, and no cavalier
ever kissed his lady's hand with more respect; and then, for the
first time, the child blushed--then, for the first time, she felt
as if the day would come when she should be a child no longer!

Why was this?--perhaps because it is an era in life--the first sign of a
    tenderness that inspires respect, not familiarity!

"If ever again I could be in love," said Maltravers, as he spurred on his
    road, "I really think it would be with that exquisite child. My
    feeling is more like that of love at first sight than any emotion
which beauty ever caused in me.

Alice--Valerie--no; the /first/ sight of them did not:--but what folly
    is this--a child of eleven--and I verging upon thirty!"
    Still, however, folly as it might be, the image of that young girl haunted
    Maltravers for many days; till change of scene, the distractions
of society, the grave thoughts of manhood, and, above all, a series
of exciting circumstances about to be narrated, gradually obliterated
a strange and most delightful impression.

He had learned, however, that Mr. Templeton was the proprietor of the
    villa, which was the child's home. He wrote to Ferrers to narrate the
    incident, and to inquire after the sufferer.

In due time he heard from that gentleman that the child was recovered,
    and gone with Mr. and Mrs. Templeton to Brighton, for change of
    air and sea-bathing

.
    This may have been owing to
    errors in the Anglo-Saxon MS. which Barrington professes to have
    translated literally, and he disclaims any responsibility for the
    errors of his author.--E.

[78] Probably some corruption of Syrtes Majores, or of Syrenaica.--E.

[79] Tripolitana, now Tripoli.--E.

[80] I can make nothing of this salt lake of the Arzuges, unless it be the
    lake of Lawdeah, between Tunis and Tripoli. The Getulians and
    Garamantes are well known ancient inhabitants of the interior of
    northern Africa; the Natabres are unknown.--E.

[81] The Garamantes are a well known people of the interior of Africa, in
    ancient geography; of the Natabres I can make nothing; the Geothulas
    are evidently the Getulians.--E.

[82] Probably the same called just before the Malvarius, and now the Malul.
    But the geographical description of Africa by Alfred, is so desultory
    and unarranged as to defy criticism.--E.

[83] Alfred may possibly have heard of the Monselmines who inhabit the
    north-western extremity of the Sahara, or great African desert, and
    extend to the Atlantic.--E

[84] Faro.

[85] Lillibeum.

[86] The name of this sea is omitted in the MS.--Barr.

[87] These measures are incorrigibly erroneous, or must have been
    transposed from some other place, having no possible reference to
    Corsica.--E.

       *       *       *       *       *

Note.--The subsequent sections of this chapter, although not of much
importance in themselves, and some of them possessing rather doubtful
authenticity, are inserted in this place on the authority of Hakluyt. In an
English general collection of voyages and travels, it would have been
improper to have omitted these early specimens, some of which are
considerably interesting and curious. In some measure these sections do not
strictly belong to the present chapter, as limited to the reign of Alfred,
and the ninth century; but as they contain isolated circumstances, which do
not otherwise properly arrange themselves into the order of our plan, they
may be considered as forming a kind of appendix to the era of Alfred. The
number of these might have been considerably increased from different
sources, chiefly from Hakluyt, who collected them from the ancient
historians; but as they contain hardly any information, except historical,
which does not enter into our plan, the selection here given has been
deemed quite sufficient for this work.


SECTION VII

_The Travels of Andrew Leucander, or Whiteman, in the Eleventh Century_[1].

Andrew Leucander, or Whiteman, as his Latinized name is explained by Leland
the antiquary, was an English monk, and third abbot of the monastery of
Ramsay, who was much addicted to the study of the liberal sciences,
devoting incredible exertions, both by day and night, to their cultivation,
in which he profited exceedingly. Having a most ardent desire to visit
those places where Christ our Saviour had perfected all the mysteries of
our redemption, of which he only knew the names in the course of studying
the Scriptures, he went from England to the holy city of Jerusalem, where
he visited all the places which had been illustrated by the miracles,
preaching, and passion of Christ; and on his return to the monastery he was
elected abbot. He flourished in the year of our redemption, 1020, under
Canute the Dane.


[1]  Hakluyt, II. 39.


SECTION VIII.

_The Voyage of Swanus to Jerusalem in 1052_[1].

Swanus or Sweno, one of the sons of Earl Godwin, being of a perverse
disposition, and faithless to the king, often quarrelled with his father
and his brother Harold; and, becoming a pirate, he disgraced the virtues of
his ancestors, by his robberies on the seas. At length, being guilty of the
murder of his kinsman Bruno, and, as some report, of his own brother, he
made a pilgrimage to Jerusalem; and on his return towards England, he was
intercepted by the Saracens, by whom he was slain.


SECTION IX.

_A Voyage of three Ambassadors from England to Constantinople and the
East, about the year 1056_[2].

Upon the holy festival of Easter, King Edward the Confessor, wearing his
royal crown, sat at dinner in his palace of Westminster, surrounded by many
of his nobles. While others, after the long abstinence of the lent season,
refreshed themselves with dainty viands, on which they fed with much
earnestness, he, raising his mind above earthly enjoyments, and meditating
on divine things, broke out into excessive laughter, to the great
astonishment of his guests. But no one presuming to inquire into the cause
of his mirth, all kept silence till dinner was ended. After dinner, when
the king had retired to his bed-chamber, to divest himself of his robes,
three of his nobles, Earl Harold, an abbot, and a bishop, who were more
familiar with him than any of the other courtiers, followed him into the
chamber, and boldly asked the reason of his mirth, as it had appeared
strange to the whole court that his majesty should break out into unseemly
laughter on so solemn a day, while all others were silent. "I saw," said
he, "most wonderful things, and therefore did I not laugh without cause."
And they, as is customary with all men, became therefore the more anxious
to learn the occasion of his mirth, and humbly beseeched him to impart the
reason to them. After musing for some time, he at length informed them,
that seven sleepers had rested during two hundred years on Mount Ceelius,
lying always hitherto on their right sides; but that, in the very moment of
his laughter, they had turned themselves over to their left sides, in which
posture they should continue asleep for other seventy-four years, being a
dire omen of future misery to mankind. For all those things which our
Saviour had foretold to his disciples, that were to be fulfilled about the
end of the world, should come to pass within those seventy-four years. That
nation should rise up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; and
there would be in many places earthquakes, pestilence, and famine, and
terrible apparitions in the heavens, and great signs, with great
alterations of dominion; wars of the infidels against the Christians, and
victories gained by the Christians over the unbelievers. And, as they
wondered at these things, the king explained to them the passion of the
seven sleepers, with the shape and proportion of each of their bodies,
which wonderful things no man had hitherto committed to writing; and all
this in so plain and distinct a manner, as if he had always dwelt along
with them.

In consequence of this discourse, the earl sent a knight, the bishop a
clerk, and the abbot a monk, as ambassadors to Maniches the emperor of
Constantinople, carrying letters and presents from the king. The emperor
received them very graciously; and after a friendly entertainment, sent
them to the bishop of Ephesus with letters, which they name sacred,
commanding him to admit the English ambassadors to see the seven sleepers.
And it came to pass, that the prophetic vision of King Edward was approved
by all the Greeks, who protested that they were assured by their fathers,
that the seven sleepers had always before that time reposed on their right
sides; but, upon the entry of the Englishmen into the cave where they lay,
their bodies confirmed the truth of the foreign vision and prophecy to
their countrymen. Neither were the calamities long delayed, which had been
foretold by the king. For the Agareni, Arabians, and Turks, enemies of the
people of Christ, invading the country of the Christians, spoiled and
destroyed many cities of Syria, Lycia, and the lesser and greater Asias,
and, among the rest, depopulated Ephesus, and even the holy city of
Jerusalem.


[1] Hakluyt, II. 39. Malmsb. Lib. II. ch. xiii.

[2] Hakluyt, II, 40. Malmsb II. xiii.


SECTION X.

_Pilgrimage of Alured, Bishop of Worcester, to Jerusalem, in_ 1058[1].

In the year of our Lord 1058, Alured, bishop of Worcester, dedicated, with
much solemnity, to the honour of St Peter, the prince of the apostles, a
church which he had built and endowed in the city of Gloucester; and
afterwards having received the royal licence, he ordained Wolstan, a monk
of Worcester, to be abbot of this new church. He then left the bishoprick
which had been committed to his government, resigning the same to Herman,
and, crossing the seas, travelled in pilgrimage through Hungary and other
countries, to Jerusalem.


[1] Hakluyt, II. 41. R. Hoveden, fo, 255. line l5.


SECTION XI.

_Pilgrimage of Ingulphus Abbot of Croyland, to Jerusalem, in 1064_[1].

I, Ingulphus, an humble minister of St Guthlae, in his monastery of
Croyland, born of English parents, in the most beautiful city of London,
was, in, my early youth, placed for my education first at Westminster, and
afterwards prosecuted my studies at Oxford. Having excelled many of my
fellow students in learning Aristotle, I entered upon the study of the
first and second rhetoric of Tully. As I grew up towards manhood, I
disdained the low estate of my parents, and quitting the dwelling of my
father, I much affected to visit the courts of kings, delighting in fine
garments and costly attire, And behold William, now our renewed sovereign,
then only Earl of Normandy, came, with a splendid retinue to London, to
confer with King Edward his kinsman. Intruding myself into his company, I
proffered my services for the performance of any speedy or important
affairs; and accordingly having executed many commissions with good
success, I became known to and much beloved by the illustrious earl, and
sailed with him to Normandy. Being there appointed his secretary, I
governed his court at my pleasure, though envied by several, abasing whom I
thought fit, and preferring others at my will.  But, prompted by youthful
pride, I began even to be wearied of this place, in which I was advanced so
far beyond my birth; and, with an inconstant and over-ambitious mind, I
vehemently aspired, on all occasions, to climb to higher elevation.

About this time there spread a report through Normandy, that several
archbishops of the empire, and some even of the secular princes, were
desirous, for the salvation of their souls, to go in pilgrimage to
Jerusalem, there to pay their devotions at the Holy Sepulchre. Upon this,
several of us, who were of the household of our lord, the earl, both
gentlemen and clerks, of whom I was the principal person, having received
permission from the earl, addressed ourselves for the voyage; and, being
together thirty horsemen or more, in company, we went into Germany, and
joined ourselves to the Archbishop of Mentz. The whole being assembled, the
company of this archbishop amounted to seven thousand persons, all properly
provided for the expedition; and we travelled prosperously through many
provinces, arriving at length at the city of Constantinople. We there did
reverence to the Emperor Alexius, visited the church, of Sancta Sophia, and
devoutly kissed many sacred relics.

Departing from Constantinople, we travelled through Lycia, where we fell
into the hands of Arabian thieves; and after we had been robbed of infinite
sums of money, and had lost many of our people, we escaped with extreme
peril of our lives, and at length entered joyfully into the most anxiously
wished-for city of Jerusalem. We were there received by the most reverend,
aged, and holy patriarch Sophronius, with a great melody of cymbals by
torch-light, and were conveyed in solemn procession, by a great company of
Syrians and Latins, to the church of the Most Holy Sepulchre of our blessed
Saviour. Here, how many prayers we uttered, what abundance of tears we
shed, what deep sighs we breathed forth, is only known to our Lord Jesus
Christ. From the most glorious sepulchre of Christ, we were conducted to
visit the other sacred monuments of the holy city; and saw, with weeping
eyes, a great number of holy churches and oratories, which Achius the
Soldan of Egypt had lately destroyed. And, having deeply bewailed all the
ruins of that most holy city, both within and without its walls, and having
bestowed money for the re-edifying of some of these, we expressed the most
ardent desire to go forth into the country, that we might wash ourselves in
the sacred river Jordan, and that we might visit and kiss all the holy
footsteps of the blessed Redeemer. But the Arabian robbers, who lurked in
every part of the country, would not suffer us to travel far from the city,
on account of their numbers and savage manners.

About the spring of the year, there arrived a fleet of ships from, Genoa,
at the port of Joppa; and when the Christian merchants had exchanged all
their commodities in the towns upon the coast, and had likewise visited the
holy places, we all embarked. After being tossed about upon the seas by
many storms and tempests, we landed at Brundusium; whence, with a
prosperous journey, we travelled through Apulia to Rome, where we visited
the habitations of the holy apostles St Peter and St Paul, and performed
our devotions at various monuments of the holy, martyrs in different parts
of the city.  From thence, the archbishops and other princes of the empire
Journeyed towards the right hand for Germany, while we declined to the left
hand into France, taking our leaves of each other with indescribable
courtesey and kindly greeting.  And at length, of thirty horsemen of us who
went from Normandy fat and lusty, scarce twenty poor pilgrims returned, all
on foot, and reduced almost to skeletons with fatigue and hardships.


[1] Hakluyt, II. 41. Ingulph. Ab. Croyl. apud finem.


CHAP. II.

_Original Discovery of Greenland by the Icelanders_.[1]


Although the discoveries contained in this and the next subsequent chapter
were certainty preceded, in point of time, by the voyages of the two
Mahomedans, in Chap. IV. and the insertion of these two chapters, II. and
III. in this place may therefore be considered as a deviation from the
chronological order of our plan; it seemed proper and even necessary, that
they should be both introduced here, as presenting an unbroken series of
the discoveries of the Norwegians, and as fully authorized by the
geographical principles of our arrangement.

Among the many petty sovereigns, vikingr or chieftans of Norway, who had
been reduced to subjection by Harold Harfagr, or the fair-haired, was one
named Thorer. Thorwald, the relative of this person, had lived at the court
of Earl Hayne, whence he had been obliged to fly, on account of having
committed a murder, and went to Iceland, where he settled a considerable
track of country with a new colony. Eric-raude, or red-head, the son of
Thorwald, was long persecuted by a powerful neighbour named Eyolf Saur,
because Eric had killed some of Eyolf's servants; and at length Eric killed
Eyolf likewise. For this and other crimes he was condemned to go into
banishment for three years; and knowing that a man named Gunbiorn had
previously discovered certain banks to the west of Iceland, named from him
Gunbiorn's Schieran, or Gunbar banks, and likewise a country of
considerable extent still farther to the westwards, he determined on making
a voyage of discovery to that country. Setting sail therefore from Iceland,
he soon fell in with a point of land called Hirjalfs-ness; and continuing
his voyage to the south-west he entered a large inlet, to which he gave the
name of Erics-sound, and passed the winter on a pleasant island in that
neighbourhood. In the following year he explored the continent; and
returning to Iceland in the third year, he represented his new discovery in
the fairest light, bestowing lavish praises on the rich meadows, fine
woods, and plentiful fisheries of the country, which he called Greenland,
that he might induce a considerable number of people to join with him in
colonizing this new country. Accordingly, there set out for this place
twenty-five vessels, carrying people of both sexes, household furniture,
implements of all kinds, and cattle for breeding, of which only fourteen
vessels arrived in safety. These first colonists were soon followed by many
more, both from Iceland and Norway; and in a few years their number is said
to have increased so much, as to occupy both the eastern and western coasts
of Greenland.

This is the ordinary and best authenticated account of the discovery and
settlement of _Old_ Greenland, which rests on the credit of the great
northern historian, Snorro Sturleson, judge of Iceland, who wrote in the
year 1215. Yet others assert that Greenland had been known long before, and
ground their assertion on letters-patent from the Emperor Lewis the Pious
in 834, and a bull of Gregory IV. in 835, in which permission is given to
Archbishop Ansgar to convert the Sueones, Danes, Sclavonians; and it is
added, the Norwaehers, Farriers, Greenlanders, Halsingalanders, Icelanders,
and Scridevinds. Even allowing both charter and bull to be genuine, it is
probable that the copy which has come down to our time is interpolated, and
that for Gronlandon and Islandon, we ought to read Quenlandon and
Hitlandon, meaning the Finlanders and Hitlanders: Quenland being the old
name of Finland, and Hitland or Hialtaland the Norwegian name of the
Shetland islands. It is even not improbable that all the names in these
ancient deeds after the Sueones, Danes, and Sclavonians, had been
interpolated in a later period; as St Rembert, the immediate successor of
Ansgar, and who wrote his life, only mentions the Sueones, Danes, and
Sclavonians, together with other nations in the north; and even Adam of
Bremen only mentions these three, and other neighbouring and surrounding
nations[2]. Hence the authority of St Rembert and Snorro Sturleson remains
firm and unshaken, in spite of these falsified copies of the papal bull and
imperial patent; and we may rest assured that Iceland was not discovered
before 861, nor inhabited before 874; and that Greenland could hardly have
been discovered previous to 982, or 983, and was not inhabited before 985
or 986.--_Forst_.


[1] Forster, Voy. and Disc. 79.

[2] Vit. S. Anscharii, ap. Langeb. Script. Dan. I. 451. Ad.
    Brem. Hist. Eccles. Lib. I. cap. 17.


CHAP. III.

_Early Discovery of Winland by the Icelanders, about A.D. 1001_.[1]


The passion which the Nordmen or Normans had always manifested for maritime
expeditions, still prevailed among them in the cold and inhospitable
regions of Iceland and Greenland. An Icelander, named Herjolf, was
accustomed to make a trading voyage every year to different countries, in
which latterly he was accompanied by his son, Biorn. About the year 1001,
their ships were separated by a storm, and Biorn learned on his arrival in
Norway that his father had sailed for Greenland, to which place he resolved
to follow his father; but another storm drove him a great way to the
south-west of his intended course, and he fell in with an extensive flat
country covered all over with thick woods; and just as he set out on his
return, he discovered an island on the coast. He made no stay at either of
these places; but the wind being now fallen, he made all the haste he could
to return by a north-east course to Greenland, where he reported the
discovery which he had made.

Lief, the son of Eric-raude, who inherited from his father an inordinate
desire of distinguishing himself by making discoveries and planting
colonies, immediately fitted out a vessel carrying thirty-five men; and
taking Biorn along with him, set sail in quest of this newly discovered
country. The first land discovered in this voyage was barren and rocky, on
which account Lief gave it the name of Helleland, or Rockland. Proceeding
farther, they came to a low coast having a sandy soil, which was overgrown
with wood, for which reason it was called Mark-land, or the Woody-land. Two
days after this they again saw land, having an island lying opposite to its
northern coast; and on the mainland they discovered the mouth of a river,
up which they sailed. The bushes on the banks of this river bore sweet
berries; the temperature of the air was mild, the soil fertile[2], and the
river abounded in fish, particularly in excellent salmon. Continuing to
sail up the river, they came to a lake, out of which the river took its
rise; and here they passed the winter. In the shortest day of winter, the
sun remained eight hours above the horizon; and consequently the longest
day, exclusive of the dawn and twilight, must have been sixteen hours. From
this circumstance it follows, that the place in which they were was in
about 49° of north latitude; and as they arrived by a south-westerly course
from Old Greenland, after having cleared Cape Farewell, it must either have
been the river Gander or the Bay of Exploits, in the island now called
Newfoundland. It could not be on the northern coast of the Gulf of St
Lawrence; as in that case, they must have navigated through the straits of
Belleisle, which could not have escaped their notice. In this place they
erected several huts for their accommodation during winter; and they one
day found in the thickets a German named Tyrker, one of their own people,
who had wandered among the woods and been missing for some time. While
absent, he had subsisted upon wild grapes, from which he told them that in
his country they used to make wine; and from this circumstance Lief called
the country _Winland det gode_, or Wine-land the good[3].

In the following spring they returned to Greenland; and Thorwald, Lief's
maternal grandfather, made a trip with the same crew that had attended his
grandson, in order to make farther advances in this new discovery; and it
is not at all to be wondered at, if people of every rank were eager to
discover a better habitation than the miserable coast of Greenland, and the
little less dreary island of Iceland. In this voyage the coast of the newly
discovered land was examined towards the west, or rather the north-west.
Next summer Lief sailed again to Winland, and explored the coast to the
east or south-east. The coast was so much covered with wood and beset with
islands, that they could not perceive a human creature, or animals of any
kind. In the third summer they examined the islands on the coast of
Winland, and so damaged their ship that they found it necessary to build a
new one, laying up their old vessel on a promontory, to which they gave the
name of Kiaeler-ness. In their new vessel they proceeded to examine the
eastern or south-eastern shore of Winland, and in their progress they fell
in with three boats covered with hides, having three men in each. These
they seized, but one man found means to escape from them, and they wantonly
butchered all the rest. Soon after this they were attacked by a great
number of the natives, armed with bows and arrows, from which they screened
themselves in their ship with a fence of planks; and they defended
themselves with so much spirit that their enemies were forced to retire,
after giving them battle for an hour. Thorwald received a severe wound from
an arrow in this skirmish, of which he died; and over his grave, on a cape
or promontory, two crosses were erected at his request; from which the cape
was called Krossa-ness, or Cross Point.

To the natives of Winland, the Icelanders gave the name of Skraellinger,
signifying cuttings or dwarfs, on account of their being of very low
stature. These were probably the ancestors of the present Eskimaux, who are
the same people with the Greenlanders, and are called Eskimantsik in the
language of the Abenaki, on account of their eating raw fish; in the same
manner as the Russians, in their official state papers, call the Samojeds
Sirojed'zi, because they also eat raw and frozen fish and flesh.


In the same year Thorstein, the third son of Eric-raude, set sail for
Winland, taking with him his wife, Gudridthe daughter of Thorbern, with his
children and servants, amounting in all to twenty-five persons; but they
were forced by a storm on the western coast of Greenland, where they were
obliged to spend the winter, and where Thorstein died, with a large
proportion of his retinue, probably of the scurvy. Next spring Gudrid took
the dead body of her husband home; and Thorfin, surnamed Kallsefner, an
Icelander of some consequence, descended from King Regner-Lodbrok, married
the widow of Thorstein, from which he considered himself entitled to the
possession of the newly discovered country. He accordingly sailed for
Winland with a vast quantity of household furniture, implements of all
kinds, and several cattle, and accompanied by sixty-five men and five
women, with whom he began to establish a regular colony. He was immediately
visited by the Skraellingers, who bartered with him, giving the most
valuable furs for such wares as the Icelanders had to give in exchange. The
natives would willingly have purchased the weapons of the Icelanders, but
this was expressly and judiciously forbidden by Thorfin. Yet one of them
found means to steal a battle-ax, of which he immediately made a trial on
one of his countrymen, whom he killed with one blow; on which a third
person seized the mischievous weapon and threw it into the sea. During a
stay of three years, Thorfin acquired a large stock of rich furs and other
merchandize, with which he returned to Greenland; and at length removing to
Iceland, he purchased an estate in the northern part of Syssel, and built a
very elegant house which he called Glaumba. After his death, his widow
Gudrid made a pilgrimage to Rome, whence she returned, and ended her days
in a nunnery in Iceland, which was built for her by her son Snorro, who was
born in Winland.

Sometime afterwards, Finbog and Helgo, two Icelanders, fitted out two
ships, carrying thirty men, with which they made a voyage to Winland. In
this expedition they were accompanied by Freidis, the daughter of
Eric-raude; but by the turbulence of her disposition, she occasioned many
divisions and quarrels in the infant colony, in one of which Finbog and
Helgo were both killed, together with thirty of their followers. Upon this
Freidis returned to Greenland, where she lived for some time universally
detested and despised, and died in the utmost misery. The remaining
colonists were dispersed, and nothing farther that can be depended on
remains on record concerning them. Even the Icelandic colony in Greenland
has disappeared, and the eastern coast, on which especially it was settled,
has become long inaccessible, in consequence of the immense accumulation of
ice in the straits between it and Iceland. To this it may be added, that,
in the beginning of the fifteenth century, a prodigious number of people
were carried off in Norway and Iceland by a disease or pestilence called
the _Black Death_; probably the scurvy in its worst state, occasioned by a
succession of inclement seasons and extreme scarcity, impelling the
famished people to satisfy the craving of hunger upon unwholesome food.
Deprived of all assistance from Iceland and Norway, the colonists of
Greenland and Winland were in all probability extirpated by the continual
hostilities of the Skraellingers, or Eskimaux; and the fabulous idea of any
remnant of those in Winland having still an existence in the interior of
Newfoundland, is entirely unworthy of any consideration.


[1] Forster, Hist. of Disc. in the North, 82.

[2] Every quality must be judged of by comparison; and, contrasted
    with the inhospitable regions of Iceland and Greenland, in lat. 65°,
    this country, which was as far south as even beyond the south of
    England, must have appeared admirable.--E.

[3] It is true that grapes grow wild in Canada which are very good
    to eat, yet no one has ever been able to make good wine from their
    juice. Whether these wild grapes are found in Newfoundland I know not.
    The species of vines which grow in North America, are named by
    Linnaeus, Vitis labrusca, vulpina, and arborea.--Forst.

    The propriety of the names imposed by the Norwegians on their new
    discoveries is admirable. Iceland, Greenland, Helleland, Markland,
    Winland, and many others; which are perfectly philosophical,
    excellently systematic, and infinitely preferable to the modern clumsy
    appellations, New Britain, New France, New England, New Holland,
    Sandwich Islands, Society islands, and a multitude of much worse
    names.--E.


CHAP. IV.

_Travels of two Mahomedans in India and China, in the Ninth Century._[1]


INTRODUCTION.

This curious remnant of antiquity was translated from the Arabic, and
published in 1718, by Eusebius Renaudot, a learned Member of the French
Academy, and of the Academy of Inscriptions and Belles Lettres. It is not
known by whom the travels were actually performed, neither can their exact
date be ascertained, as the commencement of the MS. which was translated by
Renaudot was imperfect; but it appears to have been written in the 237th
year of the Hegira, or in the year 851 of the Christian era. Though
entitled the travels of _two_ Mahomedans, the travels seem to have been
mostly performed by one person only; the latter portion being chiefly a
commentary upon the former, and appears to have been the work of one Abu
Zeid al Hasan of Siraf, and to have been written about the 803d year of the
Hegira, or A.D. 915. In this commentary, indeed, some report is given of
the travels of another Mahomedan into China. The MS. employed by Renaudot
belonged to the library of the Count de Seignelay, and appears to have been
written in the year 619 of the Hegira, or A.D. 1173. The great value of
this work is, that it contains the very earliest account of China, penned
above four hundred years earlier than the travels of Marco Polo, who was
esteemed the first author on the subject before this publication appeared.

There are many curious and remarkable passages in these travels, which
convey information respecting customs and events that are nowhere else to
be found; and though some of these carry a fabulous appearance, the
greatest part of them have been confirmed and justified by the best writers
in succeeding ages. The first portion, or the actual narrative, begins
abruptly, on account of some portion of the original manuscript being lost,
which would probably have given the name and country of the author, and the
date and occasion of his voyage.

In the accompanying commentary by Abu Zeid, we are informed that the date
of the narrative was of the Hegira 237, A.D. 851, which circumstance was
probably contained in the missing part of the manuscript; but though
written then, it is probable that the first journey of the author was
undertaken at least twenty years before that date, or in 831, as he
observes, that he made a second journey into the same countries sixteen
years afterwards, and we may allow four years for the time spent in the two
journies, and the intervening space, besides the delay of composition after
his last return. Though not mentioned, it is probable his travels were
undertaken for the purpose of trade, as we can hardly suppose him to have
twice visited those distant countries merely for the satisfaction of
curiosity.

With regard to the second treatise or commentary, it seems probable, that
when the affairs of China became better known, some prince or person of
distinction had desired Abu Zeid to examine the former relation, and to
inform him how far the facts of the original work were confirmed by
succeeding accounts. The date of the commentary is not certainly
ascertainable; yet it appears, that Eben Wahab travelled into China A.H.
285. A.D. 898, and that Abu Zeid had conversed with this man after his
return, and had received from him the facts which are inserted in his
discourse, which therefore is probably only sixty or seventy years
posterior to the actual treatise of the nameless traveller.


[1] Translation from Renaudot, 8vo. Lond. 1733. See likewise Harris, I.
    522.


SECTION I.

_Original Account of India and China, by a Mahomedan Traveller of the Ninth
Century_.

The _third_ of the seas we have to mention is that of Herkend[1]. Between
this sea and that of Delarowi there are many islands, said to be in number
1900, which divide those two seas from each other[2], and are governed by a
queen[3]. Among these islands they find ambergris in lumps of extraordinary
bigness, and also in smaller pieces, which resemble plants torn up. This
amber is produced at the bottom of the sea, in the same manner as plants
are produced upon the earth; and when the sea is tempestuous, it is torn up
from the bottom by the violence of the waves, and washed to the shore in
the form of a mushroom or truffle. These islands are full of that species
of palm tree which bears the cocoa nuts, and they are from one to four
leagues distant from each other, all inhabited. The wealth of the
inhabitants consists in shells, of which even the royal treasury is full.
The workmen in these islands are exceedingly expert, and make shirts and
vests, or tunics, all of one piece, of the fibres of the cocoa nut. Of the
same tree they build ships and houses, and they are skilful in all other
workmanships. Their shells they have from the sea at certain times, when
they rise up to the surface, and the inhabitants throw branches of the
cocoa nut tree into the water, to which the shells stick. These shells they
call Kaptaje.

Beyond these islands, and in the sea of Herkend, is Serendib[4] or Ceylon,
the chief of all these islands, which are called Dobijat. It is entirely
surrounded by the sea, and on its coast they fish for pearls. In this
country there is a mountain called Rahun, to the top of which Adam is said
to have ascended, where he left the print of his foot, seventy cubits long,
on a rock, and they say his other foot stood in the sea at the same time.
About this mountain there are mines of rubies, opals, and amethysts. This
island is of great extent, and has two kings; and it produces aloes wood,
gold, precious stones, and pearls, which last are fished for on the coast;
and there are also found a kind of large shells, which are used for
trumpets, and much esteemed. In the same sea, towards Serendib, there are
other islands, not so many in number as those formerly mentioned, but of
vast extent, and unknown. One of these is called Ramni, which is divided
among a number of princes, and in it is found plenty of gold. The
inhabitants have cocoa nut trees, which supply them with food, and with
which also they paint their bodies, and oil themselves. The custom of the
country is, that no man can marry till he has killed an enemy, and brought
off his head. If he has killed two he claims two wives, and if he has slain
fifty he may have fifty wives. This custom proceeds from the number of
enemies with which they are surrounded, so that he who kills the greatest
number is the most considered. These islands of Ramni abound with
elephants, red-wood, and trees called Chairzan, and the inhabitants eat
human flesh.

These islands separate the sea of Herkend from the sea of Shelabet, and
beyond them are others called Najabalus, which are pretty well peopled,
both men and women going naked, except that the women wear aprons made of
leaves. When shipping goes among these islands, the inhabitants come off in
boats, bringing with them ambergris and cocoa nuts, which they barter for
iron; for, being free from the inconveniencies either of extreme heat or
cold they want no clothing. Beyond these two islands is the sea of Andaman.
The people on this coast eat human flesh quite raw; their complexion is
black, with frizzled hair, their countenance and eyes frightful, their feet
very large, almost a cubit in length, and they go quite naked. They have no
sort of barks or other vessels, or they would seize and devour all the
passengers they could lay their hands upon. When ships have been kept back
by contrary winds, and are obliged to anchor on this barbarous coast, for
procuring water, they commonly lose some of their men.

Beyond this there is an inhabited mountainous island, which is said to
contain mines of silver; but as it does not lie in the usual track of
shipping, many have searched for it in vain, though remarkable for a very
lofty mountain called Kashenai. A ship, sailing in its latitude, once got
sight of this mountain, and steered for the coast, where some people were
sent on shore to cut wood: The men kindled a fire, from which there ran out
some melted silver, on which they concluded that there must have been a
silver mine in the place, and they shipped a considerable quantity of the
earth or ore; but they encountered a terrible storm on their voyage back,
and were forced to throw all their ore overboard to lighten the vessel.
Since that time the mountain has been several times carefully sought for,
but no one has ever been able to find it again. There are many such islands
in those seas, more in number than can be reckoned; some inaccessible by
seamen, and some unknown to them.

It often happens in these seas that a whitish cloud suddenly appears
over-head, which lets down a long thin tongue or spout, quite to the
surface of the water, which is then turned swiftly round as if by a
whirlwind, and if a vessel happens to be in the way, she is immediately
swallowed up in the vortex. At length this cloud mounts up again and
discharges itself in prodigious rain; but it is not known whether this
water is sucked up by the cloud, or how this phenomenon comes to pass. Demand
of me now and I will answer frankly."
"You are not married, baron?"
"Not in the least; and I have sworn that the goddess Fortuna alone shall
be my beloved. I will have no mortal wife."
"The report, then, is untrue that you have again changed your religion, and
become Protestant?"
"No, this time rumor has spoken the truth. The Nurnberger patrician would
accept no hand offered by a Catholic; so I took off the glove of my
Catholicism and drew on my Protestant one. My God! to a man of the world,
his outside faith is nothing more than an article of the toilet. Do you not
know that it is bon ton for princes when they visit strange courts to wear
the orders and uniforms of their entertainers?

       So it is my rule of etiquette to adopt the religion which the
circumstances in which I find myself seem to make suitable and
profitable.

My situation in Nurnberg demanded that I should become a Protestant, and I
became one."
"And for all that the marriage did not take place?"
"No, it was broken off through the obstinacy of my bride, who refused
to live in good fellowship and equality with me, and gave me only the use
of her income, and no right in her property. Can you conceive of such
folly? She imagined I would give myself in marriage, and make a baroness
of an indifferently pretty burgher maiden; yes, a baroness of the
realm, and expect no other compensation for it than a wife to bore me! She
wished to wed my rank, and found it offensive that I should marry, not only
her fair self, but her millions! The contest over this point broke off
the contract, and I am glad of it. From my whole soul I regret and am
ashamed of having ever thought of marriage. The king, therefore, has
reason to be pleased with me."
"You are thinking, then, seriously of remaining at court?"
"Do you not find that natural, Fredersdorf? I have lived fifty years
at this court, and accustomed myself to its stupidity, its nothingness, and
its ceremony, as a man may accustom himself to a hard tent-bed,
and find it at last more luxurious than a couch of eider-down.

Besides, I have just lost a million in Nurnberg, and I must find a
compensation; the means at least to close my life worthily as a cavalier.
I must, therefore, again bow my free neck, and enter service. You must
aid me, and this day obtain for me an audience of the king. I hope your
influence will reach that far. The rest must be my own affair."
"We will see what can be done. I have joyful news for the king to- day. Perhaps
it will make him gay and complaisant, and he will grant you an audience."

"And this news which you have for him?"
"The Barbarina has arrived!"
"What! the celebrated dancer?"
"The same. We have seized and forcibly carried her off from the republic
of Venice and from Lord McKenzie; and Baron Swartz has brought her as
prisoner to Berlin!"
Pollnitz half raised himself from the sofa, and, seizing the arm of the
private secretary, he looked him joyfully in the face. "I have conceived
a plan," said he, "a heavenly plan! My friend, the sun of power and
splendor is rising for us, and your ambition, which has been weary and
ready to die, will now revive, and raise its head proudly on high! That which
I have long sought for is at last found.
The king is too young, too ardent, too much the genius and poet, to be
completely unimpassioned. Even Achilles was not impenetrable in the heel,
and Frederick has also his mortal part. Do you know, Fredersdorf, who
will discover the weak point, and send an arrow there?"
"No."
"Well, I will tell you: the Signora Barbarina. Ah, you smile! you shake your
unbelieving head. You are no good psychologist. Do you not know that we
desire most earnestly that which seems difficult, if not impossible to
attain, and prize most highly that which we have won with danger and
difficulty? Judge, also, how precious a treasure the Barbarina must be to
Frederick. For her sake he has for months carried on a diplomatic contest
with Venice, and at last he has literally torn her away from my Lord
Stuart McKenzie."
"That is true," said Fredersdorf, thoughtfully; "for ten days the king
has waited with a rare impatience for the arrival of this beautiful
dancer, and he commanded that, as soon as she reached Berlin, it
should be announced to him."

"I tell you the king will adore the Signora Barbarina," said Pollnitz, as
he once more stretched himself upon the sofa pillows.
"I shall visit her to-day, and make the necessary arrangements. Now I
am content. I see land, a small island of glorious promise, which will
receive me, the poor shipwrecked mariner, and give me shelter and protection.
I will make myself the indispensable counsellor of Barbarina; I will teach
her how she can melt the stony heart of Frederick, and make him her willing
slave."
"Dreams, dreams!" said Fredersdorf, shrugging his shoulders.

"Dreams which I will make realities as soon as you obtain me an audience
with the king."
"Well, we will see what can be done, and whether--but listen, the king is
awake, and has opened his window. He is playing upon the flute, which is
his morning custom. His morning music is always the barometer of his mood,
and I can generally judge what kind of royal weather we will have, whether
bright or stormy. Come with me to the window and listen awhile."
"Agreed," said Pollnitz, and he sprang with youthful elasticity from the
divan and joined Fredersdorf at the window. They listened almost breathlessly
to the sweet tones which seemed to whisper to them from the upper
windows; then mingling and melting with the perfume of the orange-blossoms
and the glorious and life-giving morning air, they forced their
sweet and subtle essence into the room with the cunning and hardened
old courtiers.

Fredersdorf and Pollnitz listened as a sly bat listens to the merry whistling
of an innocent bird, and watches the propitious moment to spring upon her
prey. It was an adagio which the king played upon his flute, and he was
indeed a master in the art. Slightly trembling, as if in eternal melancholy,
sobbing and pleading, soon bursting out in rapturous and joyful strains
of harmony, again sighing and weeping, these melting tones fell like
costly pearls upon the summer air. The birds in the odorous bushes, the
wind which rustled in the trees, the light waves of the river, which with
soft murmurs prattled upon the shore, all Nature seemed for the moment to
hold her breath and listen to this enchanting melody. Even Fredersdorf
felt the power and influence of this music as he had done in earlier
days. The old love for his king filled his heart, and his eyes were misty
with tears.

As the music ceased, Fredersdorf exclaimed involuntarily: "He is, after all,
the noblest and greatest of men. It is useless to be angry with him.
I am forced against my will to worship him."
"Now," said Pollnitz, whose face had not for one moment lost its expression
of cold attention and sly cunning, "how says the barometer? May we promise
ourselves a clear and sunny day?"
"Yes, Frederick is in one of his soft and yielding moods. It is probable
he has been some hours awake and has written to some of his friends--perhaps
to Voltaire, or Algarotti; this makes him always bright and clear."
"You think I shall obtain my audience?"
"I think you will."
"Then, dear friend, I have only to say that I hope you will give me the
chocolate for that noble and soul-searching hound, the Signora Biche."

CHAPTER III.

THE MORNING HOURS OF A KING.

King Frederick had finished the adagio, and stood leaning against the window
gazing into the garden; his eyes, usually so fierce and commanding, were
softened by melancholy, and a sad smile played upon his lips. The
touching air which he had played found its echo within, and held his soul a
prisoner to troubled thoughts. Suddenly he seemed to rouse himself by a
great effort to the realities of life, and, hastily ringing the bell, he
commanded Jordan, the director of the poor and the almshouse, to be
summoned to him.

A few moments later, Jordan, who had been for some days a guest at the
castle of Charlottenburg, entered the king's room. Frederick advanced to
meet him, and extended both hands affectionately. "Good- morning, Jordan,"
said he, gazing into the wan, thin face of his friend, with the most earnest
sympathy. "I hope you had a refreshing night."
"I have had a charming night, for I was dreaming of your majesty,"
he replied, with a soft smile.

Frederick sighed, released his hands, and stepped back a few paces.
"Your majesty?" repeated he. "Why do you lay so cold a hand upon that heart
which beats so warmly for you? To what purpose is this etiquette? Are we not
alone? and can we not accord to our souls a sweet interchange of thought
and feeling without ceremony? Do we not understand and love each other?
Forget, then, for awhile, dear Jordan, all these worldly distinctions. You
see I am still in my morning-dress. I do not, like the poor kings upon the
stage, wear my crown and sceptre in bed, or with my night-dress."

Jordan gazed lovingly and admiringly upon his great friend. "You need no
crown upon your brow to show to the world that you are a king by the grace
of God. The majesty of greatness is written upon your face, my king."
"That," said Frederick with light irony, "is because we princes and kings
are acknowledged to be the exact image of the Creator, the everlasting
Father. As for you, and all the rest of the race, you dare not presume
to compare yourselves with us. Probably you are made in the image of the
second and third persons of the Trinity, while we carry upon our withered
and wearisome faces the quintessence of the Godhead."
"Alas! alas, sire, if our pious priest heard you, what a stumbling- block
would he consider you!"
The king smiled. "Do you know, Jordan," said he gravely, "I believe God
raised me up for this special mission, to be a rock of offence to these
proud and worldly priests, and to trample under foot their fooleries and
their arrogance? I look upon that as the most important part of my mission
upon earth, and I am convinced that I am appointed to humble this proud
church, the vain and arrogant work of hypocritical priests, and to establish
in its place the pure worship of God."
"Yes, yes," said Jordan, shrugging his shoulders; "if the mass of men had
the clear intellect of a Frederick! if their eyes were like those of
my royal eagle, to whom it is given to gaze steadfastly at the sun without
being dazzled. Alas! sire, the most of our race resemble you so little!
They are all like the solemn night-owls, who draw a double curtain
over their eyes, lest the light should blind them. The church serves as
this double eyelid for the night-owls among men, or, rather, the churches,
for the cunning and covetousness of those priests has not been satisfied
with one church, but has established many."
"Yes," said the king angrily; "they have sown dragons' teeth, from
which bloodthirsty warriors have sprung, who wander up and down,
and in mad ambition tear all mankind, and themselves included, to
pieces.

Listen, Jordan, we have fallen upon a subject which, as you know, has
interested and occupied me much of late, and it is precisely upon these
points that I have sought your counsel to-day.
Be seated, then, and hear what I have to say to you. You know that the
pietists and priests charge me with being a heretic, because I do not
think as they think, and believe as they believe. Which of them, think you,
Jordan, has the true faith? What is truth, and what is wisdom? Each sect
believes itself--and itself alone--the possessor of both. That is reason
enough, it appears to me, for doubting them all."
"In the same land?"
"Yes, in various places in the same city, we are taught entirely different
and opposing doctrines in the name of religion. On one hand, we are threatened
with everlasting fire in the company of the devil and his angels, if we
believe that the Almighty is bodily present in the elements offered
at the sacrament of the Lord's supper. On the other hand, we are taught,
with equal assurance, that the same terrible punishment will be awarded
us unless we believe that God is literally, and not symbolically, present
in the bread and wine. The simple statement of the doctrines of the different
churches in the world would fill an endless number of folios. Each
religion condemns all others, as leading to perdition; they cannot therefore
all be true, for truth does not contradict itself. If any one of these
were the true faith, would not God have made it clear, and without question,
to our eyes? God, who is truth, cannot be dark or doubtful! If these
differences in religion related only to outward forms and ceremonies,
we would let them pass as agreeable and innocent changes, even as we adopt
contentedly the changes in style and fashion of our clothing.

The doctrines of faith, as taught in England, cannot be made to
harmonize with those fulminated at Rome. He to whom it would be given to
reconcile all opposing doctrines, and to unite all hearts in one pure and
simple faith would indeed give peace to the world, and be a Messiah and a
Saviour."
"Yes, he would accomplish what God himself, as it appears, has not
thought proper to do; his first great act must be to institute and carry
out a terrible massacre, in which every priest of every existing religion
must be pursued to the death."
"And that is precisely my mission," said the king. "I will institute a
massacre, not bodily and bloodily, but soul-piercing and purifying. I say
to you, Jordan, God dwells not in the churches of these imperious priests,
who choose to call themselves the servants of God. God was with Moses on
Mount Sinai, and with Zoroaster in the wilderness; he was by Dante's side
as he wrote his 'Divina Commedia,' and he piloted the ships of Columbus
as he went out bravely to seek a new world! God is everywhere, and
that mankind should reverence and believe in and worship him, is proved by
their bearing his image and their high calling."

Jordan seized the hand of the king and pressed it enthusiastically to his
lips. "And the world says that you do not believe in God," he exclaimed;
"they class you with the unbelievers, and dare to preach against you, and
slander you from the pulpit."
"Yes, as I do not adopt their dogmas, I am, to them, a heretic," said
the king laughing; "and when they preach against me, it proves that they
fear me, and look upon me as a powerful enemy. The enemy of the priests I
will be as long as I live, that is to say, of those arrogant and imperious
men who are wise in their own eyes, and despise all who do not agree with
them! I will destroy the foundations of all these different churches,
with their different dogmas. I will utterly extinguish them by a
universal church, in which every man shall worship God after his own
fashion. The worship of God should be the only object of every church! All
these different doctrines, which they cast in each other's teeth, and for
love of which they close their doors against each other, shall be given
up. I will open all their churches, and the fresh, pure air of God
shall purify the musty buildings. I will build a temple, a great illimitable
temple, a second Pantheon, a church which shall unite all churches within
itself, in which it shall be granted to every man to have his own altar, and
adopt his own religious exercises.
All desire to worship God; every man shall do so according to his conscience!
Look you, Jordan, how pathetically they discourse of brotherly love, and
they tear each other to pieces! Let me only build my Pantheon, and then
will all men, in truth, become brothers.

The Jew and the so-called heathen, the Mohammedan and the Persian, the
Calvinist and the Catholic, the Lutheran and the Reformer--they will all
gather into my Pantheon, to worship God; all their forms and dogmas will
simultaneously fall to the ground. They will believe simply in one God, and
the churches of all these different sects will soon stand empty and in
ruins." [Footnote: Thiebault, in his "Souvenirs de Vingt Ans," tells
of Frederick's plan for a Pantheon.]
While the king spoke, his countenance was illumined; a noble enthusiasm
fired his large clear eyes, and his cheeks glowed as if from the awakening
breath of some new internal light.

Jordan's glance expressed unspeakable love, but at the same time he looked
so sad, so pained, that Frederick felt chilled and restrained.

"How, Jordan! you are not of my opinion?" said he, with surprise.
"Our souls, which have been always heretofore in union, are now apart. You
do not approve of my Pantheon?"
"It is too exalted, sire, to be realized. Mankind require a form of religion,
in order not to lose all personal control."
"No, you mistake. They require only God, only love for this exalted and
lofty Being, whom we call God. The only proof by which we can know that
we can sincerely love God, lies in a steadfast and strong purpose to obey
Him. According to this, we need no other religion than our reason, the
good gift of God. So soon as we know that He has spoken, we should be silent
and submissive. Our inward worship of God should consist in this, that
we acknowledge Him and confess our sins; our outward worship in the performance
of all our duties, according to our reason, the exalted nature of God,
and our entire dependence upon Him."
"It is to be regretted, sire, that this world is not sufficiently
enlightened to comprehend you. I am afraid that your majesty will
bring about exactly the opposite of that which you design. All these
religious sects which, as you say, are so entirely antagonistic, would by
this forced union feel themselves humiliated and trampled upon; their hatred
toward each other would be daily augmented; their antipathies would
find new food; and their religious zeal, which is always exclusive,
would burn with fiercer fury. Not only the priests, but kings and
princes, would look upon the carrying out of your plan with horror. And
shall not this daring step bring terror into the cabinets of kings? A
monarch, who has just drawn the eyes of all politicians upon
himself, now proposes to take charge of the consciences of his
subjects, and bow them to his will!

Alas, how would envy, with all her poisonous serpents, fasten upon the
triumphal car of a king who, by the great things he has already achieved,
had given assurance of yet greater results, and now stoops to tyrannize
over and oppress the weak and good, and cast them among the ruins of their
temples of worship to weep and lament in despair!
No, my king, this idea of a Pantheon, a universal house of worship, can
never be realized. It was a great and sublime thought, but not a
wise one; too great, too enlarged and liberal to be appreciated by this
pitiable world. Your majesty will forgive me for having spoken the
honest truth. I was forced to speak. Like my king, I love the one only
and true God, and God is truth."
"You have done well, Jordan," said the king, after a long pause, during
which he raised his eyes thoughtfully toward heaven. "Yes, you have
done well, and I believe you are right in your objections to my Pantheon. I
offer up to you, therefore, my favorite idea. For your dear sake, my Pantheon
shall become a ruin. Let this be a proof of the strong love I bear you,
Jordan. I will not contend with the priests in my church, but I will
pursue them without faltering into their own; and I say to you, this will
be a long and stiff-necked war, which will last while my life endures. I
will not have my people blinded and stupefied by priests. I will suffer no
other king in Prussia. I alone will be king. These proud priests may
decide, in silence and humility, to teach their churches and intercede
for them; but let them once attempt to play the role of small popes,
and to exalt themselves as the only possessors of the key to heaven, then
they shall find in me an adversary who will prove to them that the key is
false with which they shut up the Holiest of Holies, and is but used
by them as a means to rob the people of their worldly goods. Light and truth
shall be the device of my whole land.

This will I seek after, and by this will I govern Prussia. I will have no
blinded subjects, no superstitious, conscience-stricken, trembling,
priest-ridden slaves. My people shall learn to think; thought shall be free
as the wanton air in Prussia; no censor or police shall limit her boundary.
The thoughts of men should be like the life- giving and beautifying sun,
all-nourishing and all-enlightening; calling into existence and fructifying,
not only the rich, and rare, and lovely, but also the noxious and
poisonous plant and the creeping worm. These have also the right of life:
if left to themselves, they soon die of their own insignificance or
nothingness--die under the contempt of all the good and great."
"I fear," said Jordan, "that Frederick the Great is the only man whose mind
is so liberal and so unprejudiced. Believe me, my king, there is no living
sovereign in Europe who dares guarantee to his subjects free thought and
free speech."
"I will try so to act as to leave nothing to fear from the largest liberty
of thought or speech," said the king, quietly. "Men may think and say of
me what they will--that troubles me not; I will amuse myself with their
slanders and accusations of heresy; as for their applause--well, that is a
cheap merchandise, which I must share with every expert magician and every
popular comedian. The applause of my own conscience, and of my friends--thy
applause, my Jordan--is alone of value for me. Then," said he, earnestly,
almost solemnly, "above all things, I covet fame. My name shall not pass
away like a soft tone or a sweet melody. I will write it in golden letters
on the tablet of history; it shall glitter like a star in the
firmament; when centuries have passed away, my people shall remember
me, and shall say, 'Frederick the Second made Prussia great, and
enlarged her borders; he was a father who loved his people more
than he did himself, and cheerfully sacrificed his own rest and
comfort in their service, he was a teacher who spoke to them by
word of mouth, and gave liberty to their souls.'

Oh, Jordan, you must stand by me and help me to reach this great goal for
which I thirst. Remain with me, dear friend, remain ever by my side,
and with thy love, thy constancy, thy truth, and thy sincerity, help me to
establish what is good, and to punish the evil; to acknowledge and promote
what is noble and expose the unworthy to shame and confusion. Oh, Jordan!
God has perhaps called me to be a great king; remain by me, and help
me to be a good and simple-minded man."
He threw himself with impetuosity on Jordan's breast, and clasped him
passionately in his arms. Jordan returned the king's embrace, and
silently raised his moist eyes to heaven. A prayer to "Our Father"
spoke in that eloquent eye, a heart-felt, glowing prayer for this
man now resting upon his bosom, and who for him was not the
all-powerful and commanding sovereign, but the noble, loving, and
beloved friend, this poet and philosopher, before whose mighty
genius his whole soul bowed in wonder and admiration; but suddenly,
in this moment of deep and pious emotion, a cold, an icy chill,
seemed to shiver and play like the breath of death over his features,
and the hot blood, like liquid metal, rushed madly through his
veins; he gave a light, short cough; with a quick, abrupt movement,
he released himself from the arms of the king. Withdrawing a few
steps, he turned away, and pressed his handkerchief to his
lips.
"Jordan, you suffer, you are sick," said the king, anxiously.
Jordan turned again to him; his face was calm, and even gay; his
eyes beamed with that strange, mysterious, and touching fire of
consumption which hides the shadow of death under the rosy lip and
glowing cheek; and, less cruel than all other maladies, leaves to
the soul its freshness, and to the heart its power to love and
hope.
"Not so, sire," said Jordan, "I do not suffer. How can I be otherwise
than well and happy in your presence?" As he said this he tried to
thrust his handkerchief in his pocket.
The king looked earnestly at this handkerchief. "Jordan, why did
you press that handkerchief so hastily to your lips?"
Jordan forced a smile. "Well," said he, "I was obliged, as your
majesty no doubt saw, to cough, and I wished to make this disagreeable
music as soft as possible."The emperor reserves
to himself the revenues which arise from the salt mines, and those which
are derived from impositions upon a certain herb called _Tcha_, which they
drink with hot water, and of which vast quantities are sold in all the
cities in China. This is produced from a shrub more bushy than the
pomegranate tree, and of a more pleasant smell, but having a kind of a
bitterish taste. The way of using this herb is to pour boiling water upon
the leaves, and the infusion cures all diseases. Whatever sums come into
the public treasury arise from the capitation tax, the duties upon salt,
and the tax upon this leaf.

In every city there is a small bell hung to the wall, immediately over the
head of the viceroy or governor, which may be rung by a string which
reaches about three miles, and crosses the high way, on purpose that all
the people may have access to it; und whenever the string is pulled, and
the bell strikes, the person who thus demands justice is immediately
commanded to be brought into the presence, where he sets forth his case in
person. If any person inclines to travel from one part of the country to
another, he must have two passes along with him, one from the governor, and
the other from the lieutenant. The governor's pass permits him to set out
on his journey, and specifies the name of the traveller, and of all that
are in his company, with their names and ages; for every person in China,
whether native, Arab, or other foreigner, is obliged to make a full
declaration of every thing he knows about himself. The lieutenant's pass
specifies the exact quantities of goods and money which the traveller and
his company take along with them, and this is done for the information of
the frontier places, where both passes are regularly examined; for whenever
a person arrives at any of these places, it is entered in the register that
such a one, the son of such a one, of such a family, passed through the
place, in such a month, day, and year, and in such company. By this means
they prevent any one from carrying off the money or effects of others, or
the loss of their own goods in case of accident; so that if any thing has
been taken away unjustly, or if the traveller should die on the road, it
may be immediately known where the things are to be found, that they may be
restored to the claimants, or to the heirs of the deceased.

The Chinese administer justice with great strictness, in all their
tribunals. When any person commences a suit against another, he sets down
his claim in writing, and the defendant writes down his defence, which he
signs, and holds between his fingers. These two writings are delivered in
at the same time; and being examined, sentence is pronounced in writing,
each of the parties having his papers returned to him, the defendant having
his delivered first. When one party denies what the other affirms, he is
ordered to return his writing; and if the defendant thinks he may do it
safely, and delivers in his papers a second time, those of the plaintiff
are likewise called for; and he who denies the affirmation of the other, is
warned, that if he does not make out what he denies, he shall undergo
twenty strokes of the bamboo on his buttocks, and shall pay a fine of
twenty _fakuges_, which amount to about two hundred dinars. And the
punishment of the bamboo is so severe, that the criminal can hardly
survive, and no person in all China is permitted to inflict it upon another
by his own authority, on pain of death, and confiscation of his goods; so
that no one is ever so hardy as to expose himself to such certain danger,
by which means justice is well administered to all. No witnesses are
required, neither do they put the parties upon oath.

When any person becomes bankrupt, he is immediately committed to prison in
the governor's palace, and is called upon for a declaration of his effects.
After he has remained a month in prison, he is liberated by the governor's
order, and a proclamation is made, that such a person, the son of such a
one, has consumed the goods of such a one, and that if any person possesses
any effects, whatever belonging to the bankrupt, a full discovery must be
made within one month. If any discovery is made of effects belonging to the
bankrupt, which he had omitted to declare, he suffers the punishment of the
bamboo, and is upbraided with having remained a month in prison, eating and
drinking, although he has wherewithal to satisfy his creditors. He is
reproached for having fraudulently procured and embezzled the property of
others, and is chastised for stripping other people of their substance. But
if, after every inquiry, the debtor does not appear to have been guilty of
any fraud, and if it is proved to the satisfaction of the magistrate, that
he has nothing in the world, the creditors are called in, and receive a
part of their claims from the treasury of the Bagbun. This is the ordinary
title of the emperor of China, and signifies the Son of Heaven, which we
ordinarily pronounce Magbun. After this, it is publickly forbidden to buy
of or sell to the bankrupt, that he may not again have an opportunity of
defrauding his creditors, by concealing their money or effects. If it be
discovered that the bankrupt has any money or effects in the hands of
another, and that person makes no disclosure within the time limited, the
person guilty of this concealment is bambooed to death, and the value
discovered is divided among the creditors; but the debtor or bankrupt must
never more concern himself with trade.

Upon a stone ten cubits high, erected in the public squares of all the
cities, the names of all sorts of medicines, with the exact prices of each,
are engraven; and when the poor stand in need of relief from physic, they
receive, at the treasury, the price that each medicine is rated at. In
China there is no tax upon land, but every male subject pays a rateable
capitation in proportion to his wealth and possessions. When a male child
is born, his name is immediately entered in a public register, and when he
has attained his eighteenth year he begins to pay the poll-tax; but when
once a man has reached his eightieth year, he not only ceases to
contribute, but even receives a pension from the treasury, as a provision
for old age, and in acknowledgment of what he paid during his youth. There
are schools, maintained at the public charge, in every town, where the
children of the poor are taught to read and write. The women wear nothing
on their heads besides their hair, but the men are covered. In China there
is a certain town called _Tayu_, having a castle, advantageously situated
on a hill, and all the fortresses in the kingdom are called by the same
name. The Chinese are generally handsome, of comely stature, and of fair
complexions, and by no means addicted to excess in wine. Their hair is
blacker than that of any other nation in the world, and the Chinese women
wear it curled.

In the Indies, when one man accuses another of a capital crime, it is usual
to ask the accused if he is willing to undergo the trial by fire, and if he
consents, the ceremony is conducted in the following manner: A piece of
iron is heated red hot, and the accused is desired to stretch out his hand,
on which they put seven leaves of a certain tree, and above these the red
hot iron is placed. In this condition he walks backwards and forwards for
some time, and then throws off the iron. Immediately after this his hand is
covered with a leathern bag, which is sealed with the prince's signet; and
if at the end of three days he appears and declares that he has suffered no
hurt, they order him to take out his hand, and if no sign of fire is
visible, he is declared innocent of the crime laid to his charge, and the
accuser is condemned to pay a fine of a _man_ of gold to the prince.
Sometimes they boil water in a caldron, till it is so hot that no one can
touch it; they then throw in an iron ring, and the accused is commanded to
thrust down his hand to bring up the ring. I saw one who did this and
received no manner of harm. In this case, likewise, if the accused remain
unhurt, the accuser pays a fine of a _man_ of gold.

When a king dies in the island of Serendib, which is the last of the
islands of the Indies, his body is laid in an open chariot, in such a
posture, that his head hangs backward, almost touching the ground, with his
hair trailing on the earth; and the chariot is followed by a woman, who
sweeps the dust on the face of the deceased, while she proclaims with a
loud voice: "O man! behold your king! He was yesterday your master, but now
the dominion which he exercised over you is at an end. He is reduced to the
state you now see, having left the world; and the arbiter of life and death
hath withdrawn his soul. Count not, therefore, O man! upon the uncertain
hopes of this life." This or a similar proclamation is continued for three
days; after which the body is embalmed with sandal wood, camphor, and
saffron, and is then burned, and the ashes are scattered to the winds. When
they burn the body of a king, it is usual for his wives to jump into the
fire and burn along with him; but this they are not constrained to do. The
same custom of burning the bodies of the dead prevails over all the Indies.

In the Indies there are men who devote themselves to live in the woods and
mountains, professing to despise what other men most value, abstaining from
every thing but such wild herbs and fruits as are to be found in the woods,
and they affix an iron buckle to their genitals in such a manner as to
interdict all commerce with woman. Some of these go quite naked, or have
only the skin of a leopard thrown over them, and keep perpetually standing
with their faces to the sun. I formerly saw one in that posture; and on my
return to the Indies, sixteen years afterwards, I found him in the very
same attitude, it being astonishing that he had not lost his sight by the
heat and glare of the sun. In all these kingdoms the sovereign power
resides in the royal family, without ever departing from it, and the heirs
of the family follow each other in regular succession. In like manner,
there are families of learned men, of physicians, and of all the artificers
concerned in the various arts; and none of these are ever mixed with the
family of a different profession. The several states of the Indies are not
subject to one king, but each province has its own; though the Balhara is
considered in the Indies as king of kings. The Chinese are fond of gaming
and all manner of diversions; but the Indians condemn them, and have no
pleasure in such employments. They drink no wine, neither do they use
vinegar, because it is made from wine; although this abstinence does not
proceed from any religious duty: but they allege that a king given to wine
is not worthy of being a king; for how should a drunkard be able to manage
the affairs of a kingdom, especially as wars are so frequent between the
neighbouring states? Their wars are not usually undertaken to possess
themselves of the dominions of others, and I never heard of any except the
people bordering on the pepper country that seized the dominions of their
neighbours after victory. When a prince masters the dominions of a
neighbour, he confers the sovereignty upon some person of the royal family
of the conquered country, and thus retains it in dependence upon himself,
under the conviction that the natives would never submit to be otherwise
governed.

When any one of the princes or governors of cities in China is guilty of a
crime, he is put to death and eaten; and in general, it may be said that
the Chinese eat all those who are put to death. When the Indians and
Chinese are about to marry and the parties are agreed, presents are
interchanged, and the marriage ceremony is solemnized amidst the noise of
drums and various sorts of instruments. The presents consist in money, and
all the relatives and friends contribute as much as they can afford. If any
man in the Indies runs away with a woman and abuses her, both are put to
death; unless it is proved that force has been used against the woman, in
which case the man only is punished. Theft is always punished capitally,
both in India and China, whether the theft be considerable or trifling; but
more particularly so in the Indies, where, if a thief have stolen even the
value of a small piece of money, he is impaled alive. The Chinese are much
addicted to the abominable vice of pederasty, which they even number among
the strange acts they perform in honour of their idols. The Chinese
buildings are of wood, with stone and plaster, or bricks and mortar. The
Chinese and Indians are not satisfied with one wife, but both nations marry
as many as they please, or can maintain. Rice is the common food of the
Indians, who eat no wheat; but the Chinese use both indifferently.
Circumcision is not practised either by the Chinese or Indians. The Chinese
worship idols, before whom, they fall down and make prayers, and they have
books which explain the articles of their religion. The Indians suffer
their beards to grow, but have no whiskers, and I have seen one with a
beard three cubits long; but the Chinese, for the most part, wear no
beards. Upon the death of a relation, the Indians shave both head and face.
When any man in the Indies is thrown into prison, he is allowed neither
victuals nor drink for seven days together; and this with them answers the
end of other tortures for extorting from the criminal a confession of his
guilt. The Chinese and Indians have judges besides the governors, who
decide in causes between the subjects. Both in India and China there are
leopards and wolves, but no lions. Highway robbers are punished with death.
Both the Indians and Chinese imagine that the idols which they worship
speak to them, and give them answers. Neither of them kill their meat by
cutting the throat, as is done by the Mahomedans, but by beating them on
the head till they die. They wash not with well water, and the Chinese wipe
themselves with paper, whereas the Indians wash every day before eating.
The Indians wash not only the mouth, but the whole body before they eat,
but this is not done by the Chinese. The Indies is larger in extent by a
half than China, and has a great many more kingdoms, but China is more
populous. It is not usual to see palm trees either in the Indies or in
China, but they have many other sorts of trees and fruits which we have
not. The Indians have no grapes, and the Chinese have not many, but both
abound in other fruits, though the pomegranate thrives better in India than
in China.

The Chinese have no sciences, and their religion and most of their laws are
derived from the Indians. They even believe that the Indians taught them
their worship of idols. Both nations believe the Metempsycosis, though they
differ in many of the precepts and ceremonies of their religion. Physic and
philosophy are cultivated among the Indians, and the Chinese have some
skill in medicine; but that almost entirely consists in the art of applying
hot irons or cauteries. They have some smattering of astronomy; but in this
likewise the Indians surpass the Chinese. I know not that even so much as
one man of either nation has embraced Mahomedism, or has learned to speak
the Arabic language. The Indians have few horses, and there are more in
China; but the Chinese have no elephants, and cannot endure to have them in
their country. The Indian dominions furnish a great number of soldiers, who
are not paid by their kings, but, when called out to war, have to take the
field and serve entirely at their own expense; but the Chinese allow their
soldiers much the same pay as is done by the Arabs.

China is a pleasant and fruitful country, having numerous extensive and
well fortified cities, with a more wholesome climate and less fenny country
than India, in which most of the provinces have no cities. The air in China
likewise is much better than in India, and there are scarcely any blind
persons, or who are subject to diseases of the eyes; and similar advantages
are enjoyed by several of the provinces of India. The rivers of both
countries are large, and surpass our greatest rivers, and much rain falls
in both countries. In the ladies there are many desert tracks, but China is
inhabited and cultivated through its whole extent. The Chinese are
handsomer than the Indians, and come nearer to the Arabs in countenance and
dress, in their manners, in the way of riding, and in their ceremonies,
wearing long garments and girdles in the manner of belts; while the Indians
wear two short vests, and both men and women wear golden bracelets, adorned
with precious stones.

Beyond the kingdom of China, there is a country called _Tagazgaz_, taking
its name from a nation of Turks by which it is inhabited, and also the
country of Kakhan which borders on the Turks. The islands of Sila are
inhabited by white people, who send presents to the Emperor of China, and
who are persuaded that if they were to neglect this the rain of heaven
would not fall upon their country. In that country there are white falcons;
but none of our people have been there to give us any particular
information concerning them.


[1] This is probably the sea about the Maldives, which, according to the
    eastern geographers, divides that part of the Indian Ocean from the
    sea of Delarowi, or the Magnus Sinus of the ancients. The eastern
    writers often speak of the Seven Seas, which seems rather a proverbial
    phrase, than a geographical definition. These are the seas of China,
    India, Persia, Kolzoum, or the Red Sea, of Rum or Greece, which is the
    Mediterranean, Alehozar or the Caspian, Pont or the Euxine. The sea of
    India is often called the Green Sea, and the Persian Gulf the sea of
    Bassora. The Ocean is called Bahr Mahit.--Harris

[2] Male-dive signifies, in the Malabar language, a thousand isles.--E.

[3] The subsequent accounts of these islands do not justify this particular
    sentence, if the author meant that they were always governed by a
    queen. It might be so in this time by accident, and one queen might
    have succeeded another, as Queen Elizabeth did Queen Mary.--Harris.

[4] This is the Taprobana of the ancients, and has received many names. In
    Cosmas Indicopleustes, it is called Sielendiba, which is merely a
    Grecian corruption of Sielea-dive, or Sielen island; whence the modern
    name of Ceylon.--E.

[5] This is probably the shark, which is common on all the coasts of India.
    There was a portion of the MS. wanting at this place; wherein the
    author treated of the trade to China as it was carried on in his time,
    and of the causes which had brought it into a declining condition.
    --Renaud.

[6] Perhaps some account of this Soliman might be contained in the lost
    pages: But the circumstance of a Mahomedan judge or consul at Canfu is
    a circumstance worthy of notice, and shews that the Mahomedans had
    carried on a regular and settled trade with China for a considerable
    time, and were in high estimation in that country.--Renaud.

[7] It is difficult at this distance of time to ascertain the rout laid
    down by this author, on account of the changes of names. This mart of
    Siraff is not to be met with in any of our maps; but it is said by the
    Arabian geographers to have been in the gulf of Persia, about sixty
    leagues from Shiraz; and that on its decay, the trade was transferred
    to Ormuz.--Renaud.

[8] It is probable, or rather certain, that Canton is here meant.--E.

[9] Meaning the Parsees or Guebres, the fire-worshippers of Persia.--E.

[10] It is probable that this Balhara, or king of the people with bored
    ears, which plainly means the Indians, was the Zamorin or Emperor of
    Calicut; who, according to the reports of the most ancient Portuguese
    writers concerning India, was acknowledged as a kind of emperor in the
    Indies, six hundred years before they discovered the route to India by
    the Cape of Good Hope.--Harris.

    The original editor of this voyage in English, Harris, is certainly
    mistaken in this point. The Balhara was the sovereign of Southern
    Seindetic India; of which dominion Guzerat was the principal
    province.--E.

[11] This is a very early notice of the construction and use of clocks, or
    machinery to indicate divisions of time, by means of weights.--E.


SECTION II.

_Commentary upon the foregoing Account, by Abu Zeid al Hasan of Siraff_.

Having very carefully examined the book I was desired to peruse, that I
might confirm what the author relates so far as he agrees with what I have
learnt concerning the affairs of navigation, the kingdoms on the coast, and
the state of the countries of which he treats, and that I might add what I
have elsewhere collected concerning these matters: I find that this book
was composed in the year of the Hegira 237, and that the accounts given by
the author are conformable with what I have heard from merchants who have
sailed from _Irak_ or Persia, through these seas. I find also all that the
author has written to be agreeable to truth, except some few passages, in
which he has been misinformed. Speaking of the custom, of the Chinese in
setting meat before their dead, and believing that the dead had eaten, we
had been told the same thing, and once believed it; but have since learnt,
from a person of undoubted credit, that this notion is entirely groundless,
as well as that the idolaters believe their idols speak to them. From that
creditable person we have likewise been informed, that the affairs of China
wear quite a different aspect since those days: and since much has been
related to explain why our voyages to China have been interrupted, and how
the country has been ruined, many customs abolished, and the empire
divided, I shall here declare what I know of that revolution.

The great troubles which have embroiled the affairs of this empire, putting
a stop to the justice and righteousness there formerly practised, and
interrupting the ordinary navigation from Siraff to China, was occasioned
by the revolt of an officer named Baichu, in high employment, though not of
the royal family. He began by gathering together a number of vagabonds, and
disorderly people, whom he won to his party by his liberalities, and formed
into a considerable body of troops. With these he committed hostilities in
many parts of the country, to the great loss of the inhabitants; and having
greatly increased his army, and put himself into a condition to attempt
greater things, he began to entertain a design of subduing the whole
empire, and marched direct for Canfu, one of the most noted cities in
China, and at that time the great port for our Arabian commerce. This city
stands upon a great river, some days sail from the sea, so that the water
there is fresh. The citizens shut their gates against him, and he was
obliged to besiege it a great while; but at length he became master of the
city, and put all the inhabitants to the sword. There are persons fully
acquainted with the affairs of China, who assure us, that besides the
Chinese who were massacred upon this occasion, there perished one hundred
and twenty thousand Mahomedans, Jews, Christians, and Parsees, who were
there on account of traffic; and as the Chinese are exceedingly nice in the
registers they keep of foreigners dwelling among them, this number may be
considered as authentic. This took place in the year of the hegira 264, or
of Christ 877. He also cut down the mulberry trees, which are carefully
cultivated by the Chinese for their leaves, on which the silk worms are
fed; and owing to this, the trade of silk has tailed, and that manufacture,
which used to be much prosecuted in all the countries under the Arabian
government, is quite at a stand.

Having sacked and destroyed Canfu, he possessed himself of many other
cities, which he demolished, having first slain most of the inhabitants, in
the hope that he might involve all the members of the royal family in this
general massacre, that no one might remain to dispute with him for the
empire. He then advanced to Cumdan[1], the capital city, whence the emperor
was obliged to make a precipitate retreat to the city of Hamdu, on the
frontiers towards Thibet. Puffed up with these great successes, Baichu made
himself master of almost the whole country, there being no one able to
dispute his authority. At length the emperor wrote to the king of the
Tagazgaz in Turkestan, with whom he was in some degree allied by marriage,
imploring his assistance to subdue the rebellion. The king of the Tagazgaz
dispatched his son, at the head of a very numerous army, into China, and
after a long and arduous contest, and many battles, Baichu was utterly
defeated, and it was never known afterwards what became of him; some
believing that he fell in the last battle, while others supposed that he
ended his days in a different manner. The emperor of China now returned to
his capital, much weakened and dispirited in consequence of the
embezzlement of his treasures, and the loss of the best of his officers and
troops, and the horrible devastations, calamities, and losses which his
empire had sustained; yet he made himself master of all the provinces which
had revolted from his authority. He would not, however, lay his hands upon
the goods of his subjects, notwithstanding the exhausted state of his
finances, but satisfied himself with what was still left in his coffers,
and the small remains of the public money that was to be found, requiring
nothing from his subjects, but what they were willing to give, and only
demanding obedience to the laws and to his authority, considering that they
had been already severely oppressed in consequence of the rebellion. Thus,
China became like the empire of Alexander, after the defeat and death of
Darius, when he divided the provinces among his chiefs, who became so many
kings. For now, each  of the Chinese princes, or viceroys, joined
themselves into petty alliances, making wars among themselves without the
authority of the emperor; and when the stronger had subdued the weaker, and
acquired possession of his province, the subjects of the vanquished prince
were unmercifully wasted and plundered, and even barbarously devoured: a
cruel practice allowed by the laws of their religion, which even permit
human flesh to be exposed to public sale in the markets. There arose from
all these confusions many unjust dealings with the merchants; and there was
no grievance so intolerable, or treatment so bad, but what was exercised
upon the Arab merchants, and captains of ships, extorting from them what
was altogether uncustomary, seizing upon their effects, and behaving
towards them quite contrary to all the ancient usages; so that our
merchants were forced to return in crowds to Siraff and Oman[2].

The punishment of married persons, convicted of adultery, as well as for
the crimes of homicide and theft, is as follows: The hands are bound fast
together, and forced backwards over the head, till they rest on the neck.
The right foot is then fastened to the right hand, and the left foot to the
left hand, and all drawn tight together behind the back, so that the
criminal is incapable to stir; and by this torture the neck is dislocated,
the joints of the arms start from their sockets, and the thigh bones are
disjointed;--in short, the tortured wretch would soon expire without any
farther process; yet, in that state, he is beaten by bamboos till at the
last gasp, and is then abandoned to the people, who devour the body.

There are women in China who refuse to marry, and prefer to live a
dissolute life of perpetual debauchery. A woman who has made this election,
presents herself in full audience before the commanding officer of a city,
declares her aversion to marriage, and desires to be enrolled among the
public women. Her name is then inserted in the register, with the name of
her family, the place of her abode, the number and description of her
jewels, and the particulars of her dress. She has then a string put round
her neck, to which is appended a copper ring, marked with the king's
signet, and she receives a writing, certifying that she is received into
the list of prostitutes, and by which she is entitled to a pension from the
public treasury of so many _falus_ yearly, and in which the punishment of
death is denounced against any man who should take her to wife. Every year,
regulations are published respecting these women, and such as have grown
old in the service are struck off the list. In the evening, these women
walk abroad in dresses of different colours, unveiled, and prostitute
themselves to all strangers who love debauchery; but the Chinese themselves
send for them to their houses, whence they do not depart till next morning.

The Chinese coin no money, except the small pieces of copper like those we
_falus_, nor will they allow gold and silver to be coined into specie, like
our dinars and drams; for they allege that a thief may carry off ten
thousand pieces of gold from the house of an Arab, and almost as many of
silver, without being much burthened, and so ruin the man who suffers the
loss; but in the house of a Chinese, he can only carry off ten thousand
_falus_ at the most, which do not make above ten meticals or gold dinars in
value. These pieces of copper are alloyed with some other metal, and are
about the size of a dram, or the piece of silver called _bagli_, having a
large hole in the middle to string them by. A thousand of them are worth a
metical or gold dinar; and they string them by thousands, with a knot
distinguishing the hundreds. All their payments, whether for land,
furniture, merchandize, or any thing else, are made in this money, of which
there are some pieces at Siraff, inscribed with Chinese characters. The
city of Canfu is built of wood and canes interwoven, just like our
lattice-work of split canes, the whole washed over with a kind of varnish
made of hempseed, which becomes as white as milk, having a wonderfully fine
gloss. There are no stairs in their houses, which are all of one storey,
and all their valuables are placed in chests upon wheels, which in case of
fire can easily be drawn from place to place, without any hinderance from
stairs.

The inferior officers of the cities, and those commonly who have the
direction of the customs and of the treasury, are almost all eunuchs, some
of whom have been captured on the frontiers and made so, while others are
so treated by their fathers, and sent as presents to the emperors. These
officers are at the head of the principal affairs of state, and have the
management of the emperor's private affairs, and of the treasury; and
those, particularly, who are sent to Canfu, are selected from this class.
It is customary for them, and for the viceroys or governors of the cities,
to appear abroad from time to time in solemn procession. On these
occasions, they are preceded by men who carry great pieces of wood, like
those used in the Levant instead of bells by the Christians, on which they
make a noise which is heard at a great distance, upon which every person
gets out of the way of the prince or eunuch. Even if a man is at his door,
he goes in, and keeps his door shut till the great personage has gone by.
Thus, not a soul is in the way, and this is enjoined that they may strike a
dread into the people, and be held in veneration; and the people are not
allowed to see them often, lest they should grow so familiar as to speak to
them.. All these officers wear very magnificent dresses of silk, so fine
that none such is brought into the country of the Arabs, as the Chinese
hold it at a very high price. One of our chief merchants, a man of perfect
credibility, waited upon an eunuch who had been sent to Canfu, to purchase
some goods from the country of the Arabs. The eunuch had upon his breast a
short and beautiful silk vest, which was under another silk vest, and
seemed to have two other vests over that again; and perceiving that the
Arab eyed him very steadfastly, he asked him the cause; and being told that
he admired the beauty of the little vest under his other garments, the
eunuch laughed, and holding out his sleeve to him, desired him to count how
many vests he had above that which he so much admired. He did so, and found
five, one over the other, and the little rich vest undermost. These
garments are all wove of raw silk, which has never been washed or fulled;
and those worn by the princes or governors are still richer, and more
exquisitely, wrought.

The Chinese surpass all nations in all arts, and particularly in painting,
and they perform such perfect work, as others can but faintly imitate. When
an artificer has finished a piece, he carries it to the prince's palace to
demand the reward which he thinks he deserves, for the beauty of his
performance; and the custom is for the prince to order the work to be left
at the gate of the palace for a whole year, and if in that time no person
finds a just fault in the piece, the artificer is rewarded, and admitted
into the body of artists; but if any fault is discovered, the piece is
rejected, and the workman sent off without reward. It happened once, that
one of these artists painted an ear of corn, with a bird perched upon it,
and his performance was very much admired. This piece, stood exposed to
public view as usual, and one day a crooked fellow going past, found fault
with the picture, and was immediately conducted to the prince or governor,
who sent for the painter that he might hear his piece criticized. Being
asked what fault he had to find, he answered, that every one knew that a
bird never settles on an ear of corn, but it must bend under the weight;
whereas this painter had represented the ear of corn bolt upright, though
loaded with a bird. The objection was held just, and the painter was
dismissed without reward. By such means, they excite their workmen to aim
at perfection, and to be exceedingly nice and circumspect in what they
undertake, and to apply their whole genius to any thing that has to go
through their hands.

There dwelt at Basra one Ebn Wahab, of the tribe of Koreish, descended from
Hebar, the son of Al Asud, who quitted Basra when it was sacked, and came
to Siraff, where he saw a ship preparing to sail for China[3]. The humour
took him to embark in this ship for China, and he had the curiosity to
visit the emperor's court. Leaving Canfu, he went to Cumdan, after a
journey of two months, and remained a long while at the court, where he
presented several petitions to the emperor, setting forth, that he was of
the family of the prophet of the Arabs. After a considerable interval, the
emperor ordered him to be lodged in a house appointed for the purpose, and
to be supplied with every thing he might need. The emperor then wrote to
the governor of Canfu, to inquire carefully among the Arabian merchants
respecting this man's pretensions; and receiving a full confirmation of his
extraction, received him to an audience, and made him rich presents, with
which he returned to Irak.

When, we saw him, this man was much advanced in years, but had his senses
perfectly. He told us that the emperor asked him many questions respecting
the Arabs, and particularly how they had destroyed the kingdom of the
Persians. Ebn Wahab answered, that they had done it by the assistance of
God, and because the Persians were immersed in idolatry, adoring the sun,
moon, and stars, instead of the Almighty. The emperor said, that they had
conquered the most illustrious kingdom of the earth, the best cultivated,
the most populous, the most pregnant of fine wits, and of the highest fame.
The emperor then asked Ebn Wahab what account the Arabs made of the other
kings of the earth; to which he answered that he knew them not. Then the
emperor caused the interpreter to say, we admit but five great kings. He
who is master of Irak has the kingdom of widest extent, which is surrounded
by the territories of other kings, and we find him called King of Kings.
After him is the emperor of China, who is styled King of Mankind, for no
king has more absolute authority over his subjects, and no people can be
more dutiful and submissive than his subjects. Next is the king of the
Turks, whose kingdom borders on China, and who is styled the King of Lions.
Next is the king of the Elephants, who is king of the Indies, whom we call
King of Wisdom. Last of all is the King of Greece, whom we call King of
Men, as there are no men of better manners, or comlier appearance, on the
face of the earth, than his subjects.

Ebn Wahab was then asked if he knew his lord and master the prophet
Mohammed, and if he had seen him? How could that be, said Wahab, seeing
that he is with God? Being then asked what manner of person he was; he
answered that he was very handsome. Then a great box was brought, out of
which another box was taken, and the interpreter was desired to shew him
his lord and master. Ebn Wahab, upon looking in, saw the images of the
prophets and the emperor observing him to move his lips, desired him to be
asked the reason; on which he said he was praying inwardly in honour of the
prophets. Being asked how he knew them, he said by the representation of
their histories; as for instance, one was Noah and his ark, who were saved
from the flood with those who were with them. The emperor laughed, and said
he was right in regard to Noah, but denied the universal deluge; which,
though it had covered part of the earth, did not reach China or the Indies.
On Wahab observing that the next was Moses, with his rod, and the children
of Israel; the emperor agreed that their country was of small extent, and
that Moses had extirpated the ancient inhabitants. Wahab then pointed out
Jesus upon the ass, accompanied by his apostles. To this the emperor said,
that he had been a short time upon earth, all his transactions having very
little exceeded the space of thirty months. On seeing the image of Mohammed
riding on a camel, and his companions about him, with Arabian shoes and
leathern girdles, Wahab wept; and being asked the reason, he answered, it
was on seeing his prophet and lord, who was his cousin also. The emperor
then asked concerning the age of the world; and Wahab answered, that
opinions varied on the subject, as some reckoned it to be six thousand
years old, while some would not allow so many, and others extended it to a
greater antiquity. Being asked why he had deserted his own king, to whom he
was so near in blood; he gave information of the revolutions which had
happened at Basra, which had forced him to fly to Siraff; where, hearing of
the glory of the emperor of China, and the abundance of every thing in his
empire, he had been impelled by curiosity to visit it; but that he intended
soon to return to the kingdom of his cousin, where he should make a
faithful report of the magnificence of China, the vast extent of its
provinces, and of the kind usage he had met with. This seemed to please the
emperor, who made him rich presents, and ordered him to be conducted to
Canfu on post horses[4]. He wrote also to the governor of that city,
commanding him to be treated with honour; and to the governors of the
provinces through which he had to pass, to shew him every civility. He was
treated handsomely during the remainder of his stay in China, plentifully
supplied with all necessaries, and honoured with many presents[5].

From the information of Ebn Wahab, we learn that Cumdan, where the emperor
of China keeps his court, is a very large and extremely populous city,
divided into two parts by a very long and broad street. That the emperor,
his chief ministers, the supreme judge, the eunuchs, the soldiery, and all
belonging to the imperial household, dwelt in that part of the city which
is on the right hand eastward; and that the people were not admitted into
that part of the city, which is watered by canals from different rivers,
the borders of which are, planted with trees, and adorned by magnificent
palaces. That portion of the city on the left hand, westwards from the
great street, is inhabited by the ordinary kind of people, and the
merchants, where also are great squares and markets for all the necessaries
of life. At day-break every morning, the officers of the royal household,
with the inferior servants, purveyors, and the domestics of the grandees of
the court, come into that division of the city, some on horseback, and
others on foot, to the public markets, and the shops of those who deal in
all sorts of goods, where they buy whatever they want, and do not return
again till their occasions call them back next morning. The city is very
pleasantly situate in the midst of a most fertile soil, watered by several
rivers, and hardly deficient in any thing except palm trees, which grow not
there.

In our time a discovery has been made, of a circumstance quite new and
unknown to our ancestors. No one ever imagined that the great sea which
extends from the Indies to China had any communication with the sea of
Syria. Yet we have heard, that in the sea of Rum, or the Mediterranean,
there was found the wreck of an Arabian ship, which had been shattered by a
tempest, in which all her men had perished. Her remains were driven by the
wind and weather into the sea of the Chozars, and thence by the canal of
the Mediterranean sea, and were at last thrown upon the coast of Syria.
Hence it is evident, that the sea surrounds all the country of China and
Sila or Cila, the uttermost parts of Turkestan, and the country of the
Chozars, and that it communicates by the strait with that which washes the
coast of Syria. This is proved by the structure of the wreck; of which the
planks were not nailed or bolted, like all those built in the
Mediterranean, or on the coast of Syria, but joined together in an
extraordinary manner, as if sewed, and none but the ships of Siraff are so
fastened. We have also heard it reported, that ambergris has been found on
the coast of Syria, which seems hard to believe, and was unknown to former
times. If this be true, it is impossible that amber should have been thrown
up on the sea of Syria, but by the sea of Aden and Kolsum, which has
communication with the seas where amber is found. And as God has put a
separation between these seas, it must have necessarily been, that this
amber was driven from the Indian Seas into the others, in the same
direction with the vessel of Siraff[6].

The province of Zapage is opposite to China, and distant from thence a
month's sail or less, if the wind be fair. The king of this country is
styled Mehrage, and his dominions are said to be 900 leagues in
circumference, besides which, he commands over many islands which lie
around; so that, altogether, this kingdom is above 1000 leagues in extent.
One of these islands is called _Serbeza_, which is said to be 400 leagues
in compass; another is called _Rhami_, which is 800 leagues round, and
produces red-wood, camphor, and many other commodities. In the same kingdom
is the island of _Cala_, which is the mid passage between China and the
country of the Arabs. This island is 80 leagues in circumference, and to it
they bring all sorts of merchandize, as aloes wood of several kinds,
camphor, sandal wood, ivory, the wood called _cabahi_, ebony, red-wood, all
sorts of spice, and many others; and at present the trade is carried on
between this island and that of Oman. The Mehrage is sovereign over all
these islands; and that of Zapage, in which he resides, is extremely
fertile, and so populous, that the towns almost touch each other, no part
of the land being uncultivated. The palace of the king or Mehrage, stands
on a river as broad as the Tigris at Bagdat or Bassora; but the sea
intercepts its course, and drives its waters back with the tide; yet during
the ebb the fresh water flows out a good way into the sea. The river water
is let into a small pond, close to the king's palace, and every morning the
master of the household brings an ingot of gold, wrought in a particular
manner, and throws it into the pond, in presence of the king. When the king
dies, his successor causes all these ingots, which have been accumulating
during the reign of his predecessor, to be taken out; and the sums arising
from this great quantity of gold are distributed among the royal household,
in certain proportions, according to their respective ranks, and the
surplus is given to the poor.

Komar is the country whence the aloes wood, which we call Hud al Komari, is
brought; and it is a very populous kingdom, of which the inhabitants are
very courageous. In this country, the boundless commerce with women is
forbidden, and indeed it has no wine. The kingdoms of Zapage and Komar are
about ten or twenty days easy sail from each other, and the kingdoms were
in peace with other when the following event is said, in their ancient
histories, to have occurred. The young and high-spirited king of Komar was
one day in his palace, which looks upon a river much like the Euphrates, at
the entrance, and is only a day's journey from the sea. One day, in a
discourse with his prime minister, the conversation turned upon the glory
and population of the kingdom of the Mehrage, and the multitude of its
dependent islands, when the king of Komar expressed a wish to see the head
of the Mehrage of Zapage on a dish before him. The minister endeavoured to
dissuade him from so unjust and rash an attempt; but the king afterwards
proposed the same exploit to the other officers of his court. Intelligence
of this project was conveyed to the Mehrage, who was a wise and active
prince, of consummate experience, and in the flower of his age; and who
immediately ordered a thousand small ships to be fitted out, with all
necessary arms and provisions, and manned with as many of his best troops
as they were able to transport; carefully concealing the purpose of this
armament, but giving out that he meant to visit the different islands under
his authority, and even caused letters to be written to the tributary kings
of these islands to prepare for his reception. When every thing was in
readiness, he sailed over to the kingdom of Komar, the king of which, and
all his courtiers, were a set of effeminate creatures, who did nothing all
day long but view their faces in mirrors, and pick their teeth. The Mehrage
landed his troops without delay, and immediately invested the palace, in
which the king was made prisoner, all his attendants having fled without
fighting. Then the Mehrage caused proclamation to be made, granting entire
security of life and property to all the inhabitants of the country; and
seating himself on the throne, caused the captive king and the prime
minister to be brought into his presence. Addressing himself to the fallen
monarch, he demanded his reasons for entertaining a project so unjust, and
beyond his power to execute, and what were his ultimate intentions if he
had succeeded. To this the king of Komar made no answer; and the Mehrage
ordered his head to be struck off. To the minister, the Mehrage made many
compliments, for the good advice he had given his master, and ordered him
to place the person who best deserved to succeed upon the vacant throne;
and then departed to his own dominions, without doing the smallest violence
or injury to the kingdom of Komar. The news of this action being reported
to the kings of China and the Indies, added greatly to their respect for
the Mehrage; and from that time, it has been the custom for the kings of
Komar to prostrate themselves every morning towards the country of Zapage,
in honour of the Mehrage[7].

All the kings of China and the Indies believe in the metempsychosis, or
transmigration of souls, as an article of their religion, of which the
following story, related by a person of credibility, is a singular
instance. One of these princes having viewed himself in a mirror, after
recovering from the small-pox, and noticing how dreadfully his face was
disfigured, observed, that no person had ever remained in his body after
such a change, and as the soul passes instantly into another body, he was
determined to separate Ha soul from its present frightful body, that he
might pass into another. Wherefore he commanded his nephew to mount the
throne, and calling for a sharp and keen scymitar, ordered his own head to
be cut off, that his soul might be set free, to inhabit a new body. His
orders were complied with, and his body was burnt, according to the custom
of the country.

Until the late revolution had reduced them to their present state of
anarchy, the Chinese were wonderfully regular and exact in every thing
relative to government; of which the following incident affords a striking
example. A merchant of Chorassan,  who had dealt largely in Irak, and who
embarked from thence for China,  with a quantity of goods,  had a dispute
at Canfu with an eunuch, who was sent to purchase some ivory, and other
goods for the emperor, and at length the dispute ran so high, that the
merchant refused  to  sell him  his goods. This eunuch was keeper of the
imperial treasury, and presumed so much on the favour and confidence which
he enjoyed with his master, that he took his choice of all the goods he
wanted from the merchant by force, regardless of every thing that the
merchant could say. The merchant went privately from Canfu to Cumdan, the
residence of the emperor, which is two months journey; and immediately went
to the string of the bell,  mentioned in the former section, which he
pulled. According to the custom of the country, he was conveyed to a place
at the distance of ten days journey, where he was committed to prison for
two months; after which he was brought before the viceroy of the province,
who represented to him, that he had involved himself in a situation which
would tend to his utter ruin, and even the loss of his life, if he did not
speak out the real truth: Because there were ministers and governors
appointed to distribute justice to all strangers, who were ready to see him
righted; and if the nature of the wrongs, which he had to represent, did
not appear such as to entitle him to this application to the emperor, he
would assuredly be put to death, as a warning to others not to follow his
example. The viceroy, therefore, advised him to withdraw his appeal, and to
return immediately to Canfu. The rule on such occasions was, that, if the
party should endeavour to recede after this exhortation, he would have
received fifty blows of a bamboo, and have been immediately sent out of the
country: but if he persisted in his appeal, he was immediately admitted to
an audience of the emperor. The merchant strenuously persisted in his
demand for justice, and was at length admitted to the presence of the
emperor, to whom he related the injustice of the eunuch, in taking away his
goods by force. Upon this, the merchant was thrown, into prison, and the
emperor ordered his prime minister to write to the governor of Canfu, to
make strict inquiry into the complaints which he had exhibited against the
eunuch, and to make a faithful report of all the circumstances; and he, at
the same time, gave similar orders to three other principal officers, to
make the same inquiry, all separate and unknown to each other.

These officers, who are called of the right, of the left, and of the
centre, according to their ranks, have the command of the imperial forces,
under the prime minister; they are entrusted with the guard of the emperors
person: and when, he takes the field, on any military enterprise, or on any
other account, these officers are stationed near him, each according to his
rank. Ferrers ensconce himself with two middle-aged maidservants, and
a man out of livery, whom he chose from a multitude of candidates,
because the man looked especially well fed. Having thus settled himself,
and told every one that the lease of his house was for sixty-three years,
Lumley Ferrers made a little calculation of his probable expenditure,
which he found, with good management, might amount to about one-fourth
more than his income.

"I shall take the surplus out of my capital," said he, "and try the experiment
for five years; if it don't do, and pay me profitably, why, then either men
are not to be lived upon, or Lumley Ferrers is a much duller clog than he
thinks himself!"
Mr. Ferrers had deeply studied the character of his uncle, as a prudent
speculator studies the qualities of a mine in which he means to invest his
capital, and much of his present proceedings was intended to act upon the
uncle as well as upon the world. He saw that the more he could obtain for
himself, not a noisy, social, fashionable reputation, but a good, sober,
substantial one, the more highly Mr.

Templeton would consider him, and the more likely he was to be made his
uncle's heir,--that is, provided Mrs. Templeton did not supersede the
nepotal parasite by indigenous olive-branches. This last apprehension died
away as time passed, and no signs of fertility appeared. And, accordingly,
Ferrers thought he might prudently hazard more upon the game on which he
now ventured to rely. There was one thing, however, that greatly disturbed
his peace; Mr. Templeton, though harsh and austere in his manner to his
wife, was evidently attached to her; and, above all, he cherished the
fondest affection for his stepdaughter. He was as anxious for her health,
her education, her little childish enjoyments, as if he had been not
only her parent, but a very doting one. He could not bear her to be crossed
or thwarted. Mr. Templeton, who had never spoiled anything before, not even
an old pen (so careful, and calculating, and methodical was he), did his
best to spoil this beautiful child whom he could not even have the vain
luxury of thinking he had produced to the admiring world. Softly,
exquisitely lovely was that little girl; and every day she increased
in the charm of her person, and in the caressing fascination of her childish
ways. Her temper was so sweet and docile, that fondness and petting, however
injudiciously exhibited, only seemed yet more to bring out the colours
of a grateful and tender nature.
Perhaps the measured kindness of more reserved affection might have been the
true way of spoiling one whose instincts were all for exacting and returning
love. She was a plant that suns less warm might have nipped and chilled.
But beneath an uncapricious and unclouded sunshine she sprang up in a
luxurious bloom of heart and sweetness of disposition.

Every one, even those who did not generally like children, delighted in
this charming creature, excepting only Mr. Lumley Ferrers. But that
gentleman, less mild than Pope's Narcissa,--
"To make a wash, had gladly stewed the child!"
He had seen how very common it is for a rich man, married late in life,
to leave everything to a young widow and her children by her former
marriage, when once attached to the latter; and he sensibly felt that he
himself had but a slight hold over Templeton by the chain of the affections.
He resolved, therefore, as much as possible, to alienate his uncle from
his young wife; trusting that, as the influence of the wife was weakened,
that of the child would be lessened also; and to raise in Templeton's
vanity and ambition an ally that might supply to himself the want
of love. He pursued his twofold scheme with masterly art and address. He
first sought to secure the confidence and regard of the melancholy and
gentle mother; and in this--for she was peculiarly unsuspicious and
inexperienced, he obtained signal and complete success.
His frankness of manner, his deferential attention, the art with which
he warded off from her the spleen or ill-humour of Mr. Templeton, the
cheerfulness that his easy gaiety threw over a very gloomy house, made the
poor lady hail his visits and trust in his friendship. Perhaps she was
glad of any interruption to /tetes-a-tetes/ with a severe and ungenial
husband, who had no sympathy for the sorrows, of whatever nature they
might be, which preyed upon her, and who made it a point of morality to
find fault wherever he could.

The next step in Lumley's policy was to arm Templeton's vanity against his
wife, by constantly refreshing his consciousness of the sacrifices he had
made by marriage, and the certainty that he would have attained all his
wishes had he chosen more prudently. By perpetually, but most judiciously,
rubbing this sore point, he, as it were, fixed the irritability into
Templeton's constitution, and it reacted on all his thoughts, aspiring
or domestic. Still, however, to Lumley's great surprise and resentment,
while Templeton cooled to his wife, he only warmed to her child. Lumley had
not calculated enough upon the thirst and craving for affection in most
human hearts; and Templeton, though not exactly an amiable man, had
some excellent qualities; if he had less sensitively regarded the
opinion of the world, he would neither have contracted the vocabulary
of cant, nor sickened for a peerage--both his affectation of
saintship, and his gnawing desire of rank, arose from an extraordinary
and morbid deference to opinion, and a wish for worldly honours and
respect, which he felt that his mere talents could not secure to him.

But he was, at bottom, a kindly man--charitable to the poor, considerate to
his servants, and had within him the want to love and be loved, which is
one of the desires wherewith the atoms of the universe are cemented and
harmonised. Had Mrs. Templeton evinced love to him, he might have
defied all Lumley's diplomacy, been consoled for worldly disadvantages,
and been a good and even uxorious husband. But she evidently did not love
him, though an admirable, patient, provident wife; and her daughter /did/
love him--love him as well even as she loved her mother; and the hard
worldling would not have accepted a kingdom as the price of that little
fountain of pure and ever-refreshing tenderness. Wise and penetrating as
Lumley was, he never could thoroughly understand this weakness, as he
called it; for we never know men entirely, unless we have complete sympathies
with men in all their natural emotions; and Nature had left the workmanship
of Lumley Ferrers unfinished and incomplete, by denying him the possibility
of caring for anything but himself.

His plan for winning Templeton's esteem and deference was, however, completely
triumphant. He took care that nothing in his /menage/ should appear
"/extravagant/;" all was sober, quiet, and well-regulated.

He declared that he had so managed as to live within his income: and
Templeton receiving no hint for money, nor aware that Ferrers had on the
Continent consumed a considerable portion of his means, believed him.
Ferrers gave a great many dinners, but he did not go on that foolish plan
which has been laid down by persons who pretend to know life, as a means
of popularity--he did not profess to give dinners better than other people.
He knew that, unless you are a very rich or a very great man, no folly
is equal to that of thinking that you soften the hearts of your friends
by soups /a la bisque/, and Johannisberg at a guinea a bottle. They all
go away saying, "What right has that d----d fellow to give a better dinner
than we do? What horrid taste! What ridiculous presumption."
No; though Ferrers himself was a most scientific epicure, and held the
luxury of the palate at the highest possible price, he dieted his friends
on what he termed "respectable fare." His cook put plenty of flour into
the oyster sauce; cod's head and shoulders made his invariable fish; and
four /entrees/, without flavour or pretence, were duly supplied by the
pastry-cook, and carefully eschewed by the host.
Neither did Mr. Ferrers affect to bring about him gay wits and brilliant
talkers. He confined himself to men of substantial consideration, and
generally took care to be himself the cleverest person present;
while he turned the conversation on serious matters crammed for the
occasion--politics, stocks, commerce, and the criminal code.

Pruning his gaiety, though he retained his frankness, he sought to be
known as a highly-informed, painstaking man, who would be sure to rise. His
connections, and a certain nameless charm about him, consisting chiefly in
a pleasant countenance, a bold yet winning candour, and the absence of all
/hauteur/ or pretence, enabled him to assemble round this plain
table, which, if it gratified no taste, wounded no self-love, a sufficient
number of public men of rank, and eminent men of business, to answer his
purpose.

The situation he had chosen, so near the Houses of Parliament, was convenient
to politicians, and, by degrees, the large dingy drawing-rooms became
a frequent resort for public men to talk over those thousand underplots
by which a party is served or attached. Thus, though not in parliament
himself, Ferrers became insensibly associated with parliamentary men and
things, and the ministerial party, whose politics he espoused, praised him
highly, made use of him, and meant, some day or other, to do something for
him.

While the career of this able and unprincipled man thus opened--and of
course the opening was not made in a day--Ernest Maltravers was ascending
by a rough, thorny, and encumbered path, to that eminence on which the
monuments of men are built. His success in public life was not brilliant nor
sudden. For, though he had eloquence and knowledge, he disdained all
oratorical devices; and though he had passion and energy, he could scarcely
be called a warm partisan. He met with much envy, and many obstacles; and
the gracious and buoyant sociality of temper and manners that had,
in early youth, made him the idol of his contemporaries at school
or college, had long since faded away into a cold, settled, and
lofty, though gentle reserve, which did not attract towards him the
animal spirits of the herd.

But though he spoke seldom, and heard many, with half his powers, more
enthusiastically cheered, he did not fail of commanding attention and respect;
and though no darling of cliques and parties, yet in that great body of
the people who were ever the audience and tribunal to which, in letters or
in politics, Maltravers appealed, there was silently growing up, and spreading
wide, a belief in his upright intentions, his unpurchasable honour, and his
correct and well-considered views. He felt that his name was safely invested,
though the return for the capital was slow and moderate. He was contented
to abide his time.

Every day he grew more attached to that true philosophy which makes a man,
as far as the world will permit, a world to himself; and from the height
of a tranquil and serene self-esteem, he felt the sun shine above him, when
malignant clouds spread sullen and ungenial below. He did not despise or
wilfully shock opinion, neither did he fawn upon and flatter it. Where he
thought the world should be humoured, he humoured--where contemned, he
contemned it. There are many cases in which an honest, well-educated,
high-hearted individual is a much better judge than the multitude of what
is right and what is wrong; and in these matters he is not worth three
straws if he suffer the multitude to bully or coax him out of his judgment.
The Public, if you indulge it, is a most damnable gossip, thrusting its
nose into people's concerns, where it has no right to make or meddle; and
in those things, where the Public is impertinent, Maltravers scorned and
resisted its interference as haughtily as he would the interference of any
insolent member of the insolent whole. It was this mixture of deep love and
profound respect for the eternal PEOPLE, and of calm, passionless disdain
for that capricious charlatan, the momentary PUBLIC, which made Ernest
Maltravers an original and solitary thinker; and an actor, in reality
modest and benevolent, in appearance arrogant and unsocial. "Pauperism, in
contradistinction to poverty," he was wont to say, "is the dependence upon
other people for existence, not on our own exertions; there is a moral
pauperism in the man who is dependent on others for that support of moral
life--self-respect."
Wrapped in this philosophy, he pursued his haughty and lonesome way, and
felt that in the deep heart of mankind, when prejudices and envies should
die off, there would be a sympathy with his motives and his career. So
far as his own health was concerned, the experiment had answered. No mere
drudgery of business--late hours and dull speeches--can produce the
dread exhaustion which follows the efforts of the soul to mount into the
higher air of severe thought or intense imagination. Those faculties which
had been overstrained now lay fallow--and the frame rapidly regained its
tone. Of private comfort and inspiration Ernest knew but little. He
gradually grew estranged from his old friend Ferrers, as their habits
became opposed. Cleveland lived more and more in the country, and was
too well satisfied with his quondam pupil's course of life and progressive
reputation to trouble him with exhortation or advice. Cesarini had grown a
literary lion, whose genius was vehemently lauded by all the reviews--on
the same principle as that which induces us to praise foreign singers or
dead men;--we must praise something, and we don't like to praise those
who jostle ourselves. Cesarini had therefore grown prodigiously conceited--swore
that England was the only country for true merit; and no longer concealed
his jealous anger at the wider celebrity of Maltravers.
Ernest saw him squandering away his substance, and prostituting his talents
to drawing-room trifles, with a compassionate sigh. He sought to warn
him, but Cesarini listened to him with such impatience that he
resigned the office of monitor.

He wrote to De Montaigne, who succeeded no better. Cesarini was
bent on playing his own game. And to one game, without a metaphor, he had
at last come. His craving for excitement vented itself at Hazard, and
his remaining guineas melted daily away.

But De Montaigne's letters to Maltravers consoled him for the loss of less
congenial friends. The Frenchman was now an eminent and celebrated man; and
his appreciation of Maltravers was sweeter to the latter than would have
been the huzzas of crowds. But, all this while, his vanity was pleased and
his curiosity roused by the continued correspondence of his unseen Egeria.
That correspondence (if so it may be called, being all on one side) had now
gone on for a considerable time, and he was still wholly unable to
discover the author: its tone had of late altered--it had become more
sad and subdued--it spoke of the hollowness as well as the rewards of
fame; and, with a touch of true womanly sentiment, often hinted more at the
rapture of soothing dejection, than of sharing triumph. In all these
letters, there was the undeniable evidence of high intellect and deep
feeling; they excited a strong and keen interest in Maltravers, yet the
interest was not that which made him wish to discover, in order that he
might love, the writer. They were for the most part too full of the
irony and bitterness of a man's spirit, to fascinate one who considered
that gentleness was the essence of a woman's strength. Temper spoke in them,
no less than mind and heart, and it was not the sort of temper which a man
who loves women to be womanly could admire.

"I hear you often spoken of" (ran one of these strange epistles), "and I
am almost equally angry whether fools presume to praise or to blame
you.
This miserable world we live in, how I loathe and disdain it!--yet I
desire you to serve and to master it! Weak contradiction, effeminate
paradox! Oh! rather a thousand times that you would fly from its mean
temptations and poor rewards!--if the desert were your dwelling-place
and you wished one minister, I could renounce all--wealth, flattery,
repute, womanhood--to serve you.

* * * * *
"I once admired you for your genius. My disease has fastened on me,
and I now almost worship you for yourself. I have seen you, Ernest
Maltravers,--seen you often,--and when you never suspected that
these eyes were on you. Now that I have seen, I understand you
better. We can not judge men by their books and deeds. Posterity
can know nothing of the beings of the past.Praised
be God who hath freed us from the sins which defile the people involved in
unbelief!

Not very far from Almansur there is a famous idol called Multan, to which
the Indians resort in pilgrimage, from the remotest parts. Some of the
pilgrims bring the odoriferous wood called Hud ul Camruni, so called from
Camrun, where there is excellent aloes-wood. Some of this is worth 200
_dinars_ the mawn, and is commonly marked with a seal, to distinguish it
from another kind of less value. This the devotees give to the priests,
that it may be burnt before the idol, but merchants often buy it from these
priests. There are some Indians, making profession of piety, who go in
search of unknown islands, or those newly discovered, on purpose to plant
cocoa nut trees, and to sink wells for the use of ships. There are people
at Oman who cross to these islands that produce the cocoa nut trees, of
planks made from which they build ships, sewing the planks with yarns made
from the bark of the tree. The mast is made of the same wood, the sails are
formed from the leaves, and the bark is worked up into cordage: and having
thus completed their vessel, they load her with cocoa nuts, which they
bring to Oman for sale.

The country of the Zinges, or Negroes, is of vast extent[13]. These people
commonly sow millet, which is the chief food of the negroes. They have also
sugar-canes and other trees, but their sugar is very black. The negroes are
divided among a great number of kings, who are eternally at war with each
other. Their kings are attended by certain men called Moharamin, each of
whom has a ring in his nose, and a chain round his neck. When about to join
battle with the enemy, each of the Moharamin takes the end of his
neighbour's chain and passes it through the ring in his own nose, by which
the whole are chained together, so that no one can possibly run away.
Deputies are then sent to endeavour to make peace, and if that is done, the
chains are unfastened, and they retire without fighting. But otherwise,
when once the sword is unsheathed, every one of these men must conquer or
die on the spot[14].

These people have a profound veneration for the Arabs; and when they meet
any one, they fall down before him, saying, "This man comes from the land
of dates," of which they are very fond. They have preachers among them, who
harangue with wonderful ability and perseverance. Some of these profess a
religious life, and are covered with the skins of leopards or apes. One of
these men will gather a multitude of people, to whom he will preach all day
long concerning God, or about the actions of their ancestors. From this
country they bring the leopards skins, called Zingiet, which are very large
and broad, and ornamented with red and black spots.

In this sea is the island of Socotra, whence come the best aloes. This
island is near the land of the Zinges, or Negroes, and is likewise near
Arabia; and most of its inhabitants are Christians, which is thus accounted
for: When Alexander had subdued the empire of Persia, his preceptor,
Aristotle, desired him to search out the island of Socotra, which afforded
aloes, and without which the famous medicine Hiera[15] could not be
compounded; desiring him likewise to remove the natives and to plant there
a colony of Greeks, who might supply Syria, Greece, and Egypt with aloes.
This was done accordingly; and when God sent Jesus Christ into the world,
the Greeks of this isle embraced the Christian faith, like the rest of
their nation, and have persevered in it to this day, like all the other
inhabitants of the islands[16].

In the first book, no mention is made of the sea which stretches away to
the right, as ships depart from Oman and the coast of Arabia, to launch out
into the great sea: and the author describes only the sea on the left hand,
in which are comprehended the seas of India and China. In this sea, to the
right as you leave Oman, is the country of Sihar or Shihr, where
frankincense grows, and other countries possessed by the nations of Ad,
Hamyar, Jorham, and Thabatcha, who have the Sonna, in Arabic of very
ancient date, but differing in many things from what is in the hands of the
Arabs, and containing many traditions unknown to us. They have no villages,
and live a very hard and miserably wandering life; but their country
extends almost as far as Aden and Judda on the coast of Yaman, or Arabia
the happy. From Judda, it stretches up into the continent, as far as the
coast of Syria, and ends at Kolzum. The sea at this place is divided by a
slip of land, which God hath fixed as a line of separation between the two
seas[17]. From Kolzum the sea stretches along the coast of the Barbarians,
to the west coast, which is opposite to Yaman, and then along the coast of
Ethiopia, from whence we have the leopard skins of Barbary[18], which are
the best of all, and the most skilfully dressed; and lastly, along the
coast of Zeilah, whence come excellent amber and tortoiseshell.

When the Siraff ships arrive in the Red Sea, they go no farther than Judda,
whence their cargo is transported to Cairo, or _Kahira_ by ships of Kolsum,
the pilots of which are acquainted with the navigation of the upper end of
this sea, which is full of rocks up to the water's edge; because, also,
along the coast there are no kings[19], and scarcely any inhabitants; and
because, every night ships are obliged to put into some place for safety,
for fear of striking on the rocks, or must ride all night at anchor,
sailing only in the day-time. This sea is likewise subject to very thick
fogs, and to violent gales of wind, and is therefore of very dangerous
navigation, and devoid of any safe or pleasant anchorage. It is not, like
the seas of India and China, whose bottom is rich with pearls and
ambergris; whose mountains are stored with gold, precious stones, and
ivory; whose coasts produce ebony, redwood, aloes, camphor, nutmegs,
cloves, sandal, and all other spices and aromatics; where parrots and
peacocks are birds of the forest, and in which musk and civet are collected
in abundance: so productive, in short, are these shores of articles of
infinite variety, and inestimable value, that it were vain to endeavour to
make any enumeration.

Ambergris is thrown upon this coast by the flux of the sea, but its origin
is unknown. It is found on the coast of the Indies, but the best, which is
of a bluish white, and in round lumps, is got upon the Barbarian coast: or
on the confines of the land of the Negroes, towards Sihar and that
neighbourhood. The inhabitants of that country have camels trained for the
purpose, on which they ride along the shore in moonshine nights, and when
the camels perceive a piece of amber, he bends his knees, on which the
rider dismounts, and secures his prize. There is another kind which swims
on the surface of the sea in great lumps, sometimes as big as the body of
an ox, or somewhat less. When a certain fish, named _Tal_, of the whale
tribe, sees these floating lumps, he swallows them, and is thereby killed;
and when the people, who are accustomed to this fishery, see a whale
floating on the surface, they know that this whale has swallowed ambergris,
and going out in their boats, they dart their harpoons into its body, and
tow it on shore, and split the animal down the back, to get out the
ambergris. What is found about the belly of the whale is commonly spoiled
by the wet, and has an unpleasant scent; but the ambergris which is not
contaminated by the ordure in the belly of the whale, is perfectly
good[20].

It is not unusual to employ the vertebrae of this species of whale as
stools; and it is said, there are many houses in the village of Tain, ten
leagues from Siraff, in which the lintels of the doors are made of whale
ribs. An eye-witness told me that he went to see a whale which had been
cast ashore, near Siraff, and found the people mounting on its back by
means of ladders; that they dug pits in different parts of his body, and
when the sun had melted the grease into oil, they collected this, and sold
it to the masters of ships, who mixed it up with some other matter, used by
seamen for the purpose of serving the bottoms of their vessels, and
securing the seams of the planks, to prevent or to stop leaks. This
whale-oil sells for a great deal of money; and the bones of the whale are
sold by the druggists of Bagdat and Bassora.

The pearl oyster is at first a small thin tender substance, resembling the
leaves of the plant called _Anjedana_, and swims on the surface of the sea,
where it sticks to the sides of ships under water. It there hardens, grows
larger, and becomes covered by a shell; after which, it becomes heavy, and
falls to the bottom of the sea, where it subsists, and grows in a way of
which we are ignorant. The included animal resembles a piece of red flesh,
or like the tongue of an animal towards the root, having no bones, veins,
or sinews. One opinion of the production of pearls in this shell-fish is,
that the oyster rises to the surface when it rains, and, by gaping, catches
the drops of rain, which harden into pearls. The more likely opinion is,
that the pearls are generated within the body of the oyster, for most of
them are fixed, and not moveable. Such as are loose are called _seed_
pearls.

An Arab came once to Bassora with a pearl of great value, which he shewed
to a merchant, and was astonished when he got so large a sum for it as an
hundred drams of silver; with which he purchased corn to carry back to his
own country. But the merchant carried his acquisition to Bagdad, where he
sold it for a large sum of money, by which he was afterwards enabled to
extend his dealings to a great amount. The Arab gave the following account
of the way in which he had found this large pearl: Going one day along the
shore, near Saman, in the district of Bahrein[21], he saw a fox lying dead,
with something hanging at his muzzle, which held him fast, which he
discovered to be a white lucid shell, in which he found this pearl. He
concluded that the oyster had been thrown ashore by a tempest, and lay with
its shell open on the beach, when the fox, attracted by the smell, had
thrust in his muzzle to get at the meat, on which the oyster closed its
shell, and held him fast till he died: for it is a property of the oyster
never to let go its hold, except forcibly opened, by thrusting in an iron
instrument between the shells, carefully guarding its included pearl, as a
mother preserves her child.

The kings of the Indies wear ear-rings of gold, set with precious stones,
and they wear collars of great value, adorned with gems of various colours,
chiefly green and red; yet pearls are most esteemed, and their value
surpasses that of all other jewels, and these they hoard up in their
treasuries, with their most precious things. The grandees of their courts,
their great officers, and the military commanders, wear similar jewels in
their collars. Their dress is a kind of half vest, and they carry parasols
made of peacocks feathers to shade them from the sun, and are surrounded by
great trains of servants.

Among the Indians, there are certain people who never eat two out of the
same dish or even at the same table, on account of some religious opinion.
When these come to Siraf, and are invited by our considerable merchants,
were there a hundred of them more or less, they must each have a separate
dish, without the least communication with the rest. Their kings and
principal persons have fresh tables made for them every day, with little
dishes and plates wove of the cocoa nut leaf, out of which they eat their
victuals. And when their meal is over, the table dishes and plates are all
thrown into the water, together with the fragments of their food; so that
they must have a fresh service for every meal.

To the Indies the merchants used formerly to carry the dinars, called
sindiat, or gold coins of the _Sind_, which passed there for three of our
dinars, or even more. Thither also were carried emeralds from Egypt, which
were much used for setting in rings.


[1] From the description of this place afterwards, in the travels of Ebn
    Wahab, in this article, it appears to have been Nankin.--E.

[2] The chronology of the Chinese history is attended with extreme
    difficulty. According to Du Halde: In the reign of the emperor _Hi
    Tseng_, the 18th of the _Tsong_ dynasty, the empire fell into great
    confusion, in consequence of heavy taxations, and a great famine
    occasioned by the inundation of the rivers, and the ravages of
    locusts. These things caused many insurrections, and a rebel, named
    _Hoan Tsia_ put himself at the head of the malcontents, and drove the
    emperor from the imperial city. But he was afterwards defeated, and
    the emperor restored. It must be owned that there are about twenty
    years difference between the time of the rebellion mentioned in the
    text, and the date of the great revolt, as assigned by Du Halde; but
    whether the mistake lies in the Arabian manuscript, or in the
    difficulties of Chinese chronology, I cannot take upon me to
    determine; yet both stories probably relate to the same event.
    --Harris.

[3] According to Abulpharagius, one Abu Said revolted against the Khaliff
    Al Mohated, in the year of the hegira, 285, A.D. 893, and laid waste
    Bassora. This date agrees with the story of Ebn Wahab in the text.
    --Harris.

[4] From this circumstance, it appears probable that the great canal of
    China was not then constructed.--E.

[5] Some circumstances in this very interesting detail have been a little
    curtailed. If Abu Zaid had been a man of talents, he might surely have
    acquired and transmitted more useful information from this traveller;
    who indeed seems to have been a poor drivelling zelot.--E.

[6] There is a vast deal of error in this long paragraph. It certainly was
    impossible to ascertain the route or voyage of the wreck, which was
    _said_ to have been cast away on the coast of Syria. If it could have
    been ascertained to have come from the sea of the Chozars, or the
    Euxine, by the canal of Constantinople, and the Egean, into the gulf
    of Syria, and actually was utterly different from the build of the
    Mediterranean, it may or must have been Russian. If it certainly was
    built at Siraff, some adventurous Arabian crew must have doubled the
    south of Africa from the east, and perished when they had well nigh
    immortalized their fame, by opening up the passage by sea from Europe
    to India: And as the Arabian Moslems very soon navigated to Zanguebar,
    Hinzuan, and Madagascar, where their colonies still remain, this list
    is not impossible, though very unlikely. The ambergris may have
    proceeded from a sick cachalot that had wandered into the
    Mediterranean.

    The north-east passage around the north of Asia and Europe, which is
    adduced by the commentator, in Harris's Collection, is now thoroughly
    known to be impracticable.--E.

[7] It is difficult to say anything certain of the countries to which this
    story relates; which may have been some of the islands now called
    Philipines, or perhaps some of the islands in the straits of Sunda.
    --Harris.

    Such is the opinion of the editor of Harris's Collection. But I am
    disposed, especially from the rivers mentioned, to consider Zapage as
    Pegu; and that Malacca, Sumatra, and Java, were the dependent islands;
    and particularly, that Malacca, as the great mart of early trade,
    though actually no island, was the Cala of Abu Zeid. Siam, or Cambodia
    may have been the kingdom of Komar.--E.

[8] This alludes to the custom of the Arabs, and other orientals, to squat
    upon this occasion.--E.

[9] It is presumable, that this was a mere bravado, in the full confidence
    that no one would be found sufficiently foolhardy to engage to follow
    the example. It is needless to say, that the promise of laughing aloud
    could not have been performed; so that any one might have safely
    accepted the challenge, conditioning for the full performance of the
    vaunt.--E.

[10] Rubies, emeralds, and topazes.--E.

[11] Obviously Canoge, in Bengal.--E.

[12] Buddah, the principal god of an extensive sect, now chiefly confined
    to Ceylon, and India beyond the Ganges.--E.

[13] The author makes here an abrupt transition to the eastern coast of
    Africa, and calls it the country of the Zinges; congeneric with the
    country of Zanguebar, and including Azania, Ajen, and Adel, on the
    north; and Inhambane, Sabia, Sofala, Mocaranga, Mozambique, and
    Querimba, to the south; all known to, and frequented by the Arabs.--E.

[14] This incredible story may have originated from an ill-told account of
    the war bulls of the Caffres, exaggerated into fable, after the usual
    manner of the Arabs, always fond of the marvellous.--E.

[15] It is somewhat singular to find this ancient Arabian author mentioning
    the first word of the famous _Hiera Picra_, or Holy Powder; a compound
    stomachic purge of aloes and spices, probably combined by the ancients
    with many other ingredients, as it is by the moderns with rhubarb,
    though now only given in tincture or solution with wine or spirits.
    The story of Alexander rests only on its own Arabian basis.--E.

[16] Meaning, doubtless, the isles of the Mediterranean.--E.

[17] Referring, obviously, to the Isthmus of Suez.--E.

[18] This does not refer to the coast of Barbary in the Mediterranean, but
    must mean the coast of the barbarian Arabs or Bedouins.--E.

[19] This singular expression probably signifies that the inhabitants are
    without law or regular government.--E.

[20] This curious account of the origin of ambergris, was revived again
    about twenty-five years ago, and published in the Philosophical
    Transactions of the Royal Society of London, as a new discovery. The
    only difference in the modern account of the matter is, that the
    ambergris originates within the alimentary canal of the whale, in
    consequence, probably, of some disease; and that the lumps which are
    found afloat, or cast on shore, had been extruded by these
    animals.--E.

[21] Bahrein is an island in the Persian gulf, on the Arabian shore, still
    celebrated for its pearl fishery.--E.


CHAP. V.

_Travels of Rabbi Benjamin of Tudela, through Europe, Asia, and Africa,
from Spain to China, between A.D. 1160 and 1173_[1].


This Spanish Jew was the son of Rabbi Jonas, of Tudela, a small town in
Navarre. According to the testimony of Rabbi Abraham Zuka, a celebrated
professor of astronomy at Salamanca, it is supposed that Rabbi Benjamin
travelled from 1160 to 1173. Young Barratier, a prodigy of early literary
genius, asserts that Benjamin never made the journey at all, but patched up
the whole work from contemporary writers. There is no doubt that his work
is full of incredible tales, yet many of the anomalies it contains, may
have proceeded from mistakes of copyists; exaggeration was the taste of the
times, and other travellers who are believed actually to have travelled,
are not behind him in the marvellous. These often relate the miracles of
pretended Christian saints, while he details the wonders performed by
Jewish Rabbis. He contains however, many curious pieces of information, not
to be found anywhere else, and it seems necessary and proper to give a full
abstract of his travels in this place.

Travelling by land to Marseilles, Benjamin embarked for Genoa, and
proceeded to Rome, from whence he went through the kingdom of Naples to
Otranto, where he crossed over to Corfu and Butrinto, and journeyed by land
through Greece to Constantinople, having previously visited the country of
Wallachia. All this takes up the four first chapters, which are omitted in
Harris. In the fifth, he gives an account of the city and Court of
Constantinople, as follows: Constantinople is an exceedingly great city,
the capital of the Javanites[2], or the nation called Greeks, and the
principal seat of the emperor Emanuel[3], whose commands are obeyed by
twelve kings, for every one of whom there are several palaces in
Constantinople, and they have fortresses and governments in other places of
the empire, and to them the whole land is subject. The principal of these
is the Apripus, _Praepositus_, or prime minister; the second, Mega
Dumastukitz, [Greek: Mezas Domestichos], or great chamberlain; the third
Dominot, _Dominos_, or lord: but his peculiar office or department does not
appear; the fourth Mackducus, [Greek: Mezas Dochas], great duke or high
Admiral; the fifth Iknomus Megli, [Greek: Oichonomos mezas], or lord high
steward of the household; and the rest have names like unto these[4].
Constantinople is eighteen miles in circuit, half of it being on the sea,
and the other half towards the continent; it stands on two arms of the sea,
into one of which the sea flows from Russia, and into the other from Spain;
and its port is frequented by many traders, from the countries and
provinces of Babylon, Senaar, Media, Persia, Egypt, Canaan, Russia,
Hungary, _Psianki[5], Buria_, Lombardy, and Spain.

The city is extremely populous, and hath none to compare with it, except
Bagdat, the mighty city of the Ismaelites[6]. In it is the magnificent
temple of St Sophia, where dwells the patriarch of the Greeks, who do not
agree in doctrine with the pope of Rome. This temple contains as many
altars as there are days in the year, and it has a revenue beyond all
estimation great, from the offerings and riches brought continually from
divers countries, islands, forts, castles, and places, so that the wealth
of no other temple on earth can be compared to the riches which it
contains. In the middle of this temple there are pillars of gold and
silver, huge candlesticks, lanterns, lamps, and other ornaments of these
precious metals, more than can be reckoned. Close to this temple there is a
place set apart for the diversion of the emperor, called the Hippodrome,
where great spectacles are represented yearly, on the birth-day of Jesus of
Nazareth, in which men in the habits of all the various people of the
earth, appear before the emperor and empress, with lions, bears, leopards,
and wild asses, which are made to fight together; and in no country on
earth are such princely sports to be seen.

Besides the palace left him by his ancestors, Manuel has built one for
himself, called Bilbernae[7], the pillars and walls of which are overlaid
with beaten gold and silver, on which all the wars of his ancestors are
represented. In this palace there is a throne of gold and precious stones,
over which a golden crown, enriched with precious stones and pearls, is
suspended on high, the value of which is beyond computation, and its lustre
so great, that it shines, and may be seen in the night. There are other
things in this palace of such value and profusion as are quite incredible,
and immense tributes are brought yearly into it, by which the towers are
filled with scarlet and purple garments and gold, so that the like example
of sumptuous buildings, and enormous riches, can nowhere else be found in
the world.

It is affirmed, that the revenue of the city only, from its markets,
harbour, and tribute of merchants, amount to 20,000 crowns daily. The Greek
inhabitants of this city and country are exceedingly rich in gold and
jewels, and are sumptuously dressed in crimson garments, intermingled with
gold, or splendidly embroidered, and are all carried on horses, as if they
were the children of kings. The country itself is very extensive, and
abounds with all sorts of fruits, and has great plenty of corn, wine, and
cattle of all kinds, and a finer country is nowhere to be found. The people
are learned also, and skilful in the philosophy of the Greeks: but giving
themselves up entirely to luxury, they eat and drink every man under his
own vine, and under his own fig-tree. They have mercenary soldiers, hired
from all nations, whom they call Barbarians, to fight against the soldan,
king of the children of Togorma, who are commonly called Turks; for the
Grecians themselves, through sloth and luxury, have become quite effeminate
and unfit for wars, and entirely devoted to pleasure.

No Jews are permitted to dwell in the city, but are obliged to reside in
Pera, on the other side of the sea of Sophia, and are not even allowed to
come to the city, except in boats, for the sake of commerce. In Pera there
are about 2000 Jewish Rabbinists, disciples of the wise men; among whom are
Abtalion the Great, Rabbi Abdias, Aaron Cuspus, Joseph Starginus, and
Eliakim the governor, who have the chief authority. Besides these, there
are 500 Karaites[8], who are separated from the Rabbinists by a wall. Among
the Jews there are some manufacturers of silken garments, and many very
rich merchants. No Jew is permitted to ride on horseback, except Solomon,
the Egyptian, who is physician to the Emperor, and through whose interest
the Jews are comforted and eased in their captivity, which is very
grievous; for they are much hated by the Grecians, who make no distinction
between the good and the evil among them, and insult and beat them in the
streets. They are worst used by the tanners, who pour out the filthy water
in which they have dressed their skins into the streets before their doors.
Yet, among the Jews there are some very rich men, as I have said before;
good and merciful men, who observe the commandments, and who patiently
endure the miseries of the captivity.

From Constantinople, Benjamin continued his journey to Tyre, Jerusalem, and
the Holy Land, and thence to Damascus, Balbeck, and Palmyra, which he calls
Tadmor, and in which, he says, there then were 2000 Jews. He next gives an
account of Bagdat, the court of the caliph, and the condition of the Jews
there. He afterwards gives an account of a country which he calls Thema,
where he places a whole nation of Jews, which some have deemed an entire
forgery[9]. He next proceeds to Botzra, Balsora or Bassora, on the Tigris,
and thence to Persia, of which he gives the following account.

The river Samoura[10] is esteemed the limits of the kingdom of Persia, and
near it stands the city of the same name, in which there are 1500 Jews.
Here is the sepulchre of Esdras, the scribe and priest, who died in this
place on his return from Jerusalem to the court of Artaxerxes. Our people
have built a great synagogue beside his tomb, and the Ismaelites, Arabians,
or Mahometans, have built a mosque close by, as they have a great respect
for Esdras and the Jews.  It is four miles from hence to Chuzestan, which
is the same with the ancient city of Elam, now almost ruined and
uninhabited. At one end, surrounded by ruins, is the castle of Susa,
formerly the palace of Ahasuerus, of which there are still some remains.
In this place there are 7000 Jews and fourteen synagogues, before one of
which stands the tomb of Daniel. The river Tigris[11] runs through this
city, over which there is a bridge.  All the Jews on one side of the river
are very rich, having well filled shops, and carry on great trade, while
those on the other side are very poor, having neither market, shops,
gardens, or orchards.  This caused them once to make an insurrection, from
a notion that the glory and riches of those on the other side of the river
was occasioned by their having the sepulchre of the prophet Daniel on their
side.  The insurgents, therefore, demanded to have his tomb transferred to
their side, which was vehemently opposed by the others, and war ensued
between them: But both parties growing weary of the war, it was agreed that
the coffin of Daniel should remain one year on one side of the river, and
next year on the other. This treaty was observed for some time, but was
cancelled in the sequel by Sanigar-Shah, son to the great shah of Persia,
who rules over forty-five princes. This great king is called in Arabic
Sultan Phars Al-Chabir. His empire extends from the river Samoura to
Samarcand, the river Gozan, the province of Gisbor, including the cities of
the Medes, the mountains of Haphton, and to the province of Thibet, in the
forests of which country are found the animals which produce musk; and the
empire is four months and four days journey in length.

Sangiar being at Elam, saw the elders of the people transporting the coffin
of Daniel from one side of the river to the other, attended by an immense
crowd of Jews and Ismaelites; and, being informed of the cause, gave orders
that the coffin should be suspended in a glass case, by chains of iron,
from the middle of the bridge, and that a spacious synagogue should be
erected in the same place, open to all, whether Jews or Gentiles, who might
incline to pray there; and he commanded, from reverence for Daniel, that no
fish should be taken in the river for a mile above or below the bridge.

From Elam to Robat-bar are three days journey, where dwell 20,000
Israelites, among whom are many disciples of the wise men, some of them
being very rich; but they live under the authority of a strange prince. In
two days journey more is the river Vanth, near which dwell 4000 Jews. Four
days journey farther is the country of Molhat, full of strong mountains,
the inhabitants of which obey an elder who resides in the country of
Alchesisin, and they do not believe the doctrine of Mahomet. Among this
people there are four colleges of Jews, who go forth to war with the
inhabitants, invading the neighbouring countries, and drive away great
spoil; for they are not under the dominion of the king of Persia. The Jews
in this country are disciples of the wise men, and obey the head of the
captivity of Babylon. In five days journey you reach Omaria, where are
25,000 Israelites, and here begin the synagogues of the mountains of
Haphton, which exceed one hundred in number, and in this place the country
of Media begins. These Jews are of the first captivity, carried away by
Salmanazar; but they speak the Chaldean language, and among them are the
disciples of the wise men. The chief city is Omaria, and all this country
is under the dominion of Persia, to which the inhabitants pay tribute. The
tribute for males above fifteen years old, in all the country of the
Ismaelites, is one gold _amir_, or half-a-crown of our money.

About twelve years ago there arose, in the city of Omaria, a man named
David Elroi, who was the disciple of Chafdai, the head of the captivity,
and of Jacob the chief of the Levites at Bagdat. David was very learned in
the law of Moses, and in the books of doctrine, and in all wisdom, even in
the languages of the Ismaelites, and in the books of the Magi and the
enchanters; and he took it into his head to gather together the Jews who
dwelt in the mountains of Haphton, and to make war against the king of
Persia, and to go to Jerusalem and win it by assault. For this purpose he
endeavoured to draw the Jews to his party by many deceitful signs,
affirming that he was sent from God to free them from the yoke of the
nations, and to restore them to the holy city; and he succeeded in
persuading many that he was the Messiah[12].

Hearing of this insurrection, the king of Persia sent for David, who went
to him without fear, and even avowed himself to be king of the Jews, on
which he was thrown into prison in the city of Dabrestan, near the great
river Gozan. After this the king held a great council of his princes and
ministers, to consult how to put an end to this insurrection of the Jews,
and David made his appearance there, unseen of any but the king. The king
asked, "Who hath delivered thee from prison and brought thee here?" To whom
David answered, "Mine own wisdom, for I fear not thee or any of thy
servants." Then the king commanded his servants to seize him; but they said
the voice was heard by all, but they saw not David. Then David cried out
with a loud voice, "Lo! I go my way." And he walked out, and the king
followed him, and all his servants followed the king, but they saw no one.
Coming to the bank of the river, David spread his handkerchief on the
waters, and he passed over dry, and then he was seen of all who were
present; and they endeavoured to pursue him in boats, but all in vain; and
every one marvelled, and said that no enchanter could be compared to this
man.

David during that day travelled a ten days journey, and, coming to Omaria,
related all that had befallen him; and when the people were amazed, he
attributed all that had befallen him to his knowledge of the ineffable name
of Jehovah[13]. The king sent messengers to inform the caliph of Bagdat of
what had happened, requesting that he would get David restrained from his
seditious practices, by order from the head of the captivity, and the chief
rulers of the assembly of the Jews; otherwise threatening total destruction
to all the Jews in his dominions. All the synagogues in Persia, being in
great fear, wrote to the head of the captivity, and the assembly of elders
at Bagdat, to the same purpose; and they wrote to David, commanding him to
desist from his enterprize, under pain of being excommunicated and cut off
from among the people of Israel. But all was in vain, for David persisted
in his wicked course; till at length Zinaldin, a king of the Togarmim, or
Turks, in subjection to the king of Persia, persuaded the father-in-law of
David, by a bribe of ten thousand pieces of gold, to kill him privately,
and he thrust David through with a sword in his bed, while asleep. Yet was
not the anger of the king of Persia pacified towards the Jews of the
mountains, until the head of the captivity went and appeased him with mild
and wise speeches, and by the gift of an hundred talents of gold; since
which time there has been peace and quiet in the land.

From these mountains it is twelve days journey to Hamadan, the chief city
of Media, in which there are 50,000 Jews, and near one of their synagogues
are the sepulchres of Mordecai and Esther. Dabrestan, near the river Gozan,
is four days journey from Hamadan, and 4000 Jews dwell there. From thence
it is seven days journey to Ispahan, which is a very great city and the
capital of the whole country, being twelve miles in circumference. In this
city there are about 12,000 Jews, over whom, and all the rest of our nation
who dwell in the kingdom of Persia, Shallum is appointed to rule by the
head of the captivity. Four days journey from Ispahan is Siaphaz[14], the
most ancient city of this country, formerly Persidis, whence the whole
province is named, in which there are almost 10,000 Jews. From Siaphaz you
come, in seven days journey, to the city of Ginah, near the river Gozan,
where there are about 8000 Jews, and to this place merchants resort of all
nations and languages. Five days journey from Ginah is the famous
Samarcand, the farthest city of this kingdom, where there are 50,000
Israelites, many of whom are wise and rich men, and over whom Obedias is
ruler. Four days journey from thence is the city of Thibet[15], the capital
of the province of that name, in the forests of which the animals are found
that produce musk.

The mountains of Nisbor, which are situated near the river Gozan, are about
twenty-eight days journey from Thibet; and some of the Jews in Persia
affirm, that the four tribes of Israel, carried away in the first captivity
by Salmanazar, still inhabit the cities of Nisbor. Their country extends
twenty days journey in length, all full of mountains, and having the river
Gozan running on one side, with many inhabited cities, towns, and castles;
and the inhabitants are entirely free, being governed by Joseph Amrael, a
Levite, and among them are many disciples of the wise men. They sow and
reap, and are at war with the children of Chus, who dwell in the
deserts[16]. These Jews are in league with the Copheral Turks, a people who
dwell in the deserts, and eat no bread, neither do they drink any wine, but
feed on the raw or dried flesh of beasts, clean or unclean, devouring them
newly killed, while yet trembling with the warm life-blood, and uncooked;
yea, even feed on the limbs torn from beasts yet alive. This last people
seem to want noses, having only as it were two holes in their faces through
which they breathe[17].

These Copheral Turks invaded Persia about fifteen years ago, about 1145,
with a great army, and destroyed the metropolitan city of Rei[18], and
carried off vast spoil into the desert. Enraged at this insult, the king of
Persia endeavoured to pursue them with a powerful army, that he might
extirpate these destroyers from the earth, and procured a guide who
undertook to conduct him to their dwellings, and recommended to him to take
bread and water for fifteen days along with the army, as it would occupy
that time to pass the deserts. After marching these fifteen days, the army
was without subsistence for man and beast, and no signs could be perceived
of any habitation of mankind. On being interrogated, the guide pretended to
have lost his way, and was put to death as a traitor. After marching for
thirteen days more, in prodigious distress, during which they had to eat up
all the beasts that carried their baggage, they arrived at the mountains of
Nisbor, inhabited by the Jews, and incamped among gardens and orchards,
watered by canals drawn from the river Gozan; and being then the season of
ripe fruits, they eat what they pleased, no one appearing to oppose them.
At a distance among the mountains, they observed some hamlets and forts,
and two scouts were sent to discover what manner of people inhabited the
mountains. After proceeding a short way, they found a well built bridge,
with a strong barrier, and a very large city at the farther end of the
bridge. They here learned, by an interpreter, that the city belonged to an
independent nation of Jews, who had a prince of their own, and were in
alliance with the Copheral Turks.

The scouts returned to the camp with this intelligence, and the Jews,
having collected their forces, offered battle on the day following to the
Persians, The king declined this, declaring that his only object was
against the Copheral Turks, and that if the Jews attacked him he would
revenge himself by putting all their brethren in Persia to the sword; but
he demanded free passage for his army, and to be supplied with provisions
for ready money. Out of regard for their brethren in Persia, the Jews
agreed to this proposal, and the Persian army remained fifteen days in the
country of the Jews, where they were honourably entertained. In the mean
time the Jews sent intelligence of the situation of the Persians to their
confederates, and the Turks, gathering their forces, assailed the Persians
at certain passes in the mountains, and gave them a terrible overthrow; so
that the king escaped with great difficulty into Persia, with a small
remnant of his host. On this occasion, one of the Persian horsemen seduced
a Jew, named Moses, to accompany him into Persia, and then made him a
slave. On a public exhibition of archery in the king's presence, this man
appeared to be the most expert archer in all Persia, and being called
before the king, declared how he had been trepanned and made a slave. Much
of this part of the work can be taught in rooms without special equipment.
An earnest teacher, with a few articles from home, can make the study
interesting and valuable.

A series of lessons will be necessary for this purpose. The amount of work
to be taken at one time is suggested, but this should be judged by the
teacher.

As in other lessons on theory, the remaining time of the lesson period should
be used in practical work. Suggestions for such practical work are
given under the lesson on "The Kitchen Fire", page 92.

Practice lessons, to give variety and sustain interest, should be interspersed
between these lessons as desired.

LESSON I
USES OF FOOD
The lesson may be introduced by asking the class to think in what way the
body of a healthy baby, who is fed regularly, will have changed at the end
of six months. It will be larger; it will have more flesh, more bone,
more hair, etc. We want to get a name that will apply to any part of the
body. No matter which part we examine through a microscope we find the
same fine and beautiful texture, and to this we give a name similar to
that given to fine, thin paper. We call it _tissue_--hair tissue, bone
tissue, flesh tissue.

What has food done to the baby's tissues?

It has enlarged its tissues; the child has grown larger. To the
enlargement, or growth, of the tissues, we may apply the term, _build_,
suggested by the building of a house. Then what may we say food does
for the tissues of the body? We may say that _food builds the tissues of
the body_.

Think of some persons who have taken food every day, and yet as long as you
have known them they have not increased in size. What has food done for
their tissues? The class must be told that the tissues of our bodies wear
out through use, and that food has furnished the material to replace
the worn-out parts. What do we say we are doing to clothes when we
replace the worn parts? We are mending or repairing them. What does food
do for our worn-out tissues? _Food repairs the tissues of the body._
Do not think any more about the tissues of the body. Suppose you had not
been able to get any food for several days. In what way would you be
different from what you are now? You would not be as strong. Food gives
strength or energy by being burned inside the body. There is a fire
burning in our bodies all the time we are alive, the fuel being food.
What do we require from the fire in our homes? We require heat. The fires
in our bodies give us heat also. Any fire gives off both heat and energy.
State another use of food to the body. _Food produces heat and energy
in the body._
But food does more for the body; it contains substances to keep our
bodies in order.

Suppose the clock gets out of order and does not keep good time, what does
the watchmaker do to it? He regulates it. That is what certain kinds of food
do for us. What then is another use of food?
_Food regulates the body._
Name the uses of food to the body.

1. It builds the tissues.

2. It repairs the tissues.

3. It produces heat and energy.

4. It regulates the body.

How then can we judge if a substance be a food? By deciding that it performs
one of these duties in the body.

LESSON II
NECESSARY SUBSTANCES IN FOOD
The names of the substances in food which supply the material for the different
uses of the body should be taken next.

1. _For building and repairing._--(1) Mineral matter--used largely in hard
tissues. (2) Nitrogenous matter, or protein--used largely for flesh. (3)
Water--used in all tissues.

2. _For fuel._--Carbonaceous matter (starch, sugar, fat).

3. _For regulating._--Mineral matter, water.

NOTE.--The teacher should call attention to the fact that few foods contain
all these substances, some have nearly all, some have only one, some two
or more. In order to get all, we must eat a variety of foods. The class is
now ready to consider the well-known foods, in order to find out which
of these necessary substances each food contains, and to obtain a general
idea of their comparative food values.

SOURCES OF FOOD
All nature supplies us with food. The three great divisions of nature are
animal, vegetable, and mineral, and from each we obtain food,
though most largely from the animal and vegetable kingdoms.

Animal food is some part of an animal's body or some product of an animal:
examples--meat or fish, milk, eggs.

Vegetable food is some part of a plant: examples--vegetables, fruit,
seeds.

Mineral food is some constituent of the earth's crust used as food. This
mineral food is obtained by drinking water which in coursing through the
earth has absorbed certain minerals, by eating plants which have absorbed
the minerals from the soil, or by eating animal food which was built from
plant food.

This preliminary survey of the sources of all our food gives the
pupils a basis for classifying the foods with which they are familiar.

They may be given exercises in doing this, and will not only find them
interesting, but most useful as nature study.

STUDY OF THE COMMON FOODS
In beginning the analysis of the common foods, it must be remembered that
the pupils have no knowledge of chemistry, and that what is found in each
food must be discovered through the senses (seeing, smelling, tasting,
feeling), or through a process of reasoning.

The pupils should also feel quite sure of what they are setting out to
do; they are going to examine some particular, well-known food, to find
which of the necessary food substances it contains. The food
substances for which they are looking are water, mineral matter, nitrogenous
matter, and carbonaceous matter (sugar, starch, fat).

It is better to provide each pupil with a sample of the food to be studied,
but where conditions make this difficult, the one used by the teacher
will suffice.

STUDY OF MILK
LESSON I

COMPOSITION
Milk is the best food to examine first, because it contains all the
food elements except starch and because these can be easily
found.

The pupils may each be asked to bring a half cup of milk from home. It
may be allowed to stand in glasses while other work is taken.

When ready for the lesson, ask the pupils to look at the contents of the
glass, and they will observe a difference of colour where the cream has
risen. Nature itself has divided the milk into two parts. Pour off the
top part and feel it. It feels greasy. Butter is made from this part.
We have found _fat_--a carbonaceous food.

Move the milk around in the glass and let the pupils see that it is a liquid.
Tell them that all liquid in a natural food is mostly water. We have,
therefore, another food substance--_water_, a builder and regulator.

Let the pupils compare a glass of water with a glass of skimmed milk,
and they see that something is dissolved in the water of the milk, giving
it the white colour.

Show them a glass of sour milk, where the white substance is separate
from the water. Get the names curd and whey.
Tell them how the cheesemaker separates sweet milk into curd and
whey.
If advisable, let them do it, but in any case show them some sweet milk
separated by rennet. Examine the sweet whey. It tastes sweet, denoting the
presence of _sugar_--another carbonaceous food.

Notice the greenish-yellow colour. Recall this same colour in water in which
potatoes, cabbage, or other vegetables have been cooked. Tell the
pupils that this colour is given by _mineral matter_ being dissolved in the
water.

There is still the curd of milk to examine. The use of the senses does
not allow us to definitely decide what food substance the curd is. Tell
the pupils it is protein, or find the name by a process of reasoning,
thus: Recall the fact that babies live for several months on milk alone and
during that time build all tissues of the body. Milk, therefore, must
contain all tissue-building substances. Review the food substances which
are necessary to build all body tissues--mineral matter, protein, and
water. We have found the mineral matter and water in milk, but not the
protein. Since curd is the only remaining part of milk, it must be largely
protein.

Tell the pupils that the scum which comes on the top of milk, when it is
boiled, is another kind of protein of which there is a small amount
in solution in milk.

Lead the pupils to see that if starch were present, it would be in
a raw form, and in this form is indigestible.

LESSON II
FOOD VALUE
The analysis of milk gives a key to the food value of milk and each of
its by-products (cream, butter, butter-milk, sour milk, skim milk, curd,
whey, cheese, junket). These may now be briefly discussed as to composition,
food value, and cost.

CARE
Milk readily absorbs odours, bacteria, etc., and should be kept in
covered, sterilized dishes in a pure, cool atmosphere.

EFFECT OF HEAT
Experiments should be made to show the effect of simmering and boiling
temperatures. To save time, a different experiment may be given to each
pupil, and the results reported.

1. Simmer sweet milk and note the flavour.

2. Boil sweet milk and note the flavour.

3. Simmer the curd of milk. Examine its texture.

4. Boil the curd of milk. Examine its texture and compare it with the
simmered curd.

5. Boil skim milk and note the scum.

6. Simmer skim milk and note the absence of scum.

NOTE.--From the above experiments deduce the effect of heat on protein.

Practice lessons may now be given in preparing simple dishes in
which milk is the main ingredient, or, at least, recipes may be given for
these to be made at home. The following would be suitable: cream sauce,
cream soups, custard, junket, cottage cheese, albuminized milk.

STUDY OF EGGS
LESSON I
PARTS
(1) Shell, (2) thick membrane, (3) white, (4) thin membrane, (5) yolk.

These parts are easily seen. Attention should be called to the pores in the
shell, and it should be explained that these allow the entrance of bacteria
which spoil the egg. Any means of closing these pores helps to preserve the
egg.

METHODS OF PRESERVING
Cover the holes in the shell as follows:

1. Pack in salt, bran, sawdust, brine, or water-glass.

2. Coat the shells with fat or wax.

3. Wrap the eggs in paper.

[Illustration: Testing eggs by floating: (1) slightly stale, (2) stale,
(3) very stale]

TESTS
1. In the shell:

After an egg is laid, the liquid which it contains begins to evaporate
through the pores of the shell and, as this continues, a noticeable space
is left inside.

(1) Shake the egg, holding it near the ear. If the contents rattle, it
is somewhat stale.

(2) Drop the egg in cold water. If it sinks, it is fresh.

(3) Hold the egg between your eye and the light. If clear, it is fresh.

(4) A rough appearance of the shell denotes freshness.

2. Out of the shell:

White--this should be clear and cling to the yolk.

Yolk--this should round up like a ball.

CARE
1. If eggs are to be used in the near future, they should be washed
and put in a pure, cool atmosphere. The lower shelf of the refrigerator is
best, as odours rise, and eggs readily absorb these.

2. If eggs are to be preserved, they should not be washed unless their
condition compels it, as washing removes the natural covering of the pores.
They should be stored in a clean, cool place, and packed as soon as
possible.

LESSON II
COMPOSITION
It is wiser to develop the food substances in an egg by reasoning, rather
than by examining the different parts. The shell is not used for food,
so it is the contents that should be studied. The class should be guided
in the following sequence of thought:

1. An egg is designed by nature to become a chicken, so it must contain
all of the substances necessary to build a chicken.

2. A chicken is an animal, and all animal bodies are made of the same
substances. These we have seen to be mineral matter, protein, and water.

3. An egg therefore contains these three substances.

4. An egg must also contain three weeks' food for the chicken, therefore
must have fuel food as well. This fuel food is found in the yolk, in the
form of fat.

5. The yolk therefore contains water, mineral matter, protein, and
fat.

6. The white contains water, mineral matter, and protein.

    EFFECT OF HEAT ON EGGS

The following experiments will show the effect on both yolk and
white of the usual methods of applying heat to eggs:

1.

Boil an egg for three minutes and note the effect.
    
    2.

Boil an egg for twenty minutes and note the effect.

3.

Put an egg in boiling water, remove from the fire, and let it stand covered
    from eight to ten minutes.
    
    4. Fry an egg and note the effect.
    

NOTE.--The eggs may be put to boil and simmer at the beginning of the lesson,
    and pupils designated to take them from the heat at proper
    times. The eggs will then be ready to examine when required.

CONCLUSIONS

1. Boiling an egg for three minutes does not allow time for the heat to reach
    the yolk.

The white is hard and tough just next the shell, but soft and liquid as it
    approaches the yolk.
    
    2.

Boiling an egg for twenty minutes hardens and toughens the white, so
    that it all becomes hard to dissolve or digest. It also gives
    the heat time to reach the centre and hardens the yolk, but does not
    toughen it or make it hard to dissolve or digest.

3. Allowing the egg to stand in the hot water coagulates the white to a
    jelly-like consistency without toughening it; it also cooks the
yolk.

LESSONS III, IV, ETC.

USES OF EGGS
To give practice in preparing eggs and to show their special uses
the following dishes would be suitable:

1. White:
For food--poached eggs on toast, simmered eggs
For cohesive (sticky) property--potato balls, fish balls
For clearing liquids--coffee 
For holding air--foamy omelet
For decoration--hard-boiled eggs cut in fancy shapes for garnishing,
meringue on lemon pudding, etc.

2. Yolk:
For food--egg-nog, scrambled eggs
For thickening liquids--custard, salad dressing, lemon pudding
For colouring foods--tapioca cream
For decoration--hard boiled and grated over salads.
STUDY OF VEGETABLE FOOD
Before beginning this part of the work, it would be most helpful
if the class had one or two nature study lessons on the structure
and organs of plants. With the pupils in possession of some knowledge
thus acquired, the Household Management teacher has only to lead
up to ideas of the preparation and value of these parts as food.
These ideas should, as far as possible, follow in such a natural
order that the pupils may even anticipate the sequence.
The outline may be as follows:

LESSON I 
SOURCE
All vegetable food is obtained from plants; it is some part of a
plant used as food.

PARTS OF PLANTS USED AS FOOD
1. Root--carrot, radish 
2. Tuber--potato, artichoke
3. Bulb--onion 
4. Stem--rhubarb, asparagus
5. Leaf--spinach, cabbage 
6. Flower--cauliflower
7. Fruit--apple, orange
8. Seed--(1) Of trees (nuts)--beechnut, almond
(2) Of grasses (cereals)--wheat, corn, rice
(3) Of vines (legumes)--peas, beans, lentils.
In asking for examples of the different parts, there will be more
interest and value if the questions correlate other subjects, for
instance: For what fruit is Canada noted? What fruit does she
import?
Name a nut the squirrels gather.

LESSON II
COMPOSITION OF ANY PART OF A PLANT
From the foregoing, the pupils may infer that there are eight
different foods to study. They should be led to see that in reality
there is only one, as all parts of plants are, generally speaking,
the same in structure. Referring to the animal body, they will know
that a bone from the foot is of much the same structure as one from
the face; that a piece of flesh from the leg is the same as a piece
from any other part of the body. In the same way, if we study one
part of a plant, it will be a type of all parts. In general the
structure is as follows:
1. A framework, in cellular form, made of a substance called
_cellulose_.

2. Material filling the cells:
(1) A juice in the cells of all parts of plants except seeds
(2) A solid in the cells of seeds.
To show the framework, some vegetable food having a white colour
should be chosen, such as potato, parsnip, or apple.
It must be explained that all plants are made of a framework of
numerous cells, something like a honey-comb. The cells in plants
are of many different shapes, according to the plant, or the part
of the plant, in which they are found. They are usually so small
that they cannot be distinguished without a microscope; but
occasionally they are large enough to be seen without one. Pass
sections of orange or lemon, where the cells are visible. Make a
drawing on the black-board of the cellular formation of a potato.
Lead the class to understand that, in every case, the cell walls
must be broken to get out the cell contents. To illustrate this,
they may use potatoes, and break the cell walls by grating the
potatoes. After they have broken up the framework, the cell contents
should be strained through cheesecloth into a glass. They have now
two parts to examine--cell walls and cell contents.
[Illustration: Cellular structure of a potato]
Wash the framework to free it of any cell juice and study it first.
Give its name, and note its colour and texture. Compare the framework
of potatoes, strawberries, lettuce, trees, etc. Tell the class that
in some cases part of the cellulose is so fibrous that it is used
to make thread, cloth, or twine; for instance, _flax_ and
_hemp_.
Cellulose is most difficult to dissolve, so that practically little
of it is digested. It serves a mechanical purpose in the digestive
tract by helping to fill the organs and dilute the real food. If
fibrous, it acts as an irritant and overcomes sluggishness of the
intestines known as constipation. The outer coats of cereals are
an example of coarse cellulose, as used in brown bread and some
kinds of porridge.
Examine next the juice which was contained in the cells of the
potato.
The liquid shows much water; the colour indicates mineral matter
in solution; the odour suggests a flavour; the white sediment is
starch.

COMPOSITION OF POTATO JUICE
Water, mineral matter, flavouring matter, starch.
Draw attention to the fact that the potato is the part of the plant
which acts as a storehouse. In such parts, starch is always found
as the stored form of sugar; but, in parts which are not storehouses,
sugar will be found in its stead. In rare cases both are found, as
in the parsnip.
NOTE.--This is a good time to impress the fact that plants are the
source of starch for manufacturing purposes. In England, potatoes
are largely used; in Canada, corn. It will be interesting to state
that the early settlers obtained their starch for laundry purposes
at home from potatoes, by chopping or grinding them.
The insolubility of starch in cold liquids may be effectively
reviewed at this part of the lesson. The starch has been lying in
the water of the potato cells for several months, yet has not
dissolved. Let two or three of the class gradually heat the potato
juice with its starch sediment, stirring all the time to distribute
the sediment evenly. They will find that a little less than boiling
temperature dissolves the starch. This will show them that heat is
necessary for the solution of starch, and a heat much greater than
that in the body, hence raw starch is indigestible. Recall the milk
lesson and the uselessness of starch as a component of milk, unless
the milk be cooked.
Squeeze the juice from a sour apple or lemon, and note the
taste.
Explain that all fruit juices contain more or less acid. The effects
of this acid in the body are similar to those of mineral matter.
Protein is also found in plant juices; but in such small quantities
that it may be disregarded as a source of food supply.
GENERAL COMPOSITION OF PLANT JUICE
Water; mineral matter; flavouring matter; starch or sugar, or both;
acid (in fruit juice).

LESSON III
COMPOSITION OF SOLID MATERIAL IN CELLS OF SEEDS
This part of the lesson may be developed as follows:
1. Seeds contain the building material for new plants, as well as
their food for a short time.
2. Plants and animals require much the same material to build and
feed them.
3. Animals require water, mineral matter, protein, sugar, starch,
and fat.
4. Plants require the same; but the seed being a storehouse part
of the plant, it will not have sugar, and water has to be supplied
when the new plant is to be formed.
5. Seeds contain, therefore, mineral matter, protein, starch, and
fat.
NOTE 1.--Seeds will grow in water until their stored food is used:
they must then be planted in soil, to get further nourishment.
NOTE 2.--The two fuel foods, starch and fat, are not found together
in abundance in seeds; one or the other will be much in excess. For
instance, in walnuts there is a great deal of fat, while in peas
and beans there is scarcely a trace of fat, but the starch is
abundant.
COMPARATIVE FOOD VALUE OF DIFFERENT PARTS OF PLANTS
Only a very general idea of this should be attempted. The food value
of any part of a plant can be roughly estimated by considering the
office of that particular part in plant structure. Nature study
will assist in this. The root collects the food to send it to the
parts above; the stem is a hallway through which the food is carried
in a more diluted form.
The leaves serve the purpose of lungs and will not contain much
food, though they naturally have a good deal of flavour; parsley,
sage, and tea are examples of this. The fruit is a house to protect
the seeds, and is made most attractive and delicious, so that animals
will be tempted to eat this part, and thus assist in the dispersal
of the seeds. The fruit has comparatively little food value as
building material. The seed contains the stored material to build
new plants, and therefore is the most nutritive part of all. It is
the only part of the plant which contains an appreciable supply of
building food, that is, which can take the place of eggs or meat
in the diet. Baked beans are sometimes called "nuggets of nourishment"
or "the poor man's beef".

LESSON IV
After discussing the food value of the different parts in this broad
way, the pupils may be asked to consider the plant foods used in
their diet and to compare their nutritive value.
The facts concerning these may be summed up as follows:
1. Green vegetables:
These generally contain much water, hardly any protein or fat, and
a small amount of sugar.
They are valuable mainly for their mineral matter and cellulose.

2.

[16] The ridiculous impressing of ancient scriptural names for the
    geographical features of the country, and the nations which inhabited
    it in his time, and his rambling itinerary, by days journeys, without
    pointing out the precise direction of the routs, render it next to
    impossible to investigate the real objects of his observations with
    any decent chance of success.--E.

[17] This description suits the Calmuks.--E.

[18] Once a great city in the N.W. of Irac-agemi, not far from Cashbin. See
    Chardin's Travels in Persia, to be found afterwards in this
    collection.--E.

[19] This island has much puzzled commentators, some of whom have wandered
    to Ormus in quest of its situation. It is probably the flat country of
    Assyria, between the Tigris and Euphrates, below Bagdat, which he may
    have mistaken for an island; or it may refer to the Delta of the
    Tigris and Ahwas. The extent mentioned in the text does not say
    whether it is to be understood as the length or circumference of the
    island.--E.

[20] This must be at or near Bahrein, in the Persian Gulf, famous for its
    pearl-fishery.--E.

[21] Nisan, the first month of the Jewish year, contains the latter half of
    our March and former half of April; Tisri is equivalent to half of
    September and half of October.--E.

[22] From the circumstance of pepper being plenty in this place it is
    probable that some part of Malabar is meant, where he may have found a
    colony of Parsees. Astronomy is often called astrology by old
    writers.--E.

[23] This must have been some secret mechanical contrivance, all wonders
    unknown to the ignorant being attributed by them to magic art.--E.

[24] Tzin is obviously China. By the Nikpha, or coagulated sea, the sea of
    Tartar may be intended; concerning which, some ill-told stories may
    have reached Benjamin, of mariners having been frozen up. The
    situation of Cinrog it is impossible to ascertain; but it must have
    been some part of India, where voluntarily burning alive is still
    practised, but only by the widows of the higher casts.--E.

[25] Benjamin here obviously speaks of the Jews in the mountains of
    Abyssinia, still known there under the name of Falassa. It would
    appear, that the previously indicated courses led across the peninsula
    of Arabia and the Red Sea; but his names of places are
    unintelligible.--E.

[26] Perhaps Asowan in upper Egypt, which is rendered probable by the
    journey through the desert.--E.

[27] Harris considered Gana to mean Guinea; but it is probably Nigritia,
    or the inland country of Africa, on the Niger or Joliba.--E.

[28] Perhaps Memphis, as he evidently alludes to the pyramids.--E.

[29] Kahira, or Cairo, called also Messir.--E.

[30] Elul contains from the middle of August to the middle of September and
    Tisri from that to the middle of October. But the Nile begins to rise
    in the middle of June, and returns to its usual level in October.--E.

[31] Of the Rabbinists or Talmudists.--E.

[32] This may possibly have been the Sarcophagus brought lately from
    Alexandria, and deposited in the British museum, under the strange
    idea of having been the tomb of Alexander. Benjamin seems to have
    known nothing about the hieroglyphics, with which his tomb was
    obviously covered.--E.

[33] This short commentary upon three words in that part of the travels of
    Benjamin, which has been omitted in Harris, is extracted from Forster,
    Hist of Voy. and Disc. in the North, p. 92, and shews the extreme
    difficulty of any attempt to give an accurate edition of the whole
    work, if that should be thought of, as it would require critical skill
    not only in Hebrew, but in the languages of the different countries to
    which the travels refer.--E.


CHAP. VI.

_Travels of an Englishman into Tartary, and thence into Poland, Hungary,
and Germany, in 1243_.[1]


This earliest remaining direct account of the Tartars, or Mongols receiving
that name, which is extremely short and inconclusive, is recorded by
Matthew Paris, in a letter from Yvo de Narbonne to the archbishop of
Bourdeaux, and is here given as a literary curiosity.


       *       *       *       *       *

Provoked by the sins of the Christians, the Lord hath become as it were a
destroying enemy, and a dreadful avenger; having sent among us a
prodigiously numerous, most barbarous, and inhuman people, whose law is
lawless, and whose wrath is furious, even as the rod of God's anger,
overrunning and utterly ruining infinite countries, and cruelly destroying
every thing where they come with fire and sword. This present summer, that
nation which is called Tartars, leaving Hungary, which they had surprised
by treason, laid siege, with many thousand soldiers, to the town of
Newstadt, in which I then dwelt, in which there were not above fifty men at
arms, and twenty cross-bow-men, left in garrison. All these observing from
certain high places the vast army of the enemy, and abhorring the beastly
cruelty of the accomplices of Antichrist, signified to the governor the
hideous lamentations of his Christian subjects, who, in all the adjoining
provinces, were surprised and cruelly destroyed, without any respect of
rank, fortune, age, or sex. The Tartarian chieftains, and their brutishly
savage followers, glutted themselves with the carcasses of the inhabitants,
leaving nothing for the vultures but the bare bones; and strange to tell,
the greedy and ravenous vultures disclaimed to prey on the remains left by
the Tartars. Old and deformed women they gave for daily sustenance to their
cannibals: The young and beautiful they devoured hot, but smothered them
shrieking and lamenting under their forced and unnatural ravishments; and
cutting off the breasts of tender virgins to present as dainties to their
leaders, they fed themselves upon their bodies.

Their spies having descried from the top of a high mountain the Duke of
Austria, the King of Bohemia, the Patriarch of Aquileia, the Duke of
Carindiia, and as some say, the Earl of Baden, approaching with a mighty
power towards them, the accursed crew immediately retired into the
distressed and vanquished land of Hungary, departing as suddenly as they
had invaded, and astonishing all men by the celerity of their motions. The
prince of Dalmatia took eight of the fugitives, one of whom was recognized,
by the Duke of Austria as an Englishman, who had been perpetually banished
from England for certain crimes. This man had been sent twice as a
messenger and interpreter from the most tyrannical king of the Tartars to
the king of Hungary, menacing and fortelling those mischiefs which
afterwards happened, unless he would submit himself and his kingdom to the
yoke of the Tartars. Being urged by our princes to confess, the truth, this
man made such oaths and protestations, as I think might have served to make
even the devil be trusted.

He reported of himself, that presently after his banishment, being then
about thirty years of age, and having lost all he possessed at dice in the
city of Acon[2] he set off from thence, in the middle of winter, wearing
nothing but a shirt of sacking, a pair of shoes, and a hairy cap; and,
being shaven like a fool, he uttered an uncouth noise, as if he had been
dumb, and wandered about through many countries in search of food. At
length, through fatigue, and change of air and diet, he fell grievously
sick in Chaldea, insomuch that he was weary of his life. Being compelled to
remain there a long time to recover his strength, and having some learning,
he began to write down the words he heard spoken, and in a short time made
himself so much master of the language, as to be reputed a native; and in
this manner he attained expertness in many languages. The Tartars got
notice of this man by means of their spies, and drew him by force among
them; and, having been admonished by an oracle or vision to extend their
dominion over the whole earth, they allured him by many offers of reward,
to serve them as an interpreter. He gave the following account of the
manners and superstitions of the Tartars, of the disposition and stature of
their bodies, and of their country and manner of fighting.

The Tartars are covetous, irascible, deceitful, and merciless, beyond all
men; yet, through the rigour of discipline which is exercised by their
superiors, they are restrained from brawls and mutual strife. They esteem
the ancient founders and fathers of their tribes as Gods, in whose honour
they celebrate solemn feasts at certain fixed times; and these deities are
very numerous, though only four are considered as general gods of the
nation. They consider all things as created for their sole use, and do not
therefore think themselves cruel or unjust in wasting and destroying the
surrounding nations, whom they esteem rebels against their legitimate
authority. Their bodies, though lean, are hardy and strong, with broad
chests, and square high shoulders, strong, well knit joints and firm
sinews, thick and large thighs, with short legs, so that, being equal to us
in stature, what they want in their legs is supplied in the upper part of
their bodies. Their faces are pale, with short flat noses, their eyes black
and inconstant, having large eyebrows, extending down to the nose; long
sharp chins, their upper jaws low and declining, their teeth long and thin,
their countenances distorted, fierce and terrible.

In ancient times their country, which is situated far beyond Chaldea, was
utterly waste and barren, from whence they have expelled the lions, bears,
and other wild beasts. Of the tanned hides of beasts they make for
themselves light but impenetrable armour, and their backs are only slightly
armed, that they may not flee in battle. They use small but strong horses,
which are maintained with little provender. In fight they use javelins,
maces, battle-axes, and swords, but are particularly expert in the use of
bows and arrows. When engaged in battle they never retire till they see the
chief standard of their general give back. When vanquished they ask no
quarter, and in victory they shew no compassion; and though many millions
in number, they all persist as one man, in resolving to subdue the whole
world under their dominion. They have 60,000 couriers who are sent before
upon light horses to prepare a place for the army to encamp, and these will
gallop in one night as far as our troops can march in three days. When they
invade a country, they suddenly diffuse themselves over the whole land,
surprising the people unarmed, unprovided, and dispersed, and make such
horrible slaughter and devastation, that the king or prince of the invaded
land cannot collect a sufficient force to give them battle.

Sometimes they say, they intend to go to Cologne to bring home the three
wise kings into their own country; sometimes they propose to punish the
avarice and pride of the Romans, who formerly oppressed them; sometimes to
conquer the barbarous nations of the north; sometimes to moderate the fury
of the Germans with their own mildness; sometimes in derision they say that
they intend going in pilgrimage to the shrine of St James in Galicia. By
means of these pretences, some indiscreet governors of provinces have
entered into league with them, and have, granted them free passage through
their territories; but which leagues they have ever violated, to the
certain ruin and destruction of these princes and their unhappy countries.


[1] Hakluyt, I, 22.

[2] Acre, in Palestine--E.


CHAP. VII.

_Sketch of the Revolutions in Tartary_.


Our limits do not admit of any detailed account of the history of those
numerous and warlike pastoral nations, which in all ages have occupied the
vast bounds of that region, which has been usually denominated Scythia by
the ancients, and Tartary by the moderns: yet it seems necessary to give in
this place, a comprehensive sketch of the revolutions which have so
strikingly characterized that storehouse of devastating conquerors, to
elucidate the various travels into Tartary which are contained in this
first book of our work; and in this division of our plan, we have been
chiefly guided by the masterly delineations on the same subject, of the
eloquent historian of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire[1].

In their navigation of the Euxine, and by planting colonies on its coasts,
the Greeks became acquainted with Western Scythia, extending from the
Danube, along the northern frontiers of Thrace, to mount Caucasus. The
great extent of the ancient Persian Empire, which reached at one period
from the Danube to the Indus, exposed its whole northern frontier to the
Scythian nations, as far to the east as the mountains of Imaus or Caf, now
called the Belur-tag. The still more eastern parts of Scythia or Tartary
were known of old to the Chinese, and stretch to the utmost north-eastern
bounds of Asia. Thus from the Danube and Carpathian mountains, in long.
26°. E, to the promontory of Tschuts-koi-nos, or the East Cape of Asia, in
long. 190°. E. this vast region extends in length 160 degrees of longitude,
or not less than 8000 miles. Its southern boundaries are more difficultly
ascertainable: but, except where they are pressed northwards by the
anciently civilized empire of China, these may be assumed at a medium on
the thirty-fifth degree of north latitude; from, whence Scythia or Tartary
extends in breadth to the extremity of the frozen north.

Next to the nomadic nations of Western Scythia, who encountered and baffled
the arms of Darius, King of Persia, under the general name of Scythians,
who were perhaps congeneric, or the same with those afterwards known by the
name of Goths, the dreaded name of the Huns became known to the declining
Roman Empire. But our object does not require us to attempt to trace the
history of these nations, under their various appellations of Huns, Topa,
Geougen, Turks, Chozars, and others, till the establishment of the vast
empire of Zingis connected the history and devastating conquests of the
Tartars with the affairs of modern Europe[2].

In the beginning of the thirteenth century, Temugin, the son of a Mogul
chief, laid the foundations of a vast empire in the north east of Tartary
or Mongolia. His father had reigned over thirteen hordes or tribes of the
Moguls, Moals, or Monguls: and as it was not customary for these warlike
tribes to submit to be ruled over by a boy, Temugen, who at the death of
his father was only thirteen years of age, had to contend with his
revolted, subjects, and had to obey a conqueror of his own nation. In a new
attempt to recover the command over the subjects of his, father, he was
more successful: and under the new appellation of _Zingis_, which signifies
_most great_, he became the conqueror of an empire of prodigious extent. In
person, or by means of his lieutenants, he successfully reduced the
nations, tribes, or hordes of Tartary or Scythia, from China to the Volga,
and established his undisputed authority over the whole pastoral world. He
afterwards subjugated the five northern provinces of China, which were long
imperfectly known under the name of Kathay; and successively reduced
Carisme or Transoxiana, now great Bucharia, Chorassan, and Persia: and he
died in 1227, after having exhorted and instructed his sons to persevere in
the career of conquest, and more particularly to complete the conquest of
China.

The vast empire established by Zingis, was apportioned among his four
principal sons, Toushi, Zagatai, Octai, and Tuli, who had been respectively
his great huntsman, chief judge, prime minister, and grand general. Firmly
united among themselves, and faithful to their own and the public interest,
three of these brothers, and their families and descendants, were satisfied
with subordinate command; and Octai, by general consent of the maols, or
nobles, was proclaimed _Khan_, or emperor of the Moguls and Tartars. I,
however, I write for France-- for the world! But I fear, alas, that
fools will condemn me, because I have sought to write as a wise man."
[Footnote: CEuvres, p. 341.]
Voltaire commenced to write, but, he was soon interrupted by his servant,
Tripot, who announced that the Jew Hirsch, for whom Voltaire had sent,
was at the door. Voltaire rose hastily, and called him to enter.

"I have business with you, my friend," said he to the Jew. "Close the door,
Tripot, and see that we are not disturbed."
Voltaire hastened with youthful agility through the saloon, and beckoned
to the Jew to follow him into his bedroom.

"First of all, friend, we will make a small mercantile operation."

So saying, he opened the door of a large commode. "See, here are
twelve pounds of the purest wax-lights. I am a poor man, with weak
eyes. I have no use for these lights; I can never hope to profit by them.
Here, also, are several pounds of sugar and coffee, the savings of the
last two months. You will buy all this of me; we will agree upon a fixed
price, and the last day of every month you will come for the same purpose.
Name your price, sir."

Hirsch named his price; but it seemed that the great poet understood how to
bargain better than the Jew. He knew exactly the worth of the sugar and the
coffee, he spoke so eloquently of the beauty and purity of the thick white
wax-lights, that the Hebrew increased his offer,
"And now to more important business," said Voltaire. "You are going to
Dresden--you will there execute a commission for me. I wish to invest
eighteen thousand thalers in Saxon bonds. They can now be purchased at
thirty-five, and will be redeemed at a hundred."
"But your excellency knows that the king has forbidden his subjects to buy
these bonds. He demanded and obtained for his subjects a pledge that they
should be paid at par for the bonds they now hold, while the subjects of
the King of Saxony receive only their present value. The king promised,
however, that the Prussians should make no further investments in these
bonds. You see, then, that it is impossible for me to fulfil this commission."

"I see that you are a fool!" cried Voltaire, angrily. "If you were not a
fool, you would know that Voltaire, the chamberlain of the king, would
not undertake a business transaction which would stain his reputation or
cast a shadow on his name. When Voltaire makes this investment, you can
understand that he is authorized to do so."
"That being the case," said Hirsch, humbly, "I am entirely satisfied,
and will gladly serve your excellency."
"If you fill this commission handsomely and promptly, you may feel
assured of a reward. Are you ambitious? Would you not like a title?"

"Certainly I am ambitious. I should be truly happy if I could obtain the
title of 'royal court agent.'"
"Well, buy these bonds for me in Dresden cheap, and you shall have this coveted
title," said the noble author of the "Henriade," and other world-renowned
works.

"I will buy them at thirty-five thalers."
"And you will invest eighteen thousand thalers at this rate. Our contract is
made; now we will count the gold. I have not the ready money--I will
give you drafts--come into my study.--There are three drafts," said
he, "one on Paris, one on your father, and one on the Jew Ephraim. Get
them cashed, good Hirsch, and bring me my Saxon bonds."
"In eight days, your excellency, I will return with them, and you will have
a clear profit of eleven thousand thalers."
Voltaire's eyes sparkled with joy. "Eleven thousand thalers!" said he; "for
a poor poet, who lives by his wits and his pen, that is a considerable
sum."
"You will realize that sum," said Hirsch, with the solemn earnestness of
a Jew when he has made a good trade.

Hirsch was about to withdraw, but Voltaire hastened after him, and seizing
his arm, he cried out threateningly: "You are not going without giving
me your note? You do not think that I am such a fool as to give you eighteen
thousand thalers, and have nothing to prove it?"
"You excellency has my word of honor," said the Jew, earnestly.

Voltaire laughed aloud. "Your word! the honorable word of a man for eighteen
thousand thalers! My dear friend, we do not live in paradise, but in a
so-called Christian city--your worthy forefathers obtained for us this
privilege. Do you believe that I will trust one of their descendants?
Who will go my security that you will not, nail my innocence and my
confiding heart upon the cross, and slay them if I should be unsuspicious
enough to trust my money with you in this simple way?"
"I will give you ample security," said Hirsch, taking a morocco case from
his pocket. "I did not know why your excellency sent for me. I thought
perhaps you wished to buy diamonds, and brought some along with me. Look,
sir! here are diamonds worth twenty-two thousand thalers! I will
leave them with you--I, the poor Jew, do not fear that the great poet
Voltaire will deceive and betray me."
"These diamonds are beautiful," said Voltaire--"very beautiful, and perhaps
if my speculation succeeds, I may buy some from you. Until then, I
will take care of them."
Voltaire was about to lock them up, but he paused suddenly, and
fixed his eyes upon the calm countenance of the Jew.

"How do I know that these are real diamonds?" he cried; and as Hirsch,
exasperated by this base suspicion, frowned and turned pale, he exclaimed
fiercely: "The diamonds are false! I know it by your terror. Oh, oh, you
thought that a poet was a good, credulous creature who could be easily
deceived. Ah! you thought I had heard nothing of those famous lapidaries
in St. Germain, who cut diamonds from glass, and cook up in their laboratories
the rarest jewels!
Yes, yes, I know all these arts, and all the brewing of St. Germain will not
suffice to deceive me."
"These diamonds are pure!" cried Hirsch.

"We will have them tested by a Christian jeweller," said Voltaire.-- "Tripot!
Tripot! run quickly to the jeweller Reclam--beg him to come to me for a
few moments."
Tripot soon returned with Reclam. The diamonds were pronounced pure and
of the first water; and the jeweller declared they were fully worth
twenty-two thousand thalers. Voltaire was now fully satisfied, and, when
once more alone, he looked long and rapturously upon these glittering
stones.

"What woman can boast of such dazzling fire in her eyes?" said he, laughing;
"what woman can say that their color is worth twenty-two thousand
thalers? It is true they glisten and shimmer in all lights and shades--that
is their weakness and their folly. With you, beautiful gems! these
changing hues are a virtue.

Oh, to think that with this handful of flashing stones I could buy a bag of
ducats!
How dull and stupid are mankind--how wise is God! Sinking those diamonds in
the bowels of the earth was a good speculation. They are truffles to
tempt the snouts of men; and they root after them as zealously as the swine
in Perigord root after the true truffles.
Gold! gold! that is the magic word with which the world is ruled.

I will have gold--I will rule the world.

I will not give place to dukes or princes.

I will have my seigneuries and my castles; my servants in
    rich livery, and my obedient subjects. I will be a grand seigneur.
    Kings and princes shall visit me in my castle, and wait in my
antechamber, as I have been compelled to wait in theirs.

I will be rich that I may be every man's master, even master of
    the fools.
    I will enslave the wise by my intellect--I will reduce the foolish to
    bondage with gold. I must be rich! rich! rich! therefore am I here;
    therefore do I correct the poor rhymes of the king; therefore
    do I live now as a modest poet, and add copper to copper, and save
    my pension of five thousand thalers, and sell my wax-lights and
my coffee to the Jew.

Let the world call me a miser.

When I become rich, I will be a spendthrift: and men who are now
envious and angry at my fame shall burst with rage at my fortune.

Ah, ah, it is not worth the cost to be a celebrated writer! There are too
many humiliations connected with this doubtful social position. It gives no
rank--it is a pitiful thing in the eyes of those who have actual
standing, and is only envied by those who are unnoticed and unknown.

For my own part, I am so exhausted by the discomforts of my position,
I would gladly cast it from me, and make for myself what the canaille
call a good thing--an enormous fortune.

I will scrape together all the gold that is possible. I will give for gold
all the honor and freedom and fame which come to me. I am a rich
gainer in all these things by my residence with King Frederick. He has this
virtue: he is unprejudiced, and cares nothing even for his own royal
rank. I will therefore remain in this haven, whither the storms, which
have so long driven me from shore to shore, have now safely moored me.
My happiness will last just as long as God pleases." [Footnote: Voltaire's
own words.--Oeuvres, p. 110.]
He laughed heartily, and took his cash-book, in which he entered
receipts and expenditures. It was Voltaire's greatest pleasure to add
up his accounts from time to time, and gloat over the growth of his
fortune; to compare, day by day, his receipts and expenses, and to find
that a handsome sum was almost daily placed to his credit.
The smallest necessary expenditure angered him. With a dark frown he said
to himself: "It is unjust and mean to require of me to buy provender
for my horse, and to have my carriage repaired; if the king furnishes me
with an equipage, he should not allow it to be any expense to me. The
major-domo is an old miser, who cheats me every month out of some pounds of
sugar and coffee, and the wax-lights are becoming thinner and poorer. I
will complain to King Frederick of all this; he must see that order prevails
in his palace."

Voltaire closed his account-book, and murmured: "When I have an income
of a hundred and fifty thousand francs, I will cease to economize. God be
praised, I have almost reached the goal! But," said he, impatiently, "in
order to effect this, I must remain here a few years, and add my pension
to my income. Nothing must prevent this--I must overcome every obstacle.
What! who can hinder me? my so-called friends, who naturally are my most
bitter enemies? Ha, ha!
what a romantic idea of this genial king to assemble six friends around
him at Sans-Souci, the most of them being authors--that is to say, natural
enemies! I believe if two authors, two women, or two pietists, were
placed alone upon a desert isle, they would forget their dependence
upon each other, and commence intriguing at once.
This, alas! is humanity, and being so, one must withdraw from the poor
affair advantageously and cunningly. [Footnote: Voltaire, Oeuvres,
p. 375.] No one can live peacefully in this world; least of all, in the
neighborhood of a king. It is with kings as with coquettes, their glances
kindle jealousy--and Frederick is a great coquette. I must, therefore,
drive my rivals from the field, and enjoy in peace the favor of the king.
Now which of my rivals are dangerous to me? All! all! I must banish them
all! I will sow such discontent and rage and malice and strife amongst them,
that they will fly in hot haste, and thank God if I do not bite off
their noses before they escape. I will turn this, their laughing
paradise, into a hell, and I will be the devil to chase them with glowing
pitchforks. Yes, even to Siberia will I drive this long-legged peacock,
Maupertius--him, first of all; then D'Argens, then Algarotti, then this
over-wise and good Lord Marshal, and all others like him! When Voltaire's
sun is in the ascendant, not even stars shall glitter; It shall not
be! I will prove to them that Voltaire's fiery rays have burned them
to ashes!"

[Footnote: Voltaire, OEuvres, p. 378.]
He laughed aloud, and seated himself to write a poem.

He was invited that evening to a soiree by the queen-mother, where
he wished to shine as an improvisator. Above all other things, he wished
to win the heart of the Princess Amelia. Since she had played the part of
Aurelia, in "Rome Sauvee," he had felt a passion for the princess, who had
betrayed to the life the ardor and the pains of love, and whose great flaming
eyes seemed, from their mysterious depths, to rouse the soul of the poet.
Voltaire had promised the Princess Amelia to improvise upon any subject she
should select, and he relied upon his cunning to incline her choice in
such a direction as to make the poem he was now writing appropriate and
seem impromptu.

While thus occupied, his servant entered and announced a number of
distinguished gentlemen, who were in the parlor, and wished to make
the great author a morning visit.

"Let them all wait!" said Voltaire, angrily; declaring that this disturbance
    had cost him a piquant rhyme.

"But, gracious sir," stammered the servant, "some of the most
distinguished men of the court and the oldest generals, are there!"

"What do I care for their epaulets or their excellencies? Let them wait, or
go to the devil--if they prefer it."
Well, the eminent gentlemen waited; indeed, they waited patiently, until the
great Voltaire, the favorite of the king, the universal French author, in
his pride and arrogance was graciously pleased to show himself amongst the
Dutch barbarians, and allow some rays of his intellect to fall upon and
inspire them!

The saloon was indeed crowded with princes, generals, and nobles.
Voltaire had just returned to Berlin from Potsdam, and all hastened to pay
their respects and commend themselves to his grace and favor.
[Footnote: Forney writes thus in his "Memoirs": "During the winter months
which Voltaire spent in the palace of Berlin, he was the favorite of
the court. Princes, ambassadors, ministers, generals, nobles of the highest
rank went to his morning receptions, and were often received by him
with contemptuous scorn. A great prince was pleased to play chess with him,
and allowed him every time to win the stake of two louis d'or. It was
declared, however, that sometimes the gold disappeared before the end of the
game, and could not be found."--"Souvenirs d'un Citoyen."]
Voltaire was very gracious this morning. As he was to play the part
of improvisator that night, he thought it politic to make favor
with all those who would be present. He hoped that all the world
would thunder out their enraptured applause, and that Maupertius,
D'Argens, Algarotti, La Mettrie, and all other friends of the king,
would be filled with envy and rage. He smiled, therefore, benignantly,
and had kind and flattering words for all. His bon-mots and piquant
witticisms seemed inexhaustible.
Suddenly his servant drew near, and said it was necessary to speak
to him on a matter of great importance. Voltaire turned with a
winning smile to his guests, and, praying them to wait for his
return, entered his private room.
"Well, Tripot, what have you to say that is important?"
"Gracious sir, the court is in mourning."
Voltaire looked at him enraged. "Fool! what is that to me?"
"It is of the utmost importance to you, sir, if you are going this
evening to the soiree of the queen-mother."
"Will you run me mad, Tripot? What has the court mourning to do
with the queen's soiree?"
"Gracious sir, the explanation is very simple. When the court is
in mourning, no one can appear there in embroidered clothes; you
must wear a plain black coat."
"I have no plain black coat," said Voltaire, with a frowning brow.Hence, what we now write is for your advantage, that you may be on your
guard, and more secure; being what we saw with our own eyes, while we
sojourned with and among these people, during more than a year and four
months, or which we have learnt from Christian captives residing among
them, and whom we believe to, be worthy of credit. We were likewise
enjoined by the supreme pontiff, that we should examine and inquire into
every thing very diligently; all of which, both myself and friar Benedict
of the same order, my companion in affliction and interpreter, have
carefully performed.


SECTION II.

_Of the first Mission of Friars Predicants and Minorites to the Tartars_.

At the same period, Pope Innocent IV. sent Friar Asceline of the order of
friars predicants, with three other friars from different convents, with
apostolical letters to the army of the Tartars, exhorting them to desist
from slaughtering mankind, and to adopt the true Christian faith; and from
one of these lately returned, Friar Simon de St Quintin, of the minorite
order, I have received the relations concerning the transactions of the
Tartars, which are here set down. At the same period, Friar, John de Plano
Carpini of the order of minorites, with some others, was sent to the
Tartars, and remained travelling among them for sixteen months. This Friar
John hath written a little history, which is come to our hands, of what he
saw among the Tartars, or learnt from divers persons living in captivity.
From which I have inserted such things, in the following relation, as were
wanting in the accounts given me by Friar Simon.


SECTION III.

_Of the Situation and Quality of the Land of the Tartars, from Carpini_.

The land of Mongolia or Tartary is in the east part of the world, where the
east and north are believed to unite[1]; haying the country of Kathay, and
the people called Solangi on the east; on the south the country of the
Saracens; the land of the Huini on the south-east; on the west the province
of Naimani, and the ocean on the north. In some parts it is full of
mountains, in other parts quite plain; but everywhere interspersed with
sandy barrens, not an hundredth part of the whole being fertile, as it
cannot be cultivated except where it is watered with rivers, which are very
rare. Hence there are no towns or cities, except one named Cracurim[2],
which is said to be tolerably good. We did not see that place, although
within half a day's journey, when we were at the horde of Syra, the court
of their great emperor. Although otherwise infertile, this land is well
adapted for the pasture of cattle. In some places there are woods of small
extent, but the land is mostly destitute of trees; insomuch, that even the
emperor and princes, and all others, warm themselves and cook their
victuals with fires of horse and cow dung. The climate is very intemperate,
as in the middle of summer there are terrible storms of thunder and
lightning, by which many people are killed, and even then there are great
falls of snow, and there blow such tempests of cold winds, that sometimes
people can hardly sit on horseback. In one of these, when near the Syra
Horde, by which name they signify the station of the emperor, or of any of
their princes, we had to throw ourselves prostrate on the ground, and could
not see by reason of the prodigious dust.  It never rains in winter, but
frequently in summer, yet so gently as scarcely to lay the dust, or to
moisten the roots of the grass. But there are often prodigious showers of
hail; insomuch, that by the sudden melting of one of these, at the time
when the emperor elect was about to be placed on his throne, at which time
we were at the imperial court, above an hundred and sixty persons were
drowned, and many habitations and much valuable things were swept away. In
summer there are often sudden and intolerable heats, quickly followed by
extreme cold.


[1] This strange personification of the East and North, as if they were
    stationary geographical terms, not merely, relative, only means that
    Mongalia lay in the most north-easterly part of the then known world.
    --E.

[2] Called likewise Karakum, or Caracorum, and said to signify the _Black
    Sand_.--E


SECTION IV.

_Of the Appearance, Dress, and Manner of Living of the Tartars_.

The appearance of the Mongols or Tartars is quite different from all other
nations, being much wider between the eyes and cheeks, and their cheeks are
very prominent, with small flat noses, and small eyes, having the upper
lids opened up to the eyebrows, and their crowns are shaven like priests on
each side, leaving some long hair in the middle, the remainder being
allowed to grow long like women, which they twist into two tails or locks,
and bind behind their ears. The garments of the men and women are alike,
using neither cloaks, hats, nor caps, but they wear strange tunics made of
bucram, purple, or baldequin. Their gowns are made of skins, dressed in the
hair, and open behind. They never wash their clothes, neither do they allow
others to wash, especially in time of thunder, till that be over. Their
houses are round, and artificially made like tents, of rods and twigs
interwoven, having a round hole in the middle of the roof for the admission
of light and the passage of smoke, the whole being covered with felt, of
which likewise the doors are made. Some of these are easily taken to pieces
or put together, and are carried on sumpter-cattle; while others are not
capable of being taken to pieces, and are carried on carts. Wherever they
go, whether to war, or only travelling to fresh pastures, these are carried
with them. They have vast numbers of camels, oxen, sheep, and goats, and
such prodigious multitudes of horses and mares, as are not to be found in
all the rest of the world; but they have no swine. Their emperor, dukes,
and other nobles, are extremely rich in gold and silver, silks, and gems.
They eat of every thing that is eatable, and we have even seen them eat
vermin. They drink milk in great quantity, and particularly prefer that of
mares. But as in winter, none but the rich can have mares milk, they make a
drink of millet boiled in water; every one drinking one or two cups in the
morning, and sometimes having no other food all day; but in the evening,
every one has a small quantity of flesh, and they drink the broth in which
it was boiled. In summer, when they have abundance of mares milk, they eat
little flesh, unless it is given them, or when they catch venison or birds.


SECTION V.

_Of their Good and Bad Customs_.

[Illustration: Map of the Western part of Tartary & Adjacent Countries]

Some of their customs are commendable, and others execrable. They are more
obedient to their lords than any other people, giving them vast reverence,
and never deceiving them in word or action. They seldom quarrel; and
brawls, wounds, or manslaughter hardly ever occur. Thieves and robbers are
nowhere found, so that their houses and carts, in which all their treasure
is kept, are never locked or barred. If any animal go astray, the finder
either leaves it, or drives it to those who are appointed to seek for
strays, and the owner gets it back without difficulty. They are very
courteous, and though victuals are scarce among them, they communicate
freely to each other. They are very patient under privations, and though
they may have fasted for a day or two, will sing and make merry as if they
were well satisfied. In journeying, they bear cold, or heat with great
fortitude. They never fall out, and though often drunk, never quarrel in
their cups. No one despises another, but every one assists his neighbour to
the utmost. Their women are chaste, yet their conversation is frequently
immodest. Towards other people they are exceedingly proud and overbearing,
looking upon all other men with contempt, however noble. For we saw, in the
emperor's court, the great duke of Russia, the son of the king of Georgia,
and many sultans and other great men, who received no honour or respect; so
that even the Tartars appointed to attend them, however low their
condition, always went before them, and took the upper places, and even
often obliged them to sit behind their backs. They are irritable and
disdainful to other men, and beyond belief deceitful; speaking always fair
at first, but afterwards stinging like scorpions. They are crafty and
fraudulent, and cheat all men if they can. Whatever mischief they intend
they carefully conceal, that no one may provide or find a remedy for their
wickedness. They are filthy in their meat and drink, and in all their
actions. Drunkenness is honourable among them; so that, when one has drank
to excess and throws up, he begins again to drink. They are most
importunate beggars, and covetous possessors, and most niggardly givers;
and they consider the slaughter of other people as nothing.


SECTION VI.

_Of the Laws and Customs of the Tartars_.

Men and women guilty of adultery, or even of fornication, are punished with
death. Those detected in robbery or theft are likewise slain. If any one
divulges their councils, especially with regard to an intended war, he
receives an hundred blows on his buttocks with a great cudgel, as hard as a
strong man can lay on. When any of the meaner sort commit offences, they
are severely punished by their superiors. In marriage, they pay no
attention to nearness of kindred, except their mothers, daughters, or
sisters by the same mother; for they will even marry their sisters from
other mothers, and their fathers wives after his death. The younger brother
also, or some other of the kindred, is bound to marry the wives of a
deceased brother.

While I remained in the country, a Russian duke, named Andrew[1], being
accused before duke Baatu, of conveying Tartar horses out of the country
and selling them to other nations, was put to death, although the fact was
not proved against him. After this, the widow and younger brother of Andrew
came to Baatu, supplicating that they might not be deprived of the dukedom,
upon which Baatu commanded them to be married according to the Tartar
custom; and though both refused, as contrary to the religion and laws of
Russia, they were compelled to this incestuous union. After the death of
their husbands, the Tartar widows seldom marry, unless when a man chooses
to wed his brother's wife or his stepmother. They make no difference
between the son of a wife or of a concubine, of which the following is a
memorable example. The late king of Georgia left two sons, Melich and
David, of whom the former was lawful, and the other born in adultery; but
he left part of his dominions to his bastard. Melich appealed to the Tartar
emperor for justice, and David went likewise to the court, carrying large
gifts; and the emperor confirmed the will of their father, even appointing
David to have the superior authority, because eldest born. When a Tartar
has more than one wife, each has her own house and establishment, and the
husband eats, drinks, and sleeps, sometimes with one and sometimes with
another. One is considered as principal wife, and with her he resides
oftener than with the others; and though they are sometimes numerous, they
very seldom quarrel among themselves.


[1] In the previous account of the travels of Carpini, Hakl. I. 27. this
    Andrew is said to have been duke of Sarvogle, or Seirvogle, perhaps
    meaning Yeroslave.--E.


SECTION VII.

_Of their Superstitious Traditions_.

In consequence of certain traditions, they consider many indifferent
actions as criminal. One is, to thrust a knife into the fire, or any way to
touch a fire with a knife, to take meat from the pot with a knife, or even
to hew any thing with an axe near a fire; as they consider all these things
as taking away the force of the fire. Another is, to lean upon a whip, for
they use no spurs, or to touch arrows with their whip, to strike their
horse with their bridle, to take or kill young birds, or to break one bone
upon another. Likewise, to spill milk, or any drink, or food, on the
ground, or to make water in a house; for the last offence, if intentional,
a man is slain, or he must pay a heavy fine to the soothsayers to be
purified; in which case, the house, and all that it contains, has to pass
between two fires, before which ceremony no person must enter the house,
nor must any thing be removed from it. If any one takes a bit of meat that
he cannot swallow and spits it out, a hole is made in the floor of the
house, through which he is dragged and put to death. If any one treads on
the threshold of a house belonging to one of their dukes, he is put to
death. Many such things they account high offences.

But to slay men, to invade the territories of others, to take away the
goods of other people, and to act contrary to the commands of God, is no
crime among them; and they know nothing of the life to come, or of eternal
damnation. But they believe in a future life, in which they shall tend
flocks, eat and drink, and do those very things which they do in this life.
At new moon, or when the moon is full, they begin any new enterprise; they
call the moon the great emperor, and they worship that luminary on their
knees. All who dwell in their houses must undergo purification by fire,
which is performed in this manner. Having kindled two fires at a convenient
distance, they fix two spears in the earth, one near each fire, stretching
a cord between the tops of these spears, and about the cord they hang some
rags of buckram, under which cord, and between, which fires, all the men,
and beasts, and houses must pass; and all the while, a woman stands on each
side, sprinkling water on the passengers, and reciting certain verses. If
any one is killed by lightning, all that dwell in the same house with the
dead person must be thus purified; otherwise, the house, beds, carts,
felts, garments, and every thing else would be abandoned as unclean. When
any messengers, princes, or other persons arrive, they and their gifts must
pass between two fires for purification, lest they should bring witchcraft,
poison, or any other mischief.


SECTION VIII.

_Of the Beginning of their Empire_.

The land of Mongolia was formerly divided among four different tribes or
nations. One of these was the Yeka-Mongal, or the great Mongols. The second
Su-Mongal, or the Water Mongols, who called themselves Tartars, from a
river of that name in their territories. The third was named Merkat, and
the fourth Metrit. All these tribes resembled each other in form, and
complexion, and spoke the same language, though they were divided into
distinct provinces, under separate princes. In the land of the Yeka-Mongal,
lived one named Zingis, a great hunter, who used to rob and take much prey,
going into the neighbouring districts, where he seized all that came in his
way, and associated many under his command, till at length the people of
his nation attached themselves to him, and followed him as their leader to
do evil. After some time, Zingis went to war with the Su-Mongal or Tartars,
slew their duke, and subjugated the nation; and he successively reduced the
Merkats and Metrites to his growing dominion. The Naymani, to whom all the
surrounding tribes then paid tribute, were much indignant at the elevation
of Zingis; but their great emperor had lately died, leaving the authority
divided among his sons, who were young and foolish, and knew not how to
rule the people; yet they invaded the territories of the Mongals, slaying
the inhabitants and carrying off much prey. On this Zingis collected the
whole strength of his subjects, and the Naymani, united with the
Cara-Cathayans, gathered a mighty army in a certain narrow valley to oppose
him, in which a great battle was fought, and the Mongals obtained the
victory, the confederates being mostly slain, and those who escaped were
reduced to subjection. Zingis established his son Occoday, Ug dai, or
Octai-Khan, in the land of the Kara-Kitayans, where he built a town called
Omyl or Chamyl[1]; near which, and to the south, there is a vast desert, in
which there are said to be certain wild men, who do not speak, and have no
joints in their legs, yet have sufficient art to make felt of camels wool
for garments, to protect them from the weather.


[1] Called Chamil or Hami in the maps, in lat. 43° N. and long.
    92° E It stands in a province of the same name, on the north side of
    the great desert of Cobi, and to the N.E. of the land of the Kalmuks,
    or little Bucharia.--E.


SECTION IX.

_Of the Mutual Victories of the Mongals and Cathayans_.

After their return from conquering the Naymani and Cara-Cathayans, the
Mongals prepared to go to war with the Kythaos, or Cathayans[1]; but the
Mongals were defeated in a great battle, and all their nobles were slain
except seven. Zingis and the rest who had escaped from this defeat, soon
afterwards attacked and conquered the people called Huyri[2], who were
Nestorian Christians, from whom they learned the art of writing. After this
they conquered the land of Sarugur, and the country of the Karanites, and
the land of Hudirat, and returning into their own country, took a short
respite from war. Again assembling a great army, they invaded Cathay, and
after a long struggle, they conquered the greater part of that country, and
besieged the emperor in his greatest city. The siege lasted so long, that
the army of the Mongals came to be in want of provisions, and Zingis is
said to have commanded that every tenth man of his own army should be slain
as food for the rest. At length, by great exertions, the Mongals dug a mine
underneath the walls of the city, through which a party entered and opened
the gates for the rest of the army, so that the city was carried, and the
emperor and many of the citizens put to the sword. Having appointed
deputies to rule over his conquests, Zingis returned into Mongalia with
immense quantities of gold and silver and other precious spoil. But the
southern parts of this empire, as it lies within the sea, has not been
conquered by the Mongals to this day[3].

The people of Cathay are Pagans, having a peculiar kind of writing of their
own, in which they are reported to possess the scriptures of the Old and
New Testament. They have also lives of the fathers, and houses in which
they pray at stated times, built like churches; they are even said to have
saints, to worship one God, to venerate the Lord Jesus Christ, and to
believe eternal life; but they are not baptised[4]. They have no beards,
and they partly resemble the Mongals in their features. Their country is
exceeding fruitful in corn, and abounds in gold and silver, wine and silk,
and all manner of rich commodities, and the whole world has not more expert
artificers in all kinds of works and manufactures.


[1] The inhabitants of Northern China, then a separate kingdom from Mangi,
    or Southern China.--E.

[2] The Huirs or Uigurs.--E.

[3] This probably alludes to the difficulty experienced by the Mongals in
    forcing a passage across the great rivers Hoang-ho and Kian-ku--E.

[4] These absurd notions must have been picked up by the credulous papal
    messengers, from ignorant or designing Nestorians in Mongolia.--E.


SECTION X.

_Of the Wars of the Mongals against the Greater and Lesser India._

When Zingis and his people had rested some time after their conquest of
Cathay, he divided his army, and sent one of his sons, named Thosut-
khan[1], against the Comaniam, whom he vanquished in many battles, and then
returned into his own country. Another of his sons was sent with an army
against the Indians, who subdued the lesser India. These Indians are the
Black Saracens, who are also named Ethiopians. From thence the Mongal army
marched to fight against the Christians dwelling in the greater India, and
the king of that country, known by the name of Prester John, came forth
with his army against them. This prince caused a number of hollow copper
figures to be made, resembling men, which were stuffed with combustibles,
and set upon horses, each having a man behind on the horse, with a pair of
bellows to stir up the fire. So the young councillor was released from the
castle of Landsberg.
He returned to Berlin; and his first visit was not to his parents, but to
Barbarina, who received him in her new house in Behren Street.

A few hours later, a carriage stood before the door, which Barbarina,
accompanied by her sister and Cocceji, entered, and drove rapidly
away.

No one knew where they went.

Even the spies of the Coccejis, who continually watched the house of the
    dancer, could learn nothing from the servants who were left behind.
    A few days after, they brought the intelligence that Barbarina had
    returned; and the councillor dwelt with her in her new house; and
    the servants were commanded to call the signora Madame Cocceji.
as she was his well-beloved and trusted wife.

The wife of the high chancellor laughed contemptuously at this
narrative, and declared it to be only a coup de theatre.

Suddenly an equipage drove to the door.

Somewhat curious, Madame Cocceji stepped to the window; she saw that the
coachman and footmen were dressed in liveries glittering with gold, and that
the panels of the carriage were ornamented with the Cocceji coat-of-arms.

The Signora Barbarina was to be seen at the window. Horrified, the wife
of the chancellor stepped back; a servant entered with a card, which he
handed her respectfully.

"I am not at home; I receive no visits!" cried she, after looking at the
card. The servant retired, and the carriage rolled away.

"Yes, it is true. She has triumphed!" groaned the countess, still gazing
at the card, which had these words: "Monsieur de Cocceji and Madame
de Cocceji, nee Barbarina."

--"But she shall not succeed; the Barbarina shall never be called my daughter;
this marriage shall be set aside, the ceremony was not lawful, it is contrary
to the laws of the land. Barbarina is a bourgeoise, and cannot wed a noble
without the express consent of the king. I will throw myself at the
feet of his majesty and implore him to annul this marriage!"
Frederick was much exasperated, and inclined to yield to the
entreaties of his high chancellor.

A short time before, he had commanded the Catholic clergy not to perform
    any marriage ceremony without special permission and legitimation;
and his anger was aroused at their daring to disobey him, and in
secrecy and silence to marry Barbarina and Cocceji.

He commanded his cabinet minister Uhden to ascertain by what right the
    dancer Barbarina dared to call herself Madame Cocceji, and, if
    she could establish her claim, he wished to be informed what priest
had dared to bless the holy banns.

He was resolved to punish him severely.

The minister Uhden was a warm personal friend of the high chancellor, and
more than willing, therefore, to carry out sternly the king's
commands.

The next day he ordered Barbarina to appear before him, stating that he
had the king's permission to pronounce judgment upon her.

When Barbarina read this order, she was lost in painful silence, and a profound
melancholy was written upon her pale face.

"What will you do, sister?" said Marietta.
    

"I will go to the king!" replied Barbarina. rousing herself.
    

"But the king is at Potsdam."

"Well, then, I will go to Potsdam. Order my carriage; I must go in a quarter
of an hour."

"What shall I say to your husband when he returns home?"
Barbarina looked at her steadily. "Tell him that Madame Cocceji has gone to
Potsdam, to announce her marriage to the king, and ask him to acknowledge
it."
"Barbarina," whispered her sister, "hear me! Your husband is troubled and
sorrowful; he has confided in me. He says he fears you did not marry him
from love, but for revenge, and that you love him not."
"I am resolved to love him! I will learn how," said she, sadly. "I have
a strong will, and my heart shall obey me!"
She smiled, but her lovely face was overcast with grief, and
Marietta's eyes were filled with tears.
Frederick was alone in his study in the castle of Potsdam; he was
busily engaged in writing.The mother of Mengu was Seroctan, the greatest lady among the Tartars, and
the most honoured except the emperor's mother, and more powerful than any
subject except Bathy. The following is a list of their dukes: Ordu, Bathy,
Huryn, Cadan, Syban, and Ouygat, who were all in Hungary; Cyrpodan, who
remains beyond the sea[2], making war against certain soldans of the
Saracens, and other transmarine nations. Mengu, Chyrinen, Hubilai, Sinocur,
Cara, Gay, Sybedey, Bora, Berca, and Corensa, all remain in Tartary. But
there are many other dukes whose names I could not learn.


[1] Other authors give a different account of the family of Zingis.
    According to Harris, I. 556, Zuzi, or Tuschi, was his eldest son, who
    died six months before his father, and his son Baatu got a great part
    of Tartary for his share. Zagathai, a son of Zingis, got Transoxiana,
    or the country of the Kirguses. Tuli, another son, had Chorassan,
    Persia, and western India. Octai had Mongalia and Cathay, or Northern
    China. Carpini, or rather Vincentius, has sadly confounded all
    authentic history, by his rambling colloquial collections from
    ignorant relators, and has miserably corrupted the orthography of
    names of nations, places, and persons.--E.

[2] Probably meaning in Persia, beyond the Caspian Sea.--E


SECTION XIV.

_Of the Power of the Emperors, and of his Dukes._.

The Tartar emperor enjoys incontrollable power over all his subjects,
insomuch, that no man dare abide in any other place than he has assigned;
and he even appoints the residences of all the dukes. The dukes appoint the
residence of the millenaries, or commanders of a thousand men; the
millenaries do the same with the centurions, or captains of hundreds; and
the centurions direct in what place the decurions or commanders of tens are
to dwell. Whatsoever order any of these officers receive from their
immediate superiors must be instantly and implicitly obeyed. If the emperor
demands the virgin daughter or sister of any one, she is instantly
delivered up; nay, he often collects the virgins from all the Tartar
dominions, and retains such as he pleases for himself, giving away others
among his followers. All his messengers must be everywhere provided with
horses and necessaries without delay: and all messengers coming to him with
tribute or otherwise, must be provided on their way with horses, carriages,
and all necessaries; yet messengers from strange countries, suffer great
distresses and much want of provisions and clothing, especially when sent
to any of the princes, and when they have to make any stay; as they often
allot for ten men, what would hardly suffice for two, and if they suffer
any injury it is even dangerous to complain. Many gifts are demanded of
them, both by the princes and others, and if these are refused they are
contemned. Owing to this, we were constrained to expend in presents, a
large portion of what had been bestowed upon us by well disposed persons to
defray our expences. In fine, every thing whatever belongs to the emperor,
so that no one dare to say that any thing is his own; and the dukes and
princes exercise an equally incontrollable dominion upon all below them.


SECTION XV.

_Of the Election of the Emperor Occoday, and of the Expedition of Duke
Bathy._

On the death of Zingis-chan, the dukes assembled and elected his son
Occoday, Ugadai, or Oktai-khan, emperor in his place; who immediately, in a
council of the nobles, divided the army, and sent Bathy, or Baatu-khan, who
was next in authority, against the land of Altissodan and the country of
the Bissermini[1], who were Saracens, though they spoke the language of the
Comanians. Bathy defeated these people in battle; but the city of Barchin,
which was surrounded with strong walls, resisted for a long while, until
the Tartars filled up the ditches and won the place, which they destroyed.
Sargat surrendered without resistance, for which the city was not
destroyed, but many of the citizens were slain and made captives, and much
spoil was taken, and the city was filled with new inhabitants. The Tartars
marched next against the rich and populous city of Orna, in which were many
Christian Gassarians, Russians, and Alanians, and many Saracens, the lord
of the city being of that nation. This town stands on a large river, and is
a kind of port, exercising great trade. Being unable to reduce this place
by force, the Tartars dammed up the river, and drowned the whole city, with
the inhabitants and their goods. Hence they invaded Russia, and besieged
Kiow a long while, which they at length took, and massacred the
inhabitants. This was a large and populous city, but is now reduced to
nothing, and scarcely has two hundred houses: and when we passed through
Russia, we found immense numbers of human skulls and bones scattered about.
From Russia and Comania they proceeded against the Hungarians and
Polonians, where many of them were slain: and had the Hungarians withstood
them manfully, the Tartars had been utterly defeated. In their return from
thence, they invaded and defeated the pagan Morduans: whence they marched
against the Byleri of greater Bulgaria, which they almost entirely
destroyed. Thence they proceeded to the north against the Bastarci of
greater Hungary, whom they conquered; and going farther north, they came to
the Parossitae, and thence to the Samogetae, reaching even to the ocean;
and from thence returned into Comania.


[1] The Busurmen, Musurmen, or Mahometan inhabitants of Turkestan.--E.


SECTION XVI.

_Of the Expedition of Duke Cyrpodan._

At the same time Occoday-khan sent duke Cyrpodan with an army to the south,
against the pagan Kergis, who have no beards, whom he subdued. After which
he marched against the Armenians, whom he conquered, and likewise subdued a
part of Georgia. The other part of that country is likewise under
subjection, and pays an yearly tribute of 20,000 yperperas. He thence
marched into the dominions of the great and powerful soldan of the Deuri,
whom he defeated; and proceeded to the country of the soldan of Aleppo,
which he subdued; and afterwards reduced the caliph of Baldach or Bagdat to
subjection, who is forced to pay a daily tribute of 400 byzants, besides
baldekins[1] and other gifts. Every year the Tartar emperor sends
messengers to require the presence of the caliph; who sends back great
gifts besides the regular tribute, to prevail on the emperor to excuse his
absence.

Duke Cyrpodan and his army still propose to invade more distant countries,
and have not yet returned into Tartary.


[1] This is probably a manufacture of Bagdat or Baldach, from whence its
    name; and may have been flowered silk or cloth of gold.--E.


SECTION XVII.

_Of the Military conduct of the Tartars._

Zingis-khan divided the Tartars into companies or divisions of ten, of, an
hundred, and of a thousand each, every one of which had its appropriate
officer. Over every ten millenaries he placed one general; and over an army
of several bodies of ten thousand men, two or three dukes, one of whom had
the superior command. When they join battle against their enemies, unless
the whole army retreat by common consent, all who fly are put to death. If
one, two, or more of a decury proceed bravely to battle, and the rest do
not follow, the cowards are slain. If one, two, or more of the decury are
made prisoners and the rest do not rescue them, they are put to death.
Every man must have two bows, or at least one good bow, three quivers full
of arrows, an axe, and certain ropes to draw the military machines. The
rich or officers have sharp-pointed swords, somewhat curved and sharp on
one edge. They wear helmets, coats of mail, and cuisses, and their horses
even are armed. Some have their own armour and that of their horses made of
leather, ingeniously doubled and even tripled. The upper parts of their
helmets are of iron or steel, but the hood which protects their neck and
throat is of leather. Some have all their defensive armour composed of many
small plates of iron, a hand-breadth long and an inch broad, perforated
with eight small holes, by which they are tied with small leather thongs to
strong thongs of leather underneath, so that the plates overlap each other
in regular series, and are firmly knit together. The armour both of men and
horses is often made in this fashion, and is kept finely burnished. Some
carry lances having hooks, to pull their enemies from horseback. Their
arrow-heads are exceedingly sharp on both edges, and every man carries a
file to sharpen them. Their targets are made of wicker, but they are hardly
ever carried, except by the night guards, especially those in attendance
upon the emperor and the princes.

The Tartars are exceedingly crafty in war, in which they have been
continually engaged for the last forty-two years against all the
surrounding nations. When they have to pass rivers, the principal people
secure their garments in bags of thin leather, drawn together like purses,
and closely tied. They fix these to their saddles, along with their other
baggage, and tie the whole to their horse's tail, sitting upon the whole
bundle as a kind of boat or float; and the man who guides the horse is made
to swim in a similar manner, sometimes having two oars to assist in rowing,
as it were, across the river. The horse is then forced into the river, and
all the other horses follow, and in this manner they pass across deep and
rapid rivers[1]. The poorer people have each a purse or bag of leather well
sewed, into which they pack up all their things, well tied up at the mouth,
which they hang to the tails of their horses, and thus swim across.


[1] This mode of passing over rivers, though carefully translated, is by no
    means obviously described. I am apt to suppose that the leathern bags,
    besides holding the apparel and other valuables, were large enough to
    be blown up with air so as to serve as floats, like those used by the
    ancient Macedonians; a practice which they may have learnt from the
    Scythians. The Latin of Vincentius Beluacensis appears to have been
    translated from the French original of Carpini, from the following
    circumstance: What is here translated their _other baggage_ is, in the
    Latin, _alias res duriores_; almost with certainty mistakenly rendered
    from the French _leurs autres hardes_.--E.


SECTION XVIII.

_How the Tartars ought to be resisted._

No single kingdom or province can resist the Tartars, as they gather men
for war from every land that is subjected to their dominion; and if any
neighbouring province refuses to join them, they invade and lay it waste,
slaughtering the inhabitants or carrying them into captivity, and then
proceed against another nation. They place their captives in the front of
battle, and if they do not fight courageously they are put to the sword.
Wherefore, if the princes and rulers of Christendom mean to resist their
progress, it is requisite that they should make common cause, and oppose
them with united councils. "I can swim for both."
He knelt down, took his friend upon his back, and ran with him to the river.
And now they stood upon the shore. Solemnly, drearily, the waves dashed over
their feet, sweeping onward large blocks of ice which obstructed the
current.

"Is the river deep, comrade?"
"In the middle of the stream, deep enough to cover a giant like yourself."

"Onward, then! When I can no longer walk, I can swim. Hold fast, Schnell!"

Onward, in the dark, ice-cold water, bravely onward, with his friend upon
his back! Higher and higher rose the waves! Now they reached his shoulder!

"Hold fast to my hair, Schnell, we must swim!"
With herculean strength he swam through the dark, wild waters, and dashed
the ice-blocks which rushed against him from his path.

Now they have reached the other shore. Not yet safe--but safe from immediate
danger. The blessed night conceals their course, and their pursuers seek
them on the other shore.

Suddenly the fog is dispersed; a rough bleak wind freezes the moisture
in the atmosphere, and the moon rose in cloudless majesty in the heavens.
It was a cold, clear December night, and the wet clothes of the fugitives
were frozen stiff, like a harness, upon them. Trenck felt neither cold
nor stiff; he carried his friend upon his shoulders, and that kept him
warm; he walked so rapidly, his limbs could not stiffen.

Onward, ever onward to the mountains! They reached the first hill, under
whose protecting shadows they sank down to rest, and take counsel
together.

"Trenck, I suffer great agony; I implore you to leave me here and save yourself.
In a few hours you can pass the border. Leave me, then, and save yourself!"

"I will never desert a friend in necessity. Come, I am refreshed."
    
    He took up his comrade and pressed on. The moon had concealed herself
    behind the clouds; the cold, cutting winds howled through the mountains.
    Stooping, Trenck waded on through the snow.

He was scarcely able now to hold himself erect. Hope inspired him
    with strength and courage--they had wandered far, they must soon
    reach the border.
    

Day broke!

the pale rays of the December sun melted the mountain vapors into morning.
The two comrades were encamped upon the snow, exhausted with their
long march, hopefully peering here and there after the Bohemian
boundary.

"Great God! what is that? Are not those the towers of Glatz? and that
dark spectre which raises itself so threateningly against the horizon, is
not that the citadel?"
And so it was. The poor fugitives have wandered round and round the whole
night through, and they are now, alas! exactly where they started.

"We are lost," murmured Schnell; "there is no hope!" "No, we are not
lost!" shouted Trenck; "we have young, healthy limbs, and weapons.
They shall never take us alive."
"But we cannot escape them. Our appearance will instantly betray us; I am in
full uniform, and you in your red coat of the body-guard, both of us without
hats. Any man would know we were deserters."
"Woe to him who calls us so! we will slay him, and walk over his dead body.
And now for some desperate resolve. We cannot go backward, we must
advance, and pass right through the midst of our enemies in order to
reach the border. You know the way, and the whole region round about.
Come. Schnell, let us hold a council of war."
"We must pass through that village in front of us. How shall we attempt to
do so unchallenged?"
Half an hour later a singular couple drew near to the last house of the
village. One was a severely wounded, bleeding officer of the king's body-guard;
his face was covered with blood, a bloody handkerchief was bound about
his brow, and his hands tied behind his back. Following him, limped an officer
in full parade dress, but bareheaded.

With rude, coarse words he drove the poor prisoner before him, and cried
for help. Immediately two peasants rushed from the house.

"Run to the village," said the officer, "and tell the judge to have a
carriage got ready immediately, that I may take this deserter to the fortress.
I succeeded in capturing him, but he shot my horse, and I fear I broke a
bone in falling; you see, though, how I have cut him to pieces. I think
he is mortally wounded. Bring a carriage instantly, that I may take
him, while yet alive, to the citadel."
One of the men started at once, the other nodded to them to enter his
hut.

Stumbling and stammering out words of pain, the wounded man followed him;
cursing and railing, the officer limped behind him. On entering the room,
the wounded man sank upon the floor, groaning aloud. A young girl
advanced hastily, and took his wounded head in her arms; while an old
woman, who stood upon the hearth, brought a vessel of warm milk to comfort
him.

The old peasant stood at the window, and looked, with a peculiar smile, at
the officer, who seated himself upon a bench near the fire, and drank the
milk greedily which the old woman handed him.

Suddenly the old man advanced in front of the officer and laid his
hand on his shoulder.

"Your disguise is not necessary, Lieutenant Schnell, I know you; my son
    served in your company. There was an officer from the citadel
    here last night, and informed us of the two deserters. You are
    one, Lieutenant Schnell, and that is the other. That is Baron Trenck."
    

And now, the wounded man, as if cured by magic, sprang to his feet.
    The sound of his name had given him health and strength, and healed
the wound in his forehead.

He threw the handkerchief off, and rushed out, while Schnell with prayers
    and threats held back the old man, and entreated him to show them
the nearest way to the border.

Trenck hastened to the stable--two horses were in the stalls.

The young girl, who had held his head so tenderly, came up behind
him.

"What are you doing, sir?"

she said anxiously, as Trenck released the horses. "You will not surely
take my father's horses?--if you do, I will cry aloud for help."
"If you dare to cry aloud, I will murder you," said Trenck, with flaming
eyes, "and then I will kill myself! I have sworn that I will not be
taken alive into the fortress. Have pity, beautiful child-- your eyes
are soft and kindly, and betray a tender heart. Help me-- think how
beautiful, how glorious is the world and life and liberty to the young! My
enemies will deprive me of all this, and chain me in a cell, like a wild
beast. Oh, help me to escape!"
"How can I help you?" said Mariandel, greatly touched.

"Give me saddles and bridles for these horses, in order that I may flee. I
swear to you, by God and by my beloved, that they shall be returned to you!"

"You have then a sweetheart, sir?"
"I have--and she weeps day and night for me."
"I will give you the saddles in remembrance of my own beloved, who is far
away from me. Come, saddle your horse quickly--I will saddle the other."
"Now, farewell, Mariandel--one kiss at parting--farewell, compassionate
child! Schnell, Schnell, quick, quick to horse, to horse!"
Schnell rushed out of the hut, the peasant after him. He saw with horror
that his horses were saddled; that Schnell, in spite of his foot, had mounted
one, and Trenck was seated upon the other.

"My God!

will you steal my horses? Help! help!"

Mariandel laid her hand upon her father's lips, and suppressed his cries
for help. "Father, he has a bride, and she weeps for him!-- think upon
Joseph, and let them go."
The fugitives dashed away. Their long hair fluttered in the wind, their
cheeks glowed with excitement and expectation. Already the village lay
far behind them. Onward, over the plains, over the meadows, over the
stubble-fields!

"Schnell. Schnell, I see houses--I see towns. Schnell, there lies a city!"

"That is Wunschelburg, and we must ride directly through it, for this is
the nearest way to Bohemia."
"There is a garrison there, but we must ride through them. Aha! this is royal
sport!

We will dash right through the circle of our enemies. They will be so amazed
at our insolence, that they will allow us to escape. Hei! here are the
gates--the bells are ringing for church. Onward, onward, my gallant steed,
you must fly as if you had wings!"
Huzza! how the flint strikes fire! how the horses' hoofs resound on the
pavement! how the gayly-dressed church-goers, who were advancing so worthily
up the street, fly screaming to every side! how the lazy hussars thinking
no harm, stand at the house doors, and fix their eyes with horror upon
these two bold riders, who dash past them like a storm-wind!

And now they have reached the outer gate--the city lies behind them.
Forward, forward, in mad haste! The horses bow, their knees give way,
but the bold riders rein them up with powerful arms, and they spring
onward.

Onward, still onward! "But what is that? who is this advancing directly in
front of us? Schnell, do you not know him? That is Captain Zerbtz!"
Yes, that is Captain Zerbtz, who has been sent with his hussars to arrest
the fugitives; but he is alone, and his men are not in sight.
He rode on just in front of them. When near enough to be heard, he said,
"Brothers, hasten! Go to the left, pass that solitary house.
That is the boundary-line. [Footnote: Trenck's Memoirs.] My hussars have gone
to the right."

He turned his horse quickly, and dashed away. The fugitives flew to
    the left, passed the lonely house, passed the white stone which
    marked the border, and now just a little farther on.
    

"Oh, comrade, let our horses breathe! Let us rest and thank God, for we are
    saved--we have passed the border!"
    "We are free, free!" cried Trenck, with so loud a shout of joy that
    the mountains echoed with the happy sound, and reechoed back,
"Free, free!"

CHAPTER XIV.

I WILL.

Swiftly, noiselessly, and unheeded the days of prosperity and peace
passed away. King Frederick has been happy; he does not even remember that
more than two years of calm content and enjoyment have been granted him--two
years in which he dared lay aside his sword, and rest quietly upon his
laurels. This happy season had been rich in blessings; bringing its laughing
tribute of perfumed roses and blooming myrtles. Two years of such happiness
seems almost miraculous in the life of a king.

Our happy days are ever uneventful. True love is silent and retiring; it does
not speak its rapture to the profane world, but hides itself in the shadows
of holy solitude and starry night. Let us not, then, lift the veil
with which King Frederick had concealed his love. These two years of bloom
and fragrance shall pass by unquestioned.

When the sun is most lustrous, we turn away our eyes, lest they be
blinded by his rays; but when clouds and darkness are around about us,
we look up curiously and questioningly. King Frederick's sun is no longer
clear and dazzling, dark clouds are passing over it; a shadow from these
clouds has fallen upon the young and handsome face of the king,
quenched the flashing glance of his eye, and checked the rapid
beating of his heart.

What was it which made King Frederick so restless and unhappy? He did
not know himself, or, rather, he would not know. An Alp seemed resting
upon his heart, repressing every joyful emotion, and making exertion
impossible. He sought distraction in work, and in the early morning he
called his ministers to council, but his thoughts were far away; he listened
without hearing, and the most important statements seemed to him trivial.
He mistrusted himself, and dismissed his ministers. It was Frederick's custom
to read every letter and petition himself, and write his answer upon the
margin.
This being done, he turned to his ordinary studies and occupations, and
commenced writing in his "Histoire de Man Temps." Soon, however, he found
himself gazing upon the paper, lost in wandering thoughts and wild,
fantastic dreams. He threw his pen aside, and tried to lose himself
in the beautiful creations of his favorite poet, all things in nature and
fiction seemed alike vain.

Frederick threw his book aside in despair. "What is the matter with me?" he
exclaimed angrily.

"I am not myself; some wicked fairy has cast a spell about me, and
bound my soul in magic fetters.

I cannot work, I cannot think; content and quiet peace are banished
from my breast!

What does this signify? and why--" He did not complete his sentence, but
gazed with breathless attention to the door. He had heard one tone of
a voice without which made his heart tremble and his eyes glow with their
wonted fire.

"Announce to his majesty that I am here, and plead importunately for
an audience," said a soft, sweet voice.

"The king has commanded that no one shall be admitted."
"Announce me, nevertheless," said the petitioner imperiously.

"That is impossible!"
Frederick had heard enough. He stepped to the door and threw it open.
"Signora, I am ready to receive you; have the goodness to enter." He stepped
abruptly forward, and, giving his hand to Barbarina, led her into his
cabinet.

Barbarina greeted him with a sweet smile, and gave a glance of
triumph to the guard, who had dared to refuse her entrance.

The king conducted her silently to his boudoir, and nodded to her to seat
herself upon the divan. But Barbarina remained standing, and fixed her
great burning eyes upon his face.

"I see a cloud upon your brow, sire," said she, in a fond and flattering
tone. "What poor insect has dared to vex my royal lion?
Was it an insect? Was it--"
"No, no," said Frederick, interrupting her, "an angel or a devil has tortured
me, and banished joy and peace from my heart. Now tell me, Barbarina, what
are you? Are you a demon, come to martyr me, or an angel of light, who
will transform my wild dreams of love and bliss into reality? There
are hours of rapture in which I believe the latter, in which your
glance of light and glory wafts my soul on golden, wings into the heaven
of heavens, and I say to myself, 'I am not only a king, but a god, for
I have an angel by my side to minister to me.' But then, alas! come weary
times in which you seem to me an evil demon, and I see in your flashing eyes
that eternal hatred which you swore to cherish in the first hour of our
meeting."
"Alas! does your majesty still remember that?" said Barbarina, in a tone
of tender reproof.

"You have taken care that I shall not forget it. You once told
    me that from hatred to love was but a small step. If you have
    truly advanced so far, how can I be assured but you will one day
step backward?"

"How can you be assured?" said she, pointing a rosy finger with
    indescribable grace at the king. "Ah. sire! your divine beauty, your
    eyes, which have borrowed lightning from Jove and glory from the
    sun--your brow, where majesty and wisdom sit enthroned, and that
youthful and enchanting smile which illuminates the whole--all these
make assurance doubly sure!

I will not allude to your throne, and its pomp and power!

What is it to me that you are a king? For me you are a man, a hero,
a god.

Had I met you as a shepherd in the fields, I should have said, 'There is a
god in disguise!' The fable is verified, and 'Apollo is before me!' Apollo,
I adore, I worship you!
let one ray from your heavenly eyes fall upon my face!" She knelt before
him, folding her hands, extended them pleadingly toward the king,
and looked upon him with a ravishing smile.

The king raised her, and pressed her--in his arms, then took her small head
in his hands, and turning it backward, gazed searchingly in her
face.

"Oh! Barbarina," said he, sadly, "to-day you are an angel, why were you a
demon yesterday? Why did you martyr and torture me with your childish
moods and passionate temper? Why is your heart, which can be so soft
and warm, sometimes cold as an iceberg and wholly pitiless? Child! child!
do you not know I have been wounded by many griefs, and that every rough
word and every angry glance is like a poisoned dagger to my soul? I had
looked forward with such delight to our meeting yesterday at
Rothenberg's! I expected so much happiness, and I had earned it by a diligent
and weary day's work.
Alas! you spoiled all by your frowning brow and sullen silence. It was your
fault that T returned home sad and heartless. I could not sleep, but passed
the night in trying to find out the cause of your melancholy. This morning
I could not work, and have robbed my kingdom and my people of the hours
which properly belong to them; weak and powerless, I have been swayed
wholly by gloom and discontent. What was it, Barbarina, which veiled your
clear brow with frowns, and made your sweet voice so harsh and stern?"

"What was it?" said Barbarina, sadly; and resting on the arm of the king, she
leaned her head back and looked up at him with half-closed eyes. "It
was ambition which tortured me. But I did wrong to conceal any thing from
you. I should, without sullen or angry looks, have made known the cause
of my despair.

I should have felt that I had only to breathe my request, and
    that the noble and magnanimous heart of my king would understand me.
    I should have known that the man who had won laurels in the broad
    fields of science and on the bloody battle-field, would appreciate
    this thirst for renown; this glowing, burning hate toward those who
    cross our paths and wish to share our fame!"
    "Jealous? you are jealous, then, of some other artiste," said the king,
    releasing Barbarina from his arms.

"Yes, sire, I am jealous!--jealous of your smiles, of your applause; of
    the public voice, of the bravos, which like a golden shower have
    fallen upon me alone, and which I must now divide with another!"

"Of whom, then, are you jealous?" said the king.
    
She threw her head back proudly, a crimson blush blazed upon her
cheeks, and her eyes sparkled angrily.
"Why has this Marianna Cochois been engaged? Why has Baron von
Swartz put this contempt upon me?" said she fiercely. "To engage
another artiste is to say to the world, that Barbarina no longer
pleases, that she no longer has the power to enrapture the public,
that her triumphs are over, and her day is past! Oh! this thought
has made me wild! Is not Barbarina the first dancer of the world?
Can it be that another prima donna, and not the Barbarina, is engaged
for the principal role in a new and splendid ballet? Does Barbarina
live, and has she not murdered the one who dared to do this, to
bring this humiliation upon her?"
Tears gushed from her eyes, and sobbing loudly, she hid her face
in her hands. The king gazed sadly upon her, and a weary smile
played upon his lip.
"You are all alike--all," said he, bitterly, "and the great artiste
is even as narrow-minded and pitiful as the unknown and humble; you
are all weak, vain, envious, and swayed by small passions; and to
think that you, Barbarina, are not an exception; that the Barbarina
weeps because Marianna Cochois is to play the principal role in the
new ballet, 'Toste Galanti.'"
"She shall not, she dare not," cried Barbarina; "I will not suffer
this humiliation; I will not be disgraced, dishonored in Berlin; I
will not sit unnoticed in a loge, and listen to the bravos and
plaudits awarded to another artiste which belong to me alone! Oh,
sire, do not allow this shame to be put upon me! Command that this
part, which is mine, which belongs to me by right of the world-wide
fame which I have achieved, be given to me! I implore your majesty
to take this role from the Cochois, and restore it to me."
"That is impossible, Barbarina. The Cochois, like every other
artiste, must have her debut. Baron Swartz has given her the principal
part in 'Toste Galanti,' and I cannot blame him."
"Oh! your majesty, I beseech you to listen. Is it not true--will
you not bear witness to the fact that Barbarina has never put your
liberality and magnanimity to the test; that she has never shown
herself to be egotistical or mercenary? I ask nothing from my king
but his heart, the happiness to sit at his feet, and in the sunshine
of his eyes to bathe my being in light and gladness. Sire, you have
often complained that I desired and would accept nothing from you;
that diamonds and pearls had no attraction for me. You know that
not the slightest shadow of selfishness has fallen upon my love!
Now, then, I have a request to-day: I ask something from my king
which is more precious in my eyes than all the diamonds of the
world. Give me this role; that is, allow me to remain in the
undisturbed possession of my fame." She bowed her knee once more
before the king, but this time he did not raise her in his
arms.
"Barbarina," said he, sadly and thoughtfully, "put away from you
this unworthy and pitiful envy. Cast it off as you do the tinsel
robes and rouge of the stage with which you conceal your beauty.
Be yourself again. The noble, proud, and great-hearted woman who
shines without the aid of garish ornament, who is ever the queen
of grace and beauty, and needs not the borrowed and false purple
and ermine of the stage. Grant graciously to the Cochois this small
glory, you who are everywhere and always a queen in your own right!"

Barbarina sprang from her knees with flashing eyes. "Sire," said
she, "you refuse my request--my first request--you will not order
that this part shall be given to me?"
"I cannot; it would be unjust."
"And so I must suffer this deadly shame; must see another play the
part which belongs to me; another made glad by the proud triumphs
which are mine and should remain mine. I will not suffer this! I
swear it! So true as my name is Barbarina I will have no rival near
me! I will not be condemned to this daily renewed struggle after
the first rank as an artiste.--E.


SECTION XXV.

_The Arrival of Carpini at the Court of the Emperor elect._

Leaving this place on the eve of St Peter and Paul, 28th June, we entered
the country of the pagan Naymani[1], and next day was excessively cold,
attended by a great fall of snow. Indeed this country is very mountainous
and excessively cold, and has very little plain ground, wherefore these
nations had no tillage, but dwelt in tents, which were destroyed by the
Tartars. We travelled through this country for many days, and at length
entered the land of the Mongals, whom we call Tartars. Through this latter
country we continued our journey for about three weeks, continually riding
with great expedition, and at length arrived at the residence of the
emperor elect, on the feast of Mary Magdalen, 22d July. In the whole of
this journey we used extraordinary exertion, as our Tartar guides were
ordered to bring us with all expedition to attend the solemn court which
had been long appointed for the election of the emperor: on which account
we always travelled from early morning till night, without stopping to take
food; and we often came to our quarters so late, as not to get any food
that night, but were forced to eat in the morning what we ought to have had
for supper. We changed horses frequently every day, and travelled
constantly as hard as our horses could trot.


[1] The Soongaria of modern Geography.--E.


SECTION XXVI.

_Of the Reception of the papal Nuncios at the court of Kujak, or
Cuyne-Khan._

On our arrival at the court of Cuyne, he ordered us to be provided with a
tent, and all necessary expences, after the Tartar customs, and his people
treated us with more attention and respect than they shewed to any other
messengers. We were not admitted into his presence, as he had not been
formally elected and invested in the empire; but the translation of the
Pope's letters, and of our speech, had been transmitted to him by Baatu.
After remaining in this place for five or six days, we were sent to his
mother, who kept a solemn court. In this place we beheld an immense tent,
so vast, in our opinion, that it could have contained two thousand men;
around which there was an enclosure of planks, painted with various
figures. All the Tartar dukes were assembled in this neighbourhood, with
their attendants, and amused themselves in riding about the hills and
vallies. The first day these were all clothed in white robes. The second
day, on which Cuyne came to the great tent, they were dressed in scarlet.
The third day they were dressed in blue, and on the fourth in rich robes of
Baldakin[1]. In the wall of boards, encircling the great tent, there were
two gates, through one of which the emperor alone was allowed to enter; and
though it stood continually open, there were no guards, as no one dared to
enter or come out by that way. All who were admitted entered by the other
gate, at which there were guards, armed with bows, arrows, and swords. If
any one presumed to approach the tent beyond the assigned limits, he was
severely beaten, if caught; or if he attempted to run away, he was shot at
with arrows. Many of the people whom we saw here, had upon their saddles,
bridles, and other trappings of their horses, to the value of twenty marks
in pure gold, according to our estimation.[2]

The dukes assembled in the great tent, and consulted together, as we
thought, about the election of the emperor. The rest of the people were
collected all round the wooden walls, and at a considerable distance; and
in this manner they continued till almost noon. Then they began to drink
mares milk, or cosmos, and continued to drink amazing quantities till
evening. We were invited among them, and they treated us with ale, as we
did not drink cosmos. They intended this as a great honour, but they made
us drink so much, in comparison with our ordinary diet, as we were not able
to endure; but on making them understand that it was hurtful to us, they
desisted from insisting on our compliance. On the outside of the door stood
Jeroslaus, duke of Susdal in Russia, a great many dukes of the Kithayans
and Solangi, the two sons of the king of Georgia, the envoy of the caliph
of Bagdat, himself a sultan, and more than ten other Saracen sultans. We
were informed by the agents, that there were above four thousand messengers
present, partly from those who paid tribute or sent presents, and from
other sultans and dukes who came to make their submission, or who had been
sent for, and from the various governors of countries and places under
their authority. All these were placed on the outside of the wooden wall of
the great tent, and were supplied with drink; and they almost all gave to
us and the duke Jeroslaus the place of honour, when in their company.


[1] This term probably signifies the manufacture of Baldach or Bagdat, and
    may refer to silken stuffs damasced, or woven with gold flowers.--E.

[2] Taking the mark of gold at 84 oz. and valuing the ounce at 4£ 17s, 6d,
    the sum of 20 marks amounts to L. 780 Sterling.--E.


SECTION XXVII.

_Of the Exaltation of Cuyne as Emperor._

We remained in this place, called Syra Orda, about four weeks. In our
opinion the election was made here, though it was not published, because
always when Cuyne came out of the tent he was greeted with a noise of
music, and was saluted with beautiful rods tipt with scarlet wool, which
was not done to any of the other dukes. Leaving this place, we all rode
three or four miles to a fine plain, near a river among the mountains,
where we found another tent erected, called the Golden Orda, in which Cuyne
was to have been installed in the imperial seat on the festival of the
Assumption, 15th August; but on account of a vast fall of hail, formerly
mentioned, the ceremony was deferred. This tent was erected upon pillars,
covered over with plates of gold, and other beams were fixed to the pillars
by gold nails. The whole was superbly covered over with Baldakin, having
other cloth on the outside. We remained here till the feast of St
Bartholomew, 24th August; on which day an immense multitude convened,
standing with their faces to the south. Certain persons, at about a stone's
throw distance from the rest, were continually employed in making prayers
and genuflexions, always proceeding slowly to the south. We did not know
whether they were making incantations, or whether they bowed their knees to
God or otherwise, and we therefore made no genuflexions. When this ceremony
had continued a long while, the whole company returned to the tent, and
Cuyne was placed upon the imperial throne. On which all the dukes knelt
before him, and the same was done by all the people, except by us, who were
not his subjects.


SECTION XXVIII.

_Of the Age and Demeanour of Cuyne, and of his Seal._

When exalted to the imperial dignity, Cuyne seemed to be about forty or
forty-five years old. He was of middle stature, exceedingly prudent,
politic, serious, and grave in his demeanour, and was hardly ever seen to
laugh or to behave lightly in any respect, as was reported to us by certain
Christians who were continually about him. These Christians of his family
assured us likewise, that he would certainly become a Christian, because he
always kept some Christian priests about his person, and had at all times a
chapel of Christians established near his great tent, in which the clergy
sang their devotions publickly and openly, and struck the regular hours on
bells, according to the custom of the Greek church, whatever number of
Tartars or others might be in the presence; while no other of the Tartar
dukes did any thing like this.

It is the custom of this emperor never to converse himself with any
stranger, however high his rank, but always to hear, as it were, and to
answer through an intermediate person: Whoever proposes any matter to his
consideration, or listens to his reply, however great his quality, must
remain on his knees the whole time; and no one must presume to speak on any
subject after the determination of the emperor is expressed. For the
dispatch of affairs, both public and private, he has agents, secretaries,
scribes, and officers of all kinds, excepting pleaders; as every thing is
concluded according to his will and pleasure, without strife or judicial
noise: and the other princes of the Tartars act exactly in the same manner.

While we remained at his court, the emperor and all his princes erected a
standard of defiance against the church of God, the Roman empire, and all
the Christian kingdoms and nations of the west, unless they should become
obedient to his commands. Their avowed intention is to subdue the whole
earth under their authority, as they were commanded by Zingis-khan, and
they have only abstained from this intention of late, on account of the
death of Occaday-khan, the emperor's father, who was poisoned. Of all the
nations under heaven, they are in some fear of the Christians only, and on
this account they are now preparing to make war on us. In all his letters
their emperor styles himself the Power of God and the Emperor of Mankind;
and the seal of the present emperor is thus inscribed:

GOD IN HEAVEN; AND CUYNE-KHAN ON EARTH, THE POWER OF GOD: THE SEAL OF THE
EMPEROR OF ALL MEN.


SECTION XXIX.

_Of the Admission of the Papal and other Envoys to the Emperor._

We were called into the presence of the emperor, in the same place where he
had been inaugurated; and Chingay, his chief secretary, having written down
our names, and the names of those who sent us, and the name of the duke of
Solangi and others, he read over all these names in a loud voice to the
emperor and the assembled dukes. Then everyone of us bowed the knee four
times before him, and having warned us to beware of touching the threshold,
we were carefully searched lest we might have any concealed weapons; after
which, we entered within the precinct of the imperial tent at the east
gate; not even the Tartar dukes dare presume to enter at the west gate,
which is reserved for the emperor alone; yet the lower people do not pay
much regard to this ceremonious injunction. At this time, likewise, all the
other envoys now at the imperial residence were presented, but very few of
them were admitted within the tent. On this occasion, infinite quantities
of rich gifts of all kinds were presented to the emperor, by the various
envoys and messengers, in samites, purple robes, baldakins, silken girdles
wrought with gold, rich furs, and other things innumerable. Among these
there was a splendid umbrella, or small canopy, to be carried over the head
of the emperor, all covered over with gems. The governor of one of the
provinces brought a great number of camels, having housings of baldakin,
and carrying richly ornamented saddles, on which were placed certain
machines, within each of which a man might sit. Many horses and mules
likewise were presented to him, richly caparisoned and armed, some with
leather, and some with iron. We were likewise questioned as to what gifts
we had to offer, but we were unable to present any thing, as almost our
whole substance was already consumed. At a considerable distance from the
court, there stood in sight on a hill, above five hundred carts all filled
with gold and silver and silken garments. All these things were divided
between the emperor and his dukes, and the dukes divided their portions
among their followers, each according to his pleasure.


SECTION XXX.

_Of the Separation between the Emperor and his Mother, and of the Death of
Jeroslaus Duke of Russia._

Leaving this place we came to another, where a wonderfully grand tent, all
of red cloth, was pitched, the gift of the Cathayans. At this place
likewise, we were introduced into the presence; and always on these
occasions we were offered beer and wine to drink, and boiled flesh to eat
when we were inclined. In this tent there was a lofty gallery made of
boards, on which the imperial throne was placed, most exquisitely carved in
ivory, and richly decorated with gold and precious stones; and, if we
rightly remember, there were several steps by which to ascend the throne.
This throne was round above. There were benches all around, where the
ladies sat on the left hand, upon stools, and no one sat aloft on the right
hand, but the dukes sat below on benches, in the middle of the tent. Others
sat behind them, and every day there came great numbers of ladies to the
court. These three tents which we have mentioned, were of wonderful
magnitude; and the wives of the emperor had other tents, sufficiently large
and beautiful, made of white felt. At this place, the emperor took leave of
his mother, who went to one part of the land, and he to another, to
distribute justice. About this time, a concubine belonging to the emperor
was detected, who had poisoned his father, at the time when the Tartar army
was in Hungary, and owing to which incident, they had been ordered to
return. She, and a considerable number of her accomplices, were tried and
put to death. Soon afterwards, Jeroslaus, the great duke of Soldal[1] in
Russia, being invited, as if to do him honour, by the emperor's mother, to
receive meat and drink from her hand, grew sick immediately after returning
to his lodging, and died in seven days illness, his whole body becoming
strangely of a blue colour; and it was currently reported that he had been
poisoned, that the Tartars might freely and totally possess his land.


[1] Called Susdal in a former passage.--E.


SECTION XXXI.

_How the Friars, in the presence of the Emperor, interchanged Letters_

Soon afterwards, the emperor sent us to his mother, as he intended to set
up a flag of defiance against all the nations of the west, as has been
mentioned before; and he was desirous to keep this circumstance from our
knowledge. Having remained some days with his mother, we returned to his
court, where we continued a whole month, in such extreme distress for
victuals and drink, that we could hardly keep ourselves alive; for the
provisions allowed us for four days, were scarcely sufficient to serve us
for one day, neither could we go to purchase at the public market, as it
was too far from us. But God sent to our aid a Russian goldsmith, named
Cosmas, who was considerably favoured by the emperor, and who procured us
some food. This man shewed us the imperial throne and seal, both of which
he had been employed to make.

After some time, the emperor sent for us, and intimated, by Chingay, his
secretary, that we should write down our messages and affairs, and deliver
them to him, which we did accordingly. Many days afterwards, we were again
called to the presence, and were asked if there were any persons about the
Pope who understood the Russian, Arabic, or Tartarian languages. To this we
answered that we were ignorant of these languages, and though there were
Saracens in our land, they inhabited at a great distance from our lord the
Pope; and we proposed, that when they had written in the Tartar language,
they might explain the meaning to us, which we would carefully write down
in our language, and would then deliver both the originals and the
translation to his holiness. On this they went from us to the emperor. We
were again called upon at Martinmas, when Kadac, the chief minister of the
empire, with Chingay and Bala, and several scribes, came to us and
explained the emperor's letter, word for word; and when we had written it
in Latin, they made us interpret every sentence to them, to see if we had
any way erred. And when both letters were written, they made us read them
over twice more, lest any thing were mistaken: Saying, "Take heed that
every thing be well understood, as great inconvenience might arise from
wrong conception." They gave us likewise a copy of the emperor's letters in
Arabic, in case any one might be found who could explain them in our
country.


SECTION XXXII.

_The Papal Envoys receive a Licence to depart._

These Tartar ministers informed us, that the emperor proposed to send
envoys along with us; and it seemed to us, that they wished we should ask
this from the emperor, and one of the principal among them advised us to
make that request. But this did not appear at all convenient, and we
answered, that it did not become us to make any such petition; but if it
were the pleasure of the emperor to send envoys, we should use our utmost
endeavour, with God's assistance, to conduct them in safety. We were averse
from this measure, for the following reasons: Lest, seeing the wars and
dissensions which subsisted among the Christians, they should be the more
encouraged to make war upon us: We were afraid that the messengers were
meant to act as spies, to examine the approaches to our land: We dreaded
that they might be slain by the way: for when the servants which attended
us, by desire of the cardinal legate of Germany, were on their return to
him, they were well nigh stoned to death by the Germans, and forced to put
off that hateful dress: And it is the custom of the Tartars, never to make
peace with those who have slain their messengers, till they have taken a
severe revenge. Fourthly, we feared their messengers might be taken from us
by main force. And lastly, because no good could arise from them, as they
were to have no other commission or authority, except merely to deliver the
letter of the emperor to the pope and princes of Christendom, which letter
we already had.

The third day after this, being the feast of St Brice, 13th November, we
received our passport, and a letter sealed with the emperor's own seal; and
going to the emperor's mother, she gave each of us a gown made of
fox-skins, having the hair outwards, and a linen robe; from every one of
which our Tartar attendants stole a yard, and from those that were given to
our servants, they stole a full half. We were perfectly aware of this
knavery, but did not think it convenient to take any notice.


SECTION XXXIII.

_The return of the Papal Envoys to Europe_.

At length we took our departure, and travelled the whole winter through the
desert, often sleeping all night on the snow, unless when we cleared a
piece of ground with our feet, and frequently in the morning we found
ourselves entirely covered by the snow, which had drifted over us during
the night. On Ascension day, we arrived at the court of Baatu, of whom we
inquired what message we should deliver in his name to the Pope? To this he
answered, that he had no message to give us in charge, but only that we
should carefully deliver what we had received from the emperor. Having
received additional passports from him, we continued our journey, and
arrived at the station of Montij on the Sabbath after the Whitson week,
where our companions and servants, who had been kept so long from us, were
returned at our desire. From thence we travelled to the station of
Corrensa, who again required presents from us, but we now had none to give.
He however appointed two Comanians, of the lowest order of the Tartar
subjects, to accompany us to Kiow in Russia; but our Tartar guide did not
quit us till we were beyond the Tartar bounds; after which the Comanians,
who had been ordered by Corrensa to attend us, brought us in six days from
the last guard of the Tartars, to the city of Kiow, where we arrived
fifteen days before the festival of John the Baptist, 9th June 1248. On
receiving notice of our approach, the whole inhabitants of Kiow came out
joyfully to receive us, congratulating us as men returned from death to
life; and we were received in a similar manner in our whole progress
through Russia, Poland, and Bohemia. Daniel, and his brother Wasilico,
feasted us splendidly, and detained us, contrary to our desire, for eight
days. In the meantime, they and their bishops and nobles, having consulted
on those matters, which we had propounded to them, when on our journey
towards the Tartars, made an unanimous declaration, that they would
henceforwards hold the Pope as their special lord and holy father, and
would adhere to the Roman church as their lady and mistress, confirming all
things which they had previously sent on this subject, by their own abbot,
to the Pope before our return; and in ratification of all this, they sent
envoys and letters along with us to the Pope[1].


[1] In Section XIX. of this journey, Wasilico, or Wasiley, is mentioned as
    duke of Russia; but who must only have been duke of some subordinate
    province. This submission of Russia, or of his particular dukedom,
    produced no fruit to the Romish see, as the Russian empire still
    remains what are called Greek schismatics.--E


CHAP. IX.

_Travels of William de Rubruquis into Tartary, about the year_
1253_.[1]


INTRODUCTION.

These travels were undertaken by order of Louis IX. of France, usually
called St Louis. In the original, or at least in the printed copies which
have come down to our times, Rubruquis is said to have commenced his
journey in the year 1253; but this date is attended with some difficulties,
as we are certain that king Louis was a prisoner from 1249 to 1254. It is
possible, indeed, that he may have dispatched this mission while a
prisoner; yet it is more probable, that the date may have been vitiated in
transcription. The real name of this early traveller, who was a friar of
the minorite order, is said to have been Van Ruysbroek[2], from a village
of that name near Brussels, Latinized, or Frenchified rather, into De
Rubruquis. By Hakluyt he is named Rubruk. The version here offered to the
public, is a translation from the Latin copy in Hakluyt, as addressed by
the adventurous traveller to his royal master, after his return from
traversing the whole extent of Tartary; the English translation, by that
early and meritorious collector, being far too antiquated for modern
readers.


[1] Hakluyt, I. 80. for the Latin, and I.101. for the English. See likewise
    Harris, I. 556.

[2] Pinkerton, Mod. Geogr. II. xvi.


_Dedication by the Author_

To the Most Excellent and Most Christian Lord Louis, by the Grace of GOD
the illustrious King of the French; Friar William de Rubruquís, the meanest
of the Minorite Order, wisheth health and continual triumph in CHRIST
JESUS.

It is written in the book of Ecclesiasticus, "That the truly wise man shall
travel through strange countries; for he hath tried the good and evil among
men." All this, Sire, I have performed; and I wish I may have done so as a
wise man, and not as a fool. For many do foolishly those things which have
been done by wise men, and I fear I may be reckoned among that number. But
as you were pleased to command me at my departure, that I should write down
every thing I saw among the Tartars, and should not fear to write long
letters, I now therefore obey your orders, yet with awe and reverence, as
wanting fit language in which to address so great a king.


SECTION I.

_Commencement of the Journey._

Be it known, therefore, to your sacred majesty, that in the year 1253, on
the 7th of May, we entered into the sea of Pontus, which the Bulgarians
call the Great Sea[1]; which I was informed, by certain merchants, is 1008
miles in length, and is in a manner divided, about its middle, into two
parts, by means of two provinces which project into it, one on the north,
and the other on the south. That which is on the south is called Synope,
and contains the castle and port of the Sultan of the Turks. The northern
province is called Gasaria by the Latins[2], and Cassaria by the Greek
inhabitants of its coast, which is the same with Caesaria; and from thence
certain headlands extend southwards into the sea, towards Synope, from the
nearest part of which they are 300 miles distant; so that the distance from
these points to Constantinople is 700 miles in length and breadth, and 700
miles to Hiberia in the east, which is a province of Georgia.

We arrived in the province of Gasaria, or Casaria, which is of a triangular
form, having a city named Kersova on its western extremity, in which St
Clement suffered martyrdom. While sailing past that city, we saw an island
containing a church, which is said to have been built by the angels. In the
middle of this province, and on a cape to the south, stands the city of
Soldaia, directly facing Synope. And here all merchants land who come from
Turkey, in their way to the north, and embark here again on their return
from Russia and the north for Turkey; these latter bring ermines and
martins, and other valuable furs, and the former carry cloths made of
cotton, or bombasins, and silk webs, and aromatic spices. On the east of
this province is the city of Matriga[3], where the Tanais flows into the
Pontus, by a mouth of twelve miles wide[4]. Before this river enters the
Euxine, it forms itself into a sea towards the north, of seven hundred
miles in length and breadth, but in no place above six paces deep, so that
it is not navigable for large vessels: For which reason, the merchants of
Constantinople, when they arrive at the city of Matriga, send their barks
to the Tanais, where they purchase dried fish, sturgeons, thosas, barbels,
and many other sorts of fish.

This province of Casaria has the sea on three sides; on the west, where
stands Kersova, or the city of St Clement; on the south, where is the city
of Soldaia, at which we landed; and on the east, where Matriga is situated
at the mouth of the Tanais. To the east of that mouth is the city of Zikia,
and the countries of the Suevi and Hiberi still further east, all of which
are not under the dominion of the Tartars. To the south is Trebisond, which
has its own prince, named Guido, who, although of the imperial race of
Constantinople, is under the Tartar dominion; and next to it is Synope,
which belongs to the sultan of the Turks, who is likewise subjected to the
Tartars. Beyond this is the country of Vastacius, whose son is named Astar,
after his maternal grandfather, and this country is not under the dominion
of the Tartars. From the mouth of the Tanais to the Danube, and even beyond
the Danube towards Constantinople, including Walachia, which is the country
of Assanus, and the lesser Bulgaria as far as Solonia, pay tribute to the
Tartars, who of late years have exacted an axe from each family, and all
the corn which they find in heaps, in addition to the regular tribute.

We landed at Soldaia[5] on the 21st of May, where certain merchants of
Constantinople had previously arrived, who reported that ambassadors from
the Holy Land were coming thither, on their way to Sartach; although I had
publickly declared on palm Sunday, in the church of St Sophia, that I was
no ambassador from you or any one, and only travelled to these infidels, in
conformity with the rule of our order. On our arrival, these merchants
advised me to be cautious of what I said; for, as they had already reported
that I was an ambassador, if I should now say the contrary, I should be
refused a free passage. Upon this, I addressed myself to the lieutenants of
the city, because the captains had gone with the tribute to Baatu, and were
not yet returned: saying, "We have heard in the Holy Land, that your lord
Sartach[6] had become a Christian, which hath greatly rejoiced all the
Christians, and especially the most Christian King of the French, who is
there in pilgrimage, fighting against the Saracens, that he may redeem the
Holy Land out of their hands: Wherefore, I desire to go to Sartach, that I
may carry him letters from the king my master, in which he gives him
intelligence of importance to all Christendom." They received us
graciously, and entertained us hospitably in the cathedral church; The
bishop had been at the court of Sartach, and told me many good things
concerning him, which I did not find afterwards to be true. They then gave
us our choice, either to have carts drawn by oxen, for carrying our
baggage, or sumpter horses; and the Constantinopolitan merchants advised me
to purchase covered carts, like those in which the Russians carry their
peltry, in which I should put every thing which was wanted for daily use;
because, if I were to take packhorses, I should be constrained to pack and
unpack at every baiting place, and that besides, I should ride more easily
in the carts than on horseback. By following their evil advice, I was two
months in travelling to Sartach, which I might have accomplished in one on
horseback. I had brought with me from Constantinople fruits of various
kinds, muscadel wine, and delicate biscuits, to present to the captains,
that I might obtain free passage, having been advised by the merchants,
that these persons gave a very cold reception to such as applied to them
empty handed. The governors or captains being absent, I caused all these
things to be packed up in one of the carts, being informed that they would
be acceptable presents to Sartach.

We began our journey about the beginning of June, having four covered carts
of our own, and two others which they furnished to us, in which we carried
our bedding, and we were allowed five riding horses for ourselves, our
company consisting of five persons; viz. myself and my companion, Friar
Bartholomew of Cremona, Goset, the bearer of these letters, the man of God
Turgeman[7], and a servant or slave, named Nicholas, whom I had purchased
at Constantinople, out of the alms we had received. The people of Soldaia
likewise allowed us two men to drive our carts, and to take care of our
horses and oxen.

There are several lofty promontories on the shore of Casaria, between
Kersova[8] and the mouth of the Tanais; and there are forty castles between
Kersova and Soldaia, at almost each of which a distinct language is spoken;
and among these are many Goths who speak the Teutonic language[9]. Beyond
these mountains, towards the north, extends a most beautiful wood, in a
plain, which is full of springs and rivulets; and beyond this wood is an
extensive plain, continuing for five days journey to the northern extremity
of this province, where it contracts into a narrow space, having the sea on
the east and west, and a great ditch is drawn between these two seas. In
this plain the Comani dwelt before the coming of the Tartars, and compelled
the before-mentioned cities and castles to pay tribute; and upon the coming
of the Tartars, so vast a multitude of the Comani took refuge in this
province, flying to the sea shore, that the living were forced to feed upon
the dying, as I was assured by a merchant, an eye-witness, who declared,
that the survivors tore in pieces with their teeth, and devoured the raw
flesh of the dead as dogs do carrion. Towards the extremity of this
province, there are many large lakes, having salt springs on their banks,
and when the water of these springs reaches the lake, it coagulates into
hard salt like ice. From these salt springs, Sartach and Baatu draw large
revenues; as people come from all parts of Russia to procure salt, and for
each cart-load, they pay two webs of cotton cloth, equal in value to half
an yperpera. Many vessels come likewise by sea for salt, all of which pay
tribute, in proportion to the quantities which they carry away. On the
third day after leaving Soldaia, we fell in with the Tartars, on joining
whom, I thought myself entered into a new world; wherefore, I shall use my
best endeavours to describe their manners and way of life,


[1] The Euxine or Black Sea. Though not expressed in the text, he probably
    took his departure from Constantinople.--E

[2] By the Latins are here obviously meant the inhabitants of western
    Europe. The province here mentioned is the Crimea; the Taurica
    Chersonesus of the ancients, or the modern Taurida.--E.

[3] At the mouth of one of the branches of the Kuban is the town of
    Temruck, formerly called Tmutrakhan by the Russians, and Tamatarcha by
    the Greeks; this has been corrupted to Tamaterca, Materca, and
    Matriga.--Forst.

[4] This obviously refers to the canal of communication between the sea of
    Azoph and the Euxine.--E.

[5] Called likewise Soldeya, Soldadia and Sogdat, now Sudak.--E.

[6] Sartach was the son of Baatu-khan.--E.

[7] This name is probably meant to imply the Trucheman, Dragoman, or
    interpreter; and from the strange appellative, _Man of God_, he may
    have been a monk from Constantinople, with a Greek name, having that
    signification: perhaps Theander--E.

[8] Cherson or Kersona, called likewise Scherson, Schursi, and Gurzi.--E.

[9] These castles of the Goths, first mentioned by Rubruquis, were
    afterwards noticed by Josaphat Barbaro, a Venetian, in 1436; and
    Busbeck conversed with some of these Goths from the Crimea at
    Constantinople in 1562, and gives a vocabulary of their language. From
    the authority of Rubruquis misunderstood, some ancient map makers have
    inserted the Castella Judeorum instead of Gothorum in the Crimea, and
    even Danville placed them in his maps under the name of Chateaux des
    Juifs, castles of the Jews.--Forst.


SECTION II.

_Of the Tartars and their Houses_.

They have no permanent city, and they are ignorant of the future. They
divide all Scythia among them; and each leader, according to the number of
his followers, knows the boundaries of his pastures, and where he ought to
feed his flocks in winter and summer, and in spring and autumn. In winter
they descend into the warmer regions of the south, and in summer they
travel towards the colder countries of the north. Such pastures as have no
water, are reserved for winter use, when there is snow on the ground, as
the snow there serves instead of water.

The houses in which they sleep are founded on a round structure of wattled
rods, and the roof is formed of wickers, meeting above in a small roundel,
from which arises a neck like a chimney, all of which they cover with white
felt; and they often cover over the felt with lime, or white earth and
powdered bones to make it bright: sometimes their houses are black; and the
felt about the neck of the dome is decorated with a variety of pictures.
Before the door, likewise, they hang a felt, ornamented with painting; and
they employ much coloured felt, painted with vines, trees, birds, and
beasts, for decorating their dwellings. Some of these houses are so large
as to measure thirty feet in breadth. I once measured the distance between
the wheel ruts of one of their waggons to be twenty feet, and when the
house was upon the waggon, it spread beyond the wheels at least five feet
on each side. I have counted twenty-two bullocks dragging one waggon,
surmounted by a house; eleven in one row, according to the breadth or the
waggon, and other eleven before these. The axle of this waggon was very
large, like the mast of a ship; and one man stood in the door of the house,
upon the waggon, urging on the oxen. They likewise make quadrangular
structures of small split wicker, like large chests, and frame for them an
arched lid or cover of similar twigs, having a small door at the front end;
and they cover this chest or small house with black felt, smeared over with
suet or sheeps' milk[1], to prevent the rain from penetrating; and these
are likewise decorated with paintings or feathers. In these they put all
their household goods and treasure; and they bind these upon higher carts,
drawn by camels, that they may be able to cross rivers without injuring
their contents. These chests are never taken down from the carts to which
they belong. When their dwelling-houses are unloaded from the waggons,
their doors are always turned to the south; and the carts, with the chests
which belong to each house, are drawn up in two rows, one on each side of
the dwelling, at about the distance of a stone's throw.


The married women get most beautiful carts made for themselves, which I am
unable to describe without the aid of painting, and which I would have
drawn for your majesty, if I had possessed sufficient talents. One rich
Moal, or Tartar, will have from a hundred to two hundred such carts with
chests. Baatu has sixteen wives, each of whom has one large house, besides
several small ones, serving as chambers for her female attendants, and
which are placed behind the large house; and to the large house of each
wife there belong two hundred chest-carts. When the camp is formed, the
house of the first wife is placed on the west, and all the rest extend in
one line eastwards, so that the last wife is on the east, or left of all.
And between the station of each wife there is the distance of a stone's
throw, so that the court of a rich Moal appears like a large city, but in
which there are very few men. One girl is able to lead twenty or thirty
carts; for the ground being quite plain, they fasten the carts, whether
drawn by camels or oxen, behind each other, and the girl sits on the front
of the foremost cart of the string, directing the cattle, while all the
rest follow with an equable motion. If they come to any difficult passage,
the carts are untied from each other, and conducted across singly; and they
travel at a very slow pace, only so fast as an ox or a lamb can easily
walk.


[1] The butter from ewe-milk is probably here meant.--E.


SECTION III.

_Of their Beds and Drinking-cups_.

After having placed the house on the ground, with its door turned to the
south, the bed of the master is placed to the north, opposite the door. The
place of the women is always on the east, or on the masters left hand,
where he sits on his bed with his face to the south, and the place of the
men on his right hand, to the west; and when any men enter into the house,
they never hang up their quivers on the womens side. Over the head of the
lord there is placed an image or puppet of felt, which is called the
masters brother, and a similar image over the head of the mistress, which
is called her brother; and a little higher between these, there is one very
small and thin, which is, as it were, the keeper of the house. The mistress
places at the foot of her bed, on the right hand, in a conspicuous place,
the skin of a kid, stuffed with wool, or some such material, and beside
that a small puppet looking towards the maidens and women. Near the door,
on the womens side of the house, there is another image, with a cows udder,
as the guardian of the women who milk the kine. On the masters side of the
door is another image, having the udder of a mare, being the tutelary deity
of the men who milk the mares. When they meet together for drinking, they,
in the first place, sprinkle the master's idol with some of the liquor, and
then all the rest in their order; after which a servant goes out of the
house with a cup of drink, and sprinkles thrice towards the south, making a
genuflexion between each, in honour of the fire, then towards the east, in
honour of the air, next towards the west, in honour of the water, and
lastly, towards the north, for the dead. When the lord takes the cup in his
hand to drink, he first pours a part on the ground; and if he is to drink
on horseback, he first spills a portion on the neck and mane of his horse.
After the servant has made his libations to the four quarters of the world,
he returns into the house, and two other servants are ready with two other
cups and salvers, to carry drink to the lord and his wife, who sit together
on a bed. When he has more than one wife, she with whom he slept the night
before sits beside him that day, and all the other wives must come to her
house that day to drink; and all the gifts which the lord receives that day
are deposited in her chests. Upon a bench there stands vessels of milk and
other drinks, and drinking cups.


SECTION IV.

_Of their Kinds of Drink, and Fashion of Drinking_.

In winter they make excellent drink of rice, millet, and honey, which is
clear like wine; and they have wine brought to them from distant countries.
In summer they care not for any drink except cosmos, which always stands
within the door, and beside it is a minstrel with his instrument of music.
I saw no citerns, lutes, and viols, such as ours, but they have many other
instruments which we have not. When the lord begins to drink, one of his
servants exclaims aloud Ha! and the minstrel begins to play. When they make
a great feast, all the guests clap their hands and dance to the music, the
men before the lord, and the women before the lady of the house. When the
lord hath drank, the servant calls out as before, and the minstrel ceases;
then all drink round in their turns, both men and women, and they sometimes
carouse on hearing the news of a victory, to a shameful and beastly degree.
When they desire to provoke one to drink, they seize him by the ears,
dragging them strongly, as if to widen his throat, clapping their hands,
and dancing before him. When they mean to do great honour to any person,
one takes a full cup, having one on his right hand, and another on his
left, and these three advance towards him who is to receive the cup,
singing and dancing before him; but when he reaches out his hand to receive
the cup, they suddenly draw back, and come forwards again in the same
manner, and they thus delude him three or four times, till he seems very
eager, when they give him the cup, and keep dancing, singing, and stamping
with their feet, till he has finished his draught.


SECTION V.

_Of their Food._

They eat indifferently of all dead animals, even such as have died of
disease; and among such numbers of cattle and flocks, many animals must die
almost continually. Bat in summer, when they have plenty of cosmos, or
mares milk, they care little for any other food. When an ox or horse
happens to die, they cut its flesh into thin slices, which they dry in the
sun and air, which preserves it from corruption, and free from all bad
smell. From the intestines of their horses they make sausages, better than
those which are made of pork, and which they eat when newly made, but the
rest of the flesh is reserved for winter use. Of the hides of oxen they
form large bags, which they dry in a wonderful manner in the smoke. Of the
hinder part of their horse skins they fabricate excellent sandals. They
will make a meal for fifty, or even an hundred men, of the carcase of one
ram. This they mince in a bowl, mixed with salt and water, which is their
only seasoning, and then, with the point of a knife, or a little fork made
on purpose, like those with which we eat pears and apples stewed in wine,
they reach to every one of the company a morsel or two, according to the
number; the master of the house having first served himself to his mind,
before any of the rest, and if he gives a particular portion to any one,
that person must eat it up, without giving any of it to another, or if he
is unable to eat the whole, he takes it home with him, or gives it to his
servant to take care of, if he has one, otherwise he puts it into his own
_saptargat_, or square leather bag, which they carry always with them for
such purposes, or for preserving any bones which they have not time to pick
thoroughly, that they may clean them well afterwards, and that nothing may
be lost.


SECTION VI.

_How they make the Drink called Cosmos._

Cosmos is made from mares milk, in the following manner: They fasten a long
line between two posts fixed in the ground, and to it they tie the young
foals of the mares which are to be milked, by which means the mares are
induced to stand quietly beside their foals, and allow themselves to be
milked. If any mare happens to be unruly, her foal is brought, and allowed
to suck a little, after which the milker again succeeds. Having thus
procured a quantity of new drawn milk, it is poured into a large skin bag,
which is immediately agitated by blows with a wooden club, having its lower
end hollow, and as large as a man's head. After some time the milk begins
to ferment like new wine, and to acquire a degree of sourness. The
agitation is continued in the same manner until the butter comes; after
which it is fit for drinking, and has a pungent yet pleasant taste, like
raspberry wine, leaving a flavour on the palate like almond milk. This
liquor is exceedingly pleasant, and of a diuretic quality; is exhilarating
to the spirits, and even intoxicating to weak heads.

Cara-cosmos, which means black cosmos, is made for the great lords, in the
following manner: The agitation, as before described, is continued until
all the lees or coagulated portion of the milk subsides to the bottom, like
the lees of wine, and the thin parts remain above like whey, or clear must
of wine. The white lees are given to the servants, and have a strong
soporific quality. The clear supernatent liquor is called cara-cosmos, and
is an exceedingly pleasant and wholesome beverage[1]. Baatu has thirty
farms around his dwelling-place, at about a day's journey distant, each of
which supplies him daily with the caracosmos from the milk of an hundred
mares, so that he receives the daily produce of three thousand mares,
besides white cosmos which the rest of his subjects contribute: For, as the
inhabitants of Syria pay the third part of their productions to their
lords, so the Tartars pay their mares milk every third day.

From the milk of their cows they make butter, which they do not salt for
preservation, but boil and clarify it, after which it is poured into bags
made of sheep-skin, and preserved for winter use. The residue of the milk
is kept till it becomes quite sour, after which it is boiled, and the
coagula or curds, which form, are dried in the sun till quite hard, and are
preserved in bags for winter provision. This sour curd, which they call
_gryut_, when wanted for use in winter when they have no milk, is put into
a bag with hot water, and by dilligent beating and agitation, is dissolved
into a sour white liquor, which they drink instead of milk; for they have a
great aversion to drink water by itself.


SECTION VII.

_Of the Beasts they eat, of their Garments, and of their Hunting parties._

The great lords have farms in the southern parts of their dominions, from
whence millet and flour are brought them for winter provisions; and the
meaner people procure these in exchange for sheep and skins. The slaves
content themselves with thick water[2]. They do not eat either long tailed
or short tailed mice. There are many marmots in their country, which they
call Sogur, which gather during winter, in companies of twenty or thirty
together, in burrows, where they sleep for six months; these they catch in
great numbers and use as food. There are likewise a kind of rabbits, with
long tails like cats, having black and white hairs at the extremity of
their tails. They have many other small animals fit for eating, with which
they are well acquainted. I have seen no deer, and very few hares, but many
antelopes. I saw vast numbers of wild asses, which resemble mules. Likewise
an animal resembling a ram, called _artak,_ with crooked horns of such
amazing size, that I was hardly able to lift a pair of them with one hand.
Of these horns they make large drinking-cups. They have falcons,
gyrfalcons, and other hawks in great abundance, all of which they carry on
their right hands. Every hawk has a small thong of leather fastened round
his neck, the ends of which hang down to the middle of his breast; and
before casting off after game, they bow down the hawk's head towards his
breast, by means of this thong, with their left hand, lest he be tossed by
the wind, or should soar too high [3]. The Tartars are most expert hunters,
and procure a great part of their sustenance by the chase.

When the Tartars intend to hunt wild beasts, a vast multitude of people is
collected together, by whom the country is surrounded to a large extent in
a great circle; and by gradually contracting this circle towards its
centre, they at length collect all the included game into a small space,
into which the sportsmen enter and dispatch the game with their arrows.

From Cataya, and other regions of the east, and from Persia, and other
countries of the south they procure silk stuffs, cloth of gold, and cotton
cloth, of which they make their summer garments. From Russia, Moxel,
Greater Bulgaria, Pascatir, which is the greater Hungary, and Kersis, all
of which are northern countries and full of woods, and from other countries
towards the north which are subject to their authority, they procure
valuable furs of many kinds, which I have not seen in our parts. With these
they make their winter garments; and they have always at least two fur
gowns, one of which has the fur inwards, and the other has the fur outwards
to the wind and snow; which outer garments are usually made of the skins of
wolves, foxes, or bears. But while they sit within doors, they have gowns
of finer and more costly materials. The garments of the meaner sort are
made of the skins of dogs and goats.

They likewise have breeches made of skins. The rich often line their
garments with silk shag, which is exceedingly soft, light, and warm. The
poor line theirs with cotton cloth, wadded with the finest wool which they
can sort out from their fleeces; and of the coarser wool they make felts
for covering their houses and chests, and for sleeping upon. Their ropes
are likewise made of wool, mixed with a third part of horse hair. Of felt
they also make cloths to lay under their saddles, and caps to defend their
heads from rain. In all these things they use vast quantities of wool. Your
majesty has seen the habits of these people[4].


[1] Under the name of Kumyss, this liquor is much used by the Russian
    gentry, as a restorative for constitutions weakened by disease or
    debauchery: and for procuring it they travel to the Tartar districts
    of the empire.--E.

[2] Whether the author here means the dissolved sour curd, mentioned at the
    close of the former Section, or gruel made from meal and water, does
    not appear.--E.

[3] Our falconers use the left hand for carrying their hawks. I leave the
    inexplicable use of the thongs to be understood by professional
    falconers.--Hakluyt, ad loc.

[4] Probably this concluding sentence means, that as the king of France had
    seen some Tartars in Syria, the author did not deem it necessary to
    describe their form and fashions.--E.


SECTION VIII.

_Of the Fashion of their Hair, and the Ornaments of their Women._

The men have a square tonsure on their crowns, from the two front corners
of which they shave two seams down to their temples. The temples also, and
hinder part of the head, to the nape of the neck, are shaved, and the
forehead, except one small lock which falls down to the eyes. He took his
glass and looked again over the luxurious valley; he started and fixed his
glass steadily upon one point. In the midst of the smiling meadows through
which the highway wound like a graceful stream, he saw a curious,
glittering, moving mass. At the first glance it looked like a crowd of
creeping ants; it soon, however, assumed larger proportions, and, at last,
approaching ever nearer, the forms of men could be distinctly seen, and
now he recognized a column of marching soldiers.

"Austrians," said the king, with calm composure. He turned his glass in the
other direction, where a road led into the valley; this path was also
filled with soldiers, who, by rapid marches, were approaching the cloister.
"Without doubt they know that I am here," said the king; "they have learned
this in the village, and have come to take me prisoner. Eh bien, nous
verrons."
So saying, Frederick put his glass in his pocket, descended the steps,
and with cool indifference entered the room of the abbot.

"Messieurs," said he, laughing merrily, as he looked at the good- natured
and unsuspicious faces of the worthy abbot and the young officer, "we
must decide upon some plan of defence, for the Austrians draw near on
every side of the cloister."
"Oh, my prophetic soul!" murmured the abbot, folding his hands in prayer.

Trenck rushed to the window and looked searchingly abroad. At this moment
a loud knock was heard upon the door, and an anxious voice called to the
abbot.

"All is lost, the Austrians are already here!" cried Tobias Stusche,
wringing his hands despairingly.

"No!"

said the king, "they cannot yet have reached the cloister, and that is not
the voice of a soldier who commands, but that of a monk who prays, and is
almost dead with terror; let us open the door."
"O my God, your majesty! would you betray yourself?" cried Stusche, and
forgetting all etiquette, he rushed to the king, laid his hand upon
his arm and held him back.

"No," said the king, "I will not betray myself, neither will I
conceal myself. I will meet my fate with my face to the foe."
"Open, open, for God's sake!" cried the voice without.

"He prays in God's name," said the king. "I will open the door." He crossed
the room and drew back the bolt.

And now, the pale and anxious face of Brother Anastasius appeared.
He entered hastily, closed and fastened the door.

"Pardon," said he, trembling and breathless--"pardon that I have dared to
enter. The danger is great; the Austrians surround the cloister."
"Are they already here?" said the king.

"No; but they have sent a courier, who commands us immediately to open all
the doors and give entrance to the soldiers of Maria Theresa."
"Have they given a reason for this command?"
"Yes; they say they know assuredly that the King of Prussia is concealed
here, and they come to search the cloister."
"Have you not said to them, that we are not only the servants of God, but
the servants of the King of Prussia? Have you not said to them that the
doors of our cloister can only open to Prussian troops?"
"Yes, your excellency. I told the soldier all this, but he laughed, and
said the pandours of Colonel von Trenck knew how to obtain an entrance."

"Ah! it is Trenck, with his pandours," cried the king, casting a searching
glance at Frederick von Trenck, who stood opposite, with pale and
tightly-compressed lips; he met the eye of the king boldly, however, and
looked him steadily in the face.

"Is Colonel Trenck your relation?" said the king, hastily.

"Yes, your majesty; he is my father's brother's son," said the young man,
proudly.

"Ah! I see you have a clear conscience," said the king, laying his
hand smilingly upon the youth's shoulder.

"But, tell me, worthy abbot, do you know any way to rescue us from this
mouse-trap?"
Tobias did not reply immediately; he stood thoughtfully with his arms
folded, then raised his head quickly, as if he had come to some bold
conclusion; energy and purpose were written in his face. "Will your majesty
make use of the means which I dare to offer you?"
"Yes, if they are not unworthy. I owe it to my people not to lay
upon them the burden of my ransom."
"Then I hope, with God's help, to serve your majesty." He turned to the
monk, and said, with a proud, commanding tone: "Brother Anastasius, listen
to my commands. Go immediately to Messner, order him in my name to
call all the brothers to high mass in the choir of the church; threaten him
with my wrath and the severest punishment, if he dares to speak to
one of the brethren. I will prove my monks, and see if they recognize that
obedience is the first duty in a cloister."

"While Messner assembles the priests, shall the bell sound for mass?"

"Hasten, Brother Anastasius; in ten minutes we must be all in the church."

"And you expect to save me by celebrating high mass?" said Frederick, shrugging
his shoulders.

"Yes, sire, I expect it. Will your majesty graciously accompany me to my
dressing-room?"

CHAPTER XII
THE UNKNOWN ABBOT

The bell continued to sound, and its silver tones echoed in the lofty
halls and corridors, through which the priests, in their superb
vestments and holy orders, passed onward to the church.
Surprise and wonder were written upon every face; curious questions were
burning upon every lip, restrained, however, by the strong habit of
obedience. The abbot had commanded that not one word should be exchanged
between the brethren. The abbot must be obeyed, though the monks might die
of curiosity. Silently they entered the church.
And now the bell ceased to toll, and the grand old organ filled the church
with a rich stream of harmony. Suddenly the notes were soft and touching,
and the strong, full voices of men rose high above them.

While the organ swelled, and the church resounded with songs of prayer and
praise, the Abbot Tobias Stusche entered the great door.
But this time he was not, as usual, alone.

Another abbot, in the richly-embroidered habiliments of a fete day,
stood by his side.

No one had ever seen this abbot. He was wholly unknown.

Every eye was turned upon him; every one was struck with the commanding
and noble countenance, with the imposing brow and luminous eye, which
cast searching and threatening glances in every direction. All felt
that something strange, unheard of, was passing in their midst. They knew
this stranger, glowing with youth, beauty, and majesty, was no common
priest, no humble brother.

The command to strict silence had been given, and implicit obedience is the
first duty of the cloister. So they were silent, sang, and prayed;
while Tobias Stusche, with the strange abbot, swept slowly and solemnly
through the aisles up to the altar. They both fell upon their knees and
folded their hands in silent prayer.

Again the organ swelled, and the voices of the choristers rose up in
adoration and praise; but every eye and every thought were fixed upon the
strange abbot kneeling before the high altar, and wrestling with God in
prayer. And now the organ was silent, and the low prayers began. The monks
murmured mechanically the accustomed words; nothing was heard but sighs
of penitence and trembling petitions, which seemed to fade and die away
amongst the lofty pillars of the cathedral.

Suddenly a loud noise was heard without, the sound of pistols and threatening
voices demanding admittance. No one regarded this. The church doors were
violently thrown open, and wild, rude forms, sunbrowned and threatening
faces appeared. For one moment noisy tumult and outcry filled the church,
but it was silenced by the holy service, now celebrated by these kneeling,
praying monks, who held their beads in their hands, and gave no glance,
in token of interest or consciousness, toward the wild men who had so
insolently interrupted the worship of God. The soldiers bowed their heads
humbly upon their breasts, and prayed for pardon and grace. This holy
duty being fulfilled, they remembered their worldly calling, and commenced
to search the church for the King of Prussia, whom they believed to be
hidden there. The clang of spurs and heavy steps resounded through the
aisles, and completely drowned the prayers and sighs of the monks, who,
kneeling upon their stools, seemed to have no eye or thought for any thing
but the solemn service in which they were engaged.

The pandours, in their dark, artistic costumes, with the red mantle fastened
to their shoulders, swarmed through the church, and with flashing eyes
and scarcely suppressed curses searched in every niche and behind
every pillar for Frederick of Prussia. How often did these wild forms
pass by the two abbots, who were still kneeling, immovable in rapturous
meditation, before the high altar! How often did their swords strike
upon the floor behind them, and even fasten in the vestment of the strange
abbot, who, with closed eyes and head bowed down upon his breast, had
no knowledge of their presence!

The prayers had continued much longer than usual, and yet the abbot
did not pronounce the benediction!

And now he did indeed give a sign, but not the one expected.

He rose from his knees, but did not leave the church; with his companion,
he mounted the steps to the altar, to draw near to the holy crucifix and
bless the host. He nodded to the choir, and again the organ and the choristers
filled the church with melody.

This was something so extraordinary that the monks turned pale, and
questioned their consciences anxiously. Had they not committed some great
crime, for which their stern abbot was resolved to punish them with
everlasting prayer and penitence? The pandours knew nothing of this
double mass. They had now searched the whole church, and as the king was
not to be found, they rushed out in order to search the cells, and,
indeed, every corner of the cloister. The service still continued; the
unknown abbot stood before the high altar, while Abbot Stusche took the host
and held it up before the kneeling monks.

At this moment a wild cry of triumph was heard without; then curses and
loud laughter. The monks were bowed down before the host, and did not
seem to hear the tumult. They sang and prayed, and now the outcry and
noise of strife was hushed, and nothing was heard but the faint and dying
tones of the organ. The pandours had left the cloister; they had found the
adutant of the king and borne him off as a rich spoil to their commander,
Colonel von Trenck.

The soldiers were gone, it was therefore not necessary to continue the
worship of God. Tobias Stusche repeated a pater-noster, gave his hand to
the unknown abbot, and they turned to leave the church. As they slowly and
majestically swept through the aisles, the monks bowed their heads in
reverence; the organ breathed its last grand accord, and the glorious
sun threw a beckoning love-greeting through the lofty windows of painted
glass. It was a striking and solemn scene, and the unknown abbot
seemed strangely impressed. He paused at the door and turned once more,
and his glance wandered slowly over the church.

One hour later the heavy state-coach of the Abbot of Clostenberg rolled down
from Camens. In the coach sat Tobias Stusche with the unknown abbot.
They took the road to Frankenstein. Not far from the gate the carriage
stopped, and to the amazement of the coachman, no abbot, but a soldier
clad in the well-known Prussian uniform, descended. After leaving the
coach, he turned again and bowed to the worthy Abbot Stusche.

"I will never forget this bold and noble act of your excellency," said the
king, giving his hand to the abbot. "You and your cloister may at all times
count upon my special favor. But for your aid, I should this day have
been betrayed into a most unworthy and shameful imprisonment. The first rich
abbey which is vacant I will give to you, and then in all future time I
will confirm the choice of abbot, which the monks themselves shall make."
[Footnote: In gratitude for this service, the king gave the rich Abbey of
Sentua to Stusche, and kept up with him always the kindest intercourse. There
are letters still preserved written by the king himself to the abbot, filled
with expressions of heart-felt kindness and favor. Frederick sent him
from Meissen a beautiful set of porcelain, and splendid stuff for pontifical
robes, and rare champagne wine. While in Breslau, he invited him twice to
visit him. Soon after the close of the Seven Years' War, Stusche died.
The king sent a royal present to the cloister with a request that
on the birthday of the abbot a solemn mass should be celebrated.

Some years later, Frederick stopped at Camens, and told the abbot
to commission the first monk who died to bear his loving greeting
to the good Abbot Stusche in Paradise.-- (See Rodenbeck.)]

"O my God!"

exclaimed the abbot, "how rarely must your majesty have met with honest and
faithful men, if you reward so richly a simple and most natural act of
love!"
"Faithful hearts are rare," said the king. "I have met this blue- eyed
daughter of Heaven but seldom upon my path, and it is perhaps for this
reason that her grandeur and her beauty are so enchanting to me. Farewell,
sir abbot, and greet the brother Anastasius for me."
"Will not your majesty allow me to accompany you to the city?"
"No, it is better that I go on foot. In a quarter of an hour, I shall be
there; my carriage and my guard await me, and I wish no one to be acquainted
with the adventures of this day. It remains a secret between us for the
present."
Frederick greeted him once more, and then stepped lightly onward toward the
city. The coach of the abbot returned slowly to the cloister.

The king had advanced but a short distance, when the sound of an approaching
horse met his car. He stood still and looked down the highway. This time
the Austrian uniform did not meet his eye; he recognized in the distance
the Prussian colors, and as the horse approached nearer, he marked the
uniform of a young officer of his life-guard. Before Frederick found time
for surprise, the rider had reached him, checked his horse with a strong
hand, sprang from the saddle, bowed profoundly before the king, and reached
him the reins.

"Will not your majesty do me the favor to mount my horse?" said
Trenck, calm and unembarrassed, and without alluding by word or
smile to the adventure of the day.
The king looked at him searchingly. "From whence come you?" said
he sternly.
"From Glatz, where the pandours carried me as a prisoner, and
delivered me to Colonel Trenck."
"You were then a prisoner, and were released without ransom?"

"Colonel Trenck laughed merrily when his pandours delivered me to
him, and declared I was the King of Prussia."
"Colonel Trenck knows you?"
"Sire, I saw him often in my father's house."
"Go on: he recognized you, then?"
"He knew me, and said laughingly, he had sent to take Frederick,
King of Prussia, and not Frederick von Trenck, prisoner. I was free,
I might go where I wished, and as I could not go on foot, he presented
me with one of his best horses; and now I am here, will not your
majesty do me the honor to mount this horse?"
"I mount no Austrian horse," said the king in a harsh tone.
The young officer fixed his glance for one moment, with an expression
of regret upon the proud and noble animal, who with dilating nostrils,
flashing eyes, and impatient stamping of the fore-feet, stood by
his side, arching gracefully his finely-formed and muscular throat.
But this expression of regret soon vanished. He let go the bridle
and bowing to the king he said, "I am at your majesty's command."

The king glanced backward at the noble steed, who, slender and
graceful and swift as a gazelle, was in a moment so far distant as
to be no larger than a flying eagle. He then advanced toward
Frankenstein: both were silent; neither gave another thought to the
gallant horse, who, riderless and guided by instinct alone, was far
on the way to Glatz. Once before they reached the city, the king
turned and fixed his eyes upon the open, youthful, and handsome
face of Trenck.
"I believe it would be better for you if this colonel of pandours
were not your relation," said the king thoughtfully; "there can no
good come to you from this source, but only evil."
Frederick von Trenck turned pale. "Does your majesty command that
I shall change my name?"
"No," said the king after a moment's reflection. "The name is a
holy inheritance which is handed down from our fathers, and it
should not be lightly cast away. But be careful, be careful in every
particular. Understand my words, and think upon my warning, Baron
von Trenck." 

CHAPTER XIII.

THE LEVEE OF A DANCER.
In Behren Street, which was at that time one of the most recherche
and beautiful streets of Berlin, order and quiet generally
reigned.
To-day, however, an extraordinary activity prevailed in this
aristocratic locality; splendid equipages and gallant riders,
followed by their attendants, dashed by; all seemed to have the
same object; all drew up before the large and elegant mansion which
had for some time been the centre of attraction to all the courtly
cavaliers of the Prussian capital. Some of the royal princes, the
young Duke of Wurtemberg, counts, ambassadors, and generals, were
to-day entreating an audience.
Who dwelt in this house? What distinguished person was honored by
all these marks of consideration? Why was every face thoughtful and
earnest? Was this a funeral, and was this general gloom the expression
of the heart's despair at the thought of the loved and lost? Perhaps
the case was not quite so hopeless. It might be that a prince or
other eminent person was dangerously ill! "It must be a man," as
no woman was seen in this grand cavalcade. But how account for those
rare and perfumed flowers?.


[1] Or hyperpyron, a coin said to be of the value of two German
    dollars, or six and eightpence Sterling.--E.


SECTION XIV.

_Of a Saracen who desired to be Baptized, and of men who seemed Lepers_.

Upon the day of Pentecost, a Saracen came to visit us, to whom we explained
the articles of the Christian faith; particularly the salvation of sinners,
through the incarnation of Jesus, the resurrection of the dead, and
judgment to come, and how through baptism all sin was washed out. He seemed
much affected with these doctrines, and even expressed a desire to be
baptized; but when we were preparing for that ceremony, he suddenly mounted
on horseback, saying that he must first consult his wife; and he returned
next day, declining to receive baptism, because he would not then be
allowed to drink cosmos, without which, he could not live in that country.
From this opinion, I could not move him by any arguments; so that these
people are much estranged from becoming Christians, by the assertion of
that opinion by the Russians, and other Christians, who come among them in
great numbers.

On the same day, which was the morrow of the feast of Pentecost, Zagathai
gave us one man to conduct us to Sartach, and two others to guide us to the
next station, which was at the distance of five days journey for our oxen.
We were presented also with a goat to serve us as food, and a great many
skin bags of cows milk, but they gave us very little cosmos, as that liquor
is in great estimation among themselves.

From the station of Zagathai we travelled directly north, and our
attendants began to pilfer largely from us, because we took too little heed
of our property, but experience at length taught us wisdom. At length we
reached the bounds of this province, which is fortified by a deep ditch,
from sea to sea[1]. Immediately beyond this ditch, we came to the station
to which our conductors belonged, where all the inhabitants seemed to be
infected with leprosy; and certain base people are placed here to receive
the tribute from all who come for salt from the salt pits formerly
mentioned. We were told that we should have to travel fifteen days farther
before meeting with any other inhabitants. With these people we drank
cosmos, and we presented them in return with a basket of fruits and
biscuit; and they gave us eight oxen and a goat, and a vast number of
bladders full of milk, to serve as provision during our long journey. But
by changing our oxen, we were enabled in ten days to attain the next
station, and through the whole way we only found water in some ditches, dug
on purpose, in the vallies, and in two small rivers. From leaving the
province of Casaria, we traveled directly eastwards, having the sea of
Azoph on our right hand, and a vast desert on the north, which, in some
places, is twenty days journey in breadth, without mountain, tree, or even
stone; but it is all excellent pasture. In this waste the Comani, called
Capchat[2], used to feed their cattle. The Germans called these people
Valani, and the province Valania; but Isidore terms the whole country, from
the Tanais, along the Paulus Maeotis, Alania. This great extent would
require a journey of two months, from one end to the other, even if a man
were to travel post as fast as the Tartars usually ride, and was entirely
inhabited by the Capchat Comanians; who likewise possessed the country
between the Tanais, which divides Europe from Asia, and the river Edil or
Volga, which is a long ten days journey. To the north of this province of
Comania Russia is situate, which is all over full of wood, and reaches from
the north of Poland and Hungary, all the way to the Tanais or Don. This
country has been all wasted by the Tartars, and is even yet often plundered
by them.

The Tartars prefer the Saracens to the Russians, because the latter are
Christians: and when the Russians are unable to satisfy their demands for
gold and silver, they drive them and their children in multitudes into the
desert, where they constrain them to tend their flocks and herds. Beyond
Russia is the country of Prussia, which the Teutonic knights have lately
subdued, and they might easily win Russia likewise, if they so inclined;
for if the Tartars were to learn that the sovereign Pontiff had proclaimed
a crusade against them, they would all flee into their solitudes.


[1] From this circumstance it is obvious, that the journey had been
    hitherto confined to Casaria, or the Crimea, and that he had now
    reached the lines or isthmus of Precop.--E.

[2] In the English translation of Hakluyt, this word is changed to Capthak,
    and in the collection of Harris to Capthai; it is probably the
    Kiptschak of the Russians.--E.


SECTION XV.

_Of our Distresses, and of the Comanian funerals_.

In our journey eastwards we saw nothing but the earth and sky, having
sometimes the sea of Tanais within sight on our right hand, and sometimes
we saw the sepulchres in which the Comanians used to bury their dead, at
the distance of a league or two from the line of our journey. So long as we
travelled in the desert, matters were tolerably well with us, but I cannot
sufficiently express the irksome and tedious plagues and troubles we had to
encounter in the dwellings of the Tartars; for our guide insisted upon us
making presents to every one of the Tartar captains, which we were utterly
unable to afford, and we were eight persons in all, continually using our
provisions, as the three Tartars who accompanied us insisted that we should
feed them; and the flesh which had been given us was by no means
sufficient, and we could not get any to buy. While we sat under the shadow
of our carts to shelter us from the extreme heat of the sun, they would
intrude into our company, and even tread upon us, that they might see what
we had; and when they had to ease nature, would hardly withdraw a few yards
distance, shamelessly talking to us the whole lime. What distressed me most
of all, was when I wished to address them upon religious subjects, my
foolish interpreter used to say, "You shall not make me a preacher, and I
neither will nor can rehearse these words." Nay, after I began to acquire
some little knowledge of their language, I found, when I spoke one thing,
he would say quite differently, whatever chanced to come uppermost in his
senseless mind. Thus, seeing the danger I might incur in speaking by so
faithless an interpreter, I resolved rather to be silent.

We thus journeyed on from station to station, till at length a few days
before the festival of Mary Magdalen, 22d July, we arrived on the banks of
the mighty river Tanais or Don, which divides Europe from Asia. At this
place Baatu and Sartach had established a station of Russians on the
eastern bank of the river, on purpose to transport merchants and messengers
across. They ferried us over in the first place, and then our carts; and
their boats were so small that they were obliged to use two boats tied
together for one cart, putting a wheel into each. In this place our guides
acted most foolishly; for believing that the Russians would provide us with
horses and oxen, they sent back those we had from the western side of the
river, to their masters. But when relays were demanded from the Russians,
they alleged that they had a privilege from Baatu, exempting them from all
services except those belonging to the ferry, and for which they were even
accustomed to receive considerable rewards from such merchants as passed
that way. We were, therefore, constrained to remain three days in this
place. The first day they gave us a large fresh fish[1]. The second day the
magistrate of the village gathered from every house for us, and presented
us with rye-bread and some flesh. And the third day they gave us dried
fish, of which they have great abundance.

The river Tanais, at this place, is as broad as the Seine at Paris; and
before arriving on its banks, we had passed many goodly waters full of
fish: but the rude Tartars know not now to catch them, neither do they hold
fish in any estimation, unless large enough to feed a company. This river
is the eastern limit of Russia, and arises from certain marshes which
extend to the northern ocean; and it discharges itself in the south, into a
large sea of 700 miles extent, before falling into the Euxine; and all the
rivers we had passed ran with a full stream in the same direction. Beyond
this place the Tartars advance no farther to the north, and they were now,
about the first of August, beginning to return into the south; and they
have another village somewhat lower down the river, where passengers are
ferried over in winter. At this time the people were reaping their rye.
Wheat does not succeed in their soil, but they have abundance of millet.
The Russian women attire their heads like those in our country; and they
ornament their gowns with furs of different kinds, from about the knees
downwards. The men wear a dress like the Germans, having high crowned
conical hats made of felt, like sugar loaves, with sharp points.

At length, after representing that our journey was intended for the common
benefit of all Christians, they provided us with oxen and men to proceed
upon our journey; but as we got no horses, we were ourselves under the
necessity of travelling on foot. In this manner we journied for three days,
without meeting any people; and when both our oxen and ourselves were weary
and faint with fatigue, two horses came running towards us, to our great
joy: Our guide and interpreter mounted upon these, and set out to see if
they could fall in with any inhabitants. At length, on the fourth day,
having found some people, we rejoiced like seafaring men, who had escaped
from a tempest into a safe harbour. Then getting fresh horses and oxen, we
passed on from station to station, till we at length reached the habitation
of duke Sartach on the second of the kalends of August[2].


[1] In the Latin this fish is named Barbatus, which both Hakluyt and Harris
    have translated Turbot, a fish never found in rivers. It was more
    probably a Barbel, in Latin called Barbus; or it might be of the
    Sturgeon tribe, which likewise has beard-like appendages, and is found
    in the Don.--E.

[2] This, according to the Roman method of reckoning, ought to be the last
    day of July. Yet Rubruquis had previously mentioned the 1st of August
    a considerable time before.--E.


SECTION XVI.

_Of the Dominions and Subjects of Sartach_.

The region beyond the Tanais is very beautiful, especially towards the
north, where there are fine rivers and extensive forests. In these dwell
two different nations. One of these, named the Moxel, are ignorant pagans,
without any laws, who dwell in cottages among the woods, and have no
cities. Their lord, and the greater part of the nation were carried to the
confines of Germany by the Tartars, and were there slain by the Germans,
who are held in great estimation by the nations who are subject to the
Tartars, as they hope, through their means, to be freed from the Tartar
yoke. When a merchant comes among these people, the first person with whom
he stops is obliged to provide him with all necessaries during his stay in
the district; and they are so little jealous of their wives, that husbands
pay little regard to their infidelity, unless directly under their eyes.
These people have abundance of swine, honey, and wax, precious furs, and
falcons. Beyond these dwell the Merdas[1] or Merdui, who are Saracens or
Mahometans. Beyond them is the Etilia or Volga, the largest river I ever
beheld, which comes out of the north, from the country of the Greater
Bulgaria and runs southwards, into a vast lake of four months journey in
circuit, of which I shall speak afterwards. In the northern region, by
which we travelled, the Tanais and Volga are not above ten days journey
asunder, but towards the south they are at a much farther distance; the
Tanais falling into the Euxine, and the Volga into the before mentioned sea
or lake, which likewise receives many rivers from Persia. In the course of
our journey, we left to the south certain great mountains, on whose sides,
towards the desert, dwell the Cergis and the Alani or Acas, who are
Christians, and still carry on war with the Tartars. Beyond these, near the
sea or lake of Etilia, or the Caspian, are certain Mahometans named Lesgis,
who are subjected to the Tartars. Beyond these again are the _Irongates_,
which were constructed by Alexander, to exclude the barbarians from Persia,
of which I shall speak hereafter, as I passed that way in my return. In the
country through which we travelled between these great rivers, the
Comanians dwelt before it was occupied by the Tarters.


[1] In the English of Hakluyt and Harris, these people are called Merdas
    and Mardui.--E.


SECTION XVII.

_Of the Magnificence of the Court of Sartach_.

WE found Sartach encamped within three days journey of the river Volga or
Etilia, and his court or horda appeared to us very large and magnificent;
as he had six wives, and his eldest son three, and each of these ladies had
a great house, like those already described, besides that each had several
smaller houses, and 200 of the chest-carts already mentioned. Our guide
went immediately to a certain Nestorian named Coiat, who has great
influence at the court of Sartach; and this man carried us in the evening a
considerable distance, to an officer called, in the Tartar language, the
Lords Gate, to whom belongs the duty of receiving messengers or
ambassadors. Our guide inquired what we had ready to present to this
person, and seemed much offended when he found we had nothing to offer.
When we came into his presence, he sat majestically, having music and
dancing performed before him. I then spoke to him the words formerly
mentioned, giving an account of the cause of our mission, and requesting
that he would bring us and our letters into the presence of his lord. I
excused myself also, that as I was a monk, neither giving, receiving, or
using any gold, silver, or other costly things, except our books, and the
vestments in which we served God, that I could bring no present to him or
his lord; and having abandoned my own goods, I could not transport such
things for other men. He courteously answered, that being a monk, I acted
well in observing my vow: and that he stood in no need of any of our
things, but on the contrary, was ready to give us what we might need. He
then caused us to sit down and drink of his milk, and afterwards desired
that we should recite a benediction for him, which we did. He inquired who
was the greatest sovereign among the Francs? To which I answered the
emperor, if he could enjoy his dominions in peace. "Not so, said he, but
the king of France." For he had heard of your majesty from the Lord Baldwin
of Hainault. I found also at this court, one of the Knight Templars, who
had been at Cyprus, and had made a report of all that he had seen there
concerning your majesty. We then returned to our lodgings, whence we sent a
flaggon of our Muscadel wine, which had kept well during the journey, and a
box of our biscuit to this officer, who received the present very
graciously, and retained our servants all night in his dwelling.

In the morning he ordered us to come to court, and to bring the kings
letters, and our books and vestments along with us, as his lord desired to
see these things. This we did accordingly, lading one cart with our books
and vestments, and another with wine, biscuit, and fruits. Then he caused
all our books and vestments to be spread out, and asked if we meant to
bestow all these things upon his lord. A multitude of Tartars, Christians,
and Mahometans were around us, on horseback, at this time, and I was sore
grieved and afraid at this question; but dissembling as well as I could, I
said, "That we humbly requested his lord and master to accept our bread,
wine, and fruits, not as a present, for it was too mean, but as a
benevolence, lest we should appear to come empty handed. That his lord
would see the letters of the king my master, which would explain the reason
of our journey; after which we, and all we had, would remain at his
command: But that our vestments were holy, and were unlawful to be touched
or used by any except priests." We were then commanded to array ourselves
in our sacred vestments, that we might appear in them before his lord. Then
putting on our most precious ornaments, I took a rich cushion in my arms,
together with the bible I had from your majesty, and the beautiful psalter,
ornamented with fine paintings, which the queen bestowed upon me. My
companion carried the missal and a crucifix; and the clerk, clothed in his
surplice, carried a censer in his hand. In this order we presented
ourselves, and the felt hanging before the lords door being withdrawn, we
appeared, in his presence. Then the clerk and interpreter were ordered to
make three genuflexions, from which humiliation we were exempted; and they
admonished us to be exceedingly careful, in going in and out of the lords
dwelling, not to touch the threshold of his door, and we were desired to
sing a benediction or prayer for their lord; and we accordingly entered in
singing the salve regina.

Immediately within the door there stood a bench planted with cosmos and
drinking cups. All Sartachs wives were assembled in the house; and the
Moals, or rich Tartars, pressing in along with us, incommoded us
exceedingly. Then Coiat carried the censer with incense to Sartach, who
took it in his hand, examining it narrowly. He next carried him the
psalter, which he and the wife who sat next him minutely inspected. After
which the bible was carried to him, on which he asked if it contained our
Gospel? To which I answered, that it contained that, and all our other Holy
Scriptures. I next delivered to him your majestys letter, with its
translation into the Arabian and Syriac languages, which I had procured to
be done at Acon[1]; and there happened to be present certain Armenian
priests, who were skilful in the Turkish and Arabian languages, and
likewise the before mentioned templar had knowledge of both these and the
Syriac. We then went out of the house and put off our vestments, and we
were followed by Coiat, accompanied by certain scribes, by whom our letters
were interpreted; and when Sartach had heard these read, he graciously
accepted our bread, wine, and fruits, and permitted us to carry our books
and vestments to our own lodgings. All this happened on the festival of St
Peter ad Vincula.


[1] Now called St Jean d'Acre.--E.


SECTION XVIII.

_They are ordered to proceed to Baatu, the Father of Sartach_.

Next morning early a certain priest, who was the brother of Coiat, came to
our lodging, and desired to have our box of chrism to carry, as he said, to
Sartach. About evening Coat sent for us, and said that the king our master
had written acceptably to his lord and master Sartach; but there were
certain difficult matters, respecting which he did not dare to determine
without the orders and advice of his father, and that it was, therefore,
necessary that we should go to his father, leaving the two carts behind us
in which we brought the books and vestments, because his lord was desirous
to examine these things more carefully. Suspecting the evil that might
arise from this man's covetousness, I immediately said that we would not
only leave these carts, but the other two also under his custody. You shall
not, said he, leave these two carts behind, but as for the other two, we
will satisfy your desire. But I insisted upon leaving them all. He then
desired to know whether we intended to remain in the country? To which I
answered, that if he had thoroughly understood the letters of my lord and
master, he would have seen that we were so inclined. And he then exhorted
us to demean ourselves with patience, and humility; after which we parted
for that evening.

Next day Coiat sent a Nestorian priest for the carts, to whom we caused all
the four to be delivered. After whom the brother of Coiat came to our
lodging, and took possession of all the books and vestments which we had
shewn the day before at the court; although we remonstrated against this
procedure, saying that Coiat had ordered us to carry those things along
with us, that we might appear in them before Baatu; but he took them from
us by violence, saying, "you brought all these things to Sartach, and would
you carry them to Baatu?" And when I would have reasoned with him against
this conduct, he desired me not to be too talkative, but to go my way.
There was no remedy but patience, as we could not have access to Sartach,
and we could not expect to procure justice from any other person. The two
gentlemen still stood in the garden, in earnest conversation.

"This is assuredly an auspicious omen, my friend," said Pollnitz to the young
officer, who was gazing musingly at the roses he held in his hand. He had
raised his eyes from the flowers to the window at which the lovely form of
the princess had, for a few moments, appeared.

"Alas!" said he, sighing, and gazing afar off; "she is so wonderfully
beautiful--so lovely; and she is a princess!"
Pollnitz laughed heartily. "One might think that you regretted that fact!
Listen to me, my young friend; stand no longer here, in a dream. Come, in
place of entering the castle immediately, to pay our respects to the
queen-mother, we will take a walk through the garden, that you may allay
your raptures and recover your reason."
He took the arm of the young man, and drew him into a shady, private
pathway.

"Now, my dear friend, listen to me, and lay to heart all that I say to you.
Accident, or, if you prefer it, Fate brought us together.
After all, it seems indeed more than an accident. I had just returned to
Berlin, and was about to pay my respects to the queen- mother,
when I met you, who at the same time seek an audience, in order to
commend yourself to her royal protection.

You bear a letter of commendation from my old friend, Count Lottum.

All this, of course, excites my curiosity. I ask your name, and learn,
to my astonishment, that you are young Von Trenck, the son of the
woman who was my first love, and who made me most unhappy by not
returning my passion.

I assure you, it produces a singular sensation to meet so unexpectedly
the son of a first love, whose father, alas! you have not the happiness to
be. I feel already that I am prepared to love you as foolishly as I
once loved your fair mother."
"I will not, like my mother, reject your vows," said the young officer,
smiling, and extending his hand to Pollnitz.

"I hoped as much," said Pollnitz; "you shall find a fond father in me, and
even to-day I will commence my parental duties. In the first place, what
brings you here?"
"To make my fortune--to become a general, or field-marshal, if possible,"
said the young man, laughing.

"How old are you?"
"I am nineteen."
"You wear the uniform of an officer of the life-guard; the king has,
therefore, already promoted you?"
"I was a cadet but eight days," said Trenck, proudly. "My step- father, Count
Lottum, came with me from Dantzic, and presented me to the king. His
majesty received me graciously, and remembered well that I had received,
at the examination at Konigsberg, the first prize from his hand."
"Go on, go on," said Pollnitz; "you see I am all ear, and I must know
your present position in order to be useful to you."
"The king, as I have said, received me graciously, even kindly; he made me
a cadet in his cavalry corps, and three weeks after, I was summoned before
him; he had heard something of my wonderful memory, and he wished to prove
me."
"Well, how did you stand the proof?"
"I stood with the king at the window, and he called over to me quickly the
names of fifty soldiers who were standing in the court below, pointing to
each man as he called his name. I then repeated to him every name in the
same succession, but backward."

"A wonderful memory, indeed," said Pollnitz, taking a pinch of Spanish
snuff; "a terrible memory, which would make me shudder if I were your
sweetheart!"
"And why?" said the young officer.

"Because you would hold ever in remembrance all her caprices and all her
oaths, and one day, when she no longer loved you, she would be held to a
strict account. Well, did the king subject you to further proof?"
"Yes; he gave me the material for two letters, which I dictated at the
same time to his secretaries, one in French and one in Latin. He then commanded
me to draw the plan of the Hare Meadow, and I did so."
"Was he pleased?"
"He made me cornet of the guard," said Trenck, modestly avoiding a
more direct answer.

"I see you are in high favor: in three weeks you are promoted from
cadet to lieutenant! quick advancement, which the king, no doubt, signalized
by some other act of grace?"
"He sent me two horses from his stable, and when I came to thank him, he
gave me a purse containing two hundred 'Fredericks.'"
Pollnitz gave a spring backward. "Thunder! you are indeed in favor!
the king gives you presents! Ah, my young friend, I would protect
you, but it seems you can patronize me. The king has never made me a present.
And what do you desire to-day of the queen-mother?"
"As I am now a lieutenant, I belong to the court circle, and must take part
in the court festivals. So the king commanded me to pay my respects
to the queen-mother."
"Ah, the king ordered that?" said Pollnitz; "truly, young man, the king
must destine you for great things--he overloads you with favors. You will
make a glittering career, provided you are wise enough to escape the
shoals and quicksands in your way. I can tell you, there will be adroit and
willing hands ready to cast you down; those who are in favor at court
have always bitter enemies."

"Yes, I am aware that I have enemies," said Trenck; "more than once
I have already been charged with being a drunkard and a rioter; but
the king, happily, only laughed at the accusations."

"He is really in high favor, and I would do well to secure his
friendship," thought Pollnitz; "the king will also be pleased with
me if I am kind to him."

He held out his hand to the young officer, and said, with fatherly
tenderness: "From this time onward, when your enemies shall please
to attack you, they shall not find you alone; they will find me a
friend ever at your side.

You are the son of the only woman I ever loved--I will cherish you in my
heart as my first-born!"
"And I receive you as my father with my whole heart," said Trenck; "be
my father, my friend, and my counsellor."
"The court is a dangerous and slippery stage, upon which a young and
inexperienced man may lightly slip, unless held up by a strong arm.
Many will hate you because you are in favor, and the hate of many is like the
sting of hornets: one sting is not fatal, but a general attack sometimes
brings death. Make use, therefore, of your sunshine, and fix yourself strongly
in an immovable position."

"The great question is, what shall be my first step to secure it?"
"How! you ask that question, and you are nineteen years old, six feet high,
have a handsome face, a splendid figure, an old, renowned name, and are
graciously received at court! Ah! youngster, I have seen many arrive at the
highest honors and distinctions, who did not possess half your glittering
qualities. If you use the right means at the right time, you cannot fail
of success."
"What do you consider the best means?"
"The admiration and favor of women! You must gain the love of
powerful and influential women.

Oh, you are terrified, and your brow is clouded! perhaps, unhappily, you
are already in love?"
"No!" said Frederick von Trenck, violently. "I have never been in love.
I dare say more than that: I have never kissed the lips of a woman."
Pollnitz gazed at him with an expression of indescribable amazement.
"How!" said he; "you are nineteen, and assert that you have never embraced a
woman?" He gave a mocking and cynical laugh.

"Ordinary women have always excited my disgust," said the young officer,
simply; "and until this day I have never seen a woman who resembled my
ideal."
"So, then, the woman with whom you will now become enamored will receive
your first tender vows?"
"Yes, even so."
"And you wear the uniform of the life-guard--you are a lieutenant!"
cried Pollnitz with tragical pathos, and extending his arms toward heaven.
"But how?--what did you say?--that until to-day you had seen no woman
who approached your ideal?"
"I said that."
"And to-day--?"
"Well, it seems to me, we have both seen an angel to-day!--an angel,
whom you have wronged, in giving her the common name of fairy."
"Aha! the Princess Amelia," said Pollnitz. "You will love this young maiden,
my friend."
"Then, indeed, shall I be most unhappy! She is a royal princess, and
my love must ever be unrequited."
"Who told you that? who told you that this little Amelia was only a princess?
I tell you she is a young girl with a heart of fire. Try to awake her--she
only sleeps! A happy event has already greeted you. The princess has
fixed your enraptured gaze upon her lovely form, by throwing or rather
shooting roses at you.

Perhaps the god of Love has hidden his arrow in a rose. You thought Amelia
had only pelted your cheek with roses, but the arrow has entered your
soul.
Try your luck, young man; gain the love of the king's favorite sister,
and you will be all-powerful."
The young officer looked at him with confused and misty eyes.

"You do not dare to suggest," murmured he, "that--"
"I dare to say," cried Pollnitz, interrupting him, "that you are
in favor with the brother; why may you not also gain the sister's
good graces?

I say further, that I will assist you, and I will ever be at your side,
    as a loving friend and a sagacious counsellor."
    "Do you know, baron, that your wild words open a future to my view
    before which my brain and heart are reeling?

How shall I dare to love a princess, and seek her love in return?"

"As to the first point, I think you have already dared.

As to the second, I think your rare beauty and wondrous accomplishments
might justify such pretensions."
"You know I never can become the husband of a princess."
"You are right," said Pollnitz, laughing aloud; "you are as innocent as a
girl of sixteen! you have this moment fallen headlong in love, and begin
at once to think of the possibility of marriage, as if love had no other
refuge than marriage, and yet I think I have read that the god of Love and
the god of Hymen are rarely seen together, though brothers; in point of fact,
they despise and flee from each other. But after all, young man, if your
love is virtuous and requires the priest's blessing, I think that
is possible. Only a few years since the widowed margravine, the aunt
of the king, married the Count Hoditz. What the king's aunt accomplished,
might be possible to the king's sister."
"Silence, silence!" murmured Frederick von Trenck; "your wild words cloud
my understanding like the breath of opium; they make me mad, drunk. You
stand near me like the tempter, showing to my bewildered eyes more than
all the treasures of this world, and saying, 'All these things will I give
thee'; but alas!

I am not the Messiah. I have not the courage to cast down and trample under
foot your devilish temptations. My whole soul springs out to meet them,
and shouts for joy. Oh, sir, what have you done? You have aroused
my youth, my ambition, my passion; you have filled my veins with fire, and
I am drunk with the sweet but deadly poison you have poured into my ears."

"I have assured you that I will be your father. I will lead you, and at the
right moment I will point out the obstacles against which your inexperienced
feet might stumble," said Pollnitz.

The stony-hearted and egotistical old courtier felt not the least pity for
this poor young man into whose ear, as Trenck had well said, he was pouring
this fatal poison. Frederick von Trenck, the favorite of the king, was
nothing more to him than a ladder by which he hoped to mount. He took
the arm of the young officer and endeavored to soothe him with cool and
moderate words, exhorting him to be quiet and reasonable. They turned their
steps toward the castle, in order to pay their respects to the queen-mother.
The hour of audience was over, and the two gentlemen lounged arm in arm
down the street.

"Let us go toward the palace," said Pollnitz. "I think we will behold a
rare spectacle, a crowd of old wigs who have disguised themselves as
savans. To-day, the first sitting of the Academy of Arts and Sciences
takes place, and the celebrated President Maupertius will open the
meeting in the name of the king. This is exactly the time for the renowned
worthies to leave the castle. Let us go and witness this comical show."

The two gentlemen found it impossible to carry out their plans. A mighty
crowd of men advanced upon them at this moment, and compelled them to
stand still. Every face in the vast assemblage was expectant. Certainly
some rare exhibition was to be seen in the circle which the crowd had left
open in their midst. There were merry laughing and jesting and
questioning amongst each other, as to what all this could mean, and
what proclamation that could be which the drummer had just read in the
palace garden.

"It will be repeated here in a moment," said a voice from the crowd, which
increased every moment, and in whose fierce waves Pollnitz and Trenck were
forcibly swallowed up. Pressed, pushed onward by powerful arms, resistance
utterly in vain, the two companions found themselves at the same moment
in the open space just as the drummer broke into the circle, and, playing
his drumsticks with powerful and zealous hands, he called the crowd to
order.

The drum overpowered the wild outcries and rude laughter of the vast
assemblage, and soon silenced them completely. Every man held his breath
to hear what the public crier, who had spoken so much to the purpose by his
drum, had now to declare by word of mouth. He drew from his pocket a large
document sealed with the state seal, and took advantage of the general
quiet to read the formal introductory to all such proclamations: "We,
Frederick, King of Prussia," etc., etc.

On coming to the throne, Frederick had abolished all that long and
absurd list of titles and dignities which had heretofore adorned the royal
declarations. Even that highest of all titles, "King by the grace of God,"
had Frederick the Second set aside. He declared that, in saying King of
Prussia, all was said. His father had called himself King of Prussia, by
the grace of God; he, therefore, would call himself simply the King of
Prussia, and if he did not boast of God's grace, it was because he would
prove by deeds, not words, that he possessed it.

After this little digression we will return to our drummer, who now began
to read, or rather to cry out the command of the king.

"We, Frederick, King of Prussia, order and command that no one of our subjects
shall, under any circumstances, lend gold to our master of ceremonies,
whom we have again taken into our service, or assist him in any way to
borrow money. Whoever, therefore, shall, in despite of this proclamation,
lend money to said Baron Pollnitz, must bear the consequences; they shall
make no demand for repayment, and the case shall not be considered in court.
Whosoever shall disobey this command, shall pay a fine of fifty thalers, or
suffer fifteen days' imprisonment."
A wild shout of laughter from the entire assembly was the reply to this
proclamation, in which the worldly-wise Pollnitz joined heartily, while
his young companion had not the courage to raise his eyes from the ground.

"The old courtier will burst with rage," said a gay voice from the
crowd.

"He is a desperate borrower," cried another.

"He has richly deserved this public shame and humiliation from the king,"
said another.

"And you call this a humiliation, a merited punishment!" cried Pollnitz.
"Why, my good friends, can you not see that this is an honor which the
king shows to his old and faithful servant? Do you not know that by this
proclamation he places Baron Pollnitz exactly on the same footing with the
princes of the blood, with the prince royal?"
"How is that? explain that to us," cried a hundred voices in a breath.

"Well, it is very simple. Has not the king recently renewed the law which
forbids, under pain of heavy punishment, the princes of the blood to borrow
money? Is not this law printed in our journals, and made public in
our collections of laws?"
"Yes, yes! so it is," said many voices simultaneously.

"Well, certainly, our exalted sovereign, who loves his royal brothers so
warmly, would not have cast shame upon their honor.
Certainly he would not have wished to humiliate them, and has not done so.
The king, as you must now plainly perceive, has acted toward Baron Pollnitz
precisely as he has done to his brothers."
"And that is, without doubt, a great honor for him," cried many
voices. No one guessed the name of the speaker who was so fortunately
at hand to defend the honor of the master of ceremonies.
A general murmur of applause was heard, and even the public crier
stood still and listened to the eloquent unknown speaker, and forgot
for a while to hurry off to the next street-corner and proclaim the
royal mandate.
"Besides, this law is 'sans consequence,' as we are accustomed to
say," said Pollnitz. "Who would not, in spite of the law, lend our
princes gold if they had need of it? And who has right to take
offence if the state refuses to pay the debts which the princes
make as private persons? The baron occupies precisely the same
position.
The king, who has honored the newly returned baron with two highly
important trusts, master of ceremonies and master of the robes,
will frighten his rather lavish old friend from making debts. He
chooses, therefore, the same means by which he seeks to restrain
his royal brothers, and forbids all persons to lend gold to Pollnitz:
as he cannot well place this edict in the laws of the land, he is
obliged to make it known by the drummer. And now," said the speaker,
who saw plainly the favorable impression which his little oration
had made-- "and now, best of friends, I pray you to make way and
allow me to pass through the crowd; I must go at once to the palace
to thank his majesty for the special grace and distinction which
he has showered upon me to-day. I, myself, am Baron Pollnitz!"
An outcry of amazement burst from the lips of hundreds, and all who
stood near Pollnitz stepped aside reverentially, in order to give
place to the distinguished gentleman who was treated by the king
exactly as if he were a prince of the blood. Pollnitz stepped with
a friendly smile through the narrow way thus opened for him, and
greeted, with his cool, impertinent manner those who respectfully
stood back.
"I think I have given the king a Roland for his Oliver," he said
to himself. "I have broken the point from the arrow which was aimed
at me, and it glanced from my bosom without wounding me. Public
opinion will be on my side from this time, and that which was
intended for my shame has crowned me with honor. It was, nevertheless,
a harsh and cruel act, for which I will one day hold a reckoning
with Frederick. Ah, King Frederick! King Frederick! I shall not
forget, and I will have my revenge; my cards are also well arranged,
and I hold important trumps. I will wait yet a little while upon
our lovelorn shepherd, this innocent and tender Trenck, who is in
a dangerous way about the little princess."
Pollnitz waited for Trenck, who had with difficulty forced his way
through the crowd and hastened after him.

CHAPTER VII.
THE FIRST INTERVIEW.
The ball at the palace was opened. The two queens and the princesses
had just entered the great saloon, in order to receive the respectful
greetings of the ladies of the court; while the king, in an adjoining
room, was surrounded by the gentlemen. A glittering circle of lovely
women, adorned with diamonds and other rich gems, stood on each
side of the room, each one patiently awaiting the moment when the
queens should pass before her, and she might have the honor of
bowing almost to the earth under the glance of the royal eye.


[1] The Greater Bulgaria of our author seems to comprehend the provinces of
    Astracan and Casan in Russia.--E.


SECTION XXII.

_The Journey to the Court of Mangu-khan_.

From the audience we were conducted to the dwelling of a person who was
ordered to provide us in lodging, food, and horses; but as we had no
presents to give, he treated us with great neglect. We travelled along with
Baatu, down the banks of the Volga for five weeks, and were often so much
in want of provisions, that my companion was sometimes so extremely hungry
as even to weep. For though there is always a fair or market following the
court, it was so far from us, that we, who were forced to travel on foot,
were unable to reach it. At length, some Hungarians, who had for some time
been looked upon as priests, found out, and relieved our distresses. One of
these was able to sing with a loud voice, and being considered by his
countrymen as a kind of priest, was employed at their funerals; the other
had been decently instructed in the Latin grammar, so that he understood
whatever we spoke to him deliberately, but was unable to make answer. These
men were a great consolation to us, as they supplied us with flesh and
cosmos. They requested some books from us, and it grieved me much that we
could not comply, having only one bible and a breviary. But I made them
bring some ink and paper, and I copied out for them the Hours of the
blessed Virgin, and the Office for the Dead. It happened one day that a
Comanian passing by saluted us in Latin, saying _Salvete domini_. Surprized
at this unusual salutation, I questioned him how he had learnt it, and he
told me he had been baptized in Hungary by our priests, who had taught him.
He said, likewise, that Baatu had inquired many things at him respecting
us, and that he had given him an account of the nature and rules of our
order. I afterwards saw Baatu riding with his company, who were the whole
of his subjects that were householders or masters of families, and in my
estimation they did not exceed 500 men.[1]

At length, about the Holyrood, 14th September, or festival of the
exaltation of the Holy Cross, there came to us a certain rich Moal, whose
father was a millenary or captain of a thousand horse, who informed us that
he had been appointed to conduct us. He informed us that the journey would
take us four months, and that the cold was so extreme in winter, as even to
tear asunder trees and stones with its force. "Advise well with yourselves,
therefore," said he, "whether you be able to endure it, for otherwise I
shall forsake you by the way." To this I answered, that I hoped we should
be able, with the help of God, to endure hardships like other men; but as
we were sent by his lord under his charge, and did not go on any business
of our own, he ought not to forsake us. He then said that all should be
well, and having examined our garments, he directed us what we should leave
behind in the custody of our host, as not useful for the journey; and next
day he sent each of us a furred gown, made of sheep skins, with the wool
on, and breeches of the same, likewise shoes or footsocks made of felt, and
boots of their fashion, and hoods of skins. The second day after the holy
cross day, 16th September, we began our journey, attended by three guides,
and we rode continually eastwards during forty-six days, till the feast of
All-Saints, 1st November. The whole of that region, and even beyond it, is
inhabited by the people named Changle or Kangittae, who are descended from
the Romans. Upon the north side we had the country of the Greater Bulgaria,
and to the south the Caspian sea.


[1] This, however, is only to be understood of what may be termed the
    pretorian or royal horde, in a time of profound peace, travelling in
    their usual and perpetual round in quest of forage; the almost
    boundless space of the desert must have been interspersed with
    numerous subordinate hordes, and though the usual guard of Baatu might
    not have exceeded 500 heads of families, the military force of his
    dominions, though subordinate to Mangu-khan, certainly exceeded
    200,000 fighting men.--E.


SECTION XXIII.

_Of the River Jaic or Ural, and of sundry Regions and Nations_.

At the end of twelve days journey from the Etilia or Volga, we came to a
great river named the Jagag (Jaic or Ural); which, issuing from the land of
Pascatir (of Zibier or of the Baschirs, now Siberia), falls into the
Caspian. The language of the Baschirs and of the Hungarians is the same,
and they are all shepherds, having no cities; and their land is bounded on
the west by the Greater Bulgaria; from which country eastwards, in these
northern parts, there are no cities whatsoever, so that the Greater
Bulgaria is the last country which possesses towns and cities. From this
country of Pascatir the Huns went, who were afterwards called Hungarians.
Isidore writes, that with swift horses they passed the walls of Alexander,
and the rocks of Caucasus, which opposed the barbarians, and even exacted
tribute from Egypt, and laid waste the whole of Europe as far as France,
being even more warlike in their day than the Tartars are now. With them
the Blacians or Walachians, the Bulgarians, and the Vandals united. These
Bulgarians came from the Greater Bulgaria, The people named Ilac or Vlac,
who inhabit beyond the Danube from Constantinople, not far from Pascatir,
are the same people, being properly named Blac or Blacians, but as the
Tartars cannot pronounce the letter B, they are called Ilac, Vlac, or
Wallachians. From them, likewise, the inhabitants of the land of the Assani
are descended, both having the same name in the Russian, Polish, and
Bohemian languages. The Sclavonians and the Vandals speak the same
language; and all of these joined themselves formerly with the Huns, as
they now do with the Tartars. All this that I have written concerning the
land of Pascatir, I was informed by certain friars predicants, who had
travelled there before the irruption of the Tartars; and as they had been
subdued by their neighbours the Bulgarians, who were Mahometans, many of
them adopted that faith. Other matters respecting these people may be known
from various chronicles. But it is obvious, that those provinces beyond
Constantinople, which are now called Bulgaria, Wallachia, and Sclavonia
[1], formerly belonged to the Greek empire; and Hungary was formerly named
Pannonia.

We continued riding through the land of the Changles or Kangittae, as
before mentioned, from Holy Cross-day till All-Saints, travelling every
day, as well as I could guess, about as far as from Paris to Orleans, and
sometimes farther [2], according as we happened to be provided with relays;
for sometimes we would change horses two or three times a-day, and then
we travelled quicker; while sometimes we had to travel two or three days
without finding any inhabitants to supply us, and then we were forced to
travel more deliberately. Out of thirty or forty horses, we were always
sure to have the worst, being strangers, as every one took their choice
before it came to our turn. They always, however, provided me with a strong
horse, because I was corpulent and heavy; but whether his pace happened to
be hard or gentle, was all one to them, and I dared not to make any
complaints. Our horses often tired before we could fall in with any of the
inhabitants, and we were then obliged to beat and whip them up, being
obliged to lay our garments upon spare horses, and sometimes two of us
obliged to ride on one horse.


[1] Probably intended for what is now called Servia--E.

[2] This may be taken at a medium of thirty miles a day which, in
    forty-six days, would amount to 1380 miles; no doubt a very fatiguing
    journey for a corpulent heavy man as he describes himself--E.


SECTION XXIV.

_Of the Hunger, Thirst, and other Miseries we endured_.

There was no end of hunger and thirst, and cold and weariness. In the
morning they gave us something to drink, or some boiled millet; but
afterwards we had nothing to eat until the evening, when they bestowed some
flesh upon us, being generally the shoulder and breast of a ram, and every
one was allowed a proportion of the broth to drink; and we considered
ourselves fortunate when we had enough of broth, as it was exceedingly
refreshing, pleasant, and nutritive. Sometimes we were constrained to eat
our meat half boiled, or even almost raw, for want of fuel, especially when
we were benighted and obliged to pass the night in the fields, because we
could not conveniently gather horse or cow-dung to make a fire, and we
seldom found any other fuel, except a few thorns here and there, and a few
rare woods on the banks of some rivers. Every Saturday I remained fasting
until night, and was then constrained, to my great grief, to eat flesh, as
I could not procure any other food in the desert. In the beginning of our
journey our guide disdained us exceedingly, and seemed quite indignant at
being obliged to take charge of such base fellows as he seemed to esteem
us; but he afterwards behaved better, and often took us purposely to the
courts of rich Moals, who requested us to pray for them; and if I had been
so fortunate as to have a good interpreter, I might have been able to do
some good among these ignorant people.

Zingis, the first great khan or emperor of the Tartars, left four sons,
from whom descended many grandsons, who are daily multiplying and
dispersing over that immense waste desert, which is boundless like the
ocean. These Moals whom we visited and prayed for, were astonished when we
refused their proffered gifts of gold and silver and fine garments. They
often enquired whether the great Pope was actually 500 years old, as they
had heard from report. They likewise enquired into the nature and
productions of our country, especially whether we had abundance of cattle,
sheep, and horses. When we spoke to them about the ocean, they could form
no adequate conception of its immense expanse, without banks or limits.

On the feast of All-Saints, 1st November, as the people had now descended
very much to the southwards, we now discontinued our eastern route, and
journied directly south for eight days, along certain high mountains. In
the desert we saw many wild asses resembling mules, called colan or coulan
by the Tartars, which our guide and his companions often chased with great
eagerness, but without success, owing to the great swiftness of these
animals. Upon the seventh day of our southern route, we saw directly before
us some exceedingly high mountains, and we entered upon a fine cultivated
plain, which was irrigated like a garden. Next day, 7th November, we
arrived at a town belonging to the Mahometans named Kenchat, the governor
of which came out to meet our guide with ale and other refreshments; for it
is the custom of all the subjected cities, to welcome the messengers of
Baatu and Mangu with meat and drink on their arrival. At this season, the
ice was fully bearing, and we found frost in the desert before the feast of
St Michael, 29th September. I inquired the name of the province, but being
in a strange land they could not inform me, and could only tell me the name
of this city, which is very small. Into this district a large river
descends from the mountains, which the inhabitants lead off to water or
irrigate the whole region; so that this river does not discharge itself
into any sea, but after forming many pools or marshes, is absorbed into the
earth. In this region we saw vines growing, and drank twice of their wines.


SECTION XXV

_Of the Execution of Ban, and concerning the residence of certain Germans_.

The next day we came to another village nearer to the mountains, which, I
understood, were called Caucasus, and that they reached from the eastern to
the western sea, even passing the Caspian to the west. I likewise inquired
concerning the town of Talas, in which, according to Friar Andrew [1],
there were certain Germans in the service of one _Buri_ and I had formerly
made inquiries concerning them at the courts of Sartach and Baatu[2]. But I
could only learn, that their master, _Ban_, had been put to death on the
following occasion. This Ban happened to have his appointed residence in
inferior pastures, and one day when drunk, he said to his people, that
being of the race of Zingis as well as Baatu, whose brother or nephew he
was, he thought himself entitled to feed his flocks on the fine plains of
the Volga as freely as Baatu himself. These speeches were reported to
Baatu, who immediately wrote to the servants of Ban to bring their lord
bound before him. Then Baatu demanded whether he had spoken the words,
which were reported, and Ban acknowledged them, but pled that he was drunk
at the time, and it is usual among the Tartars to forgive the words and
actions of drunk men. But Baatu reproached him for daring to use his name
in his cups, and ordered his head to be immediately struck off.

On my arrival at the court of Mangu-khan, I learnt, that the before
mentioned Germans had been removed from the jurisdiction of Baatu to a
place named Bolac, a months journey to the east of Talus, where they were
employed to dig for gold, and to fabricate arms. In the before mentioned
town we learnt that Talas was near the mountains behind us, at the distance
of six days journey. From the before mentioned village near the
mountains[3], we went directly eastwards, coasting these mountains; and
from that time we travelled among the immediate subjects of Mangu-khan, who
in all places sang and danced in honour of our guide, because he was the
messenger of Baatu; it being the custom for the subjects of Mangu-khan to
receive the messengers of Baatu in this manner, and reciprocally, the
subjects of Baatu shew like honour to the messengers of Mnngu; yet the
subjects of Baatu are more independently spirited, and do not evince so
much courtesy. A few days afterwards, we entered upon the mountains where
the Cara-Catayans used to dwell, where we found a large river which we had
to pass in boats. We afterwards came to a cultivated valley, in which were
the ruins of a castle, which had been surrounded by walls of mud or earth.
After this we came to a large village called Equius, inhabited by
Mahometans, who spoke Persian, although so far removed from Persia. On the
day following, having passed those Alps which descend from the high
mountains towards the south, we entered a most beautiful plain, having high
mountains upon our right hand, and a sea or lake on our left, which is
fifteen days journey in circumference[4]. This plain is watered or
irrigated at will, by means of streams descending from these mountains, all
of which fall into the before mentioned lake. In the subsequent summer we
returned by the north side of this lake, where likewise there are great
mountains[5]. In this plain there used to be many towns; but most of these
have been destroyed by the Tartars, that the excellent lands around them
might be converted into pastures for their cattle. We still found one large
town named Cailac, in which was a market frequented by many merchants; and
we remained fifteen days at this place, waiting for one of Baatu's scribes,
who was to assist our guide in the management of certain affairs at the
court of Mangu. This country used to be called Organum[6], and the people
Organa, as I was told, because the people were excellent performers on the
organ[7] or lute; and they had a distinct language and peculiar manner of
writing. It was now entirely inhabited by the Contomanni, whose language
and writing are used by the Nestorians of these parts. I here first saw
idolaters, of whom there are many sects in the east.


[1] The person here alluded to was a monk named Andrew Luciumel, who had
    been sent ambassador, by the pope, to the emperor of the Mongals, in
    1247 or 1248, with the same views as in the missions of Carpini and
    Asceline at the same period; but of his journey we have no account
    remaining.--E

[2] It is exceedingly difficult, or rather impossible, to trace the steps
    of the travels of Rubruquis, for want of latitudes, longitudes, and
    distances, and names of places. After passing the Volga and Ural or
    Jaik, he seems to have travelled east in the country of the Kirguses,
    somewhere about the latitude of 50°. N. to between the longitudes of
    65°. and 70°. E. then to have struck to the south across the Kisik-tag
    into Western Turkestan, in which the cultivated vale may have been on
    the Tshui or the Talas rivers.--E

[3] Probably near the north side of the Arguin or Alak mountains.--E.

[4] This position of Rubruquis is sufficiently distinct: Having ferried
    over the river Tshui, and crossed the Jimbai mountains, the route now
    lay between the Alak mountain on his right, or to the south, and the
    lake of Balkash or Palkati Nor, to the left or north.--E.

[5] The Kisik-tag, which he had before passed in descending into Western
    Turkestan.--E.

[6] This absurd derivation of the name of the country and people, is
    unworthy of credit. Organum was probably the country called Irgonekan
    or Irganakon by Abulgari; and the word signifies a valley surrounded
    by steep mountains, exactly correspondent with the description in the
    text.--Forst.

[7] The Contomanni or Kontomanians, were probably a Mongal tribe,
    originally inhabiting the banks of the Konta or Khonda, who had
    afterwards settled on the banks of the river Ili and lake of Balkash.
    --Forst.


SECTION XXVI.

_How the Nestorians and Mahometans are mixed with Idolaters_.

In the first place arc the Jugurs, whose country borders upon the land of
Organum among the mountains towards the east, and in all their towns
Nestorians and Mahometans are mixed among the natives. And they are
diffused likewise in all the towns of the Mahometans towards Persia. In the
city of Cailac, or Cealac, there are three idol temples, two of which I
went into to observe their folly. In one of these I found a person having a
cross marked with ink upon his hand, whence I supposed him a Christian, and
to all my questions he answered like a Christian. I asked him wherefore he
had not the cross and image of Christ, and he answered, that it was not
their custom; wherefore I concluded the people were actually Christians,
but omitted these things for want of instruction. Behind a certain chest,
which served for an altar, and on which they placed candles and oblations,
I saw an image with wings like that of St Michael; and other images holding
out their fingers, as if blessing the spectators. That evening I could make
no farther discovery; for though the Saracens invite one into their
temples, they will not speak of their religion[1]; insomuch, that when I
inquired at them about their ceremonies, they were much offended.

Next day being the Kalends, 1st December, was the passover of the Saracens,
and I changed my lodging to the neighbourhood of another temple of idols;
for the people of this place shew hospitality to all messengers, every one
according to his abilities. In this other temple I found the priests of the
idols, who open and adorn the temples at the Kalends, and the people make
offerings of bread and fruits. I shall first describe the general rites of
idolatry, and then those of the Jugurs, who are a kind of sect different
from the others. They all worship towards the north, with joined hands,
prostrating themselves upon their knees to the earth, and resting their
foreheads on their hands. For which reason the Nestorians never join their
hands in prayer, but spread their hands on their breasts. Their temples are
built from east to west, having a chamber or vestry for the priests on the
north; or if the building is square, they have a similar chamber on the
middle of the north side in place of a choir, and before it is placed a
long broad chest like a table, behind which, facing the south, stands the
principal idol. That which I saw at Caracarum was as large as the picture
of St Christopher. A Nestorian priest, who came from Catay, told me there
was an idol in that country so large, that it could be seen at the distance
of two days journey[2]. Other idols are placed around the principal one,
and all are beautifully gilt; All the gates of their temples open to the
south, contrary to the customs of the Mahometans; and they have large
bells, as is the case with us, wherefore the oriental Christians will not
use them, though they are customary among the Russians and the Greeks in
Casaria.


[1] The Saracens are here much abused by the mistake of our traveller; as,
    however erroneous their religious opinions, they worship the true God
    only, and abhor even the least semblance of idolatry.--E.

[2] The Nestorian probably said an idol-house; meaning one of the high
    towers usually erected near Chinese temples: and even this must have
    stood upon a very elevated situation, in an extensive plain, to be
    seen from so great a distance, perhaps of sixty miles.--E.


SECTION XXVII.

_Of their Temples and Idols, and the Worship of their Gods_.

All their priests shave their heads and beards, and are clothed in yellow;
and they live in companies of one or two hundred together, observing strict
celibacy. On holy days, they sit in the temple on long benches, placed
directly opposite each other, holding books in their hands, which they
sometimes lay on the benches; and all the time they remain in the temples,
they have their heads bare, and they read to themselves, keeping profound
silence: Insomuch, that when I went into the temple, and endeavoured all I
could to provoke them to speak, I could not succeed. Wherever they go, they
carry a string with an hundred or two hundred nut-shells, like our
rosaries, and they are continually uttering the words, _Ou mam Hactani_,
which was explained to me as signifying, _O God! thou knowest_. And as
often as they pronounce these words in remembrance of God, they expect a
proportional reward[1]. Round the temple, there is always a handsome court,
environed by a high wall, on the south side of which is a large portal, in
which they sit to confer together; and over this portal they erect a long
pole, rising if possible above the whole city, that every one may know
where to find the temple. These things are common to all the idolaters.

On going to visit this temple, I found the priests sitting under the outer
portal; and those whom I saw, appeared, by their shaven beards, like French
friars. They wore conical caps of paper on their heads; and all the priests
of the Jugurs wear this cap continually, and yellow strait tunics fastened
down the middle like those in France; besides which, they wear a cloak on
their left shoulder, flowing loosely before and behind, but leaving the
right arm free, somewhat like a deacon carrying the pix in Lent. Their mode
of writing is adopted by the Tartars. They begin to write at the top of the
page, and extend their lines downwards, reading and writing from left to
right. They make great use of written papers in their magical incantations,
and their temples are hung round with short written sentences. The letters
sent by Mangu-khan to your majesty, are written in these characters, and in
the language of the Moal. These people burn their dead in the manner of the
ancients, and deposit the ashes on the top of certain pyramids. After
sitting for some time beside these priests, and having entered their temple
to look at their many images, some large and others small, I asked what was
their belief concerning God? To which they answered, that they believed in
one God only. On asking them whether he was a spirit or of a corporeal
nature, they said he was a spirit. Being asked if God had ever assumed the
human mature, they answered never. Since, then, said I, you believe God to
be a spirit, wherefore do yow make so many images of him; and as you
believe that he never took upon him the human form, wherefore do you
represent him under the image of a man, rather than of any other creature?
To this they answered, we do not make images of God; but when any of our
rich men die, or their wives or children, or dear friends, they cause
images to be made of the deceased, which are placed in the temple, which we
venerate in respect to their memory. Then, said I, you do these things in
flattery of men: but they insisted it was only in remembrance. They then
asked me, as if in derision, where is God? To this I answered by another
question, where is your soul? and they said, in our bodies. Then, said I,
is it not in every part of your body, ruling over the whole, yet cannot be
seen. Even in the same manner God is everywhere, ruling all things, yet
is invisible, being intelligence and wisdom. I would willingly have
proceeded in this conference, but my interpreter became weary and unable
to express my meaning, so that I was obliged to desist.

The Moals and Tartars follow the same religion, in so far that they believe
in one only God; but they make images in felt of their departed friends,
which they cover with fine costly garments. These they carry about with
them in one or two appropriate carts, which no person must touch, except
their priests or soothsayers who have the care of them. This is to be
understood only of the great men who are of the race of Zingis, for the
poor or meaner people have none such. These soothsayers constantly attend
upon the court of Mangu and other great personages; and when the court
moves, these men precede the march, like the pillar of cloud before the
children of Israel. They determine on the site of the new encampment, and
unload their houses first, after which they are imitated by the whole
court. On days of festival, such as the kalends or commencements of their
months, these images are placed in order around their idol houses, and the
Moals enter in and bow themselves before these images, to do them
reverence. Strangers are never permitted to enter, so that once
endeavouring to go into one of these tabernacles, I was sore chidden for my
presumption.


[1] The following more complete account of this superstition, has been
    deemed worthy of insertion.

    "These supposed Nestorian Christians were undoubtedly professors of
    the religion of the Dalai-Lama, who had several usages and ceremonies
    resembling corrupt Christianity. Like the Roman catholics, they had
    rosaries, containing 108 beads, and their prayer is, _Hom-Mani-Pema-
    Hum_. This does not signify, as asserted by Rubruquis, _God! thou
    knowest it_; nor, as supposed by Messerschmid, _God have mercy on us_.
    But its true import is, that _Mani_, who holds the flowers of the
    Lotus, _and is the beginning and end of the higher Magic_, may _hear_
    their prayers, be _propitious_ to them, and render them _happy_.

    "They have rolls or cylinders inscribed with their prayers, which they
    twirl round on an axis, continually pronouncing these mystic words,
    and they believe that all the prayers on these rolls are virtually
    pronounced at each turn of the roll; The religion of the Dalai-Lama,
    is a branch of the Shamanian and Braminical superstitions, and has for
    its foundation the Manichaean doctrine of the two principles, which
    Manes attempted to incorporate into the Christian religion, so that it
    is no wonder the practices of the followers of the Dalai-Lama should
    resemble those of the Manichaean and Nestorian Christians."--Forst.
    Voy. and Disc. 105.


SECTION XXVIII.

_Of sundry Nations, and of certain People who used to eat their Parents_.

I am convinced that these Jugurs, who are mixed with Christians and
Mahometans, have arrived at the knowledge and belief of one God, by
frequent disputations with them. This nation dwells in cities, which were
brought under subjection to Zingis, who gave his daughter in marriage to
their king. Even Caracarum is in a manner in their territories. The whole
country of Prester John and of Vut or Unc, his brother, lay round the
territories of the Jugurs, only that the subjects of the former inhabited
the pasture lands on the north, while the Jugurs dwelt among the mountains
to the south. As the Moals have adopted the writing of the Jugurs, these
latter are the chief Scribes among the Tartars, and almost all the
Nestorians are acquainted with their letters.

Next to the Jugurs, among the mountains to the east, are the Tanguts, a
powerful people who once made Zingis prisoner in battle; but having
concluded peace, he was set at liberty, and afterwards subdued them. Among
the Tanguts, there are oxen of great strength, having flowing tails like
horses, and their backs and bellies covered with long hair. These are
shorter legged than other oxen, but much fiercer, having long, slender,
straight, and very sharp pointed horns, and they are much used for drawing
the great houses of the Moals; but the cows will not allow themselves to be
yoked unless they are sung to at the same time. These animals are of the
nature of the buffalo, for when they see a person clothed in red, they run
furiously upon him to put him to death.

Beyond these are the people of Tebet, who were wont to eat the dead bodies
of their parents, from a motive of piety, considering that to be the most
honourable sepulchre; but they have discontinued this custom, which was
looked upon as abominable by all other nations. They still, however,
continue to make handsome drinking cups of the skulls of their parents,
that they may call them to remembrance even in their mirth. I received this
information from an eye-witness. In their country there is much gold, so
that any one who is in want, digs till he finds enough for his necessities,
and leaves the rest behind for another occasion; for they have an opinion,
that God would conceal all other gold from them in the earth, if they were
to hoard any in their houses. I saw some of these people, who are much
deformed. The people of Tangut are tall lusty men of a brown complexion.
The Jugurs are of middle stature like ourselves, and their language is the
root or origin of the Turkish and Comanian languages.

Beyond Tebet, are the people of Langa and Solanga[1], whose messengers I
saw in the court of Mangu-khan, who had along with them more than ten great
carts, each drawn by six oxen. These are little brown men like the
Spaniards, and are dressed in tunics or jackets, like our deacons, with
straiter sleeves. They wear a kind of caps like the mitres of our bishops;
but the fore part is less than the hinder part, and ends square, instead of
being pointed. These are made of straw, stiffened by great heat, and so
well polished, that they glister in the sun like a mirror or well polished
helmet. Round their temples, they have long bands of the same material,
fixed to their caps, which stream to the wind like two long horns from
their temples. When too much tossed by the wind, they fold these over the
top of their caps. When the principal messenger entered the court, he held
in his hand a smooth ivory tablet about a foot long and a palm broad; and
when spoken to by the khan, or any other great man, he always looked on his
tablet as if he had seen there what was spoken, never looking to the right
or the left, or to the person who spoke to him. Even in coming into the
presence and in retiring, he looked perpetually at his tablet.

Beyond these people, as I have been told for truth, there is a nation
called Muc, inhabiting towns, in whose country there are numerous flocks
and herds which are never tended, as no person appropriates any of these
exclusively; but when any one is in need of a beast, he ascends a hill and
gives a loud cry, on which all the cattle within hearing flock around him
and suffer themselves to be taken, as if they were domesticated. When a
messenger or any stranger goes into that country, he is immediately shut up
in a house, where all necessaries are provided for him, till his business
is concluded; for they affirm, that if any stranger were to travel about
their country, the animals would flee away from his scent, and become wild.

Beyond the country of these people, lies Great Cathaya, whose inhabitants I
believe to have been the Seres[2] of the ancients, as from thence came the
most excellent silken stuffs; and these people were called Seres after the
name of one of their towns. I have been told, that in that country there is
a town having walls of silver and towers of gold. In that land there are
many provinces, the greater part of which are not yet subjected to the
Moals, and the sea is interposed between them and India. These Kathayans
are men of small stature, with small eyes, and speak much through the nose.
They are excellent workmen in all kinds of handicraft; their physicians
judge exactly of diseases by the pulse, and are very skilful in the use of
herbs, but have no knowledge in regard to the urine of sick persons. Some
of these people I saw at Caracarum, where there are always considerable
numbers; and the children are always brought up to the same employments
with their fathers. They pay to the Moals or Mongals, a tribute of 1500
cassinos or jascots every day[3], besides large quantities of silks and
provisions, and they perform many other services. All the nations between
mount Caucasus, and from the north of these mountains to the east sea, and
in all the south of Scythia, which is inhabited by the Moal shepherds, are
tributary, and are all addicted to idolatry. The Nestorians and Saracens
are intermixed with them as strangers, as far as Kathay, in which country
the Nestorians inhabit fifteen cities, and have a bishop in a city called
Segan[4]. These Nestorians are very ignorant, for they say their service in
the Syrian tongue, in which all their holy books are written, and of which
language they are entirely ignorant, and sing their service as our monks do
who have not learnt Latin. They are great usurers and drunkards, and some
of them who live among the Tartars, have adopted their customs, and even
have many wives. When they enter the churches, they wash their lower parts
like the Saracens, eat no flesh on Fridays, and hold their festivals on the
same days with them. Their bishops come seldom into the country, perhaps
only once in fifty years, and then cause all the little children to be made
priests, some even in the cradle; so that almost every Nestorian man is a
priest, yet all have wives, which is contrary to the decrees of the
fathers. They are even bigamists, for their priests, when their wives die,
marry again. They are all Simonists, as they give no holy thing without
pay. They are careful of their wives and children, applying themselves to
gain, and not to propagating the faith. Hence, though some of them are
employed to educate the children of the Mongal nobility, and even teach
them the articles of the Christian faith, yet by their evil lives they
drive them from Christianity, as the moral conduct of the Mongals and
Tuinians[5], who are downright idolaters, is far more upright than theirs.


[1] Forster conjectures that the original words of Rubruquis are here
    corrupted, and that this passage ought to have been "beyond Tangut,"
    instead of beyond Tebet or Thibet; in which case, the countries of
    Langa and Solanga, may refer to that of the Lamuts and Solonians, the
    ancestors of the Mantschus or Mundschurians.--Voy. and Disc. 108.

[2] In this supposition Rubruquis was certainly mistaken, as the Seres of
    the ancients appear to have lived in Turkestan, Gete, and Uigur, and
    to have then ruled over a great track of eastern central Asia, and may
    have extended their commerce to northern China. Hence the original
    name of silk was certainly either adopted from or applied to the
    intermediate nation, through whom that precious commodity was
    transmitted to the western nations.--Forst.

[3] A jascot is described as a piece of silver weighing ten marks, so that
    the tribute is 15,000 marks daily, or about 5 1/2 millions of marks
    yearly, and is equal in weight of silver, to L. 8,650,000 Sterling;
    perhaps equal, in real efficacious value, to ten times that sum, and
    probably superior to the yearly revenue of all the sovereigns then in
    Europe.--E

[4] Singan, or Singan-fu in the province of Shensee. In the year 1625, a
    stone was found here, inscribed with Chinese characters and a Syrian
    inscription round the borders, implying, that in the year 636, the
    Nestorians had sent Olopuen into China to propagate the gospel; and
    that the emperor Tai-sum-ven had approved this step, and allowed the
    Christian religion to be propagated through all China, with many other
    particulars relative to the history of Christianity in China. This
    stone bore to have been erected in 782 by Mar Isdabuzzid, priest, and
    Chorepiscopus of Cumdan, the royal city of the east, now Nankin. See a
    dissertation on this monument, following Renaudet's translation of the
    two Mahometan travellers, London, 1788, p. 76.--E.

[5] Mani or Manes is named Thenaoui by the oriental Christians, and the
    sect of Manicheans they call Al-Thenaouib, or those who hold the
    doctrines of the two principles. These Tuinians, therefore, of
    Rubruquis, are probably the Manicheans.--Forst.


SECTION XXIX.

_Of Cailac, and the Country of the Naymans_.

We departed from the city of Cailac on St Andrew's day, 30th of November,
and in three leagues we found a village of Nestorians, where we went into
their church, and sang _salve regina_, and other hymns, with great joy. In
three days after we came to the entrance of that province, not far from the
before mentioned sea, which seemed as tempestuous as the ocean, and in
which we saw a large island. The water was slightly salt, yet might be
drank. Opposite to it was a valley with another salt sea, from which a
river ran into this one. There was so strong a wind that the passage was
dangerous, as we much feared to be blown into the lake; wherefore we went
north into the hilly country, covered with deep snow, and on St Nicholas
day, 6th December, we hastened our journey, as we found no inhabitants
except the _Jani_, or men appointed to conduct the messengers from one
day's journey to another. On the 7th of December we passed between two
terrible rocks, when the guide sent entreating me to pray to God: we sang
accordingly with a loud voice, the _credo_ and other hymns, and by the
grace of God we got through in safety.

After this the Tartars entreated me to write papers for them; but I offered
to teach them words to carry in their hearts, whereby their souls should be
saved. Yet wanting an interpreter for this, I wrote them the creed and the
Lord's prayer, desiring them to believe what was written in the one, and
that the other contained a prayer to God for all that is necessary to man,
and that though they could not understand these, I hoped God would save
them.


SECTION XXX.

_Description of the Country of the Naymans, with an Account of the Death of
Ken-khan and of his Wife and Eldest Son_.

After this we entered into the country where the court of Ken-khan used to
be held, which was formerly called the country of the Naymans, who were the
peculiar subjects of Prester John. Though I did not see that court till my
return, I shall briefly mention what befel his son and wives. Ken-khan
being dead, Baatu desired that Mangu should be khan, but I could not learn
exactly the manner of Ken-khan's death. Friar Andrew says he died of the
effects of a medicine, which Baatu was suspected of having procured to be
given him. I heard, on the other hand, that he summoned Baatu to do him
homage, who accordingly began his journey with much external pomp, but with
great inward apprehensions, sending forward his brother Stichin; who, when
he came to Keu-khan, and ought to have presented him with the cup, high
words arose between them, and they slew one another. The widow of Stichin
kept us a whole day at her house, that we might pray for her and bless her.
When Ken was dead, and Mangu chosen emperor by the consent of Baatu, which
was when friar Andrew was there, Siremon, the brother of Ken, at the
instigation of the wife and peculiar vassals of Ken, went with a great
train, as if to do homage to Mangu, but with the intention of putting him
and all his court to death. When within a few days journey of the court of
Mangu, one of his waggons broke down, and a servant of Mangu happened to
assist the waggoner in repairing it. This man was very inquisitive into the
objects of the journey, and the waggoner revealed the whole plot to him.
Pretending to make very light of the matter, he went privately and took a
good horse from the herd, and rode with great speed with the intelligence
to the court of Mangu; who quickly assembled his forces, and placing a
strong guard around his court; sent the rest against Siremon, and brought
him and all his followers prisoners to court. He confessed his intentions,
and he and his eldest son, with 300 noble Tartars of their party, were put
to death. The ladies were also sent for who were concerned in the plot, and
being beaten with burning fire-brands till they confessed, were slain
likewise. Kon, the youngest son of Siremon, who was incapable of entering
into the conspiracy, from his youth, was permitted to enjoy the inheritance
of his father; but our guide durst not enter the house either in going or
returning.


SECTION XXXI.

_Arrival at the Court of Mangu-khan_.

We still travelled in the high countries, trending towards the north; and
on St Stephen's day, 26th December, we came to a great plain, on which not
the smallest inequality was to be seen, and the next day we arrived at the
court of the great Khan. While at the distance of five days, our host
wanted us to have gone so far about as would have taken us fifteen day's
journey, and our guide had much difficulty in being allowed to take the
direct road. My opinion of this procedure in our host, was, that we might
have gone by Onam and Cherule, the original residence of Zingis[1]. "No, no!
Fredersdorf, I will prove to you that you are mistaken. I have been told
that you are ill because I will not allow you to marry. Now, then, Fredersdorf,
I will not be hard-hearted. I have to-day made an innocent sacrifice to
my hatred of matrimony. The signora has bound herself not to marry for three
years. For her sake, I will be gracious to you: go and marry the woman
you love, and when the priest has made you one, you shall take your
wife to Paris for the honeymoon, at my cost."
Fredersdorf seized the hand of the king, kissed it, and covered it with his
tears.

Barbarina gazed at the handsome, glowing face of Frederick with admiration.
She understood him fully; she felt that he was happy, and wished all around
him to partake of his joy.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE TRAITOR.

Baron von Pollnitz was ill at ease; for three days he had sought relief
diligently, but had no alleviation. He found himself in the antediluvian
condition of our great forefather Adam, while he loitered away his time
in Paradise. Like Adam, Pollnitz had no gold.
Our good baron found this by no means a happy state, and his heart was
full of discontent and apprehension; he felt that he was, indeed, unblessed.
What would become of him if the king should not be merciful, should not
take pity upon his necessities, which he had to-day made known to him in a
most touching and eloquent letter. Up to this time he had been waiting
in vain for an answer.

What should he do if the king should be hard-hearted and cruel? But no,
that was impossible; he must consider it a sacred duty to take care of the
old and faithful servant of his house, who had been the favored companion
of two of Prussia's kings. Pollnitz considered that he belonged to
the royal family; he was an adopted member; they could not think slightingly
of him, or set him aside.

He had exhausted his means, he had borrowed from Jew and Christian;
he had, by his gay narratives and powers of persuasion, drawn large sums
of gold from the rich burghers; all his friends held his dishonored drafts;
even his own servant had allowed himself to be made a fool of, and had loaned
him the savings of many years; and this sum scarcely sufficed to maintain
the noble, dissipated, and great-hearted cavalier a few weeks.

Alas! what sacrifices had he not already made to this insane passion for
spending money; what humiliation had he not suffered--and all in vain! In
vain had he changed his religion three times; he had condescended so far
as to pay court to a merchant's daughter; he had even wished to wed the
daughter of a tailor, and she had rejected him.

"And yet," said he, as he thought over his past life, "every thing might have
gone well, but for this formidable stratagem of the king; this harsh
prohibition and penalty as to relieving my necessities which has been trumpeted
through the streets--that ruined me; that gave me fearful trouble and
torment. That was refined cruelty for which I will one day revenge
myself, unless Frederick makes amends.
Ha! there comes a royal messenger. He stops at my door. God be thanked! The
king answers my letter; that is to say, the king sends me money."
Pollnitz could scarcely restrain himself from rushing out to receive the
messenger; his dignity, perhaps, would not have sufficed to hold him back,
but the thought of the considerable douceur he would be expected to pay
moderated his impatience. At last his servant came and handed him a letter.

"I hope," said the baron, gravely, "I hope you rewarded the king's
messenger handsomely?"

"No, sir, I gave him nothing."
    "Nothing!"

cried he angrily.

"And you dare to say this to my face!

you do not tremble lest I dismiss you instantly from my service?
you, and such as you are, cast shame upon our race! I, a baron of the
realm, and grand master of ceremonies, allow a royal messenger who brings
me a letter to go from my door unrewarded! Ass, if you had no money, why
did you not come to me? why did you not call upon me for several ducats?"

"If your grace will give me the money, I will run after the messenger. I know
where to find him; he has gone to General Rothenberg's."
"Leave the room, scoundrel, and spare me your folly!"
Pollnitz raised his arm to strike, but the lackey fled and left him alone
with his golden dreams of the future.

He hastily broke the seal and opened the letter. "Not from the king, but
from Fredersdorf," he murmured impatiently. As he read, his brow grew
darker, and his lips breathed words of cursing and scorn.

"Refused!" said he passionately, as he read to the end, and cast the letter
angrily to the floor. "Refused! The king has no money for me!
The king needs all his gold for war, which is now about to be
declared; and, if I wish to convince myself that this is true, I
must go to-night, at eleven o'clock, to the middle door of the
castle, and there I will see that the king has no money.

A curious proposition, indeed! I would rather go to discover that he had
money, than that he had it not. If he had it, I would find a means to supply
myself. At all events, I will go. A curious rendezvous indeed--a midnight
assignation between a bankrupt baron and an empty purse! A tragedy might
grow out of it. But if Frederick has really no money, I must seek elsewhere.
I will make a last attempt--I will go to Trenck."
The trusty baron made his toilet and hastened to Trenck's apartments. The
young officer had lately taken a beautiful suite of rooms. He had his
reception-rooms adorned with costly furniture and rare works of art.
He had an antechamber, in which two richly- liveried servants waited to
receive his orders. He had a stable and four splendid horses of the
Arabian breed, and two orderlies to attend to them! From what quarter did
Trenck obtain the money for all this livery? This was an open question with
which the comrades of the young lieutenant were exercised; it gave them
much cause for thought, and some of them were not satisfied with thinking;
these thoughts took form, some of their words reached the ears of Trenck,
and must have been considered by him very objectionable. He challenged
the speaker to fight with the sword, and disabled him effectually from
speaking afterward. [Footnote: Frederick von Trenck's Memoires.] Trenck
was at dinner, and, contrary to custom, alone; he received Pollnitz most
graciously, and the baron took a seat willingly at the table.

"I did not come to dine with you, but to complain of you," said Pollnitz,
cutting up the grouse with great adroitness and putting the best part upon
his plate.

"You come to complain of me?" repeated Trenck, a little embarrassed.
"I have given you no cause for displeasure, dear friend."
"Yes, you have given me good cause, even while I am your best friend! Why
have you withdrawn your confidence from me? Why do I no longer accompany
you on that most romantic midnight moonlight path to virtue? Why am I no
longer watchman and duenna when you and your lady call upon the moon and
stars to witness your love? Why am I set aside?"
"I can only say to all this that I go no more upon the balcony."
"That is to say--"
"That is to say that my stars are quenched and my sun has set in clouds. I
am, even as you are, set aside."
Pollnitz gazed at Trenck with so sharp and cunning an eye that the young
man was confused and looked down. The baron laughed merrily.

"Dear Trenck," said he, "a lie shows in your face like a spot on the smooth
skin of a rosy apple. You are too young to understand lying, and I am too
old to be deceived by it. Another point: will you make me believe that this
luxury which surrounds you is maintained with your lieutenant's pay?"
"You forget that my father has left me his property of Sherlock, and that I
have rented it for eight hundred thalers!"
"I am too good an accountant not to know that this sum would scarcely suffice
for your horses and servants."
"Well, perhaps you are right; for the rest I may thank my gracious king.
During the course of this year he has presented me with three hundred
Fredericks d'or; and now you know the source of my revenue and will
not think so meanly of me as to suppose that--"
"That, your great love has any thing to do with earthly riches or advancement.
I do not believe that I brought in such a charge against you, even as
little do I believe that you have been given up! Ah, dear friend, I alone
have cause of complaint; I alone am set aside, and why am I thus
treated?

Have I not been discreet, diligent in your service, and ready at all times?"

"Certainly. I can only repeat to you that all is at an end. Our beautiful
dream has faded like the morning cloud and the early dew."
"You are in earnest?"
"In solemn earnest."
"Well, then, I will also speak earnestly. I will relate to you something
which you do not appear to know. A gardener boy who had risen earlier
than usual to protect some rare flowers in the garden of Monbijou saw
two figures upon the balcony, and heard their light whispers. The boy
made known his discovery to the principal gardener, and he communicated
the facts to the chamberlain of the queen-mother. It was resolved to watch
the balcony.

The virtuous and suspicious queen immediately concluded that
Mademoiselle von Marwitz had arranged a rendezvous upon the balcony,
and she was sternly resolved to dismiss the lady at once if any
proof could be obtained against her.

Happily, the queen made known these facts to the Princess Amelia,
and I can readily conceive that the balcony remains now unoccupied."

"Yes, I understand that."
"You can also understand that this event was regarded as a warning of
fate, and great caution and forethought were exercised. Not only was the
balcony given up, but the old friend and confidant who had played the
part of companion and carrier-pigeon was banished and dismissed wholly
from service."
"You may go further still," said Frederick von Trenck. "You have not stated
the whole case. This fortunate providence was a convincing proof of the
danger of an engagement which might never hope to be crowned with
success, never exist except under the shadows of silence and gloom, with
bleeding hearts and tearful eyes; this dream of love was given up at once,
fearing that at no distant day both honor and liberty might be lost in
its pursuit. They separated! An eternal farewell was faltered!"
"That is to say, you would now deceive your confidant and former aid,
in order to place yourself more securely--and some day, perhaps, when suspicion
is aroused, you can call him as a witness to prove that all intercourse was
long ago given up; he must know it, being the confidant from the beginning.
This was a well-conceived plot, but you only seem to forget that Pollnitz
was not the man to be deceived. He has had too much experience, and has
studied the hearts of men, and especially of women, too diligently. A woman
who is enjoying her first love and believes in its holy power,
convinces herself that it can achieve wonders and overcome all
obstacles.

She does not sacrifice her love to other duties or to danger, not even
if she is a common woman, far less if she is a princess. Princess
Amelia has not given up her young and handsome lover; she clings to him
with a frenzied constancy, which I confess to you, if I had the honor and
glory of being her suitor, would fill me with apprehension and regret.
No, no, the princess is just now in a paroxysm of youthful passion, and
would rather die than resign her love, and she is fantastic enough to
believe in the possibility of a legitimate marriage! Poor thing, she expects
to mould the world to her wishes, and arms herself, I suppose, with hair-pins!
Princess Amelia was forced to give up her interviews upon the balcony,
but she sought other means to gratify her passion. This was simple and
easy to do.
The maid of honor was taken into her confidence. Marwitz swore to guard the
secret fearfully till death; a plan was then arranged with her which was
truly well conceived. Lieutenant von Trenck must be spoken of as the suitor
of Mademoiselle von Marwitz; he must act at the court-balls and fetes
as the tender, sighing, and eager lover of the maid of honor; he must at
last make a formal declaration, and receive permission to visit her in
her rooms. This is now his daily habit, and the good city of Berlin and
the short-sighted, silly court are completely deceived, and look upon
Frederick von Trenck as the happy bridegroom of Marwitz, and no one guesses
that when the young officer is with the maid of honor, the Princess Amelia
is also present, and changes the role with Marwitz."
"I see it is in vain," said Trenck, sighing; "you know all: but if you have
any real friendship for me, you will tell me who betrayed us."
Pollnitz laughed aloud, "You betrayed yourself, my friend; or, if you
prefer it, my worldly wisdom and cunning betrayed you. My young and
innocent friend, a man like Pollnitz is not easily deceived; his eyes are
sharp enough to pierce the veil of the most charming little intrigue, and
probe it to the bottom! I know the Princess Amelia; I have known her too
long, not to know that she would not so quickly, and without a struggle,
sacrifice her love; and further when I saw at the last court-ball, with what
a long and dreary face you stood behind the chair of the poor Marwitz,
and with what calm and smiling content the princess watched the
couple amoureuse, look you, Trenck, then I knew and understood all."

"Well, then, as you understand all, I make no further attempt to
deceive you.

Yes, God be praised! the princess loves me still. It is indeed the
princess whom I meet in the apartment of the maid of honor; to
Marwitz are the letters directed which my servant carries every
morning to the palace, and from the Princess Amelia do I receive
my answers.

Yes, God be thanked! Amelia loves me, and one day she will be mine in the
eyes of the whole world, even as she is now mine in the eyes of God and
the angels; one day--"
"Stop, stop!" cried Pollnitz interrupting him; "that last sentence must be
explained before you rush on with your dithyrambics. You have declared
that the princess is yours in the sight of God: what does that mean?"
"That means," said Trenck, "that God, who looks into our hearts, knows the
eternity and boundlessness of our love; that means that, under God's
heaven, and calling upon His holy name, we have sworn never to forget our
love and our faith, and never to form any other alliance."
"So nothing more than that--no secret marriage? Are you never alone with the
princess?"
"No, never! I have given her my word of honor never even to ask it, and I
will keep my oath. And, after all, the good Marwitz disturbs us not; she
gets as far from us as possible: she seems to see us not, and we speak in
such low tones, that she does not hear a word we utter."
"Ah! so the Marwitz does not disturb you?" cried Pollnitz, with a cynical
laugh. "O sancta simplicitas! and this is an officer of the life-guard? The
world is going to destruction; or it is becoming innocent and pure
as Paradise. It is time for me to die; I no longer understand this pitiful
world."
"I do not understand you, and I will not understand you," said
Trenck gravely.

"You laugh at me, and call me a silly boy, and I allow it. I know we
cannot understand each other in such matters; you cannot conceive what
strength, what self-denial, what energy I exert to make myself worthy of
the pure, modest, and exalted love which Amelia has consecrated to me.
You cannot comprehend how often my good and evil genius struggle for the
mastery, how often I pray God to keep me from temptation. No, I have
sworn that this love shall wave pure and unblemished, like a glorious
banner over my whole life; come death rather than dishonor! And now, friend,
explain your meaning: why all these plots and counterplots? What is your
object?"
"Nothing more than to warn you to prudence. I do not believe all the world
is deceived by your comedy with Marwitz. The king, who appears to see
nothing, sees all. He has his spies everywhere, and knows all that happens
in his family. Be careful, be ever on your guard."
"I thank you for your warning," said Trenck, pressing the hand of the
master of ceremonies. "We must soon separate; you know that in a few weeks
we go to Silesia. The king is silently preparing for war."
"I know it, and I pity you."

"Pity me! Ah, you do not understand me. I long for my first battle as a
lover does for his first sweet kiss. The battle-field is for me a
consecrated garden, where my laurels and myrtles grow. I shall pluck
them and weave wreaths for my bride-wedding wreaths. Pollnitz, on the
other side, beyond the bloody battle-ground, lies my title of prince, and
Amelia's bridle-wreath."
"Dreamer, fantastic, hopeless dreamer!" cried Pollnitz, laughing.
"Well, God grant that you do not embrace death on the battle-field, or on
the other side find a prison, to either of which you have a better claim
than to a prince's title. Make use, therefore, of your time, and enjoy
these charming interviews. Is one arranged for this evening?"
"No, but to-morrow. The reigning queen gives a ball to-morrow.
Immediately before the ball I am to meet the princess. Oh, my friend, to-morrow
evening at five think of me! I shall be the happiest and most amiable of
mortals. I shall be with my beloved!"
"Alas! how strange is life, and how little do the fates of men resemble!
To-morrow, at the hour when you will be so unspeakably happy, I shall be
walking in a thorny, a cursed path; I shall be on my way to the
usurer."

"To the usurer? That is indeed a sad alternative for a cavalier like the
Baron von Pollnitz."
"But that is still better than imprisonment for debt, and I have only the
choice between these two, unless you, dearest friend, will take pity
upon me and lend me a hundred louis d'ors."
Frederick Trenck said nothing. He stepped to his desk. The eyes of the baron
glittered with joy as he saw Trenck take out a pocket- book, in which he
knew by pleasant experience that the young officer sometimes kept gold.
His joy was of short duration. No gold was seen. Trenck took out a small,
modest, unsealed paper and handed it to him.

"Look at this draft," said he. "Had you come yesterday I could have accommodated
you joyfully. To-day it is impossible. I have this morning lent my colonel
two hundred ducats, and my purse is empty."
"Well, you must soon fill it," said Pollnitz, with a coarse laugh.
"To-morrow at five you will enjoy your rendezvous, and you will not only speak
of God, and love, and the stars, but also a little of earthly things--of
pomp and gold, and--Farewell!"

With a gay laugh Pollnitz took leave, but he no sooner found himself alone
upon the street than his face grew black arid his eye was full of malice.

"He has no gold for me, but I have his secret, and I will know how to
squeeze some gold out of that," murmured Pollnitz. "Truly I think this secret
of Trenck's is worth some thousand thalers, and the king must find the
means to pay for it. But stop! The hour of my interesting rendezvous draws
near. I am curious to know how I am to be convinced at eleven o'clock, and
in the middle of the street, that the king has no gold. I will be punctual,
but I have still time to visit a few friends, and seek if possible to win a
few louis d'ors at faro."

CHAPTER XVII.
THE SILVER-WARE.
It was a dark, still night. As the clock struck ten the night might
really be said to begin in Berlin. The streets were not lighted
except by accidental rays from the windows and the carriage-lamps,
and the glare of torches carried by the servants who accompanied
their masters to places of amusement. By eleven o'clock the streets
were deserted. Pollnitz was therefore sure to meet no one on his
way to the castle. He directed his steps to that door which opened
upon the River Spree, as Fredersdorf had advised him.
Silence reigned in the palace. The sentinel stepped slowly backward
and forward in the courtyard, and in the distance was heard the
baying of two hounds, entertaining each other with their melancholy
music. The master of ceremonies began to be impatient; he thought
that, the impertinent private secretary had been indulging in some
practical joke or mystification at his expense; but as he drew near
to the Spree, he heard the light stroke of oars in the water.
Pollnitz hastened forward, and his eyes, accustomed to the darkness,
discovered a skiff drawn up near the Elector's Bridge.
"This is the point! here we must wait," whispered a manly voice.
"I think we will not have to wait long," said another. "I see lights
in the windows."
The side of the castle next the Spree was now suddenly lighted;
first the upper story, then the lower, and a pale light was now
seen in the vestibule.
"Truly, I have not been deceived; something is going on," said
Pollnitz, hastening forward.
As he entered the court, a curious train was seen descending the
steps. In front were two servants with torches; they were followed
by twelve heyducks, their shoulders weighed down with dishes, cans,
cups, plates, whose silver surface, illumined by the golden glare
of the torches, seemed to dance and glimmer along the wall and steps
like "will o' the wisps." Two servants with towels brought up the
rear, and behind these the pale, sad face of Fredersdorf was
seen.
"You are punctual," said he to Pollnitz; "you wish to convince
yourself that the king has no gold?" 
"Certainly!While we went in, some servants met us
carrying out some shoulder-blades of sheep, burnt as black as coals; and on
enquiring, I learnt that the khan performs a divination, before undertaking
any important matter, in this manner. He causes three of these bones to be
brought to him unburnt, which are sought for all over the _Leskar_ or
Tartar camp for this purpose; and these bones are burnt in a particular
fire, and then brought to him again. If the bones are cracked across, or
round pieces fly out of them in burning, it is considered an evil omen; but
if they crack lengthways, even one of the three, he then proceeds in his
design.

When we went in before Mangu, the Nestorian priests gave him incense, which
he put upon the censer, with which they perfumed him. Then they sung and
blessed his cup, which was done next by the monk, and lastly by us. After
he had drunk, the attendants gave drink to the priests, but we went out;
and my companion staying last, turned round near the door to make his
obeisance to the khan, and hastily turning again to follow us, stumbled on
the threshold, for which he was seized and carried before the _Bulgai_,
who is the chancellor or chief secretary of the court, and judges those who
are arraigned on matters of life and death. But I knew not of all this, as
missing him on looking back, I thought he had been detained to receive
thinner apparel, for he was very weak, and could hardly walk under his load
of garments. He was sent home in the evening, and the monk sharply rebuked
him for having touched the threshold. Next day, the Bulgai came to me, and
demanded to know if any one had warned us against touching the threshold;
to which I answered, that as we had not our interpreter along with us, we
should not have understood them if the caution had been given. On this my
companion was pardoned, but was never allowed, afterwards to come into any
of the houses of Mangu-khan.

From the house of the khan, we went to that of his eldest son, who had two
wives, and lodged next on the right from his father. As soon as he saw us
approach, he leapt from his bed and prostrated himself before the cross,
striking the ground with his forehead, then rising and kissing the cross,
he caused it to be placed on a new cloth, in a high place, very reverently.
He has a tutor, named David, to instruct him, who is a Nestorian priest and
a great drunkard. The prince gave drink to the priests, and he drank
himself, after the priests had blessed his cup. From him we went to the
court of Cota, the khans second lady, who is an idolater, and whom we found
very sick; yet the Armenian monk made her rise from bed and adore the cross
on her knees, with many ceremonies. We then went to the third court, in
which a Christian lady formerly resided; but on her death, she was
succeeded by a young woman, who, with the khans daughter, joyfully received
us, and worshipped the cross with great reverence. We went then into the
house of the young lady Cerina, behind the third court, which had formerly
belonged to her mother, who likewise worshipped the cross with great
devotion. We next went into the court of the fourth and last lady, whose
house was very old, but the khan gave her a new house and new chariots
after Easter. This lady was an idolater, yet she worshipped the cross,
according to the directions of the monk and priests. From that place we
returned to our oratory, the monks accompanying us with great howlings and
outcries in their drunkenness, as they had been plentifully supplied with
drink at every visit; but this is not considered as blameable or unseemly,
either in man or woman in these parts.


[1] Caten signifies _lady_ and Cotata was her particular name.--Harris.


SECTION XXXV.

_Of a great Cure performed by the Armenian monk Sergius, on one of the
Wives of Mangu-khan_.

Sometime after the lady Cota was sick almost to death, and the divination
by lot of the idolaters did her no good. Mangu-khan then sent for the monk,
who indiscreetly engaged to cure her on the forfeiture of his head. On
this, the monk sent for us, and entreated us, with tears, to watch and pray
all night along with him, which we did. He took of a certain root called
rhubarb, which he beat to powder and put among water, along with a little
crucifix, and he used to give of that water to all sick persons, which
griped them by reason of its bitterness, and which they attributed to a
miracle. I proposed to prepare some holy water, according to the rites of
the church of Rome, which hath great power to cast out devils, as I
understood the lady was vexed of a devil[1]. At his request, I consecrated
some holy water, which he mingled with the rhubarb, and left his crucifix
all night in the mixture.

Next morning I and the monk and two Nestorian priests went to the lady, who
was then in a small house behind her great one. She sat up in her bed and
worshipped the cross, laying it honourably by her upon a silken cloth; she
drank of the holy water mixed with rhubarb, and washed her breast, and, at
the desire of the monk, I read the passion of our Lord according to St
John, over her. At length she felt herself relieved, and ordered four
jascots to be brought, which she first laid at the foot of the cross, and
gave three to the monk, offering one to me, which I refused; then the monk
took this likewise, and gave one to each of the priests, keeping two to
himself, so that she gave away forty marks in all at this time.[2] She then
ordered wine, which she gave to the priests, and made me drink thrice from
her hand in honour of the holy trinity. She likewise began to teach me the
language, jesting with me, because I was silent for want of an interpreter.

Next day Mangu-khan, hearing that we were passing, and having learned that
the lady Cota was somewhat better, made us come in, and took the cross into
his hand, asking several questions, which I did not understand, but I did
not see that he worshipped it. The monk, by my suggestion, craved leave to
carry the cross aloft on a lance, and Manga gave permission that it might
be carried in any way we thought fit. Then paying our obeisance to the
khan, we went to the lady Cota, whom we found strong and cheerful. She
still drank the holy water, and we read the passion over her; but those
miserable priests never taught her the articles of our holy faith, neither
advised her to be baptized, nor did they find fault with any kind of
sorcery. For I saw four swords half drawn out of their sheaths, one at the
head of her bed, one at the foot, and one on either side of her door. I
observed likewise one of our silver chalices, probably taken from some
church in Hungary, which hung against the wall, full of ashes, on the top
of which lay a black stone; but these priests not only do not teach them
that such things are evil, but even practice similar things. We continued
our visits for three days, by which time she was restored to perfect
health. During these visits, she continued to rally me on my silence, and
endeavoured to teach me their language.

I honoured the monk Sergius as my bishop, because he could speak the
language, though he was totally uneducated; and I afterwards learnt, when I
came to his own country on my return, that he was no priest, but merely an
adventurous weaver. In many things he acted in a way that much displeased
me, for he caused to be made for himself a folding chair such as bishops
use, and gloves, and a cap of peacocks feathers, with a small gold cross;
but I was well pleased with the cross. He had scabbed feet, which he
endeavoured to palliate with ointments[3]; was very presumptuous in speech,
was present at many of the vain and idolatrous rites of the Nestorians, and
had many other vanities with which I was much displeased. Yet we joined his
society for die honour of the cross, as he got a banner full of crosses on
a cane as long as a lance, and we carried the cross aloft through among all
the tents of the Tartars, singing _Vexilla regis prodeant_, &c. to the
great regret of the Mahometans, who were envious of our favour.

I was informed of a certain Armenian who came, as he said, from Jerusalem
along with the monk Sergius, carrying a silver cross of about four marks
weight, adorned with precious stones, which he presented to Mangu-khan, who
asked what was his petition. He represented himself to be the son of an
Armenian priest, whose church had been destroyed by the Saracens, and
craved his help for rebuilding that church. Being asked how much that might
cost, he said two hundred jascots, or two thousand marks; and the khan
ordered letters to be given him, ordering those who received the tribute of
Persia and the Greater Armenia, to pay him that sum in silver[4]. The monk
continued to carry this cross about with him wherever he went, and the
Nestorian priests became envious of the profit which he derived from its
use.


[1] From the whole of this story, it would appear that the lady Cota was
    hysterical from constipation; and that Sergius had the good fortune to
    remove the cause by a few doses of rhubarb.--E.

[2] About L. 30, perhaps equal in efficacy to L. 300 of modern days; no bad
    fee for administering a dose of rhubarb.--E.

[3] This surely was a sinless infirmity, and needed not to have been
    recorded to his dishonour. He was probably afflicted with chilblains,
    in consequence of the severity of the Tartarian climate.--E.

[4] L. 1500 in weight, equal at least to L. 15,000 of our modern money; a
    most magnificent present to an itinerant beggar.--E.


SECTION XXXVI.

_Account of the Country under the Dominion of the Great Khan of the Manners
and Customs of his Subjects; of a Wonderful Piece of Mechanism, constructed
by a French Goldsmith; and of the Palace of the Khan at Caracarum_.

From the time of our arrival at the court of Mangu-khan, the leskar or camp
made only two days journey towards the south; and it then began its
progress northwards, in the direction of Caracarum. In the whole of my
journey I was convinced of the truth of what I had been informed by Baldwin
de Hainault at Constantinople, that the whole way eastwards was by a
continual ascent, as all the rivers run from the east towards the west,
sometimes deviating towards the north or south, more or less directly, but
never running east, but this was farther confirmed to me by the priests who
came from Kathay[1]. From the place where I found Mangukhan, it is twenty
days journey south-east to Kathay, and ten days journey right east to Oman
Kerule, the original country of the Moal and of Zingis[2]. In those parts
there are no cities, but the country is inhabited by a people called
Su-Moall, or Mongols of the waters, who live upon fish and hunting, and
have neither flocks nor herds. Farther north, likewise, there is no city,
but a poor people of herdsmen, who are called Kerkis. The Orangin are there
also, who bind smooth bones under their feet, and thrust themselves with
such velocity over the ice and snow, as to overtake beasts in the chase.
There are many other poor nations in those parts, inhabiting as far to the
north as the cold will permit, who join on the west with the country of
Pascatir, or the Greater Hungary, of which I have made mention before[3].
In the north the mountains are perpetually covered with snow, and the
bounds are unknown by reason of the extreme cold. All these nations are
poor; yet they must all betake themselves to some employment, as Zingis
established a law that none was to be free from service till so old as to
be unable for work.

I was inquisitive about the monstrous men of whom Isidore and Solinus make
mention; but no one had ever seen any such, and I therefore doubt whether
it be true. Once a priest of Kathay sat by me, clothed in red, of whom I
asked how that colour was procured. He told me that on certain high; craggy
rocks in the east of Kathay there dwelt certain creatures like men, not
above a cubit long, and all hairy, who leapt rather than walked, and dwelt
in inaccessible caves. That those who go to hunt them carry strong drink,
which they leave in holes of the rocks, and then hide themselves. These
little creatures come out from their holes, and having tasted the drink,
call out _chin-chin_, on which multitudes gather together, and drink till
they are drunk, and fall asleep. Then the hunters come and bind them, after
which they draw a few drops of blood from the veins of the neck of each of
these creatures, and let them go free; and this blood is the most precious
purple dye. He told me, likewise, that there is a province beyond Kathay,
into which, if a man enters, he always continues of the same age at which
he entered; but this I do not believe[4].

Kathay is on the ocean, and I was told by the French goldsmith at
Caracarum, that there is a people or nation called Tante and Manse,
inhabiting certain islands, the sea around which is frozen in winter, so
that the Tartars might invade them; but they sent messengers to the great
khan, offering a tribute of 2000 tuemen or jascots yearly, to permit them
to live in peace[5]. A tuemen, toman, or jascot, is a piece of money equal
to ten marks.

The ordinary money of Kathay is of paper made like pasteboard, the breadth
and length of a hand, on which lines are printed, like the seal of Mangu.
They write with a pencil like that used by our painters, and in one figure
they comprehend many letters, forming one word[6]. The people of Thibet
write as we do, and their characters are very like our own. Those of Tangut
write from right to left, like the Arabs, and multiply their lines
ascending; while the Jugurs write in descending columns. The common money
of the Rutenians or Russians, consists in spotted or grizzled furs.

When our Quinquagesima came, which is the Lent time of all the people of
the east, the lady Cota fasted all that week, and came every day to our
oratory, giving meat to the priests and other Christians, of whom a great
company came daily to attend the service. But the porters of the court,
seeing such multitudes come daily to our chapel, which was within the
precincts of the court, sent one to tell the monk, that they would not
allow such multitudes to come within their bounds; to this the monk made a
sharp reply, and threatened to accuse them to the khan; but they prevented
him, and lodged a complaint before Mangu, that the monk was too full of
words, and gathered too great a multitude to hear him speak. On this he was
called before the khan, who reproved him severely, saying, that as a holy
man, he should employ himself in prayers to God, and not in speeches to
men. But he was afterwards reconciled, by promising to go to the Pope, and
to induce all the nations of the west to yield obedience to the khan. On
his return to the oratory, the monk asked me if I thought he might gain
admission to the Pope as the messenger of Mangu; and whether the Pope would
supply him with horses to go to St James in Galicia; and whether your
majesty would send your son to the court of Mangu. But I counselled him, to
beware of making false promises to Mangu, and that God needed not the
service of lies or deceitful speaking. About this time a dispute arose
between the monk and one of the Nestorian priests, more learned than the
rest, as the monk asserted that man was created before paradise, which the
other denied; on reference to me, I said that paradise was created on the
_second_ day, when the other trees were made, whereas man was made on the
sixth. Then the monk said, that the devil brought clay on die first day,
from all the corners of the earth, of which he made the body of man, which
God inspired with a soul. On this I sharply reproved him for his heretical
ignorance, and he scorned me for my ignorance of the language: I departed,
therefore, from him to our own house. But when he and the priests went
afterwards in procession to the court without calling me, Mangu earnestly
enquired the reason of my absence; and the priests being afraid, excused
themselves as well as they could, and reported to me the words of the khan,
murmuring at the monk. After this the monk was reconciled to me, and I
entreated him to aid me in acquiring the language, promising to help him to
the knowledge of the Holy Scriptures.

After the first week of fasting, the lady ceased from coming to the
oratory, and to give meat and drink, so that we had nothing but brown
bread, and paste boiled in melted snow or ice, which was exceedingly bad.
My companion was much grieved at this diet, on which I acquainted David,
the teacher of the khans eldest son, with our necessities, who made a
report to the khan, and we were then supplied, with wine, flour, and oil.
The Nestorians and Armenians eat no fish in Lent; but the monk had a chest
under the altar, with almonds, and raisins, and dried prunes, and other
fruits, on which he fed when alone.

About the middle of Lent, the goldsmiths son came from Caracarum, bringing
a silver cross made in the French fashion, with an image of Christ, as a
present for Bulgai, the chief secretary of the court; and the young man
informed Mangu, that the great work he had commanded to be made by his
father, was completed. In the neighbourhood of Caracarum, Mangu has a large
court, inclosed with a brick wall like our priories. Within that court is a
great palace, in which the khan holds feasts twice a-year, once in Easter,
and the other in summer; but the latter is the greater, as all the nobles
meet then at the court, when the khan distributes garments among them, and
displays all his magnificence. Beside the palace there are many great
buildings like our barns, in which the victuals and treasures belonging to
the khan are stored. Because it was indecent to have flaggons going about
the hall of the palace, as in a tavern, William, the goldsmith, constructed
a great silver tree, just without the middle entrance of the great hall, at
the root of which were four silver lions, having pipes discharging pure
cows milk. Four pipes were conveyed up the body of the tree to its top,
which spread out into four great boughs, hanging downwards; on each of
these boughs was a golden serpent, all their tails twining about the body
of the tree, and each of these formed a pipe, one discharging wine, a
second caracosmos, a third ball, or mead made of honey, and the fourth
_teracina_ or drink made of rice; each particular drink having a vessel at
the foot of the tree to receive it. On the top, between the four pipes,
there stood an image of an angel with a trumpet. Under the tree there was a
vault, in which a man was hidden, and from him a pipe ascended to the
angel; and when the butler commands to sound the trumpet, the man below
blows strongly, and the trumpet emits a shrill sound. In a chamber without
the palace, the liquors are stored, and servants who are waiting, pour the
liquors each in its proper pipe, at the signal, when they are conveyed by
concealed pipes up the body of the tree, and discharged into, their
appropriate vessels, whence they are distributed by the under butlers to
the visitors. The tree is all ornamented with silver boughs, and leaves and
fruit all of silver.  The palace is like a church, having a middle aisle
and two side ones, beyond two rows of pillars, and has three gates to the
south, and before the middle gate stands the silver tree. The khan sits at
the north wall, on a high place, that he may be seen of all, and there are
two flights of steps ascending to him, by one of which his cup-bearer goes
up, and comes down by the other. The middle space between the throne and
the silver tree is left vacant for the cup-bearers and the messengers who
bring presents; on the right side of the khan the men sit, and the women on
the left. One woman only sits beside him, but not so high as he.

About Passion Sunday, the khan went before with his small houses only,
leaving the great ones behind, and the monk and we followed. On the journey
we had to pass through a hilly country[7] where we encountered high winds,
extreme cold, and much snow. About midnight the khan sent to the monk and
us, requesting us to pray to God to mitigate the severity of the weather,
as the beasts in his train were in great jeopardy, being mostly with young,
and about to bring forth. Then the monk sent him incense, desiring him to
put it on the coals, as an offering to God: Whether he did this or no, I
know not, but the tempest ceased, which had lasted two days. On Palm Sunday
we were near Caracarum, and at dawn of day we blessed the willow boughs, on
which, as yet, there were no buds. About nine o'clock we entered the city
of Caracarum, carrying the cross aloft with the banner, and passing through
the street of the Saracens, in which the market is held, we proceeded to
the church, where the Nestorians met; us in procession. We found them
prepared to celebrate the mass, and they all communicated; but I declined
this, having already drank, and the sacrament should always be received
lasting. After mass, being now evening, William Bouchier, the goldsmith,
brought us to sup at his lodging. He had a wife, born in Hungary, of
Mahometan parents, who spoke French, and the language of the Comanians. We
found here also one Basilicus, the son of an Englishman, likewise born in
Hungary, who was likewise skilled in these languages. After supper we
retired to our cottage, which, with the oratory of the monk, were placed
near the Nestorian church; which is of considerable size, and very
handsomely built, and all the ceiling is covered with silk, wrought with
gold.

I much deliberated with myself, whether I should continue in communion with
the monk and the Nestorians, because I saw their actions full of idolatry
and sorcery; but I feared to give offence to the khan in separating from
the other Christians, as I saw that my presence pleased him, for which
reason I always accompanied them to court; but when there I did not join in
their mummeries, praying always in a loud voice for the church, and that
God would direct the khan in the right way of salvation. On one occasion
the khan promised to come to the church next day; but he departed on his
journey to the northward, desiring the priests to excuse him, because he
had learnt that the dead were carried thither. But we remained behind, that
we might celebrate the festival of Easter. There were a vast multitude of
Hungarians, Alans, Rutenians or Russians, Georgians, and Armenians, who had
not received the sacrament since they were taken prisoners, as the
Nestorians would not admit them into their church unless they were
rebaptized; yet they offered their sacrament freely to us, and allowed me
to see their manner of consecration; on the vigil of Easter I saw their
ceremony of baptism. They pretend to have the ointment with which Mary
Magdalen anointed the feet of Jesus, and they put in so much of that oil in
kneading their sacramental bread; for all the people of the east use
butter, or oil, or fat from a sheeps tail, in their bread, instead of
leaven. They pretend also to have of the flour of which the bread was made
which was consecrated by our Lord at his Last Supper, as they always keep a
small piece of dough from each baking, to mix up with the new, which they
consecrate with great reverence. In administering this to the people, they
divide the consecrated loaf first into twelve portions, after the number of
the apostles, which they afterwards break down into smaller pieces, in
proportion to the number of communicants, giving the body of Christ into
the hand of every one, who takes it from his own palm with much reverence,
and afterwards lays his hand on the top of his head.

I was much at a loss how to act, as the Nestorians entreated me to
celebrate the festival, and I had neither vestments, chalice, nor altar.
But the goldsmith furnished me with vestments, and made an oratory on a
chariot, decently painted with scripture histories; he made also a silver
box or pix for the host, and an image of the blessed Virgin, and caused an
iron instrument to be made for us to make hosts in our way. Then I made the
before mentioned Christians to confess to me, as well as I could, by means
of an interpreter, explaining to them the ten commandments, the seven
deadly sins, and other matters, exhorting them to confession and penitence:
But all of them publickly excused themselves respecting theft, saying that
they could not otherwise live, as their masters neither provided them with
food or raiment; and I said they might lawfully take necessaries from their
masters, especially as they had forcibly deprived them of their subsistence
and liberty. Some who were soldiers excused themselves from having gone to
the wars, as otherwise they would be slain; these I forbid to go against
Christians, declaring, that if slain for their refusal, God would account
them as martyrs. After this I gave the holy communion to these people on
Easter day, and I hope, with the blessing of God to many, being assisted by
the Nestorians, who lent me their chalice and paten. They baptized above
threescore persons on Easter eve with great solemnity, to the great joy of
all the Christians.

Soon after this William Bouchier was grievously sick, and when recovering,
the monk Sergius visited him, and gave him so great a doze of rhubarb as
had almost killed him. On this I expostulated with the monk, that he ought
either to go about as an apostle, doing miracles by the virtue of prayer
and the Holy Ghost, or as a physician, according to the rules of the
medical aid, and not to administer strong potions to people who were not
prepared. About this time the principal priest of the Nestorians, who was a
kind of archdeacon over the rest, became sick $ and when I endeavoured, at
the request of his family, to prevail upon the monk to visit him, he said,
"Let him alone for he and three others intend to procure an order from
Mangu-khan to expel you and I." And I learnt afterwards, that there was a
dispute between them, as Mangu-khan had sent four jascots on Easter eve to
the monk, to distribute among the priests; and Sergius, keeping one to
himself, had given three to the priests, one being a counterfeit, and the
priests thought Sergius had kept too great a share to himself. Finding the
archdeacon in a dying way, I administered to him the Eucharist and extreme
unction, which he received with great humility and devotion; but, by the
advice of the monk, I quitted him before he died, as otherwise I could not
have entered the court of Mangu-khan for a whole year. When he was dead,
the monk said to me, "Never mind it: This man only, among the Nestorians,
had any learning, and opposed us; henceforwards Mangu-khan and all the
rest will crouch at our feet." He even pretended that he had killed him by
his prayers. I afterwards learnt that the monk practised divination, with
the aid of a Russian deacon, though, when I challenged him, he pretended to
excuse himself, and to deny the truth of what had been reported to me: But
I could not leave him, having been placed there by command of the khan, so
that I dared not to remove without his special command.

Exclusive of the palace of the khan, Caracarum is not so good as the town
of St Denis, and the monastery of St Dennis is worth more than ten times
the value of the palace itself. It contains two principal streets: that of
the Saracens in which the fairs are held, and to which many merchants
resort, as the court is always near; the other is the street of the
Kathayans, which is full of artificers. Besides these streets, there are
many palaces, in which are the courts of the secretaries of the khan. There
are twelve idol temples belonging to different nations, two Mahometan
mosques, and one Nestorian church at the end of the town. The town itself
is inclosed with a mud wall, and has four gates. On the east side, there is
a market for millet and other grain, but which is ill supplied; on the
west, sheep and goats are sold; on the north side, oxen and waggons; and on
the south side, horses.

Mangu-khan has eight brothers, three by the mother and five by the father.
One of these on the mothers side he sent into the country of the
Assassines, called _Mulibet_ by the Tartars, with orders to kill them all.
Another was sent into Persia, who is supposed to have orders to send armies
into Turkey, and from thence against Bagdat and Vestacius. One of his other
brothers has been sent into Kathay, to reduce certain rebels. His youngest
maternal brother, named Arabucha, lives with him, and keeps up his mothers
court, who was a Christian.

About this time, on account of a violent quarrel between the monk and
certain Mahometans, and because a rumour was propagated of four hundred
assassins having gone forth in divers habits, with an intention to murder
the khan, we were ordered to depart from our accustomed place before the
court, and to remove to the place where other messengers dwelt. Hitherto I
had always hoped for the arrival of the king of Armenia[8], and had not
therefore made any application for leave to depart; but hearing no news of
the king, or a certain German priest who was likewise expected, and fearing
lest we should return in the winter, the severity of which I had already
experienced, I sent to demand the pleasure of the khan, whether we were to
remain with him or to return, and representing that it would be easier for
us to return in summer than in winter. The khan sent to desire that I
should not go far off, as he meant to speak with me next day; to which I
answered, requesting him to send for the son of the goldsmith to interpret
between us, as my interpreter was very incompetent.


[1] So for as was travelled by Rubruquis, and in the route which he pursued
    on the north of the Alak mountains, this observation is quite correct
    to longitude 100° E. But what he here adds respecting Kathay, is
    directly contradictory to the fact; as all the rivers beyond Caracarum
    run in an easterly direction. The great central plain of Tangut, then
    traversed by the imperial horde of the Mongals, and now by the Eluts
    and Kalkas, must be prodigiously elevated above the level of the
    ocean.--E.

[2] The information here seems corrupted, or at least is quite incorrect.
    Kathay or northern China is due east, or east south-east from the
    great plain to the south of Karakum. Daouria, the original residence
    of the Mongols of Zingis, between the rivers Onon and Kerlon, is to
    the north-east.--E.

[3] The Kerkis must fee the Kirguses, a tribe of whom once dwelt to the
    south-west of lake Baikal. They are not included in the _Carmina
    Burana_; yet their style is so characteristic of the Archipoeta,
    that I believe we may credit him with at least a share in their
    composition. The first starts with an allusion to the Horatian
_tempus edax rerum_.

[4] Rubruquis properly rejects the stories of monstrous men, related by the
    ancients, yet seems to swallow the absurd story of the purple dye,
    engrafted by the Kathayan priest on a very natural invention for
    catching apes. He disbelieves the last information of the priest,
    which must have been an enigmatical representation of the province of
    death, or of the tombs.--E.

[5] It is difficult to guess as to these people and their islands; which
    may possibly refer to Japan, or even Corea, which is no island. Such
    tribute could not have been offered by the rude inhabitants of
    Saghalien or Yesso.--E.

[6] This evidently but obscurely describes the Chinese characters; the most
    ingenious device ever contrived for the monopoly of knowledge and
    office to the learned class, and for arresting the progress of
    knowledge and science at a fixed boundary.--E.

[7] From this circumstance, it would appear that Rubruquis had found the
    court of the khan in the country of the Eluts, to the south of the
    Changai mountains, perhaps about latitude 44° N. and longitude 103°
    E, the meridian of the supposed site of Karakum on the Orchon. And it
    may be presumed, that the imperial suite was now crossing the Changai
    chain towards the north.--E.

[8] Haitho, of whom some account will be found in the succeeding chapter of
    this work.--E.


SECTION XXXVII.

_Of certain disputes between Rubruquis and the Saracens and Idolaters, at
the Court of Mangu-khan, respecting Religion_.

Next day I was brought to the court, and some of the chief secretaries of
the khan came to me, one of whom was a Moal, who is cup-bearer to the khan,
and the rest were Saracens. These men demanded on the part of the khan,
wherefore I had come there? To this I answered, as I had done before, that
I came to Sartach, who sent me to Baatu, and he had ordered me to the khan,
to whom I had nothing to say on the part of any man, unless I should speak
the words of God if he would hear them, for the khan should know best what
Baatu had written. Then they demanded what words of God I would speak to
the khan, thinking I meant to prophecy prosperous things as others had
done. To this I answered, "If ye would that I speak the words of God unto
the khan, get me an interpreter." They said they had sent for him, but
urged me to speak by the present one, as they would understand me
perfectly. I therefore said, "This is the word of God, to whom much is
given, much will be required at his hands; and to whom much is forgiven, he
ought the more to love God. To Manga I would say, that God hath given much;
for the power and riches which he enjoys, come not from the idols of the
Tuinians, but from the omnipotent God who hath made heaven and earth, in
whose hands are all kingdoms and dominions, and who transferreth them from
nation to nation for the sins of men; wherefore if he love God, it will go
well with him, but if otherwise, God will require all things at his hands,
even to the utmost farthing." Then they asked if I had been in Heaven, that
I should know the commandments of God? I said no, but that God hath given
them from Heaven to holy men, and had at length descended from Heaven to
earth to teach us, and that we had those things in the Scriptures, and
could judge from their works whether men kept the commandments of God or
disobeyed them. They then asked if I meant to say that Mangu-khan did not
keep the commandments of God? To this I answered, "When I shall have a
proper interpreter and am permitted, I shall then recite the commandments
of God before Mangu, and he shall be his own judge, whether he hath kept or
disobeyed them." Upon this, they went and told Mangu, that I said he was an
idolater and Tuinian, and kept not the commandments of God. Next day Mangu
sent one of his secretaries, saying, "Ye are here Christians, Mahometans,
and Tuinians, wherefore the khan desires that ye will all come together and
make comparison of your opinions, that he may know the truth." To this I
answered, "Blessed be God that hath put this in the heart of the khan; but
our Scriptures command the servants of God not to be contentious, but meek
unto all. Wherefore I am ready, without strife or contention, to render a
true account of the faith and hope of the Christians to every one who may
require to be informed." They wrote down my words and brought them to the
khan.

Next day, another message came from the khan, desiring again to know on
what account I had come to his court; to which I answered, that this might
be known from the letters of Bantu. But they said that these letters were
lost, and the khan had forgotten their contents, and would know of me.
Somewhat emboldened by this, I said, "The duty and office of our religion
is to preach the gospel unto all. Wherefore, having heard of the fame of,
the Mongals, I desired to come to them; and hearing that Sartach had become
a Christian, I directed my journey to him, and my sovereign the king of the
French sent him letters containing good words of friendship, testifying
what men we were, and requesting we might be permitted to remain with the
people of Moal That Sartach had sent us to Baatu, and he had ordered us to
Mangu-khan, whom we had entreated and still do entreat to suffer us to
stay." They wrote all this, and made a report of it to the khan. On the
morrow he sent again that he knew we had no message for him, but came to
pray for him as other priests did, but desired to know if any of our
ambassadors had ever been in their country, or any of theirs in our parts.
Then I declared unto them all I knew respecting David and Friar Andrew, all
of which was put down in writing and laid before Mangu. They came back,
saying, "Our lord the khan thinks you have staid long here, and his
pleasure is that you return into your own country; but he desires to know
whether you would conduct his ambassadors along with you." To this I
answered, that I dared not to carry his ambassadors beyond his own
dominions, as a warlike nation dwelt between their country and ours,
between the sea and the mountains, and being only a poor monk, I could not
take upon me to be their guide. This they likewise set down in writing and
carried to the khan.

The Nestorians were commanded to set down in writing all that they would
speak in favour of the Christian religion; and they wrote out a chronicle
from the creation of the world to the passion of Christ; and passing over
the passion, they spake of the resurrection of the dead, and of the day of
judgment. Finding many things wrong, I pointed them out, and we wrote out
the creed or symbol. Asking them how they meant to proceed in the
conference, they said they meant to begin with the Saracens; but I
dissuaded them from that, because, as they agreed with us in the belief of
one only God, they would assist against the Tuinians. I then pointed out to
them the original of idolatry in the world; and they desired me to explain
these things before Mangu, and then to let them speak, because I should
find it difficult and tedious to speak by an interpreter. I then proposed
to try them, by taking the side of the Tuinians, while they should defend
the opinions of the Christians; but they knew not how to prove any thing,
except merely by quoting their Scriptures. To this I said, that these men
believed not in our Scriptures, and would oppose them by advancing contrary
opinions and positions from those books which they accounted holy. Then I
desired that they would allow me to speak first; since if I were overcome
they would be permitted to speak, whereas if they were confuted, I would be
refused a hearing, and to this they consented.

All things being arranged, we convened at our oratory, and Mangu-khan sent
three of his secretaries, a Christian, a Saracen, and a Tuinian, to be
judges of the controversy. It was first proclaimed, "This is the order of
Mangu-khan, and none dare say that the commandment of God is otherwise. Let
none speak contentiously, or use injurious words to one another, or make
any tumult whereby this business may be hindered, upon pain of death."
There was a great assembly, as every party had convened the wisest of their
sect, and many others came flocking around to listen; but all were silent.
The Christians set me in the middle, willing that I should contend with the
Tuinians; who murmured against Mangu, as no khan had ever thus endeavoured
to search into their secrets. Yet they opposed one from Kathay to me, who
had his interpreter, while I had the son of the goldsmith to interpret my
words. The Kathayan said to me, "Friend! if you be put to a nonplus, who
must seek a wiser than thou art?" To this I made no reply. Then he demanded
whether I would dispute as to how the world was made, or as to what became
of the souls after death? For they were desirous to begin with these
questions, as they held them for the strongest in their doctrines, all the
Tuinians following the heresy of the Manicheans, believing in a good and a
bad principle, and they all believe that souls pass from body to body. In
confirmation of this, the goldsmith told me they had brought a person from
Kathay, who, by the size of his body, appeared to be only three years old,
yet was capable of reasoning, and knew how to write, and who affirmed that
he had passed through three several bodies. Even one of the wisest of the
Nestorians demanded of me whether the souls of brutes could fly to any
place after death where they should not be compelled to labour.

To the before-mentioned question of the Kathayan, I answered: "Friend, this
ought hot to be the commencement of our conference. All things are of God,
who is the fountain and head of us all; and therefore we ought first to
speak concerning God, of whom you think otherwise than you ought, and Mangu
desires to know which of us hath the better belief." The arbitrators
allowed this to be reasonable, and I proceeded: "We firmly believe that
there is but one God in perfect unity; what believe you?" He said, "Fools
say there is but one God, but wise men say there are many. There are great
lords in your country, and here is still a greater, even Mangu-khan. So it
is of the Gods, as in divers countries there are divers gods." To this I
answered: "You make a bad comparison between God and men; for in this way
every mighty man might be called a God in his own country." And when I
meant to have dissolved the similitude, he prevented me, by asking, "What
manner of God is yours, who you say is but one?" I answered: "Our God,
beside whom there is no other, is omnipotent, and therefore needeth not the
help of any other; whereas all have need of his help. It is not so with
men, as no man can do all things; wherefore there must be many lords on
earthy as no one can support all. God is omniscient, or knoweth all things;
and therefore hath no need of any counsellor, for all wisdom is from him.
God is perfectly good; and needs not therefore any good from us. In God we
live and move and have our being. Such is our God, and you must not hold
that there is any other." "It is not so," said he; "for there is one
highest in heaven, whose origin or generation we know not, and there are
ten under him, and on earth they are infinite in number." To this he would
have added other fables. I asked him respecting the highest God, of whom he
had spoken, whether he were omnipotent, or if any of the inferior Gods were
so? And fearing to answer this, he demanded, "Why, since our God was
perfectly good, he had made the half of all things evil?" To this I
answered, that this was false; for whosoever maketh any evil is no God, and
all things whatsoever are good. At this all the Tuiuians were astonished,
and set it down in writing as false or impossible. He then asked me,
"Whence cometh evil?" "You ask amiss," said I, "for you ought first to
inquire what evil is, before you ask whence it comes: But let us return to
the first question, whether do you believe that any God is omnipotent? and
when that is discussed, I will answer whatever you may demand." On this he
sat a long time without speaking, and the judges appointed by the khan
commanded him to make answer. At length he said, that no God was
omnipotent; on which all the Saracens broke out into great laughter. When
silence was restored, I said, "None of your gods, therefore, can save you
in all dangers, since chances may happen in which they have no power.
Besides, no man can serve two masters; how, therefore, can you serve so
many Gods in heaven and in earth?" The auditory decreed that he should make
answer to this, but he held his peace.

When I was about to have propounded reasons to prove the truth of the
divine essence, and to have explained the doctrine of the Trinity, the
Nestorians alleged that I had said quite enough, and that now they meant to
speak; so I gave place to them. When, therefore, they would have disputed
with the Saracens, these men said that they agreed to the truth of the law
and the gospel of the Christian, and would not dispute with them in any
thing, and even confessed that they beg from God in their prayers that they
may die the death of the Christians. There was among the idolaters a priest
of the sect of the Jugurs, who believe in one God, and yet make idols. With
this man the Nestorians talked much, shewing all things till the coming of
Christ to judgment, and explaining the Trinity to him and the Saracens by
similitudes. All of them hearkened to their harangue without attempting to
make any contradiction; yet none of them said that they believed and would
become Christians. The conference was now broken up. The Nestorians and
Saracens sang together with a loud voice, and the Tuinians held their
peace; and afterwards they all drank together most plentifully.


SECTION XXXVIII.

_The last audience of Rubruquis with Mangu-khan, and the letter he received
for the King of France._

On Whitsunday I was called into the presence of the khan, and before I went
in, the goldsmiths son, who was my interpreter, informed me that it was
determined I was to return to my own country, and advised me to say nothing
against it. When I came before the khan I kneeled, and he asked me whether
I said to his secretaries that he was a Tuinian. To this I answered, "My
lord, I said not so; but if it please your highness I will repeat what I
then said;" and I recited what I had spoken, as mentioned before, and he
answered: "I thought well you said not so, for it was a word you ought not
to have spoken; but your interpreter hath ill rendered your words." Then,
reaching forth the staff on which, he leaned towards me, he said, "be not
afraid." To which I answered smiling, that if I had feared I should not
have come hither. He then said, as if confessing his faith: "We Moals
believe that there is but one God, and we have an upright heart towards
him." "Then," said I, "may God grant you this mind, for without his gift it
cannot be." He then added, "God hath given to the hand divers fingers, and
hath given many ways to man. He hath given the Scriptures to you, yet you
keep them not. You certainly find not in the Scriptures that one of you
should dispraise another?" "No," said I; "and I signified unto your
highness from the beginning, that I would not contend with any one." "I
speak not," said he, "respecting you. In like manner, you find not in your
Scriptures, that a man ought to swerve from justice for the sake of money?"
To this I answered, "That our Scriptures taught no such evil doctrine,
neither had I come into, these parts to get money, having even refused that
which was freely offered to me." And one of the secretaries, then present,
certified, that I had refused a jascot and a piece of silk. "I speak not of
that," said the khan; "God hath given you the Scriptures and you keep them
not; but he hath given to us soothsayers, and we do what they bid us, and
live in peace." He drank four times, as I think, before he disclosed these
things; and, while I waited attentively in expectation that he might
disclose any thing farther respecting his faith, he began another subject,
saying: "You have stayed a long time here, and it is my pleasure that you
return. You have said that you dared not to carry my ambassadors with you;
will you carry my messenger, or my letters?" To this I answered, "If he
would make me understand his words, and that they were put in writing, I
would willingly carry them, to the best of my power." He then asked if I
would have gold or silver, or costly garments? I answered, that we received
no such things; but not having wherewith to bear our expences, we could not
get out of his country without his help. He then said, that he would
provide us in all necessaries through his country, and demanded how far we
would be brought. I said it were sufficient if he gave us a pass into
Armenia. To this he answered: "I will cause you to be carried thither,
after which look to yourself. There are two eyes in one head, yet they both
look to one object. You came here from Baatu, and therefore you must return
by him." Having requested and obtained leave to speak, I addressed him
thus: "Sir! we are not men of war, and desire that they who would most
justly govern according to the will of God may have dominion in the world.
Our office is to teach men to live according to the law of God: For this,
purpose we came into these parts, and would willingly have remained here if
it had been your pleasure; but since you are pleased that we should return,
I shall carry your letters according to my power, in obedience to your
commands. I request of your magnificence, that, when I have delivered your
letters, it may be lawful for me to come back into your dominions; chiefly
because you have servants of our nation at Balac, who want a priest to
teach them and their children the law of our religion, and I would
willingly stay with them." He then asked whether I knew that our lords
would send me back to him? To this. I answered, "I know not what may be the
purpose of my sovereign; but I have licence to go wherever I will, where it
is needful to preach the word of God, and it seems to me necessary in these
parts; wherefore, whether my lords send ambassadors or not, if it is your
pleasure, I will return." Then, after a long pause, as if musing, he said,
"You have a lone way to go, make yourself strong with food, that you may be
enabled to endure the journey." So he ordered them to give me drink, and I
departed from his presence, and returned not again. From that time I could
have no time nor place to expound to him the catholic faith; for a man must
not speak before him, unless what he pleaseth to order or allow, except he
were an ambassador, who may speak what he will, and they always demand of
such whether he has any thing more to say.

The soothsayers are the priests of the Mongals, and whatever they command
to be done is performed without delay. I shall describe their office, as I
learnt it from the goldsmith and others. Of these soothsayers there are
great numbers, under the direction of a chief priest, whose house is always
about a stone's throw in front of the great house of Mangu-khan, and under
his charge are all the chariots which carry idols. The other soothsayers
dwell behind the court, in places appointed for them; and such as have
confidence in their art come to consult them from various distant parts.
Some of them are skilful in astronomy, especially their chief, and they
foretel eclipses of the sun and moon. When these are to happen, all the
people prepare their food, that they may not be under the necessity of
going out of doors, and during the eclipse they play on various instruments
of music, and set up loud shouts: when it is over, they indulge in feasting
and carousing, to express their joy.

These soothsayers pretend to foretell lucky and unlucky days for all
affairs; and the Tartars never levy an army, or undertake a war without
their approbation. They had long since resumed their attack on Hungary, but
that the soothsayers have always opposed it. You have been relieved of your
pension, cast all your ballast into the scale also."
"Sire, the Marquise de Pompadour directed me to present your majesty
with her most obedient and submissive greetings, and to assure you of her
reverence and heart-felt devotion."
Frederick quietly drew his tabatiere from his vest-pocket, and slowly taking
a pinch of snuff, he fixed his burning eyes upon Voltaire's smiling and
expectant face; then said, with the most complete indifference, "The Marquise
de Pompadour. Who is she? I do not know her!"
Voltaire looked at the king astonished and questioning.

Frederick did not remark this, but went on quietly: "Have you no other
greetings for me? Have none of the great spirits, in which Paris is
so rich, remembered me?"
"I shall be careful not to mention any other greetings. All the so- called
great spirits appear so small in the presence of your exalted majesty, I
fear you will not acknowledge them."
"Not so," said Frederick; "I gladly recognize all that is really great and
worthy of renown. Voltaire will never find a more enthusiastic admirer than
I am."
"Ah, sire, these words are a balsam which I will lay upon my breast, lacerated
by the wild outcries of my critics."
"So the critics have been giving you trouble?" said Frederick.

"Yes, sire," said Voltaire, with the passionate scorn so peculiar to
him; "they have bored their insatiable and poisonous teeth into my flesh.
They are so miserable and so pitiful, that I seem to myself miserable and
pitiful as their victim, and in all humility I will ask your majesty, if
such hounds are allowed to howl unpunished, would it not be better for
Voltaire to creep into some den, and acknowledge the wild beasts of the
forests as his brothers--perhaps they might regard his verses as melodious
barkings and howlings?"

"Still the same boisterous hot-head, the Orlando Furioso," cried the king,
laughing heartily. "Is your skin so tender still that the needles of the
little critics disturb you, and to gratify their malice will you become
a mule? If you are driven to abandon the Muses, friend, who will have the
hardihood to stand by them? No, no!
do not follow in the footsteps of the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob;
do not 'visit the sins of the fathers upon the children unto the third
and fourth generation;' do not make the public of our day, and of the next
century, suffer for the crimes of a few pitiful critics. The persecutions
and slanders of the envious are the tribute great merit must always pay to
the world at large. Let them rail on, but do not believe that the nations
and the future will be duped by them. Utterly disregarding the criticisms
of the so-called masters of art, we of this century admire and wonder at
the chefs- d'oeuvre of Greece and Rome. The mad cry of Aeschines docs
not obscure the fame of Demosthenes; and in spite of Lucian, Caesar is,
and will ever remain, the greatest man the world has ever produced.

I guarantee that after your death you will be canonized, worshipped.
I humbly entreat you not to hasten the time, but be content to have the
apotheosis in your pocket, and to be honored by all those who are too exalted
to be envious or prejudiced. I, Frederick, stand foremost in the ranks."
[Footnote: The king's own words.--Oeuvres Posthumes.]
"Why cannot the whole world be present to hear the words of a king whom I
am proud, from this day onward, to call MY king?" cried Voltaire, passionately.
"Sire, I love you ardently! I believe the gods made us for each other. I
have long loved you tenderly! I have been angry with you, but I have
forgiven you all, and I love you to madness! There was never a weaker,
frailer body than mine, but my soul is strong!

I dare to say I love you as much as I admire you!
[Footnote: Voltaire's own words.] Verily, I hold this to be as great a
conquest as the five other victories your majesty has achieved, and for
which the world worships you. From this day I will be like your faithful
hound; I will lie at your feet, even though you should spurn me, and declare
that you will not be my master and lord. I will still return. Your threshold
shall be my home, and I will be content with the crumbs which fall from your
table. My fortune and my happiness shall consist in loving you!"
"I will not put your love to so hard a proof," said the king, smiling. "I
dare hope to provide you with a more durable dwelling. I promise you
shall not be like Lazarus, feeding upon crumbs. You shall be the rich
man dispensing them."
Here was a sort of promise and assurance which banished in some
degree the nervous anxiety and distrust of Voltaire, and his
countenance once more beamed with joy.

He suppressed his satisfaction, however, instantly. He did not wish to
betray to the observant eye of Frederick his selfish and miserly nature, and
assumed at once a melancholy look.

"Sire," said he, "I do not resemble Lazarus; and if your majesty does
not possess the miraculous power of the young rabbi, Jesus Christus, I
fear you will soon have to bury me. But I am as true a believer as any
Jew. I trust fully to the magic power of your hand.

Was not your marvellous touch sufficient to place beautiful Silesia, a
gem of the first water, in the crown of Prussia?--to awaken spirits, sleeping
almost the sleep of death, and to call into life on these barbarous northern
steppes the blossoms of education and refinement? I believe in the miracles
of the Solomon of the North, and I am willing to give my testimony to
the whole world."

"Nevertheless, if the French cock crows, you will betray me three times,"
said the king. "I know you, Voltaire, and I know when you are enraged,
nothing is sacred. I fear that here, as elsewhere, you will find provocations.
But now, before all other things, what have you brought me? What gift has
your muse produced for the poor philosopher of Sans-Souci? I will not believe
that you come with empty hands, and that the Homer of France has
broken his lyre."

"No, sire, I am not empty-handed! I have brought you a present. I believe
it to be the best and most beautiful production of my muse.
For twenty years I have swelled with indignation at the tragedy which
my good friend, Master Crebillon, made of the most exalted subject of
antiquity. With the adroit hands of a tailor he stitched up a monkey-jacket
out of the purple toga, and adorned it with the miserable tawdry
trifles of a pitiful lore and pompous Gothic verse!
Crebillon has written a French Catiline. I, sire, have written a Roman Catiline!
You shall see, sire, and you shall admire! In one of my most wretched,
sleepless nights, the devil overcame me, and said:
'Revenge Cicero and France! Crebillon has disgraced both. Wash out this
stain from France.' This was a good devil; and even you, sire, could not
have driven me to work more eagerly than he did. Day and night he chained
me to my writing-desk! I feared I should die of excitement, but the devil
held on to me, and the spirits of the great Romans stood by my table and
tore off the absurd and ridiculous masks which Crebillon had laid upon them.
They showed me their true, exalted, glowing faces, and commanded me to
portray them, 'that the world at last might feel their majestic beauty,
and be no longer deceived by the caricatures of Crebillon!' I was obliged
to obey, sire! I worked unceasingly, and in eight days I had finished!
Catiline was born, and I was as much exhausted as ever a woman was at the
birth of her first-born!" [Footnote: This whole speech is from Voltaire.]

"You do not mean that in eight days you completed the tragedy?" said the
king. "You mean only that you have arranged the plot, and will finish the
work here."
"No, sire, I bring you the tragedy complete, and I wrote it in eight
days. Ah, sire, this is a tragedy you will enjoy! You will see no lovelorn
Tullia, no infirm and toothless Cicero; you will see a fearful picture
of Rome, a picture at which I myself shuddered. But, sire, when you read
it, you must swear to me to read it in the same spirit in which it is
written. I have left to my collegian Crebillon all his dramatic
plunder; his Catiline is a pure fiction. I have written mine, remembering
my province as an historian. Rome is my heroine; she is the mistress for
whom I would interest all Europe. I have no other intrigue than Rome's
danger; no other material than the mad craft of Catiline, the
vehemence and heroic virtue of Cicero, the jealousy of the Roman
Senate, the development of the character of Caesar; no other women
than that unfortunate who was seduced by Catiline because of her
gentleness and amiability.

I know not, sire, if you will shudder at the fourth act, but I, the writer,
    trembled and shuddered.

My tragedy is not formed upon any model, it is new in nova fert
animus.

Truly I know the world will rail at me for this, and the small souls
gnash their teeth and howl, but my work is written with a great
soul, and kindred spirits will comprehend me.

The envious and the pitiful I will at last trample under my feet. Jupiter
strove with the Titans and overcame them.

I am no Jupiter, neither are my adversaries Titans."
While these words, in an irrepressible and powerful stream of eloquence,
burst from his lips, Voltaire became another man. His countenance was imposing
in its beauty, his eyes glowed with the fire of inspiration, an enchanting
smile played upon his lips, and his bowed and contracted form was proudly
erect and commanding. The king gazed upon him with admiration. At length,
Voltaire, panting for breath, was silent. Frederick laid his two
hands upon his shoulders, and looked into the glowing face with an
indescribable expression of love and tenderness.

"Now," said he, "I have again and at last found my Voltaire, my proud,
inspired king of poets, my Homer, crowned with immortality!
The might of genius has torn away the mantle of the courtier, and in place
of pitiful, pliant, humble words, I hear again the melodious, flashing,
eloquent speech of my royal poet!

Welcome, Voltaire, welcome to Sans-Souci, whose poor philosopher is but
king of men, while the spirits are subject unto you! Ah, my all-powerful
king and master, be gracious! You possess a wondrous realm, give me at
least a small province in your kingdom."
"Sire, you mock at me," cried Voltaire. "I have written Caesar and Cicero
for the theatre. You, however, exhibit on the stage of the world the
two greatest men of the greatest century, combined in your own person. I
have come to gaze upon this wonder; it is a far loftier drama than mine,
and will be surely more nobly represented.
[Footnote: Voltaire's own words.] Your majesty represents what you truly
are, but where shall I find actors to fill the role of Caesar, Cicero, and
Catiline; how shall I change the pitiful souls of the coulisse into
great men; make noble Romans out of these small pasteboard heroes
of the mode? I could find no actors for my tragedy in Paris, and it shall
never be unworthily represented!"
"We will bring it upon the stage here," said Frederick.

"Yes, truly, this new and great work shall announce, like a flaming comet,
Voltaire's arrival in Berlin. At the same moment in which the Berlinese see
that you are at last amongst them, shall they acknowledge that you are worthy
to be honored and worshipped. In four weeks, Voltaire, shall your new
tragedy be given in my palace."
"Has your majesty, then, a French company, and such a one as may dare to
represent my Catiline?"
"For the love of Voltaire will all my courtiers, and even my sister,
become actors; and though a Cicero failed you in Paris, in Berlin
we will surely find you one.

Have we not Voltaire who can take that role. If no reliable director could
be found in Paris, I give you permission to select from my court circle those
you consider most talented and most capable as actors, and you can study
their parts with them--I myself alone excepted. Ten years ago I wished
to have your 'Death of Caesar' given at Rheinsberg, and I had selected a
role; just then the Emperor of Germany died, and fate called me out upon
the great theatre of the world, where I have since then tried to play my
part worthily, and I must consecrate to this all my strength and ability.
I can play no other part! The two roles might make a rare confusion, and
strange results might follow should the King of Prussia of this morning
be changed to the Cicero of the evening, utter a fulminating speech
against tyrants, and call upon the noble Romans to defend their rights;
while this same King of Prussia is a small tyrant, and his subjects are
more like pitiful slaves than heroic Romans. I must, therefore, confine
myself to the narrow boundaries of a spectator, and applaud you as heartily
in your character of Cicero as I applaud you in that of the great Voltaire."

"And is this indeed your intention, sire?

My poor tragedy lies in my writing-desk, seemingly dead; will you awaken
it to life and light?"
"It shall be given in two months, and you shall conduct it."
Voltaire's countenance darkened; his gay smile disappeared, and lines of
selfishness and covetousness clouded the brow of the great poet.

"In two months, sire!" said he, shaking his head. "I fear I shall not be
here. I have only come to sun myself for a few happy days in your presence."

"And then?" said Frederick, interrupting him.

"Then I must fulfil one of the darling dreams of my whole life. I must
go to Italy, to the holy city of Rome, and kneel upon the graves of Cicero
and Caesar. I must see St. Peter's, the Venus de Medici, and the pope."
"You will never go to Rome," said Frederick. "The Holy Father will not have
the happiness of converting the blasphemous Saul into the pious and believing
Paul. You will remain in Berlin; if you do not yield willingly, I must
compel you to yield. I will make you my subject; I will bind you with
orders and titles; I will compel you to accept a salary from me; and then,
should they seek to ravish you from me, I will have a right to withhold
you from all the potentates of the world."
Voltaire's face was again radiant. "Ah! sire, no power or chains will
be necessary to bind me here; your majesty's command alone would suffice."

"And your duty! My gentleman of the bedchamber dare not withdraw himself
for a single day without my permission. I make you gentleman of the
bedchamber. I lay the ribbon of my order, 'pour le merite,' around your
neck, and that I may always have a rope around you, and make you completely
my prisoner, I give you an apartment in my palace at Potsdam; and that
you may not feel yourself a hermit, you will have every day six covers
laid for your friends; and to mock you with the appearance of liberty, you
shall have your own equipage and servants, who will obey you in all
things with one exception--if you order your valet to pack up your
effects, and your coachman to take the road to Paris, they will disobey."

Voltaire heard the words of the king with breathless attention.
Sullen suspicion and discontent were written on his face. This did not,
escape the king; he understood the cause, but he said nothing.
Voltaire exhausted himself in words of joy and gratitude, but they had not
the ring of truth, and the joy which his lips expressed found no echo in his
face.

"I have but one other thing to add," said Frederick, at last. "Can your
greatness pardon a poor earthworm, if he dare speak in your presence of
so common and villanous a thing as money?"
Voltaire's eyes sparkled; the subject of conversation did not seem disagreeable
to him.

"You have relinquished a pension of six thousand livres in France, It
is but just that you receive full compensation. Your great spirit is
certainly above all earthly considerations, but our fleshy existence has
its rights. So long as you are with me, you shall not be troubled
by even a shadow of privation. You will therefore receive a salary of five
thousand thalers from me. Your lodging and your table cost you nothing,
and I think you can be very comfortable."
Voltaire's heart bounded for joy, but he forced himself to seem calm
and indifferent.

"Your majesty has forgotten an important matter," said he. "You have named
lodging and food, but you say nothing of light and fire. I am an old man,
and cannot produce them myself."
"Truly said--I find it quite in order that the great free-thinker and
poet of this century is troubled for the light which should illuminate
him. You shall have twelve pounds of wax-lights every month; I think this
will be sufficient for your purposes. As for the other little necessities
of life, have the goodness to apply to the castellan of the castle. On
the first day of every month he will supply them regularly. The contract
is made; you will remain with me?"
"I remain, sire!--not for the title, or the pension, or the order--I
remain with you, because I love you.

My heart offers up to you the dream of my life, my journey to Italy. Oh, I
wish I could make greater, more dangerous sacrifices! I wish I could find a
means to prove my love, my adoration, my worship!"
The king laid his hand softly on Voltaire's shoulder, and looked earnestly
in his eyes.

"Be as good a man as you are a great poet. That is the most beautiful
offering you can bring me."
"Ah! I see," said Voltaire, enraged; "some one has slandered me.
Your majesty has opened your cars to my enemies, and already their
hellish poison has reached your heart. As they cannot destroy Voltaire the
poet, they seize upon Voltaire the man, and slander his character because
they cannot obscure his fame. I will advance to meet them with an open
visor and without a shield. From their place of ambush, with their
poisoned arrows, let them slay me. It is better to die than to be
suspected and contemned by my great and worshipped king."
"See, now, what curious creatures you poets are!" said Frederick; "always
in wild tumult and agitation; either storming heaven or hell;
contending with demons, or revelling with angels! You have no daily
quiet, patience, and perseverance. If you see a man who tells you
he is planting potatoes, you do not believe him--you convince
yourself he is sowing dragons' teeth to raise an army to contend
against you. If you meet one of your fellows with a particularly
quiet aspect, you are sure you can read curses against you upon his
lip. When one begs you to be good, you look upon it as an accusation.
No, no, my poet! no one has poured the poison of slander into my
ears--no one has accused you to me. I am, moreover, accustomed to
form my own conclusions, and the opinions of others have but little
weight with me."
"But your majesty is pleased to lend your ears to my enemies," said
Voltaire, sullenly; "exactly those who attack me most virulently
receive the highest honors at the hands of your majesty. You are
as cruel with me as a beautiful and ravishing coquette. So soon as
by a love-glance you have made me the happiest of men, you turn
away with cold contempt, and smile alluringly upon my rivals. I
have yet two dagger-strokes in my heart, which cause me death-agony.
If your majesty would make me truly happy, you must cure the wounds
with your own hands."
"I will, if it is possible," said the king, gravely. "Let us hear
of what you complain."
"Sire, your majesty has made Freron your correspondent in Paris--
Freron, my most bitter enemy, my irreconcilable adversary. But it
is not because he is my foe that I entreat you to dismiss him; you
will not think so pitifully of me as to suppose that this is the
reason I entreat you to dismiss him from your service. My personal
dislike will not make me blind to the worth of Freron as a writer.
No, sire, Freron is not worthy of your favor; he is an openly
dishonored scoundrel, who has committed more than one common fraud.To the
west of that plain is Curgia[6], and in this plain the Crosmini, Krosmians
or Korasmiens[7], formerly dwelt. Ganges or Kanja, a great city in the
entrance of the mountains towards Georgia, was their capital, and prevented
the Georgians from coming down to plunder the plain country. We next came
to a bridge of boats fastened together with great iron chains, for crossing
the united stream of the Kur and Araxes.

We proceeded thence, travelling up the river called _pontem inidignatus
Araxes_, leaving Persia and the Caspian mountains on our left hand, towards
the south, Curgia and the great sea on our right hand, towards the west[8].
Going all the way southwards[9], we passed through the meadows of Bacchu-
khan, the general of the Tartar army on the Araxes, who has likewise
subjugated the Curgi, the Turks, and the Persians. There is another Tartar
governor of Persia at Tauris, named Argon, who presides over the tribute.
But Mangu-khan has recalled both of these generals to make way for one of
his brothers, as I formerly mentioned, who is to have the command in
Persia. I was in the house of Bacchu, who gave me wine, while he drank
cosmos; and, although it was the best new wine, I would rather have had
cosmos, if he had offered it, being more restorative for such a half
starved wretch as I then was. We ascended the Araxes to its head, and
beyond the mountains, where it rises, is the good city of Arsorum [10],
which belongs to the Soldan of Turkey [11]. When we departed from Bacchu,
my guide went to Tauris to speak with Argon, and took my interpreter with
him; but Bacchu caused me to be carried to Naxuam [12], formerly the
capital of a great kingdom, and the greatest and fairest city in those
parts, but the Tartars have now made it a wilderness. There were formerly
eight hundred churches [13] of the Armenians here, which are now reduced to
two very small ones, in one of which I held my Christmas as well as I
could, with our clerk Gosset. Next day the priest of this church died, and
a bishop with twelve monks came from the mountains to his funeral, for all
the bishops of the Armenians are monks, and likewise most of those
belonging to the Greeks [14].

In the city of Naxuam I met a Catalan friar, of the order of Predicants,
named Barnard, who lives with a friar of the Holy Sepulchre, resident in
Georgia, and possessing extensive lands there. We were detained in Naxuam
by the snow, till the 6th January 1255, and came in four days to the
country of Sabensa, a Curdish prince, heretofore powerful, but now
tributary to the Tartars, who destroyed all his warlike stores. Zacharias,
the father of Sabensa, possessed himself of all the country of the
Armenians, from whence he drove out the Saracens. In this country there are
many fine villages of true Christians, having churches like those of
Europe; and every Armenian has in his house, in an honourable place, a
wooden hand holding a cross, before which a lamp continually burns; and
that which we do by holy water, they do with frankincense, which they burn
every evening through every corner of the house, to drive away evil
spirits. I eat with Sabensa, and both he and his wife did me great
reverence. His son Zachary, a wise and comely young man, asked me if your
majesty would, entertain him; for though he has plenty of all things, he is
so uneasy under the Tartar dominion, that he would rather retire to a
strange country, than endure their violent exactions. These people say they
are true sons of the church, and if the Pope would send them aid, they
would bring all the neighbouring nations under subjection to the church of
Rome.

From Naxuam we travelled in fifteen days into the country of the soldan of
Turkey, to a castle called Marseugen, inhabited by Armenians, Curgians, and
Greeks, the Turks only having the dominion. From that place, where we
arrived on the first Sunday of Lent, till I got to Cyprus, eight days
before the feast of St John the Baptist, I was forced to buy all our
provisions. He who was my guide procured horses for us, and took my money
for the victuals, which he put into his own pocket; for when in the fields,
he took a sheep from any flock he saw by the way, without leave or
ceremony. In the Feast of the Purification, 2d February, I was in a city
named Ayni, belonging to Sabensa, in a strong situation, having an hundred
Armenian churches, and two mosques, and in it a Tartar officer resides.

At this place I met five preaching friars, four of whom came from Provence,
and the fifth joined them in Syria. They had but one sickly boy who could
speak Turkish and a little French, and they had the Popes letters of
request to Sartach, Baatu, and Mangu-khan, that they might be suffered to
continue in the country to preach the word of God. But when I had told them
what I had seen, and how I was sent back, they directed their journey to
Tefflis, where there were friars of their order, to consult what they
should do. I said that they might pass into Tartary with these letters, but
they might lay their account with much labour, and would have to give an
account of the motives of their journey; for having no other object but
preaching, they would be little cared for particularly as they had no
ambassador. I never heard what they did afterwards.

On the second Sunday in Lent we came to the head of the Araxes, and passing
the mountains, we came to the Euphrates, by which we descended eight days
journey, going to the west, till we came to a castle named Camath or Kemac,
where the Euphrates trends to the south, towards Halapia, or Aleppo. We
here passed to the north-west side of the river, and went over very high
mountains, and through deep snow, to the west. There was so great an
earthquake that year in this country, that in one city called Arsingan, ten
thousand persons are said to have perished. During three days journey we
saw frequent gaps in the earth, which had been cleft by the convulsion, and
great heaps of earth which had tumbled down from the mountains into the
vallies. We passed through the valley where the soldan of the Turks was
vanquished by the Tartars, and a servant belonging to my guide, who was in
the Tartar army, said the Tartars did not exceed 10,000 men, whereas the
soldan had 200,000 horse. In that plain there broke out a great lake at the
time of the earthquake, and it came into my mind, that the earth opened her
mouth to receive yet more blood of the Saracens.

We remained in Sebasta, Siwas, or Sivas, a town of the Lesser Armenia, in
the Easter week, and on the succeeding Sunday we came to Caesaria of
Capadocia, now called Kaisarea. In about fifteen days, making short
journeys, we came to Konieh or Iconium. This delay arose in part from the
difficulty of procuring horses, but chiefly because the guide chose to
stop, often for three days together in one place, to negotiate his own
affairs; and though much dissatisfied, I durst not complain, as he might
have slain me and our servants, or sold us for slaves, and there was none
to hinder it. I found many Franks at Iconium, and among these a merchant
called Nicholas de Sancto Syrio, and his partner Boniface de Molandino, who
had a monopoly of all the alum of Turkey from the soldan, and by this means
they had raised the price so much, that what used to sell for fifteen
byzants, is now sold for forty. My guide presented me to the soldan, who
said he would willingly get me conveyed to the sea of Armenia or Cilicia;
but the above merchants knowing that the Turks made little account of me,
and that I was much distressed with my guide, caused me to be conveyed to
Curruma[15], a port in the dominions of the king of Armenia. Having
remained here from before the Ascension till after Pentecost, or near a
fortnight, I heard there were messengers arrived from the king to his
father, and I went to the kings father to learn the news. I found him
surrounded by all his sons, except Barum Usin, who resided in a certain
castle; and he told me that his son was on his return, and that Mangu-khan
had much eased his tribute, granting him a privilege that no ambassador
should come into his country. On this the old man and all his sons made a
banquet; and he caused me to be conveyed by sea to the haven called
Aijax[16], whence I passed over into Cyprus, and at Nicosia I found our
provincial, who, the same day, carried me with him to Antiochia [17], which
is in a very weak state; we were there on the feast of St Peter, and St
Paul, 29th June; and from thence we went to Tripolis in Syria, where the
chapter of our order was held, on the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin,
15th August 1255.

Our provincial is determined that I shall reside at Acon [18], and will not
suffer me to come to your majesty, but commands me to write what I will by
the bearer of these presents. I would willingly see your highness, and some
spiritual friends in your kingdom; and beseech your majesty to write our
provincial to allow me to go to you, and to return shortly again into the
Holy Land.

I would have your majesty to understand, that in Turkey, every tenth man is
not a Mahometan; they are all Armenians and Greeks, and are ruled over by
children. The soldan, who was conquered by the Tartars, had a lawful wife
of Iberia, by whom he had one feeble son, whom he directed to succeed him
as soldan. He had another son by a Greek concubine, whom he committed to
the guardianship of a certain great admiral. The third he had by a Turkish
woman, to whom many Turks and Turkomans having gathered, they proposed to
have slain all the soldans sons by Christian mothers, and if successful, to
have destroyed all the churches, and to compel all to become Mahometans on
pain of death. But he was overcome in battle, and many of his men slain. He
recruited his army, and ventured a second battle, in which he was defeated
and taken prisoner, and still remains confined. Pacester, the son of the
Greek concubine, was soon afterwards made soldan, as the other was weak,
whom they have sent to the Tartars; the kindred by the mothers side, of
this son, such as the Iberians and Curds, are much dissatisfied at his
being deprived; so that at this time a child ruleth in Turkey, having no
treasure, few soldiers, and many enemies. The son of Vestacius is weak, and
at war with the son of Assan, who is likewise a child, and worn out with
the servitude of the Tartars. If, therefore, an army of the church were now
to come to the Holy Land, it were easy to subdue all these countries, or to
pass through them. The king of Hungary hath not above 30,000 soldiers. From
Cologne to Constantinople are not above sixty days journey by waggons; and
from Constantinople not so many to the country of the king of Armenia. In
old times, valiant men passed through all these countries and prospered;
yet they had to contend with most valiant opponents, whom God hath now
destroyed out of the earth. In this way we need fear no dangers of the sea,
or the mercy of sailors, and the price of freight would defray the expences
by land. I say confidently, if our countrymen would go as the king of the
Tartars does, and would be contented with such victuals, they might conquer
the whole world.

It does not seem to me expedient, that any more friars should be sent to
the Tartars, in the way I went, or as the predicant friars go. But if our
lord the Pope were to send a bishop in an honourable style, capable to
answer their follies, he might speak unto them as he pleased; for they will
hear whatever an ambassador chooses to speak, and always demand if he will
say any more. But he ought to have many good interpreters, and ought to be
at large expences.

I have thus written to your highness, according to my weak power and
understanding, craving pardon from your clemency, for my superfluities or
wants, or for any thing that may be indiscreetly or foolishly written, as
from a man of little understanding, not accustomed to write long histories.
The peace of God, which passeth all understanding, preserve your heart and
fortify your mind.


[1] The reason of the change was, probably, that they might fall in with
    the travelling Tartar camps, who went northwards in the summer, that
    they might procure food and change of horses. In going to Mangu, he
    appears to have travelled through Soongaria, and, in returning,
    through the country of the Kalmaks. The river here mentioned may have
    been the Borotala.--E

[2] Sarni, Saray, or Sarey, seems to have been built on the Achtuba, or
    eastern branch of the Volga, near Zarewpod, where many traces of a
    large town, still exist. Sumerkent is unknown, but may have been near
    Astrachan, formerly named Hadschi-Aidar-Khan. But there are ruins of a
    town still existing on both sides of the Volga, which are now used for
    the purpose of making saltpetre.--Forst.

[3] Schabran, or Schabiran.--E.

[4] Shamaki, in Shirvan.--E.

[5] The Karai, on which Tefflis or Tiblis stands, runs from the north-west;
    the Demur, Araz or Araxes from the west; and both united form the Kur,
    which runs directly south into the Caspian.--E.

[6] Georgia or Gurgistan is to the north-west of the plain of Mogan.--E.

[7] These were the ancestors of the present Turks, who laid the foundation
    of the Osmanian or Othoman empire. Kanja, called Ganges or Ganghe in
    the text, was their capital.--Frost.

[8] This passage is erroneous or corrupted. In travelling westwards up the
    Araxes or Araz, he had Persia on his left, to the south, Georgia on
    his right, to the north, and the Caspian sea and mountains of the
    Iron-gate were left _behind_ him, to the _east_ and north-east.--E.

[9] Westwards.--E.

[10] Arz-roum on the Frat or Euphrates, perhaps a corruption of Arx-
    romanorum; as the Turks give the name of Roum to a part of Lesser
    Asia; and all the eastern nations call the Constantinopolitan empire
    Roum to this day.--E.

[11] Turkey, in these travels of Rubruquis, is always, to be understood as
    referring to the Turkish dominion in Asia Minor, of which Konieh or
    Iconium was the capital.--E.

[12] Nak-sivan, or Nag-jowan.--E.

[13] This must be an error for eighty.--E.

[14] Rubruquis here tells a long story of an Armenian prophecy, from which
    they expected to be freed from the iron yoke of the Tartars, by St
    Louis, not worth inserting.--E.

[15] Kurke or Kurch.--E.

[16] Aias-cala, in the gulf of Aiasso, or Scanderoon.--E.

[17] Antioch or Antakia.--E.

[18] Ptolomais, or St John d'Acre.--E.


CHAP. X.

_Travels of Haitho, Prince of Armenia, in Tartary, in 1254 [1]._


SECTION I.

Introduction.

Haitho, or Hatto, was the son of Livon, or Leon II., nephew of Haitho I.,
king of Armenia Minor, in Lesser Asia. At the demise of his father, he
refused to accept of the crown, which he resigned in favour of his brother
Thores or Theodore; but assisted him and his son and successor, Leon III.,
in all the wars and troubles in which they were engaged during many years.
During the reign of his father in 1254, accompanied by his wife and child,
he travelled to the court of Mangu-khan, the great sovereign of the Tartars
or Mongals, for the purpose of obtaining an abatement of the tribute which
had been imposed by these conquerors upon his country, and appears to have
been successful in his negotiations. His journey into the east took place
in the same year in which Rubruquis was on his return; and while at the
court or leskar of Sartach, he was of material service to two of the
attendants of Rubruquis, who had been left at that station; and who but for
his interference must have perished by famine, or would have been reduced
to slavery. Forster asserts that Haitho met with Rubruquis, who was then on
his return home; but we have already seen, in the account of the travels of
Rubruquis, that the two travellers did not meet.

In the year 1305, when he must have become very old, Haitho became a monk
of the Praemonstratensian order at Episcopia in Cyprus. He afterwards went
to Poitou in France, where he dictated in French to Nicholas Salconi, a
history of the events which had occurred in the east from the first
commencement of the conquests of the Tartars or Mongals, including the
reigns of Zingis-khan and his successors, to Mangu-khan inclusively; and a
particular narrative of the history of his own country, Armenia Minor, from
the reign of Haitho I. to that of Leon II. both inclusive. This account
Salconi translated into Latin in 1307, by order of the reigning Pope.

The travels of Haitho being perfectly contemporary with those of Rubruquis,
are not sufficiently interesting to be here inserted; and the historical
part of his relations have no connection with the plan of this work, which
it would swell beyond due bounds: But the following brief account of his
geographical description of the east, as it existed in the thirteenth
century, and as abstracted by J. R. Forster, in his Voyages and Discoveries
in the North, have been deemed worthy of insertion, together with the
observations or commentaries of that ingenious author.


[1] Forst. Hist. of Voy. and Disc. in the North, p. 113.


SECTION II.

_Geographical Notices of the East in the Thirteenth Century, by Haitho._

§ 1. The empire of _Kathay_ is one of the most extensive, most opulent, and
most populous in the world, and is entirely situated on the sea coast. The
inhabitants have a very high notion of their own superior intelligence,
which they express by saying, that they only of all the people on earth
have _two_ eyes; to the Latins they allow _one_, and consider all other
nations as blind. The Kathayans have small eyes and no beards. Their money
consists of small square pieces of paper, impressed with the seal of their
emperor. To the west, this empire is bounded by that of the Tarsae; to the
north by the desert of Belgian; and to the south by the sea, in which there
are innumerable islands. The inhabitants of Kathay are exceedingly skilful
and ingenious in all works of art and in manufactures, but are of a very
timorous disposition. In the foregoing description, and in the traits of
character, the empire and inhabitants of northern China are distinctly
indicated.--Forst.

§ 2. The empire of _Tarsa_ is divided into three provinces, each of which
has a sovereign who assumes the title of King. The inhabitants are called
Jogur, the Jugur or Uigur of other authors. They are divided into many
tribes, ten of whom are Christians, and the rest heathens. They abstain
from every article of food which has ever had life, and drink no wine, but
raise abundance of corn. Their towns are very pleasant, and contain great
numbers of idol temples. They are not inclined to war, but learn all arts
and sciences with great facility, and have a particular manner of writing,
which is adopted by all the neighbouring nations. To the east, this country
is bounded by Kathay, to the west by Turkestan, to the north by an
extensive desert, and to the south by a very rich province, named Sym or
Peim, in which diamonds are found, and which, is situated between Kathay
and India. It appears, that Haitho here describes the country of the Uigurs
in conjunction with that of the Gete: but how it came to receive the name
of Tarsae I know not--_Forst_.

§ 3. _Turkestan_ is bounded on the east by the empire of Tarsae, to the
west by Khorasmin or Khuaresm, and to the south it extends to the desert
which forms the northern frontier of India. In this country there are few
good towns; but many extensive plains, which afford excellent pasturage to
cattle, and the inhabitants are almost universally shepherds and tenders of
cattle. They dwell mostly in tents, and in huts which can be transported
from place to place. They cultivate only a small quantity of corn, and have
no wine. Their drink is beer and milk, and they subsist upon meat with rice
and millet. The people are known by the name of Turks, and are of the
Mahometan religion. Such of them as live in towns use the Arabian letters.
Ocerra or Otrar is the capital of this country.

§ 4. _Khorasmin_ or Khuaresm, is a populous, pleasant, and fertile country,
containing many good and strong towns, the capital being Khorasme. The
country produces abundance of corn, and very little wine. This empire
borders on a desert of an hundred days journey in extent. To the west is
the Caspian sea, to the north Kumania, and to the east Turkestan. The
inhabitants are heathens, without letters or laws. The Soldini are the most
intrepid of warriors; have a particular language of their own, for which
they employ the Greek characters in writing; and they follow the usages and
rites of the Greek church, being subject in spirituals to the Patriarch of
Antioch.

According to Ulug-Beg, who was himself prince of this country, the capital
of Khuaresm is the city of Korkang, and no author except Haitho has ever
mentioned a place called Khorasme. The Soldini, whom he mentions as
Christians of the Greek church, are unknown; perhaps they may have been the
Sogdians.--_Forst_.

§ 5. _Kumania_ is of vast extent; but, owing to the inclemency of its
climate, is very thinly inhabited. In some parts, the cold is so intense in
winter, that neither man nor beast can remain in them; and in other parts
the heat is so extreme, and they are so infested with swarms of flies, as
to be quite intolerable. The whole country is flat and level, and without
woods, except some orchards near the towns. The inhabitants live in tents,
and use the dung of their cattle as fuel. It is bounded on the east by a
desert towards Khorasmia; to the west is the great sea, or Euxine, and the
sea of Tenue, Tanna, or Azof; to the north, is the empire of Kaffia or
Kiow; and to the south it extends to the great river Etile or Wolga, which
passes the capital. This river is frozen over every year, and men and
beasts walk upon the ice as on dry land; along the banks of the river are
many small trees; and on the other side of the river, the country is
inhabited by a people, who, though not Kumanians, are subject to the Khan.
Some live towards the high mountains of Cocas or Caucasus, in which there
are white kites. This range of mountains extends between the Black Sea or
Euxine on the west, and the Caspian on the east; this latter has no
connection with the ocean, but is a vast lake called a sea, on account of
its extent, being the largest lake in the world, and contains a great
quantity of excellent fish. It divides Asia into two parts; that to the
east being called _Lower_ Asia, and that to the west _Greater_ Asia. In the
Caspian mountains, abundance of buffalos and many other wild beasts are
found. In this sea there are many islands, to which numerous birds resort
to breed; particularly the falcons called _Pegrim_[1], _Esmetliones_[2],
and _Bousacei_[3], and many other birds not to be found elsewhere. The
largest town of Kumania is Sara or Saray, which was large and of great
renown, but has been ravaged, and almost entirely destroyed by the Tartars,
who took it by storm.

It is obvious, that Haitho here describes that part of the empire of the
Mongals which was subject to Baatu-khan. The Euxine or Black Sea, he calls
the _Great Sea_. The sea of Tenue is that of Tanna or Azof, the town at the
mouth of the Tanais or Don having been known by both of these names, the
former evidently derived from the ancient name of the river, or the river
from the town, and of which the modern name Don is a mere corruption. The
empire of Kaffia is obviously that of Kiow, Kiovia, or Kiavia, long the
capital of the Russian empire, and the residence of the czars or great
dukes.--Forst.

§ 6. Beyond the great mountain of Belgian or Bilkhan, the Tartars lived
formerly without religion, or the knowledge of letters, being chiefly
employed in tending their flocks; and were so far from warlike, that they
readily submitted to pay tribute to any neighbouring prince who made the
demand. All the tribes of the Tartars were known by the name of Mogles,
Moguls or Mongals; and in process of time they increased so much, as to
form seven populous independent nations. The first was called Tartar, after
a province of that name, which was their original habitation; the second
Tangot, Tangut, or Tongusians; the third Kunat; the fourth Jalair or
Thalair; the fifth Sonich; the sixth Monghi; and the seventh Tabeth.
Prompted by a vision and a command from God, the chiefs of these nations
chose Changi or Zinghis to be their sovereign ruler or Great Khan; and we
are told that when he came down from the mountains of Belgian, the sea
withdrew nine feet, and made a way for him where there was none before.

This seems to be the same history with that of Irganekon, which is also
related by Abulgasi. The mountain Belgian must be looked for in the
environs of lake Balehas, in the country of Organum or Irganekon. According
to the Nighiaristan, a collection of oriental history, the Turkomanni
likewise came from a place called Belgian or Bilkhan.--Forst.


[1] Faucon Pelerin, the Pilgrim Falcon,--Forst.

[2] Esmerliones, or Merlins.--Forst.

[3] The Bondree and Sacre, or the Honey-buzzard and Sacre.--Forst.


CHAP. XI.

_Travels of Marco Polo, through Tartary, China, the Islands of India, and
most of Asia, from A. D. 1260 to 1295 [1]._


Nicolo Polo, the father of this intelligent early traveller, and Maffei
Polo his uncle, were Venetian gentlemen engaged in commerce; and appear to
have gone into the east, in the prosecution of their trade, in the year
1260. They resided far some time at the court of Kublai-khan, the great
emperor of the Mongals or Tartars; and, returning to Venice in 1269, they
found that the wife of Nicolo had died during their absence, leaving a son
Marco, the author of the following travels, of whom she was pregnant at the
time of their departure. These circumstances are detailed in the first
section of this chapter, but the date which has been usually assigned for
the commencement of this first journey, 1250, is evidently corrupted, as
will appear from the following considerations, derived from a comparison of
the chronology of the kings and princes, who are mentioned in the travels
as reigning at the time. The high probability is, that the obvious mistake,
of assuming the year 1250 as the era of the first journey, arose from a
careless substitution of the figure 5 for 6 in transcription.

Assuming the corrected date of 1260 as the commencement of the first
journey of Nicolo and Maffei Polo, this will appear to be consonant with
the chronology of the princes with whose reigns their travels were
connected; while the date of 1250, adopted by Ramusio and Muller, is
totally irreconcilable with the truth of history. They remained one year at
the leskar or camp of Bereke-khan, whence they travelled into Bochara,
where they tarried three years. From thence they spent one year on their
journey to the court of Kublai-khan, and were three years on their journey
back to Venice. But as they remained some time at the residence of
Kublai-khan, one year may be allowed for that circumstance; and this first
journey may therefore be allowed to have occupied nine years in all.

Kublai-khan reigned supreme emperor of the Mongals from 1259 to 1294, in
which last year he died at eighty years of age. If, therefore, Nicolo and
Maffei had set out upon their first journey in 1250, they must have arrived
at the imperial residence of Cambalu, or Pekin, in 1255, at the latest, or
four years before Kublai-khan ascended the throne. Their first journey
commenced while Baldwin II. was emperor of Constantinople, who reigned from
1234 to 1261. The khan of Kiptschak, or the western division of the vast
empire of the Mongals, at the time of this journey, was Bereke, who ruled
from 1256 to 1266. Holagu-khan, who was then at war with Bereke, did not
begin to reign till 1258. Hence it follows, that they could not have
commenced their first journey at the very earliest before 1258, or 1259
rather; as it is not to be supposed that Holagu would enter upon a
dangerous war in the first year of his reign. Upon the whole, therefore,
the date of 1260, for the commencement of the first journey, as already
observed, is perfectly consistent with the chronology of history.

The year of their return to Venice, 1269, is agreed upon on all hands; and
as Marco was born in the first year of their absence, he would then be
about nine years of age. Ramusio, who dates the commencement of the first
journey in 1250, supposes Marco to have been fifteen years of age at the
return of his father and uncle, which is absurd; as, if the era assumed by
Ramusio were possibly true, he must then have been in his nineteenth year.

According to the opinion of Mr J. R. Forster, the commencement of the
second journey in which Marco was engaged, must have been in 1271; and he
founds this opinion on the circumstance, that Gregory IX. had then been
elected pope, from whom they carried letters for Kublai-khan. But it will
appear from the travels themselves, that the three Polos had commenced
their journey previously to the election of that sovereign pontiff, and
that they were detained some time in Armenia, in consequence of an express
sent after them for the purpose, that they might there wait for his final
instructions. They may, therefore, have commenced this second journey in
1270. We only know, however, that they set out from Venice for a second
journey into Tartary, soon after their return from the first, in 1269; and
that they carried young Marco along with them. On his appearance at the
court of Cambalu, Kublai-khan took a fancy to the young Venetian, and
caused him to be instructed in four of the principal languages which were
spoken in the extensive dominions of the Mongals. Marco was afterwards
employed by the khan, for a considerable number of years, in several
important affairs, as will appear in the relation of his travels.

At length, the three Polos returned to Venice, in 1295, after an absence of
twenty-five or twenty-six years, during which long period they had never
been heard of by their friends and countrymen, seventeen years of which
Marco had been employed in the service of the great khan. On their return
to their own house in Venice, they were entirely forgotten by their
relations and former acquaintances, and had considerable difficulty to
establish their identity, and to get themselves recognized by their family,
and were obliged to use extraordinary means to recover the respect which
was their due, and an acknowledgement of their name, family, and rank, the
particulars of which will be found in the travels themselves.

About three years after the return of these adventurous travellers,
hostilities arose between the republics of Genoa and Venice. The Genoese
admiral, Lampa Doria, came to the island of Curzola with a fleet of seventy
gallies, to oppose whom, the Venetians fitted out a great naval force under
Andrea Dandolo, under whom Marco Polo had the command of a galley. The
Venetians were totally defeated in a great naval engagement, with the loss
of their admiral and eighty-five ships, and Marco Polo had the misfortune
to be among the number of the prisoners.

Harris alleges that he remained a prisoner during several years, in spite
of every offer of ransom that was made for his liberation. But in this he
must have mistaken, or been misled by the authorities which he trusted to,
as peace was concluded in 1299, the year immediately subsequent to the
naval engagement in which he was made prisoner. While in prison at Genoa,
many of the young nobility are said to have resorted to Marco, to listen to
the recital of his wonderful travels and surprizing adventures; and they
are said to have prevailed upon him to send to Venice for the notes which
he had drawn up during his peregrinations, by means of which the following
relation is said to have been written in Latin from has dictation. From the
original Latin, the account of his travels was afterwards translated into
Italian; and from this again, abridgements were afterwards made in Latin
and diffused over Europe.

According to Baretti[2], the travels of Marco Polo were dictated by him in
1299, while in the prison of Genoa, to one Rustigielo, an inhabitant of
Pisa, who was his fellow prisoner. They were afterwards published in
Italian, and subsequently translated into Latin by Pessuri, a Dominican
monk of Bologna. But suddenly rising above the voices of the singers, and
the shouts of the people, a voice was heard, crying aloud, "Vivat
Frederick the Great!"
The people who had listened silently to the Latin because they did not
understand it, joined as with one impulse in this cry, the shout arose
as from one throat, "Vivat Frederick the Great!" And this cry spread
like wildfire through all the streets, over all the public squares; it
resounded from every window, and even from the tops of the houses. To-day
Berlin had rebaptized her king. She gave him now a new name, the name which
he will bear through all ages, the name of Frederick the Great.

The king flushed deeply as he heard this cry. His heart, which had been
sad and gloomy, seemed warmed as by a ray of sunlight.

Ambition throbbed within his breast, and awakened him from his melancholy
thoughts. No, Frederick had now no time to think of the dead; no time
to mourn secretly over the loved, the faithful friends whom he would no
longer find in Berlin. The king must overcome the feelings of the friend.
His people are here to greet him, to welcome his return, to bestow upon
him an immortal name. The king has no right to withdraw himself from their
love; he must meet it with his whole soul, his whole heart.

Convincing himself that this was necessary, Frederick lifted his head, a
bright color mounted to his chocks, and his eyes flashed as he bowed
graciously to his people. Now he is truly Frederick the Great, for he has
conquered his own heart, and he has poured upon the open wound of his
private sorrows the balm of his people's love.

Now the carriage of the king has reached the palace gate. Frederick raises
his hat once more, and bows smilingly to the people, whose cries of "Vivat
Frederick the Great" still fill the air. When for a moment there is
silence, a single, clear, commanding voice is heard, "Long live Frederick
the Great!"
The king turns hastily; he has recognized the voice of his mother.
She is standing on the threshold of the palace, surrounded by the princesses
of the royal family. Her eyes are more brilliant than the diamonds
which glitter in her hair, and more precious than the costly pearls upon her
bosom are the drops which fall from her eyes, tears of pride and
happiness, shed in this moment of triumph.

Again she repeats the cry taught her by the people, "Long live Frederick
the Great!"
The king knew the first tone of that dear voice, and, springing from the
carriage, hurried forward and threw himself into his mother's extended
arms, and laid his head upon her breast, as he had done when a child,
and wept hot tears, which no one saw, which his mother alone felt
upon her bosom.

Near them stood Elizabeth Christine, the consort of the king, and in the
depths of her heart she repeated the cry of the people, and she gazed
prayerfully toward heaven, as she petitioned for the long and happy life of
her adored husband. But Frederick did not see her; he gave his arm to his
mother, and they entered the palace, followed by his wife and his sisters
and brothers.

"Frederick the Great!"

This cry still resounds through the streets, and the windows of the palace
tremble with the ringing of this proud name. The sound enters the
saloons before him; it opens wide the doors of the White Saloon, and when
the king enters, the pictures and statues of the Hohenzollerns appear to
become animate, the dead eyes flash, the stiffened lips smile, and the
motionless heads seem to bow, for Frederick's new name has called his
ancestors from their graves--this name, which only one other Hohenzollern
had borne before him--this name, which is as rare a blossom on the
genealogical trees of the proudest royal families as the blossoms of
the aloe. The king greets his ancestors with a happy smile, for he feels
that he is no unworthy successor. He has forgotten his grief and his pain;
he has overcome them. In this hour he is only the king and hero.

But as the shadows of night approach, and Berlin is brilliant with
illuminations, Frederick lays aside his majesty, and becomes once more the
loving man, the friend.

He is sitting by the death-bed of his friend and preceptor, Duhan.

The joyous shouts of the people are still heard without, but the
king heeds them not; he hears only the heavy breathing of his friend,
and speaks to him gentle words of love and consolation.

At length ho leaves his friend, and now a new light springs into
his eyes.

He is no longer a king, no longer a mourning friend, he is only a
young man.

He is going to spend an hour with his friend General Rothenberg, and forget
his royalty for a while.

Rothenberg seems to have forgotten it also, for he does not come
to welcome his kingly guest.

He does not receive him on the threshold.
No one receives him, but the hall and stairway are brilliantly lighted;
and, as he ascends, a door opens, and a woman appears, beautiful as an
angel, with eyes beaming like stars, with lips glowing as crimson roses.
Is it an angel or a woman? Her voice is as the music of the spheres to
the king, when she whispers her welcome to him, and he, at last, thinks he
beholds an angel when he sees Barbarina.

CHAPTER X.

JOB'S POST.

Berlin shouted, huzzaed, sang, danced, declaimed, illuminated for three
entire days in honor of the conquered peace, and the return of her great
king. Every one but the young Princess Amelia seemed contented, happy,
joyous. She took no part in the glad triumph of her family, and the loud
hosarmas of the people found no echo in her breast. With heavy heart and
misty eyes she walked slowly backward and forward in her boudoir. For three
days she had borne this terrible torture, this anguish of uncertainty. Her
soul was moved with fearful anticipations, but she was forced to appear
gay.

For three days, with trembling heart and lips, she had been compelled to
appear at the theatre, the masquerades, the balls, and ceremonious dinners
of the court. She felt that the stern eye of the king was ever
searchingly and angrily fixed upon her.

Several times, completely overcome and exhausted by her efforts to seem gay
and careless, she sought to withdraw unobserved to her room, but her
ever-watchful brother intercepted her, and led her back to her place by
her royal mother. He chatted and jested merrily, but his expression was dark
and threatening. Once she had not the power to respond with
smiles. She fixed her pleading, tearful eyes upon the king. He bowed down
to her, and said harshly: "I command you to appear gay. A princess has not
the right to weep when her people are happy."
To-day the court festivities closed. At last Amelia dared hope for some hours
of solitude and undisturbed thought. To-day she could weep and allow her
pale lips to express the wild grief of her heart.
In her loneliness she dared give utterance to the cry of anguish rending her
bosom.

Where was he? where was Trenck? Why had he not returned? Why had she
no news, no love-token, no message from him? She had carefully examined the
list of killed and wounded. He had not fallen in battle. He was not
fatally wounded. He had not returned with the army, or she would have
seen him. Where was he, then? Was he ill, or had he forgotten her, or did
he blush to return without his laurels?
Had he been taken by the Austrians? Was her beloved suffering in a loathsome
prison, while she was laughing, jesting, and adorning herself in costly
array? While she thus thought and spoke, burning tears blinded her eyes,
and sighs and sobs choked her utterance.

"If he is dead," said she, firmly, "then I will also die. If he is in prison,
I will set him at liberty. If he does not come because he has not been
promoted and fears I no longer love him, I will seek him out, I
will swear that I love him, that I desire only his love, that I
will fly with him to some lonely, quiet valley.

I will lay aside my rank, my royalty, forget my birth, abandon all
joyously, that I may belong to him, be his fond and dear-loved wife."
And now a light sound was heard at the door, and she recognized the voice
of her maid asking admittance.

"Ah!" said Amelia, "if the good Marwitz were here, I should not have to
endure this torture, but my brother has unconsciously robbed me of this
consolation. He has sent my friend and confidante home, and forced upon me
a strange and stupid woman whom I hate."
And now a gentle voice plead more earnestly for admittance.

"I must indeed open the door," said the princess, unwillingly drawing
back the bolt. "Enter, Mademoiselle von Haak," said Amelia, turning her
back in order to conceal her red and swollen eyes.

Mademoiselle von Haak gave a soft, sad glance at the young princess, and in
a low voice asked for pardon for her unwelcome appearance.

"Without doubt your reason for coming will justify you," said the princess.
"I pray you, therefore, to make it known quickly. I wish to be alone."
"Alas! your royal highness is harsh with me," whispered the young girl. "I
was forced upon you.

I know it; you hate me because I have taken the place of Mademoiselle von
Marwitz. I assure you I was not to blame in this. It was only after
the written and peremptory command of his majesty the king that my mother
consented to my appearance at court."
"Have you come, mademoiselle, simply to tell me this?"
"No, your royal highness; I come to say that I love you. Even since I had
the honor of knowing you, I have loved you. In the loneliness which
surrounds me here, my heart gives itself up wholly to you. Oh, do not spurn
me from you! Tell me why you are sad; let me bear a part of your sorrow.
Princess, I offer you the heart of a true friend, of a sister--will you
cast me off?"
The young girl threw herself upon her knees before the princess, and her
cheeks were bathed in tears. Amelia raised and embraced her.

"Oh!" said she, "I see that God has not utterly forsaken me. He sends me
aid and comfort in my necessity. Will you be, indeed, my friend?"
"Yes, a friend in whom you can trust fully, to whom you can speak freely,"
said Mademoiselle von Haak.

"Who knows but that may be more dangerous for you than for me?" sighed
Amelia. "There are fearful secrets, the mere knowledge of which brings
destruction."
"But if I already know the secret of your royal highness?

--if I understand the reason of your grief during these last few days?"

"Well, then, tell me what you know."
The maiden bowed down low to the ear of her mistress. "Your eyes seek in
vain for him whom you love. You suffer, for you know not where he is."

"Yes, you are right," cried Amelia. "I suffer the anguish of uncertainty.
If I do not soon learn where he is, I shall die in despair."
"Shall I tell you, princess?"
Amelia turned pale and trembled. "You will not say that he is in his grave?"
said she, breathlessly.

"No, your highness, he lives and is well."
"He lives, is well, and comes not?"
"He cannot come--he is a prisoner."
"A prisoner! God be thanked it is no worse! The king will obtain his
liberation. My brother cares for his young officers--he will not leave him
in the hands of the Austrians. Oh! I thank you--I thank you. You are
indeed a messenger of glad tidings. And now the king will be pleased
with me. I can be merry and laugh, and jest with him."
Mademoiselle von Haak bowed her head sadly, and sighed. "He is not in an
Austrian prison," she said, in low tones.

"Not in an Austrian prison?" repeated Amelia, astonished, "where
is he, then? My God! why do you not speak? Where is Trenck? Who has
captured him? Speak! I die with impatience and anxiety."
"In God's name, princess, listen to me calmly, and above all things,
speak softly. I am sure you are surrounded by spies. If we are heard,
we are lost!"
"Do you wish me to die?" murmured the princess, sinking exhausted upon the
divan. "Where is Trenck?"
"He is in the fortress of Glatz," whispered Von Haak.

"Ah! in a Prussian fortress; sent there by the king? He has committed some
small fault in discipline, as once before, and as this is the second
offence, the king punishes him more severely.
That is all! I thank you; you have restored my peace of mind."
"I fear, princess, that you are mistaken. It is said that Baron von Trenck
has been arrested for high treason."
The princess became deadly pale, and almost fainted. She overcame this
weakness, however, quickly, and said smilingly: "He will then soon be free,
for all must know that he is innocent."
"God grant that it may be proved!" said Mademoiselle von Haak. "This is no
time to shrink or be silent. You have a great, strong heart, and you love
him. You must know all! Listen, therefore, princess. I also love; I also
look to the future with hope! My love is calm, for it is without danger; it
has my mother's consent and blessing. Our only hope is, that my lover
may be promoted, and that the king will give his consent to our marriage.
We are both poor, and rely only upon the favor of the king. He is now
lieutenant, and is on duty in the garrison of Glatz."
"In Glatz! and you say that Trenck is a prisoner in Glatz?"
"Yes, I received letters yesterday from Schnell. He belongs to the
officers who have guard over Trenck. He writes that he feels the
profoundest pity for this young man, and that he will joyfully aid
him in every way. He asks me if I know no one who has the courage
to plead with the king in behalf of this unhappy youth."
"My God! my God! give me strength to hear all, and yet control
myself!" murmured Amelia. "Do you know the nature of his punishment?"
said she, quietly.
"No one knows positively the duration of his punishment; but the
commandant of the fort told the officers that Trenck would be a
prisoner for many years."
The princess uttered one wild cry, then pressed both hands upon her
lips and forced herself to silence.
"What is the charge against him?" she said, after a long pause.
"High treason. A treasonable correspondence has been discovered
between him and his cousin the pandour."
The princess shrugged her shoulders contemptuously. "He will soon
justify himself, in view of this pitiful charge! His judges will
acknowledge his innocence, and set him at liberty. But why is he
not already free? Why has he been condemned? Who were his judges?
Did you not say to me that he was condemned?"
"My lover wrote me that Baron Trenck had written to the king and
asked for a court-martial and trial."
"This proves his innocence; he does not fear a trial! What was the
king's answer?"
"He ordered the commandant to place Trenck in closer confinement,
and to forward no more letters from him. And now, princess, you
must act promptly; use all your power and influence, if you would
save him!"
"I have no influence, I have no power!" cried Amelia, with streaming
eyes. "Oh! you do not know my brother; his heart is of stone. No
one can move him--neither his, mother, his sisters, nor his wife;
his purpose is unchangeable, and what he says is fixed. But I will
show him that I am his sister; that the hot blood of the Hohenzollerns
flows also in my veins. I will seek him boldly; I will avow that I
love Trenck; I will demand that he give Trenck liberty, or give me
death! I will demand--"
The door was hastily opened, and a servant said, breathlessly, "The
king is coming!"
"No, he is already here," said the king, who now stood upon the
threshold of the door. "He comes to beg his little sister to accompany
him to the court-yard and see the reindeer and the Laplanders, sent
to us by the crown princess of Sweden."
The king advanced to his sister, and held out both his hands. But
Amelia did not appear to see this. She made a profound and ceremonious
bow, and murmured a few cold words of greeting. The king frowned,
and looked at her angrily. He saw that she had been weeping, and
his expression was harsh and stern.
"Come, princess!" said he imperiously.
But Amelia had now overcome her terror and her confusion. She was
resolved to act, and know the worst.
"Will your majesty grant me an audience? I have something important,
most important to myself, to say. I would speak more to the heart
of my brother than to the ear of my king. I pray your majesty to
allow me to speak with you alone."He executed the commission with which he had been entrusted with
judgment and discretion, and perfectly to the satisfaction of the khan: And
knowing that the khan would be delighted with an account of all the
novelties in the places through which he had to pass, he diligently
inquired into the manners and customs of the people, the conditions of the
countries, and every thing worthy of being remarked, making a memorial of
all he knew or saw, which he presented to the great khan for his
information and amusement. By this means he got so much into the favour of
the khan, that during the twenty-six years which he continued in his
service, he was continually sent through all his realms and dependencies,
chiefly on affairs of government, but sometimes on his own private matters,
by the khan's orders; and this is the true reason that he should have seen
and learnt so many particulars relating to the east, as he has declared in
these his memoirs.

After staying many years in the court of the great khan, and having become
very rich in jewels of great value, and considering that if the khan, who
was now grown very old, should happen to die, they should never be able to
return home; the Venetians became exceedingly anxious to be permitted to
return to their own country. Wherefore, one day that he found the khan in
extraordinary good humour, Nicolo begged permission to return home with his
family. At this the Khan was much displeased, and asked what could induce
them to undertake so long and dangerous a journey; adding, that if they
were in want of riches, he would gratify their utmost wishes, by bestowing
upon them twice as much as they possessed; but out of pure affection, he
refused to give them leave to depart.

It happened, however, not long after this, that a king of the Indies named
Argon, sent three of his counsellors, named Ulatai, Apusca, and Coza, as
ambassadors to Kublai-khan on the following occasion. Bolgana, the wife of
Argon, was lately dead, and on her death-bed had requested of her husband
that he should choose a wife from among her relations in Kathay. Kubla
yielded to this request, and chose a fair young maiden of seventeen years
of age, named Cogalin[14], who was of the family of the late queen Bolgana,
and determined to send her to Argon. The ambassadors departed with their
charge, and journeyed eight months the same way they had come to the court
of Kublai; but found bloody wars raging among the Tartars, insomuch, that
they were constrained to return and to acquaint the great khan with the
impossibility of their proceeding home in that road. In the mean time,
Marco had returned from the Indies, where he had been employed with certain
ships in the service of the khan, to whom he had reported the singularities
of the places which he had visited, and the facility of intercourse by sea
between Kathay and the Indies. This came to the knowledge of the
ambassadors, who conferred with the Venetians on the subject; and it was
agreed, that the ambassadors and the young queen should go to the great
khan, and beg permission to return by sea, and should request to have the
three Europeans, who were skilful in sea affairs, to accompany and conduct
them to the dominions of king Argon. The great khan was much dissatisfied
with this proposal, yet, at the earnest entreaty of the ambassadors, he at
length gave his consent; and calling Nicolo, Maffei, and Marco into his
presence, after much demonstration of his favour and affection, he made
them promise to return to him after they had spent some time in Christendom
among their relations; and he caused a tablet of gold to be given them, on
which his commands were engraven for their liberty, security, and free
passage throughout all his dominions, and that all the expences of them and
their attendants should be defrayed, providing them everywhere with guides
and escorts, where necessary. He authorized them also to act as his
ambassadors to the pope, and the kings of France and Spain, and all other
Christian princes.

The khan ordered fourteen ships to be prepared for the voyage, each having
four masts, and carrying nine sails. Four or five of these were so large as
to have from 250 to 260 mariners in each, but the rest were smaller. In
this fleet the queen and the ambassadors embarked, accompanied by Nicolo,
Maffei, and Marco; having first taken leave of the great khan, who
presented them, at parting, with many rubies and other precious stones, and
a sum or money sufficient to defray all their expences for two years.
Setting sail from Kathay or China, they arrived in three months at an
island called Java, and sailing from thence they arrived in eighteen months
in the dominions of king Argon. Six hundred of the mariners and others died
during the voyage, and but one woman; and only Coza of the three
ambassadors survived. On arriving at the dominions of Argon, he was found
to be dead, and a person named Ghiacato or Akata, governed the kingdom for
his son Casan; who was under age. On making the regent acquainted with
their business, he desired them to carry the young queen to Casan, who was
then on the confines of Persia, towards Arbor Secco[15] with an army of
60,000 men, guarding certain passes of the frontiers against the
enterprises of their enemies; Having executed this order, Nicolo, Maffei,
and Marco, returned to the residence of Chiacato, and staid there for nine
months.

At the end of this period they took leave of Chiacato, who gave them four
tablets of gold, each a cubit long and five fingers broad, and weighing
three or four marks[16]. On these were engraven to the following purport:
"In the power of the eternal God, the name of the great khan shall be
honoured and praised for many years; and whosoever disobeyeth, shall he put
to death, and all his goods confiscated." Besides this preamble, they
farther commanded, that all due honour should be shown to the three
ambassadors of the khan, and service performed to them in all the countries
and districts subject to his authority, as to himself in person; that all
necessary relays of horses and escorts, and their expences, and every thing
needful should be supplied to them freely and gratuitously. All this was
duly executed, so that sometimes they had 200 horse for their safeguard.
During their journey, they were informed that the great emperor of the
Tartars, Kublai-khan was dead, by which they considered themselves absolved
from all obligations of the promise they had made to return to his court.
They continued their journey to Trebisond, on the south side of the Euxine;
whence they proceeded by the way of Constantinople and Negropont to Venice,
where they arrived in safety, and with great riches, in the year 1295.

On their arrival at their own house, in the street of St Chrysostom in
Venice, they found themselves entirely forgotten by all their old
acquaintances and countrymen, and even their relations were unable to
recognize them, owing to their long absence, now thirty-five years from
setting, out on their first journey into the east; besides being much
altered by age they had become altogether resembling Tartars in their
speech, dress and manners, and were obliged to use some extraordinary
expedients to satisfy their family and countrymen of their identity, and to
recover the respect which was their due, by a public acknowledgment of
their name, family, and rank. For this purpose, they invited all their
relations arid connections to a magnificent entertainment, at which all the
three travellers made their appearance in rich eastern habits of crimson
satin. After the guests were seated, and before the Polos sat down, they
put off their upper garments which they gave to the attendants, appearing
still magnificently dressed in habits of crimson damask. These they threw
off at the appearance of the last course or service of the entertainment,
and bestowed likewise on the attendants; while they themselves still
appeared clad in magnificent dresses of crimson velvet. When dinner was
over, and all the servants had withdrawn, Marco Polo produced to the
company the coats of Tartarian cloth or felt, which he, and his father and
uncle had ordinarily worn during their travels, from the folds of which he
took out an incredible quantity of rich jewels; among which were some that
were well known to those who were present at the entertainment, and by
which the three travellers incontestibly proved themselves members of the
Polo family, and the identical persons they represented themselves.


[1] The Black-Sea, or Euxine, is here called the _Great_ Sea. Soldadia,
    Soldaia, or Sudak, was a city in the Crimea, a little to the west of
    Caffa.--Forst.

[2] Barha or Barcha, more properly Bereke-khan, who reigned from 1256 to
    1266.--E.

[3] Bolgara is the town of Bolgari, the capital of Bulgaria, which
    subsisted from 1161 to 1578. Alsara is Al-seray, which was built by
    Baatu-khan, on the Achtuba, a branch of the Volga.--Forst.

[4] Probably Holagu-khan, to whom all Persia was in subjection, quite to
    Syria.--Forst.

[5] Ukakah, Grikhata, Khorkang, or Urghenz on the Gihon.--Forst.

[6] Bereke-khan.--Forst.

[7] This probably refers to the Constantinopolitan or Greek emperor; his
    dominions being called _Roum_ in the east to the present day.--E.

[8] In different editions this name is corruptly written Gogoka, Gogatal,
    Cogatal, and Chogatal.--E.

[9] Otherwise called Glaza and Galza, but more properly Al-Ajassa, on the
    south-east extremity of the Euxine or Black-sea.--Forst.

[10] Acon, or more properly Akko. It is not easy to conceive what should
    have taken them so much out of their way as Acre; unless they could
    not procure shipping at Giazza, and travelled therefore by land
    through Asia Minor and Syria; or that they intended here to procure
    the holy oil for the khan.--E.

[11] This is an error in transcription, and it has been already noticed in
    the introduction to these travels, that Marco could not then have
    exceeded the ninth year of his age.--E.

[12] Bibars el Bentochdari, sultan of Kahira or Cairo, in Egypt, often
    called Babylon.--Forst.

[13] Chambalu, or Khan-balu, or the city of the Khan, now Peking.--Forst.

[14] Called likewise; Kogatin, Gogatin, and Gogongin, in the different
    transcripts of these travels.--E.

[15] From the circumstance of this kingdom of Argon being near Arbor Secco
    it would appear to have been one of the eight kingdoms of Persia
    mentioned in the sequel; and from the sea voyage, it probably was
    Mekran, which, reaches to the sea and the Indies,--E.

[16] These were most princely letters-patent; equal in weight to 400
    guineas, perhaps equal in efficacious value to 4000 in our times.--E.


SECTION II.

_Description of Armenia the Lesser, of the country of the Turks of Greater
Armenia, Zorzania, the kingdom of Mosul, of the cities of Bagdat and
Tauris, and account of a strange Miracle[1]._

There are two Armenias, the Greater and the Lesser. In the Lesser Armenia
the king resides in a city called Sebaste; and in all this country justice
and good government are strictly enforced. This kingdom has many cities,
fortresses, and castles; the soil is fertile, and the country abounds with
game and wildfowl, and every necessary article of provisions, but the air
is not very good. Formerly the Armenian gentlemen were brave men and good
soldiers, but are now become effeminate, and addicted to drinking and
debauchery. The city of Giazza, on the Black Sea, has an excellent harbour,
to which merchants resort from divers countries, even from Venice and
Genoa, for several sorts of merchandize, especially for the different kinds
of spices, and various other valuable goods, which are brought here from
India, as this place is the settled market for the commodities of the east.

Turcomania is inhabited by three different nations, Turcomans, Greeks, and
Armenians. The Turcomans, who are Mahometans, are a rude, illiterate, and
savage people, inhabiting the mountains and inaccessible places, where they
can procure pasture, as they subsist only on the produce of their flocks
and herds. In their country there are excellent horses, called Turkish
horses, and their mules are in great estimation. The Greeks and Armenians
possess the cities and towns, and employ themselves in manufactures and
merchandize, making, especially, the best carpets in the world. Their chief
cities are Cogno or Iconium, Caesarea, and Sebaste, where St Basil suffered
martyrdom. This country is under subjection to one of the khans of the
Tartars.

The Greater Armenia is a large province, subject to the Tartars, which has
many cities and towns, the principal of which is Arsugia, in which the best
buckram in the world is made. In this neighbourhood there are excellent hot
springs, which are celebrated as salutary baths in many diseases. The
cities next in consequence are Argiron and Darziz. In the summer season
many Tartars resort to this country on account of the richness of the
pastures, and retire again in winter, because of the abundance of snow. The
ark of Noah rested on Arrarat, one of the mountains of Armenia.

This country has the province of Mosul and Meridin on the east, or
Diarbekir; and on the north is Zorzania[2], where there is a fountain that
discharges a liquid resembling oil; which, though it cannot be used as a
seasoning for meat, is yet useful for burning in lamps, and for many other
purposes; and it is found in sufficient quantities to load camels, and to
form a material object of commerce. In Zorzania is a prince named David
Melic or King David; one part of the province being subject to him, while
the other part pays tribute to a Tartar khan. The woods are mostly of
box-trees. Zorzania extends between the Euxine and Caspian seas; which
latter is likewise called the sea of Baccu, and is 2800 miles in
circumference: but is like a lake, as it has no communication with any
other sea. In it there are many islands, cities, and castles, some of which
are inhabited by the people who fled from the Tartars out of Persia.

The people of Zorzania are Christians, observing the same rites with
others, and wear their hair short like the western clergy. There are many
cities, and the country abounds in silk, of which they make many fine
manufactures. Moxul or Mosul, is a province containing many sorts of
people; some are called Arahi, who are Mahometans; others are Christians of
various sects, as Nestorians, Jacobites, and Armenians; and they have a
patriarch stiled Jacolet, who ordains archbishops, bishops, and abbots,
whom he sends all over India, and to Cairo, and Bagdat, and wherever there
are Christians, in the same manner as is done by the pope of Rome. All the
stuffs of gold and silk, called _musleims_, are wrought in Moxul[3]. In the
mountains of this country of Diarbekir, dwelt the people called Curds, some
off whom are Nestorians or Jacobites, and other Mahometans. They are a
lawless people, who rob the merchants that travel through their country.
Near to them is another province called Mus, Meridin, or Mardin, higher up
the Tigris than Mosul, wherein grows great quantities of cotton, of which
they make buckrams[4] and other manufactures. This province is likewise
subject to the Tartars. Baldach, or Bagdat, is a great city in which the
supreme caliph formerly resided, who was pope of all the Saracens. From
this city it is counted seventeen days journey to the sea; but the river
Tigris runs past, on which people sail to Balsora, where the best dates in
the world grow, but in the passage between these; two cities there lies
another named Chisi. In Bagdat are many manufactures of gold and silk, and
damasks and velvets with figures of various creatures; in that city there
is a university, where the law of Mahoment, physic, astronomy, and geomancy
are taught; and from it come all the pearls in Christendom.

When the Tartars began to extend their conquests, there were four brothers
who possessed the chief rule; of whom Mangu, the eldest, reigned in
Sedia[5]. These brethren proposed to themselves to subdue the whole world,
for which purpose one went to the east, another to the north, a third to
the west, and Ulau or Houlagu went to the south in 1250, with an army of an
hundred thousand horse, besides foot. Employing stratagem, he hid a great
part of his force in ambush, and advancing with an inconsiderable number,
enticed the caliph to follow him by a pretended flight; by this means he
took the caliph prisoner, and made himself master of the city, in which he
found such infinite store of treasure, that he was quite amazed. Sending
for the caliph into his presence, he sharply reproved him, that, possessing
such riches, he had not employed them in providing soldiers to defend his
dominions; and commanded him to be shut up in the tower where his treasure
was placed, without any sustenance.

This seemed a just judgment from our Lord Jesus Christ upon the caliph;
for, in the year 1225, seeking to convert the Christians to the Mahometan
superstition, and taking advantage of that passage in the gospel which
says, "He that hath faith as a grain of mustard seed, shall be able to
remove mountains," he summoned all the Christians, Nestorians, and
Jacobites, and gave them their choice, "In ten days to remove a certain
mountain, to turn Mahometans or to be slain;" alleging that there was not
one among them who had the least grain of faith. The astonished and
dismayed Christians continued ten days in prayer; when, by a revelation to
a certain bishop, a certain shoemaker was chosen to perform this
compulsatory miracle. This shoemaker was once tempted to lust in fitting a
shoe to a young woman, and had literally and zealously performed the
injunction of the gospel by putting out his right eye. On the day appointed
by the caliph, he and all the Christians of the city followed the cross
towards the mountain; then, lifting up his hands, he prayed to God to have
mercy on his afflicted people, and, in a loud voice, commanded the
mountain, in the name of the holy and ever blessed Trinity to remove: which
it presently did, to the great astonishment and terror of the caliph and
all his people, The anniversary of this day, and the evening before, is
ever since kept holy by fasting and prayer[6].


[1] Marco Polo having spent much the largest portion of his life
among the Tartars, necessarily used their names for the countries, places,
and people which he described, and these names have been subsequently much
disfigured in transcription. This has occasioned great perplexity to
commentators in endeavouring to explain his geography conformably with
modern maps, and which even is often impossible to be done with any
tolerable certainty. The arrangement, likewise, of his descriptions is
altogether arbitrary, so that the sequence does not serve to remove the
difficulty; and the sections appear to have been drawn up in a desultory
manner just as they occurred to his recollection, or as circumstances in
the conversation or inquiry of others occasioned him to commit his
knowledge to paper.--E.

[2] Gurgistan, usually called Georgia.--E.

[3] This manufacture from Mosul or Moxul, on the Tigris, must be carefully
    distinguished from the muslins of India, which need not be
    described.--E

[4] These buckrams seem to have been some coarse species of cotton cloth,
    in ordinary wear among the eastern nations. The word occurs
    frequently, in these early travels in Tartary, but its proper meaning
    is unknown--E.

[5] This word is inexplicable, unless by supposing it some corruption of
    _Syra_ Horda, the golden court or imperial residence, which was
    usually in Tangut or Mongalia, on the Orchen or Onguin. But in the
    days of Marco, the khans had betaken themselves to the luxurious ease
    of fixed residences and he might have misunderstood the information he
    received of the residence of Mangu.--E.

[6] Marco Polo is no more answerable for the truth of this ridiculous
    legend of the 13th century, than the archbishop of Paris of the 19th
    is for many, equally absurd, that are narrated in the French national
    Catechism. Both were good catholics, and rehearsed what they had
    heard, and what neither of them pretended to have seen.--E.


SECTION III

_Of the Country of Persia, the Cities of Jasdi, Cermam and Camandu, and the
Province of Reobarle._

Tauris is a great city in the province of Hircania[1], and is a very
populous place. The inhabitants live by the exercise of manufacture and
trade, fabricating, especially, stuffs of silk and gold. The foreign
merchants who reside there make very great gains, but the inhabitants are
generally poor. They are a mixed people, of Nestorians, Armenians,
Jacobites, Georgians, Persians, and Mahometans. These last are perfidious
and treacherous people, who think all well got which they can filch or
steal from those of other religions; and this wickedness of the Saracens
has induced many of the Tartars to join their religion; and if a Saracen be
killed by a Christian, even while engaged in the act of robbery, he is
esteemed to have died a martyr. It is twelve days journey from Tauris to
Persia[2]. In the confines stands the monastery of St Barasam, of which the
monks resemble Carmelites: they make girdles, which they lay on the altars
and give to their friends, who esteem them as holy. Persia is divided into
eight kingdoms, _viz_. Casbin, Curdistan[3], Laristan, Susistan or
Chorassan, Spahan, Ispahan or Fars, Shiras[4], Soncara[5], and lastly
Timochaim, which is near Arboreseco, towards the north[6]. Persia breeds
excellent horses, which are sold to the Indies; also very good asses, which
are sold for a higher price than the horses, because they eat little, carry
much, and travel far.  They have camels also, which, though not swift, are
necessary in these countries, which, sometimes for a long way, yield no
grass or water.

The people in these countries are very wicked and covetous, thieves and
murderers, killing the merchants unless they travel in caravans, yet they
profess to follow the law of Mahomet. In the cities there are excellent
artificers in gold, silk, and embroidery; and the country abounds with
silk-worms, wheat, barley, millet, and other kinds of grain, with plenty of
fruits and wine; and though wine is forbidden by the Mahometan law, they
have a gloss to correct or corrupt the text, saying, that when boiled, it
changes its taste and name, and may be then drank.

Jasdi is a great city on the confines of Persia, which carries on a great
trade, and has many manufactures of silk. Chiaman[7] is a kingdom on the
frontiers of Persia to the east, which is subject to the Tartars. In the
veins of the mountains, the stones commonly called turquoises are found,
and other valuable jewels. They here make all sorts of warlike weapons; and
the women work admirably with the needle in silken embroidery, on which
they pourtray the figures of various animals in a most beautiful manner.
They have the best falcons in the world, which are red breasted, of very
swift flight and more easily trained than those of other countries.
Proceeding from Chiaman or Crerina, for eight days journey through a great
plain, in which are many towns and castles, and many habitations, with
abundance of game, you come to a great descent, in which there are
abundance of fruit trees, but no habitations, except those of a few
shepherds, though, in ancient times, it was well inhabited. From the city
of Crerina to this descent, the cold, in winter, is quite insupportable.
After descending for two days journey, you come to a wide plain, at the
beginning of which is a city called Adgamad or Camandu, which, in ancient
times, was large and populous, but is now destroyed by the Tartars. This
plain is very warm, and the province is called Reobarle[8], in which grow
pomegranates, quinces, peaches, dates, apples of paradise, pistachios, and
other fruits. "And if I do this, will you fulfil my wish? Will you become
the wife of the King of Denmark? Ah, you are silent. Now, then, listen.

Consent to become Queen of Denmark, and on the day in which you pass the
boundary of Prussia and enter your own realm as queen, on that day I will
recall Trenck to Berlin, and all shall be forgotten.
Trenck shall again enter my guard, and my ambassador at Vienna shall appear
for him in court. Decide, now, Amelia--will you be Queen of Denmark?"

"Ah, sire, you offer me a cruel alternative. You wish me to purchase a
favor which you had already freely and unconditionally granted."
"You forget, my sister, that I entreat where I have the right to command.
It will be easy to obey when through your obedience you can make another
happy. Once more, then, will you accept my proposition?"
Amelia did not answer immediately. She fixed her eyes steadily upon
the king's face; their glances met firmly, quietly. Each read in the eyes
of the other inexorable resolve.

"Sire, I cannot accept your proposition; I cannot become the wife of
the King of Denmark."
The king shrank back, and a dark cloud settled upon his brow. He pressed
his hand nervously upon the arm-chair near which he stood, and forced
himself to appear calm. "And why can you not become the wife of the King
of Denmark?"
"Because I have sworn solemnly, calling upon God to witness, that I will never
become the wife of any other man than him whom I love-- because I consider
myself bound to God and to my conscience to fulfil this oath. As I cannot
be the wife of Trenck, I will remain unmarried."
And now the king was crimson with rage, and his eyes flashed fiercely.
"The wife of Trenck!" cried he; "the wife of a traitor!
Ah, you think still of him, and in spite of your vow--in spite of
your solemn oath--you still entertain the hope of this unworthy
alliance!"

"Sire, remember on what conditions my oath was given. You promised me Trenck
should be free, and I swore to give him up--never even to write to him.
Fate did not accept my oath. Trenck fled before you had time to fulfil your
word, and I was thus released from my vow; and yet I have never
written to him--have heard nothing from him. No one knows better than yourself
that I have not heard from him."
"So five years have gone by without his writing to you, and yet you have
the hardihood to-day to call his name!"

"I have the courage, sire, because I know well Trenck has never ceased to
love me. That I have received no letters from him does not prove that he has
not written; it only proves that I am surrounded by watchful spies, who do
not allow his letters to reach me."
"Ah," said the king, with a contemptuous shrug of the shoulders, "you are
of the opinion that I have suppressed these letters?"
"Yes, I am of that opinion."
"You deceive yourself, then, Amelia. I have not surrounded you with spies;
I have intercepted no letters. You look at me incredulously.
I declare to you that I speak the truth. Now you can comprehend, my sister,
that your heart has deceived you--you have squandered your love upon a
wretched object who has forgotten you."
"Sire!" cried Amelia, with flaming eyes, "no abuse of the man I love!"
"You love him still!" said the king, white with passion, and no longer able
to control his rage--"you love him still! You have wept and bewailed him,
while he has shamefully betrayed and mocked at you. Yes, look on me,
if you will, with those scornful, rebellious glances--it is as I say! You
must and shall know all! I have spared you until now; I trusted in your own
noble heart! I thought that, driven by a storm of passion, it had, like a
proud river, for one moment overstepped its bounds; then quietly, calmly
resumed that course which nature and fate had marked out for it. I see
now that I have been deceived in you, as you have been deceived in Trenck!
I tell you he has betrayed you! He, formerly a Prussian officer, at the
luxurious and debauched court of Petersburg, has not only betrayed you, but
his king. At the table of his mistress, the wife of Bestuchef, he has shown
your picture and boasted that you gave it to him. The Duke of Goltz, my
ambassador at the Russian court, informed me of this; and look you,
I did not slay him! I did not demand of the Empress Anne that the Prussian
deserter should be delivered up. I remembered that you had once loved
him, and that I had promised you to be lenient. But I have had him
closely watched.

I know all his deeds; I am acquainted with all his intrigues and artifices.
I know he has had a love-affair with the young Countess Narischkin--that he
continued his attentions long after her marriage with General Bondurow.
Can you believe, my sister, that he remembered the modest, innocent
oaths of love and constancy he had exchanged with you while enjoying
himself in the presence of this handsome and voluptuous young woman?

Do you believe that he recalled them when he arranged a plan of
flight with his beloved, and sought a safe asylum beyond the borders
of Russia?

Do you believe that he thought of you when he received from this
ill-regulated woman her diamonds and all the gold she possessed,
in order to smooth the way to their escape?"

"Mercy, mercy!"

stammered Amelia, pale and trembling, and sinking upon a seat.

"Cease, my brother; do you not see that your words are killing me?

Have pity upon me!"
    "No! no mercy!" said the king; "you must and you shall know all, in
    order that you may be cured of this unholy malady, this shameful love.
    You shall know that Trenck not only sells the secrets of politics,
but the secrets of love.

Every thing is merchandise with him, even his own heart. He not only loved
    the beautiful Bondurow but he loved her diamonds. This young woman
    died of the small-pox, a few days before the plan of flight could
    be fully arranged.

Trenck, however, became her heir; he refused to give back the brilliants and
    the eight thousand rubles which she had placed in his hands."
    
    "Oh my God, my God! grant that I die!" cried the Princess Amelia.
    
    "But the death of his beloved," said the king (without regarding the
    wild exclamations of the princess)--"this death was so greatly to his
    advantage, that he soon consoled himself with the love of the
attractive Bestuchef--this proud and intriguing woman who now,
through the weakness of her husband, rules over Russia, and threatens
by her plots and intrigues to complicate the history and peace of
Europe.

She is neither young nor beautiful; she is forty years of age, and you
    cannot believe that Trenck at four-and-twenty burns with love for her.
    But she adores him; she loves him with that mad, bacchantic ardor
    which the Roman empress Julia felt for the gladiators, whose magnificent
    proportions she admired at the circus.
    She loved him and confessed it; and his heart, unsubdued by the
    ancient charms, yielded to the magic power of her jewels and her gold.
    He became the adorer of Bestuchef; he worked diligently in the
cabinet of the chancellor, and appeared to be the best of Russian
patriots, and seemed ready to kiss the knout with the same devotion
with which he kissed the slipper of the chancellor's wife.

At this time I resolved to try his patriotism, and commissioned my ambassador
    to see if his patriotic ardor could not be cooled by gold. Well, my
    sister, for two thousand ducats, Trenck copied the design of the
fortress of Cronstadt, which the chancellor had just received from
his engineer."

"That is impossible!" said Amelia, whose tears had now ceased to flow,
    and who listened to her brother with distended but quiet eyes.
    
    "Impossible!" said Frederick. "Oh my sister, gold has a magic power to
    which nothing is impossible! I wished to unmask the traitor Trenck,
    and expose him in his true colors to the chancellor. I ordered Goltz
    to hand him the copy of the fortress, drawn by Trenck and signed
with his name, and to tell him how he obtained it.

The chancellor was beside himself with rage, and swore to take a right Russian
    revenge upon the traitor--he declared he should die under the
knout."

Amelia uttered a wild cry, and clasped her hands over her convulsed
face.

The king laughed, bitterly. "Compose yourself--we triumphed too
early; we had forgotten the woman!

In his rage the chancellor disclosed every thing to her, and uttered the most
furious curses and resolves against Trenck. She found means to warn him,
and, when the police came in the night to arrest him, he was not at home--he
had taken refuge in the house of his friend the English ambassador, Lord
Hyndforth." [Footnote: Trenck's Memoirs.]
"Ah! he was saved, then?" whispered Amelia.

The king looked at her in amazement. "Yes, he was saved. The next
day, Madame Bestuchef found means to convince her credulous husband that
Trenck was the victim of an intrigue, and entirely innocent of the charge
brought against him. Trenck remained, therefore, the friend of the house,
and Madame Bestuchef had the audacity to publicly insult my ambassador.
Trenck now announced himself as a raging adversary of Prussia. He inflamed
the heart of his powerful mistress with hate, and they swore the
destruction of Prussia.

Both were zealously engaged in changing the chancellor, my private and
confidential friend, into an enemy; and Trenck, the Russian patriot, entered
the service of the house of Austria, to intrigue against me and my realm.
[Footnote: Trenck himself writes on this subject: "I would at that time
have changed my fatherland into a howling wilderness, if the
opportunity had offered. I do not deny that from this moment I did
everything that was possible, in Russia, to promote the views of the imperial
ambassador, Duke Vernis, who knew how to nourish the fire already kindled,
and to make use of my services."] Bestuchef, however, withstood these
intrigues, and in his distrust he watched over and threatened his faithless
wife and faithless friend. Trenck would have been lost, without doubt, if
a lucky accident had not again rescued him. His cousin the pandour died
in Vienna, and, as Trenck believed that he had left him a fortune of some
millions, he tore his tender ties asunder, and hastened to Vienna to receive
this rich inheritance, which, to his astonishment, he found to consist not
in millions, but in law processes. This, Amelia, is the history of
Trenck during these five years in which you have received no news from him.
Can you still say that he has never forgotten you?

that you are bound to be faithful to him? You see I do not speak to you as
    a king, but as a friend, and that I look at all these unhappy
    circumstances from your standpoint.

Treat me, then, as a friend, and answer me sincerely. Do you still feel bound
    by your oath? Do you not know that he is a faithless traitor, and
    that he has forgotten you?"
    The princess had listened to the king with a bowed head and downcast
    eyes.

Now she looked up; the fire of inspiration beamed in her eye, a melancholy
    smile played upon her lips.
    
    "Sire," said she, "I took my vow without conditions, and I will keep it
    faithfully till my death.

Suppose, even, that a part of what you have said is true, Trenck is young;
    you cannot expect that his ardent and passionate heart should
    be buried under the ashes of the vase of tears in which our love,
    in its beauty and bloom, crumbled to dust.

But his heart, however unstable it may appear, turns ever back faithfully
    to that fountain, and he seeks to purify and sanctify the wild and
stormy present by the remembrance of the beautiful and innocent past.

You say that Trenck forgot me in his prosperity: well, then, sire, in his
    misfortune he has remembered me. In his misfortune he has forgotten
    the faithless, cold, and treacherous letter which I wrote to him, and
    which he received in the prison of Glatz. In his wretchedness, he has
    written to me, and called upon me for aid. It shall not, be said that
    I did not hear his voice--that I was not joyfully ready to serve
him!"

"And he has dared to write to you!" said the king, with trembling lips
    and scornful eye. "Who was bold enough to hand you this letter?"

"Oh, sire, you will not surely demand that I shall betray my friends!
    Moreover, if I named the messenger who brought me this letter, it
would answer no purpose; you would arrest and punish him, and
to-morrow I should find another to serve me as well.

Unhappy love finds pity, protection, and friends everywhere.

Sire, I repeat my request--pardon for Baron Trenck!"
"And I," cried the king, in a loud, stern voice, "I ask if you
accept my proposition--if you will become the wife of the King of
Denmark--and, mark well, princess, this is the answer to your
prayer."

"Sire, may God take pity on me! Punish me with your utmost scorn--I cannot
break my oath! You can force me to leave my vows unfulfilled- -not to become
the wife of the man I love--but you cannot force me to perjure myself. I
should indeed be foresworn if I stepped before the altar with another
man, and promised a love and faith which my heart knows not, and can never
know."
The king uttered a shrill cry of rage; maledictions hung upon his
lips, but he held them back, and forcing himself to appear composed, he
folded his arms, and walked hastily backward and forward through the room.

The princess gazed at him in breathless silence, and with loudly- beating
heart she prayed to God for mercy and help; she felt that this hour would
decide the fate of her whole life. Suddenly the king stood before her. His
countenance was now perfectly composed.

"Princess Amelia," said he, "I give you four weeks' respite.
Consider well what I have said to you. Take counsel with your conscience,
your understanding, and your honor.

In four weeks I will come again to you, and ask if you are resolved to fulfil
my request, and become the wife of the King of Denmark. Until that time, I
will know how to restrain the Danish ambassador. If you dare still to oppose
my will, I will yet fulfil my promise, and grant you the favor you ask of
me. I will make proposals to Trenck to return to Prussia, and the inducements
I offer shall be so splendid that he will not resist them. Let me once have
him here, and it shall be my affair to hold fast to him."
He bowed to the princess and left the room. Amelia watched him silently,
breathlessly, till he disappeared, then heaved a deep sigh and called
loudly for her maid.

"Ernestine! Ernestine!" said she, with trembling lips, "find me a faithful
messenger whom I can send immediately to Vienna. I must warn Trenck! Danger
threatens him! No matter what my brother's ambassador may offer
him, with what glittering promises he may allure him, Trenck dare not listen
to them, dare not accept them! He must never return to Prussia--he is lost
if he does so!"
Frederick returned slowly and silently to his apartment. As he thought
over the agitating scene he had just passed through, he murmured lightly,
"Oh, woman's heart! thou art like the restless, raging sea, and pearls
and monsters lie in thy depths!"

CHAPTER VII.

MADAME VON COCCEJI.

The Marquis d'Argens was right. Barbarina and her sister had left England
and returned to Berlin. They occupied the same expensive and beautiful hotel
in Behren Street; but it was no longer surrounded by costly equipages,
and besieged by gallant cavaliers. The elite of the court no longer came
to wonder and to worship.

Barbarina's house was lonely and deserted, and she herself was
changed. She was no longer the graceful, enchanting prima donna,
the floating sylph; she was a calm, proud woman, almost imposing
in her grave, pale beauty; her melancholy smile touched the heart,
while it contrasted strangely with her flashing eye.
Barbarina was in the same saloon where we last saw her, surrounded
with dukes and princes--worshippers at her shrine! To-day she was
alone; no one was by her side but her faithful sister Marietta.Departing from thence[3], you come to a pleasant enough country,
diversified by hills and plains with excellent pasture, and abundance of
fruits, the soil being very fertile[4]. This continues for six days
journey, and then you enter a desert of forty or fifty miles without water;
after which you come to the city of Sassurgan[5], where there are plenty of
provisions, and particularly the best melons in the world, which are as
sweet as honey. Passing from thence, we come to a certain city named
Batach, Balach, or Balk, which was formerly large and famous, having
sumptuous marble palaces, but is now overthrown by the Tartars. In this
city it is reported that Alexander married the daughter of Darius. The
eastern and north-eastern frontiers of Persia reach to this city; but in
proceeding between the east and north-east from this place, We found no
habitations for two days journey, the inhabitants having endured so many
grievances from thieves, that they were compelled to fly to the mountains
for safety. There are many rivers in this country, and much game, and lions
are also to be met with. As travellers can find no food in this part of
their journey, they must carry enough with them for two days. At the end of
two days journey, we came to a castle called Thaican, Thalkan, or Thakan,
where we saw pleasant fields and abundance of corn. The mountains to the
south of this place are high, some of which contain white salt, so
extremely hard that it has to be dug out and broken with iron tools; and
the inhabitants, from thirty days journey all around, come here to procure
salt, which is of most excellent quality, and is in such amazing
quantities, that the whole world might be supplied from these mines. The
other mountains produce abundance of almonds and pistachio nuts.

Going between the east and north-east from hence, the country is fruitful,
but the inhabitants are perfidious Mahometans, murderers, thieves, and
drunkards. Their wine is boiled, and truly excellent. They go bareheaded,
except that the men bind a string or fillet, ten handbreadths long, about
their heads. They make breeches and shoes of the skins of wild beasts, and
use no other garments. After three days journey is the town of Scasom[6],
seated in a plain, through the middle of which there flows a great river;
and there are many castles in the surrounding mountains[7]. There are many
porcupines in this country, which are hunted by dogs; and these animals,
contracting themselves with great fury, cast their sharp quills at the men
and dogs, and often wound them. The nation has a peculiar language, and the
shepherds dwell in caves in the mountains. We went three days journey from
thence, without meeting any inhabitants, to the province of Balaxiam,
Balascia or Balasagan, which is inhabited by Mahometans, who have a
peculiar language. Their kings, who succeed each other hereditarily,
pretend to derive their lineage from Alexander and the daughter of Darius,
and are called Dulcarlen, which signifies Alexandrians. In this country the
famous Ballas rubies are found, and other precious stones of great value,
particularly in the mountains of Sicinam. No person dares either to dig for
these stones, or to send them out of the country, without the consent and
licence of the king, on pain of death; and he only sends them to such as he
thinks fit, either as presents, or in payment of tribute; he likewise
exchanges many of them for gold and silver, lest they should become too
cheap and common. In other mountains of the same province, the best lapis
lazuli in the world is found, from which azure or ultramarine is made.
There are mines also of silver, copper, and lead. The climate is very cold,
yet it produces abundance of large, strong, and swift horses, which have
such hard and tough hoofs, that they do not require iron shoes, although
they have to run among rocks. It is said, that not many years ago, the
king's uncle was in the exclusive possession of a breed of horses descended
from the famous Bucephalus, and marked on the forehead exactly as he was;
and refusing to let the king have any of his stud, he was put to death, on
which his widow, in revenge, destroyed the whole race. The mountains of
this country produce the sacre falcon, the lanner, the goshawk, and the
sparrowhawk, all excellent in their kind, and much used by the inhabitants
in the chase, as they are all much addicted to hunting. The soil of this
country produces excellent wheat, and barley without husks, and oil made of
nuts and mustard, which resembles the oil from lintseed, but is more
savoury than other oil. The men of the country are excellent archers and
keen hunters, and are mostly clothed in the skins of beasts; while the
women contrive to put sixty or eighty yards of cotton cloth into the skirts
of their garments, as the bulkier they look they are esteemed the
handsomer. The plains of this country are large, and well watered with fine
rivers, but the hills are high and steep, and the passes very difficult of
access, by which the inhabitants are secured against invasions; and in
these mountains there are flocks of from four hundred to six hundred wild
sheep, which are very difficult to catch. If any one contracts an ague by
living in the moist plains, he is sure to recover his health by a few days
residence in the mountains, which I Marco experienced in my own person
after a whole years sickness.

The province Bascia, or Vash, on a river of that name which falls into the
Gihon, is ten days journey to the south of Balaxiam, and the country is
very hot, on which account the people are of a brown colour. They have a
language of their own, and wear gold and silver ear-rings, artificially
ornamented with pearls and other precious stones; they eat flesh and rice,
and are crafty and cruel idolaters.

The province of Chesmur, Khesimus, Khaschimir, or Cashmere, is seven days
journey from Bascia. The inhabitants have also a peculiar language of their
own, and are given to idolatry beyond all others, and addicted to
enchantment, forcing their idols to speak, and darkening the day. The
people of this country are not wholly black, but of a brown complexion, the
air being temperate. They are extremely lean, although they use abundance
of flesh and rice; yet the natives will shed no blood, and employ the
Saracens who live among them to slaughter their cattle. They have many
strong cities and towns, and being surrounded by deserts and rugged
mountains, they are in no danger of any foreign enemies, so that the king
of this country yields tribute to none. Coral is held in great estimation
in this country, and sells dearer than in any other part of the world.
There are certain hermits in this province, who live with great abstinence
in cells and monasteries, devoting their whole lives to the service of
their idols, and observing the strictest chastity; Many of these men are
reputed as saints and are held in high estimation among the people. From
this province you may go to the Indies and the ocean; but I shall not now
follow out the course to India, but returning to Balaxiam, shall trace the
way to Kathay, betwixt the east and north-east.

Beyond Balaxium is a certain river, on which there are many castles and
villages, belonging to the brother of the king of Balaxium; and after three
days journey, we came to Vachan[8], which extends three days journey in
length, and as much is breadth, The inhabitants of this country have a
peculiar language, and are Mahometans; they are brave Warriors, and good
huntsmen, as their country abounds in wild beasts. Departing from thence,
in a direction between the east and north-east, we ascended for three whole
days journey, until we came to an exceeding high mountain, than which there
is none said to be higher in the world. In this place, between two
mountains, is a plain, in which is a great lake, and a fine river runs
through the plain, on the banks of which are such excellent pastures, that
a lean horse or ox will become quite fat in ten days. It contains also
great quantities of wild beasts, and particularly very large wild sheep,
having horns six spans long, out of which they make various kinds of
vessels. This plain continues twelve days journey in length, and is called
_Pamer_, in which there are no habitations, so that travellers must carry
all their provisions along with them. This plain is so high and cold that
no birds are to be found; and it is even said, that fires do not burn so
bright in this place, and do not so effectually boil or dress victuals as
in other places[9]. From hence, the way to Kathay leads, for forty days
journey, between the east and the north-east, through mountains, hills, and
vallies, in which there are many rivers, but no villages, neither any
verdure, except that some huts and cottages are to be seen among the
mountains; but the inhabitants are savage and wicked idolaters, who live by
hunting, and are clothed in the skins of wild beasts; the country is called
Palow[10]. After this you come to the province of Caschar[11], which is
inhabited by Mahometans, who are tributary to the great khan of the Mongals
or Tartars. The soil is fertile, and the country is full of pleasant
fields, gardens, and orchards, producing vines, fruit trees, cotton, hemp,
and flax, and extends five days journey. The inhabitants have a particular
language, and have many merchants, manufacturers, and artizans, but they
are so covetous, that they do not allow themselves either good meat or
drink. Among them there are some Nestorian Christians, who also have some
churches,


[1] Called likewise Mulete or Alamut; Marco makes here a sudden
    return to the north-west of Persia; and from the abruptness of the
    transition, it has been probably disarranged in transcription. This
    country has been likewise called the land of the Assassins; it is near
    Cashbin in Dilem, on the borders of Mazenderan.--E.

[2] The last of these princes was named Moadin, who, as mentioned
    in the text, was made prisoner, and put to death by Houlagu-khan. In
    the sequel of this work, there will be found other and more full
    accounts of this old man of the mountain, or prince of the assassins.
    --E.

[3] The transition seems here again abrupt, and unconnected; at
    least the intermediate country of Mazerderan and Chorassan to the
    desert, probably of Margiana, is very slightly passed over.--E.

[4] In this section, Marco seems to trace his journey along with
    his father and uncle from Giazza towards Tartary; but the regular
    connection appears to have been thrown into confusion, by ignorant
    transcribers and editors.--E.

[5] Probably Satugar of the modern maps, on the western border of
    Balk.--E.

[6] Forster considers this place to be Scasse or Al-shash, on the
    river Sirr or Sihon, perhaps the Tashkund of modern maps, in the
    province of Shash. The distances given by Marco must be strangely
    corrupted by transcribers and editors, or Marco must have forgot when
    he wrote his travels, perhaps twenty-six years after he passed this
    country, when only a boy. The distance between Balk, on one of the
    branches of the Sihon or Oxus, and Shash on the Jihon or Sirr, is at
    least 350 miles in a straight line; which he appears to have travelled
    in _five_ days, but which would more probably occupy fifteen.--E.

[7] This river is probably the Sirr or Sihon; and the mountains of
    Karatan and Arjun pervade the district, the two chains being separated
    by the river.--E.

[8] Vochan, Vocham or Vakhan, on the river Vash.--Forst.

[9] This observation was made on the mountains of Savoy and
    Switzerland, not many years ago, by M. de Luc, and published as a new
    discovery. The phenomena must be owing to the diminished pressure of
    the atmosphere at this great elevation, by which water boils at a much
    lower temperature than is requisite for effective cookery: A digester
    would effectually remove this evil, by enabling the water to become
    sufficiently hot, without being dissipated.--E.

[10] Beloro, Belor, or Belur, according to Forster. This immense
    extent of forty days journey through deserts, seems to include the
    deserts of Sultus, Cobi, and Shamo, and to reach to the frontiers of
    Kathay, or Northern China.--E.

[11] Cascar, Chascar, Cassar, Kaschgar, or Hasicar, according to
    Forster. Cashgar is at the western end of the great desert, instead of
    the eastern, as expressed in the text; indeed this route is most
    confusedly, and almost unintelligibly laid down, probably from
    corrupted transcription. The series ought to have been, the high table
    land of Pamer, the province of Cashgar, and lastly, the desert of
    Pelow or Belur. But care must be taken to distinguish this from the
    chain of Belur-tag, which runs north and south, between Great and
    Little Bucharia.--E.


SECTION VI.

_Of the city of Samarcand, the town of Lop, the Great Desert in its
Neighbourhood, and other remarkable Passages_.

Samarcand[1] is a great and famous city, in a fertile plain, and surrounded
by fine gardens. It is subject to the nephew of the great khan, and is
inhabited by a mixed population of Christians and Mahometans, among whom
there is little agreement; and in one of their disputes, the following
miracle is said to have happened, about an hundred years ago. Zagathai, the
brother of the great khan, then governed this country, and was persuaded to
become a Christian; and the Christians, through his favour, built a church
in honour of St John the Baptist, which was constructed with such skill,
that the whole roof seemed to depend for support upon one central pillar,
which was founded upon a large stone, which, by the permission of Zagathai,
had been taken from a building belonging to the Mahometans. After the death
of Zagathai, he was succeeded by a son who was not of the Christian faith,
and from him the Mahometans obtained an order, by which the Christians were
compelled to restore that stone; and though they offered a sum of money as
a compensation, the Mahometans absolutely insisted to have the stone
itself, hoping, by that means, to reduce the Christian church to ruins: But
the pillar lifted itself up, that the Mahometans, might remove the
contested stone, and still continues suspended in the air.

Departing from this city, we came into the province of Charahan[2], which
is about five days journey in length, and has plenty of provisions. The
inhabitants are mostly Mahometans, intermixed with some Nestorian
Christians, and are subject to the nephew of the great khan. They are
diligent artificers in various manufactures, but are much subject to thick
legs, and the _goitres_ or large wens on their throats, occasioned by the
bad quality of the waters of the country. The province of Cotam follows
between the east and the north-east[3]. It is subject to the nephew of the
great khan, and has many cities and towns, the chief city being called
Cotam. This province extends eight days journey in length, and possesses
every thing necessary for life, in sufficient abundance; particularly
cotton, flax, hemp, corn, and wine. The people are Mahometans, and not
warlike, but are skilful in various articles of manufacture.

Proceeding through the same country, we come to the province of Peim,
extending four days journey in length, and containing many towns and
castles, the city of Peim being the chief, near which there is a river in
which jaspers and chalcedonies and other valuable stones are found. The
inhabitants, who are Mahometans, are expert manufacturers, and are subject
to the great khan. There is a custom in this province, that when any
married man goes to a distance from home, and remains absent for twenty
days, it is lawful for his wife to marry another husband; and reciprocally,
if the wife absents herself for twenty days, the husband may take another
wife.

The next province, Ciascian[4], of which the chief city is named Sartan, is
subject to the Tartars, and has many cities and castles. In its rivers
abundance of jaspers, chalcedonies, and other fine stones are found, which
are carried by merchants all the way to Ouchach or Kathay, and sold there
with great profit From Peim to Sartem, and quite through this latter
province, the soil is very sandy, having very little water, and that
generally bad. When an army passes through this province, all the
inhabitants take their wives and children, with all their cattle and
valuables, two days journey into the sands, to places where they know that
good water is to be found, and remain there till the army has quitted the
country; after harvest also, they uniformly take all their corn into the
desert, and hide it in pits, and the wind soon obliterates all traces of
their footsteps, so that their enemies are unable to discover where they
have deposited these precious hoards. After travelling for five days
through the sands from this province, we arrive at the great city of Lop,
which is at the entrance of a great desert called the Wilderness of Lop[5].
The inhabitants of this place are Mahometans, and are subject to the great
khan. All the before-mentioned provinces, Cashgar, Yarkand, Koten, Peim,
Sartem, and Lop, are in the bounds of Turkestan.

It requires a months journey to cross this desert from south to north, but
to go through it lengthways would take up a whole year. Those who intend to
cross the desert remain for some time in Lop, on purpose to prepare all
necessaries for the journey, as no provisions are to be met with for a
whole month. These, with their merchandize, are loaded on asses and camels,
and if provisions fall short in the desert, the unfortunate travellers are
reduced to the necessity of killing their beasts of burden for sustenance,
preferring the asses for this purpose, as the camels can carry much heavier
burdens, and are satisfied with less food. This journey is entirely through
sands and barren mountains, in which water is found every day; yet at some
of the resting places it is so scanty as hardly to suffice for a caravan of
fifty of an hundred persons and their cattle. In three or four places the
water is salt and bitter, but in all the rest of the journey it is very
good. In the whole of this journey there are no beasts or birds to be seen.
It is reported, that many evil spirits reside in the wilderness, which
occasion wonderful illusions to travellers who happen unfortunately to lag
behind their companions calling them even by their names, and causing them
to stray farther from the right course, so that they lose their way and
perish in the sands. In the night time also they hear noises as of their
friends, and sometimes the sound of music is heard in the air, and people
imagine that they hear the din of drums, as if armies were marching past.
To avoid the danger of separation, the travellers in the desert keep close
together, and hang bells about the necks of their beasts; and if any one
stays behind, they set up marks in the route, that they may know how to
follow.

Having crossed the desert of Lop, we come to the city of Sachion[6] or
Sachiou, which is subject to the great khan, and is situated in the great
country of Tangut. The inhabitants of this city are mostly idolaters, who
have a peculiar language, mixed with a good many Mahometans, and some
Nestorian Christians; this people are little addicted to merchandize or
manufacture, and live on the products of their soil. In this city there are
many temples, consecrated to various idols, with monasteries of priests
devoted to the service of these false deities, to which numerous sacrifices
are offered with great reverence. When a son is born to any person, he is
immediately consecrated to the protection of some particular idol, and the
father nourishes a sheep in his house for a year with great care; and on
the anniversary day of that idol, he presents his son and the sheep as a
sacrifice, with great reverence and many ceremonies, before the shrine of
this tutelary deity. The flesh of the sheep is boiled and set before the
idol during the continuance of the prayers and invocations, as an offering
for the preservation and protection of the boy, and the idol is supposed to
inhale the savour of the meat. After the religious ceremonies are finished,
the meat is carried home to the father's dwelling, where all the kindred of
the family are convened, and feasted with great joy and devotion; but the
bones are religiously kept in certain appropriated vessels. The priests
receive the head, feet, skin, and intrails, with a portion of the flesh for
their share.

When a person of any estimation dies, his funerals are celebrated with much
ceremony. An astrologer is sent for by the kindred, and informed of the
year, month, day, and hour when the deceased was born, when he calculates
the aspect of the constellation, and assigns the day when the burial is to
take place, sometimes at the distance of seven days, or perhaps the planet
may not have a favourable aspect for six months, during all which time the
body is kept in the house. For this purpose a fit chest or coffin is
provided, which is so artificially jointed that no noisome smell can
escape, and in this the body is placed, having been previously embalmed
with spices. The coffin is ornamented with painting, and is covered over
with an embroidered cloth. Every day, while the body remains unburied, a
table is spread near the coffin, and set out with meat, bread, and wine,
which remains for as long a time as a living person would require to eat
and drink, and the soul of the deceased is supposed to feed upon the
savour. The astrologers sometimes forbid the body to be carried out for
interment at the principal door of the house, pretending to be regulated in
this by the stars, and order it to be carried out by some other way; or
will even command a passage to be broken out in the opposite wall of the
house, to propitiate the adverse planet. And if any one object to this,
they allege that the spirit of the dead would be offended, and would
occasion injury to the family. When the body is carried through the city to
be buried, wooden cottages are built at certain distances by the way,
having porches covered with silk, in which the coffin is set down, with a
table spread out with bread and wine and delicate viands, that the spirit
of the dead may be refreshed with the savour. When the body is carried to
the place of the funeral, a number of pieces of paper, made of the bark of
trees, curiously painted with figures of men and women servants, horses,
camels, money, and garments of all kinds are carried in procession, all the
instruments of music in the city sounding as the cavalcade moves along; and
all these pieces of painted paper are burned in the same funeral pile with
the body, under the idea that the deceased will have as many servants,
cattle, and garments in the next world, and as much money, as there were
pictures of these things burnt along with his body, and shall live
perpetually hereafter in the enjoyment of all these things[7].


[1] The text is here obviously transposed. While the editor endeavours to
    illustrate and explain the descriptions of the author, he does not
    consider himself at liberty to alter the text, even in the most
    obviously faulty places.--E.

[2] Charchan, Charcham, Carcam, Hiarkand, Jarkun, Jerket, Jerken, Urkend;
    such are the varieties in the editions of these travels, for the
    Yarkand of modern maps. This paragraph ought obviously to have
    followed the account of Cashgar.--E.

[3] Cotan, Cotam, Hotum, Khoten, Khotan, from which the useful material of
    manufacture, _cotton_, takes its name. But instead of being between
    the east and north-east direction from Yarkand, as in the text, or
    E.N.E. it is actually E.S.E.--E.

[4] Called likewise Ciarciam, Ciartiam, and Sartam, in different editions.
    --E.

[5] The journey from Sartem to Lop is obviously retrograde, and this course
    must have been pursued by the Polos for commercial purposes; perhaps
    for collecting those valuable stones which are mentioned by Marco as
    giving so much profit when sold in China.--E.

[6] Schatscheu, Tschat-scheu, or Chat-chou, on the Polonkir, which runs
    into the Hara lake.--E.

[7] It is highly probable that this emblematical representation had been
    substituted by some humane legislator or conqueror, in place of the
    actual sacrifice of the servants, cattle, and goods themselves, which
    we are well assured was once the practice among many rude nations, in
    honour of their deceased great men.--E.


SECTION VII.

The hair of the Madonna, which stood in enticing but wooden beauty upon
the altar, whose clothing was furnished by the first modistes, and
whose hair by the first perruquier--this hair, wonderful to relate,
had grown!

It was natural that she should exercise supernatural power. The blind, the
lame, the crippled were cured by her touch. I myself--for you may well
think that I hastened to see the miracle--saw a lame man throw away his
crutch and dance a minuet in honor of the Madonna. There was a blind
man who approached with a broad band bound over his eyes. He was led
forward to this wonderful hair. Scarcely had the lovely locks touched his
face, than he tore the band from his eyes, and shouted with ecstasy--his
sight was restored! Thousands, who were upon their knees praying in wrapt
devotion, shouted in concert with him, and here and there inspired voices
called out: 'The holy Madonna is content with her new servant the bishop!
if she were not, she would not perform these miracles.' These voices
fell like a match in this magazine of excitement. Men wept and
embraced each other, and thanked God for the new bishop, whom yesterday
they had refused.

"In the meantime, however, there were still some suspicious, distrustful souls
who would not admit that the growth of the Madonna's hair was a testimony
in favor of the bishop. But these stiff-necked unbelievers, these heartless
skeptics, were at last convinced. Two days later this lovely hair had grown
perceptibly; and still two days later, it hung in luxurious length and
fulness over her shoulders. No one could longer doubt that the Holy Virgin
was pleased with her priest. It had often happened that hair had turned
gray, or been torn out by the roots in rage and scorn. No one, however, can
maintain that the hair grows unless we are in a happy and contented mood.
The Madonna, therefore, was pleased. The wondrous growth of her hair
enraptured the faithful, and all mankind declared that this holy image cut
from a pear-tree, was the Virgin Mary, who with open eyes watched
over Breslau, and whose hair grew in honor of the new Bishop Schafgotch--he
was now almost adored.
Thousands of the believers surrounded his palace and besought his
blessing.

It was a beautiful picture of a shepherd and his flock.
The Madonna no longer found it necessary to make her hair grow; one miracle
had sufficed, and with the full growth of her hair the archbishop had
also grown into importance."
"But your majesty has not yet named the holy saint at whose intercession
this miracle was performed," said the Marquis D'Argens.
"Graciously disclose the name, that we may pray for pardon and blessing."

"This holy saint was my friseur" said the king, laughing. "I made him swear
that he would never betray my secret. Every third day, in the twilight,
he stole secretly to the church, and placed a new wig upon the Madonna, and
withdrew the old one. [Footnote: Authentic addition to the "History of
Frederick the Second."] You see, messieurs, that not only happiness but
piety may hang on a hair, and those holy saints to whom the faithful pray
were, without doubt, adroit perruquiers who understand their cue."
"And who use it as a scourge upon the backs of the pious penitents," said
Voltaire. "Ah, sire! your story is as wise as it is piquant--it is
another proof that you are a warrior. You have won a spiritual battle
with your miraculous wig, a battle against Holy Mother Church."
"By which, happily, no soldiers and only a few wigs were left behind. But
see how grave and mute our very worthy abbe appears--I believe he is envious
of the miracle I performed! And now it is your turn, Bastiani: give us
your story--a history of some of the lovely Magdalens you have
encountered."

"Ah, sire! will not your majesty excuse me?" said the abbe, bowing
low. "My life has been the still, quiet, lonely, unostentatious life
of a priest, and only the ever-blessed King Frederick William introduced
storm and tempest into its even course. That was, without doubt,
God's will; otherwise this robust and giant form which He gave me
would have been in vain. My height and strength so enraptured the
emissaries of the king, that in the middle of the service before
the altar, as I was reading mass, they tore me away without regarding
the prayers and outcries of my flock.In this
province, which is subject to the great khan, there are a few Christians
among a great number of idolaters. The best rhubarb[5] is found in great
quantities in this province, and is carried thence by merchants to various
parts of the world. Strangers dare not go to the mountains where the
rhubarb grows, on account of certain poisonous plants, which occasion any
beasts that feed upon them to cast their hoofs; but the beasts of the
country know this plant, and avoid feeding upon it Campion[6] is a great
city, and is the chief place in all Tangut.  In it, besides idolaters and
Mahometans, there are a good many Christians, who have three fair churches.
The idolaters have many temples and monasteries dedicated to their idols.
These idols are very numerous, and are made of stone, wood, or clay, some
of them curiously inlaid with gold, and very artificially made: Some are
very large, almost ten paces high, standing upright, and having many
smaller idols placed around, which seem to give reverence to the great one.
The priests of these idols appear to live more regularly, and are less
addicted to voluptuousness than other idolaters. Yet wantonness is not
looked upon in this country as any great sin; for they say if a woman
invites a man, there is no harm in compliance, but if the man solicits the
woman, it is quite otherwise.

In this country they divide the year by lunations, and in every moon they
keep certain days as holy, in some five, or four, or three days, in which
they kill no beast or bird, and abstain from animal food. The people of
this country marry twenty or thirty wives, or as many as they are able to
maintain, but the first wife always has the precedence over the others. The
husband receives no portion with his wife, but on the contrary has to
assign her a dower in cattle, servants, and money, according to his
ability. If any of the wives does not live in harmony with the rest, or if
she becomes disliked by her husband, it is lawful for him to put her away.
They marry their own near relations, and even the wives of their deceased
father, excepting always their own mothers. In the manners and customs of
this country, I Marco was sufficiently experienced, having dwelt a whole
year in this place, along with my father and uncle, for the dispatch of
certain affairs of business.

In twelve days journey from Campion, we come to the city of Ezina[7], which
borders on a sandy desert towards the north. All the provinces and cities
before mentioned, viz. Sachion, Camul, Chinchintalas, Succair, Campion, and
Ezina, are comprehended in the great country of Tangut. The inhabitants of
Ezina are idolaters, who live by agriculture, and on the produce of their
flocks and herds, having great quantities of camels and other cattle, but
carry on no trade. In this country there are forests of pine trees, in
which there are wild asses, and many other wild beasts; there are likewise
abundance of falcons, particularly the lanner and sacre, which are reckoned
excellent. Such travellers as intend to pass through the great desert of
Shamo, which is forty days journey in extent, must provide all their
provisions in this place, as they afterwards meet with no habitations,
except a few straggling people here and there on the mountains and valleys.


[1] Called also Kamul, Chamul, Khami, and Came-xu.--Forst.

[2] The desert of Noman-Cobi; or Tzokurin of modern maps.--E.

[3] Called likewise Cinchincalas, Sanghin-talgin, Sankin-talai, and
    Chitalas-dalai.--Forst. This appears to be the district stretching to
    the S.E. of the Bogdo mountains, between the Changai ridge on the
    north, and the Ungandag on the south, now occupied by a tribe of
    Eluts, and in which there do not appear to be any towns.--E.

[4] Suchur, Succuir, Souk, or Suck, on the river Suck, which empties itself
    into the river of Pegu to the north of Thibet.--Forst.

    This I suspect to be Chioming of our modern maps, on a river which
    runs north into the Soukouk lake.--E.

[5] The country of the genuine rhubarb has been described by the great
    Russian traveller Palas, as situated on the river Selingol, not far
    from the town of Selinga, which falls into the Chattungol, Hoang-ho,
    Choango, or Karamuren.--Forst.

    The travels of Palas will be found in an after portion of this work;
    and it need only be remarked in this place, that there are at least
    two kinds of true rhubarb, the China and Russia; and that two species
    of the genus, the R. Palmatum and R. Undulatum, certainly produce the
    drug nearly of the same quality, and are probably to be found in
    various parts of central Asia or Tartary,--E.

[6] Kampion, Kampition, Kampiciou, Kantscheu, or Kan-tcheou, in the Chinese
    province of Shensi, on the Etzine-moren, or Etchine river, which joins
    the Souk.--Forst.

[7] Eziva, or Etzine, on a river of the same name, which runs into the Suck
    or Souhouk.--Forst.


SECTION VIII.

_Of the City of Caracarum and of the Tartars, with some account of their
History, Monarchs, and Manners_.

Having passed over the before mentioned desert of forty days, travelling
always to the northward, we come to the large city of Charachoran, or
Caracarum[1] which is three miles in circumference, and strongly fortified
with an earthen rampart, as there is no stone in these parts. Near the city
there is a great castle with an elegant palace, in which the governor
usually resides. Near this place the Tartars used to assemble in old times,
and here therefore I shall explain the original of their empire.

They dwelt at first in the northern parts called Curza and Bargu[2], where
there are many vast plains without cities and towns, but abounding in
pastures, lakes, and rivers. They had no prince of their own nation, but
paid tribute to a certain great king, named, as I have been told, in their
language, _Umcan_, and which some people believe to signify, in the
languages of Europe, Prester-John[3]; and to whom the Tartars gave yearly a
tenth part of the increase of their flocks and herds, and of their horses.
In process of time, the Tartars so increased in numbers, that Umcan became
afraid of them, and endeavoured to disperse them into several parts of his
empire; and when any of them rebelled, he used to send parties into their
territories to reduce them to obedience; for which purpose, he even
frequently deputed some of their own nobles. At length it became obvious to
the whole nation, that their ruin was intended; and being unwilling to be
separated from each other, they retired into the northern deserts, where
they might be safe from the power of Umcan, to whom they refused the
accustomed tribute. After continuing in the north for some time, they chose
a king among themselves, named Zingis-khan, who was a wise and valiant man,
and reigned with such justice, that he was beloved and feared of all as a
god rather than as a prince, so that by his fame and prowess, he soon
reduced all the Tartars in these parts under his authority. Seeing himself
at the head of so many valiant men, he determined to leave the northern
deserts; and commanding his people to provide themselves with bows and
other weapons, he began to reduce the neighbouring cities and provinces
under his dominion, in which conquests he placed such just governors, that
the people were perfectly reconciled to his authority. In all his conquests
he carried the chief persons along with him, bestowing upon them provisions
and other gifts, and by that means attached them to his person, and
continually augmented his power. After sometime, finding himself advanced
to power and glory, he sent ambassadors to Umcan, to entreat that he would
bestow his daughter upon him for a wife. Umcan received this message with
the utmost indignation, saying to the messengers; "Does my servant presume
to demand my daughter? Begone, and tell your master, that if ever he dare
to repeat so insolent a proposal, I will make him die a miserable death."

Zingis seems only to have wanted a reasonable pretence to justify him in
the estimation of his nobles for entering into war against Umcan; he
therefore immediately levied a great army, with which he marched boldly
against Umcan, and encamped in a great plain named Tanduc[4], sending a
message to Umcan to defend himself. Upon this Umcan collected a vast army,
with which he advanced into the plains, and pitched his camp within ten
miles of that of the Tartars. Zingis commanded his astrologers to shew him
what was to be the event of the approaching battle; on which they split a
reed into two pieces, on one of which they wrote the name of Zingis, and
the name of Umcan on the other, and struck them separately into the ground,
saying to Zingis: "While we read in our holy books, it shall come to pass
through the power of the idol, that these two pieces of reed shall fight
together, and whose part shall get the better, to that king shall the
victory be given."  The astrologers began to mumble their prayers and
incantations, while the multitude stood around to observe the result; and
after some time, the two pieces of reed seemed spontaneously to fight
together, and the portion inscribed with the name of Zingis got the mastery
over that of Umcan; and the Tartars being encouraged by this prodigy, went
into the battle fully assured of victory, which they actually obtained. By
this battle, in which Umcan was slain, the sovereignty of all Tangut was
transferred to Zingis, who took to wife the daughter of Umcan.  Zingis
reigned six years after this, and conquered many provinces: But at last,
while he endeavoured to take a certain castle called Thaigin, he approached
too near the walls, and was wounded in the knee by an arrow, of which wound
he died, and was buried in the mountain of Altai. Zingis was the _first_
king of the Tartars; the second was Khen-khan, the third Bathyn-khan, the
fourth Esu-khan, the fifth Mangu-khan, the sixth Kublai-khan, whose power
is greater than that of all his predecessors, as, besides having inherited
all their acquisitions, he has added almost the whole world to his empire,
during a long and prosperous reign of sixty years[5]. All the great khans
and princes of the blood of Zingis, are carried for burial to the mountains
of Altai, even from the distance of an hundred days journey; and those who
attend the body, kill all whom they meet by the way, ordering them to go
and serve their lord in the other world, and a great number of fine horses
are slain on the same occasion and pretence. It is said that the soldiers,
who accompanied the body of Mangu-khan to the mountain of Altai, slew above
ten thousand men during their journey.

The Tartar women are remarkably faithful to their husbands, considering
adultery as the greatest and most unpardonable of crimes; yet it is
accounted lawful and honest for the men to have as many wives as they can
maintain, but the first married is always accounted the principal and most
honourable. These wives live all in one house, in the utmost harmony and
most admirable concord; in which they carry on various manufactures, buy
and sell, and procure all things necessary for their husbands and families,
the men employing themselves only in hunting and hawking, and in martial
affairs. They have the best falcons in the world, and great numbers of
excellent dogs, and they live upon flesh and milk, and what they procure by
hunting. They eat the flesh of horses and camels, and even of dogs, if fat;
and their chief drink is cosmos, made of mares milk in a particular manner,
and very much resembling white wine. When the father of a family dies, the
son may marry all his fathers wives, except only his own mother, neither do
they marry their sisters; and on the death of a brother, the surviving
brother may marry the widow of the deceased. The husbands receive no
portions with their wives, but must assign sufficient dowries to their
wives and mothers. As the Tartars have many wives, they often have great
numbers of children; neither is the multitude of their wives very
burthensome, as they gain much by their labour, and they are exceedingly
careful in the management of family concerns, in the preparation of food,
and in all other household duties.

The Tartars feed many herds of cattle, and numerous flocks of sheep, and
great numbers of camels and horses. They remain with these during the
summer in the pastures of the mountains and colder regions of the north,
where they find abundance of grass and wood; but in winter they remove into
the warmer regions of the south, in search of pasture, and they generally
travel forwards for two or three months together. Their houses are made of
slender rods covered with felt, mostly of a round form, and are carried
along with them in carts or waggons with four wheels, and the doors of
these moveable houses are always placed fronting the south. They have also
very neat carts on two wheels, covered so closely with felt, that the rain
cannot penetrate, in which their wives and children and household goods are
conveyed from place to place. All these are drawn by oxen or camels.

The rich Tartars are clothed in sables and ermines, and other rich furs,
and in cloth of gold, and all their apparel and furniture is very costly.
Their arms are bows, swords, battle-axes, and some have lances; but they
are most expert in the use of the bow, in which they are trained from their
infancy. They are hardy, active, and brave, yet somewhat cruel; are
exceedingly patient and obedient to their lords, and will often remain two
days and nights armed on horseback without rest. They believe in one
supreme God of heaven, to whom they daily offer incense, praying to him for
health and prosperity. But every person has a little image covered with
felt, or something else, in his house, called _Natigay_; and to this
household god they make a wife, which is placed on his left hand, and
children, which are set before his face. This image or idol is considered
as the god of earthly things, to whom they recommend the protection of
their wives and children, their cattle, corn, and other valuables. This god
is held in great reverence, and before eating any thing themselves, they
anoint the mouth of the idol with the fat of their boiled meat, and they
cast some broth out of doors in honour of other spirits; after which they
eat and drink their fill, saying, that now their god and his family have
had their due portion.

If the son of one Tartar, and the daughter of another die unmarried, the
parents meet together and celebrate a marriage between their deceased
children. On this occasion they draw up a written contract, and paint
representations of men and women for servants, of horses, camels, cattle,
and sheep, of clothes of all kinds, and of paper money; and all these
things are burned along with the contract, conceiving that these will all
follow their children substantially to the other world to serve them, and
that they will be there united in affinity, as if they had been actually
married while living.

When the Tartars go to war, the prince usually leads an army of not less
than an hundred thousand men, all cavalry; each man having usually eight or
more horses or mares. Their troops are regularly distributed into bands of
tens, hundreds, thousands, and ten thousands; a troop of an hundred is
called a _Tuc_, and a body of ten thousand is called a _Toman_. They carry
them felt houses along with them, for shelter in bad weather. When
necessity requires, they will ride for ten days together without victuals,
subsisting upon the blood of their horses, by cutting a vein and sucking
the blood. But they likewise prepare dried milk, for taking with them in
their expeditions, in the following manner: After taking off the cream,
which is made into butter, they boil the milk and dry it in the sun into a
kind of hard curd, of which every man in the army carries about ten pounds
along with him. Every morning they take about half a pound of this curd,
which they put into a leathern bottle with a quantity of water, and as he
rides along, the motion of the horse shakes and mixes these together, and
this mess suffices for the food of one day. When they approach towards the
enemy, they send out numerous scouts on all sides, that they may not be
assaulted unawares, and to bring intelligence of the numbers, motions, and
posture of the enemy. When they come to battle, they ride about in apparent
disorder, shooting with their arrows; and sometimes make a show of
precipitate flight, discharging their arrows backwards as they fly; and
when by these means they have broken or dispersed the enemy, they suddenly
rally their forces, and make an unexpected assault, which generally decides
the victory, their horses being all so thoroughly under command, as to turn
any way merely by a signal.

go! if you love me, go at once!"
"I love you, therefore I obey you, but my heart is heavy for you, and my own
happiness is clouded. But I go; to-morrow you will tell me all?"
"To-morrow."
"But when, when do we meet again?"
"To-morrow, at ten, we will see each other. At that time I am to receive
my diploma. I pray you, bring Fredersdorf with you."
"So be it; to-morrow, at ten, in the university. Till then, farewell."
"Farewell."

They clasped hands, looked deep into each other's eyes, and took a
silent leave. Lupinus stood in the middle of the room and gazed after
Eckhof till he had reached the threshold, then rushed forward, threw
himself upon his neck, clasped him in his arms, and murmured, in a voice
choked with tears: "Farewell, farewell! Think of me, Eckhof! think that no
woman has ever loved you as I have loved you!
God bless you! God bless you, my beloved!"
One last glowing kiss, one last earnest look, and he pushed him forward and
closed the door; then with a wild cry sank upon the floor.

How long he lay there, how long he wept, prayed, and despaired, he knew not
himself. The hours of anguish drag slowly and drearily; the moments given
to weeping seem to stretch out to eternity.

Suddenly he heard heavy steps upon the stairs; he recognized them, and knew
    what they signified. The door opened, and two men entered: the
    first with a proud, imposing form, with gray hair, and stern, strongly-
    marked features; the other, a young man, pale and delicate, with a mild
    and soft countenance.

    The old man looked at Lupinus with a frowning brow and angry glance;
    the other greeted him with a sweet smile, and his clear blue eye
    rested upon him with an expression of undying love.
    
    "My father!" said Lupinus, hastening forward to throw himself into his
    arms; but he waved him back, and his look was darker, sterner.
    

"We have received your letter, and therefore are we here to-day. We
    hope and believe it was written in fever or in madness. If we are
    mistaken in this, you shall repeat to us what was written in that
    letter, which I tore and trampled under my feet. Speak, then! we came
    to listen."
    "Not so," said the young man, "recover yourself first; consider your
    words; reflect that they will decide the question of your own
    happiness, of your father's, and of mine. Be firm and sure in your
    determination. Let no thought of others, no secondary consideration
    influence you.

    Think only of your own happiness, and endeavor to build it upon
    a sure foundation."
    Lupinus shook his head sadly. "I have no happiness, I expect none."
    "What was written in that letter?"

said the old Lupinus sternly.

    "That I had been faithful to my oath, and betrayed the secret I
    promised you to guard, to no one; that to-morrow I would receive
    my diploma; that you had promised, when I had accomplished this I
    should be free to choose my own future, and to confess my secret."
    

    "Was that all the letter contained?"
    "No--that I had resolved to choose a new career, resolved to leave the
    old paths, to break away from the past, and begin a new life at
Eckhof's side."

"My child at the side of a comedian!" cried the old doctor contemptuously.
    "Yes, I remember that was written, but I believed it not, and therefore
    have I come. Was your letter true?
    Did you write the truth to Ervelman?"
    Lupinus cast his eyes down, and gave his hand to his father. "No,"
    said he, "it was not true; it was a fantasy of fever. It is past, and
    I have recovered. To-morrow, after I receive my diploma, I will accompany
    you home, and you, friend, will go with us."

The next day the students rushed in crowds to the university to listen to
    the discourse of the learned and worthy Herr Lupinus. Not only the
    students and the professors, but many other persons, were assembled
    in the hall to honor the young man, of whom the professors said
    that he was not only a model of scholarship, but of modesty and
virtue.

Even actors were seen to grace the holy halls of science on this
occasion, and the students laughed with delight and cried "Bravo!"

as they recognized near Fredersdorf the noble and sharp profile of Eckhof.
They had often rushed madly to thee theatre; why should he not
sometimes honor the university?

But Eckhof was indifferent to the joyful greeting of the students; he
gazed steadily toward the door, through which his young friend must
enter the hall; and now, as the hour struck, he stooped over Fredersdorf
and seized his hand.

"Friend," said he, "a wondrous anxiety oppresses me.

It seems to me I am in the presence of a sphinx, who is in the act of solving
a great mystery! I am a coward, and would take refuge in flight, but
curiosity binds me to my seat."
"You promised poor Lupinus to be here," said Fredersdorf, earnestly.
"It is, perhaps, the last friendly service you can ever show him--
Ah! there he is."
A cry of surprise burst from the lips of all. There, in the open door,
stood, not the student Lupinus, but a young maiden, in a white satin robe-a
young maiden with the pale, thoughtful, gentle face of Lupinus. A man stood
on each side of her, and she leaned upon the arm of one of them, as if for
support, as they walked slowly through the room. Her large eyes wandered
questioningly and anxiously over the audience; and now, her glance met
Eckhof's, and a deadly pallor covered her face. She tried to smile, and
bowed her head in greeting.

"This is the secret from which I wished to fly," murmured Eckhof. "I guessed
it yesterday."
"I knew it long since," said Fredersdorf, sadly; "it was my most beautiful
and cherished dream that your hearts should find and love each other. Have
I not often told you that Lupinus was not your friend, but your bride; that
no woman would ever love you as he did?
You would not understand me.

Your heart was of stone, and her happiness has been crushed by it."
"Poor, unhappy girl!" sighed Eckhof, and tears ran slowly down his cheeks.
"I have acted the part of a barbarian toward you! Yesterday with smiling
lips I pressed a dagger in her heart; she did not curse, but blessed me!"

"Listen! she speaks!"
It was the maiden's father who spoke. In simple phrase he asked forgiveness
of the Faculty, for having dared to send them a daughter, in place of a
son. But it had been his cherished wish to prove that only the arrogance and
prejudice of men had banished women from the universities. Heaven had
denied him a son.

He had soon discovered that his daughter was rarely endowed; he determined
to educate her as a son, and thus repair the loss fate had prepared for
him. His daughter entered readily into his plans, and solemnly swore
to guard her secret until she had completed her studies. She had
fulfilled this promise, and now stood here to ask the Faculty if they
would grant a woman a diploma.

The professors spoke awhile with each other, and then announced to the
audience that Lupinus had been the most industrious and promising of all
their students; the pride and favorite of all the professors. The announcement
that she was a woman would make no change in her merit or their
intentions; that the maiden LUPINA would be received by them with as much
joy and satisfaction as the youth LUPINUS would have been. The disputation
might now begin.

A murmur of applause was heard from the benches, and now the clear, soft,
but slightly trembling voice of the young girl commenced to read. How
strangely did the heavy, pompous Latin words contrast with the slight,
fairy form of the youthful girl! She stood adorned like a bride, in satin
array; not like a bride of earth, inspired by love, but a bride of heaven,
in the act of laying down before God's altar all her earthly hopes
and passions!

She felt thus. She dedicated herself to a joyless and unselfish existence
at the altar of science; she would not lead an idle, useless, musing,
cloister- life. With a holy oath she swore to serve her race; to soothe
the pain of those who suffered; to stand by the sick-beds of women and
children; to give that love to suffering, weeping humanity which she had
once consecrated to one alone, and which had come home, like a
bleeding dove, with broken wings, powerless and hopeless!

The disputation was at an end. The deacon declared the maiden, Dorothea
Christine Lupinus, a doctor. The students uttered wild applause, and the
professors drew near the old Lupinus, to congratulate him, and to renew
the acquaintance of former days.

The fair young Bride of Arts thought not of this. She looked toward Eckhof;
their glances were rooted in each other firmly but tearlessly. She waved to
him with her hand, and obedient to her wish he advanced to the door, then
turned once more; their eyes met, and she had the courage to look
softly upon the friend of her youth, Ervelman, who had accompanied
her father, and say:

"I will fulfil my father's vow--I will be a faithful wife. Look, you,
Ervelman, the star has gone out which blinded my eyes, and now I see again
clearly." She pointed, with a trembling hand, to Eckhof, who was
disappearing.

"Friend," said Eckhof, to Fredersdorf, "if the gods truly demand a great
sacrifice as a propitiation, I think I have offered one this day. I
have cast my Polycrates' ring into the sea, and a part of my heart's blood
was cleaving to it. May fate be reconciled, and grant me the happiness
this pale and lovely maiden has consecrated with her tears.

Farewell, Christine, farewell! Our paths in life are widely separated. Who
knows, perhaps we will meet again in heaven?
You belong to the saints, and I am a poor comedian, who makes a false
show throughout a wild, tumultuous life, with some pompous shreds and tatters
of art and beauty, to whom, perhaps, the angels in heaven will deny a place,
even as the priests on earth deny him a grave." [Footnote: Eckhof lived to
awake respect and love for the national theatre throughout all Germany.
He had his own theatre in Gotha, where he was born, and where he died in
1778. He performed the double service of exalting the German stage, and
obtaining for the actors consideration and respect.]

CHAPTER XII.

TRENCK'S FIRST FLIGHT.

"This is, then, the day of his liberation?" said Princess Amelia to her
confidante, Mademoiselle von Haak. "To-day, after five months of torture,
he will again be free, will again enjoy life and liberty.
And to me, happy princess, will he owe all these blessings; to me, whom
God has permitted to survive all these torments, that I might be the means
of effecting his deliverance, for, without doubt, our work will succeed,
will it not?"
"Undoubtedly," said Ernestine von Haak; "we shall and must succeed."
"Let us reconsider the whole plan, if only to enliven the tedious hours with
pleasant thought. When the commandant of the prison, Major von Doo, pays the
customary Sunday-morning visit to Trenck's cell, and while he is carefully
examining every nook to assure himself that the captive nobleman has
not been endeavoring to make a pathway to liberty, Trenck will suddenly
overpower him, deprive him of his sword, and rush past him out of the cell.
At the door he will be met by the soldier Nicolai, who is in our confidence,
and will not seem to notice his escape. Once over the palisades, he
will find a horse, which we have placed in readiness. Concealed by the
military cloak thrown over him, and armed with the pistols with which his
saddle-holsters have been furnished, he will fly on the wings of the wind
toward Bohemia. Near the border, at the village of Lonnschutz, a second
horse will await him. He will mount and hurry on until the boundary and
liberty are obtained. All seems so safe, Ernestine, so easy of execution,
that I can scarcely believe in the possibility of a failure."

"It will not fail," said Ernestine von Haak. "Our scheme is good, and will
be ably assisted--it must succeed."
"Provided he find the places where the horses stand concealed."
"These he cannot fail to find. They are accurately designated in a little
note which my lover, when he has charge of the prison-yard, will
contrive to convey to him. Schnell's known fidelity vouches for the horses
being in readiness. As your royal highness was not willing that we should
enlist accomplices among the soldiers, the only question that need give
us uneasiness is this: Will Trenck be able to overcome unaided all obstacles
within the fortifications?"
"No," said Amelia, proudly; "Trenck shall be liberated, but I will not corrupt
my brother's soldiers. To do the first, is my right and my duty, for I
love Trenck. Should I do the second, I would be guilty of high treason
to my king, and this even love could not excuse. Only to himself and
to me shall Trenck owe his freedom. Our only allies shall be my means
and his own strength. He has the courage of a hero and the strength of a
giant. He will force his way through his enemies like Briareus; they
will fall before him like grain before the reaper. If he cannot kill them
all with his sword, he will annihilate them with the lightning of his glances,
for a heavenly power dwells in his eyes. Moreover, your lover writes
that he is beloved by the officers of the garrison, that all the
soldiers sympathize with him.

It is well that it is not necessary to bribe them with miserable dross;
Trenck has already bribed them with his youth and manly beauty, his
misfortunes and his amiability. He will find no opposition; no one will
dispute his passage to liberty."
"God grant that it may be as your highness predicts!" said Ernestine, with
a sigh.

"Four days of uncertainty are still before us--would that they had passed!"
exclaimed Princess Amelia. "I have no doubts of his safety, but I fear I
shall not survive these four days of anxiety.
Impatience will destroy me. I had the courage to endure misery, but I feel
already that the expectation of happiness tortures me. God grant, at least,
that his freedom is secured!"
"Never speak of dying with the rosy cheeks and sparkling eyes your highness
has to-day," said Mademoiselle von Haak, with a smile.

"Your increasing pallor, caused no doubt by your grief, has given me much
    pain. I am no longer uneasy, however, for you have recovered health
    and strength, now that you are again hopeful. As for the four days of
    expectancy, we will kill them with merry laughter, gayety, and
dancing.

Does not the queen give a ball to-day? is there not a masquerade at the
    opera to-morrow?

For the last five months your highness has taken part in these festivities
    because you were compelled; you will now do so of your own
    accord.

You will no longer dance because the king commands, but because you are
    young, happy, and full of hope for the future. On the first and second
    day you will dance and fatigue yourself so much, that you will have the
    happiness of sleeping a great deal on the third.

The fourth day will dawn upon your weary eyes, and whisper in your ear
    that Trenck is free, and that it is you who have given him his
freedom."

"Yes, let us be gay, let us laugh, dance, and be merry," exclaimed
Princess Amelia.

"My brother shall be satisfied with me; he need no longer regard me in
    so gloomy and threatening a manner; I will laugh and jest, I will
adorn myself, and surpass all the ladies with the magnificence of
my attire and my sparkling eyes.

Come, Ernestine, come. We will arrange my toilet for this evening. It shall
    be magnificent. I will wear flowers in my hair and flowers on my breast,
    but no pearls. Pearls signify tears, and I will weep no more."
    Joyously she danced through the room, drawing her friend to the
boudoir; joyously she passed the three following days of expectation;
joyously she closed her eyes on the evening of the third day, to
see, in her dreams, her lover kneeling at her feet, thanking her
for his liberty, and vowing eternal fidelity and gratitude.

Amelia greeted the fourth day with a happy smile, never doubting
but that it would bring her glad tidings.

But hours passed away, and still Mademoiselle von Haak did not appear.
    Amelia had said to her:
    "I do not wish to see you to-morrow until you can bring me good news.
    This will, however, be in your power at an early hour, and you
    shall flutter into my chamber with these tidings, like the dove
with the olive-branch."

Mademoiselle von Haak has still not yet arrived. But now the door opens--she
    is there, but her face is pale, her eyes tearful; and this pale
    lady in black, whose noble and beautiful features recall to Amelia
    such charming and delightful remembrances--who is she?
    What brings her here? Why does she hurry forward to the princess with
    streaming eyes? Why does she kneel, raise her hands imploringly,
    and whisper, "Mercy, Princess Amelia, mercy!"

Amelia rises from her seat, pale and trembling, gazes with widely
extended eyes at the kneeling figure, and, almost speechless with
terror, asks in low tones, "Who are you, madame?

What do you desire of me?"
The pale woman at her feet cries in heart-rending accents, "I am
the mother of the unfortunate Frederick von Trenck, and I come to
implore mercy at the hands of your royal highness.

My son attempted to escape, but God did not favor his undertaking. He was
overtaken by misfortune, after having overcome almost all obstacles,
when nothing but the palisades separated him from liberty and safety; he was
attacked by his pursuers, disarmed, and carried back to prison, wounded
and bleeding." [Footnote: Trenck's Biography, i., 80.]
Amelia uttered a cry of horror, and fell back on her seat pale and
breathless, almost senseless. Mademoiselle von Haak took her gently in her
arms, and, amid her tears, whispered words of consolation, of sympathy, and
of hope. But Amelia scarcely heeded her; she looked down vacantly upon the
pallid, weeping woman who still knelt at her feet.

"Have mercy, princess, have mercy! You alone can assist me; therefore have
I come to you; therefore have I entreated Mademoiselle von Haak with tears
until she could no longer refuse to conduct me to your presence. Regardless,
at last, of etiquette and ceremony, she permitted me to fall at
your feet, and to cry to you for help.

You are an angel of goodness and mercy; pity an unfortunate mother, who
wishes to save her son!"
"And you believe that I can do this?" said Amelia, breathlessly.

"You alone, royal highness, have the power to save my son's life!"
"Tell me by what means, countess, and I will save him, if it costs my heart's
blood."
"Conduct me to the king. That is all that I require of you. He has not yet
been informed of my son's unfortunate attempt. I must be the first to bring
him this intelligence. I will confess that it was I who assisted my son
in this attempt, who bribed the non-commissioned officer, Nicolai, with
flattery and tears, with gold and promises; that it was I who placed
the horses and loaded pistols in readiness beyond the outer palisade; that
I sent my son the thousand ducats which were found on his person; that I
wrote him the letter containing vows of eternal love and fidelity. The
king will pardon a mother who, in endeavoring to liberate her
son, left no means of success untried."
"You are a noble, a generous woman!" exclaimed the princess, with enthusiasm.
"You are worthy to be Trenck's mother! You say that I must save him, and you
have come to save me! But I will not accept this sacrifice; I will not be
cowardly and timidly silent, when you have the courage to speak. Let the
king know all; let him know that Trenck was not the son, but the
lover of her who endeavored to give him his freedom, and that--"
"If you would save him, be silent!

The king can be merciful when it was the mother who attempted to liberate
the son; he will be inexorable if another has made this mad attempt; and,
above all, if he cannot punish the transgressor, my son's punishment
will be doubled."
"Listen to her words, princess, adopt her counsel," whispered the weeping
Ernestine. "Preserve yourself for the unfortunate Trenck; protect his
friends by your silence, and we may still hope to form a better and happier
plan of escape."
"Be it so," said the princess with a sigh. "I will bring him this additional
sacrifice. I will be silent. God knows that I would willingly lay down
my life for him. I would find this easier than to veil my love in cowardly
silence. Come, I will conduct you to the king."
"But I have not yet told your royal highness that the king is in his library,
and has ordered that no one should be admitted to his presence."
"I will be admitted.

I will conduct you through the private corridor and the king's apartments,
and not by the way of the grand antechamber. Come."
She seized the countess's hand and led her away.

The king was alone in his library, sitting at a table covered with books and
papers, busily engaged in writing. From time to time he paused, and thoughtfully
regarded what he had written. "I have commenced a new work, which it
is to be hoped will be as great a success in the field of science as several
that I have achieved with the sword on another field. I know my wish
and my aim; I have undertaken a truly noble task. I will write the history
of my times, not in the form of memoirs, nor as a commentary, but as a free,
independent, and impartial history. I will describe the decline of
Europe, and will endeavor to portray the follies and weaknesses of her rulers.
[Footnote: The king's own words. "OEuvres posthumes:
Correspondance avec Voltaire."] My respected colleagues, the kings and
princes, have provided me with rich materials for a ludicrous picture. To
do this work justice, the pencil of a Hollenbreughel and the pen of
a Thucydides were desirable. Ah! glory is so piquant a dish, that the more
we indulge, the more we thirst after its enjoyment. Why am I not
satisfied with being called a good general?
why do I long for the honor of being crowned in the capitol? Well, it
certainly will not be his holiness the pope who crowns me or elevates
me to the rank of a saint--truly, I am not envious of such titles. I
shall be contented if posterity shall call me a good prince, a brave
soldier, and a good lawgiver, and forgives me for having sometimes mounted
the Pegasus instead of the war horse."
With a merry smile, the king now resumed his writing. The door which
communicated with his apartments was opened softly, and Princess
Amelia, her countenance pale and sorrowful, looked searchingly into
the room. Seeing that the king was still writing, she knocked gently.
The king turned hastily and angrily.
"Did I not say that I desired to be alone?" said he, indignantly.
Perceiving his sister, he now arose, an expression of anxiety
pervading his countenance. "Ah, my sister! your sad face proclaims
you the bearer of bad news," said he; "and very important it must
have been to bring you unannounced to my presence."
"My brother, misfortune has always the privilege of coming unannounced
to the presence of princes, to implore pity and mercy at their
hands. I claim this holy privilege for the unfortunate lady who has
prayed for my intercession in her behalf. Sire, will you graciously
accord her an audience?"
"Who is she?" asked the king, discontentedly,
"Sire, it is the Countess Lostange," said Amelia, in a scarcely
audible voice.
"The mother of the rebellious Lieutenant von Trenck!" exclaimed the
king, in an almost threatening tone, his eyes flashing angrily.
"Yes, it is the mother of the unfortunate Von Trenck who implores
mercy of your majesty!" exclaimed the countess, falling on her knees
at the threshold of the door.
The king recoiled a step, and his eye grew darker. "Really, you
obtain your audiences in a daring manner--you conquer them, and
make the princess your herald."
"Sire, I was refused admission. In the anguish of my heart, I turned
to the princess, who was generous enough to incur the displeasure
of her royal brother for my sake."
"And was that which you had to say really so urgent?"
"Sire, for five months has my son been languishing in prison, and
you ask if there is an urgent necessity for his mother's appeal.
My son has incurred your majesty's displeasure; why, I know not.
He is a prisoner, and stands accused of I know not what. Be
merciful--let me know his crime, that I may endeavor to atone for
it."
"Madame, a mother is not responsible for her son; a woman cannot
atone for a man's crimes. Leave your son to his destiny; it may be
a brighter one at some future day, if he is wise and prudent, and
heeds the warning which is now knocking at his benighted heart."
At these words, the king's glance rested for a moment on the
countenance of the princess, as if this warning had also been
intended for her.
"It is, then, your majesty's intention to cheer a mother's heart
with hope? My son will not be long a captive.For the better rewarding his brave and faithful soldiers, the khan has a
military council, composed of twelve Tartar barons, who give him notice of
the meritorious services of all commanders, that they may be promoted to
higher stations, giving to one the command of an hundred, to another the
command of a thousand, and to a third the command of ten thousand, and so
on. The captain of an hundred men has a badge or tablet of silver; the
captain of a thousand has a tablet of gold or silver gilt; and the
commander of ten thousand has a tablet of gold, ornamented with the head of
a lion. These tablets differ in size and weight, according to the dignity
of the wearers. On each tablet there is an inscription of the following
import: "By the strength and power of the Almighty God, and by the grace
which He hath given to our empire: Let the name of the great khan be
blessed, and let all die or be destroyed who will not obey his commands."
Besides these badges of distinction all officers have commissions in
writing, in which all their duties, privileges, and authorities are
recited. When the generals appear in public, they have a cloth or canopy
carried over their heads, and they give audience sitting on chairs of
silver. The badge or tablet of a general, weighs three hundred _sagi_, or
fifty ounces of gold, laving images of the sun and moon; and such as have
the representation of a ger-falcon, may take with them a whole army for
their guard.

Kublai-khan is a comely handsome man of middle stature, with a fresh
complexion, bright black eyes, a well formed nose, and every way well
proportioned. He has four lawful wives, every one of whom has the title of
empress, and the eldest born son of these wives is to succeed him in the
empire. Each of these empresses has her own magnificent palace and peculiar
court, and is attended by three hundred women, besides many eunuchs, and
the suite of each extends at least to ten thousand persons. The great Khan
has also many concubines; and every second year he sends messengers to a
remarkably fair tribe among the Tartars named _Virgut_, to make search for
die fairest young women among them for his use. These messengers usually
bring with them four or five hundred young women, more or less as they see
cause.  Examiners are appointed to take a view of all their beauties, who
fix values upon them in proportion to their various merits, at sixteen,
seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty, or more carats; and only those are
brought to court whose values reach to a certain appointed rate. On their
arrival at Cambalu, other examiners again view them, and choose out twenty
or thirty of the handsomest for the chambers of the khan. Those who are
thus selected, are placed for some time under the care of some of the wives
of the great barons about the court, who are directed to report whether
they do not snore in their sleep, and if they are not offensive in smell or
behaviour. Such as are finally approved, are divided into parties of five;
and one such party attends in the chamber of the khan for three days and
nights in their turn, while another party waits in an adjoining chamber to
prepare whatever the others may command them. Those who are less prized in
the course of these rigid examinations of their qualities, are employed in
cookery or other offices about the palace, or are bestowed by the khan on
his favoured officers, with large portions. The men of the country from
whence these young women are brought, deem it a great honour when their
daughters are found worthy of the khans regard, and esteem themselves
unfortunate when they are rejected at court.

Kublai had twenty-two sons by his four legitimate wives, and the first born
of his first wife, named Zingis, would have succeeded him in the empire if
he had not died before his father. Zingis left a son named Timur, who is a
wise and valiant prince of great military experience, and who is destined
to succeed his grandfather on the imperial throne, instead of his deceased
father. By his concubines he has twenty-five sons, all of whom are daily
exercised in martial employments, and are all promoted to high military
posts and governments. Seven of his sons by his lawful wives are kings of
great provinces, and rule the countries committed to their charge with
great prudence and discretion.


[1] In a former note, it has been mentioned, on the authority of Abulgazi-
    khan, himself a descendant of Zingis, and prince, of Khuaresm, that
    Kublai-khan was only the fifth emperor of the Tartars, and that he
    ascended the throne in 1257.  The difference of date in this latter
    circumstance is quite unimportant, and may have proceeded, either from
    a different way of reckoning, or the delay of intelligence from so
    vast a distance. But Kublai died in 1292, after reigning thirty-five
    years, according to Abulgazi, and is said to have been then eighty
    years of age. He must therefore have been forty-five years old at his
    accession, instead of twenty-seven. Harris indeed mentions in, a note,
    that the age of Kublai in the MSS. and even in many of the printed
    editions, was left blank.--E.

[2] In Harris, this date is 1286; but as, in a note, this war is said to
    have occurred on occasion of the election of Kublai to the imperial
    dignity in 1257, I have ventured to restore what seems to be the true
    date. Besides Naiam, in 1286, thirty years of age, could not possibly
    have been the uncle of Kublai.--E.

[3] The new city of Pekin, of which hereafter.--E.

[4] The followers of Naiam in this rebellion are said to have consisted of
    four nations, or tribes of Tartars, named Ciazza, Cadi, Barscol, and
    Sitinqui, but of whom no other information or notice remains.--E.

[5] This is the only notice of the Jews in the east by Marco Polo, and
    serves considerably to confirm the authenticity of Rabbi Banjamin;
    who, as a Jew, felt more interest in attending to his countrymen.--E.


SECTION XI.

_Account of the Imperial City of Cambalu, and the Court of the Great Khan,
or Emperor of the Tartars_.

During the three winter months of December, January, and February,
Kublai-khan generally resides in Cambalu[1] which is at the north-east
border of Kathay. On the north part of the new city stands the great palace
of the khan. In the first place is a great wall surrounding a vast square
enclosure, each side being eight miles in length; the wall is environed on
the outside by a deep ditch, and has a great gate in the middle of each
side. Within this outer wall, there is another exactly a mile distant, each
side of the square which it forms being six miles; and in the space between
these two walls the soldiers attend and perform their exercises and
evolutions. This inner square has three gates on its south side, and the
same number on the north; the middle gate of both these sides being greater
and more magnificent than the others, and is appropriated to the sole use
of the khan, the others being open to all who have a right to pass. In each
corner of this second wall, and in the middle of each side, there are very
large and magnificent buildings, eight in all, which are appropriated as
storehouses or arsenals for keeping the warlike weapons and furniture
belonging to the khan: as horse trappings of all kinds in one; bows and
arrows and cross-bows in a second; helmets, cuirasses, and leather armour
in a third; and so on in the rest. Within this second circuit, and at a
considerable distance, there is a third wall, likewise square, each side
being a mile in length; this wall being ten paces high and very thick, with
white battlements, has six gates as in the second wall. Between this third
wall and the former there is an extensive park, with many fine trees and
large meadows, well stocked with deer and other game, and the roads are
raised two cubits above the meadows, to save the grass from being trodden.
All of this park is kept in the finest order imaginable. In the four
angles, and in the middle of each side of this interior wall, there are
eight large and magnificent buildings, in which the khans provisions, and
other things belonging to the court, are stored up.

Within this last wall is the palace of the great khan, which is the largest
and most magnificent of any in the world[2], extending the whole way
between the north and south walls of the inner circuit, except an opening
of sufficient width for the passage of the soldiers and barons attending
the courts The palace hath no ceiling[3], but the roof is very high. The
foundation of the pavement or floor is raised ten palms above the ground,
and is surrounded by a marble wall of two paces wide, resembling a walk;
and at the end of the wall without, there is a fair turret ornamented with
pillars. In the walls of the halls and chambers, there are numerous figures
of dragons, soldiers, birds and beasts of various kinds, and
representations of battles, all finely carved and splendidly gilded, and
the roof is so richly ornamented, that nothing is to be seen but splendid
gold and imagery. In every square of the palace there is a great hall,
capable of containing a prodigious multitude of people, and all the
chambers are arranged and disposed in the best possible manner; the roofs
being all richly painted red, green, azure, and all other colours. Behind
the palace there are many great rooms and private storehouses, for the
treasure and jewels of the khan, for the dwellings of his women, and for
various other private purposes. Over against the palace of the khan, there
is another, which was formerly inhabited by his deceased son Zingis, who
held a court in all things resembling that of his father. Near the palace,
and to the north, there is a high artificial mount, a mile in
circumference, and an hundred paces high, planted with evergreen trees,
which were brought from remote places, with all their roots, on the backs
of elephants: This eminence is called the _Green Mountain_, and is
extremely pleasant and beautiful. Where the earth was taken away to form
this mount, there are two lakes corresponding with each other, supplied by
a small river, and well stored with fish; and the passages of the water are
grated in such a manner that the fish cannot escape.

The city of Cambalu is seated on a great river in the province of Kathay,
or Northern China, and its name signifies the city of the prince, having
been the royal residence in former times. After the conquest,
understanding, from his astrologers, that the inhabitants would rebel, the
great khan removed the city to the other side of the river, calling the new
city Taidu, which is twenty-four miles in circumference, every side of the
square being six miles, and he commanded all the Kathayans to remove from
the old city into the new one. The walls are of earth, ten paces thick at
the bottom, and gradually tapering to three paces thick at the top, with
white battlements. Each side of the square has three principal gates, or
twelve in all, having sumptuous palaces built over each; and there are
pavilions in all the angles of the wall, where the arms of the garrison are
kept, being 1000 men for each gate. The whole buildings of this city are
exactly squared, and all the streets are laid out in straight lines; so
that a free prospect is preserved from gate to gate, through the whole
city; and the houses are built on each side like palaces, with courts and
gardens, divided according to the heads of families. In the middle of the
whole, there is a noble building, in which a great bell is suspended, after
the tolling of which, at a certain hour of the night, no person must go out
of his house till the dawn of next morning, except it be for some urgent
cause, as for assistance to a woman in labour, and even then they must
carry lights. On the outside of the walls there are twelve large suburbs,
extending three or four miles in length, from each gate, and there are more
inhabitants in these suburbs than within the walls. In these, foreign
merchants, and other strangers live, each nation having several storehouses
and bazars, in which they lodge and keep their goods. No dead body is
allowed to be burnt or buried within the city; but the bodies of the
idolaters are burned without the suburbs, and the bodies of all other sects
are buried in the same places. On account of the vast multitude of
Mahometans who inhabit here, there are above 25,000 harlots in the city and
suburbs: Over every 100 and every 1000 of these, there are chiefs or
captains appointed, to keep them in order, and one general inspector over
the whole. When any ambassador or other person, having business with the
khan, comes to Cambalu, his whole charges are defrayed from the imperial
treasury, and the general inspector of the harlots provides the ambassador,
and every man of his family, a change of women every night at free cost.
The guards of the city carry all whom they may find walking in the streets,
after the appointed hour, to prison; and it these persons cannot give a
valid excuse, they are beaten with cudgels, as the Bachsi allege that it is
not right to shed mens blood; yet many persons die of this beating.

There are 12,000 horse-guards, called Casitan, who attend on the person of
the khan, more from state than from any suspicion of danger. These have
four chief commanders, one to every 3000 men; and one commander, with his
band of 3000, keeps guard over the khan for three days and nights, after
which he is succeeded by another, and so on in regular order.

When the khan holds a solemn court on any particular day of festival, his
table is raised higher than all the rest, and is set on the north side of
the hall, having his face to the south, his first queen or principal wife
being placed on his left hand, and his sons and nephews, and other princes
of the blood-royal being arranged on his right; but their table is placed
so much lower, that their heads are hardly so high as the khans feet. The
princes and other lords of the court sit lower still on the right hand; and
the ladies being all placed in similar order on the left, those of the sons
and kinsmen of the khan being next to the queen, and after these, the wives
of the lords and officers, each according to their several ranks, in due
order. By this means the khan, as he sits at table, can see all that feast
along with him in the hall. There are not tables for all who are admitted
to the feast, but the greatest part of the soldiers and captains sit down
on carpets, where they are served with victuals and drink. At all the doors
there are two gigantic fellows with cudgels, who observe carefully if any
one touches the threshold in going in; and whoever does so, forfeits his
garment, or receives a certain number of blows of a cudgel. Those who serve
the khan, or who sit at his table, have their mouths covered with silken
veils, lest their breath should touch the meat or drink which he is to use.
When he drinks, the damsel who carries the cup kneels down, and then all
the barons and others present kneel likewise, and all the musicians sound
their instruments, till the khan has done drinking. If I were to describe
all the pomp and magnificence of these festivals, and all die dainties and
delicate dishes which are served up, I should become prolix and tiresome.

The birth days of their lords are celebrated with great reverence among the
Tartars. That of Kublai-khan, their great emperor, is held yearly, on the
twenty-eighth day of September, and is kept with greater solemnity than any
other festival, except that of the new year, which is celebrated on the
first day of February, when the Tartar year commences. On his birth day the
great khan is clothed in a most splendid robe of cloth of gold, and about
2000 of his barons and soldiers receive, on this occasion, silken garments
of a golden, colour, and girdles wrought in gold or silver, with each a
pair of shoes. Some of those who are next to the khan in dignity, wear
pearls and jewels of great value. These splendid garments are only worn on
thirteen solemn festivals, corresponding to the thirteen moons or lunar
months, into which the Tartar year is divided, when all the great men of
the court are splendidly habited, like so many kings. The birth-day of the
great khan is celebrated by all the Tartars throughout his extensive
dominions; and on this day, all the kings, princes, governors, and nobles,
who are subject to his authority, send presents to him in honour of the
day, and in token of submission. Such as are desirous of obtaining any
place of dignity or office, present their petitions to a council of twelve
barons, appointed for that express purpose; and their decision is
considered as equivalent to an answer from the khan in person. All the
people of the immense dominions who acknowledge the authority of the great
khan, whether Christians, or Jews, Mahometans, Tartars, or Pagans, are
bound, on this anniversary, to pray solemnly to their Gods for the life,
safety, prosperity, and health of the great khan.

On the first of February, which is the commencement of the Tartar year, the
great khan, and all the Tartars, wherever they may happen to be at the
time, observe a very solemn feast; and all of them, both men and women, are
desirous, on that occasion, to be clothed in white garments, that fortune
may be favourable to them for the remainder of the year. On this occasion,
the governors of provinces, and rulers of cities, and all who are in office
or authority, send presents to the khan, of gold, silver, pearls, and
precious stones, likewise of many white cloths of various kinds, and other
white things, and many white horses. It is the custom of those who bring
presents, if they can, to present nine times nine of every particular
article, whether it be gold, or silver, or cloths, or horses; and on this
occasion, the khan sometimes receives 100,000 horses. On this grand
festival, all the elephants belonging to the great khan, about 5000, are
brought into the great court of the palace, covered with splendid housings
of tapestry, wrought with the figures of various kinds of birds and beasts,
each of them bearing on their backs two chests filled with vessels of gold
and silver; and many camels are paraded on the same occasion, covered over,
with fine silken cloths, and loaded with other necessaries for the court.

On the morning of this festival of the new year, all the captains, barons,
soldiers[4], physicians, astrologers, governors of provinces, generals of
armies, and other officers of the great khan, assemble before the emperor,
in the great hall of the palace, all placed in due order, according to
their rank and dignity, and those who have no place or employment, stand
without, that they may see the ceremonies. One of the heads of their
priests then rises, and cries out with a loud voice, "Bow down and adore,"
on which all who are present bend down their foreheads to the earth. He
then calls out aloud, "God preserve our khan, and grant him long life and
happiness;" and all the people answer, "God grant this." Then he says, "May
God increase and advance his empire, and preserve all his subjects, in
peace, concord, and prosperity;" and the people say, "God grant this our
prayer." All this is repeated four times. Then the chief priest goes
forwards to a red table or altar, richly adorned, on which the name of the
khan is written; and taking a censer, containing rich spices and perfumes,
he perfumes the altar or table with great reverence, in honour of the khan,
and returns to his place in the assembly. After the conclusion of this
ceremony, the various gifts which have been already mentioned are presented
to the khan. And then the tables are prepared, and a most solemn and
splendid dinner is served up, of which all the assistants, with their
wives, partake, eating and drinking with great joy, as formerly described.
In the course of this solemn feast, a tame lion is led up to the khan,
which lies down at his feet as gentle as a whelp, acknowledging and
caressing his lord.

In those three winter months during which the khan resides in Cambalu, viz.
December, January, and February, all the imperial huntsmen who are
maintained in the provinces contiguous to Kathay, employ themselves
continually in hunting, and bring all the larger wild beasts, such as
stags, deer, roe-bucks, bears, and wild-boars, to their governors or
masters of the game; and if within thirty days journey of Cambalu, all
these are sent in waggons to the court, being first embowelled; but such as
are at a greater distance, send only the skins, which are used in making
housings and other military articles.

The khan has many leopards, wolves, and even lions, trained for hunting.
These lions are larger than those which are found near Babylon, and are
variegated with small spots of white, black, and red. They are bred to
catch bears, boars, stags, roe-bucks, wild asses, and wild bulls, and it is
wonderful to see their dexterity and fierceness in the chase. When these
lions are taken out to hunt, they are carried in waggons, two together,
accompanied by a dog, with which they are familiar. They are managed in
this manner, because of their fierce and unruly disposition, and they must
be drawn towards the game against the wind, otherwise the beast would scent
them and fly away. There are also many tame eagles, so trained as to take
hares, roe-bucks, deers, and foxes; and some of these will even seize upon
wolves, and vex them so grievously, that the men may take them without
danger. For the conduct of the imperial hunt, there are two great officers
called Ciurco, or masters of the game, who are brothers, named Boyan and
Mingan, each of whom have the command of 10,000 men; those who belong to
one of these divisions being clothed in red, and the others in sky blue;
and they keep various kinds of dogs, such as mastiffs and others, for
hunting, to the number of 5000 or more. When the khan goes to hunt, one of
these great companies of hunters stretches out on his right hand, and the
other on his left, occupying the plain country to the breadth of a whole
days journey, so that no beast can escape them; and when they have
collected the game into a circle, it is delightful to see the khan going
into the middle, with numbers of dogs, which hunt down the harts and bears,
and other wild beasts. The masters of the game are bound by their
commissions to send to court, between the beginning of October and end of
March, 1000 head of beasts, besides birds of various kinds, and fish, the
best they can procure.


[1] The proper name of this place is Kan-balgassan, or, for shortness,
    Khan-balga, signifying the city of the khan. Arabian authors have
    changed it to Khan-balick or Khan-baligh; and the Italians to
    Chanbalig, Chanbalu, Cambalu, and even Gamelecco. The Chinese call
    this northern part of the imperial city King-tshing, which has the
    same meaning with the Tartar name, and may be translated Kingstown.
    Pe-king, the other part of the same city, signifies the northern court
    or residence.--Forst.

[2] The description of this palace is exceedingly confused and
    unintelligible, most probably from erroneous transcription and
    mistakes in translation.--E.

[3] By this obscure expression, it seems to be implied that there are no
    upper rooms.--E.

[4] The soldiers mentioned here and in other places, as present in the
    great hall upon solemn occasions, can only mean the officers of the
    military actually on guard over the person of the khan at the time.
    --E.


SECTION XII.

_Of the Magnificence of the Court of the Great Khan, and of the Manners and
Customs of his Subjects_.

In the beginning of March the great khan departs from Cambalu, and proceeds
north towards the ocean[1], which is at the distance of two days journey,
accompanied by 10,000 falconers, with falcons, ger-falcons, hawks, and
other birds of prey, that are trained to the sport. These falconers
disperse themselves in companies of 100 or 200 together, and most of the
birds that are taken are brought to the khan; who, on account of the gout,
which has disabled him from riding, sits in a wooden house, covered with
lions skins, and hung within with cloth of gold, which is carried on the
backs of two elephants. For his particular recreation, he is accompanied by
twelve choice hawks, carried by twelve nobles, many other noblemen and
soldiers attending him. When any cranes, or pheasants, or other birds are
seen, notice is given to the falconers who are near the khan, and by these
to the khan himself, who then orders his travelling house to be removed,
and the hawks to be flown at the game, and he, sitting in his bed, enjoys
the sport. Ten thousand men attend the khan, who disperse two and two
together, to mark where the falcons fly, that they may assist them when
needful, and bring back them, and their game to the khan. These men are
called _Tascoal_, which signifies watchmen or marksmen, and have a peculiar
whistle by which they call in the hawks and falcons, so that it is not
necessary that the falconers who let fly the hawks should follow them, as
these tascoal are busily employed in taking up the hawks, and are very
careful that none of them be hurt or lost. Every hawk has a small plate of
silver attached to the foot, on which is the peculiar mark of its master,
that each may be restored to its right owner. But if the mark be lost, or
cannot be known, the hawk is delivered to a certain baron, whose name of
office is Bulangazi, to whom all lost things whatever must be brought,
otherwise the finder would be punished as a thief; and to the Bulangazi all
who have lost any thing make application. This man is distinguished by a
peculiarly conspicuous ensign, that he may be easily found out in so
numerous an assemblage.

While thus busily employed in hawking, the royal retinue came at length to
a great plain called Carzarmodin, where the tents of the khan and all the
courtiers are pitched, to the number of 10,000 or more. The grand pavilion
of the khan is so large, that 10,000 men might stand within it, besides
barons and noblemen. It is placed with its entrance to the south, supported
upon curiously carved pillars, and is covered on the outside with the skins
of lions and other wild beasts, to keep out the rain; but the whole inside
is lined with sables and ermines, to an immense value. For so precious are
these skins esteemed, that a sufficient number to make one garment only
will sometimes cost 2000 gold sultanies, and the Tartars call the sable the
queen of furs. All the cords of the imperial pavilions are of silk. Around
this there are other pavilions for the sons, wives, and concubines of the
khan. At a farther distance there are tents for the falcons, ger-falcons,
hawks, and other birds of game; and the whole encampment seems at a
distance like a great city, or the station of a large army. The khan
remains all the month of March in that plain, employed in hawking; and the
multitude of beasts and fowls which are taken in that time is quite
incredible. From the beginning of March to the month of October, no person
is permitted to hunt within five days journey of this plain of Carzarmodin
in one direction, ten in another, and fifteen in a third, nor to keep any
hawk or hunting dog, neither to use any device or engine whatever, for
taking any stag, deer, roe-buck, hare, or other game, lest the breed should
be injured; by which means the game is always in great abundance.

It is quite wonderful to behold what numbers of merchants and other people,
and what astonishing quantities of merchandize and goods of all sorts are
to be seen in Cambalu. The money of the great khan is not of gold or
silver, or other metal, but of a species of paper, which is thus made: They
take the middle Dark of the mulberry tree, which they make firm in a
particular manner, and this is cut out into round pieces of various sizes,
on which the seal or mark of the khan is impressed. Of this paper money, an
immense quantity is fabricated in the city of Cambalu, sufficient to supply
the currency of the whole empire; and no person, under pain of death, may
coin or spend any other money, or refuse to accept of this, in all the
kingdoms and countries which are subject to his dominions. All who come
into his dominions are prohibited from using any other money, so that all
merchants coming from countries however remote, must bring with them gold,
silver, pearls, or precious stones, for which they receive the khans paper
money in exchange: And as that money is not received in other countries,
they must exchange it again in the empire of the great khan, for
merchandize to carry with them on their return. The khan pays all salaries,
stipends, and wages to his officers, servants, and army, in this money, and
whatever is required for the service of his court and household is paid for
in the same. By all these means, there is no sovereign in the world who
equals the great khan in extent of treasure; as he expends none in the
mint, or in any other way whatever.

The great khan has a council of war, composed of twelve barons, as formerly
mentioned, who direct all martial affairs, and have the power of promoting
or disgracing officers and soldiers as they think proper. Their office is
called _Thai_, or the high court or tribunal, as no person in the empire is
superior to them except the great khan. Other twelve barons are appointed
as counsellors for the thirty-four provinces, into which the vast empire of
the khan is divided; these have a splendid palace in Cambalu as their
office, in which there is a judge for each province, and many notaries.
This tribunal chooses proper persons to be appointed governors of the
provinces, and presents their names to the khan for confirmation. They
likewise have the charge of the collection and expenditure of the public
treasure. The name of their office is _Singh_, or the second court, which
is subordinate only to the khan, yet is considered as less noble than the
_Thai_ or military tribunal.

Many public roads lead from Cambalu to all the neighbouring provinces; and
on every one of these there are inns or lodgings, called _lambs_, built at
the distance of every twenty-five or thirty miles, which serve as post-
houses, having large fair courts, and many chambers, furnished with beds
and provisions, every way fit to lodge and entertain great men, and even
kings. The provisions are furnished from the circumjacent country, out of
the tributes. At every one of these, there are four hundred horses, two
hundred of which are kept ready for use in the stables, and the other two
hundred at grass, each division for a month alternately. These horses are
destined for the use of ambassadors and messengers, who leave their tired
horses, and get fresh ones at every stage. In mountainous places, where
there were no villages, the khan has established colonies of about ten
thousand people in each, in the neighbourhood of these post-houses, that
they may cultivate the ground, and supply provisions. These excellent
regulations extend to the utmost limits of the empire, in all directions,
so that there are about ten thousand imperial inns or lambs in the whole
empire; and the number of horses appointed in these, for the service of
messengers, exceeds two hundred thousand[2]; by which means, intelligence
is forwarded to the court without delay, from all parts of the empire. If
any person should wonder how so many beasts and men can be procured and
provided for, let him consider that the Mahometans and pagans have many
women, and great numbers, of children, some having even so many as thirty
sons, all able to follow them armed into the field. As for victuals, they
sow rice, panik, and millet, which yield an hundred after one, and they
allow no land that is fit to carry crops to remain uncultivated. As wheat
does not thrive in this country it is little sown, and they use no bread,
but feed upon the formerly mentioned grains, boiled in milk, or made into
broth along with flesh. Their horses continually increase, insomuch, that
every Tartar soldier carries six, eight, or more horses into the field for
his own use, which he rides upon in their turns. All cities that are
adjoining to rivers or lakes, are ordered to have ferry-boats in constant
readiness for the posts; and those which are on the borders of deserts,
must supply horses and provisions for such as have to pass through these
deserts; for which service, they are allowed a reasonable compensation from
the state.

In cases of great conscience, the messenger has a gerfalcon badge, formerly
mentioned, and is so equipped, that he will ride 200, or 250 miles in a day
and night, being attended in dark nights by persons who run along with him
on foot, carrying lights. On approaching a post-house, the messenger sounds
a horn, that a fresh horse or horses, according to his company, may be
brought out, and ready to mount immediately. These speedy messengers have
then bellies, loins, and heads firmly swathed, and they always travel as
fast as their horses can go; and such as are able to endure this excessive
riding, are held in great estimation, as nothing is more admired among the
Tartars than good horsemanship.

Between the _lambs_, or large post-houses, there are other habitations, at
three or four miles distance from each other, where foot-posts are
established, every one of whom has his girdle hung round with shrill
sounding bells. These are always in readiness; and when dispatched with the
khans letters, they convey them with great speed to the next foot-post
station, where they hear the sound of the bells from a distance, and some
one is always in readiness to take the letters, and to run on to the next
station: Thus, by constant change of swift runners, the letters are
conveyed with great dispatch to their destinations. By this means, the khan
often receives letters or new fruits in two days, from the distance often
ordinary days journey: As for instance, fruits growing at Cambalu in the
morning, are conveyed to Xandu by the night of the next day. All the people
employed in the posts, besides being exempted from all tribute, have an
ample recompense for their labour from the gatherer of the khans rents.
There are inspectors employed, who examine the state and conduct of these
posts every month, and are empowered to punish those who are guilty of
faults.

The khan sends every year to the different provinces of his empire, to
inquire whether any injuries have been sustained to the crops by tempests,
locusts, worms, or any other calamity; and when any province or district
has suffered damage, the tribute is remitted for that year, and he even
sends corn for food and seed from the public granaries: For in years of
great abundance, he purchases large quantities of grain, which is carefully
preserved for three or four years, by officers appointed for the purpose;
by which means, when a scarcity occurs in any province, the defect may be
supplied from the granaries of the khan in another province. On these
occasions, he orders his grain to be sold at a fourth part of the market
price, and great care is taken to keep his granaries always well supplied.
When any murrain attacks the cattle of one of the provinces, the deficiency
is supplied from the tenths which he receives in the other provinces. If
any beast or sheep happens to be killed by lightning in a flock or herd, he
draws no tribute from that flock, however great, for three years, under an
idea that God is angry with the owner of the herd.

That travellers may discern, and be able to discover the road in
uninhabited places, trees are planted at convenient distances, along all
the principal roads; and in the sandy and desert places, where trees will
not grow, stones and pillars are erected to direct the passengers, and
officers are appointed to see that all these things are performed.
According to the opinion of the astrologers, the planting of trees conduces
to lengthen the age of man, and therefore, the khan is the more induced to
encourage their propagation by his order and example.

In the province of Cathay, the people make excellent drink of rice and
certain spices, which even excels wine in flavour; and those who drink too
much of it become sooner drunk than with wine[3]. Through this whole
province, certain black stones are dug from the mountains, which burn like
wood, and preserve fire a long time, and if kindled in the evening, will
keep on fire all night[4]; and many people use these stones in preference
to wood, because, though the country abounds in trees, there is a great
demand for wood for other purposes.

The great khan is particularly attentive to the care of the poor in the
city of Cambalu. When he hears of any honourable family that, has fallen to
decay through misfortune, or of any who cannot work, and have no
subsistence, he gives orders for issuing a whole years subsistence,
together with garments, both for winter and summer, to the heads of those
distressed families. There is an appropriate office or tribunal for this
imperial bounty, to which those who have received the warrants or orders of
the khan apply for relief. The khan receives the tenths of all wool, silk,
and hemp, which he causes to be manufactured into stuffs of all kinds, in
houses set apart for this purpose; and as all artificers of every
description are bound to work for him one day in every week, he has immense
quantities of every kind of useful commodity in his storehouses. By these
means, likewise, there are similar imperial manufactures in every city of
the empire, in which clothing is made from his tithe wool for his
innumerable soldiers. According to their ancient customs, the Tartars gave
no alms, and were in use to upbraid those who were in poverty, as hated of
God. But the priests of the idolaters, especially those who have been
formerly mentioned under the name of Bachsi, have convinced the khan that
charity is a good work, and an acceptable service to God; so that in his
court food and raiment are never denied to those who ask, and there is no
day in which there is less than the value of 20,000 crowns distributed in
acts of charily, particularly in rice, millet, and panik; by which
extensive benevolence the khan is esteemed as a god among his subjects.

There are in Cambalu about five thousand astrologers and diviners,
Christians, Mahometans, and Kathayans, all of whom are provided yearly by
the khan in food and raiment. These have an Astrolabe, on which all the
signs of the planets are marked, together with the hours, and most minute
subdivisions of the whole year. By this instrument, these astrologers, each
religion apart, observe the course of the year, according to every moon,
noting the prognostications of the weather, yet always referring to God, to
do as they predict or otherwise, according to his pleasure. They write down
upon square tablets, called _Tacuini_, all those things which are to fall
out during the year, which they sell to any who will purchase; and those
who are most fortunate in their predictions are held in the highest honour.
If any one intends to commence an important labour, or to undertake a
distant journey, and is anxious to be certified of the event, he has
recourse to the astrologers to read, as they pretend, his destiny in the
heavens, for this purpose, being instructed in the precise date of birth of
the person consulting them, they calculate the present aspect of the
constellation which ruled at his birth, and foretel that good or evil will
flow from his intentions. The Tartars compute time by cycles of twelve
lunar years; calling the first of each series the year of the lion; the
second of the ox; the third of the dragon; the fourth of the dog; and so on
through the whole twelve, and when these are gone through, they begin the
series anew. Thus, if a man is asked when he was born, he answers that it
was on such a division of such an hour, day, and moon, in the year of the
lion, ox, or so forth. All this their fathers set down exactly in a book.

It has been already said that the Tartars are idolaters. Each man of any
consequence has a table aloft in the wall of one of his chambers, on which
a name is written, to signify the great God of Heaven, whom he adores once
each day, with a censer of burning incense; and lifting up his hands, and
thrice gnashing his teeth, he prays to God to grant him health and
understanding; this being the only petition addressed to the Almighty, of
whom they pretend not to make any similitude. But they have a statue or
image on the ground, called _Natigai_, the god of earthly things, and
images of his wife and children. This is likewise worshipped with incense,
gnashing of teeth, and lifting up the hands; and from this, they beg for
favourable weather, productive crops, increase of children, and all manner
of worldly prosperity. This was their inheritance, handed down from generation
to generation, from father to son. So will it be with King Frederick the
Second. He is not only the king and the hero, but he is the man of the
people. His fame will not be written alone on the tablets of history by the
Muses; the people will write it on the pure, white, vacant leaves of
their Bibles; the children and grandchildren will read it; and,
centuries hence, the curious searchers into history will consider this as
fame, and exalt the name of Frederick the Great."
"God grant it may be so!" said the king solemnly. "You know that I am
ambitious. I believe that this passion is the most enduring, and that
its burning thirst is never quenched. As crown prince, I was ever
humiliated by the thought that the love, consideration, and respect shown
to me was no tribute to my worth, but was offered to a prince, the son
of a powerful king. With what admiration, with what enthusiasm did I
look at Voltaire!

he needed no high birth, no title, to be considered, honored, and envied
by the whole world. I, however, must have rank, title, princely revenues,
and a royal genealogical tree, in order to fix the eyes of men upon me.
Ah, how often did I remind myself of the history of that great prince, who,
surrounded by his enemies, and about to surrender, saw his servants and
friends despairing and weeping around him! He smiled upon them, and
uttered these few but expressive words: 'I feel by your tears that
I am still a king.'

I swore then to be like that noble man, to owe my fame, not to my
royal mantle, but to myself.

I have fulfilled but a small portion of my oath. I hope that my godmother,
    Maria Theresa, and the Russian empress, will soon afford me more
    enlarged opportunities. Our enemies are indeed our best friends; they
    enrage and inspire us."

"In so saying, sire, you condemn us all, we who are the most faithful,
    submissive, and enthusiastic friends of your highness."

"You are also useful to me," said the king.

"You, for example, your cheerful, loving face does me good whenever
I look upon it.

You keep my heart young and fresh, and teach me to laugh, which pleasant
art I am constantly forgetting in the midst of these wearisome and
hypocritical men.

I never laugh so merrily as when I am with you at your table, where I have
the high privilege of laying aside my royalty, and being a simple, happy man
like yourself. I rejoice in the prospect of this evening, and I am
impatient as a young maiden before her first ball. This evening, if I remember
correctly, I am invited by General von Rothenberg to a petit souper."
"Your majesty was kind enough to promise me that you would come."
"Do you know, Rothenberg, I really believe that the expectation of this
fete has made the hours of the day so long and wearisome. Now, tell me, who
are we to have? who takes part in our gayety?"
"Those who were selected by your majesty: Chazot and Algarotti, Jordan and
Bielfeld."
"Did I select the company?" said the king, thoughtfully; "then I wonder
that--" He stopped, and, looking down, turned away silently.

"What causes your majesty's wonder?" said the general.

"I am surprised that I did not ask you to give us Rhine wine this evening,"
said the king, with a sly smile.

"Rhine wine! why, your majesty has often told me that it was a slow poison,
and produced death."
"Yes, that is true, but what will you have? There are many things in this
incomprehensible world which are poisonous, and which, for that reason,
are the more alluring. This is peculiarly so with women. He does well who
avoids them; they bewilder our reason and make our hearts sick, but we
do not flee from them. We pursue them, and the poison which they infuse
in our veins is sweet; we quaff it rapturously, though death is in the cup."

"In this, however, your majesty is wiser than all other men: you alone
have the power to turn away from or withstand them."
"Who knows? perhaps that is sheer cowardice," said the king; he turned
away confused, and beat with his fingers upon the window- glass. "I called
the Rhine wine poison, because of its strength. I think now that it alone
deserves to be called wine--it is the only wine which has bloom." Frederick
was again silent, and beat a march upon the window.

The general looked at him anxiously and thoughtfully; suddenly his countenance
cleared, and a half-suppressed smile played upon his lips.

"I will allow myself to add a conclusive word to those of my king,
that is, a moral to his fable. Your majesty says Rhine wine is the only
wine which deserves the name, because it alone has bloom.

So I will call that society only society which is graced and adorned by women.
Women are the bloom of society. Do you not agree with me, sire?"
"If I agree to that proposition, it amounts to a request that you will
invite women to our fete this evening--will it not?" said the king, still
thrumming on the window.

"And with what rapture would I fulfil your wish, but I fear it would
be difficult to induce the ladies to come to the house of a young bachelor
as I am!"
"Ah, bah! I have determined during the next winter to give these little
suppers very often. I will have a private table, and women shall be present."

"Yes, but your majesty is married."
"They would come if I were a bachelor. The Countess Carnas, Frau von
Brandt, the Kleist, and the Morien, are too witty and too intellectual
to be restrained by narrow-minded prejudice."
"Does your majesty wish that I should invite these ladies?" said the general;
"they will come, without doubt, if your majesty commands it. Shall I
invite them?"
The king hesitated a moment to reply. "Perhaps they would not come willingly,"
said he; "you are unmarried, and they might be afraid of their husbands'
anger."
"I must, then, invite ladies who are not married," said Rothenberg, whose
face was now radiant with delight; "but I do not know one unmarried lady
of the higher circles who carries her freedom from prejudice so far
as to dare attend a bachelor's supper."
"Must we always confine our invitations to the higher circles?" said the
king, beating his parade march still more violently upon the window.

Rothenberg watched him with the eye of a sportsman, who sees the wild
deer brought to bay.

"If your majesty will condescend to set etiquette aside, I will make a
proposition."
"Etiquette is nonsense and folly, and shall not do the honors by our petits
soupers; pleasure only presides."
"Then I propose that we invite some of the ladies from the theatre-- is your
majesty content?"
"Fully! but which of the ladies?" said the king.

"That is your majesty's affair," said Rothenberg, smiling. "You have
selected the gentlemen, will it please you to name the ladies?"
"Well, then," said the king, hesitating, "what say you to Cochois, Astrea,
and the little Petrea?"
"Sire, they will be all most welcome; but I pray you to allow me to add one
name to your list, the name of a woman who is more lovely, more gracious,
more intellectual, more alluring, than all the prima donnas of the world;
who has the power to intoxicate all men, not excepting emperors and kings,
and make them her willing slaves. Dare I name her, sire?"
"Certainly."
"The Signora Barbarina."
The king turned his head hastily, and his burning eyes rested questioningly
upon the face of Rothenberg, who met his glance with a merry look.

Frederick was silent; and the general, making a profound bow, said solemnly:
"I pray your majesty to allow me to invite Mesdames Cochois, Astrea, and
Petrea, also the Signora Barbarina, to our petit souper."
"Four prima donnas at once!" said the king, laughing; "that would be
dangerous; we would, perhaps, have the interesting spectacle of seeing
them tear out each other's eyes. No, no! to enjoy the glories of the sun,
there must be no rival suns in the horizon; we will invite but one
enchantress, and as you are the host, you have the undoubted right to
select her. Let it be then the Signora Barbarina." [Footnote: Rodenbeck:
"Journal of Frederick the Great."]
"Your majesty graciously permits me to invite the Signora Barbarina?" said
Rothenberg, looking the king steadily in the face; a rich blush
suffused the cheeks of Frederick.

Suddenly he laughed aloud, and laying his arm around the neck of his friend,
he looked in his radiant face with an expression of confidence and
love.

"You are a provoking scamp," said Frederick. "You understood me from the
beginning, and left me hanging, like Absalom, upon the tree.
That was cruel, Rothenberg."
"Cruel, but well deserved, sire. Why would you not make known your wishes
clearly? Why leave me to guess them?"
"Why? My God! it is sometimes so agreeable and convenient to have your wishes
guessed. The murder is out. You will invite the beautiful Barbarina. You can
also invite another gentleman, an artist, in order that the lovely Italian
may not feel so lonely amongst us barbarians."
"What artist, sire?"
"The painter Pesne; go yourself to invite him. It might be well for him
to bring paper and pencil--he will assuredly have an irresistible desire
to make a sketch of this beautiful nymph."

"Command him to do so, sire, and then to make a life-size picture from the
    sketch."
    "Ah! so you wish a portrait of the Barbarina?"
    "Yes, sire; but not for myself."
    "For whom, then?"
    "To have the pleasure of presenting it to my king."
    "And why?"

"Because I am vain enough to believe that, as my present, the picture
    would have some value in your eyes," said Rothenberg, mockingly.

"What cares my king for a portrait of the Barbarina?
    Nothing, sans doute. But when this picture is not only painted by the
    great Pesne, but is also the gift of a dear, faithful friend, I wager
    it will be highly appreciated by your majesty, and you will perhaps be
    gracious enough to hang it in your room."
    "You! you!" said the king, pointing his finger threateningly at Rothenberg,
    "I am afraid of you.

I believe you listen to and comprehend my most secret thoughts, and form your
    petition according to my wishes. I will, like a good-natured, easy
    fool, grant this request.

Go and invite the Barbarina and the painter Pesne, and commission
him to paint a life-size picture of the fair one.

[Footnote: This splendid picture of Barbarina hung for a long time
in the king's cabinet, and is still to be seen in the Royal Palace
at Berlin.]

Pesne must have several sketches, and I will choose from amongst them."
"I thank your majesty," cried the general; "and now have the goodness
to dismiss me--I must make my preparations."

As Rothenberg stood upon the threshold, the king called him. "You have guessed
my thoughts, and now I will prove to you that I read yours. You think I
am in love."
"In love? What! I dare to think that?" said the general; and folding his hands
he raised his eyes as if in prayer. "Shall I dare to have such an unholy
thought in connection with my anointed king?"
The king laughed heartily. "As to my sanctity, I think the holy Antonius
will not proclaim me as his brother. But I am not exactly in love." He stepped
to the window, upon the sill of which a Japanese rose stood in rich bloom;
he plucked one of the lovely flowers, and handing it to the general, he
said: "Look, now! is it not enchantingly beautiful? Think you, that because
I am a king, I have no heart, no thirst for beauty? Go! but remember
that, though a king, I have the eyes and the passions of other men. I,
too, am intoxicated by the perfume of flowers and the beauty of women."

CHAPTER VI.

THE FIRST RENDEZVOUS.

The night was dark and still; so dark in the garden of Monbijou, that the
keenest eye could not detect the forms of the two men who slipped stealthily
among the trees; so still, that the slightest contact of their clothing
with the motionless leaves, and the slightest footstep in the sand
could be heard. But, happily, there was none to listen; unchallenged and
unseen, the two muffled figures entered the avenue, at the end of which stood
the little palace, the summer residence of the queen-mother. Here they rested
for a moment, and cast a searching glance at the building, which stood also
dark and silent before them.

"No light in the windows of the queen-mother," whispered one; "all
asleep."
"Yes, all asleep, we have nothing to fear; let us go onward." The last
speaker made a few hasty steps forward, but his companion seized
him hastily by the arm, and held him hack.

"You forget, my young Hotspur, that we must wait for the signal.
Still! still! do not stamp so impatiently with your feet; you need not
shake yourself like a young lion. He who goes upon such adventures must,
above all things, be self-possessed, cautious, and cool. Believe me, I have
had a long range of experience, and in this species of love adventure I think
I might possibly rival the famous King Charles the Second, of England."

"But here there is no question of love adventure, Baron Pollnitz," said his
companion impatiently, almost fiercely.

"Not of love adventure, Baron Trenck! well, may I dare to ask what is the
question?"
"A true--an eternal love!"
"Ah! a true, an eternal love," repeated Pollnitz, with a dry, mocking laugh.
"All honor to this true love, which, with all the reasons for its justification,
and all the pathos of its heavenly source, glides stealthily to the
royal palace, and hides itself under the shadow of the silent night. My good
young sentimentalist, remember I am not a novice like yourself; I am an
old fogy, and call things by their right names. Every passion is a true and
eternal love, and every loved one is an angel of virtue, beauty, and
purity, until we weary of the adventure, and seek a new distraction."
"You are a hopeless infidel," said Trenck, angrily; "truly he who has changed
his faith as often as you have, has no religion--not even the religion of
love. But look! a light is shown, and the window is opened; that is
the signal."

"You are right, that is the signal. Let us go," whispered Pollnitz; and he
stepped hastily after the young officer.

And now they stood before the window on the ground floor, where the light
had been seen for a moment. The window was half open.

"We have arrived," said Trenck, breathing heavily; "now, dear Pollnitz,
farewell; it cannot certainly be your intention to go farther. The princess
commissioned you to accompany me to the castle, but she did not intend
you should enter with me. You must understand this. You boast that you are
rich in experience, and will therefore readily comprehend that the presence
of a third party is abhorrent to lovers. I know that you are too
amiable to make your friends wretched.

Farewell, Baron Pollnitz."
Trenck was in the act of springing into the window, but the strong arm of
the master of ceremonies held him back.

"Let me enter first," said he, "and give me a little assistance.
Your sophistical exposition of the words of our princess is entirely
thrown away. She said to me, 'At eleven o'clock I will expect you and
the Baron von Trenck in my room.' That is certainly explicit--as it
appears to me, and needs no explanation. Lend me your arm."
With a heavy sigh, Trenck gave the required assistance, and then sprang
lightly into the room.

"Give me your hand, and follow cautiously," said Pollnitz. "I know every
step of the way, and can guard you against all possible accidents. I have
tried this path often in former years, particularly when Peter the Great
and his wife, with twenty ladies of her suite, occupied this wing of the
castle."
"Hush!" said Trenck; "we have reached the top--onward, silently.

"Give me your hand, I will lead you."
Carefully, silently, and on tip-toe, they passed through the dark corridor,
and reached the door, through which a light shimmered.
They tapped lightly upon the door, which was immediately opened. The
confidential chambermaid of the princess came forward to meet them, and
nodded to them silently to follow her; they passed through several rooms;
at last she paused, and said, earnestly: "This is the boudoir of the princess;
enter--you are expected."
With a hasty movement, Trenck opened the door--this door which separated
him from his first love, his only hope of happiness.

He entered that dimly-lighted room, toward which his weary, longing
eyes had been often turned almost hopelessly. His heart beat stormily, his
breathing was irregular, he thought he might die of rapture; he feared
that in the wild agitation of the moment he might utter a cry,
indicative as much of suffering as of joy.

There, upon the divan, sat the Princess Amelia. The hanging lamp lighted
her face, which was fair and colorless. She tried to rise and advance to
meet him, but she had no power; she extended both her hands, and murmured
a few unintelligible words.

Frederick von Trenck's heart read her meaning; he rushed forward and covered
her hands with his kisses and his tears; he fell upon his knees, and
murmured words of rapture, of glowing thanks, of blessed joy--words which
filled the trembling heart of Amelia with delight.

All this fell upon the cold but listening ears of the master of ceremonies,
and seemed to him as sounding brass and the tinkling cymbal. He hid
discreetly and modestly withdrawn to the back part of the room; but he looked
on like a worldling, with a mocking smile at the rapture of the two
lovers. He soon found, however, that the role which he was condemned to
play had its ridiculous and humiliating aspect, and he resolved to bear
it no longer. He came forward, and with his usual cool impertinence he
approached the princess, who greeted him with a crimson blush and a silent
bow.

"Pardon me, your royal highness, if I dare to ask you to decide a
question which has arisen between my friend Trenck and myself.

 He did not wish to allow me to accompany him farther than the castle window.
I declared that I was authorized by your royal highness to enter with him
this holiest of holies. Perhaps, however, I was in error, and have carried
my zeal in your service too far. I pray you, therefore, to decide. Shall
I go or stay?"
The princess had by this time entirely recovered her composure.
"Remain," said she, with a ravishing smile, and giving her hand to the
baron. "You were our confidant from the beginning, and I desire you to
be wholly so. I wish you to be fully convinced that our love, though
compelled for a while to seek darkness and obscurity, need not shun
the eye of a friend. And who knows if we may not one day need your
testimony? I do not deceive myself. I know that this night my good and evil
genius are struggling over my future--that misfortune and shame have already
perhaps stretched their wings over my head; but I will not yield to them
without a struggle. It may be that one day I shall require your aid. Remain,
therefore."
Pollnitz bowed silently.

The princess fixed her glance upon her lover, who, with a clouded brow
and sad mien, stood near. She understood him, and a smile played upon her
full, red lip.

"Remain, Von Pollnitz, but allow us to step for a moment upon the balcony.
It is a wondrous night. What we two have to say to each other, only heaven,
with its shining stars, dare hear; I believe they only can understand our
speech."
"I thank you! oh, I thank you!" whispered Trenck, pressing the hand of
Amelia to his lips.

"Your royal highness, then, graciously allowed me to come here,"
said Pollnitz, with a complaining voice, "in order to give me up
entirely to my own thoughts, and force me to play the part of a
Trappist. I shall, if I understand rightly my privileges, like the
lion in the fairy tale, guard the door of that paradise in which
my young friend revels in his first sunny dream of bliss. Your royal
highness must confess that this is cruel work; but I am ready to
undertake it, and place myself, like the angel with the flaming
sword, before the door, ready to slay any serpent who dares undertake
to enter this elysium."
The princess pointed to a table upon which game, fruit, and Spanish
wine had been placed. "You will find there distraction and perhaps
consolation, and I hope you will avail yourself of it. Farewell,
baron; we place ourselves under your protection; guard us well."
She opened the door and stepped with her lover upon the balcony.
Pollnitz looked after them contemptuously. "Poor child! she is
afraid of herself; she requires a duenna, and that she should have
chosen exactly me for that purpose was a wonderful idea. Alas! my
case is indeed pitiful; I am selected to play the part of a duenna.
No one remembers that I have ears to hear and teeth to bite. I am
supposed to see, nothing more. But what shall I see, what can I see
in this dark night, which the god of love has so clouded over in
compassion to this innocent and tender pair of doves? This was a
rich, a truly romantic and girlish idea to grant her lover a
rendezvous, it is true, under God's free heaven, but upon a balcony
of three feet in length, with no seat to repose upon after the
powerful emotions of a burning declaration of love. Well, for my
part I find it more comfortable to rest upon this divan and enjoy
my evening meal, while these two dreamers commune with the night-birds
and the stars."
He threw himself upon the seat, seized his knife and fork, and
indulged himself in the grouse and truffles which had been prepared
for him.

CHAPTER VII.

ON THE BALCONY.
Without, upon the balcony, stood the two lovers. With their arms
clasped around each other, they gazed up at the dark heavens--too
deeply moved for utterance. They spoke to each other in the exalted
language of lovers (understood only by the angels), whose words are
blushes, sighs, glances, and tender pressures of the hand.
In the beginning this was their only language. Both shrank from
interrupting this sweet communion of souls by earthly material
speech. Suddenly their glances fell from heaven earthward. They
sought another heaven, and other and dearer stars. Their eyes,
accustomed to the darkness, met; their blushes and their happy
smiles, though not seen, were understood and felt, and at the same
moment they softly called each other's names.
This was their first language, soon succeeded by passionate and
glowing protestations on his part; by blushing, trembling confessions
on hers. They spoke and looked like all the millions of lovers who
have found themselves alone in this old world of ours.
The same old story, yet ever new.
The conduct, hopes, and fears of these young lovers could not be
judged by common rules. Theirs was a love which could not hope for
happiness or continuance; for which there was no perfumed oasis,
no blooming myrtle-wreath to crown its dark and stormy path. They
might be sure that the farther they advanced, the more trackless
and arid would be the desert opening before them. Tears and robes
of mourning would constitute their festal adorning.
"Why has Destiny placed you so high above me that I cannot hope to
reach you? can never climb the ladder which leads to heaven and to
happiness?" said Trenck, as he knelt before the princess.
She played thoughtfully with his long dark hair, and a burning tear
rolled slowly over her cheek and fell upon his brow. That was her
only answer.
Trenck shuddered. He dashed the tear from his face with trembling
horror. "Oh, Amelia! you weep; you have no word of consolation, of
encouragement, of hope for me?"
"No word, my friend; I have no hope, no consolation. I know that a
dark and stormy future awaits us. I know that this cloudy night,
under whose shadow we for the first time join our hands will endure
forever; that for us the sun will never shine. I know that the
moment our glances first met, my protecting angel veiled her face
and, weeping, left me. I know that it would have been wiser and
better to give your heart, with its treasures, to a poor beggar-girl
on the street, than to consecrate it to the sister of a king--to
the poor Princess Amelia."
"Stop, stop!" cried Trenck, still on his knees, and bowing his head
almost to the earth.They give themselves up entirely to riding and hunting,
and martial exercises, leaving all the household cares to the women, who
are assisted by slaves, whom they purchase or take in their wars.
Immediately after delivery, the woman leaves her bed and washes the child;
after which, the husband lies down in her bed with the child, where he
remains for forty days, during all which time, he receives the visits and
compliments of the friends and neighbours. The wife looks after the house,
carries broth to her husband in bed, and suckles the child. Their wine is
made from rice and spiceries; and their ordinary food is rice and raw
flesh, seasoned with spiceries or garlic, as formerly mentioned. There are
no idols in this province, except that every family adores the oldest man
in the house, from whom they say that they and all they have are come. The
country consists mostly of wild and rugged mountains; into which strangers
seldom come, because the air, especially in summer, is exceedingly noxious.
They have no letters, but all their contracts and obligations are recorded
by tallies of wood, one counterpart being kept by each party, and when the
contract is fulfilled the tallies are destroyed.

There are no physicians in this province or in Caindu, Vociam, or Caraiam;
but when any one is sick, the magicians or priests of the idols are
assembled, to whom the sick person gives an account of his disease. Then
the magicians dance to the sound of certain instruments, and bellow forth
songs in honour of their idols, till at length, the devil enters into one
of these who are skipping about in the dance. The dance is then
discontinued, and the rest of the magicians consult with him who is
possessed as to the cause of the disease, and what ought to be done for its
remedy. The devil answers by this person, "because the sick person has done
this or that, or has offended some particular idol." Then the magicians
entreat this idol to pardon the sick person, engaging, if he recover, that
he shall offer a sacrifice of his own blood. But if the devil or the priest
thinks that the patient cannot recover, he says that the person has so
grievously offended the idol, that he cannot be appeased by any sacrifices.
If, on the other hand, he thinks the sick person may recover, he orders an
offering of a certain number of rams with black heads, to be prepared by so
many magicians and their wives, and offered up to appease the idol. On this
the kinsmen of the sick person immediately execute the orders of the devil.
The rams are killed, and their blood sprinkled in the air. The assembled
magicians light up great candles, and perfume the whole house with the
smoke of incense and aloes wood, and sprinkle some of the broth made from
the flesh, mixed with spices, into the air, as the portion of the idols.
When these things are performed, they again skip and dance in honour of the
idol, singing and making a horrible noise; and then ask the possessed
priest whether the idol is now satisfied. If he answer in the negative,
they prepare to obey any farther commands; but if he answer that the idol
is satisfied, they sit down to table, and eat the flesh which was offered
to the idol and drink the liquors; after which, the magicians being paid
for their trouble, every one departs to his own home. If the sick person
recover through the providence of God, he attributes the restoration of his
health to the idol; but if he die, it is then supposed that the idol had
been defrauded, by some of the assistants having eaten of the sacrifices
before all the rites were duly performed. This ceremony is only practised
for rich patients, on whom the devil, or the priests in his name, impose
their blind belief.

In 1272, the great khan sent an army of 12,000 veteran troops, under the
command of aft experienced officer, named Nestardin, to reduce the kingdom
of Vociam and Guarazan[8]. As soon as the kings of Mien[9] and Bengala
heard of this invasion, they assembled an army of 60,000 horse and foot,
besides a thousand elephants, carrying castles, in each of which there were
from twelve to sixteen armed men. With this army, the king of Mien marched
towards the city of Vociam, where the Tartar army was encamped. Nestardin,
regardless of the great disparity of numbers, marched with invincible
courage to fight the enemy; but when he drew near, he encamped under cover
of a great wood, knowing that the elephants could not penetrate into the
wood with the towers on their backs. The king of Mien drew near to fight
the Tartars; but the Tartarian horses were so terrified with the sight of
the elephants, who were arranged along the front of the battle, that it was
impossible to bring them up to the charge. The Tartars, therefore, were
compelled to alight from their horses, which they fastened to the trees,
and came boldly forewards on foot against the elephants, among whom they
discharged immense quantities of arrows; so that the elephants, unable to
endure the smart of their wounds, became unmanageable, and fled to the
nearest wood, where they broke their castles, and overturned the armed men,
with which they were filled. On this, the Tartars remounted their horses,
and made a furious attack on the enemy. The battle continued for some time
undecided, and many men were slain on both sides. At length the army of the
king of Mien was defeated and put to flight, leaving the victory to the
Tartars; who now hastened into the wood, and made many prisoners, by whose
assistance they seized two hundred of the elephants, which were sent to the
great khan. Before this time, the Tartars were unaccustomed to the use of
elephants in war; but the great khan has ever since had elephants in his
army. After this victory, the great khan subjected the kingdoms of Mien and
Bengala to his empire.

Departing from the province of Carian, or Caraiam, there is a great desert
which continues for two days and a half, without any inhabitants, at the
end of which desert there is a large plain, in which great multitudes meet
for traffic three days in every week. Many people come down from the great
mountains, bringing gold, which they exchange for five times its weight of
silver; on which account, many merchants come here from foreign countries
with silver, and carry away gold, bringing likewise large quantities of
merchandize to sell to these people; for no strangers can go into the high
mountains where the people dwell who gather gold, oh account of the
intricacy and impassable nature of the roads. After passing this plain, and
going to the south for fifteen days journey, through uninhabited and woody
places, in which there are innumerable multitudes of elephants,
rhinoceroses[10], and other wild beasts, we come to Mien, which borders
upon India. At the end of that journey of fifteen days, we come to the
great and noble city of Mien, the capital of the kingdom, which is subject
to the great khan. The inhabitants are idolaters, and have a peculiar
language. There was formerly a king in this city, who being on the point of
death, gave orders to erect two pyramidal monuments, or towers of marble,
near his sepulchre, one at the head and the other at the foot, each of them
ten fathoms high, and having a round ball on the top of each. One of these
he ordered to be covered with gold, and the other with silver, a fingers
breadth in thickness; and round about the tops of these pyramids many
little bells of gold and silver were hung, which gave a pleasing shrill
sound, when agitated by the wind. The monument or sepulchre between these
was likewise covered with plates of gold and silver. When the great khan
undertook the conquest of this country, he sent a valiant captain at the
head of a large army, mostly of cavalry, of which the Tartarian armies
principally consist. After the city was won, the general would not demolish
this monument without orders from the khan; who, on being informed that the
former king had erected it in honour of his soul, would not permit it to be
injured, as the Tartars never violate those things which belong to the
dead. In the country of Mien there are many elephants and wild oxen, large
stags and deer, and various other kinds of wild beasts in great abundance.

The province of Bengala borders on India towards the south[11], and was
subdued by the great khan, while I Marco Polo resided in the eastern
countries. It had its own proper king, and has a peculiar language. The
inhabitants are all idolaters, and have schools in which the masters teach
idolatries and enchantments, which are universal among all the great men of
the country. They eat flesh, rice, and milk; and have great abundance of
cotton, by the manufacture of which a great trade is carried on. They
abound also in spike, galingal, ginger, sugar, and various other spices;
and they make many eunuchs, whom they sell to the merchants. This province
continues for thirty days journey going eastwards, when we come to the
province of Cangigu[12]. This country has its own king, who is tributary to
the great khan. The inhabitants are idolaters, and have a peculiar
language. The king has about three hundred wives. The province has much
gold and many spices, but these cannot be easily transported, as it is far
distant from the sea. It has also many elephants and much game. The
inhabitants live on flesh, rice, and milk, having no wine, but they make an
excellent drink of rice and spices. Both men and women ornament their
faces, necks, hands, bellies, and legs, with the figures of lions, dragons,
and birds, and these are so firmly imprinted, as to be almost indelible.
There are in this country professors of this foolish art of skin
embroidery, who follow no other trade but this needle work, and dying of
fools skins; and the person who has the greatest number and variety of
these images, is considered the finest and most gallantly ornamented.

Amu or Aniu, twenty-five days journey to the east of the province of
Cangigu, is subject to the great khan, and its inhabitants are idolaters
who have a peculiar language. This country abounds in provisions, and has
great quantities of cattle and many horses; and these last being excellent,
are carried by the merchants for sale into India. The country is full of
excellent pastures, and therefore abounds in buffalos and oxen. Both men
and women wear bracelets of gold and silver of great value on their legs
and arms, but those of the women are the most valuable.

The province of Tholoman, which is likewise subject to the great khan, is
at the distance of eight days journey east from Amu; the inhabitants are
idolaters, and use a peculiar language; both men and women are tall, well
shaped, and of a brown complexion. This country is well inhabited, having
many strong towns and castles, and the men are practised in arms, and
accustomed to war. They burn their dead, after which they inclose the bones
and ashes in chests, which they hide in holes of the mountains. Gold is
found in great plenty, yet both here and in Cangigu and Amu, they use the
cowrie shells which are brought from India.

From this province of Tholoman, the high road leads eastwards by a river,
on the banks of which there are many towns and castles, and at the end of
twelve days journey, we come to the great city of Cintigui, the province of
the same name being subject to the great khan, and the inhabitants are
idolaters. They manufacture excellent cloths from the bark of trees, of
which their summer clothing is made. There are many lions in this country,
so that no person dare sleep out of doors in the night, and the vessels
which frequent the river, dare not be made fast to the banks at night from
dread of the lions. The inhabitants have large dogs, so brave and strong,
that they are not afraid even to attack the lion, and it often happens that
one man armed with a bow and arrows, and assisted by two of these dogs,
will kill a lion. The dogs, urged on by the man, give the onset, and the
lion endeavours to take shelter beside a tree, that the dogs may not be
able to get behind him, yet he scorns to run away, and holds on his stately
slow space, the dogs always fastening on his hinder parts; but so
cautiously and nimbly do they manage their assaults, that whenever the lion
turns upon them, they are beyond his reach. Then the magnanimous beast
holds on his way towards a tree, the man all the while plying him with
arrows, at every opportunity, and the dogs constantly tearing him from
behind, till at length, with loss of blood, he falls down and dies. This
country abounds in silk, which is carried by the merchants to various
provinces, by means of the river. Their money is paper, and the inhabitants
are valiant in arms.

At the end of ten days journey from Cintigui, we come to the city of
Sindinfu; twenty days from thence is Gingui, and four days from thence,
towards the south, is Palan-fu in Kathay, returning by the other side of
the province. The people are idolaters and burn their dead, but there are
also some Christians who have a church.  The people use paper money, and
are all under the dominion of the great khan. They make cloths of gold and
silk, and very fine lawns. Past this city of Palan-fu, which has many
cities under its jurisdiction, there runs a fine river, which carries great
store of merchandize to Cambalu, by means of many canals made on purpose.
Leaving this place, and travelling three days journey towards the south of
the province of Kathay, subject to the great khan, is the great city of
Ciangu. They are idolaters, who burn their dead, and their money is the
mulberry paper coin of the khan. The earth, in the territories of this
city, abounds in salt, which is extracted in the following manner: The
earth is heaped up like a hill, and large quantities of water are poured
on, which extracts the salt, and runs by certain conduits into cauldrons,
in which it is boiled up into fine white salt; and this manufacture
produces great profit to the people and the great khan, as large quantities
are exported for sale to other countries. In this neighbourhood there are
large and fine flavoured peaches, one of which weighs two pounds.

Five days journey farther south from Ciangu is the city of Ciangli,
likewise in Kathay, between which we pass many cities and castles, all
subject to the great khan; and through the middle of this last city of
Ciangli, there runs a large river, which is very convenient for the
transport of merchandize. Six days journey from thence to the south is the
noble kingdom and great city of Tudinfu, which was formerly subject to its
own king, but was subdued by the arms of the great khan in 1272. Under its
jurisdiction there are twelve famous trading cities. It is most pleasantly
situated among gardens and orchards, and is rich in silks. A baron, named
Lucanser, who was sent to govern this acquisition by the khan, with an army
of 8000 horse, chose to rebel; but was defeated and slain by an army of
100,000 horse sent against him by the khan under two other barons, and the
country again reduced to obedience. Seven days journey farther south is the
famous city of Singuimatu, to which, on the south, a great river runs,
which is divided by the inhabitants into two rivers, one branch of which
flows by the east towards Kathay, and the other by the west towards
Mangi[13]. By these rivers or canals innumerable vessels, incredible for
their size and wealth, carry vast quantities of merchandize through both of
these provinces; and for sixteen days journey to the south from Singuimatu,
we meet with many cities and towns, which carry on immense trade. The
inhabitants of all these countries are idolaters, and subject to the great
khan. You then come to a great river called Caramoran[14], which is said to
take its rise in the dominions formerly belonging to Umcan, or Prester
John, in the north. It is very deep, and carries ships of great burden, and
is well stocked with fish. Within one days journey of the sea are the two
cities of Coigan-zu and Quan-zu, on opposite sides of the river, the one a
great city and the other a small one, where a fleet of 15,000 vessels is
kept by the great khan, each fitted for carrying fifteen horses and twenty
men. These are always in readiness to carry an army to any of the islands,
or to any remote region in case of rebellion[15]. On passing the great
river Caramoran, or Hoang-ho, we enter into the noble kingdom of Mangi: But
it must not be supposed that I have described the whole province of Kathay,
as I have not spoken of the twentieth part of it; for in passing through
this province, I have only mentioned the principal cities on my way,
leaving those on both sides, and many intermediate ones to avoid prolixity,
and not to set down in writing what I only learned from hearsay.


[1] The meaning of this sentence is obscure, unless it is intended to guard
    the readers against the supposition that these countries were to the
    west of Europe.--E.

[2] Called Lazi by Pinkerton, from the Trevigi edition of these travels,
    mentioned in the introduction. This place, therefore, may be Lassa, in
    the kingdom or province of Ou, in Middle Thibet, the residence of the
    Dalai Lama, situate on a branch of the Sampoo, or great Brahma-pootra,
    or Barampooter river, which joins the Ganges in the lower part of
    Bengal.--E.

[3] This sentence most probably is meant to imply the use of cowries,
    sometimes called porellane shells, both for money and ornament.--E.

[4] Pinkerton, from the Trevigi edition, names the country Cariam, and the
    governor Cocagio.--E.

[5] The ordinary European price is about fourteen for one.--E.

[6] The description of this creature seems to indicate an alligator or
    crocodile; which probably Marco had not seen, and only describes from
    an imperfect account of the natives.--E.

[7] According to Pinkerton, this province is named Cariti, and its
    principal town Nociam, in the edition of Trevigi.--E.

[8] Named previously Carazam and Caraian, afterwards Caraiam, or Carian.
    --E.

[9] In some modern maps, Mien is introduced as a large province on the
    river of Pegu, immediately to the south-west of Yunnan in China, and
    divided from Bengal by the whole country of Ava. But the distribution
    of eastern dominion has been always extremely fluctuating; and Mien
    may then have included all the north of Ava.--E.

[10] In the original text this animal is called the unicorn; a word of the
    same import with rhinoceros.--E.

[11] This either implies that Bengal on the borders of India is to the
    south of Thibet; or _south_ is here an error for _east_, Bengal being
    the eastern frontier province of India proper.--E.

[12] The difficulty, or rather impossibility of tracing the steps of Marco
    Polo, may proceed from various causes. The provinces or kingdoms,
    mostly named from their chief cities, have suffered infinite changes
    from perpetual revolutions. The names he gives, besides being
    corrupted in the various transcriptions and editions, he probably set
    down orally, as given to him in the Tartar or Mogul dialect, very
    different from those which have been adopted into modern geography
    from various sources. Many of these places may have been destroyed,
    and new names imposed. Upon the whole, his present course appears to
    have been from Bengal eastwards, through the provinces of the farther
    India, to Mangi or southern China; and Cangigu may possibly be
    Chittigong. Yet Cangigu is said in the text to be an inland country.
    --E.

[13] Kathay and Mangi, as formerly mentioned, are Northern and Southern
    China, so that the direction of these rivers ought perhaps to have
    been described as north and south, instead of east and west. About
    seventy miles from the mouth of the Yellow river, or Hoang-ho, there
    is a town called Tsingo, near which a canal runs to the north,
    communicating with the river on which Pekin is situated, and another
    canal, running far south into Mangi or Southern China. Tsingo, though
    now an inferior town, may have been formerly Singui-matu, and a place
    of great importance.--E.

[14] Caramoran or Hora-moran, is the Hoang-ho, or Yellow river; and it must
    be allowed, that the distance which is placed in the text, between
    Singui-matu and this river, is quite hostile to the idea mentioned in
    the preceding note, of Tsingo and Singui-matu being the same place.
    The only other situation in all China which accords with the two
    canals, or rivers, communicating both with Kathay and Mangi, is
    Yotcheou on the Tong-ting-hou lake, which is on the Kian-ku river, and
    at a sufficient distance from the Hoang-ho to agree with the text. In
    the absence of all tolerable certainty, conjecture seems allowable.
    --E.

[15] There are no Chinese cities, in our maps, that, in the least
    appearance of sound, correspond with the names of these towns or
    cities near the mouth of the Hoang-ho. Hoain-gin is the only large
    city near its mouth, and that is not on its banks. All therefore that
    can be said, is, that the two cities in the text must have stood on
    opposite sides of the Hoang-ho in the days of Marco Polo.--E.


SECTION XV.

_An account of the Kingdom of Mangi, and the manner of its Reduction under
the dominion of the Great Khan; together with some Notices of its various
Provinces and Cities_.

The kingdom of Mangi is the richest and most famous of all that are to be
found in the east. In the year 1269, this kingdom was governed by a king
named Fanfur[1], who was richer and more powerful than any who had reigned
there for an hundred years. Fanfur maintained justice and internal peace in
his dominions, so that no one dared to offend his neighbour, or to disturb
the peace, from dread of prompt, severe, and impartial justice; insomuch,
that the artificers would often leave their shops, filled with valuable
commodities, open in the night, yet no one would presume to enter them.
Travellers and strangers travelled in safety through his whole dominions by
day or night. He was merciful to the poor, and carefully provided for such
as were oppressed by poverty or sickness, and every year took charge of
20,000 infants who were deserted by their mothers from poverty, all of whom
he bred up till they were able to work at some trade. But in process of
time, betaking himself more to pleasures than was fit, he employed his
whole time in delights, in the midst of 1000 concubines. His capital was
encompassed with ditches full of water; but Fanfur was entirely addicted to
the arts of peace, and so beloved of his subjects for his justice and
charity, that, trusting to their numbers and attachment, and to the natural
strength and resources of the country, both king and people neglected the
use of arms, keeping no cavalry in pay, because they feared no one, and
believed themselves invincible.

Cublai-khan was of a different disposition from Fanfur, and delighted in
war and conquest; and having resolved upon making a conquest of the kingdom
of Mangi, he levied a great army of horse and foot for that purpose, over
which he placed a general named Chinsan-Baian[2]. He accordingly marched
with his army, accompanied by a fleet, into the province of Mangi, and
summoned the city of Coiganzu[3] to surrender to the authority of the great
khan. On this being refused, he departed without making any assault, to the
second, the third, and the fourth city, all of which he summoned, and on
their refusal, marched on without siege or assault. But receiving the same
answer from the fifth, he assaulted it with great courage, and having taken
it by storm, he massacred the whole inhabitants, without sparing any of
either sex, or of any age or condition. This severe military execution so
terrified the other cities, that they all immediately surrendered. On this
successful commencement being reported to the khan, he sent a new army to
reinforce Chinsan-Baian, whose army was now much diminished by the
garrisons he had to leave in the conquered cities. With his army thus
reinforced, Chinsan marched against Quinsai[4] the capital city of the
kingdom of Mangi, in which Fanfur resided. He was much terrified at this
formidable invasion, and having never seen any war, he fled with all his
wealth on board a great fleet which he had prepared, retiring to certain
impregnable islands in the ocean[5], committing the custody of his capital
to his wife, whom he desired to defend it as well as she could, as being a
woman, she need not fear being put to death if she were made prisoner. It
may be observed, that Fanfur had been told by his diviners, that his
kingdom would never be taken from him except by one who had an hundred
eyes; and this being known to the queen, she was in hopes or preserving the
city in all extremities, thinking it impossible for any one man to have an
hundred eyes. But learning that the name of the commander of the Tartars
had that signification, she sent for him and delivered up the city,
believing him to be the person indicated by the astrologers, and to whom
destiny had predetermined the conquest of the city and kingdom.[6] She was
sent to the court of the great khan, where she was most honourably
received, and entertained as became her former dignity. After the surrender
of the capital, the citizens and inhabitants of the whole province yielded
to the obedience of the great khan[7].

I shall now speak of the cities in the kingdom of Mangi. Coiganzu is a very
fair and rich city, situate towards the south-east and east, in the very
entrance of the province of Mangi[8]. In this city, which is situated on
the river Carama[9], there are vast numbers of ships employed in trade, and
great quantities of salt are made in that neighbourhood. Proceeding from
Coigan-zu, we ride one days journey to the south-east, on a stone causeway,
on both sides of which are great fences with deep waters, through which
people may pass with proper vessels[10], and there is no entrance into
Mangi but by this causeway except by shipping. At the end of this days
journey is a large and fair city called Paughin, of which the inhabitants
are idolaters, and manufacturers of stuffs of silk and gold, in which they
drive a considerable trade. It is plentifully supplied with all the
necessaries of life, and the paper money of the khan is current in the
whole province. One days journey farther south-east, is the large and
famous city of Caim. The neighbouring country abounds in fish, beasts, and
fowl of all kinds, especially with pheasants as large as peacocks, which
are so plentiful, that three may be bought for a Venetian groat. Proceeding
another days journey through a well cultivated, fertile, and well peopled
country, we come to a moderate sized city called Tingui, which is much
resorted to by ships and merchants, and abounds in all the necessaries of
life. This place is in the south-east, on the left hand, three days journey
from the ocean, and in the country, between it and the sea, there are many
salt pits, in which great quantities of salt are made. After this is
Cingui[11], a great city, whence the whole country is furnished with salt,
of which the khan makes immense profit, almost beyond belief. The
inhabitants are idolaters, and use paper money. Riding farther to the
south-east is the noble city of Jangui[12], which has twenty-seven other
cities dependent on its government. In this city, one of the twelve barons,
who are governors of provinces, usually resides; but I, Marco, had the sole
government of this place for three years, instead of one of these barons,
by a special commission from the great khan. The inhabitants are idolaters,
living chiefly by merchandize, and they manufacture arms and harness for
war. Naughin[l3] is a province to the west[14] of Tangui, one of the
greatest and noblest in all Mangi, and a place of vast trade, having
abundance of beasts and fowls, wild and tame, and plenty of corn. The
inhabitants are idolaters, and manufacture, stuffs of silk and gold, using
only paper money. This country produces large revenues to the khan,
especially in the customs which he receives from trade.

Sian-Fu is a large and noble city in the province of Mangi, having twelve
great and rich cities under its jurisdiction. This city is so strong that
it was three years besieged by the army of the Tartars, and could not be
vanquished at the time when the rest of the kingdom of Mangi was subdued.
It was so environed with lakes and rivers, that ships came continually with
plenty of provisions and it was only accessible from the north. The long
resistance of this city gave much dissatisfaction to the khan; which coming
to the knowledge of Nicolo and Maffei Polo, then at his court, they offered
their services to construct certain engines, after the manner of those used
in Europe, capable of throwing stones of three hundred weight, to kill the
men, and ruin the houses in the besieged city. The khan assigned them
carpenters, who were Nestorian Christians, to work under their direction,
and they made three of these engines, which were tried before the khan and
approved of. These were accordingly sent by shipping to the army before
Sian-fu, and being planted against the city, cast great stones into it, by
which some of the houses were beaten down and destroyed. The inhabitants
were very much astonished and terrified by the effect of these machines,
and surrendered themselves to the authority and dominion of the khan, on
the same conditions with the rest of Mangi; and by this service, the
Venetian brethren acquired great reputation and favour.

From this city of Sian-fu, to another called Sin-gui, it is accounted
fifteen miles to the south-east. This city, though not very large, has a
prodigious number of ships, as it is situate on the greatest river in the
world, called Quiam [l5], being in some places ten, in others eight, and in
others six miles broad. But its length extends to a distance of above an
hundred days journey from its source to the sea, receiving numberless
navigable rivers in its course, from various and distant regions, by which
means incredible quantities of merchandize are transported upon this river.
There are about two hundred cities which participate in the advantages of
this river, which runs through, or past, the boundaries of sixteen
provinces. The greatest commodity on this river is salt, with which all the
provinces and cities which have communication with its water are supplied.
I, Marco, once saw at Singui five thousand vessels, yet some other cities
on the river have a greater number. All these ships are covered, having but
one mast and one sail, and usually carry 4000 Venetian Canthari and
upwards, some as far as 12,000. In these vessels they use no cordage of
hemp; even their hawsers or towing ropes being made of canes, about fifteen
paces long, which they split into thin pieces from end to end, and bind or
wreath together into ropes, some of which are three hundred fathoms long,
and serve for dragging their vessels up or down the river; each vessel
having ten or twelve horses for that purpose. On that river there are rocky
hillocks in many places, on which idol temples, with monasteries for the
priests are built, and in all the course of the river we find cultivated
vallies and habitations innumerable.

Cayn-gui is a small city on the same river to the south, eastwards of
Sin-gui, where every year great quantities of corn and rice are brought,
which is carried for the most part to Cambalu. For from the Quiam or
Kian-ku river, they pass to that city by means of lakes and rivers, and by
one large canal, which the great khan caused to be made for a passage from
one river to another; so that vessels go all the way from Mangi or Southern
China to Cambalu, without ever being obliged to put to sea. This great work
is beautiful and wonderful for its size and vast extent, and is of infinite
profit to the cities and provinces of the empire. The khan likewise caused
great causeways to be constructed along the banks of this prodigious canal,
for the conveniency of travelling by land, and for towing the vessels. In
the middle of the great river there is a rocky island, with a great temple
and monastery for the idolatrous priests.

Cin-ghian-fu [16] is a city of the province of Mangi, which is rich in
merchandize, and plentiful in game and provisions of all kinds. In 1274,
the great khan sent Marsachis, a Nestorian Christian to govern this city,
who built here two Christian churches. From the city of Cin-ghian-fu, in a
journey of three days journey to the south-eastwards, we find many cities
and castles, all inhabited by idolaters, and at length come to the great
and handsome city of Tin-gui-gui, which abounds in all kinds of provisions.
When Chinsan Baian conquered the kingdom of Mangi, he sent a large body of
Christian Alani[17] against this city, which had a double inclosure of
walls. The inhabitants retired from the outer town, within the inner wall,
and the Alanians finding great store of wine, indulged themselves too
freely after a severe march. In the night time, the citizens sallied out
upon them, while all were drunk and asleep, and put every man of them to
the sword. But Baian sent afterwards a fresh army against them, which soon
mastered the city, and in severe revenge massacred the whole inhabitants.
The great and excellent city of Sin-gui[18] is twenty miles in
circumference, and contains a vast population, among whom are great numbers
of physicians and magicians, and wise men or philosophers. It has sixteen
other cities under its jurisdiction, in each of which there is much trade
and many curious arts, and many sorts of silk are made in its territories.
The neighbouring mountains produce rhubarb and ginger in great plenty. The
name Sin-gui signifies the City of the Earth, and there is another city in
the kingdom of Mangi called Quin-sai, which signifies the City of Heaven.
From Singui it is one days journey to Vagiu, where also is abundance of
silk, and able artisans, and many merchants, as is universally the case in
all the cities of this kingdom.


[1] Called Tou-tsong by the Chinese historians, the fifteenth emperor of
    the nineteenth dynasty, who succeeded to the throne in the year
    1264.--Harris.

[2] The name of this general is said to have signified _an hundred eyes_;
    doubtless a Tartar title, denoting his vigilance and foresight. By the
    Chinese historians, this general is named Pe-yen; which may have the
    same signification. These historians attribute the conquest of Mangi,
    or Southern China, to the indolence, debauchery, and extreme love of
    pleasure of this emperor, whom they name Tou-Tsong.--Harris.

[3] The names of all places and provinces in the travels of Marco Polo, are
    either so disguised by Tartar appellations, or so corrupted, that they
    cannot be referred with any certainty to the Chinese names upon our
    maps. Coiganzu, described afterwards as the first city in the
    south-east of Mangi in going from Kathay, may possibly be Hoingan-fou,
    which answers to that situation. The termination _fou_ is merely
    _city_; and other terminations are used by the Chinese, as _tcheou_
    and others, to denote the rank or class in which they are placed, in
    regard to the subordination of their governors and tribunals, which
    will be explained in that part of our work which is appropriated to
    the empire of China.--E.

[4] Or Guinsai, to be afterwards described.--E.

[5] It does not appear where these islands were, situated; whether Hainan
    or Formosa, properly Tai-ouan, or Tai-wan, or the islands in the bay
    of Canton.--E.

[6] These sagacious diviners must have been well acquainted with the
    military energy of the Tartar government, and the abject weakness of
    their own; and certainly knew, from their brethren in Kathay, the
    significant name of the Tartar general; on which foundation, they
    constructed the enigma of their prophecy, which, like many others,
    contributed towards its own accomplishment.--E.

[7] About a year after the surrender of his capital, Tou-Tsong died,
    leaving three sons, who all perished in a few years afterwards. The
    eldest was made prisoner, and died in captivity in Tartary. The second
    died of a consumption at Canton, where he had taken refuge at eleven
    years of age. The third, named Ti-Ping, after all the country was
    seized by the Tartars, was carried on board the Chinese fleet, which
    was pursued and brought to action by a fleet which the Tartars had
    fitted out for the purpose. When the Chinese lord, who had the charge
    of the infant emperor, saw the vessel in which he was embarked
    surrounded by the Tartars, he took the young prince in his arms and
    jumped with him into the sea. One considerable squadron of the Chinese
    fleet forced a passage through that of the Tartars, but was afterwards
    entirely destroyed in a tempest.--Harris.

[8] This direction must be understood in reference to Kathay; as it is
    perfectly obvious, that the entrance here spoken of must be in the
    north-east of Mangi. Supposing the C aspirated, Coigan-zu and
    Hoaingan-fu, both certainly arbitrarily orthographized from the
    Chinese pronunciation, are not very dissimilar.--E.

[9] Perhaps an error in transcription for Hara-moran, or Kara-moran, the
    Mongul or Tartar name of the Hoang-ho, or Whang river, near, and
    communicating with which, Hoaingan, or Whan-gan-fou is situated.--E.

[10] This is an obscure indication of navigable canals on each side of the
    paved road of communication to the south.--E.

[11] Cin-gui, or in the Italian pronunciation, Chin, or Tsin-gui, may
    possibly be Yen-tching. Tin-gui may be Sin-Yang, or Tsin-yang, to the
    north-east of Yen-tching.--E.

[12] Obviously Yang-tcheou, the latter syllable being its title or
    designation of rank and precedency. Marco certainly mistakes, from
    distant recollection, the direction of his travels, which are very
    nearly south, with a very slight deviation towards the east.
    South-east would by this time have led him into the sea.--E

[13] Though called a province, this obviously refers to the city of Nankin;
    the Nau-ghin of the text being probably a corruption for Nan-ghin.--E

[14] For west, we ought certainly here to read south-west.--E.

[15] Quiam, Kiang, Kian-ku, Kin-tchin-kian, or Yang-tsi-kiang. In modern
    maps, there is a town on the northern shore of this river, named
    Tsing-Kiang, which may possibly be the Singui of Marco, and we may
    perhaps look for the Sian-fu of the Polos at Yang-tcheou, at the
    southern extremity of a chain of lakes immediately to the north of the
    river Kian-ku. The subject is however full of perplexity, difficulty,
    and extreme uncertainty.--E.

[16] This must be Tchin-kian-fou; the three separate syllables in both of
    these oral orthographies having almost precisely similar sounds;
    always remembering that the soft Italian _c_ has the power of _tsh_,
    or our hard _ch_ as in the English word _chin_, and the Italian _gh_
    the sound of the hard English _g_.--E.

[17] This evinces the great policy of the military government of the
    Tartars, in employing the subjugated nations in one corner of their
    empire to make conquests at such enormous distances from their native
    countries. The Alanians came from the country between the Euxine and
    Caspian, in Long. 60° E. and were here fighting Long. 135° E.; above
    4000 miles from home.--E.

[18] By the language in this place, either Sin-gui and Tin-gui-gui are the
    same place, or the transition is more than ordinarily abrupt; if the
    same, the situation of Sin-gui has been attempted to be explained in a
    former note. If different, Tin-gui-gui was probably obliterated on
    this occasion, as no name in the least similar appears in the map of
    China.--E.


SECTION XVI.

_Of the noble City of Quinsai, and of the vast Revenues drawn from thence
by the Great Khan_.

In a journey of three days from Vagiu, we find numbers of cities, castles,
and villages, all well peopled and rich, the inhabitants being all
idolaters and subject to the great khan. At the end of these three days
journey, we come to Quinsay, or Guinsai, its name signifying the City of
Heaven, to denote its excellence above all the other cities of the world,
in which there are so much riches, and so many pleasures and enjoyments,
that a person might conceive himself in paradise. In this great city, I,
Marco, have often been, and have considered it with diligent attention,
observing its whole state and circumstances, and setting down the same in
my memorials, of which I shall here give a brief abstract. By common
report, this city is an hundred miles in circuit[1]. The streets and lanes
are very long and wide, and it has many large market places. On one side of
the city there is a clear lake of fresh water, and on the other there is a
great river, which enters into the city in many places, and carries away
all the filth into the lake, whence it continues its course into the ocean.
This abundant course of running water causes a healthful circulation of
pure air, and gives commodious passage in many directions both by land and
water, through those numerous canals, as by means of these and the
causeways, by which they are bordered, carts and barks have free
intercourse for the carriage of merchandize and provisions. It is said that
there are twelve thousand bridges, great and small, in this city, and those
over the principal canals are so high, that a vessel without her masts may
go through underneath, while chariots and horses pass above. On the other
side of the city, there is a large canal forty miles[2] long, which
incloses it on that side, being deep and full of water, made by the ancient
kings, both to receive the overflowings of the river, and to fortify the
city, and the earth which was dug out from this canal, is laid on the
inside as a rampart of defence. There are ten great market places which are
square, half a mile in each side[3]. The principal street is forty paces
broad, having a canal in the middle with many bridges, and every four miles
[_Li_] there is a market place, two miles [_Li_] in circuit. There is also
one large canal behind the great street and the market places, on the
opposite bank of which there are many storehouses of stone, where the
merchants from India and other places lay up their commodities, being at
hand and commodious for the markets. In each of these markets, the people
from the country, to the number of forty or fifty thousand, meet three days
in every week, bringing beasts, game, fowls, and in short every thing that
can be desired for subsistence in profusion; and so cheap, that two geese,
or four ducks, may be bought for a Venetian groat. Then follow the butcher
markets, in which beef, mutton, veal, kid, and lamb, are sold to the great
and rich, as the poor eat of all offal and unclean beasts without scruple.
All sorts of herbs and fruits are to be had continually, among which are
huge pears, weighing ten pounds each, white within, and very fragrant[4],
with yellow and white peaches of very delicate flavour. Grapes do not grow
in this country, but raisins are brought from other places. They likewise
import very good wine; but that is not in so much esteem as with us, the
people being contented with their own beverage, prepared from rice and
spices. Every day there are brought up from the ocean, which is at the
distance of twenty-five miles, such vast quantities of fish, besides those
which are caught in the lake, that one would conceive they could never be
consumed, yet, in a few hours all is gone. All these market places are
encompassed with high houses, underneath which are shops for all kinds of
artificers, and all kinds of merchandize, as spices, pearls, and jewels,
and so forth, and in some the rice wine is sold. Many streets cross each
other, leading into these markets; in some of which there are many cold
baths, accommodated with attendants of both sexes, who are used to this
employment from their infancy. In the same bagnios, there are chambers for
hot baths, for such strangers as are not accustomed to bathe in cold water.
The inhabitants bathe every day, and always wash before eating.

In other streets, there are such numbers of mercenary prostitutes, that I
dare not pretend to say how many. These are found near the market places,
and in all quarters of the city, in places appointed for their residence,
where they shew themselves, pompously adorned and perfumed, attended by
many servants, and having their houses richly furnished. They are very
skilful in sports and dalliances, and in contriving pleasures to rob men of
their senses. In other streets there are physicians and astrologers, and
persons who teach to read and write, and an infinity of other trades. At
each end of every market place, there is a palace or tribunal where judges,
appointed by the khan, are stationed for determining any disputes which may
happen between merchants and others; also, to superintend the guards upon
the bridges, and other matters of police, punishing all who are negligent
or disorderly. Along both sides of the principal street, there are great
palaces with gardens; and between these the houses of artificers; and such
multitudes are perpetually going to and fro in all the streets, that one
would wonder how so vast a population could be provided in food. I was
informed by an officer of the customs, that it appeared, by a very accurate
computation, the daily expenditure of pepper in Quinsai, was forty-three
_soma_, each soma being 223 pounds[5]. From this some idea may be formed of
the immense quantities of victuals, flesh, wine, and spices, which are
expended in that place. There are twelve principal companies or
corporations, each of which has a thousand shops; and in each shop or
factory, there are ten, fifteen, or twenty men at work, and in some forty
under one master[6].

The rich tradesmen do not work themselves, although the ancient laws
ordained that the sons of all should follow the trades of their fathers,
but the rich are permitted not to work with their own hands, but to keep
shops and factories, superintending the labour of others in their
particular trades. These rich people, and especially their wives, stand in
their shops, well dressed, or rather sumptuously arrayed in rich silks, and
adorned with valuable jewels. Their houses are well built, and richly
furnished, and adorned with pictures and other ornaments of immense price;
and they exercise their trades with great integrity. The whole inhabitants
are idolaters, of a very fair complexion, and mostly dressed in silken
garments, as silk is produced in great abundance in their neighbourhood, or
brought from other places. They dwell together in great amity, insomuch,
that the inhabitants of a street seem only to compose one family, and are
particularly circumspect in their behaviour to females, as it would be
reputed exceedingly disgraceful to use any indecorous language to a married
woman. The natives are of a most peaceable disposition, and no way addicted
to strife or quarrelling, and altogether unused to arms, which they do not
even keep in their houses. They are extremely hospitable to foreign
merchants, whom they entertain kindly in their houses, giving them the best
advice in regard to the conduct of their affairs: But they are by no means
fond of the soldiers and guards of the great khan, as by their means they
have been deprived of their natural kings and rulers. About the lake there
are many fair buildings and palaces of the principal men, and numerous idol
temples, with monasteries of idolatrous priests. There are two islands in
the lake, on each of which is a palace, containing an incredible number of
rooms, to which they resort on occasion of marriages and other festivals.
In these palaces, abundance of plate, linens, and all other things
necessary for such purposes, are kept up at the common expence, and
sometimes 100 separate companies are accommodated at one time in the
several apartments. In the lake also there are vast numbers of pleasure
boats and barges, adorned with fair seats and tables under cover, being
flat on the tops, where men stand to push the boats along with poles, as
the lake is very shallow. These are all painted within, and have windows to
open or shut at pleasure. Nothing in the world can be more pleasant or
delightful than this lake, from its immense variety of rich objects on all
sides; particularly the city ornamented with so many temples, monasteries,
palaces, gardens, trees, barges, and innumerable people taking their
recreations; for they ordinarily work only a part of each day, spending the
remainder in parties of pleasure with their friends, or with women, either
on the lake, or in driving through the city in chariots. All the streets
are paved with stone, as are all the highways in the kingdom of Mangi, only
a space on one side being left unpaved for the use of the foot posts. The
principal street of Quinsai has a pavement of ten paces broad on each side,
the middle being laid with gravel, and having channels in every place for
conveying water, it is kept always perfectly clean. In this street there
are innumerable long close chariots, each of which is accommodated with
seats and silk cushions for six persons, who divert themselves by driving
about the streets, or go to the public gardens, where they pass their time
in fine walks, shady bowers, and the like, and return at night in the same
chariots to the city[7].

When a child is born, the father notes down the exact point of time, and
with this memorandum goes immediately to some astrologer, of whom there are
many in every market place, to consult the destiny in regard to his future
fortunes; and they use the same forms before celebrating their marriages,
to ascertain the lucky times. When a person of note dies, the kindred
clothe themselves in canvas or sackcloth, and accompany the body to the
funeral, both men and women, people being employed to play on musical
instruments, and singing all the way prayers to their idols; and being come
to the place, they cast into the fire in which the body is burnt, many
pieces of cotton paper, on which figures of slaves, horses, camels, stuffs
of silk and gold, money, and all other things are painted, which, by this
means, they believe the dead person will really possess in the next world;
and they make a grand concert of music, under the idea of the joy with
which the soul of their departed friend will be received by their idols in
the other life which he is now to begin. As their timber houses are very
liable to accidents by fire, there are stone towers in every street, to
which they carry their goods for security on such occasions. On most of the
bridges there are guard-houses, in which soldiers continuallv watch, five
in each by day, and five by night, in case of any alarm or disturbance. In
every guard-house there hangs a great bason[8], on which the warders strike
the successive hours, beginning one at sunrise, and beginning a new series
at sunset. These guards patrole during the night, and if they see any light
or fire in a house after the appointed time, or meet any person in the
streets after legal hours, they cause them to answer before the judges or
magistrates of the district. When a fire happens, the guards collect from
their different stations to assist in quenching it, and to carry away the
goods to the stone towers, or into the islands in the lake; for during the
night none of the citizens are permitted to go out, except such as are in
danger from fires.

The khan keeps always a large body of his best and most faithful soldiers
for the security of the city, which is the largest and richest in the whole
earth; and besides the small guard-houses on the bridges already mentioned,
there are larger lodges built of wood all over the city, for the
accommodation of parties of guards to preserve peace and order. On the
reduction of Mangi to obedience, the khan divided it into nine great
provinces, placing a viceroy in each, to administer the government, and to
dispense justice. Every year each of these viceroys gives an account to the
tribunals of the khan at Cambalu, of the revenues, and all other matters
connected with his government; and every third year, the viceroy, and all
the other officers are changed. The viceroy, who resides in Quinsai,
commands over 140 other cities, all large, rich, and populous; nor is the
extent of this government to be wondered at, as there are in Mangi 12,000
cities, all inhabited by rich and industrious people, in every one of which
the khan maintains a garrison proportional to its greatness and importance,
in some 1000 men, and even up to 10 or 20,000 men[9]. These are not all
Tartars, for the Tartar soldiers are cavalry only, and are kept in places
where there is conveniency for exercising their horses. The great majority
of the troops in Mangi are Kathayans, and the garrisons in Kathay are
composed of people from Mangi. Every third year, such a number of men fit
to carry arms as are wanted, are selected for filling up the garrisons, and
are sent to serve in places, at least twenty days journey from their homes;
and, after serving four or five years, they are permitted to go home, and
are replaced by fresh recruits. Most part of the revenues of the khan are
expended in this way, and on the other necessary expences of government;
and by this distribution of so powerful a military force, an army can be
suddenly called together in the event of any town rebelling. In the city of
Quinsai there is a constant garrison of 30,000 soldiers, and the smallest
city in all Mangi contains at least 1000 regular troops. If any person is
not able to work, he is carried to some hospital, of which there are many
in Quinsai, founded by the ancient kings, and endowed with large revenues:
But when they are well again, they must return to their labour.

I come next to speak of the palace of the late king Fanfur. His
predecessors caused a large park to be inclosed with high walls, ten miles
in circuit[10], and divided within into three parts. That in the middle was
entered by a gate leading to a range of large galleries or halls, whose
roofs were sustained by pillars finely wrought and painted, and richly
adorned with gold and azure. The smallest of these galleries was that
nearest the gate of entrance, and they gradually became larger and fairer
in succession, the most sumptuous being at the farthest end. The walls of
all these apartments were elegantly painted with the portraits and
histories of the former kings. Every year, on certain holidays dedicated to
the idols, Fanfur used to hold open court, on which occasion he feasted his
chief lords, the principal merchants, and rich artificers of Quinsai,
10,000 at a time in these halls, the feasts continuing for ten or twelve
successive days, with incredible magnificence, every guest using his utmost
endeavours to appear in the most pompous dresses. On one side of this
magnificent range of galleries, there was a wall dividing it from a great
cloistered court, having a terrace all round, set with pillars,
communicating with which were the chambers of the king and queen, all
curiously wrought, carved, gilded, and painted with the utmost splendour
and magnificence. From this cloister, a covered gallery, six paces wide,
extended a great length all the way to the lake; and on each side of this
gallery there were ten courts, answering to each other like cloisters, each
having fifty chambers with their gardens, and in these there were 1000
concubines for the kings service. Sometimes with the queen, and sometimes
with these concubines, the king used to go in his barge for recreation on
the lake, or to visit the idol temples. The rest of the great inclosure was
divided into graves, lakes, and gardens, in which all sorts of beasts of
chase were kept, as stags, roebucks, hares, conies, and others, and there
the king used to divert himself with his damsels, in chariots, or on
horseback, no man being allowed to enter there. In this place the ladies
hunted with dogs, and when wearied with sport they retired into the groves,
and throwing off their garments, came forth naked, and fell to swimming in
the lakes in the kings presence. Sometimes he banqueted in these groves,
being served by his damsels. All of these particulars I learnt from an old
rich merchant of Quinsai, who had been familiar with king Fanfur, and knew
all the incidents of his life and reign, and had seen the palace in its
most flourishing state; and he carried me to see it. The viceroy now
resides there, the first described galleries remaining, still in their
original state, but the chambers of the damsels are fallen to ruin; the
walls also which encompassed the woods and gardens, are all fallen down,
the beasts and trees are all gone, and all the other ornaments are
destroyed.

Twenty-five miles from Quinsai we come to the ocean, between the east and
the north-east, near which is a city called Gampu[11], having an excellent
port frequented by merchant ships from the Indies. While I Marco was in
Quinsai, an account was taken for the great khan, of the revenues, and the
number of inhabitants, and I saw that there were enrolled 160 toman of
fires, reckoning for each fire a family dwelling in one house. Each toman
is 10,000, which makes 1,600,000 families[12]; and for all this population
there is only one Nestorian church, all the rest being idolaters. Every
householder is obliged to have written over his door the names of every
individual in his family, whether males or females, as also the number of
horses, adding or effacing as the family increases or diminishes, and this
rule is observed in all the cities of Mangi and Kathay. Those also who keep
inns, must write down in a book the names of all their guests, with the day
and hour of their arrival and departure; and these books are sent daily to
the magistrates who preside at the market places. The revenues which accrue
to the khan from Quinsai, and the other cities under its authority, are,
first from salt eight tomans of gold, every toman being 80,000 sazzi, and a
sazzi is more than a gold florin, which will amount to six millions, and
four hundred thousand ducats. The cause of this is, that being near the
sea, there are many lakes or salines of sea water, which dry up and
coagulate into salt in summer, and five other provinces in Mangi are
supplied from the coast of Quinsai. This province produces plenty of sugar,
which pays, like all other spices, three and a third in the hundred, which
is likewise paid for rice-wine. All the twelve companies, which, we said
before, have twelve thousand shops, and all merchants who bring goods
hither by sea, or carry any away, pay a similar rate. Those who come from
India or other remote countries, pay ten per cent. All breeding cattle, and
all productions of the earth, as silk, rice, corn, and the like, pay to the
khan. The whole computation being made in my presence, amounted yearly,
besides the above mentioned produce from salt, to two hundred and ten
tomans of gold, which are equal to sixteen millions and eight hundred
thousand golden ducats[13].

A days journey from Quinsai to the south-east, we pass the whole way
through houses, villages, fine gardens, and abundant cultivation, and then
come to a fine city called Tapin-zu. Three days hence is Uguiu, and two
days farther, we still ride past castles, cities, and well cultivated
fields, so near adjoining, that the whole seems, to travellers, like one
continued city; in this district are great canes, fifteen paces long, and
four palms thick. Two days farther is the large and handsome city of
Congui, and travelling thence for four days, through places well filled
with industrious people, having plenty of beeves, buffaloes, goats, and
swine, but no sheep, we come to the city of Zengian, which is built on a
hill in the middle of a river, which, after encompassing it, divides into
two branches, one of which runs to the south-east and the other to the
north-west. Three days journey thence, through a most pleasant country,
exceedingly well inhabited, we come to the large city of Gieza, which is
the last in the kingdom of Quinsai, After this we enter into another
province of the kingdom of Mangi called Concha, the principal city of which
is Fugiu, by which you travel six days journey south-east, through hills
and dales, always finding inhabited places, and plenty of beasts, fowls,
and game, and some strong lions are found in the mountains and forests.
Ginger, galingal, and other spices, grow here in great plenty, and there is
an herb, of which the fruit has the same colour, smell, and effect with
saffron, which it is not, and is much used in their meats[15], The
inhabitants are idolaters, and subjects of the great khan, and eat mans
flesh, if the person has not died of disease, even considering it as better
flavoured than any other. When they go into the fields, they shave to the
ears, and paint their faces with azure. All their soldiers serve on foot,
except the captains, who are on horseback, and their arms are swords and
lances. They are very cruel, and when they kill an enemy, they immediately
drink his blood, and afterwards eat his flesh.

After six days journey is Quelinfu, a great city with three bridges, each
of which is eight paces broad, and above an hundred paces long. The men are
great merchants and manufacturers, and the women are fair and delicately
shaped. The country produces plenty of ginger and galingal, and great
abundance of silk and cotton. I was told, but saw them not, that they have
hens without feathers, hairy like cats, which yet lay eggs, and are good to
eat[16]. In this part of the country there are many lions, which make the
ways very dangerous. After three days journey, we arrive in a populous
country inhabited by idolaters, who make great quantities of silk stuffs.
The chief city is Unguem, near which abundance of sugar is produced, and
sent from thence to Cambalu. Before the reduction of this country by the
great Khan, the inhabitants of this country could only manufacture a bad
kind of sugar, by boiling down the juice of the cane into a black paste;
but certain inhabitants from _Babylonia_, taught them refine it by means of
the ashes of a certain tree[17]. Fifteen miles farther is the city of
Cangiu, still in the province of Concha, and here the Khan has always an
army in readiness for keeping the country under subjection. Through this
city there runs a river of a mile broad, with handsome buildings on both
sides, and the river is constantly covered with vessels carrying sugar and
other goods. This river disembogues itself at the distance of five days
journey south-east from Cangiu, into the sea at Zaitum all the country
between being extremely pleasant, and abounding in trees and shrubs of
camphor. Zaitum is a famous port, and much frequented by ships with rich
cargoes from India, for the supply of Mangi and Kathay, and from this port
the productions of these regions are dispersed all over India. At this port
such quantities of pepper are imported, that what comes through Alexandria
into our western world is not to be compared to it, being hardly an
hundredth part. The concourse of merchants to this famous emporium is
incredible, as it is one of the most commodious ports in the whole world,
and is exceedingly productive in revenue to the great Khan, who receives
ten in the hundred of all merchandize. The merchants pay likewise so high
for freights, that not above a half of their cargoes remains to themselves
for sale, and yet of that moiety they make immense profits. The inhabitants
of Zaitum are idolaters, and much given to pleasure, and in it there are
many artizans employed in embroidery and arras-work[18].

This river is large, wide, and swift, one arm of it reaching to Quinsai,
and the other to Zaitum[19], and at the parting of these branches, the city
of Tringui is situated, where porcelain dishes are made[20]. I was told of
a certain earth which is cast up into conical heaps, and left exposed to
the weather for thirty or forty years without stirring; after which,
refined by time, it is made into dishes, which are painted and baked in
furnaces; and so cheap is this manufacture, that eight of these dishes may
be bought for one Venetian groat[21]. From this province of Concha, the
great Khan derives nearly as great a revenue as he does from Quinsai. In
these two provinces I travelled, but in none of die other provinces of
Mangi; in all of which one language Is used, with considerable variety in
dialect, and but one kind of writing.


[1] There are two Chinese measures called Li; of the greater there are 200
    to a degree of latitude, and of the smaller 250. It is possible that
    Marco may have mistaken one or other of these measures for miles;
    either of which suppositions would reduce the bounds of Quinsai to
    some decent moderation, being thirty-four miles for the greater, and
    twenty-seven miles for the smaller li, yet a large city on even the
    latter substitution. Koan-sing, which may likewise be written Quan-
    sing, all Chinese names in alphabetical characters, being quite of
    arbitrary orthography, is the only place which can be supposed the
    same with Quinsai. But similarity of sounds is a very uncertain guide.
    From other circumstances in the text, the modern Kua-hing may have
    once been Quinsay.--E.

[2] Calculating by Li, this extent will be reduced to eleven or thirteen
    miles.--E.

[3] By the same reduction, these squares will be reduced to half a quarter
    of a mile in the sides.--E.

[4] Probably a mistaken translation or transcription for melons, pumpkins,
    or gourds.--E.

[5] This amounts to more than one sixth of an ounce daily for a population
    of a million, including infants. A thing utterly incredible, and which
    must arise from some corruption of the text. It exceeds 9000 tons
    yearly. Perhaps, instead of _pepper_ the original had _salt_.--E.

[6] This alone would give a working population exceeding a million,
    including the women, children, and aged, belonging to these. But
    populous as the country certainly is, the Chinese, in all ages, from
    Polo down to Staunton, have imposed those ridiculously exaggerated
    accounts upon all inquisitive travellers. This subject will be
    discussed in that division of this work, which particularly relates to
    China.--E.

[7] The contrast between the cleanness and splendour of Quinsay and the
    gloomy dirt of European cities in the thirteenth century is very
    striking. China then enjoyed hackney coaches, tea gardens, and
    hilarity; while the delights of European capitals were processions of
    monks among perpetual dunghills in narrow crooked lanes.--E.

[8] Probably meaning a gong.--E.

[9] There must be some corruption in the text here; for even Chinese
    exaggeration could hardly venture upon this computation, which would
    extend the garrisons in Mangi alone to many millions.--E.

[10] If Li, from 2-1/2 to 3-1/2 miles.--E.

[11] Supposing Kua-hing to have been Quan-sai, no city appears in the
    direction indicated in the text for the situation of Gampu. But if we
    might venture to suppose north-east an error for south, the city of
    Hanfcheou is nearly at the distance mentioned by Marco, and stands at
    the bottom of a deep bay of the ocean, in a very convenient situation
    for trade, communicating with Kua-hing by the great canal--E.

[12] Multiplying this number of families by five, would give a population
    of eight millions of individuals of every age and sex. Fortunately
    Marco permits us to suppose that this population belonged to the
    viceroyalty, or province over which Quinsai presided.--E.

[13] Either this computation, or that of the duty on salt, is erroneous. If
    8 tomans are 6,400,000 ducats, 210 tomans would amount to 168,000,000,
    instead of the sum in the text. If the latter computation be right,
    16,800,000 ducats from 210 tomans; the duty on salt, or 8 tomans,
    ought only to have been 640,000 ducats, which appears to be the truth.
    The whole revenue, therefore, of the province, will be 17,440,000
    ducats, equal to L. 2,911,250 Sterling, at 3s. 7d. the ducat.--E.

[14] Besides the utter discrepancy of these names to those of any cities
    now in China, it appears obvious, that the direction of the itinerary
    in the text is erroneous or corrupted. We have been already on the
    ocean or bay of Nankin, the eastern boundary of China and of the land;
    yet the text persists continually to travel _south-east_, which is
    impossible. The direction of the itinerary must have been westwards,
    probably south-west.--E.

[15] This was probably Turmeric, so much used in the Eastern cookery,
    though it is the root which is employed.--E.

[16] Obviously what are now called Friesland, but more properly frizzled
    hens.--E.

[17] In the manufacture of sugar it is necessary to neutralize a certain
    redundant acid in the juice of the cane, by a fit proportion of some
    alkaline ingredient to enable the sugar to crystallize: The ordinary
    _temper_, as it is called, for this purpose, in the West Indies, is
    lime, but any alkali will produce nearly the same effect. This subject
    will be fully elucidated in that part of our work which is peculiarly
    appropriated to the sugar colonies in the West Indies,--E.

[18] There can hardly be a doubt that the Zaiturn of Marco is the modern
    Canton; yet from the causes already mentioned in several notes, it is
    next to an impossibility to trace the route or itinerary from Quinsai
    to this place.--E.

[19] This is an obvious error, corruption, or interpolation; for on no
    conceivable hypothesis of the situations of Quinsai and Zaitum, can
    any river be found in China which answers to this description.--E.

[20] This is the only hint in Marco, of the peculiarly famous manufacture
    of China, from which all the best _earthen ware_ of Europe has
    acquired this name as _par excellence_. From this circumstance, and
    from the fame of Nankin for this manufacture, I strongly suspect that
    this passage has been foisted in by some ignorant or careless editor
    in a wrong place.--E.

[21] It is singular that Marco should make no mention whatever of the
    peculiar beverage of the Chinese, _tea_, though particularly described
    both in name and use, by the Mahometan travellers in the _ninth_
    century, four hundred years earlier, as used in all the cities of
    China.--E.


SECTION XVII

_Of the island of Zipangu, and of the unsuccessful attempts made by the
Tartars for its Conquest_.

I shall now leave the country of Mangi, and proceed to discourse of India
the greater, the middle, and lesser; in which I have been, both in the
service of the great khan, and also on our return home along with the
queen, who was sent from Kathay to Argon. The ships which are built in the
kingdom of Mangi are made of fir, having only one deck, on which are built
twenty cabins, more or less, according to their size, each for one
merchant. They have each a good rudder, and four masts, with four sails,
which they raise or let down at pleasure, but some have only two masts.
Some of the largest ships have thirteen divisions in the inside, made of
boards let into each other, so that if, by the blow of a whale, or by
touching on a rock, water should get into one of these divisions, it can go
no farther, and the leak being found, is soon stopped. At last their patience
was rewarded; the portiere was drawn back, and Barbarina appeared, leaning
upon the arm of her sister. She was pale and evidently suffering.
She walked slowly through the saloon, speaking here and there to the
cavaliers, and conversing in the gay, gracious, and piquant manner in
which she excelled. Suddenly, in the midst of one of these merry interchanges
of thought, in which one speaks of every thing or nothing, Barbarina
uttered a cry of pain and sank upon the sofa.

"I believe, I fear that my foot is bleeding again," she cried. She slightly
raised her robe, and lifted up her foot, that small object of wonder
and rapture to all the lands of Europe. Truly her white satin slipper was
crimson, and blood was flowing freely from it.

A cry of horror sounded from every lip. The gentlemen surrounded Barbarina,
who lay pale as death upon the sofa, while Marietta knelt before
her, and wrapped her foot in her handkerchief. This was a striking scene. A
saloon furnished with princely splendor, and odorous with the rarest
flowers; a group of cavaliers in their gold- embroidered coats and uniforms,
glittering with crosses and odors; the signora lying upon the divan in a
charming negligee, with her bleeding foot resting upon the lap of
her sister.

"You are wounded, signora, you bleed!" cried the young Prince of Wurtemberg,
with such an expression of horror, you would have thought he expected the
instant death of the Barbarina.

The lovely Italian looked up in seeming surprise. "Did not your highness
know that I was wounded? I thought you were a witness to my accident yesterday?"

"Certainly, I was at the opera-house, as were all these gentlemen; but what
has that to do with your bleeding foot?"
"A curious question, indeed! You did not, then, understand the cause of
my swooning yesterday? I will explain. I felt a severe pain in the sole of
my foot, which passed like an electric shock through my frame, and I became
insensible. While unconscious, my blood, of course, ceased to flow, and the
physician did not discover the cause of my sudden illness. This morning, in
attempting to walk, I found the wound."
"My God, what a misfortune, what an irreparable blow!" cried the cavaliers
with one voice; "we can never again hope to see our enchanting dancer."

"Compose yourselves, gentlemen," cried Barbarina, smiling, "my confinement
will be of short duration, and will have no evil consequences. I stepped
upon a piece of glass which had fallen upon the boards, and piercing
the slipper entered my foot; the wound is not deep; it is a slight cut, and
I shall be restored in a few days."
"And now," said Barbarina, with a triumphant smile, as she was once more alone
with her sister, "no one will mock at me and make malicious comments
upon my fainting. In an hour the whole city will hear this history, and
I hope it may reach the ears of the king."
"He will not believe it," said Marietta, shrugging her shoulders; "he
sent immediately for your physician and questioned him closely as to your
sudden indisposition in the theatre. I had just left your boudoir to get you
a glass of water, and when I returned I found the king standing before
your door and listening to your groans."
A wondrous expression of light and peace shone in her great black eyes.
"The king was then behind the curtains, he stood before my door, he wished
to speak to me, and you tell me this now, only now, when you might have
known--" Barbarina paused, and turned away her blushing face.

"Well, I might have known that the king, whom you hate so bitterly,
had waited in vain at your door, had been turned away by the proud
dancer as a common man; this was, indeed, a triumph of revenge,"
said Marietta, smiling.

"I did not turn him away," said Barbarina, with embarrassment.

"No! you drew your bolt on the inside, nothing more."

CHAPTER XIV.

THE STUDIO.

Barbarina was right; the wound in her foot was not dangerous. She was
ordered to be quiet for some days, and give up dancing. The physician to
whom she showed her foot, and declared that she had only just
discovered the cause of her sudden swoon, examined the wound with
an incredulous smile, and asked to see the shoe, the sole of which
must also be necessarily cut, he said; in this way only could he tell if
the wound had been inflicted by a piece of glass or nail, and know the size
and sharpness of the instrument. Barbarina blushed, and ordered Marietta
to bring the shoe; she returned immediately with a slipper, showing a sharp
cut in the sole. The physician examined it silently, and then declared
that it was a piece of glass which had caused the fainting of the signora;
he ordered cooling applications and perfect quiet, and promised restoration
in a few days.

The king had commanded the physician to come to him immediately
after his visit to Barbarina.

He was announced, and as he entered, Frederick advanced to meet him.
    
    "Well," said he, "is the wound dangerous? will the signora be obliged
    to give up the stage?"

"Ah, surely your majesty cannot believe that the Barbarina has given
herself a wound which will destroy her fame and fortune!"

"I do not understand you," said Frederick, impatiently; "do not speak in
    riddles."
    "I repeat, your majesty, the signora would not intentionally have
wounded her foot seriously, and thereby destroyed her art."

"Do you believe that she wounded herself voluntarily?"
    "I am convinced of it, sire. The signora declares that she stepped
    upon a piece of glass.

I desired to see the slipper; Marietta brought me one, in the sole
of which I discovered a cut, but it did not correspond at all with
the wound in the foot, and had been evidently just made with a knife.

Certainly Barbarina was not wounded while she wore that shoe; moreover, I
    affirm that the wound was not inflicted by a piece of glass or a nail,
    but by a stiletto; the wound is three-sided; I am confident she
wounded herself with a stiletto I saw in her room."

The king's face grew dark while the physician spoke; he pressed his
lips together: this was ever a sign that a storm was raging in his
breast which he wished to control.

"Is that all you have to say?"
"That is all, sire."

"Good! You will visit the signora to-morrow, and bring me news of her."

The king was alone, and pacing his room nervously. It was in vain that
Biche, his favorite hound, raised herself up and drew near to him. The
wise little animal seemed, indeed, to understand the sadness of her master,
and looked up at him with sorrowful and sympathetic eyes. Once Frederick
murmured half aloud: "She has sworn to hate me, and she keeps her oath."
After long thought, he seemed to be resolved, and drew near to the door;
he opened it and stood a moment on the threshold, then closed it again,
and said: "No! I dare not do that. I dare not do what any other man might
do in my place; not I--I am a king. Alas! men think it is a light matter to
be a king; that the crown brings no care, no weight to the brow and the
heart. Our hearts' blood is often the lime with which our crowns are
secured."

He sighed deeply, then stood up and shook himself like a lion, when, after
a long repose, he rouses himself to new life and action. "Oh! I am
sentimental," he said, with a sad smile. "I doubt if a king has a right
to dream. Away, then, with sentiments and sighs! Truly, what would Maria
Theresa say if she knew that the King of Prussia was a sentimentalist, and
sighed and loved like a young maiden? Would she not think she had Silesia
again in her dress- pocket?"
While the king struggled with his passion, Barbarina had a far more dangerous
enemy to contend with. Sentimentality is veiled in melancholy, in softened
light and faded tints; but ennui has no eye, nor mind, nor heart for any
thing. It is a fearful enemy! Barbarina was weary, oh, so weary! Was it
perhaps impatience to appear again upon the stage which made the hours so
leaden, so long drawn out?
She lay the whole day stretched out upon her sofa, her eyes wide open,
silent, and sighing, not responding to Marietta's loving words by a glance,
or a movement of the eyelash. Marietta proposed to assemble her friends,
but she affirmed that society was more wearisome than solitude.

At the end of three days, Barbarina sprang from her sofa and tried to
walk. "It gives me no pain," said she, walking through the room.

"Yes. I remember, Arias said the same as she handed the dagger to her beloved,"
replied Marietta.

"But I have no beloved," said Barbarina; "no one loves me, no one understands
this poor, glowing, agonized heart." As she said this, a flood of tears
gushed from her eyes, and her form trembled with a storm of
passion.

"Ah, Sorella, how can you say that--you who are so much loved, so highly
prized?"
Barbarina smiled contemptuously, and shook her head. "Do you call that love?
these empty words, this everlasting, unmeaning praise; this rapture about
my beauty, my grace, and my skill, is this worship? Go, go, Marietta,
you know it is not love, it is not worship. They amuse themselves with a
rare and foreign flower, which is only beautiful because it has been
dearly paid for; which is only wondered at while it is rare and strange. You
know, not one of these men loves me for myself; they think only of my outward
appearance. I am never more solitary than when they surround me, never feel
so little beloved as when they swear that they love me boundlessly. O my
God! must I shroud my heart, must I bury it under the snows of this cold
north? O God, give me a heart for my heart, that can love as Barbarina
loves!" She covered her face with her hands, and her tears flowed freely;
she trembled and bowed from side to side, like a lily in a storm.

Marietta drew near, and laid her head upon her sister's shoulder; she did
not try to comfort her: she knew there were griefs to which words of
consolation were exasperation; she knew that passion must exhaust itself
before it could be soothed. She comprehended the nobility and energy of
Barbarina's nature; those bursts of tears were like clouds in the tropics;
the storm must break, and then the sun would shine more gloriously.
Marietta was right. In a short time her sister withdrew her hands from her
face; her tears were quenched, and her eyes had their usual lustre.

"I am mad," she cried, "worse than mad! I ask of the north our southern
blossoms. I demand that their ice shall become fire. Has not a landscape
of snow and ice its grandeur and beauty--yes, its terrible beauty when
inhabited by bears and wolves?"
"But woe betide us, when we meet these monsters!" said Marietta, entering
readily into her sister's jest.

"Why woe betide us? Every danger and every monster can be overcome, if looked
firmly in the face, but not too long, Marietta, not till your own eye
trembles. Now, sister, enough of this; the rain is over, the sun shall
shine. I am no longer ill, and will not be laid aside like a broken
play-thing.

I will be sound and healthy; I will flap my wings and float once more over
the gay world."
"Do you know, Sorella, that the higher you fly, the nearer you are to
heaven?"
"I will soar, but think not, that like Icarus I will fasten my wings
with wax. No, I am wiser, I will fly with my feet; the sun has no power
over them: they are indeed two suns. They warm the coldest heart; they set
the icy blood in motion, they almost bring the dead to life. You see,
sister, I have adopted the style of speech of my adorers; none of them
being present, I will worship and exalt myself."
Barbarina said all this merrily, but Marietta felt this gayety was not
natural.

"Do you know what I have determined upon?" said Barbarina, turning away, so
that her face might not be seen; "as I cannot dance either to-day or
to-morrow, I will find some other mode of employing my time. I will go to
Pesne and sit for my portrait."
She had turned away, but Marietta saw that her throat was suffused with a
soft flush.

"Will you drive to the palace?" said Marietta.

"Not to the palace, but to Pesne."
"Pesne's studio is now in the palace; the king appointed him rooms there."

"Well, then, I must sit to him in the palace."
"This, however, will be disagreeable to you; you abhor the king, and it
will be painful to be under the same roof. You perhaps suppose the king to
be in Potsdam: he is now in Berlin." Barbarina turned suddenly, and
throwing her arms around Marietta's neck, she pressed a kiss upon her
lips, and whispered: "I know it, Marietta, but I must go."
The sisters went therefore to the new studio of the painter Pesne, which
was in the royal palace. The king took great pleasure in the growth and
development of works of art. While Pesne was engaged on his great picture
of Diana and her Nymphs, the king often visited his studio and
watched him at his work.

He had closely examined the sketch of the portrait of Barbarina,
and, on his return from Silesia, commanded Pesne to arrange a studio
in the castle, as he wished to be near him.

Barbarina sprang like a gazelle up the steps; her foot was not
painful, or she was unconscious of it.

She was impatient, and would scarcely wait to be announced before entering
    the room. Pesne was there, and welcomed the signora joyfully. Barbarina
    looked about in vain for her portrait.
    
    "Has misfortune overtaken the portrait as well as the original?"

she said, smiling.
    
    "Not so, signora," said Pesne; "the portrait excites as great
    a furor as the original--only, though, because it is a copy."
    "I do not understand you."

"I mean, that his majesty is so enraptured with the copy, that since yesterday
    it has been placed in his study, although I protested against it, the
    picture not being finished. The king, however, persisted; he
    said he wished to show the portrait to his friends, and consult
    with them as to its defects."
    Never, in her most brilliant role, was Barbarina so beautiful as
at this moment: her countenance glowed with rapture; her happy smile
and glance would have made the homeliest face handsome.

"Then I have come in vain," she said, breathing quickly; "you can make
    no use of me to-day?"
    "No, no, signora! your face is a star seldom seen in my heaven, and I
    must grasp the opportunity--have the kindness to wait; I will
hasten to the king and return with the picture."

Without giving Barbarina time to answer, he left the room. Why did her heart
    beat so quickly? Why were her cheeks suffused with crimson? Why
    were her eyes fixed so nervously upon the door.

Steps were heard in the adjoining room. Barbarina pressed her hands
    upon her heart: she was greatly agitated. The door opened,
    and Pesne returned, alone and without the picture.

    "Signora," said he, "the king wishes that the sitting should take
    place in his rooms; his majesty will be kind enough to make suggestions
    and call my attention to some faults.

I will get my palette and brush, and, if agreeable to you, we will go at
    once."
    Barbarina gave no reply, and became deadly pale, as she walked
    through the king's rooms; her steps were uncertain and faltering, and
    she was forced to lean upon Pesne's arm; she declared that her foot
    was painful, and he perhaps believed her.

They reached at last the room in which the portrait was placed.
    There were two doors to this room: the one through which they had entered,
    and another which led to the study of the king. This door was closed,
    and Barbarina found herself alone with the painter.

"The king has yet some audiences to give; he commanded me to commence my work.
    As soon as he is at liberty, he will join us."
    "Let us begin, then," said Barbarina, seating herself. "You must
    allow me to-day to be seated. I think it can make no difference to
    you, as you are at present occupied with my face and not with my figure."
    
    Pesne declared, however, that this attitude gave an entirely
    different expression and bearing to the countenance.

Barbarina must, therefore, in spite of the pain in her foot, endeavor
to stand.

She appeared now to feel no pain; she smiled so happily, she spoke
so joyously, that Pesne, while gazing at her animated, enchanting,
lovely face, forgot that he was there to paint, and not to wonder.

Suddenly her smile vanished, and she interrupted herself in the midst of
    a gay remark.

She had heard the door behind her lightly opened; she knew, by the
stormy beating of her heart, that she was no longer alone with the
painter; she had not the courage or strength to turn; she was silent,
immovable, and stared straight at Pesne, who painted on quietly.

The king had motioned him not to betray him.

Pesne painted on, from time to time asked Barbarina the most innocent and
simple questions, which she answered confusedly.
Perhaps she was mistaken; possibly she was still alone with the painter. But
no, that was impossible, it seemed to her that a stream of heavenly
light irradiated the room; she did not see the king, but she felt his glance;
she felt that he was behind her, that he was watching her, although
no movement, no word of his betrayed him.

"I will not move, I will not turn, but I cannot endure this, I shall fall
dead to the earth."
But now she was forced to turn; the king called her name, and greeted
her with a few friendly words. She bowed and looked up timidly. How cold,
indifferent, and devoid of interest was his glance, and he had not seen her
for weeks, and she had been ill and suffering! And now, she felt again
that she hated him bitterly, and that it was the power of this
passion which overcame her when she saw the king so unexpectedly.

She felt, however, that every tone of his voice was like heavenly music to
her ear, that every word he uttered moved her heart as the soft wind
ruffles the sea.

The king spoke of her portrait; he said he had made it his study and
sought for its faults and defects, as others sought for its advantages
and beauties.

"I tremble, then, before the judgment of your majesty," said Pesne.

"I must confess you have some cause to fear," said the king. "I have not
looked at the picture with the eye of a lover, but with that of a critic;
such eyes look sharply, and would see spots in the sun; no criticism,
however, can prevent the sun from shining and remaining always a sun,
and my fault-finding cannot prevent your portrait from being a beautiful
picture, surpassed only by the original."
"Perhaps, sire, I am myself one of the spots in the sun, and it may
be that I grow dark."

"You see, signora, how little I understand the art of flattery; even my best
intended compliments can be readily changed into their opposites. Allow
me, then, to speak the simple, unadorned truth. You are more beautiful than
your picture, and yet I wonder at the genius of Pesne, which has enabled
him to represent so much of your rare loveliness, even as I wonder at the
poet who has the power to describe the calm beauty of a sunny spring morning."

"That would be less difficult than to paint the signora's portrait," said
Pesne; "a spring morning is still, it does not escape from you, it does not
change position and expression every moment."
Frederick smiled. "It would be truly difficult to hold the butterfly
and force it to be still without brushing the down from its beautiful wings.
But, paint now, Pesne, I will seat myself behind your chair and look on."

Pesne seized his palette and brush, and began to paint. Barbarina assumed
the light, gracious, and graceful attitude, which the artist has preserved
for us in her beautiful portrait. She was, indeed, indescribably lovely;
her rounded arms, her taper fingers, which slightly raised the fleecy robe
and exposed the fairy foot, the small aristocratic head, slightly inclined
to one side, the flashing eyes, the sweet, attractive smile, were
irresistible; every one admired, and every glance betrayed admiration.

The face of the king only betrayed nothing; he was cold, quiet, indifferent.
Barbarina felt the blood mount to her cheek, and then retreat to her heart;
she felt that it was impossible for her to preserve her self-control; she
could not bear this cruel comparison of the portrait and the
original, but she swore to herself that the king should not have
the triumph of seeing her once more sink insensible at his feet;
his proud, cold heart should not witness the outbreak of her scorn
and wounded vanity.

But her body was less strong than her spirit--her foot gave way, she tottered,
and turned deadly pale.

The king sprang forward, and asked in a sympathetic and trembling voice why
she was so pale; he himself placed a chair for her, and besought her to
rest. She thanked him with a soft smile, and declared she had better
return home. Would the king allow her to withdraw? A cloud passed over
Frederick's face; a dark, stern glance rested upon Barbarina.

"No!" said he, almost harshly; "you must remain here, we have business
with each other. Swartz has brought me your contract to sign; it requires
some changes, and I should have sent for you if accident had not brought
you here."
"Your majesty can command me," said Barbarina.

"We have business and contracts to consider," said the king roughly, "and
we will speak of them alone. Go, Pesne, and say to Swartz I await him."

Frederick nodded to the painter, and, seizing Barbarina's hand, led her
into the adjoining room, his Tusculum, never before profaned by a woman's
foot; open only to the king's dearest, most trusted friends.

CHAPTER XV.

THE CONFESSION.

Barbarina entered this room with peculiar feelings; her heart trembled, her
pulses beat quickly. She, whose glance was usually so proud, so victorious,
looked up now timidly, almost fearfully, to the king. He had never
appeared to her so handsome, so imposing as in this moment. Silently
she took her place upon the divan to which he led her. Frederick
seated himself directly in front of her.
"This is the second time," said the king, with a smile, a the second
time, signora, that I have had the honor to be alone with you. On
the first occasion you swore to me that you would hate the King of
Prussia with an everlasting hatred."
"I said that to your majesty when I did not recognize you," said
Barbarina.
"Had you known me, signora, you would surely not have spoken so
frankly. Unhappily, the world has silently resolved never to speak
the truth to kings. You avowed your resolution, therefore, at that
time, because you did not know you were speaking to the king. Oh,
signora, I have not forgotten your words. I know that you pray to
God every day; not for your own happiness, as all chance of that
has been destroyed by this cruel king; but for revenge on this man,
who has no heart, and treads the hearts of other men under his
feet." 
"Your majesty is cruel," whispered Barbarina.
"Cruel! why? I only repeat your words. Cruel, because I cannot
forget! The words of Barbarina cannot be forgotten. In that respect
at least I am like other men."
"And in that respect should your majesty the least resemble them.
The little windspiel may revenge its injuries, but the eagle forgives,
and soars aloft so high in the heavens that the poor offender is
no longer seen and soon forgotten. Your majesty is like the eagle,
why can you not also forget?"
"I cannot and I will not! I remind you of that hour, because I wish
to ask now for the same frankness of speech. I wish to hear the
truth once more from those proud lips. Barbarina, will you tell me
the truth?"
"Yes, on condition that your majesty promises to forget the past."
"I promise not to remind you of it."
"I thank your majesty; I will speak the truth."
"You swear it?" 
"I swear it."
"Well, then, why did you wound your foot?"
Barbarina trembled and was silent; she had not the courage to raise
her eyes from the floor.

"The truth!" said the king, imperiously.
"The truth," repeated Barbarina, resolved, and she raised her
flashing eyes to the king; "I will speak the truth. I wounded my
foot, because--"
"Because," said the king, interrupting her fiercely, "because you
knew it was a happiness, a life's joy to the poor, lonely, wearied
king to see you dance; because you felt that your appearance was
to him as the first golden rays of the sun to one who has been
buried alive, and who bursts the bonds of the dark grave. You hate
me so unrelentingly, that even on the evening of my return from an
exhausting and dangerous journey, you cruelly resolved to disappoint
me. I hastened to the theatre to see you, Barbarina, you, you alone;
but your cruel and revengeful heart was without pity. You thought
of nothing but your pride, and rejoiced in the power to grieve a
king, at the sound of whose voice thousands tremble. Your smiles
vanished, your enchanting gayety was suppressed, and you seemed to
become insensible.I, Marco, once saw
the king on horseback thus encircled, by a merchant whom he had long put
off with delays; and the king would not come out of the circle, which the
merchant had drawn; till he had sent for the means of paying the merchant,
all the people who were present highly applauding the kings justice. They
are very scrupulous of drinking wine, and those who are addicted to that
practice, are held disreputable and unworthy of being admitted as
witnesses; which is the case likewise with those who go to sea, as they
reckon them desperate persons. They look on letchery as no sin. In the
months of June, July, and August, they have no rains, and it is excessively
hot, insomuch, that they could not live if it were not for the refreshing
winds which blow from the sea. They have many physiognomists and
soothsayers, who observe omens from birds and beasts, and other signs.
These people consider one hour in every day of the week as unlucky, which
they name Choiach, and which is different on all the days, all of which are
carefully recorded in their books, and they are curious observers of
nativities. At thirteen years of age, their boys are put out to gain their
living, who go about buying and selling, by means of a small stock given
them to begin with. In the pearl season, these boys will buy a few pearls,
and sell them again for a small profit to the merchants, who are unable to
endure the sun. What gain they get they bring to their mothers, to lay out
for them, as it is not lawful for them to live at their fathers cost. Their
daughters are dedicated to the service of the idols, and appointed by the
priests to sing and dance in presence of the idols; and they frequently set
victuals before the idols for some time, as if they would eat, singing all
the while, when they fall to eat themselves, and then return home. The
great men have a kind of litters, made of large canes artificially wrought,
which are fixed in some high situation, to avoid being bitten by
tarantulas[4], and other vermin, and for the benefit of fresh air.

The sepulchre of St Thomas is in a small city, not much frequented by
merchants, but very much by Christians and Saracens, on account of
devotion. The Saracens hold him as a great prophet or holy man, and call
him Ananias. The Christians take of a red earth which is found in the place
where he was slain, which they mix with water, and administer to the sick
with great reverence. It happened in the year 1288, that a great prince,
who had more rice than he had room to keep it in, chose to make bold with
that room in St Thomas's church in which pilgrims are received, and
converted it into a granary: But he was so terrified by a vision of St
Thomas in the night following, that he was glad to remove it with great
speed. The inhabitants are black, although not born so, but by constantly
anointing themselves with the oil of jasmine they become quite black, which
they esteem a great beauty, insomuch, that they paint their idols black,
and represent the devil as white. The cow worshippers carry with them to
battle some of the hairs of an ox, as a preservative against dangers.


[1] This Pinkerton calls Moabar on the margin, and Nachabar in the text, of
    his dissertation on the Trevigi edition of Marco Polo, very justly
    observing that it refers to Coromandel, or the Carnatic below the
    gauts. Harris erroneously substitutes Malabar. Moabar and Madura may
    have a similar origin, as may Nachabar and Nega-patnam.--E.

[2] The fish here alluded to are sharks; and the same custom of employing
    bramins to defend the fishermen, by conjuration, against this
    formidable enemy, is continued to the present day.--E.

[3] Mr Pinkerton, from the Trevigi edition, has this passage as follows:
    "The king of Vor, one of the princes of Nacbabar, purchases about
    10,000 horses yearly from the country of Cormos, formerly mentioned,
    each horse costing five _sazi_ of gold."--E.

[4] Tarantulas is assuredly, a mistake here for centipedes and scorpions,
    which are common all over India.--E.


SECTION XX.

_Of the Kingdom of Murfili, and the Diamond Mines, and some other Countries
of India_.

Murfili or Monsul[1], is five hundred miles northwards from Moabar, and is
inhabited by idolaters. In the mountains of this country there are
diamonds, which the people search for after the great rains. They
afterwards ascend these mountains in the summer, though with great labour,
on account of the excessive heat, and find abundance of these precious
stones among the gravel; and are on these occasions much exposed to danger
from the vast numbers of serpents which shelter themselves in the holes and
caverns of the rocks, in which the diamonds are found in greatest
abundance. Among other methods of obtaining the diamonds, they make, use of
the following artifice: There are great numbers of white eagles, which rest
in the upper parts of these rocks for the sake of feeding on the serpents,
which are found at the bottom of the deep vallies and precipices where the
men dare not go. They therefore throw pieces of raw meat down into these
deep places, which the eagles seeing, stoop for, and seize with all the
little stones and gravel which adhere to them. The people afterwards search
the eagles nests when they leave them, and carefully pick out all the
little stones they can find, and even carefully examine the eagles dung in
quest of diamonds[2]. The kings and great men of the country keep all the
largest and finest diamonds that are procured from these mines, and allow
the merchants to sell the rest.

Lac is westwards from the shrine of St Thomas, from whence the Bramins have
their original, who are the honestest merchants in the world, and will not
lie on any account. They faithfully keep any thing committed to their
charge, or as brokers, they will sell or barter merchandize for others,
with great fidelity. They are known by a cotton thread, which they wear
over their shoulders, and tied under their arms across their breast. They
have but one wife, are great astrologers, of great abstinence, and live to
great ages. They constantly chew a certain herb, which keeps their teeth
good and helps digestion. There are certain religious persons among them
called _Tangui_, who live with great austerity, going altogether naked;
their principal worship is addressed to cows, of which they wear a small
brass image on their foreheads, and they make an ointment of ox bones, with
which they anoint themselves very devoutly. They neither kill nor eat any
living creature, and even abstain from green herbs, or fresh roots till
dried, esteeming every thing that lives to have a soul. They use no dishes,
but lay their victuals on dry leaves. They ease themselves in the sands,
and they disperse it, lest it should breed worms, which might die for want
of food. Some of these people are said to live to 150 years of age, and
when they die their bodies are burned.

Cael is a great city governed by Aster, one of the four brethren[3], who is
very rich and kind to merchants. He is said to have three hundred
concubines. All the people this country are continually chewing a leaf
called Tembul[4], with lime and spices. Coulam[5] is 500 miles south-west
from Moabar, being chiefly inhabited by idolaters, who are very much
addicted to venery, and marry their near kindred, and even their own
sisters. It also contains Jews and Christians, who have a peculiar
language. They have pepper, Brazil, indigo, black lions, parrots of many
kinds, some white as snow, some azure, and others red, peacocks very
different from ours, and much larger, and their fruits are very large. In
this country there are many astrologers and physicians. In Camari, there
are apes so large, that they seem like men, and here we again came in sight
of the north star. Delai has a king, and its inhabitants have a peculiar
language[6] and are idolaters. Ships from Mangi come here for trade.

Malabar is a kingdom in the west, in which, and in Guzerat[7], there are
many pirates, who sometimes put to sea with an hundred sail of vessels, and
rob merchants. In these expeditions they take their wives and children to
sea along with them, where they remain all summer. In Guzerat there is
great abundance of cotton, which grows on trees six fathoms high, that last
for twenty years; but after twelve years old, the cotton of these trees is
not good for spinning; and is only fit for making quilts.

Canhau is a great city, having plenty of frankincense, and carrying on a
great trade in horses. In Cambaia is much indigo, buckram, and cotton.
Semenath or Sebeleth, is a kingdom of idolaters, who are very good people,
and greatly occupied in trade. Resmacoran is a great kingdom of idolaters
and Saracens, and is the last province towards the north in the Greater
India. Near this there are said to be two islands, one inhabited by men and
the other by women; the men visiting their wives only during the months of
March, April, and May, and then returning to their own island; and it is
reported, that the air of that country, admits of no other procedure. The
women keep their sons till twelve years old, and then send them to their
fathers. These people are Christians, having a bishop, who is subject to
the archbishop of Socotora; they are good fishermen, and have great store
of amber. The archbishop of Socotora[8] is not subject to the Pope, but to
a prelate called Zatulia, who resides at Bagdat. The people of Socotora are
said to be great enchanters, though excommunicated for the practice by
their prelate, and are reported to raise contrary winds to bring back the
ships of those who have wronged them, that they may obtain satisfaction.


[1] Muis in the Trevigi edition, according to Pinkerton, and which, he
    says, is 10OO miles, instead of the 500 in the text. This certainly
    refers to Golconda. The districts of India have been continually
    changing their names with changes of dominion; and one or other of
    these names given by Marco to the diamond country, may at one time
    have been the designation of some town or district at the mines--E.

[2] One would suppose we were here reading a fragment of the adventures of
    Sinbad the sailor, from the Arabian Nights. But on this and a few
    other similar occasions in the narrative of Marco, it is always proper
    to notice carefully what he says on his own knowledge, and what he
    only gives on the report of others.--E.

[3] This obscure expression seems to imply, that Aster was one of the four
    kings in Moabar, or the Carnatic.--E.

[4] Now called Betel, and still universally used in India in the same
    manner.--E

[5] Coulam may possibly be Cochin or Calicut, on the Malabar coast as being
    south-west from Moabar or Coromandel, and having Jews and Christians;
    as the original trade from the Red Sea to India was on this coast.--E.

[6] Camari or Comati, and Delai or Orbai, are obviously the names of towns
    and districts on the Malabar coast going north from Coulain. Yet
    Comari may refer to the country about Cape Comorin.--E.

[7] According to Pinkerton, these are called Melibar and Gesurach in the
    Trevigi edition, and he is disposed to consider the last as indicating
    Geriach, because of the pirates. But there seems no necessity for that
    nicety, as all the north-western coast of India has always been
    addicted to maritime plunder or piracy.--E.

[8] Socotora is called Scorsia or Scoria in the Trevigi edition.--E.


SECTION XXI.

_Of Madagascar, Ethiopia, Abyssinia, and several other Countries[1]_.

A thousand miles south from Socotora is Magaster[2] or Madagascar, one of
the largest and richest islands in the world[3], 3000 miles in
circumference, which is inhabited by Saracens, and governed by four old
men. The currents of the sea in those parts are of prodigious force. The
people live by merchandize, and sell vast quantifies of elephants teeth
[4]. Mariners report strange stories of a prodigiously large bird like an
eagle, called _Ruch_, said to be found in this country.

Zensibar or Zanguebar, is also said to be of great extent, and inhabited by
a very deformed people; and the country abounds in elephants and antelopes,
and a species of sheep very unlike to ours.

I have heard from mariners and skilful pilots, much versant in the Indian
seas, and have seen in their writings, that these seas contain 12,700
islands, inhabited or desert.

In the Greater India, which is between Moabar or the Coromandel coast on
the east, round to Chesmacoran on the north-west, there are thirteen
kingdoms. India Minor is from Ziambo to Murfili[5], in which are eight
kingdoms and many islands.

The second or Middle India is called Abascia[6], of which the chief king is
a Christian, who has six other kings subject to his authority, three of
whom are Christians and three of them Mahometans; there are also Jews in
his dominions. St Thomas, after preaching in Nubia, came to Abascia, where
he preached for some time, and then went to Moabar or Coromandel. The
Abyssinians are valiant soldiers, always at war with the sultan of Aden and
the people of Nubia. I was told, that in 1288, the great emperor of the
Abyssinians was extremely desirous to have visited Jerusalem; but being
dissuaded from the attempt, on account of the Saracen kingdoms which were
in the way, he sent a pious bishop to perform his devotions for him at the
holy sepulchre. On his return, the bishop was made prisoner by the sultan
of Aden, and circumcised by force. On this affront, the Abyssinian monarch
raised an army, with which he defeated the sultan and two other Saracen
kings, and took and destroyed the city of Aden. Abyssinia is, rich in gold.
Escier, subject to Aden, is forty miles distant to the south-east, and
produces abundance of fine white frankincense, which is procured by making
incisions in the bark of certain small trees, and is a valuable
merchandize. Some of the people on that coast, from want of corn, use fish,
which they have in great abundance, instead of bread, and also feed their
beasts on fish. They are most abundantly taken in the months of March,
April, and May.

I now return to some provinces more to the north, where many Tartars dwell,
who have a king called Caidu, of the race of Zingis, but who is entirely
independent. These Tartars, observant of the customs of their ancestors,
dwell not in cities, castles, or fortresses, but continually roam about,
along with their king, in the plains and forests, and are esteemed true
Tartars. They have no corn of any kind, but have multitudes of horses,
cattle, sheep, and other beasts, and live on flesh and milk, in great
peace. In their country there are white bears of large size, twenty palms
in length; very large wild asses, little beasts called _rondes_, from which
we have the valuable fur called sables, and various other animals producing
fine furs, which the Tartars are very skilful in taking. This country
abounds in great lakes, which are frozen over, except for a few months in
every year, and in summer it is hardly possible to travel, on account of
marshes and waters; for which reason, the merchants who go to buy furs, and
who have to travel for fourteen days through the desert, have wooden houses
at the end of each days journey, where they barter with the inhabitants,
and in winter they travel in sledges without wheels, quite flat at the
bottom, and rising semicircularly at the top, and these are drawn by great
dogs, yoked in couples, the sledgeman only with his merchant and furs,
sitting within[7].

Beyond these Tartars is a country reaching to the extremest north, called
the _Obscure land_, because the sun never appears during the greatest part
of the winter months, and the air is perpetually thick and darkish, as is
the case with us sometimes in hazy mornings. The inhabitants are pale and
squat, and live like beasts, without law, religion, or king. The Tartars
often rob them of their cattle during the dark months; and lest they might
lose their way in these expeditions they ride on mares which have sucking
foals, leaving these at the entrance of the country, under a guard; and
when they have got possession of any booty, they give the reins to the
mares, which make the best of their way to rejoin their foals. In their,
long-continued summer[8], these northern people take many of the finest
furs, some of which are carried into Russia, which is a great country near
that northern land of darkness. The people in Russia have fair complexions,
and are Greek Christians, paying tribute to the king of the Tartars in the
west, on whom they border. In the eastern parts of Russia there is
abundance of fine furs, wax, and mines of silver; and I am told the country
reaches to the northern ocean, in which there are islands which abound in
falcons and ger-falcons.


[1] This concluding section may be considered as a kind of appendix, in
    which Marco has placed several unconnected hearsay notices of
    countries where he never had been personally.--E.

[2] Mandeigascar in the Trevigi edition, and certainly meant for
    Madagascar.--E.

[3] Madagascar has no pretensions to riches or trade, and never had; so
    that Marco must have been imposed upon by some Saracen or Arab
    mariner. Its size, climate, and soil certainly fit it for becoming a
    place of vast riches and population; but it is one almost continued
    forest, inhabited by numerous independent and hostile tribes of
    barbarians. Of this island, a minute account will appear in an after
    part of this work.--E.

[4] There are no elephants in Madagascar, yet these teeth might have been
    procured from southern Africa.--E.

[5] By India Minor he obviously means what is usually called farther India,
    or India beyond the Ganges, from the frontiers of China to Moabar, or
    the north part of the Coromandel coast, including the islands.--E.

[6] Abyssinia, here taken in the most extended sense, including all the
    western coast of the Red Sea, and Eastern Africa.--E.

[7] This paragraph obviously alludes to the Tartar kingdom of Siberia.--E.

[8] The summer in this northern country of the Samojeds is extremely short;
    but the expression here used, must allude to the long-continued summer
    day, when, for several months, the sun never sets.--E.


CHAP. XII.

_Travels of Oderic of Portenau, into China and the East, in_ 1318[1].


INTRODUCTION.

Oderic of Portenau, a minorite friar, travelled into the eastern countries
in the year 1318, accompanied by several other monks, and penetrated as far
as China. After his return, he dictated, in 1330, the account of what he
had seen during his journey to friar William de Solona, or Solangna, at
Padua, but without order or arrangement, just as it occurred to his memory.
This traveller has been named by different editors, Oderic, Oderisius, and
Oldericus de Foro Julii, de Udina, Utinensis, or de Porto Vahonis, or
rather Nahonis. Porto-Nahonis, or Portenau, is the _Mutatio ad nonum_, a
station or stage which is mentioned in the Itinerarium Hierosolymitanum, or
description of the various routes to Jerusalem, a work compiled for the use
of pilgrims; and its name is apparently derived from the Kymerian language,
apparently a Celtic dialect, in which _port_ signifies a stage, station, or
resting-place, and _nav_ or _naou_ signifies nine; _Port-nav_, Latinized
into Portus naonis, and Frenchified into Portenau, implies, therefore, the
ninth station, and is at present named Pordanone in the Friul. The account
of his travels, together with his life, are to be found: in _Bolandi Actis
Sanctorum, 14to Januarii_; in which he is honoured with the title of Saint.
Oderic died at Udina in 1331. In 1737, Basilio Asquini, an Italian
Barnabite of Udina, published _La Vita e Viaggi del Beato Qderico da
Udihe_, probably an Italian translation from the Latin of Bolandi. The
account of these travels in the collection of Hakluyt, is called "The
Journal of Friar Odericus, concerning the strange things which he sawe
among the Tartars of the East;" and was probably transcribed and translated
from Bolandi, in which these travels are entitled _De mirabilibus Mundi_,
or the Wonders of the World. They have very much the air of an ignorant
compilation, fabricated in the name of Oderic, perhaps upon some slight
foundation, and stuffed with ill-assorted stories and descriptions from
Marco Polo, and other, writers, interspersed with a few ridiculous
miracles, for the honour or disgrace of the minorite order. Mr Pinkerton
asserts, that Oderic was not canonized until 1753. But the Acts of the
Saints is a publication of considerable antiquity, and he is called
_Beatus_ in the work of Asquini, already mentioned as having been published
in 1787.


[1] Hakluyt, II. 142, for the Latin; II. 158, for the old English
    translation.--Forst. Voy. and Disc. 147.


SECTION I.

_The Commencement of the Travels of Oderic_.

Many things are related by various authors, concerning the customs,
fashions, and conditions of this world: Yet, as I, friar Oderic of Portenau
in the Friul, have travelled among the remote nations of the unbelievers,
where I saw and heard many great and wonderful things, I have thought fit
to relate all these things truly. Having crossed over the great sea[1] from
Pera, close by Constantinople, I came to Trebizond, in the country called
Pontus by the ancients. This land is commodiously situated as a medium of
intercourse for the Persians and Medes, and other nations beyond the Great
Sea, with Constantinople, and the countries of the west. In this island I
beheld a strange spectacle with great delight; a man, who led about with
him more than 4000 partridges. This person walked on the ground, while his
partridges flew about him in the air, and they followed him wherever he
went; and they were so tame, that when he lay down to rest, they all came
flocking about him, like so many chickens. From a certain castle called
Zauena, three days journey from Trebizond, he led his partridges in this
manner to the palace of the emperor in that city. And when the servants of
the emperor had taken such a number of the partridges as they thought
proper, he led back the rest in the same manner, to the place from whence
he came.

From this city of Trebizond, where the body of St Athanasius is preserved
over one of the gates, I journeyed into the Greater Armenia, to a city
named Azaron, which was rich and flourishing in former times, but the
Tartars have nearly laid it entirely waste; yet it still has abundance of
bread and flesh, and victuals of all sorts, excepting wine and fruits. This
city is remarkably cold, and is said to be situated on a higher elevation
that any other city of the world. It has abundance of excellent water,
which seems to originate from the great river Euphrates[2], which is only
at the distance of a days journey. Azaron stands in the direct road between
Trebizond and Tauris. In journeying farther on, I came to a mountain named
Sobissacalo; and we passed by the very mountain of Ararat, on which the ark
of Noah is said to have rested. I was very desirous to have gone to the top
of that mountain, but the company with which I travelled would not wait for
me; and the people of the country allege that no one was ever able to
ascend to its top, because, say they, it is contrary to the will of God.
Continuing our journey, we came to Tauris[3], a great and royal city
anciently called Susa, which is reckoned the chief city in the world for
trade and merchandize; for every article whatever, both of merchandize and
provision, is to be had there, in the greatest abundance, Tauris is most
conveniently situated, and to it may all the nations of the earth, almost,
resort for trade. The Christians in those parts report, that the emperor of
Persia derives more tribute from this city alone than the king of France
receives from the whole of his dominions. Near this city there is a hill of
salt, from whence every one may take as much as he pleases, without paying
any thing whatever to any person. Many Christians from all parts of the
world are to be found in this place, over whom the Saracens have the
supreme authority.

From Tauris I travelled to the city called Soldania[4], where the Persian
emperor resides during the summer; but in winter he changes his residence
to another city upon the sea of Baku[5]. Soldania is a large city, but very
cold, from its situation in the mountains, and has considerable trade, and
abundance of good water. From thence I set out with a caravan of merchants,
for the Upper India, and in our way, after many days journey, we came to
Cassan or Casbin[6], the noble and renowned city of the three wise men,
which abounds in bread and wine, and many other good things, but the
Tartars have nearly destroyed it. From this city to Jerusalem, to which the
three wise men we're led by miracle, the distance is fifty days journey.
For the sake of brevity I omit many wonderful things which I saw in this
city. Going from thence, we came to the city of Geste[7], whence the sea of
sand, a most wonderful and dangerous track, is distant only one days
journey. In the city of Yezd there is abundance of all kinds of victuals,
especially of figs, grapes, and raisins, which are there more plentiful, in
my opinion, than in any other part of the world. It is one of the principal
cities in all Persia, and its Saracen inhabitants allege that no Christian
can live there above a year. Continuing our journey forwards for many days,
I came to a city named Comum[8], which was a great city in old times, near
fifty miles in circumference, and often did much damage to the Romans. In
this place there are stately palaces, now destitute of inhabitants, yet it
hath abundance of provisions. Travelling from thence through many
countries, I came at length into the land of Job, named Us[9], which
borders on the north of Chaldea. This land is full of all kinds of
provisions, and manna is here found in great abundance. Four partridges are
sold here for less than an Italian groat; and the mountains have excellent
pastures for cattle. In this country the men card and spin, and not the
women; and the old men are very comely.


[1] Perhaps the sea of Marmora; or it may indicate the Euxine or Black
    Sea.--E.

[2] The holy traveller ought rather to have said, that the springs or
    rivulet near Azaron flowed into the Euphrates. Azaron is obviously
    Erzerum, on or near one of the higher branches of the Frat or
    Euphrates.--E.

[3] Tebriz in Persia.--E.

[4] Sultania or Sultanie.--E.

[5] The Caspian; so called in this place, from Baku or Baccou, a city on
    its banks, in the province of Shirvan.--E.

[6] Oderic must have made a mistake here, as Casbin is not above seventy or
    eighty miles from Sultanie, and the journey of the caravans between
    these cities, could not have exceeded four or five days.--E.

[7] Yezd, about 500 miles east from Ispahan.--E.

[8] This is obviously the city of Kom or Koom, above 400 miles to the
    north-west of Yezd, and much nearer Sultanie. Our traveller,
    therefore, must either have strangely forgotten his route or he came
    back again from Yezd, instead of journeying forwards.--E.

[9] Khus or Khosistan, the south-western province of Persia.--E.


SECTION II

_Of the Manners of the Chaldeans, and concerning India_.

From thence I travelled into Chaldea, which is a great kingdom, having a
language peculiar to itself, and I passed beside the Tower of Babel. The
men of this country have their hair nicely braided and trimmed, like the
women of Italy, wearing turbans richly ornamented with gold and pearls, and
are a fine looking people: but the women are ugly and deformed, and are
clad in coarse shifts, only reaching to their knees, with long sleeves
hanging down to the ground, and breeches or trowsers which likewise reach
the ground, but their feet are bare. They wear no head-dresses, and their
hair hangs neglected and dishevelled about their ears. There are many other
strange things to be seen in this country.

From thence I travelled into the lower India, which was overrun and laid
waste by the Tartars[1]. In this country the people subsist chiefly on
dates, forty-two pound weight of which may be purchased for less than a
Venetian groat. Travelling on for many days, I arrived at Ormus on the main
ocean, which is a well fortified city, having great store of merchandize
and treasure. The heat of this country is excessive, and constrains the
people to make use of extraordinary expedients to preserve their lives[2].
In this place, their ships or barks are called _jase_, the planks of which
are sewed together with hemp. Embarking in one of these vessels, in which I
could find no iron whatever, I arrived in twenty-eight days sail at
Thana[3], in which place four of our friars suffered martyrdom for the
Christian faith. This country is well situated for trade, and has abundance
of bread and wine, and of all other articles necessary for the food of man.
The kingdom in ancient times was very large and populous, and was under the
dominion of King Porus, who fought a great battle with Alexander the
Macedonian conqueror. The inhabitants are idolaters, worshipping the fire,
and likewise paying divine honours to serpents, and even to trees. The
Saracens have conquered the whole of this land, and are themselves under
subjection to king Daldili[4]. In this country there are great numbers of
black lions; apes and monkies are also very numerous, and their bats are as
large as our pigeons. They have rats also, as large as the dogs in Italy,
which are hunted by means of dogs, as cats are unable to cope with them. In
this country every one has a bundle of great boughs of trees, as large as a
pillar, standing in a pot of water before the door; and there are many
other strange and wonderful novelties, a relation of which would be
exceedingly delightful.


[1] By lower India, our author seems here to indicate the southern
    provinces of Persia.--E.

[2] Tantus est calor, quod virilia hominum exeunt corpus, et descendant
    usque at mediam tibiarum: ideo faciunt unctionum, et ungunt illa, et
    in, quibusdam sacculis ponunt circa se cingentes, et aliter
    morerentur.

[3] This place seems to have been Tatta, in the Delta of the Indus.--E.

[4] This unknown king, rex Daldili, is probably an error in translating
    from the Venetian or Friul dialect of Oderic into Monkish Latin, and
    may have been originally _Il Re dal Deli_, or the King of Delhi.--E.


SECTION III.

_Of the Martyrdom of the Friars_[l].

Four of our friars, Tolentinus de Marchia, James of Padua, Demetrius, a lay
brother, and Peter de Senis, suffered martyrdom in the city of Thana. These
friars had engaged for their passage at Ormus to Polumbrum, but were
forcibly carried to Thana, where there are fifteen houses of Christians,
schismatics of the Nestorian communion, and on their arrival they were
hospitably entertained in one of these houses. A strife happened to take
place between the man of that house and his wife, in which the man beat his
wife severely. She complained to the kadi, who interrogated her how she
could prove her assertion. On which she answered that there were four
priests of the Franks who were present, and could attest the bad usage she
had received. On this a person of Alexandria, who was present, requested of
the kadi that these men might be sent for, since they were learned men,
versant in the scriptures, and it would be right to dispute with them
concerning the faith. Our friars were accordingly sent for, and, leaving
Peter to take charge of their goods, the other three went to the kadi; who
began to dispute with them concerning our faith, saying, "That Christ was a
mere man, and not God." But friar Thomas[2] shewed evidently, both from
reason and by examples drawn from Scripture, that Christ was really God and
man, and so confounded the kadi and the other infidels, that they were
unable to produce any rational arguments in contradiction to him. On this
some one exclaimed, "And what do you say concerning Mahomet?" To this friar
Thomas replied; "Since I have proved to you that Christ is really God and
man, who hath given the law to mankind, and since Mahomet set himself
contrary thereto, and taught an opposite law, if ye are wise, you may well
know what ought to be concluded respecting him." But the kadi and the other
Saracens insisted that he should declare his own opinion concerning
Mahomet. "You may all see," said he, "what must be my opinion; and as you
insist that I should speak out plainly, I must declare that your Mahomet is
the son of perdition, and is in hell with his father the devil. And not him
only, but all who have held his law, which is entirely abominable and
false, contrary to GOD, and adverse to the salvation of souls." On hearing
this, the Saracens cried out, "Let him die! let him die! who hath thus
blasphemed against the prophet."

Then they seized upon the friars, and exposed them to the burning sun, that
they might suffer a severe death by the adust heat of the suns rays: For
such is the excessive heat of the sun in that place, that any person who
remains exposed to its direct influence, during the time necessary to say
the mass, is sure to die. But the friars remained hale and joyful, from the
third to the ninth hour of the day, praising and glorifying the Lord. The
Saracens, astonished at this, came to the friars, saying, "We intend to
make a large fire, and to throw you therein; and if your faith is true, as
you say, the fire will not be able to burn you; but if you are burnt, it
will plainly appear that your faith is false." To this the friars answered,
that they were ready to endure chains and imprisonment, and even the fire,
and all other torments for the faith; but should the fire consume them it
was not to be inferred that it did so on account of their faith, but as a
punishment for their sins: declaring that their faith was most true and
perfect, and the only one by which the souls of men could possibly be
saved. While they thus determined upon burning the friars, the report of
this affair spread over the whole city, and all the people of both sexes,
young and old, flocked to behold the spectacle. The friars were accordingly
led to the most public square of the city, where a great fire was lighted
up, into which friar Thomas endeavoured to throw himself; but a Saracen
held him back, saying: "You shall not do so, old man, as you may have some
spell or contrivance about you, for preventing the fire from hurting you,
and you must allow another of your people to go into the fire." Then four
of the Saracens seized upon friar James, intending to have thrown him into
the fire, but he requested permission to walk in of his own accord, to shew
his devotion to the faith. This, however, they refused, and threw him in
headlong. The fire was so large and fierce that he could not be seen; yet
his voice was heard from the midst of the flames, calling upon the name of
the Glorious Virgin. When the fire was totally consumed, friar James was
seen standing on the embers, unhurt and joyful, with his hands raised to
heaven in form of the cross, and himself praising and glorifying GOD, who
had thus manifested the greatness of his faith; and nothing whatever about
his person, not even his clothes or his hair, was found in the slightest
degree injured by the fire. Upon this, all the people began to cry aloud,
"They are holy! they are holy! it is sinful to do them any injury, for we
see now that their faith is good and holy." To this the kadi objected,
saying that he was not holy, notwithstanding he remained unhurt amid the
fire; but that his tunic, being fabricated from the wool of the land of
Habraa, had protected him: That he ought therefore to be thrown naked into
the fire, and they should then see whether or not he would be consumed.

After this, the wicked Saracens, by direction of the kadi, made a fire
twice as large as the former; and, having stripped James quite naked, they
washed his body, and anointed him abundantly with oil, besides pouring a
great quantity of oil upon the faggots which composed the fire; and when
the fire was fully kindled, they threw friar James into the midst. Friars
Thomas and Demetrius, retiring from among the people, remained on their
knees praying to GOD, with many tears. Friar James, however, came a second
time unhurt from the fire, and the people again cried out that it was
sinful to injure these holy men. Upon this the Melich, or governor of the
city, called friar James to his presence, and causing him to put on his
garments, said to the friars, "We see, brothers, that by the Grace of God
ye have suffered no harm from us: wherefore we are convinced that ye are
holy men, and that your faith is good and true; we advise you to take
yourselves away out of this land as quickly as possible, as the kadi will
do his utmost to destroy you, because you have confounded his arguments".
At this time, likewise, the people were full of astonishment and
admiration of what they had seen, and were so filled with wonder at the
miracle, that they knew not what to believe, or how to conduct themselves.
The melich ordered the three friars to be carried across a small arm of
the sea, into a village at a moderate distance from the city, where he
ordered them to be lodged in the house of an idolater.

Afterwards the kadi went to the melich, and represented to him that the law
of Mahomet would be overthrown if these people were allowed to live. He
observed farther, that, by the precepts of Mahomet in the alcoran, it was
declared, that any one who slew a Christian, acquired as much merit by that
action as by the pilgrimage to Mecca. Then said the melich unto him, "Go
thy way, and do what thou wilt." Whereupon the kadi took four armed men,
whom he directed to go and slay the friars. These men crossed over the
water while it was night, but were then unable to find the friars. In the
meantime, the melich caused all the Christians in the city to be taken up
and thrown into prison. In the middle of the night, the three friars rose
up to say matins, and being then discovered by the four armed Saracens,
they were dragged out of the village to a place beneath a certain tree,
where they thus addressed our friars: "Know ye that we are ordered by the
kadi and the melich to slay you, which we are very unwilling to do, as you
are good and holy men; but we dare not refuse, as we and our wives and
children would be put to death." Then answered the friars, "Do ye even as
you have been commanded, that by a temporal death we may gain eternal life;
since, for the love of our Lord Jesus Christ, who was crucified and died
for us, and in honour of our faith in his holy gospel, we are prepared
willingly to suffer every kind of torment, and even death itself." A
Christian man, who had joined company with the friars, reasoned much with
the four armed Saracens, declaring, if he had a sword, he would either
defend these holy men from death, or would die along with them. Then the
armed men caused the friars to take off their garments, and friar Thomas,
on his knees, and with his arms folded in form of the cross, had his head
smitten off. Friar James had his head divided to the eyes by the first
blow, and by a second, his head was severed from his body. They wounded
friar Demetrius at first in the breast, and then cut off his head. In the
moment of the martyrdom of these holy men, the moon shone out with unusual
splendour, and the night became so exceedingly light, that all admired
greatly: After which, it suddenly became excessively dark, with great
thunder and lightning, and violent coruscations, so that all expected to be
destroyed; and the ship, which ought to have carried away the friars, was
sunk, with all on board, so that no tidings of it were ever heard
afterwards.

In the morning, the kadi sent to take possession of the goods belonging to
the friars, and then friar Peter de Senlis, who had been left in charge of
the goods, was found, and carried before the kadi; who, together with the
other Saracens, promised him great things, if he would renounce the
Christian faith, and conform to the law of Mahomet. But friar Peter scorned
all their offers, and derided them: Whereupon they inflicted every species
of torment upon him, from morning until mid-day, which he bore with
patience and constancy in the faith, continually praising God and holding
out the belief in Mahomet to scorn and contempt. The Saracens then hung him
up on a tree; and, seeing that he bore this unhurt from the ninth hour till
evening, they cut him in two. In the morning after, when they came to look
for his body, no part of it was to be found. It was afterwards revealed to
a person worthy of credit, that God had hidden his body for a season, until
he should be pleased to manifest the bodies of his saints, and should shew
the souls of the saints, rejoicing together with GOD and his angels and the
saints, in bliss.

On the night following the martyrdom of these holy friars, they appeared to
the melich in a vision, glorious and resplendent like the noon-day sun,
each holding a sword on high, in a menacing posture, as if about to stab or
cut him in pieces. In horror at the sight, he cried out aloud, to the great
terror of his family, to whom he said, that these rabbis of the Franks,
whom he had ordered to be slain, had come upon him with swords to slay him.
The melich likewise sent for the kadi, to whom he communicated his vision,
seeking advice and consolation, as he feared to be slain by the martyrs.
And the kadi advised him to give large alms to their brethren, if he would
escape from the hands of those whom he had slain. Then the melich sent for
the Christians, whom he had thrown into prison, from whom he begged
forgiveness for what he had done, promising henceforwards to be their
companion and brother; and he ordained, that if any person in future should
injure a Christian, he should suffer death; and sending away the Christians
unhurt, each man to his home, the melich caused four mosques or chapels to
be built in honour of the four martyrs, and appointed Saracen priests to
officiate in them. When the Emperor Dodsi[3] heard of the slaughter of the
four friars, he ordered the melich to be brought bound before him, and
questioned him why he had cruelly ordered these men to be slain. The melich
endeavoured to justify himself, by representing that they had exerted
themselves to subvert the laws of Mahomet, against whom they had spoken
blasphemously. The emperor thus addressed him; "O! most cruel dog! when you
had seen how the Almighty God had twice delivered them from the flames, how
dared you thus cruelly to put them to death?" And the emperor ordered the
melich, and all his family, to be cut in two; sentencing him to the same
death which he had inflicted on the holy friars. On these things coming to
the knowledge of the kadi, he fled out of the land, and even quitted the
dominions of the emperor, and so escaped the punishment he had so justly
merited.


[1] The whole of this and the following section is omitted in the old
    English of Hakluyt, and is here translated from the Latin.--E.

[2] Probably he who is named above Tolentinus.--E.

[3] Probably the same called, at the close of the former sections, Daldili,
    and there conjecturally explained as the King of Delhi.--E.


SECTION IV.

_Of the Miracles performed by the four Martyrs_.

It is not the custom in that country to commit the bodies of their dead to
the grave, but they are exposed in the fields, that they may be consumed by
the heat of the sun. But after the bodies of these martyrs had remained
fourteen days exposed to the sun, they remained as fresh and uncorrupted as
on the day of their martyrdom. On this being seen by the Christians who
inhabited the land, they buried the bodies with great reverence. When I,
Oderic, heard of the circumstances attending the death of these martyrs, I
went to the place and dug up their bodies; and having collected all their
bodies into beautiful _towallias_, I carried them with me into upper India
to a certain place, assisted by a companion and a servant. While we were on
our way, we rested in the house of a hospitable person, and placing the
bones at my head, I went to sleep. And while I was asleep, the house was
suddenly set on fire by the Saracens, that I might be burnt therein. My
companion and servant made their escape, leaving me and the bones in the
burning house. Seeing the fire above and all around me, I took up the
bones, and withdrew, with them into one of the angles of the house; whence
I saw all the other three corners on fire, while I remained safe along with
the bones. So long as I remained there with the bones, the fire kept itself
above my head, like lucid air; but the moment that I went out with the
bones, the whole of that place where I had stood was enveloped in the
flames, and many other surrounding buildings were likewise burnt to the
ground.

Another miracle happened as I was going by sea with the bones to the city
of Polumbrum, where, pepper grows in great abundance, when the wind totally
failed us. On this occasion, the idolaters began to pray to their gods for
a favourable wind; but which they were unable to attain. Then the Saracens
industriously made their invocations and adorations, to as little purpose.
After this, I and my companion were ordered to pray to our God, and the
commander of the ship said to me in the Armenian language, which the rest
of the people on board did not understand, that unless we could procure a
favourable wind from our God, he would throw both us and the bones into the
sea. Then I and my companion went to our prayers, and we vowed to celebrate
many masses in honour of the Holy Virgin, if she would vouchsafe us a wind.
But as the time passed on, and no wind came, I gave one of the bones to our
servant, whom I ordered to go to the head of the ship, and cast the bone
into the sea; which he had no sooner done, than a favourable gale sprung
up, which, never again failed us till we had arrived at our destined port
in safety, owing entirely to the merit of these holy martyrs. We then
embarked in another ship, on purpose to sail to the higher India; and we
arrived at a certain city named Carchan, in which there are two houses of
the brethren of our order, and we intended to have deposited these holy
relics in that place. There were in that ship above 700 merchants and
others; and the idolaters have a custom, that always before they go into
port, they search the whole ship carefully for, the bones of dead animals,
which they throw into the sea, thinking by that means the more readily to
reach the harbour, and to escape the danger of death. But though they
searched frequently and carefully, and even often touched the bones, of the
martyrs, their, eyes were always deluded, so that they could not perceive
them: And thus we brought them reverently to the dwelling of our brethren,
where they rest in peace, and where God continually works miracles by their
means among the idolaters. When any one labours under heavy sickness, they
go to the place where the bodies of the martyrs are deposited, and taking
some of the earth, it is mixed among water, which is drank by the diseased
persons, who are thus freed from their infirmities.


SECTION V.

_Of the places where Pepper grows, and in what Manner it is procured_.

Pepper grows in the kingdom of Minibar (Malabar), where it is more
plentiful than in any other part of the world, being found abundantly in
that country, in a forest which extends for eighteen days journey in
circuit. In the wood, or forest, there are two cities, named Flandrina and
Cynci lim[1]. Flandrina is inhabited both by Jews and Christians, who are
often engaged in quarrels, and even in war, in which the Christians are
always victorious. In this forest which we have mentioned, the plant which
produces the pepper is planted near the large trees, as we plant vines in
Italy. It grows with numerous leaves, like our pot herbs, and climbs up the
trees, producing the pepper in clusters like our grapes. When these are
ripe, they are of a green colour, and, being gathered, are laid in the sun
to dry, after which they are put into earthen vessels for sale. In this
forest there are many rivers, having great numbers of crocodiles and
serpents; and the natives make large fires of straw and other dry fuel, at
the proper season for gathering the pepper, that they may do so without
danger from these noxious animals. At one end of this forest the city of
Polumbrum is situated, which abounds in all kinds of merchandize.

The inhabitants of that country worship a living ox as their god, which is
made to labour in husbandry for six years, and in his seventh year, he is
consecrated as holy, and is no more allowed to work. With this strange
animal god, they use the following strange ceremony: Every morning they
take two basons of silver or gold, in one of which they collect the urine
of the holy ox, and his dung in the other; and the devotees wash their
faces, eyes, and all their five senses in the urine; and anoint their eyes,
cheeks, and breasts with the dung; after which, they consider themselves
sanctified for the whole of that day; and even the king and queen of the
country use this absurd superstition. They worship an idol also, which
resembles a man from the navel upwards, all below being in the likeness of
an ox; and this idol delivers oracles, as they believe, and sometimes
requires the sacrifice of forty virgins. On this account, the people
consecrate their sons and daughters to the idols, even as we Christians
dedicate our sons and daughters to some particular order of religion, or to
some of the saints in Heaven. They even sacrifice their sons and daughters,
so that many are put to death in honour of this accursed idol; and they
commit many other abominable and beastly actions; and I saw many other
strange things among them which I refrain from relating[2].

This nation has another most abominable custom; that when a man dies, his
body is burned to ashes, and his living wife is burned along with him, that
she may assist her husband in his trade or husbandry in the next world.
Yet, if she have children by her husband, she may remain alive with them,
if so inclined, without shame or reproach; yet most of them prefer to be
burnt with the bodies of their husbands. But husbands are not influenced by
any similar law, as when they lose their wives they may marry again. There
are some other strange customs among the people of this country; insomuch,
that the women drink wine, which the men do not; and the women shave their
eyebrows, and eyelids, and their beards, besides many other filthy customs,
contrary to the true decorum of the sex. From that country I travelled ten
days journey to another kingdom called Moabar[3], in which there are many
cities; and in a certain church of that country, the body of St Thomas the
apostle lies buried; which church is full of idols, and round about it
there are fifteen houses inhabited by Nestorian priests, who are bad
Christians, and false schismatics.


[1] The names of these cities or towns, in the pepper country of
    Malabar, which is called Minibar in the text, are so thoroughly
    corrupted, that no conjectural criticism can discover them in our
    modern maps. Hakluyt on the margin, corrects Flandrina, by an equally
    unknown, Alandrina. They may possibly refer to places now fallen into
    ruin, in the kingdom or province of Travancore, which has always been
    a great mart of pepper.--E.

[2] Friar Oderic appears only to have observed the superstitions
    in the southern part of India very superficially, if at all; and as
    many opportunities will occur in the course of this collection, for
    explaining the strange beliefs, customs, and ceremonies of the
    braminical worship, it has not been thought necessary to discuss these
    in notes on the present occasion.--E.

[3] Hakluyt has explained Moabar on the margin by Maliassour or
    Meliassour. The country here indicated is obviously the Carnatic, or
    kingdom of Arcot of modern times, from the circumstance of containing
    the shrine of St Thomas. The idols mentioned by Oderic, as filling the
    church of St Thomas, were probably Nestorian images; not sanctioned by
    the Roman ritual.--E.


SECTION VI.

_Of a Strange Idol, and of certain Customs and Ceremonies_.

In the kingdom of Moabar there is a wonderful idol in the shape of a man,
all of pure and polished gold, as large as our image of St Christopher; and
there hangs about its neck a string of most rich and precious stones, some
of which are singly more valuable than the riches of an entire kingdom. The
whole house, in which this idol is preserved, is all of beaten gold, even
the roof, the pavement, and the lining of the walls, both within and
without[1]. The Indians go on pilgrimages to this idol, just as we do to
the image of St Peter; some having halters round their necks, some with
their hands bound behind their backs, and others with knives sticking in
various parts of their legs and arms; and if the flesh of their wounded
limbs should corrupt, owing to these wounds, they believe that their god is
well pleased with them, and ever after esteem the diseased limbs as sacred.
Near this great idol temple, there is an artificial lake of water in an
open place, into which the pilgrims and devotees cast gold and silver, and
precious stones, in honour of the idol, and as a fund for repairing the
temple; and when any new ornament is to be made, or any repairs are
required, the priests take what is wanted from the oblations that are
thrown into this lake.

At each annual festival of this idol, the king and queen of the country,
with all the pilgrims, and the whole multitude of the people assemble at
the temple; and placing the idol on a rich and splendid chariot, they carry
it from the temple with songs and all kinds of musical instruments, having
a great company of young women, who walk in procession, two and two,
singing before the idol. Many of the pilgrims throw themselves under the
chariot wheels, that they may be crushed to death in honour of their god,
and the bodies of these devotees are afterwards burned, and their ashes
collected as of holy martyrs. But listen! did you not hear a noise?"
"Yes, the low tone of a flute," said Fredersdorf. "Let us approach the
door."
Lightly and cautiously they stepped to the door, behind which the king
had carried on this fierce battle with himself, a battle in which he had
shed his heart's best blood. Again they heard the sound of the flute:
it trembled on the air like the last sigh of love and happiness; sometimes
it seemed like the stormy utterance of a strong soul in extremest anguish,
then melted softly away in sighs and tears. Never in the king's gayest and
brightest days had he played with such masterly skill as now in this hour
of anguish. The pain, the love, the doubt, the longing which swelled his
heart, found utterance in this mournful adagio.

Greatly moved, the three friends listened breathlessly to this wondrous
development of genius. The king completed the music with a note of profound
suffering.

Algarotti bowed to Rothenberg. "Friend," said he, "that was the last song
of the dying swan."
"God grant that it was the last song of love, not the death-song of the
king's heart! When a man tears love forcibly from his heart, I am sure
he tears away also a piece of the heart in which it was rooted."
"Can we not think of something to console him? Let us go in the morning to
Barbarina; perhaps we may learn from her what has happened."
"Think you we can do nothing more to-day to withdraw the king from his
painful solitude?"
"I think the king is a warrior and a hero, and will be able to conquer
himself."
While the king, in solitude, strengthened only by his genius, struggled with
his love, Barbarina, with all the passion of her stormy nature, endured
inexpressible torture.

She was not alone--her sister was with her, mingled her tears with hers,
and whispered sweet words of hope.

"The king will return to you; your beauty holds him captive with
invisible but magic bonds. Your grace and fascinations will live in his
memory, will smile upon him, and lure him back humble and conquered to your
feet."
Barbarina shook her head sadly. "I have lost him. The eagle has burst
the weak bonds with which I had bound his wings; now he is free, he
will again unfold them, and rise up conquering and to conquer in the blue
vaults of heaven. In the rapturous enjoyment of liberty he will forget how
happy he was in captivity. No, no; I have lost him forever!"

She clasped her hands over her face, and wept bitterly. Then, as if roused
to extremity by some agonizing thought, she sprang from her seat; her
eyes were flashing, her cheeks crimson.

"Oh, to think that he abandoned me; that I was true to him; that a man
lives who deserted Barbarina! That is a shame, a humiliation, of which I
will die--yes, surely die!"

"But this man was, at least, a king," said her sister, in hesitating
    tones.
    

Barbarina shook her head fiercely, and her rich black hair fell about her
    face in wild disorder.

"What is it to me that he is a king? His sceptre is not so powerful as that
    of Barbarina.

My realm extends over the universe, wherever men have eyes to see
and hearts to feel emotion.

That this man is a king does not lessen my shame, or make my
degradation less bitter.

Barbarina is deserted, forsaken, spurned, and yet lives. She is not crushed
and ground to death by this dishonor. But, as I live, I will take
vengeance, vengeance for this monstrous wrong--this murder of my heart!"

So, in the midst of wild prayers, and tears, and oaths of vengeance, the
day declined; long after, Barbarina yielded to the tender entreaties
of Marietta, and stretched herself upon her couch. She buried her head in
the pillows, and during the weary hours of the night she wept bitterly.

With pale cheeks and weary eyes she rose on the following morning.
She was still profoundly sad, but no longer hopeless. Her vanity, her rare
beauty, in whose magic power she still believed, whispered golden words
of comfort, of encouragement; she was now convinced that the king could
not give her up. "He spurned me yesterday, to- day he will implore me to
forgive him." She was not surprised when her servant announced Duke Algarotti
and General Rothenberg.

"Look you," said she, turning to her sister, "you see my heart judged
rightly. The king sends his two most confidential friends to conduct me
to him. Oh, my God, grant that this poor heart, which has borne such
agony, may not now break from excess of happiness! I shall see him again,
and his beautiful, loving eyes will melt out of my heart even the remembrance
of the terrible glance with which he looked upon me yesterday. Farewell,
sister; farewell--I go to the king."
"But not so; not in this negligee; not with this hair in wild disorder,"
said Marietta, holding her back.

"Yes, even as I am," said Barbarina. "For his sake I have torn my hair;
for his sake my eyes are red; my sad, pale face speaks eloquently of
my despair, and will awaken his repentance."
Proudly, triumphantly she entered the saloon, and returned the profound
salutation of the two gentlemen with a slight bow.

"You bring me a message from his majesty?" said she, hastily.

"The king commissioned us to inquire after your health, signora," said
Algarotti.

Barbarina smiled significantly. "He sent you to watch me closely," thought
she; "he would ascertain if I am ready to pardon, ready to return to him.
I will meet them frankly, honestly, and make their duty light.

--Say to his majesty that I have passed the night in sighs and tears,
    that my heart is full of repentance. I grieve for my conduct."
    The gentlemen exchanged a meaning glance; they already knew what they
    came to learn. Barbarina had had a contest with the king, and he had
    separated from her in scorn. Therefore was the proud Barbarina so
    humble, so repentant.
    
    Barbarina looked at them expectantly; she was convinced they would
now ask, in the name of the king, to be allowed to conduct her to
the castle.

But they said nothing to that effect.

    "Repentance must be a very poisonous worm," said General Rothenberg,
looking steadily upon the face of Barbarina; "it has changed the
blooming rose of yesterday into a fair, white blossom."

"That is perhaps fortunate," said Algarotti.

"It is well known that the white rose has fewer thorns than the red, and
    from this time onward, signora, there will be less danger of mortal
wounds when approaching you."

Barbarina trembled, and her eyes flashed angrily.

"Do you mean to intimate that my strength and power are broken, and
that I can never recover my realm?

Do you mean that the Barbarina, whom the king so shamefully deserted, so
cruelly humiliated, is a frail butterfly?
That the purple hue of beauty has been brushed from my wings? that I can no
longer charm and ravish the beholder because a rough hand has touched
me?"
"I mean to say, signora, that it will be a happiness to the king, if the
sad experience of the last few days should make you milder and gentler of
mood," said Algarotti.

Rothenberg and himself had gone to Barbarina to find out, if possible, the
whole truth. They wished to deceive her--to lead her to believe that
the king had fully confided in them.

"The king was suffering severely yesterday from the wounds which the sharp
thorns of the red rose had inflicted," said Rothenberg.

"And did he not cruelly revenge himself?" cried Barbarina. "He left me for
long hours kneeling at his door, wringing my hands, and pleading
for pity and pardon, and he showed no mercy.

But that is past, forgotten, forgiven. My wounds have bled and they
have healed, and now health and happiness will return to my poor martyred
heart.
Say to my king that I am humble. I pray for happiness, not as my right,
but as a royal gift which, kneeling and with uplifted hands, I will
receive, oh, how gratefully! But no, no, you shall not tell this to the
king--I will confess all myself to his majesty. Come, come, the king
awaits us--let us hasten to him!"
"We were only commanded to inquire after the health of the signora," said
Algarotti, coolly.

"And as you have assured us that you have passed the night in tears and
repentance, this confession may perhaps ameliorate his majesty's sufferings,"
said Rothenberg.

Barbarina looked amazed from one to the other. Suddenly her cheeks became
crimson, and her eyes flashed with passion. "You did not come to conduct
me to the king?" said she, breathlessly.

"No, signora, the king did not give us this commission."
    "Ah! he demands, then, that I shall come voluntarily? Well, then, I
    will go uncalled. Lead me to his majesty!"
    "That is a request which I regret I cannot fulfil.

The king has sternly commanded us to admit no one."

"No one?"
"No one, without exception, signora," said Algarotti, bowing
profoundly.

Barbarina pressed her lips together to restrain a cry of anguish.
She pressed her hands upon the table to sustain her sinking form.
"You have only come to say that the king will not receive me; that to-day,
as yesterday, his doors are closed against me. Well, then, gentlemen,
you have fulfilled your duty. Go and say to his majesty I shall respect his
wishes--go, sirs!"
Barbarina remained proudly erect, and replied to their greeting with a derisive
smile. With her hands pressed nervously on the table, she looked after
the two cavaliers as they left her saloon, with wide- extended, tearless
eyes. But when the door closed upon them, when sure she could not be
heard by them, she uttered so wild, so piercing a cry of anguish, that
Marietta rushed into the room.
Barbarina had sunk, as if struck by lightning, to the floor.

"I am dishonored, betrayed, spurned," cried she, madly. "O God! let me not
outlive this shame--send death to my relief!"
Soon, however, her cries of despair were changed to words of scorn and
bitterness. She no longer wished to die--she wished to revenge herself.
She rose from her knees, and paced the room hastily, raging, flashing, filled
with a burning thirst for vengeance, resolved to cast a veil over her
shame, and hide it, at least, from the eyes of the world.

"Marietta, O Marietta!" cried she, breathlessly, "help me to find the means
quickly, by one blow to satisfy my vengeance!

--a means which will prove to the king that I am not, as be supposes, dying
from grief and despair; that I am still the Barbarina--the adored,
triumphant, all-conquering artiste--a means which will convince the whole
world that I am not deserted, scorned, but that I myself am the inconstant
one. Oh, where shall I find the means to rise triumphantly from this
humiliation? where--"
"Silence, silence, sister! some one is coming. Let no one witness your
agitation."
The servant entered and announced that Baron von Swartz, director of the
theatre, wished to know if the signora would appear in the ballet of the
evening.

"Say to him that I will dance with pleasure," said Barbarina.

When once more alone, Marietta entreated her to be quiet, and not increase
her agitation by appearing in public.

Barbarina interrupted her impatiently. "Do you not see that already the
rumor of my disgrace has reached the theatre? Do you not see the malice
of this question of Baron Swartz? They think the Barbarina is so completely
broken, crushed by the displeasure of the king, that she can no longer
dance. They have deceived themselves--I will dance tonight. Perhaps I shall
go mad; but I will first refute the slander, and bring to naught the report
of my disgrace with the king."
And now the servant entered and announced Monsieur Cocceji.

"You cannot possibly receive him," whispered Marietta. "Say that you are
studying your role, for the evening; say that you are occupied
with your toilet.

Say what you will, only decline to receive him."
    Barbarina looked thoughtful for a moment.

"No," said she, musingly, "I will not dismiss him.

Conduct Cocceji to my boudoir, and say he may expect me."

The moment the servant left them, Barbarina seized her sister's hand. "I have
prayed to God for means to revenge myself, and He has heard my prayer. You
know Cocceji loves me, and has long wooed me in vain. Well, then, today he
shall not plead in vain; to-day I will promise him my love, but I will
make my own conditions. Come, Marietta!"
Glowing and lovely from excitement, Barbarina entered the boudoir where the
young Councillor Cocceji, son of the minister, awaited her. With an enchanting
smile, she advanced to meet him, and fixing her great burning eyes
upon him, she said softly, "Are you not yet cured of your love for me?"

The young man stepped back a moment pale and wounded, but Barbarina stood
before him in her wondrous beauty; a significant, enchanting smile was on
her lip, and in her eyes lay something so sweetly encouraging, so bewildering,
that he was reassured, he felt that it was not her intention to mock at his
passion.

"This love is a fatal malady of which I shall never be healed," he said
warmly; "a malady which resists all remedies."
"What if I return your love?" said she in soft, sweet tones.

Cocceji's countenance beamed with ecstasy; he was completely overcome
by this unlooked-for happiness.

"Barbarina, if I dream, if I am a somnambulist, do not awaken me!
If, in midsummer madness only, I have heard these blissful words, do not
undeceive me!

Let me dream on, give my mad fancy full play; or slay me if you will,
but do not say that I mistake your meaning!"
"I shall not say that," she whispered, almost tenderly. "For a long
year you have sworn that you loved me."
"And you have had the cruelty to jest always at my passion."
"From this day I believe in your love, but you must give me a proof of it.
Will you do that?"
"I will, Barbarina!"
"Well, then, I demand no giant task, no herculean labor; there is no rival
whom you must murder! I demand only that you shall make your love for me
known to the whole world. Give eclat to this passion! I demand that
with head erect, and clear untroubled eye, you shall give the world
a proof of this love!

I will not that this love you declare to me so passionately shall
be hidden under a veil of mystery and silence.

I demand that you have the courage to let the sun in the heavens and the
    eyes of men look down into your heart and read your secret, and
    that no quiver of the eyelids, no feeling of confusion shall shadow
    your countenance. I will that to-morrow all Berlin shall know and
    believe that the young Councillor Cocceji, the son of the
    minister, the favorite of the king, loves the Barbarina ardently,
and that she returns his passion.

Berlin must know that this is no cold, northern, German, phlegmatic
    LIKING, which chills the blood in the veins and freezes the heart,
but a full, ardent, glowing passion, animating every fibre of our
being--an Italian love, a love of sunshine, and of storm, and of
tempest."

Barbarina was wholly irresistible; her bearing was proud, her eyes
sparkled, her face beamed with energy and enthusiasm.

A less passionate nature than that of Cocceji would have been kindled
by her ardor, would have been carried away by her energy.

The fiery young Cocceji threw himself at her feet.

"Command me! my name, my life, my hand, are yours; only love me, Barbarina,
and I will be proud to declare how much I love you; to say to the whole world
this is my bride, and I am honored and happy that she has deigned to accept
my hand!"
"Of this another time," said Barbarina, smiling; "first prove to the world
that you love me. This evening in the theatre give some public evidence,
give the Berliners something to talk about: then--then--" said she, softly,
"the rest will come in time."

CHAPTER XVI.

THE DISTURBANCE IN THE THEATRE.

Duke Algarotti and General Rothenberg returned to the castle much comforted
by their interview with Barbarina.

"The Barbarina repents, and is ready to take the first step toward
reconciliation," said Rothenberg; "I see the end; I will go at once and
order my cook to prepare a splendid supper for the evening."
"Do not be hasty," said Algarotti, shaking his head; "you may give
your cook unnecessary trouble, and the rich feast might be cold before the
arrival of the king."
"Do you believe that?"

"I believe that for a summer cloud or an April shower the king would not
withdraw himself to solitude and silence. It is no passing mood, but a
life question which agitates him."
"The door has not been opened to-day; Fredersdorf has repeatedly begged
for admittance."
The two friends stood sad and irresolute in the anteroom, alarmed at the
seclusion and silence of the king. Suddenly the door leading into the
corridor was hastily opened, and a man of commanding and elegant appearance
stood upon the threshold; you saw at a glance that he was a cavalier
and a courtier, while his glowing cheek, his clear, bright eyes, and jovial
smile betrayed the man of pleasure and the epicure. This remarkable
man, in whom every one who looked upon him felt confidence; whose face,
in spite of the thousand wrinkles which fifty years of an active, useful
life had laid upon it, still retained an innocent, amiable, and childlike
expression-- this man was the Marquis d'Argens, the true, unchangeable,
never- faltering friend of the king. He had consecrated to him his heart,
his soul, his whole being; so great was his reverence for his royal master,
that the letters received from him were always read standing. The marquis
had just returned from Paris; he entered the anteroom of the king with
a gay and happy smile, impatient and eager to see his beloved master.
Without looking around, he hastened to the door which led into the cabinet
of the king. Rothenberg and Algarotti drew near to him, and greeted him
joyously, then told him of the strange seclusion of the king. The
countenance of the marquis was troubled, and his eyes filled with tears.

"We must not allow this," he said decidedly; "I will kneel before
the door, and pray and plead till the noble heart of the king is
reached, and he will have pity with our anxiety.

Go, Fredersdorf, and announce me to his majesty."
    "Sire," said Fredersdorf, knocking on the door, "sire, the Marquis
d'Argens is here and begs for admittance."

No answer was given.
    
    "Oh, sire," said the marquis, "be merciful; have consideration for my
    eagerness to see you after so long an absence; I have travelled
day and night in order to enjoy that happiness a few hours sooner.

I wish to warm and solace myself in the sunshine of your glance;
be gracious, and allow me to enter."

A breathless silence followed this earnest entreaty.

At last the door was shaken, a bolt was drawn back, and the king appeared on
the threshold. He was pale, but of that clear and transparent pallor which
has nothing in common with the sallow hue of physical weakness; there was
no trace of nervous excitement. Smiling, and with calm dignity, he
approached his friends.

"Welcome, marquis, most welcome! may joy and happiness crown your return!
No doubt you have much to relate to us of your wild and impudent countrymen,
and I see that Rothenberg and Algarotti are burning with curiosity to hear
an account of your love adventures and rendezvous with your new-baked
and glowing duchesses and princesses."
"Ah, your majesty, he approached me with the proud mien of a conqueror,"
said Rothenberg, gladly entering into the jesting humor of the king. "We
are more than ready to believe in the triumphs of the marquis at the court
of Louis the Fifteenth."
"The marquis has done wisely if he has left his heart in Paris," said
Algarotti. "Your majesty knows that he suffers greatly with heart disease,
and every girl whom he does not exactly know to be a rogue, he believes
to be an angel of innocence."
"You know," said Rothenberg, "that shortly before his journey, his house-keeper
stole his service of silver. The marquis promised to give her the worth
of the silver if she would discover the thief and restore it. She brought
it back immediately, and the marquis not only paid her the promised
sum, but gave her a handsome reward for her adroitness in discovering
the robber. As D'Argens triumphantly related this affair to me, I
dared to make the remark that the housekeeper was herself the rogue,
the good marquis was as much exasperated with me as if I had dared
to charge HIM with theft!
'Have more reverence for women,' said he to me, gravely; 'to complain
of, or accuse a woman, is a crime against God and Nature.
Women are virtuous and noble when not misled, and I cannot see who
could have tempted my good house-keeper; she is, therefore, innocent.'"

All laughed heartily, but D'Argens, who cast his eyes to the ground,
looking somewhat ashamed. But the king advanced, and laying both
hands upon the shoulders of the marquis, he looked into the kindly,
genial face with an expression of indescribable love and confidence.
"He has the heart of a child, the intellect of a sage, and the
imagination of a poet, by the grace of God," said the king. "If all
men were like him, this earth would be no vale of tears, but a
glorious paradise! It is a real happiness to me to have you here,
my dear D'Argens. You shall take the place of the Holy Father, and
bless and consecrate a small spot of earth for me. With your pure
lips you shall pray to the house gods for their blessing and
protection on my hearth, and beseech them to pour a little joy and
mirth into the cup of wormwood and gall which this poor life presses
to our lips. My palace of Weinberg, near Potsdam, is finished. I
will drive you there today--you alone, marquis! As for the others,
they are light-minded, audacious, suspicious children of men, and
they shall not so soon poison the air in my little paradise with
their levities. You alone, D'Argens, are worthy. You are pure as
those who lived before the fall. You have never tasted of the ominous
and death-giving apple. You will go with me, then, to Weinberg, and
when you have consecrated it, you shall relate to me the chronique
scandaleuse of the French court. Now, however, I must work!--Fredersdorf,
are my ministers here?"
"Sire, they have been an hour in the bureau."
"Who is in the anteroom?"
"Baron Swartz, with the repertoire of the week."
"Ah! Swartz," said the king, thoughtfully, "let him enter."

Fredersdorf hastened to summon the director, and the king recommenced
his careless conversation with his friends. As the baron entered,
the king stepped forward to meet him, and took a paper from his
hand. He read it with seeming indifference, but his lips were
compressed and his brow clouded.
"Who will dance the solo this evening in Re Pastore?" he said, at
last.

"Signora Barbarina, your majesty."
"Ah! the Signora Barbarina," said the king, carelessly, "I thought
I heard that she was indisposed?"
Frederick's eyes were fixed searchingly upon his friends. He perhaps
suspected the truth, and thought it natural that, in the disquiet
of their hearts, they had sought an explanation of Barbarina.
"Sire," said Rothenberg, "Signora Barbarina has entirely
recovered.
Algarotti and myself made her a visit this morning, and she
commissioned us, if your majesty should be gracious enough to ask
for her, to say that she was well and happy."
The king made no reply. He walked thoughtfully backward and forward,
then stood before D'Argens, and said, in a kindly tone: "You are
so great an enthusiast for the stage that it would he cruel to take
you to Weinberg this evening. We will go to the theatre and see
Barbarina dance, and to-morrow you shall consecrate my house; and
now, adieu, gentlemen I must work! You will be my guests at dinner,
and will accompany me to the theatre."
The king entered his study. "She defies me," said he lightly to
himself. "She will prove to me that she is indifferent. Well, so
be it; I will also show that I have recovered!"
The theatre was at last opened.He added, that, when a man
was noble in this life, his soul entered, after death, into the body of
some excellent beast, while the souls of the deceased common rude people,
possess the bodies of vile animals. I then endeavoured to refute that gross
error, but my arguments were all in vain, as he could not believe that any
soul could exist without a body.

From Quinsay I went to the city of Chilenso, which is forty miles round,
and contains 360 stone bridges, the fairest I ever saw. This place is well
inhabited, has a vast number of ships, and abundance of provisions and
commodities. From thence I went to a great river called Thalay, which is
seven miles broad where narrowest, and it runs through the midst of the
land of the Pigmies, whose chief city is Kakam, one of the finest of the
world. These Pigmies are only three spans in height, yet they manufacture
larger and better cloths of cotton and silk, than any other people. Passing
that river, I came to the city of Janzu, in which there is a house for the
friars of our order, and there are also three churches belonging to the
Nestorians. This Janzu is a great and noble city, having forty-eight tomans
of tributary fires, and abounds in all manner of victuals, flesh, fish, and
fowl. The lord of this city has fifty tomans of _balis_ in yearly revenue
from salt alone; and as every bali is worth a florin and a half of our
money, one toman is worth 15,000 florins, and the salt revenue of this city
is 750,000 florins. This lord has been known to forgive 200 tomans of
arrears at one time to his people, or three millions of florins, lest they
should be reduced to distress. There is a strange fashion in this city,
when any one inclines to give a banquet to his friends: He goes about to
certain taverns or cooks shops, informing each of the landlords, that such
and such of his friends are to come there for entertainment in his name,
and that he will allow a certain sum for the banquet. By this means his
friends are better entertained in divers places, than if all had been
collected into one. Ten miles from the city of Janzu, and at the mouth of
the river Thalay, there is another city named Montu, which has a greater
number of ships than I ever saw in any part of the world. All the ships are
white as snow, and have banquetting houses in them; and there are many
other rare and wonderful things, that no one would give credit to, unless
he were to see them with his own eyes.


SECTION XIII.

_Of the city of Cambalu_.

Travelling eight days farther, through divers provinces and cities, I came
by fresh water to a city called Lencyn, on the river Karamoran, which
pervades the middle of Cathay, and does much injury when it breaks its
banks and overflows the land. Passing from thence many days journey to the
eastwards, and within sight of many different cities, I came to the city of
Sumakoto, which abounds more in silk than any city of the earth; insomuch
that silk is reckoned scarce and dear, when the price of forty pounds
weight amounts to four groats. It likewise abounds in all kinds of
merchandize and provisions. Journeying still towards the east past many
cities, I arrived at length at the great and renowned city of Cambalu, or
Cambaleth, which is of great antiquity, and is the capital of Cathay. Being
taken by the Tartars, they built a new city at the distance of half a mile,
which they named Caido, which has twelve gates, each two miles distant from
the other. The space also between the two cities is thoroughly built upon,
and inhabited; so that the whole is as one city, and is forty miles in
circuit. In this city the great khan or emperor has his palace, the walls
of which are four miles in circuit; and near to the imperial palace there
are many other houses and palaces of the nobles who belong to the court.
Within the precincts of the imperial palace, there is a most beautiful
mount, all set over with trees, called the Green Mount, having a sumptuous
palace on the top, in which the khan mostly resides. If her burden were
heavy, custom seemed to have reconciled her to bear it without repining;
and the emotion which Ferrers now traced in her soft and harmonious
features was of a nature he had only once witnessed before--viz., on the
first night he had seen her, when poetry, which is the key of memory, had
evidently opened a chamber haunted by mournful and troubled ghosts.

"Ah! dear madam," said Ferrers, advancing, as he found himself discovered,
"I trust I do not disturb you. My visit is unseasonable; but my uncle--where
is he?"
"He has been in town all the morning; he said he should dine out,
and I now expect him every minute."
"You have been endeavouring to charm away the sense of his absence.
Dare I ask you to continue to play? It is seldom that I hear a voice so
sweet and skill so consummate. You must have been instructed by the best
Italian masters."
"No," said Mrs. Templeton, with a very slight colour in her delicate
cheek, "I learned young, and of one who loved music and felt it; but who
was not a foreigner."
"Will you sing me that song again?--you give the words a beauty I never
discovered in them; yet they (as well as the music itself), are by
my poor friend whom Mr. Templeton does not like--Maltravers."

"Are they his also?" said Mrs. Templeton, with emotion; "it is strange I did
    not know it. I heard the air in the streets, and it struck me much.
    I inquired the name of the song and bought it--it is very strange!"

"What is strange?"
    "That there is a kind of language in your friend's music and poetry
which comes home to me, like words I have heard years ago!

Is he young, this Mr.

Maltravers?"

"Yes, he is still young."
"And, and--"
Here Mrs. Templeton was interrupted by the entrance of her husband. He
held the letter from Lord Saxingham--it was yet unopened. He seemed moody;
but that was common with him. He coldly shook hands with Lumley; nodded to
his wife, found fault with the fire, and throwing himself into his easy-chair,
said, "So, Lumley, I think I was a fool for taking your advice--and
hanging back about this new election. I see by the evening papers that
there is shortly to be a creation of peers. If I had shown activity on
behalf of the government I might have shamed them into gratitude."
"I think I was right, sir," replied Lumley; "public men are often alarmed
into gratitude, seldom shamed into it. Firm votes, like old friends,
are most valued when we think we are about to lose them; but what is that
letter in your hand?"
"Oh, some begging petition, I suppose."

"Pardon me--it has an official look." Templeton put on his spectacles,
raised the letter, examined the address and seal, hastily opened it, and
broke into an exclamation very like an oath: when he had concluded--" Give
me your hand, nephew--the thing is settled--I am to have the peerage. You
were right--ha, ha!--my dear wife, you will be my lady, think of that--aren't
you glad?--why don't your ladyship smile? Where's the child--where is she,
I say?"
"Gone to bed, sir," said Mrs. Templeton, half frightened.

"Gone to bed! I must go and kiss her. Gone to bed, has she? Light that
candle, Lumley." [Here Mr. Templeton rang the bell.] "John," said he, as
the servant entered,--"John, tell James to go the first thing in the
morning to Baxter's, and tell him not to paint my chariot till he hears
from me. I must go kiss the child--I must, really."
"D--- the child," muttered Lumley, as, after giving the candle to his uncle,
he turned to the fire; "what the deuce has she got to do with the
matter? Charming little girl--yours, madam! how I love her! My uncle
dotes on her--no wonder!"
"He is, indeed, very, very, fond of her," said Mrs. Templeton, with
a sigh that seemed to come from the depth of her heart.
"Did he take a fancy to her before you were married?"
"Yes, I believe--oh yes, certainly."
"Her own father could not be more fond of her."
Mrs. Templeton made no answer, but lighted her candle, and wishing
Lumley good night, glided from the room.There are four hundred physicians of the body to
the emperor, eight of whom are Christians, and one Saracen. The whole of
these attendants are supplied with all manner of apparel, victuals, and
necessaries, from the palace.

When the khan makes a progress from one country to another, there are four
troops of horsemen appointed, having orders to keep each at the distance of
a days journey from the presence; one in advance, one in the rear, and one
on either hand, like a cross, the emperor being in the middle; and each
troop has its regular days journey appointed for it, that all may keep in
due order, and be regularly supplied with provisions. The great khan is
carried in a chariot, having two wheels, on which a splendid throne is
built of aloes wood, magnificently adorned with gold, precious stones, and
pearls; and this moving throne is drawn by four elephants, richly
caparisoned; before which, four war horses, in magnificent housings, are
led for his particular use. Close to the chariot, and keeping hold of it,
eight barons attend on either side, to prevent all persons from approaching
too near, or from incommoding the emperor. Two milk-white ger-falcons are
carried in the chariot along with the emperor, that he may fly them at any
game that comes in the way. No one dare come within a stones throw of the
chariot in which the emperor rides, except those who are expressly
appointed. The number of his own followers, and of those who attend the
empress, and on his eldest son, would appear quite incredible to any person
who had not seen the same, and is therefore omitted. The whole empire is
divided into twelve great provinces, one only of which has 2000 great
cities within its bounds; and the whole is so extensive, that one may
travel continually for six months in any one direction, besides the islands
under his dominion, which are at least 5000 in number.


[1] In the plates of La Monarchie Francaise, by Pere Montfaucon, the French
    ladies of the fourteenth century are represented as wearing conical
    caps on their heads, at least one third of their own height.--E.

[2] One hundred and forty millions of florins, as the value of the dresses
    of the nobles of the imperial court! It seems that most writers
    concerning China are apt entirely to forget the power of numbers, in
    the fervour of their admiration.--E.

[3] Odericus, or his Bolandist biographer, seems to have forgot that
    thirty-three tomans make 330,000 useless ministers of luxury and
    folly. I strongly suspect the Minorites, for the honour of Oderic,
    have ignorantly borrowed and exaggerated from Marco Polo, to decorate
    the legend of the favourite Saint of Udina.--E.


SECTION XV.

_Of the Inns established over the whole Empire, for the use of Travellers_.

That travellers may have all things necessary throughout the whole empire,
the emperor has caused certain inns to be provided in sundry places upon
the highways, where all kinds of provisions are in continual readiness.
When any intelligence is to be communicated to him, his messengers ride
post on horses or dromedaries; and when themselves and their beasts are
weary, they blow their horns, and the people at the next inn provide a man
and horse in readiness to carry forward the dispatch. By this means,
intelligence, which would take thirty days in the ordinary way of
travelling, is transmitted in one day, and he is consequently immediately
informed of any important matter which may occur in the most distant parts
of his dominions.

About twenty days journey from Cambalu, there is a forest of six days
journey in circuit, containing an incredible number of different kinds of
beasts and birds, to which the khan usually goes for hunting, once in three
or four years, attended by his whole train. "Each man for himself, and
God for us all," returned Lumley, gravely:
"pray go on, my dear lord."
"/We are sure you could not have a representative that would, more faithfully
reflect your own opinions and our interests. One word more.
A creation of peers will probably take place in the spring, among which
I am sure your name would be to his Majesty a gratifying addition; the
title will of course be secured to your sons--and failing the latter, to
your nephew./

"/With great regard and respect, 
"Truly yours,
"SAXINGHAM./"
"There, inscribe that 'Private and confidential,' and send it express
to my uncle's villa."

"It shall be done, my dear Lumley--and this contents me as much as
it does you.

You are really a man to do us credit. You think it will be arranged?"

"No doubt of it."
"Well, good day. Lumley, come to me when it is all settled: Florence
is always glad to see yon; she says no one amuses her more. And I am sure
that is rare praise, for she is a strange girl,--quite a Timon in
petticoats."
Away went Lord Saxingham.

"Florence glad to see me!" said Lumley, throwing his arms behind him, and
striding to and fro the room--"Scheme the Second begins to smile upon
me behind the advancing shadow of Scheme One. If I can but succeed in
keeping away other suitors from my fair cousin until I am in a condition
to propose myself, why, I may carry off the greatest match in the
three kingdoms. /Courage, mon brave Ferrers, courage!/"
It was late that evening when Ferrers arrived at his uncle's villa. He found
Mrs. Templeton in the drawing-room seated at the piano. He entered gently;
she did not hear him, and continued at the instrument.
Her voice was so sweet and rich, her taste so pure, that Ferrers,
who was a good judge of music, stood in delighted surprise. Often
as he had now been a visitor, even an inmate, at the house, he had
never before heard Mrs. Templeton play any but sacred airs, and
this was one of the popular songs of sentiment.Many
similar things are performed in this manner, which they pretend to be
significant, but which, being vain and ridiculous, I gave no attention to,
and am not inclined to write. When the hour of music comes, the
philosophers give the word, and they all sound their instruments, making a
great and melodious noise; after which, orders are given to cease from the
music. Then come the women musicians, who sing sweetly before the emperor,
which I thought delightful. After them, the lions are led in, and are made
to pay their obeisance to the emperor. Then the jugglers cause golden cups,
full of wine, to fly up and down in the air, and to apply themselves to
mens mouths, that they may drink. And many other strange things are
performed, which I omit to mention, as no one would believe me.

I was informed by certain credible persons, that in the mountains of
Kapsei, in the kingdom of Kalor, which is in the dominions of the great
khan, there grow certain gourds, or pompions, which open when ripe, and a
little beast is found within them, resembling a young lamb. I have likewise
heard, that there grow certain trees upon the shore of the Irish sea, which
carry a fruit like gourds, and that these fall into the sea at certain
times, and are changed into birds called Bernacles.


SECTION XVII.

_Of various Provinces and Cities of the East_.

After a residence of three years in Cambalu, I departed from the empire of
Kathay, and travelled fifty days to the west, when I arrived in the
dominions of Pretegoani[1], whose principal city is Cosan. Continuing my
journey for many days, I came to the province of Casan, which is well
inhabited, and one of the first countries in the world, for abundance of
provisions, and commodities of all kinds, especially of chesnuts; and, is
so extremely populous, that, on leaving the gates of any one city, we may
always have the gates of another within sight. This country is fifty days
journey in breadth, and it is above sixty days journey in length. This is
one of the twelve great provinces belonging to the great khan.

Farther on, I came into another kingdom belonging to the khan, called Tebek
or Thibet, which is, in my opinion, more abundant in bread and wine than
any other country in the world. The inhabitants mostly dwell in tents of
black felt, The principal city is surrounded by beautiful walls, built of
large white and black stones, disposed chequerwise; and all the highways of
the country are well paved. In this country, from certain religious
notions, no one dares shed the blood of a man, or of any beast. The Abassi,
who is their Pope, dwells in the city already mentioned, being the head or
prince of all the idolaters, on whom he bestows gifts; just as our Pope of
Rome considers himself to be the head of all the Christians. The women of
this country wear a prodigious number of ornaments, and they have two long
teeth like the tusks of a boar. When any man dies in this country, his son
assembles all the priests and musicians that he can procure, to do honour
to his father, whose body he causes to be carried out into the fields,
accompanied by all the kindred, friends, and neighbours of the family. Then
the priests, with great solemnity, cut off the head of the deceased, which
they give to his son; after which, they divide the whole body into small
pieces, which they leave strewed about the place; and then the whole
company return home in solemn procession, accompanied with prayers, the son
bearing his fathers head. On their departure from the field, the vultures
of the country, accustomed to similar banquets, come down from the
mountains, and carry off all the remains of the deceased person; who is
thereupon pronounced holy, because the angels of God, as they say, have
carried him to paradise. When the procession returns to the dwelling of the
deceased, the son boils the head of his father, and eats the flesh,
converting the skull into a drinking cup, out of which he, and all his
family, and kindred, carouse with much, mirth and solemnity, in remembrance
of his father. This nation has many other vile and abominable customs,
which I refrain from describing, because no one would believe them unseen.


[1] This strange word, both in the Latin and English of Hakluyt, is
    obviously the Italian for Prester John, information concerning whom
    will be found in the travels of Marco Polo.--E.


SECTION XVIII.

_Of a certain Rich Man, who was Fed by fifty Virgins_.

While in the province of Mangi, or Southern China, I passed by the palace
of a rich man, who is continually attended upon by fifty young virgins, who
feed him at every meal as a bird feeds her young; and all the time they are
so employed, they sing to him most sweetly. The revenues of this man are
thirty toman of tagars of rice, each toman being 10,000 tagars, and one
tagar is the burthen of an ass. His palace is two miles in circuit, and is
paved with alternate plates of gold and silver. Near the wall of his
palace, there is an artificial mound of gold and silver, having turrets and
steeples, and other magnificent ornaments, contrived for the solace and
recreation of this great man.[l] I was further informed, that there are
four such great men in the kingdom of Mangi. It is reckoned a great mark of
dignity, among the great men of this country, to have their nails of great
length; more especially their thumb nails, which are sometimes of
sufficient length to be wrapped round the hand. The beauty, and even the
rank of their women is supposed to consist in the smallness of their feet;
for which reason, mothers bind up the feet of their daughters when young,
to prevent them from growing large.


[1] This seems an ill-digested account of a pagoda, or idol temple, of
    great extent and magnificence, richly gilt, similar to those of which
    we have splendid views in the relation of the embassy to Ava, by
    Colonel Symes.--E.


SECTION XIX.

_Of the Old Man of the Mountain_.

Proceeding on my travels towards the south, I arrived at a certain pleasant
and fertile country, called Melistorte[1], in which dwells a certain aged
person called the Old Man of the Mountain. This person had surrounded two
mountains by a high wall, within which he had the fairest gardens, and
finest fountains in the world, inhabited by great numbers of most beautiful
virgins. It was likewise supplied with fine horses, and every article that
could contribute to luxury and delightful solace; on which account it was
called by the people of the country the terrestrial paradise. Into this
delightful residence, the old man used to entice all the young and valiant
men he could procure, where they were initiated into all the delights of
the earthly paradise, in which milk and wine flowed in abundance, through
certain hidden conduits. When desirous of assassinating any prince or
nobleman, who had offended him, the old man would order the governor of his
paradise to entice into that place, some acquaintance or servant of the
prince or baron whom he wished to slay. Allowing this person to take a full
taste of the delights of the place, he was cast into a deep sleep by means
of a strong potion, in which state he was removed from paradise. 
Perhaps it would be so in an ordinary case; but for you, Lupinus, who are
the most learned and honorable young man in our midst, we cannot do
too much to show our respect and esteem."
"This is an honor which almost shames me," said Lupinus, blushing;
"an honor of which, I fear, I am unworthy."
"I desire to give you a still greater proof of my esteem," continued the
professor. "I wish to make you my confidant, and inform you of an intrigue
which, insignificant as it appears, will be followed by important
results."

With ready words, Franke proceeded to explain to Lupinus his own views with
regard to the actors; what he considered their wretched influence over the
students, and also the ill-advised decision of the General
Directory. He then informed Lupinus of his plan for creating a disturbance
in the theatre, and requested his assistance in carrying it out.

Lupinus listened with horror to this explanation and request, but
    he controlled himself, and quietly received the ticket which the president
    handed him. He listened silently to the further details, and
    Franke understood his silence as a respectful assent.

When the president had at length taken leave, and Lupinus was again
alone, he seized the ticket, threw it on the ground, and trampled
it under foot, thus visiting upon the inoffensive ticket the scorn
he had not dared exhibit to the president.

"I--I am to be the instrument of this miserable plot!"

he cried passionately. "Because I lead a lonely, joyless life. I am selected
to execute this infamy. Ah, how little do they know me! how slight a
knowledge of the human heart have these learned professors! Eckhof in
danger, and I remain silent? Eckhof threatened, and I not warn him? That
were a treachery against myself, a crime against art and my own poor
heart. If I remain silent, I become an accomplice in this vile conspiracy."
At this thought, he took his hat, and hurried from the room.

When he reached the door of Eckhof's lodging, he hesitated. A profound
pallor succeeded a burning glow upon his countenance, and he murmured to
himself: "No, no; I have not the strength to see him to-day. I should die
if his eyes rested upon me. I will go to Fredersdorf."
Joseph Fredersdorf was at home, and received Lupinus with astonished
delight.

"The holy one trusts himself in the den of the wicked," he said, with a
bright smile. "This is an unheard-of event, which doubtless indicates something
important."

"You are laughing at me, but you are right. I am here for a purpose; nothing
unimportant would have induced me to come to you after the ungrateful manner
in which I declined your friendly advances. But I am sure you will forgive
the intrusion when you become aware of the motive which has led me to
you."
With hurried words and frequent interruptions from Fredersdorf, Lupinus
informed his friend of the president's visit, and its object.

"This is a regular conspiracy," said Joseph, as Lupinus finished.
"If it succeed, the punishment of the actors will be the result."
"It must not succeed--we must prevent that. The first thing to be done is
to gain over the other students to whom the president has intrusted this
plot. We must either do that or prevent them from entering the theatre."

"But if we can do neither?"
"Then we must allow what we cannot prevent, but we must seek to avert
the evil consequences. We will address ourselves to the king, and inform
him who has occasioned this disturbance, and why it was done."
"The king is just, and happily it is not difficult to see him, especially
for me, as my brother is his private secretary. We must be active, and the
victory will be ours. And now, my dear friend, for you must allow me
to call you so from this day, let us go to my master, Eckhof. He must
thank you himself for this kind warning.
Come to Eckhof."
"No!" said Lupinus, "it is a matter of no importance to Eckhof, who has given
the information. There is much to be done to-day. I will seek to gain over
the students; you must hasten to Eckhof."
"And will you not accompany me?"
"No, my friend, not to-day. Let us await the events of this evening.
Perhaps I shall ask you to present me to him to-morrow."

"Ah, that would be a real triumph for me!"
    "Let us first take care that this plot fails, and the actors are not
    driven from Halle."

"When we have accomplished this, will you promise to walk arm-in-arm
with me three times through the market-place?"

"Not only three times, but as often as you will."

"Now I feel the strength of Samson, and the craft of Delilah. With this
reward before me, I will vanquish all enemies."

CHAPTER III.

THE DISTURBANCE IN THE THEATRE.

So dense was the crowd which filled the streets in the neighborhood of the
theatre on the evening of Eckhof's benefit, that it appeared as if the
entire population of the city of Halle must be unanimous in wishing to do
honor to this wonderful artiste.

Eckhof owed this triumph to the students; he had been their darling from the
time of his first appearance among them, and now he had become the
favorite of the entire city, with the exception of the professors.

Had the theatre been three times its actual size, it could scarcely have
accommodated all who had made applications for tickets. The parterre was
given up almost entirely to the students, upon whose countenances was
plainly seen their deep interest in the evening's entertainment.

Here and there among them a few earnest faces and darkly flashing eyes might
be seen, but they seemed to arrest no eye but that of Lupinus. He had passed
every countenance in review, and had instantly recognized by their expression
those students who had entered into the plot of the president. He had
failed in his effort to discover them before the opening of the
theatre, and was, therefore, unable to prevent their attendance.

Professor Franke had informed these students that they might count
upon the assistance of Lupinus, and one of them had just whispered
to him: "There will be a fierce struggle, and I fear we shall be
worsted, as our number is so small.

Did you bring your rapier?"

Before Lupinus could answer, he was separated from his questioner by a
crowd of students pushing their way forward. It seemed as if these new
arrivals had not come to the theatre for mere amusement. They glanced
threateningly around them, as if seeking a concealed enemy.
In passing Lupinus they greeted him with a few low-spoken words,
or a warm pressure of the hand.

These students were the special friends of Joseph Fredersdorf. To them he
had confided the danger which threatened the actors this evening, and had
demanded their aid in maintaining peace and quiet.
They scattered about amongst the crowd of students, and whispered to
their friends and acquaintances: "No disturbance this evening. We must
be quiet, whatever occurs."
At length this fluttering, whispering crowd were silenced by the ringing
of the bell which announced the rising of the curtain.

The piece began, and never had Eckhof displayed such fire, such
enthusiasm; the students had never exhibited such rapt and earnest
attention.

Their excitement was shown by their flashing eyes and glowing cheeks, and
the low murmurs of delight which arose occasionally from this dark mass. But
at length a moment arrived when it became impossible to suppress the
expression of their delight, and forgetting all resolve to the contrary,
they called aloud, amid thunders of applause, for their favorite Eckhof,
who had just left the stage.

"A disturbance is now unavoidable," said Lupinus to himself, "but Eckhof
deserves that we should forget all such miserable considerations. To die
for him were to be indeed blessed."
As Eckhof appeared upon the stage, in answer to the repeated calls upon
his name, Lupinus gazed upon him with a beaming countenance, and joined
the others in their cries of delight.

The unalloyed triumph of Eckhof endured but for one moment, for suddenly,
high above the shouts of applause, arose a piercing, derisive whistle,
succeeded by hisses and groans.

As if by magic, the aspect of the parterre was changed. Every student
looked wrathfully at his neighbor, as if determined to discover
and punish the rash offender who dared run counter to the general
approbation.

A few students were endeavoring to calm the rising storm; but renewed hisses
and groans made this impossible, and one voice was heard high above the
others: "You hissed, sir; I forbid it!"
"And I forbid you to applaud," was the answer. "So long as you applaud, I
will hiss. Accommodate yourself to that."
A universal cry of wrath arose as if from one voice. The struggle was inevitable,
as Lupinus had foreseen; the parterre of the theatre was converted into
a battle-ground, and a fierce combat began among these young,
hot-blooded students.

The manager ordered the lights to be extinguished, and the police to be called
    in, but for a long time their efforts were ineffectual in subduing
    the contest.

We will leave the theatre with Lupinus, who, as soon as he could
extricate himself from the battling crowd, hurried through the
streets, toward the lodging of Fredersdorf.

He found a post-carriage before the door, and Fredersdorf, dressed for a
journey, was just leaving the house. As he was stepping into the
carriage, Lupinus placed his hand upon his shoulder, and said, "Where
are you going, Fredersdorf?"
"To Berlin, to the king."
"The king is not in Berlin; he is in Silesia, with the army."
"I received letters from my brother to-day. The king has gone to Berlin for
a few days, and my brother is with him. I will have no difficulty in obtaining
an audience. I shall give the king a correct version of this affair.
He will perceive that this disturbance was occasioned by the professors,
and he will not allow us to be driven from Halle.

Farewell, my friend; in four days I return, and you shall hear the result
of my journey."
"I intend to accompany you."
"You intend to accompany me?"
"Yes; perhaps you will need a witness; I must be with you. I thought you
would have counted on me."
"How could I suppose that Lupinus, the learned student, who will receive
his diploma at the end of a few weeks, would tear himself from the arms
of his beloved Science, to go with a comedian before the king, and
bear witness for the hated and despised actors?"
"Ah, Fredersdorf," said Lupinus; "if you consider Science my beloved, I
fear you will soon have occasion to call me a faithless lover."
"What can you mean? How! you also--"
"Let us be off, my friend. We will discuss that in the carriage."

CHAPTER IV.

THE FRIENDS.

Four days after the unfortunate occurrences in the theatre, Fredersdorf and
his friend Lupinus returned from their secret journey, the object of which
was unknown even to Eckhof. No sooner had they alighted from their travelling
carriage, than they proceeded arm-in-arm to Eckhof's lodging.

They found him at home and alone, and Fredersdorf saw from his pale
countenance and lustreless eyes that his sensitive, easily excited nature
had been deeply wounded by the late events.

"I bring you a new pupil, my master," said Fredersdorf, drawing Lupinus
forward, who stood deeply blushing before Eckhof.

Eckhof smiled sadly. "A pupil who desires that I should lead him through
all the classes and degrees of the school of suffering and humiliation?"

"A young student, Eckhof, who up to this time has been the pride and
delight of the university; who, however, now wishes to relinquish
this honor, and become one of your followers. In one word, this is Lupinus,
who desires to waive his right to the prospective dignity of the title
of doctor of medicine, and to become your pupil, and eventually an actor."

"You are kind and tender-hearted as ever, Joseph," said Eckhof, gently.
"You know that I bear a wound in my heart, and you seek to heal it with the
balm of your friendship, and this kind jest."
"This is no jest, but a reality. Truly, you resemble a pair of lovers, who
have not the courage to believe in their own happiness.
Eckhof will not believe that the learned student Lupinus wishes
to become his follower and pupil, and Lupinus stands there like a young
girl who has received a declaration and does not dare say yes.
Speak, Lupinus, and tell this doubter that you have come voluntarily; that
I have not pressed you into the service as Frederick William
impressed soldiers.

Truly, I had trouble enough in divining from your broken words and repressed
sighs, your blushes, and your deep admiration for Eckhof, this secret which
lay in your bosom. But now that it has been discovered, take courage,
my friend, and raise the veil which conceals your desires."
Lupinus remained speechless, only the heaving of his breast betrayed his
excitement. Eckhof had compassion on the evident embarrassment of the young
student, and approaching him laid his hand gently on his shoulder.
Lupinus trembled and grew pale under Eckhof's gentle, sympathetic glance.

"Do you wish really to become an actor?" questioned Eckhof.

"Yes," he replied in a low voice, "I have long wished it, I have struggled
with this wish, and thought I had overcome it; but the struggle has been in
vain; in vain have I buried myself in books and studies. I will keep up this
internal strife no longer, but will follow the inclinations of my heart,
which lead me to you. In this new life I shall be happy and contented;
and this I can only hope to be, in giving my life to poetry and art."

"Ah, he speaks and thinks as I did," said Eckhof to him self; then turning
to Lupinus, he said: "You wish to be an actor; that means, you desire a life
of shame and humiliation.

No one shall become an actor if I can prevent it. Do you know, young man,
that, to become an actor, means to have the whole world, and perhaps even
God, arrayed against you?"
"You are unjust, Eckhof," cried Fredersdorf--"unjust to yourself and to the
world. You scorn your own triumph, and those who prepared that triumph for
you."
"You are right so far, my friend," replied Eckhof sadly. "But is it not also
true that we are persecuted and driven forth?

Has it not been proved that for an actor there is no law, no justice?"
    "Who knows," said Fredersdorf, smiling, "that we may not still
triumph over these miserable conspirators?"

"Are you aware that the theatre has been closed, and our representations
forbidden until the decision of the General Assembly, with regard
to the late disturbance in the theatre, shall be known?"

"The General Assembly will order the theatre to be opened, and our
representations to recommence."

Eckhof heard this with a cutting, derisive laugh. "Dear friend, such an order
would render justice to the scorned and oppressed on earth!"
"And they will receive justice; but it must be sought in the right
place."
"Where is that place?"
"Where the king is."
"Ah! the king! That may be true in your case, because your brother is his
private secretary, but it is not true for me--not true for the German actor."

"Eckhof, you are again unjust.

       The king is too noble, too free from prejudice, to be deceived by
the dust with which these learned professors have sought to blind
him.

The king knows that they occasioned the late disturbance in the theatre."

"Who has told you that?"
"The king himself." 
"You have seen the king?"
"I have. I hope you will allow now, that it is not a good thing for
me only that my brother is private secretary to the king. I have
seen his majesty, and I informed him of this wretched intrigue of
the professors. He might not have put entire faith in the accounts
of the actor, Joseph Fredersdorf, but I was accompanied by a
responsible witness, who confirmed my words."
"Who was this witness?"
"This is he," said Joseph, drawing Lupinus forward.
"Ah!" said Eckhof, "and I was murmuring and complaining against
fate--I, whose friends have shown their love by deeds as well as
by words--friends who worked for me whilst I sat with folded hands
bewailing my bad fortune. Forgive me, Joseph; forgive me, my young
friend; come to my arms, my comrades, my brothers, and say that you
will forget my anger and injustice."
He opened his arms, and Joseph threw himself upon his breast.
"And you, my friend," said Eckhof, turning to Lupinus, who stood
pale and motionless before him.
Joseph drew them together and exclaimed: "Was I not right? You are
like two lovers; Lupinus acts the part of the coy maiden to the
life. I do not believe, Eckhof, that you will ever have a wife who
will love you more entirely, more tenderly, than our young doctor
does."
Lupinus, now folded in the arms of Eckhof, trembled and grew pale
at these words from Joseph.
"Love me, love me, my dear young friend," said Eckhof, softly.
"Friendship is the purest, the holiest gift of God. It is the love
of the souls. Be faithful to me, Lupinus, as I shall be to you."

"I will be faithful so long as I live, faithful beyond the grave,"
whispered Lupinus.
"You whispering, dreaming lovers, are forgetting me," said Joseph,
laughing. "You must not forget, Eckhof, that the future of our
friend is awaiting your decision. Shall he give up his studies as
I did, and become an actor? It is only proper to tell you that the
cases are not quite parallel, for I was a very lazy student, and
he is most industrious. I was considered a good-for-nothing, and
Lupinus is a miracle of knowledge and learning. Shall he abandon
this position and follow you?"
"He must not, indeed," said Eckhof.
"You will not receive me?" said Lupinus, sadly.
"Not at present, dear friend; I wish to be reasonable and careful,
and perhaps a little egotistical. If you should leave the university
at present, you give the professors a new weapon against me, and
it would be said that I had employed arts to seduce you from the
paths of science. And, further, we do not know if you have a talent
for our profession; that must first be proved. Remain for the present
true to your studies; at the end of a year, during which time you
shall pass your novitiate, we will decide this question."From Gintarchan to
_Sara_[3] by the river, it is only one days sail; but from Sara to
_Saracanco_[4], it takes eight days by water; one may, however, travel
either by land or water, whichever is most agreeable; but it costs much
less expence to go with merchandize by water. From Saracanco to Organci[5]
is a journey of twenty days with loaded camels; and whoever travels with
merchandize, will do well to go to Organci, as it is a very convenient
place for the expeditious sale of goods. From Organci to Oltrarra[6], it is
thirty-five or forty days journey, with camels: But in going direct from
Saracanco to Oltrarra, it takes fifty days journey; and if one has no
merchandize, it is a better way than to go by Organci. From Oltrarra to
Armalecco[7], it is forty-five days journey with loaded asses, and in this
road, one meets every day with Moguls. From Armalecco to Camexu[8], it is
seventy days journey on asses; and from Camexu to a river called the _Kara
Morin_[9], it is fifty days journey on horses. From this river, the
traveller may go to Cassai[10] to dispose of his silver there, as it is an
excellent station for the expeditious sale of merchandize; and from Cassai,
he may go through the whole land of Gattay or Kathay, with the money he has
received at Cassai for his silver[11]. This money is of paper, and called
balischi, four of which balischies are equal to one silver _somno_[12].
From Cassai to _Galmalecco_[l3], which is the capital of the empire of
Kathay, it is thirty days journey.

       *       *       *       *       *

If the reader has any idea of the difficulty attendant on making out so
many places, disguised by a vicious orthography, a difficulty, which is
still more increased by the necessity there is for determining, with
accuracy, the situation of these places, and their probable distances from
each other, he will be ready to allow that the task is certainly not very
trifling, nor to be accomplished without much labour. In the foregoing
itinerary, Pegoletti certifies the existence of the paper money which had
been previously mentioned by Rubraquis, Haitho, Marco Polo, and Oderic:
Some of these authors describe it as having been fabricated of cotton
paper; while others remark very justly, that it was made of the bark of the
paper mulberry tree. Oderic calls it Balis, Pegoletti gives it the name of
Balis-chi. A Jesuit named Gabriel de Magaillans, pretends that Marco Polo
was mistaken in regard to this paper money; but the concurrent testimony of
five other credible witnesses of the fact, is perfectly conclusive that
this paper money did actually exist during the first Mogul dynasty, the
descendants of Zinghis, called the legal tribe of _Yu_ by the Chinese. On
the downfall of that race it was abolished.

Supposing the station on the Kara-morin and Cassai to be the same, which is
highly probable, the whole journey in this itinerary, from Asof to Pekin,
extends to 276 days, besides nine days more by water, or 285 in all; so
that allowing for delays, rests, accidents, and occasional trafficking, a
whole year may fairly be allowed, and as much for the return.


[1] Forster, Voy. and Disc, in the North, p. 150.

[2] Gintarchan, or Zintarchan, is, by Josaphat Barbaro, called also
    Gitarchau; and Witsan, in his account of Northern and Eastern Tartary,
    says Astracan was called of old _Citracan_. By the Calmuks, it is
    called Hadschi-Aidar-Khan-Balgassun, or the city of Hadschi Aidar
    Khan, whence all these names are derived by an obvious corruption,
    like [Greek: Eis tnae polis], or the city, by way of eminence, by
    which the Greeks distinguished Constantinople, and which the Turks
    have corrupted into Estambol, and Stambol.--Forst.

[3] Sara is undoubtedly the town of Saray, situated on the eastern arm of
    the Wolga, or Achtuba. The Astracan mentioned in the text by
    Pegoletti, was not on the spot where that city now stands; both that
    ancient Astracan and Saray having been destroyed by Timur Khan, or
    Tamerlane, as he is usually called, in the winter 1395. The old town
    of Saray was at no great distance from ancient Astracan.--Forst.

[4] Saracanco is probably the town which formerly existed on the river Jaik
    or Ural, the remains of which are now known by the name of
    Saratschik.--Forst.

[5] The name of Organci is easily recognized In the town of Urgenz in
    Kheucaresm; which is named Dschordschanio by Abulfeda, and Korkang by
    the Persians. But there were two towns of this name, the greater and
    the lesser Urgenz, or Old and New Urgenz. The Old or Greater Urgenz
    was situated near to where the Gihon discharges its waters into lake
    Aral; the New or Ixsser Urgenz is to be found near Chiwa, or Chiva, on
    the Gihon--Forst.

[6] Oltrarra is properly called Otrar, and also Farab, which latter name is
    to be found in Abulfeda. It is situate on the river Sihon or Sire. The
    Chinese, who cannot pronounce the letter _r_, call it Uotala.--Forst.

[7] Armalecco is the name of a small town called Almalig, which, according
    to Nassir Ettusi and Ulug-beg, is in Turkestan.  From the life of
    Timur Khan, by Shersfeddin Ali, it appears that Almalig is situate
    between the town of Taschkent and the river Irtiah, in the country of
    the Gete, and on the banks of the river Ab-eile, which discharges
    itself into the Sihon, or Sirr-Daria.--Forst.

[8] Came-xu is in all probability the name of Khame or Khami with the
    addition of xu, instead of Tcheou or Tsheu, which, in the Chinese
    language, signifies a town of the second rank.--Forst.

[9] Obviously the Kara-Moran, called Hoang-ho by the Chinese, or the Yellow
    River.--Forst.

[10] Cassai, or Kaway, seems to be the place called Kissen, on a lake of
    that name, near the northernmost winding branch of the Kara-moran, in
    Lat. 41º.50'. N. long. 107°. 40'. E.--Forst.

[11] It is curious to notice, in the writings, of this intelligent
    commercial geographer, and in the travels of Marco Polo, the peculiar
    advantages in commerce enjoyed by the Chinese at so early a period, of
    being paid in sliver for their commodities and manufactures. This
    practice, which prevailed so early as 1260, the era of the elder
    Polos, and even, in 851, when the Mahometan travellers visited
    Southern China, still continues in 1810.--E.

[12] The value of the silver _somno_ is nowhere mentioned; but it is of no
    importance, as it would not enable us to institute any comparison of
    values whatsoever.--E.

[13] Gamalecco is undoubtedly Cambalu, Cambalig, or Khan-balig, otherwise
    Pekin; exactly as Gattay is substituted for Katay Kathay, or Cathay.
    --Forst.


CHAP. XV.

_Voyages of Nicolo and Antonio Zeno in 1380_.[1]


INTRODUCTION.

Although we have admitted this article into our collection, on the
authority of Ramusio and J. R. Forster, we are disposed to consider the
whole as a fabrication, altogether unworthy of any credit. The first
section, indeed, may possibly have had some foundation in truth, as the
Zenos may have navigated about the close of the fourteenth century to the
Orkneys, and some imperfect and disfigured narrative of their voyage may
have fallen into the hands of Marcolini, the author or editor of these
strangely distorted and exaggerated or pretended voyages. In regard to the
second section, unless we could suppose, that, by Estoitland and Drogio,
some strangely distorted account of different districts in Ireland were
meant to be enigmatically conveyed, the whole of that section must be
pronounced a palpable and blundering forgery. But it appears obviously
intended by the relater, to impress upon his readers, that some portion of
the western hemisphere, afterwards named America, had been visited by
Antonio Zeno; and the high probability is, that Marcolini, a patriotic
Venetian, had invented the whole story, on purpose to rob the rival
republic of Genoa of the honour of haying given birth to the real
discoverer of the New World. If there be any truth whatever in the voyages
of the Zenos, it is only to be found in the first section of this chapter;
and even there the possible truth is so strangely enveloped in
unintelligible names of persons and places, as to be entirely useless. The
_second_ section is utterly unworthy of the slightest serious
consideration; and must either have been a posterior fabrication, engrafted
upon an authentic, but ignorantly told narrative; or the seeming
possibility of the _first_ section was invented to give currency to the
wild forgery of the _second_. Latin books, a library, gold, ships, and
foreign trade, corn, beer, numerous towns and castles, all in the most
northern parts of America in the _fourteenth_ century, where only nomadic
savages had ever existed, are all irrefragable evidence, that the whole, or
at least that portion of the voyages of the Zenos, is an idle romance. To
increase the absurdity, as if to try the gullability of the readers,
_Dedalus_, a king of Scotland! is assumed to have been the first discoverer
of the Western World; and his son _Icarus_ is introduced to give his name
to a civilized island, already named Estoitland in the narrative.

After this decided opinion of the falsehood and absurdity of the whole of
this present chapter, it may be necessary to state, that, in a work so
general and comprehensive as that we have undertaken, it did not seem
advisable or proper to suppress an article which had been admitted into
other general collections of voyages and travels. The remainder of this
introduction is from the work of Mr J. R, Forster, extracted partly from
Ramusio, and partly consisting of an ingenious attempt to explain and
bolster up the more than dubious production of Marcolini: But these
observations are here considerably abridged; as an extended, grave, and
critical commentary on a narrative we believe fabulous, might appear
incongruous, though it did not seem proper to omit them altogether.--E.

The family of Zeno, in Venice, was very ancient, and not only of the
highest rank of nobility, but celebrated for the performance of great
actions, and the highest offices of the state had been filled from time
immemorial by persons of the family. About the year 1200, Marin Zeno
assisted in the conquest of Constantinople, and he was Podesta, or governor
of that city, about 1205. He had a son named Pietro Zeno, who was father to
Rinieri Zeno, who was elected doge, or Duke of Venice, in 1282, and
governed the republic for seventeen years, during which period he waged a
successful war against the Genoese. he adopted Andrea, the son of his
brother Marco, who was afterwards raised to be captain-general of the
Venetian fleet, in the war against Genoa. Rinieri Zeno, the son of Andrea,
was the father of Pietro Zeno, who, in 1362, was captain-general of the
Venetian squadron in the allied fleet of the Christians against the Turks,
and had the surname of Dracone, from the figure of a dragon which he wore
on his shield. Pietro had three sons; Carlo Leone, the eldest, who was
procurator and captain-general of the fleet: of the republic, and; rescued,
her from imminent danger in a war in which, almost all Europe was leagued
for her destruction; the second, Nicolo, called likewise il Cavaliere, or
the night, shewed great valour in the last mentioned war of _Chioggia_
against the Genoese; Antonio was the youngest.

Francesco Marcolini, a learned Italia, extracted the whole of the ensuing
relation from the original letters of the two Zenos, Nicole and Antonio,
which is published in the collection of Ramusio; and declares that Antonio
laid down all the particulars of these voyages, and of the countries he and
his brother had visited, on a map, which he brought with him to Venice, and
which he hung up in his house as a sure pledge and incontestible proofs of
the truth of his relations, and which still remained as an incontrovertible
evidence in the time of Marcolini. Many have been inclined to reject the
whole of this narrative because the names which it assigns to several of
the countries are nowhere else to be found. After having carefully
examined, and made a translation of the whole, I am fully convinced that
the narrative is true, and that it contains internal proofs of its own
authenticity, and I hope fully to solve, in the course of this
dissertation, all the difficulties attending the names, which have been
strangely perverted by a vicious orthography.

It has been alleged that the whole narrative has the appearance of a mere
fable; and it may be asked where is _Friesland_ and the other countries
which it mentions, to be found? Who has ever heard of a _Zichmuni_ who
vanquished Kako, or Hakon, king of Norway, in 1369, or 1380? All this is
very plausible; but we think a good deal may be done for clearing away the
difficulties.

Marcolini extracted this relation from the original letters of the two
Zenos, who were of one of the most considerable families in Venice; a
family which could not be supposed to have boldly forged a story of this
kind. The truth could easily have been detected, whether these brothers
existed or not, and whether they ever made voyages to the north. Besides
this, the map, actually constructed by Antonio, and hung up in his house at
Venice, existed in the time of Marcolini, as a sure and incontestable proof
of the fidelity of the narrative. How then is it possible to harbour any
doubts? In this case, there must be an end of all faith in history.

I once held, that the countries described by the Zenos had been swallowed
up by an earthquake; but, reflecting that so great a revolution in nature
must have left some historical vestiges, or traditions, I examined the
matter over again, and found that the countries described, bore a strong
resemblance to the Orkneys, Shetland, Faro, and Western Islands, &c. The
Zenos having represented _Porland_ as composed of a cluster of small
islands, I suspected the other names might likewise refer to collective
groups. Thus _Estland_ appeared to resemble in name the Shetland, Zetland,
or Hitland Islands; and on comparing the names of _Tolas, Broas, Iscant,
Trans, Mimant, Dambre_, and _Bres_, with those of Yell, Zeal or Teal,
Burray or Bura, of which name there are two places, West Bura, and East
Bura, and when taken collectively the Buras, Unst, Tronda, Main-land,
Hamer, which is the name of a place in the mainland of Orkney, and Brassa,
or Bressa, the resemblance seemed so obvious, that I no longer harboured
any doubt. The land of _Sorani_, which lay over against Scotland, naturally
suggested the _Suderoe_, or southern islands of the Norwegians, now called
the Western Islands or Hebrides. _Ledovo_ and _Ilofe_, are the Lewis and
Islay. _Sanestol_, the cluster of islands named _Schants-oer. Bondendon_,
Pondon, or Pondon-towny in Sky. _Frisland_, is Faira or _Fera_, also called
Faras-land. _Grisland_ seems Grims-ay, an island to the North of Iceland:
though I would prefer Enkhuysan to the eastwards of Iceland, but as that
was probably nothing more than an island of ice, we are compelled to assume
Grims-ay, _Engroneland_ is obviously Greenland. _Estoitland_ must have been
_Winland_, the Newfoundland of the moderns; and the Latin books may have
been carried there by bishop Eric of Greenland, who went to Winland in
1121. _Drogio_ lay much farther south, and the people of _Florida_, when
first discovered, had cities and temples, and possessed gold and silver.

_Icaria_ with its king _Icarus_, could be no other than Ireland[2] and
perhaps the name took its origin from Kerry; and as _Icarus_ was chosen for
the name of its first king and lawgiver, his father must of course be
_Dedalus_ who, in all probability, was some Scottish prince, having a name
of a similar sound. _Neome_ I take to be Strom-oe, one of the Faro isles,
_Porland_ probably meant the Far-oer, or Faro islands; as Far-oe, or Far-
land, is easily transmuted into _Porland_.

It is true that we find no such name as _Zicumni_ among the princes of the
Orkneys. The race of the ancient earls of Orkney, descendants of Jarl
Einar-Torf, becoming extinct, Magnus Smak, king of Norway, nominated, about
1343, Erngisel Sunason Bot, a Swedish nobleman, to be Jarl or Earl of
Orkney. In 1357 Malic Conda, or Mallis Sperre, claimed the earldom.
Afterwards, in 1369, Henry Sinclair put in his claim, and was nominated
earl in 1370, by King Hakon. In 1375, Hakon nominated Alexander Le-Ard to
be earl for a year. But Sinclair vanquished Le-Ard, and by a large sum
procured the investiture from Hakon in 1379, and we know from history, that
he remained earl in 1406, and was likewise possessed of Shetland. The name
_Sinclair_, or _Siclair_, might easily to an Italian ear seem _Zichmni_;
and as Sinclair vanquished Le-Ard, who represented the king of Norway, it
was no great impropriety to say that he had beaten the king of Norway.
After these elucidations, there can be no reason left to doubt of the truth
of this narrative of the Zenos which besides, as considered with relation
to the geography of the north at that period, is of great importance
--Forst.


[1] Ramusio. Forst. Voy. and Disc, p. 158.

[2] This is a most unlucky blunders as Icaria and Estoitland are obviously
    one and the same place in the narrative of Marcclini, and therefore,
    both must be America, or both Ireland, or both in nubibus.--E.


SECTION I

_Narrative of Nicolo Zeno_.

Nicolo Zeno, surnamed _il Cavaliere_, or the knight, had a strong desire to
see distant countries, that he might become acquainted with the manners and
languages of foreign nations, by which he might acquire credit and
reputation, and might render himself the more useful to his country. Being
a man of great property, he fitted out a ship with this view, at his own
expence, in 1380, and sailed through the Straits of Gibraltar to the
northwards, intending to visit England and Flanders. By a storm, which
lasted many days, his ship was cast away on the coast of _Frislanda_[1].

The vessel was entirely lost, but the crew got safe on shore, and part of
the cargo was saved. Zeno and his people were soon attacked by the natives,
attracted by the hopes of a rich plunder, against whom they were hardly
able, in their weary and weather-beaten state, to defend themselves; but,
fortunately for them, _Zichmni_, or Sinclair, the reigning prince or lord
of _Porlanda_[2], who happened to be then in _Frislanda_, and heard of
their shipwreck, came in all haste to their relief, of which they stood in
great need. After discoursing with them for some time in Latin, he took
them under his protection; and finding Nicolo Zeno very expert, both in
naval and military affairs, he gave him, after some time, the post of
admiral of his fleet, which Nicolo for some time refused, but at length
accepted.

Not long afterwards, Nicola wrote an account of these circumstances to his
brother Antonio, inviting him to come to _Frislanda_; who accordingly soon
arrived there, and lived four years along with Nicolo in that country; and
remained ten years in the service of _Zichmni_, or Sinclair, the prince of
that country, after the death of his brother Nicolo.

Nicolo Zeno having been shipwrecked in 13SO, on the island of _Frislanda_,
and saved by prince _Zichmni_ from the rude attacks of the natives, put
himself and all his people under the protection of this prince, who was
lord of certain islands lying to the south of _Frislanda_, which were
called _Porlanda_, and were the most fertile and most populous of all the
islands in those parts. _Zichmni_, or Sinclair, was besides this duke of
_Sorany_[3], a place which lies on one side of Scotland. Of these northern
parts, I, Antonio Zeno, have constructed a map, which hangs up in my house;
and which, though it be much decayed by time, may serve to give some
information to the curious.

_Zichmni_ the lord of all these countries, was a man of great courages and
famous for his skill in navigation. The year before the arrival of Nicolo
Zeno, he had defeated the king of Norway in a pitched battle, and was now
come with his forces to conquer _Frislandia_, which is much larger than
Iceland. On account of the knowledge of Nicolo Zeno in maritime affairs,
the prince took him and all his crew on board his fleet, and gave orders to
his admiral to treat him with the highest respect, and to take his advice
in every affair of importance.

_Zichmni_ had a fleet consisting of thirteen vessels, two of which only
were galleys, the rest being small barks, and only one of the whole was a
ship[4]. With all these they sailed to the westward, and without much
difficulty made themselves masters of _Ledovo_ and _Ilofe_[5], and several
other smaller islands and turning into a bay called _Sudero_, in the haven
of the town of _Sanestol_[6] they took several small barks laden with
fish[7]; and here they found _Zichmni_ who came by land with his army,
conquering all the country as he went. They stayed here but a short time,
and then shaped their course to the westwards, till they came to the other
cape of the gulf or bay, and here turning again, they found certain islands
and broken lands, all of which they brought under subjection to _Zichmni_,
or Sinclair. These seas were all full of shoals and rocks, insomuch that if
Nicolo Zeno and the Venetian mariners had not acted as pilots, the whole
feet, in the opinion of all who were in it, must have been lost; so small
was the skill of their people in comparison with ours, who had been trained
up in the art and practice of navigation from their childhood. After the
proceedings already mentioned, the admiral, by the advice of Nicolo Zeno,
determined to make for the shore, at a town called _Bondendon_[8], with a
view to get intelligence of the success which _Zichmni_ had met with in the
prosecution of the war on land. They here learned, to their great
satisfaction, that he had fought a great battle, in which he had put the
army of the enemy to flight; and in consequence of this intelligence, the
inhabitants sent ambassadors from all parts of the island, agreeing to
yield the country to his pleasure, and took down their flags and ensigns in
every town and castle. It was therefore thought advisable to remain at
_Bondendan_ for his arrival, as they had received reports that he would
certainly be there in a short time. On his arrival there were great
congratulations and rejoicings, as well for the victory obtained by land as
for the success of the naval expedition; and the Venetians were much
honoured and extolled for their skill, every tongue being loud in their
praises, and Nicolo Zeno was much applauded for his prowess. The prince
caused Nicolo to be brought into his presence, and bestowed high
commendations for the skill he had exerted in saving the fleet, and for the
great valour he had displayed in the taking of many towns, where indeed
there was no great difficulty or opposition; in reward for which he
bestowed upon him the honour of knighthood, and distributed rich and
liberal presents among his followers. Departing from _Bondendon_, the fleet
returned in triumph to _Frislanda_, the chief city of which is situated on
the south-east side of the island within a gulf, of which there are many in
that island. In this gulf or bay, there are such vast quantities of fish
taken, that many ships are yearly laden thence to supply Flanders,
Britannia[9], England, Scotland, Norway, and Denmark; and the produce of
this fishing brings great riches into the country.

The foregoing circumstances were contained in a letter sent by Nicolo Zeno
to his brother Antonio, in which he invited him to come to _Frislanda_; and
accordingly the latter set sail for this purpose, and, having surmounted
many dangers, safely joined his brother in that far distant country.
Antonio remained fourteen years in Frisland or Orkney; four years of that
time along with his brother, and ten years alone after the death of Nicolo.
The elder Zeno ingratiated himself so much into the favour of the prince,
that he was appointed admiral of a fleet which was sent out upon an
expedition against _Estland_[10], which lies between Frisland and Norway.
The invaders committed great ravages in that country, but hearing that the
king of Norway was coming against them with a considerable fleet, they
departed in haste; and being assailed by a violent tempest, they were
driven on certain shoals where a part of their ships were lost, and the
remainder were saved upon _Grisfand_[11], a large but uninhabited island.
The fleet of the king of Norway was overtaken by the same storm and mostly
perished; of which _Zichmni_, who was personally engaged in this
expedition, was apprized in consequence of one of the enemy's ships having
likewise been forced to take refuge in _Grisland_. Finding himself driven
so far to the north, and having repaired his ships, Zichmni now resolved to
make an attack upon the island of Iceland, which was under the dominion of
the king of Norway; but finding it too well fortified and defended for his
small force, and reflecting that his diminished fleet was now in bad
repair, he deemed it prudent to retire. In his way homewards, however, he
made an attack upon the islands of _Estland_, of which there are seven in
number. These are _Tolas_, Yeal or Zel; _Broas_, Brassa sound; _Iscant_,
Unst or Vust; _Trans_, Trondra; _Mimant_, Mainland; _Danbert_[12]; and
_Bres_, or Bressa; all of which he plundered, and built a fort in Bres,
where he left Nicolo Zeno in the command, with a sufficient garrison and a
few small barks, while he returned himself to Frisland. In the ensuing
spring, Nicolo Zeno resolved to go out upon discoveries; and, having fitted
out three small vessels, he set sail in July, shaping his course to the
northwards, and arrived in _Engroveland_[13], where he found a monastery of
predicant friars, and a church dedicated to St Thomas, hard by a mountain
that threw out fire like Etna or Vesuvius.

In this place there is a spring of boiling hot water, by means of which the
monks heat their church, monastery, and cells. It is likewise brought info
their kitchen, and is so hot that they use no fire for dressing their
victuals; and by enclosing their bread in brass pots without any water, it
is baked by means of this hot fountain as well as if an oven had been used
for the purpose. The monks have also small gardens, covered over in winter,
which being watered from the hot spring are effectually defended from the
extreme cold and snow, which are so rigorous in this region so near the
pole. By these means they produce flowers, and fruits, and different kinds
of herbs, just as they grow in temperate climates; and the rude savages of
those parts, from seeing these to them supernatural effects, take the
friars for gods, and supply them with poultry, flesh[14], and various other
things, reverencing the monks as their lords and rulers. When the frost and
snow is considerable, the monks warm their apartments as before described,
and by admitting the hot water, or opening their windows, they are able in
an instant to produce such a temperature as they may require.

In the buildings of their monastery they use no more materials than are
presented to them by the before mentioned volcano. Taking the burning
stones which are thrown from the crater, they throw them, while hot, into
water, by which they are dissolved into excellent lime; which, when used in
building, lasts forever. The same stones, when cold, serve to make their
walls and vaults, as they cannot be broken or cut except with an iron
instrument. The vaults which they build with these stones are so light as
to require no props for supporting them[15]. On account of these great
conveniences, the monks have constructed so many walls and buildings of
different kinds, as is really wonderful to see. The coverings or roofs of
their houses are constructed for the most part in the following manner:
Having carried the wall to its full height, they make it to incline or bend
in gradually till it form a regular vault. They are little incommoded with
rain in this country; as the climate is so extremely cold, that the first
snow that falls does not thaw for nine months.

The monks live mostly on fish and wild fowl; for, in consequence of the
boiling hot water running into a large and wide haven of the sea, that bay
is kept from freezing, and there is so great a concourse of sea fowl and
fish in that place, that they easily take as many of them as they can
possibly have occasion for, with which they maintain a great number of
people round about, whom they keep constantly employed either in building
or in catching fish and fowls, and in a thousand other necessary
occupations relative to the monastery. The houses of these natives are
built on the hill near the monastery, of a round form, about twenty-five
feet wide at the bottom, and growing gradually narrower as they go up, in a
conical form, ending in a small hole at top, to admit light and air; and
the floor of the house is so hot, that the inhabitants feel no cold within
doors at any season. To this place many barks resort in summer from the
neighbouring islands, from the cape above Norway, and from _Trondon_ or
Drontheim, which bring to the fathers all kind of commodities and
merchandize that they have occasion for; taking fish in exchange, dried
either in the sun or by means of cold, and the furs of various animals. The
commodities brought here for sale are, wood for fuel, wooden utensils, very
ingeniously carved, corn, and cloth for making into garments. By these
means the monks are plentifully supplied with every thing they need, in
exchange for their furs and fish, which are in great request by all the
neighbouring nations. Monks resort to this monastery from Norway and
Sweden, and other countries; but principally from Iceland. It often happens
that many barks are detained here ail the winter, by the sea becoming
frozen over.

The fishermens boats of this country are made in the form of a weavers
shuttle, long and narrow, and pointed at each end; constructed of a light
frame of fish bones, cased all over with the skins of fishes, sewed
together in many doubles, and so tight and strong, that it is wonderful to
see the people bind themselves fast within them during storms, and allow
the winds and waves to drive them about, without fear of their boats
splitting or of themselves being drowned. Even when they are driven against
a rock, they remain sound and without hurt or damage. In the bottom of each
boat there is a kind of sleeve or nose, tied fast in the middle by a
string; and when any water gets into the boat, they let it run into the
upper half, of the sleeve, which they then fasten with two pieces of wood,
after which they loosen the under band, and squeeze the water out; and they
repeat this operation as often as may be necessary with great facility, and
without danger.

The water, of the boiling spring, being sulphureous, is conveyed into the
monastery, and the cells of the principal friars, by means of pipes made of
copper, tin, or stone; and is so hot that it heats the apartments like a
stove, without communicating any disagreeable or unwholesome stench. Their
sweet water for drinking is conveyed in a subterraneous canal of masonry,
into a great copper reservoir in the middle of the court of the convent;
and this reservoir being contained within a larger bason supplied from the
boiling, spring, is continually kept of a proper temperature, and prevented
from freezing. This they use in the preparation of their victuals, for
drinking, and for watering their gardens. Thus they derive much convenience
and comfort from the adjoining volcano, and these good friars make it their
chief study to keep their gardens in order, and to erect commodious and
even elegant buildings. For this latter purpose they are in no want of good
workmen and ingenious artizans, as they give good wages, so that there is a
great resort of workmen and artizans of every denomination; they are
likewise very bountiful to those who carry them fruits, and seeds, and
other articles; and as great profits are to be made, and provisions are
very cheap, there is a great resort of workmen and artists of every
denomination, and of traders to this place. Most of these monks speak
Latin, particularly the superiors and principals of the monastery.

This is all that is known of _Engroveland_ or Greenland, from the relation
of Nicolo Zeno, who gives likewise a particular description of a river that
he discovered, as is to be seen in the map which I, Antonio Zeno, have
drawn of all these countries. Not being able to bear the cold of these
northern and inhospitable regions, Nicolo Zeno fell sick, and soon
afterwards returned to Frisland, where he died. He left two sons behind
him, John and Thomas; the latter of whom had likewise two sons, Nicolo, the
father of the celebrated Cardinal Zeno, and Peter, from whom was descended
the rest of the Zenos who are now living. After the death of Nicolo, his
fortune, honours, and dignity, devolved upon his brother Antonio; and,
though he made great supplications and entreaties for the purpose, he was
not permitted to return to his native country; as Zichmni, who was a man of
a high spirit and great valour, had resolved to make himself master of the
sea, and for this purpose made use of the talents and advice of Antonio,
and ordered him to go with a few barks to the westwards, because in the
summer several islands had been discovered by some of the fishermen. Of
this voyage and the discoveries which were made in consequence of it,
Antonio gives an account in a letter to his brother Carlo, which we here
give exactly as it was written, having only altered a few antiquated
words[16].


[1] Faira, or Fara, in the Orkneys, called Farras-land, and corrupted into
    Feislanda or Frisland.--Forst.

[2] Mr Forster is not happy in his explanation of this word, Porlanda or
    Porland, which he endeavours to derive from Fara-land; precisely the
    same with Fris-land from Faras-land, only dropping the genitive _s_.
    Porland seems used as a general name of the earldom, perhaps connected
    with the strange name Pomona, still used for mainland, the largest of
    the Orkney islands. Frisland the particular Fara islands, or one of
    them.--E.

[3] Sorany or Sorani, of which Sinclair is said to have been duke or lord,
    Mr Forster considers to have been the Sodor-oe, or southern islands of
    the Norwegians, or those now called the Western Islands; and traces
    the corruption from the Norwegian plural _Suder-oer_ contracted
    _Soroer_, varied _Soroen_ and transmuted to _Sorani_. All this may be
    possible; but it does not appear in Scots history that the Sinclairs
    ever held the Western Islands, and certainly not at this period:
    Sorani ought therefore to be looked for in Caithness; or it may
    possibly refer to _Roslin_ near Edinburgh, which belonged to the
    family of Sinclair.--E.

[4] By this latter distinction, Zeno probably means a decked vessel.--E.

[5] It is hardly possible to mention all the little islands, and the places
    situated on the largest of the Orcadian Islands, which by the ancients
    was called Pomona, and on account of its size, is likewise called
    Mainland, also _Hross-ey_, i.e. _Gross-ey_, or large island. The town
    was called _Kirkiu-og_ or the harbour near the church, now called by
    the Scots, Kirkwall.--Forst.

    In this note Mr Forster wanders from the subject in hand, and his
    observations have no reference to the present expedition. _Ledovo_ is
    probably the Island of Lewis, and _Ilofe_ may possibly be Hay, though
    that conjecture would lead them too far to the south.--E.

[6] _Sudero_, or _Suder-oe_, might mean the Western Islands so called by
    the Norwegians; but certainly here means some bay of Sutherland, as
    they here met the troops of Sinclair, who had marched by land. The
    town of _Sanestol_ is quite inexplicable. Though Mr Forster supposes
    it to have been the cluster of islands called Schant, or Shanti-oer,
    which he thinks is here corrupted into Sanestol: But, if correct in
    our opinion, that they must have been on the main land of Scotland,
    his conjecture must be erroneous. These conquests could be nothing
    more than predatory, incursions, strangely exaggerated.--E.

[7] This is a very early mention of salted fish, yet within the lifetime of
    William Beukels, the supposed inventor of the art of pickling herrings
    who died in 1397. Professor Sprengel has shewn that herrings were
    caught at _Gernemue_, or Yarmouth, so early as 1283. In Leland's
    Collectanea we meet with a proof that pickled herrings were sold in
    1273; and there are German records which speak of them so early as
    1236. Vide Gerken, Cod. Diplom. Brandenb. I. 45. and II. 45l.--Forst.

[8] This is certainly a place in the isle of Sky called Pondontown.--Forst.

[9] Britannia in this place is assuredly put for Britany in France.--E.

[10] Estland is probably meant for Shetland, formerly called Yaltaland or
    Hitland, and afterwards changed into Zet-land and Shetland. This will
    appear more distinctly in the sequel, when the names given by Zeno to
    the particular islands of the group, come to be compared with, the
    modern names.--Forst.

[11] Grisland seems to be the island which lies to the eastward of Iceland,
    called Enkhuyzen; perhaps the island of Grims-ey to the north, of
    Iceland.--Forst.

[12] Probably Hamer, a place on the north of Mainland.--Forst.

[13] Engrgroneland, Groenland, or Greenland.--Forst.

[14] The poultry here mentioned in the text; must have been ptarmagans and
    the flesh that of the reindeer.--Forst.

[15] The lime or mortar here described, appears to be the terra puzzuolana
    or terras, a compound of lime and oxid of iron, which forms an
    indestructible cement, even under water; and the remarkably light
    stones ejected from the volcano, and used in the construction of their
    vault, were probably of pumice.--E.

[16] The greater part of this concluding paragraph must necessarily be in
    the language of the editor; perhaps of Ramusio. It contains, however,
    some palpable contradictions, since Nicolo Zeno could hardly be
    supposed to mention the _rest_ of the Zenos, descendants of his
    grand-nephew, while still living himself; neither does it appear how
    the sons of Nicolo got back to Venice; and there is no account of
    Antonio ever being allowed to return at all.--E


SECTION II.

_Sequel of the Narrative by Antonio Zeno_.

Twenty-six years ago, four fishing boats, which had been overtaken by a
violent storm, were driven out to sea for a great many days; and on the
cessation of the tempest, they discovered an island called _Estoitland_,
which lay above a thousand miles to the westward of _Frisland_. One of the
boats, containing six men, was cast away upon this island; and the men,
being made prisoners by the inhabitants, were conducted to a fine and
populous city where the king resided, who sent for various interpreters,
but none could be found except one who spoke Latin. This man, who, in like
manner, had been cast by accident on the same island, asked them, by order
of the king, from what country they had come; and being made acquainted
with their case, the king ordered that the should stay in the country.
These orders they obeyed, as indeed they could not do otherwise, and they
remained five years on the island, during which time they learned the
language of the people. One of them was in various parts of the island, and
affirms that it is a very rich country, abounding in every commodity and
convenience in life, being little less than Iceland, but much more fertile,
having a very high mountain in the centre, from whence four great rivers
take their source, and traverse the whole country.

The inhabitants are a very ingenious and sensible people, and have arts and
handicrafts of every kind as we have; and it is highly probable that they
formerly carried on some traffic with Europe, as this man says he saw Latin
books in the kings library, but which at present they do not understand;
for they have a language of their own, and peculiar letters or characters
in which it is written. They trade with _Engroveland_ or Greenland, and get
from thence furs, brimstone, and pitch. To the south of _Estoitland_ there
is a very large and populous country, which abounds with gold. The people
sow corn, and make the liquor called beer, which is drank by the people of
the north as wine is among us in Italy. They have large and extensive
woods; make their buildings with walls; and have a great number of towns
and castles. They build ships and navigate the sea; but they have not the
loadstone, and know nothing about the use of the compass; on which account
these fishermen were held in high estimation, insomuch that the king sent
them with twelve ships to the southward to a country called Drogio. In
their voyage thither, they had such contrary winds and stormy weather that
they thought to have foundered at sea; but escaping that death, they met
with a fate still more dreadful, as they were made prisoners by the
savages, who are cannibals, and most of them were devoured. But the
Frisland fisherman and his companions, by teaching these barbarians the way
to catch fish with nets, saved their lives. This man used to go every day
to the sea or the rivers, in which he caught vast quantities of fish, which
he gave away among the principal people of the country; by which means he
got into such high favour that he was beloved and respected by every body.

The fame of this man spread abroad through the whole country; and one of
the lords, being very desirous to have him, that he might see and learn
this new and wonderful art of catching fish, made war against the lord with
whom he lived, and prevailing in consequence of his superior power and
greater skill in war, the fisherman and his companions were given up to him
as the price of peace. During thirteen years that he resided in these
parts, he says that he was transferred in this manner to twenty-five
different lords, as they were continually at war with each other to procure
possession of him; so that by wandering about the country in this manner he
became perfectly well acquainted with every part of it, He says that it is
a very extensive country, and as it were a new world; but that the
inhabitants are a rude unpolished people, without the enjoyment of any
convenience of life; for, although they take or kill many wild animals in
hunting, they have not the sense to make their skins into garments, but all
go naked, and are miserably pinched with cold. They are besides extremely
uncivilized and savage, continually engaged in wars against each other, in
which they commit horrible ravages, and devour their prisoners. They know
not the use of any metal, and live by the chase, being armed with spears of
wood made sharp at the point, and use bows, the strings of which are made
of slips of hide. They are divided into small tribes, each of which has its
lord or governor, and the laws or customs of the several tribes differ much
from each other. Farther to the southwest, however, the manners are more
civilized in proportion to the increasing mildness of the climate; and
there the people are not without some degree of knowledge, making use of
gold and silver, and having cities and temples dedicated to idols, in which
they offer up human sacrifices.

After residing many years among this savage people, the principal fisherman
became desirous of returning into his own country, but his companions being
without hope of ever seeing it again, wished him prosperity in his attempt,
and resolved to remain where they were. Bidding them farewell, he fled
through the woods, in the direction which led towards _Drogio_, and was
received with great kindness by one of the lords of that country who knew,
him, and who was a determined enemy to the lord from whence he had escaped.
Thus passing from one lord to another, with all of whom he was well
acquainted, as he had formerly resided with them all, he at length, and
with great difficulty, arrived in Drogio, where he stayed three years. Then
fortunately hearing that some small vessel had arrived on the coast, he
went thither, and learned, to his unspeakable satisfaction, that they were
from _Estoitland_. Upon this, he earnestly requested to be taken on board,
which they did very willingly; and as he understood the language of the
country, which the others did not, he became their interpreter. He
afterwards made repeated voyages from _Estoitland_ to _Drogio_ and acquired
great riches. After which, he equipped a bark of his own, in which he
returned to _Frisland_ where he made a report to his lord of all that had
befallen him, and of the discovery he had made of an extensive and wealthy
country.

As this strange and marvellous story was confirmed by the testimony of the
sailors he had brought along with him, it gained full credit; and
accordingly Zichmni determined to send me, Antonio Zeno, with a fleet into
these parts; and so great was the desire among the people to embark in this
expedition, that our fleet was well manned and equipped without expence to
the public. I accordingly set sail with a great number of ships and men,
but not commander in chief as I expected, for Zichmni went in person on the
expedition. Our great preparation for the voyage to _Estoitland_ began in
an unlucky hour as, three days before our departure, the fisherman died who
was to have been our guide; yet Zichmni would not give up the enterprise,
but took for, his guides several of the sailors who had returned with the
fisherman from _Estoitland_. Shaping our course to the westwards, we passed
several islands subject to _Frisland_, and arrived at _Ledovo_, or the
Lewis, where we staid a week to refresh ourselves, and to provide the fleet
with necessaries. Departing thence, we arrived on the first of July off the
island of _Ilofe_, or Islay; and the wind being favourable, did not stop
there but stood on our voyage. Not long afterwards, being in the main sea,
we were overtaken by a dreadful tempest, which tossed us to and fro, at the
mercy of the winds and waves for eight days, so that we knew not
whereabouts we were. By the violence of this tempest, we lost many of our
vessels, but after the return of good weather, we collected the remains of
our shattered fleet, and having a fair wind, we stood on to the westwards,
and at length descried the coast of _Estoitland_, and arrived in a good and
safe harbour. Here we saw an infinite number of armed men running furiously
towards the shore, apparently for the purpose of defending the island. Upon
this, Zichmni commanded signs of peace to be made, and the islanders sent
ten men to us who could speak ten different languages; but we could
understand none of these, excepting one man who happened to be an
Icelander. This man was brought to our prince, and gave the following
account of the country; and people.

The land was called _Icarta_, and all its kings were named _Icarus_, after
the name, of its first king, who was the son of _Daedalus_ king of
Scotland. This _Daedalus_ had discovered and conquered the island, and
after instituting the body of laws by which they are still governed, had
left them his son to be their king. After this, _Daedalus_[1] sailed in
quest of farther discoveries, but was overtaken by a violent storm and
drowned. In memory of which, they named their island Icaria, the sea
surrounding it the _Icarian_ sea, and all their successive kings _Icarus_.
I am the only animal of my race whom he has ever lodged in his castle in
Berlin; and when he left for Potsdam, and I could not follow him, his
equipage, cooks, etc., remained for my use. He had my furniture and other
effects removed to a beautiful country-seat near Sans-Souci, which was, for
the time being, mine. Besides this, a lodging was reserved for me at
Potsdam, where I slept a part of every week. In short, if I were not three
hundred leagues away from you, whom I love so tenderly, and if I were in
good health, I would be the happiest of men! I ask pardon, therefore, of my
enemies; these men of small wit; these sly foxes, who cry out because I
have a pension of twenty thousand francs, and they have nothing!

I wear a golden cross on my breast, while they have not even a handkerchief
in their pockets. I wear a great blue cross, set round with diamonds, around
my neck; for this they would strangle me. These miserable creatures ought
to know that I would cheerfully give up the cross, the key, the pension;
these things would cost me no regret, but I am bound and attached to this
great man, who in all things strives to promote my welfare."
[Footnote:
Voltaire, Oeuvres, p. 442.]
But this paradise of bliss, so extravagantly praised by Voltaire, was
not entirely without clouds, and some fierce storms had been necessary to
clear the atmosphere.

The king was very angry with Voltaire, and wrote the following letter to him
from Potsdam:

"I knew how to maintain peace in my house till your arrival; and I
must confess to you, that if you continue to intrigue and cabal, you
will be no longer welcome. I prefer kind and gentle people, who are not
passionate and tragic in their daily life. In case you should resolve to
live as a philosopher, I will rejoice to see you! But if you give full
sway to your passion and are hot-brained with everybody, you will do better
to remain in Berlin. Your arrival in Potsdam will give me no pleasure."
[Footnote: Oeuvres Posthumes, p.
338.]
Only after Voltaire had solemnly sworn to preserve the peace, was he allowed
to return to Potsdam. Keeping the peace was not, however, in harmony with
Voltaire's character; plotting was a necessity with him; he could not resist
it.

After he had succeeded in setting Arnaud aside and compelling him to leave
Berlin, he turned his rage and sarcasm against the other friends of the
king. One of them was removed by death. This was La Mettrie; he partook
immoderately of a truffle-pie at the house of the French ambassador, Lord
Tyrconnel, and died in consequence of a blood-letting, which he ordered
himself, in opposition to the opinion of his physician. He laughingly
said, "I will accustom my indigestion to blood-letting." He died at the
first experiment. His death was in harmony with his life and his
principles. He dismissed the priest rudely who came to him uncalled, and
entreated him to be reconciled to God. Convulsed by his last agonies, he
called out, "O my God! O Jesus Maria!"
"He repents!" cried the delighted priest; "he calls upon God and His blessed
Son."
"No, no, no, father!" stammered La Mettrie, with dying lips; "that was
only a form of speech." [Footnote: Nicolai, p. 20.]
Voltaire's envy and jealousy were now turned against the Marquis d'Argens,
who was indeed the dearest friend of the king. At first he tried to
prejudice the king against him; he betrayed to him that the marquis had
privately married the actress Barbe Cochois.

The king was at the moment very angry, but the prayers of Algarotti, and the
regret of the poor marquis, reconciled him at last; he not only forgave,
but he allowed the marquise to dwell at Sans-Souci with her husband.

When Voltaire found that he could not deprive the marquis of the king's
favor, he resolved to occasion him some trouble, and to wound his vanity
and sensibility. He knew that the marquis was an ardent admirer of the
French writer Jean Baptiste Rousseau. One day Voltaire entered the room
of the marquis, and said, in a sad, sympathetic tone, that he felt
it his duty to undeceive him as to Jean Baptiste Rousseau, to prove
to him that his love and respect for the great writer were returned
with the blackest ingratitude.

He had just received from his correspondent at Paris an epigram which
    Rousseau had made upon the marquis.

It was true the epigram was only handed about in manuscript, and Rousseau
    swore every one who read it not to betray him; he was showing
    it, however, and it was thought it would be published.

He, Voltaire, had commissioned his correspondent to do every thing in his
    power to prevent the publication of this epigram; or, if this took
    place, to use every means to excite the public, as well as the
friends of the marquis, against Rousseau, because of his shameful
treachery.

At all events, this epigram, which Voltaire now read aloud. to the
marquis, and which described him as the Wandering Jew, was as
malicious as it was mischievous and slanderous.

The good marquis was deeply wounded, and swore to take a great
revenge on Rousseau.

Voltaire triumphed.

But, after a few days, he suspected that the whole was an artifice of
Voltaire. In accordance with his open, noble character, he wrote immediately
to Rousseau, made his complaint, and asked if he had written the
epigram.

Rousseau swore that he was not the author, but he was persuaded that Voltaire
had written it; he had sent some copies to Paris, and his friends were
seeking to spread it abroad. [Footnote: Thiebault.]
The marquis was on his guard, and did not communicate this news to Voltaire.
He resolved to escape from these assaults and intrigues quietly;
with his young wife he made a journey to Paris, and did not return
till Voltaire had left Berlin forever.

The most powerful and therefore the most abhorred of the enemies against
whom Voltaire now turned in his rage, was the president of the Berlin
Academy, Maupertius. Voltaire could never forgive him for daring to shine
in his presence; for being the president of an academy of which he, Voltaire,
was only a simple member. Above all this, the king loved him, and praised
his extraordinary talent and scholarship. Voltaire only watched for an
opportunity to clutch this dangerous enemy, and the occasion soon
presented itself.

Maupertius had just published his "Lettres Philosophiques," in which it must
be confessed there were passages which justified Voltaire's assertion
that Maupertius was at one time insane, and was confined for some years
in a madhouse at Montpellier. Maupertius proposed in these letters that a
Latin city should be built, and this majestic and beautiful tongue brought
to life again. He proposed, also, that a hole should be dug to the centre
of the earth, in order to discover its condition and quality; also that
the brain of Pythagoras should be searched for and opened, in order to
ascertain the nature of the soul.

These ridiculous and fabulous propositions Voltaire replied to under the
name of Dr. Akakia; he asserted that he was only anxious to heal the unhappy
Maupertius. This publication was written in Voltaire's sharpest wit and
his most biting, glittering irony, and was calculated to make
Maupertius absurd in the eyes of the whole world.

The king, to whom Voltaire had shown his manuscript, felt this; and although
he had listened to the "Akakia" with the most lively pleasure, and often
interrupted the reading by loud laughter and applause, he asked Voltaire
to destroy the manuscript. He was not willing that the man who stood
at the head of his academy, and whom he had once called "the light of
science," should be held up to the laughter and mockery of the world.

"I ask this sacrifice from you as a proof of your friendship for me, and
your self-control," said the king, earnestly. "I am tired of this everlasting
disputing and wrangling; I will have peace in my house; I do not
know how long we will have peace in the world.

It seems to me that on the horizon of politics heavy clouds are beginning to
tower up; let us therefore take care that our literary horizon is clear and
peaceable."
"Ah, sire!" cried Voltaire, "when you look at me with your great, luminous
eyes, I feel capable of plucking my heart from my breast and casting it
into the fire for you. How gladly, then, will I offer up these stinging
lines to a wish of my Solomon!"
"Will you indeed sacrifice 'Akakia?'" said the king, joyfully.

"Look here! this is my manuscript, you know my hand-writing, you see that the
ink is scarcely dry, the work just completed. Well, then, see now, sire,
what I make of the 'Akakia.'" He took the manuscript and cast it into
the fire before which they were both sitting.

"What are you doing?" cried the king, hastily; and, without regarding the
flames, ho stretched out his hand to seize the manuscript.

Voltaire laughed heartily, seized the tongs, and pushed it farther into the
flames. "Sire, sire, I am the devil, and I will not allow my victim to be
torn from me. My 'Akakia' was only worthy of the lower regions; you condemned
it, and therefore it must suffer. I, the devil, command it to burn."
"But I, the angel of mercy, will redeem the poor 'Akakia,'" cried the king,
trying to obtain possession of the tongs. "Truly this 'Akakia' is
too lusty and witty a boy to be laid, like the Emperor Guatimozin, upon the
gridiron. It was enough to deny him a public exhibition--it was not
necessary to destroy him."
"Sire, I am a poor, weak man! If I kept the living 'Akakia' by my side,
it would be a poisonous weapon, which I would hurl one day
surely at the head of Maupertius. It is therefore better it should live only
in my remembrance, and be only an imaginary dagger, with which I will sometimes
tickle the haughty lord-president."
"And you have really no copy?" said the king, whose distrust was awakened
by Voltaire's too ready compliance. "Was this the only manuscript
of the 'Akakia?'"
"Sire, if you do not believe my word, send your servants and let
them search my room.

Here are my keys; they shall bring you every scrap of written paper; your
majesty will then be convinced. I entreat you to do this, as you will
not believe my simple word."
The king fixed his eyes steadfastly upon Voltaire. "I believe you.
It would be unworthy of you to deceive me, and unworthy of me to mistrust
you. I believe you; but I will make assurance doubly sure.
The 'Akakia' is no longer upon paper, but it is in your head, and I fear
your head more than I do all the paper in the world. Promise me, Voltaire,
that as long as you live with me you will engage in no written strifes or
controversies--that you will not employ your bitter irony against
the government, or against the authors."

"I promise that cheerfully!"
"Will you do so in writing?"
Voltaire stepped to the table and took the pen. "Will your majesty dictate?"

The king dictated, and Voltaire wrote with a rapid but firm hand: "I promise
your majesty that so long as you allow me to lodge in your castle, I will
write against no one, neither against the French government nor any of
the foreign ambassadors, nor the celebrated authors. I will constantly
manifest a proper respect and regard to them. I will make no improper use
of the letters of the king. I will in all things bear myself as becomes an
historian and a scholar, who has the honor to be gentleman in waiting to
the King of Prussia, and to associate with distinguished persons." [Footnote:
Preus, "Friedrich der Grosse."]
"Will you sign this?" said the king.

"I will not only sign it," said Voltaire, "but I will add something to its
force. Listen, your majesty.--I will strictly obey all your majesty's
commands, and to do so gives me no trouble. I entreat your majesty to
believe that I never have written any thing against any government--least
of all against that under which I was born, and which I only left because I
wished to close my life at the feet of your majesty. I am historian of
France.

In the discharge of this duty, I have written the history of Louis
the Fourteenth, and the campaigns of Louis the Fifteenth.

My voice and my pen were ever consecrated to my fatherland, as they are now
    subject to your command. I entreat you to look into my
    literary contest with Maupertius, and to believe that I give it up
    cheerfully to please you, sire; and because I will in all things submit
    to your will. I will also be obedient to your majesty in this.
    I will enter into no literary contest, and I beg you, sire, to
believe that, in the hour of death, I will feel the same reverence
and attachment for you which filled my heart the day I first appeared
at your court.

VOLTAIRE."
    The king took the paper, and read it over, then fixed his eyes
    steadily upon Voltaire's lowering face. "It is well!

I thank you," said Frederick, nodding a friendly dismissal to
Voltaire.

He left the room, and the king looked after him long and thoughtfully.

"I do not trust him; he was too ready to burn the manuscript. And yet,
    he gave me his word of honor."

Voltaire returned to his room, and, now alone and unobserved, a malicious,
    demoniac exultation was written on his face. "I judged rightly,"
    said he, with a grimace; "the king wished to sacrifice me to
    Maupertius. I think this was a master-stroke.

I have truly burned the original manuscript, but a copy of it was sent to
    Leyden eight days since. While the king thinks I am such a good-humored
    fool as to yield the contest to the proud beggar Maupertius, my
'Akakia' will be published in Leyden.

Soon it will resound through the world, and show how genius binds puffed-up
    folly, which calls itself geniality, to the pillory."

CHAPTER XIII.
    

THE LAST STRUGGLE.

It was Christmas eve! The streets were white with snow; crowds of people
    were rushing through the castle square, seeking for Christmas-trees,
    and little presents for their children. There were, however, fewer
    purchasers than usual.

The small traders stood idle at the doors of the booths, and looked
    discontentedly at the swarms of laughing men, who passed
    by them, and rushed onward to the Gens d'Armen Market.
A rare spectacle, exhibited for the first time during the reign of
Frederick, was to be seen at the market to-day. A funeral pyre was
erected, and the executioner stood near in his red livery. What!--
shall the holy evening be solemnized by an execution? Was it for
this that thousands of curious men were rushing onward to the
scaffold? that groups of elegant ladies and cavaliers were crowded
to the open windows?
Yes, there was to be an execution--a bloodless one, which would
occasion no bodily suffering to the delinquent. The eyes of this
great mass of people were not directed to the scaffold, but to the
window of a large house on Tauben Street.
At this open window stood a pale old man, with hollow cheeks and
bent, infirm form; but you saw by the proud bearing of his head,
and his ironical, contemptuous smile, that his spirit was
unconquered.
His whole face glowed with flaming scorn; and his great, fiery eyes
flashed amongst the crowd, greeting here and there an acquaintance.
This man was Voltaire--Voltaire, who had come to witness the execution
of his "Akakia," which had been published in Leyden, and scattered
abroad throughout Berlin. Voltaire had broken his written and verbal
promise, his word of honor; and the king, exasperated to the utmost
by this dishonorable conduct, had determined to punish him openly.
And now, amidst the breathless silence of the crowd, a functionary
of the king read the sentence--that sentence which condemned the
"Akakia," that malicious and slanderous publication holding up the
noble, virtuous, and renowned scholar Maupertius to the general
mockery of Paris.
Voltaire stood calm and smiling at the open window.From the concluding sentence, Schildtberger, who began his travels,
    or rather captivity in 1394, must have returned to Munich about 1426
    or 1427--E.


CHAP. XVII.

_Travels of the Ambassadors of Mirza Shah Rokh, King of Persia, from Herat
to Khanbalek in Katkay, in 1419_[1].


INTRODUCTION.

This curious embassy, sent by Mirza Shah Rokh one of the sons of Timur, or
Timour the Great, better known in Europe by the name of Tamerlane,
travelled from Herat, in Persia, the residence of their sovereign, to
Khanbalek, Cambalu, or Peking, the imperial city of Kathay, Khatay, Kitay,
or Northern China, where Yong-lo, or Ching-tsu, the third emperor of the
race of Ming then kept his court. Yong-lo began to reign, in 1404, and died
in 1425, the year in which the ambassadors returned to Persia, the race of
Ming, a Chinese dynasty, was founded in 1368, fifty-one years before the
present embassy, by Hoang-vu, who had expelled the Mongol khans, the
degenerate and enervated descendants of Gingis or Zengis. This journey was
described by the famous Persian historian, Emir-Khond, or Emir-Khovand,
usually known by the name of Mirchond, in his performance, entitled, "Of
the Wonders of the World." Nicolas Witsen[2], a learned burgomaster of
Amsterdam, has inserted this curious journey, in his curious work, "Of
North and East Tartary," Having translated it for that purpose from the
Persian into Dutch. The singularly excellent work of Witsen is extremely
rare, and very seldom to be met with, as the author suppressed the work,
from motives which are now unknown. The library of the university of
Goettingen; formerly possessed a copy, which had belonged to the library of
the Empress of Russia, and which was purchased at the sale of the effects
of the late Mr Thunnman for eighty-six dollars. These travels are contained
in the fourth volume of the French collection by Thevenot; who says that it
was written in Persian, in twelve pages, without notes or explanation. He
makes no mention of the translator, but probably borrowed the article from
Witsen, without acknowledgment. The present edition is taken from Astleys
collection, and is enriched by several notes and elucidations, by Mr John
Reinhold Forster; who, while he regrets the scarcity of Witsens valuable
work in Dutch, forgets to inform us of the existence of this tract in
Thevenot, or in the collection of Astley. This journey throws some light on
the interior part of Tartary, or Central Asia; and is therefore an
important addition to our scanty knowledge of that little known and
interesting country, the real storehouse of nations, and the scourge,
during many centuries, of all the surrounding countries, from the sea of
Japan to the Baltic, and from the Frozen Ocean, to the seas of China,
India, Persia, Arabia, and Roum, or the Mediterranean.

The present edition has been carefully corrected and enlarged, by collation
with the abstract which Forster published from the Dutch translation by
Witsen. This journal gives many curious remarks on the magnificence of the
Chinese court, and respecting the ceremonial observed in giving audience to
ambassadors, which still continue nearly the same. The editor of Astley
labours hard to explain away the want of notice In these travels, and in
the repeated journeys of Marco Polo, respecting the great Chinese wall. But
the only rational explanation of this omission, is the clear conclusion
that it was not then built. We learn from this narrative, that the paper
money of the former Mogul Khans of Kathay was no longer in use, and that
silver money, under the same denomination of Balishes, had been substituted
in its place.


[1] Astley IV. 621. Forst. Voy. and Disc. 158.

[2] I suspect this learned Dutchman has been sometimes quoted in Latin, by
    the name of Candidius.--E.


SECTION I.

_The Journey of the Ambassadors from Herat to Khanbalek, and their
reception at the Court of the Emperor of Kathay_.

In the year of the Hejirah 822, or 1419 of the Christian era, the Sultan
Mirza Shah Rokh, king of Persia, sent ambassadors from Herat, his royal
residence, to the emperor of Kathay, or China, of whom Shadi Khoja was the
chief. At the same time, Mirza Baysangar, the son of Shah Rokh, sent Soltan
Ahmet, and a painter named Khoja Gayath Addin, to accompany his fathers
ambassadors, giving orders to his servants to keep an exact journal of
their travels, and to take notice of every thing that was remarkable in
every city and country they travelled through; carefully noting the nature
of the roads, the police, and customs of the people, and the magnificence
and government of the various sovereigns. Leaving Herat[1] on the 11th of
the month Zi'lkaa-deh[2], the ambassadors arrived at Balkh on the 8th of
Zi'lhejjeh, where they were detained by the rains till the first of
Moharram, in the year 823 of the Hejira[3], or Thursday, 16th January 1420;
on which day they departed from Balkh, and arrived in twenty-two days
journey at Samarkand. They here found Soltan Shars, and Mehemmed Bakhshi,
the ambassadors of Ulug-Beg[4], who had been sent to accompany them,
together with all his Kathayans: And the ambassadors of Khorassan,
Badakshan, and from other princes, having here joined company, they all set
out together with those of Kathay[5].

Having passed through the cities of Tashkend, Sayram, and Ash[6], they
entered into the country of the Mongols[7] on the eleventh of _Rabiya-al-
akher_, and learnt that the _horde_ was in great confusion, Awis-khan being
at war with Shir Mehemmed Aglan. These disturbances being settled, Amir
Khudadad, who commanded in that country, came to inform them, that the
ambassadors might proceed safely on their journey. On the 18th of Jomada-
al-awal, they came to a place named Bilgotu[8], on the territories of
Mehemmed-Beg, where they waited for the Dajis[9], and the retinue of the
Shah of Badakshan. After their arrival, they passed the river _Kenker_[10]
on the twenty-second of Jomada-al-awal, and next day, they saw Mehemmed-
Beg, prince of that horde, whose son, Soltan Shadi Karkan[11], was son-in-
law to Shah Rokh, and a daughter of that prince had married Mirza Mehemmed
Juki[12]. On the twenty-eighth of the before named month, they entered the
country of Ilduz[13], which was occupied by the tribe of Jel, and under the
dominion of Shir Behram, or Scheir Begrahim; and though the sun was then in
the summer solstice, they were often astonished to find ice two inches
thick in this vast desert. On the eighth of Jomada-al-akher, they were
alarmed, by receiving, news that the son of Ahmed Beg had plundered the
Daji, who was ambassador from Awis, or Oweys Khan; and they made every
possible haste to pass through the defiles of the mountains,
notwithstanding of much hail and rain falling at the time. At the end or
the month, they arrived at Tarkan[14], where there is a great temple, with
a huge idol, which the idolatrous inhabitants say is the image of
Shakmonni, or Shamku. Departing from thence on the second of Rajeb, they
came on the fifth to Karakoja.[l5] And certain Kathayans came here on the
tenth, who took a list of the names of the ambassadors and all their
retinue. On the nineteenth they arrived at the town of Ata-Sufi, where Kha
Zadeh Taj'oddin resided, a person descended from the prophet, originally of
the city of Tormul, and son-in-law to Amir Fakr'oddin, chief of the Moslems
in Kabul[16].

On the twenty-second of Rajeb they arrived at Kabul[17], in which place
Amir Fakr'oddin had built a fine mosque; near which was a temple of the
idolaters, set round with images, and strange figures of various sizes, and
at the doors there were two gigantic statues that seemed to fight. Mengli
Timur Bayri, a handsome young man, was governor of this city. Departing
thence on the twenty-fifth of Rajeb, they entered on the desert of Noman
Cobi, where they only found water once in two days; and on the twelfth of
Shaaban, they saw lions, oxen, and other wild beasts; the oxen, named Gau
Kottahs, are very large and strong, insomuch that they are able to toss a
man and horse into the air. Their tails are remarkably long and hairy, and
are in great estimation all over the East, where they are often carried on
long poles, by way of ornament, and are likewise much employed for driving
away flies. On the fourteenth, they arrived at a place within twelve stages
of Sekju[18], the first city in Kathay. From this time, the Kathayans came
daily to meet them, erecting tents or huts, adorned with green boughs, in
the desert for their accommodation, and plentifully supplied their tables
with fowls, and various kinds of flesh, fruits, fresh and dried, and other
victuals, all served on porcelain or china dishes, besides several kinds of
strong liquors; and henceforwards they were as splendidly regaled in the
desert as they afterwards were in the cities of Kathay. According to the
list taken by the Kathayans, Amir Shadi Khoja, and Gaksheh, had 200 persons
in their retinue; Soltan Ahmed and Gayath-addin, 500; Argdak, sixty;
Ardvan, fifty; and Taj'oddin, fifty; in all 860 persons; among whom were
many merchants, who were passed as belonging to the retinue of the
ambassadors, and who were, afterwards under the necessity of performing the
services which fell to their lot, according to the register. In taking this
list, the Kathayan officers made them swear that there were no other
persons besides those named, and informed them that they would be despised
if they did not tell the truth.

It is remarkable, that among the many viands and liquors supplied to them,
in the before-mentioned entertainment, there was a pot of Chinese _tea_,
which the Jesuit Trigault imagined had only come into use in China of late
years. Tea is called _Tscha_ by the Chinese, and its use is very ancient,
as the earlier of the two Mahometan travellers, who wrote in 851 and 867,
mention the use, by the Chinese in that early period, of the infusion of
the leaves of a shrub called _sah_ or _tsha_. Even at that time, the use of
tea must have become an article of constant and extensive consumption in
China, as the emperor derived a large revenue from the tax on that
article[19].

On the sixteenth of the month Shaaban, they were informed that the Dankji,
governor of the borders of Kathay, intended to entertain them that day with
an imperial feast; and on their arrival at his encampment, they found a
square arpent[20] of ground inclosed with tents, the cords of which,
fastened to pegs in the ground, were so interlaced together that there was
no entrance into the inclosure but by four gates, which were left on
purpose. In the midst of this place, they had erected a great and very high
awning of cloth, supported on wooden pillars; at one end of which was an
imperial canopy of state, erected on two richly varnished pillars, between
which stood a great chair of state as if for the emperor, and other seats
on both sides. The ambassadors were placed on the left hand of the imperial
throne, arid the Kathayan officers on the right. Before each ambassador
there were two tables, one of which was covered with various meats and
fruits, and the other with cakes and delicate bread, ornamented with
festoons of silk and paper. The other persons present had only one table to
each. At the opposite end of this great banqueting tent, there stood a
buffet or side-board, full of vessels of china and of silver, for serving
the liquors. During the entertainment, they were regaled by a band of
music, and a number of young persons, in strange dresses, performed various
tricks for their amusement. They were likewise much amused by the
performance of a comedy, the actors of which wore masks representing the
faces of animals; and a child, inclosed in the body of an artificial stork,
walked about and performed a variety of surprising motions. In short,
nothing could be more magnificent.

Next day, being the seventeenth of Shaaban, they continued their journey
through the desert, and arrived in a few days at a karaul[21] or strong
fortress, in the mountains, which is built across the road in a pass or
defile, so that travellers must necessarily enter by one gate and pass
through the other. Here the ambassadors and all the members of their
retinues were carefully numbered, and a new list made of all their names.
From the karaul they went to Sekju or So-chew[22], where they were lodged
in a large public building over the gate of the city; in which, as in all
their other lodgings, they were amply provided with every necessary and
convenience, as provisions, beds, and horses; and even the servants had
mattresses and coverlets allowed for their beds. So-chew is a large and
strong city, quite square, in the entrance into Kathay. It has sixteen
market places, each fifty cubits square, which are always kept clean. In
these there are several covered halls or galleries, having shops on both
sides; and a handsome hall of entrance, adorned with pictures. There are
hogs kept in every house, and the butchers hang their pork in the shambles
along with the mutton[23]. The city wall is flanked with towers at every
twenty paces distance; and there is a gate in the middle of each side, from
each of which one may see the opposite gate, as the streets pass straight
through the middle of the city, dividing it into four quarters. Over each
gate there is a pavilion of two stories, the roof of which is tiled with
porcelain, and is shaped like an asses back, or penthouse, according to the
fashion of Kathay, which is likewise followed in Mazanderan. Each of the
temples in this place occupy nearly ten arpents of ground, and all are very
neat, with their brick pavements polished like glass. At the gates there
stand a number of fine youths, who, after regaling strangers, show them the
temples.

From So-chew it is ninety-five days journey to Cambalu, or Khanbalek, where
the emperor resides, the whole way leading, through a populous country,
insomuch that travellers always lodge at night in a large town. Throughout
the whole way there are many structures named Kargu, and Kidifu. The former
are a species of corps-de-garde, which are sixty cubits high, and are built
within sight of each other, having always persons on guard, who are
relieved every ten days. These are intended to communicate alarms speedily
to the seat of government, which they do by means of fires; and
intelligence can be sent, in this manner, in the space of a day and a
night, from the distance of three months journey[24]. The Kidifus are a
kind of post-houses, which are built at ten _merres_[25] from each other,
having fixed establishments of people, with houses to live in, and ground
to cultivate for their support; and all letters to the imperial city are
sent by couriers from one to another. From Sakju, or So-chew, to Kamju[26],
there are nine stages or days journey, and the dankji who resides in
Kan-chew is superior to all the other governors on the frontiers. At each
stage the ambassadors were furnished with 450 horses, mules, and asses, and
fifty-six chariots or waggons. The servants who tended the horses were
called _Ba-fu_; the muleteers, who had charge of the mules and the
asses,_Lu-fu_; and the men who drew the chariots, _Jip-fu_. These chariots
were each drawn by twelve young men with cords on their shoulders, and they
dragged through all difficulties from one lodging to another, the _Ba-fu_
always running before as guides. At all the lodging places, where the
ambassadors and their retinue stopped nightly, provisions were always found
in abundance. At every city the ambassadors were feasted in a hall set
apart for that special purpose, called _Rasun_, in each of which there
stood an imperial throne under a canopy, with curtains at the sides, the
throne always facing towards the capital of the empire. At the foot of the
throne there always was a great carpet, on which the ambassadors sat,
having their people ranked in regular rows behind them, like the Moslems at
their prayers. When all were properly arranged, a guard beside the throne
gave a signal, by calling out aloud three times; on which all the Kathayan
officers bowed their heads to the ground towards the throne, and obliged
the ambassadors to make a similar reverence; after which every one sate
down to his appointed table.

On the twenty-fifth of Ramazan, the dankji, or governor of Kan-chew invited
the ambassadors to a feast, intimating that they were to consider it as a
banquet given them by the emperor; but as it was the fast of the Moslems,
the ambassadors sent an apology, yet he sent them all the victuals which
had been prepared for the entertainment. In Kanchew they saw a temple, each
side of which extended 500 _kes_ or cubits, having in the middle of it an
idol fifty feet in length, lying as if asleep. The hands and feet of this
gigantic idol were nine feet long, and the head was twenty-one feet round.
There were numbers of smaller idols, each a cubit high, behind this large
one and above his head, in such natural attitudes that they seemed alive.
The great idol was gilt all over, having one hand under his head, and the
other stretched down along his thigh.  This idol was called _Samonifu_, and
vast numbers of people were constantly prostrating themselves before him.
The walls were also adorned with many figures. All round the great temple,
there were numerous small temples, like the chambers in caravanseras,
having curtains of tapestry or brocade, gilded easy chairs and stools,
chandeliers, and vessels, for ornament. There were ten other temples in the
city of Kan-chew like the former, and a tower having eight fronts, twenty
cubits in circumference, and fifteen stories high. Each story was twelve
cubits high, so that the whole tower was 180 cubits in height. In every
story was a chamber finely varnished, and a gallery round, embellished with
paintings. One of these paintings represented the emperor of Kathay sitting
among his courtiers, and with boys and girls on either hand. This structure
is called _Teherki felek_ by the Moslems, and resembles a kiosk. At the
bottom there were the figures of giants, which seemed to carry the whole
tower on their backs. The whole was constructed of wood, richly gilded and
varnished, and so exquisitely polished, that it seemed of burnished gold.
In a vault under the edifice, there is an iron axis resting on a plate of
iron, and reaching from the bottom to the top of the tower: and the whole
was so ingeniously contrived, that it could easily be turned round on this
axis, in so surprizing a manner, that all the smiths, carpenters, and
painters of the world ought to go there, to learn the secrets of their
respective trades[27].

Before the ambassadors left Kan-chew, they were furnished with horses and
carriages, which they returned here in their way back. In this place also,
they consigned the presents which were intended for the emperor, except a
lion, which they carried along with them, to the imperial court. In
proportion as they approached towards the capital, the Kathayan
magnificence always increased. Every evening they arrived at a _Yam_[28] or
lodging, and once every week at a city. On the fourth of the month Shawal
they reached the river Karamuran[29], which is as large as the Jihon or
Amu. Across this river there is a bridge of twenty-six boats, laid over
with planks, and kept together by iron hooks and chains, which are fastened
to iron pillars on each bank, as thick as a mans thigh, so that the whole
is kept perfectly firm and even. On crossing this river they came to a
great city, where the ambassadors were more splendidly, feasted that in any
other place; and here they saw a more magnificent idol temple than any of
the former. They took notice also of three public stews, full of very
beautiful harlots; and as the women here are handsomer than any other in
Kathay, this place has the name of _Rosnabaad_, or the _City of Beauty_.
After passing through several other cities, they arrived on the twelfth of
the month Zu'lkaadeh, at another river[30] twice as large as the Jihon,
which they passed over in boats. Continuing their journey, and crossing
over several rivers, some in boats and others by means of bridges, they
arrived, on the twenty-seventh of the last mentioned month, at the great
and populous city of _Sadin-fu_[31]. In one of the temples of this city
there stands a gilded brass image fifty cubits high, called the _image with
a thousand hands_, for such is the number with which this idol is
furnished, and on the palm of each there is an eye. The feet of this idol
are near ten cubits long. Round this idol there are several others of
different heights, placed in chambers or niches, some reaching only as high
as the ankle of the great one, others to the knee, and others again as high
as the breast. It is reckoned that this prodigious work required 100,000
loads of brass. The top of the temple is exquisitely finished, and
terminates in an open hall. It is surrounded by eight mounts or eminences,
which may be ascended both on the outside and the inside; and these have
several grottos, the walls of which are adorned with various paintings,
representing priests, idols, hermits, tigers, leopards, serpents, and
trees. These, with the idols, mountains, and arches, seem all to be
composed of plaster. Around this great temple there are many fine
buildings, and among these a turning tower, similar to that of Kan-chew,
but larger and finer.

Continuing their journey, at the rate of four or five pharasangs each
day[32], the ambassadors arrived before day-break of the eighth of
Zu'lhajieh, at the imperial city of Khanbalik[33], or Pekin. This city is
so great that each side is a pharasang in length, or about four and a
quarter English miles. But at this time 100,000 houses within its walls lay
in ruins. The ambassadors and their retinue were conducted on foot along a
causeway 700 feet long, to the palace gate, where there stood five
elephants on either side. On passing this outward gate, they entered a very
beautiful paved court of great extent, where they found 100,000 men waiting
at the emperors gate, although it was not yet day. Facing this court there
was a great _kiosk_ or pavilion, the basis of which was thirty cubits high,
on which stood pillars fifty cubits high, supporting a gallery sixty cubits
long and forty cubits wide. This pavilion had three gates, the middle one
being reserved for the emperor, and that on each side was smaller. Above
this kiosk, and over the right and left gates, was a _kurkeh_, or great
drum; and a bell hung over the middle gate, attended by two persons, to
give notice of the appearance of the emperor on his throne. They reckoned
that near 300,000 persons were assembled before the palace, among whom were
2000 musicians, who sung hymns for the prosperity of the emperor. Two
thousand men, armed with halberts, batons, darts, arrows, lances, swords,
and maces, had enough of business in keeping the crowd in order. Others
held fans and umbrellas. Around this court there were many apartments, and
it was surrounded by high porticos closed with grates, and containing
sofas. When day appeared, the drums, trumpets, flutes, and hautboys, began
to sound, and the great bell tolled; at which the great gates were thrown
open, and the people crowded in to see the emperor. On passing from the
first court into the second, the ambassadors found a larger and more
magnificent pavilion than the former, on which was a raised platform, or
sofa, of a triangular form, four cubits high, covered with yellow satin,
and sumptuously adorned with gildings and paintings, representing the
_Simorg_[34], or Phoenix, which the Kathayans call the royal bird. On this
sofa was a seat or throne of massy gold, and on both sides stood ranks of
officers of different orders, some commanders of 10,000 men, some of a
1000, and others of 100 men. Each of these held a tablet in his hand, a
cubit long and a quarter broad, on which they all continued to look with
much gravity, without attending to any thing around them; and behind these,
stood an infinite number of guards, all in profound silence. At length the
emperor made his appearance from an inner apartment, and ascended the
throne by nine steps of silver. The emperor was a man of middle stature,
and his beard consisted of 200 or 300 long hairs, which descended from his
chin upon his breast. On each side of the throne there stood two very
beautiful maidens, having their faces and necks bare, with their hair tied
on the top of their heads, and large pearls in their ears. Each of these
held paper and a pen in their hands, and wrote down with great attention
whatever was spoken by the emperor; and when he retires, they present him
with the papers, to see if he has any alterations to make in his orders.
These are afterwards carried to the _Diwan_, or tribunal of state, that
they may be carried into execution.

When the emperor was seated on his throne, the seven ambassadors were
brought forwards, facing the emperor, and at the same time a great number
of criminals were presented. There were seven hundred of these, some of
whom were fastened by the neck, others having their heads and hands
inclosed by a board, six sometimes fastened thus to one board. Each
criminal was attended by a keeper, who held his prisoner by the hair: and
all thus waited the imperial sentence. Most of these were remanded to
prison, and only a few were condemned to die, which power resides solely in
the emperor. All the governors of this vast empire, however distant from
court, send all malefactors to Khanbalik, to appear in presence of the
emperor. Each persons crime is written on one end of the board which he
carries about his neck; and the crimes against religion are the most
severely punished of all. Great care is taken to examine into all the facts
on these occasions, insomuch that the emperor holds council twelve several
times before he condemns any one to death. Hence a person who has been
condemned in eleven successive councils, is sometimes acquitted in the
twelfth, which is always held in presence of the emperor, who never
condemns any but those he cannot save. When the criminals were dismissed,
the ambassadors were led by an officer within fifteen cubits of the throne;
and this officer, on his knees, read out of a paper the purport of their
embassy; adding that they had brought rarities as presents to his majesty,
and were come to knock their heads against the ground before him. Then the
_Kadhi Mulana Haji Yusof_, a commander of ten thousand, who was a favourite
of the emperor and one of his twelve councillors, approached to the
ambassadors, with some Moslems who spoke the Persian language, and ordered
them to fall on their knees and knock their ground with their foreheads;
but they only bowed their heads three times. Then they delivered the
letters of Shah Rokh and the other princes, wrapped up in yellow satin, to
Kadhi Mulana, who gave them into the hands of a khoja of the palace at the
foot of the throne, and he presented them to the emperor. He took them into
his own hands, opened them and looked at them, and delivered them back to
the khoja, who descended from the throne, and sat down on a seat at the
foot of the steps. At the same time were brought out three thousand
vestments of fine stufis, and two thousand coarse, such as are the usual
clothing of the imperial children and household[35]. The emperor then
commanded the ambassadors to draw near, and being on their knees, he
inquired after the health of Shah Rokh, and put many other questions to
them, all of which they answered. He then ordered them to rise, and go eat,
saying that they had come a far journey. From thence the ambassadors were
conducted back to the first court, where they were feasted in a similar
manner as at other times already mentioned.

When this entertainment was finished, they were conducted to their
lodgings, in which the principal chamber was furnished with a large sofa or
raised platform, laid with fine silk cushions, a great basin, and a pan for
fire. On the right and left of this, there were other chambers, with beds,
silk cushions, and foot carpets or fine mats, for lodging the ambassadors
separately. Each person had a kettle, a dish, a spoon, and a table. Every
day, for six persons, there were allowed a sheep, a goose, and two fowls;
and to each person two measures of flour, a large dish of rice, two great
basins full of things preserved with sugar, a pot of honey, some garlic,
onions, salt, several sorts of herbs, a bottle of _dirapum_[36], and a
basin of walnuts, filberts, chesnuts, and other dried fruits. They were
likewise attended from morning till night by a number of handsome servants.


[1] The capital of Khorassan, or Corassan, in the north-east of Persia,
    then the residence of Shah Rokh.--Astl.

[2] Or Zu'lkaadeh, as pronounced by the Persians, called Dhu'lkaddeh by the
    Arabians, which is the eleventh month of the Mahometan year.  As this
    year is lunar, the months run through all the seasons, for want of a
    properly regulated kalendar, or a period like the Julian or Gregorian.
    To enable the reader to understand the journal, we give the Persian
    names of the months in their order: 1. Moharram; 2. Safar; 3.
    Rabiya-al-awal, or Prior; 4, Rabiya-al-Akher, or Latter; 5. Jomada-al-
    awal; 6. Jomada-al-akher; 7. Rajeb; 8. Shaaban; 9. Ramazan; 10.
    Shawal; 11. Zu'lkaadeh; 12. Zu'lhejjeh.--Astl.

[3] This year began on Thursday, 16th January, 1420.--Astl.

[4] Ulug-Beg was the son and successor of Shah-Rokh, and was famous for his
    astronomical tables.--Astl.

    The Kathayans of Ulug-Beg, here mentioned, were probably Chinese
    astronomers in the service of that prince, sent on the present
    occasion to ascertain and report the geographical circumstances of the
    journey.--E.

[5] The text here is obscure, as appearing to indicate Kathayan ambassadors
    going to Kathay. They may have been ambassadors from Yong-lo to
    Shakh-Rokh, now on their return.--E.

[6] Called Asperah by Forster.--E.

[7] From this description of the route, and the implied division of empire,
    it would appear that Shah-Rokh ruled over a very ample portion of the
    vast conquests of Timur, having under has command the countries of
    Iran and Touran; or Persia, Chorassan, Balkh, Kharism, Great Bucharia,
    and Fergaana; even including Samarkand, the imperial residence of
    Timur.--E.

[8] Mr Forster calls this place Pielgutu, and explains the name by the
    substitution of _Palchas_ with a mark of interrogation as doubtful.
    The geography of the East is rendered difficult and obscure, by the
    frequent recurrence of names in different languages, and by a lax
    orthography. Perhaps Pielgutu or Palchas, may have been situated on
    the lake Balcash, otherwise named Palkati-nor, and Tengis--E.

[9] Otherwise Dagis and Dakgis--Astl.

[10] Called Lenger in Forster, who gives, as synonymous, Ab-lenger and Abi-
    longur; which merely repeat the original name Lenger, with the prefix
    abi, which signifies water or river. Of this river no mention is made
    on our maps; but, from the direction of the route, it must have
    crossed their way somewhere between the Palkati-nor and Turfan, which
    is the next station mentioned.--E.

[11] Called Gurgu by Forster.--E.

[12] Fifth son of Shah-Rokh.--Astl.

[13] Perhaps the same place called Yulduz, and Yilduz by others, and
    supposed to be the Chialis of later authors, in Little Bucharia. In
    the Jesuits maps there is a river called Cheldos, near the Ili, on
    which this town may have stood.--Astl.

[14] This is doubtless a mistake for Tarfan, or Turfan, in little Bucharia;
    the Arabic F and K differing only by a point. Astl. Turfan, Turkhan,
    or Farkhaan, is situated in Tenduc or Uiguria, in Lat. 43° N. Long.
    85°. SO. E. The snowy mountains crossed in such haste must have been
    the Alahtag. The cold desert of the tribe of Jel, was probably in the
    eastern part of Soongria; perhaps the Karang desert, north from
    Turfan and the Alak mountains.--E.

[15] This is supposed to be the same place with Aramuth in other Journals;
    and to be named Oramchi in the Jesuits map--Astl. Called Kharadztah,
    Harasliar, Hara-cosa, and Asarlic, by Forster. Now named Asarleak on
    our best maps.--E.

[16] In Forsters edition, this sentence is differently expressed, as
    follows: "On the nineteenth they came to a town called Naas, or Naar,
    near which several Zeijids, or descendants of Mahomet, are settled, at
    a place named Termed".--E.

[17] This name Kabul is evidently a mistake for Kamul, Khamul, Khamil,
    Kamyl, or Chamil; called Hami by the Chinese.--Astl.

[18] This is certainly So-chew, near the entrance of the great wall in
    Shensi.--Astl. Called by Forster Katasekt-schen, Sekt-scheu, Schel-
    scheu, or Su-tcheu.--E.

[19] This commentary on tea is placed in the text of Forster, and is
    therefore here preserved in the same form, though no part of the
    original.--E.

[20] An arpent is a French measure nearly one and a half of which are equal
    to an English acre.--Astl.

[21] This Persian term Karawl or Karawul, is also introduced into the
    Tartarian language, from which it has been adopted into Russian, in
    which language a guard or outpost is termed a Karaul.--Forst.

    It seems more probable that the Tartar conquerors had introduced their
    own military term into the languages of subjugated Persia, and
    tributary Russia.--E.

[22] In the description of this route by Forster, he brings the ambassadors
    to Su-tchew before their arrival at the Karaul, and interposes a
    desert of several days journey between these two places.--E.

[23] This seemingly trifling circumstance was matter of great surprize and
    scandal to the Mahometans, who consider hogs as unclean animals, and
    to whom pork is a forbidden food.--Astl.

[24] It is singular how very nearly this arrangement resembles the supposed
    modern invention of a chain of telegraphs.--E.

[25] Six merres make a pharasang, or Persian league, which is equal to four
    English miles, and 868 feet. One merre is therefore equal to 1221
    yards, and each post station of ten merres is equal to 12,213 yards,
    or almost seven English miles.--Astl.

[26] Otherwise Kamgiou or Kan-chew, the Kampion or Kainpiou of Marco Polo;
    which is a city of Shen-si, near the great wall and the desert.--Astl.

    In Forsters account of this journey, the ambassadors arrived from the
    Karaul, or fortified pass, at Natschieu, Nang-tsiew, or Naa-tsieu;
    after which, they are said to have arrived at Kham-tcheou, the Kan-
    chew of the text.--E.

[27] The description given in the text of this Chinese pagoda has much the
    air of a fiction; yet we can hardly conceive the author would venture
    to report to Shah-Rokh what must have been contradicted by his
    ambassadors, if false.--Astl.

[28] This is called Lam in the French of Thevenot, and is the same with
    the Lamb of Marco Polo.--Astl.

[29] This is the Cara-moran or Whang-ho, which they crossed a second time
    between Shen-si and Shan-si, where it is much larger than at Lan-chew,
    the place probably alluded to in this part of the text.--Astl.

    In the edition, by Forster, this river is named Abi Daraan, or the
    Daraan, afterwards Kara-raan; but is obviously the Kara-moran, Whang-
    ho, or Hoang-ho.--E.

[30] This _other_ river, certainly is the same Kara-moran, passed again at
    a different part of their route.--Astl.

[31] This must have been some city in the province of Pe-che-li, or near
    its borders in Shan-si; but no such name as that of the text is to be
    found in any of the maps of China.--Astl.

    In Forsters edition, this place is named Chien-dien-puhr, perhaps
    Tchin-teuen-pou, a city at some distance to the west of the Hoan-ho
    river. The route is not distinctly indicated in the text; but seems to
    have been from Soutcheo, at the N.W. extremity of Chensi, in lat. 40°
    N. following a S. E. direction to the Hoan-ho, somewhere about Yung-
    nam, in lat. 37° N. long. 104° E.; and Yung-nam may have been the fine
    city which the Persians named Rosna-baad, or the Habitation of
    Beauty.--E.

[32] About seventeen or twenty-one English miles, or nineteen miles on the
    average.--E.

[33] This is the same with the Khambalu of Polo. One name signifies the
    palace of the Khan, the other the city of the Khan.--Astl.

[34] This is the Fong-whang, or fabulous bird of the Chinese. The Simorg-
    Anka, is supposed among the Persians to have existed among the
    Preadamites, and to have assisted Solomon in his wars.--Astl.

[35] The text is here abrupt and inconclusive: These vestments were
    probably presented to the ambassadors and their suite.--E.

[36] What this may have been does not appear; it may possibly have been
    arrack, or the wine made of rice and spices, which is frequently
    mentioned in the travels of Marco Polo.--E.


SECTION II.

_The several Audiences of the Ambassadors, their Entertainments, Presents,
and Return_.

On the ninth of the month Zu'lhajjeh, the _Sekjin_, or officer belonging to
the court who had charge of the ambassadors, came to their lodgings before
day, and raised them from their beds, saying that the emperor meant to
feast them that day. He brought them to the palace on horses which were
sent for the purpose, and placed them in the outer court, where two hundred
thousand persons were in attendance. As soon as the sun was up, they were
led to the foot of the throne, where they saluted the emperor, by bowing
their heads to the ground five several times. At length the emperor
descended from the throne, and the ambassadors were led back to the outer
court, where they were separated for a while, that they might perform the
deeds of necessity; being told that no person could be allowed to stir out
on any pretence during the continuance of the feast. After this, they were
led through the first and second courts, and thence into a third, which was
entirely open, and paved with fine freestone. In the front of this court
there was a great hall sixty cubits long, having chambers over it; and in
the hall was a great sofa, higher than a man, which was ascended by three
silver stairs, one in front, and the others at the two sides. In this place
there stood two khojas of the palace, having a kind of pasteboard covers on
their mouths, and fastened to their ears. Upon the great sofa or platform,
there was a smaller one in form of a couch, having pillows and cushions for
the feet; and on each side there were pans for fire, and perfuming pans.
This smaller sofa was of wood, beautifully gilded, and looking quite fresh,
though sixty years old, and every thing was finely varnished. The most
eminent of the Dakjis stood on each side of the throne, armed, and behind
them were the soldiers of the imperial guard, with naked sabres. The
ambassadors were placed on the left hand, as the most honourable station.
Three tables were placed before each of the _Amirs_ and other most
distinguished persons, while others had only two, and the more ordinary
persons but one; and there were at least a thousand tables at this
entertainment.

Before the throne, near a window of the hall, there was a great kurkeh or
drum, on a raised stage, attended by two men, and near it a great band of
musicians. Part of the hall was divided off by curtains which came close to
the throne, that the ladies belonging to the palace might see the company
without being seen. After all the victuals and liquors were brought in and
properly distributed, two khojas withdrew, the curtains which covered a
door behind the throne, and the emperor came forth, amid the sound of many
instruments of music, and took his seat under a canopy of yellow satin,
ornamented with four dragons. After the ambassadors had made five
prostrations, they sat down to table, and were treated as at other times.
During the entertainment, many comic tricks were acted for the amusement of
the emperor and the company. The first performers that appeared were
painted with white and red, like girls, and dressed in gold brocade,
holding nosegays of artificial flowers. After this, a man lay down on his
back, as if asleep, holding his feet raised up in the air; then another
person held several thick canes in his hands, seven cubits long, placing
the other ends between his legs, on which a youth of ten or twelve years of
age mounted, with surprising agility, and performed several tricks at the
top. At last the canes slipped away from under him, and every person
thought he must have fallen to the ground and been dashed to pieces; but
the pretended sleeper instantly started up and caught him in the air. There
was one musician who played tunes after the twelve different modes of the
Kathayans. Two men played the same air together, each having one hand on
his own instrument, and the other on that of his companion. During this
entertainment, several thousand birds of different kinds flew about the
court of the palace, and lighted among the people, to eat up what they
could find scattered on the ground, without appearing to be in the least
scared at the multitude. During the five months that the ambassadors
remained at Khanbalik, they were regaled at several other banquets, where
plays were acted, much surpassing that now mentioned.

On the seventeenth of the month Zu'lhajjeh, all the criminals were carried
to be punished according to the nature of their offences, and as prescribed
by the laws. The twenty-fifth of Moharram, Mulana Kadhi Yusof sent to
acquaint the ambassadors that next day, being the first of the new year,
according to the reckoning of the Kathayans, the emperor was to go to his
new palace, and that no person must wear white, as that was the dress of
mourning in this country. On the twenty-eighth, at midnight, the Sekjin
came to conduct them to the new palace, which had been nineteen years
building, and was only newly finished. Every person had his house or shop
illuminated, with torches, lanterns, candles, and lamps, so that it
appeared as light as noon-day. At the palace they found an hundred thousand
people, who had come from all parts of Kathay, the countries of Tachin and
Machin, Kalmak, Kabul, Karakoja, Jurga, and the sea coasts. This day the
ambassadors tables were set out of the hall where the throne stood, while
those of the _Amirs_, or great officers and lords of the court were within;
and there were near two hundred thousand armed men, carrying umbrellas and
bucklers. This feast lasted till the afternoon, and among the music were
many songs in praise of the new palace. To give some idea of this superb
structure, it may be mentioned that, from the gate of the hall to the first
inclosure, measured 1925 paces. On each side are buildings and gardens one
within another. The edifices were of freestone, porcelain, or marble, so
delicately put together that they seemed inchased. There are many hundred
cubits of pavement, the stones of which are so even and well joined, that
they looked like the checkered ruling in books. Nothing in other countries
can equal the Kathayans in masonry, joiner-work, making relievos or raised
figures in plaster, and in painting.

The ambassadors were called early to audience, on the ninth of the month
Safar; the emperor having then come out from a retirement of eight days;
for it is his custom to retire every year for some days, during which he
eats no kind of victuals and abstains from going near his ladies, neither
does he, during all that time, see or converse with any one. In this
retirement, the emperor has no picture or idol of any of his gods; as
during this period, all his devotions are addressed solely to the GOD of
Heaven. On this occasion, the imperial elephants were all adorned in a
style of magnificence, which is quite inexpressible; many of them having
silver seats, like litters, on their backs, adorned with standards of seven
different colours, and the seats were filled with armed men; fifty of the
elephants carried the imperial musicians. This grand procession of
elephants was preceded, or followed, by at least 50,000 persons, who all
preserved the most exact order, and the most profound silence. In all this
pomp and splendour, the emperor was conducted from, the place of his
religious retirement to the female apartments of the palace. The court
astrologers had predicted that the palace of the emperor was this year to
suffer by fire, on which account, a solemnity, accompanied by splendid
fireworks and illuminations, was exhibited during seven days. On this
occasion, an artificial mount was erected in the middle of the imperial
court, covered all over with branches of cypress, and planted with 100,000
torches; by means of little artificial mice, made of bitumen or wild fire,
which ran along a number of ropes, fixed for the purpose, these torches
were all lighted up in a moment, forming a wonderful blaze of lights from
the bottom of the mountain to the top; and many other lights appeared all
over the city. During all the seven days of this festival, no criminals
were sought after; the emperor discharged all debtors under arrest for
debt, and set free all persons in prison for crimes, except murderers, and
he distributed large presents. All this was notified on the thirteenth of
the month Safer, by an imperial edict or proclamation, the emperor being
seated on his throne, in the grand _kiosk_, or pavilion of the first court,
surrounded by more than 100,000 persons; and in this edict, the emperor
notified that he would send no ambassadors to any country during three
years. After this edict had been read aloud by three officers of the court,
who stood on a bench before the emperor, it was conveyed down from the
pavilion into the court below, by means of rings fastened to yellow silk
cords; and, being reverently placed on a board with a golden border, it was
carried to the city, followed by music, and accompanied by a multitude of
the people. After the conclusion of this ceremony, the emperor left the
pavilion, and the ambassadors were feasted, as at other times.

On the first of the month Rabiya-al-awal, the ambassadors were again called
to court before the emperor, who had several Shankars[1] brought in, which
he said he meant to give to those who had presented him with good horses;
and at this time, he caused three to be given to each of the ambassadors of
the Mirza Ulug-Beg, Mirza Baysangar, and Sultan Shah-Rokh. Next day he sent
for them again; when, addressing himself to Arjak, the ambassador of Mirza
Siurgatmish, he said, "I have no Shankar to give you; and even if I had, I
should not give you any, lest it should be taken from you, as was done from
Ardeshir, a former ambassador from your, master." To this Arjak made
answer: "If your majesty will do me that honour, I will engage my word that
no person shall take it from me." To this the emperor replied: "On that
condition I will give you two, which I have ordered to be brought for that
purpose." He then bowed silently and indifferently to his wife, and gave a
merry greeting to his two sisters.

"Ladies," said he, in a full, rich voice, "allow me to present to you and
my court my brother, the Prince Augustus William; he is now placed before
you in a new and more distinguished light." He took the hand of his brother
and led him to the queen-mother. "I introduce your son to you; he will be
from this day onward, if it so please you, also your grandson."
"How is that, your majesty? I confess you have brought about many
seemingly impossible things; but I think it is beyond your power to make
Augustus at the same time both my son and my grandson."
"Ah, mother, if I make him my son, will he not be of necessity, your grandson?
I appoint him my successor; in so doing, I declare him my son. Embrace
him, therefore, your majesty, and be the first to greet him by his new
title. Embrace the Prince of Prussia, my successor."
"I obey," said the queen, "I obey," and she cast her arms affectionately
around her son.

"I pray God that this title of 'Prince of Prussia,' which it has pleased
your majesty to lend him, may be long and honorably worn."
The prince bowed low before his mother, who tenderly kissed his brow, then
whispered, "Oh, mother, pray rather that God may soon release me from
this burden."
"How!" cried the queen threateningly, "you have then a strong desire to be
king? Has your vaulting ambition made you forget that to wish to be king is,
at the same time, to wish the death of your brother?"
The prince smiled sadly.

"Mother, I would lay aside this rank of Prince of Prussia, not because I
wish to mount the throne, but I would fain lie down in the cold and quiet
grave."
"Are you always so sad, so hopeless, my son--even now, upon this day of
proud distinction for you? To-day you take your place as Prince of Prussia."

"Yes, your majesty, to-day I am crowned with honor," said he, bitterly.
"This is also the anniversary of my betrothal."
Augustus turned and drew near to the king, who seized his hand and
led him to his wife and the young princesses, saying with a loud voice,
"Congratulate the Prince of Prussia, ladies." He then beckoned to some of
his generals, and drew back with them to the window. As he passed the
queen, his eye rested upon her for a moment with an expression of sympathy
and curiosity; he observed her with the searching glance of a physician,
who sinks the probe into the bleeding wound, in order to know its
depth and danger.

The queen understood his purpose. That piercing glance was a warning;
it gave her courage, self-possession, and proud resignation. Her husband
had spoken to her with his eyes; that must ever be a consolation,
a painful but sweet joy.

She controlled herself so far as to give her hand to the prince with a
cordial smile.

"You are most welcome in your double character," she said, in a voice loud
enough to be heard by the king and all around her. "Until to-day, you
have been my beloved brother; and from this time will you be to me, as
also to my husband, a dear son. By the decrees of Providence a son has been
denied me; I accept you, therefore, joyfully, and receive you as my son and
brother."
A profound silence followed these words; here and there in the crowd,
slight and derisive smiles were seen, and a few whispered and significant
words were uttered. The queen had now received the last and severest blow;
in the fulness and maturity of her beauty she had been placed before the
court as unworthy or incapable of giving a successor to the throne; but
she still wished to save appearances:
she would, if possible, make the world believe that the decree of Providence
alone denied to her a mother's honors. She had the cruel courage to conceal
the truth by prevarication.

The watchful eyes of the court had long since discovered the mystery
of this royal marriage: they had long known that the queen was not the wife
of Frederick; her words, therefore, produced contemptuous surprise.

Elizabeth cared for none of these things. She looked toward her husband,
whose eyes were fixed upon her; she would read in his countenance if
he were pleased with her words. A smile played upon the lips of the king,
and he bowed his head almost imperceptibly as a greeting to his wife.

A golden ray of sunlight seemed to play upon her face; content was written
in her eyes; twice to-day her glance had met her husband's, and both times
his eyes had spoken. Elizabeth was happier than she had been for many days;
she laughed and jested with the ladies, and conversed gayly over
the great event of the evening--the first appearance of the Signora
Barbarina.

The princesses, also, conversed unceremoniously with the ladies near them.
A cloud darkened the usually clear brow of the Princess Amelia, and she
seemed to be in a nervous and highly excited state.

At this moment the master of ceremonies, Pollnitz, drew near, with Count
Tessin, the Swedish ambassador. The princess immediately assumed so scornful
an expression, that even Pollnitz scarcely found courage to present Count
Tessin.

"Ah! you come from Sweden," said Amelia, immediately after the presentation.
"Sweden is a dark and gloomy country, and you have indeed done well to
save yourself, by taking refuge in our gay and sunny clime."
The count was evidently wounded.

"Your royal highness calls this a refuge," said he; "you must, then, think
those to be pitied who dwell in my fatherland?"
"I do not feel it necessary to confide my views on that subject to Count
Tessin," said Amelia, with a short, rude laugh.

"Yes, sister, it is necessary," said Ulrica, with a magical smile, "you must
justify yourself to the count, for you have cast contempt upon his country."

"Ah! your highness is pleased to think better of my fatherland," said Tessin,
bowing low to Ulrica. "It is true, Sweden is rich in beauty, and nowhere
is nature more romantic or more lovely. The Swedes love their country
passionately, and, like the Swiss, they die of homesickness when
banished from her borders. They languish and pine away if one is cruel
enough to think lightly of their birth-place."

"Well, sir, I commit this cruelty," cried Amelia, "and yet I scarcely think
you will languish and pine away on that account."
"Dear sister, I think you are out of temper to-day," said Ulrica, softly.

"And you are wise to remind me of it in this courtly style," said
Amelia; "have you taken the role of governess for my benefit to- day?"

Ulrica shrugged her shoulders and turned again to the count, who was watching
the young Amelia with a mixture of astonishment and anger.
She had been represented at the Swedish court as a model of gentleness,
amiability, and grace; he found her rude and contradictory, fitful and
childish. The Princess Ulrica soon led the thoughts of the count in
another direction, and managed to retain him at her side by her piquant and
intellectual conversation; she brought every power of her mind into action;
she was gracious in the extreme; she overcame her proud nature, and
assumed a winning gentleness; in short, she flattered the ambassador with
such delicate refinement, that he swallowed the magical food
offered to his vanity, without suspecting that he was victimized.

Neither the princess nor the count seemed any longer to remember Amelia,
who still stood near them with a lowering visage. Pollnitz made
use of this opportunity to draw near with his young protege,
Frederick von Trenck, and present him to the princess, who immediately
assumed a gay and laughing expression; she wished to give the
ambassador a new proof of her stormy and fitful nature: she would
humble him by proving that she was not harsh and rude to all the
world.

She received the two gentlemen, therefore, with great cordiality, and laughed
heartily over the adventure of the morning; she recounted to them, merrily
and wittily, how and why she had thrown the sweet roses away. Amelia was
now so lovely and so spirited to look upon, so radiant with youth,
animation, and innocence, that the eyes of the poor young officer were
dazzled and sought the floor; completely intoxicated and bewildered, he could
not join in the conversation, uttering here and there only a trembling
monosyllable.

This did not escape the cunning eye of the master of ceremonies. "I must
withdraw," thought he; "I will grant them a first tete-a-tete.
I will observe them from a distance, and be able to decide if my plan will
succeed." Excusing himself upon the plea of duty, Pollnitz withdrew; he
glided into a window and concealed himself behind the curtains, in order
to watch the countenances of his two victims.
Pollnitz had rightly judged. The necessity of taking part in the conversation
with the princess restored to the young officer his intellect and his courage,
and, in the effort to overcome his timidity, he became too earnest,
too impassioned.

But the princess did not remark this; she rejoiced in an opportunity to
    show the Swedish ambassador how amiable and gracious she could
    be to others, and thus make him more sensible of her rudeness to
himself; he should see and confess that she could be winning and
attractive when it suited her purpose.

The count observed her narrowly, even while conversing with Ulrica; he saw
    her ready smile, her beaming eye, her perhaps rather demonstrative
    cordiality to the young officer.

"She is changeable and coquettish," he said to himself, while still
carrying on his conversation with the talented, refined, and
thoroughly maidenly Princess Ulrica.

The great and, as we have said, somewhat too strongly marked kindliness of
    Amelia, added fuel to the passion of Trenck; he became more daring.
    
    "I have to implore your highness for a special grace," said he in a
    suppressed voice.
    
    "Speak on," said she, feeling at that moment an inexplicable emotion
which made her heart beat high, and banished the blood from her
cheeks.

"I have dared to preserve one of the roses which you threw into the
garden.

It was a mad theft, I know it, but I was under the power of enchantment;
    I could not resist, and would at that moment have paid for the
little blossom with my heart's blood.

Oh, if your royal highness could have seen, when I entered my room and closed
    the door, with what rapture I regarded my treasure, how I knelt
    before it and worshipped it, scarcely daring to touch it with my lips!
    it recalled to me a lovely fairy tale of my childhood."
    "How could a simple rose recall a fairy tale?" said Amelia.
    
    "It is a legend of a poor shepherd-boy, who, lonely and neglected,
    had fallen asleep under a tree near the highway.

Before sleeping, he had prayed to God to have pity upon him; to fill
    this great and painful void in his heart, or to send His Minister,
Death, to his release.

While sleeping he had a beautiful dream. He thought he saw the heavens
    open, and an angel of enchanting grace and beauty floated toward
him.

    Her eyes glowed like two of the brightest stars.
    'You shall be no longer lonely,' she whispered; 'my image shall
abide ever in your heart, and strengthen and stimulate you to all
things good and beautiful.'

While saying this, she laid a wondrous rose upon his eyes, and, floating off,
    soon disappeared in the clouds.

The poor shepherd-boy awoke, and was enraptured with what he supposed had
    been a wild dream. But lo! there was the rose, and with unspeakable joy
    he pressed it to his heart.

He thanked God for this sweet flower, which proved to him that the
angel was no dream, but a reality.

    The rose, the visible emblem of his good angel, was the joy and comfort
    of his life, and he wore it ever in his heart.

--I thought of this fairy tale, princess, as I looked upon my rose, but I
    felt immediately that I dared not call it mine without the consent
of your highness.

Decide, therefore; dare I keep this rose?"
    Amelia did not reply.

She had listened with a strange embarrassment to this impassioned
tale.

The world--all, was forgotten; she was no longer a princess, she
was but a simple young girl, who listened for the first time to
words of burning passion, and whose heart trembled with sweet alarm.

    "Princess, dare I guard this rose?" repeated Frederick, with a trembling
    voice.

She looked at him; their eyes met; the young maiden trembled, but
the man stood erect.

He felt strong, proud, and a conqueror; his glance was like the
eagle's, when about to seize a lamb and bear it to his eyrie.

"He goes too far; truly, he goes too far," whispered Pollnitz, who had
seen all, and from their glances and movements had almost read their thoughts
and words. "I must bring this tete-a-tete to an end, and I shall do so in a
profitable manner."
"Dare I keep this rose?" said Frederick von Trenck, a third time.

Amelia turned her head aside and whispered, "Keep it."
Trenck would have answered, but in that moment a hand was laid upon
his arm, and Pollnitz stood near him.

"Prudence," whispered he, anxiously. "Do you not see that you are
observed? You will make of your insane and treasonable passion a fairy
tale for the whole court."

Amelia uttered a slight cry, and looked anxiously at Pollnitz.

She had heard his whispered words, and the sly baron intended that
she should.

"Will your royal highness dismiss this madman," whispered he, "and
allow me to awake his sleeping reason?"

"Go, Herr von Trenck," said she lightly.

Pollnitz took the arm of the young officer and led him off, saying to himself,
with a chuckle: "That was a good stroke, and I feel that I shall succeed;
I have betrayed his passion to her, and forced myself into their confidence.
I shall soon be employed as Love's messenger, and that is ever with
princesses a profitable service.
Ah, King Frederick, King Frederick, you have made it impossible for me to
borrow money! Well, I shall not find that necessary; my hands shall
be filled from the royal treasures. When the casket of the princess is
empty, the king must of course replenish it." And the baron laughed too
loudly for a master of ceremonies.

CHAPTER VIII.

SIGNORA BARBARINA.

The princess regarded their retreating figures with dreamy eyes.
Then, yielding to an unconquerable desire to be alone, to give
herself up to undisturbed thought, she was about to withdraw; but
the Princess Ulrica, who thought it necessary that the Swedish
ambassador should have another opportunity of observing the proud
and sullen temper of her sister, called her back.

"Remain a moment longer, Amelia," said the princess. "You shall decide between
Count Tessin and myself. Will you accept my sister as umpire, count?"
"Without doubt," said the count. "I should be greatly honored if the princess
will be so gracious. Perhaps I may be more fortunate on this occasion."
"It appears to me," said Amelia, rudely interrupting him, "that 'fortunate'
and 'unfortunate' are not terms which can be properly used in any connection
between a princess of Prussia and yourself." Amelia then turned toward her
sister and gave her a glance which plainly said: Well, do I not play my role
in masterly style? Have I not hastened to follow your counsels? "Speak,
sister; name the point which Count Tessin dares to contest with you."
"Oh, the count is a man and a scholar, and has full right to differ," said
Ulrica, graciously. "The question was a comparison of Queen Elizabeth of
England and Queen Christina of Sweden. I maintain that Christina had a
stronger and more powerful intellect; that she knew better how to conquer
her spirit, to master her womanly weaknesses; that she was more
thoroughly cultivated, and studied philosophy and science, not as Elizabeth,
for glitter and show, but because she had an inward thirst for knowledge.
The count asserts that Elizabeth was better versed in statecraft,
and a more amiable woman.

Now, Amelia, to which of these two queens do you give the preference?"
"Oh, without doubt, to Queen Christina of Sweden. This great woman was
wise enough not to regard the crown of Sweden as a rare and precious gem;
she chose a simple life of obscurity and poverty in beautiful Italy, rather
than a throne in cold and unfruitful Sweden.
This act alone establishes her superiority. Yes, sister, you are right.
Christina was the greater woman, even because she scorned to be Queen
of Sweden."
So saying, Amelia bowed slightingly, and, turning aside, she summoned
Madame von Kleist, and commenced a merry chat with her.
Count Tessin regarded her with a dark and scornful glance, and pressed his
lips tightly together, as if to restrain his anger.

"I beseech you, count," said Ulrica, in a low, soft voice, "not to be
offended at the thoughtless words of my dear little sister. It is true,
she is a little rude and resentful to-day; but you will see-- to-morrow,
perhaps, will be one of her glorious sunny days, and you will find her
irresistibly charming. Her moods are changeable, and for that reason we
call her our little 'April fee.'"
"Ah, the princess is, then, as uncertain as April?" said the count, with
a frosty smile.

"More uncertain than April," said Ulrica, sweetly. "But what would you, sir?
we all, brothers and sisters, are responsible for that.
You must know that she is our favorite, and is always indulged. I counsel
you not to find fault with our little sister, Count Tessin; that would
be to bring an accusation against us all. You have suffered to-day
from a shower of her April moods; to-morrow you may rejoice in the sunshine
of her favor."
"I shall, however, be doubtful and anxious," said the ambassador, coolly;
"the April sun is sometimes accompanied by rain and storm, and these sudden
changes bring sickness and death."
"Allow me to make one request," said Ulrica. "Let not the king guess that you
have suffered from these April changes."
"Certainly not; and if your royal highness will graciously allow me to bask
in the sunshine of your presence, I shall soon recover from the
chilling effect of these April showers."

"Well, I think we have played our parts admirably," said Ulrica to herself,
as she found time, during the course of the evening, to meditate upon the
events of the day. "Amelia will accomplish her purpose, and will not be Queen
of Sweden. She would have it so, and I shall not reproach myself."
Princess Ulrica leaned comfortably back in her arm-chair, and gave her attention
to a play of Voltaire, which was now being performed.
This representation took place in the small theatre in the royal palace. There
was no public theatre in Berlin, and the king justly pronounced the large
opera-house unsuited to declamation. Frederick generally gave his undivided
attention to the play, but this evening he was restless and impatient, and
he accorded less applause to this piquant and witty drama of his favorite
author than he was wont to do. The king was impatient, because the king
was waiting. He had so far restrained all outward expression of his impatient
curiosity; the French play had not commenced one moment earlier than
usual.
Frederick had, according to custom, gone behind the scenes, to say a
few friendly and encouraging words to the performers, to call their attention
to his favorite passages, and exhort them to be truly eloquent in
their recitations.

And now the king waited; he felt feverishly impatient to see and
judge for himself this capricious beauty, this world-renowned artiste,
this Signora Barbarina, whose rare loveliness and grace enchanted and
bewildered all who looked upon her.

At length the curtain fell. In a few moments he would see the Barbarina dance
her celebrated solo. A breathless stillness reigned throughout the assembly;
every eye was fixed upon the curtain. The bell sounded, the curtain
flew up, and a lovely landscape met the eye: in the background a village
church, rose-bushes in rich bloom, and shady trees on every side; the declining
sun gilded the summit of the mountain, against the base of which the little
village nestled. The distant sound of the evening bell was calling the simple
cottagers to "Ave Maria." It was an enchanting picture of innocence and
peace; in striking contrast to this courtly assemblage, glittering with
gems and starry orders--a startling opposite to that sweet, pure idyl. And
now this select circle seemed agitated as by an electric shock. There, upon
the stage, floated the Signora Barbarina.

The king raised himself involuntarily a little higher in his arm- chair,
in order to examine the signora more closely; he leaned back, however,
ashamed of his impatience, and a light cloud was on his brow; he felt himself
oppressed and overcome by this magical beauty.

He who had looked death in the face without emotion, who had seen the
deadly cannon-balls falling thickly around him without a trembling
of the eyelids, now felt a presentiment of danger, and shrank from
it.

Barbarina was indeed lovely, irresistibly lovely, in her ravishing costume
of a shepherdess; her dress was of crimson satin, her black velvet bodice
was fastened over her voluptuous bosom by rich golden cords, finished off
by tassels glittering with diamonds. A wreath of crimson roses adorned
her hair, which fell in graceful ringlets about her wondrous brow, and
formed a rich frame around her pure, oval face. The dark incarnate of her
full, ripe lip contrasted richly with the light, rosy blush of her fair,
smooth cheek.
Barbarina's smile was a promise of love and bliss; and, when those great
fiery eyes looked at you earnestly, there was such an intense glow, such
a depth of power and passion in their rays, you could not but feel
that there was danger in her love as in her scorn.

To-day, she would neither threaten nor inspire; she was only a smiling,
joyous, simple peasant-girl, who had returned wild with joy to her
native village, and whose rapture found expression in the gay and graceful
mazes of the dance. She floated here and there, like a wood-nymph,
smiling, happy, careless, wonderful to look upon in her loveliness and
beauty, but more wonderful still in her art.
Simplicity and grace marked every movement; there seemed no difficulties in
her path--to dance was her happiness.

The dance was at an end. Barbarina, breathless, glowing, smiling, bowed low.
Then all was still; no hand was moved, no applause greeted her. Her
great burning eyes wandered threateningly and questioningly over
the saloon; then, raising her lovely head proudly, she stepped
back.
The curtain fell, and now all eyes were fixed upon the king, in
whose face the courtiers expected to read the impression which the
signora had made upon him; but the countenance of the king told
nothing; he was quiet and thoughtful, his brow was stern, and his
lips compressed. The courtiers concluded that he was disappointed,
and began at once to find fault, and make disparaging remarks.
Frederick did not regard them. At this moment he was not a king,
he was only a man--a man who, in silent rapture, had gazed upon
this wondrous combination of grace and beauty. The king was a hero,
but he trembled before this woman, and a sort of terror laid hold
upon him.
The curtain rose, and the second act of the drama began; no one
looked at the stage; after this living, breathing, impersonation
of a simple story, a spoken drama seemed oppressive. Every one
rejoiced when the second act was at an end. The curtain would soon
rise for Barbarina.
But this did not occur; there was a long delay; there was eager
expectation; the curtain did not rise; the bell did not ring. At
last, Baron Swartz crossed the stage and drew near to the king.
"Sire," said he, "the Signora Barbarina declares she will not dance
again; she is exhausted by grief and anxiety, and fatigued by her
journey."
"Go and say to her that I command her to dance," said Frederick,
who felt himself once more a king, and rejoiced in his power over
this enchantress, who almost held him in her toils.
Baron Swartz hastened behind the scenes, but soon returned, somewhat
cast down.
"Sire, the signora affirms that she will not dance, and that the
king has no power to compel her. She dances to please herself."

"Ah! that is a menace," said the king, threateningly; and without
further speech he stepped upon the stage, followed by Baron
Swartz.
"Where is this person?" said the king.
"She is in her own room, your majesty; shall I call her?"
"No, I will go to her. Show me the way."
The baron stepped forward, and Frederick endeavored to collect
himself and assume a cool and grave bearing.
"Sire, this is the chamber of the Signora Barbarina."
"Open the door." But before the baron had time to obey the command,
the impatient hand of the king had opened the door, and he had
entered the room.

CHAPTER IX.

THE KING AND BARBARINA.
Barbarina was resting, half reclining, and wholly abstracted, upon
a small crimson divan; her rounded arms were crossed over her
breast.
She fixed her blazing, glowing eyes upon the intruders, and seemed
petrified, in her stubborn immobility, her determined silence. She
had the glance of a panther who has prepared herself for death, or
to slay her enemy.They likewise filled a kettle and pitcher for
those who from weakness remained in the boat; and Quirini alleges, that he
swallowed as much snow as he would have found it difficult to have carried
on his back, all his happiness and welfare seeming to depend upon the
quantity of it he could swallow. This extravagant quantity of snow agreed
so ill with some of the people, that five of them died that night; though
their deaths were attributed to the sea water which they had previously
drank.


SECTION II.

_Preservation of Quirini on the Coast of Norway, and Residence In the Isle
of Rostoe_.

As they had no rope with, which to make fast their boat to the shore and
prevent it from being dashed to pieces, they remained in it the whole
night. Next day at dawn, sixteen weak, miserable and exhausted wretches,
the sad remains of forty-seven who had originally taken refuge in the large
boat, went on shore and laid themselves down in the snow. Hunger, however,
soon obliged them to examine if there might not remain some of the
provisions which they had brought with them from the ship: All they found
was a very small ham, an inconsiderable remnant of cheese, and some biscuit
dust in a bag, mixed with the dung of mice. These they warmed by means of a
small fire, which they made of the boat seats, and in some measure appeased
their hunger. On the following day, having convinced themselves beyond
doubt that the rock on which they then were was quite desert and
uninhabited, they resolved to quit it in hopes of being able to reach some
inhabited island, or part of the adjacent coast of Norway; but, after
filling five small casks with snow water, and getting into the boat to put
their resolution into execution, the water ran in torrents through all the
seams, and the boat went to the bottom immediately, so that they were
forced to get on shore again quite drenched in the sea. During the whole of
the preceding long night, the boat had been beating against the rock, which
had loosened its planks and opened all the seams. Despairing now of any
relief, as they were utterly destitute of any means to repair their boat,
they constructed two small tents of their oars and sails, to shelter
themselves from the weather, and hewed the materials of their boat in
pieces to make a fire to warm themselves. The only food they were able to
procure consisted in a few muscles and other shell-fish, which they picked
up along the shore. Thirteen of the company were lodged in one of the
tents, and three in the other. The smoke of the wet wood caused their faces
and eyes to swell so much that they were afraid of becoming totally blind;
and, what added prodigiously to their sufferings, they were almost devoured
by lice and maggots, which they threw by handfuls into the fire. The
secretary of Quirini had the flesh on his neck eaten bare to the sinews by
these vermin, and died in consequence; besides him, three Spaniards of a
robust frame of body likewise died, who probably lost their lives in
consequence of having drank sea water while in the boat; and so weak were
the thirteen who still remained alive, that during three days they were
unable to drag away the dead bodies from the fire side.

Eleven days after landing on this rock or uninhabited island, Quirini's
servant, having extended his search for shellfish, their only food, quite
to the farthest point of the island, found a small wooden house, both in
and around which he observed some cow-dung. From this circumstance the
forlorn people concluded that there were men and cattle at no great
distance, which inspired them with, fresh hopes of relief, and revived
their drooping spirits. This house afforded them abundant room and good
shelter; and all, except three or four, who were too weak to be able for
the fatigue of removing to such a distance, changed their abode to this
hut, crawling with great difficulty through the deep snow, the distance
being about a mile and a half, and they took with them as much as they were
able of the ruins of their boat, to serve them for fire-wood. Two days
after this, while going along the shore in search of the usual supply of
shell-fish, one of the company found a very large fish quite recently cast
up by the sea, which appeared to weigh about two hundred pounds, and was
quite sweet and fresh. This most providential supply they cut into thin
slices and carried to their dwelling, where they immediately set to work to
broil and boil it; but so great was their famine, and so tempting its
smell, that they had not patience to wait till it was thoroughly dressed,
but devoured it eagerly half raw. They continued to gorge themselves with
this fish almost without intermission for four days; but at length the
evident and rapid decrease of this stock of food taught them more prudent
economy, and by using it sparingly in future it lasted them ten days more.
Those who staid behind in one of the tents near the place of their first
landing, sent one of their number to see what had become of the rest; and,
when he had been refreshed with some of the fish, he carried a portion to
his two companions, and the whole survivors were soon afterwards
reassembled in the wooden hut. During the whole time that they subsisted
upon the providentially found fish, the weather was so exceedingly
tempestuous that they certainly would not have been able to have looked out
for shellfish, and they must inevitably have perished of famine.

Having made an end of the large fish, which seems to have lasted them for
fourteen days, they were obliged to have recourse again to the precarious
employment of gathering shellfish along the shore for their subsistence.
About eight miles from the rock upon which they now were, which Fioravente
informs us was called _Santi_, or Sand-ey by the natives, there was another
isle named _Rustene_[1], which was inhabited by several families of
fishers. It happened that a man and two of his sons came over from Rost to
Sandey to look after some cattle which were amissing. Observing the smoke
from the hut in which Quirini and his wretched companions had taken
shelter, curiosity led them to examine the hut. On their approach, their
voices were heard by the people within the hut; but they believed it to be
only the screaming of the sea-fowl who devoured the bodies of their
deceased companions. Christopher Fioravente, however, went out to examine
whence the unusual sound proceeded; and espying the two youths, he ran back
in haste, calling aloud to his companions that two men were come to seek
them. Upon this the whole company ran out immediately to meet the lads, who
on their parts were terrified at the sight of so many poor famished
wretches. These latter debated for some time among themselves whether they
should not detain one of their visitors, with the view of making themselves
more certain to procure assistance; but Quirini dissuaded them from this
projected violence. They all accompanied the youths to the boat, and
entreated the father and sons to take two of their people along with them
to their habitations, in order the sooner to procure them assistance from
thence. For this purpose they chose one Gerrard of Lyons, who had been
purser of the ship, and one Cola a mariner of Otranto, as these men could
speak French and a little German.


The boat with the fishermen, and the two men who had been deputed to seek
assistance, went over to Rostoe on Friday the 31st. of January 1432. On
their landing, the inhabitants were much astonished at their appearance,
but were not able to understand them, though the strangers addressed them
in different languages; till at last one of the strangers began to speak a
little German with a German priest of the order of friars predicant who
lived there, and informed him who they were and whence they came. On Sunday
the 2d February, which happened to be the festival of the purification of
the blessed Virgin, the priest admonished all the people of Rostoe to
assist the unhappy strangers to the utmost of their power, at the same time
representing the hardships and dangers they had undergone, and pointing to
the two famished wretches then present. Many of the congregation were
softened even to tears at the recital, and a resolution was formed to bring
away the miserable survivors as soon as possible, which they accomplished
next day. In the mean time, those who remained behind at Sandey considered
the absence of their companions as extremely long; and what with hunger,
cold and anxiety, they were almost dead. Their joy may be more easily
conceived than expressed, when they perceived six boats approaching to
their relief. On landing, the Dominican priest inquired which of them was
the captain of the unhappy crew; and when Quirini made himself known as
such, the priest presented him with some rye bread and some beer, which he
looked upon as manna sent from heaven. After this the priest took him by
the hand, and desired him to choose two of his companions to accompany him;
and Quirini pitched upon Francis Quirini of Candia, and Christopher
Fioravente a Venetian, all three embarking in the boat of the principal man
of Rostoe along with the priest. The rest of the company were distributed
in the other five boats; and these good Samaritans went even to the tents
where these unfortunates had first dwelt, taking away with them the only
survivor of the three men who had staid behind from weakness, and buried
the other two; but the poor invalid died next day.

On the arrival of the boats at Rostoe, Quirini was quartered with the
principal person of the island: This man's son led him to his father's
dwelling, as his debility was so great he was unable to walk without
assistance. The mistress of the house and her maid came forwards to meet
him, when he would have fallen at her feet; but she would not permit him,
and immediately got him a bason of milk from the house, to comfort him and
restore his strength. During three months and a half that Quirini dwelt in
this house, he experienced the greatest friendship and humanity from the
owners; while in return he endeavoured by complaisance to acquire the good
will of his kind hosts, and to requite their benevolence. The other
partners of his misfortunes were distributed among the other houses of the
place, and were all taken good care of.

The rocky isle of Rost, or Rostoe, lies 70 Italian miles to the westwards
of the southern promontory of Norway, which in their language they call the
worlds backside, and is three miles in circumference[2]. This rocky isle
was inhabited at this time by 120 souls, of whom 72 received the holy
communion on Easter-day like good catholics. They get their livelihood and
maintain their families entirely by fishing, as no corn of any kind grows
in this very remote part of the world. From the 20th of November to the
20th of February, the nights were twenty-one hours long; and on the
contrary, from the 20th of May to the 20th of August the sun is either
always seen, or at least the light which proceeds from it. Thus during
June, July and August, they may be said to have one continued day of three
months; while in the opposite months of winter they have one almost
continued night. During the whole year they catch an incredible quantity of
fish; which, however, are almost solely of two kinds. One of these they
catch in prodigious quantities in the great bays, which they call
_stockfish_[3]. The other, called Halibut, is a kind of flat fish of an
astonishing size, for one of them was found to weigh near two hundred
pounds. The stockfish are dried without being salted, in the sun and air;
and, as they have little fat or moisture, they grow as dry as wood. When
they are to be prepared for eating, they arc beaten very hard with the back
part of a hatchet, by which they are divided into filaments like nerves;
after which they are boiled, and dressed with butter and spices to give
them a relish. The people of this country carry on a considerable trade
with these dried stockfish into Germany. The halibuts, are cut into pieces
on account of their great size, and are then salted; in which state they
are very good eating. With these two kinds of fish the people of Rostoe
load every year a ship of about 50 tons burthen, which they send to Bergen,
a place in Norway, about a thousand miles from their island; and from
whence a great number of ships of 300 or 330 tons burthen, carry all the
produce of the fisheries of different parts of Norway into Germany,
England, Scotland, and Prussia, where they are exchanged against the
produce of these countries, particularly for every necessary article of
food, drink and clothing, as their own country is so extremely barren and
unfruitful, that they cannot raise these things for themselves.

Thus, most of their traffic being carried on by means of barter, they have
little money among them, nor is it very necessary. When these exchanges
have been made at Bergen, the vessel returns to Rostoe, landing in one
other place only, whence they carry wood sufficient for a whole year's
fuel, and for other necessary purposes.

The inhabitants of these rocks are a well-looking people, and of pure
morals. Not being in the least afraid of robbery, they never lock up any
thing, and their doors are always open. Their women also are not watched in
the smallest degree; for the guests sleep in the same room with the
husbands and their wives and daughters; who even stripped themselves quite
naked in presence of the strangers before going to bed; and the beds
allotted for the foreigners stood close to those in which their sons and
daughters slept. Every other day the fathers and sons went out a fishing by
day-break, and were absent for eight hours together, without being under
the least anxiety for the honour and chastity of their wives and
daughters[4]. In the beginning of May, the women usually begin to bathe;
and custom and purity of morals has made it a law among them, that they
should first strip themselves quite naked at home, and they then go to the
bath at the distance of a bow-shot from the house. In their right hands
they carry a bundle of herbs to wipe the moisture from their backs, and
extend their left hands before them, as if to cover the parts of shame,
though they do not seem to take much pains about the matter. In the bath
they are seen promiscuously with the men[5]. They have no notion of
fornication or adultery; neither do they marry from sensual motives, but
merely to conform to the divine command. They also abstain from cursing and
swearing. At the death of relations, they shew the greatest resignation to
the will of God, and even give thanks in the churches for having spared
their friends so long, and in now calling them to be partakers of the
bounty of heaven. They shew so little extravagance of grief and lamentation
on these occasions, that it appeared as if the deceased had only fallen
into a sweet sleep. If the deceased was married, the widow prepares a
sumptuous banquet for the neighbours on the day of burial; when she and her
guests appear in their best attire, and she entreats her guests to eat
heartily, and to drink to the memory of the deceased, and to his eternal
repose and happiness. They went regularly to church, where they prayed very
devoutly on their knees, and they kept the fast days with great strictness.

Their houses are built of wood, in a round form, having a hole in the
middle of the roof for the admission of light; and which hole they cover
over in winter with a transparent fish skin, on account of the severity of
the cold. Their clothes are made of coarse cloth, manufactured at London,
and elsewhere. They wore furs but seldom; and in order to inure themselves
to the coldness of their climate, they expose their new born infants, the
fourth day after birth, naked under the sky-light, which they then open to
allow the snow to fall upon them; for it snowed almost continually during
the whole winter that Quirini and his people were there, from the 5th of
February to the 14th of May. In consequence of this treatment, the boys are
so inured to the cold, and become so hardy, that they do not mind it in the
least.

The isle of Rostoe is frequented by a great number of white sea-fowl called
_Muris_ [6] in the language of the country. These birds are fond of living
hear mankind, and are as tame and familiar as common pigeons. They make an
incessant noise; and in summer, when it is almost one continued day for
three months, they are only silent for about four hours in the twenty-four,
and this silence serves to warn the inhabitants of the proper time of going
to rest. In the early part of the spring, there arrived an amazing quantity
of wild geese, which made their nests on the island, and even sometimes
close to the walls of the houses. These birds are so very tame, that when
the mistress of the house goes to take some eggs from the nest, the goose
walks slowly away, and waits patiently till the woman has taken what she
wants; and when the woman goes away, the goose immediately returns to her
nest.

In the month of May, the inhabitants of Rostoe began to prepare for their
voyage to Bergen, and were willing also to take the strangers along with
them. Some days before their departure, the intelligence of their being at
Rostoe reached the wife of the governor over all these islands; and, her
husband being absent, she sent her chaplain to Quirini with a present of
sixty stockfish, three large flat loaves of rye-bread and a cake: And at
the same time desired him to be informed, that she was told the islanders
had not used them well, and if he would say in what point they had been
wronged, instant satisfaction should be afforded; it was also strongly
recommended by that lady to the inhabitants, to give them good treatment,
and to take them over to Bergen along with themselves. The strangers
returned their sincere thanks to the lady for the interest she took in
their welfare, and gave their full testimony, not only to the innocence of
their hosts in regard to what had been alleged, but spoke of the kind
reception they had experienced in the highest terms. As Quirini still had
remaining a rosary of amber beads which he had brought from St Jago in
Gallicia, he took the liberty of sending them to this lady, and requested
her to use them in praying to God for their safe return into their own
country.

When the time of their departure was come, the people of Rostoe, by the
advice of their priest, forced them to pay two crowns for each month of
their residence or seven crowns each; and as they had not sufficient cash
for this purpose, they gave, besides money, six silver cups, six forks, and
six spoons, with some other articles of small value, which they had saved
from the wreck, as girdles and rings. The greater part of these things fell
into the hands of the rascally priest; who, that nothing might be left to
them of this unfortunate voyage, did not scruple to exact these as his due
for having acted as their interpreter. On the day of their departure, all
the inhabitants of Rostoe made them presents of fish; and on taking leave,
both the inhabitants and the strangers shed tears. The priest, however,
accompanied them to Bergen, to pay a visit to his archbishop, and to give
him a part of the booty.


[1] Rost, or Rostoy.--Forst.

[2] The small island of _Rust_ probably the one in question, is the
    south-westernmost of the Loffoden isles of Norway, in lat. 67°. 80 N.
    long. 11°. E. and is about 80 statute miles from the nearest land of
    the continent of Norway to the east. The rest of the Loffoden islands
    are of considerable size, and are divided from Norway by the
    Westfiord, which grows considerably narrower as it advances to the
    north-east.--E.

[3] The Cod or Gadus Morrhua, is termed stock-fish when dried without
    salt.--E.

[4] This must have appeared a most wonderful reliance upon female chastity,
    in the opinion of jealous Italians, unaccustomed to the pure morals of
    the north.--E.

[5] This custom of promiscuous bathing is very ancient, and existed among
    the Romans, from whom it was learnt by the Greeks, but gave rise to
    such shameful lewdness, that it was prohibited by Hadrian and
    Antoninus. This law seems to have fallen into oblivion, as even the
    Christians in after times fell into the practice, and gave occasion to
    many decrees of councils and synods for its prohibition; yet with
    little effect, as even priests and monks bathed promiscuously along
    with the women. Justinian, in his 117th novel, among the lawful causes
    of divorce, mentions a married woman bathing along with men, unless
    with the permission of her husband. Russia probably adopted bathing
    from Constantinople along with Christianity, and in that country
    promiscuous bathing still continues; and they likewise use a bundle of
    herbs or rods, as mentioned in the text, for rubbing their bodies.
    --Forst.

    Norway certainly did not learn the practice of bathing either from
    Rome or Constantinople. Some learned men are never content unless they
    can deduce the most ordinary practices from classical authority, as in
    the above note by Mr Forster.--E.

[6] The Norwegians call this species of sea fowl _Maase_; which is probably
    the Larus Candidus; a new species, named in the voyage of Captain
    Phipps, afterwards Lord Mulgrave, _Larus eburneus_, from being
    perfectly white. By John Muller, plate xii. it is named _Lams albus_;
    and seems to be the same called _Raths kerr_, in Martens Spitzbergen,
    and _Wald Maase_, in Leoms Lapland. The Greenlanders call it
    _Vagavarsuk_. It is a very bold bird, and only inhabits the high
    northern latitudes, in Finmark, Norway, Iceland, Greenland, and
    Spitzbergen. This _Maase_, or sea-gull, is probably the white _Muxis_
    of the text.--Forst.


SECTION III.

_Voyage from Rostoe to Drontheim, and journey thence into Sweden_.

At their departure from Rostoe, the season was so far advanced, being now
the end of May, that during this voyage they saw the image of the sun for
forty-eight hours above the horizon; but as they sailed farther to the
south, they lost the sun for one hour, though it continued broad day the
whole time. Their whole course lay between rocks, and they perceived here
and there, near the projecting points of land, the marks of deep navigable
waters, which intersected the coast. Many of these rocks were inhabited,
and they were received very hospitably by the inhabitants, who freely gave
them meat and drink, and would accept of no recompense. The sea-fowl,
which, when awake, are always loud and noisy, they found had built their
nests in all the rocks past which they now sailed, and the silence of these
birds was a signal for them likewise to go to rest.

In the course of their voyage, they met the bishop of Drontheim; who, with
two gallies, and attended by 200 people, was making the tour of his
diocese, which extends over all these countries and islands. They were
presented to this prelate, who, being informed of their rank, country, and
misfortunes, expressed great compassion for them; and gave them a letter of
recommendation for his episcopal residence at Drontheim, where St Olave,
one of the kings of Norway, was buried. This letter procured them a kind
reception at this place. As the king of Norway happened at this time to be
at war with the Germans, the host of Quirini, who was likewise master of
the vessel, refused to sail any further; but landing them at a small
inhabited island near Drontheim, recommended them to the care of the
inhabitants, and immediately returned home. On the next day, which was
Ascension day, they were conducted to Drontheim, and went into the church
of St Olave, which was handsomely ornamented, and where they found the
lord-lieutenant with a great number of the inhabitants. After hearing mass,
they were conducted before the lord-lieutenant, who asked Quirini if he
spoke Latin? and being informed by him that he did, invited him and all his
attendants to his table, to which they were conducted by a canon. They were
afterwards taken, by the same canon, to good and comfortable lodgings, and
were amply provided with all kinds of necessaries.

As Quirini wished for nothing more than to return to his own country, he
desired therefore advice and assistance to enable him to travel either by
the way of Germany or England. That they might avoid travelling too much by
sea, which was not safe on account of the war, they were advised to apply
to their countryman, _Giovanne Franco_, who had been knighted by the king
of Denmark, and who resided at his castle of Stichimborg, or Stegeborg, in
east Gothland, in the kingdom of Sweden, at the distance of fifty days
journey from Drontheim. Eight days after their arrival in Drontheim, the
lord-lieutenant gave them two horses and a guide to conduct them to
Stegeborg; and as Quirini had presented him with his share of the
stockfish, a silver seal, and a silver girdle, he received in return a hat,
a pair of boots and spurs, a leathern cloak-bag, a small axe, with the
image of St Olave, and the lieutenants coat of arms engraved on it, a
packet of herrings, some bread, and four Rhenish guilders. Besides the two
horses from the lieutenant, they received a third horse from the bishop;
and, being now twelve in number, they set out together on their journey,
with their guide and three horses. They travelled on for the space of
fifty-three days, chiefly to the south or S.S.E., and frequently met with
such miserable inns on the road, that they could not even procure bread at
them. In some places they were reduced to such shifts, that the wretched
inhabitants grinded the bark of trees, and made this substance into cakes
with milk and butter, as a substitute for bread. Besides this they had
milk, butter, and cheese given them, and whey for drink. Sometimes they met
with better inns, where they could procure meat and beer. They met with a
kind and hearty welcome, and most hospitable reception wherever they went.

There are but few dwellings in Norway, and they often arrived at the places
where they were to stop in the night, or time of repose, though broad
daylight. On these occasions, their guide, knowing the customs of the
country, opened the door of the house without ceremony, in which they found
a table surrounded by benches covered with leathern cushions, stuffed with
feathers, which served them for mattresses. As nothing was locked up, they
took such victuals as they could find, and then went to rest. Sometimes the
masters of the houses in which they stopt would come in and find them
asleep, and be much amazed till the guide acquainted them with their story,
on which their astonishment became mingled with compassion, and they would
give the travellers every thing necessary without taking any remuneration;
by which means these twelve persons, with the three horses, did not spend
more than the four guilders they had received at Drontheim, during their
journey of fifty-three days.

On the road they met with horrid barren mountains and vallies, and with a
great number of animals like roes[1], besides abundance of fowls, such as
hasel-hens, and heath-cocks, which were as white as snow, and pheasants the
size of a goose[2]. In St Olave's church at Drontheim, they saw the skin of
a white bear, which was fourteen feet and a half long; and they observed
other birds, such as gerfalcons, goss-hawks[3], and several other kinds of
hawks, to be much whiter than in other places, on account of the coldness
of the country.

Four days before they reached Stegeborg, they came to a town called
Wadstena, in which St Bridget was born, and where she had founded a
nunnery, together with chaplains of the same order. At this place the
northern kings and princes have built a most magnificent church covered
with copper, in which they counted sixty-two altars. The nuns and chaplains
received the strangers with great kindness; and, after resting two days,
they set out to wait on the chevalier Giovanne Franco, who relieved them in
a manner that did honour to his generosity, and did every thing in his
power to comfort them in their distressed situation. A fortnight after
their arrival at his residence, a plenary indulgence was given at the
church of St Bridget, in Wadstena, to which people from Denmark, Norway,
and Sweden, and even from Germany, Holland, and Scotland, came to partake;
some of whom came from a distance of more than 600 miles. They went to the
indulgence at Wadstena along with Giovanne Franco, in order to inquire if
there were any ships bound for Germany or England, there being always a
great concourse of people on such occasions. The chevalier was five days on
the road, and had more than 100 horses in his train. At Wadstena they took
leave of their beneficent countryman, who furnished them amply with money
and clothes for their journey, and ordered his son Matthew, a very amiable
young man, to accompany them eight days journey on their way to Lodese, on
the river Gotha; and where he lodged them in his own house for some time,
till the ship in which they were to embark was ready to sail The chevalier
Franco lent them his own horses all the way from his castle of Stegeborg;
and, as Quirini was ill of a fever, he mounted him on a horse which had a
wonderfully easy pace.

From Lodese, three of Quirini's crew went home in a vessel bound for
Rostock, and eight of them accompanied him to England, where they came to
their friends in London, by way of Ely and Cambridge. After residing two
months at London, they took shipping thence for Germany; and, travelling
thence by way of Basil, in Switzerland, they arrived, after a journey of
twenty-four days, in safety and good health at Venice.


[1] The Rein-deer, Cervus tarandus, Lin.--Forst.

[2] Probably the Tetrao lagopus, Lin.--Forst.

[3] Falco Gyrfalcus, and Falco astur.--Forst.


CHAP. XIX.

_Travels of Josaphat Barbaro, Ambassador from Venice to Tanna, now called
Asof, in 1436_[1].


INTRODUCTION.

Josaphat Barbaro, a Venetian, was sent, in the year 1436, by the republic
of Venice, as ambassador to Tanna, now called Asof, which at that time was
in the hands of the Genoese. This relation was printed in a small and
scarce collection at the Aldus press in Venice, by Antonio Minutio in 1543,
and was afterwards inserted in the collection of Giovanne Baptista Ramusio.
The following is an abstract of that journey. He went afterwards into
Persia in 1471, as ambassador to Ussum Hassan, or Assambei, a Turkomanian
prince of the white weather tribe, and was sixteen years among the Tartars;
and on his return to his native country wrote an account of both these
expeditions. He died at Venice at a very advanced age, in 1494.

These travels are not given in any regular order, nor is any itinerary
mentioned. It would appear that he resided for some time at Tanna, now
Asof, making several journeys into the Crimea, and among the nations which
inhabit between the Don and the Wolga, the Black Sea and the Caspian; and
that he returned home by way of Moscow, Novogorod, Warsaw, and Francfort on
the Oder, and through Germany into Italy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Josaphat Barbaro began his journey to Tanna in 1436, and explored that
country with great assiduity, and a spirit of inquiry that does him much
honour, partly by land and partly by water, for sixteen years. The plain of
Tartary is bounded on the east by the great river Ledil, Edil, or Wolga; on
the west by Poland; on the north by Russia; on the south by the Great or
Black Sea, Alania, Kumania or Comania, and Gazaria, all of which border on
the sea of Tebache[2]. Alania has its name from the people called Alani,
who call themselves _As_ in their own language. These people were
Christians, and their country had been ravaged and laid waste by the
Tartars or Mongals. The province of Alania contains many mountains, rivers,
and plains, and in the latter there are many hills made by the hand of man,
serving for sepulchral monuments, on the top of each of which there is a
flat stone with a hole in it, in which a stone cross is fixed. About 110
years before the journey of Barbaro, or in 1326, the religion of Mahomet
was adopted by the Tartars or Mongals; though, indeed, before that period
there were some Mahometans in the country, but every one was permitted to
follow what religion he chose. In consequence of this, some worshipped
wooden images, which they carried about with them on their carts or
moveable huts: But the compulsatory establishment of the Mahometan religion
takes its date from the time of Hedighi, Edigi, or Jedighei, who was a
general under the Tartarian emperor Sidahameth khan. This Hedighi was the
father of Naurus, in whose days Ulu-Mohameth, or Mahomet the great, was
khan of the Tartars.

A misunderstanding happened between the Naurus and the khan Ulu-Mohameth,
in consequence of which Naurus retired to the river Ledil or Wolga,
attended by the Tartar tribes who adhered to him personally, and joined
himself to Khezi-Mohamet, or _little_ Mahomed, who was a relation to the
khan or emperor. Naurus and Khezi resolved to make war against Ulu, and
accordingly marched with their combined forces by way of Giterchan or
Astrakan, and through the plains of Tumen, or the great step or desert,
which extends from the Wolga to the Don, and quite down the mountains of
Caucasus. On this march westwards they kept southwards close to Circassia,
and turned off towards the Don and the sea of Asof, both of which were
frozen over. In order to find food for their cattle and horses, they
marched in separate parties, at so great a distance from each other, that
some crossed the river Don at a place called Palastra, while others crossed
it where it was covered with ice, near Bosagaz, which two places are 120
miles separate from each other; yet so well were their movements combined,
that they came upon Ulu-Mohameth quite unexpectedly, and he was constrained
to fly with his wife and children, leaving every thing in confusion behind
him, as Khezi Mohameth became emperor or khan in his stead, and again
crossed the Don in the month of June.

Proceeding westwards to the left from Tanna or Asof, along the coast of the
sea of Zabachi, or the Palus Maeotis, and then for some distance along the
Great or Black Sea, quite to the province of Mingrelia, one arrives, after
three days journey, at the province of _Chremuch_, Kremuk, or Kromuk, the
sovereign of which is called _Bisserdi_[3], and his son is named
_Chertibei_[4], which signifies the true or real lord. Bisserdi possesses a
beautiful country, adorned with fertile fields, considerable rivers, and
many fine woods, and can raise about a thousand horse. The higher order of
the people in this country chiefly subsist by plundering the caravans. They
have excellent horses; the people are valiant, inured to war, and very
artful; but have nothing singular in their manners and appearance. Their
country abounds in corn, cattle, and honey; but produces no wine. "Be it
prince or king; even if my brother commands it, I will never obey him."

"God, my God! you have heard our vows." While speaking, he took
Amelia's head in his hands softly and bowed it down as if it
were a holy sacrifice which he offered up to Heaven. "You have
heard her oath: O God, punish her, crush her in your wrath, if she prove
false!"
"I will be faithful to the end. May God punish me if I fail!"
"And now, beloved, you are mine eternally. Let me press our betrothal kiss
upon your sweet lips; you are my bride, my wife.
Tremble not now, turn not away from my arms; you have no other refuge, no
other strong fortress than my heart, but it is a rock on which you
can safely build; its foundation is strong, it can hold and sustain you.
If the storm is too fierce, we can plunge together into the wild, raging
sea, and be buried in the deep. Oh, my bride, let me kiss your lips; you
are sanctified and holy in my eyes till the glorious day in which life or
death shall unite us."
"No, you shall not kiss me; I embrace you, my beloved," and she pressed
her soft full lips, which no untruthful, immodest word had ever
desecrated, to his. It was a kiss holy, innocent, and pure as a maiden's
prayer. "And now, my beloved, farewell," said Amelia, after a long
pause, in which their lips had been silent, but their hearts had spoken
to each other and to God.

"Go," she said; "night melts into morn, the day breaks!"
"My day declines, my night comes on apace," sighed Trenck. "When do we meet
again?"
Amelia looked up, smilingly, to the heavens. "Ask the stars and the calendar
when the heavens are dark, and the moon hides her fair face; then I expect
you--the window will be open and the door unbarred."
"The moon has ever been thought to be the friend of lovers," said Trenck,
pressing the hand of the princess to his heart; "but I hate her with
a perfect hatred, she robs me of my happiness."
"And now, let us return to Baron Pollnitz, who is, without doubt, impatient."

"Why must he always accompany me, Amelia? why will you not allow me to come
alone?"
"Why? I scarcely know myself. It seems to me we are safer when watched over
by the eye of a friend; perhaps I am unduly anxious; a warning voice whispers
me that it is better so. Pollnitz has become the confidant of our love,
let us trust him fully; let him know that, though traitors and meriting
punishment in the sight of men, we are not guilty in the sight of God, and
have no cause to blush or look down. Pollnitz must always accompany you."

"Ah, Amelia!" sighed Trenck; "you have not forgotten that you are a princess.
Love has not wholly conquered you. You command. It is not so with me. I
submit, I obey, and I am silent. Be it as you will:
Pollnitz shall always accompany me--only promise me to come ever upon the
balcony."
"I promise! and now, beloved, let us say farewell to God, to the heavens,
to the soft stars, and the dark night, which has spread her mantle over us
and allowed us to be happy."
"Farewell, farewell, my happiness, my love, my pride, my hope, my
future!

Oh, Amelia, why cannot I go this moment into battle, and pluck high honors
which will make me more worthy of you?"
They embraced for the last time, and then stepped into the room.
Pollnitz still sat on the divan before the table.

Only a poor remnant of the feast remained; his tongue had been forced to
silence in this lonely room, but he had been agreeably occupied with the
game, fruits, jellies, and wine which were placed before him; he had
stretched himself comfortably upon the sofa, and was quietly enjoying the
blessed feeling of a healthy and undisturbed digestion.
At last he had fallen asleep, or seemed so; it was some moments before
Trenck succeeded in forcing him to open his eyes.

"You are very cruel, young friend," said he, rising up; "you have
disturbed me in the midst of a wondrous and rapturous dream."

"Might I inquire into this dream?" said the princess.

"Ah, your royal highness, I dreamed of the only thing which would ever
surprise or enrapture me in this comical and good-for-nothing world. I
dreamed I had no creditors, and heaps of gold."

"And your dream differs widely from the reality?"
"Yes, my gracious princess, just the opposite is true. I have unnumbered
creditors, and no gold."
"Poor Pollnitz! how do you propose to free yourself from this painful
embarrassment?"
"Ah, your royal highness, I shall never attempt it! I am more
than content when I can find some soothing palliatives for this chronic
disease, and, at least, find as many louis d'ors in my pocket as I have
creditors to threaten me."
"And is that now your happy state?"
"No, princess, I have only twelve louis d'ors."
"And how many creditors?"

"Two-and-thirty."
"So twenty louis d'ors are wanting to satisfy your longing?"
"Yes, unhappily."
The princess walked to her table and took from it a little
roll of gold, which she handed to the master of ceremonies. "Take
it," said she, smiling; "yesterday I received my pin-money for the month,
and I rejoice that I am in a condition to balance your creditors and your
louis d'ors at this time."
Pollnitz took the gold without a blush, and kissed the hand of the princess
gallantly. "Ah! I have but one cause of repentance," sighed he.

"Well, what is that?"
"That I did not greatly increase the number of my creditors. My God!
who could have guessed the magnanimous intentions of my royal princess?"

CHAPTER VIII.

THE FIRST CLOUD.

Drunk with happiness, revelling in the recollection of this first interview
with his lovely and exalted mistress, Frederick von Trenck rode slowly through
the lonely highways toward Potsdam. It was not necessary for him to pay
any attention to the road, as his horse knew every foot of the way.
Trenck laid his bridle carelessly upon the neck of the noble animal,
and gave himself up entirely to meditation. Suddenly night waned, the vapors
melted, light appeared in the east, and the first purple glow was succeeded
by a clear, soft blue. The larks sang out their joyous morning song in the
heavens, not yet disturbed by the noise and dust of the day.

Trenck heard not the song of the lark, he saw not the rising sun, which, with
his golden rays, illuminated the landscape, and changed the dew-drops
in the cups of the flowers into shimmering diamonds and rubies; he was
dreaming, dreaming. The sweet and wondrous happiness of the last few
hours intoxicated his soul; he recalled every word, every smile, every
pressure of the hand of his beloved, and a crimson blush suffused his cheek,
a sweet tremor oppressed his heart, as he remembered that she had been
clasped in his arms; that he had kissed the pure, soft, girlish
lips, whose breath was fresher and more odorous than the glorious morning
air which fanned his cheeks and played with his long dark hair. With a
radiant smile and proudly erected head, he recalled the promise of the
princess. She had given him reason to hope; she believed in the possibility
of their union.

And why, indeed, might not this be possible? Had not his career in the last
few months been so brilliant as to excite the envy of his comrades? was he
not recognized as the special favorite of the king?
Scarcely six months had passed since he arrived in Berlin; a young,
poor, and unknown student, he was commended to the king by his
protector, the Count von Lottum, who earnestly petitioned his majesty
to receive him into his life-guard.

The king, charmed by his handsome and martial figure, by his cultivated
intellect and wonderful memory, had made him cornet in his cavalry guard,
and a few weeks later he was promoted to a lieutenancy. Though but eighteen
years of age, he had the distinguished honor to be chosen by the king to
exercise two regiments of Silesian cavalry, and Frederick himself had
expressed his content, not only in gracious but affectionate words.
[Footnote: "Memoires de Frederic Baron von Trenck," traduits par Lui-meme
su l'original allemande.] It is well known that the smile of a prince is
like the golden rays of the sun:
it lends light and glory to every object upon which it rests, and attracts
the curious gaze of men.

The handsome young lieutenant, basking in the rays of royal favor, was
naturally an object of remark and the most distinguished attentions to
the circle of the court. More than once the king had been seen to lay his
arm confidingly upon the shoulder of Trenck, and converse with him
long and smilingly; more than once had the proud and almost unapproachable
queen-mother accorded the young officer a gracious salutation; more than
once had the princesses at the fetes of the last winter selected him as their
partner, and all those young and lovely girls of the court declared that
there was no better dancer, no more attentive cavalier, no more agreeable
companion than Frederick von Trenck--than this youthful, witty, merry
officer, who surpassed all his comrades, not, only in his height and the
splendor of his form, but in talent and amiability.
It was therefore to be expected that this proud aristocracy would seek
to draw the favorite of the king and of the ladies into their
circle.

Frederick von Trenck was of too sound and healthy a nature, he had too
much strength of character, to be made vain or supercilious by these
attentions.

He soon, however, accustomed himself to them as his right; and he was scarcely
surprised when the king, after his promotion, sent him two splendid horses
from his own stable, and a thousand thalers, [Footnote: Ibid.] at that
time a considerable sum of money.

This general adulation inspired naturally bold wishes and ambitious dreams,
and led him to look upon the impossible and unheard of as possible
and attainable. Frederick von Trenck was not vain or imperious, but he was
proud and ambitious; he had a great object in view, and all his
powers were consecrated to that end; in his hopeful, sunny hours,
he did not doubt of success; he was ever diligent, ever watchful,
ever ready to embrace an opportunity; ever expecting some giant
work, which would, in its fruition, bring him riches and honor,
fame and greatness.

He felt that he had strength to win a world and lay it bound at his feet;
and if the king had commanded him to undertake the twelve labors of Hercules,
he would not have shrunk from the ordeal. Convinced that a glorious future
awaited him, he prepared himself for it. No hour found him idle.
When his comrades, wearied by the fatiguing service and the oft- repeated
exercises and preparations for war, retired to rest, Trenck was earnestly
engaged in some grave study, some scientific work, seated at his writing-table
surrounded with books, maps, and drawings.

The young lieutenant was preparing himself to be a general, or a conquering
hero, by his talents and his great deeds; to subdue the world and its
prejudices; to bridge over with laurels and trophies the gulf which
separated him from the princess. Was he not already on the way? Did not the
future beckon to him with glorious promise?
Must not he, who at eighteen years of age had attained that for which
many not less endowed had given their whole lives in vain--he, the flattered
cavalier, the scholar, and the officer of the king's guard--be set apart,
elected to some exalted fate?

These were the thoughts which occupied the young man, and which
made him forgetful of all other things, even the danger with which
the slow movements of his horse and the ever-rising sun threatened
him.

It was the custom of the king to attend the early morning parade, and the
commander, Captain Jaschinsky, did not belong to Trenck's friends; he
envied him for his rapid promotion; it angered him that Trenck had, at
a bound, reached that position to which he had wearily crept forward through
long years of service. It would have made him happy to see this young
man, who advanced so proudly and triumphantly upon the path of honor
and distinction, cast down from the giddy height of royal favor,
and trampled in the lust of forgetfulness.

He watched his young lieutenant with the smiling cunning of a base soul,
resolved to punish harshly the smallest neglect of duty.

And now he had found his opportunity. A sergeant, who was a spy for the
captain, informed him that Trenck's corporal had told him his master had
ridden forth late in the night and had not yet returned.
The sergeant had watched the door of the house in which Trenck resided, and
was convinced that he was still absent. This intelligence filled the
heart of Captain Jaschinsky with joy; he concealed it, however, under
the mask of indifference; he declared that he did not believe this story
of Trenck's absence. The young man knew full well that no officer was
allowed to leave Potsdam, even for an hour, without permission, particularly
during the night.

In order, as he said, to convince the sergeant of the untruth of this
statement, he sent him with some trifling commission to Lieutenant von
Trenck. The sergeant returned triumphantly; the baron was not at home, and
his servant was most anxious about him, The captain shrugged his shoulders
silently. The clock struck eight; he seized his hat, and hastened to
the parade.

The whole line was formed; every officer stood by his regiment, except the
lieutenant of the second company. The captain saw this at a glance, and a
wicked smile for one moment played upon his face. He rode with zealous haste
to the front of his regiment and saluted the king, who descended
the steps of the castle, accompanied by his generals and adjutants.

At this moment, to the right wing of the regiment, there was a
slight disturbance, which did not escape the listening ear of the
captain.

He turned his head, and saw that Trenck had joined his company, and that
    his horse was panting and bathed in sweat.

The captain's brow was clouded; the young officer seemed to have
escaped the threatened danger.

The king had seen nothing. Trenck was in his place, and it would be useless
    to bring a charge against him.
    
    The king, however, had seen all; his keen eye had observed
    Trenck's rapid approach, and his glowing, heated countenance; and as
    he rode to the front, he drew in his horse directly before
    Trenck.
    
    "How comes it that your horse is fatigued and sweating?

I must suppose he is fresh from the stable, and his master just from his
    bed.

It appears, however, that he has been delayed there; I see that he
has just arrived upon the parade-ground."

The officer murmured a few incomprehensible words.
    

"Will you answer me?"

said the king; "is your horse just from the stable--are you directly
    from your bed?"
    Frederick von Trenck's head had been bowed humbly upon his breast,
    he now raised it boldly up; he was resolved; his fierce eyes met
    those of the king. "No, your majesty," said he, with a cool,
composed mien, "my horse is not from the stable--I am not from my
bed."
There was a pause, an anxious, breathless pause. Every eye was fixed
observantly upon the king, whose severity in military discipline
was known and feared.
"Do you know," said the king at last, "that I command my officers
to be punctual at parade?" 
"Yes, sire."
"Do you know that it is positively forbidden to leave Potsdam without
permission?" 
"Yes, your majesty."
"Well, then, since this was known to you, where have you been? You
confess that you do not come from your dwelling?"
"Sire, I was on the chase, and loitered too long. I know I am guilty
of a great misdemeanor, and I expect my pardon only from the grace
of my king."
The king smiled, and his glance was mild and kindly. "You expect
also, as it appears, under any circumstances, a pardon? Well, this
time you shall not be disappointed. I am well pleased that you have
been bold enough to speak the truth. I love truthful people; they
are always brave. This time you shall go unpunished, but beware of
the second offence. I warn you."
Alas! what power had even a king's warning over the passionate love
of a youth of eighteen? Trenck soon forgot the danger from which
he had escaped; and even if remembered, it would not have restrained
him.
It was again a cloudy, dark night, and he knew that the princess
expected him. As he stood again upon the balcony, guarded by the
watchful master of ceremonies; as he listened to the sweet music
of Amelia's voice and comprehended the holy and precious character
of her girlish and tender nature; as he sat at her feet, pouring
out the rich treasures of his love and happiness, and felt her
trembling small white hand upon his brow; as he dreamed with her
of a blessed and radiant future, in which not only God and the night
but the king and the whole world might know and recognize their
love--how could he remember that the king had ordered the parade
at seven in the morning, and that it was even now impossible for
him to reach Potsdam at that hour?
The parade was over when he reached his quarters. A guard stood
before his door, and led him instantly before the king. Frederick
was alone in his cabinet. He silently dismissed his adjutant and
the guard, then walked for some time backward and forward through
the room, without seeming to observe Trenck, who stood with pale
but resolved countenance before the door.
Trenck followed every movement of the king with a steady glance.
"If he cashiers me, I will shoot myself," he said in a low tone.
"If he puts me to the torture, in order to learn the secret of my
love, I can bear it and be silent."
But there was another possibility upon which, in the desperation
of his soul, Trenck had not thought.The whole of that country, together with the
    country between the Wolga and Ural rivers, often bore the name of
    Kumania. But the destructive conquests of the Mongals, has in all ages
    broken down the nations of those parts into fragments, and has induced
    such rapid and frequent changes as to baffle all attempts at any fixed
    topography, except of lakes, rivers, and mountains.--E.

[10] The ancient Taurica Chersonesus; the Crimea of our days, now again
    called Taurida by the Russians.--E.

[11] Probably Ulu-beg, or the great prince.--E.

[12] Soragathi or Solgathi, is named by Abulfeda Soldet or Kirm; and is at
    present called Eskikyrym, or the Old Citadel.--Forst. From the name of
    this place, Chirmia, Kirmia, Kirm, or Crim, the name of the peninsula
    and its inhabitants, Chrimea, and Crim-Tartars, are evidently
    derived.--E.

[13] Kerkiardi is the Kerkri of Abulfeda, and signifies in Turkish forty
    men. Some call the place Kyrk, and the Poles name it Kirkjel. It is
    situated on an inaccessible mountain, and was one of the castles
    belonging to the Goths who dwelt in those mountains, absurdly called
    Jews by some authors; of whom some traces remained not long ago, as
    their language contained many words resembling German.--Forst.

[14] I should suspect that this term, here applied to one place only, had
    been originally the general appellation of the _forty_ castles
    belonging to the Goths, who long defended themselves in the Tauric
    Chersonese. The ridiculous conversion of these Goths into Jews, may be
    accounted for, by supposing that some ignorant transcriber had changed
    Teutschi into Judei, either in copying or writing from the ear.--E.

[15] The Pantikapaeum of the ancient Bosphorian kings. The Ol-Kars of
    Abulfeda.--Forst.

[16] This is nearly on the same spot with the Theodosia of the Greeks and
    Romans.--Forst.

[17] Otherwise Soldadia, Soldadia, or more properly Sugdaja, now Sudak or
    Suday, by which name it is mentioned in Abulfeda.--Forst.

[18] Grasui, or Grusui, now unknown, perhaps stood at a place now called
    Krusi-musen, which seems to preserve some traces of the name.--Forst

[19] Called likewise Cimbolo, the [Greek: Symbolan Hormoos] or [Greek:
    lymaen], the Buluk-lawa of the moderns, or Limen.--Forst.

[20] Otherwise Sherson and Schurschi; which was formerly called Cherson
    Trachea, and was built 600 years before the Christian era, by the
    inhabitants of Heraclea in Pontus. It was also called Chersonesus, or
    the Peninsula; but that term properly signified the whole of the
    peninsula between this harbour and Symbolon or Limen, which was
    entirely occupied by the Greeks. The Russians took this place in the
    reign of Wolodimer the great, and it is called Korsen in their annals.
    By the Turks, it is named Karaje-burn. It must be carefully
    distinguished from another Cherson on the Dnieper, at no great
    distance, but not in the peninsula.--Forst.

[21] This seems a corruption of Klimata; as all the towns named by Barbaro
    formerly belonged to [Greek: chastxa ton chlimata]  of the Greeks, and
    all belonged till lately to the Turks.--Forst.

[22] This is a place at the mouth of the Dniester called Ak-Kierman by the
    Turks; Tshelatalba by the Walachians; Belgorod by the Russians; Aspro
    Kastra by the Greeks; and Moncastro by the Genoese. It was the Alba
    Julia, of the Romans.--Forst.

[23] This circumstance was before noticed by Rubruquis, and is likewise
    mentioned by Busbeck. Father Mohndorf met with many slaves in the
    gallies at Constantinople, who were descended from the Goths, and
    spoke a dialect of German. Now that the Crimea belongs to Russia, it
    is to be wished that the remaining traces of the Gothic language may
    be inquired after; as this language might serve to explain and
    illustrate the remains we still possess of Ulfila's translation of the
    gospels into Gothic; while the names and customs of this people,
    together with many of their phrases and turns of expression, might
    throw light on the manners and customs of the ancient Germans. It is
    even possible, that some families among them, of the higher rank, may
    still possess some books in their ancient language, which would be a
    very important discovery.--Forst.

[24] Otherwise called Erdir, Erdil, Atel, Athol, Etilia, and now the Volga
    or Wolga.--Forst.

[25] Likewise named Citracan and Astrakhan, Astracan.--Forst.

[26] There is an obvious blunder here, for this account of the trade must
    be understood as follows: "That the trade in silks and spices from the
    East, which now come by way of Syria, came over land by way of
    Astracan to Tanna, whence it was transported by sea to Venice." The
    concluding sentence, "That no other nation but the Venetians then
    traded with Syria," is quite inexplicable; as the Syrian trade could
    not possibly come to Venice by way of Astracan and Tanna. The various
    routes of trade from India or the East to Western Europe, before the
    Portuguese discovered the way by sea, have been well illustrated by Dr
    Robertson; and will be explained in the course of this work.--E.

[27] Riazan on the Oka, the capital of a province or the same name.--E.

[28] Even at present, they make an inebriating liquor in Russia, from
    millet, called busa, which is very heady, and is probably what is
    named bossa in the text--Forst.

[29] I strongly suspect that this passage is wrong translated, and that it
    ought to have been, that the castle as encompassed with wooden walls,
    as it is well known that the city of Moscow environs the castle or
    Kremlin.--E.

[30] This expression has no meaning. Barbaro probably wrote that four
    pounds could be had at Moscow for the same money that would buy one in
    Venice.--E.

[31] The Caspian, besides the names of Bochri and Bakhu, is likewise called
    the sea of Khozar, and the sea of Tabristan.--E.

[32] Zagathai was one of the sons of the great conqueror Zingis Khan, and
    received that part of the empire for his share, which comprehended
    Turkistan, Mawaralnahar, and Kuaresm; which extensive country took
    from him the name of Zagathai.--Forst.

    The furs mentioned in the text could not be brought from this country,
    which besides, is to the _south-east_ of Kasan. To the north-east lies
    Siberia, the true country of fine furs; and which Barbara, by mistake,
    must have named Zagathai: though perhaps it might at one time form
    part of that extensive empire.--E

[33] Moxia is the country of the Morduanians, one tribe of whom call
    themselves Mokscha, or Moxa.--Forst.

[34] This word signifies the New Castle; of this name there are two cities
    and provinces in European Russia, Novogorod proper, and Nisney
    Novogorod: The former is the one here meant.--E.

[35] This is near Wilna in Lithuania.--Forst.

[36] I imagine that Slonym is here meant; formerly a place of note, and
    which used to be the appanege of one of the Lithuanian princes.
    --Forst.

[37] Varsonich is an evident corruption for Varsovich, or Warsaw, the
    capital of Masurea or Masovia.--Forst.

[38] It is not easy to determine the situation of _Mersaga_; but, as on the
    borders of Poland, towards Brandenburgh, and in the direction of
    Francfort on the Oder, it is probable that Meseriz, or Miedzyrzyez, is
    here meant.--Forst.


END OF VOLUME FIRST.