Produced by Roger Frank and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


[Illustration: HE DREW REIN AND LOOKED AT THE GREAT RANGE TO
THE SOUTHEAST.]

THE EAGLE'S HEART

HAMLIN GARLAND
SUNSET EDITION

HARPER & BROTHERS
NEW YORK AND LONDON

------------------------------------------------------------------------

COPYRIGHT, 1900, BY HAMLIN GARLAND

------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONTENTS

PART I

    I.--HIS YOUTH                                     1
   II.--HIS LOVE AFFAIRS                             11
  III.--THE YOUNG EAGLE STRIKES                      23
   IV.--THE TRIAL                                    35
    V.--THE EAGLE'S EYES GROW DIM                    51
   VI.--THE CAGE OPENS                               72
  VII.--ON THE WING                                  83
 VIII.--THE UPWARD TRAIL                             96
   IX.--WAR ON THE CANNON BALL                      123
    X.--THE YOUNG EAGLE MOUNTS                      143
   XI.--ON THE ROUND-UP                             157

PART II

  XII.--THE YOUNG EAGLE FLUTTERS THE DOVE-COTE      175
 XIII.--THE YOUNG EAGLE DREAMS OF A MATE            199
  XIV.--THE YOUNG EAGLE RETURNS TO HIS EYRIE        220

PART III

   XV.--THE EAGLE COMPLETES HIS CIRCLE              233
  XVI.Seven years since it was Parsondes after illuminating
 the world with his teachings, and to become more worthy
of his disciples, had disappeared without anyone seeing
  him again, nor alive nor dead. Good believers were
   thus assured that Parsondes had climbed to the region
  of the uncreated light, near-Ahura Mazda, which shone almost as
much as Amschaspandes and Izeds and where eclipses, with its own
_feruer_ beatific glow.

There still an active member in the army of spirits bright against
the prince of darkness Ahrimanes, whose pride had been humiliated
in this earthly life, and whose empire contributed, significantly
to destroy another life, trying to be made holy triumph of hope
definitive of good over evil.

The sectarian religion of Ahura-Mazda believed, therefore, a closed
fist, which Parsondes was counted in the number of twenty or thirty
great prophets, precursors and followers of Zoroaster to the
consummation of the centuries.

Although in Susa and across the empire of the Medes, with tributary
kingdoms, had several men from other religions and beliefs, and
nearly all respected equally divinized Parsondes, albeit for different
styles.

Some said they had found the arrow of Abaris and had gone through
the air, mounted in it, others had been raised to the empyrean
throne of Solomon, or floating in a chariot of fire, others that
the dragon Musar, which in ancient civilizations to the most remote
Assyrians, and had the body of fish, head of a man and a woman's
legs, he had been brought to his palace submarine at the bottom of
the Persian Gulf.

In resolution, although by different ways, all agreed that Parsondes,
the virtuous and wise, was living with the gods.

In the public squares of Susa were revered image, crowned the head of a
horned miter fifteen, because of the fifteen capital virtues that shines
forth in him, and dress the body of a dress cut full of other characters
even stranger in our days, but then do not be. Meanwhile, poor lifestyle,
luxury, dissipation, and the courtship festivals wasteful iban
rising from the death or disappearance of Parsondes who, while
living among us, merely condemn those abuses.

The King of Babylon, Nanar, a tributary of my August master Art, King
of Media, had broken all brake and ran rampant in the way of luxury. We
acusábamos to Nanar as Parsondes accused him before, but our voice, less
authoritative than their own, did not touch the heart of Art, he decided
not to dethrone Nanar, and put another King in Babylon more moderate.

Nanar was that Sardanápalo infidel and libertine, and in Babylon and not
to worship God and to the military interest, or as it were,
to Venus. In vain my comrades and I predicábamos against corruption. The
common people and nobility we laughed in the face. Vengábamos We talk
about the holy life Parsondes and put it in contrast with the life
they led.

Iban So things when I made a call mañanita Art early in his presence. -
There is hope, he said, of that Parsondes still alive, but if he
died, we must take revenge and punish his killer, who can be none
other than King Nanar. - Your wisdom, sir, I replied, is as light,
which penetrates and discovers all.

Beat the crocodile in wisdom and insight into the lynx, but how do you
know that Parsondes can still live, and if dead, his murderer has
been Nanar? Do they not assured that the wizards Parsondes is in heaven?
Have not found astrologers on the vault a blue star, never seen before,
and have not recognized that the soul of star Parsondes - This is the
truth, "said the King, but I've come to find out, by disclosing
dissatisfied with some gentlemen Nanar Babylonians, he, furious
Parsondes what cried out against him, seven years has sent emissaries
around for clothes and secretly bring him to his palace, and there
must be Parsondes, or dead, or suffering horrible torments. - Ah,
sir!

I exclaimed to the point, prostrate at the feet of the King, an evil
revenge is just as frightening. It allows me to be the instrument of
your revenge, and wanted to save my master's in captivity, if not
dead, it is. The King told me that I had to call me instantly and
prepare as due to the escort, and strict orders to theirs Nanar me
answer with his life from the holy man, or release him. The same
day, which was one of the hottest of summer, I left a great car
in Susa drawn by four horses Arabs.

The rumors of the preacher's stern measures softened the judgment of
some of the townspeople, who shifted some of the blame of the son to the
shoulders of the sire. Harry called his father "the minister," and
seemed to have no regard for him beyond a certain respect for his
physical strength. When boys came by and raised the swimming sign he
replied, "Wait till I ask 'the minister.'" This was considered "queer"
in him.

He ignored his stepmother completely, but tormented his sister Maud in a
thousand impish ways. He disarranged her neatly combed hair. He threw
mud on her dress and put carriage grease on her white stockings on
picnic day. He called her "chiny-thing," in allusion to her pretty round
cheeks and clear complexion, and yet he loved her and would instantly
fight for her, and no one else dared tease her or utter a word to annoy
her. She was fourteen years of age when Mr. Excell came to town, and at
sixteen considered herself a young lady. As suitors began to gather
about her, they each had a vigorous trial to undergo with Harold; it was
indeed equivalent to running the gantlet. Maud was always in terror of
him on the evenings when she had callers.

One day he threw a handful of small garter snakes into the parlor where
his sister sat with young Mr. Norton. Maud sprang to a chair screaming
wildly, while her suitor caught the snakes and threw them from the
window just as the minister's tall form darkened the doorway.

"What is the matter?" he asked.

Maud, eager to shield Harry, said: "Oh, nothing much, papa--only one of
Harry's jokes."

"Tell me," said the minister to the young man, who, with a painful smile
on his face, stammeringly replied:

"Harry thought he'd scare me, that's all. It didn't amount to much."

"I insist on knowing the truth, Mr. Norton," the minister sternly
insisted.

As Norton described the boy's action, Mr. Excell's face paled and his
lips set close. His eyes became terrible to meet, and the beaded sweat
of his furious anger stood thick on his face. "Thank you," he said with
ominous calmness, and turning without another word, went to his study.

His wife, stealing up, found the door locked and her husband walking the
floor like a roused tiger. White and shaking with a sort of awe, Mrs.
Excell ran down to the kitchen where Harold crouched and said:

"Harold, dear, you'd better go out to Mr. Burns' right away."

Harold understood perfectly what she meant and fled. For hours neither
Mrs. Excell nor Maud spoke above a whisper. When the minister came down
to tea he made no comment on Harry's absence. He had worn out his
white-hot rage, but was not yet in full control of himself.

He remained silent, and kept his eyes on his plate during the meal.

The last time he had punished Harold the scene narrowly escaped a tragic
ending. When the struggle ended Harold lay on the floor, choked into
insensibility.

When he had become calm and Harold was sleeping naturally in his own
bed, the father knelt at his wife's knee and prayed God for grace to
bear his burden, and said:

"Mary, keep us apart when we are angry. He is like me: he has my
fiendish temper. No matter what I say or do, keep us apart till I am
calm. By God's grace I will never touch his flesh again in anger."

Nevertheless he dared not trust himself to refer to the battles which
shamed them all. The boy was deeply repentant, but uttered no word of
it. And so they grew ever more silent and vengeful in their intercourse.

Harold early developed remarkable skill with horses, and once rode in
the races at the County Fair, to the scandal of the First Church. He not
only won the race, but was at once offered a great deal of money to go
with the victor to other races. To his plea the father, with deep-laid
diplomacy, replied:

"Very well; study hard this year and next year you may go." But the boy
was just at the age to take on weight rapidly, and by the end of the
year was too heavy, and the owner of the horse refused to repeat his
offer. Harold did not fail to remark how he had been cheated, but said
nothing more of his wish to be a jockey.

He was also fond of firearms, and during his boyhood his father tried in
every way to keep weapons from him, and a box in his study contained a
contraband collection of his son's weapons. There was a certain pathos
in this little arsenal, for it gave evidence of considerable labor on
the boy's part, and expressed much of buoyant hope and restless energy.

There were a half-dozen Fourth of July pistols, as many cannons for
crackers, and three attempts at real guns intended to explode powder and
throw a bullet. Some of them were "toggled up" with twine, and one or
two had handles rudely carved out of wood. Two of them were genuine
revolvers which he had managed to earn by working in the harvest field
on the Burns' farm.

From his fifteenth year he was never without a shotgun and revolver. The
shotgun was allowed, but the revolver was still contraband and kept
carefully concealed. On Fourth of July he always helped to fire the
anvil and fireworks, for he was deft and sure and quite at home with
explosives. He had acquired great skill with both gun and pistol as
early as his thirteenth year, and his feats of marksmanship came now and
then to the ears of his father.

The father and son were in open warfare. Harold submitted to every
command outwardly, but inwardly vowed to break all restraint which he
considered useless or unjust.

His great ambition was to acquire a "mustang pony," for all the
adventurous spirits of the dime novels he had known carried revolvers
and rode mustangs. He did not read much, but when he did it was always
some tale of fighting. He was too restless and active to continue at a
book of his own accord for any length of time, but he listened
delightedly to any one who consented to read for him. When his sister
Maud wished to do him a great favor and to enjoy his company (for she
loved him dearly) she read Daredevil Dan, or some similar story, while
he lay out on his stomach in the grass under the trees, with restless
feet swinging like pendulums. At such times his face was beautiful with
longing, and his eyes became dark and dreamy. "I'm going there, Beauty,"
he would say as Maud rolled out the word _Colorado_ or _Brazos_. "I'm
going there. I won't stay here and rot. I'll go, you'll see, and I'll
have a big herd of cattle, too."

His gentlest moments were those spent with his sister in the fields or
under the trees. As he grew older he became curiously tender and
watchful of her. It pleased him to go ahead of her through the woods, to
pilot the way, and to help her over ditches or fences. He loved to lead
her into dense thickets and to look around and say: "There, isn't this
wild, though? You couldn't find your way out if it wasn't for me, could
you?" And she, to carry out the spirit of the story, always shuddered
and said, "Don't leave me to perish here."

Once, as he lay with his head in the grass, he suddenly said: "Can't you
hear the Colorado roar?"

The wind was sweeping over the trees, and Maud, eager to keep him in
this gentle mood, cried: "I hear it; it is a wonderful river, isn't it?"

He did not speak again for a moment.

"Oh, I want to be where there is nobody west of me," he said, a look of
singular beauty on his face. "Don't you?"

"N--no, I don't," answered Maud. "But, then, I'm a girl, you know; we're
afraid of wild things, most of us."

"Dot Burland isn't."

"Oh, she only pretends; she wants you to think she's brave."

"That's a lie." He said it so savagely that Maud hastened to apologize.


CHAPTER II

HIS LOVE AFFAIRS


Naturally a lad of this temper had his loves. He made no secret of them,
and all the young people in the town knew his sweethearts and the
precise time when his passion changed its course. If a girl pleased him
he courted her with the utmost directness, but he was by no
interpretation a love-sick youth. His likings were more in the nature of
proprietary comradeship, and were expressed without caresses or ordinary
words of endearment.

His courtship amounted to service. He waited about to meet and help his
love, he hastened to defend her and to guide her; and if the favored one
knew her rôle she humored his fancies, permitting him to aid her in
finding her way across a weedy pasture lot or over a tiny little brook
which he was pleased to call a torrent. A smile of derision was fatal.
He would not submit to ridicule or joking. At the first jocular word his
hands clinched and his eyes flamed with anger. His was not a face of
laughter; for the most part it was serious in expression, and his eyes
were rapt with dreams of great deeds.

He had one mate to whom he talked freely, and him he chose often to be
his companion in the woods or on the prairies. This was John Burns, son
of a farmer who lived near the town. Harry spent nearly every Saturday
and Sunday during the summer months on the Burns farm. He helped Jack
during haying and harvest, and when their tasks were done the two boys
wandered away to the bank of the river and there, under some great
basswood tree on delicious sward, they lay and talked of wild animals
and Indians and the West. At this time the great chieftains of the
Sioux, Sitting Bull and Gall, were becoming famous to the world, and the
first reports of the findings of gold in the Black Hills were being
made. A commission appointed by President Grant had made a treaty with
the Sioux wherein Sitting Bull was told, "If you go to this new
reservation and leave Dakota to the settlers, you shall be unmolested so
long as grass grows and water runs."

But the very guard sent in to protect this commission reported "gold in
the grass roots," and the insatiate greed of the white man broke all
bounds--the treaty was ignored, and Sitting Bull, the last chieftain of
the Sioux, calling his people together, withdrew deeper into the
wilderness of Wyoming. The soldiers were sent on the trail, and the
press teemed for months with news of battles and speeches and campaigns.

All these exciting events Harry and his friend Jack read and discussed
hotly. Jack was eager to own a mine. "I'd like to pick up a nugget," he
said, but Harold was not interested. "I don't care to mine; I'd like to
be with General Custer. I'd like to be one of the scouts. I'd like to
have a coat like that." He pointed at one of the pictures wherein two or
three men in fringed buckskin shirts and wide hats were galloping across
a rocky plain.

Many times as the two boys met to talk over these alluring matters the
little town and the dusty lanes became exceedingly tame and commonplace.

Harold's eyes glowed with passion as he talked to his sweetheart of
these wild scenes, and she listened because he was so alluring as he lay
at her feet, pouring out a vivid recital of his plans.

"I'm not going to stay here much longer," he said; "it's too dull. I
can't stand much more school. If it wasn't for you I'd run away right
now."

Dot only smiled back at him and laid her hand on his hair. She was his
latest sweetheart. He loved her for her vivid color, her abundant and
beautiful hair, and also because she was a sympathetic listener. She, on
her part, enjoyed the sound of his eager voice and the glow of his deep
brown eyes. They were both pupils in the little seminary in the town,
and he saw her every day walking to and from the recitation halls. He
often carried her books for her, and in many other little ways insisted
on serving her.

Almost without definable reason the "Wild West" came to be a land of
wonder, lit as by some magical light. Its cañons, _arroyos_, and
mesquite, its bronchos, cowboys, Indians, and scouts filled the boy's
mind with thoughts of daring, not much unlike the fancies of a boy in
the days of knight errantry.

Of the Indians he held mixed opinions. At times he thought of them as a
noble race, at others--when he dreamed of fame--he wished to kill a
great many of them and be very famous. Most of the books he read were
based upon the slaughter of the "redskins," and yet at heart he wished
to be one of them and to taste the wild joy of their poetic life, filled
with hunting and warfare. Sitting Bull, Chief Gall, Rain-in-the-Face,
Spotted Tail, Star-in-the-Brow, and Black Buffalo became wonder-working
names in his mind. Every line in the newspapers which related to the
life of the cowboys or Indians he read and remembered, for his plan was
to become a part of it as soon as he had money enough to start.

There were those who would have contributed five dollars each to send
him, for he was considered a dangerous influence among the village boys.
If a window were broken by hoodlums at night it was counted against the
minister's son. If a melon patch were raided and the fruit scattered and
broken, Harold was considered the ringleader. Of the judgments of their
elders the rough lads were well aware, and they took pains that no word
of theirs should shift blame from Harold's shoulders to their own. By
hints and sly remarks they fixed unalterably in the minds of their
fathers and mothers the conception that Harold was a desperately bad and
reckless boy. In his strength, skill, and courage they really believed,
and being afraid of him, they told stories of his exploits, even among
themselves, which bordered on the marvelous.

In reality he was not a leader of these raids. His temperament was not
of that kind. He did not care to assume direction of an expedition
because it carried too much trouble and some responsibility. His mind
was wayward and liable to shift to some other thing at any moment;
besides, mischief for its own sake did not appeal to him. The real
leaders were the two sons of the village shoemaker. They were
under-sized, weazened, shrewd, sly little scamps, and appeared not to
have the resolution of chickadees, but had a singular genius for getting
others into trouble. They knew how to handle spirits like Harold. They
dared him to do evil deeds, taunted him (as openly as they felt it safe
to do) with cowardice, and so spurred him to attempt some trifling
depredation merely as a piece of adventure. Almost invariably when they
touched him on this nerve Harold responded with a rush, and when
discovery came was nearly always among the culprits taken and branded,
for his pride would not permit him to sneak and run. So it fell out that
time after time he was found among the grape stealers or the melon
raiders, and escaped prosecution only because the men of the town laid
it to "boyish deviltry" and not to any deliberate intent to commit a
crime.

After his daughter married Mr. Excell made another effort to win the
love of his son and failed. Harold cared nothing for his father's
scholarship or oratorical powers, and never went to church after he was
sixteen, but he sometimes boasted of his father among the boys.

"If father wasn't a minister, he'd be one of the strongest men in this
town," he said once to Jack. "Look at his shoulders. His arms are hard,
too. Of course he can't show his muscle, but I tell you he can box and
swing dumb-bells."

If the father had known it, in the direction of athletics lay the road
to the son's heart, but the members of the First Church were not
sufficiently advanced to approve of a muscular minister, and so Mr.
Excell kept silent on such subjects, and swung his dumb-bells in
private. As a matter of fact, he had been a good hunter in his youth in
Michigan, and might have won his son's love by tales of the wood, but he
did not.

For the most part, Harold ignored his father's occasional moments of
tenderness, and spent the larger part of his time with his sister or at
the Burns' farm.

Mr. and Mrs. Burns saw all that was manly and good in the boy, and they
stoutly defended him on all occasions.

"The boy is put upon," Mrs. Burns always argued. "A quieter, more
peaceabler boy I never knew, except my own Jack. They're good, helpful
boys, both of 'em, and I don't care what anybody says."

Jack, being slower of thought and limb, worshiped his chum, whose
alertness and resource humbled him, though he was much the better
scholar in all routine work. He read more than Harold, but Harold seized
upon the facts and transmitted them instantly into something vivid and
dramatic. He assumed all leadership in the hunting, and upon Jack fell
all the drudgery. He always did the reading, also, while Harold listened
and dreamed with eyes that seemed to look across miles of peaks. His was
the eagle's heart; wild reaches allured him. Minute beauties of garden
or flower were not for him. The groves along the river had long since
lost their charm because he knew their limits--they no longer appealed
to his imagination.

A hundred times he said: "Come, let's go West and kill buffalo.
To-morrow we will see the snow on Pike's Peak." The wild country was so
near, its pressure day by day molded his mind. He had no care or thought
of cities or the East. He dreamed of the plains and horses and herds of
buffalo and troops of Indians filing down the distant slopes. Every poem
of the range, every word which carried flavor of the wild country, every
picture of a hunter remained in his mind.

However, since the quantity of the small world masses to the bosom
of the great world entschlüpft area were at the beginning countless
great to be, so they almost float on each other must have been,
but also the direction of their initial run, which to them by the
constituent substances mitgetheilt was not yet duly ordered did want so
it was natural that they encounter each other, thereby falling on
each other, and had to increase in mass. When this quantity was
low, it was also the confluence of that no longer so often done,
therefore making them more calm enjoyed in its interior, and were
wealthy, they added some of them be dropped, and layers and nuclei
in its interior to form.

Bildungsart This is exactly the same but after the general laws of
gravity erfolget after the water in a glass and the hineingeschütteten
is umhergerührten Erdtheile fall leaves, after which the heaviest
Theile first, this slightly less severe, and last the easiest of
them fall down, which makes then different soil layers on the same
form and accumulate.

At just This also had the small world masses, since they are still in
their liquid states were, they added substances can fall down, according
to the points of their common focus was and stood in their midst. To
this reiheten Thus, the substances according to their gravity, spherical,
and thus formed in the various earth earth. In this way, the interior
thereof are not hollow, not even by fire or water, but it must,
according to the calculation of the Englishman Hutten, the third or
fourth portion of it with a metal mass to be filled [A]. Since we are
not up to her inside, by means of the water which comes from the oceans,
the rivers and springs in the earth crust anywhere hineindrängt
and what is therefore to fill each well, hineindringen can [B], so
we know it only their bark, and this only up to a depth of 3000
feet, that is until siebentausendsten Theile its full thickness [C].

[Note A: When measuring a level on Earth 1735-1738 Bouguer and Condamine
remarked that the 20000 feet high Chimborasso in Peru in South
America, consisting of granite, the pendulum by 7-8 lines of the
vertical line, and to be moved, which is also in 1774 in the mountains
in Scotland Shelallien of Maskelyne, the more than 300 observations
employed the same has been observed, which is a comparison of the
attractiveness of the granite mountains of the earth and given it
has inferred that the gravitational pull of the earth to the mountains
like this 9 to 5 behave.

Now that the tightness of the granite 2 ½ times larger than that
of water, it follows that the mean density of the earth 4 ½ times
greater than that of the water must be.]

[Note B: If even in the depths of the Earth distressed hindsight
Get the water to their not prevented, so would the pressure of the
air, each with increasing depth, from their over-position air column
becomes bigger, such verstatten not by affecting the air at a depth
of 7 miles so compressed is that iron on it, at a depth of 11 miles
of gold, and at a depth of 12 to 13 miles Platina, which, as we
know, 21 times heavier than water, floats.

How should the man now by this dense air to the interior of the
earth?

At a depth of _einer_ miles, he would perhaps have to swim it.] [Note
C: This has the depth of mine in Kutná Hora in Bohemia. Since the
radius of the earth, whatever their thickness makes the same 860
geogr.

Miles is, it makes this depth of her = (860 × 24000) / 3000 feet =
7000 feet from.]

Following the general seriousness, we should now in the earth crust, the
heaviest of all the rock masses, which is the granite mass, or the granite
layer, or the Granite Mountains everywhere as the lowest layer of earth
lying place. Should inform the limestone formation of the first, then
by the second or the Flötzgebirge and inform the rest aufgeschwemmte earth
dam. However, there is almost nowhere in the center of the earth capable
of that order, with the deep layers of nowhere completely wagerecht, but
soon soon less inclined, and many Oerter, as in the Mont Blanc, or even
nearly perpendicular but highlights.

And even in the Swiss Alps, the Carpathian Mountains in the Pyrenees and
in almost all the major mountains can be seen the immense rock masses
often fallen on his head and standing. Now and again, they are bent in a
curvilinear direction so that the hollow side down foreign hingewandt
is addressed. In short it is in the location and position of layers
and shape of any conceivable situation, which in this rock masses still
take place.

All of these enormous masses of rock in its interior by mighty columns,
cracks, fissures and Hohlungen in every possible way from each
other separately, which was soon in a horizontal, direction soon
in slate enormous lengths to get there by running, and soon standing
vertically, as if rock walls of rock walls and pushed each other
to push would have been encountered, and that occasionally metal
masses, even want with vegetable and animal products have.

And of those on the outside are all way over each other hingeworfenen
and occasionally overturned rock masses through the wide and deep Thäler
[A] separated from each other, so deep lakes, and arose again, and
although it is very striking is that you often This page is a
different rock layer, and made out to be quite different than on
the other side sees.

[Note A: The great work of Saussüre, over the Alps, is full of
evidence that all Thäler up to their smallest ramifications, event
of the layers have been formed. p.

Gilbert Annals. Vol 22 p. 168] In addition to these great natural
wonders, which the attentive observer in silent astonishment, and
be astonished, and he referred to the usual way, by the power of
the fire and the Fluthen not able satisfactorily to explain, siehet
he rocks rubble of granite masses not just on planes, but also on
hills and mountains, far from their birthplaces, hingeworfen.

For example, the plains and hills of Germany and Italy, and the ridges
of the Jura mountains with granite blocks from the Alps that can
contribute to the heights of 5000 feet and the 950 foot deep and about 3
hours wide lake hinangefluthet are übersäet. But not alone on the
hills, plains and mountains of these two countries, but almost at all
levels, hills and mountains from all over Europe to the northern
mountains of this Erdtheils out are the granite blocks, and again
in significant quantity and size [A] ausgestreuet.

And even in South America in the region of Potosi you can find pieces of
granite rocks, without Errath how and where they are coming here.
And just as the earth crust on their surface with granite blocks
and other pieces of rock übersäet, it is also filled her affairs
in order, and they lie is just as scattered and spread out, as on
its surface.

[Note A: For example, the cubic foot 30-40000 containing granite
block, resulting in the pedestal to the column picture of Peter
the Great has been made in the Gulf of Finland, situated on a
limestone.

And at the island of Usedom rise several granite peaks in the Baltic
seas rise, and the Swedish province of Scania, as well as the
Jutland peninsula are those with plenty of granite rubble filled so that
these walls, churches, etc. have been built.] This is only small
and poorly represented by painting the inside of the earth, and what
you have more detail in de la Metherie's theory of the earth in
the 2nd Theile, miner's physical description of the globe in the
1st Theile, Saussure's Alpine journeys and in the investigations
on the origin and the training of the current arrangement of the
building from the world of marshals Bieberstein can, therefore,
follows that our City by powerful revolutions in its interior
destroyed and had been smashed.

Now that such destruction 1) not by the power of the underground fire,
which some want to ravage parts of the earth's surface, lift rock
masses and they can smash, but not immense masses of rocks over
rocks to hurl masses, and how they umzustürzen walls and walls lined
by mountain ranges , of 70 miles, as the Pyrenees, and from 1700
miles, as the Cordilleras in America, to form the interview - and
2) even through the power of Fluthen by the fact that earlier-mentioned
phenomena do not explain can be produced could it be a different,
far more powerful cause of this great revolution in the interior
of the earth have.

And this is no different and can not be other than a foreign firm
often Aufstürzen world masses on our planet, so that the bark is
destroyed, their masses umhergeworfen rock and rock masses with
strangers have been mixed.

The assertion of this truth will be through the following points ,
I believe, sufficiently to convince: 1) by the previously described
shattered construction of the earth's crust, particularly in its
large mountains, 2) by the previously mentioned over the world small
masses, in all due form, have not yet been arranged, as I mentioned
earlier did.

And 3) by the appearance of so many world still untrained masses who are
still the heart of the world's major space entschlüpfen if it is always
through the extensive material world to the world masses and world
bodies have formed, of which the smaller masses, under the names
of fire balls, shooting stars Meteor and stones, as long as in the
creation space walk until their momentum by the close of any major
world body weakened or want to completely destroyed, then where an
association of their mass with that of the sizes are.

This is to convince us the following examples: In the year 1676 21. March
seemed such a ball, about ¼ mile in diameter German owned, and at a
speed of 160 geogr. Miles in a minute over Dalmatia, the Adriatic Sea and
Italy then hastened, south of Livorno zersprang, smashed and fell
into the sea. In 1719, was such a ball in England observed that in a
minute 300 geogr. Miles appealed, so far the speed of the earth
in its course, which in a minute just 240 miles makes, surpassing,
3560 feet in diameter, possessed, and at an altitude of 64 German
miles was seen.

In the year 1758 was also such a ball beholds, which in a second 6 German
appealed miles, 4340 feet in diameter, and initially at a height of 20
and later of Germany 5-7 miles was seen. And the last appearance in this
way, the fireball of 1783, been which at a height from 12 to 13
German miles over England and France then geeilt and also in Rome
and Hamburg should have been observed.

Read more can be found by + D. + Chladni, "On the Origin of the Pallas
and others found similar iron compounds. Leipzig, 1794, "collected. These
strange phenomena that are not in our atmosphere, by only 9 to 10 miles
high, produced, and which is not borne by it and umhergeführt may be
because it is not once a drop of water umherzuführen can include the
meteor rocks, which man, because of their origin, now called
Cosmolithen, and some of them in a solid compact mass and some into
a porous shape, and Theil as dust and rain water herabgekommen to
us, and what the sizes masses of the weight of up to pounds _einem_
by _hunderttausend Pfunden_ and occasionally the size of a house had.

For proof of this may serve the following examples: first the stone,
dropping his bugged by witnesses in court with documents and duly
confirmed, the on 26 May 1751 in the driving shaft in the upper
Agram Sclavonien herabfiel.

To this day, we noticed that the evening at 6 clock against the
sky vault East a kind of fiery ball, which, after some of them in two
with very large, a cannon shot taken on bang was burst into pieces,
in the form of two entangled chains in each other with such noise, as
if a lot of cars through the air gewälzt would have been like on Earth,
and what a piece, 71 pounds heavy, eight days into a previously plowed
field, three fathoms deep into the ground hineingedrungen is the
other piece , 16 pounds heavy, is on a meadow, 2000 Step away from
that, fallen down, and wrote a column of 2 Ellen far behind.

From these two pieces is greater, together with the instrument on by
the Bishop of Agram Consistorium at the Imperial in Vienna Naturalienkabinet
been sent, where it is stored.

Another stone of this kind is what 190 pounds heavy, and has been on
the City Hall or Rathaus to elbow in Bohemia, under the name of
the accursed Burggraf, once lay, now at the Imperial in Vienna
Naturalienkabinet also kept.

Another stone of 270 pounds is Ensisheim in Upper Alsace in 1492 the 7th
November fell down.

In 1622 the 10th January is in Devonshire in England a stone mass of
3 ½ feet long, 2 ½ feet wide and 2 ½ feet thick, a yard deep in
the earth beaten.

In 1668 19 or 21 Junius large rocks fell down in Verona, of which one
weighed 200 pounds. These stones have an excellent person who belongs
to which of a porous material and the Pallas in 1772 in Siberia has
found the 1600 pounds was difficult, and from which the residents have
told him that he had fallen from the sky, so it like a Heiligthum
revered.

And one of the largest stones of this type include 1) the one who in
winter 1740 or 1741 in Greenland, the size of a house, with a terrible
thunder, which the people have woken up, fell down. And also in Thuringia
is just a stone of this size in the year 1135 or 1136 have fallen
to low. 2) The stone from which Mr. von Humboldt in his "Essai
politique + etc. sur la nouvelle Espagne chap. 8. p. 293 + "mentioned
that he had 300 to 400 quintals, and was difficult in the area of
Dorango located in Mexico.

And finally 3) those which Platoflusse on Bougainville, the 100,000
pounds to his weight should have seen before.

Also heard here is most likely the iron rocks on the right bank of the
Senegal, whose mass of the Negroes forge their tools by this totally rocks
isolirt to places that seem to be [A].

[Note A: The geography is always in the case of iron Senegambien
this seems to be.] Apart from these solid masses, which to us
herabgekommen are also those in dust and rain, as I have already
given to us yet.

Among the strangest of dust rain this kind erstlich one who, on 14
March 1813 has fallen in Calabria, where a lot of Rothem dove,
coming from the sea, under the rain, lightning, thunder and a special
noise, and occasionally mixed with stones, fell to Earth, where the
air darkened hours and the whole area with fear and terror has been
filled.

And at the same time, a red snow in Friuli like his. Secondly, here is
one of the strong dust rain, which at the end of September in 1815 at
the East India seas occurred, even where the same on the second day
in a width of 50 German miles, with a high covered with red dust
was [A].

[Note A: More on this can be found in the lists of fallen coal and
iron masses of Chladni, and continued in the directories of these
masses in the 22nd and 23 Gang of Gilbert's Annalen, and in the
first journal of 1818.]

All of these masses, which most days at the sky as colorful,
oddly-designed clouds, and at night in the form of burning, with
glowing vapors and surrounded by a supporting tails spheres have
shown, and all their stock in view of some of them are making a
condition can now be no Erdprodukte.

Because if this, then they should fire from mountains and ejected them
from umhergeschleudert have been, and it then they would have in
the area of these mountains most for you, but where you will find
almost none.

And if they come from mountains in the north and south poles, of
which we know nothing, there should be ejected, so they would always
be one and ebenderselben area, and not from all the world to us.

Moreover, the mountains are not wealthy, such masses of 100 to
100,000 pounds to a height from 60 to 100 miles hurl and throw them
a force by which they have led have been mitzutheilen.

Even the mighty thunderbolt such masses are not capable of the rock peaks
to tear, and in such an amount to hurl, so can these meteor masses not
be Erdprodukte. 2) Can these masses, as some have believed, not even
from the moons came to us, and yet by the same to us, because +
a) + the number, which indicates Chladni to 300, much too large,
and + b ) + both run because the world body, the earth and the moon,
from their arrival moons ago in a elliptical orbit verstatten could
be why it only rarely these masses meteor could fall on us.

The great geometer _La Place_ the mechanics of the world structure
we discovered and revealed, was by the sight of the many craters on the
moons, the fiercest of the revolutions, which at the same must have taken
place, persuade, even to the thought brought that the meteor masses
want from us Monde hergeschleudert could be.

But when he began to be calculated, and found that such a mass in a second
7773 foot had [A] to the areas of the attraction of the moon into the
earth to come, so he gave his opinion on. + + Also Dr. Olbers was also
the beginning of this opinion, if the moon is at its perigee of 48,000
miles to hold, and both the world body, earth and moon, in a
retirement are.

But since this is not the case, so must every body on the moons of the
movement speed and direction so mitgetheilt are the same as he has.
This would remove the stone in the barrel of a parabolic arch to be
moved, but not on Earth. And 3) can not be mass produced in the atmosphere,
because + a) + it is only 9 to 10 miles high, and the masses at a height
from 60 to 100 miles, as the calculations show that [B], beholds
have been. + b) + Is the atmosphere at an altitude of 20 miles so
thin that _eine_ cubic miles of air not more than _ein_ pounds.

As it is now conceivable that at this level and even less in the 60 to
100 miles to iron masses from 1000 to 100,000 pounds could have?

Because where is the substance to exist at this level?
The judge, an untidy old man of great ability and probity, was in his
seat, looking out absently over the spectators. "The next case" to him
was _only_ a case. He had grown gray in dealing with infractions of the
law, and though kindly disposed he had grown indifferent--use had dulled
his sympathies. His beard, yellow with tobacco stain, was still
venerable, and his voice, deep and melodious, was impressive and
commanding.

He was disposed to cut short all useless forms, and soon brought the
case to vital questions. Naturally, the prosecution made a great deal of
Harold's bad character, drawing from ready witnesses the story of his
misdeeds. To do this was easy, for the current set that way, and those
who had only _thought_ Harold a bad boy now _knew_ that he was concerned
in all the mischief of the village.

In rebuttal, Mr. Talcott drew out contradictory statements from these
witnesses, and proved several alibis at points where Harold had been
accused. He produced Jack Burns and several others to prove that Harold
liked fun, but that he was not inclined to lead in any of the mischief
of the town--in fact, that he had not the quality of leadership.

He pushed young Burns hard to get him to say that he knew the words of
insult which Slocum had used. "I think he used some girl's name," he
finally admitted.

"I object," shouted the prosecution, as if touched on a hidden spring.

"Go on," said the judge to Talcott. He had become interested in the case
at last.

When the lawyer for the prosecution cross-examined young Burns he became
terrible. He leaned across the table and shook his lean, big-jointed
finger in Jack's face. "We don't want what you _think_, sir; we want
what you know. Do you _know_ that Slocum brought a girl's name into
this?"

"No, sir, I don't," replied Jack, red and perspiring.

"That's all!" cried the attorney, leaning back in his chair with
dramatic complacency.

Others of Harold's companions were brow-beaten into declaring that he
led them into all kinds of raids, and when Talcott tried to stem this
tide by objection, the prosecution rose to say that the testimony was
competent; that it was designed to show the dangerous character of the
prisoner. "He is no gentle and guileless youth, y'r Honor, but a
reckless young devil, given to violence. No one will go further than I
in admiration of the Reverend Mr. Excell, but the fact of the son's
lawless life can not be gainsaid."

Slocum repeated his story on the stand and was unshaken by Bradley's
cross-examination. Suddenly the defense said: "Stand, please."

Slocum arose--a powerful, full-grown man.

Bradley nodded at Harold. "Stand also."

"I object," shrieked the prosecution.

"State the objection," said the judge.

"Keep your position," said Bradley sternly. "I want the jury to compare
you."

As the prisoner and the witness faced each other the court room
blossomed with smiles. Harold looked very pale and delicate beside the
coarse, muscular hostler, who turned red and looked foolish.

Ultimately the judge sustained the objection, but the work was done. A
dramatic contrast had been drawn, and the jury perceived the
pusillanimity of Slocum's story. This was the position of the defense.
Harold was a boy, the hostler had insulted him, had indeed struck him
with a whip. Mad with rage, and realizing the greater strength of his
assailant, the prisoner had drawn a knife.

In rebuttal, the prosecution made much of Harold's fierce words. He
meant to kill. He was a dangerous boy. "Speaking with due reverence for
his parents," the lawyer said, "the boy has been a scourge. Again and
again he has threatened his playmates with death. These facts must
stand. The State is willing to admit the disparity of strength, so
artfully set forth by the defense, but it must not be forgotten that the
boy was known to carry deadly weapons, and that he was subject to blind
rages. It was not, therefore, so much a question of punishing the boy as
of checking his assaults upon society. To properly punish him here would
have a most salutary effect upon his action in future. The jury must
consider the case without sentiment."

Old Brown arose after the State had finished. Everyone knew his power
before a jury, and the room was painfully silent as he walked with
stately tread to a spittoon and cleared his mouth of a big wad of
tobacco. He was the old-fashioned lawyer, formal, deliberate; and though
everybody enjoyed Bradley Talcott's powerful speech, they looked for
drama from Brown. The judge waited patiently while the famous old lawyer
played his introductory part. At last, after silently pacing to and fro
for a full minute, he turned, and began in a hard, dry, nasal voice.

"Your Honor, I'm not so sure of the reforming effect of a penitentiary.
I question the salutary quality of herding this delicate and
high-spirited youth with the hardened criminals of the State." His
strident, monotonous tone, and the cynical inflections of his voice made
the spectators shiver with emotion as under the power of a great actor.
He paced before the judge twice before speaking again. "Your Honor,
there is more in this case than has yet appeared. Everyone in this room
knows that the elopement of Dorothy Burland is at the bottom of this
affair, everyone but yourself, judge. This lad was the accepted
sweetheart of that wayward miss. This man Slocum is one of the rough,
loud-spoken men of the village, schooled in vice and fisticuffery. You
can well imagine, gentlemen of the jury," he turned to them abruptly,
"you can well imagine the kind of a greeting this town loafer would give
this high-spirited boy on that morning after the night when his
_inamorata_ disappeared with a married man. The boy has in him somewhat
of the knight of the old time, your Honor; he has never opened his lips
in dispraise of his faithless love. He has refused to repeat the
insulting words of his assailant. He stands to-day at a turning point of
his life, gentlemen of the jury, and it depends on you whether he goes
downward or upward. He has had his faith in women shaken: don't let him
lose faith in law and earthly justice." His first gesture was on the
word "downward," and it was superb.

Again he paused, and when he looked up again a twinkle was in his eyes
and his voice was softer. "As for all this chicken roasting and melon
lifting, you well know the spirit that is in that; we all had a hand in
such business once, every man Jack of us. The boy is no more culpable
now than you were then. Moreover, Excell has had too much of the
mischief of the town laid on his shoulders--more than he deserves. 'Give
a dog a bad name and every dead sheep is laid at the door of his
kennel.'

"However, I don't intend to review the case, y'r Honor. My colleague has
made the main and vital points entirely clear; I intend merely to add a
word here and there. I want you to take another look at that pale,
handsome, poetic youth and then at that burly bully, and consider the
folly, the idiocy, and the cowardice of the charge brought against our
client." He waited while the contrast which his dramatic utterance made
enormously effective was being felt; then, in a deep, melodious voice,
touched with sadness, he addressed the judge:

"And to you, your Honor, I want to say we are old men. You on the bench
and I here in the forum have faced each other many times. I have
defended many criminals, as it was my duty to do, and you have punished
many who deserved their sentences. I have seen innocent men unable to
prove their freedom from guilt, and I have known men who are grossly
criminal, because of lack of evidence--these things are beyond our
cure. We are old, your Honor: we must soon give place to younger men. We
can not afford to leave bench and bar with the stain of injustice on our
garments. We can not afford to start this boy on the road to hell at
seventeen years of age."

He stopped as abruptly as he had begun, and the room was silent for a
long time after he had taken his seat. To Harold it seemed as though he
and all the people of the room were dead--that only his brain was alive.
Then Mrs. Excell burst into sobbing. The judge looked away into space,
his dim eyes seeing nothing that was near, his face an impassive mask of
colorless flesh. The old lawyer's words had stirred his blood, sluggish
and cold with age, but his brain absorbed the larger part of his roused
vitality, and when he spoke his voice had an unwontedly flat and dry
sound.

"The question for you to decide," he said, instructing the jury, "is
whether the boy struck the blow in self-defense, or whether he assaulted
with intent to do great bodily injury. The fact that he was provoked by
a man older and stronger than himself naturally militates in his favor,
but the next question is upon the boy's previous character. Did he carry
deadly weapons? Is he at heart dangerous to his fellows? His youth
should be in mind, but it should also be remembered that he is a lad of
high intellectual power, older than most men of his age. I will not
dwell upon the case; you have heard the testimony; the verdict is in
your keeping."

During all this period of severe mental strain Mr. Excell sat beside
Lawyer Brown, motionless as a statue, save when now and again he leaned
forward to whisper a suggestion. He did not look at his son, and Harold
seldom looked at him. Jack Burns sat as near the prisoner as the sheriff
would permit, and his homely, good face, and the face of the judge were
to Harold the only spots of light in the otherwise dark room. Outside
the voices of children could be heard and the sound of the rising wind
in the rustling trees. Once a breeze sent a shower of yellow and crimson
leaves fluttering in at the open window, and the boy's heart swelled
high in his throat, and he bowed his head and sobbed. Those leaves
represented the splendor of the open spaces to him. They were like
messages from the crimson sunsets of the golden West, and his heart
thrilled at the sight of them.

It was long after twelve o'clock, and an adjournment for dinner was
ordered. Harold was about to be led away when his father came to him and
said:

"Harold, would you like to have your mother and me go to dinner with
you?"

With that same unrelenting, stubborn frown on his face the boy replied:
"No--let me alone."

A hot flush swept over the preacher's face. "Very well," he said, and
turned away, his lips twitching.

The jury was not long out. They were ready to report at three o'clock.
Every seat was filled as before. The lawyers came in, picking their
teeth or smoking. The ladies were in Sunday dress, the young men were
accompanied by their girls, as if the trial were a dramatic
entertainment. Those who failed of regaining their seats were much
annoyed; others, more thrifty, had hired boys to keep their places for
them during the noon hour, and others, still more determined, having
brought lunches, had remained in their seats throughout the
intermission, and were serene and satisfied.

Harold was brought back to his seat looking less haggard. He was not
afraid of sentence; on the contrary he longed to have the suspense end.

"I don't care what they do with me if they don't use up too much of my
life," he said to Jack. "I'll pound rock or live in a dungeon if it will
only shorten my sentence. I hate to think of losing time. Oh, if I had
only gone last year!"

The Reverend Excell came in, looming high above the crowd, his face
still white and set. He paid no heed to his parishioners, but made his
way to the side of Lawyer Brown. The judge mounted his bench and the
court room came to order instantly.

"Is the jury ready to report on the case of the State _vs._ Excell?" he
asked in a low voice. He was informed that they were agreed. After the
jury had taken their seats he said blandly, mechanically: "Gentlemen, we
are ready for your verdict."

Harold knew the foreman very well. He was a carpenter and joiner in
whose shop he had often played--a big, bluff, good-hearted man whom any
public speaking appalled, and who stammered badly as he read from a
little slip of paper: "Guilty of assault with intent to commit great
bodily injury, but recommended to the mercy of the judge." Then, with
one hand in his breeches pocket, he added: "Be easy on him, judge; I
believe I'd 'a' done the same."

The spectators tittered at his abrupt change of tone, and some of the
young people applauded. He sat down very hot and red.

The judge did not smile or frown; his expressionless face seemed more
like a mask than ever. When he began to speak it was as though he were
reading something writ in huge letters on a distant wall.

"The Court is quite sensible of the extenuating circumstances attending
this sad case, but there are far-reaching considerations which the Court
can not forget. Here is a youth of good family, who elects to take up a
life filled with mischief from the start. Discipline has been lacking.
Here, at last, he so far oversteps the law that he appears before a
jury. It seems to the Court necessary, for this young man's own good,
that he feel the harsh hand of the law. According to the evidence
adduced here to-day, he has been for years beyond the control of his
parents, and must now know the inflexible purpose of law. I have in mind
all that can be said in his favor: his youth, the disparity of age and
physical power between himself and his accuser, the provocation, and the
possession of the whip by the accuser--but all these are more than
counterbalanced by the record of mischief and violence which stands
against the prisoner."

There was a solemn pause, and the judge sternly said: "Prisoner, stand
up." Harold arose. "For an assault committed upon the person of one
Clinton Slocum, I now sentence you, Harold Excell, to one year in the
penitentiary, and may you there learn to respect the life and property
of your fellow-citizens."

"Judge! I beg----" The tall form of Mr. Excell arose, seeking to speak.

The judge motioned him to silence.

Brown interposed: "I hope the court will not refuse to hear the father
of the prisoner. It would be scant justice if----"

Mr. Excell's voice arose, harsh, stern, and quick. He spoke like the big
man he was, firm and decided. Harold looked up at him in surprise.

"I claim the right to be heard; will the Court refuse me the privilege
of a word?" His voice was a challenge. "I am known in this community.
For seven years as a minister of the Gospel I have lived among these
citizens. My son is about to be condemned to State's prison, and before
he goes I want to make a statement here before him and before the judge
and before the world. I understand this boy better than any of you,
better than the mother who bore him, for I have given him the
disposition which he bears. I have had from my youth the same murderous
rages: I have them yet. I love my son, your Honor, and I would take him
in my arms if I could, but he has too much of my own spirit. He
literally can not meet me as an affectionate son, for I sacrificed his
good-will by harsh measures while he was yet a babe. I make this
confession in order that the Court may understand my relation to my son.
He was born with my own temper mingled with the poetic nature of his
mother. While he was yet a lad I beat him till he was discolored by
bruises. Twice I would have killed him only for the intervention of my
wife. I have tried to live down my infirmity, your Honor, and I have at
last secured control of myself, and I believe this boy will do the same,
but do not send him to be an associate with criminals. My God! do not
treat him as I would not do, even in my worst moments. Give him a chance
to reform outside State's prison. Don't fix on him that stain. I will
not say send me--that would be foolish trickery--but I beg you to make
some other disposition of this boy of mine. If he goes to the
penitentiary I shall strip from my shoulders the dress of the clergyman
and go with him, to be near to aid and comfort him during the term of
his sentence. Let the father in you speak for me, judge. Be merciful, as
we all hope for mercy on the great day, for Jesus' sake."

The judge looked out over the audience of weeping women and his face
warmed into life. He turned to the minister, who still stood before him
with hand outstretched, and when he spoke his voice was softened and his
eyes kindly.

"The Court has listened to the words of the father with peculiar
interest. The Court _is_ a father, and has been at a loss to understand
the relations existing between father and son in this case. The Court
thinks he understands them better now. As counsel for the defense has
said, I am an old man, soon to leave my seat upon the bench, and I do
not intend to let foolish pride or dry legal formalities stand between
me and the doing of justice. The jury has decided that the boy is
guilty, but has recommended him to the mercy of the Court. The plea of
the father has enlightened the Court on one or two most vital points.
Nothing is further from the mind of the Court than the desire to do
injury to a handsome and talented boy. Believing that the father and son
are about to become more closely united, the Court here transmutes the
sentence to one hundred dollars fine and six months in the county jail.
This will make it possible for the son and father to meet often, and the
father can continue his duties to the church. This the Court decides
upon as the final disposition of the accused. The case is closed. Call
the next case."


CHAPTER V

THE EAGLE'S EYES GROW DIM


The county jail in Cedar County was a plain, brick structure set in the
midst of the Court House Square. Connected with it was the official
residence of the sheriff, and brick walks ran diagonally from corner to
corner for the convenience of citizens. Over these walks magnificent
maples flung gorgeous banners in autumn, and it was a favorite promenade
for the young people of the town at all seasons, even in winter.

At times when the jail was filled with disorderly inmates these innocent
lovers could hear the wild yells and see the insulting gestures of the
men at the windows, but ordinarily the grounds were quiet and peaceful.
The robins nested in the maples, the squirrels scampered from tree to
tree, and little children tumbled about on the grass, unmindful of the
sullen captives within the walls.

For seven years Harold himself had played about this yard, hearing the
wild voices of the prisoners and seeing men come and go in irons. Over
these walks he had loitered with Dot--now he was one of those who clawed
at the window bars like monkeys in a cage in order to look out at the
sunshine of the world. The jail pallor was already on his face and a
savage look was in his eyes. He refused to see anyone but Jack, who came
often and whose coming saved him from despair.

In one respect the county jail was worse, than the State's prison; it
had nothing for its captives to do. They ate, amused themselves as best
they could through the long day, and slept. Most of them brooded, like
Harold, on the sunshine lost to them, and paced their cells like wild
animals. It had, however, the advantage of giving to each man a separate
bed at night, though during the day they occupied a common corridor.
Some of them sang indecent songs and cursed their fellows for their
stupidity, and fights were not uncommon.

The jailer was inclined to allow Harold more liberty after his trial,
but the boy said: "I'm not asking any favors from you. I'm working out a
sentence."

He continued his systematic exercise, eating regularly and with care in
order that he should keep his health. He spent several hours each day
leaping up the stairway which led from the lower cells to the upper, and
his limbs were like bundles of steel rods. He could spring from the
floor, catch the hand rail of the runway above, and swing himself with a
single effort to the upper cells. Every possible combination of strength
and agility which the slender variety of means allowed he used, and not
one of all the prisoners cared to try muscular conclusions with him.
Occasionally a new prisoner would experiment, but those who held over
knew better than to "bother the kid." When a rash and doubting man tried
it, he repented it in cotton cloth and arnica.

The only way in which Harold could be enticed into the residence part of
the jail was by sending Jack to call upon him.

At such times the jailer gave him plenty of time, and Harold poured
forth his latest plans in a swift torrent. He talked of nothing but the
West. "My sentence will be out in April," he said; "just the right time
to go. You must make all arrangements for me, old man. You take my money
and get these things for me. I want a six-shooter, the best you can
find, the kind they use out on the plains, and a belt and ammunition. I
want a valise--a good strong one; and I want you to put all my clothes
in it--I mean my underclothes--I won't need cuffs and collars and such
knickknacks out there. I shall never enter father's door again. Then I
want you to be on the lookout for a chance to drive cattle for somebody
going West. We'll find chances enough, and we'll strike for Abilene and
your uncle's place. I haven't money enough to carry me out there on the
train. Oh! No one, Laura, you're the only one that can heal these torments;
put your hands on this body, and although outside body, to life again.
61. But you unhappy for me! Woe, in the great tribulation, there
is no longer to call Laura!

Was away, away, and do not want to go, it was unfair to my true love!
62. In another lap sold the heart that was mine now, and I deceived,
all my love away from them, he forgot his disdain and his tears. 63.
What is desolate and not have it?

Will that still does not suffer death? father and adoptive mother,
friendless and forgotten for his beloved. 64. Castigo lost my honor,
kneeling poisoned arrow in my heart, compassion for my father!, nestled
dart; me these are burnt jealousy! 65. Pain pain, infidelity is that
of Laura and poison my life is entombed in the pit of the ill-fated. 66.
Oh, Count Adolfo! but had unleashed all the evils of the earth, your
perfidy would have appreciated if I would have stolen the heart of Laura.
67. This is terrifyingly desgañitó, which resounded in the forest
interior, body and spirit him away cravings and desatóse river of
tears. 68. Abatióse head on the trunk, after the neck by the rope that
was holding it, was pure body, and yolk color in her face, pure white
tornóse. 69.

It happened in the calling forest warrior bold trace, with a turban on
beautiful crest, and dress of the Moorish capital of Persia. [12] 70.
He scans with high and look as if they find sites where you can rest,
and suddenly threw pica buckler, and joined hands. 71. Then he raised
his eyes and his eyes stuck in the tree, wall, sky, statue seemed
to stand silent, without pause sighs. 72.

Cansado in that way, sat in the trunk of a tree, and said, "Oh fate,"
while dropping from the eyes as tears bolts. 73. The head is supported
on the left hand, then grabbed his forehead with his right hand
as if making a forgotten memory of something important . 74. reclines
After the venture, without giving respite to the source of their
tears, their despair iban stream of words: "Flerida, oh, the joy
is over." 75. At times the entire planted forest ayes, chanting that
with the melancholy song of the night owls who rested there. [13] 76.
Then he joined astonished, called the pike and shield printed on
his face ferocity of Furies, [14] "will not allow it," he exclaimed.
77.

Flerida If the abductor was different, not my father, whom I respect, not
that this would not cause pica thousand and ten thousand deaths. 78.
Mars fall from above, [15] emerge from the depths of the Fates, [16]
all trigger your anger, driven by the momentum of my arm. 79. From the
nails of the traitor who is snatched half of my soul, and anyone, except
my father, not adhering to the steel that I have. 80. Oh , sovereign and
despotic power of love, that even parents and children unces your yoke,
and when you hold the heart of anyone, anything to further disparage
your out! 81.

    And how much will trample holy and sacred,
    wisdom, reason , will be in vain, the
    Authority shall be contempt, and life itself,
    hated!
    The heart of the boy expanded. Music and poetry and love were waked in
him by the voice of this singing girl. To others she was merely simple
and sweet; to him she was a messenger. The vibrant, wistful cadence of
her voice when she uttered the words "And tell them to be true," dropped
down into the boy's sullen and lonely heart. He did not look at her, but
all the week he wondered about her. He thought of her almost
constantly, and the words she sang lay in his ears, soothing and healing
like some subtle Oriental balm. "On the wings of the morning light" was
one haunting phrase--the other was, "And tell them to be true."

The other prisoners had been touched. Only one or two ventured coarse
remarks about her, and they were speedily silenced by their neighbors.
Harold was eager to seek Jack in order to learn the girl's name, but
Jack was at home, sick of a cold, and did not visit him during the week.

On the following Sunday she did not come, and the singing seemed
suddenly a bitter mockery to Harold, who sought to solace himself with
his pictures. The second week wore away and Jack came, but by that time
the image of the girl had taken such aloofness of position in Harold's
mind that he dared not ask about her, even of his loyal chum.

At last she came again, and when she had finished singing Not half has
ever been told, some prisoner started hand clapping, and a volley of
applause made the cells resound. The girl started in dismay, and then,
as she understood the meaning of this noise, a beautiful flush swept
over her face and she shrank swiftly into shadow.

But a man from an upper cell bawled: "Sing The Voice, miss! sing The
Voice!"

The leader of the band said: "Sing for them, Miss Yardwell."

Again she sang If I were a Voice, and out of the cells the prisoners
crept, one by one, and at last Harold. She did not see him till she had
finished the last verse, and then he stood so close to her he could have
touched her, and his solemn dark eyes burned so strangely into her face
that she shrank away from him in awe and terror. She knew him--no one
else but the minister's son could be so handsome and so refined of
feature.

"You're that voice, miss," one of the men called out.

"That's right," replied the others in chorus.

The girl was abashed, but the belief that she was leading these sinners
to a merciful Saviour exalted her and she sang again. Harold crept as
near as he could--so near he could see her large gray eyes, into which
the light fell as into a mountain lake. Every man there perceived the
girl's divine purity of purpose. She was stainless as a summer cloud--a
passionless, serene child, with the religious impulse strong within her.
She could not have been more than seventeen years of age, and yet so
dignified and composed was her attitude she seemed a mature woman. She
was not large, but she was by no means slight, and though colorless, her
pallor was not that of ill health.

Her body resembled that of a sturdy child, straight in the back, wide in
the waist, and meager of bosom.

Her voice and her eyes subdued the beast in the men. An indefinable
personal quality ran through her utterance, a sadness, a sympathy, and
an intuitive comprehension of the sin of the world unusual in one so
young. She had been carefully reared: that was evident in every gesture
and utterance. Her dress was a studiously plain gray gown, not without a
little girlish ornament at the neck and bosom. Every detail of her
lovely personality entered Harold's mind and remained there. He had
hardly reached the analytic stage in matters of this kind, but he knew
very well that this girl was like her song; she could die but never
deceive. He wondered what her first name could be; no girl like that
would be called "Dot" or "Cad." It ought to be Lily or Marguerite. He
was glad to hear one of the girls call her Mary.

He gazed at her almost without ceasing, but as the other convicts did
the same he was not observably devoted, and whenever she raised her big,
clear eyes toward him both shrank, he from a sense of unworthiness, she
from the instinctive fear of men which a young girl of her type has
deep-planted within her. She studied him shyly when she dared, and after
the first song sang only for him. She prayed for him when the Band
knelt on the stone floor, and at night in her room she plead for him
before God.

The boy was smitten with a sudden sense of his crime, not in the way of
a repentant sinner, but as one who loves a sweet and gentle woman. All
that his father's preaching and precept could not do, all that the
judge, jury, and prison could not do, this slip of a girl did with a
glance of her big gray eyes and the tremor of her voice in song. All his
misdeeds arose up suddenly as a wall between him and the girl singer.
His hard heart melted. The ugly lines went out of his face and it grew
boyish once more, but sadder than ever.

His was not a nature to rest inactive. He poured out a hundred questions
to Jack who could not answer half a dozen of them. "Who is she? Where
does she live? Do you know her? Is she a good scholar? Does she go to
church? I hope she don't talk religion. Does she go to parties? Does she
dance?"

Jack replied as well as he was able. "She's a queer kind of a girl. She
don't dance or go to parties at all. She's an awful fine scholar. She
sings in the choir. Most of the boys are afraid to speak to her, she's
so distant. She just says 'Yes,' or 'No,' when you ask her anything.
She's religious--goes to prayer meeting and Sunday school. About a dozen
boys go to prayer meeting just because she goes and sings. Her folks
live in Waverly, but she boards with her aunt, Mrs. Brown. Now, that's
all I can tell you about her. She's in some of my classes, but I dassent
talk to her."

"Jack, she's the best and grandest girl I ever saw. I'm going to write
to her."

Jack wistfully replied: "I wish you was out o' here, old man."

Harold became suddenly optimistic. "Never you mind, Jack. It won't be
long till I am. I'm going to write to her to-day. You get a pencil and
paper for me quick."

Jack's admiration of Harold was too great to admit of any question of
his design. He would have said no one else was worthy to tie Mary's
shoe, for he, too, worshiped her--but afar off. He was one of those whom
women recognize only as gentle and useful beings, plain and unobtrusive.

He brought the pad and pencil and sat by while the letter was written.
Harold's was not a nature of finedrawn distinctions; he wrote as he
fought, swift and determined, and the letter was soon finished, read,
and approved by Jack.

"Now, don't you let anybody see you give that to her," Harold said in
parting.

"Trust me," Jack stanchly replied, and both felt that here was business
of greatest importance. Jack proceeded at once to walk on the street
which led past Mary's boarding place, and hung about the corner, in the
hope of meeting Mary on her return from school. He knew very exactly her
hours of recitation and at last she came, her arms filled with books,
moving with such stately step she seemed a woman, tall and sedate. She
perceived Jack waiting, but was not alarmed, for she comprehended
something of his goodness and timidity.

He took off his cap with awkward formality. "Miss Yardwell, may I speak
with you a moment?"

"Certainly, Mr. Burns," she replied, quite as formally as he.

He fell into step with her and walked on.

"You know--my chum--" he began, breathing hard, "my chum, Harry Excell,
is in jail. You see, he had a fight with a great big chap, Clint Slocum,
and Clint struck Harry with a whip. Of course Harry couldn't stand that
and he cut Clint with his knife; of course he had to do it, for you see
Clint was big as two of him and he'd just badgered the life out of Harry
for a month, and so they jugged Harry, and he's there--in jail--and I
suppose you've seen him; he's a fine-looking chap, dark hair, well
built. He's a dandy ball player and skates bully; I wish you could see
him shoot. We're going out West together when he gets out o' jail. Well,
he saw you and he liked you, and he wrote you a letter and wanted me to
hand it to you when no one was looking. Here it is: hide it, quick."

She took the letter, mechanically moved to do so by his imperative voice
and action, and slipped it into her algebra. When she turned to speak
Jack was gone, and she walked on, flushed with excitement, her breath
shortened and quickened. She had a fair share of woman's love of romance
and of letters, and she hurried a little in order that she might the
sooner read the message of the dark-eyed, pale boy in the jail.

It was well she did not meet Mrs. Brown as she entered, for the limpid
gray of her eyes was clouded with emotion. She climbed the stairs to her
room and quickly opened the note. It began abruptly:

    "DEAR FRIEND: It is mighty good of you to come and sing to us poor
    cusses in jail. I hope you'll come every Sunday. I like you. You
    are the best girl I ever saw. Don't go to my father's church, he
    ain't good enough to preach to you. I like you and I don't want
    you to think I'm a hard case. I used up Clint Slocum because I had
    to. He had hectored me about enough. He said some mean things about
    me and some one else, and I soaked him once with my fist. He struck
    me with the whip and downed me, then a kind of a cloud came into my
    mind and I guess I soaked him with my knife, too. Anyhow they
    jugged me for it. I don't care, I'd do it again. I'd cut his head
    off if he said anything about you. Well, now I'm in here and I'm
    sorry because I don't want you to think I'm a tough. I've done a
    whole lot of things I had not ought to have done, but I never meant
    to do anyone any harm.

    "Now, I'm going West when I get out. I'm going into the cattle
    business on the great plains, and I'm going to be a rich man, and
    then I'm going to come back. I hope you won't get married before
    that time for I'll have something to say to you. If you run across
    any pictures of the mountains or the plains I wisht you'd send them
    on to me. Next to you I like the life in the plains better than
    anything.

    "I hope you'll come every Sunday till I get out. Yours respec'fly,

    "HAROLD EXCELL.

    "Jack will give this to you. Jack is my chum; I'd trust him with my
    life. He's all wool."

The girl sat a long time with the letter in her hand. She was but a
child, after all, and the lad's words alarmed and burdened her, for the
meaning of the letter was plain. It was a message of love and
admiration, and though it contained no subtleties, it came from one who
was in jail, and she had been taught to regard people in jail as lost
souls, aliens with whom it was dangerous to hold any intercourse, save
in prayer and Scripture. The handsome boy with the sad face had appealed
to her very deeply, and she bore him in her thoughts a great deal; but
now he came in a new guise--as a lover, bold, outspoken, and persuasive.

"What shall I do? Shall I tell Aunt Lida?" she asked herself, and ended
by kneeling down and praying to Jesus to give the young man a new heart.

In this fashion the courtship went on. No one knew of it but Jack, for
Mary could not bring herself to confide in anyone, not even her mother,
it all seemed too strange and beautiful. It was God's grace working
through her, and her devoutness was not without its human mixture of
girlish pride and exaltation. She worshiped him in her natural moments,
and in her moments of religious fervor she prayed for him with
impersonal anguish as for a lost soul. She did not consider him a
criminal, but she thought him Godless and rebellious toward his
Saviour.

She wrote him quaint, formal little notes, which began abruptly, "My
Friend." They contained much matter which was hortatory, but at times
she became girlish and very charming. Gradually she dropped the tone
which she had caught from revivalists and wrote of her studies and of
the doings of each member of the class, and all other subjects which a
young girl finds valuable material of conversation. She was just
becoming acquainted with Victor Hugo and his resounding, antithetic
phrases, and his humanitarian outcries filled her mind with commotion.
Her heart swelled high with resolution to do something to help the world
in general and Harold in particular.

She was not one in whom passion ruled; the intellectual dominated the
passional in her, and, besides, she was only a child. She was by no
means as mature as Harold, although about the same age. Naturally
reverent, she had been raised in a family where religious observances
never remitted; where grace was always spoken. In this home her looks
were seldom alluded to in any way, and vanity was not in her. She had
her lovelinesses; her hair was long and fair, her eyes were beautiful,
and her skin was of exquisite purity, like her eyes. Her charm lay in
her modesty and quaint dignity, her grave and gentle gaze, and in her
glorious voice.

The Reverend Excell was pleased to hear that his son was bearing
confinement very well, and made another effort to see him. Simply
because Mary wished it, Harold consented to see his father, and they
held a long conversation, at least the father talked and the boy
listened. In effect, the minister said:

"My son, I have forfeited your good will--that I know--but I think you
do me an injustice. I know you think I am a liar and a hypocrite because
you have seen me in rages and because I have profaned God in your
presence. My boy, let me tell you, in every man there are two natures.
When one is uppermost, actions impossible to the other nature become
easy. You will know this, you should know it now, for in you there is
the same murderous madman that is in me. You must fight him down. I love
you, my son," he said, and his voice was deep and tremulous, "and it
hurts me to have you stand aloof from me. I have tried to do my duty. I
have almost succeeded in putting my worst self under my feet, and I
think if you were to come to understand me you would not be so hard
toward me. It is not a little thing to me that you, my only son, turn
your face away from me. On the day of your trial I thought we came
nearer to an understanding than in many years."

Harold felt the justice of his father's plea and his heart swelled with
emotion, but something arose up between his heart and his lips and he
remained silent.

Mr. Excell bent his great, handsome head and plead as a lover pleads,
but the pale lad, with bitter and sullen mien, listened in silence. At
last the father ended; there was a pause.

"I want you to come home when your term ends," he said. "Will you
promise that?"

Harold said, "No, I can't do that. I'm going out West."

"I shall not prevent you, my son, but I want you to come and take your
place at the table just once. There is a special reason for this. Will
you come for a single day?"

Harold forced himself to answer, "Yes."

Mr. Excell raised his head.

"Let us shake hands over your promise, my boy."

Harold arose and they shook hands. The father's eyes were wet with
tears. "I can't afford to forfeit your good opinion," Mr. Excell went
on, "especially now when you are leaving me, perhaps forever. I think
you are right in going. There is no chance for you here; perhaps out
there in the great West you may get a start. Of my shortcomings as a
father you know, and I suppose you can never love me as a son should,
but I think you will see some day that I am not a hypocrite, and that I
failed as a father more through neglect and passion than through any
deliberate injustice."

The boy struggled for words to express himself; at last he burst forth:
"I don't blame you at all, only let me go where I can do something worth
while: you bother me so."

The minister dropped his son's hand and a look of the deepest sadness
came over his face. He had failed--Harold was farther away from him than
ever. He turned and went out without another word.

That he had hurt his father Harold knew, but in exactly what other way
he could have acted he could not tell. The overanxiety on the father's
part irritated the boy. Had he been less morbid, less self-accusing, he
would have won. Harold passionately loved strength and decision,
especially in a big man like his father, who looked like a soldier and a
man of action, and who ought not to cry like a woman. If only he would
act all the time as he did when he threw the sheriff across the walk
that day on the street. "I wish he'd stop preaching and go to work at
something," he said to Jack. The psychology of the father's attitude
toward him was incomprehensible. He could get along very well without a
father; why could not his father get along without him? He hated all
this fuss, anyway. It only made him feel sorry and perplexed, and he
wished sincerely that his father would let him alone.

Jack brought a letter from Mary which troubled him.

"I am going home in March, a week before the term ends. Mother
isn't very well, and just as soon as I can I must go. Now discovered
in the year 1513 Vasco Núñez de Balboa crossed the South Seas at
the Isthmus of Panama, and later in Spain incoming messages about
"Gold Castilien," all the land, which in the south of the Isthmus
of Panama was forced Ferdinand V., one the governor of the country
the construction of ships to explore the newly discovered West Coast
are provided, with other Solís for an expedition to take back
language, which consist of a passage according to the South Pacific
should be to the Spanish vessels in the back of gold to be able to
lead Castilien (llevar las naves á espaldas españolas de Castilla
del Oro).

    Certainly Solís was even interested in such travel, even if not by
selfish motives, such as stresses Fregeiro; he asked the king not
the slightest concession, only half his salary for years ahead.

    On 8 October 1515 he sailed with three ships from San
    Lucar, still ran the Canary Islands and finally sighted the
    Cape San Roque on the Brazilian coast (5 ° south Br), which
    he explored southward herabfahrend accurate, so the port of Rio
de Janeiro and Santos.

On 2 February 1516 it adopted the "Puerto de Nuestra Señora
 de la Candelaria", today Montevideo, solemn for Spain. The
 ride went on, on March 12, they overlooked the rocky shore of San
Gregorio, and "then went into waters which are not very big and
salty and it was therefore the 'sweet sea' ( 'Mar Dulce') called
apparently the river, now La Plata and Solís was called back then,
"writes the chronicler Herrera (we will see what this name change
is due).

    The details of what Solís now in the northern estuary of La
    Plata researched today, are partly contradictory and modern
    writers, which this information nachprüften not completely
    understood, it also does not matter. As Solís mid March
    1516 with a few companions in a bark went ashore, saw the
    Guaraní Indians over here, they killed with arrow shots, but
    the ship's artillery that could have prevented, "dragged
    inland now killed, and given the ship's crew cut it their
    heads, arms and feet from the roasted whole body and verspeist
    it "(Herrera). Only a boat boy, Francisco del Puerto, was
    left alive (u. s. w.).

    The brother of Solís, Francisco de Torres, now assumed the
    supreme command and returned in October 1516 returned to
    Spain, en route to the Brazilian coast at the Today so-called
    "Ponto dos Naufragados" near the island of Santa Catalina
    failed even one of the three ships, nine men of the crew were
    ashore, but were saved by the Guaranis kindly treated; they told
them that it very well in west to an area were very rich in precious
metals (now Bolivia).

    Inspired by these stories, therefore they called that area the
"Sierra de la Plata" and soon also made six of them on to search it.

Under the leadership of the Portuguese Alejo Garcia moved into the
present-day Paraguay, accompanied the 2000 Indians, fought or
negotiated with the Indian tribes of the Chaco, they antrafen, and
reached the first Europeans, finally, the land of the Incas.

The Bolivian Indians, but forced them to return to them in good
order with silver and gold valuables loaded replayability.

From Paraguay, where she stayed, she sent her two companions left behind
letters and three Arrobas silver, gold matters. The captain Rodrigo de
Acuña, in June 1526 came to that coast, wanted those things to take to
Spain, but the boat capsized due to the high wave and there was almost
nothing of the precious metals rescued, but at least the rumor
came from an area with lots of silver to Spain.

This story of the discovery of very important details have only recently
by Dominguez was properly lit, they are for the general geography of
importance, because some of the sailors from the trip to "Malucos« (
»á Malucos voy"), whose access Magallanes soon should discover,
distracted, and after those "silver country" should be led.

[Illustration: Great Famine in Buenos Aires (1536).] III.

The famous voyage of the Fernando de Magallanes and the solution
of the so long awaited by geographical problem it is so well known
that we are here even if only a brief description can foresee.

Interestingly, for the purposes of these lines are some details of his
journey on the evening of the 13th January 1520 drove the sailors
in the Rio de Solís, sailed for two days and sighted "a mountain
like a Hute" ( "una montaña hecha como un sombrero"), whom she
"Monte Vidi« called.

Magellan led his ships to the entire = = coastlines and tributaries that
mighty basin explore a passage to find the beginning of February and
sailed further south. His vigor, it was possible to penetrate to the
Philippines, where he was on 27 April 1521 by the natives to death
should be; 18 weary sailors under the command of Sebastian del Cano
finally reached the first around the world on a ship, the Victoria,
on 6 September 1522 in Spain again.

[Illustration: Tower on the Buenos Aires by the four allied Indian tribes
(23,000 men) 1536.] While Loaisa (1525-1526) to drive through the now
named after its discoverer Magellan Street repeated in spring of the
year 1526 Sebastian Cabot of the Venetians, Spanish Gaboto, sent from
Seville to move through the Strait of Magellan to the South Seas,
to the Moluccas and "after Ophir, China and Japan" to go.

But when he arrived in Pernambuco (June 6, 1526) he was the manager of the
factory, Manuel de Braga of the supposed riches of Juan Díaz de Solís
discovered country, and this information was received from another
Portuguese Gomez Arbolancha confirmed the then lived in exile.

On his journey then joined Cabot in the Santa Catalina Island on a troop
of Portuguese sailors and soldiers, by a fleet of ships belonging Loaisa
were deserted, which is under the command of Rodrigo de Acuña returned
to Spain and, as we already saw that Messages from the country with a
silver after took over. Cabot also said the two remained on the coast
of the companions Alejo García, who formerly on the Solís expedition had
heard, and they told him of course, the treasures, which they took from
the inside of their comrades had received, and Acuña had to take .
Cabot was therefore based on these messages, and certainly also
because of quarrels with his master's original travel plan, and
sailed under the Río de Solís, where he was on 17 April 1527 on the
eastern coast facing the island of Martín García anchored.

Here he found Francisco del Puerto those again who does not like Solís
and his companions to the fallen victim to cannibalism, and the Guaraní
language was learned.

That said, to go to the gold country to come, it was necessary to the
Paraná herauffahren until Carcarañá, from the mountains of the interior
come down. Cabot followed this rate and at the said office, he founded
on 27 May 1527 the fort "Sancti Spiritus", the first Spanish establishment
to today, Argentine soil, a good base for further trips to the electricity
inside, now only marked by a Rancho (see the essay by Outes).

From here, Cabot made a big power trip Paraná up to the present Itatí
by Guaranis hospitably with food supplies, the news of the origin of
some silver and gold objects led him, on 28 March 1528 and returned
in the specified Paraguay. Through mediation of the Indians he learned
of the arrival of Diego Garcia in the Río de Solís, who shortly after
Cabot had departed from Spain, now for "Sancti Spiritus" and came
here on 10 April also sailed up the Paraná.

Cabot had become a mountain guide to anti Río Bermejo vorausgesandt to
deal with the Agaes (Payaguas) to negotiate peacefully, since
this much money and should have silver, but the Indians sent the
adventurer bad back and returned to Cabot, accompanied by Diego Garcia,
with which he is on the Paraná met.

In Sancti Spiritus, where they end of April 1828 is concerned, there was
soon between the two leaders differences; Cabot Message sent to Spain
and held the Diego Garcia finds, both made it together, but eventually
a new trip to the Paraná and Paraguay up, probably to mouth of the
Pilcomayo. Sancti Spiritus After returning, they soon went further
downstream to a place called San Salvador, during their absence,
but it was the fort of the Indians gestürmt (late August or early
September 1529) and half of the crew killed, the other fled downstream
to San Salvador.

Cabot and García is once again returned to the ruined fort back, but
then waited in San Salvador for assistance from Spain, and since
they materialize, they sailed home at the end of December 1529,
silver objects and Indian slaves brought along.

In the proceedings initiated against Cabot were then the processes outlined
above, made clear. [Illustration: The Fort Buena Esperanza (1536).]
* * * * * The expedition of the Portuguese Martim Affonso de Sousa had
the purpose, gold and silver to bring out the countryside, which is now
under Cabot return the entire Iberian Peninsula said. He drove the entire
Brazilian coast, and held down by the end of 1531 in the La Plata basin
on, but had to struggle with injuries and returned back to Portugal.
His unauthorized intervention into Spanish territory had diplomatic
complaints to IV.

The news from the richness of the new countries, of which we have
spoken to who are new by the return of the goldbeladenen Pizarro
from Peru, led a lot of projects in the Spanish court.

Finally, Don Pedro de Mendoza, an official mandate, "ir a conquistar y las
Tierras poblar y provincias que hay en el río de Solís, que llaman de
la Plata, y por allí Calar y pasar la tierra hasta llegar a la Mar
del Sur "(" off to the countries and provinces in the Río de Solís,
the silver stream is called to conquer and colonize, and daselbst
penetrate and over land to reach the South Seas ").

So, if even for the first time to colonize the speech, it was
Mendoza, the main driver to the idea of the Sierra de la Plata to
arrive, and so is his great expedition, which for the subsequent
history of the "silver country" or "La Plata-states "of fundamental
importance to be, one can say that they actually increase (see P.

Larrouy). [Illustration: Giant Snake of 25 feet in length at
Paraná (1539).] On this expedition is so important, we are informed
vorzüglich by a German Landsknecht _Ulrich Schmidel_ from Straubing, with
which it had been, and under happier homecoming everything carefully on
paper brought sine ira et studio, his work forms the impartial presentation
of the highly important process, from where the person reports of
the various colored captain correctly can be assessed.

Ulrich Schmidel is therefore = », the first historian of the Rio de la
Plata" =; none other than Don Bartolomé Miter has a superb works
highlighted his merits, and all Argentine historians take his book
as the basis for their portrayal of the oldest historical events
on tonight Argentinian bottom.

But still at the end of these lines. Let us give the floor to begin
the moonlight, which tell us about the personality of the man in 1881
to do so. [Illustration: The Carios in Paraguay (1539).] »Ulrich Schmidel
came from a patrician family Straubing highly associated with the
oldest Ratsgeschlechte of the city, the cells, often verschwägert
was.

A Schmidel first appears after a non-guaranteed, however, indicate anno
1364, in which years Peter died Schmidel should be.

From the mid-15th Century, we encounter members of the family feud as
an institution is often the Azlburg in Straubing, and in the highest
municipal, ducal and episcopal offices, Augsburg, as Zechverweser,
princely Council, Zollner, Symonkastner.

The family provided the city detectable by 1449-1535 no fewer than 15
city treasurer or the mayor.

Due to the ever needy monetary Emperor Frederick III. she was awarded a
coat of arms, a left torso turned black bull in the white field,
with a crown around the horns. 1506 Wolfgang Schmidel was as mayor
of the city with the deputies, which were on the comparisons at the
end of the Landshuter succession dispute in this city were called
together.

Over the subsequent fates of the family is little known.

A Joh Georg Joseph Schmidel in Straubing by Imperial appointment of 12
August 1696 knighted in Bavaria and confirmed "by" approved on 26
May 1698.

A connection with the old Ratsgeschlechte was no proof seems much more
after the previous state of knowledge of the family with unmarried
Schmidel Ulrich, in the main line at least, to Regensburg to be
extinct.

[Illustration: The Fight at Lambaréné (Asunción) with Carios ( 1539).]
The year of birth Ulrich Schmidels is not known, nor how his death year,
because unfortunately the birth and the Straubinger Sterbematrikeln
parish offices not so far back. About his youth nothing is known, but
he seems a better upbringing and a Latin school to have ......

His father was Wolfgang Schmidel, three as mayor of the city, as a feudal
institution of Azlburg, the hospital and the cathedral chapter of
Augsburg appears rightful duty, our Ulrich is probably 1500 to
1511 in a second marriage was born his father, but had at its
inaugural Travel an age of at least 24 years, which seems quite
acceptable. »Ulrich had 2 brothers, Frederick and Thomas, which the
latter four as mayor of the City Council and later as appears.«
Moonlight fits these data, a pedigree of sex in Schmidel.

"About the reasons," Moonlight goes away, "Ulrich Schmidel prompted to
participate in the expedition of Mendoza, and how he came to Antwerp, he
himself gives no indication that Gumpelzhaimers stating that he
was as Handelsbeflissener = = then came while not devoid of
probability, but only with the general reference to the existing
document (where?)

and to justify his travel writing. "I add a supplement to that Dominguez
in his preface to the English translation on the same presumption
was.

"But that desire for him to adventures from the quiet beach of the Danube
in the distance driven, also, that as a common soldier, he took service
as it has never held a command ...... But even if only common soldier,
was Ulrich Schmidel certainly a capable man of war, as no one will
deny that his work on hand.

As a captain Gonzalo Mendoza, six brave soldiers chose a sea voyage,
he Schmidel plus five Spaniards, and during a business once it is
next to the house of the friendly Native American chief »einfuriert".

If she's sick o'
the job, why, I'll make out with ye. Jinnie, come here."

Jinnie rode up, eyeing the stranger sharply. "What's up, Dad?"

"Here's another young fellow after your job."

"Well, if he'll work cheap he can have it," replied the girl promptly.
"I don't admire to ride in this mud any longer."

Pratt smiled. "I reckon that lets you in, stranger, ef we can come to
terms. We ain't got any money to throw away, but we'll do the best we
kin."

"I'll tell you what you do. You turn that pony and saddle over to me
when we get through, and I'll call it square."

"Well, I reckon you won't," said the girl, throwing back her sunbonnet
as if in challenge. "That's my pony, and nobody gets him without blood,
and don't you forget it, sonny."

She was a large-featured girl, so blonde as to be straw-colored, even to
the lashes of her eyes, but her teeth were very white, and her lips a
vivid pink. She had her father's humorous smile, and though her words
were bluff, her eyes betrayed that she liked Harold at once.

Harold smiled back at her. "Well, I'll take the next best, that roan
there."

The boy burst into wild clamor: "Not by a darn sight, you don't. That's
my horse, an' no sucker like you ain't goin' to ride him, nuther."

"Why don't _you_ ride him?" asked Harold.

The boy looked foolish. "I'm goin' to, some day."

"He can't," said the girl, "and I don't think you can."

Pratt grinned. "Wal, you see how it is, youngster, you an' me has got to
get down to a money basis. Them young uns claim all my stawk."

Harold said: "Pay me what you can," and Pratt replied: "Wal, throw your
duds into that hind wagon. We've got to camp somewhere 'fore them durn
critters eat up all the fences."

As Harold was helping to unhitch the team the girl came around and
studied him with care.

"Say, what's your name?"

"Moses," he instantly replied.

"Moses what?"

"Oh, let it go at Mose."

"Hain't you got no other name?"

"I did have but the wind blew it away."

"What was it?"

"Moses N. Hardluck."

"You're terrible cute, ain't you?"

"Not so very, or I wouldn't be working for my board."

"You hain't never killed yourself with hard work, by the looks o' them
hands."

"Oh, I've been going to school."

"A'huh! I thought you had. You talk pretty hifalutin' fer a real workin'
man. I tell ye what I think--you're a rich man's son, and you've run
away."

"Come, gal, get that coffee bilin'," called the mother. Mrs. Pratt was a
wizened little woman, so humped by labor and chills and fever that she
seemed deformed. Her querulousness was not so much ill-natured as
plaintive.

"He _says_ his name is Mose Hardluck," Harold heard the girl say, and
that ended all further inquiry. He became simply "Mose" to them.

There was a satisfying charm to the business of camping out which now
came to be the regular order of living to him. By day the cattle, thin
and poor, crawled along patiently, waiting for feeding time to come,
catching at such bunches of dry grass as came within their reach, and at
their heels rode Harold on an old black mare, his clear voice urging the
herd forward. At noon and again at night Pratt halted the wagons beside
the road and while the women got supper or dinner Harold helped Pratt
take care of the stock, which he was obliged to feed. "I started a
little airly," he said at least a score of times in the first week. "But
I wanted to get a good start agin grass come."

Harold was naturally handy at camping, and his ready and skillful hands
became very valuable around the camp fire. He was quick and cheerful,
and apparently tireless, and before the end of the week Jennie said:

"Say, Mose, you can ride my horse if you want to."

"Much obliged, but I guess I'll hang on to the black mare."

At this point Dannie, not to be outdone, chirped shrilly: "You can break
my horse if you want to."

So a few days later Harold, with intent to check the girl in her growing
friendliness, as well as to please himself, replied: "I guess I'll break
Dan's colt."

He began by caressing the horse at every opportunity, leaning against
him, or putting one arm over his back, to let him feel the weight of his
body. At last he leaped softly up and hung partly over his back.
Naturally the colt shied and reared, but Harold dropped off instantly
and renewed his petting and soothing. It was not long before the pony
allowed him to mount, and nothing remained but to teach him to endure
the saddle and the bridle. This was done by belting him and checking him
to a pad strapped upon his back. He struggled fiercely to rid himself of
these fetters. He leaped in the air, fell, rolled over, backing and
wheeling around and around till Dan grew dizzy watching him.

A bystander once said: "Why don't you climb onto him and stay with him
till he gets sick o' pitchin'; that's what a broncho buster would do."

"Because I don't want him 'busted'; I want him taught that I'm his
friend," said Harold.

In the end "Jack," as Harold called the roan, walked up to his master
and rubbed his nose against his shoulder. Harold then stripped away the
bridle and pad at once, and when he put them on next day Jack winced,
but did not plunge, and Harold mounted him. A day or two later the colt
worked under the saddle like an old horse. Thereafter it was a matter
of making him a horse of finished education. He was taught not to trot,
but to go directly from the walk to the "lope." He acquired a swift walk
and a sort of running trot--that is, he trotted behind and rose in front
with a wolflike action of the fore feet. He was guided by the touch of
the rein on the neck or by the pressure of his rider's knee on his
shoulder.

He was taught to stand without hitching and to allow his rider to mount
on either side. This was a trick which Harold learned of a man who had
been with the Indians. "You see," he said, "an Injun can't afford to
have a horse that will only let him climb on from the nigh side, he has
to get there in a hurry sometimes, and any side at all will do him."

It was well that Jack was trained early, for as they drew out on the
open prairie and the feed became better the horses and cattle were less
easy to drive. Each day the interest grew. The land became wilder and
the sky brighter. The grass came on swiftly, and crocuses and dandelions
broke from the sod on the sunny side of smooth hills. The cranes, with
their splendid challenging cries, swept in wide circles through the sky.
Ducks and geese moved by in myriads, straight on, delaying not. Foxes
barked on the hills at sunset, and the splendid chorus of the prairie
chickens thickened day by day.

It was magnificent, and Harold was happy. True, it was not all play.
There were muddy roads to plod through and treacherous sloughs to cross.
There were nights when camp had to be pitched in rain, and mornings when
he was obliged to rise stiff and sore to find the cattle strayed away
and everything wet and grimy. But the sunshine soon warmed his back and
dried up the mud under his feet. Each day the way grew drier and the
flowers more abundant. Each day signs of the wild life thickened.
Antlers of elk, horns of the buffalo, crates of bones set around shallow
water holes, and especially the ever-thickening game trails furrowing
the hills filled the boy's heart with delight. This was the kind of life
he wished to see. They were now beyond towns, and only occasionally
small settlements relieved the houseless rolling plains. Soon the
Missouri, that storied and muddy old stream, would offer itself to view.

"Mose" was now indispensable to the Pratt "outfit." He built fires, shot
game, herded the cattle, greased the wagons, curried horses, and mended
harness. He never complained and never grew sullen. Although he talked
but little, the family were fond of him, but considered him a "singular
critter." He had lost his pallor. His skin was a clear brown, and being
dressed in rough clothing, wide hat, and gauntlet gloves, he made a bold
and dashing herder, showing just the right kind of wear and tear.
Occasionally, when a chance to earn a few dollars offered, Pratt camped
and took a job, and Harold shared in the wages.

He spent a great deal of his pocket money in buying cartridges for his
revolver. He shot at everything which offered a taking mark, and became
so expert that Dan bowed down before him, and Mrs. Pratt considered him
dangerous.

"It ain't natural fer to be so durned sure-pop on game," she said one
day. "Doggone it, I'd want 'o miss 'em once in a while just fer to be
aigged on fer to try again. First you know, you'll be obliged fer to
shoot standin' on your haid like these yere champin' shooters that go
'round the kentry givin' shows, you shorely will, Mose."

Mose only laughed. "I want to be just as good a shot as anybody," he
said, turning to Pratt.

"You'll be it ef you don't wear out your gun a-doin' of it," replied the
boss.

These were splendid days. Each sundown they camped nearer to the land of
the buffalo, and when the work was done and the supper eaten, Mose took
his pipe and his gun and walked away to some ridge, there to sit while
the yellow light faded out of the sky. He was as happy as one of his
restless nature could properly hope to be, but sometimes when he thought
of Mary his heart ached a little; he forgot her only when his
imagination set wing into the sunset sky.

One other thing troubled him a little. Rude, plain Jennie was in love
with him. Daily intercourse with a youngster half as attractive as Mose
would have had the same effect upon her, for she was at that age when
propinquity makes sentiment inevitable. She could scarcely keep her eyes
from him during hours in camp, and on the drive she rode with him four
times as long as he wished for. She bothered him, and yet she was so
good and generous he could not rebuff her; he could only endure.

She had one accomplishment: she could ride like a Sioux, either astride
or womanwise, with a saddle or without, and many a race they had as the
roads grew firm and dry. She was scrawny and flat-chested, but agile as
a boy when occasion demanded. She was fearless, too, of man or beast,
and once when her father became crazy with liquor (which was his
weakness) she went with Mose to bring him from a saloon, where he stood
boasting of his powers as a fighter with the bowie knife.

As they entered Jennie walked straight up to him: "Dad, you come home.
Come right out o' yere."

He looked at her for a moment until his benumbed brain took in her words
and all their meaning; then he said: "All right, Jinnie, just wait a
second till I have another horn with these yer gents----"

"Horn nawthin," she said in reply, and seized him by the arm. "You come
along."

He submitted without a struggle, and on the way out grew plaintive.
"Jinnie, gal," he kept saying, "I'm liable to get dry before mornin', I
shore am; ef you'd only jest let me had one more gill----"

"Oh, shet up, Dad. Ef you git dry I'll bring the hull crick in fer ye to
drink," was her scornful reply.

After he was safe in bed Jennie came over to the wagon where Mose was
smoking.

"Men are the blamedest fools," she began abruptly; "'pears like they
ain't got the sense of a grayback louse, leastways some of 'em. Now,
there's dad, filled up on stuff they call whisky out yer, and
consequence is he can't eat any grub for two days or more. Doggone it,
it makes me huffy, it plum does. Mam has put up with it fer twenty
years, which is just twenty more than I'd stand it, and don't you forget
it. When I marry a man it will be a man with sense 'nough not to pizen
hisself on rot-gut whisky."

Without waiting for a reply she turned away and went to bed in the
bottom of the hinder wagon. Mose smoked his pipe out and rolled himself
in his blanket near the smoldering camp fire.

Pratt was feeble and very long faced and repentant at breakfast. His
appetite was gone. Mrs. Pratt said nothing, but pressed him to eat.
"Come, Paw, a gill or two o' cawfee will do ye good," she said. "Cawfee
is a great heatoner," she said to Mose. "When I'm so misorified of a
moarnin' I can't eat a mossel o' bacon or pork, I kin take a gill o'
cawfee an' it shore helps me much."

Pratt looked around sheepishly. "I do reckon I made a plum ejot of
myself last night."

"As ush'll," snapped Jennie. "You wanted to go slicin' every man in
sight up, just fer to show you could swing a bowie knife when you was on
airth the first time."

"Now that's the quare thing, Mose; a peacebbler man than me don't live;
Jinnie says I couldn't lick a hearty bedbug, but when I git red liquor
into my insides I'm a terror to near neighbours, so they say. I can't
well remember just what do take place 'long towards the fo'th drink."

"Durn lucky you can't. You'd never hole up your head again. A plummer
fool you never see," said Jennie, determined to drive his shame home to
him.

Pratt sighed, understood perfectly the meaning of all this vituperation.
"Well, Mam, we'll try again. I think I'm doin' pretty good when I go two
munce, don't you?"

"It's more'n that, Paw," said Mrs. Pratt, eager to encourage him at the
right moment. "It's sixty-four days. You gained four days on it this
time."

Pratt straightened up and smiled. "That so, Mam? Wal, that shorely is a
big gain."

He took Mose aside after breakfast and solemnly said:

"Wimern-folk is a heap better'n men-folks. Now, me or you couldn't stand
in wimern-folks what they put up with in men-folks. 'Pears like they air
finer built, someway." After a pause he said with great earnestness:
"Don't you drink red liquor, Mose; it shore makes a man no account."

"Don't you worry, Cap. I'm not drinkin' liquor of any color."


CHAPTER VIII

THE UPWARD TRAIL


Once across the Missouri the trail began to mount. "Here is the true
buffalo country," thought Mose, as they came to the treeless hills of
the Great Muddy Water. On these smooth buttes Indian sentinels had
stood, morning and evening, through a thousand years, to signal the
movement of the wild herds, and from other distant hills columns of
smoke by day, or the flare of signal fires at night, had warned the
chieftains of the approach of enemies. Down these grassy gulches, around
these sugar-loaf mesas, the giant brown cattle of the plains had crawled
in long, dark, knobby lines. On the green bottoms they had mated and fed
and fought in thousands, roaring like lions, their huge hoofs flinging
the alkaline earth in showers above their heads, their tongues curling,
their tails waving like banners.

Mose was already deeply learned in all these dramas. All that he had
ever heard or read of the wild country remained in his mind. He cared
nothing about the towns or the fame of cities, but these deep-worn
trails of shaggy beasts filled him with joy. Their histories were more
to him than were the wars of Cyrus and Hannibal. He questioned all the
men he met, and their wisdom became his.

Slowly the movers wound their way up the broad, sandy river which came
from the wilder spaces of the West. The prairie was gone. The tiger
lily, the sweet Williams, the pinks, together with the luxuriant
meadows and the bobolinks, were left behind. In their stead, a
limitless, upward shelving plain outspread, covered with a short, surly,
hairlike grass and certain sturdy, resinous plants supporting flowers of
an unpleasant odor, sticky and weedy. Bristling cacti bulged from the
sod; small Quaker-gray sparrows and larks were the only birds. In the
swales blue joint grew rank. The only trees were cottonwoods and cutleaf
willow, scattered scantily along the elbows in the river.

At last they came to the home of the prairie dog and the antelope--the
buffalo could not be far away! So wide was the earth, so all-embracing
the sky, they seemed to blend at the horizon line, and lakes of water
sprang into view, filling a swale in the sod--mystic and beautiful, only
to vanish like cloud shadows.

The cattle country was soon at hand. Cowboys in sombreros and
long-heeled boots, with kerchiefs knotted about their necks, careered
on swift ponies in and out of the little towns or met the newcomers on
the river road. They rode in a fashion new to Mose, with toes pointed
straight down, the weight of their bodies a little on one side. They
skimmed the ground like swallows, forcing their ponies mercilessly.
Their saddles were very heavy, with high pommels and leather-covered
stirrups, and Mose determined to have one at once. Some of them carried
rifles under their legs in a long holster.

Realizing that those were the real "cow-punchers," the youth studied
their outfits as keenly as a country girl scrutinizes the new gown of a
visiting city cousin. He changed his manner of riding (which was more
nearly that of the cavalry) to theirs. He slung a red kerchief around
his neck, and bought a pair of "chaps," a sort of fringed leather
leggings. He had been wearing his pistol at his side, he now slewed it
around to his hip. He purchased also a pair of high-heeled boots and a
"rope" (no one called it a "lariat"), and began to acquire the
technicalities of the range. A horse that reared and leaped to fling its
rider was said to "pitch." Any firearm was a "gun," and any bull, steer,
or heifer, a "cow." In a few days all these distinctions had been
mastered, and only the closest observer was able to "cut out" Mose as a
"tenderfoot."

Pratt was bound for his brother's ranch on the Big Sandy River, and so
pushed on steadily, although it was evident that he was not looked upon
with favor. He had reached a section of country where the cattlemen eyed
his small outfit with contempt and suspicion. He came under the head of
a "nester," or "truck farmer," who was likely to fence in the river
somewhere and homestead some land. He was another menace to the range,
and was to be discouraged. The mutter of war was soon heard.

One day a couple of whisky-heated cowboys rode furiously up behind Mose
and called out:

"Where in h--l ye think ye're goin', you dam cow milker?"

Mose was angry on the instant and sullenly said: "None of your
business."

After threatening to blow his liver into bits they rode on and repeated
their question to Pratt, who significantly replied: "I'm a-goin' to the
mouth o' the Cannon Ball ef I don't miss it. Any objection?"

"You bet we have, you rowdy baggage puller. You better keep out o' here;
the climate's purty severe."

Pratt smiled grimly. "I'm usen to that, boys," he replied, and the
cowboys rode on, cursing him for a fool.

At last, late in July, the mouth of the Cannon Ball was reached. One
afternoon they cut across a peninsular body of high land and came in
sight of a wide green flat (between two sluggish, percolating streams)
whereon a cluster of gray log buildings stood.

"I reckon that's Jake's," said Pratt as they halted to let the horses
breathe. A minute, zig-zag line of deep green disclosed the course of
the Cannon Ball, deep sunk in the gravelly soil as it came down to join
the Big Sandy. All about stood domed and pyramidal and hawk-headed
buttes. On the river bank huge old cottonwoods, worn and leaning,
offered the only shadow in a land flooded with vehement, devouring
light. The long journey was at an end.

Daniel raised a peculiar halloo, which brought a horseman hurrying out
to meet him. The brother had not forgotten their boyish signal. He rode
up swiftly and slid from his horse without speaking.

Jake resembled his brother in appearance, but his face was sterner and
his eyes keener. He had been made a bold, determined man by the pressure
of harsher circumstances. He shook his brother by the hand in
self-contained fashion.

"Wal, Dan'l, I'm right glad you got h'yer safe. I reckon this is Miss
Jinnie--she's a right hearty girl, ain't she? Mrs. Pratt, I'm heartily
glad to see ye. This yer little man must be the tit-man. What's your
name, sonny?"

"Dan. H. Pratt," piped the boy.

"Ah--hah! Wal, sir, I reckon you'll make a right smart of a cowboy yet.
What's this?" he said, turning to Mose. "This ain't no son-in-law, I
reckon!"

At this question all laughed, Jennie most immoderately of all.

"Not yit, Uncle Jake."

Mose turned red, being much more embarrassed than Jennie. He was indeed
enraged, for it hurt his pride to be counted a suitor of this ungainly
and ignorant girl. Right there he resolved to flee at the first
opportunity. Distressful days were at hand.

"You've been a long time gettin' here, Dan."

"Wal, we've had some bad luck. Mam was sick for a spell, and then we had
to lay by an' airn a little money once in a while. I'm glad I'm
here--'peared like we'd wear the hoofs off'n our stawk purty soon." Jake
sobered down first. "Wal, now I reckon you best unhook right h'yer for a
day or two till we get a minute to look around and see where we're at."
So, clucking to the tired horses the train entered upon its last half
mile of a long journey.

Jake's wife, a somber and very reticent woman, with a slender figure and
a girlish head, met them at the door of the cabin. Her features were
unusually small for a woman of her height, and, as she shook hands
silently, Mose looked into her sad dark eyes and liked her very much.
She had no children; the two in which she had once taken a mother's joy
slept in two little mounds on the hill just above the house. She seemed
glad of the coming of her sister-in-law, though she did not stop to say
so, but returned to the house to hurry supper forward.

After the meal was eaten the brothers lit their pipes and sauntered out
to the stables, where they sat down for a long talk. Mose followed them
silently and sat near to listen.

"Now, Dan'l," Jake began, "I'm mighty glad you've come and brought this
yer young feller. We need ye both bad! It's like this"--he paused and
looked around; "I don't want the wimern folks to hear," he explained.
"Times is goin' to be lively here, shore. They's a big fight on 'twixt
us truck farmers and the cattle ranchers. You see, the cattlemen has had
the free range so long they naturally 'low they own it, and they have
the nerve to tell us fellers to keep off. They explain smooth enough
that they ain't got nawthin' agin me pussonally--you understand--only
they 'low me settlin' h'yer will bring others, which is shore about
right, fer h'yer you be, kit an' caboodle. Now you comin' in will set
things a-whoopin', an' it ain't no Sunday-school picnic we're a-facin'.
We're goin' to plant some o' these men before this is settled. The hull
cattle business is built up on robbing the Government. I've said so, an'
they're down on me already."

As Jake talked the night fell, and the boy's hair began to stir. A wolf
was "yapping" on a swell, and a far-off heron was uttering his booming
cry. Over the ridges, which cut sharply into the fleckless dull-yellow
sky, lay unknown lands out of which almost any variety of fierce
marauder might ride. Surely this was the wild country of which he had
read, where men could talk so glibly of murder and violent death.

"When I moved in here three years ago," continued Jake, "they met me and
told me to get out. I told 'em I weren't takin' a back track that year.
One night they rode down a-whoopin' and a-shoutin', and I natcherly
poked my gun out'n the winder and handed out a few to 'em--an' they rode
off. Next year quite a little squad o' truck farmers moved into the bend
just below, an' we got together and talked it over and agreed to stand
by. We planted two more o' them, and they got one on us. They control
the courts, and so we have got to fight. They've got a judge that suits
'em now, and this year will be hot--it will, sure."

Dan'l Pratt smoked for a full minute before he said: "You didn't write
nothin' of this, Jake."

Jake grinned. "I didn't want to disappoint you, Dan. I knew your heart
was set on comin'."

"Wal, I didn't 'low fer to hunt up no furss," Dan slowly said; "but the
feller that tramps on me is liable to sickness."

Jake chuckled. "I know that, Dan; but how about this young feller?"

"He's all right. He kin shoot like a circus feller, and I reckon he'll
stay right by."

Mose, with big heart, said, "You bet I will."

"That's the talk. Well, now, let's go to bed. I've sent word to
Jennison--he's our captain--and to-morrow we'll settle you on the mouth
o' the creek, just above here. It's a monstrous fine piece o' ground; I
know you'll like it."

Mose slept very little that night. He found himself holding his breath
in order to be sure that the clamor of a coyote was not a cowboy signal
of attack. There was something vastly convincing in Jake Pratt's quiet
drawl as he set forth the cause for war.

Early the next morning, Jennison, the leader of the settlers, came
riding into the yard. He was tall, grim lipped and curt spoken. He had
been a captain in the Union Army of Volunteers, and was plainly a man of
inflexible purpose and resolution.

"How d'e do, gentlemen?" he called pleasantly, as he reined in his
foaming broncho. "Nice day."

"Mighty purty. Light off, cap'n, an' shake hands with my brother Dan'l."

Jennison dismounted calmly and easily, dropping the rein over the head
of his wild broncho, and after shaking hands all around, said:

"Well, neighbor, I'm right glad to see ye. Jake, your brother, has been
savin' up a homestead for ye--and I reckon he's told you that a mighty
purty fight goes with it. You see it's this way: The man that has the
water has the grass and the circle, for by fencing in the river here
controls the grass for twenty miles. They can range the whole country;
nobody else can touch 'em. Williams, of the Circle Bar, controls the
river for twenty miles here, and has fenced it in. Of course he has no
legal right to more than a section or two of it--all the rest is a
steal--the V. T. outfit joins him on the West, and so on. They all
stand to keep out settlement--any kind--and they'll make a fight on
you--the thing for you to do is move right in on the flat Jake has
picked out for you, and meet all comers."

To this Pratt said: "'Pears to me, captain, that I'd better see if I
can't make some peaceabler arrangement."

"We've tried all peaceable means," replied Jennison impatiently. "The
fact is, the whole cattle business as now constituted is a steal. It
rests on a monopoly of Government land. It's got to go. Settlement is
creeping in and these big ranges which these 'cattle kings' have held,
must be free. There is a war due between the sheepmen and the cattlemen,
too, and our lay is to side in with the sheepmen. They are mainly
Mexicans, but their fight is our feast."

As day advanced men came riding in from the Cannon Ball and from far
below on the Big Sandy, and under Jennison's leadership the wires of the
Williams fence were cut and Daniel Pratt moved to the creek flat just
above his brother's ranch. Axes rang in the cottonwoods, and when
darkness came, the building of a rude, farmlike cabin went on by the
light of big fires. Mose, in the thick of it, was a-quiver with
excitement. The secrecy, the haste, the glory of flaring fires, the
almost silent swarming of black figures filled his heart to the brim
with exultation. He was satisfied, rapt with it as one in the presence
of heroic music.

But the stars paled before the dawn. The coyotes changed their barking
to a solemn wail as though day came to rob them of some irredeemable
joy. A belated prairie cock began to boom, and then tired, sleepy, and
grimy, the men sat down to breakfast at Jacob Pratt's house. The deed
had been done. Daniel had entered the lion's den.

"Now," said Jennison grimly, "we'll just camp down here in Jake's barn
to sleep, and if you need any help, let us know."

The Pratts continued their work, and by noon a habitable shack was ready
for Mrs. Pratt and the children. In the afternoon Mose and Daniel slept
for a few hours while Jake kept watch. The day ended peacefully, but
Jennison and one or two others remained to see the newcomer through a
second night.

They sat around a fire not far from the cabin and talked quietly of the
most exciting things. The question of Indian outbreaks came up and
Jennison said: "We won't have any more trouble with the Indians. The
Regulars has broken their backs. They can't do anything now but die."

"They hated to give up this land here," said a small, dark man. "I used
to hear 'em talk it a whole lot. They made out a case."

"Hank lived with 'em four years," Jennison explained to Daniel Pratt.

"The Indians are a good deal better than we give 'em credit for bein',"
said another man. "I lived next 'em in Minnesota and I never had no
trouble."

Jennison said decisively: "Oh, I guess if you treat 'em right they treat
you right. Ain't that their way, Hank?"

"Well, you see it's like this," said the hairy little man; "they're kind
o' suspicious nacherly of the white man--they can't understand what he
says, and they don't get his drift always. They make mistakes that way,
but they mean all right. Of course they have young plug-uglies amongst
'em jest the same as 'mongst any other c'munity, but the majority of 'em
druther be peaceful with their neighbors. What makes 'em wildest is
seein' the buffalo killed off. It's like you havin' your water right cut
off."

As the talk went on, Mose squatted there silently receiving instruction.
His eyes burned through the dusk as he listened to the dark little man
who spoke with a note of authority and decision in his voice. His words
conveyed to Mose a conception of the Indian new to him. These "red
devils" were people. In this man's talk they were husbands and fathers,
and sons, and brothers. They loved these lands for which the cattlemen
and sheepmen were now about to battle, and they had been dispossessed by
the power of the United States Army, not by law and justice. A desire to
know more of them, to see them in their homes, to understand their way
of thinking, sprang up in the boy's brain.

He edged over close to the plainsman and, in a pause in the talk,
whispered to him: "I want you to tell me more about the Indians."

The other man turned quickly and said: "Boy, they're my friends. In a
show-down I'm on their side; my father was a half-breed."

The night passed quietly and nearly all the men went home, leaving the
Pratts to meet the storm alone, but Jennison had a final word. "You send
your boy to yon butte, and wave a hat any time during the day and we'll
come, side arms ready. I'll keep an eye on the butte all day and come up
and see you to-night. Don't let 'em get the drop on ye."

It was not until the third day that Williams, riding the line in person,
came upon the new settler. He sat upon his horse and swore. His face was
dark with passion, but after a few minutes' pause he drew rein and rode
away.

"Another butter maker," he said to his men as he slipped from the
saddle at his own door, "some ten miles up the river."

"Where?"

"Next to Pratt's. I reckon it's that brother o' his he's been talking
about. They cut my wires and squatted on the Rosebud flat."

"Give the word and we'll run 'em out," said one of his men. "Every
son-of-a-gun of 'em."

Williams shook his head. "No, that won't do. W've got to go slow in
rippin' these squatters out o' their holes. They anchor right down to
the roots of the tree of life. I reckon we've got to let 'em creep in;
we'll scare 'em all we can before they settle, but when they settle
we've got to go around 'em. If the man was a stranger we might do
something, but Jake Pratt don't bluff--besides, boys, I've got worse
news for you."

"What's that?"

"A couple of Mexicans with five thousand sheep crossed Lizard Creek
yesterday."

The boys leaped to their feet, variously crying out: "Oh, come off! It
can't be true."

"It is true--I saw 'em myself," insisted Williams.

"Well, that means war. Does the V. T. outfit know it?"

"I don't think so. We've got to stand together now, or we'll be overrun
with sheep. The truck farmers are a small matter compared to these
cursed greasers."

"I guess we'd better send word up the river, hadn't we?" asked his
partner.

"Yes, we want to let the whole county know it."

Cheyenne County was an enormous expanse of hilly plain, if the two words
may be used together. Low heights of sharp ascent, pyramid-shaped
buttes, and wide benches (cut here and there by small creek valleys)
made up its surface, which, broadly considered, was only the vast,
treeless, slowly-rising eastern slope of the Rocky Mountains. At long
distances, on the flat, sandy river, groups of squat and squalid ranch
buildings huddled as if to escape the wind. For years it has been a
superb range for cattle, and up till the coming of the first settlements
on the Cannon Ball, it had been parceled out among a few big firms, who
cut Government timber, dug Government stone, and pastured on Government
grass. Imagination never rush of French, who did not overwhelm the
momentum of my tears, my thoughts and feelings mobs and do not let my
soul have peace. 234. Venoms are you failing to death, that does not
respect my mother idolatrada, refreshes the wound made by bolt-letter
I received. 235.

I now help to exacerbate the pain in my bowels can not silence, my
mother died oh, what a misfortune! this was the first that my life
bitter. 236. I dead gathered by reading the letter written by mortal
pen. And you had courage, my father, to write what is taking the life
of your beloved son? 237. Two hours, more or less, I lost the mood without
knowing where I was and not for the aid of my comrades, not conversarías
me today. 238. regained the accident, the burden here, my eyes
became two sources, and whether the woe! Oh, mother! cejaban was
because he had stopped breathing. 239. At that time believed that
the world was missing for me that was isolated in the midst of my
grief, struggling with his own existence. 240. My cruel torment disregard
the reassuring voice of my teacher, or tears of pain eased mourn
comrades riding on my shoulders. 241. Contempt dictates of justice agrura
tired of the pain, and just a twinge of regret proud to alienate
all my patience. 242.

It would seem that the enthusiasm of its momentum, it was preferable
that the chest desencajara, so that the poison was kept in the blood
lead-up. 243. Close to two months did not like that taste of entertainment
or rest, when the second letter from my father came the boat that came
for me. 244. The letter ordered to embark immediately, and return
to the motherland Albania, when I fired my teacher, Florante, he said,
I have this assignment: 245. Take care and be cautious with helmet you
have to assemble Count Adolfo; as he flees from a basilisk whose gaze
is death for you. 246. If you receive at your arrival with cheerful face
and show appreciation, you are more cautious and Taiman enemy you
have and who have to deal with. 247.

But do not give him to understand that when you're out of their dark
purposes, prepare the secret weapon that will defend in the day of battle.
248. That said, he fell tears, hugged me hard, and finally order,
"Benjamin, I suffered many hardships that await you." 249. started to
fight in the world, bright hatchery bellaquería not ended and,
sadly, contained language and was speechless. 250. we split both
killed, my classmates were crying, Minandro desperate, so it was
very faithful man. 251.

The link of our dear friend the shoulders could not disengaged until
our teacher allowed to continue, his uncle. 252. After the order was
dismissed, sobbing between each other and with the noise and bustle of
the "goodbye", the sighs are streaky. 253. Until the pier, I was
accompanied by our teacher and peers leaving, the wind blew, and soon
broke away from the beach in Athens boat. 254. saeta fired resemblance
to the speed of browsing our bow, so, in a short time, my feet
stepped on the beach in the city of Albania. 255 .

After disembarking, I went to borrow the fifth, not separated from
my faithful friend, to kiss the hands of my father, was the acute pain
suffered by my mother. 256. new blood the wound of the heart, beyond
the While the first burst and the tears continued to fall: "Oh father!"
while the greeting, "Oh, Benjamin!" 257. In short, my father said we
were drowned out by the hardness of a singular pain, yet embraced the
ambassador of the people of Crotone. 258.

He was already royal palace and the king communicated his purpose,
carrying a letter for my revered father, the handwriting of his father
the king. 259. He demanded relief, shock, the kingdom of Crotone was
besieged by the enemy, the army ordered the famous in skill, general
Osmanlic, hero of Persia. 260. According to fame was his second of their
Prince, whose value was astonished the world: Aladín, terror
warriors, I admire your compatriot. 261.

Here the Moor who smiled talk, and speaking wisely replied: Rare are -
say - the news is true, and since they are, there are many additions.
262. And what often enhances further the value is demoralization
of the enemy, a warrior who derive from a lucky victory, fatigue surely
to fame, and you will fear. 263. If value is Aladín fame, also has a
life to lose, believe me that is worth what you in misery and torments.
264. Florante replied: Oh, would not run the famous warrior my evil
luck! What the enemy does not want the kind of misfortune to deplore.
265. Known by my father that, unfortunately, that the kingdom of Crotone
threatened destruction, and it took me appeared immediately before
the king Linceo army that was prepared. 266.

As we began to climb the stairs of the palace filled with jewels and
wealth left to us the noble king, my father and hugged ANGUAGES hand.
267. He said: Oh , Duke! save this jewel-like with the illustrious
warrior, and tells you what I dreamed it would support my kingdom and
scepter. 268. Who is this and what city is? The answer from my father:
"It's my only son, I offer your noble plants; tell one of your vassals.
"269. It struck the king and hugged me, you got a good chance you will
be the army general who helped the people of Croton, besieged by
the Moor. 270.

Haz it is true that you, not the other, the brave warrior who dreamed that
disseminated by the world my honor and power. 271. Deber you go and
help, your grandfather, the king of the town of Crotone, you are
of noble blood, and must opinion and win unique reputation in the
war. 272.

As was rightly claim the king, my father agreed, but it weighs how
soon would give the butcher a few years and my lack of experience. 273.
and I just answered but explained: "Mr King added," and I missed their
feet when he went to kiss his noble footsteps, I got up and hug
me again. 274.

We sat down and tried to their projects and important things. A point
already to what happened in the town of Athens where it came from, 275.
He made his appearance and spread lucero rival the brightness of Venus,
[35] as if it had just come from the snow, with hair shed by the
shoulder of pearl color. 276.

The second, if not paradise which launched its candid look, or happiness,
the outbreak of love, Cupid claim of subtle and intangible. [36]
277.

The flame of the face are not dissimilar from that of Phoebus at
dawn; body elegant, well Rimado and very consistent with the modesty
of her bearing. 278.

In joy resembled the newly opened flower dew, and whoever saw the, dead
or insane avenates would love if you do not. 279. This Laura is my thought
that annihilates each time up, and the cause of my despair and weeping
as they provide melancholic tone to my words. 280.

Daughter of Linceo, late king, and figure of my dreams, so why does the
high allowed seeing the sky, if I did not deserve? 281. Oh, king Linceo!
if not forced to take part in our conversation, my life would not have
suffered today that betrayed your beloved daughter. 282. No, my friend,
Laura is not unfaithful I do not know why they forgot, my luck
is befa of outrage and derision for the joy and happiness. 283. Could
it treason to grasp the richness of the sky in beauty?

Hermosura, why do not you run and unravel the treacherous steps? 284. Was
not your reason because in the process of surrender in the midst of the
temptations that your honesty was by far superior to lack of
brightness and beauty? 285. Was still ineffective to address this
inconsistency and your evil inclination? culminating in greatness, such
tablets when headlong fall. 286.

Oh, mercy me bizarre warrior! and the emergence of the new star, and
since I saw her, suddenly, snatched the heart love offering to my mother.
287. That is, tears that crossed my face, being motherless, was devoted
to Laura, and my heart was filled with terror by the irreverence,
perhaps, that such an act would imply. 288. It was right with
the words, I fuss and alienation of mind , when he took part in
our reunion, but those leaving the spruce sprawl. 289.

When the conversation was a man overboard; troubled the heart and soul
parched by the flames of first love. 290.

Three days I stayed in the king the royal palace, in great abundance,
and do not get to talk to the cause of my problems and that he hoped
this would give me. 291. Here I tried harder than the first question,
to lie and say all the sorrows that compared with born of love. 292.

Thanks to the following day, when the army marched for Croton, lucky
me depart moments to talk with the princess who captivated me. 293.
said, with loving words, sighs, moans and tears, love Sañudo I was
suffocating, and drowning is still ramshackle my life. 294.

The new heart of the miracle of beauty, felt pity for my grievances,
and not because his mettle ingénita put veto, it would be my love
bienhallado. 295. But if _sí_ did not say, love the cloud opened and
faded, leaving me to my exit, keeping shameful pearls drained from his
eyes. 296.

The day came for the march. Who will bear the pain that invaded me In my
heart, what evil was not nailed his dart? 297. Is there, perhaps,
unfortunate that exceed the bitterness of the absent lover or loved?
Just imagine, though not made, just to hunt the most hardened heart.
298. Oh, ofrecedores of fragrant pebete the great altar of the god Cupid,
you understand my pain to be beloved orphan Laura! 299. And it was not
for I was provided with tears, had already died before suffering,
pain not relieved until our arrival in the town of Crotone enmantado.
300.

The fort was already a jump to the blows of the siege machines, when
they attacked me and my army, putting you in trouble over the town. 301.
Here the carnage without quarter, which had to strain Atropa, for mowing
and cutting life of the dying that swam in blood. 302. Having regard
for the great general Osmanlic my wildness in combat, seven rows of steel
juxtaposed with his scimitar opened to catch me. 303. To right and
left theirs lay my brave soldiers, approached me with eyes primers, vente,
he said, and fight ...... 304. we are not separated by five hours,
until they ran out of stone value, the killing, there was mourning for
the warrior from the sky struck the earth. 305. Then the terror in the
enemy attack that seemed to plague the diezmador steel Minandro famous
acting _campo_ and _victoria_ in our favor. 306.

The victory eased the tristura to sajados by inclement, the danger became
joy, and the city gate opened presto. 307. We went out to meet followed
by the powerful king of all the people made free, the appreciation
is overflowing with dithyrambs jumble of languages. 308.

The one and only bad people spare the wiles of the bitter enemy for his
freedom, obstinacy, I was approached, to kiss my suit. 309.

A vocal cries of Fame, [37] the incessant _vivas_ will interfere, the
disordered "thank you, our savior," heard in the sky the stars. 310.
point of joy went up when it was known that the grandson of the revered
king, or less, also the monarch, the tears of joy to be faith. 311.
climbed to the palace, and famous soldiers rested their effort, but the
people, almost three days, forgot your sleeping habit. 312.

Even in our joy of my grandfather king mezclábase pain with
treachery and the death of my beloved mother, while August has
returned to green. 313. Here I felt a few years in the world there is
no such complete joy that a single, seven sorrows are warned, and even
without a fee. 314.

For the five months in Crotone, struggling to return to the kingdom of
Albania. What obstacles will the calls for love much if, in what is, is
a Laura? 315. Despite our forced march, I am bored and wanted to
fly. Oh, when I saw the walls of the city, my presentations were fatal!
316. And it was that what was floating in the Christian flag was not
strong, but the Desjarretadera and invaded the kingdom [38] per Aladino,
the plague came to sack people. 317.

I did that with the army high acaudillaba at the foot of a mountain
with derrumbaderos; suddenly saw patrol dwells in slow motion. 318.
damsel tied custody, in our view, to decapitate, my heart gave a roll-out
presintiendo Laura, my life. 319. So I could not contain the momentum
of the mind, rushed and suddenly, from the Moors; luck! who fled was not
found his death in lethal steel I argued that the whole fury!

320. When you no longer download it, I approached the prisoner struck
dumb, and when descorrí which masked his face, Oh, God, it was
Laura!

Will there be greater misfortune? 321. The iban a beheading not flattened
by the clumsy appetites of the emir of the city, [39] the bold rijoso
leading beast which, slapped the paradigm of beauty. 322. A separate
escape from the hands rope inhumane and disrespectful, my fingers, of
devotion, was a demure touch skin as worthy of respect. 323.

Here was comforting the wounded heart look of love, the day of the first
_amado Florante_ heard from the lips of Laura. 324. When they were in
prison on paragon beloved father and my king, and gave orders to
the army attacked, relentlessly, to redeem the homeland Albania. 325.

Already in the walls, going to jail first, I took the king and the
duke, my father, and from among the magnates, Adolfo. 326. was the
immense joy of the king and the free and heroes, to honor Adolfo
only anxious for me conquered. 327.

His envy of rose point, when I was called the savior of the city,
who celebrated the holidays magnanimous king at the royal palace
with largess. 328.

He knew then that I appreciated the beauty for whom he sighed: Count
Adolf was dying by the crown and the hands of Laura. 329.

He took the seed body brought from Athens, the plant in order to
cause my ruin, for nothing is so Adolfo grimoso my life, not
eliminated. 330.

Do not spend months in the kingdom of joy and of thanksgiving for their
freedom, an army ravaged arrived from Turkey, asaz inhumane. 331.

Here the danger of bending and the hands of a whole people out of
the submission, especially, Laura, whose fear was infamous lucky
me at the meeting. 332.

As I was the general appointed by the king's army against the Muslim would
be serene, their terror, the mood of the people, but was poisoned as the
heart of Adolfo. 333. I wanted the sky defeat the army of the famous
Miramolín, began the day of panic unbleached muslim to the kingdom
of Albania. 334.

Besides this, several divisions of the enemy I will succeed, so that
was my strong steel feared seventeen kings . 335. One day I had just
won a battle in the town which invaded Etolia, I received a letter
from my king, machine, pressure, return to Albania. 336. And the army
that led them to entrust Minandro. departed in the act of the
kingdom of Etolia, for obedience to the king and went to Albania.
337.

I came very close the night, entering the kingdom, without any concern,
I followed a website for high treason! alfanjeros by about thirty
thousand. 338.
On the same day, as Mose was lying on the point of a grassy mesa,
watching the sheep swarming about a water hole in the valley below, he
saw a cloud of dust rising far up to the north. While he wondered, he
heard a wild, rumbling, trampling sound. Could it be a herd of buffalo?
His blood thrilled with the hope of it. His sheep were forgotten as the
roar increased and wild yells came faintly to his ears. As he jerked
his revolver from its holder, around the end of the mesa a herd of wild
horses swept, swift as antelope, with tails streaming, with eyes
flashing, and behind them, urging them on, whooping, yelling, shooting,
came a band of cowboys, their arms flopping, their kerchiefs streaming.

A gasping shout arose from below. "The sheep! the sheep!" Mose turned
and saw the other herders rushing for their horses. He realized then the
danger to the flock. The horses were sweeping like a railway train
straight down upon the gray, dusty, hot river of woolly flesh. Mose
shuddered with horror and pity--a moment later and the drove, led by a
powerful and vicious brown mare, drove like a wedge straight into the
helpless herd, and, leaping, plunging, kicking, stumbling, the powerful
and swift little bronchos crossed, careering on down the valley, leaving
hundreds of dead, wounded, and mangled sheep in their path. At a distance
of half mile of this site is the fourth E, is a mountain girl, which
is moving a stone corral, and made by hand without any mixing: her
figure is square, with 60 yards long; the walls of a high stick,
and half thick, which is slightly torn.

Day 10. This day camp is not moved, waiting for the game and pilots,
which came at seven o'clock in the afternoon, having traveled two days
and saw the field S of them by different Paraga, who say the tickets
have been endless and outputs, and a few saws that you can not travel on
horseback, and most of them can carruages. Have seen many streams and
good pasture in the mountains, with good water: the same as the pampas
of N, we tread. All the way consists of hills, some soft and some
other little rough stones on its summit there are large and deep valleys,
where you can camp or hide the number of people who were and there
are places where they can not be seen until be over.

Day 11. At half past five we continue the march, alongside the mountains
as usual. At eleven it was high in a stream of little water, which
descends from the mountains. 8 mile walk at the direction of O: S look
at latitude 37 degrees 39 minutes. In a move again until half past
four, which stopped at a lake accidentally call _Cairú_ are walked 4 miles
in the direction of ONO; are good and fertile pastures on the way.

Day 12. In the seven followed the march in the same way. At nine in the
paramos Arroyo Barranca, which leaves the Sierras of Cairú. He
recorded where possible, their explanation will: did the way the
OS two miles away.

Day 13. At six marks until half past nine, which stopped at the Laguna
del Cairú, which is accidental, we walked five miles by S, whose hours
are in the immediacy of Cairú made the commander general meeting of all
officers, In order to complete the whole of this issue: To which they
replied that it was not possible for any reason, with respect to
already be near the harvest so advanced, and that during the year
have been so sterile, were the people so damaged that it was essential
to have to get at least fifteen days prior to each of its discretion
may provide what is necessary to harvest their grain.

Besides this, the horses were already in poor condition, and is daily
being horses came through the fields. This answered the commander,
saying that at least when not done the whole of the commission, would
go to the Sierra de Casuatí, which would be given great satisfaction
to the Lord Governor and Captain General, as well as avoiding new
costs to complete, because it is not left to do another recognition
that the Salinas, this is done at low cost, consistent with respect
to these trip next year.

That said that you could pursue any term future, because in addition to
the above, the horses were in a state of no return with no: it found
that Mr back and relieve the poor.

Once the Board determines to move a game to recognize the Arroyo de
Barrancas Cairú and the Sierras, where we use all day. The stream
that is going to ENE, making great knuckle: all he is very ravines,
its current very quickly, as three miles per hour. His rough floor, and
here is plenty of catfish. All saws Cairú passable, as most of them are
a few hills with very few moving rocks, and suddenly climbed to
the summit of them all.

Day 14. At six and three quarters marched until half past eleven,
who stopped in an accidental gap.

We made the road 7 miles to the N: the terrain is flat, with some
wetlands and very little pasture.

S observed in the latitude of 37 degrees 7 minutes. At half past three
we continued walking, until half past five that we stopped at another
lake like this. Walking two miles on the N: the road or terrain is
like. Day 15.

At six marks, until half past eleven it stopped at a albardones of a
drenched, having walked 7 miles to the N. S observed in the latitude
of 36 degrees 45 minutes: the spot of the day consists of washed
and estuaries.

For these were two or three spans of water, and we took three hours
this way: the pastures are grasses, sedges and espartillos.

Day 16. At six-up, until we made the top ten in a high Lagunita
immediate Arroyo Dulce, having walked three miles to NNO.

The three continued walking, and hours that followed for its
population D.

Clemente Lopez and D. Juan de Mier. A stop in a six albardoncito a
bathed, having walked 5 miles to the fourth N NO: whole field is
like the day before.

Day 17. At six marks, to the eleven who stopped at the Cruz de Guerra.
We made the road for 8 miles N: everything here is made up most
of bathing.

Observed at 35 degrees 55 minutes S. The position of the Cross of War
is a small lake at the foot of an accidental médano, with some low
quebradas: here goes the way of Salinas.

Day 18. At five and three quarters up, until half past twelve we stopped
in the other two Lagunita, called _Dos Hermanas_.

We made the road for 10 miles NNE of the course: all this land consists
of gentle hills and valleys; the grass is regular: the path through
here said.

Day 19.

At five marks, until half past eight we did stop at Laguna de Palantelen,
having walked five miles to the NNE direction of 5 degrees N. The
lagoon is accidental, not very responsible, heavy water, salt and Hedionda,
due to the portion of animals are killed here.

We must dig down to drink. We observed S in latitude 35 degrees 17 minutes:
here goes the way of Salinas. Day 20. At half past three rambles on the
four spent the Salado, and we are dry. At ten we stopped at a Lagunita
accidental: the way we did 9 miles NNE of the course. This whole
area is flat and very little pasture for the great cause of which has
been dry and burning. At half past three p.m. continue the march until
it stopped in five Salted, having walked a mile and a half for that
course. These Lagunita to giving the name of Salted, find the water.

Received this name because they bathed, and when water is brackish.

Day 21.

At four o'clock marched until four in the afternoon they arrived at the
Border Guard Lujan, having walked 10 miles to the ENE. All our march was
by way of Salinas, whose terrain is flat with some lomaditas, grass
regularly.

When we started the march was the Sergeant Major D. Pascual Martinez,
having accompanied the Commander D.

Manuel de Pinazo and Captain D. José Bagué who have remained in their
positions, leaving us to join us in Buenos Aires, a few soldiers and
a corporal. Day 22. At five o'clock we continue to Buenos Aires, until
he stopped at the Chapel of Merlo, having walked 14 miles.

Day 23.

At four o'clock the city follow the direction of ENE, where we arrived at
eleven o'clock, having walked 7 miles away. _NOTA_ .-- The course, to
speak of this newspaper, are corrected from 15 to 18 degrees NE
variation.

The leagues are shipping or 20 degree. _Buenos Aires, 23 December
1772_. PABON PEDRO PABLO. VI.

_Relacion Individual commissioners give both drivers the recognition
of the campaign, the more parag contemplating the intent to
strengthen and poblar_.

The best positions are for people on the border of this city, then that
shall be made, and no end in the mountains: their reasons are, for
lack of defense against enemies, take them into the same mountains
because these are so helpless, on the assumption that although tapen
gun people or some valleys, countless others are without this asylum,
where the enemy can enter without being seen and make their
depredations.

If people want, either as a 15 or 20 miles before reaching the mountains,
because they come here to see the enemy camp uncovered.

Lack of firewood here (which also is in the mountains) the water is in
lakes, estuaries and marshes only, which for animals is hard work, and
for these there is no pasture: but the people have done well good water.
Those who are here are among the enemies of the mountains, and that,
for peace, are with their tolderias immediately to the guards who are
posted in the day. If found in a function with them, time and water
(although that barbarians are not without tricks to achieve its
progress) is almost impossible these people can give early warning
of nowhere and so is force needed to keep people in those places
for these sets, which cost a lot.

But while people want in the mountains, has several views that are ours,
be of advantage to have the Crown such saws, for being far ahead
of the field crops and livestock; but leave it open the entrance
to the distance from Salinas to the coast of Paraná, which is not less
than 220 miles, and to seek a cordon of guards and populations from the
Patagonian coast to this, we need increased numbers of people. The
saws themselves are 180 miles long and wide, 8 to 20 parts is needed,
to achieve some of these mountain people calm, and quietly cultivated
their lands, which make guards with guns in 15 of 15 Along leagues
and 5 with 5 wide.

Those that want to bring from Salinas to the coast of Paraná, may Distar
24 miles: this is done, it is necessary to kill wild baguala, which is a
portion of these sites, In order to leave the Indians without the asylum,
as can be done in advance. Also be saying the land immediately to the
mountains, good for planting and livestock, but harvesters will not
achieve the advantage of his cattle espender median advantage, for
many costs keep you driving, because of living far apart, and being
the very spot painful. We believe that people in the valley Carpincho
to bring the benefits of being almost permanent water and having many
eyes of the ground water: In addition to the advantages for planting
and breeding herds, it offers to other people.

The same sources say the helmet, which is the first 20 miles, and
achieves the same advantages. Wheat gaps from the previous 17 miles
away: it finds its spot with 8 gaps accidental, and very immediate
Salado, whose shores are a number of special water springs: the
field to achieve the same fertility earlier.

    It also seems that our people in the Arroyo de las Flores,
    which is the third 20 miles, then achieves the advantage of
    standing water in this stream, a pond and have grown from
    6 miles in circumference, good for any kind of Won: this
    goes through the Salado. The latter, more advantageous,
    which is 27 miles from the former, we find to be the site
    of Camarones: accomplished flood stream and ponds, all its good
water, the land very fertile and has immediate islands, which may
provide inhabitants of firewood, as well as club to make their farms
and corrals are located on that land abundance duraznillo, as well
as straw for roofing houses.

    All have good pasture and plenty: we are continuous,
    because of that when we recorded this land: it was a dry
    time as large as last esperimentó the next 72 years.
    Manage these lands also in their abundance of lakes and streams
    fishing hunting, as well as esperimentamos. While the other
    posts are not equal to the shrimp for the benefit of wood,
    just get the people who work the rich have for the fertility
    of the land. The other three posts here that is not
    spoken, which are Melincué, Bragado and Grande Bones do not
    have water as permanent pasture or with such abundance, and the
last two are very immediate to the other posts.

    _Buenos Aires, January 22 in 1773_. .-- PEDRO RUIZ RAMON Eguia.
    VII. _Extracto summary of what has happened in the
    expedition of discovery without la_ Bay Fund, _en Patagónica_
    Coast. expedicion this out of Montevideo, consists of four war-ships
armed with 114 men of all ranks with their respective officers, at
December 15 1778, led by Commissioner D.

                                    Super-intendent Juan
                                                    de la Piedra, and after sailing out of the Rio de la Plata on
January 7, entered a large bay in latitude 11 degrees 30 minutes,
and within it to the S of the entry, an excellent port 10 miles
long and 6 or 8 at its greatest width.

    This port was the name of _San José_, which has its entrance
    near a league wide with 40 fathoms deep, and the inside of her in
different places, and parties in the bay has 80 fathoms.

Neither this nor in the Port of San José was found Bajío, or stumbling,
or any island, because everything is clean and with a prodigious fund.
To the right of the entrance to the Bay found another port, which is
called _San Antonio_, which is smaller than San Jose, and only for
smaller vessels. The terrain of San Jose, where the troops disembarked,
demonstrated ability to grow, but lack of fresh water, since all the
wells that were in it was opened, was brackish and salty, but that
some were found more sufrible . However, in January 31 they found a
distance of 4 or 5 miles of the establishment, three fresh water springs
and in fairly good amount, and saw the promised land more fertile than
the background, and with better grass and firewood.

We made some moves in place to establish with more benefits along the
harbor. Here we find no trace of people or Indians, but it very much
abundance of salt especially likely to be pink. Found hares, guanacos,
sea lions and partridges, wild cochineal, gypsum, ocher and
canchalagua.

SSO to the Port of San José, was discovered one of equal or greater
size, forming the land in between both a peninsula, whose throat
in his narrowest part not to have a league wide: but your entry is
greater greatness that of San Jose, and has not yet been examined
in detail.

This first establishment, was sent to acknowledge the input of the
Rio Sauce or Black, who had been a history and was not able to
enter: for whose care he was a vessel that left San Jose the day
February 13 and 18 were signs of land for the current, sticks burned
on the sea, water color and other relics.

The 22 day at five o'clock is the observed mouth of the river that was
sought, which is full of shoals acknowledged and gave three fathoms
in depth, and giving the boat to the water entering the mouth with
the tube in hand, and landed on shore.

We found large willow trees that had brought dry river flows in land plants
are the port of San Jose, celery, tires and other: ducks, plovers,
partridges and infinite wolves, wonderful size. And watching the
tide grew fast and we were on half tide, drops the bar to make the signs
Bergantin prevented to enter the boat that took her bow, and he expressly
within the river bottom in three fathoms of water, and release the people
on shore are partridges, hares, wolves and many oils, which are
fun to kill some people, increasing the joy of being. The day 23 gave
the Bergantin sail boat for carrying the bow, following the river
above to recognize the country and its inhabitants, as the fire and
the dogs gave evidence of having people, and indeed saw a pelotoncito
of people, and ordered to come on board the first Indians appeared,
who were eight, before reach a multitude of them that walked across
hurry.

Between these two defectors came from the village of San José, who had
defected with nine others, of whom two lived alone, having killed the
other and the black of D.

Juan de la Piedra, the stringency of the inclemency of these fields,
excessive heat, thirst and hunger, over 18 were sent to search for men,
and mugeres creatures. Were given a meal, and gifts with what little
they had. God and fire a cannon at first intimidated, but then very
happy algazara, and when the sun was sent to earth.

Until the 25th the Indians continued to come on board, and here came the
Indians with a captive india was pampas and regularly spoke Spanish:
which said that these Indians have no worship, only a little sun
worship, eat guanacos, ostrich and horse meat: they take from under
the earth batatillas very few girls who eat and raw and cooked, and
roots that make them toast with that person's meal _poleadas_ and
also a girl who seems very seed mustard, also the ground between
two stones and make poleadas.

He said more, that many Indians upriver Aucaces and Teguelches, but
they are far away: Teguelches that are poor, and rich Aucaces, as
they have cattle, horses and abundant Ovejuna: making blankets,
ponchos and Pellon, which amazed and sow.

He said that Christians were a long time and never saw either of these
Indians had reported seeing another boat in the river or the coast, or
had never seen any Christian.

Until the day March 11 continued visits by the Indians: offered a pass
in the Indus Bergantin, which is not allowed without approval of his
boss for not digustarlos, and succeeded, it sailed, and he wanted
very happy to shed the water that was covered with skin.

We could not leave the bar to this day, however it has been so long
for this day 28 of the previous month, which we did for 13 spans
of water, and happily arrived the 18th, where we found the news of
having D.

Juan de la Piedra followed trip to Buenos Aires, and commanded that he
was setting D. Francisco de Viedma. With the news concerning the Rio
Sauce, D solved Francisco Viedma pass that Paraga, which was implemented
in the day April 11, which left the Port of San José, and the 18th
entered the bar of that river, and gave funds to three leagues from
the mouth, and then continued to sail upriver to six hours in the
afternoon they anchored again the next day and climbed above such
as distance of 9 leagues from the mouth of river.

The Indians continued to come on board, and ours to deal with them, giving
them a meal and some gifts: and yet show some distrust in their
movements, there was no novelty for the care with which we are
driving: and on the day 23 April began work to raise a strong,
cutting wood for him, opening a gap, offices and ranches accurate,
having been chosen for the field in the S margin of the river, which
was continued until that.

Day 20 May, who had arrived awnings Cacique Black, kept the peace
with us in Buenos Aires, which came two blacks who had captivated
the dristito of Buenos Aires, and a girl 12 years would have to be
rescued .

Which gave the chief a letter from the Commander Exmo.

Virey D. Juan Jose de Vertiz, who had hoped to drive the ground.

Until day 13 there was no remarkable thing that expressly This day
so the river rose, driven by seawater turbulent wind very fresh,
which flooded the entire new population began in the S part of the
growing water three quarters on the ground: so that people jumped
on ranches to escape, which took no more than half length of time,
or did harm to the genera and provisions; have not been unloaded.

Caused by the commander felt that it was necessary for mudarla of the
N that had high ground and could not get to where rising: what is egecutó
immediately, and stay working on a fort in box of 55 fathoms, with its
provisions to cover the gap, people and equipment, any invasion of
the Indians who attempt, in which are mounted some small guns.
These are the news you have of these new discoveries to the present.
VIII. _Diario which begins on 21 September 1778, which gives news of the
expedition and detachment, which by order of Exmo. Mr. Virey, Juan Jose
de Vertiz, marched to the camp of the enemy, recognizing up to
Salinas, who are campaigning in the barren Sud_. Commanded the expedition
that Maestre de Campo D.

Manuel de Pinazo and escorting Captain D. Juan de Serdens, with a
detachment, consisting of a lieutenant, a Alferez, three sergeants,
three corporals, one drum and 65 dragons. The carts that have led to
salt loading were 580 and 20 of the luggage, wheelbarrows and carts:
the picadors of those, 600 soldiers of the garrison, 400 blandeguez,
militia and dragoons, and carpenters, herders, stakeholders and aggregates
passed 300. The horse is comprised of 2600, and 12,000 oxen boyada
happening.

Since the aforementioned 21 day of September until 4 October, were all
competing at the border of Lujan, 20 miles distant from the capital,
towards the N. October 4 that day were launched for those Salinas, 250
wagons, and went to sleep at parag Peach, 5 miles distant from the border
of Lujan, O, where there are gaps medium and arrive tonight carts. Day
5. At dawn, as usual, and was played the same course to the left,
more or less, to stop at the parag Salted, 6 miles distant from the
background, where they arrived and 415 carts: and this stop is
very little fresh water to people.

The sleepy chirp of the crickets and the sound of his
horse nipping the grass, calmly careless of the wolves, were the only
aids to sleep; all else had the effect to keep his tense nerves
vibrating. As the cold intensified, the crickets ceased to cry, and the
pony, having filled his stomach, turned tail to the wind and humped his
back in drowse. At last, no friendly sounds were left in all the world,
and shivering, sore, and sullen, the youth faced the east waiting for
the dawn.

As the first faint light came into the east he turned his face to the
west, anxiously waiting till the beautiful mountain should blossom from
the dark. At last it came stealing forth, timid, delicate, blushing like
a bride from nuptial chamber, ethereal as an angel's wing, persistent as
a glacial wall. As it broadened and bloomed, the boy threw off his
depression like a garment. Briskly saddling his shivery but well-fed
horse he set off, keeping more and more to the left, as his instructions
ran. But no matter in which direction he rode, his eyes were on the
mountain. "There is where I end," was his constantly repeated thought.
It would have been easy for him to have turned aside.

Shortly after sunrise he came upon a ranch set deep in a gully and
sheltered by piñons. Smoke was curling from the stovepipe, but no other
sign of life could be detected. He rode directly up to the door, being
now too hungry and cold to pass by food and shelter, no matter what
should follow.

A couple of cowboys, armed and armored, came out lazily but with menace
in their glances.

"Good morning," said Mose.

"Howdy, stranger, howdy," they repeated with instant heartiness. "Git
off your hoss and come in."

"Thanks, I believe I will. Can you tell me which-a-way is Bob Reynolds'
ranch?" he asked.

Both men broke into grins. "Well, you've putt' nigh hit it right hyer.
This is one o' his 'line camps.' The ranch house is about ten miles
furder on--but slide off and eat a few."

One man took his horse while the other showed him into a big room where
a huge stack of coals on a rude hearth gave out a cheerful heat. It was
an ordinary slab shack with three rooms. A slatternly woman was busy
cooking breakfast in a little lean-to at the back of the larger room, a
child was wailing in a crib, and before the fire two big, wolfish dogs
were sleeping. They arose slowly to sniff lazily at Mose's garments, and
then returned to their drowse before the fire.

"Stranger, you look putt' nigh beat out," said the man who acted as
host; "you look pale around the gills."

"I am," said Mose; "I got off my course last night, and had to make down
under a piñon. I haven't had anything to eat since yesterday noon."

"Wal, we'll have some taters and sow-belly in a giff or two. Want 'o
wash?"

Mose gladly took advantage of the opportunity to clean the dust and
grime from his skin, though his head was dizzy with hunger. The food was
bacon, eggs, and potatoes, but it was fairly well cooked, and he ate
with great satisfaction.

The men were very much interested in him, and tried to get at the heart
of his relation to Reynolds, but he evaded them. They were lanky
Missourians, types already familiar to him, and he did not care to make
confidants of them. The woman was a graceless figure, a silent household
drudge, sullenly sad, and gaunt, and sickly.

Mose offered to pay for his breakfast, but the boss waved it aside and
said: "Oh, that's all right; we don't see enough people pass to charge,
for a breakfast. Besides, we're part o' the Reynolds' outfit, anyway."

As Mose swung into the saddle his heart was light. Away to the south a
long low cloud of smoke hung. "What is that?" he asked.

"That's the bull-gine on the Great Western; we got two railroads now."

"Which is two too many," said the other man. "First you know the cattle
business will be wiped out o' 'Rickaree County just as it is bein' wiped
out in Cheyenne and Runnin' Bear. Nesters and cow milkers are comin'
in, and will be buildin' fences yet."

"Not in my day," said the host.

"Well, so long," said Mose, and rode away.

The Reynolds' ranch house was built close beside a small creek which had
cut deep into the bottom of a narrow valley between two piñon-covered
hills. It squat in the valley like a tortoise, but was much more
comfortable than most ranch houses of the county. It was surrounded by
long sheds and circular corrals of pine logs, and looked to be what it
was, a den in which to seek shelter. A blacksmith's forge was sending up
a shower of sparks as Mose rode through the gate and up to the main
stable.

A long-bearded old man tinkering at some repairs to a plow nodded at the
youth without speaking.

"Is Mr. Reynolds at home?" asked Mose.

"No, but he'll be here in a second--jest rode over the hill to look at a
sick colt. Git off an' make yuself comfortable."

Mose slipped off his horse and stood watching the queer old fellow as he
squinted and hammered upon a piece of iron, chewing furiously meanwhile
at his tobacco. It was plain his skill was severely taxed by the
complexity of the task in hand.

As he stood waiting Mose saw a pretty young woman come out of the house
and take a babe from the ground with matronly impatience of the dirt
upon its dress.

The old man followed the direction of the young man's eyes and mumbled:
"Old man's girl.... Her child."

Mose asked no questions, but it gave a new and powerful interest to the
graceful figure of the girl.

Occasionally the old man lifted his eyes toward the ridge, as if looking
for some one, and at last said, "Old man--comin'."

A horseman came into view on the ridge, sitting his horse with the grace
and ease of one who lives in the saddle. As he zig-zagged down the steep
bank, his pony, a vicious and powerful roan "grade," was on its haunches
half the time, sliding, leaping, trotting. The rider, a smallish man,
with a brown beard, was dressed in plain clothing, much the worse for
wind and sun. He seemed not to observe the steepness and roughness of
the trail.

As he rode up and slipped from his horse Mose felt much drawn to him,
for his was a kindly and sad face. His voice, as he spoke, was low and
soft, only his eyes, keen and searching, betrayed the resolute
plainsman.

"Howdy, stranger?" he said in Southern fashion. "Glad to see you, sir."

Mose presented his note from Delmar.

"From old Delmar, eh? How did you leave him? In good health and spirits,
I hope."

He spoke in the rhythmical way of Tennesseans, emphasizing the auxiliary
verbs beyond their usual value. After reading the letter he extended his
hand. "I am very glad to meet you, sir. I am indeed. Bill, take care of
Mr.----" He paused, and looked at the latter.

"Mose--Mose Harding," interpolated Mose.

"Put in Harding's horse. Come right in, Mr. Harding; I reckon dinner is
in process of simmering by this time."

"Call me Mose," said the youth. "That's what Delmar called me."

Reynolds smiled. "Very good, sir; Mose it shall be."

They entered the front door into the low-ceiled, small sitting room
where a young girl was sitting sewing, with a babe at her feet.

"My daughter, Mrs. Craig," said Reynolds gently. "Daughter, this young
man is Mr. Mose Harding, who comes from my old friend Delmar. He is
going to stay with us for a time. Sit down, Mose, and make yourself at
home."

The girl blushed painfully, and Mose flushed sympathetically. He could
not understand the mystery, and ignored her confusion as far as
possible. The room was shabby and well worn. A rag carpet covered the
floor. The white plastered walls had pictures cut from newspapers and
magazines pinned upon them to break the monotony. The floor was littered
also with toys, clothing, and tools, which the baby had pulled about,
but the room wrought powerfully upon the boy's heart, giving him the
first real touch of homesickness he had felt since leaving the Burns'
farm that bright March day, now so far away it seemed that it was deep
in the past. For a few moments he could not speak, and the girl was
equally silent. She gathered up the baby's clothes and playthings, and
passed into another room, leaving the young man alone.

His heart was very tender with memories. He thought of Mary and of his
sister Maud, and his throat ached. The wings of the young eagle were
weary, and here was safety and rest, he felt that intuitively, and when
Reynolds returned with his wife, a pleasant-featured woman of large
frame, tears were in the boy's eyes.

Mrs. Reynolds wiped her fingers on her apron and shook hands with him
cordially. "I s'pose you're hungry as a wolf. Wal, I'll hurry up dinner.
Mebbe you'd like a biscuit?"

Mose professed to be able to wait, and at last convinced the hospitable
soul. "Wal, I'll hurry things up a little," she said as she went out.
Reynolds, as he took a seat, said: "Delmar writes that you just got
mixed up in some kind o' fuss down there. I reckon you had better tell
me how it was."

Mose was glad to unburden his heart. As the story proceeded, Reynolds
sat silently looking at the stove hearth, glancing at the youth only now
and again as he reached some dramatic point. The girl came back into the
room, and as she listened, her timidity grew less painful. The boy's
troubles made a bond of sympathy between them, and at last Mose found
himself telling his story to her. Her beautiful brown eyes grew very
deep and tender as he described his flight, his hunger, and his
weariness.

When he ended, she drew a sigh of sympathetic relief, and Reynolds said:
"Mm! you have no certain knowledge, I reckon, whether you killed your
man or not?"

"I can't remember. It was dark. We fired a dozen shots. I am afraid I
hit; I am too handy with the revolver to miss."

"Mm, so Delmar says. Well, you're out of the State, and I have no belief
they will take the trouble to look you up. Anyhow, I reckon you better
stay with us till we see how the fuss ends. You certainly are a likely
young rider, an' I can use you right hyere till you feel like goin'
farther."

A wave of grateful emotion rushed over the boy, blinding his eyes with
tears, and before he could speak to thank his benefactor, dinner was
called. The girl perceived the tears in his eyes, and as they went out
to dinner she looked at him with a comradeship born of the knowledge
that he, too, had suffered.

He returned her glance with one equally frank and friendly, and all
through the meal he addressed himself to her more often than to her
parents. She was of the most gentle, and patient, and yielding type. Her
beautiful lips and eyes expressed only sweetness and feminine charm, and
her body, though thin and bent, was of girlish slimness.

Reynolds warmed to the boy wondrously. As they arose from the table he
said:

"We'll ride over to the round-up to-morrow, and I'll introduce you to
the cow boss, and you can go right into the mess. I'll turn my horse
over to you; I'm getting mighty near too old to enjoy rustlin' cattle
together, and I'll just naturally let you take my place."


CHAPTER XI

ON THE ROUND-UP


Mose was awakened next morning by the whirring of the coffee mill, a
vigorous and cheerful sound. Mrs. Reynolds and Cora were busily
preparing breakfast, and their housewifely movements about the kitchen
below gave the boy a singular pleasure. The smell of meat in the pan
rose to his nostrils, and the cooing laughter of the baby added a final
strand in a homely skein of noises. No household so homelike and secure
had opened to him since he said good-by to his foster parents in Rock
River.

He dressed and hurried down and out to the barn. Frost lay white on the
grass, cattle were bawling somewhere in the distance. The smoke of the
kitchen went up into the sky straight as a poplar tree. The beautiful
plain, hushed and rapt, lay waiting for the sun.

As he entered the stable, Mose found Reynolds looking carefully at Jack.
"That looks a gentle horse; I can't see a mean thing about him. I don't
reckon he's a cow hoss, is he?"

"No, I don't suppose he is a regular cow horse, but he'll soon learn."

"I must trade you outen that hoss. I certainly am 'blieged to do so. I'm
growin' old, boy. I don't take the pleasu' in a broncho that I once did.
I certainly am tired of hosses I can't touch with my hand. Fo' fo'ty
yeahs I have handled these locoed hosses--they ah all locoed in my
judgment--and I am plum tired of such. I shall send to Missouri aw
Tennessee and get me a hoss I can trust. Meanwhile, you leave me yo'
hoss an' take my bald-face pinto there; he is the fastest hoss on the
range an' a plum devil, but that won't mattah to you, for you ah young
an' frisky."

Mose hated to yield up his gentle and faithful horse even for a short
time, but could not decently refuse. He shifted his saddle to the pinto
with Reynolds' help.

"Whoa, there, Wild Cat," called the rancher, as the wicked eyes began to
roll. "He'll get usen to ye after a day or two," he said reassuringly.

Mose's horsemanship was on trial, and though nervous and white, he led
the pinto out and prepared to mount.

"If he wants to gambol a little, just let him go, only keep his head
up," said Reynolds with careless glance.

Cora came out of the house and stood looking on, while Mose tightened
the cinch again, and grasping the pommel with both hands put his toe in
the stirrup. The pinto leaped away sidewise, swift as a cat, but before
he could fairly get into motion Mose was astride, with both feet in the
stirrups. With a series of savage sidewise bounds, the horse made off at
a tearing pace, thrusting his head upon the bit in the hope to jerk his
rider out of his seat. Failing of this he began to leap like a sheep.
Just as he was about to let up on this Mose sank the rowels into him
with a wild yell, and hotly lashed him from side to side with the end of
his rope. For a few rods the horse continued to leap with stiffened legs
and upraised back, then abandoned all tricks and ran up the hill like a
scared antelope.

When Reynolds caught up with his new "hand" he smiled and said: "I
reckon you can be trusted to look out fo' yo'sef," and the heart of the
youth glowed with pleasure.

Again he felt the majesty and splendor of the life into which he had
penetrated. The measureless plain, dimpled and wrinkled, swept downward
toward the flaming eastern sky unmarked of man. To the west, cut close
across their snow tops by the plain's edge, three enormous and
snow-armored peaks arose, the sunlight already glittering on the thin,
new-fallen snows.

Coyotes, still at vigil on the hills, slid out of sight at the coming of
the horsemen. The prairie dogs peered sleepily from their burrows.
Cattle in scattered bands snuffed and stared or started away hulking,
yet swift, the bulls sullen and ferocious, the calves wild as deer.
There were no fences, no furrows, no wagon tracks, no sign of sheep. It
was the cow country in very truth.

On the way Reynolds said very little. Occasionally as they drew their
ponies to a walk he remarked upon the kindliness of the horse, and said,
"I hope you'll like my horse as well as I like youah's."

It was nearly twelve o'clock when they topped a treeless ridge and came
in sight of the round-up. Below them, in the midst of a wide, grassy
river flat, stood several tents and a covered wagon. Nearby lay a strong
circular corral of poplar logs filled with steers. At some distance from
the corral a dense mass of slowly revolving cattle moved, surrounded by
watching horsemen. Down from the hills and up the valley came other
horsemen, hurrying forward irregular bands of cows and calves. A small
fire near the corral was sending up a pale strand of smoke, and at the
tail of the wagon a stovepipe, emitting a darker column, told that
dinner was in preparation. Over the scene the cloudless September sky
arched. Dust arose under the heels of the herds, and the bawling roar of
bulls, the call of agonized cows, and the answering bleat of calves
formed the base of the shrill whoopings and laughter of the men. Nothing
could be wilder, more stirring, more picturesque, except a camp of Sioux
or Cheyennes in the days of the buffalo.

In a few minutes Mose was in the midst of the turmoil. Everyone greeted
Reynolds with affection, and he replied in the stately phrases which had
made him famous, "How do you do, gentlemen. I certainly am glad to see
you enjoyin' this fine fall day. Captain Charlesworth, allow me to
present my young friend, Moses Harding."

Captain Charlesworth, a tall man with a squint eye and a humorous
glance, came up to shake hands as Mose slipped from his broncho.

Reynolds went on: "Captain Charlesworth is cow boss, an' will see that
you earn yo' bo'd. Cap'n, this young man comes from my good friend,
Cap'n Delmar, of Sante Fe. You know Delmar?"

"I should think so," said the boss. "It seems this youngster kin ride,
seem's he's on Wild Cat."

Reynolds smiled: "I reckon you can consider him both able and willin',
captain."

"Well, slip off an' eat. I'll take care o' the cayuses."

On the ground, scattered among the tents, and in the shade of the cook
wagon, were some twenty or thirty herders. For the most part they were
slender, bronzed, and active, of twenty-five or thirty, with broad white
hats (faded and flapping in the brim), gray or blue woolen shirts (once
gay with red lacing), and dark pantaloons, tucked into tall boots with
long heels. Spurs jingled at the heels of their tall boots, and most of
them wore bandannas of silk or cotton looped gracefully about their
necks. A few of the younger ones wore a sort of rude outside trouser of
leather called "chaps," and each of them carried a revolver slung at the
hip. They were superb examples of adaptation to environment, alert,
bold, and graceful of movement.

A relay of them were already at dinner, with a tin plate full of "grub"
and a big tin cup steaming with coffee before each man. They sat almost
anywhere to eat, on saddles, wagon tongues--any convenient place. Some
of them, more orderly, were squatted along a sort of table made of
folded blankets piled through the center of a tent. Here Reynolds took a
seat, and Mose followed, shrinking a little from the keen scrutiny of
the men. The fact that Reynolds vouched for him, however, was
introduction, and the cook made a place for him readily enough, and
brought him a plate and a cup.

"Boys," said Reynolds, "this young feller is just come to town. His name
is Mose Harding, and he can ride a hoss all right, all right. He's
a-goin' to make a hand here in my place; treat him fair."

There was a moment's awkward pause, and then Mose said: "I'm going to
try to do my share."

As he had time to look around he began to individualize the men. One of
the first to catch his eye was an Indian who sat near the door of the
tent. He was dressed like the other men, but was evidently a full-blood.
His skin was very dark, not at all red or copper colored, and Mose
inferred that he was a Ute. His eyes were fixed on Mose with intent
scrutiny, and when the boy smiled the Indian's teeth gleamed white in
ready good nature, and they were friends at once. The talk was all about
the work on hand, the tussles with steers, the number of unbranded
calves, the queries concerning shipment, etc.

Dinner was soon over, and "Charley," as the cow boss was called by his
men, walked out with Mose toward the corral. "Kin ye rope?" he asked.

"No, not for a cent."

"Let him hold the herd foh a day or two," suggested Reynolds. "Give him
time to work in."

"All right, s'pose you look after him this afternoon."

Together Reynolds and Mose rode out toward the slowly "milling" herd, a
hungry, hot, and restless mob of broadhorns, which required careful
treatment. As he approached, the dull roar of their movement, their
snuffling and moaning, thrilled the boy. He saw the gleaming, clashing
horns of the great animals uplift and mass and change, and it seemed to
him there were acres and acres of them.

Reynolds called out to two sweating, dusty, hoarse young fellows: "Go to
grub, boys."

Without a word they wheeled their horses and silently withdrew, while
Reynolds became as instantly active.

His voice arose to a shout: "Now, lively, Mose, keep an eye on the herd,
and if any cow starts to break out--lively now--turn him in."

A big bay steer, lifting his head, suddenly started to leave the herd.
Mose spurred his horse straight at him with a yell, and turned him
back.

"That's right," shouted Reynolds.

Mose understood more of it than Reynolds realized. He took his place in
the cordon, and aided in the work with very few blunders. The work was
twofold in character. Fat cattle were to be cut out of the herd for
shipment, unbranded calves were to be branded, and strays tallied and
thrown back to their own feeding grounds. Into the crush of great,
dusty, steaming bodies, among tossing, cruel, curving horns the men rode
to "cut out" the beeves and to rope the calves. It was a furious scene,
yet there was less excitement than Mose at first imagined. Occasionally,
as a roper returned, he paused on the edge of the herd long enough to
"eat" a piece of tobacco and pass a quiet word with a fellow, then
spurring his horse, re-entered the herd again. No matter how swift his
action, his eyes were quiet.

It was hard work; dusty, hot, and dangerous also. To be unhorsed in that
struggling mass meant serious injury if not death. The youth was glad of
heart to think that he was not required to enter the herd.

That night, when the horse herd came tearing down the mesa, Reynolds
said: "Now, Mose, you fall heir to my shift of horses, too. Let me show
them to you. Each man has four extra horses. That wall-eyed roan is
mine, so is the sorrel mare with the star face. That big all-over bay,
the finest hoss in the whole outfit, is mine, too, but he is unbroken.
He shore is a hard problem. I'll give him to you, if you can break him,
or I'll trade him for your Jack."

"I'll do it," cried Mose, catching his breath in excitement as he
studied the splendid beast. His lithe, tigerlike body glittered in the
sun, though his uplifted head bore a tangled, dusty mat of mane. He was
neglected, wary, and unkempt, but he was magnificent. Every movement of
his powerful limbs made the boy ache to be his master.

Thus Mose took his place among the cowboys. He started right, socially,
this time. No one knew that he had been a sheep herder but Reynolds, and
Reynolds did not lay it up against him. He was the equal of any of them
in general horsemanship, they admitted that at the end of the second
day, though he was not so successful in handling cattle as they thought
he should be. It was the sense of inefficiency in these matters which
led him to give an exhibition of his skill with the revolver one evening
when the chance offered. He shot from his horse in all conceivable
positions, at all kinds of marks, and with all degrees of speed, till
one of the boys, accustomed to good shooting, said:

"You kin jest about shoot."

"That's right," said the cow boss; "I'd hate to have him get a grutch
agin me."

Mose warmed with pardonable pride. He was taking high place in their
ranks, and was entirely happy during these pleasant autumn days. On his
swift and wise little ponies he tore across the sod in pursuit of swift
steers, or came rattling down a hillside, hot at the heels of a
wild-eyed cow and calf, followed by a cataract of pebbles. Each day he
bestrode his saddle till his bones cried out for weariness, and his
stomach, walls ground together for want of food, but when he sat among
his fellows to eat with keenest pleasure the beef and beans of the pot
wrestler's providing, he was content. He had no time to think of Jack or
Mary except on the nights when he took his trick at watching the night
herd. Then, sometimes in the crisp and fragrant dusk, with millions of
stars blazing overhead, he experienced a sweet and powerful longing for
a glimpse of the beautiful girlish face which had lightened his days and
nights in prison.

The herders were rough, hearty souls, for the most part, often obscene
and rowdy as they sat and sang around the camp fire. Mose had never
been a rude boy; on the contrary, he had always spoken in rather
elevated diction, due, no doubt, to the influence of his father, whose
speech was always serious and well ordered. Therefore, when the songs
became coarse he walked away and smoked his pipe alone, or talked with
Jim the Ute, whose serious and dignified silence was in vivid contrast.

Some way, coarse speech and ribald song brought up, by the power of
contrast, the pure, sweet faces of Mary and his sister Maud. Two or
three times in his boyhood he had come near to slaying pert lads who had
dared to utter coarse words in his sister's presence. There was in him
too much of the essence of the highest chivalry to permit such things.

It happened, therefore, that he spent much time with "Ute Jim," who was
a simple and loyal soul, thoughtful, and possessing a sense of humor
withal. Mose took great pleasure in sitting beside the camp fire with
this son of the plains, while he talked of the wild and splendid life of
the days before the white man came. His speech was broken, but Mose
pieced it out by means of the sign language, so graceful, so dignified,
and so dramatic, that he was seized with the fervid wish to acquire a
knowledge of it. This he soon did, and thereafter they might be seen at
any time of day signaling from side to side of the herd, the Indian
smiling and shaking his head when the youth made a mistake.

Jim believed in his new friend, and when questions brought out the
history of the dispossession of his people he grew very sorrowful. His
round cheeks became rigid and his eyes were turned away. "Injun no like
fight white man all time. Injun gotta fight. White man crowd Injun back,
back, no game, no rain, no corn. Injun heap like rivers, trees, all
same--white man no like 'um, go on hot plain, no trees, no mountains, no
game."

But he threw off these somber moods quickly, and resumed his stories of
himself, of long trips to the snowpeaks, which he seemed to regard in
the light of highest daring. The high mountains were not merely far from
the land of his people; they were mythic places inhabited by monstrous
animals that could change from beast to fowl, and talk--great, conjuring
creatures, whose powers were infinite in scope. As the red man struggled
forward in his story, attempting to define these conceptions, the heart
of the prairie youth swelled with a poignant sense of drawing near a
great mystery. The conviction of Jim's faith for the moment made him
more than half believe in the powers of the mountain people. Day by day
his longing for the "high country" grew.

At the first favorable moment he turned to the task of subduing the
splendid bay horse for which he had traded his gentle Jack. One Sunday,
when he had a few hours off, Mose went to Alf, the chief "roper," and
asked him to help him catch "Kintuck," as Reynolds called the bay.

"All right," said Alf; "I'll tie him up in a jiffy."

"Can you get him without marking him all up?"

"I don't believe it. He's going to thrash around like h--l a-blazin';
we'll have to choke him down."

Mose shook his head. "I can't stand that. I s'pose it'll skin his
fetlocks if you get him by the feet."

"Oh, it may, may not; depends on how he struggles."

Mose refused to allow his shining, proud-necked stallion to be roped and
thrown, and asked the boys to help drive him into a strong corral,
together with five or six other horses. This was done, and stripping
himself as for a race, Mose entered the coral and began walking rapidly
round and round, following the excited animals. Hour after hour he kept
this steady, circling walk, till the other horses were weary, till
Kintuck ceased to snort, till the blaze of excitement passed out of his
eyes, till he walked with a wondering backward glance, as if to ask:
"Two-legged creature, why do you so persistently follow me?"

The cowboys jeered at first, but after a time they began to marvel at
the dogged walk of the youth. They gathered about the walls of the
corral and laid bets on the outcome. At the end of the third hour
Kintuck walked with a mechanical air, all the fire and fury gone out of
him. He began to allow his pursuer to approach him closely, almost near
enough to be touched. At the end of the four hours he allowed Mose to
lay his hand on his nose, and Mose petted him and went to dinner. Odds
stood in Mose's favor as he returned to the corral. He was covered with
dust and sweat, but he was confident. He began to speak to the horse in
a gentle, firm voice. At times the stallion faced him with head lifted,
a singular look in his eyes, as though he meditated leaping upon his
captor. At first Mose took no notice of these actions, did not slacken
his pace, but continued to press the bay on and on. At last he began to
approach the horse with his hand lifted, looking him in the eyes and
speaking to him. Snorting as if with terror, the splendid animal faced
him again and again, only to wheel at the last moment.

The cowboys were profanely contemptuous. "Think of taking all that
trouble."

"Rope him, and put a saddle on him and bust him," they called
resoundingly.

Mose kept on steadily. At last, when all the other horses had been
turned loose, Kintuck, trembling, and with a curious stare in his eyes,
again allowed Mose to lay his hand on his nose. He shrank away, but did
not wheel. It was sunset, and the horse was not merely bewildered, he
was physically tired. The touch of his master's hand over his eyes
seemed to subjugate him, to take away his will. When Mose turned to walk
away the horse followed him as though drawn by some magnetic force, and
the herders looked at each other in amazement. Thereafter he had but to
be accustomed to the bridle and saddle, and to be taught the duties of a
cow horse. He had come to love his master.

This exploit increased the fame of "Dandy Mose," as the cowboys came to
call him, because of the nature of his dress. He was bronzed now, and a
very creditable brown mustache added to the maturity of his face. He was
gaunt with hard riding, and somber and reticent in manner, so that he
seemed to be much older than his years. Before the beef round-up was
ended, he could rope a steer fairly well, could cut out or hold the
herd as well as the best, and in pistol practice he had no equal.

He was well pleased with himself. He loved the swift riding, the night
watches, the voices of wolves, the turmoil of the camp, the rush of the
wild wide-horned herd, and the pounding roar of the relay horses as they
came flying into camp of a morning. It all suited well with the leaping
blood of his heart and the restless vigor of his limbs. He thought of
his old home very little--even Mary was receding into the mist of
distance.

When the beef herd was ready to be driven to the shipping point,
Reynolds asked him if he wished to go. He shook his head. "No, I'll stay
here." He did not say so, but he was still a little afraid of being
called to account for his actions in Running Bear. He saw the herd move
off with regret, for he would have enjoyed the ride exceedingly. He
cared little for the town, though he would have liked the opportunity to
make some purchases. He returned to the Reynolds ranch to spend the
autumn and the winter in such duties as the stock required.

As the great peaks to the west grew whiter and whiter, looming ever
larger at dawn, the heart of the boy grew restless. The dark cañons
allured him, the stream babbled strange stories to him--tales of the
rocky spaces from which it came--until the boy dreamed of great white
doors that opened on wondrous green parks.

One morning when Cora called the men to breakfast Mose and Jim did not
respond. A scrawl from Mose said: "We've gone to the mountains. I'll be
back in the spring. Keep my outfit for me, and don't worry."


PART II

CHAPTER XII

THE YOUNG EAGLE FLUTTERS THE DOVE-COTE


The little town of Marmion was built on the high, grassy, parklike bank
of the Cedar River; at least, the main part of the residences and stores
stood on the upper level, while below, beside the roaring water, only a
couple of mills and some miserable shacks straggled along a road which
ran close to the sheer walls of water-worn limestone.

The town was considered "picturesque" by citizens of the smaller farm
villages standing bleakly where the prairie lanes intersected. To be
able to live in Marmion was held to be eminent good fortune by the
people roundabout, and the notion was worth working for. "If things turn
out well we will buy a lot in Marmion and build a house there," husbands
occasionally said to their wives and daughters, to console them for the
mud, or dirt, or heat, or cold of the farm life. One by one some of
those who had come into the country early, and whose land had grown
steadily in value as population increased, were able to rent their farms
to advantage and "move into town." Thus the streets gradually lengthened
out into the lanes, and brick blocks slowly replaced the battlemented
wooden stores of earlier frontier construction.

To Harold Excell, fresh from the wide spaces of the plains, the town
appeared smothered in leaves, and the air was oppressively stagnant. He
came into the railway station early one July morning, tired and dusty,
with a ride of two days and a night in an ordinary coach. As he walked
slowly up the street toward the center of the sleeping village, the odor
of ripe grain and the familiar smell of poplar and maple trees went to
his heart. His blood leaped with remembered joys. Under such trees, in
the midst of such fragrance, he had once walked with his sister and with
Jack. His heart swelled with the thought of the Burns' farm, and the
hearty greeting they would give him could he but ride up to the door.

And Mary! How would she seem to him now? Four years was a long time at
that period of a girl's life, but he was certain he would recognize her.
He had not written to her of his coming, for he wished to announce
himself. There were elements of adventure and surprise in the plan which
pleased him. He had not heard from her for nearly a year, and that
troubled him a little; perhaps she had moved away or was married. The
thought of losing her made him shiver with sudden doubt of the good
sense of his action. Anyhow, he would soon know.

The clerk of the principal hotel was sleeping on a cot behind the
counter, and Mose considerately decided not to wake him. Taking a seat
by the window, he resumed his thinking, while the morning light
infiltrated the sky. He was only twenty-two years of age, but in his own
thought he had left boyhood far behind. As a matter of fact he looked to
be five years older than he was. His face was set in lines indicating
resolution and daring, his drooping mustache hid the boyish curves of
his lips, and he carried himself with a singular grace, self-confident,
decisive, but not assertive. The swing of his shoulders had charm, and
he walked well. The cowboy's painful hobble had not yet been fastened
upon him.

Sitting there waiting the dawn, his face became tired, somber, almost
haggard, with self-accusing thought. He was not yet a cattle king, he
was, in fact, still a cowboy. The time had gone by when a hired hand
could easily acquire a bunch of cattle and start in for himself--and
yet, though he had little beyond his saddle and a couple of horses, he
was in Marmion to look upon the face of the girl who had helped him to
keep "square" and clean in a land where dishonesty and vice were common
as sage brush. He had sworn never to set foot in Rock River again, and
no one but Jack knew of his visit to Marmion.

Now that he was actually in the town where Mary lived he was puzzled to
know how to proceed. He had wit enough to know that in Marmion a girl
could not receive visits from a strange young man and escape the fire of
infuriate gossip. He feared to expose her to such comment, and yet,
having traveled six hundred miles to see her, he was not to be deterred
by any other considerations, especially by any affecting himself.

He knew something, but not all, of the evil fame his name conveyed to
the citizens in his native state. As "Harry Excell, _alias_ Black Mose,"
he had figured in the great newspapers of Chicago, and Denver, and
Omaha. Imaginative and secretly admiring young reporters had heaped
alliterative words together to characterize his daring, his skill as a
marksman and horseman, and had also darkly hinted of his part in
desperate stage and railway robbery in the Farther West. To all this--up
to the time of his return--Harold had replied, "These chaps must earn a
living some way, I reckon." He was said to have shot down six men in
his first "scrimmage." "No one presumes to any impertinent inquiries
when 'Black Mose' rides into town."

Another enterprising newspaper youth had worked out the secret history
of "Black Mose": "He began his career of crime early; at sixteen years
of age he served in State's prison for knifing a rival back in the
States." This report enabled the Rock River Call to identify Harold
Excell with "Black Mose," to the pain and humiliation of Pastor Excell.

Harold paid very little heed to all this till his longing to see Mary
grew intolerable--even now, waiting for the Sabbath day to dawn, he did
not fully realize the black shadow which streamed from his name and his
supposititious violences. He divined enough of it to know that he must
remain unknown to others, and he registered as "M. Harding, Omaha."

He was somewhat startled to find himself without appetite, and pushing
away his tough steak and fried potatoes, he arose and returned to the
street. The problem before him required delicacy of handling, and he was
not one to assume a tactful manner. The closer he came to the meeting
the more difficult it became. He must see her without causing comment,
and without Jack's aid he saw no way of doing it. He had written to
Jack, asking him to meet him, and so he waited.

He was a perilously notable figure in spite of his neat black suit and
quiet ways. His wide hat sat upon his head with a negligence which
stopped short of swagger, and his coat revealed the splendid lines of
his muscular shoulders. He had grown to a physical manhood which had the
leopard's lithe grace and the lion's gravity. His dimpled and
clean-shaven chin was strong, and the line of his lips firm. His eyes
were steady and penetrating, giving an impression of reticence. His
hands were slender and brown, and soft in the palms as those of a girl.
The citizens marveled over him as he moved slowly through the streets,
thinking himself quite indistinguishable among the other young men in
dark suits and linen collars.

Waiting was most difficult, and to remain indoors was impossible, so he
walked steadily about the town. As he returned from the river road for
the fifth time, the bells began to ring for church, filling him with
other memories of his youth, of his father and his pulpit, and brought
to his mind also the sudden recollection of one of Jack's letters,
wherein he mentioned Mary's singing in the choir. If she were at home
she would be singing yet, he argued, and set forth definitely to find
her.

To inquire was out of the question--so he started in at the largest
church with intent to make the rounds. After waiting till the choir was
about to begin the first hymn, he slipped in and took a seat near the
door, his heart beating loudly and his breath much quickened.

The interior was so familiar, it seemed for the moment to be his
father's church in Rock River. The odors, sounds, movements were quite
the same. The same deaf old men, led by determined, sturdy old women,
were going up the aisle to the front pews. The pretty girls, taking
their seats in the middle pews (where their new hats could be enjoyed by
the young men at the rear) became Dot, and Alice, and Nettie--and for
the moment the cowboy was very boyish and tender. The choir assembling
above the pulpit made him shiver with emotion. "Perhaps one of them will
be Mary and I won't know her," he said to himself. "I will know her
voice," he added.

But, as the soprano took her place, his heart ceased to pound--she was
small, and dark, and thin. He arose and slipped out to continue his
search.

They were singing as he entered the next chapel, and it required but a
moment's listening to convince himself that Mary was not there. Then
do you think it was not long, I hope, send him back. GRÄFIN Capulets
(behind the scene.) Hey, girl, are you on? JULIA Who calls me? Is
it my mother gnädge? Watch it yet so late or so early? Welch unusual
occasion brings forth? (Capulets Countess enters.) GRÄFIN Capulets
Well, Julia, how are you? JULIA I is not good. GRÄFIN Capulets still
crying to the cousin's death? Wilt thou with tears from the crypt to wash
it? And you could be's, which called him into the life, let the drum!
Mourning a testament to many love, but too much evidence of mourning
little joke.

JULIA To a blow, so sensitively met Allows to cry me GRÄFIN Capulets
So he meets you; The friend feels nothing, you Mourning. JULIA But I am
sensitive and must be a friend Mourning. GRÄFIN Capulets My child,
not his death so much you Mourning, As that the villain lives which killed
him. JULIET What a Rogue? GRÄFIN Capulets Well, of Romeo. JULIET
(beiseit.) He and a Schurk are sky far away .-- (Laut.) God forgive
him! I do it with all my heart, And yet no man grieved, as he, my
heart. GRÄFIN Capulets Yes indeed, because the assassins alive.
JULIET Yes, where it does not reach these hands!

- O revenged as nobody but my cousin! GRÄFIN Capulets We want to take
revenge, do not worry; Drum weep you no more. I send to someone to Mantua,
where the Verlaufne lives, The Tränkchen be a force to prepare
him, the companions soon Tybalts him to make. Then hopefully you will
be satisfied. JULIET Indeed, I will never be satisfied with Romeo, I
saw him - dead - as if my heart for a friend suffering from blood. Oh,
My fändet only one who gave him a poison, gnädge wife and I want
to mingle That Romeo, when first taken, soon slept in peace .-- How
my heart hates it, hear Him call - and not to him, may the love
that I contributed to the cousin, on the one who has slain him, to
atone!

GRÄFIN Capulets Are you the means to find the man I probably . But now I
bring you glad Newspapers, girls. JULIA In so beleaguered joy right
time comes. What is it, I ask you, gnädge mother? GRÄFIN Capulets Now
child, thou hast 'nen attentive father: To thee from thy gloom discourage
He devised a sudden you joy Festival, Des, I am as little as versah
du JULIET egg, as desired! What about that gnädge mother? GRÄFIN
Capulets Yes, you think, child, on Thursday morning should the hochedle,
wackre young lord, Count Paris, in Saint Peters Church As you happy
bride at the altar guide. JULIET Well, at St. Peters Church and of
course Peter, He does not take me as a happy bride guide, I am surprised
they express, that I must be married, always comes to my Free Advertising.
I ask you, gnädge wife says my father And Lord, I wanted to marry
me And if ichs do, I swear: Romeo, from which you may know, I hate
him, as it prefers Paris .-- Surely, that is probably Newspaper!

GRÄFIN Capulets Here comes your father, tell him yourself, Sieh how he
liked it from you. (and the Capulets Wärterin come.) Capulets The air
dew sparkles at sunset, But with the downfall of my nephew, As the
rain pours right.
If she was, why that
ended it. He would go back to the mountains and never return.

The minister finished at last and Mary arose again to sing. She was
taller, Harold perceived, and more matronly in all ways. As she sang,
the lonely soul of the plainsman was moved to an ecstasy which filled
his throat and made his eyes misty with tears. He thought of his days in
the gray prison, and of this girlish voice singing like an angel to
comfort him. She did not seem to be singing to him now. She sang as a
bird sings out of abounding health and happiness, and as she sang, the
mountains retreated into vast distances. The rush of the cattle on the
drive was fainter than the sigh of the wind, and the fluting of the Ute
lover was of another world. For the moment he felt the majesty and the
irrevocableness of human life.

He stood in a shadowed corner at the close of the service and watched
her come down the aisle. As she drew near his breath left him, and the
desire to lay his hand on her arm became so intense that his fingers
locked upon the back of his pew--but he let her pass. She glanced at him
casually, then turned to smile at some word of the preacher walking just
behind her. Her passing was like music, and the fragrance of her
garments was sweeter than any mountain flower. The grace of her walk,
the exquisite fairness of her skin subdued him, who acknowledged no
master and no mistress. She walked on out into the Sabbath sunshine and
he followed, only to see her turn up the sidewalk close to the shoulder
of the handsome young minister.

The lonely youth walked back to his hotel with manner so changed his
mountain companions would have marveled at it. A visit which had seemed
so simple on the Arickaree became each moment more complicated in
civilization. The refined young minister with the brown pointed beard,
so kindly and thoughtful and wholesome of manner, was a new sort of man
to such as Harold Excell. He feared no rivalry among the youth of the
village, but this scholar----

Jack met him at the hotel--faithful old Jack, whose freckled face
beamed, and whose spectacled eyes were dim with gladness. They shook
hands again and again, crying out confused phrases. "Old man, how are
you?" "I'm all right, how are you?" "You look it." "Where'd you find the
red whiskers?" "They came in a box." "Your mustache is a wonder."

Ultimately they took seats and looked at each other narrowly and
quietly. Then Harold said, "I'm Mr. Harding here."

Jack replied: "I understand. Your father knows, too. He wants to come up
and see you. I said I'd wire, shall I?"

"Of course--if he wants to see me--but I want to talk to you first. I've
seen Mary!"

"Have you? How did you manage?"

"I trailed her. Went to all the churches in town. She sings in a little
stone church over here."

"I know. I've been up here to see her once or twice myself."

Harold seized him by the arm. "See here, Jack--I must talk with her. How
can I manage it without doing her harm?"

"That's the question. If these people should connect you with 'Black
Mose' they'd form a procession behind you. Harry, you don't know, you
can't imagine the stories they've got up about you. They've made you
into a regular Oklahoma Billy the Kid and train robber. The first great
spread was that fight you had at Running Bear, that got into the Omaha
papers in three solid columns about six months after it happened. Of
course I knew all about it from your letters--no one had laid it to you
then, but now everybody knows you are 'Black Mose,' and if you should be
recognized you couldn't see Mary without doing her an awful lot of harm.
You must be careful."

"I know all that," replied Harold gloomily. "But you must arrange for me
to see her right away, this afternoon or to-night."

"I'll manage it. They know me here and I can call on her and take a
friend, an old classmate, you see, without attracting much
attention--but it isn't safe for you to stay here long, somebody is
dead-sure to identify you. They've had two or three pictures of you
going around that really looked like you, and then your father coming up
may let the secret out. We must be careful. I'll call on Mary
immediately after dinner and tell her you are here."

"Is she married? Some way she seemed like a married woman."

"No, she's not married, but the young preacher you heard this morning
is after her, they say, and he's a mighty nice chap."

There was no more laughter on the gentle, red-bearded face of young
Burns. Had Harold glanced at him sharply at that moment, he would have
seen a tremor in Jack's lips and a singular shadow in his eyes. His
voice indeed did affect Harold, though he took it to be sympathetic
sadness only.

Jack brightened up suddenly. "I can't really believe it is you, Harry.
You've grown so big and burly, and you look so old." He smiled. "I wish
I could see some of that shooting they all tell about, but that _would_
let the cat out."

Harold could not be drawn off to discuss such matters.

"Come out to the ranch and I'll show you. But how are we to meet father?
If he is seen talking with me it may start people off----"

"I'll tell you. We'll have him come up and join you on the train and go
down to Rock River together. I don't mean for you to get off, you can
keep right on. Now, you mustn't wear that broad hat; you wear a
grape-box straw hat while you're here. Take mine and I'll wear a cap."

He took charge of Harold's affairs with ready and tactful hand. He was
eager to hear his story, but Harold refused to talk on any other
subject than Mary. At dinner he sat in gloomy silence, disregarding his
friend's pleasant, low-voiced gossip concerning old friends in Rock
River.

After Jack left the hotel Harold went to his room and took a look at
himself in the glass. He was concerned to see of what manner of man he
really was. He was not well-satisfied with himself; his face and hands
were too brown and leathery, and when he thought of his failure as a
rancher his brow darkened. He was as far from being a cattle king as
when he wrote that boyish letter four years before, and he had sense
enough to know that a girl of Mary's grace and charm does not lack for
suitors. "Probably she is engaged or married," he thought. Life seemed a
confusion and weariness at the moment.

As soon as he heard Jack on the stairs he hurried to meet him.

"What luck? Have you seen her?"

Jack closed the door before replying, "Yes."

"What did she say?"

"She turned a little paler and just sat still for a minute or two. You
know she isn't much of a talker. Then she said, 'Was he at church
to-day?' I said 'Yes'; then she said, 'I think I saw him. I saw a
stranger and was attracted by his face, but of course I never thought
it could be Harold.' She was completely helpless for a while, but as I
talked she began to see her way. She finally said, 'He has come a long
way and I must see him. I _must_ talk with him, but people must not know
who he is.' I told her we were going to be very careful for her sake."

"That's right, we must," Harold interrupted.

"She didn't seem scared about herself. 'It won't harm me,' she said,
'but father is hard to manage when anything displeases him. We must be
careful on Harold's account.'"

Harold's throat again contracted with emotion. "She never thinks of
herself; that's her way."

"Now we've just got to walk boldly up the walk, the two of us together,
and call on her. I'll introduce you to her father or she will; he knows
me. We will talk about our school days while the old gentleman is
around. He will drift away after a time, naturally. If he doesn't I'll
take him out for a walk."

This they did. Made less of a cowboy by Jack's straw hat, Harold went
forth on a trail whose course was not well-defined in his mind, though
now that Jack had arranged details so deftly that Mary was not in danger
of being put to shame, his native courage and resolution came back to
him. In the full springtide of his powerful manhood Mary's name and face
had come at last to stand for everything worth having in the world, and
like a bold gambler he was staking all he had on a single whirl of the
wheel.

Their meeting was so self-contained that only a close observer could
have detected the tension. Mary was no more given to externalizing her
emotions than he. She met him with a pale, sweet, dignified mask of
face. She put out her hand, and said, "I am glad to see you, Mr.
Harding," but his eyes burned down into hers with such intensity that
she turned to escape his glance. "Father, you know Mr. Burns, and this
is his friend, Mr. Harding, whom I used to know."

Jack came gallantly to the rescue. He talked crops, politics, weather,
church affairs, and mining. He chattered and laughed in a way which
would have amazed Harold had he not been much preoccupied. He was
unprepared for the change in Mary. He had carried her in his mind all
these years as a little slip of a maiden, wrapt in expression, somber of
mood, something half angel and half child, and always she walked in a
gray half light, never in the sun. Now here she faced him, a dignified
woman, with deep, serene eyes, and he could not comprehend how the pale
girl had become the magnetic, self-contained woman. He was thrown into
doubt and confusion, but so far from showing this he sat in absolute
silence, gazing at her with eyes which made her shiver with emotion.

Talk was purposeless and commonplace at first, a painful waiting.
Suddenly they missed Jack and the father. They were alone and free to
speak their most important words. Harold seized upon the opportunity
with most disconcerting directness.

"I've come for you, Mary," he said, as if he had not hitherto uttered a
word, and his voice aroused some mysterious vibration within her bosom.
"I'm not a cattle king; I have nothing but two horses, a couple of guns,
and a saddle--but all the same, here I am. I got lonesome for you, and
at last I took the back trail to find out whether you had forgot me or
not."

His pause seemed to require an answer and her lips were dry as she said
in a low voice, "No, I did not forget, but I thought you had forgotten
_me_."

"A man don't forget such a girl as you are, Mary. You were in my mind
all the time. Your singing did more for me than anything else. I've
tried to keep out of trouble for your sake. I haven't succeeded very
well as you know--but most of the stories about me are lies. I've only
had two fights and they were both in self-defense and I don't think I
killed anybody. I never know exactly what I'm doing when I get into a
scrap. But I've kept out of the way of it on your account. I never go
after a man. It's pretty hard not to shoot out there where men go on the
rampage so often. It's easier, now than it used to be, for they are
afraid of me."

He seemed to come to a halt in that direction, and after a moment's
pause took a new start. "I saw you at church to-day, and I saw you walk
off with the minister, and that gave me a sudden jolt. It seemed to me
you--liked him mighty well----"

She was sitting in silence and apparent calmness, but she flushed and
her lips set close together. It was evident that no half-explanations
would suffice this soul of the mountain land.

He arose finally and stood for an instant looking at her with piercing
intentness. His deep excitement had forced him to physical action.

"I could see he was the man for you, not me. Right there I felt like
quitting. I went back to my hotel doing more thinking to the square
minute than ever before in my life, I reckon. I ought to have pulled out
for the mountains right then, but you see, I had caught a glimpse of
you again, and I couldn't. The smell of your dress----" he paused a
moment. "You are the finest girl God ever made and I just couldn't go
without seeing you, at least once more."

He was tense, almost rigid with the stress of his sudden passion. She
remained silent with eyes fixed upon him, musing and somber. She was
slower to utter emotion than he, and could not speak even when he had
finished.

He began to walk up and down just before her, his brows moodily knitted.
"I'm not fit to ask a girl like you to marry me, I know that. I've
served time in jail, and I'm under indictment by the courts this very
minute in two States. I'm no good on earth but to rope cattle. I can't
bring myself to farm or sell goods back here, and if I could you
oughtn't to have anything to do with me--but all the same you're worth
more to me than anything else. I don't suppose there has been an hour of
my life since I met you first that I haven't thought of you. I dreamed
of you--when I'm riding at night--I try to think----"

He stopped abruptly and caught up her left hand. "You've got a ring on
your finger--is that from the minister?"

Her eyes fled from his and she said, "Yes."

He dropped her hand. "I don't blame you any. I've made a failure of it."
His tone was that of a bankrupt at fifty. "I don't know enough to write
a letter--I'm only a rough, tough fool. I thought you'd be thinking of
me just the way I was thinking of you, and there was nothing to write
about because I wasn't getting ahead as I expected. So I kept waiting
till something turned up to encourage me. Nothing did, and now I'm paid
for it."

His voice had a quality which made her weep. She tried to think of some
words of comfort but could not. She was indeed too deeply concerned with
her own contending emotions. There was marvelous appeal in this
powerful, bronzed, undisciplined youth. His lack of tact and gallantry,
his disconcerting directness of look and speech shook her, troubled her,
and rendered her weak. She was but a year younger than he, and her life
had been almost as simple exteriorly, but at center she was of far finer
development. She had always been introspective, and she had grown
self-analytic. She knew that the touch of this young desperado's hand
had changed her relation toward the world. As he talked she listened
without formulating a reply.

When at last she began to speak she hesitated and her sentences were
broken. "I am very sorry--but you see I had not heard from you for a
long time--it would be impossible--for me to live on the plains so far
away--even if--even if I had not promised Mr. King----"

"Well, that ends it," he said harshly, and his voice brought tears
again. "I go back to my cow punching, the only business I know. As you
say, the cow country is no place for a girl like you. It's a mighty hard
place for women of any kind, and you ... Besides, you're a singer, you
can't afford to go with me. It's all a part of my luck. Things have gone
against me from the start."

He paused to get a secure hold on his voice. "Well, now, I'm going, but
I don't want you to forget me; don't pray for me, just _sing_ for me.
I'll hear you, and it'll help keep me out of mischief. Will you do
that?"

"Yes--if you--if it will help----"

Jack's voice, unusually loud, interrupted her, and when the father
entered, there was little outward sign of the passionate drama just
enacted.

"Won't you sing for us, Mary?" asked Jack a few minutes later.

Mary looked at Harold significantly and arose to comply. Harold sat with
head propped on his palm and eyes fixed immovably upon her face while
she sang, If I Were a Voice. The voice was stronger, sweeter, and the
phrasing was more mature, but it was after all the same soul singing
through the prison gloom, straight to his heart. She charged the words
with a special, intimate, tender meaning. She conveyed to him the
message she dared not speak, "Be true in spite of all. My heart is sore
for you, let me comfort you."

He, on his part, realized that one who could sing like that had a wider
mission in the world than to accompany a cowboy to the bleak plains of
the West. To comfort him was a small part of her work in the world. It
was her mission to go on singing solace and pleasure to thousands all
over the nation.

When she had finished he arose and offered his hand with a singular
calmness which moved the girl more deeply than any word he had said.
"When you sing that song, think of me, sometimes, will you?"

"Yes--always," she replied.

"Good-by," he said abruptly. Dropping her-hand, he went out without
speaking another word.

Jack, taking her hand in parting, found it cold and nerveless.

"May I see you again before we go?" he asked.

Her eyes lighted a little and her hand tightened in his. "Yes--I want to
speak with you," she said, and ended in a whisper, "about him."

Jack overtook Harold but remained silent. When they reached their room,
Harold dropped into a chair like one exhausted by a fierce race.

"This ends it, Jack, I'll never set foot in the States again; from this
time on I keep to the mountains."


CHAPTER XIII

THE YOUNG EAGLE DREAMS OF A MATE


As the young men sat at supper that night a note was handed to Jack by
the clerk. Upon opening it he found a smaller envelope addressed to "Mr.
Harding." Harold took it, but did not open it, though it promised well,
being quite thick with leaves. Jack read his note at a glance and passed
it across the table. It was simple:

    "DEAR MR. BURNS: Won't you please see that the inclosed note
    reaches Harold. I wish you could persuade him to come and see me
    once more before he goes. I shall expect to see _you_ anyhow.
    Father does not suspect anything out of the ordinary as yet, and
    it will be quite safe.

                                    "Your friend,
                                              "MARY YARDWELL."

As soon as he decently could Harold went to his room and opened the
important letter. In it the reticent-girl had uttered herself with
unusual freedom. It was a long letter, and its writer must have gone to
its composition at once after the door had closed upon her visitors. It
began abruptly, too:

    "DEAR FRIEND: My heart aches for you. From the time I first
    saw you in the jail I have carried your face in my mind. I
    can't quite analyze my feeling for you now. You are so
    different from the boy I knew. I think I am a little afraid
    of you, you scare me a little.  You are of another world, a
    strange world of which I would like to hear. I have a woman's
    curiosity, I can't let you go away until you tell me all your
    story. I would like to say something on my own side
    also. Can't you come and see me once more? My father is going
    to be away at his farm all day to-morrow, can't you come with
    Mr.  Burns and take dinner with me and tell me all about
    yourself--your life is so strange.

    "There will be no one there (I mean at dinner) but Mr. Burns
    and you, and we can talk freely. Does being 'under
    indictment' mean that you are in danger of arrest? I want to
    understand all about that. You can't know how strange and
    exciting all these things are to me. My life is so humdrum
    here. You come into it like a great mountain wind. You take
    my words away as well as my breath. I am not like most women,
    words are not easy to me even when I write, though I write
    better than I talk--I think.

    "Mr. King asked me to be his wife some months ago, and I
    promised to do so, but that is no reason why we should not be
    good friends.  You have been too much in my life to go out of
    it altogether, though I had given up seeing you again, and
    then we always think of our friends as we last saw them, we
    can't imagine their development. Don't you find this so? You
    said you found me changed.

    "I have little to tell you about myself. I graduated and then
    I spent one winter in Chicago to continue my music studies. I
    am teaching here summers to get pin money. It is so quiet
    here one grows to think all the world very far away, and the
    wild things among which you have lived and worked are almost
    unimaginable even when the newspapers describe them with the
    greatest minuteness.

    "This letter is very rambling, I know, but I am writing as
    rapidly as I can, for I want to send it to you before you
    take the train.  Please come to see me to-morrow. To-night I
    sing in the song service at the church. I hope you will be
    there. The more I think about your story the more eager to
    listen I become. There must be some basis of stirring deeds
    for all the tales they tell of you.  My friends say I have a
    touch of the literary poison in my veins; anyhow I like a
    story above all things, and to hear the hero tell his own
    adventures will be the keenest delight.

    "I am sorry I could not do more to make things easier for you
    to-day, but I come of men and women who are silent when they
    mean most. I am never facile of speech and to-day I was
    dumb. Perhaps if we meet on a clear understanding we will get
    along better. Come, anyhow, and let me know you as you
    are. Perhaps I have never really known you, perhaps I only
    imagined you.

                                    "Your friend,
                                              "MARY YARDWELL.

    "P.S. The reason for the postscript is that I have re-read
    the foregoing letter and find it unsatisfactory in everything
    except the expression of my wish to see you. I had meant to
    say so much and I have said so little. I am afraid now that I
    shall not see you at all, so I add my promise. I shall always
    remember you and I _will_ think of you when I sing, and I
    will sing If I Were a Voice every Sunday for you, especially
    when I am all alone, and I'll send it out to you by thought
    waves. You shall never fail of the best wishes of

                                              "MARY YARDWELL."

Not being trained in psychologic subtleties, Harold took this letter to
mean only what it said. He was not as profoundly moved by it as he would
have been could he have read beneath the lines the tumult he had
produced in the tranquil life of its writer. One skilled in perception
of a woman's moods could have detected a sense of weakness, or
irresolution, or longing in a girl whose nature had not yet been tried
by conflicting emotions.

Jack perceived something of this when Harold gave him the letter to
read. His admiration of Harold's grace and power, his love for every
gesture and every lineament of his boyish hero, made it possible for him
to understand how deeply Mary had been moved when brought face to face
with a handsome and powerful man who loved as lions love. He handed the
letter back with a smile: "I think you'd better stay over and see her."

"I intend to," replied Harold; "wire father to come up."

"Let's go walk. We may happen by the church where she sings," suggested
Jack.

It was a very beautiful hour of the day. The west was filled with cool,
purple-gray clouds, and a fresh wind had swept away all memory of the
heat of the day. Insects filled the air with quavering song. Children
were romping on the lawns. Lovers sauntered by in pairs or swung under
the trees in hammocks. Old people sat reading or listlessly talking
beside their cottage doors. A few carriages were astir. It was a day of
rest and peace and love-making to this busy little community. The mills
were still and even the water seemed to run less swiftly, only the
fishes below the dam had cause to regret the day's release from toil,
for on every rock a fisherman was poised.

The tension being a little relieved, Harold was able to listen to Jack's
news of Rock River. His father was still preaching in the First Church,
but several influential men had split off and were actively antagonizing
the majority of the congregation. The fight was at its bitterest. Maud
had now three children, and her husband was doing well in hardware. This
old schoolmate was married, that one was dead, many had moved West.
Bradley Talcott was running for State Legislator. Radbourn was in
Washington.

Talking on quietly the two young men walked out of the village into a
lane bordered with Lombardy poplars. Harold threw himself down on the
grass beneath them and said:

"Now I can imagine I am back on the old farm. Tell me all about your
folks."

"Oh, they're just the same. They don't change much. Father scraped some
money together and built a new bedroom on the west side. Mother calls it
'the boys' room.' By 'boys' they mean you and me. They expect us to
sleep there when you come back on a visit. They'll be terribly
disappointed at not seeing you. Mother seems to think as much of you as
she does of me."

There was charm in the thought of the Burns' farm and Mrs. Burns coming
and going about the big kitchen stove, the smell of wholesome cooking
about her clothing, and for the moment the desperado's brain became as a
child's. There was sadness in the thought that he never again could see
his loyal friends or the old walks and lanes.

Jack aroused him and they walked briskly back toward the little church
which they found already quite filled with young people. The choir,
including Mary, smiled at the audience and at each other, for the spirit
of the little church was humanly cheerful.

The strangers found seats in a corner pew together with a pale young man
and a very pretty little girl. Jack was not imaginative, but he could
not help thinking of the commotion which would follow if those around
him should learn that "Black Mose" was at that moment seated among them.
Mary, seeing the dark, stern face of the plainsman, had some such
thought also. There was something gloriously unfettered, compelling, and
powerful in his presence. He made the other young men appear commonplace
and feeble in her eyes, and threw the minister into pale relief,
emphasizing his serenity, his scholarship, and his security of position.

Harold gave close attention to the young minister, who, as Mary's lover,
became important. As a man of action he put a low valuation on a mere
scholar, but King was by no means contemptible physically. Jack also
perceived the charm of such a man to Mary, and acknowledged the good
sense of her choice. King could give her a pleasant home among people
she liked, while Harold could only ask her to go to the wild country, to
a log ranch in a cottonwood gulch, there to live month after month
without seeing a woman or a child.

A bitter and desperate melancholy fell upon the plainsman. What was the
use? Such a woman was not for him. He had only the pleasure of the wild
country. He would go back to his horses, his guns, and the hills, and
never again come under the disturbing influence of this beautiful
singer. Regarding the Philippines, speaking only from known and anonymous
even those who bring or quote printed samples of his wit. _Memorial_
White From San Jose appears D. Fernando Bagongbanta with a _awit_
octosyllable in stanzas of four verses.

Bagongbanta island is considered to _ladino_, ie knowledge of the Castilian.
Epilog Tagalog anonymous this work another, better versificador that
Bagongbanta. But since 1610 Bibliography recorded an entire book in
order: the _Librong ... _ Pinpín Thomas, the patriarch of the printers
and humanists Filipinos.

The prologue of this book is important for the history of technical
Tagalog poetry.

It first appears in a _awit_ written romancerillos five, six, seven
and eight syllables in isolation measures were made along the Tagalog
literature, depriving islanders in the pentasílabos, hexasílabos and
heptasílabos, and in the mainland and Islanders ladinos the
octosyllable, with the exception of Father Clain.

In his comedies Islanders doubled the first three, making them respectively
in the words of nine or ten, twelve, and thirteen or fourteen syllables,
and used only in the octosyllable interpolated songs in them. So in
_comedia old Aeropagita_ San Dionisio, an anonymous verses are twelve,
fourteen, thirteen and eleven syllables, but the fourteen heptasílabos
doubles, and twelve, double hexasílabos. Dito sa daquilang -
caharían Ng Greece and the other as the Father Clain: Removes, i,
sinasamba - God naliligpit Na na sa sacramento, i, - tantong sungmisilid
are true double six verses. The eleven syllables are _rara avis_ and
thirteen and fourteen, by way of Alexandrina, the scene soon disappeared
and were replaced by twelve, on the combinations of twelve and
six, with interpolations of eight parts in comedies or any extension.

But the most common in the islands, into parts characteristics, such
as _awit, kumintang, kundiman_ are dodecasílabos intercisos. They are
also frequent in the piececillas short romancerillos heptasílabos.
Meters are written in this verse of the five anonymous quotes Gaspar
de San Agustin, and in stanzas three, four and five poems. Pinpín
is already indicated in this trend of the tongue.

Of the 34 verses that make up your _awit_, 22 are of six syllables, 7, 5,
4, 7, and only 1 of 8 syllables. This agrees with the practice
followed by Tagalog in the determinations of the syllabic quantities,
because in the Pinpín, things may change. Do not forget that true worship
was Pinpín Castilian, and combined uses Spanish and Tagalog on final
syllables, and sinalefas hiatus, with a kind of debauchery metric inherent
in any transition period. Under this view, while the song is a
romancerillo in Pinpín for ladinos hexasílabos for not ladinos,
Tagalog or mass, is a combination of rhymes, 6, 5, 7 and 8 syllables.

To find another such conspicuous and most prestigious poetic Pinpín
(Friend of White San Jose, Pedro and Pedro de San Buenaventura Herrera,
and whose work was printer) need to set foot in liminares eighteenth
century. Open this century in 1703 with the name of the venerable
Gaspar Aquino de Belén, author of the first poem of religious _Pasión_.
His book consists of two parts, prose and verse, the prose is a
translation of the recommendation of the soul of the Jesuit Thomas
Villacastín, prose that rivals the prose of _Barlaan_ he edited
in 1712, and the verse is _Pasión_, poem in half a century had five
editions and was translated almost all the dialects.

It is not known whether before or after the poem by Aquino de Belén,
was first published in the _Pasión_ D.

Luis Guide. Jesuit Delgado, who had to know the poem by Aquino de Belén,
not mint, however, on _Pasiones_, more than the guide, which
describes Excellency, and was re-printed in 1750 or 51. He had be it
in Quintillan of eight syllables, the poem Aquino of Bethlehem and all
the passions Tagalog. D.

Felipe de Jesus, but not more than its quoted _awit_ to _Barlaan_ (1712)
46 octosyllable quartets, will not lag behind Aquino de Belén,
and lyrically, it excels. If not as a poet, and lexicographer, but as
pilgrim learned critic literary expression, descuella on all its
predecessors in its genre, the Jesuit Lúcar San filipino.

His work, according to its critics, especially the Tagalog disciple of St.
Lúcar the Augustinian Friar Juan Serrano (who Fr Mesquida said in
approving _Meditaciones_ that "if Mussa would speak in Tagalog,
Havi priced Serrano by Style Tagalog) was higher than the Nile Nile
Vocabulario Mong lalang ay nilalaloan and, as a vast river, had tax
for all arts and vocabularies of the greatest talents of the four
religious orders, notably the Dominican and Jesuit.

Fuel San Lúcar given to the glory of making the top three times
in secular works of the Spanish and the entire nation Tagalog
"which" consists of Comintang and because of Ting, and the Tagalog
of Court, "according the San Lúcar.

Blancas de San José said that the nation is composed Tagalog: "COMINT,
Laguna, and Tagalog." According to Gaspar de San Agustin: "COMINT (the)
Laguna and Batangas provinces," and Sunday as the Saints, "the
tinge is from the mountains of San Pablo by Nacarlan until Calaylayan
which was formerly the seat of Tayabas, and there are the Mountains
of Cabintí until Bilingbiling, which is top of Mabitac, "but adds
that" there is much to repair this, because they are many who,
although of Monti, understood in the lagoon, and Manila.

They are therefore of Tagalog _Corte_, or Tagalog, the Manila, Bulacan,
Bataan and Cavite.

So are certain regions whose ways of speaking were registered in San
_Vocabulario_ Lúcar. The incomparable modesty of this holy man, "a San
Francisco Xavier in the fervor of their missions, and a St. Francis
of Assisi in a detachment things this world "for Fr Blas de
Plasencia, it moves to give the best of his book to contributions
of the Father and the Father Clain Noceda, but censors, Serrano and
Blas de Plasencia, and licenses from the Government and the regular
awarded to a San Lúcar the paternity of the work.

"He speaks with such elegance as he writes, and writes to both
primary and discretion as speaking" because "it is less difficult
to talk to those who are born in this land" not only put "games to
the Father (Noceda) has added to the vocabulary of Father Clain,
because the Father has no Noceda game, "but added" more than three
thousand words or voices that until now were not in vocabularies
that deal with this language, "said Blas de Plasencia, and as born
with eagle wings eminent Serrano says, since "their early years was
perfect in this language."

Has, therefore, a rewriting of all the work of their predecessor and
contemporaries, confusing waters of the tributaries of the sacred Nile
was certainly the first to notice that certain compositions Tagalog is
not different from the Spanish but by the Voices: _frasismo Castilian
neto_ had.

But what matters most are the author's literary and critical spirit
that presides over the work. Multiplied the examples drawn from traditional
paramelogía Tagalog; distinguished critic with the wisdom of what
vulgar people, giving it some eye riddles, proverbs and sayings versify
if they were all a manifestation of the lore, many of them had no
adarme poetry: were mere mnemonic appeal, took place at the comedy
show of its time, had the good taste to record those voices own
dialect poetry as _banloqui, olohati, lohar_, etc.. etc. and idioms,
sayings figurative or metaphorical certain expressions and full of
quaint charm and grace, all things that was absent in the work of
their predecessors.

It is unfortunate that some of his colleagues cite D. Juan de los Santos
and D. John Ariola, poets and pilgrims picturesque ingenuity, especially
the last, which is Tagalog romancerillo heptasílabo fine cutting
and noble prosapia. One third of the examples in this
book is a literary, poetic and picturesque, but two-thirds,
unfortunately, are rather vulgar and that popular art.

We know, for the preliminaries, which estampóse no voice in this
work without prior twelve ladinos agreed in pronunciation, accent
and significance of each root, which proves, beyond the literary
conscience and probity of the authors, no work was increased
collaboration that anonymous people, and whose cause has reason to
San Lúcar stressed in characteristic language, as a work of "nation
Tagalog."

Among the forms of the century there is nothing comparable to what
has already been cited.

But the manuscripts, especially the drama of cartapacios Tagalog
to Tagalog toured all the provinces and their people and neighborhoods,
were many in number, and love the performances of domestic and
illegal things to the country shocked the missionaries Archbishop
Manila in 1741 was to prohibit its _concierto_ in _estancias,
tierras_ or _huertas_ of indigenous people without regular license.

But the greatest literature of the century was the century XIX.

Just that no province will be his masterpiece recorded during the
first three quarters of a century.

In Manila and its suburbs are the _Pasión_, known popularly Pilápil
of which is the most popular, and dates from 1814, but in reality
is the work of a devotee, reviewed by Dr.

Pilápil and P. Manuel Grijalva, several religious pamphlets from Dr.
Pilápil, reprinted in 1830-35, including _Maicling Casaysayan ...
_ and _Pagsisiam_, the famous _Pláticas_ Fr Modesto de Castro (1855),
the best collection of sacred oratory; _M ~ ga Sariling Uicang Magis
... _ (1856) Fr Florentino Ramirez, perhaps the best gloss on
Philippine ascetic; _Guía of Pecadores_ in Tagalog (1856) by an
anonymous author, the number of jobs filled with religious unction J.

Tuason, including _Tobías_ and Landes _Matuid na ..._; Martir _Sa n ~ g
Golgota_ (1886) of D. Juan Evangelista, charming novel of a
romantic vagueness, winged and subtle, and finally the _Arte Musical
... _ (1884-87) Fr José M. Zamora. Bulacan A, if you do not belong more
than the _Florante_ (1838), this book alone would suffice to bring glory
not only to the province but the entire Philippines, but you are
also the _awit_ of _San Alejo_ (1858) Alejo del Pilar, Marcelo H.
uncle del Pilar; _awit_ of the _San Raymundo_ (1876) Mariano Serapio,
the _Pasión_ (1852) Fr Aniceto de la Merced, the most literary of
_Pasiones_ and _M ~ ga Puná_ the same author, a work of controversy
and criticism theological unique, written in any dodecasílabos grim
and gruesome, and finally, the popular _Urbana and Felisa_ (1877)
by Modesto de Castro, the most classical works of prose Tagalog.

_Aritmética A Laguna belongs ... _ ( 1868) of D. Rufino Hernandez
Baltazar, a book that was one of the delights of Dr.

Rizal in Europe, and that literary gem, despite its castle, at an energy
board an unusual freshness of spring sowing or stand of coconut trees
to the first rains of May and Batangas: the pamphlets and books of
Dr. Vicente Garcia, including _Casaysayan n g ~ m ~ ga Cababalaghan_
(1856), where smiles and juguetea that language so simple, so
naive, so wise, so austere and so sweetly mystical that reached its
fullness in the _Kempis_ (1880), perhaps more direct version of
_The Latin language alguna_.

It seems that, irrespective of caste, the cited authors, Spanish and
Filipino, were mostly theologians, of course, but theologians children
Renaissance, which involved extensive and generous spirit of free
inquiry that led to the Renaissance, as a great teacher, attentive
to every rumor of life and the new and immediate applications of
the divine science, which had descended from heaven to take part
in the contests of the earth, and made controversistas that movement
of the theological schools of the sixteenth century, so alive, so
vibrant, so colorful and even dramatic at times.

Therefore, in his moments of prayer and rest, often elevate the soul
to God and pour out his writings in a non egoista mysticism, and
philosophy _The highest and most generosa_.

His mysticism these beautiful pearls come from the words of one critic,
referring to those of St.

Teresa of Jesus: "It is not mysticism inert egoista and yours alone,
but from the center of the soul, which is not lost, and annihilate
embraced with the infinite, but becomes more encouragement and power
in that embrace, from the ecstasy and the arroba; wine from the
camera, where her gift has been the Bridegroom comes, because He
_ordena the caridad_, and Marta and Mary together, and suavísimo
drunk with the wine of God's love, burning in love for others and
strives for their sake and not because _muere not muere_ but yearns
to live help, and suffer for it, devote all their vigorous activity
and rich existence.

"The disfavor with these books is estimated at tejuelos and their
titles, and concern, that concern any more, that such books do not
contain anything useful for us.

However, the most recalcitrant Filipinos find it could legitimately
regard them as Filipinos. Its pages are enclosed perhaps the only
news folk; ingested into the lessons, is, sometimes, a precious
costumbrero data on Filipino customs and habits, and even applications
written and customary laws, as they are exposed precisely to reform or
anatematizarlos and are seen as the opponent's eyes, and, therefore,
the defendants have severe defects accuracy: correctable.

Beginning in 1882, since the publication of _Diariong Tagalog_, inicióse
new course in literature Tagalog, course layout and strongly executed
by _precursores_, but out of place here as late as the fruits are not
those already mentioned the splendid balagtasiana station.

Important as it is cataloged, it is even more the importance of the
manuscripts of the time. It is found that the manuscripts of most
forms circulated two or three years before printing. The shortage of
paper, and anxiety on the part of the reading was natural that each person
be made a handwritten copy of his particular form of devotion. In this
circumstance we had a copy of the 1853 edition of _Florante_. Generations
of anonymous literature, manuscripts ran hand in hand without ever
printed. So Dr. Pilápil suggested collecting all the manuscripts of the
_Pasión_ revised to allow for it in 1814, and Dr. Vicente Garcia translated
directly from its Latin _Kempis_ by the multitude of manuscripts _Kempis_
adulterated, moving damage of Religion. Of the comedies that,
according to José María Ruiz, were "written in correct language, but
sublime and raised even more than the run", they were only printed a
dozen to many thousand and comfort to the people and neighborhoods of
Tagalog provinces. Neighborhood that will not just have two or more
_originales_, with actors improvised the neighborhood, removed to
the surface in the open, save for their holidays.

_Joseng Know-Sisiw_ only thing he had written a hundred.

And Balagtás same, same, and not for the zeal of his biographer, is not
known today excerpts from more than ten comedies Balagtás. Even _The
Choice of Gobernadorcillo_, prose comedy in five acts, nor entitled
_Mariang Makiling_, in nine acts, with a character of _Noli I wanted
to replace tangere_ comedies "King of Bohemia and Granada, were printed.
The _awits_ and _corridos_, Barrantes could collect only about 60, and
these compositions are even more common Tagalog and popular comedies.
Neither have been printed, except for India _The Elegant and Negrito
Amante_ of Balagtás the sketches or entremeses that, according to P.
Ruiz said, "deserve to be examined and translated into Castilian, and
are of interest to both history as running the same" because they relate
to practice, and these characters are well described, nor certain
features like pieces _duplos, karagatan_ arrangements _Pasión_ the dramatic
and lyrical, more or less extensive, that we had already discussed in
other papers, and should therefore not be over-verbose, we just mentioned.
This slight overview of the literary monuments proves that the
evolution of Tagalog language had been steady and sustained parallel,
with brothers alliance linguistics, by the Spaniards and Filipinos, and
that when given the light _Florante_, the language was, as stated
by Dr.

Rizal, in his heyday _todo and magnificencia_. FEATURES Francisco
Balagtás BIOGRAPHICAL Born in the neighborhood of ~ Pan ginay of
Biga Municipality, Province of Bulacan, on April 2 1788.

His parents were Balagtás Juan and Juana de la Cruz, in the same
calendar quarter.

His father was a blacksmith by trade, and had child Felipe, Concha,
and Nicolasa Francisco.

At 11 years old, 1799, he spent serving a wealthy named Trinity,
in Tondo, Manila, so that certain benefits in exchange for personal
home, the master is to instruct and to education, as usual.

It is in the archives of the College of St. Joseph in 1812 that extended
to 24 years old, _Cánones_, suggesting that know something of
Humanities, Theology and Philosophy.

It was the era of the great ergotism.

Do not know its other fixed point to academic studies. But it
is found that, even in the seats of St. John Lateran, and was person
to his comrades and to society of Tondo, for his signature. For the
love letters, bills of every kind of invitation, lines and very short
stories were the pigeons of _lacrimae rerum_ of the time.

It was therefore a _ladino_ who had some rudiments of their prestige and
Roman Law which had acquired some practice in the courts. Although
no walk-over of money, then live with some expansion and breathing.
He had by the famous Professor Dr. Mariano Pilápil, that his reputation
for brilliant Latinist be linked to the author of several religious
pamphlets in Tagalog: ecclesiastical censor who was authorized publication
of the popular _Pasión_ in 1814. First a call Enamoróse Lucena, girl
preciosilla District Gagalan ~ gin, Tondo, and then, otherwise
nicknamed _Bianang_, not less preciosilla as fame, the neighborhood
of his residence in Tondo.

Shadow did, however, the passing of King poets then _Joseng-Sisiw_
(Joseph the Chicken), because if it was not as ill Rute who ate the
chickens piando had the habit of evil made pay with your corrections
rhythmic two chickens and Balagtás, gentle and beloved disciple and
his brother in the Muses, he was stiff with him some time, refusing
to grant the usual, and, of course!

, smashed with a happy break because since then poetically Balagtás
wanted to run and risk their own.

In 1835-36 went to live in Pandacan, at the residence of Peter
Sulit, which is just like a string of hunting jetty Pandacan.

Pandacan was always people of artists, especially musicians. He wore
a trendy Balagtás thereafter; jacket guangzhou oil or pineapple
puff of Hagonoy, and trousers of silk woven in Balíuag of the class
"tatapisin.

Judging from the offering _A Celia_, a dulceneilla, with the initials
MAR, badly wounded in love Balagtás. These initials were, however, the
ambiguity of Maria Asuncion Rivera, daughter of Pandacan, and the Magdalena
Ana Ramos, Laguna, but the tradition of the children resolve the
ambiguity in favor of Maria Asuncion Rivera, _Celia_ because, they
said , was the nickname for Mary.

The bad star wanted to have a chief rival for the place that made him
turn and secure prison in Pandacan. It is not known how long this was
in prison, but in 1838 came from Pandacan, and went to live in Manila,
where, in the same year, brought to light the first edition of his
_Florante_. The allusions of the poem shows that the deity who dedicated
his poem was Celia, but do not know when he wrote the poem, or where,
whether in prison or outside it. I finished the bill, however, and
the warning the reader not to touch one verse of his poem, which was
not made for any other poetry you, to believe that the only excuse
was more or less harrowing days of his life, but his love of evil was
not the only , neither of which are penetrating bones. Perhaps the pride
that, outside egregia poet, teníalo great, maybe the damn jealous of
all the bait and fruit outside of the enclosure, since cases with Celia
Mariano Capuli, were pulse initiators. As the poem is a serenity
Attic, as finely chiseled as well thought out and arranged it in
a unique genius and talent that keeps the most nimi detail of human
life, work, in short, the maturity of a poet at the age of 50 years,
circumstances do not say all that well with the turmoil of a stormy
passion.

If you feel some passion with the publication of his poem would
have been fully cured as Goethe.

In 1840, he went to Bataan as an assistant judge of residence. Quedóse
there, and was in turn assistant clerk, D. Victor Figueroa, a position
which gave him enough to go wandering, visiting towns in the province.
In one of his visits to Orion, he became aware Tiambeng with Juana, a
woman of quality and beautiful, and I married on July 22, 1842.
"There are a lot of better men than I am jest a-hone'in to marry you,"
he interrupted her to say.

"I don't want them--I don't want anybody but you, and now you go off and
leave me----"

The situation was beyond any subtlety of the man, and he sat in silence
while she wept. When he could command himself he said:

"I'm mighty sorry, Cory, but I reckon the best way out of it is to just
take myself off in the hills where I can't interfere with any one's fun
but my own. Seems to me I'm fated to make trouble all along the line,
and I'm going to pull out where there's nobody but wolves and grizzlies,
and fight it out with them."

She was filled with a new terror: "What do you mean? I don't believe you
intend to come back at all!" She looked at him piteously, the tears on
her cheeks.

"Oh, yes, I'll round the circle some time."

She flung herself down on the chair arm and sobbed unrestrainedly.
"Don't go--please!"

Mose felt a sudden touch of the same disgust which came upon him in the
presence of his father's enforcing affection. He arose. "Now, Cory, see
here; don't you waste any time on me. I'm no good under the sun. I like
you and I like Pinkie, but I don't want you to cry over me. I ain't
worth it. Now that's the God's truth. I'm a black hoodoo, and you'll
never prosper till I skip; I'm not fit to marry any woman."

Singularly enough, this gave the girl almost instant comfort, and she
lifted her head and dried her eyes, and before he left she smiled a
little, though her face was haggard and tear stained.

Mose was up early and had his packs ready and Kintuck saddled when Mrs.
Reynolds called him to breakfast. Cora's pale face and piteous eyes
moved him more deeply than her sobbing the night before, but there was a
certain inexorable fixedness in his resolution, and he did not falter.
At bottom the deciding cause was Mary. She had passed out of his life,
but no other woman could take her place--therefore he was ready to cut
loose from all things feminine.

"Well, Mose, I'm sorry to see you go, I certainly am so," said Reynolds.
"_But_, you ah you' own master. All I can say is, this old ranch is
open to you, and shall be so long as we stay hyer--though I am mighty
uncertain how long we shall be able to hold out agin this new land-boom.
You had better not stay away too long, or you may miss us. I reckon we
ah all to be driven to the mountains very soon."

"I may be back in the spring. I'm likely to need money, and be obliged
to come back to you for a job."

On this tiny crumb of comfort Cora's hungry heart seized greedily. The
little pink-cheeked one helped out the sad meal. She knew nothing of the
long trail upon which her hero was about to set foot, and took
possession of the conversation by telling of a little antelope which
one of the cowboys had brought her.

The mule was packed and Mose was about to say good-by. The sun was still
low in the eastern sky. Frost was on the grass, but the air was crisp
and pleasant. All the family stood beside him as he packed his outfit on
the mule and threw over it the diamond hitch. As he straightened up he
turned to the waiting ones and said: "Do you see that gap in the range?"

They all looked where he pointed. Down in the West, but lighted into
unearthly splendor by the morning light, arose the great range of snowy
peaks. In the midst of this impassable wall a purple notch could be
seen.

"Ever sence I've been here," said Mose, with singular emotion, "I've
looked away at that range and I've been waiting my chance to see what
that cañon is like. There runs my trail--good-by."

He shook hands hastily with Cora, heartily with Mrs. Reynolds, and
kissed Pink, who said: "Bring me a little bear or a fox."

"All right, honey, you shall have a grizzly."

He swung into the saddle. "Here I hit the trail for yon blue notch and
the land where the sun goes down. So long."

"Take care o' yourself, boy."

"Come back soon," called Cora, and covered her face with her shawl in a
world-old gesture of grief.

In the days that followed she thought of him as she saw him last, a
minute fleck on the plain. She thought of him when the rains fell, and
prayed that he might not fall ill of fever or be whelmed by a stream. He
seemed so little and weak when measured against that mighty and
merciless wall of snow. Then when the cold white storms came and the
plain was hid in the fury of wind and sleet, she shuddered and thought
of him camped beside a rock, cold and hungry. She thought of him lying
with a broken leg, helpless, while his faithful beasts pawed the ground
and whinnied their distress. She spoke of these things once or twice,
but her father merely smiled.

"Mose can take care of himself, daughter, don't you worry."

Months passed before they had a letter from him, and when it came it
bore the postmark of Durango.

    "DEAR FRIENDS: I should a-written before, but the fact is I
    hate to write and then I've been on the move all the time. I
    struck through the gap and angled down to Taos, a Pueblo
    Indian town, where I stayed for a while--then went on down
    the Valley to Sante Fee.  Then I hunted up Delmar. He was
    glad to see me, but he looks old. He had a hell of a time
    after I left. It wasn't the way the papers had it--but he won
    out all right. He sold his sheep and quit. He said he got
    tired of shooting men. I stayed with him--he's got a nice
    family--two girls--and then I struck out into the Pueblo
    country.  These little brown chaps interest me but they're a
    different breed o' cats from the Ogallalahs. Everybody talks
    about the Snake Dance at Moki, so I'm angling out that
    way. I'm going to do a little cow punchin' for a man in
    Apache County and go on to the Dance. I'm going through the
    Navajoe reservation. I stand in with them. They've heard of
    me some way--through the Utes I reckon."

The accounts of the Snake Dance contained mention of "Black Mose," who
kept a band of toughs from interfering with the dance. His wonderful
marksmanship was spoken of. He did not write till he reached Flagstaff.
His letter was very brief. "I'm going into the Grand Cañon for a few
days, then I go to work on a ranch south of here for the winter. In the
spring I'm going over the range into California."

When they heard of him next he was deputy marshal of a mining town, and
the Denver papers contained long despatches about his work in clearing
the town of desperadoes. After that they lost track of him
altogether--but Cora never gave him up. "He'll round the big circle one
o' these days--and when he does he'll find us all waiting, won't he,
pet?" and she drew little Pink close to her hungry heart.


PART III

CHAPTER XV

THE EAGLE COMPLETES HIS CIRCLE


All days were Sunday in the great mining camp of Wagon Wheel, so far as
legal enactment ran, but on Saturday night, in following ancient habit,
the men came out of their prospect holes on the high, grassy hills, or
threw down the pick in their "overland tunnels," or deep shafts and
rabbitlike burrows, and came to camp to buy provisions, to get their
mail, and to look upon, if not to share, the vice and tumult of the
town.

The streets were filled from curb to curb with thousands of men in
mud-stained coats and stout-laced boots. They stood in the gutters and
in the middle of the street to talk (in subdued voices) of their claims.
There was little noise. The slowly-moving streams of shoppers or
amusement seekers gave out no sudden shouting. A deep murmur filled the
air, but no angry curse was heard, no whooping. In a land where the
revolver is readier than the fist men are wary of quarrel, careful of
abuse, and studiously regardful of others.

There were those who sought vice, and it was easily found. The saloons
were packed with thirsty souls, and from every third door issued the
click of dice and whiz of whirling balls in games of chance.

Every hotel barroom swarmed with persuasive salesmen bearing lumps of
ore with which to entice unwary capital. All the talk was of
"pay-streaks," "leads," "float," "whins," and "up-raises," while in the
midst of it, battling to save souls, the zealous Salvation Army band
paraded to and fro with frenzied beating of drums. Around and through
all this, listening with confused ears, gazing with wide, solemn eyes,
were hundreds of young men from the middle East, farmers' sons, cowboys,
mountaineers, and miners. To them it was an awesome city, this lurid
camp, a wonder and an allurement to dissipation.

To Mose, fresh from the long trail, it was irritating and wearying. He
stood at the door of a saloon, superbly unconscious of his physical
beauty, a somber dream in his eyes, a statuesque quality in his pose. He
wore the wide hat of the West, but his neat, dark coat, though badly
wrinkled, was well cut, and his crimson tie and dark blue shirt were
handsomely decorative. The following months passed with traveling
between Buenos Aires, Asunción and Corpus Christi; Irala waited under
his still Ayolas. At the end of the following year (1538) Spain came
from a messenger with the message of the death of Mendoza and the orders,
the Conquistadors should choose a leader himself, if Mendoza prior to
his departure would have no such appointment.

In Asunción united now the major figures, it also came down Irala
and showed a power of attorney issued by Ayolas whereby he granted the
same powers, which he himself had (June 1539). All it had to be recognized
as a leader. [Illustration: Fighting Maigenos on the train to Iralas
Perú (1548).]He on his part
perceived only a handsomely dressed woman looking out over the crowd.
The carriage interested him more than the woman. It was a magnificent
vehicle, the finest he had ever seen, and he wondered how it happened to
be there on the mountain top.

A small man with a large head stepped from the crowd and greeted the
woman with a military salute. In answer to a question, the small man
turned and glanced toward Mose. The woman bowed and drove on, and Mose
walked slowly up the street, lonely and irresolute. At the door of a
gambling house he halted and looked in. A young lad and an old man were
seated together at a roulette table, and around them a ring of excited
and amused spectators stood. Mose entered and took a place in the
circle. The boy wore a look of excitement quite painful to see, and he
placed his red and white chips with nervous, blundering, and ineffectual
gestures, whereas the older man smiled benignly over his glasses and
placed his single dollar chip each time with humorous decision. Each
time he won. "This is for a new hat," he said, and the next time, "This
is for a box at the theater." The boy, with his gains in the circle of
his left arm, was desperately absorbed. No smile, no jest was possible
to him.

Mose felt a hand on his shoulder, and turning, found himself face to
face with the small man who had touched his hat to the woman in the
carriage. The stranger's countenance was stern in its outlines, and his
military cut of beard added to his grimness, but his eyes were
surrounded by fine lines of good humour.

"Stranger, I'd like a word with you."

Mose followed him to a corner, supposing him to be a man with mines to
sell, or possibly a confidence man.

"Stranger, where you from?"

"From the Snake country," replied Mose.

"What's your little game here?"

Mose was angered at his tone. "None of your business."

The older man flushed, and the laugh went out of his eyes. "I'll make it
my business," he said grimly. "I've seen you somewhere before, but I
can't place you. You want to get out o' town to-night; you're here for
no man's good--you've got a 'graft.'"

Mose struck him with the flat of his left hand, and, swift as a
rattlesnake's stroke, covered him with his revolver. "Wait right where
you are," he said, and the man became rigid. "I came here as peaceable
as any man," Mose went on, "but I don't intend to be ridden out of town
by a jackass like you."

The other man remained calm. "If you'll kindly let me unbutton my coat,
I'll show you my star; I'm the city marshal."

"Be quiet," commanded Mose; "put up your hands!"

Mose was aware of an outcry, then a silence, then a rush.

From beneath his coat, quick as a flash of light from a mirror, he drew
a second revolver. His eyes flashed around the room. For a moment all
was silent, then a voice called, "What's all this, Haney?"

"Keep them quiet," said Mose, still menacing the officer.

"Boys, keep back," pleaded the marshal.

"The man that starts this ball rolling will be sorry," said Mose,
searching the crowd with sinister eyes. "If you're the marshal, order
these men back to the other end of the room."

"Boys, get back," commanded the marshal. With shuffling feet the crowd
retreated. "Shut the door, somebody, and keep the crowd out."

The doors were shut, and the room became as silent as a tomb.

"Now," said Mose, "is it war or peace?"

"Peace," said the marshal.

"All right." Mose dropped the point of his revolver.

The marshal breathed easier. "Stranger, you're a little the swiftest man
I've met since harvest; would you mind telling me your name?"

"Not a bit. My friends call me Mose Harding."

"'Black Mose'!" exclaimed the marshal, and a mutter of low words and a
laugh broke from the listening crowd. Haney reached out his hand. "I
hope you won't lay it up against me." Mose shook his hand and the
marshal went on: "To tell the honest truth, I thought you were one of
Lightfoot's gang. I couldn't place you. Of course I see now--I have your
picture at the office--the drinks are on me." He turned with a smile to
the crowd: "Come, boys--irrigate and get done with it. It's a horse on
me, sure."

Taking the mildest liquor at the bar, Mose drank to further friendly
relations, while the marshal continued to apologize. "You see, we've
been overrun with 'rollers' and 'skin-game' men, and lately three
expresses have been held up by Lightfoot's gang, and so I've been facing
up every suspicious immigrant. I've had to do it--in your case I was too
brash--I'll admit that--but come, let's get away from the mob. Come over
to my office, I want to talk with you."

Mose was glad to escape the curious eyes of the throng. While his life
was in the balance, he saw and heard everything hostile, nothing
more--now, he perceived the crowd to be disgustingly inquisitive. Their
winks, and grins, and muttered words annoyed him.

"Open the door--much obliged, Kelly," said the marshal to the man who
kept the door. Kelly was a powerfully built man, dressed like a miner,
in broad hat, loose gray shirt, and laced boots, and Mose admiringly
studied him.

"This is not 'Rocky Mountain Kelly'?" he asked.

Kelly smiled. "The same; 'Old Man Kelly' they call me now."

Mose put out his hand. "I'm glad to know ye. I've heard Tom Gavin speak
of you."

Kelly shook heartily. "Oh! do ye know Tom? He's a rare lump of a b'y, is
Tom. We've seen great times together on the plains and on the hills.
It's all gone now. It's tame as a garden since the buffalo went; they've
made it another world, b'y."

"Come along, Kelly, and we'll have it out at my office."

As the three went out into the street they confronted a close-packed
throng. The word had passed along that the marshal was being "done," and
now, singularly silent, the miners waited the opening of the door.

The marshal called from the doorstep: "It's all right. Don't block the
street. Break away, boys, break away." The crowd opened to let them
pass, fixing curious eyes upon Mose.

As the three men crossed the street the woman in the carriage came
driving slowly along. Kelly and the marshal saluted gallantly, but Mose
did not even bow.

She leaned from her carriage and called:

"What's that I hear, marshal, about your getting shot?"

"All a mistake, Madam. I thought I recognized this young man and was
politely ordering him out of town when he pulled his gun and nailed me
to the cross."

The woman turned a smiling face toward Mose. "He must be a wonder.
Introduce me, please."

"Certain sure! This is Mrs. Raimon, Mose; 'Princess Raimon,' this is my
friend, Mose Harding, otherwise known as 'Black Mose.'"

"Black Mose!" she cried; "are _you_ that terrible man?"

She reached out her little gloved hand, and as Mose took it her eyes
searched his face. "I think we are going to be friends." Her voice was
affectedly musical as she added: "Come and see me, won't you?"

She did not wait for his reply, but drove on with a sudden assumption of
reserve which became her very well.

The three men walked on in silence. At last, with a curious look at
Kelly, the marshal said, "Young man, you're in luck. Anything you want
in town is yours now. How about it, Kelly?"

"That's the thrue word of it."

"What do you mean?" asked Mose.

"Just this--what the princess asks for she generally gets. She's taken a
fancy to you, and if you're keen as I think you are, you'll call on her
without much delay."

"Who is she? How does she happen to be here?"

"She came out here with her husband--and stays for love of men and
mines, I reckon. Anyhow, she always has a man hangin' on, and has
managed to secure some of the best mines in the camp. She works 'em,
too. She's a pretty high roller, as they call 'em back in the States,
but she helps the poor, and pays her debts like a man, and it's no call
o' mine to pass judgment on her."

The marshal's office was an old log shanty, one of the first to be built
on the trail, and passing through the big front room in which two or
three men were lounging, the marshal led his guests to his inner office
and sleeping room. A fire was blazing in a big stone fireplace. Skins
and dingy blankets were scattered about, and on the mantle stood a
bottle and some dirty glasses.

"Sit down, gentlemen," said the marshal, "and have some liquor."

After they were served and cigars lighted, the marshal began:

"Mose, I want you to serve as my deputy."

Mose was taken by surprise and did not speak for a few moments. The
marshal went on:

"I don't know that you're after a job, but I'm sure I need you. There's
no use hemming and hawing--I've made a cussed fool of myself this
evenin', and the boys are just about going to drink up my salary for me
this coming week. I can't afford _not_ to have you my deputy because you
unlimbered your gun a grain of a second before me--beat me at my own
trick. I need you--now what do you say?"

Mose took time to reply. "I sure need a job for the winter," he
admitted, "but I don't believe I want to do this."

The marshal urged him to accept. "I'll call in the newspaper men and let
them tell the whole story of your life, and of our little jamboree
to-day--they'll fix up a yarn that'll paralyze the hold-up gang.
Together we'll swoop down on the town. I've been planning a clean-out
for some weeks, and I need you to help me turn 'em loose."

Mose arose. "I guess not; I'm trying to keep clear of gun-play these
days. I've never hunted that kind of thing, and I won't start in on a
game that's sure to give me trouble."

The marshal argued. "Set down; listen; that's the point exactly. The
minute the boys know who you are we won't _need_ to shoot. That's the
reason I want you--the reporters will prepare the way. Wherever we go
the 'bad men' will scatter."

But Mose was inexorable. "No, I can't do it. I took just such a job
once--I don't want another."

Haney was deeply disappointed, but shook hands pleasantly. "Well,
good-night; drop in any time."

Mose went out into the street once more. He was hungry, and so turned in
at the principal hotel in the city for a "good square meal." An Italian
playing the violin and his boy accompanying him on the harp, made up a
little orchestra. Some palms in pots, six mirrors set between the
windows, together with tall, very new, oak chairs gave the dining room a
magnificence which abashed the bold heart of the trailer for a moment.

However, his was not a nature to show timidity, and taking a seat he
calmly spread his damp napkin on his knee and gave his order to the
colored waiter (the Palace Hotel had the only two colored waiters in
Wagon Wheel) with such grace as he could command after long years upon
the trail.

As he lifted his eyes he became aware of "the princess" seated at
another table and facing him. She seemed older than when he saw her in
the carriage. Her face was high-colored, and her hair a red-brown. Her
eyes were half closed, and her mouth drooped at the corners. Her chin,
supported on her left hand, glittering with jewels, was pushed forward
aggressively, and she listened with indifference to the talk of her
companion, a dark, smooth-featured man, with a bitter and menacing
smile.

Mose was oppressed by her glance. She seemed to be looking at him from
the shadow as a tigress might glare from her den, and he ate awkwardly,
and his food tasted dry and bitter. Ultimately he became angry. Why
should this woman, or any woman, stare at him like that? He would have
understood her better had she smiled at him--he was not without
experience of that sort, but this unwavering glance puzzled and annoyed
him.

Putting her companion aside with a single gesture, the princess arose
and came over to Mose's table and reached her hand to him. She smiled
radiantly of a sudden, and said, "How do you do, Mr. Harding; I didn't
recognize you at first."

Mose took her hand but did not invite her to join him. However, she
needed no invitation, and taking a seat opposite, leaned her elbows on
the table and looked at him with eyes more inscrutable than
ever--despite their nearness. They were a mottled yellow and brown, he
noticed, unusual and interesting eyes, but by contrast with the clear
deeps of Mary's eyes they seemed like those of some beautiful wild
beast. He could not penetrate a thousandth part of a hair line beyond
the exterior shine of her glance. The woman's soul was in the
unfathomable shadow beneath.

"I know all about you," she said. "I read a long article about you in
the papers some months ago. You stood off a lot of bogus game wardens
who were going to butcher some Shoshonees. I liked that. The article
said you killed a couple of them. I hope you did."

Mose was very short. "I don't think any of them died at my hands, but
they deserved it, sure enough."

She smiled again. "After seeing you on the street, I went home and
looked up that slip--I saved it, you see. I've wanted to see you for a
long time. You've had a wonderful life for one so young. This article
raked up a whole lot of stuff about you--said you were the son of a
preacher--is that so?"

"Yes, that part of it was true."

"Same old story, isn't it? I'm the daughter of a college
professor--sectarian college at that." She smiled a moment, then became
as suddenly grave. "I like men. I like men who face danger and think
nothing of it. The article said you came West when a mere boy and got
mixed up in some funny business on the plains and had to take a sneak to
the mountains. What have you been doing since? I wish you'd tell me the
whole story. Come to my house; it's just around the corner."

As she talked, her voice became more subtly pleasing, and the lines of
her mouth took on a touch of girlish grace.

"I haven't time to do that," Mose said, "and besides, my story don't
amount to much. You don't want to believe all they say of me. I've just
knocked around a little like a thousand other fellows, that's all. I
pull out to-night. I'm looking up an old friend down here on a ranch."

She saw her mistake. "All right," she said, and smiled radiantly. "But
come some other time, won't you?" She was so winning, so frank and
kindly that Mose experienced a sudden revulsion of feeling. A powerful
charm came from her superb physique, her radiant color, and from her
beautiful, flexile lips and sound white teeth. He hesitated, and she
pressed her advantage.

"You needn't be afraid of me. The boys often drop in to see me of an
evening. If I can be of any use to you, let me know. I'll tell you what
you do. You take supper with me here to-morrow night. What say?"

Mose looked across at the scowling face of the woman's companion and
said hesitatingly:

"Well, I'll see. If I have time--maybe I will."

She smiled again and impulsively reached her hand to him, and as he took
it he was nearly won by her friendliness. This she did not know, and he
was able to go out into the street alone. He could not but observe that
the attendants treated him with added respect by reason of his
acquaintance with the wealthiest and most powerful woman in the camp.
She had made his loneliness very keen and hard to bear.

As he walked down the street he thought of Mary--she seemed to be a
sister to the distant, calm and glorious moon just launching into the
sky above the serrate wall of snowy peaks to the East. There was a
powerful appeal in the vivid and changeful woman he had just met, for
her like had never touched his life before.

As he climbed back up the hill toward the corral where he had left his
horse, he was filled with a wordless disgust of the town and its people.
The night was still and cool, almost frosty. The air so clear and so
rare filled his lungs with wholesomely sweet and reanimating breath. His
head cleared, and his heart grew regular in its beating. The moon was
sailing in mid-ocean, between the Great Divide and the Christo Range,
cold and sharp of outline as a boat of silver. Lizard Head to the south
loomed up ethereal as a cloud, so high it seemed to crash among the
stars. The youth drew a deep breath and said: "To hell with the town."

Kintuck whinnied caressingly as he heard his master's voice. After
putting some grain before the horse, Mose rolled himself in his blanket
and went to sleep with only a passing thought of the princess, her
luxurious home, and her radiant and inscrutable personality.


CHAPTER XVI

AGAIN ON THE ROUND-UP


It was good to hear again the bawling of the bulls and the shouts of the
cowboys, and to see the swirling herd and the flying, guarding, checking
horsemen. Mose, wearied, weather-beaten, and somber-visaged, looked down
upon the scene with musing eyes. The action was quite like that on the
Arickaree; the setting alone was different. Here the valley was a wide,
deliciously green bowl, with knobby hills, pine-covered and abrupt,
rising on all sides. Farther back great snow-covered peaks rose to
enormous heights. In the center of this superb basin the camps were
pitched, and the roping and branding went on like the action of a
prodigious drama. The sun, setting in orange-colored clouds, brought out
the velvet green of the sward with marvelous radiance. The tents gleamed
in the midst of the valley like flakes of pearl.

The heart of the wanderer warmed within him, and with a feeling that he
was almost home he called to his pack horse "Hy-ak-boy!" and started
down the hill. As he drew near the herd he noted the great changes which
had come over the cattle. They were now nearly all grades of Hereford or
Holstein. They were larger of body, heavier of limb, and less active
than the range cattle of the plains, but were sufficiently speedy to
make handling them a fine art.

As he drew near the camp a musical shout arose, and Reynolds spurred his
horse out to meet him. "It's Mose!" he shouted. "Boy, I'm glad to see
ye, I certainly am. Shake hearty. Where ye from?"

"The Wind River."

"What have you been doing up there?"

"Oh, knocking around with some Shoshones on a hunting trip."

"Well, by mighty, I certainly am glad to see ye. You look thin as a
spring steer."

"My looks don't deceive me then. My two sides are rubbin' together. How
are the folks?"

"They ah very well, thank you. Cora and Pink will certainly go plumb
crazy when they see you a-comin'."

"Where's your house?"

"Just over that divide--but slip your packs off. Old Kintuck looks well;
I knew him when you topped the hill."

"Yes, he's still with me, and considerable of a horse yet."

They drew up to the door of one of the main tents and slipped the
saddles from the weary horses.

"Do ye hobble?"

"No--they stay with me," said Mose, slapping Kintuck. "Go on, boy,
here's grass worth while for ye."

"By mighty, Mose!" said Reynolds, looking at the trailer tenderly, "it
certainly is good for sore eyes to see ye. I didn't know but you'd got
mixed up an' done for in some of them squabbles. I heard the State
authorities had gone out to round up that band of reds you was with."

"We did have one brush with the sheriff and some game wardens, but I
stood him off while my friends made tracks for the reservation. The
sheriff was for fight, but I argued him out of it. It looked like hot
weather for a while."

While they were talking the cook set up a couple of precarious benches
and laid a wide board thereon. Mose remarked it.

"A table! Seems to me that's a little hifalutin'."

"So it is, but times are changing."

"I reckon the range on the Arickaree is about wiped out."

"Yes. We had a couple of years with rain a-plenty, and that brought a
boom in settlement; everything along the river was homesteaded, and so I
retreated--the range was overstocked anyhow. This time I climbed high. I
reckon I'm all right now while I live. They can't raise co'n in this
high country, and not much of anything but grass. They won't bother us
no mo'. It's a good cattle country, but a mighty tough range to ride, as
you'll find. I thought I knew what rough riding was, but when it comes
to racin' over these granite knobs, I'm jest a little too old. I'm
getting heavy, too, you notice."

"_Grub-pile! All down for grub!_" yelled the cook, and the boys came
trooping in. They were all strangers, but not strange to Mose. They
conformed to types he already knew. Some were young lads, and the word
having passed around that "Black Mose" was in camp, they approached with
awe. The man whose sinister fame had spread throughout three States was
a very great personage to them.

"Did you come by way of Wagon Wheel?" inquired a tall youth whom the
others called "Brindle Bill."

"Yes; camped there one night."

"Ain't it a caution to yaller snakes? Must be nigh onto fifteen thousand
people there now. The hills is plumb measly with prospect holes, and
you can't look at a rock f'r less'n a thousand dollars. It shore is the
craziest town that ever went anywhere."

"Bill's got the fever," said another. "He just about wears hisself out
a-pickin' up and a-totein' 'round likely lookin' rocks. Seems like he
was lookin' fer gold mines 'stid o' cattle most of the time."

"You're just in time for the turnament, Mose."

"For the how-many?"

"The turnament and bullfight. Joe Grassie has been gettin' up a
bullfight and a kind of a show. He 'lows to bring up some regular
fighters from Mexico and have a real, sure-'nough bullfight. Then he's
offered a prize of fifty dollars for the best roper, and fifty dollars
for the best shooter."

"I didn't happen to hear of it, but I'm due to take that fifty; I need
it," said Mose.

"He 'lows to have some races--pony races and broncho busting."

"When does it come off?" asked Mose with interest.

"On the fourth."

"I'll be there."

After supper was over Reynolds said: "Are you too tired to ride over to
the ranch?"

"Oh, no! I'm all right now."

"Well, I'll just naturally throw the saddles on a couple of bronchos and
we'll go see the folks."

Mose felt a warm glow around his heart as he trotted away beside
Reynolds across the smooth sod. His affection for the Reynolds family
was scarcely second to his boyish love for Mr. and Mrs. Burns.

It was dark before they came in sight of the light in the narrow valley
of the Mink. "There's the camp," said Reynolds. "No, I didn't build it;
it's an old ranch; in fact, I bought the whole outfit."

Mrs. Reynolds had not changed at all in the three years, but Cora had
grown handsomer and seemed much less timid, though she blushed vividly
as Mose shook her hand.

"I'm glad to see you back," she said.

Moved by an unusual emotion, Mose replied: "You haven't pined away any."

"Pined!" exclaimed her mother. "Well, I should say not. You should see
her when Jim Haynes----"

"Mother!" called the girl sharply, and Pink, now a beautiful child of
eight, came opportunely into the room and drew the conversation to
herself.

As Mose, with Pink at his knee, sat watching the two women moving about
the table, a half-formed resolution arose in his brain. He was weary of
wandering, weary of loneliness. This comfortable, homely room, this
tender little form in his arms, made an appeal to him which was as
powerful as it was unexpected. 343. This is the effective injected poison
into the veins of my aching heart, and wished that my life speeded up,
and nothing, where he came from, again. 344. During the eighteen days of
imprisonment, I was bored of not dying ; night and pushed me out to the
forest where I was tied up. 345. For the second time on tour and Febo
land since I tied, and I thought when waking up in another world, when
you open your eyes, I found myself in your arms. 346. Here knotted evils
of my life and still not knowing what would be their last destination
.... Here she cut the long story, then taking the floor moro: 347. Since
I came into your life for knowledge, also know with whom to talk.
Aladín I am in the city of Persia, scion of the illustrious Sultan Ali-Adab.
348. This dew which falls downpour, which was deducted my life .... Oh,
my father ! Why ...? Oh, Flerida my joy! Dude, lets have peace. 349.
Seamos two annihilate those tears, because we are one in misfortune,
the forest at this final day of our lives, so rudely and worked
brava . 350.

Florante kept silence religious and sobbed even more than Aladín.
They lived in the forest and about five months, one morning decided
to elaborate. 351.

They walked inside the forest, although only traces were recognized,
then told her the famous Aladín quite pitiful life. 352. In war, he
said, where I spoke, I took the job to fight, like when I fought
with the heart of Diamond Flerida loved, by whom, without sorrow,
suffer. 353.

When I was a pineapple with the princesses Diana was in the middle of the
nymphs, [40] and that was the kingdom of Persia for one of the Hurier
of the prophets. "[41] 354. Fortuna was the due to the record your
heart reluctant, but, to draft make a two breasts, it crossed the loves
of my father. 355. Then began the ordeal of mine and my dad want
to lose their lives and, when victory in the city of Albania, on
my arrival in Persia presto locked me in prison. 356.

    And the charge that I did that without his order left the
    army, and when he ran the news that the kingdom rescue,
    decided to decapitate me. 357. On the fateful night of the
    next day, in which I made it a beheading, a general came
    into the prison wearing a pardon was even worse than death.
    358. It was precisely that order at the time leave, which
    I cogiese dawn in the kingdom of Persia, and any failure to
    pay with life, obey the order of the king because he was
    my father. 359. But my heart was preferable to life so pitiful
    removes me, nothing of a life when another illusory aupa my
    lap in his heaven and happiness. 360. It will about six
    years now that I tirelessly wandering sentences with him,
    he stopped here: buzz saw in the forest of words. 361.
    hear the following: When they were going to decapitate my
    beloved unhappy place in the dungeon, I missed at the foot
    of the king hypocrite. 362.

                                        Lágrimas moans
                                                  and begs the forgiveness of my own son who was so good and love,
the answer was that, if not welcomed their loves, not forgiven. 363.

What I was going to do in these circumstances? Let perchance to kill my
beloved? showed softness, so that the prince loved to live, so worthy
of pity. 364.

The chest that recalcitrant, not bowed to flattery, and fierce love
of the king was weak of purpose, with holocaust in order to save
the life of his idol.. 365 King of joy sprang at once to the cause
of my tears, but ordered to leave the city and other land is
relegated. 366.

He came out of Persia and I loved my life, without which we could
say. See now if you have tears to tame the pain that I have! 367. When
prepared in the realm weddings were my death, I thought Warrior
to be dressing up and flee from the royal palace. 368.

A midnight or dark, I secretly escurrí by the window, no more company than
the desire to trace the whereabouts of the beloved. 369. A few years
ago that vagus by taking palaces forests and mountains up here and
got rid of the clumsy beast like this man. 370.

Cortóse narration by the sudden arrival of the duke and the prince
Florante Aladín which, when it recognized the voice of the beloved,
vocation heart could not disobey. 371.

What language will be the delight of enthusiasts? pain of shame sumióse
underground, bringing his blunt dart. 372.

Why not then heaven Florante culminate in our joy today milestone that
can contemplate the glory of his long-awaited face Laura?

373. Where the dark forest, the four became jubilant Paradise; three
times failed to realize that life still had Celare. 374.

Subsided and boundless joy, the three listened to Laura's life, what
happened in the kingdom since relegation the forest, was the
mistress and 375.

Not long since passed that part, Oh, beloved Florante!

the kingdom of Albania, percibióse deaf people in the movement,
which rumor climbed the palace. 376.

But there was no way to define the changing fortunes of the deaf rumors,
which badly of unpredictable source and location for the wise physician.
377. Maybe The palace was besieged by the people and armed soldiers
mutinied, oh, day of shock! goddamn days by the wrath divine! 378. A
cry broke rebellious people shout: "Die, die, the king Linceo who planned
to kill starving the kingdom, and the stagnation of ordering food and
wheat. "379. It all Adolfo rioted for the blind people, to disseminate,
on behalf of the king, such ordinances, parts of willful heart. 380.

    At the same instant my father dethroned king and beheaded
    him. Could you, perchance, to name a reason and a heart Aleve
    people excited? 381. On the same day they were beheaded
    faithful counselors, and will not dent the steel of
    the traitor was as prudent and nobles in the kingdom. 382.
    ascended the throne the ferocious Count, and urgently warned
    me that if she did not accept his love, death would be
    horrible. 383. In my desire to avenge him, and write to the
    people of Etolia, forcé heart fails to understand my unwillingness
    to traitor and horror. 384. I asked for five months long
    period, before accepting his love, but I decided to kill
    myself inwardly, if not come. 385. I finished the letter
    and gave a faithful servant so that we will give without one
    month came and fell into the hands of the traitor Adolfo. 386.
    The fear of the evil you had to come back with the army,
    only to come back, I sent a letter with a stamp and signature
    of the king . 387.

    His knowledge ANGUAGES such grief, I decided to take his life,
    and then came Minandro army besieged the city in Albania. 388.
    My assumption was that you received the letter I sent,
    so when he arrived in Albania, seemed hungry wolf . 389. Where
    nothing could oppose Adolf, decided to call another a
    traitor, and at night left the kingdom and led me tied to
    the horse. 390.

    You tried to rape me, struggling to pull the ground saved
    my honor, when a bolt is not coming I know where, in the chest
    clavóse Adolfo traitor. 391. The answer to Flerida in this
    respect: that he heard voices of women felt that you were
    charged and mercilessly torture my chest hurt. 392.

When I looked I saw that you violated wicked man, I kept, and armed the
arrow on the arc that ended with the satyr. 393. Without even finish
the story, then Minandro arrived in the forest, with army and seeking
Adolfo, and saw the friend: and such great joy! 394. The army of Etolia
come, first proclaimed by such agnición: "Viva Florante, King of Albania!
Viva, viva, Princess Laura!" 395. They were brought in triumph to the
kingdom, even Aladín and Flerida pilgrim, both agreed to be Christians,
celebrating the wedding of two lovers. 396.

Killed the illustrious Sultan Ali-Adab, Aladín returned to the city
of Persia; Florante duke ascended the throne, next to Laura, the
well-loved. 397.

    For the success of the new king gobernalle the kingdom enjoyed
    peace again; levantáronse which lay in misery, and were happy
    hapless. 398. So his hands were lifted to heaven,
    thanks to the people prosperous and the king and queen lived
    only sow mercy on those it governs. 399. They lived in
    complete harmony, which carved up the happiness of the people.
    For, my muse, and throw at the foot of Celia, and be carrying
    my ayes . Balagtás and His Florante TAGALOG LITERATURE 1593-1886
    Docta says Dr.

                                    Rizal that _Florante_
                                              is the work of the Tagalog language in full swing and magnificence.
" Since the conquest was certainly aware for the Tagalog language
that came to flourish in times of Balagtás.

The will to win and the Islanders for the purposes of conquest and
catechesis and for other political ends, then, is a historical fact that
the Filipino dialects, mostly Tagalog, were the media, and perhaps only
effective between mainland and island. xilográfica The publication in
1593 of _Doctrina Tagalog-language shows that española_ Tagalog
had special literary quality.

Friar Juan de Plasencia Of or not this doctrine, it is verified that
the thing is that Ave Maria Hervás transcribed in _Origine ......_;
Chirino who admires the same in the chapter on languages, that
uses the same Br Luis Amezquita _Catecismo_ and popular in the same
trumpet _lippis et tonsoribus_ certain bibliographers and historians
as written by St. Anne, or of other glosadores Ripalda Astete and, although
in a more or less modernized say Fr Pablo Rojo not because "something
is missing, but by the alteration and removal of the times, those
who ordinarily follow the language."

Chirino found in it the qualities of the Hebrew, Greek, Latin and Spanish.
True or not this assertion Chirino, stunned to learned that the
dual Renaissance which had been carrying the Castilians might have,
since the early years of conquest, splendid literary expression
in Tagalog, and to rebut or Latino castellanos neologisms.

Such was his abundance of synonyms and phrases, Chirino said that,
as is the elegant Ave Maria, "one could form with such elegance of
several other ways, as the same significance and meaning."

Since 1602, year of first printing on the islands of the _Las
Excellences Rosario_ in Tagalog Br Francisco Blancas de San José,
passing through the Philippine incunabula (1602-1640) are written
mostly in Tagalog.

_Postrimerías_ (1605), _Memorial of Life Cristiana_ (1605), _Librong
Pinagpapalamnan ... _ (1608?)

_Arte And Rules of Language Tagala_ (1610), all of White Friar of
San José; _Librong ang Pan ~ galan ... _ (1610) Br Gerónimo Monte;
_Vocabulario Speaking Tagala_ (1613) of Fr Pedro de San Buenaventura,
_Enchiridion of Conciencia_ (1617) of Fr Miguel de Talavera;
_Explicación of Christian Doctrine Tagala_ Language (1628) Fr Alonso
de Santa Ana; _Confesionario Language Tagala_ (1636) of Fr Pedro
de Herrera, the _Belarmino_ (1637) in tagalog of Sta Maria José;
_Pan ~ ~ gadyí gan na Pinagcasondo. .. _ (1637), work together in
a great assembly of all religious orders and clergy, the best
hablistas of the time, chaired by Archbishop Miguel Garcia Serrano;
_Ang Pagcadapat ... _ (1639) Br Pedro de Herrera, these are the
works, the most voluminous of them, known to date, that testifies
Philippine Bibliography.

Those of unknown date, and above all the manuscripts that were
running hand in hand, it would be too lengthy to quote and discuss
them here.

Not all of them have a value only linguistic, archaeological,
historical, or technical, including any literary value .

_The Memorial_ Fr San Jose, reprinted twice (1692 and 1835) and
translated into pampanga in 1696, was always popular book and
consultation until well into the second half of the nineteenth
century who came to the place of Fr _Claus_ Rivas, literary monument
where the author worked _Florante_.

Although P.

San Jose, wrote poetry, was more reformist grammarian and lexicographer,
that poet. _décimas_ It is well known that the Spanish seem to ladinos
of the time: _magaling datapuàt, hindi tulâ_ (working, but no lyrics).
Since Alonso Sta Ana octosyllable dating in the stanzas of six
verses, but Pedro Herrera (who was editor and contributor to the
large Pinpín it.) was the one who wrote the best octosyllable from
the mainland, some original and translated from Latin, others.

Herrera was reputed to be the Horacio Tagalog as Gaspar de San Agustin.
Thus, the Augustinian Friar Juan Serrano, reprinted in 1762 at the
... _ _Meditaciones Herrera, adding greatly to other own harvest,
Herrera play certain poems, to counteract them with prose and _awits_
of the Islanders; and the Augustinians, in a separate booklet, part
of which docked with the poetry of Fr White, botanical, and Friar
Melchor Fernández, distinguished hablistas both.

Gaspar de San Agustin quoted as poets Fr.

Antonio S.

Gregorio, _que wrote a lot and bueno_, and the Jesuit Clain, _varón
throughout único_ and versificó the _Kempis_. Clain, for traces, was also
perhaps the only one who wrote the way dodecasílabos intercisos Tagalog.
It is a pity that _Kempis_ has not been printed because, judging
from the samples and other works left by the P.

Clain, this is not only a lexicographer's own incomparable San Lúcar,
but a writer and poet in the vernacular.

The seventeenth century ends or ends with a splendid popular _Catecismo
Romano_ (1671) of another Jesuit, Fr Pedro Lope, who preceded St. Lúcar
on accents, and came up to "make over ten thousand accented vowels."

The pages of his book too bulky, and with text amazacotado runs at
intervals to regulate blood Tagalog.

The eighteenth century was the golden to the mainland.

                             _The Well
                         Compendio_ Fr Gaspar
                      de San Agustin (1703) is
             still useful, without excepting the work of the famous P.

Totana, and is the first who tried to Tagalog poetry and its metrics,
then backed Br Buencuchillo Francisco, and also dispensed with the
first, somewhat of method Lebrijano.

However, he wrote a few verses in Tagalog.

We do not know him that his song _Barlaan_ in middle octosyllable.

In the same year was published on Sunday _Vocabulario_ de los Santos,
modeled the arts Augustinian Friar Andrés Verdugo and Dominican Friar
Blancas de San José, and the vocabulary printed Pinpín of San
Buenaventura and other manuscript Br Francisco de San Antonio, very
useful book, despite the deliberate omission of ancient voices,
complained that linguists, but with bearings and was ignored by the
final masterpiece of PP.

Noceda and San Lúcar latter Spanish-filipino. Apart from the limited
partnership manifested in the Filipino race and _Vocabulario_ of
San Lúcar Noceda, still worked fine so the language of the ossuary
hablistas already, and the time Two of the major religious orders
of Philippines.

He worked on the letters _A, B, C, D_ the Dominican Friar Miguel
Ruiz, and even the letters _M, N, NG, O_, Friar Tomas de los Reyes,
also a Dominican .

Then the Jesuits took over Pablo Clain, Jansens and Francisco José
Hernández, who concluded by adding "some four thousand games with
their respective roots and necessary."

As the voluminous work, and because they wanted more certainty in
the ownership of the meaning of each root, the Jesuits decided to
have a review for its review, the P.

Juan José de Noceda, who dedicated 30 years to refine, not going
"from one to another (root) without any agreed ladinos twelve Indians
in this language in pronunciation, accent and significance of each
root."

But the real monuments purely literary were, among others, _Ang
Infiernong Nabubucsan_ (1713) Fr Clain, Tagalog and booklets,
including the three volumes of _Psalterio for example to our Señora_,
Fr Juan José de Noceda, who works for San Lúcar, hállanse "willing
to own voices and frasismo tagalog."

But all of them are built on, and which crowned the popular success
(as was the daily bread of rhapsodes Tagalog, the _dupleros_), the
_Barlaan_ (1712) by the Jesuit Antonio de Borja, which deserves separate
chapter. From the India became Alexandria and thence to the Greeks.
San Juan Damasceno popularized in the Europe. "_The Prince and Dervis_"
Barcelonan philosopher Abraham ben Hasdai, Menendez y Pelayo says, is
nothing other than the legend of Buddha, so popular in the literature
under the name Christian History and Barlaan Josafat, but first
remotísima source _Vida is the Sueño_. Is not it also remotísima source
_Traüm ein leben_ (Life is a Dream) by the great Austrian poet Grillparzer?
Spain is so popular in this story that in North America Prof. Fong de
Haan wrote a monograph: _Barlaan and Josafat in Spain_. Since the
seventeenth century, 1692, Philippines has a Spanish version of this work,
due to the boom Dominican Friar of Baltasar de Santa Cruz, but the Friar
Juan de Paz denounced the Inquisition on February 23 1696. "God
censorship Br and Br John Mendez Agustin Dorantes, and its result
is sent on March 3 that was branded to folio 65 back from the second line
until the words _de by sí_. Notified Santa Cruz, responded with a long
letter which was received in Mexico on January 7 of 1699. He
returned to the censorship of the same, and that of Fr Pedro Antonio
de Aguirre and Friar Diego Marín, the Court finally resolved that
it is saved resolved.

"It is not known whether the Tagalog version of Antonio de Borja has been
made of the book of Cruz. But the work of the Jesuit is recommended
because of the assessor of the Holy Office, Fr Nicolás de San Pedro, the
deputy for a _Tesoro_ sound and style, sweet and soft, because, to
accommodate the Author "at the most plain and natural , no clause
even look at the material of the voices, is not worthy of any estimate
on how much they taught, he found no word to spare, nor is lack of any
need, and plays so well in the Tagalog language and their ways of
speaking, to do that without using or phrases, or ancient roots and
decrepit voices gives the softness and elegance Tagalog with the doctrine
that it needs, a quality one may not, want , document, or education,
did not find that here.

"Gaspar de San Agustin _awits_ dedicates two, one in Latin and one in
Tagalog, and the flame on _Maná approval of the Celestial Doctrina_,"
full of what proptuario and cree NM Church teaches, and a staunch
anti-gentile controversial "great relief for" Ministers of doctrine,
"because the author manages to" more than you intended Marcial. And
while he was speaking Tagalog "so poor in terms of supernatural
subjects, acetic and political (?)

, The overabundant in the economic and mechanical, all these difficulties
are overcome the erudition of the author, "achieving this rigorous
translation, without omitting the 40 chapters in every clause of it,
however difficult, are resisting the flow that has long cherished its
Tagalog language study. "And added that the egregious Tagalog
Pablo Clain was that gave license to print, says it all. Nothing,
therefore, surprising that the old has _dupleros_, cultivators of
science Tagalog gaya, is reveling in such work: East of origin and,
after receiving the benefits of the genius of the Greek and Latin,
is returned to the country of origin, as the water, loaded with
chemicals, returns to the bottom of the shaft, filtered and made
potable.

Its form novel, partly autobiographical and partly fiction, appealing
because it is a series of oriental _macamas_ color and flavor Filipinos.
From the XVI, XVII and XVIII _Barlaan_ is perhaps the greatest literary
monument. Prestol people their language as a collaborative process
similar to that of the limited vocabulary of San Lúcar, yet the poet
Tagalog Super D. Felipe de Jesus, the prologue, and D.
Gaspar Aquino de Belén, patriarch of the poets of the authors _Pasión_
that edited. In this century were reprinted several monuments of the
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, and therefore increased the
work of catechesis in Tagalog of the missionaries and doctrineros
that Archbishop Basilio Sancho de Santa Justa y Rufina _Catecismo_
published his famous Castilian in 1769, ordering who was occupying
the place of their congeners in Tagalog, so that the various dialects
dominate Castilian.

"Ojala!
She's a rippin' good business
woman, and her luck beats h--l. Why last week she bought a feller's
claim in fer ten thousand dollars and yesterday they tapped a vein of
eighty dollar ore, runnin' three feet wide. She don't haff to live
here--she's worth a half million dollars--but she likes mining and she
likes men. She knows how to handle 'em too--as you'll find out. She's
hail-fellow with us all--but I tell ye she's got to like a feller all
through before he sees the inside of her parlor. She's stuck on you.
We're good friends--she come to call on my wife yesterday, and she
talked about you pretty much the hull time. I never saw her worse bent
up over a man. I believe she'd marry you, Mose, I do."

"Takes two for a bargain of that kind," said Mose.

The marshal turned. "But, my boy, that means making you a half owner of
all she has--why that last mine may go to a million within six months."

"That's all right," Mose replied, feeling the intended good will of the
older man. "But I expect to find or earn my own money. I can't marry a
woman fifteen years older'n I am for her money. It ain't right and it
ain't decent, and you'll oblige me by shutting up all such talk."

The sheriff humbly sighed. "She is a good deal older, that's a fact--but
she's took care of herself. Still, as you say, it's none o' my business.
If she can't persuade you, I can't. Come in, and I'll introduce you to
the managers of the National----"

"Can't now, I will later."

"All right, so long! Come in any time."

Mose stepped into a barber shop to brush up a little, for he had
acquired a higher estimate of the princess, and when he entered the
dining room of the Palace he made a handsome figure. Whatever he wore
acquired distinction from his beauty. His hat, no matter how stained,
possessed charm. His dark shirt displayed the splendid shape of his
shoulders, and his cartridge belt slanted across his hip at just the
right angle.

The woman waiting for him smiled with an exultant glint in her
half-concealed eyes.

"Sit there," she commanded, pointing at a chair. "Two beers," she said
to the waiter.

Mose took the chair opposite and looked at her smilelessly. He waited
for her to move.

"Ever been East--Chicago, Washington?"

"No."

"Want to go?"

"No."

She smiled again. "Know anything about mining?"

"Not a thing."

She looked at him with a musing, admiring glance. "I've got a big cattle
ranch--will you superintend it for me?"

"Where is it?"

She laughed and stammered a little. "Well--I mean I've been thinking of
buying one. I'm kind o' tired of these mining towns; I believe I'd like
to live on a ranch, with you to superintend it."

His face darkened again, and she hastened to say, "The cattle business
is going to boom again soon. They're all dropping out of it fast, but
_now_ is the time to get in and buy."

The beer came and interrupted her. "Here's to good luck," she said. They
drank, and as she daintily touched her lips with her handkerchief she
lifted her eyes to him again--strange eyes with lovely green and yellow
and pink lights in them not unlike some semi-precious stones.

"You don't like me," she said. "Why won't you let me help you?"

"You want a square-toed answer?" he asked grimly, looking her steadily
in the eyes.

She paled a little. "Yes."

"There is a girl in Iowa--I make it my business to work for her."

Her eyes fell and her right hand slowly turned the mug around and
around. When she looked up she seemed older and her eyes were sadder.
"That need make no difference."

"But it does," he said slowly. "It makes all the difference there is."

She became suddenly very humble. "You misunderstand me--I mean, I'll
help you both. How do you expect to live?"

His eyes fell now. He flushed and shifted uneasily in his chair. "I
don't know." Then he unbent a little in saying, "That's what's bothering
me right now."

She pursued her advantage. "If you marry you've got to quit all this
trail business."

"Dead sure thing! And that scares me too. I don't know how I'd stand
being tied down to a stake."

She laid a hand on his arm. "Now see here, Mose, you let me help you.
You know all about cattle and the trail, you can shoot and throw a
rope, but you're a babe at lots of other things. You've got to get to
work at something, settle right down, and dig up some dust. Now isn't
that so?"

"I reckon that's the size of it."

It was singular how friendly she now seemed in his eyes. There was
something so frank and gentle in her voice (though her eyes remained
sinister) that he began almost to trust her.

"Well, now, I tell you what you can do. You take the job I got for you
with the Express Company and I'll look around and corral something else
for you."

He could not refuse to take her hand upon this compact. Then she said
with an attempt to be careless, "Have you a picture of this girl? I'd
like to see how she looks."

His face darkened again. "No," he said shortly, "I never had one of
her."

She recognized his unwillingness to say more.

"Well, good-by, come and see me."

He parted from her with a sense of having been unnecessarily harsh with
a woman who wished to be his good friend.

He was hungry and that made him think of his horse which he returned to
at once. After watering and feeding his tired beast he turned in at a
coffeehouse and bought a lunch--not being able to afford a meal.
Everywhere he went men pointed a timid or admiring thumb at him. They
were unobtrusive about it, but it annoyed him at the moment. His mind
was too entirely filled with perplexities to welcome strangers'
greetings. "I _must_ earn some money," was the thought which brought
with it each time the offer of the Express Company. He determined each
time to take it although it involved riding the same trail over and over
again, which made him shudder to think of. But it was three times the
pay of a cowboy and a single month of it would enable him to make his
trip to the East.

After his luncheon he turned in at the office and sullenly accepted the
job. "You're just the man we need," said the manager. "We've had two or
three hold-ups here, but with you on the seat I shall feel entirely at
ease. Marshal Haney has recommended you--and I know your record as a
daring man. Can you go out to-morrow morning?"

"Quicker the better."

"I'd like to have you sleep here in the office. I'll see that you have a
good bed."

"Anywhere."

After Mose went out the manager winked at the marshal and said:

"It's a good thing to have him retained on our side. He'd make a bad man
on the hold-up side."

"Sure thing!" replied Haney.

While loitering on a street corner still busy with his problems Mose saw
a tall man on a fine black horse coming down the street. The rider
slouched in his saddle like a tired man but with the grace of a true
horseman. On his bushy head sat a wide soft hat creased in the middle.
His suit was brown corduroy.

Mose thought, "If that bushy head was not so white I should say it was
father's. It _is_ father!"

He let him pass, staring in astonishment at the transformation in the
minister. "Well, well! the old man has woke up. He looks the real thing,
sure."

A drum struck up suddenly and the broncho (never too tired to shy) gave
a frenzied leap. The rider went with him, reins in hand, heels set well
in, knees grasping the saddle.

Mose smiled with genuine pleasure. "I didn't know he could ride like
that," and he turned to follow with a genuine interest.

He came up to Mr. Excell just as the marshal stepped out of the crowd
and accosted him. For the first time in his life Mose was moved to joke
his father.

"Marshal, that man is a dangerous character. I know him; put him out."

The father turned and a smile lit his darkly tanned face. "Harry----"

Mose made a swift sign, "Old man, how are ye?" The minister's manner
pleased his son. He grasped his father's hand with a heartiness that
checked speech for the moment, then he said, "I was looking for you.
Where you from?"

"I've got a summer camp between here and the Springs. I saw the notice
of you in yesterday's paper. I've been watching the newspapers for a
long time, hoping to get some word of you. I seized the first chance and
came on."

Mose turned. "Marshal, I'll vouch for this man; he's an old neighbor of
mine."

Mr. Excell slipped to the ground and Mose took the rein on his arm.
"Come, let's put the horse with mine." They walked away, elbow to elbow.
A wonderful change had swept over Mr. Excell. He was brown, alert, and
vigorous--but more than all, his eyes were keen and cheerful and his
smile ready and manly.

"You're looking well," said the son.

"I _am well_. Since I struck the high altitudes I'm a new man. I don't
wonder you love this life."

"Are you preaching?"

"Yes, I speak once a week in the Springs. I ride down the trail from my
cabin and back again the same day. The fact is I stayed in Rock River
till I was nearly broken. I lost my health, and became morbid, trying to
preach to the needs of the old men and women of my congregation. Now I
am free. I am back to the wild country. Of course, so long as my wife
lived I couldn't break away, but now I have no one but myself and my
needs are small. I am happier than I have been for years."

As they walked and talked together the two men approached an
understanding. Mr. Excell felt sure of his son's interest, for the first
time in many years, and avoided all terms of affection. In his return to
the more primitive, bolder life he unconsciously left behind him all the
"soft phrases" which had disgusted his son. He struck the right note
almost without knowing it, and the son, precisely as he perceived in his
father a return to rugged manliness, opened his hand to him.

Together they took care of the horse, together they walked the streets.
They sat at supper together and the father's joy was very great when at
night they camped together and Mose so far unbent as to tell of his
adventures. He did not confide his feeling for Mary--his love was far
too deep for that. A strange woman had reached it by craft, a father's
affection failed of it.


CHAPTER XVIII

THE EAGLE GUARDS THE SHEEP


Mose did not enter upon his duties as guard with joy. It seemed like
small business and not exactly creditable employment for a trailer and
cow puncher. It was in his judgment a foolish expenditure of money; but
as there was nothing better to do and his need of funds was imperative,
he accepted it.

The papers made a great deal of it, complimenting the company upon its
shrewdness, and freely predicted that no more hold-ups would take place
along that route. Mose rode out of town on the seat with the driver, a
Winchester between his knees and a belt of cartridges for both rifle and
revolvers showing beneath his coat. He left the stable each morning at
four A. M. and rode to the halfway house, where he slept over night,
returning the following day. From the halfway house to the Springs there
were settlers and less danger.

He was conscious of being an object of curious inquiry. Meeting stage
coaches was equivalent to being fired at by fifty pistols. Low words
echoed from lip to lip: "Black Mose," "bad man," "graveyard of his own,"
"good fellow when sober," etc. Sometimes, irritated and reckless, he
lived up to his sinister reputation, and when some Eastern gentleman in
brown corduroy timidly approached to say, "Fine weather," Mose turned
upon him a baleful glare under which the questioner shriveled, to the
delight of the driver, who vastly admired the new guard.

At times he was unnecessarily savage. Well-meaning men who knew nothing
about him, except that he was a guard, were rebuffed in quite the same
way. He was indeed becoming self-conscious, as if on exhibition,
somehow--and this feeling deepened as the days passed, for nothing
happened. No lurking forms showed in the shadow of the pines. No voice
called "Halt!" It became more and more like a stage play.

He was much disturbed by Jack's letter which was waiting for him one
night when he returned to Wagon Wheel.

    "DEAR HARRY: I went up to see Mary a few weeks ago and found
    she had gone to Chicago. Her father died over a year ago and
    she decided soon after to go to the city and go on with her
    music.  She's in some conservatory there. I don't know which
    one. I tried hard to keep her on my own account but she
    wouldn't listen to me.  Well, yes, she listened but she shook
    her head. She dropped King soon after your visit--whether you
    had anything to do with that or not I don't know--I think you
    did, but as you didn't write she gave you up as a bad
    job. She always used to talk of you and wonder where you
    were, and every time I called she used to sing If I Were a
    Voice. She never _said_ she was singing it for you, but there
    were tears in her eyes--and in mine, too, old man. You
    oughtn't to be throwing yourself away in that wild,
    God-forsaken country. We discussed you most of the time. Once
    in a while she'd see a little note in the paper about you,
    and cut it out and send it to me. I did the same. We heard of
    you at Flagstaff, Arizona. Then that row you had with the
    Mormons was the next we knew, but we couldn't write. She said
    it was pretty tough to hear of you only in some scrape, but I
    told her your side hadn't been heard from and that gave her a
    lot of comfort. The set-to you had about the Indians' right
    to hunt pleased us both. That was a straight case. She said
    it was like a knight of the olden time.

    "She was uneasy about you, and once she said, 'I wish I could
    reach him. That rough life terrifies me. He's in constant
    danger.' I think she was afraid you'd take to drinking, and I
    own up, old man, that worries _me_. If you only had somebody
    to look after you--somebody to work for--like I have. I'm
    going to be married in September. You know her--only she was
    a little girl when you lived here. Her name is Lily
    Blanchard.

    "I wish I could help you about Mary. I'm going to write to
    one or two parties who may know her address. If she's in
    Chicago you could visit her without any trouble. They
    wouldn't get on to you there at all. If you go, be sure and
    come this way. Your father went to Denver from here--have you
    heard from him?"

There was deep commotion in the trailer's brain that night. The hope he
had was too sacredly sweet to put into words--the hope that she still
thought of him and longed for him. If Jack were right, then she had
waited and watched for him through all those years of wandering, while
he, bitter and unrelenting, and believing that she was King's wife, had
refused to listen for her voice on Sunday evenings. If she had kept her
promise, then on the trail, in cañons dark and deathly still, on the
moonlit sand of the Painted Desert, on the high divides of the Needle
Range, her thought had been winged toward him in song--and he had not
listened.

His thought turned now, for the first time, toward the great city, which
was to him a savage jungle of unknown things, a web of wire, a maze of
streets, a swirling flood of human beings, of interest now merely and
solely because Mary had gone to live therein. "I'm due to make another
trip East," he said to himself with a grim straightening of the lips.

It was mighty serious business. To take Kintuck and hit the trail for
the Kalispels over a thousand miles of mountain and plain, was simple,
but to thrust himself amid the mad rush of a great city made his bold
heart quail. Money was a minor consideration in the hills, but in the
city it was a matter of life and death. Money he must now have, and as
he could not borrow or steal it, it must be earned. In a month his wages
would amount to one hundred dollars, but that was too slow. He saw no
other way, however, so set his teeth and prepared to go on with the
"fool business" of guarding the treasure wagon of the Express Company.

His mind reverted often to the cowboy tournament which was about to come
off, after hanging fire for a month, during which Grassi wrestled with
the problem of how to hold a bullfight in opposition to the laws of the
State. "If I could whirl in and catch one of those purses," thought
Mose, "I could leave at the end of August. If I don't I must hang on
till the first of October."

He determined to enter for the roping contest and for the cowboy race
and the revolver practice. Marshal Haney was delighted. "I'll attend to
the business, but the entrance fees will be about twenty dollars."

This staggered Mose. It meant an expenditure of nearly one fourth his
month's pay in entrance fees, not to speak of the expense of keeping
Kintuck, for the old horse had to go into training and be grain-fed as
well. However, he was too confident of winning to hesitate. He drew on
his wages, and took a day off to fetch Kintuck, whom he found fat and
hearty and very dirty.

The boys at the Reynolds ranch were willing to bet on Mose, and every
soul determined to be there. Cora said quietly: "I know you'll win."

"Well, I don't expect to sweep the board, but I'll get a lunch while the
rest are getting a full meal," he replied, and returned to his duties.

The weather did not change for the tournament. Each morning the sun
arose flashing with white, undimmed fire. At ten o'clock great dazzling
white clouds developed from hidden places behind huge peaks, and as they
expanded each let fall a veil of shimmering white storms that were hail
on the heights and sleet on the paths in the valleys. These clouds
passed swiftly, the sun came out, the dandelions shone vividly through
their coverlet of snow, the eaves dripped, the air was like March, and
the sunsets like November.

Naturally, Sunday was the day fixed upon for the tournament, and early
on that day miners in clean check shirts and bright new blue overalls
began to stream away up the road which led to the race track, some two
miles away, on the only level ground for a hundred miles. Swift horses
hitched to light open buggies whirled along, loaded down with men.
Horsemen galloped down the slopes in squadrons--and such
horsemen!--cowboys from "Lost Park" and "the Animas." Prospectors like
Casey and Kelly who were quite as much at home on a horse as with a pick
in a ditch, and men like Marshal Haney and Grassi, who were all-round
plainsmen, and by that same token born horsemen. Haney and Kelly rode
with Reynolds and Mose, while Cora and Mrs. Reynolds followed in a rusty
buggy drawn by a fleabitten gray cow pony, sedate with age.

Kintuck was as alert as a four-year-old. His rest had filled him to
bursting with ambition to do and to serve. His muscles played under his
shining skin like those of a trained athlete. Obedient to the lightest
touch or word of his master, with ears in restless motion, he curvetted
like a racer under the wire.

"Wouldn't know that horse was twelve years old, would you, gentlemen?"
said Reynolds. "Well, so he is, and he has covered fifteen thousand
miles o' trail."

Mose was at his best. With vivid tie flowing from the collar of his blue
shirt, with a new hat properly crushed in on the crown in four places,
with shining revolver at his hip, and his rope coiled at his right knee,
he sat his splendid horse, haughty and impassive of countenance,
responding to the greetings of the crowd only with a slight nod or a
wave of the hand.

It seemed to him that the population of the whole State--at least its
men--was assembled within the big stockade. There were a few women--just
enough to add decorum to the crowd. They were for the most part the
wives or sisters or sweethearts of those who were to contest for prizes,
but as Mose rode around the course he passed "the princess" sitting in
her shining barouche and waving a handkerchief. He pretended not to see
her, though it gave him pleasure to think that the most
brilliantly-dressed woman on the grounds took such interest in him.
Another man would have ridden up to her carriage, but Mose kept on
steadily to the judge's stand, where he found a group of cowboys
discussing the programme with Haney, the marshal of the day.

Mose already knew his dangerous rival--a powerful and handsome fellow
called Denver Dan, whose face was not unlike his own. His nose was
straight and strong, his chin finely modeled, and his head graceful, but
he was heavier, and a persistent flush on his nose and in his eyelids
betrayed the effects of liquor. His hands were small and graceful and he
wore his hat with a certain attractive insolence, but his mouth was
cruel and his eyes menacing. When in liquor he was known to be
ferocious. He was mounted on a superbly pointed grade broncho, and all
his hangings were of costly Mexican workmanship and betrayed use.

"The first thing is a 'packing contest,'" read Haney.

"Oh, to h----l with that, I'm no packer," growled Dan.

"I try that," said Mose; "I let nothing get away to-day."

"Entrance fee one dollar."

"Here you are." Mose tossed a dollar.

"Then 'roping and holding contest.'"

"Now you're talking my business," exclaimed Dan.

"There are others," said Mose.

Dan turned a contemptuous look on the speaker--but changed his
expression as he met Mose's eyes.

"Howdy, Mose?"

"So's to sit a horse," Mose replied in a tone which cut. He was not used
to being patronized by men of Dan's set.

The crowd perceived the growing rivalry between the two men and winked
joyously at each other.

At last all was arranged. The spectators were assembled on the rude
seats. The wind, sweet, clear, and cool, came over the smooth grassy
slopes to the west, while to the east, gorgeous as sunlit marble, rose
the great snowy peaks with huge cumulus clouds--apparently standing on
edge--peeping over their shoulders from behind. Mose observed them and
mentally calculated that it would not shower till three in the
afternoon.

In the track before the judge's stand six piles of "truck," each pile
precisely like the others, lay in a row. Each consisted of a sack of
flour, a bundle of bacon, a bag of beans, a box, a camp stove, a pick, a
shovel, and a tent. These were to be packed, covered with a mantle, and
caught by "the diamond hitch."

Mose laid aside hat and coat, and as the six pack horses approached,
seized the one intended for him. Catching the saddle blanket up by the
corners, he shook it straight, folded it once, twice--and threw it to
the horse. The sawbuck followed it, the cinch flying high so that it
should go clear. A tug, a grunt from the horse, and the saddle was on.
Unwinding the sling ropes, he made his loops, and end-packed the box.
Against it he put both flour and beans. Folding the tent square he laid
it between. On this he set the stove, and packing the smaller bags
around it, threw on the mantle. As he laid the hitch and began to go
around the pack, the crowd began to cheer:

"Go it, Mose!"

"He's been there before."

"Well, I guess," said another.

Mose set his foot to the pack and "pinched" the hitch in front. Nothing
remained now but the pick, shovel, and coffee can. The tools he crowded
under the ropes on either side, tied the cans under the pack at the back
and called Kintuck, "Come on, boy." The old horse with shining eyes drew
near. Catching his mane, Mose swung to the saddle, Kintuck nipped the
laden cayuse, and they were off while the next best man was still
worrying over the hitch.

"Nine dollars to the good on that transaction," muttered Mose, as the
marshal handed him a ten dollar gold piece.

"The next exercise on the programme," announced Haney, "will be the
roping contest. The crowd will please be as quiet as possible while this
is going on. Bring on your cows."

Down the track in a cloud of dust came a bunch of cattle of all shapes
and sizes. They came snuffing and bawling, urged on by a band of
cowboys, while a cordon of older men down the track stopped and held
them before the judge's stand.

"First exercise--'rope and hold,'" called the marshal. "Denver Dan comes
first."

Dan spurred into the arena, his rope swinging gracefully in his supple
up-raised wrist.

"Which one you want?" he asked.

"The line-back yearling," called Haney.

With careless cast Dan picked up both hind feet of the calf--his horse
set his hoofs and held the bawling brute.

"All right," called the judge. The rope was slackened and the calf
leaped up. Dan then successively picked up any foot designated by the
marshal. "Left hind foot! Right fore foot!" and so on with almost
unerring accuracy. His horse, calm and swift, obeyed every word and
every shift of his rider's body. The crowd cheered, and those who came
after added nothing to the contest.

Mose rode into the inclosure with impassive face. He could only
duplicate the deeds of those who had gone before so long as his work was
governed by the marshal--but when, as in the case of others, he was free
to "put on frills," he did so. Tackling the heaviest and wildest steer,
he dropped his rope over one horn and caught up one foot, then taking a
loose turn about his pommel he spoke to Kintuck. The steer reached the
end of the rope with terrible force. It seemed as if the saddle must
give way--but the strain was cunningly met, and the brute tumbled and
laid flat with a wild bawl. While Kintuck held him Mose took a cigar
from his pocket, bit the end off, struck a match and puffed carelessly
and lazily. It was an old trick, but well done, and the spectators
cheered heartily.

After a few casts of almost equal brilliancy, Mose leaped to the ground
with the rope in his hand, and while Kintuck looked on curiously, he
began a series of movements which one of Delmar's Mexicans had taught
him. With the noose spread wide he kept it whirling in the air as if it
were a hoop. He threw it into the air and sprang through it, he lowered
it to the ground, and leaping into it, flung it far above his head. In
his hand this inert thing developed snakelike action. It took on loops
and scallops and retained them, apparently in defiance of all known laws
of physics--controlled and governed by the easy, almost imperceptible
motions of his steel-like wrist.

"Forty-five dollars more to the good," said Mose grimly as the decision
came in his favor.

"See here--going to take all the prizes?" asked one of the judges.

"So long as you keep to my line of business," replied he.

The races came next. Kintuck took first money on the straightaway dash,
but lost on the long race around the pole. It nearly broke his heart,
but he came in second to Denver Dan's sorrel twice in succession.

Mose patted the old horse and said: "Never mind, old boy, you pulled in
forty dollars more for me."

Reynolds had tears in his eyes as he came up.

"The old hoss cain't compete on the long stretches. He's like a
middle-aged man--all right for a short dash--but the youngsters have the
best wind--they get him on the mile course."

In the trained pony contest the old horse redeemed himself. He knelt at
command, laid out flat while Mose crouched behind, and at the word "Up!"
sprang to his feet and waited--then with his master clinging to his
mane he ran in a circle or turned to right or left at signal. All the
tricks which the cavalry had taught their horses, Mose, in years on the
trail, had taught Kintuck. He galloped on three legs and waltzed like a
circus horse. He seemed to know exactly what his master said to him.

A man with a big red beard came up to Mose as he rode off the track and
said:

"What'll you take for that horse?"

Mose gave him a savage glance. "He ain't for sale."

The broncho-busting contest Mose declined.

"How's that?" inquired Haney, who hated to see his favorite "gig back"
at a point where his courage could be tested.

"I've busted all the bronchos for fun I'm going to," Mose replied.

Dan called in a sneering tone: "Bring on your varmints. I'm not dodgin'
mean cayuses to-day."

Mose could not explain that for Mary's sake he was avoiding all danger.
There was risk in the contest and he knew it, and he couldn't afford to
take it.

"That's all right!" he sullenly replied. "I'll be with you later in the
game."

A wall-eyed roan pony, looking dull and stupid, was led before the
stand. Saddled and bridled he stood dozing while the crowd hooted with
derision.

"Don't make no mistake!" shouted Haney; "he's the meanest critter on the
upper fork."

A young lad named Jimmy Kincaid first tackled the job, and as he ran
alongside and tried the cinch, the roan dropped an ear back--the ear
toward Jimmy, and the knowing ones giggled with glee. "He's wakin'up!
Look out, Jim!"

The lad gathered the reins in his left hand, seized the pommel with his
right, and then the roan disclosed his true nature. He was an old rebel.
He did not waste his energies on common means. He plunged at once into
the most complicated, furious, and effective bucking he could devise,
almost without moving out of his tracks--and when the boy, stunned and
bleeding at the nose, sprawled in the dust, the roan moved away a few
steps and dozed, panting and tense, apparently neither angry nor
frightened.

One of the Reynolds gang tried him next and "stayed with him" till he
threw himself. When he arose the rider failed to secure his stirrups and
was thrown after having sat the beast superbly. The miners were warming
to the old roan. Many of them had never seen a pitching broncho before,
and their delight led to loud whoops and jovial outcries.

"Bully boy, roan! Shake 'em off!"

Denver Dan tried him next and sat him, haughtily contemptuous, till he
stopped, quivering with fatigue and reeking with sweat.

"Oh, well!" yelled a big miner, "that ain't a fair shake for the pony;
you should have took him when he was fresh." And the crowd sustained him
in it.

"Here comes one that is fresh," called the marshal, and into the arena
came a wicked-eyed, superbly-fashioned black roan horse, plainly wild
and unbroken, led by two cowboys, one on either side.

Joe Grassi shook a handfull of bills down at the crowd. "Here's a
hundred dollars to the man who'll set that pony three minutes by the
watch."

"This is no place to tackle such a brute as that," said Reynolds.

Mose was looking straight ahead with a musing look in his eyes.

Denver Dan walked out. "I need that hundred dollars; nail it to a post
for a few minutes, will ye?"

This was no tricky old cow pony, but a natively vicious, powerful, and
cunning young horse. While the cowboys held him Dan threw off his coat
and hat and bound a bandanna over the bronchos's head and pulled it down
over his eyes. Laying the saddle on swiftly, but gently, he cinched it
strongly. With determined and vigorous movement, he thrust the bit into
his mouth.

"Slack away!" he called to the ropers. The horse, nearly dead for lack
of breath, drew a deep sigh.

Haney called out: "Stand clear, everybody, clear the road!"

And casting one rope to the ground, Dan swung into the saddle.

For just an instant the horse crouched low and waited--then shot into
the air with a tigerish bound and fell stiff-legged. Again and again he
flung his head down, humped his back, and sprang into the air grunting
and squealing with rage and fear. Dan sat him, but the punishment made
him swear. Suddenly the horse dropped and rolled, hoping to catch his
rider unawares. Dan escaped by stepping to the ground, but he was white,
and the blood was oozing slowly from his nose. As the brute arose, Dan
was in the saddle. With two or three tremendous bounds, the horse flung
himself into the air like a high-vaulting acrobat, landing so near the
fence that Dan, swerving far to the left, was unseated, and sprawled low
in the dust while the squealing broncho went down the track bucking and
lashing out with undiminished vigor.

Dan staggered to his feet, stunned and bleeding. He swore most terrible
oaths that he would ride that wall-eyed brute if it took a year.

"You've had your turn. It was a fair fight," called Kelly.

"Who's the next ambitious man?" shouted Haney.

"I don't want no truck with that," said the cowboys among themselves.

"Not in a place like this," said Jimmy. "A feller's liable to get mashed
agin a fence."

Mose stood with hands gripping a post, his eyes thoughtful. He lived in
big cities and in the south, from which the sun is a rich, he tires
of his art promised, and perhaps it was the blood of his mother,
which drew him there.

But because his heart is dead and without love, so he adventures
in the flesh, grew deep down into hot lust and guilt, and suffered
untold here.

Maybe it was the inheritance of his father in him, the long, meaningful
question, cleanly dressed man with the flower in the buttonhole
field that made him suffer so there was a weak and sometimes,
yearning memories in him is let to a lively desire of the soul, the
once his own had been, he and the chandeliers are not all in again.

A revulsion and hatred against the meaning seized him and a Lechzen
after wohlanständigem peace and purity, while the air he breathed
the arts, the mild and sweet, duftgeschwängerte airspace of spring
constant, in which it pushes and brews and germinates in secret
delight procreation.

So it was only then that he blatantly unfounded between extremes, between
spirituality and icier consuming of Sinnenglut thrown back and
forth in an exhaustive conscience troubles life led a ausbündiges,
excesses and extraordinary life, he, Tonio Kröger, basically abhorred.

Welch Irrgang! he thought sometimes. How was it possible that I am in all
of these adventures became eccentric?

I am not a gypsy in a green car, from home ... But to the extent that his
health was weakened, deteriorated his body artist, was selective,
exquisite, precious, delicate, irritable Banale against the highest
and on sensitive issues of the bar and taste.

When he hervortrat for the first time, was among those who are concerned,
a lot of joy and loud applause, because it was a valuable thing worked,
what he had delivered, full of humor and knowledge of suffering.
And quickly became its name, the same, with whom he once called his
teacher scheltend had the same, with his first rhymes at the Walnußbaum,
the fountains and the sea had signed, that from South and North
Klang compound, these exotic touch citizens name to a formula,
called the excellence, for the thoroughness of his painful experiences
joined a rare, tough and endure ehrsüchtiger diligence in the fight
with the selective tastes of his irritability under fierce torments
gave unusual works.

He did not like someone who works to live, but as one who wants nothing
than to work, because he is a living human respect for nothing, just as
creative artists in question wants to come and the rest gray and
inconspicuous umhergeht how a Abgeschminkt actor, who is nothing as long
as he has presented nothing. He worked silently, completed, and full of
hidden contempt for those little ones, where the talent was a
sociable jewelry, which, whether they were rich or poor, wild and
demolished or undergone personal ties with the top luxury, primarily
happy, loving and artistically to live deliberately, ignorant that
good works only under the pressure of a terrible life is that he
who lives, not working, and that one must have died, to be a sheep
on his Fender.

IV »sturgeons I?"

asked Tonio Kröger on the threshold of the studio.

He held his hat in his hand and even bowed a little, although his
girlfriend Lisaweta Ivanovna, was everything he said.

"Mercy you, Tonio Kröger, and come into it without ceremony," she
replied, with its emphasis on jumping. "It is known that a good
nursery enjoyed and know what to send."

They put her brush to the palette in the left hand, gave him the
right and looked at him and laughing kopfschüttelnd in the face.

"Yes, but They work, "he said. "Let see ...

Oh, you have come forward. "And he looked alternately colored sketches,
to both sides of the easel on chairs refused, and the large, with a
square route covered canvas, on which, in the tangled and coal schematic
design, the first color oblivion began. It was in Munich, in a building
of the readmission Schellingstraße several stairs high. Outside, behind
the Northern Lights-wide window, the sky was blue, birds and sunshine,
and the young spring, sweet breath, through an open door hereinströmte,
mingled with the smell of oil paint fixative and the wide working space
filled. Freely flooded the golden light of the bright afternoon, the
baldness of the large studios, frank beschien a little damaged floor,
raw, with bottles, tubes and brush-covered table beneath the window
and unframed untapezierten studies at the walls, the wall beschien
chapped silk screen , near the door a small, stylishly furnished
living room and Mußewinkel limited, the expectant beschien work on
the easel and, previously, the painter and poet. you liked about
as old as he is a little beyond the Thirty.

In their dark blue, blemished apron dress she sat on a low stool and
backed his chin in his hand. Your brown hair, solid hair on the sides
and even slightly hoary, covered in soft waves crest their temples, and
gave the frame to its brunettes, Slavic-shaped, infinitely sympathetic
face with the blunt nose, the sharp cheekbones and identified the
small, black, bright eyes .

Curious, suspicious and irritated, as they mustered oblique gaze and pinched
her work ...

He stood beside her, held his right hand into the hip gestemmt and turned
to the left hurriedly at his brown mustache.

His oblique brows were dark and initiated a movement, while he softly
whistled to himself, as usual.

He was extremely careful and dignified, dressed in a suit by a calm
and reserved section gray. But in working through his forehead,
over his dark hair so extraordinarily simple and correct itself
scheitelte was a nervous twitching, and the outline of his face cut
south were already sharply, from a hard pencil, and almost pulled
after pronounced, but during his mouth so gently outlined his chin
which seemed so soft ...

After a while he pointed with his hand on forehead and eyes and turned
away.

"I would not come," he said.

"Why would you not, Tonio Kröger?" "That I stand by my work, Lisaweta, and
in my head it looks exactly like on this screen.

A skeleton, a pale, soiled draft of revisions and a few patches, yes, and
now I come here and see the same thing. And the conflict and contrast,
I think here again, "he said, and sniffed into the air," the
tormented me at home.

Strange it is. Shows you an idea, then you will find it expressed everywhere,
you _riechst_ him even in the wind. Fixative and Frühlingsarom, is not
it? Art and - yes, what is the other? Do not say> Nature <Lisaweta,>
nature <is not exhaustive.

Oh, no, I would probably prefer to walk, although the question is whether
I would have found it more comfortable!

Before five minutes, not far from here, I met a colleague, Adalbert,
the novel lists. > God damn spring!

<He said in his aggressive style. > It is and will remain the
dreadful season!

Can you take a sensible idea, Kröger, you can use the smallest point
and effect Gelassenheit elaborate, if you on a indecent manner in
the blood and tickles a lot of unzugehörigen sensations you worried
that when they examine themselves as off-trivial and turn completely
useless stuff?

As for me, so now I go into the café.

It is neutral, from the change of seasons untouched territory, you
know, the sort that is removed and a sublime realm of Literature,
in which we only make incursions capable ...

<And he went to the café, and perhaps I should respond to . «Lisaweta
be amused." That is good, Tonio Kröger. With the> improper tingling <is
good. And he has quite a sense yes, because with the work it really
is not ordered in the spring. But now enter eight.

Now, do I still have this little thing here, this little point and effect,
such as Adalbert would say.

After we go to the 'salon' and drink tea, and you speak of, because
I see it exactly that you are now loaded.

Until then grouped up somewhere, for example on the box because if
you do not patrician robes for your fear ... "" Oh, leave me with
my robes in Ruh ', Lisaweta Ivanovna!

Anyway, if you think that I have a torn Sammetjacke or rotseidenen
vest umherliefe?

One is as an artist always inwardly adventurers enough. Externally it is
good to attract the devil, and to behave like a decent person ... No,
I'm not loaded, "he said and watched as they appear on the palette a
mixture prepared.

"They hear indeed that there is only one problem, and contrast is what
is the meaning to me and I was bothered at work ... Yes, what we just
said?

By Adalbert, the Novel lists, and what a proud and solid man he
is. > The spring season is terrible, "he said and walked into the cafe.
Because you must know what you want, is not it? You see, even the spring
makes me nervous, even me, the Holde triviality of memories and feelings
that he evokes, in confusion, only that I did not win me over, to
scold him and despise, because the thing is that I am ashamed before
him, I am ashamed before his pure naturalness and his victorious
youth.

And I do not know if I envy or Adalbert low value to ensure that he knows
nothing about it ...

It works poorly in the spring, certainly, and why? Because it feels. And
because Stümper is one who believes that creators should feel.

Each genuine and sincere artist smiles on the naivety of this bungler-error,
- melancholy perhaps, but he smiles.

For what they say, may indeed never be the main thing, but only in
and of itself indifferent material from which the aesthetic formations
in and playing together is serene superiority.

Are you too much to what you have to say, your heart too warm for
this, so you can a complete fiasco safe.

They are pathetic, you are sentimental, a bit heavy, Täppisch-serious,
uncontrolled, Unironisches, unseasoned, boring, banal arises under
your hands, and nothing but apathy for the people, nothing but
disappointment and misery for yourself is the end .. .

Because it is so, Lisaweta: The feeling of the warm, welcoming feeling is
always banal and useless, and artistically are merely irritated
and cold ecstasies of our corrupt, our artistic nervous system.

It is necessary that something Außermenschliches and inhuman is
that the human in a strange and distant bystanders standing
relationship to a position and generally tries to be there to play,
to play with it effectively and tastefully presented.

The talent for style, form and expression is already so cool and
picky relative to human, yes, a degree of human poverty and degradation
ahead.

Because that feeling healthy and strong, while it remains, has no taste.
It is made with the artist, once he is man and begins to feel.

The Adalbert knew, and that's why he went into the cafe, in the> sphere
reverie, "yes!"

"Well, God with him, Batuschka" said Lisaweta and washed their hands in
a tin tub, "You do not need him to follow. "No, Lisaweta, I follow
him, and only because I sometimes am able to me before the spring
of my artistry a little ashamed. You see, sometimes I get letters
from foreign hands, praise and thanksgiving letter from my audience,
letters taken bewunderungsvolle people. I read these letters, and moved
easily procure me the face of the clumsy and warm human feeling,
the effect of my art here has a kind of compassion towards me
summarizes the enthusiastic naivety, which speaks from the line,
and I blush at the thought of how this very honest man ought to be
disenchanted, if he ever catch a glimpse behind the scenes would
do if his innocence ever terms that an honest, healthy and decent
human beings do not write, mimes, composed ... everything does not
preclude that I share his admiration for my genius use to me to
enhance and stimulate that I take it seriously huge and will make
a face like a monkey who plays the big man ...

Ah, you talk to me not burned, Lisaweta! I tell you that I am often
sterbensmüde, depict the human without the human part ... If the artist
ever a man?

You ask> the wife <then! It seems to me we are all artists share a little
of the fate prepared papal singer ... We sing quite beautifully touching.
But - "" You should be a bit ashamed, Tonio Kröger.

Come to tea now. The water is equal to cook, and here are Papyros. When
soprano singing, you were stopped, and go there only continue. But
you should be ashamed of themselves.

If I do not know, how proud your passion occupations are revealed
... "" Say nothing of> occupation <Lisaweta Ivanovna! The literature
is not an occupation, but a curse - that's you know.

When he begins to be felt, this curse? Early, awfully early. At a
time when we still cheap in peace and harmony with God and the world
should live.

They are beginning to be drawn up in a puzzling contrast to the
other, the ordinary, the ordinary to feel the abyss of irony,
disbelief, opposition, cognition, emotion, the people from the
separating gap deeper and deeper, you are lonely, and now there are
not more understanding.

What a fate! Put that the heart of lively enough, enough remained
_liebevoll_ it as awful to feel ... Your self-confidence ignites,
because you are among thousands in the character feel your
forehead and feel that no one escapes. I knew an actor of genius, a
man with a pathological bias instability and had to struggle. His
overwrought Ichgefühl together with the lack of role of actors
responsible for this effect, the perfect artist and impoverished people
... an artist, a genuine, not one whose professional bourgeois art is but
a pre-and damn, can be found low-Up View of a crowd. The feeling of
separation and Unzugehörigkeit, of Detected and Beobachtetseins something
both Royal and publisher is in his face. In the outline of a prince, in
a civil proceeding popular quantity, one can observe something
similar.

But since no civilian help, Lisaweta! Dressing up, disguise yourself,
pull up like a attaché or a vacation Guard lieutenant in:
you will hardly aufzuschlagen the eyes and speak a word to need, and
everyone will know that you are not man, but something strange,
strange, different ... But _was ist_ the artist? Before any question,
the convenience and inertia of human cognition is proved tougher than
this. > Likewise dose is <, humbly say the good people who are under the
effect of an artist, and as serene and sublime effects after her
good-natured expression is also very serene and sublime origins have,
so no one suspects that this is perhaps to an extremely bad conditioned,
highly questionable> Gabe <act ...

We know that artists are easily vulnerable - well, you also know
that this is for people with good conscience founded and solid
self-esteem is not declared maintains ... You see, Lisaweta, I have at
the bottom of my soul - to the Mental transferred - against the
type of artist the whole _Verdacht_ that everyone in my firm honor
ancestors up there in the narrow city abenteuernden any jugglers
and artists have expressed that in his house would have.

Listen to the following. I know a banker, a graying businessman who
owns the gift, to write novels.

He makes use of this gift in his leisure use, and his works are sometimes
quite excellent. Despite - and I say> despite <- this sublime
predisposition is this man not entirely integrity he has, on the
contrary, already a heavy custodial sentence had to serve, and for
good reasons.

Yes, it really only happened entirely in the prison that his talent
was inne, convict and his experiences form the basic motif in all
his productions.

One might, with some pertness, concluded that it was necessary in any
kind of prison to be at home to the poet to be.

But pushing is not suspected that his experiences in prison is less
closely with the roots and origins of its artists have been deformed
shank want _das than what it hineinbrachte_? - A banker who writes
novels, this is a rarity, is not it?

But a criminal is not an integrity and solid banker who writes novels,
- _das not vor_ ...

Yes, you laugh now, but I only half joke and half no problem, none in
the world, is excruciating than by the artistry and its human
impact.

Remove the wunderartigste formations typical of the artist's most
powerful and therefore, take such a morbid and deeply ambiguous
works like "Tristan and Isolde" and observe the effect that this
work on a young, healthy, highly sensitive persons normally exercised.

You're raised, strengthened, warm, honest enthusiasm, excited to own
perhaps> artistic <creative ... The good dilettante! In our artists it
thoroughly different than he and his> warm the heart <and> honest
enthusiasm <likes to dream. I have artists from women and youths
umschwärmt seen and celebrated, while I have it _wußte_ ... One does
what the origin, Miterscheinungen and conditions of the artistry is
concerned, always the strangest experiences ... "" At another, Tonio
Kröger - forgive - or not only to others? "He was silent. He pulled his
oblique brows together and whistled to himself,. "I ask for your cup,
Tonio. He is not strong. And make a new cigarette. BTW do you know very
well that you see things as they are not necessary need to be ... ""
That is the response of Horatio, dear Lisaweta. > The things in
this way, would it look exactly <, is not it?

"I say that they are exactly the same from another side can Tonio Kröger.
I'm just a stupid woman painting rooms, and if I have anything to
say know if I have your own career a little bit against you in a
protective holder, it is certainly not new, what I argued, but only
a reminder of that what you yourself know very well ...

How, then, the cleansing, holy powers of literature, the destruction of
passions by knowledge and the word, literature as a way to understand,
to forgive and to love, the redeeming power of language, the
literary spirit as the noblest appearance of the human spirit ever, the
writer as a perfect man, as a saint, - things _so_ view, would mean they
are not considered accurate enough? "" You have a right, so to
speak, Lisaweta Ivanovna, in relation to the works of your poets, the
adorable Russian literature, so really represents the sacred literature
of which you speak. But I have listened to your objections are not
ignored, but they belong to what is the meaning to me today is ...
Look at me. I do not see overly frisky, like? A bit old and tired and
scharfzügig, is not it? Now, in order to> knowledge <back so a
person could think of, from house in good faith, meek, wohlmeinend
and a little sentimental, through the psychological clairvoyance simply
aufgerieben would be addressed and used. From the sadness of the world
can not mannen; observe, remember, insert, and the victimized, and
by the way of good things already in Vollgefühl of moral superiority
over the disgusting invention of being, - yes, indeed!

However, sometimes you grow things in spite of all pleasures of the
expression a little over his head. Everything would forgive everything?
I know not. There is something I call Erkenntnisekel, Lisaweta. The
state in which it is sufficient to man, one thing to understand in order
to die already disgusted (and not conciliatory voted) to feel -
the case of Hamlet, the Danes, this typical literati. He knew what it
is: the knowledge to be appointed without having to be born.
and it was some minutes before
he began to understand that they were talking about him. Then he wished
he knew what else they had said.

There was little chance to see the towns for the train whirled through
them with furious jangle of bell and whiz of steam--or else drew up in
the freight yard a long way out from the station. When night fell on
this, the third day, they were nearing the Great River and all the
cattlemen were lamenting the fact. Those who had been over the line
before said:

"Too bad, fellers! You'd ought to see the Mississippi, she's a loo-loo.
The bridge, too, is worth seein'."

During the evening there was a serious talk about hotels and the
amusements to be had. One faction, led by McCleary, of Currant Creek,
stood for the "Drovers' Home." "It's right out near the stockyards an'
it's a good place. Dollar a day covers everything, unless you want a big
room, which is a quarter extra. Grub is all right--and some darn nice
girls waitin' on the table, too."

But Thompson who owned the sheep was contemptuous. "I want to be in
town; I don't go to Chicago to live out in the stockyards; I want to be
where things go by. I ante my valise at the Grand Palace or the New
Merchants'; the best is good enough for me."

McCleary looked a little put down. "Well, that's all right for a man who
can afford it. I've got a big family and I wouldn't feel right to be
blowing in two or three dollars a day just for style."

"Wherever the girls are thickest, there's where you'll find me," said
one of the young fellows.

"That's me," said another.

Thompson smiled with a superior air. "You fellers'll bring up down on
South Clark Street before you end. Some choice dive on the levee is
gappin' for you. Now, mind you, I won't bail you out. You go into the
game with your eyes open," he said, and his banter was highly pleasing
to the accused ones.

McCleary turned to Harold, whom he knew only as "Hank," and said:

"Hank, you ain't sayin' a word; what're your plans?"

"I'll stay with you as long as you need me."

"All right; I'll take care o' you then."

Night fell before they came in sight of the city. They were woefully
behindhand and everything delayed them. After a hundred hesitations
succeeded by fierce forward dashes, after switching this way and that,
they came to a final halt in a jungle of freight cars, a chaos of
mysterious activities, and a dense, hot, steaming atmosphere that
oppressed and sickened the men from the mountains. Lanterns sparkled and
looped and circled, and fierce cries arose. Engines snorted in sullen
labor, charging to and fro, aimlessly it appeared. And all around cattle
were bawling, sheep were pleading for release, and swine lifted their
piercing protests against imprisonment.

"Here we are, in Chicago!" said McCleary, who always entered the city on
that side. "Now, fellers, watch out for yourselves. Keep your hands on
your wallets and don't blow out the electric light."

"Oh, you go to hell," was their jocular reply.

"We're no spring chickens."

"You go up against this town, my boys, and you'll think you're just out
o' the shell."

Mose said nothing. He had the indifferent air of a man who had been
often to the great metropolis and knew exactly what he wished to do.

It was after twelve o'clock when the crowd of noisy cattlemen tramped
into the Drovers' Home, glad of a safe ending of their trip. They were
all boisterous and all of them were liquorous except Harold, who drank
little and remained silent and uncommunicative. He had been most
efficient in all ways and McCleary was grateful and filled with
admiration of him. He had taken him without knowing who he was, merely
because Reynolds requested it, but he now said:

"Hank, you're a jim-dandy; I want you. When you've had your spree here,
you come back with me and I'll do the right thing by ye."

Harold thanked him in offhand phrase and went early to bed.

He had not slept in a hotel bed since the night in Marmion when Jack was
with him, and the wonderful charm and mystery and passion of those two
days, so intimately wrought in with passionate memories of Mary, came
back upon him now, keeping him awake till nearly dawn. He arose late and
yet found only McCleary at breakfast; the other men had remained so long
in the barroom that sleep and drunkenness came together.

After breakfast Harold wandered out into the street. To his left a
hundred towers of dull gray smoke rose, and prodigious buildings set in
empty spaces were like the cliffs of red stone in the Quirino. Beyond,
great roofs thickened in the haze, farther on in that way lay Chicago,
and somewhere in that welter, that tumult, that terror of the unknown,
lived Mary.

With McCleary he took a car that galloped like a broncho, and started
for the very heart of the mystery. As the crowds thickened, as the cars
they met grew more heavily laden, McCleary said:

"My God! Where are they all goin'? How do they all make a livin'?"

"That beats me," said Harold. "Seems as if they eat up all the grub in
the world."

The older man sighed. "Well, I reckon they know what they're doin', but
I'd hate to take my chances among 'em."

If any man had told Harold before he started that he would grow
irresolute and weak in the presence of the city he would have bitterly
resented it, but now the mass and weight of things hitherto unimagined
appalled and bewildered him.

A profound melancholy settled over his heart as the smoke and gray light
of the metropolis closed in over his head. For half a day he did little
more than wander up and down Clark Street. His ears, acute as a hound's,
took hold of every sound and attempted to identify it, just as his eyes
seized and tried to understand the forms and faces of the swarming
pavements. He felt his weakness as never before and it made him sullen
and irritable. He acknowledged also the folly of thrusting himself into
such a world, and had it not been for a certain tenacity of purpose
which was beyond his will, he would have returned with his companions at
the end of their riotous week.

Up till the day of their going he had made no effort to find Mary but
had merely loitered in the streets in the daytime, and at night had
visited the cheap theaters, not knowing the good from the bad. The city
grew each day more vast and more hateful to him. The mere thought of
being forced to earn a living in such a mad tumult made him shudder. The
day that McCleary started West Harold went to see him off, and after
they had shaken hands for the last time, Harold went to the ticket
window and handed in his return coupon to the agent, saying, "I'd like
to have you put that aside for me; I don't want to run any chances of
losing it."

The agent smiled knowingly. "All right, what name?"

"Excell, 'XL,' that's my brand."

"All right, she's right here any time you want her--inside of the thirty
days--time runs out on the fifteenth."

"I savvy," said Harold as he turned away.

He disposed his money about his person in four or five small wads, and
so fortified, faced the city. To lose his little fund would be like
having his pack mule give out in the desert, and he took every
precaution against such a calamity.

Nothing of this uncertainty and inner weakness appeared in his outward
actions, however. No one accused him of looking like an "easy mark" or
"a soft thing." The line of his lips and the lower of his strongly
marked eyebrows made strangers slow of approach. He was never awkward,
he could not be so any more than could a fox or a puma, but he was
restless, irresolute, brooding, and gloomy.

He moved down to the Occidental Grand, where he was able to secure a
room on the top floor for fifty cents per day. His meals he picked up
wherever he chanced to be when feeling hungry. When weary with his
wanderings he often returned to his seat on the sidewalk before the
hotel and watched the people pass, finding in this a melancholy
pleasure.

One evening the night clerk, a brisk young fellow, took a seat beside
him. "This is a great corner for the girls all right. A feller can just
about take his pick here along about eight. They're after a ticket to
the theater and a supper. If a feller only has a few seemolleons to
spare he can have a life worth livin'."

Mose turned a curious glance upon him. "If you wanted to find a party
in this town how would you go at it?"

"Well, I'd try the directory first go-off. If I didn't find him there
I'd write to some of his folks, if I knew any of 'em, and get a clew. If
I didn't succeed then I'd try the police. What's his name?"

Harold ignored this query.

"Where could I try this directory?"

"There's one right in there on the desk."

"That big book?"

"Yes."

"I didn't know what that was. I thought it was a dictionary."

The clerk shrieked with merriment. "The dictionary! Well, say, where
have you been raised?"

"On the range."

"You mean cowboy?"

"Yes; we don't need directories out there. Does that book tell where
everybody lives?"

"Well no, but most everybody shows up in it somewhere," replied the
clerk quite soberly. It had not occurred to him that anybody could live
outside a directory.

Harold got up and went to the book which he turned over slowly, looking
at the names. "I don't see that this helps a man much," he said to the
clerk who came in to help him. "Here is Henry Coleman lives at 2201
Exeter Street. Now how is a man going to find that street?"

"Ask a policeman," replied the clerk, much interested. "You're not used
to towns?"

"Not much. I can cross a mountain range easier than I can find one of
these streets."

Under the clerk's supervision Harold found the Yardwells, Thomas and
James, but Mary's name did not appear. He turned to conservatories and
located three or four, and having made out a slip of information set
forth. The first one he found to be situated up several flights of
stairs and was closed; so was the second. The third was in a brilliantly
lighted building which towered high above the street. On the eighth
floor in a small office a young girl with severe cast of countenance
(and hair parted on one side) looked up from her writing and coldly
inquired:

"Is there anything I can do for you?"

"Is there a girl named Mary Yardwell in your school?" he asked with some
effort, feeling a hot flush in his cheek--a sensation new to him.

"I don't think so, I'll look," replied the girl with business civility.
She thumbed a book to see and at length replied, "No, sir, there is
not."

"Much obliged."

"Not at all," replied the girl calmly, resuming her work.

Harold went down the steps to avoid the elevator. The next place was
oppressive with its grandeur. A tremendous wall, cold and dark (except
for a single row of lighted windows), loomed high overhead. In the
center of an arched opening in this wall a white hot globe flamed,
lighting into still more dazzling cleanliness a broad flight of marble
steps which led by a half turn to unknown regions above. Young people
were crowding into the elevator, girls in dainty costumes predominating.
They seemed wondrously flowerlike and birdlike to the plainsman, and
brought back his school days at the seminary, and the time when he was
at ease with young people like this. He had gone far from them
now--their happy faces made him sad.

He walked up the stairway, four flights, and came to a long hall, which
rustled and rippled and sparkled with flights of young girls--eager,
vivid, excited, and care-free. A few men moved about like dull-coated
robins surrounded by orioles and canary birds.

A bland old man with clean-shaven mouth seemed to be the proper source
of information, and to him Harold stepped with his question.

The old man smiled. "Miss Yardwell? Yes--she is one of our most valued
pupils. Certainly--Willy!" he called to a small boy who carried a
livery of startling newness, "go tell Miss Yardwell a gentleman would
like to see her."

"I suppose you are from her country home?" said the old gentleman, who
imagined a romance in this relation of a powerful and handsome young man
to Miss Yardwell.

"I am," Harold replied briefly.

"Take a seat--she will be here presently."

Harold took the offered seat with a sick, faint feeling at the pit of
his stomach. The long-hoped-for event was at hand. It seemed impossible
that Mary could be there--that she was about to stand before him. His
mind was filled with the things he had arranged to say to her, but they
were now in confused mass, circling and circling like the wrack of a
boat in a river's whirlpool.

He knew her far down the hall--he recognized the poise of her head and
her walk, which had always been very fine and dignified. As she
approached, the radiance of her dress, her beauty, scared him. She
looked at him once and then at the clerk as if to say, "Is this the
man?"

Then Harold arose and said, "Well, Mary, here I am."

For an instant she looked at him, and then a light leaped into her eyes.

"Why, Harold Excell!----" she stopped abruptly as he caught her
outstretched hands, and she remembered the sinister association of the
name. "Why, why, I didn't know you. Where do you come from?" Her face
was flushed, her eyes eager, searching, restless. "Come in here," she
said abruptly, and before he had time to reply, she led him to a little
anteroom with a cushioned wall seat, and they took seats side by side.

"It is impossible!" she said, still staring at him, her bosom pulsating
with her quickened breath. "It is not you--it can't be you," she
whispered, "Black Mose sitting here--with me--in Chicago. You're in
danger."

"I don't feel that way."

He smiled for the first time, and his fine teeth shining from his
handsome mouth led her to say:

"Your big mustaches are gone--that's the reason I didn't know you at
once--I don't believe I like you so well----"

"They'll grow again," he said; "I'm in disguise." He smiled again as if
in a joke.

Again the thought of who he really was flamed through her mind. "What a
life you lead! How do you happen to be here? I never expected to see you
in a city--you don't fit into a city."

"I'm here because you are," he replied, and the simplicity of his reply
moved her deeply. "I came as soon as I got your letter," he went on.

"My letter! I've written only one letter, that was soon after your visit
to Marmion."

"That's the one I mean. I got it nearly four years after you wrote it. I
hope you haven't changed since that letter."

"I'm older," she said evasively. "My father died a little over a year
ago."

"I know, Jack wrote me."

"Why didn't you get my letter sooner?"

"I was on the trail."

"On the trail! You are always on the trail. Oh, the wild life you lead!
I saw notices of you once or twice--always in some trouble." She looked
at him smilingly but there was sadness in her smile.

"It's no fault of mine," he exclaimed. "I can't stand by and see some
poor Indian or Chinaman bullied--and besides the papers always
exaggerate everything I do. You mustn't condemn me till you hear my side
of these scrapes."

"I don't condemn you at all but it makes me sad," she slowly replied.
"You are wasting your life out there in the wild country--oh, isn't it
strange that we should sit here? My mind is so busy with the wonder of
it I can't talk straight. I had given up ever seeing you again----"

"You're not married?" he asked with startling bluntness.

She colored hotly. "No."

"Are you engaged?"

"No," she replied faintly.

"Then you're mine!" he said with a clutch upon her wrist, a masterful
intensity of passion in his eyes.

"Don't--please don't!" she said, "they will see you."

"I don't care if they do!" he exultingly said; then his face darkened.
"But perhaps you are ashamed of me?"

"Oh, no, no--only----"

"I couldn't blame you if you were," he said bitterly. "I'm only a poor
devil of a mountaineer, not fit to sit here beside you."

"Tell me about yourself," she hastened to say. "What have you been doing
all these years?" She was determined to turn him from his savage
arraignment of himself.

"It won't amount to much in your eyes. It isn't worth as much to me as I
thought it was going to be. When I found King had your promise--I hit
the trail and I didn't care where it led, so it didn't double on itself.
I didn't want to see or hear anything of you again. What became of
King? Why did you turn him loose?"

Her eyelids fell to shut out his gaze. "Well--after your visit I
couldn't find courage to fulfill my promise--and so I asked him to
release me--and he did--he was very kind."

"He couldn't do anything else."

"Go on with your story," she said hurriedly.

As they sat thus in the corner of the little sitting room, the pupils
and guests of the institution came and went from the cloak rooms, eyeing
the intent couple with smiling and curious glances. Who could that dark,
handsome young man be who held Miss Yardwell with his glittering eyes?
The girls found something very interesting in his bronzed skin and in
the big black hat which he held in his hands.

On his part Harold did not care--he scarcely noticed these figures.
Their whispers were as unimportant as the sound of aspen leaves, their
footfalls as little to be heeded as those of rabbits on the pine needles
of his camp. Before him sat the one human being in the world who could
command him and she was absorbed in interest of his story. He grew to a
tense, swift, eager narration as he went on. It pleased him to see her
glow with interest and enthusiasm over the sights and sounds of the wild
country. At last he ended.

"And so--I feel as though I could settle down--if I only had you. The
trail got lonesome that last year--I didn't suppose it would--but it
did. After three years of it I was glad to get back to my old friends,
the Reynolds. I thought of you every day--but I didn't listen to hear
you sing, because I thought you were King's wife--I didn't want to hear
about you ever--but that's all past now--I am here and you are here.
Will you go back to the mountains with me this time?"

She looked away. "Come and see me to-morrow, I must think of this. It is
so hard to decide--our lives are so different----" She arose abruptly.
"I must go now. Come into the concert, I'm going to sing." She glanced
at him in a sad, half-smiling way. "I can't sing If I Were a Voice for
you, but perhaps you'll like my aria better."

As they walked along the corridor together they formed a singularly
handsome couple. He was clad in a well-worn but neat black suit, which
he wore with grace. His big-rimmed black hat was crushed in his left
hand. Mary was in pale blue which became her well, and on her softly
rounded face a thoughtful smile rested. She always walked with uncommon
dignity, and the eyes of many young men followed her. There was
something about her companion not quite analyzable to her city
friends--something alien and savage and admirable.

Entering the hall they found it well filled, but Mary secured a seat
near the side door for Harold, and with a smile said, "I may not see you
till to-morrow. Here is my address. Come up early. At three. I want a
long talk with you."

Left to himself the plainsman looked around the hall which seemed a
splendid and spacious one to him. It was filled with ladies in beautiful
costumes, and with men in clawhammer coats. He had seen pictures of
evening suits in the newspapers but never before had he been privileged
to behold live men in them. The men seemed pale and puny for the most
part. He had never before seen ladies in low-necked dresses and one just
before him seemed shamelessly naked, and he gazed at her in
astonishment. He was glad Mary had more modesty.

The concert interested him but did not move him. The songs were
brilliant but without meaning. He waited with fierce impatience for Mary
to come on, and during this wait he did an inordinate amount of
thinking. A hundred new conceptions came into his besieged
brain--engaging but by no means confusing him. He perceived that Mary
was already as much a part of this high-colored life as she had been of
the life of Marmion, quite at ease, certain of herself, and the cañon
between them widened swiftly. She was infinitely further away from him
than before. His cause now entirely hopeless, he had no right to ask any
such sacrifice of her--even if she were ready to make it.

As she stepped out upon the stage in the glare of the light, she seemed
as far from him as the roseate crown of snow on Sierra Blanca, and he
shivered with a sort of awe. Her singing moved him less than her
delicate beauty--but her voice and the pretty way she had of lifting her
chin thrilled him just as when he sat in the little church at Marmion.
The flowerlike texture of her skin and the exquisite grace of her hands
plunged him into gloom.

He did not join in the generous applause which followed--he wondered if
she would sing If I Were a Voice for him. He felt a numbness creeping
over his limbs and he drew his breath like one in pain. Mary looked pale
as a lily as she returned and stood waiting for the applause to die
away. Then out over the tense audience, straight toward him, soared her
voice quivering with emotion--she dared to sing the old song for him.

Suddenly all sense of material things passed from the wild heart of the
plainsman. He saw only the singer who stood in the center of a white
flame. A soft humming roar was in his ears like the falling of rain
drops on the leaves of maple trees. He remembered the pale little girl
in the prison--this was not Mary--but she had the voice and the spirit
of Mary----

Then the song stopped! The singer went away--the white light went with
her and the yellow glare of lamps came back. He heard the passionate
applause--he saw Mary reappear and bow, a sad smile on her face--a smile
which he alone could understand--her heart was full of pity for him.
Then once more she withdrew, and staggering like one suffering from
vertigo--the eagle-hearted youth went out of the hall and down the
polished stairway like an outcast soul, descending from paradise into
hell.

That radiant singer was not for such as Black Mose.


CHAPTER XX

A DARK DAY WITH A GLOWING SUNSET


The clerk at the station window was not the kindly young man who had
received Harold's ticket for safe keeping. He knew nothing of it and
poked around for several minutes before finding it. After glancing
keenly at its date he threw it down and brusquely said:

"Time's out on this, my friend."

Harold looked at him sharply. "Oh, no, that can't be; it's a thirty-day
trip."

The agent grew irritable. "I know it is; it was good to the fifteenth;
this is the seventeenth; the ticket is worthless."

Harold took up the slip of paper and stared at it in bewilderment. The
agent was right; he had overstayed the limit and was without five
dollars in his pocket. He turned weak with a sudden sense of his
helplessness and the desolation of his surroundings. He was like a man
whose horse fails him on a desert. Taking a seat on a bench in a dark
corner of the waiting room he gave himself up to a study of the
situation. To be alone in the Needle Range was nothing to worry about,
but to be alone and without money in a city scared him.

For two hours he sat there, his thoughts milling like a herd of restless
cattle, turning aimlessly around and around in their tracks. He had
foolishly neglected his opportunity to escape, and the mountains became
each moment more beautiful as they swiftly receded into unattainable
distance. He had expected to be riding back into the safe and splendid
plains country, back to friends and familiar things, and had trusted to
the joy of his return to soften the despair of his second failure to
take Mary back with him.

It was a sorrowful thing to see the young eagle in somber dream, the man
of unhesitating action becoming introspective. Floods of intent business
men, gay young girls, and grizzled old farmers in groups of twos and
threes, streamed by, dimly shadowed in his reflective eyes. All these
people had purpose and reward in their lives; he alone was a stray, a
tramp, with no one but old Kintuck to draw him to any particular spot or
keep him there.

"I am outside of everything," he bitterly thought. "There is nothing for
me."

Yes, there was Cora and there was little Pink--and then he thought of
Mrs. Raimon, whose wealth and serenity of temper had a greater appeal
than ever before. He knew perfectly well that a single word from him
would bring her and her money to his rescue at once. But something arose
in him which made the utterance of such a word impossible. As for Cora
and the little one, they brought up a different emotion, and the thought
of them at last aroused him to action.

"I'll get something to do and earn money enough to go back on," he
finally said to himself; "that's all I'm fit for, just to work by the
day for some other man; that's my size. I've failed in everything else
I've ever undertaken. I've no business to interfere with a girl like
Mary. She's too high class for a hobo like me; even if I had a ranch it
would be playing it low down on a singer like her to ask her to go out
there. It's no use; I'm worse than a failure--I'm in a hole, and the
first thing I've got to do is to earn money enough to get out of it."

He was ashamed to go back to the little hotel to which he had said
good-by with so much relief. It was too expensive for him, anyhow, and
so he set to work to find one near by which came within his changed
condition. He secured lodging at last in an old wooden shack on a side
street not far from the station, where rooms could be had for twenty
cents a night--in advance. It was a wretched place, filled with
cockroaches and other insects, but it was at least a hole in which he
could den up for a few nights when sleep overcame him. Thus fortified,
he wandered forth into the city, which was becoming each moment more
remorseless and more menacing in his eyes.

Almost without knowing it, he found himself walking the broad pavement
before the musical college wherein he found Mary. He had no definite
hope of seeing her again, but that doorway was the one spot of light in
all the weltering black chaos of the city, which now threatened him with
hunger and cold. The awe and terror he felt were such as a city dweller
would feel if left alone in a wild swamp filled with strange beasts and
reptiles.

After an hour's aimless walking to and fro, he returned to his bed each
night, still revolving every conceivable plan for earning money. His
thought turned naturally to the handling of cattle at the stockyards,
and one morning he set forth on his quest, only to meet with a great
surprise. He found all the world changed to him when it became known
that he was looking for a job. When he said to the office boys, "I want
to see the man who has charge of hiring the hands," they told him to
wait a while in a tone of voice which he had never before encountered.
His blood flamed hot in an instant over their calm insolence. Eventually
he found his way into a room where a surly fat man sat writing. He
looked up over his shoulder and snarled out:

"Well, what is it? What do you want?"

Harold controlled himself and replied: "I want to get a job; I'm a
cattleman from Colorado, and I'd like----"

"I don't care where you're from; we've got all the men we want. See Mr.
White, don't come bothering me."

Harold put his hand on the man's shoulder with the gesture of an angry
leopard, and a yellow glare filled his eyes, from which the brutal boss
shrank as if from a flame.

With a powerful effort he pulled himself up short and said: "Treat the
next cattleman that comes your way a little more decent or you'll get a
part of your lung carried away. Good day."

He walked out with the old familiar numbness in his body and the red
flashes wavering before his eyes. His brain was in tumult. The free man
of the mountain had come in contact with "the tyrant of labor," and it
was well for the big beast that Harold was for the moment without his
gun.

Going back to his room he took out his revolver and loaded every
chamber. In the set of his lips was menace to the next employer who
dared to insult and degrade him.

In the days that followed he wandered over the city, with eyes that took
note of every group of workmen. He could not bring himself to go back to
the stockyards, there was danger of his becoming a murderer if he did;
and as he approached the various bosses of the gangs of men in the
street, he found himself again and again without the resolution to touch
his hat and ask for a job. Once or twice he saw others quite as brutally
rebuffed as he had been, and it was only by turning away that he kept
himself from taking a hand in an encounter. Once or twice, when the
overseer happened to be a decent and sociable fellow, Harold, edging
near, caught his eye and was able to address him on terms of equality;
but in each case the talk which followed brought out the fact that men
were swarming for every place; indeed Harold could see this for himself.
Ultimately he fell into the ranks of poor, shivering, hollow-cheeked
fellows who stood around wistfully watching the excavation of cellars or
hanging with pathetic intentness above the handling of great iron beams
or pile drivers.

Work came to be a wonderful thing to possess. To put hand to a beam or a
shovel seemed now a most desirable favor, for it meant not only warm
food and security and shelter, but in his case it promised a return to
the mountains which came each hour to seem the one desirable and
splendid country in the world--so secure, so joyous, so shining, his
heart ached with wistful love of it.

And what geraumvolle time mankind has yet to develop its loftiest soul
forces! What great progress, it will be in the arts and sciences,
especially in the earth and sky customer, and in which this related,
not even you! And what are we still in the deep mysteries of nature will
not be revealed if they continue, as in the past 20 years in the spying
of the forces of nature has progressed! And at what high level of
training is it not in the last centuries of this period are geraumvollen!
But ask it now: we have not been from other world body early or late in
the destruction of our home and a destruction of the whole organic
creation to fear?

And if such is the case, what kind of world bodies, we have to worry about
this? When once such a destruction of our home should occur, this
may be only of a comet effect, by the 11 planets with its 18 In addition
to planets, which with the Earth in almost the same level of its run
tomorrow evening after the sun glittering body begin in such a precise
chaining together that one of the others has nothing to fear. Because
with them, and the most accurate Verhältnißmaß into consideration
the distance from each other, even on their masses and sizes in
accordance with their distances, which in turn with the turn around
times in a certain situation is.

So everything is linked here and ordered the highest wisdom, which the
pensive man, if he Diess Everything überblicket in a deep astonishment
and admiration in a dormant on the size of his god mode. But it is not
consistent with the comet, because they all cross sun empire, and
that is why, from this soon, soon from that region of the solar
area hergeeilt come.

They are therefore very close soon, soon to be very far from the sun
Everything invigorating body removed, cut it here soon, then soon the
path of a planet, and soon this one, very close to that soon. Sun 48
Comets alone through the space between Earth and Venus, from which in the
year of 1680 only 96,000 geographical miles, from the years 1684 to current
185,000 miles and the years of 1770 to 300,000 miles away from us
were.

Now that the Number of this world body, after the calculation of the
deceased Staatsrath and Schubert's knight in Petersburg about 20
million, which will soon go there soon when the sun close to the
path of a planet, so it's not so very unlikely that one of them in
a time of the earth come very close and a great revolution on their
impact.

But we know this much about some of the employed calculation of Mr. + +
Dr.

Olbers in Bremen, after which over a period of a comet 88,000 years the
earth will come as close as the moon us. In the period from 4 millions
of years it will happen once that such a world body to us 7700 miles
geographically close, and the water if he earth mass is equal to 15000
feet, and when he moons the size and mass of the same, to 256 feet will
be levied. And in 220 million years ago is such a world body with the
earth collide, and those previously mentioned terrible and ghastly
appearances on the same spawn. _Nachtrag._ If a hypothesis about the
Ausbildungsart of the earth to satisfy the thoughtful reader will,
it must explain the following points belonging , and the best pure
light on: 1) What are the mountains so high aufgethürmt?

2) What are the earth so wrong, and now and then vertically, as I have,
highlights, and what are these, like the rubble of a house here and there
across and through each other hingeworfen been? 3) How did the great
masses of the rock crevices and cracks in all possible directions
given? 4) Why is it that the inhabitants of the deep ocean on the
summits of the highest mountains, and under the same strata buried there?
5) What are the animals and plants in the hotter areas of temperate
and cold Erdstriche come?

And where 6) is finally the remains of the animals, which we no longer
present in our organic creation find come? To all these questions
belonging to answer, no hypothesis is less than that in the previous
essay, I have established : namely that _unser City by the world
Aufstürze larger masses, as those are what is called meteor rocks,
fireballs, etc. understands its current training erhalten_ voted
by all the others mentioned above opinions only individual points,
and even this does not explain once belonging .

For those geologists who cited those symptoms by the power of an underground
fire, and by the Fluthen, but they both only a subordinate place in
the training of the Earth have played, explain, take in the interior
of the Earth a fire, which the earth crust, and again raised the same
layers of fragmented rocks and debris had umhergeworfen, which columns
and cracks in the layers created, and between the same Hohlungen
have been formed. These are, in their opinion, the rock mass by the
Wasserfluthen soft and have been made to this in the Hohlungen and
hinabgesenkt gaps, making them the previously mentioned locations
and positions against each other have received.

In addition to the power of Fluthen layers occasionally weggedrängt
and Thäler formed, and granite and other rock masses through the deepest
lakes miles away continued, and on high mountains have been hinangewälzt.
And to the appearance of large land animals, which in our and other
areas of the temperate Erdzone deeply buried under masses of rocks are
found, to explain, some geologists Wasserfluthen at which they
come from the hot areas to have us hinübergeführt; while others
take a change of earth axis, making our area, before the same was
to be hot, temperate become.

And the author of the primeval lets even a Erdtheil, which is located at
the south poles have, so go down, which, in his opinion, the
direction of the earth axis had changed, without considering that
it did not change in view of the earth axis, if such the case, could
not, by the focus of this earth would have suffered no change,
because the Erdtheil not taken away from her, but only under the
Fluthen would have been sunk.

Gegen die here only briefly shown on the records of the Earth's surface
Ausbildungsart I have previously, before I the inadequacy of,
argued that even the great natural scientist _Cuvier_, as I have
already cited, claims [A], that all these great effects in nature
and the earth, as they Saussure, de Luc and other geologists on
their mountain trips have found that they can not spawn.

[Note A: Gilbert's Annalen der Physik Bd 22nd P. 117] Turning now
to the first underground fire, it is not too läugnen that the
strength of that very large to be affected by the newer times
mountains, the new mountain near Naples in 1538 to a height of 2000
feet and the Xurollo in Southern America in 1759 to a height of
1500 feet [A], and islands in the Aegean sowol, as in other seas
of the earth emporgehoben, and in turn entire cities and regions,
as in the cities of Naples Herculaneum and Pompeii and the whole
area around Modena [B], with dust and ashes are buried.

[Note A: This mountain was created in the years following the 14th
September in a plane, and is equipped with several thousands of
small smoking hills surrounded, and which in 1804, when Mr. von
Humboldt and Bonpland in this region were still on fire.

Nearby is the Cotopaxi, the flame at its outbreak in the year 1738
over 2000 feet high rose up, and roar over 72 German miles from him
has been removed.]

[Note B: The cities of Pompeii and Herculaneum, and the whole area
was around in 79 AD by the ejection of Vesuvius buried so that the
situation of these cities has not be known by the ash from the
mountains occasionally 112 feet high was considerably higher.

The area is in Modena also by eruptions of volcanoes in the year 97 BC
during the Consulats C.

Marcius and Sept. Julius, according to Pliny the Beech + + II Chap 53,
was devastated and buried. According to Ramazzini's story can be found
here 14 feet deep under the ground by a remnant of the old city, houses,
paved roads, etc. This is followed, as he adds this, a fixed Earth and
among these a moist soil, with many plants Theilen mixed.

And among these are located at a depth of 26 feet all the trees, walnut
trees, as with many branches, leaves and fruit, and this takes you back,
2 feet deep, a very delicate chalk, with many shells is mixed, an.

After his claim, this Kalklage 11 feet thick, which have formed
anew again branches, leaves and whole trees are located.

In this way daselbst switch, to a depth of 63 feet, chalk layers and
layers of a moist, with plants Theilen mixed soil with each other. This
last item is a layer of sand with shells and stones filled.] Whether equal
the power of the underground fire is very large, as sowol these effects,
as well as the earthquake, making entire countries, and almost all
have been shaken Erdtheile [A], prove to be such but only locally
been concern only here and there the earth crust, and where a
substance was to present, which deals with the hydrocarbons could
connect.

Now in the middle of the earth no water mass, according to the general
effect of gravity when Entstehungsart of the layers, which exist inside
the same, you may also daselbst the surface of such a destructive
fire everywhere will not take place.

And if ever such daselbst instead found and its effects because of
outward would have exercised, we would also pieces of the rock
inside the earth, and not just from the earth crust on their surface
umhergeschleudert find.

It follows therefore, that never had a fire in the center of the earth
gelodert, and on the surface of existing desolations have served,
but that this is only under the earth crust here and there and the
same gewüthet where it found the least resistance has arisen have,
therefore, we will soon find it here soon at the levels funnel
mountains, and on the long ridge of the mountain ranges of individual
peaks, as volcanoes blaze, which the whole power of the underground
fire show.

[Note A: The earthquake from 1601 to 1 September is the whole of Europe
and of Asia Theil shaken, and that of 1755 1 November, which
destroyed Lisbon, his shock of Greenland to Africa to spread.]

Because now from this fire of action that 1) the Entstehungsart
whole mountain ranges from 70 to 1000 miles [A] long, with a very
considerable height, but with a very small width, with the Alps is
not a time a trace of an underground fire at the bear, 2) the
vertical and inclined wrong locations and positions of rock masses,
the length of a mile have 3) to throw over these masses on top of
each other, and 4) the columns and in the same Hohlungen, often
several miles in length to go away, no way to explain, so take other
geologists, to the overthrow of so many layers, and the reason is
wrong and its vertical position to explain , immense caves in the
center of the earth, which once was filled with water, and in which
subsequently the layers were hinabgesunken, without considering
that the general severity of the formation of such caves in the
training of the earth verstatten could not, by itself, according
to their laws, all at each other without a gap between them to leave
had to push.

[Note A: The Cordilleras lift landing in the fire and spread to the
mountains of St.

Elios in North America, a length of 1700 geogr. Miles.] Other geologists
in order to avoid this difficulty, take a dry, weathering, dissolution
of the layers through the water, and other accidental causes,
revealing the layers and decreased in those inclined and vertical
layers should have been brought.

If, however, the situation of individual layers can be explained,
it might be but not the position of those layers, the volume of
_einer_ miles, and suddenly perpendicular highlights have been -
and not even the Entstehungsart the high mountain ranges and long
explain.

What is now the appearance of Seethiere on the summits of the highest
mountains, on which Don Ulloa ammonites and Pektiniten at an
altitude of 14000 feet, on a limestone in Peru, has found, is
concerned, the geologists explain this phenomenon by the close of
an comet earth, so the sea to this amount had been forced hinanzufluthen.

However, if a comet on the same cause should be such, he shall,
when he writes of the tightness and size of our moon, from which
but few are published, and the sea 15,000 feet will raise their
1016 geogr.

Miles close.

Is he on the size of Vesta, he must, if it is the sea is 8000 feet
hinan wishes, 86 miles, and if it is such a 32000 foot hinanfluthen
want her close to 34 miles.

But a world body so close to our homes, so he wants to want to be
forced by him to unite with him to his Earth thereby enlarge.

What finally finding and performing tasks of the large land animals
in our region is concerned, I must also previously noted that Cuvier and
other great natural scientist by saying that the animals there, where
their remains are found, also have gehauset.

But if this in our region and in which, with ours in the same zone, should
have lived, it must be our hot zone once been to the quantity of these
large animals belonging to the food substance may have to give.

How is but this too has become a moderate?

Has the heat around the Earth at all diminished, making our areas
have become colder?

Or the earth axis has a different position of the sun to get our
zone which has become a moderate?

All these questions, I would like to add more, as well as those who
like the beginnings of the Earth Ausbildungsart of me having been
, can be accessed by the masses Aufstürze the world on our planet
the best and satisfactory resolve.

Because of the fall of such a low mass, only by the size of Vesta,
had the rock masses of the earth where they hinstürzte, smashed,
and about each other umhergeworfen accumulated , which makes this
all the masses previously mentioned locations and positions against
each other and have had to obtain, and thus also between them,
because they do not all close to each other, and close to each other
could come to stand, Hohlungen formed which afterwards with another
aufgelöseten rock mass, as was theirs, from Fluth then led to the
Theil been filled, but the Theil have remained empty.

And since when approaching such a world of mass, the sea to her hinan
levy on the highest then fluthen mountains, and the low fall
weggedrängt be the same again, and to the sides hinabfluthen had
so had also the highest cliff tops, where the sea was hingefluthet,
the inhabitants of that here and there remain, including those where
one has found; and the sea itself had, as soon it is only enjoyed
some rest, he added his Theile drop, and hence the overnight trains
from the limestone formation of the second form, so all the only
veteran corners and sides of the shattered rock masses with the
limestone hills above are covered .

But if such a mass, as Vesta is the only, making a mountain, like
the Andes, which is 1700 miles long, would want to be able, on the
surface would be removed, so the focus had changed the world, and
countries which were hot, like ours, in umgeschaffen be moderate,
but the direction of the sun-earth axis against the body had to
remain unchanged, because the reversal of the Earth around the same,
the evening after a morning in the direction of 23 degrees from the
level of their Train always pursued, not by the size of their mass,
but from the first kick or swing, which in their emergence has
received depends.

It is most likely the direction of the earth axis on all the big
changes have remained unchanged, only the North Pole in the same
over the Erdpunkte, on which he proposes any such major change was
subject remained, but in every major Aufsturze, a new Erdpunkt
receive.

What this hypothesis, which set all those questions satisfactorily
answered, and the destruction of forests, mountains and cities by
the collapse of the deep caves, which they once stood, so beautifully
explained vorzüglich contrary, is the oblate shape the earth at its
Poland, which at its inception, as its yield was still soft, by the
shift to its axis has received, and she still has.

However, if the earth by the Aufsturz such a world body in a slightly
inverted so that the then-hot area, so ours, according to the North
Pole hingerückt would have been the same, how is it then possible
that the location of the shape of the Earth has remained as it was
at the beginning and still is?

And I'm not dead yet, father. I'll soon be all right.
I've got Mary with me. She can cure me--if the doctor can't."

He spoke slowly, but there was will behind the voice. His wasted face
had a gentleness that was most moving to the father. He could not look
at the pitiful wreck of his once proud and fearless boy without weeping,
and being mindful of Harold's prejudice against sentiment, he left the
room to regain his composure. To Mary Mr. Excell said: "I don't know
you--but you are a noble woman. I give you a father's gratitude. Won't
you tell me who you are?"

"I am Mary Yardwell," she replied in her peculiarly succinct speech. "My
home was in Marmion, but I attended school in your village. I sang in
your church for a little while."

His face lighted up. "I remember you--a pale, serious little girl. Did
you know my son there?"

She looked away for a moment. "I sang for him--when he was in jail," she
replied. "I belonged to the Rescue Band."

A shadow fell again upon the father's face.

"I did not know it," he said, feeling something mysterious
here--something which lay outside his grasp. "Have you seen him
meanwhile? I suppose you must have done so."

"Once, in Marmion, some four years ago."

"Ah! Now I understand his visit to Marmion," said Mr. Excell, with a
sudden smile. "I thought he came to see Jack and me. He really came to
see you. Am I right?"

"Yes," she replied. "He wanted me to go back with him, but
I--I--couldn't do so."

"I know--I know," he replied hastily. "He had no right to ask it of
you--poor boy."

"It seems now as though I had no right to refuse. I might have helped
him. If he should die now there would be an incurable ache here"--she
lifted her hand to her throat; "so long as I lived I should not forgive
myself."


CHAPTER XXI

CONCLUSION


As he crawled slowly back to life and clear thinking, Harold's wild
heart was filled with a peace and serenity of emotion such as it had not
known since childhood. He was like a boy in a careless dream,
forecasting nothing, remembering nothing, content to see Mary come and
go about the room, glad of the sound of her skirts, thrilling under the
gentle pressure of her hand.

She, on her part, could not realize any part of his dark fame as she
smiled down into his big yellow-brown eyes which were as pathetic and
wistful as those of a gentle animal.

Mrs. Raimon spoke of this. "I saw 'Black Mose' as he stood in the
streets of Wagon Wheel, the most famous dead-shot in the State. I can't
realize that this is the same man. He's gentle as a babe now; he was as
terrible and as beautiful as a tiger then."

Reynolds sent fifty dollars with an apology for the delay and Mr. Excell
offered his slender purse, but Mrs. Raimon said: "I'll attend to this
matter of expense. Let me do that little for him--please!" And he gave
way, knowing her great wealth.

But all these things began at last to trouble the proud heart of the
sick man, and as he grew stronger his hours of quiet joy began to be
broken by disquieting calculations of his indebtedness to Mrs. Raimon as
well as to Mary and Jack. He wished to be free of all obligations, even
gratitude. He insisted on his father's return to his pastorate--which he
did at the end of the week.

Meanwhile Mary and Jack conspired for the Eagle's good. Together they
planned to remove him to some fairer quarter of the city. Together they
read and discussed the letters which poured in upon them from theatrical
managers, Wild West shows, music halls, and other similar enterprises,
and from romantic girls and shrewd photographers, and every other
conceivable kind of crank. The offers of the music halls Jack was
inclined to consider worth while. "He'd be a great success there, or as
a dead-shot in a Wild West show. They pay pretty well, too."

"I don't believe he'd care to do anything like that," Mary quietly
replied.

They both found that he cared to do nothing which involved his remaining
in the East. As his eyes grew brighter, his longing for the West came
back. He lifted his arms above his quilts with the action of the eaglet
who meditates leaping from the home ledge. It was a sorrowful thing to
see this powerful young animal made thin and white and weak by fever,
but his spirit was indomitable.

"He must be moved to the West before he will fully recover," said the
doctor, and to this Mrs. Raimon replied:

"Very well, doctor. You name the day when it is safe and we'll go. I'll
have a special car, if necessary, but first of all he must go to a good
hotel. Can't he be moved now?"

Outwardly Mary acknowledged all the kindness of this rich and powerful
woman, but inwardly she resented her intimacy. Drawing all her little
store of ready money she quietly began paying off the bills. When all
was settled she took a seat beside Harold one day when they were alone
and laying one strong, warm hand on his thin, white arm, she said:

"Harold, the doctor says you can be moved from here, and so--you must
give me the right to take you home with me."

There was a piercing pathos in his wan smile as he replied, "All right,
you're the boss. It's a pretty hard come down, though. I thought once
I'd come back after you in a private car. If you stand by me I may be a
cattle king yet. There's a whole lot of fight in me still--you watch me
and see."

The next day he was moved to a private hotel on the north side, and Mary
breathed a sigh of deep relief as she saw him sink back into his soft
bed in a clean and sunny room. He, with a touch of his old fire, said:
"This sure beats a holler log, but all the same I'll be glad to see the
time when I can camp on my saddle again."

Mary only smiled and patted him like a mother caressing a babe. "I'll
hate to have you go and leave me--now."

"No danger of that, Mary. We camp down on the same blanket from this
on."

Mr. Excell came on to marry them, but Jack sent his best wishes by mail;
he could not quite bring himself to see Mary give herself away--even to
his hero.

Mrs. Raimon took her defeat with most touching grace. "You're right,"
she said. "He's yours--I know that perfectly well, but you must let me
help him to make a start. It won't hurt him, and it'll please me. I have
a ranch, I have mines, I could give him something to do till he got on
his feet again, if you'd let me, and I hope you won't deny me a pleasure
that will carry no obligation with it."

She was powerfully moved as she went in to say good-by to him. He was
sitting in a chair, but looked very pale and weak. She said: "Mose,
you're in luck; you've got a woman who'll do you good. She's loyal and
she's strong, and there's nothing further for me to do--unless you let
me help you. See here, why not let me help you get a start; what do you
say?"

Harold felt the deep sincerity of the woman's regard and he said simply:

"All right; let me know what you find, and I'll talk it over with Mary."

She seized his thin hand in both hers and pressed it hard, the tears
creeping down her cheeks. "You're a good boy, Mose; you're the kind that
are good to women in ways they don't like, sometimes. I hope you'll
forget the worst of me and remember only the best. I don't think she
knows anything about me; if she hears anything, tell her the truth, but
say I was better than women think."

One day about ten days later a bulky letter came, addressed to "Mose
Excell." It was from Mrs. Raimon, but contained a letter from Reynolds,
who wrote:

    "Yesterday a young Cheyenne came ridin' in here inquirin' for
    you.  I told him you was in Chicago, sick. He brought a
    message from old Talfeather who is gettin' scared about the
    cattlemen. He says they're crowdin' onto his reservation, and
    he wants you to come and help him. He wants you to talk with
    them and to go to Washington and see the Great Father. He
    sent this medicine and said it was to draw you to him. He
    said he was blind and his heart was heavy because he feared
    trouble. I went up to Wagon Wheel and saw the princess, who
    has a big pull. She said she'd write you. Kintuck is well but
    getting lazy."

Mrs. Raimon wrote excitedly:

    "DEAR FRIEND: Here is work for you to do. The agent at Sand
    Lake has asked to be relieved and I have written Senator
    Miller to have you appointed. He thought the idea
    excellent. The flowers of the trees had all enhiestos the
    color black, by way of ornament in the lip of the leaves,
    and its odor producing dizziness, such as strong smells amazing
(_Ensayo Grammar Hispano-Tagala_.

Manila, 1878, pp. 288 ).
She, too, became tense with interest, but, being a woman
who thought before she spoke, she remained silent.

Harold, after a moment, arose from his chair, gaunt and unsteady as he
was. "That's what I'm fitted for, Mary. That solves my problem. I know
these cattlemen, they know me. I am the white chief of Talfeather's
people. If you can stand it to live there with me, Mary, I will go. The
_Rey Venturoso_ abdicated and moved to the court of his son, who
was in Beijing.

The general killed the Prince Tatar got all the decorations from China,
the first Mandarin title and a pension of thousands of miles for
him and his heirs.

I know, for I've lived among 'em."

"Then I will go," she said, and out of the gray cloud the sun broke and
shone from the west across the great lonely plains.

Again "Black Mose" rode up the almost invisible ascent toward the Rocky
Mountains. [Notes on transcription: The use of quotation marks in the
quotes was unified. The following table contains a list of all the
other against the original text corrections.The
aching hunger was gone out of his heart for beside him Mary sat, eager
as he to see the wondrous mountain land whose trails to her were script
of epic tales, and whose peaks were monuments to great dead beasts and
mysterious peoples long since swept away by the ruthless march of the
white men.

If she had doubts or hesitations she concealed them, for hers was a
nature fitted for such sacrifice as this--and besides, each day
increased her love for the singular and daring soul of Harold Excell.