CALCAGNO. Whom do you call inhuman? You affright me----

LEONORA. My husband. Is he not so?

CALCAGNO. What do I hear!

LEONORA. 'Tis but a piece of villany common enough among your sex!

CALCAGNO (grasping her hand with vehemence). Lady, I have a heart for
weeping virtue.

LEONORA. You are a man--your heart is not for me.

CALCAGNO. For you alone--yours only. Would that you knew how much, how
truly yours----

LEONORA. Man, thou art untrue. Thy words would be refuted by thy
actions----

CALCAGNO. I swear to you----

LEONORA. A false oath. Cease! The perjuries of men are so innumerable
'twould tire the pen of the recording angel to write them down. If their
violated oaths were turned into as many devils they might storm heaven
itself, and lead away the angels of light as captives.

CALCAGNO. Nay, madam, your anger makes you unjust. Is the whole sex to
answer for the crime of one?

LEONORA. I tell thee in that one was centred all my affection for the
sex. In him I will detest them all.

CALCAGNO. Countess,--you once bestowed your hand amiss. Would you again
make trial, I know one who would deserve it better.

LEONORA. The limits of creation cannot bound your falsehoods. I'll hear
no more.

CALCAGNO. Oh, that you would retract this cruel sentence in my arms!

LEONORA (with astonishment). Speak out. In thy arms!

"Gentlemen," said he, "I would not have you quarrel, and you shan't split
on my rocks.

Good evening to you all," and he drove directly to General GRANT'S
thirty-two thousand dollar cottage in the Park.

GRANT was not there yet, but Mr. P. did not expect that he was. There
being a butler and some cooks on hand, Mr. P. considered them sufficient,
and had his baggage taken right up to the second story back room.

The butler looked a little astonished at first, but when Mr. P.
explained about the hotel, and how he didn't want to go about any
more--for from riding in the salt evening air he had already got a
little hoarse--the man brightened up immediately.

"Oh, a little horse!"

said he. "If that's what you come about you'll be welcome here.

The General isn't here yet, but till he comes the rooms is yours."
And they were!

If any one feels inclined to follow Mr. P.'

s example, he begs to recommend the President's "Old Yarns,"--the hind box
on the top shelf of the library closet.

The next morning, Mr. P. wandered on the sands. Fond memories flocked
around him, as he stood gazing on the corruscating waves.

But they were mostly memories of sheepsheads and flanneled bathers and
'tis not for these that the poet gazes into the emerald depths
whence the pearly scum, like tears of mermaids--Ah!

Mermaids!

   Mr. P. had never seen a mermaid.

These were not among his memories He deeply woulded that he could--and
lo!

he did!

The creature came gliding to his very feet, and he had barely time
to bound back before she reached the shore.

Shaking the water from her spectacles, she came up, and stood before
him.

Twas SUSAN B. ANTHONY.

"How do, PUNCHY?"

said she; "I've left the _Revolution_.

Yes, left it now, and we've got a new editor, and she's beautiful
and don't charge a cent."

"Why, that's like me!" said Mr.

P.

"Oh, PUNCHY!" said the gentle SUSAN, wringing the water out of her
flannel skirts, "none of your joking here. Come, take my arm."
Here Mr. P. drew back in apprehension.

"Why, what's the matter?" said SUSAN. "Are you afraid of a little
water, and you a man, too?

See me! I'm as wet as sop. Don't keep me waiting here, now, or I'll feel
like saying "Damn" again, and that sort of thing won't do too often.

I want you to come along with me up to LESTER WALLACE'S place--the
'Hut,' you know. I'm stopping with him.

It's two or three hours yet before lunch-time, and we can have a
good talk."

Just at this minute Mr. PUNCHINELLO saw a sea-gull skimming past, and
he said he would like to catch it and give it to LESTER for his
menagerie.

So he hurried after it.
The next day, Mr. P. went out fishing. He hired a boat, and a man
to sail it, and while the man was getting ready to put off, Mr. P.
took his seat in the bow and began to fix his lines. He always likes
to sit in the bow. The tiller don't knock him so often in the back,
and the boom don't bother his head so much. What he particularly
wanted was to catch a devil-fish!Genoa must
think highly of you. They can not imagine why a descendant of the first
family--with such talents and genius--full of spirit and popularity--
master of four millions--his veins enriched with princely blood--a
nobleman like Fiesco, whom, at the first call, all hearts would fly to
meet----

FIESCO (turns away contemptuously). To hear such things from such a
scoundrel!

MOOR. Many lamented that the chief of Genoa should slumber over the ruin
of his country. And many sneered. Most men condemned you. All bewailed
the state which thus had lost you. A Jesuit pretended to have smelt out
the fox that lay disguised in sheep's clothing.

FIESCO. One fox smells out another. What say they to my passion for the
Countess Imperiali?

MOOR. What I would rather be excused from repeating.

FIESCO. Out with it--the bolder the more welcome. What are their
murmurings?

MOOR. 'Tis not a murmur. At all the coffee-houses, billiard-tables,
hotels, and public walks--in the market-place, at the Exchange, they
proclaim aloud----

FIESCO. What? I command thee!

MOOR (retreating). That you are a fool!

FIESCO. Well, take this sequin for these tidings. Now have I put on a
fool's cap that these Genoese may have wherewith to rack their wits.
Next I will shave my head, that they may play Merry Andrew to my Clown.
How did the manufacturers receive my presents?

MOOR (humorously). Why, Mr. Fool, they looked like poor knaves----

FIESCO. Fool? Fellow, art thou mad?

MOOR. Pardon! I had a mind for a few more sequins.

FIESCO (laughing, gives him another sequin). Well. "Like poor knaves."

MOOR. Who receive pardon at the very block. They are yours both soul
and body.

FIESCO. I'm glad of it. They turn the scale among the populace of
Genoa.

MOOR. What a scene it was! Zounds! I almost acquired a relish for
benevolence. They caught me round the neck like madmen. .

* * * * *
OUR PORTFOLIO.

PUNCHINELLO hears with sincere regret that the notorious Miss CRAIG,
of Chicago, once more threatens the unhappy SPRAGUE with another
suit for breach of promise of marriage.

We had thought that the forty thousand dollars awarded by the jury
in the first trial were a plummet heavy enough to reach the lowest depths
of "AMANDY'S" affections, and so in fact they were; but "ELISHA'S"
lawyers, utterly disregarding the claims of true love, have interposed
the absurd claims of what they call "justice to ELISHA," and so the
thing will have to be all done over again.

It seems a cruel exercise of power to compel this delicate and
shrinking female to stand once more in the pillory of the law; or,
to put "ELISHA'S" orthography to a second test by a crucial and
censorious public.

Whatever may be the result of all this indifference to the sanctity of
private character and correct spelling, PUNCHINELLO wishes to put
upon record his total disapproval and abhorrence of it.

It is strange, yet nevertheless true, that a woman's glances are not
always her own property. The old proverb, that "a Cat may look at a
King," goes a-begging when applied to a woman; and this enables us to
present to the Sorosis a subject for examination, at least as
metaphysical as the philosophy of the MCFARLAND verdict.

Only last week a New York Judge committed an unsuspecting female
because she did not look at him, while giving her evidence.

The consideration that the unhappy creature was cross-eyed does not
seem to have affected in the least the judicial aspect of the matter,
and although counsel particularly directed the Judge's attention
to the fact that even if the witness looked as straight as she
could, her lines of vision would meet at an angle far short of the
tip of his Honor's nose, still this pocket-edition of Lord Chief-Justice
JEFFRIES "blinked" the point sought to be made, and absolutely
insisted that she should suffer the penalty of her alleged disrespect.

ZIBO. Count, impute it to our anger that we enter thus unannounced.

ZENTURIONE. I have been mortally affronted by the duke's nephew in the
face of the whole senate.

ASSERATO. Doria has trampled on the golden book of which each noble
Genoese is a leaf.

ZENTURIONE. Therefore come we hither. The whole nobility are insulted
in me; the whole nobility must share my vengeance. To avenge my own
honor I should not need assistance.

ZIBO. The whole nobility are outraged in his person; the whole nobility
must rise and vent their rage in fire and flames.

ASSERATO. The rights of the nation are trodden under foot; the liberty
of the republic has received a deadly blow.

FIESCO. You raise my expectation to the utmost.

ZIBO. He was the twenty-ninth among the electing senators, and had drawn
forth a golden ball to vote for the procurator. Of the eight-and-twenty
votes collected, fourteen were for me, and as many for Lomellino. His
and Doria's were still wanting----

ZENTURIONE. Wanting! I gave my vote for Zibo. Doria--think of the
wound inflicted on my honor--Doria----

ASSERATO (interrupting him). Such a thing was never heard of since the
sea washed the walls of Genoa.

ZENTURIONE (continues, with great heat). Doria drew a sword, which he
had concealed under a scarlet cloak--stuck it through my vote--called to
the assembly----

ZIBO. "Senators, 'tis good-for-nothing--'tis pierced through. Lomellino
is procurator."

ZENTURIONE. "Lomellino is procurator." And threw his sword upon the
table.

ASSERATO. And called out, "'Tis good-for-nothing!" and threw his sword
upon the table.

FIESCO (after a pause). On what are you resolved?

ZENTURIONE. The republic is wounded to its very heart. On what are we
resolved?

FIESCO. Zenturione, rushes may yield to a breath, but the oak requires a
storm. I ask, on what are you resolved?

ZIBO. Methinks the question shall be, on what does Genoa resolve?

FIESCO. Genoa! Genoa! name it not. 'Tis rotten, and crumbles wherever
you touch it. Do you reckon on the nobles? Perhaps because they put on
grave faces, look mysterious when state affairs are mentioned--talk not
of them! Their heroism is stifled among the bales of their Levantine
merchandise. Their souls hover anxiously over their India fleet.

ZENTURIONE. Learn to esteem our nobles more justly. P.; CHILDS,
of the Philadelphia _Ledger;_ THOMPSON, of the Pennsylvania Central; and
other rich fellows always do go early.

The big bugs always fly the soonest. Mr. P. went directly to the West
End Hotel--the old Stetson House, you know.

He went there because he always did like a hotel that had three men to
keep it.

What you can't get out of one of them is pretty certain to be screwed
out of one of the others.

"When Mr.
P. drove up, Messrs. PRESBURY, SYKES, and GARDNER, were all sitting out
on the front piazza, smoking seventy-five-cent cigars. They arose in chorus,
and assured Mr. P. that the house was not yet quite ready for occupancy,

"But, sir--" said Mr. PRESBURY, "the Girard House, my hotel in
Philadelphia, is always open.Its state is such as once was Rome's, when,
like a tennis-ball, she leaped into the racket of young Octavius. Genoa
can be free no longer; Genoa must be fostered by a monarch; therefore do
homage to the mad-brained Gianettino.

ZENTURIONE (vehemently). Yes, when the contending elements are
reconciled, and when the north pole meets the south. Come, friends.

FIESCO. Stay! stay! Upon what project are you brooding, Zibo?

ZIBO. On nothing.

FIESCO (leading them to a statue). Look at this figure.

ZENTURIONE. It is the Florentine Venus. Why point to her?

FIESCO. At least she pleases you.

ZIBO. Undoubtedly, or we should be but poor Italians. But why this
question now?

FIESCO. Travel through all the countries of the globe, and among the
most beautiful of living female models, seek one which shall unite all
the charms of this ideal Venus.

ZIBO. And then take for our reward?

FIESCO. Then your search will have convicted fancy of deceit----

ZENTURIONE (impatiently). And what shall we have gained?

FIESCO. Gained? The decision of the long-protracted contest between art
and nature.

ZENTURIONE (eagerly). And what then?

FIESCO. Then, then? (Laughing.) Then your attention will have been
diverted from observing the fall of Genoa's liberty.

                       [Exeunt all but FIESCO.


SCENE VI.

   FIESCO alone. (The noise without increases.)

FIESCO. 'Tis well! 'tis well. The straw of the republic has caught
fire--the flames have seized already on palaces and towers. Let it go
on! May the blaze be general! Let the tempestuous wind spread wide the
conflagration!


SCENE VII.

   FIESCO, MOOR, entering in haste.

MOOR. Crowds upon crowds!

FIESCO. Throw open wide the gates. Let all that choose enter.

MOOR. Republicans! Republicans, indeed! They drag their liberty along,
panting, like beasts of burden, beneath the yoke of their magnificent
nobility.

FIESCO. Fools! who believe that Fiesco of Lavagna will carry on what
Fiesco of Lavagna did not begin. The tumult comes opportunely; but the
conspiracy must be my own. They are rushing hither----

MOOR (going out). Halloo! halloo! You are very obligingly battering the
house down. (The people rush in; the doors broken down.)


SCENE VIII.

   FIESCO, twelve ARTISANS.

ALL ARTISANS. Vengeance on Doria! Vengeance on Gianettino!

FIESCO. Gently! gently! my countrymen! Your waiting thus upon me
bespeaks the warmth of your affection; but I pray you have mercy on my
ears!

"The very man. You glory so in daring horsemanship, Marion, I just wish
you could see Ray ride.

Jack is splendid, of course, but he is so much larger, heavier, you
know.

Ray rides as lightly as a bird flies; he seems just part of a horse,
as indeed Jack does, but then there's this difference: Mr.

Ray rides over hurdles and ditches and prairie-dog holes and up and
down hill just like an Indian, and the wonder is he isn't killed.

Jack is a fine horseman,--nobody looks better in the saddle than he,--but
then Jack rarely rides at top speed,--never, unless there's some
reason for it.

"See, Marion, it's almost dark.

Shall we go in the parlor and light the lamps?"

"Grace, wasn't Mr. Ray just a little bit in love with you once?"

"Honestly, Marion, no! I know he admired me, and I liked him, and had
reason to like him greatly, for he was a true friend to me when I
wanted one at Sandy.

Once he was a wee bit sentimental," and even in the dusk Grace could
feel that Marion saw the flush that mounted to her very brows, "but
that was when I fainted after the runaway; never before, never since.

Don't talk nonsense, Maidie."

"I think I should like to know him," said Miss Sanford, as she
rose to enter the hall.

"I _know_ you would. Only--well, you might not like him entirely, either.
Jack should be here in less than half an hour now, then we'll have
tea.

Oh, Marion! I'm so glad you will stay, so will he be."

On the parlor-table, as they entered, lay two letters.

Turning up the gas, Mrs. Truscott scanned the superscriptions.
Both were addressed to her husband.

One was postmarked Fort Hays.

"This is the one Jack will open first," she said to her friend.

"I don't know whom the other comes from, but this is news from the
regiment. It is Mr.

Billings's writing, and Jack is always eager for news from him."
"Mr.

Ferris asked me this evening, while we were walking, if Captain
Truscott had any news from his regiment.

He seemed unusually interested.

I could not tell why, but it was something about General Crook being
heavily reinforced by troops from somewhere.

They were talking of it down at the mess to-day, and Mr.

Waring said that if his regiment were ordered on that duty, he would
apply by telegraph to Washington for orders to join it at once. There
was some embarrassment then, because one of the gentlemen present--Mr.
Ferris wouldn't say who--belonged to a regiment already there on that
very campaign, and he had not applied for orders at all, and wasn't going
to, and----Why, _Grace_! What is the matter?"
With her face rapidly paling Grace Truscott had stood gazing piteously
at her companion, and then, seizing the letter in her trembling hands,
she stood glaring at the address.

For a moment she made no reply, and again Miss Sanford, alarmed,
repeated her question.

"Marion! Marion! It means that I know now why Jack did not show me
Major Stannard's last letter. It means that this letter from the
adjutant is to tell Jack that the --th is ordered into the field.
It means--it means"--and she threw herself prone upon the sofa,
clinching her hands above her head--"it means that my dream of delight
is shattered; they will take my husband from me."
"But how--but why, Grace? I don't understand. Mr.
Wolves were the financiers, foxes their
secretaries, doves presided in the criminal courts, and tigers in
the courts of equity. The laws of chastity were regulated by goats;
hares were the soldiers; lions and elephants had charge of the baggage.
The ass was the ambassador of the empire, and the mole appointed
inspector-general of the whole administration. Genoese, what think you
of this wise distribution? Those whom the wolf did not devour the fox
pillaged; whoever escaped from him was knocked down by the ass. The
tiger murdered innocents, whilst robbers and assassins were pardoned by
the doves. And at the last, when each had laid down his office, the mole
declared that all were well discharged. The animals rebelled. "Let us,"
they cried unanimously, "choose a monarch endowed with strength and
skill, and who has only one stomach to appease." And to one chief they
all did homage. Genoese--to one---but (rising and advancing
majestically)--that one was--the lion!

ALL (shouting, and throwing up their hats). Bravo! Bravo! Well
managed, Count Lavagna!

1ST ARTISAN. And Genoa shall follow that example. Genoa, also, has its
lion!

FIESCO. Tell me not of that lion; but go home and think upon him. (The
ARTISANS depart tumultuously.) It is as I would have it. The people and
the senate are alike enraged against Doria; the people and the senate
alike approve FIESCO. Hassan! Hassan! I must take advantage of this
favorable gale. Hoa! Hassan! Hassan! I must augment their hatred--
improve my influence. Hassan! Come hither! Whoreson of hell, come
hither!


SCENE IX.

   FIESCO, MOOR entering hastily.

MOOR. _Just_. If you please, sir.

_Puff_. Oh, very well!

--Hark'ee, I don't choose to say anything more; but, i'faith they
have mangled my play in a most shocking manner.

_Dang_. It's a great pity!
_Puff_. Now, then, Mr. justice, if you please.
"_Just_. Are all the volunteers without?

_Const_. They are. Some ten in fetters, and some twenty
drunk.

_Just_. Attends the youth, whose most opprobrious fame And clear
convicted crimes have stamp'd him soldier?
_Const_.

He waits your pleasure; eager to repay The best reprieve that sends
him to the fields Of glory, there to raise his branded hand In
honour's cause.

_Just_. 'Tis well--'tis justice arms him! Oh! may he now defend his
country's laws With half the spirit he has broke them all! If 'tis
your worship's pleasure, bid him enter.

_Const_. I fly, the herald of your will. [_Exit._]" _Puff_. Quick,
sir.
_Sneer_. But, Mr. Puff, I think not only the justice, but the clown
seems to talk in as high a style as the first hero among them.

_Puff_. Heaven forbid they should not in a free country!-- Sir, I am not
for making slavish distinctions, and giving all the fine language to
the upper sort of people.

_Dang_. That's very noble in you, indeed.
"_Enter_ JUSTICE'S LADY." _Puff_.

Now, pray mark this scene.
"_Lady_ Forgive this interruption, good my love; But as I just now
pass'd a prisoner youth, Whom rude hands hither lead, strange bodings
seized My fluttering heart, and to myself I said, An' if our Tom had
lived, he'd surely been This stripling's height!

_Just_.

   Ha!

sure some powerful sympathy directs Us both-- _Enter_ CONSTABLE
_with_ Son.

What is thy name?
_Son_.

My name is Tom Jenkins--_alias_ have I none-- Though orphan'd, and
without a friend!
_Just_. Thy parents?

_Son_. My father dwelt in Rochester--and was, As I have heard--a
fishmonger--no more."

_Puff_. What, sir, do you leave out the account of your birth,
parentage, and education?
_Son_ They have settled it so, sir, here.
_Puff_. Oh! oh!
"_Lady_.

How loudly nature whispers to my heart Had he no other name?

   _Son_.

I've seen a bill Of his sign'd Tomkins, creditor.
_Just_. This does indeed confirm each circumstance The gipsy
told!--Prepare!
_Son_. I do.
_Just_. No orphan, nor without a friend art thou--I am thy father; here's
thy mother; there Thy uncle--this thy first cousin, and those Are
all your near relations!
_Lady_. O ecstasy of bliss!
_Son_. O most unlook'd for happiness!
_Just_. O wonderful event! [_They faint alternately in each other's
arms_.]" _Puff_. There, you see, relationship, like murder, will
out.
"_Just_. Now let's revive--else were this joy too much! But come--and
we'll unfold the rest within; And thou, my boy, must needs want
rest and food. Hence may each orphan hope, as chance directs, To
find a father--where he least expects!(Archly.) What can I do with those kisses, madam?

LEONORA (highly pleased). Idle prattler! Restore them to him.

ROSA. See now, how soon your color has returned!

LEONORA. His heart he is ready to fling at every wench, whilst I sigh in
vain for a look! Oh woman! woman!

                      [Exeunt.


SCENE XII.--The Palace of ANDREAS.

   GIANETTINO and LOMELLINO enter hastily.

GIANETTINO. Let them roar for their liberty as a lioness for her young.
I am resolved.

LOMELLINO. But--most gracious prince!

GIANETTINO. Away to hell with thy buts, thou three-hours procurator! I
will not yield a hair's breadth? Let Genoa's towers shake their heads,
and the hoarse sea bellow No to it. I value not the rebellious
multitude!

LOMELLINO. The people are indeed the fuel; but the nobility fan the
flame. The whole republic is in a ferment, people and patricians.

GIANETTINO. Then will I stand upon the mount like Nero, and regale
myself with looking upon the paltry flames.

LOMELLINO. Till the whole mass of sedition falls into the hands of some
enterprising leader, who will take advantage of the general devastation.

GIANETTINO. Poh! Poh! I know but one who might be dangerous, and he is
taken care of.

LOMELLINO. His highness comes.

   Enter ANDREAS--(both bow respectfully).

ANDREAS. Signor Lomellino, my niece wishes to take the air.

LOMELLINO. I shall have the honor of attending her.

                        [Exit LOMELLINO.


SCENE XIII.

   ANDREAS and GIANETTINO.

ANDREAS. Nephew, I am much displeased with you.

GIANETTINO. Grant me a hearing, most gracious uncle!

ANDREAS. That would I grant to the meanest beggar in Genoa if he were
worthy of it. Never to a villain, though he were my nephew. It is
sufficient favor that I address thee as an uncle, not as a sovereign!

GIANETTINO. One word only, gracious sir!

ANDREAS. Hear first what thou hast done; then answer me. Thou hast
pulled down an edifice which I have labored for fifty years to raise--
that which should have been thy uncle's mausoleum, his only pyramid--the
affections of his countrymen. This rashness Andreas pardons thee----

GIANETTINO. My uncle and my sovereign----

ANDREAS. Interrupt me not. Thou hast injured that most glorious work of
mine, the constitution, which I brought down from heaven for Genoa, which
cost me so many sleepless nights, so many dangers, and so much blood.
Before all Genoa thou hast cast a stain upon my honor, in violating my
institutions. Who will hold them sacred if my own blood despise them?
This folly thy uncle pardons thee.

GIANETTINO (offended). Sir, you educated me to be the Duke of Genoa.

ANDREAS. Be silent. Thou art a traitor to the state, and hast attacked
its vital principle. Mark me, boy! That principle is--subordination.
Because the shepherd retired in the evening from his labor, thoughtest
thou the flock deserted? Because Andreas' head is white with age,
thoughtest thou, like a villain, to trample on the laws?

These much printed initials, which (as our intelligent readers are aware,)
belong to certain modern Associations that combine Religion and
Business in a highly prosperous manner, have sometimes a kind of
secondary meaning, which may vary according to circumstances.

When, for example, the Young Men's C. A. of Iowa City, after having
regularly engaged Miss OLIVE LOGAN in their lecture course, concluded
to back out, the cabalistic letters seemed to read--
"Y-ou M-ust C-ancel A-rrangements."
But when the spirited OLIVE--perceiving rather more of Business than
of Religion and Honor in this despatch--replied promptly that they
might expect her without fail, according to programme, prudence suggested
a quite different version of their initials, which now signified--
"Y-ou M-ay C-ome A-long!"
We forbear to comment on the dramatic and touching picture here
afforded.

                          --We suggest still another reading of their abbreviation,--one that
may serve as a permanent interpretation for _that_ latitude at
least.-- 
"Y-outh M-ade C-onscientiously A-cute

."

   * * * * *
   GREENISH-BLACK.

Chicago boasts having sent a colored Fenian to Canada.

But is he a true-blue O'SAMBO or MCCUFFEE?

Or is he recognized as colored only in respect to his peculiar wearin'
of the grin?

* * * * *
AT THE WATERING PLACES.

PUNCHINELLO'S VACATIONS

It need not be supposed that Mr. PUNCHINELLO intends to work himself
to death this summer.

By no manner of means!
He guarantees that the paper shall come out regularly, and get riper
and lovelier every week, but he will have his good little times,
notwithstanding.
Every week during the season he expects to slip off somewhere, for
a day or two, and hopes to have something worth telling when he
comes back.My gracious lord, how could you trust your honor to such a
villain?

GIANETTINO (fiercely). Ask me no question?

LOMELLINO. Hear the rest! Scarcely was the word Doria uttered--I would
sooner have seen my name inscribed in the infernal register than have
heard yours thus mentioned--scarcely was it uttered when Fiesco showed
himself to the people. You know the man--how winningly he pleads--how he
is wont to play the usurer with the hearts of the multitude. The whole
assembly hung upon his looks, breathless with indignation. He spoke
little, but bared his bleeding arm. The crowd contended for the falling
drops as if for sacred relics. The Moor was given up to his disposal--
and Fiesco--a mortal blow for us! Fiesco pardoned him. Now the confined
anger of the people burst forth in one tumultuous clamor. Each breath
annihilated a Doria, and Fiesco was borne home amidst a thousand joyful
acclamations.

GIANETTINO (with a ferocious laugh). Let the flood of tumult swell up to
my very throat. The emperor! That sound alone shall strike them to the
earth, so that not a murmur shall be heard in Genoa.

