This customary jest about the servant's miserliness made him laugh.
And he went and sat down quietly at his table. They did not speak
again until breakfast time. A great sweetness bathed him and calmed
him, now that he was near her. He ventured to look at her, and he was
touched by her delicate profile, by her serious, womanly air of
application. Had he been the prey of a nightmare, downstairs, then?
Would he be able to conquer himself so easily?

"Ah!" he cried, when Martine called them, "how hungry I am! You shall
see how I am going to make new muscle!"

She went over to him, and took him by the arm, saying:

"That's right, master; you must be gay and strong!"

But that night, when he was in his own room, the agony began again. At
the thought of losing her he was obliged to bury his face in the
pillow to stifle his cries. He pictured her to himself in the arms of
another, and all the tortures of jealousy racked his soul. Never could
he find the courage to consent to such a sacrifice. (Five kilomètres are
equal to rather more than three English miles.) The Continental
_Bradshaw_ will, we apprehend, have to wait long before these peninsular
trunk-lines find a place in its pages.

Leaving altogether the countries of Europe, and crossing the
Mediterranean, we find that even Africa is becoming a member of the
great railway system. After a world of trouble, financial and
diplomatic, the present ruler of Egypt has succeeded in giving
reality to a scheme for a railway from Alexandria to the Nile.And at each of
these resolutions he felt his heart, torn asunder, cry out with
anguish in the imperious need of possessing her entirely. He was no
longer satisfied with her presence, he wished to keep her for himself,
with himself, as she appeared to him in her radiant beauty, in the
darkness of his chamber, with her unbound hair falling around her.

His arms clasped the empty air, and he sprang out of bed, staggering
like a drunken man; and it was only in the darkness and silence of the
workroom that he awoke from this sudden fit of madness. Where, then,
was he going, great God? To knock at the door of this sleeping child?
to break it in, perhaps, with a blow of his shoulder? The soft, pure
respiration, which he fancied he heard like a sacred wind in the midst
of the profound silence, struck him on the face and turned him back.
And he returned to his room and threw himself on his bed, in a passion
of shame and wild despair.

On the following day when he arose, Pascal, worn out by want of sleep,
had come to a decision. He took his daily shower bath, and he felt
himself stronger and saner. The resolution to which he had come was to
compel Clotilde to give her word. When she should have formally
promised to marry Ramond, it seemed to him that this final solution
would calm him, would forbid his indulging in any false hopes. This
would be a barrier the more, an insurmountable barrier between her and
him. He would be from that moment armed against his desire, and if he
still suffered, it would be suffering only, without the horrible fear
of becoming a dishonorable man.

On this morning, when he told the young girl that she ought to delay
no longer, that she owed a decisive answer to the worthy fellow who
had been awaiting it so long, she seemed at first astonished. She
looked straight into his eyes, but he had sufficient command over
himself not to show confusion; he insisted merely, with a slightly
grieved air, as if it distressed him to have to say these things to
her. Finally, she smiled faintly and turned her head aside, saying:

"Then, master, you wish me to leave you?"

"My dear," he answered evasively, "I assure you that this is becoming
ridiculous. Ramond will have the right to be angry."

She went over to her desk, to arrange some papers which were on it.
Then, after a moment's silence, she said:

"It is odd; now you are siding with grandmother and Martine. They,
too, are persecuting me to end this matter. I thought I had a few days
more. But, in truth, if you all three urge me--"

She did not finish, and he did not press her to explain herself more
clearly.

"When do you wish me to tell Ramond to come, then?"

"Why, he may come whenever he wishes; it does not displease me to see
him. But don't trouble yourself. I will let him know that we will
expect him one of these afternoons."

On the following day the same scene began over again. Clotilde had
taken no step yet, and Pascal was now angry. He suffered martyrdom; he
had crises of anguish and rebelliousness when she was not present to
calm him by her smiling freshness. And he insisted, in emphatic
language, that she should behave seriously and not trifle any longer
with an honorable man who loved her.

"The devil! Since the thing is decided, let us be done with it. I warn
you that I will send word to Ramond, and that he will be here
to-morrow at three o'clock."

She listened in silence, her eyes fixed on the ground. Neither seemed
to wish to touch upon the question as to whether the marriage had
really been decided on or not, and they took the standpoint that there
had been a previous decision, which was irrevocable. When she looked
up again he trembled, for he felt a breath pass by; he thought she was
on the point of saying that she had questioned herself, and that she
refused this marriage. What would he have done, what would have become
of him, good God! Already he was filled with an immense joy and a wild
terror. But she looked at him with the discreet and affectionate smile
which never now left her lips, and she answered with a submissive air:

"As you please, master. Send him word to be here to-morrow at three
o'clock."

Pascal spent so dreadful a night that he rose late, saying, as an
excuse, that he had one of his old headaches. He found relief only
under the icy deluge of the shower bath. At ten o'clock he left the
house, saying he would go himself to see Ramond; but he had another
object in going out--he had seen at a show in Plassans a corsage of
old point d'Alencon; a marvel of beauty which lay there awaiting some
lover's generous folly, and the thought had come to him in the midst
of the tortures of the night, to make a present of it to Clotilde, to
adorn her wedding gown. This bitter idea of himself adorning her, of
making her beautiful and fair for the gift of herself, touched his
heart, exhausted by sacrifice. She knew the corsage, she had admired
it with him one day wonderingly, wishing for it only to place it on
the shoulders of the Virgin at St. Saturnin, an antique Virgin adored
by the faithful. The shopkeeper gave it to him in a little box which
he could conceal, and which he hid, on his return to the house, in the
bottom of his writing-desk.

At three o'clock Dr. Ramond presented himself, and he found Pascal and
Clotilde in the parlor, where they had been awaiting him with secret
excitement and a somewhat forced gaiety, avoiding any further allusion
to his visit. They received him smilingly with exaggerated cordiality.

"Why, you are perfectly well again, master!" said the young man. "You
never looked so strong."

Pascal shook his head.

"Oh, oh, strong, perhaps! only the heart is no longer here."

This involuntary avowal made Clotilde start, and she looked from one
to the other, as if, by the force of circumstances, she compared them
with each other--Ramond, with his smiling and superb face--the face of
the handsome physician adored by the women--his luxuriant black hair
and beard, in all the splendor of his young manhood; and Pascal, with
his white hair and his white beard. This fleece of snow, still so
abundant, retained the tragic beauty of the six months of torture that
he had just passed through. His sorrowful face had aged a little, only
his eyes remained still youthful; brown eyes, brilliant and limpid.
But at this moment all his features expressed so much gentleness, such
exalted goodness, that Clotilde ended by letting her gaze rest upon
him with profound tenderness. There was silence for a moment and each
heart thrilled.

"Well, my children," resumed Pascal heroically, "I think you have
something to say to each other. I have something to do, too,
downstairs. I will come up again presently."

And he left the room, smiling back at them.

And soon as they were alone, Clotilde went frankly straight over to
Ramond, with both hands outstretched. Taking his hands in hers, she
held them as she spoke.

"Listen, my dear friend; I am going to give you a great grief. You
must not be too angry with me, for I assure you that I have a very
profound friendship for you."

He understood at once, and he turned very pale.

"Clotilde give me no answer now, I beg of you; take more time, if you
wish to reflect further."

"It is useless, my dear friend, my decision is made."

She looked at him with her fine, loyal look. She had not released his
hands, in order that he might know that she was not excited, and that
she was his friend. And it was he who resumed, in a low voice:

"Then you say no?"

"I say no, and I assure you that it pains me greatly to say it. Ask me
nothing; you will no doubt know later on."

He sat down, crushed by the emotion which he repressed like a strong
and self-contained man, whose mental balance the greatest sufferings
cannot disturb. Never before had any grief agitated him like this. He
remained mute, while she, standing, continued:

"And above all, my friend, do not believe that I have played the
coquette with you. If I have allowed you to hope, if I have made you
wait so long for my answer, it was because I did not in very truth see
clearly myself. You cannot imagine through what a crisis I have just
passed--a veritable tempest of emotions, surrounded by darkness from
out of which I have but just found my way."

He spoke at last.

"Since it is your wish, I will ask you nothing. Besides, it is
sufficient for you to answer one question. You do not love me,
Clotilde?"

She did not hesitate, but said gravely, with an emotion which softened
the frankness of her answer:

"It is true, I do not love you; I have only a very sincere affection
for you."

He rose, and stopped by a gesture the kind words which she would have
added.

"It is ended; let us never speak of it again. I wished you to be
happy. Do not grieve for me. At this moment I feel as if the house had
just fallen about me in ruins. This taste is caused by the azotic
acid formed from the oxygen and azote of the atmosphere.

An electric discharge, too, is accompanied by a smell, which smell
is due to the presence of what is called ozone; and not long ago
M.In the
painful silence which had fallen they heard Pascal coming upstairs
noisily, to announce his return.

"I entreat you," murmured Clotilde hurriedly, "to say nothing to
master. He does not know my decision, and I wish to break it to him
myself, for he was bent upon this marriage."

Pascal stood still in the doorway. He was trembling and breathless, as
if he had come upstairs too quickly. He still found strength to smile
at them, saying:

"Well, children, have you come to an understanding?"

"Yes, undoubtedly," responded Ramond, as agitated as himself.

"Then it is all settled?"

"Quite," said Clotilde, who had been seized by a faintness.

Pascal walked over to his work-table, supporting himself by the
furniture, and dropped into the chair beside it.

"Ah, ah! you see the legs are not so strong after all. It is this old
carcass of a body. But the heart is strong. And I am very happy, my
children, your happiness will make me well again."

