These notions about God are many and varied, but they who hold them have
one thing in common: they do not know God in personal experience. The
possibility of intimate acquaintance with Him has not entered their
minds. While admitting His existence they do not think of Him as
knowable in the sense that we know things or people.

Christians, to be sure, go further than this, at least in theory. Their
creed requires them to believe in the personality of God, and they have
been taught to pray, "Our Father, which art in heaven." Now personality
and fatherhood carry with them the idea of the possibility of personal
acquaintance. This is admitted, I say, in theory, but for millions of
Christians, nevertheless, God is no more real than He is to the
non-Christian. They go through life trying to love an ideal and be loyal
to a mere principle.

Over against all this cloudy vagueness stands the clear scriptural
doctrine that God can be known in personal experience. A loving
Personality dominates the Bible, walking among the trees of the garden
and breathing fragrance over every scene. Always a living Person is
present, speaking, pleading, loving, working, and manifesting Himself
whenever and wherever His people have the receptivity necessary to
receive the manifestation.

The Bible assumes as a self-evident fact that men can know God with at
least the same degree of immediacy as they know any other person or
thing that comes within the field of their experience. The same terms
are used to express the knowledge of God as are used to express
knowledge of physical things. "O _taste_ and see that the Lord is good."
"All thy garments _smell_ of myrrh, and aloes, and cassia, out of the
ivory palaces." "My sheep _hear_ my voice." "Blessed are the pure in
heart, for they shall _see_ God." These are but four of countless such
passages from the Word of God. And more important than any proof text is
the fact that the whole import of the Scripture is toward this belief.

What can all this mean except that we have in our hearts organs by means
of which we can know God as certainly as we know material things through
our familiar five senses? We apprehend the physical world by exercising
the faculties given us for the purpose, and we possess spiritual
faculties by means of which we can know God and the spiritual world if
we will obey the Spirit's urge and begin to use them.

That a saving work must first be done in the heart is taken for granted
here. The spiritual faculties of the unregenerate man lie asleep in his
nature, unused and for every purpose dead; that is the stroke which has
fallen upon us by sin. They may be quickened to active life again by the
operation of the Holy Spirit in regeneration; that is one of the
immeasurable benefits which come to us through Christ's atoning work on
the cross.

But the very ransomed children of God themselves: why do they know so
little of that habitual conscious communion with God which the
Scriptures seem to offer? The answer is our chronic unbelief. Faith
enables our spiritual sense to function. Where faith is defective the
result will be inward insensibility and numbness toward spiritual
things. This is the condition of vast numbers of Christians today. No
proof is necessary to support that statement. We have but to converse
with the first Christian we meet or enter the first church we find open
to acquire all the proof we need.

A spiritual kingdom lies all about us, enclosing us, embracing us,
altogether within reach of our inner selves, waiting for us to recognize
it. God Himself is here waiting our response to His Presence. This
eternal world will come alive to us the moment we begin to reckon upon
its reality.

I have just now used two words which demand definition; or if definition
is impossible, I must at least make clear what I mean when I use them.
They are "reckon" and "reality."

What do I mean by _reality_? I mean that which has existence apart from
any idea any mind may have of it, and which would exist if there were no
mind anywhere to entertain a thought of it. That which is real has being
in itself. It does not depend upon the observer for its validity.

I am aware that there are those who love to poke fun at the plain man's
idea of reality. They are the idealists who spin endless proofs that
nothing is real outside of the mind. They are the relativists who like
to show that there are no fixed points in the universe from which we can
measure anything. They smile down upon us from their lofty intellectual
peaks and settle us to their own satisfaction by fastening upon us the
reproachful term "absolutist." The Christian is not put out of
countenance by this show of contempt. He can smile right back at them,
for he knows that there is only One who is Absolute, that is God. But he
knows also that the Absolute One has made this world for man's uses,
and, while there is nothing fixed or real in the last meaning of the
words (the meaning as applied to God) _for every purpose of human life
we are permitted to act as if there were_. And every man does act thus
except the mentally sick. These unfortunates also have trouble with
reality, but they are consistent; they insist upon living in accordance
with their ideas of things. They are honest, and it is their very
honesty that constitutes them a social problem.

The idealists and relativists are not mentally sick. They prove their
soundness by living their lives according to the very notions of reality
which they in theory repudiate and by counting upon the very fixed
points which they prove are not there. They could earn a lot more
respect for their notions if they were willing to live by them; but
this they are careful not to do. Their ideas are brain-deep, not
life-deep. Wherever life touches them they repudiate their theories and
live like other men.

The Christian is too sincere to play with ideas for their own sake. He
takes no pleasure in the mere spinning of gossamer webs for display. All
his beliefs are practical. They are geared into his life. By them he
lives or dies, stands or falls for this world and for all time to come.
From the insincere man he turns away.

The sincere plain man knows that the world is real. He finds it here
when he wakes to consciousness, and he knows that he did not think it
into being. It was here waiting for him when he came, and he knows that
when he prepares to leave this earthly scene it will be here still to
bid him good-bye as he departs. By the deep wisdom of life he is wiser
than a thousand men who doubt. He stands upon the earth and feels the
wind and rain in his face and he knows that they are real. He sees the
sun by day and the stars by night. He sees the hot lightning play out of
the dark thundercloud. He hears the sounds of nature and the cries of
human joy and pain. These he knows are real. He lies down on the cool
earth at night and has no fear that it will prove illusory or fail him
while he sleeps. In the morning the firm ground will be under him, the
blue sky above him and the rocks and trees around him as when he closed
his eyes the night before. So he lives and rejoices in a world of
reality.

With his five senses he engages this real world. All things necessary to
his physical existence he apprehends by the faculties with which he has
been equipped by the God who created him and placed him in such a world
as this.

Now, by our definition also God is real. He is real in the absolute and
final sense that nothing else is. All other reality is contingent upon
His. The great Reality is God who is the Author of that lower and
dependent reality which makes up the sum of created things, including
ourselves. God has objective existence independent of and apart from any
notions which we may have concerning Him. The worshipping heart does not
create its Object. It finds Him here when it wakes from its moral
slumber in the morning of its regeneration.

Another word that must be cleared up is the word _reckon_. This does not
mean to visualize or imagine. Imagination is not faith. The two are not
only different from, but stand in sharp opposition to, each other.
Imagination projects unreal images out of the mind and seeks to attach
reality to them. Faith creates nothing; it simply reckons upon that
which is already _there_.

God and the spiritual world are real. We can reckon upon them with as
much assurance as we reckon upon the familiar world around us.
Spiritual things are there (or rather we should say _here_) inviting
our attention and challenging our trust.

Our trouble is that we have established bad thought habits. We
habitually think of the visible world as real and doubt the reality of
any other. We do not deny the existence of the spiritual world but we
doubt that it is real in the accepted meaning of the word.

The world of sense intrudes upon our attention day and night for the
whole of our lifetime. It is clamorous, insistent and
self-demonstrating. It does not appeal to our faith; it is here,
assaulting our five senses, demanding to be accepted as real and final.
But sin has so clouded the lenses of our hearts that we cannot see that
other reality, the City of God, shining around us. The world of sense
triumphs. The visible becomes the enemy of the invisible; the temporal,
of the eternal. That is the curse inherited by every member of Adam's
tragic race.

At the root of the Christian life lies belief in the invisible. The
object of the Christian's faith is unseen reality.

Our uncorrected thinking, influenced by the blindness of our natural
hearts and the intrusive ubiquity of visible things, tends to draw a
contrast between the spiritual and the real; but actually no such
contrast exists. The antithesis lies elsewhere: between the real and the
imaginary, between the spiritual and the material, between the temporal
and the eternal; but between the spiritual and the real, never. The
spiritual _is_ real.

If we would rise into that region of light and power plainly beckoning
us through the Scriptures of truth we must break the evil habit of
ignoring the spiritual. We must shift our interest from the seen to the
unseen. For the great unseen Reality is God. "He that cometh to God must
believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently
seek him." This is basic in the life of faith. From there we can rise to
unlimited heights. "Ye believe in God," said our Lord Jesus Christ,
"believe also in me." Without the first there can be no second.

If we truly want to follow God we must seek to be other-worldly. This I
say knowing well that that word has been used with scorn by the sons of
this world and applied to the Christian as a badge of reproach. So be
it. Every man must choose his world. If we who follow Christ, with all
the facts before us and knowing what we are about, deliberately choose
the Kingdom of God as our sphere of interest I see no reason why anyone
should object. If we lose by it, the loss is our own; if we gain, we rob
no one by so doing. She would listen with great interest when she
saw her mother use the telephone. She was especially surprised when her
mother ordered things, and later in the day they would be brought
to the house.

"I wish I had a telephone of my own," she said to her papa. "Mama just
puts her mouth up to that funny thing, and gets whatever she asks
for.
Yesterday she asked somebody to send us ice-cream for dinner, and
sure enough, it came."
Papa laughed. "It does seem a very convenient thing," he said. "I
will try to arrange one for you." So papa took a horn which had
been put away in a closet and hung it up where Fanny could talk into it.
"There, that shall be your own private telephone," he said.
"Now, shall I get whatever I ask for?" said Fanny.All these
things are contrasted with "the mount that might be touched" and "the
sound of a trumpet and the voice of words" that might be heard. May we
not safely conclude that, as the realities of Mount Sinai were
apprehended by the senses, so the realities of Mount Zion are to be
grasped by the soul? And this not by any trick of the imagination, but
in downright actuality. The soul has eyes with which to see and ears
with which to hear. Feeble they may be from long disuse, but by the
life-giving touch of Christ alive now and capable of sharpest sight and
most sensitive hearing.

As we begin to focus upon God the things of the spirit will take shape
before our inner eyes. Obedience to the word of Christ will bring an
inward revelation of the Godhead (John 14:21-23). It will give acute
perception enabling us to see God even as is promised to the pure in
heart. A new God consciousness will seize upon us and we shall begin to
taste and hear and inwardly feel the God who is our life and our all.
There will be seen the constant shining of the light that lighteth every
man that cometh into the world. More and more, as our faculties grow
sharper and more sure, God will become to us the great All, and His
Presence the glory and wonder of our lives.

_O God, quicken to life every power within me, that I may lay hold on
eternal things. Open my eyes that I may see; give me acute spiritual
perception; enable me to taste Thee and know that Thou art good. Make
heaven more real to me than any earthly thing has ever been. Amen._


V

_The Universal Presence_

     Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from
     thy presence?--Psa. 139:7


In all Christian teaching certain basic truths are found, hidden at
times, and rather assumed than asserted, but necessary to all truth as
the primary colors are found in and necessary to the finished painting.
Such a truth is the divine immanence.

God dwells in His creation and is everywhere indivisibly present in all
His works. This is boldly taught by prophet and apostle and is accepted
by Christian theology generally. That is, it appears in the books, but
for some reason it has not sunk into the average Christian's heart so as
to become a part of his believing self. Christian teachers shy away from
its full implications, and, if they mention it at all, mute it down till
it has little meaning. I would guess the reason for this to be the fear
of being charged with pantheism; but the doctrine of the divine Presence
is definitely not pantheism.

Pantheism's error is too palpable to deceive anyone. It is that God is
the sum of all created things. Nature and God are one, so that whoever
touches a leaf or a stone touches God. That is of course to degrade the
glory of the incorruptible Deity and, in an effort to make all things
divine, banish all divinity from the world entirely.

The truth is that while God dwells in His world He is separated from it
by a gulf forever impassable. However closely He may be identified with
the work of His hands _they_ are and must eternally be _other than He_,
and He is and must be antecedent to and independent of them. He is
transcendent above all His works even while He is immanent within them.

What now does the divine immanence mean in direct Christian experience?
It means simply that _God is here_. Wherever we are, God is here. There
is no place, there can be no place, where He is not. Ten million
intelligences standing at as many points in space and separated by
incomprehensible distances can each one say with equal truth, God is
here. No point is nearer to God than any other point. It is exactly as
near to God from any place as it is from any other place. No one is in
mere distance any further from or any nearer to God than any other
person is.

These are truths believed by every instructed Christian. It remains for
us to think on them and pray over them until they begin to glow within
us.

"In the beginning God." Not _matter_, for matter is not self-causing. It
requires an antecedent cause, and God is that Cause. Not _law_, for law
is but a name for the course which all creation follows. That course had
to be planned, and the Planner is God. Not _mind_, for mind also is a
created thing and must have a Creator back of it. In the beginning God,
the uncaused Cause of matter, mind and law. There we must begin.

Adam sinned and, in his panic, frantically tried to do the impossible:
he tried to hide from the Presence of God. David also must have had wild
thoughts of trying to escape from the Presence, for he wrote, "Whither
shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy presence?"
Then he proceeded through one of his most beautiful psalms to celebrate
the glory of the divine immanence. "If I ascend up into heaven, thou art
there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. If I take the
wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea; even
there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me." And he
knew that God's _being_ and God's _seeing_ are the same, that the seeing
Presence had been with him even before he was born, watching the mystery
of unfolding life. Solomon exclaimed, "But will God indeed dwell on the
earth? behold the heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain thee:
how much less this house which I have builded." Paul assured the
Athenians that "God is not far from any one of us: for in him we live,
and move, and have our being."

If God is present at every point in space, if we cannot go where He is
not, cannot even conceive of a place where He is not, why then has not
that Presence become the one universally celebrated fact of the world?
The patriarch Jacob, "in the waste howling wilderness," gave the answer
to that question. He saw a vision of God and cried out in wonder,
"Surely the Lord is in this place; and I knew it not." Jacob had never
been for one small division of a moment outside the circle of that
all-pervading Presence. But he knew it not. That was his trouble, and it
is ours. Men do not know that God is here. What a difference it would
make if they knew.

The Presence and the manifestation of the Presence are not the same.
There can be the one without the other. God is here when we are wholly
unaware of it. He is _manifest_ only when and as we are aware of His
Presence. On our part there must be surrender to the Spirit of God, for
His work it is to show us the Father and the Son. If we co-operate with
Him in loving obedience God will manifest Himself to us, and that
manifestation will be the difference between a nominal Christian life
and a life radiant with the light of His face.

Always, everywhere God is present, and always He seeks to discover
Himself. To each one he would reveal not only that He is, but _what_ He
is as well. He did not have to be persuaded to discover Himself to
Moses. "And the Lord descended in the cloud, and stood with him there,
and proclaimed the name of the Lord." He not only made a verbal
proclamation of His nature but He revealed His very Self to Moses so
that the skin of Moses' face shone with the supernatural light. It will
be a great moment for some of us when we begin to believe that God's
promise of self-revelation is literally true: that He promised much, but
promised no more than He intends to fulfill.

Our pursuit of God is successful just because He is forever seeking to
manifest Himself to us. The revelation of God to any man is not God
coming from a distance upon a time to pay a brief and momentous visit to
the man's soul. Thus to think of it is to misunderstand it all. The
approach of God to the soul or of the soul to God is not to be thought
of in spatial terms at all. There is no idea of physical distance
involved in the concept. It is not a matter of miles but of experience.

To speak of being near to or far from God is to use language in a sense
always understood when applied to our ordinary human relationships. A
man may say, "I feel that my son is coming nearer to me as he gets
older," and yet that son has lived by his father's side since he was
born and has never been away from home more than a day or so in his
entire life. What then can the father mean? Obviously he is speaking of
_experience_. When he was out of sight, Dick ran to Harry's
house, made some excuse to go up in his bedroom, and let in the big
cat, who was eagerly watching outside.

When Harry came home, the mouse house was open, and not one of his
pets was to be seen.So when we sing, "Draw me nearer, nearer, blessed Lord," we are not
thinking of the nearness of place, but of the nearness of relationship.
It is for increasing degrees of awareness that we pray, for a more
perfect consciousness of the divine Presence. We need never shout across
the spaces to an absent God. He is nearer than our own soul, closer than
our most secret thoughts.

Why do some persons "find" God in a way that others do not? Why does God
manifest His Presence to some and let multitudes of others struggle
along in the half-light of imperfect Christian experience? Of course the
will of God is the same for all. He has no favorites within His
household. All He has ever done for any of His children He will do for
all of His children. The difference lies not with God but with us.

Pick at random a score of great saints whose lives and testimonies are
widely known. Let them be Bible characters or well known Christians of
post-Biblical times. You will be struck instantly with the fact that
the saints were not alike. Sometimes the unlikenesses were so great as
to be positively glaring. How different for example was Moses from
Isaiah; how different was Elijah from David; how unlike each other were
John and Paul, St. Francis and Luther, Finney and Thomas à Kempis. The
differences are as wide as human life itself: differences of race,
nationality, education, temperament, habit and personal qualities. Yet
they all walked, each in his day, upon a high road of spiritual living
far above the common way.

Their differences must have been incidental and in the eyes of God of no
significance. In some vital quality they must have been alike. What was
it?

I venture to suggest that the one vital quality which they had in common
was _spiritual receptivity_. Something in them was open to heaven,
something which urged them Godward. Without attempting anything like a
profound analysis I shall say simply that they had spiritual awareness
and that they went on to cultivate it until it became the biggest thing
in their lives. They differed from the average person in that when they
felt the inward longing they _did something about it_. They acquired the
lifelong habit of spiritual response. They were not disobedient to the
heavenly vision. As David put it neatly, "When thou saidst, Seek ye my
face; my heart said unto thee, Thy face, Lord, will I seek."

As with everything good in human life, back of this receptivity is God.
The sovereignty of God is here, and is felt even by those who have not
placed particular stress upon it theologically. It is really a very much
nicer saw than you could make, if you were ever so old.

    The fly uses it to make places where
    the eggs will be safe. What is more strange,
    it has a sort of homemade glue which fastens
    them where they are laid.
    
    Thou must lead.

These words will repay study as the deep and serious testimony of a
great Christian.

Important as it is that we recognize God working in us, I would yet warn
against a too-great preoccupation with the thought. It is a sure road to
sterile passivity. God will not hold us responsible to understand the
mysteries of election, predestination and the divine sovereignty. The
best and safest way to deal with these truths is to raise our eyes to
God and in deepest reverence say, "O Lord, Thou knowest." Those things
belong to the deep and mysterious Profound of God's omniscience. Prying
into them may make theologians, but it will never make saints.

Receptivity is not a single thing; it is a compound rather, a blending
of several elements within the soul. It is an affinity for, a bent
toward, a sympathetic response to, a desire to have. From this it may be
gathered that it can be present in degrees, that we may have little or
more or less, depending upon the individual. It may be increased by
exercise or destroyed by neglect. It is not a sovereign and irresistible
force which comes upon us as a seizure from above. It is a gift of God,
indeed, but one which must be recognized and cultivated as any other
gift if it is to realize the purpose for which it was given.

Failure to see this is the cause of a very serious breakdown in modern
evangelicalism. The idea of cultivation and exercise, so dear to the
saints of old, has now no place in our total religious picture. It is
too slow, too common. We now demand glamour and fast flowing dramatic
action. A generation of Christians reared among push buttons and
automatic machines is impatient of slower and less direct methods of
reaching their goals. We have been trying to apply machine-age methods
to our relations with God. We read our chapter, have our short devotions
and rush away, hoping to make up for our deep inward bankruptcy by
attending another gospel meeting or listening to another thrilling story
told by a religious adventurer lately returned from afar.

The tragic results of this spirit are all about us. Shallow lives,
hollow religious philosophies, the preponderance of the element of fun
in gospel meetings, the glorification of men, trust in religious
externalities, quasi-religious fellowships, salesmanship methods, the
mistaking of dynamic personality for the power of the Spirit: these and
such as these are the symptoms of an evil disease, a deep and serious
malady of the soul.

For this great sickness that is upon us no one person is responsible,
and no Christian is wholly free from blame. We have all contributed,
directly or indirectly, to this sad state of affairs. We have been too
blind to see, or too timid to speak out, or too self-satisfied to desire
anything better than the poor average diet with which others appear
satisfied. To put it differently, we have accepted one another's
notions, copied one another's lives and made one another's experiences
the model for our own. And for a generation the trend has been downward.
Now we have reached a low place of sand and burnt wire grass and, worst
of all, we have made the Word of Truth conform to our experience and
accepted this low plane as the very pasture of the blessed.

It will require a determined heart and more than a little courage to
wrench ourselves loose from the grip of our times and return to Biblical
ways. But it can be done. Every now and then in the past Christians have
had to do it. History has recorded several large-scale returns led by
such men as St. Francis, Martin Luther and George Fox. Unfortunately
there seems to be no Luther or Fox on the horizon at present. Whether or
not another such return may be expected before the coming of Christ is a
question upon which Christians are not fully agreed, but that is not of
too great importance to us now.

