Transcribed from the 1916 Chatto & Windus edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org


THE WAIF WOMAN


BY
ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON

LONDON
CHATTO & WINDUS
1916

_First Edition_, _October_, 1916.
_Second Edition_, _October_, 1916.

This unpublished story, preserved among Mrs. Stevenson's papers, is
mentioned by Mr. Balfour in his life of Stevenson.  Writing of the fables
which Stevenson began before he had left England and "attacked again, and
from time to time added to their number" in 1893, Mr. Balfour says: "The
reference to Odin [Fable XVII] perhaps is due to his reading of the
Sagas, which led him to attempt a tale in the same style, called 'The
Waif Woman.'"


THE WAIF WOMAN
A CUE--FROM A SAGA


This is a tale of Iceland, the isle of stories, and of a thing that
befell in the year of the coming there of Christianity.

In the spring of that year a ship sailed from the South Isles to traffic,
and fell becalmed inside Snowfellness.  The winds had speeded her; she
was the first comer of the year; and the fishers drew alongside to hear
the news of the south, and eager folk put out in boats to see the
merchandise and make prices.  From the doors of the hall on Frodis Water,
the house folk saw the ship becalmed and the boats about her, coming and
going; and the merchants from the ship could see the smoke go up and the
men and women trooping to their meals in the hall.

The goodman of that house was called Finnward Keelfarer, and his wife Aud
the Light-Minded; and they had a son Eyolf, a likely boy, and a daughter
Asdis, a slip of a maid.  Finnward was well-to-do in his affairs, he kept
open house and had good friends.  But Aud his wife was not so much
considered: her mind was set on trifles, on bright clothing, and the
admiration of men, and the envy of women; and it was thought she was not
always so circumspect in her bearing as she might have been, but nothing
to hurt.

On the evening of the second day men came to the house from sea.  They
told of the merchandise in the ship, which was well enough and to be had
at easy rates, and of a waif woman that sailed in her, no one could tell
why, and had chests of clothes beyond comparison, fine coloured stuffs,
finely woven, the best that ever came into that island, and gewgaws for a
queen.  At the hearing of that Aud's eyes began to glisten.  She went
early to bed; and the day was not yet red before she was on the beach,
had a boat launched, and was pulling to the ship.  By the way she looked
closely at all boats, but there was no woman in any; and at that she was
better pleased, for she had no fear of the men.

When they came to the ship, boats were there already, and the merchants
and the shore folk sat and jested and chaffered in the stern.  But in the
fore part of the ship, the woman sat alone, and looked before her sourly
at the sea.  They called her Thorgunna.  She was as tall as a man and
high in flesh, a buxom wife to look at.  Her hair was of the dark red,
time had not changed it.  Her face was dark, the cheeks full, and the
brow smooth.  Some of the merchants told that she was sixty years of age
and others laughed and said she was but forty; but they spoke of her in
whispers, for they seemed to think that she was ill to deal with and not
more than ordinary canny.

Aud went to where she sat and made her welcome to Iceland.  Thorgunna did
the honours of the ship.  So for a while they carried it on, praising and
watching each other, in the way of women.  But Aud was a little vessel to
contain a great longing, and presently the cry of her heart came out of
her.

"The folk say," says she, "you have the finest women's things that ever
came to Iceland?" and as she spoke her eyes grew big.

"It would be strange if I had not," quoth Thorgunna.  "Queens have no
finer."

So Aud begged that she might see them.

Thorgunna looked on her askance.  "Truly," said she, "the things are for
no use but to be shown."  So she fetched a chest and opened it.  Here was
a cloak of the rare scarlet laid upon with silver, beautiful beyond
belief; hard by was a silver brooch of basket work that was wrought as
fine as any shell and was as broad as the face of the full moon; and Aud
saw the clothes lying folded in the chest, of all the colours of the day,
and fire, and precious gems; and her heart burned with envy.  So, because
she had so huge a mind to buy, she began to make light of the
merchandise.

"They are good enough things," says she, "though I have better in my
chest at home.  It is a good enough cloak, and I am in need of a new
cloak."  At that she fingered the scarlet, and the touch of the fine
stuff went to her mind like singing.  "Come," says she, "if it were only
for your civility in showing it, what will you have for your cloak?"

"Woman," said Thorgunna, "I am no merchant."  And she closed the chest
and locked it, like one angry.

Then Aud fell to protesting and caressing her.  That was Aud's practice;
for she thought if she hugged and kissed a person none could say her nay.
Next she went to flattery, said she knew the things were too noble for
the like of her--they were made for a stately, beautiful woman like
Thorgunna; and at that she kissed her again, and Thorgunna seemed a
little pleased.  And now Aud pled poverty and begged for the cloak in a
gift; and now she vaunted the wealth of her goodman and offered ounces
and ounces of fine silver, the price of three men's lives.  Thorgunna
smiled, but it was a grim smile, and still she shook her head.  At last
Aud wrought herself into extremity and wept.

"I would give my soul for it," she cried.

"Fool!" said Thorgunna.  "But there have been fools before you!"  And a
little after, she said this: "Let us be done with beseeching.  The things
are mine.  I was a fool to show you them; but where is their use, unless
we show them?  Mine they are and mine they shall be till I die.  I have
paid for them dear enough," said she.

Aud saw it was of no avail; so she dried her tears, and asked Thorgunna
about her voyage, and made believe to listen while she plotted in her
little mind.  "Thorgunna," she asked presently, "do you count kin with
any folk in Iceland?"

"I count kin with none," replied Thorgunna.  "My kin is of the greatest,
but I have not been always lucky, so I say the less."

"So that you have no house to pass the time in till the ship return?"
cries Aud.  "Dear Thorgunna, you must come and live with us.  My goodman
is rich, his hand and his house are open, and I will cherish you like a
daughter."

At that Thorgunna smiled on the one side; but her soul laughed within her
at the woman's shallowness.  "I will pay her for that word _daughter_,"
she thought, and she smiled again.

"I will live with you gladly," says she, "for your house has a good name,
and I have seen the smoke of your kitchen from the ship.  But one thing
you shall understand.  I make no presents, I give nothing where I go--not
a rag and not an ounce.  Where I stay, I work for my upkeep; and as I am
strong as a man and hardy as an ox, they that have had the keeping of me
were the better pleased."

It was a hard job for Aud to keep her countenance, for she was like to
have wept.  And yet she felt it would be unseemly to eat her invitation;
and like a shallow woman and one that had always led her husband by the
nose, she told herself she would find some means to cajole Thorgunna and
come by her purpose after all.  So she put a good face on the thing, had
Thorgunna into the boat, her and her two great chests, and brought her
home with her to the hall by the beach.

All the way in she made much of the wife; and when they were arrived gave
her a locked bed-place in the hall, where was a bed, a table, and a
stool, and space for the two chests.

"This shall be yours while you stay here," said Aud.  And she attended on
her guest.

Now Thorgunna opened the second chest and took out her bedding--sheets of
English linen, the like of it never seen, a cover of quilted silk, and
curtains of purple wrought with silver.  At the sight of these Aud was
like one distracted, greed blinded her mind; the cry rose strong in her
throat, it must out.

"What will you sell your bedding for?" she cried, and her cheeks were
hot.

Thorgunna looked upon her with a dusky countenance.  "Truly you are a
courteous hostess," said she, "but I will not sleep on straw for your
amusement."

At that Aud's two ears grew hot as her cheeks; and she took Thorgunna at
her word; and left her from that time in peace.

The woman was as good as her spoken word.  Inside the house and out she
wrought like three, and all that she put her hand to was well done.  When
she milked, the cows yielded beyond custom; when she made hay, it was
always dry weather; when she took her turn at the cooking, the folk
licked their spoons.  Her manners when she pleased were outside
imitation, like one that had sat with kings in their high buildings.  It
seemed she was pious too, and the day never passed but she was in the
church there praying.  The rest was not so well.  She was of few words,
and never one about her kin and fortunes.  Gloom sat on her brow, and she
was ill to cross.  Behind her back they gave her the name of the Waif
Woman or the Wind Wife; to her face it must always be Thorgunna.  And if
any of the young men called her _mother_, she would speak no more that
day, but sit apart in the hall and mutter with her lips.

"This is a queer piece of goods that we have gotten," says Finnward
Keelfarer, "I wish we get no harm by her!  But the good wife's pleasure
must be done," said he, which was his common word.

When she was at work, Thorgunna wore the rudest of plain clothes, though
ever clean as a cat; but at night in the hall she was more dainty, for
she loved to be admired.  No doubt she made herself look well, and many
thought she was a comely woman still, and to those she was always
favourable and full of pleasant speech.  But the more that some pleased
her, it was thought by good judges that they pleased Aud the less.

When midsummer was past, a company of young men upon a journey came to
the house by Frodis Water.  That was always a great day for Aud, when
there were gallants at table; and what made this day the greater, Alf of
the Fells was in the company, and she thought Alf fancied her.  So be
sure Aud wore her best.  But when Thorgunna came from the bed-place, she
was arrayed like any queen and the broad brooch was in her bosom.  All
night in the hall these women strove with each other; and the little
maid, Asdis, looked on, and was ashamed and knew not why.  But Thorgunna
pleased beyond all; she told of strange things that had befallen in the
world; when she pleased she had the cue to laughter; she sang, and her
voice was full and her songs new in that island; and whenever she turned,
the eyes shone in her face and the brooch glittered at her bosom.  I
should like to know, for instance, what you mean to do with a dancing
master at your age?

NIC. And with that big fencing master, who comes here stamping enough to
shake the whole house down and to tear up the floor tiles of our rooms.

MR. JOUR. Gently, my servant and my wife.

MRS. JOUR. Do you mean to learn dancing for the time when you can't stand
on your legs any longer?

NIC. Do you intend to kill anybody?

MR. JOUR. Hold your tongues, I say. You are only ignorant women, both
of you, and understand nothing concerning the prerogative of all
this.

MRS. JOUR. You would do much better to think of seeing your daughter
married, for she is now of an age to be provided for.

MR. JOUR. I shall think of seeing my daughter married when a suitable
match presents itself; but, in the meantime, I wish to think of acquiring
fine learning.

NIC. I have heard say also, mistress, that, to go the whole hog, he has
now taken a professor of philosophy.

MR. JOUR. To be sure I have. I wish to be clever, and reason concerning
things with people of quality.

MRS. JOUR. Had you not better go to school one of these days, and get
the birch, at your age?

MR. JOUR. Why not? Would to heaven I were flogged this very instant, before
all the world, so that I might know all they learn at school.

NIC. Yes, to be sure; that would much improve the shape of your leg.

MR. JOUR. Of course.

MRS. JOUR. And all this is very necessary for the management of
your house.

MR. JOUR. Certainly. You both speak like asses; and I am ashamed
of your ignorance.

(_To_ MRS. JOURDAIN) Let me see, for instance, if you know what you
are speaking this very moment.

MRS. JOUR. Yes, I know that what I speak is rightly spoken; and that you
should think of leading a different life.

MR. JOUR. I do not mean that.

I ask you what the words are which you are now speaking.

MRS. JOUR. They are sensible words, I tell you, and that is more
than your conduct is.

MR. JOUR. I am not speaking of that. I ask you what it is that I am now
saying to you. That which I am now speaking to you, what is it?

MRS. JOUR. Rubbish.

MR. JOUR. No! no!

I don't mean that. What we both speak; the language we are speaking this
very moment.

MRS. JOUR. Well?

MR. JOUR. How is it called?

MRS. JOUR. It is called whatever you like to call it.

MR. JOUR. It is prose, you ignorant woman.

MRS. JOUR. Prose?

MR. JOUR.

Whatever is prose is not verse, and whatever is not verse is prose. There!
you see what it is to study. (_To_ NICOLE) And you, do you even know
what you must do to say _u_?

NIC. Eh? What?

MR. JOUR. Yes; what do you do when you say _u_?

NIC. What I do?

MR. JOUR. Say _u_ a little to try.

NIC. Well, _u_.

MR. JOUR. What is it you do?

NIC. I say _u_.

MR. JOUR. Yes; but when you say _u_, what is it you do?

NIC. I do what you ask me to do.

MR. JOUR. Oh! What a strange thing it is to have to do with dunces!
You pout your lips outwards, and bring your upper jaw near your
lower jaw like this, _u_; I make a face; _u_.

Do you see?

NIC. Yes, that's beautiful.

MRS. JOUR. It's admirable!

MR. JOUR.

What would you say then if you had seen _o_, and _da, da_, and _fa,
fa_?

MRS. JOUR. What is all this absurd stuff?

NIC.

And what are we the better for all this?

MR. JOUR. I have no patience with such ignorant women.

MRS. JOUR. Believe me, pack off all those people with their ridiculous
fooleries.

NIC.

And particularly that great scraggy fencing master, who fills the whole
place with dust.

MR. JOUR. Goodness me! The fencing master seems to set your teeth on edge.
Come here, and I will show you at once your senseless impertinence. (_He
asks for two foils, and gives one to_ NICOLE.) Here, reason demonstrative
the line of the body.

When you thrust in quart, you have only to do so; and, when you thrust
in tierce, only to do so!

That is the way never to be killed; and is it not a fine thing to be quite
safe when one fights against anybody? There, thrust at me a little to
try.

NIC. Well, what? (NICOLE _gives him several thrusts_)
MR. JOUR. Gently! Hold! Oh!

Softly. Deuce take the wench!

NIC: You tell me to thrust at you.

MR. JOUR. Yes; but you thrust in tierce before thrusting at me in quart,
and you haven't the patience to wait till I parry.

MRS: JOUR. You are crazy, husband, with all your fads; and this has come
upon you since you have taken it into your head to frequent the
gentlefolk.

MR. JOUR. By frequenting the gentlefolk I show my judgment.

It is surely better than keeping company with your citizens.

MRS. JOUR. Yes: there is much good to be got by frequenting your nobility,
and you have done a noble stroke of business with that fine count with
whom you are so wrapped up.

MR. JOUR. Peace. Be careful what you say. Let me tell you, wife, that you
do not know of whom you are speaking when you speak of him! He
is a man of more importance than you can imagine, a nobleman who is held
in great honour at court, and who speaks to the king just as I speak
to you.

Is it not a thing which does me great honour that such a person should
be seen so often in my house, should call me his dear friend, and
should treat me as if I were his equal?

He has more kindness for me than you could ever guess, and he treats me
before the world with such affection that I am perfectly ashamed.

MRS. JOUR. Yes; he is kind to you, and flatters you, but he borrows your
money of you.

MR. JOUR. Well? Is it not a great honour to lend money to a man of his
position? And could I do less for a lord who calls me his dear friend?

MRS. JOUR. And this lord, what does he do for you?

MR. JOUR. Things that would astound you if you only knew them.

MRS. JOUR. But what?

MR. JOUR. There! I can't explain myself.

It is quite sufficient that, if I have lent him money, he will
give it back to me, and that before long.

MRS. JOUR. Yes, trust him for that.

MR. JOUR. Certainly I will. Has he not said so?

MRS. JOUR. Yes, yes; and he won't fail not to do it.

MR. JOUR. He has given me his word as a gentleman.

MRS. JOUR. Mere stuff.

MR. JOUR. Dear me! You are very obstinate, wife! I tell you that he will
keep his word; I am quite sure of it.

MRS. JOUR.

And I am quite sure that he won't; and that all the caresses he
loads you with are only meant to deceive you.

MR. JOUR. Be silent; here he comes.

MRS. JOUR. That's to finish up.

He comes, no doubt, to borrow from you again; the very sight of him
takes my appetite away.

MR: JOUR. Hold your tongue, I tell you.

SCENE IV.--DORANTE, MR. JOURDAIN, MRS. JOURDAIN, NICOLE.

DOR. Mr.

Jourdain, my dear friend, how do you do?

MR. JOUR.

Very well, Sir; at your service.

DOR. And Mrs. Jourdain, how does she do?

MRS. JOUR. Mrs. Jourdain does as well as may be.

DOR. I declare, Mr. Jourdain, that you have the most genteel dress
in the world.

MR. JOUR. You see.

DOR. You look exceedingly well in this dress, and we have no young men at
court better made than you.

MR. JOUR. He! he!

MRS. JOUR. (_aside_). He scratches him where it itches.

DOR. Turn round. This is quite gallant.

MRS.

JOUR. (_aside_). Yes, as fine a fool behind as before.

DOR. Indeed, Mr. Jourdain, I was very impatient to see you. You are the man
I esteem most in the world, and I was talking of you again this very morning
at the king's levée.

MR. JOUR. You do me too much honour, Sir. (_To_ MRS. JOURDAIN) At the
king's levée.

DOR. Come, put on your hat.

MR. JOUR. Sir, I know the respect I owe you;
DOR.

Pray, put on your hat. No ceremony between us, I beg.

MR. JOUR. Sir!

DOR. Nay! nay! Put on your hat, I tell you, Mr. Jourdain; you are my
friend.

MR. JOUR. Sir, I am your humble servant.

DOR. I will not put mine on unless you do.

MR. JOUR. (_putting on his hat_). I had rather be unmannerly than
troublesome.

DOR.

I am your debtor, as you know.

MRS. JOUR. (_aside_). Yes, we know it but too well.

DOR. On several occasions you have generously lent me some money,
and you have obliged me, I must acknowledge, with the best grace in the
world.

MR. JOUR. Sir, I beg of you.

DOR.

But I know how to pay back what is lent to me, and how to acknowledge
services rendered.

MR. JOUR.

I have no doubt about it, Sir.

DOR. I want to acquit myself towards you, and I have come to settle
my accounts.
MR. JOUR. (_aside to_ MRS. JOURDAIN). Well? Do you see how wrong
you were, wife?

DOR. I like to get out of debt as soon as I can.
MR. JOUR. (_aside to_ MRS. JOURDAIN). Did I not tell you so?
DOR. Let us see how much I owe you.
MR. JOUR. (_aside to_ MRS. JOURDAIN). There you are, with your
absurd suspicions.
DOR. Do you quite remember how much you have lent me?
MR. JOUR. I believe so. I have made a little memorandum of it. Here
it is. At one time I gave you two hundred louis.
DOR. Quite true.
MR. JOUR. At another time, one hundred and twenty.

DOR. Yes.
MR. JOUR. At another time, one hundred and forty.
DOR. You are quite right.
MR. JOUR. These three payments make four hundred and sixty louis,
which comes to five thousand and sixty livres.
DOR. This account is quite correct; five thousand and sixty
livres.
MR. JOUR. One thousand eight hundred and thirty-two livres to your
plume seller.

DOR. Just so.
MR. JOUR. Two thousand seven hundred and eighty livres to your
tailor.

DOR. It is true.
MR. JOUR. Four thousand three hundred and seventy-nine livres,
twelve sous, eight deniers, to your tradesman.
DOR. Twelve sous, eight deniers; the account is perfectly right.
MR. JOUR. And one thousand seven hundred and forty-eight livres,
seven sous, four deniers, to your saddler.
DOR. It is so. How much does all this come to?
MR. JOUR. Sum-total, fifteen thousand eight hundred livres.
DOR. The sum-total is exact; fifteen thousand eight hundred livres.
Add to this two hundred pistoles which you are going to lend me,
and it will make exactly eighteen thousand francs, which I will pay
you at the first opportunity.
MRS. JOUR. (_aside to_ MR. JOURDAIN). Well? Did I not guess right?
MR. JOUR. (_aside to_ MRS. JOURDAIN). Peace!
DOR. Will it be inconvenient to you to lend me what I say?
MR. JOUR. Oh dear! no.
MRS. JOUR. (_aside to_ MR. JOURDAIN). That man makes a milch-cow
of you.

MR. JOUR. (_aside to_ MRS. JOURDAIN). Be silent!
DOR. If I at all inconvenience you, I will get it elsewhere.
MR. JOUR. No, Sir.
MRS. JOUR. (_aside to_ MR. JOURDAIN). He won't be satisfied until
he has ruined you.
MR. JOUR. (_aside to_ MRS. JOURDAIN). Hold your tongue, I say.
DOR. You have only to tell me if this will embarrass you.
MR. JOUR. Not at all, Sir.
MRS. JOUR. (_aside to_ MR. JOURDAIN). He is a regular deceiver.
MR. JOUR. (_aside to_ MRS. JOURDAIN). Do hold your peace.
MRS. JOUR. (_aside to_ MR. JOURDAIN). He will drain you to the last
penny.
MR. JOUR. (_aside to_ MRS. JOURDAIN). Will you hold your tongue?
DOR. There are a great many people who would advance me money with
pleasure; but as I look upon you as my best friend, I was afraid
of wronging you if I asked it of anyone else.
MR. JOUR. You do me too much honour, Sir. I will go and fetch what
you want.
MRS. JOUR. (_aside_ to MR. JOURDAIN). What! are you going to give
him that also?
MR. JOUR. (_aside_ to MRS. JOURDAIN). What can I do? How can I
refuse a man of such rank, a man who spoke of me this morning at
the king's levée.
MRS. JOUR. (_aside_ to MR. JOURDAIN). There, go; you are nothing
but a dupe.

SCENE V.--DORANTE, MRS. JOURDAIN, NICOLE.
DOR. You appear to me quite low-spirited! What can be the matter
with you, Mrs. Jourdain?
MRS. JOUR. My head is bigger than my fist, and yet it isn't
swollen.

DOR. Where is your daughter, that I have not seen her?
MRS. JOUR. My daughter is very well where she is.
DOR. How does she get on?
MRS. JOUR. She gets on on her two legs.
DOR. Would you not like one of these days to come with her to see
the ballet and the play which are being acted at court?
MRS. JOUR. Ah! yes. We have a great fancy for laughing, a great
fancy have we!
DOR. I think, Mrs. Jourdain, that you must have had plenty of lovers
in your young days, so handsome, and so sweet-tempered as you must
have been.
MRS. JOUR. My goodness, Sir! Has Mrs. Jourdain grown decrepit, and
does her head already shake on her shoulders?
DOR. Oh! Mrs Jourdain, I really beg your pardon! I had forgotten
that you are young, and I am very often absent. I beg of you to
excuse my impertinence.
SCENE VI.--MR. JOURDAIN, MRS. JOURDAIN, DORANTE, NICOLE.
MR. JOUR. (_to_ DORANTE). Here are two hundred louis in full.
DOR. I assure you, Mr. Jourdain, that you may dispose of me in any
way you like, and that I long to render you some service at court.
MR. JOUR. I am much obliged to you.
DOR. If Mrs. Jourdain wishes to see the royal entertainment,
[Footnote: 'The Magnificent Lovers.'] I will obtain the best places
in the room for her.
MRS. JOUR. Mrs. Jourdain is your humble servant.
DOR. (_aside to_ MR. JOURDAIN). Our lovely marchioness, as I told
you in my note, is coming here this afternoon for the ballet and
the banquet, as I have at last prevailed on her to accept the
entertainment you wish to give her. [Footnote: _Cadeau_ does not
mean "present," as at first sight it seems to mean. Compare also
the next speech of Dorante.]
MR. JOUR. Let us go a little further. I need not tell you the
reason.
DOR. It is a whole week since I saw you; and I did not send you any
news of the diamond which you placed in my hands to make her a
present of from you; it is because I found it the most difficult
thing in the world to make her accept it; and it is only to-day
that she could conquer her scruples about it.
MR. JOUR. How does she like it?
DOR. Exceedingly; and, unless I am greatly mistaken, the beauty of
that diamond will produce an admirable effect on her mind towards
you.

MR. JOUR. Ah, may it be so!
MRS. JOUR. (_to_ NICOLE). When once he is with him, he can't leave
him.
DOR. I described to her in glowing colours the expense of such a
present, and the greatness of your love.
MR. JOUR. Your kindness is too much for me, Sir, and I feel perfectly
ashamed to see a man of such high standing condescend to do for me
the things you do.
DOR. Nonsense! Do friends stand upon such scruples? and would you
not do for me the very same thing if the opportunity presented
itself?

MR. JOUR. Oh, decidedly, and with all my heart!
MRS. JOUR. (_aside to_ NICOLE). How hard for me to bear with his
presence.
DOR. For my part, I hesitate at nothing when I want to serve a
friend; and as soon as you told me of your admiration for this
charming marchioness, with whom I was acquainted, you saw me at
once put myself at your disposal to serve your love.
MR. JOUR. It is perfectly true. Such kindness confounds me.
MRS. JOUR. (_to_ NICOLE). Will he never go?
NIC. (_to_ MRS. JOURDAIN). They are very thick together.
DOR. You went the right way to work to touch her heart. There is
nothing women like more than the expenses one makes for them; and
your frequent serenades, your numerous bouquets, the magnificent
display of fireworks which she saw on the water, the diamond which
she received from you, and the entertainment you are preparing for
her, all this tells more in favour of your love than all the speeches
you could make to her about it.
MR. JOUR. There is no expense I would not make to find access to
her heart. A woman of quality has for me the most dazzling charms,
and it is an honour which I would purchase at any price.
MRS. JOUR. (_aside to_ NICOLE). What on earth can they have to say
together? Go and listen!
DOR. You will enjoy to-day the pleasure of seeing her; and your
eyes will have full leisure to satisfy themselves.
MR. JOUR. In order to be free, I have arranged for my wife to go
and dine with my sister, and she will spend the whole-afternoon
there.
DOR. You have acted wisely, for your wife might be in the way. I
have given the necessary orders to the cook, and for everything
which may be necessary for the ballet. It is my own invention, and
if the execution comes up to the conception, I am sure that it will
be found....It was a
rough day, the sea was wild, the boat laboured exceedingly, and it may be
that Finnward's mind was troubled with his sickness.  Certain it is that
they struck, and their boat was burst, upon a skerry under Snowfellness.
The four lads were spilled into the sea, and the sea broke and buried
them, but Finnward was cast upon the skerry, and clambered up, and sat
there all day long: God knows his thoughts.  The sun was half-way down,
when a shepherd went by on the cliffs about his business, and spied a man
in the midst of the breach of the loud seas, upon a pinnacle of reef.  He
hailed him, and the man turned and hailed again.  There was in that cove
so great a clashing of the seas and so shrill a cry of sea-fowl that the
herd might hear the voice and nor the words.  But the name Thorgunna came
to him, and he saw the face of Finnward Keelfarer like the face of an old
man.  Lively ran the herd to Finnward's house; and when his tale was told
there, Eyolf the boy was lively to out a boat and hasten to his father's
aid.  By the strength of hands they drove the keel against the seas, and
with skill and courage Eyolf won upon the skerry and climbed up, There
sat his father dead; and this was the first vengeance of Thorgunna
against broken faith.

It was a sore job to get the corpse on board, and a sorer yet to bring it
home before the rolling seas.  But the lad Eyolf was a lad of promise,
and the lads that pulled for him were sturdy men.  So the break-faith's
body was got home, and waked, and buried on the hill.  Aud was a good
widow and wept much, for she liked Finnward well enough.  Yet a bird sang
in her ears that now she might marry a young man.  Little fear that she
might have her choice of them, she thought, with all Thorgunna's fine
things; and her heart was cheered.

Now, when the corpse was laid in the hill, Asdis came where Aud sat
solitary in hall, and stood by her awhile without speech.

"Well, child?" says Aud; and again "Well?" and then "Keep us holy, if you
have anything to say, out with it!"

So the maid came so much nearer, "Mother," says she, "I wish you would
not wear these things that were Thorgunna's."

"Aha," cries Aud.  "This is what it is?  You begin early, brat!  And who
has been poisoning your mind?  Your fool of a father, I suppose."  And
then she stopped and went all scarlet.  "Who told you they were yours?"
she asked again, taking it all the higher for her stumble.  "When you are
grown, then you shall have your share and not a day before.  These things
are not for babies."

The child looked at her and was amazed.  "I do not wish them," she said.
"I wish they might be burned."

"Upon my word, what next?" cried Aud.  "And why should they be burned?"

"I know my father tried to burn these things," said Asdis, "and he named
Thorgunna's name upon the skerry ere he died.  And, O mother, I doubt
they have brought ill luck."

But the more Aud was terrified, the more she would make light of it.

Then the girl put her hand upon her mother's.  "I fear they are ill come
by," said she.

The blood sprang in Aud's face.  "And who made you a judge upon your
mother that bore you?" cried she.

"Kinswoman," said Asdis, looking down, "I saw you with the brooch."

"What do you mean?  When?  Where did you see me?" cried the mother.

"Here in the hall," said Asdis, looking on the floor, "the night you
stole it."

At that Aud let out a cry.  Then she heaved up her hand to strike the
child.  "You little spy!" she cried.  Then she covered her face, and
wept, and rocked herself.  "What can you know?" she cried.  "How can you
understand, that are a baby, not so long weaned?  He could--your father
could, the dear good man, dead and gone!  He could understand and pity,
he was good to me.  Now he has left me alone with heartless children!
Asdis," she cried, "have you no nature in your blood?  You do not know
what I have done and suffered for them.  I have done--oh, and I could
have done anything!  And there is your father dead.  And after all, you
ask me not to use them?  No woman in Iceland has the like.  And you wish
me to destroy them?  Not if the dead should rise!" she cried.  "No, no,"
and she stopped her ears, "not if the dead should rise, and let that end
it!"

So she ran into her bed-place, and clapped at the door, and left the
child amazed.

But for all Aud spoke with so much passion, it was noticed that for long
she left the things unused.  Only she would be locked somewhile daily in
her bed-place, where she pored on them and secretly wore them for her
pleasure.

Now winter was at hand; the days grew short and the nights long; and
under the golden face of morning the isle would stand silver with frost.
Word came from Holyfell to Frodis Water of a company of young men upon a
journey; that night they supped at Holyfell, the next it would be at
Frodis Water; and Alf of the Fells was there, and Thongbrand Ketilson,
and Hall the Fair.  Aud went early to her bed-place, and there she pored
upon these fineries till her heart was melted with self-love.  There was
a kirtle of a mingled colour, and the blue shot into the green, and the
green lightened from the blue, as the colours play in the ocean between
deeps and shallows: she thought she could endure to live no longer and
not wear it.  There was a bracelet of an ell long, wrought like a serpent
and with fiery jewels for the eyes; she saw it shine on her white arm and
her head grew dizzy with desire.  "Ah!" she thought, "never were fine
lendings better met with a fair wearer."  And she closed her eyelids, and
she thought she saw herself among the company and the men's eyes go after
her admiring.  With that she considered that she must soon marry one of
them and wondered which; and she thought Alf was perhaps the best, or
Hall the Fair, but was not certain, and then she remembered Finnward
Keelfarer in his cairn upon the hill, and was concerned.  "Well, he was a
good husband to me," she thought, "and I was a good wife to him.  But
that is an old song now."  So she turned again to handling the stuffs and
jewels.  At last she got to bed in the smooth sheets, and lay, and
fancied how she would look, and admired herself, and saw others admire
her, and told herself stories, till her heart grew warm and she chuckled
to herself between the sheets.  So she shook awhile with laughter; and
then the mirth abated but not the shaking; and a grue took hold upon her
flesh, and the cold of the grave upon her belly, and the terror of death
upon her soul.  With that a voice was in her ear: "It was so Thorgunna
sickened."  Thrice in the night the chill and the terror took her, and
thrice it passed away; and when she rose on the morrow, death had
breathed upon her countenance.

She saw the house folk and her children gaze upon her; well she knew why!
She knew her day was come, and the last of her days, and her last hour
was at her back; and it was so in her soul that she scarce minded.  All
was lost, all was past mending, she would carry on until she fell.  So
she went as usual, and hurried the feast for the young men, and railed
upon her house folk, but her feet stumbled, and her voice was strange in
her own ears, and the eyes of the folk fled before her.  Digby Wyatt,
Esq.

The above COMMITTEE has been formed for the purpose of organizing an
EXHIBITION OF WORKS OF ANCIENT AND MEDIÆVAL ART. The SOCIETY OF ARTS having
considered that such an Exhibition is not only likely to be
interesting to the public, but also to be especially useful to
Manufacturers (with reference to the Exhibition of Works of Industry
of all Nations to be held in the year 1851), have placed a portion
of their Rooms at the disposal of the Committee, and have agreed
to adopt the Exhibition as part of that annually made by the Society,
thereby taking all the expenses connected with it upon themselves.

The Committee, regarding the Exhibition in the twofold character
contemplated by the Society of Arts, have resolved that the objects
of ancient and mediæval art of which the Exhibition is to be composed,
shall, as far as possible, be selected with reference to their
beauty and the practical illustration which they are likely to
afford of processes of manufacture; and now beg to invite the
possessors of Works deemed suitable for such an exhibition to assist
the Committee in their very important office, by entering into
communication with them, respecting the nature of any objects which
they may be willing to offer for exhibition.

It is requested that all Works proposed for exhibition be punctually
sent to the Rooms of the SOCIETY OF ARTS, John Street, Adelphi, on or
before the 20th of February, it being imperative that the Exhibition
should open early in March.

Letters and Communications should be addressed to AUGUSTUS W. FRANKS,
Esq. Honorary Secretary of the Committee, Society of Arts, John Street,
Adelphi.

By order of the Committee,
AUGUSTUS W. FRANKS.

Hon. Sec.

* * * * *
Printed by THOMAS CLARK SHAW, of No. 8. New Street Square, at No. 5. New
Street Square, in the Parish of St.

Bride in the City of London; and published by GEORGE BELL, of No.
186.

Fleet Street, in the Parish of St.

There they burned the bed-clothes, and the clothes, and the
jewels, and the very boards of the waif woman's chests; and when the tide
returned it washed away their ashes.  So the weird of Thorgunna was
lifted from the house on Frodis Water.

PRINTED BY
BILLING AND SONS, LIMITED
GUILDFORD, ENGLAND.