Produced by David Widger


SKETCHES NEW AND OLD

by Mark Twain


CONTENTS:

  Preface
  My Watch
  Political Economy
  The Jumping Frog
  Journalism In Tennessee
  The Story Of The Bad Little Boy
  The Story Of The Good Little Boy
  A Couple Of Poems By Twain And Moore
  Niagara
  Answers To Correspondents
  To Raise Poultry
  Experience Of The Mcwilliamses With Membranous Croup
  My First Literary Venture
  How The Author Was Sold In Newark
  The Office Bore
  Johnny Greer
  The Facts In The Case Of The Great Beef Contract
  The Case Of George Fisher
  Disgraceful Persecution Of A Boy
  The Judges "Spirited Woman"
  Information Wanted
  Some Learned Fables, For Good Old Boys And Girls
  My Late Senatorial Secretaryship
  A Fashion Item
  Riley-Newspaper Correspondent
  A Fine Old Man
  Science Vs. 
  "Occasional paragraphs in
  the Press, snapshots
  which take us very
  likely with one leg stuck out
  in front as if we
  were doing the
  goose-step,
  rare provincial
  excursions
  and bouquets from
  admiring mill-girls are all very well in
  their way, but
  they are nothing to
  constant personal appearances
  at stated times and in
  stated places before an admiring
  mob. The heroes
  of sport are
  overshadowing us," he
  continued with a sigh,
  pushing me over a box of
  cigars.
  
  "What are you going to do
  about it?" I asked, lighting one and putting
  another carefully behind
  my ear.
  
  "You must remember first,"
  he replied, "that this is quite a modern
  difficulty. Statesmen
  of the past used to make
  their leisurely
  progress through the town
  surrounded by retainers
  on horseback, or in sedan-chairs, beautifully dressed and scattering
largesse as they went.

THOMAS À BECKET, the great Primate and Chancellor, used to have
poor men to dine with him and crowds thronging round to bless him.

To-day, I suppose, JOE BECKETT in his flowered dressing-gown would be
a more popular figure than Lord BIRKENHEAD and the Archbishop of
CANTERBURY, if you can imagine them rolled into one. In CHARLES II.'s
reign, when politicians used to play _pêle-mêle_ where the great Clubs
are now, anyone could rub shoulders with my lord of BUCKINGHAM and, if
he was lucky, get a swipe across the shins with the ducal mallet
itself. That is the kind of thing we want now.HARTFORD, 1875.
                                             MARK TWAIN.


SKETCHES NEW AND OLD


MY WATCH--[Written about 1870.]

AN INSTRUCTIVE LITTLE TALE

My beautiful new watch had run eighteen months without losing or gaining,
and without breaking any part of its machinery or stopping.  I had come
to believe it infallible in its judgments about the time of day, and to
consider its constitution and its anatomy imperishable.  But at last, one
night, I let it run down.  How has this singular difference arisen? I am
inclined to suggest that originally the oath was taken by merely laying
the hand on the top of the book, without kissing it. Lord Coke (3 _Inst._
165.) says, "It is called a corporal oath, because he toucheth with his
hand some part of the Holy Scripture." And Jacob (_L. D._, "Oath"), says
it is so called "because the witness, when he swears, _lays his right
hand upon_, and toucheth the Holy Evangelists." And Lord Hale (2 _H. P.
But no; all this human cabbage could see was
that the watch was four minutes slow, and the regulator must be pushed up
a little; and so, while I danced around him in anguish, and implored him
to let the watch alone, he calmly and cruelly did the shameful deed.  My
watch began to gain.  It gained faster and faster day by day.  Within the
week it sickened to a raging fever, and its pulse went up to a hundred
and fifty in the shade.  At the end of two months it had left all the
timepieces of the town far in the rear, and was a fraction over thirteen
days ahead of the almanac.  It was away into November enjoying the snow,
while the October leaves were still turning.