21 When he had said this,
he delivered me again to that
shepherd, and called the virgins,
and said unto them; Forasmuch as I
see that ye will readily dwell in
this man's house, I commend him
and his family to you, that ye may
not at all depart from his house.
And they willingly heard these
words.

22  Then he said unto me,
Go on manfully in thy ministry;
declare to all men the great things
of God, and thou shalt find grace
in this ministry.

23  And whosover shall walk
in these commands, shall live,
and be happy in his life. But he
that shall neglect them, shall not
live, and shall be unhappy in his
life.

24  Say unto all that whosoever
can do well, cease not to exercise
themselves in good works, for it
is profitable unto them. For I
would that all men should be
delivered from the inconveniences
they lie under.

25  For he that wants, and
suffers inconveniences in his
daily life, is in great torment
and necessity. Whosoever therefore
delivers such a soul from necessity,
gets great joy unto himself.

26  For he that is grieved with
such inconveniencies is equally
tormented, as if he were in chains.
And many upon the account of
such calamities, being not able to
bear them, have chosen even to
destroy themselves.

27  He therefore that knows the
calamity of such a man, and does
not free him from it, commits a
great sin, and is guilty of his
blood.

28  Wherefore exercise your.
selves in good works, as many as
have received ability from the
Lord; lest whilst ye delay to do
them, the building of the tower be
finished; because for your sakes
the building is stopped.

29  Except therefore ye shall
make haste to do well, the tower
shall be finished, and ye shall be
shut out of it.

30  And after he had thus spoken
with me, he rose up from the bed
and departed, taking the shepherd
and virgins with him.

31  Howbeit he said unto me,
that he would send back the
shepherd and virgins unto
my house.  Amen.




                       REFERENCES TO THE BOOK OF
                         HERMAS, THE SHEPHERD.

     [This book, divided into three parts, called his VISIONS, COMMANDS,
     and SIMILITUDES, is thus entitled, because it was composed by
     Hermas, brother to Pius, bishop of Rome; and because the Angel, who
     bears the principal part in it, is represented in the form and habit
     of a shepherd. Irenxus quotes it under the very name of Scripture.
     Origen thought it a most useful writing, and that it was divinely
     inspired; Eusebius says that, though it was not esteemed canonical,
     it was read publicly in the churches, which is corroborated by
     Jerome; and Athanasius cites it, calls it a most useful work, and
     observes, that though it was not strictly canonical, the Fathers
     appointed it to be read for direction and confirmation in faith and
     piety. Jerome, notwithstanding this, and that he applauded it in his
     catalogue of writers, in his comments upon it afterwards, terms it
     apocryphal and foolish.  Turtullian praised it when a Catholic, and
     abused it when a Montanist. Although Gelasius ranks it among the
     apocryphal books, it is found attached to some of the most ancient
     MSS. of the New Testament; and Archbishop Wake, believing it the
     genuine work of an apostolical Father, preserves it to the English
     reader by the foregoing translation, in which he has rendered the
     three parts of it not only more exact, but in greater purity than
     they had before appeared. The archbishop procured Dr. Grabe to
     entirely collate the old Latin version with an ancient MS. in the
     Lambeth library; and the learned prelate himself still further
     improved the whole from a multitude of fragments of the original
     Greek never before used for that purpose.]