Produced by Ted Garvin, jayam and the Online Distributed Proofreading
Team


A NARRATIVE OF THE SIEGE OF DELHI WITH AN ACCOUNT OF
THE MUTINY AT FEROZEPORE IN 1857

BY CHARLES JOHN GRIFFITHS LATE CAPTAIN 61ST REGIMENT

EDITED BY HENRY JOHN YONGE LATE CAPTAIN 61ST REGIMENT

WITH PLANS AND ILLUSTRATIONS

LONDON JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET, W. 1910


INTRODUCTION


The ever memorable period in the history of our Eastern Empire known as
the Great Indian Rebellion or Mutiny of the Bengal army was an epoch
fraught with the most momentous consequences, and one which resulted in
covering with undying fame those who bore part in its suppression. The
passions aroused during the struggle, the fierce hate animating the
breasts of the combatants, the deadly incidents of the strife, which
without intermission lasted for nearly two years, and deluged with blood
the plains and cities of Hindostan, have scarcely a parallel in history.
On the one side religious fanaticism, when Hindoo and Mohammedan,
restraining the bitter animosity of their rival creeds, united together
in the attempt to drive out of their common country that race which for
one hundred years had dominated and held the overlordship of the greater
portion of India. On the other side, a small band of Englishmen, a
few thousand white men among millions of Asiatics, stood shoulder to
shoulder, calm, fearless, determined, ready to brave the onslaught of
their enemies, to maintain with undiminished lustre the proud deeds of
their ancestors, and to a man resolved to conquer or to die.

Who can recount the numberless acts of heroism, the hairbreadth escapes,
the anxious days and nights passed by our gallant countrymen, who, few
in number, and isolated from their comrades, stood at bay in different
parts of the land surrounded by hundreds of pitiless miscreants, tigers
in human shape thirsting for their blood? my enemy had escaped my
hand, and lay in the stillness of death before me!"
"What!" I exclaimed, interrupting Glanville, for I could contain myself
no longer, "it was not by you then that Tyrrell fell?" With these words,
I grasped his hand; and, excited as I had been by my painful and
wrought-up interest in his recital, I burst into tears of gratitude
and joy.

Reginald Glanville was innocent: Ellen was not the sister of an assassin!

After a short pause, Glanville continued:

"I gazed upon the upward and distorted face, in a deep and sickening
silence; an awe, dark and undefined, crept over my heart: I stood
beneath the solemn and sacred heavens, and felt that the hand of God
was upon me; that a mysterious and fearful edict had gone forth; that
my headlong and unholy wrath had, in the very midst of its fury, been
checked, as if but the idle anger of a child; that the plan I had laid
in the foolish wisdom of my heart had been traced, step by step, by an
all-seeing eye, and baffled in the moment of its fancied success by an
inscrutable and awful doom. I had wished the death of my enemy: lo!
my wish was accomplished, --how, I neither knew nor guessed; there, a
still and senseless clod of earth, without power of offence or
injury, he lay beneath my feet: it seemed as if, in the moment of
my uplifted arm, the Divine Avenger had asserted His prerogative,--as
if the angel which had smitten the Assyrian had again swept forth,
though against a meaner victim; and while he punished the guilt of
a human criminal, had set an eternal barrier to the vengeance of a
human foe!

"I dismounted from my horse, and bent over the murdered man. I drew from
my bosom the miniature, which never forsook me, and bathed the lifeless
resemblance of Gertrude in the blood of her betrayer. Scarcely had I
done so, before my ear caught the sound of steps; hastily I thrust,
as I thought, the miniature in my bosom, remounted, and rode hurriedly
away.
At that hour, and for many which succeeded to it, I believe that all sense
was suspended. I was like a man haunted by a dream, and wandering under
its influence! or as one whom a spectre pursues, and for whose eye the
breathing and busy world is but as a land of unreal forms and flitting
shadows, teeming with the monsters of darkness and the terrors of the
tomb.

"It was not till the next day that I missed the picture. I returned to
the spot; searched it carefully, but in vain; the miniature could not
be found: I returned to town, and shortly afterwards the newspapers
informed me of what had subsequently occurred. I saw, with dismay, that
all appearances pointed to me as the criminal, and that the officers
of justice were at that moment tracing the clew which my cloak and
the color of my horse afforded them.

My mysterious pursuit of Tyrrell, the disguise I had assumed, the
circumstance of my passing you on the road and of my flight when you
approached, all spoke volumes against me. A stronger evidence yet
remained, and it was reserved for Thornton to indicate it; at this moment
my life is in his hands.

Shortly after my return to town, he forced his way into my room,
shut the door, bolted it, and, the moment we were alone, said, with
a savage and fiendish grin of exultation and defiance, 'Sir Reginald
Glanville, you have many a time and oft insulted me with your pride,
and more with your gifts: now it is my time to insult and triumph
over you; know that one word of mine could sentence you to the
gibbet.'

"He then minutely summed up the evidence against me, and drew from
his pocket the threatening letter I had last written to Tyrrell.

You remember that therein I said my vengeance was sworn against
him, and that, sooner or later, it should overtake him.

'Couple,' said Thornton, coldly, as he replaced the letter in his
pocket,--'couple these words with the evidence already against you,
and I would not buy your life at a farthing's value.'

"How Thornton came by this paper, so important to my
safety, I know not:
but when he read it I was startled by the danger it brought upon me;
one glance sufficed to show me that I was utterly at the mercy of
the villain who stood before me; he saw and enjoyed my struggles.

"'Now,' said he, 'we know each other: at present I want a thousand pounds;
you will not refuse it me, I am sure; when it is gone, I shall call
again; till then you can do without me.' I flung him a check for
the money, and he departed.

"You may conceive the mortification I endured in this sacrifice of pride
to prudence; but those were no ordinary motives which induced
me to submit to it. Fast approaching to the grave, it mattered
to me but little whether a violent death should shorten a
life to which a limit was already set, and which I was far
from being anxious to retain: but I could not endure the thought
of bringing upon my mother and my sister the wretchedness and shame
which the mere suspicion of a crime so enormous would occasion them;
and when my eye caught all the circumstances arrayed against me,
my pride seemed to suffer a less mortification even in the course
I adopted than in the thought of the felon's gaol and the criminal's
trial,--the hoots and execrations of the mob, and the death and
ignominious remembrance of the murderer.

"Stronger than either of these motives was my shrinking and loathing
aversion to whatever seemed likely to unrip the secret history of
the past.

I sickened at the thought of Gertrude's name and fate being bared
to the vulgar eye, and exposed to the comment, the strictures, the
ridicule of the gaping and curious public.

It seemed to me, therefore, but a very poor exertion of philosophy
to conquer my feelings of humiliation at Thornton's insolence and
triumph, and to console myself with the reflection that a few months
must rid me alike of his exactions and my life.

"But, of late, Thornton's persecutions and demands have
risen to such a height that I have been scarcely able to restrain my
indignation and control myself into compliance. The struggle is too
powerful for my frame: it is rapidly bringing on the fiercest and
the last contest I shall suffer, before 'the wicked shall cease
from troubling, and the weary be at rest.'

Some days since I came to a resolution, which I am now about to
execute: it is to leave this country and take refuge on the Continent.

There I shall screen myself from Thornton's pursuit and the danger
which it entails upon me; and there, unknown and undisturbed, I
shall await the termination of my disease.

"But two duties remained to me to fulfil before I departed; I have
now discharged them both.

One was due to the warmhearted and noble being who honoured me with her
interest and affection,--the other to you. I went yesterday to
the former; I sketched the outline of that history which I have
detailed to you. I showed her the waste of my barren heart, and
spoke to her of the disease which was wearing me away. How
beautiful is the love of woman! She would have followed me over the
world,--received my last sigh, and seen me to the rest I shall
find at length; and this without a hope, or thought of recompense,
even from the worthlessness of my love.

"But enough!--of her my farewell has been taken. Your suspicions I have
seen and forgiven; for they were natural: it was due to me to remove
them; the pressure of your hand tells me that I have done so; but I
had another reason for my confessions. I have worn away the romance of
my heart, and I have now no indulgence for the little delicacies
and petty scruples which often stand in the way of our real happiness. I
have marked your former addresses to Ellen, and, I confess, with great
joy; for I know, amidst all your worldly ambition and the encrusted
artificiality of your exterior, how warm and generous is your real
heart,--how noble and intellectual is your real mind: and were my
sister tenfold more perfect than I believe her, I do not desire
to find on earth one more deserving of her than yourself. I have remarked
your late estrangement from Ellen; and while I guessed, I felt
that, however painful to me, I ought to remove, the cause:
she loves you--though perhaps you know it not--much and truly;
and since my earlier life has been passed in a selfish inactivity, I
would fain let it close with the reflection of having served two beings
whom I prize so dearly, and the hope that their happiness will commence
with my death.

"And now, Pelham, I have done; I am weak and exhausted, and cannot bear
more--even of your society, now. Think over what I have last said,
and let me see you again to-morrow: on the day after, I leave
England forever."

CHAPTER LXXVI.

But wilt thou accept not The worship the heart lifts above And the
Heavens reject not, The desire of the moth for the star, Of the
night for the morrow, The devotion to something afar From the sphere
of our sorrow?

--P. B. Shelley.

It was not with a light heart--for I loved Glanville too well, not to
be powerfully affected by his history and approaching fate--but
with a chastised and sober joy, that I now beheld my friend
innocent of the guilt my suspicions had accused him of, and the
only obstacle to my marriage with his sister removed. True it was that
the sword yet hung over his head, and that while he lived,
there could be no rational assurance of his safety from the disgrace and
death of the felon. In the world's eye, therefore, the barrier
to my union with Ellen would have been far from being wholly
removed; but, at that moment, my disappointments had disgusted me with
the world, and I turned with a double yearning of heart to her whose
pure and holy love could be at once my recompence and retreat.

Nor was this selfish consideration my only motive in the conduct
I was resolved to adopt; on the contrary, it was scarcely more prominent
in my mind, than those derived from giving to a friend who was
now dearer to me than ever, his only consolation on this earth, and to
Ellen, the safest protection, in case of any danger to her brother.
With these, it is true, were mingled feelings which, in happier
circumstances, might have been those of transport at a bright and
successful termination to a deep and devoted love; but these I had,
while Glanville's very life was so doubtful, little right to indulge,
and I checked them as soon as they arose.

After a sleepless night, I repaired to Lady Glanville's house.

It was long since I had been there, and the servant who admitted
me, seemed somewhat surprised at the earliness of my visit.

I desired to see the mother, and waited in the parlour till she came.

I made but a scanty exordium to my speech. In very few words I expressed
my love to Ellen, and besought her mediation in my behalf; nor did I
think it would be a slight consideration in my favour,
with the fond mother, to mention Glanville's concurrence with my
suit.

"Ellen is up stairs in the drawing-room," said Lady Glanville. "I will
go and prepare her to receive you--if you have her consent, you have
mine."
"Will you suffer me, then," said I, "to forestal you? Forgive my
impatience, and let me see her before you do."
Lady Glanville was a woman of the good old school, and stood somewhat
upon forms and ceremonies. I did not, therefore, await the
answer, which I foresaw might not be favourable to my success, but with
my customary assurance, left the room, and hastened up stairs. I entered
the drawing- room, and shut the door. Ellen was at the far end; and as
I entered with a light step, she did not perceive me till I was close
by.

She started when she saw me; and her cheek, before very pale,
deepened into crimson.

"Good Heavens!

is it you," she said, falteringly "I--I thought--but--but--excuse me
for an instant, I will call my mother."
"Stay for one instant, I beseech you--it is from your mother that
I come- -she has referred me to you." And with a trembling and hurried
voice, for all my usual boldness forsook me, I poured forth, in
rapid and burning words, the history of my secret and hoarded love--its
doubts, fears, and hopes.

Ellen sunk back on her chair, overpowered and silent by her
feelings, and the vehemence of my own.

I knelt, and took her hand; I covered it with my kisses--it was not
withdrawn from them.

I raised my eyes, and beheld in her's all that my heart had hoped,
but did not dare to pourtray.

"You--you," said she--when at last she found words--"I imagined
that you only thought of ambition and the world--I could not have
dreamt of this."

She ceased, blushing and embarrassed.

"It is true," said I, "that you had a right to think so, for, till
this moment, I have never opened to you even a glimpse of my veiled
heart, and its secret and wild desires; but, do you think that my
love was the less a treasure, because it was hidden?

or the less deep, because it was cherished at the bottom of my soul?

No--no; believe me that love was not to be mingled with the ordinary
objects of life--it was too pure to be profaned by the levities and
follies which are all of my nature that I have permitted myself to
develope to the world.

Do not imagine, that, because I have seemed an idler with the
idle--selfish with the interested--and cold, and vain, and frivolous,
with those to whom such qualities were both a passport and a virtue;
do not imagine that I have concealed within me nothing more worthy
of you and of myself; my very love for you shews, that I am wiser
and better than I have seemed.

Speak to me, Ellen--may I call you by that name--one word--one
syllable!

speak to me, and tell me that you have read my heart, and that you
will not reject it!"

 There came no answer from those dear lips; but their soft and tender
smile told me that I might hope.

That hour I still recall and bless!

that hour was the happiest of my life.

CHAPTER LXXVII.

A thousand crowns, or else lay down your head.
--2nd Part of Henry VI.

From Ellen, I hastened to the house of Sir Reginald. The hall was in all
the confusion of approaching departure. I sprang over the paraphernalia
of books and boxes which obstructed my way, and bounded up the
stairs.
Glanville was, as usual, alone: his countenance was less pale than
it had been lately, and when I saw it brighten as I approached, I
hoped, in the new happiness of my heart, that he might baffle both
his enemy and his disease.

I told him all that had just occurred between Ellen and myself. "And
now," said I, as I clasped his hand, "I have a proposal to make, to
which you must accede: let me accompany you abroad; I will go with you
to whatever corner of the world you may select. We will plan together
every possible method of concealing our retreat. Upon the past I will
never speak to you. In your hours of solitude I will never disturb
you by an unwelcome and ill-timed sympathy. I will tend upon you,
watch over you, bear with you, with more than the love and tenderness
of a brother. You shall see me only when you wish it.

Your loneliness shall never be invaded. When you get better, as I presage
you will, I will leave you to come back to England, and provide for the
worst, by ensuring your sister a protector. I will then return to you
alone, that your seclusion may not be endangered by the knowledge,
even of Ellen, and you shall have me by your side till--till--"
"The last!"

interrupted Glanville. "Too--too generous Pelham, I feel-- these tears
(the first I have shed for a long, long time) tell you, that I feel
to the heart--your friendship and disinterested attachment; but
the moment your love for Ellen has become successful, I will not tear
you from its enjoyment. Believe me, all that I could derive from your
society, could not afford me half the happiness I should have in
knowing that you and Ellen were blest in each other. No--no, my solitude
will, at that reflection, be deprived of its sting. You shall hear
from me once again; my letter shall contain a request, and your executing
that last favour must console and satisfy the kindness of your
heart.

For myself, I shall die as I have lived--alone. All fellowship with my
griefs would seem to me strange and unwelcome."
I would not suffer Glanville to proceed. I interrupted him with
fresh arguments and entreaties, to which he seemed at last to submit,
and I was in the firm hope of having conquered his determination, when
we were startled by a sudden and violent noise in the hall.

"It is Thornton," said Glanville, calmly. "I told them not to admit him,
and he is forcing his way."
Scarcely had Sir Reginald said this, before Thornton burst abruptly into
the room.

Although it was scarcely noon, he was more than half intoxicated, and
his eyes swam in his head with a maudlin expression of triumph and
insolence, as he rolled towards us.

"Oh, oh! Sir Reginald," he said, "thought of giving me the slip, eh? Your
d--d servants said you were out; but I soon silenced them. 'Egad I made
them as nimble as cows in a cage--I have not learnt the use of my
fists for nothing.

So, you're going abroad to-morrow; without my leave, too-- pretty good
joke that, indeed. Come, come, my brave fellow, you need not scowl at me
in that way. Why, you look as surly as a butcher's dog with a broken
head."
Glanville, who was lived with ill-suppressed rage, rose haughtily.

"Mr.

Thornton," he said, in a calm voice, although he was trembling in his
extreme passion, from head to foot, "I am not now prepared to submit to
your insolence and intrusion. You will leave this room instantly.
If you have any further demands upon me, I will hear them to-night
at any hour you please to appoint."

"No, no, my fine fellow," said Thornton, with a coarse chuckle; "you
have as much wit as three folks, two fools, and a madman; but you won't
do me, for all that. The instant my back is turned, your's will be turned
too; and by the time I call again, your honour will be half way to
Calais.
But--bless my stars, Mr. Pelham, is that you? I really did not see you
before; I suppose you are not in the secret?"
"I have no secrets from Mr. Pelham," said Glanville; "nor do I care if
you discuss the whole of your nefarious transactions with me in his
presence. Since you doubt my word, it is beneath my dignity to vindicate
it, and your business can as well be dispatched now, as hereafter. You
have heard rightly, that I intend leaving England to-morrow; and now,
Sir, what is your will?"
"By G--d, Sir Reginald Glanville!" exclaimed Thornton, who seemed stung
to the quick by Glanville's contemptuous coldness, "you shall not
leave England without my leave.

Ay, you may frown, but I say you shall not; nay, you shall not budge
a foot from this very room unless I cry, 'Be it so!'"
Glanville could no longer restrain himself. He would have sprung towards
Thornton, but I seized and arrested him. I read, in the malignant
and incensed countenance of his persecutor, all the danger to which
a single imprudence would have exposed him, and I trembled for his
safety.

I whispered, as I forced him again to his seat, "Leave me alone to settle
with this man, and I will endeavour to free you from him." I did
not tarry for his answer; but turning to Thornton, said to him coolly
but civilly: "Sir Reginald Glanville has acquainted me with the nature
of your very extraordinary demands upon him. Did he adopt my advice,
he would immediately place the affair in the hands of his legal
advisers.

His ill health, however, his anxiety to leave England, and his wish to
sacrifice almost every thing to quiet, induce him, rather than
take this alternative, to silence your importunities, by acceding to
claims, however illegal and unjust.
The two
regiments of native infantry were to assemble at the same time, and,
with their English Officers, were ordered to march from their quarters,
taking separate directions: the 45th to proceed into the country,
leaving the fort of Ferozepore on their right, while the 57th were to
march out of cantonments to the left rear of the lines of the European
infantry. The commanding officers of these regiments were also
instructed to keep their men, if possible, well in hand, to allow no
straggling, and to halt in the country until further orders after they
had proceeded three or four miles. The remaining regiment, the 10th
Native Light Cavalry, for some reason or other was considered staunch
(and as events proved, it remained so for a time), and it was therefore
ordained that the troopers should parade mounted and under arms in their
own lines ready for any emergency.

Thus far we learnt from the Major, and Vicars, whose duties as Adjutant
required his presence at the barracks at once, donned his uniform, and,
mounting his horse, rode in all haste to give directions for the general
parade.

Shortly before four o'clock the Major and I also left the house and
joined the regiment, which was drawn up in open column of companies in
front of the lines.

Notice had previously been sent to the married officers in the station
directing them to make immediate arrangements for the transport of their
wives and families to the barracks. This order was obeyed without loss
of time, and before half-past four all the ladies and children in the
cantonment were safe under the protection of our soldiers at the main
guard.

The barracks of the European infantry at Ferozepore were distant half
a mile from the station, and consisted of ten or twelve large detached
buildings, one for each company, arranged in echelon, with some thirty
paces between each. In front of these was the parade-ground where
we were drawn up, and before us an open plain, 300 yards in width,
extending to the entrenched camp, or, as it was generally called, the
fort and arsenal of Ferozepore. The space around the fort was quite
clear, its position being directly opposite the centre of the
cantonment, from which it was separated by some 200 yards.

From our situation on parade we had a direct and unbroken view of
the localities I have endeavoured to describe, and holding this
vantage-ground, we should be enabled to act as circumstances might
require.

The regiment wheeled into line more than 900 strong. One hundred men
under command of a field-officer were then detached, with orders to
disarm the sepoy guard in the fort, and to remain there on duty pending
any attempt which might probably be made by the two native regiments to
gain forcible possession of the arsenal.

The detachment marched off, and we watched our comrades cross the plain,
and enter without molestation the gates of the fort.

In anxious expectation we waited for the result, when, after a short
interval, shots were heard, and we knew that our men had engaged the
sepoy guard. The firing was continuous while it lasted, but soon died
away. A mounted officer then rode out at the gate, and, galloping to
where the Colonel was standing, reported that the sepoys, when ordered
to lay down their arms, refused, and that one of them, taking direct aim
at the Major,[2] shot him in the thigh, leaving a dangerous wound. Our
men then poured a volley into the mutineers, who fired in return, but
fortunately without causing any casualty on our side. Two sepoys had
been killed and several wounded, while the remainder, offering no
further resistance, were disarmed and made prisoners.

Meantime the regiment stood under arms in line, and another company was
sent to reinforce the men in the fort.

Amid great excitement, more especially among the young soldiers, we
waited to see what would follow when the sepoy battalions marching from
cantonments into the country appeared in sight. Eagerly it was whispered
amongst us, "Will the rascals fight, or remain loyal and obedient to the
orders of their officers?"

The evening was drawing on apace, but at last, about six o'clock, the
heads of the columns emerged from the houses and gardens of the station,
the 45th Native Infantry advancing in almost a direct line to the
fort, while the 57th Native Infantry were inclined to their right, and
followed the road leading to the rear of our lines. All eyes were turned
on the former regiment, and its movements were ardently scanned.

Closer and closer they came to the fort, till, when only about fifty
paces distant, the column wavered. We could see the officers rushing
about among their men, and in another instant the whole mass broke
into disorder and ran pell-mell in hundreds towards the ditch which
surrounded the entrenchment.

This was of no depth, with sloping sides, and easy to escalade, and in
less time than I take to write it the sepoys, with a shout, jumped into
the trench, scrambled up the parapet, and disappeared from our sight
into the enclosure.

It was not long before we heard the sound of firing, and shots came in
quick succession, maddening us beyond control, for we thought of our
men, few in number and scattered over the fort, opposed to some five or
six hundred of these savages.

We had loaded with ball-cartridge soon after forming on parade, and the
men now grasped their muskets, and cries and murmurs were heard, "Why
do we not advance?" and all this couched in language more forcible than
polite.

The order at last was given to fix bayonets, and then came the welcome
words:

"The line will advance."

Every heart thrilled with excitement. All longed to have a brush with
the mutineers, and help our comrades in the fort who were fighting
against such odds.

Twenty paces only we advanced, and then, by the Brigadier's command, our
Colonel[3] gave the order to halt.

The men were furious, and could hardly be restrained from marching
forward, when, looking towards the outer side of the fort, we saw some
sepoys on the ramparts, evidently in a state of panic, throw themselves
into the ditch, and mounting the other side, run helterhelterskelter
into the country. These were followed by numbers of others, who all made
off as fast as their legs would carry them, and then we heard a true
British cheer, our men appeared on the walls shooting at the fugitives,
bayonetting and driving them over the glacis.

The fight had continued some twenty minutes, and was pretty severe while
it lasted. A few of our men were more or less hurt, but of the sepoys
many had been killed and wounded. About 100 also had laid down their
arms, and, begging for mercy, were taken prisoners.

Nothing could have been more culpable than the conduct of the Brigadier
in not advancing a portion, at any rate, of my regiment to the fort at
the time the sepoys broke their ranks and entered the entrenchment. Had
he done so, it is probable that not one of the mutineers of the 45th
Native Infantry would have escaped, nor would the havoc which afterwards
occurred in the cantonment have taken place. But he was an old East
India Company's officer, and had served upwards of forty years in the
native army, having to the last, like many others at that eventful time,
implicit confidence in the loyalty of the sepoys. He feared, also, the
responsibility of letting loose the English soldiery to wreak their
vengeance on the mutineers, knowing too well that, with passions roused
and hearts steeled to pity by the murders and outrages committed at
Meerut, and the late wounding of their field-officer, our men would have
given no quarter. The Brigadier was one of the very few officers in high
command at the outbreak of the Mutiny who were found wanting in the time
of trial. His, no doubt, was a hard task; but, had he shown the smallest
aptitude to meet the crisis, there would have been no difficulty, with
the ample means at his disposal, in disarming without bloodshed the
whole native force at Ferozepore, and so crushing the rebellion at that
station.

Night came, and we still remained in line under arms without having
moved a foot from where we were halted. Conjectures were rife as to what
would next happen. Officers and men were grieved, no less than annoyed,
at the state of inaction in which we had been kept, and an uneasy
feeling prevailed that during the night the mutinous sepoys, aided by
the _badmashes_, or bad characters, who swarmed in the bazaars and city
of Ferozepore, would, under cover of the darkness, run riot over the
cantonment, without our being called on to interfere.

And so, unhappily, it came to pass. The native cavalry at about eight
o'clock marched down to our lines, and drew up on the right of the
regiment, the European artillery being on our left flank.

Soon after their arrival the arms were piled and the men fell out of
the ranks, some to lie down on the ground, others forming in groups and
discussing the strange events of the day.

Suddenly a light was seen in the direction of the cantonment, which
quickly turned into a blaze of fire. What new horror was this? Were our
houses to be gutted and burnt before our eyes without any attempt to
prevent such outrage?

The men, at the first appearance of fire, had sprung to their feet and
almost involuntarily seized their arms. Surely a detachment would be
sent to clear the cantonment of the incendiaries? Even this was not
done: the Brigadier was absent, or could not be found, and our Colonel
intimated to some officers who spoke to him on the subject that he could
give no orders without the chief's consent.

So, incredible though it may appear, we stood and watched the fires,
which followed each other in quick succession till the whole cantonment
seemed in a blaze, and the flames, darting up in every direction,
lighted up the surrounding country.

We could hear distinctly the shouts of the scoundrels, and pictured to
ourselves the black wretches holding high carnival among the burning
buildings and laughing at the white soldiers, who, with arms in their
hands, remained motionless in their own lines.

That night more than twenty houses were burnt to the ground. The English
church, we afterwards heard, was first fired, then the Roman Catholic
chapel, our mess-house, and nineteen other bungalows. The sepoys, mostly
of the 45th Native Infantry, attended by dozens of _badmashes_, marched
unchallenged through the station with lighted torches fixed on long
bamboo poles, with which they set fire to the thatched roofs of the
various houses.

All night long we lay by our arms, watching the destruction of our
property, and thankful only that the wives and children of our officers
and men were safe under our care, and not exposed to the fury of the
wretches engaged in their fiendish work.

Even after this long lapse of years, I cannot think of that night
without a feeling of shame. Here were 700 men, mostly veterans, of one
of Her Majesty's regiments, doomed to inaction through the blundering
and stupid perverseness of an old sepoy Brigadier. The same unhappy
events as those I have narrated occurred at the outbreak of the Mutiny
in three other stations in the Bengal Presidency.

The commanders would not act against their trusted sepoys, who, as in
our case, plundered, outraged, and destroyed all and everything that
came in their way.

_May 14_.--The morning of May 14 dawned, close and hot, not a breath of
wind stirring. The sun rose like a ball of fire, and shortly afterwards
we were startled by an explosion which shook the earth under our feet,
and sounded like a heavy peal of thunder in the still morning air.
Looking in the direction of the report, we saw on the far right side
of the cantonment a thick black column of smoke shoot up high into the
atmosphere. A quarter of an hour passed, and then another detonation
similar to the first sounded in our ears on the left rear flank,
followed, as before, by a dense cloud of smoke.

We said to ourselves: "Will the arsenal next be blown up?" In the fort
was stored an immense quantity of powder and munitions of war, and,
fearing that perhaps some rebel might have found his way in for the
purpose of devoting his life to the destruction of the entrenchment and
the annihilation of the European guard, we remained anxiously expectant
for some time.

No cause could be assigned for the explosions we had heard, but we
were informed subsequently that, by the orders of our commander, the
magazines or bells of arms belonging to the two native regiments had
been blown up by a party of sappers in the fear that they might fall
into the hands of the rebellious sepoys. It was a futile precaution, and
a mere waste of ammunition; for nothing could have been easier than to
send the contents of the magazines under our escort to the arsenal.

At eight o'clock we were dismissed to barracks, and left the spot where
we had stood in line inert and inactive since four o'clock the previous
afternoon.

Shortly after breakfast I was sent for by the Colonel to the
orderly-room, and informed that it was the wish of the Brigadier that I
should proceed with my company into the cantonments. I was ordered
to make strict search for, and to take prisoner, any sepoys or bad
characters that might be lurking about; and to this end I was to
patrol the station from one side to the other. I was also to visit
the commissariat quarters, disarm the native guard, using force if
necessary, and secure the treasure chest, which contained some 20,000
rupees.

It struck me that this duty might very well have been performed many
hours before. Why had not a company been detailed to patrol the
cantonment the previous evening, or, at any rate, at the first sign of
incendiarism?

However, I started without delay with ninety Grenadiers, and marched
over a great part of the station, extending the company in skirmishing
order whenever we passed through the numerous large gardens, orchards,
and enclosures.

Not a soul was to be seen, and the place seemed entirely deserted. The
sepoys, after their work of destruction, must have left during the
night, and were now probably well on their way to Delhi, while the
_badmashes_ who had assisted them had returned quietly to their
occupations in the bazaars of the city.

The cantonment presented a complete scene of desolation. The church and
chapel were a heap of burnt-up and smouldering ruins, our mess-house the
same, and numerous bungalows--former residences of the officers--were
still on fire. The heat from the burning embers was intense, and as we
passed slowly by we viewed, with anger in our hearts, the lamentable
results of the timidity and vacillation, the irresolution and culpable
neglect, of one man.

Lastly, we visited the commissariat quarters at the far side of the
station. Here there was no guard, not even a native in charge. Strange
inconsistency! It turned out that, some hours before our arrival, the
sepoy guard, true in this respect to their trust, had procured a cart,
taken the treasure to the fort, there handed it over to the officer at
the gate, and then started for Delhi.

My duty was accomplished, and I marched the Grenadiers back to barracks,
then reported the unsatisfactory result of my mission to the Colonel;
and, thoroughly tired and worn out from want of rest, I threw myself on
a bed and slept soundly for some hours.

We were told that afternoon that the 57th Native Infantry, who had
marched to the rear of our barracks the evening before, had remained
quietly in the country during the night without one sepoy showing any
mutinous disposition. In the early morning, without molesting their
English officers, about half the regiment signified their intention of
marching down-country; while of the rest, some 300 men returned to their
lines at Ferozepore, and on being called upon to do so by the Colonel,
laid down their arms.

It must be recorded to the credit of these regiments that no officer was
hurt by them, or even insulted. The sepoys quietly but firmly announced
that they released themselves from the service of the East India
Company, and were about to become enrolled as subjects of the King of
Delhi. Then, in several instances even saluting their officers and
showing them every mark of respect, they turned their faces to the great
focus of rebellion, to swell the number of those who were about to fight
against us in the Mohammedan capital of Hindostan.

The officers of these two corps were more fortunate than their comrades
of other regiments throughout the land, many of whom were shot down by
their own sepoys in cold blood under circumstances of signal barbarity.
They saw their wives and children murdered before their faces, while
those who escaped the fury of the sepoys wandered in helpless flight
through jungles and plains, suffering incredible privations. Some few
there were who reached a friendly station, or were succoured and hidden
by loyal natives. But the greater number fell by the hands of the
wretches who in these times of outrage and anarchy swarmed out of the
low quarters of the cities, and swept unchecked over the whole country
in hundreds and thousands.

The officers had taken up their quarters in the barracks in one or the
centre buildings, which was reserved entirely for their use. Here we
endeavoured to make ourselves as comfortable as possible under the
circumstances, the large apartment serving at once as mess-house
sitting-room and bedroom for us all. The Colonel alone lived apart,
while the married ladies and their families for the present occupied the
main guard bungalow pending arrangements for more suitable quarters.

The poor ladies, as was natural, were in a state of great agitation, and
would not be comforted. We did our best to quiet their fears, telling
them there was not the slightest danger as regarded their safety; that,
even were we attacked by the rebels, they need have no dread of the
result, for we were more than a match for double our number of sepoys.
Still, it pained us much to see their distress, and we could only be
thankful that, come what might, they were under the protection of
British soldiers.

On the evening of May 14, at sunset, I was sitting smoking and chatting
in the barrack-room with some of our officers when, quite unexpectedly,
I was again called to the orderly-room, and directed to march with the
Grenadier company on outlying picket to the left rear of the cantonment,
and close to the lines of the disarmed sepoys. Two guns of the Light
Field Battery, under a subaltern, were also placed under my orders, and
I took with me a young ensign to assist me in my duties.

The Brigadier said he had received intelligence that an attack by the
mutineers was expected from the direction of Lahore; and I was told to
keep a sharp lookout, in case the enemy made during the night a flank
movement on the station. I was also constantly to patrol the lines of
the native regiments, to confine the sepoys to their huts, and to take
prisoner any who ventured outside.

The short Indian twilight was drawing to a close when I arrived on the
ground, and, without losing time, I drew up the Grenadiers in line, with
the two guns a little in advance and on my left flank.

Two sentries were posted in front of the guns, two on the right and left
of my small detachment, and two in the rear.

The plain extended before us for miles to the horizon, bare and
treeless, without one intervening obstacle.

Evening closed and night came on--a night dark as Erebus, though the
stars shone bright and luminous in the heavens. All nature was silent
as the grave, and, save for the tramp of the sentinels and the marching
away and return of the patrolling parties, for hours we heard no sound.

Before leaving barracks the picket had loaded the guns with grape and
the old Brown Bess (there were no rifles in most of the Indian regiments
in those far-off days) with ball-cartridge. I had also ordered the
men to fix bayonets, and we were thus fully prepared to give a warm
reception to any sepoys who might attack us. The arms were piled, and in
silence we lay on the ground.

Presently, about midnight, one of the sentinels in front of the guns
challenged:

"Who comes there?"

There was no answer, and the cry was repeated, the sentry at the same
moment firing off his musket.

The company sprang to their arms, and I called on the sentries in front
to retreat under cover of the guns. Almost simultaneously, and before
the men could retire, flashes of fire appeared on the plain, and
numerous shots came whistling over our heads, while, clear and distinct,
a cry rang out, and we knew that one of the sentries had been hit. Close
following the first came several straggling shots, but the rascals fired
too high, and we had no casualty. I then ordered the men to fire a
volley, and the artillery officer at the same time swept his front with
grape from the two guns.

After these discharges all was still, and we strained our eyes in the
darkness, but could see nothing. Then, taking with me a sergeant and
four men, I proceeded to where the sentry had made the first challenge.

We found the poor fellow lying face downwards on the ground, and raising
him up, saw that he was quite dead. Slowly and tenderly the body was
borne to the picket, and on examination by the light of a lantern, we
discovered that he had received a bullet over the region of the heart,
and that death, therefore, must have been instantaneous. My heart
sickened at the sight; this was my first contact with the horrors of
war, and the remembrance will remain with me to my dying day.

The other sentinel was then questioned, and from him we learnt that,
peering through the darkness when the challenge was first given, he had
seen figures passing in his front across the plain. Soon they halted and
fired, and then disappeared, probably having lain down to escape being
hit by our men. Hearing this, I sent out a small reconnoitring party,
which patrolled the plain for some distance. They returned with the
news that all was quiet, and no human being was to be seen. Two fresh
sentries were placed in front of the guns, and the men lay down as
before, fully expecting another attack.

_May 15_.--All, however, passed off without further incident, and at
sunrise I marched the picket to barracks and reported myself to the
Brigadier. He made no comment on the events of the night, nor did he
even ask for particulars as to the manner of the soldier's death. The
mutineers, he said, were in scattered detachments still, no doubt
prowling about the outskirts of the cantonment and in the neighbouring
villages, taking advantage of every opportunity to harass and inflict
loss on our soldiers.

From this time forward for nearly a month, with the single exception of
one encounter with a body of mutineers, which I shall relate hereafter,
no event of importance occurred at Ferozepore.

The chief danger had passed from our midst in the flight towards Delhi
of more than half of the two battalions of sepoys, the disarmament of
300 of the 57th, and the imprisonment of those who had been captured
fighting when attempting to take the arsenal.

Everything being thus comparatively peaceful, with no enemy in the
vicinity, the Brigadier at last woke up to a sense of his duty; and
extraordinary measures were taken by his command for the safety of the
cantonments and lines of Ferozepore.

It was ordered that one company should be placed each night on advanced
outlying picket, another on rear picket, and a third to be stationed at
the main guard to furnish sentries as a cordon round the whole extent
of the barracks. Two companies were to remain constantly in the fort in
charge of a senior Captain, so that, out of the ten companies, six were
always on duty.

Under the excitement which first prevailed, and the necessity of being
prepared in case of a night attack from the roving bands of rebellious
soldiery who from all directions were making for the imperial city,
plundering and ravaging on the route, this duty was cheerfully
undertaken. But as time went by, and week succeeded week, without a
shot being fired to relieve the monotony of our lives, the work became
irksome in the extreme.

The regiment therefore fell into a regular groove of guard and picket
duty. We longed to have a fight with the enemy, and still were doomed to
remain in a state of masterly inactivity. At the fort the work was most
trying, and resolved itself into a course of manual labour. There it was
ordered that under the ammunition sheds deep pits were to be dug in the
ground. This duty was performed entirely by the English soldiers, and
continued for a fortnight in the hottest season of the year. In the
receptacles thus formed all the barrels of powder, as well as the small
arms, ammunition, etc., were packed and stowed away, the whole being
covered with earth to the depth of several feet. This was a very needful
expedient, for a stray spark might have blown up the vast stores of
munitions of war, without which it would have been impossible to carry
on future operations against the enemy. No fires for any purpose were
permitted in the fort, and, greatest deprivation of all, the men were
not allowed to smoke during the twenty-four hours they were on guard.

Three or four days after the outbreak, and when everything seemed quiet
in and around the cantonment, two officers and myself, taking with us
some native labourers carrying spades and shovels, proceeded, under
orders from our Colonel, to search for the silver plate buried under
the ruins of our mess-house. We found the brick walls standing; but all
inside the building was one mass of ashes and still-smouldering embers.

We knew the locality of the plate chest, and, setting the coolies to
work, after infinite labour, which lasted some hours, we succeeded in
removing a vast heap of cinders, and found portions of the silver. A
little lower down we came on more; and here were seen spoons melted
almost out of shape by fire. The large silver dishes, plates and
cups--many of the latter of priceless value, for they had been acquired
by the regiment during the Peninsular War--were lying one on top of the
other just as they had been placed in the chest, but all ruined and
disfigured, half melted and blackened from the intense heat.

Close by, where they had fallen off a table, were the four massive
silver candelabra, the gift of distinguished officers who had formerly
served in the corps. These were twisted out of all shape, and beyond
hope of repair, of no value but for the bullion. Other articles there
were, such as snuff-boxes, drinking-horns, and table ornaments; not one
single piece of silver had escaped the action of the fire.

It was a sorry sight to look on the total destruction of our beautiful
mess furniture. Costly goods had been sacrificed which no money could
replace; not one single article belonging to the officers had been
saved.

Gathering together all the silver we could find, and lamenting the
incompetence by which we had lost property amounting in value to £2,000,
we placed everything in a cart and conveyed it to the barracks.

Many months afterwards the Government directed a committee of officers
to value the effects destroyed by the mutineers, to the end that
remuneration might be granted to the regiment for loss sustained. This
committee, after due consideration, placed the estimate at a very low
figure--viz., £1,500. The parsimony of those in power refused us
full payment of this just debt, intimated also that the demand was
exorbitant, and closed all further action in the matter by sending us a
draft on the Treasury for half the amount claimed.

For the first week or ten days after the outbreak at Ferozepore we knew
very little of what was occurring down-country, as well as throughout
the Punjab, the province of the "Five Rivers" to our north. In that
newly-acquired territory there were twenty-six regiments of the native
army, while the Sikhs, the warlike people who inhabited the land, had
met us in deadly conflict only nine years before. From the latter, then,
as well as from the sepoys, there was cause for great anxiety. Every
precaution, therefore, was necessary to guard the Ferozepore Arsenal,
the largest, next to Delhi, in Upper India. The temper of the Sikhs
was uncertain; no one could foretell which side they would take in the
coming struggle. Our Empire in Hindostan--during the month of May more
especially--trembled in the balance. There was infinite cause for alarm
for months afterwards even to the Fall of Delhi; but at no time were we
in such a strait as at that period when the loyalty or defection of the
Sikh regiments and people was an open question.

The genius of Sir John Lawrence, the Chief Commissioner of the Punjab,
warded off the danger. That eminent man, the saviour of India, issued a
proclamation calling on the Sikhs to aid us in our trouble. They came
at once in hundreds--nay, thousands--to enlist on our side. Veterans of
Runjeet Singh's Khalsa army, the men who had withstood us on equal terms
in many sanguinary battles, animated by intense hatred of the Poorbeah
sepoy, enrolled themselves in the ranks of the British army, and fought
faithfully for us to the end of the war. Their help was our safety;
without these soldiers, and the assistance rendered by their chieftains,
Delhi could never have been taken; while, on the other hand, had they
risen and cast in their lot with the mutinous sepoys, no power on earth
could have saved us from total annihilation.

The Sikhs are the beau-ideal of soldiers. Tall and erect in bearing,
wiry and well-knit, and of great muscular development, their whole
appearance stamps them as men who look upon themselves as "lords of the
soil," whom it would be difficult to conquer. And without doubt the
campaigns of 1845-46 and 1848-49 were the hardest in which we had been
engaged in India.

For 100 years they had dominated the land of the Five Rivers. Ever eager
for war, their turbulent spirits gave them no rest. It had been a belief
that they would in the future acquire the sovereignty of Hindostan, and
I know for certain that among the soldiers for many years there had been
a tradition that one day they would sack the imperial city of Delhi.

The latter expectation was in a manner fulfilled; but not as an
independent nation or under their own leaders did they capture and
plunder the Mohammedan capital: they accomplished that feat as loyal
subjects of the British Crown.

Every now and then news reached us of the spread of the Mutiny, till
from Calcutta to Peshawar there were few stations where the native
troops had not joined in the rebellion. Cavalry, infantry, and
artillery, all had risen in revolt. The wave of mutiny was surging to
and fro throughout the land, and as yet little had been done to stem the
tide. True, a small force was being assembled at Umballah, which, under
the Commander-in-Chief, was about to march to Delhi, but of the doings
of that army we could learn no satisfactory tidings.

The closing days of the month of May passed wearily by, and time hung
heavily on our hands. We felt the inevitable reaction from the first few
days of excitement, and also missed the comforts and ease to which we
had been accustomed in former hot seasons. The barracks were close and
stuffy, and the officers, in place of the luxury of their bungalows and
their pleasant mess, had to endure privations of every kind.

Hot winds, parching up the already arid ground, blew fiercely every
day. At sunset the breeze usually died away; and though the temperature
lessened somewhat in degree, we felt a choking sensation from the
effects of the dry, still atmosphere. No officer slept in the
barrack-room; our servants carried the beds outside, and there, lying
down and gasping for breath, we vainly courted the sleep that would not
come.

There was, however, a humorous side to this desolate picture, which
I must now relate, as it shows that, notwithstanding the state of
dejection to which we had been reduced, there still lurked a spirit of
fun and mischief among the officers.

For some time after the revolt we had "night-attacks" on the brain.
Nothing was spoken of but the chance of our lines being assaulted by
wandering bodies of mutinous sepoys. The order-book each evening,
reminding us of the danger, inculcated strict vigilance on picket and
on guard. So long did this last without any attack being made that the
shadowy expectation of what never occurred became our bugbear, a chimera
which haunted us night and day.

At last, in a happy hour, it entered into the mind of one of our young
Lieutenants, an Irishman, imbued with the spirit of fun, and the
jolliest fellow in the regiment, that this illusion under which we were
all labouring might be made the subject for a frolic.

He communicated his ideas to myself and some others of the junior
officers, and it was then and there decided that, as the sepoys would
not attack us, we would create a little excitement and diversion by
playing for the nonce the role of mutineers.

The council of war then agreed unanimously that an assault was to be
made on the remaining officers when asleep outside the barracks, and
that the weapons to be used should be bolsters and pillows.

A certain night was fixed on for the accomplishment of our purpose, and
the signal for the attack was to be given by the originator of the plot,
who would take upon himself to make sure that the enemy were off their
guard, wrapped in the arms of Morpheus.

Everything had been arranged to our satisfaction, and the eventful night
came. At ten o'clock lights were put out, and the assaulting party,
consisting of six stalwart young subalterns, lay down on their beds
outside the barracks, ranged here and there among those who were to play
the part of the enemy, and waited for the signal from our commander.

Our opponents seemed to take an unconscionable long time in going to
sleep, but at length, in the small hours of the morning, when all was
quiet, the "alarm" was sounded in a low whistle.

Jumping up from our beds, each man armed himself with a bolster. In
stern and solemn silence our force was marshalled for the attack, and
then, without any word of warning, each one began belabouring with all
his might the recumbent figures of the foe.

Startled out of their sleep, and in a half-dreamy state of
unconsciousness, it may be imagined with what strange feelings they
received this assault. Some, more especially the older officers (for
in our zeal we spared no one), seemed perfectly bewildered, and in the
midst of the shower of blows which rained on them without intermission
vowed vengeance and threatened to put us under arrest. We answered them
that this was a "night-attack," and they must prepare for defence, as no
quarter would be given.

Even the fat and portly Major, notwithstanding his rank, felt the
strength of our arms, and, almost bereft of breath between each blow,
commanded us to desist. He might as well have spoken to the winds: our
blood was up, and the spirit of fun had taken possession, so that I
verily believe, had the Colonel or Brigadier been lying there, neither
of them would have escaped our onslaught.

The enemy were now fully aroused, and, not relishing the fun of being
buffeted unmercifully in their beds without resistance, they one and all
turned out and, seizing their pillows, joined in the fight. The attack,
begun with tactical judgment, turned now into a confused mêlée. Friend
and foe were mixed up in one grand shindy, and for many minutes the
battle continued without intermission. Blows fell fast and thick; there
was a rushing about of half-clad figures swaying bolsters, and each one
intent on the same object--namely, that of overcoming his antagonist for
the time being. So weird, and yet so utterly ludicrous a sight, surely
never has been seen before or since in India.

At length, from sheer exhaustion, the combat came to an end, and,
sitting on our beds panting from fatigue, and overcome by the heat of
the night, we discussed the incidents of the fight. Some of the senior
officers seemed at first inclined to treat the attack as something more
than a joke, and threatened to report us to the Colonel. We pointed out
to them that such a proceeding would be absurd, for had they not also
compromised themselves by joining in the fray? It was not long, however,
before they were struck with the grand ridiculousness of this very
strange episode; and the question at issue, as may naturally be
supposed, ended in laughter. Peace being restored, we wished each other
good-night, and, thoroughly worn out by our exertions, all slept soundly
till break of day.

The affair was kept quiet as far as possible, but gradually got noised
abroad among other regiments of Her Majesty's infantry. Great amusement
was caused by the recital, nor for a long period afterwards was the
comical "night-attack" at Ferozepore forgotten.

The trial of the sepoys who had been taken prisoners when resisting
the detachment sent to disarm them in the fort, and of those also who
attacked the arsenal on May 13, had been proceeding for some time. It
was a general court-martial composed of thirteen officers, presided over
by a Lieutenant-Colonel. Of the prisoners taken, some 100 were singled
out as the ringleaders, the rest being put back for trial till a future
occasion.

The evidence was most clear as to the heinous offences of mutiny and
rebellion with regard to all these men, and they were accordingly found
guilty. Sentence was at once pronounced on fourteen of the sepoys, and
the punishment was death.

Two men of low caste were to be hanged, while the remaining twelve,
comprising Mohammedans and high-caste Hindoos, were to expiate their
crime by that most awful and ghastly penalty, execution by being blown
to pieces from the mouths of cannons.

This terrible punishment had been but seldom inflicted during British
rule in India, the last instance occurring in 1825, when a native
regiment mutinied and refused to cross the sea to take part in the first
Burmese War.

Neither was it from the English that this special death penalty
originated. It had been for hundreds of years the recognized punishment
for mutiny and rebellion throughout Hindostan, and in numberless cases
was carried out by the Mogul Emperors.

With us at this period it was found necessary to strike terror into the
hearts of the rebels, to prove to them that we were resolved at all
hazards to crush the revolt, and to give warning that to those who were
taken fighting against us no mercy would be shown.

On religious grounds also the infliction of the death penalty by blowing
away mutineers at the mouths of cannons was dreaded both by the Hindoos
and Mohammedans.

The Hindoo, unless the corpse after death is burnt to ashes with all
ceremony, or else consigned to the sacred stream of the Ganges,
cannot partake of the glories of the future state, nor dwell in bliss
everlasting with the gods of his mythology.

So with the Mohammedan, the Koran enjoins that all true believers
must be buried with the body in the natural state, and only those are
exempted who have lost limbs in fighting against the infidel. The joys
of Paradise, where ever-young and beautiful houris minister to the wants
and pleasures of the faithful, were therefore not for those who met
a shameful death and were denied or unable to obtain burial in the
orthodox manner.

Thus, it will be seen, the terrors of future shame and dishonour
resulted to both Hindoo and Mohammedan by the death we were about to
inflict on them; and it was for the awe inspired by the punishment that
the military authorities at this time thought proper to carry it out in
this unaccustomed manner.

_June 13_.--The morning of June 13 was fixed upon for the execution. A
gallows was erected on the plain to the north side of the fort, facing
the native bazaars, and at a distance of some 300 yards. On this two
sepoys were to be hanged, and at the same time their comrades in mutiny
were to be blown away from guns.

We paraded at daylight every man off duty, and, with the band playing,
marched to the place of execution, and drew up in line near the gallows
and opposite the native quarter.

Shortly after our arrival the European Light Field Battery, of six guns,
appeared on the scene, forming up on our left flank, and about twenty
yards in front of the Light Company.

The morning was close and sultry, not a cloud in the sky, and not a
breath of wind stirring; and I confess I felt sick with a suffocating
sense of horror when I reflected on the terrible sight I was about to
witness.

Soon the fourteen mutineers, under a strong escort of our men with fixed
bayonets, were seen moving from the fort. They advanced over the plain
at our rear, and drew up to the left front of, and at right angles to,
the battery of artillery.

I was standing at the extreme right of the line with the Grenadier
Company, and some distance from the guns; but I had provided myself with
a pair of strong glasses, and therefore saw all that followed clearly
and distinctly.

There was no unnecessary delay in the accomplishment of the tragedy. Two
of the wretched creatures were marched off to the gallows, and placed
with ropes round their necks on a raised platform under the beam.

The order was given for the guns to be loaded, and quick as thought the
European artillerymen placed a quarter charge of powder in each piece.
The guns were 9-pounders, the muzzles standing about 3 feet from the
ground.

During these awful preparations, I watched at intervals the faces of the
condemned men, but could detect no traces of fear or agitation in their
demeanour. The twelve stood two deep, six in front and six in the rear,
calm and undismayed, without uttering a word.

An officer came forward, and, by the Brigadier's order, read the
sentence of the court-martial, and at its conclusion the six men in
front, under escort, walked towards the battery.

There was a death-like silence over the scene at this time, and,
overcome with horror, my heart seemed almost to cease beating.

Arrived at the guns, the culprits were handed over to the artillerymen,
who, ready prepared with strong ropes in their hands, seized their
victims. Each of these, standing erect, was bound to a cannon and
tightly secured, with the small of the back covering the muzzle. And
then all at once the silence which reigned around was broken by the
oaths and yells of those about to die. These sounds were not uttered by
men afraid of death, for they showed the most stoical indifference,
but were the long-suppressed utterances of dying souls, who, in the
bitterness of their hearts, cursed those who had been instrumental
in condemning them to this shameful end. They one and all poured out
maledictions on our heads; and in their language, one most rich in
expletives, they exhausted the whole vocabulary.

Meanwhile the gunners stood with lighted port-fires, waiting for the
word of command to fire the guns and launch the sepoys into eternity.

These were still yelling and raining abuse, some even looking over their
shoulders and watching without emotion the port-fires, about to be
applied to the touch-holes, when the word "Fire!" sounded from the
officer in command, and part of the tragedy was at an end.

A thick cloud of smoke issued from the muzzles of the cannons, through
which were distinctly seen by several of us the black heads of the
victims, thrown many feet into the air.

While this tragic drama was enacting, the two sepoys to be hanged were
turned off the platform.

The artillerymen again loaded the guns, the six remaining prisoners,
cursing like their comrades, were bound to them, another discharge, and
then an execution, the like of which I hope never to see again, was
completed.

All this time a sickening, offensive smell pervaded the air, a stench
which only those who have been present at scenes such as these can
realize--the pungent odour of burnt human flesh.

The artillerymen had neglected putting up back-boards to their guns, so
that, horrible to relate, at each discharge the recoil threw back pieces
of burning flesh, bespattering the men and covering them with blood and
calcined remains.

A large concourse of natives from the bazaars and city had assembled in
front of the houses, facing the guns at a distance, as I said before, of
some 300 yards, to watch the execution. At the second discharge of the
cannon, and on looking before me, I noticed the ground torn up and earth
thrown a slight distance into the air more than 200 paces away. Almost
at the same time there was a commotion among the throng in front, some
running to and fro, while others ran off in the direction of the houses.
I called the attention of an officer who was standing by my side to this
strange and unaccountable phenomenon, and said, half joking: "Surely the
scattered limbs of the sepoys have not been carried so far?"

He agreed with me that such was impossible; but how to account for the
sight we had seen was quite beyond our comprehension.

The drama came to an end about six o'clock, and as is usual, even after
a funeral or a military execution, the band struck up an air, and we
marched back to barracks, hoping soon to drive from our minds the
recollection of the awful scenes we had witnessed.

Two or three hours after our return news arrived that one native had
been killed and two wounded among the crowd which had stood in our
front, spectators of the recent execution. How this happened has
never been explained. At this time a "cantonment guard" was mounted,
consisting of a company of European infantry, half a troop of the 10th
Light Cavalry, and four guns, and two of these guns loaded with grape
were kept ready during the night, the horses being harnessed, etc.
Half the cavalry also was held in readiness, saddled; in fact, every
precaution was taken to meet an attack.

As far as I can recollect, there were but two executions by blowing away
from guns on any large scale by us during the Mutiny; one of them that
at Ferozepore.

[Illustration: Plan of the Military Station at FEROZEPORE]


[Footnote 1: Brigadier-General Innes.]

[Footnote 2: Major Redmond.]

[Footnote 3: Colonel William Jones, C.B.]


CHAPTER II

ON THE MARCH

After the excitement of the late executions we were prepared to relapse
into our usual state of inaction and monotony, when, on the morning
of June 13, a courier arrived from Lahore, the headquarters of the
Executive Government of the Punjab. He brought instructions and orders
from Sir John Lawrence to the Brigadier commanding at Ferozepore to the
effect that a wing of Her Majesty's 61st Regiment was to proceed at once
to reinforce the army under Sir Henry Barnard, now besieging the city of
Delhi.

That force, on June 8, had fought an action with the mutineers at
Badli-ki-Serai, four miles from Delhi, driving them from their
entrenched position and capturing thirteen guns. The siege of the
Mohammedan stronghold had begun on the next day, but the small band
of English, Sikhs, and Goorkhas which composed the force was quite
inadequate to the task entrusted to it, and, in truth, could do nothing
but act on the defensive against the horde of rebellious sepoys, who
outnumbered them by four to one.

It may be conceived with what joy the order to advance was received by
the officers and men of my regiment. We had at length a prospect of
entering upon a regular campaign, and the hearts of all of us beat high
at the chance of seeing active service against the enemy.

To the Colonel commanding it was left to select the five companies
composing a wing of the corps to march to Delhi. All, of course, were
eager to go, and we knew there would be heart-burnings and regrets
amongst those left behind.

The following companies were chosen out of the ten: Grenadiers, Nos. 2,
3, 7, and the Light Company. They were the strongest in point of numbers
in the regiment, and with the fewest men in hospital, so that it could
not be said that any favouritism in selection was shown by the Colonel.
The wing numbered, all told, including officers and the band, 450 men--a
timely reinforcement, which, together with the same number of Her
Majesty's 8th Foot from Jullundur, would increase materially the army
before Delhi.

No time was lost in making preparations for the march. Our camp equipage
was ready at hand, a sufficient number of elephants, camels, and oxen
were easily procured from the commissariat authorities, and by eight
o'clock that evening we were on our way.

In those days a European regiment on the line of march in India
presented a striking scene. Each corps had its own quota of
camp-followers, numbering in every instance more than the regiment
itself, so that transport was required for fully 2,000 souls, and often
when moving along the road the baggage-train extended a mile in length.
The camp, when pitched, covered a large area of ground. Everything was
regulated with the utmost order, and the positions of the motley group
were defined to a nicety.

We had been directed to take as small a kit as possible, each officer
being limited to two camels to carry his tent and personal effects. Our
native servants accompanied us on the line of march, and I must here
mention that during the long campaign on which we were about to enter
there was not one single instance of desertion among these faithful and
devoted followers.

Everything being ready, we paraded a little before sunset on the evening
of June 13. The terrible heat which prevailed at this time of the
year prevented us from marching during the day-time. Moreover, it was
necessary to preserve the health of the soldiers at this critical
period, when every European in India was required to make head against
the rebels. So on every occasion when practicable the English regiments
moving over the country marched at night, resting under cover of their
tents during the day.[1]

Shortly after sunset, we bade adieu (an eternal one, alas! for many of
the gallant souls assembled) to the comrades we were leaving behind; the
band struck up, and we set off in high spirits on our long and arduous
march of more than 350 miles.

The night, as usual, was close and sultry, with a slight hot wind
blowing; but the men stepped out briskly, the soldiers of the leading
company presently striking up a well-known song, the chorus of which
was joined in by the men in the rear. We marched slowly, for it was
necessary every now and then to halt so as to allow the long train of
baggage to come up; and it was nearly sunrise before we reached the
first halting-ground. The camp was pitched, and we remained under cover
all day, starting, as before, soon after sunset.

And thus passed the sixteen days which were occupied in reaching Delhi.
Every precaution was taken to prevent surprise, as we were marching,
to all intents and purposes, through an enemy's country, and expected
attacks on our baggage from straggling bodies of mutineers.

_June 18_.--At Loodianah, five marches from Ferozepore, and which we
reached on June 18, we were fortunate enough to find more comfortable
quarters, the men moving into some of the buildings which had formerly
been occupied by Her Majesty's 50th Regiment, the officers living in the
Kacherri.

Here, behind tatties and under punkas, and with iced drinks, we were
able to keep pretty cool; but, sad to say, soon after our arrival in the
station that terrible scourge cholera broke out in our ranks, and in
a few hours six men succumbed to this frightful malady. On every
succeeding day men were attacked and died, so that, unhappily, up to
July 1 we lost in all thirty gallant fellows.

This disease never left us during the entire campaign; upwards of 250
soldiers of my regiment fell victims to the destroyer; nor were we
entirely free from it till the end of the year. Many more were attacked,
who recovered, but were debarred through excessive weakness from serving
in the ranks, and were invalided home.

_June 23_.--On reaching Umballah, we found the station all but deserted,
nearly all the European troops having been sent on to join the Delhi
force. The church had been placed in a state of defence, all its walls
loopholed, and around it had been constructed a work consisting of a
wall and parapet, with towers of brickwork armed with field-pieces _en
barbette_ at the angles.

In it were quartered some of the 1st Bengal Fusiliers, lately brought
down from Dagshai. About ninety of these marched with us to Delhi. Here
also we were joined by four officers of the (late) 57th Native Infantry,
who had received orders to join our wing, eventually to fill up
vacancies in the native corps on reaching the scene of operations. With
these we were in all twenty-four officers--rather a strong complement
even for a whole regiment.

The concluding days of the march were trying in the extreme. Weary and
footsore, and often parched with thirst, we tramped along the hot and
dusty roads, often for miles up to our ankles in deep sand. We were so
tired and overcome with want of rest that many of us actually fell fast
asleep along the road, and would be rudely awakened by falling against
others who were in the same plight as ourselves. At midnight we rested,
when coffee and refreshment were served out to the officers and men. The
halt sounded every hour, and for five minutes we threw ourselves down on
the hard ground or on the hot sand and at once fell asleep, waking up
somewhat restored to continue our toilsome journey.

From Jugraon onward we had rather long marches, and it was considered
advisable to convey the men part of the way in hackeries; the
arrangement being that they should march halfway, then halt for coffee
and refreshment, and afterwards ride the remainder of the distance.

By this means they were kept fresh for the work before them, which, we
had every reason to believe, would be anything but light. At Umballah
I took the opportunity of calling on my friend Mr. George Barnes,
the Commissioner of the Cis-Sutlej States. He had shown me boundless
hospitality, and was like a father to me when I joined my regiment as
a lad at Kussowlie. A man of great intellectual attainments and sound
judgment, he was an honour to the Bengal Civil Service. There was no
officer at that momentous period in whom Sir John Lawrence placed
more confidence. His familiarity with the native character, and the
friendship borne towards him by the Sikh chieftains, enabled him
throughout the Siege of Delhi to keep open communication with the
Punjab, and supply the force with stores, provisions, and ammunition.
He would, without doubt, have risen to the highest honours in his
profession had he not been stricken with a fatal illness in 1859, when
holding the responsible post of Foreign Secretary to the Government of
India.

A few marches from Delhi we passed over the historic field of Paniput,
where three sanguinary battles had been fought in different ages, each
deciding the fate of Hindostan for the time being. More than 100,000
men had been slain in these actions, and we felt we were marching over
ground the dust of which was thickly permeated with the ashes of human
beings.

Here first we heard the sound of distant cannonades, borne thus far to
our ears by the stillness of the night--a sound which told us that our
comrades before Delhi were still holding their position against the
enemy.

At length, on July 1, just as the sun was rising, we emerged from a
forest of trees on to the plain over which the army under Sir Henry
Barnard had moved on June 8 to attack the entrenchments of the mutineers
at Badli-ki-Serai.

_July_ 1.--Eagerly we cast our eyes over the ground to our front, and
with pride in our hearts thought of that gallant little force which had
advanced across this plain on that eventful morn under a terrific fire
from the enemy's guns.

Soon we reached the entrenchments which had been thrown up by the rebels
to bar the progress of our soldiers, and, lying in all directions, we
saw numerous skeletons of men and horses, the bones already bleached to
whiteness from the effects of the burning sun. Dead bodies of camels and
oxen were also strewn about, and the stench was sickening. We were now
about four miles from Delhi, and were met by a squadron of the 6th
Carabineers, sent to escort us into camp. They received us with a shout
of welcome, and, while we halted for a short time, inquiries were made
as to the incidents of the siege.

We learnt that our small army, with the tenacity of a bulldog, was
holding its own on the ridge overlooking the city, that sorties by the
rebels were of almost daily and nightly occurrence, and that the losses
on our side were increasing.

With the Carabineers in our front, the march was continued, the white
tents of the besieging force appearing in sight about eight o'clock.
Then the band struck up "Cheer, boys, cheer!" and, crossing the canal by
a bridge, we entered the camp.

Crowds of soldiers, European as well as native, stalwart Sikhs and
Punjabees, came down to welcome us on our arrival, the road on each side
being lined with swarthy, sun-burnt, and already war-worn men. They
cheered us to the echo, and in their joy rushed amongst our ranks,
shaking hands with both officers and men.

[Illustration: DELHI, FROM THE MOSQUE PICKET.]


[Footnote 1: The heat even under such cover was intense, averaging 115°
Fahr.]


CHAPTER III

BEFORE DELHI

A situation had already been marked out for our encampment, and,
directed by an officer, we passed through the main portion of our
lines, and halted at the bottom of the ridge on the extreme left of our
position. Some time was occupied after the arrival of the baggage in
pitching our camp; but when all was concluded, Vicars and I started on
foot to take our first view of the imperial city.

We walked a short distance to the right, and along the foot of the
ridge, and then ascended, making our way to the celebrated Flagstaff
Tower. We mounted to the top: and shall I ever forget the sight which
met our gaze?

About a mile to our front, and stretching to right and left as far as
the eye could reach, appeared the high walls and the bastions of Delhi.
The intervening space below was covered with a thick forest of trees and
gardens, forming a dense mass of verdure, in the midst of which, and
peeping out here and there in picturesque confusion, were the white
walls and roofs of numerous buildings. Tall and graceful minarets,
Hindoo temples and Mohammedan mosques, symmetrical in shape and gorgeous
in colouring, appeared interspersed in endless numbers among the
densely-packed houses inside the city, their domes and spires shining
with a brilliant radiance, clear-cut against the sky. Above all, in the
far distance towered the Jama Masjid, or Great Mosque, its three huge
domes of pure white marble, with two high minarets, dwarfing into
insignificance the buildings by which it was surrounded--surely, the
noblest work of art ever built by man for the service of the Creator.

To the left could be seen the lofty castellated walls of the Palace of
the Emperors, the former seat of the Great Mogul--that palace in
which at that moment the degenerate descendant of Timour, and last
representative of his race, held his court, and in his pride of heart
fondly hoped that British rule was at an end.

Beyond rose the ancient fortress of Selimgarh, its walls, as well as
those of the palace on the north side, washed by the waters of the
Jumna. A long bridge of boats connected the fort with the opposite bank
of the river, here many hundred yards in width: and over this we could
see, with the aid of glasses, bodies of armed men moving.

It was by this bridge that most of the reinforcements and all the
supplies for the mutineers crossed over to the city. On the very day of
our arrival the mutinous Bareilly Brigade of infantry and artillery,
numbering over 3,000 men, marched across this bridge. Our advanced
picket at the Metcalfe House stables, close to the Jumna, heard
distinctly their bands playing "Cheer, boys, cheer!" the very same tune
with which we had celebrated our entrance into camp that morning.

Few cities in the world have passed through such vicissitudes as Delhi.
Tradition says it was the capital of an empire ages before the great
Macedonian invaded India, and its origin is lost in the mists of
antiquity. Traces there were in every direction, amid the interminable
cluster of ruins and mounds outside the present city, of cities still
more vast, the builders and inhabitants of which lived before the dawn
of history.

Delhi had been taken and sacked times out of number. Its riches were
beyond compare; and for hundreds of years it had been the prey, not only
of every conqueror who invaded India from the north-west, but also of
every race which, during the perpetual wars in Hindostan, happened for
the time to be predominant. Tartars, Turks, Afghans, Persians, Mahrattas
and Rajpoots, each in turn in succeeding ages had been masters of the
city. There had been indiscriminate massacres of the populace, the last
by Nadir Shah, the King of Persia in 1747, when 100,000 souls were put
to death by his order, and booty to a fabulous amount was carried away.
Still, notwithstanding the vicissitudes of fortune through which it had
passed, Delhi was, in 1857, one of the largest, most beautiful, and
certainly the richest city in Hindostan. We knew well that there was
wealth untold within the walls, and our hearts were cheered even at this
time when we thought of the prize-money which would fall to our share at
the capture of the rebellious city.

The walls surrounding Delhi were seven miles in circumference, flanked
at intervals by strong bastions, on which the enemy had mounted the
largest guns and mortars, procured from the arsenal. Munitions of war
they had in abundance--enough to last them, at the present rate of
firing, for nearly three years. Long we gazed, fascinated at the scene
before us. A dead silence had reigned for some time, when we were
awakened from our dreams by the whiz and hissing of a shell fired by the
enemy. It fell close below the tower and burst without doing any harm;
but some jets of smoke appeared on the bastions of the city, and shells
and round-shot fired at the ridge along the crest of which a small body
of our men was moving. The cannonade lasted for some time, our own guns
replying at intervals. We could plainly see the dark forms of the rebel
artillerymen, stripped to the waist, sponging and firing with great
rapidity, their shot being chiefly directed at the three other
buildings on the ridge--namely, the Observatory--the Mosque, as it was
called--and, on the extreme right, Hindoo Rao's house.

From the Flagstaff Tower the ridge trended in a southerly direction
towards those buildings, approaching gradually nearer and nearer to the
city, till at Hindoo Rao's house it was distant about 1,200 yards from
the walls.

To the rear of this ridge, and some distance below, so that all view of
Delhi was quite shut out from it, was the camp of the besieging army,
numbering at this period about 6,000 men. The tents were pitched at
regular intervals behind the ruined houses of the old cantonment, which,
at the outbreak on May 11, had been burnt and destroyed by the sepoys.
A canal which supplied us with water from the Jumna ran round the ridge
past the suburb of Kishenganj into the city, and was crossed by two
bridges, over which communication with the country to the north-west,
and leading to the Punjab, was kept open by the loyal Sikh chieftains
and their retainers.

Our position on the ridge extended about a mile and a half, the right
and left front flanks defended by outlying advanced pickets, which I
shall hereafter describe.

The city walls, as before recorded, were seven miles in circumference,
so that at this time, and, in fact, almost to the end of the siege, we,
with our small force, in a manner only commanded a small part of the
city. The bridge of boats remained to the last in the possession of the
enemy, and was quite out of range even from our advanced approaches,
while to the right and rear of the city the gates gave full ingress to
reinforcing bodies of insurgents from the south, whose entrance we were
unable to prevent.

Our investment, if such it could be called, was therefore only partial,
being confined to that portion of the city extending from the water
battery near Selimgarh Fort to the Ajmir Gate, which was just visible
from the extreme right of the ridge. This part was defended by, I think,
four bastions, named, respectively, the Water, Kashmir, Mori, and Burn.
Three gates besides the Lahore gave egress to the mutineers when making
sorties, the afterwards celebrated Kashmir Gate, the Kabul and the Ajmir
Gates.

The Hindoo Rao's house, on the right of the ridge where it sloped down
into the plain, was the key of our position, and was defended with great
bravery and unflinching tenacity throughout the whole siege by the
Sirmoor battalion of Goorkhas, and portions of the 60th Royal Rifles and
the Guide Corps. Incessant day and night attacks were here made by the
enemy, who knew that, were that position turned, our camp--in fact, our
very existence as a besieging force--would be imperilled.

But no assault, however strong and determined, made any impression on
the men of these gallant regiments, led by Major Reid, the officer
commanding the Sirmoor battalion. They lost in killed and wounded a
number far out of all proportion to that of any other corps before
Delhi, and must in truth be reckoned the heroes of the siege.

The Goorkhas are recruited in the mountain districts of the Himalayas,
in the kingdom of Nepal. They are short and squat in figure, never more
than five feet three inches in height, of dark complexion, with deep-set
eyes and high cheek-bones denoting their affinity to the Turanian race.
Good-humoured and of a cheerful disposition, they have always been great
favourites with the European soldiers, whose ways and peculiarities they
endeavour to imitate to a ludicrous extent. In battle, as I have often
seen them, they seem in their proper element, fierce and courageous,
shrinking from no danger. They carried, besides the musket, a short,
heavy, curved knife called a _kukri_, a formidable weapon of which the
sepoys were in deadly terror. As soldiers they are second to none,
amenable to discipline and docile, but very tigers when roused; they
fought with unflinching spirit during the Mutiny, freely giving up their
lives in the service of their European masters.

And now that I have endeavoured, for the purposes of this narrative, to
explain our position and that of the enemy, I shall proceed to recount,
as far as my recollection serves, the main incidents of the siege, and
more particularly those in which I personally took part.

The camp of my regiment was pitched, as I have said, on the extreme
left of the besieging force, on the rear slope of the ridge. We were
completely hidden from any view of the city, and but for the sound
of the firing close by, which seldom ceased day or night, might have
fancied ourselves far away from Delhi.

Cholera still carried off its victims from our midst, and the very night
of our arrival I performed the melancholy duty of reading the Burial
Service over five gallant fellows of the Grenadier Company who had died
that day from the fell disease.

The heat was insupportable, the thermometer under the shade of my tent
marking 112°F.; and to add to our misery there came upon us a plague
of flies, the like of which I verily believe had not been on the
earth since Moses in that manner brought down the wrath of God on the
Egyptians. They literally darkened the air, descending in myriads and
covering everything in our midst. Foul and loathsome they were, and we
knew that they owed their existence to, and fattened on, the putrid
corpses of dead men and animals which lay rotting and unburied in
every direction. The air was tainted with corruption, and the heat was
intense. Can it, then, be wondered that pestilence increased daily in
the camp, claiming its victims from every regiment, native as well as
European?

About this time many spies were captured and executed; in fact, so many
prisoners were taken by the pickets that it was ordered that for the
future, instead of being sent under escort to the camp for trial, they
should be summarily dealt with by the officers commanding pickets.

On the evening of July 2 I was sent, in command of fifty men, to relieve
the picket at a place called the "Cow House"; this was an outshed
belonging to Sir Theophilus Metcalfe's mansion, burnt by the rebels on
May 11, and midway between that building and the stables, at each of
which were stationed 150 men. At the beginning of the siege our left
advanced flank, on the side of the River Jumna, was exposed to constant
attacks by the enemy, and the three pickets mentioned above had been
since that time stationed at those places. Each communicated with the
other, the one to the right being on a mound near the ruins of the
house, and some 1,200 yards from the city, the cowshed situated midway
between this mound and the river, and, lastly, the stables close to the
banks, all partially hidden from view of the batteries on the walls by
gardens and thick clusters of trees.

I stationed my men at the sheds, and placed double rows of sentries to
my front along the edge of a deep _nallah_, or ravine.

Soon after this that gallant officer, Lieutenant Hodson (on whose memory
lately aspersions have been cast by an author who knows nothing of the
subject on which he has written), rode up to the picket and told me that
a sortie in force was expected that night, and that I was to keep a
sharp lookout to prevent surprise.

Hodson, besides commanding a regiment of native Sikh cavalry of his own
raising, was head of the Intelligence Department. He covered himself
with glory during the siege, was untiring in his exertions and well-nigh
ubiquitous, riding incessantly round the pickets at night, and being
present at most of the engagements. He was a perfect Hindustani scholar,
and it was reported in camp, though with what truth I cannot say, that
he on several occasions entered Delhi in disguise during the siege
to gain information of the enemy's intentions. This may have been
exaggeration, but it is nevertheless certain that, through some source
or other, he made himself well acquainted with the doings and movements
of the mutineers.

Shortly after he left, the field-officer on duty appeared, who ordered
me, in case I should be attacked, to defend my post to the last
extremity, and in no case to fall back, adding that to my picket, and to
those on my right and left, the safety of the camp during the expected
sortie, together with the security of our left flank, was entrusted.

After darkness set in the enemy commenced a furious cannonade in the
direction of the three pickets, round shot whistling through the trees
and shells bursting around us. The din and roar were deafening, but
firing, as they did, at random, little damage was done. Nothing can be
grander than the sight of live shells cleaving the air on a dark night.
They seemed like so many brilliant meteors rushing through the heavens,
or like lightning-flashes during a storm, and this being my first
experience of the sort, no words can paint my awe and admiration.

We naturally expected an attack in force from the insurgents under cover
of the cannonade; but hours passed by in suspense and anxiety, and
none was attempted. The firing was continued all night--sleep being
impossible--and ceased only at daybreak, when the relief arrived, and I
marched the picket back to our camp.

_July 3_.--That day the monsoon--the Indian wet season--set in, and rain
descended in sheets of water for many hours.

In the afternoon it was reported that a large force of mutineers was
moving out of the city by the Kabul and Ajmir Gates into the suburbs
to the right front of our position, and the alarm sounded, most of the
troops in camp turning out and assembling on the road to the rear of
the canal. Here we were halted for some time, it being uncertain what
direction had been taken by the enemy.

At sunset two doolies, escorted by men of the 5th Punjab Cavalry, were
seen on the road coming towards us. They contained the bodies of a
European sergeant and a man of the Road Department, who had been
surprised and cut to pieces by some of the rebel cavalry. The escort
also reported that a body of insurgents numbering many thousand men had
been seen moving towards Alipore, one march in our rear, their object,
it was supposed, being to cut off supplies and intercept treasure.

It being too late to start in pursuit of the enemy, we were dismissed to
our quarters, being warned to hold ourselves in readiness to turn out at
a moment's notice.

_July 4_.--That night the sound of the enemy's guns to our rear was
heard in the camp, and soon after 2 a. m. we paraded, and joined a force
destined to overtake or cut off the mutineers on their return to Delhi.
The little army, consisting of 1,500 men, cavalry, artillery, and
infantry, marched at once towards Alipore. After we had proceeded three
miles, and just at daybreak, news was brought that the enemy, after
plundering the town, were retreating to the city laden with booty.

Major Coke, who was in command, then changed our direction to the left,
and we advanced for about two miles over swampy ground to a canal,
the cavalry being in front, then the infantry, the battery of Horse
Artillery bringing up the rear.

When near the canal, which was shaded on each side by trees, the Major
advanced to reconnoitre, and on his return, the order was given, "Guns
to the front!" The Horse Artillery galloped past us, and we then heard
that the enemy were in sight on the other side of the canal.

Crossing a bridge, and passing through trees and jungle, the whole force
debouched on an open plain, and formed in order of battle. The first
line consisted of the artillery, in the centre, flanked on each side by
the cavalry--cavalry--portions of the 9th Lancers, the Carabineers, and
that fine regiment, the Guide Corps. Coke's Corps of Punjabees and my
regiment formed the second line.

It was a pretty sight to see this miniature army advancing in perfect
order towards the enemy. The plain extended for a mile quite open and
without trees, bounded at that distance by a village, in which the
insurgent guns were posted. Clouds of horsemen, apparently without any
formation, hovered on each side of the village, and a large force of
infantry was standing in line somewhat in advance.

Our guns came into action at a distance of about 1,000 yards from the
village, and were soon answered by those of the enemy, their shot
striking unpleasantly close to our line, and ricochetting over our
heads. Still we advanced, hoping that the rebels would stand till we
came to close quarters. At 500 yards the fire from our artillery seemed
to prove too hot for them; and presently, to our infinite disgust, we
saw their infantry moving off to the left, followed shortly after by the
cavalry. Then their guns ceased firing, and were also quickly withdrawn.

The Carabineers and Guides were sent in pursuit, and cut up some
stragglers; but the insurgents stampeded at a great pace, and succeeded
in carrying off all their guns.

A few sepoys were found hiding in the village huts, and were killed by
our men, the Alipore plunder was recovered, besides some ammunition and
camp equipment, and, rather dissatisfied with the result of the action,
we moved slowly back across the plain.

The regiment was commanded on this occasion by our senior Captain, an
officer of some thirty-five years' service. He was, without exception,
the greatest oddity for a soldier that our army has ever seen. Five feet
two inches in height, with an enormous head, short, hunchback body, long
arms, and thin, shrivelled legs, his whole appearance reminded one
of Dickens' celebrated character Quilp, in the "Old Curiosity Shop."
Entering the service in the "good" old times, when there was no
examination by a medical man, he had, through some back-door influence,
obtained a commission in the army. All his service had been passed
abroad, exchanging from one regiment to another, for it would have been
utterly impossible for him to have retained his commission in England.
Marching, he was unable to keep step with the men, and on horseback he
presented the most ludicrous appearance, being quite unable to ride,
and looking more like a monkey than a human being. On our first advance
across the plain the little Captain was riding in our front, vainly
endeavouring to make his horse move faster, and striking him every now
and then on the flanks with his sword. I was on the right of the line,
and, together with the men, could not keep from laughing, when a friend
of mine--a tall officer of one of the native infantry regiments--rode to
my side and asked me who that was leading the regiment. I answered, "He
is our commanding officer."

The sun shone with intense heat on our march back across the plain, and
the European soldiers began to feel its effects, many being struck down
with apoplexy. About midday the infantry halted at the canal, the guns
and most of the cavalry returning to camp, as it was supposed there
would be no more work for them to do. We lay down in the welcome shade
of the trees on the bank, enjoying our breakfast, which had been brought
to us by our native servants, and, in company with an officer of the 9th
Lancers, I was discussing a bottle of ale, the sweetest draught I think
I have ever tasted. The arms were piled in our front, and at intervals
we watched, as they crossed the canal, a troop of elephants which had
been sent out to bring the sick and wounded into camp.

All at once, from our left front, and without any warning, shots came
whistling through the trees and jungle, and some men lying on the ground
were hit. The regiment at once fell in and changed front to the left,
moving in the direction from which the shots were coming.

Frightened at the sound of the firing, the elephants were seized with a
panic and made off across the canal. Trumpeting, with their trunks high
above their heads, they floundered through the water to the opposite
side, their drivers vainly attempting to stop their flight. We saw them
disappearing through the trees, and learnt afterwards that they never
stopped till close to their own quarters at the camp.

Meanwhile the shots came thick and fast, and we advanced in line till we
came to a comparatively open space, and in sight of the enemy--a large
body of infantry outnumbering us by four to one. They were at no great
distance from us, and a sharp musketry fire was kept up from both sides,
causing heavy losses.

Seeing that no object was to be gained with our small force by
encountering one so vastly superior, Major Coke deemed it prudent to
retire, and retreating firing, we crossed the bridge and lined the bank
on each side.

The enemy followed, their men forming opposite to us and keeping up a
steady fire at a distance of from 100 to 150 yards. I was on the right
of the line with the Grenadiers, when, half an hour later, I was
directed by the Adjutant to march my men to the left of the bridge
to reinforce the Light Company, who were being hard pressed by the
insurgents, some of whom were wading through the canal, with the evident
intention of turning our left flank. We crept along under the bank, and
were received with joy by our comrades, one of them, I well remember,
welcoming us in most forcible language, and intimating that they would
soon have been sent to--if we had not come.

The file-firing here was continuous, a perfect hail of bullets, and it
was dangerous to show one's head over the bank. Shouting and taunting
us, the rebels came up close to the opposite side, and were struck down
in numbers by our men, who rested their muskets on the bank and took
sure aim. Still, the contest was most unequal; the enemy were wading in
force through the water on our left, and the day would have gone hard
with us from their overwhelming numerical superiority, when, just at
this critical moment, the galloping of horses and the noise of wheels
was heard in our rear.

Six Horse Artillery guns, led by Major Tombs--one of the most gallant
officers in camp--came thundering along the road. They passed with
a cheer, crossed the bridge at full speed, wheeled to their left,
unlimbered as quick as lightning, and opened fire on the rebels. Taken
completely by surprise, these made no stand, and fled pell-mell towards
Delhi, leaving altogether 200 dead on the ground.

It was now nearly five o'clock, and we were distant four miles from
camp. Many of our men had died from apoplexy and sunstroke, their faces
turning quite black in a few minutes--a horrible sight. These, with the
killed and the sick and wounded, were placed on the backs of a fresh lot
of elephants, which had just arrived; and, scarcely able to drag one leg
after the other, we turned our faces towards the camp, reaching our own
quarters soon after sunset.

This was a terrible and trying day for all engaged, and more especially
for the European infantry. We had been under arms for seventeen hours,
most of the time exposed to the pitiless rays of an Indian sun, under
fire for a considerable period, and, with the exception of the slight
halt for breakfast, on our feet all the time.

When nearing camp we were met by the General, Sir Henry Barnard, who
addressed us with some kindly words, and little did we think that
that was the last occasion we should see the gallant old soldier. The
following morning he was attacked with cholera, and expired in the
afternoon, deeply regretted by the whole army.

No man could possibly have been placed in a more trying situation than
he who had just given up his life in the service of his country. Called
on to command an army to which was entrusted the safety of British
rule in India, the cares and anxiety of the task, together with his
unremitting attention to his duties and constant exposure to the sun,
made him peculiarly susceptible to the disease from which he died. He
had served with distinction in the Crimean campaign, and had only landed
in India to take command of a division in the April of this year.

_July 5_.--From July 5 to 8 nothing of note occurred. The enemy kept up,
as usual, a constant fire upon the ridge and outlying pickets; but no
attempt at a sortie was made.

I visited the Flagstaff Tower each day when off duty, seemingly never
tired of gazing at the glorious panorama spread out before me, and
watching the batteries delivering their unceasing fire.

With the exception of two 24-pound cannon taken from the enemy, for
which we had no shot, the heaviest guns on the ridge were 18-pounders
and a few small mortars. Having possession of the great arsenal, the
insurgents mounted on the bastions of Delhi 32-and 24-pounder guns and
13-inch mortars, their trained artillerymen acquitting themselves right
valiantly, and making excellent practice. They were almost to a
man killed at their guns during the siege, and towards the end the
difference in firing was fully perceptible, when the infantry filled
their places and worked the guns.

Having no round-shot for the two 24-pounders, we were reduced to firing
back on the city the shot of the same calibre hurled against us, and
a reward of half a rupee per shot was paid by the commissariat to any
camp-follower bringing in the missiles.

On one occasion I saw a party of native servants, carrying on their
heads cooked provisions for the men on picket, wend their way up the
slope from the camp. Two round-shot fired by the enemy struck the top
of the ridge and rolled down the declivity. Here was a prize worth
contending for, and the cooks, depositing the dishes on the ground, ran
in all haste to seize the treasures. I watched the race with interest,
and anticipated some fun, knowing that in their eagerness they would
forget that the shots had not had time to cool. Two men in advance of
the rest picked up the balls, and, uttering a cry, dropped them quickly,
rubbing and blowing their hands. The remainder stood patiently waiting,
and then, after a time, spent evidently in deliberation, two men placed
the shot on their heads, and all in a body moved off towards the
commissariat quarters to receive and divide the reward.

_July 7_.--On the morning of July 7, I accompanied a detachment of 150
men under command of a Captain to relieve the picket at the mound close
to the ruins of Sir Theophilus Metcalfe's house. This mansion, built by
the present baronet's father, was situated about 1,200 yards from the
walls of the city, and surrounded by trees and gardens. At the outbreak
of May 11, it had been plundered and burnt by the mutinous sepoys and
_badmashes_, who also in like manner had destroyed every house belonging
to the Europeans in the suburbs of Delhi and the adjoining cantonment.
Of the murders that then took place I shall have something to say
hereafter, when writing the history of a young school-fellow whose
sister was killed by the insurgents.

From our position on picket we could see a short distance in front, the
ground having been partially cleared of trees and undergrowth. A chain
of double sentries was posted, and the utmost vigilance observed. We
could hear the batteries opening on the ridge, while occasionally, as if
to harass the picket, a 13-inch shell would burst either in our front or
in our rear. The night passed quickly, and at daybreak, when visiting
the sentries, I heard distinctly the bugles of the rebels sounding the
reveille, succeeded by other familiar calls. It seemed strange to hear
our own bugle-calls sounded by men who were now our enemies; and not
only was this the case, but also the insurgents for some time wore the
scarlet uniform of the British soldiers, and invariably to the end of
the war gave the English words of command they had been taught in our
service.

We were relieved from picket on the morning of the 8th, and returned to
our camp, remaining quiet during the day. Executions by hanging took
place every day, but after the first horrible experience nothing would
induce me to be a spectator. The rain, which had begun on the 3rd,
continued almost without intermission, our camp becoming a quagmire, and
the muggy, moist atmosphere increasing the ravages of cholera amongst
our unfortunate soldiers.

_July 9_.--At sunrise on the 9th, a terrific cannonade woke us out of
our sleep; but, the main camp being some distance from the right of the
ridge, we for a long time heard no tidings of what was going on. At 8 a.
m. the bugles of the regiments on the right sounded the alarm, followed
at once by the "assembly."

Some 200 men of my regiment, all that remained off duty, paraded in
front of the tents, and received orders to march to the centre rear of
the camp, in rear of the quarters of the General in command. Here we
were joined by some companies of the 8th Regiment and a battalion of
Sikhs, and, continuing our march, we halted near the tents of Tombs'
battery of Horse Artillery.

Lying around and even among the tent-ropes were dead bodies of the
enemy's cavalry, and a little way beyond, close to the graveyard,
some men of the 75th were firing into the branches of the trees which
surrounded the enclosure. Every now and then the body of a rebel would
fall on the ground at their feet, the soldiers laughing and chatting
together, and making as much sport out of the novel business as though
they were shooting at birds in the branches of a tree.

How the native cavalry came there was at first inexplicable to us; but
we were informed afterwards that a body of irregular horsemen, dressed
in white, the same uniform as that worn by the 9th Irregulars on our
side, had, with the greatest daring, an hour before dashed across the
canal bridge and charged the picket of the Carabineers, making also for
the two guns of Tombs' battery. The former, mostly young soldiers, had
turned and fled, all save their officer and one sergeant, who nobly
stood their ground. Lieutenant Hills, who commanded the two guns on
picket, also alone charged the horsemen, cutting down one or two of the
sowars.

Jonson was both a bold and a crafty man, and it required, perhaps, but
little of his penetration to discover that I was no officer nor informer,
and that my communication had been of a nature likely enough to terminate
in his advantage; there was, therefore, but little need of his courage
in accompanying me to my hotel.

There were a good many foreigners of rank at Mivart's, and the waiters
took my companion for an ambassador at least:--he received their
homage with the mingled dignity and condescension natural to so great a
man.

As the day was now far advanced, I deemed it but hospitable to offer
Mr.

Job Jonson some edible refreshment. With the frankness on which he
so justly valued himself, he accepted my proposal. I ordered some cold
meat, and two bottles of wine; and, mindful of old maxims, deferred
my business till his repast was over. I conversed with him merely upon
ordinary topics, and, at another time, should have been much amused
by the singular mixture of impudence and shrewdness which formed
the stratum of his character.

At length his appetite was satisfied, and one of the bottles emptied;
with the other before him, his body easily reclining on my library chair,
his eyes apparently cast downwards, but ever and anon glancing up at my
countenance with a searching and curious look, Mr. Job Jonson prepared
himself for our conference; accordingly I began.

"You say that you are acquainted with Mr. Dawson; where is he at present?"

"I don't know," answered Jonson, laconically.

"Come," said I, "no trifling--if you do not know, you can learn."
"Possibly I can, in the course of time," rejoined honest Job.

"If you cannot tell me his residence at once," said I, "our conference
is at an end; that is a leading feature in my inquiries."
Jonson paused before he replied--"You have spoken to me frankly, let
us do nothing by halves--tell me, at once, the nature of the service I
can do you, and the amount of my reward, and then you shall have my
answer.

With respect to Dawson, I will confess to you, that I did once know
him well, and that we have done many a mad prank together, which I should
not like the bugaboos and bulkies to know; you will, therefore,
see that I am naturally reluctant to tell you any thing about him,
unless your honour will inform me of the why and the wherefore."

I was somewhat startled by this speech, and by the shrewd, cunning eye
which dwelt upon me, as it was uttered; but, however, I was by no means
sure, that acceding to his proposal would not be my readiest and wisest
way to the object I had in view. Nevertheless, there were some preliminary
questions to be got over first: perhaps Dawson might be too dear a friend
to the candid Job, for the latter to endanger his safety; or perhaps,
(and this was more probable,) Jonson might be perfectly ignorant of
any thing likely to aid me: in this case my communication would
be useless; accordingly I said, after a short consideration--
"Patience, my dear Mr.

Jonson--patience, you shall know all in good time; meanwhile I must--even
for Dawson's sake--question you blindfold. What, now, if your poor
friend Dawson were in imminent danger, and that you might have the
power to save him, would you not do all you could?"It
was a continual rush from one point to another, halting and firing
at intervals, the rebels all the time slowly retreating. Our Horse
Artillery at this juncture could only act on occasions, the ground being
so broken that the guns were often brought to a standstill.

All this time the batteries on the ridge, which from their high position
could see what was going on, sent shells and round-shot at every
opportunity over our heads, dispersing the mutineers when grouped
together in any large number, and dealing death amongst them.

We saw them lying in heaps of twenty and thirty as we advanced, and the
fire was so hot and the practice so excellent that the enemy evacuated
the gardens and fled towards the suburb of Kishenganj.

Here the country was more open, so, re-forming our scattered line,
with skirmishers in advance, we drove the rebels before us, the Horse
Artillery playing on them in the open and bringing down scores.

Crossing the canal (which here barred our progress) by a bridge, we
entered into a wide lane to the left, the high bank of the canal being
on one side and the walls of a large caravanserai on the other.

The insurgents were posted at the far end of the lane, where it opened
out at the gate of the serai, and received us, as we advanced at the
double, with a rattling fire of musketry. Some climbed to the top of the
bank, while others fired down at us from the walls. It was a perfect
_feu d'enfer_, and the loss on our side became so heavy that a temporary
check was the result, and it was only with great trouble that the men
could be urged on.

Seeing a disposition to waver, Colonel W. Jones, the Brigadier under
Chamberlain, with great bravery placed himself in front on foot, and
called on the soldiers, now a confused mass of Sikhs, Goorkhas, and
Europeans, to charge and dislodge the enemy from the end of the lane.
He was answered with a ringing cheer, the men broke into a run, and,
without firing a shot, charged the sepoys, who waited till we were
within fifty yards, and then, as usual, turned and fled.

Some entered the caravanserai by the large gate, which they attempted
to shut; but we were too quick for them, and following close on their
heels, a hard fight began in the enclosure.

Others of the enemy ran onwards in the direction of the city, chased by
portions of our force, who pursued them a long distance, and after a
desperate resistance killed many who in their flight had taken refuge in
the serais and buildings.

The party I was with in the great caravanserai ranged the place like
demons, the English soldiers putting to death every sepoy they could
find. Their aspect was certainly inhuman--eyes flashing with passion and
revenge, faces wet and blackened from powder through biting cartridges;
it would have been useless to attempt to check them in their work of
slaughter.

Twenty or more of the insurgents, flying for life from their pitiless
foe, made for a small building standing in the centre of the serai. They
were followed by our men, who entered after them at the door. The house
had four windows, one on each side, about three feet from the ground,
and I ran to one and looked in.

The wretched fugitives had thrown down their arms and, crouching on the
floor with their backs to the wall, begged with out-stretched hands for
mercy, calling out in their language, "_Dohai! dohai!_" words I
well knew the meaning of, and which I had often heard under similar
circumstances. I knew, however, that no quarter would be given, and in a
short time every rebel lay in the agonies of death.

Most of the force, as I have related, had continued chasing the enemy,
so that for some time we were alone and few in number in the serai.
It was nearly five o'clock, and we thought that, as far as we were
concerned, the action was over.

It was not so, however. Shouts and yells were heard outside, and,
running to see, we found a fresh force of the mutineers assembled
outside the gates. There was nothing for it but to make a rush and fight
our way through; so with fixed bayonets we charged through them, meeting
soon afterwards the remainder of the force on its way back. Joining with
these, we drove the enemy again before us till we came within 700 yards
of the city walls, there losing sight of our foes. Their guns fired
into us, but the insurgent infantry seemed now to have had sufficient
fighting for one day, and not one man was to be seen.

Our work was accomplished, and the order was given to retire. Slowly we
wended our way back to camp, arriving there about sunset, having been
continuously under fire for nearly seven hours.

The losses on this day exceeded that of any since the siege began. Out
of our small force engaged, 221 men were killed and wounded. It was
computed that of the enemy more than 500 were killed, and probably twice
that number wounded, the dead bodies lying thick together at every
stage of our advance, but the wounded men in almost every instance were
carried off by their comrades.

The camp of our regiment on the extreme left of the line having become a
mere swamp and mud hole from the long-continued rain, and also being at
too great a distance from the main body of the army, we were directed to
change to a position close to the banks of the canal, near the General's
headquarters, and on the left of the 8th Regiment. The move was made, I
think, on July 11; and here we remained till the end of the siege.

At about this period, too, I was most agreeably surprised by a visit
from an old school-fellow named C---- d. He had entered the Bengal
Civil Service a few years before, and, at the breaking out of the
disturbances, was Assistant Collector at Goorgaon, seventeen miles from
Delhi. On the death of their mother in Ireland, an only sister, a
young girl of eighteen years of age, came out to India to take up her
residence with him. C---- d escorted his sister to Delhi on May 10, she
having received an invitation to stay with the chaplain and his wife,
who had quarters in the Palace. He returned to Goorgaon, little thinking
he would never see her again.

The next morning, on the arrival of the insurgent cavalry from Meerut,
and the subsequent mutiny of the native infantry regiments and artillery
in the cantonments, the massacre of the Europeans in Delhi began.

I forbear entering into all the details of this dreadful butchery;
suffice it to say that the chaplain, Mr. Jennings, his wife, Miss
C---- d, and nearly all the white people, both in the Palace and the
city, were murdered. The editor of the _Delhi Gazette_ and his family
were tortured to death by having their throats cut with pieces of broken
bottles, but there were conflicting accounts as to how the Jenningses
and Miss C---- d met their end. From what I gathered after the siege from
some Delhi natives, it was reported that the ladies were stripped naked
at the Palace, tied in that condition to the wheels of gun-carriages,
dragged up the "Chandni Chauk," or silver street of Delhi, and there, in
the presence of the King's sons, cut to pieces.

It was not till the following evening, May 12, that C---- d heard of the
Mutiny, and, fearing death from the populace of Goorgaon, who had also
risen in revolt, he disguised himself as best he could and rode off into
the country. After enduring great privations, and the danger of being
taken by predatory bands, he at last reached Meerut, and thence
accompanied the force to Delhi.

From what he hinted, I feel sure he had it on his mind that his sister,
before being murdered, was outraged by the rebels. However this may be,
my old school-fellow had become a changed being. All his passions were
aroused to their fullest extent, and he thought of nothing but revenge.
Armed with sword, revolver, and rifle, he had been present at almost
every engagement with the mutineers since leaving Meerut. He was known
to most of the regiments in camp, and would attach himself to one or
the other on the occasion of a fight, dealing death with his rifle
and giving no quarter. Caring nothing for his own life, so long as he
succeeded in glutting his vengeance on the murderers of his sister, he
exposed himself most recklessly throughout the siege, and never received
a wound.

On the day of the final assault I met him in one of the streets after we
had gained entrance into the city. He shook my hands, saying that he had
put to death all he had come across, not excepting women and children,
and from his excited manner and the appearance of his dress--which was
covered with blood-stains--I quite believe he told me the truth. One
would imagine he must have tired of slaughter during those six days'
fighting in the city, but it was not so. I dined with him at the Palace
the night Delhi was taken, when he told me he intended accompanying
a small force the next morning to attack a village close by. All my
remonstrances at this were of no avail; he vowed to me he would never
stay his hand while he had an opportunity of wreaking his vengeance.
Poor fellow! that was his last fight; advancing in front of the
soldiers, he met his death from a bullet in the heart when assaulting
the village.

There were other officers of the army in camp who had lost wives and
relations at Delhi and Meerut, and who behaved in the same manner as
C---- d. One in particular, whose wife I had known well, was an object of
pity to the whole camp. She was the first woman who was murdered during
the outrage at Meerut, and her death took place under circumstances of
such shocking barbarity that they cannot be recorded in these pages.

Truly these were fearful times, when Christian men and gallant soldiers,
maddened by the foul murder of those nearest and dearest to them,
steeled their hearts to pity and swore vengeance against the murderers.
And much the same feelings, though not to such an extent, pervaded the
breasts of all who were engaged in the suppression of the Mutiny. Every
soldier fighting in our ranks knew that a day of reckoning would come
for the atrocities which had been committed, and with unrelenting spirit
dedicated himself to the accomplishment of that purpose. Moreover, it
was on our part a fight for existence, a war of extermination, in which
no prisoners were taken and no mercy shown--in short, one of the most
cruel and vindictive wars that the world has seen.

From July 10 to 14 there was comparative quiet in the camp; the
cannonade continued on each side, but no sorties were made by the enemy.

_July 12_.--On the morning of the 12th I was detailed for picket duty at
the Sabzi Mandi Gardens, to the right front of Hindoo Rao's house, the
picket consisting of 100 men under the command of a Captain. Since
the opening of the siege this had been the scene of many sanguinary
encounters with the enemy, who put forth all their strength in
endeavours to drive in the picket, and so turn our right flank at Hindoo
Rao's house.

The view at first was almost completely closed in; but by the end of
July the unremitting labours of the Engineers had cleared away the
trees, walls, and buildings in front of the picket for some distance,
and the earth-works connecting it with the ridge at Hindoo Rao's house
were also completed.

I can remember no event of interest as occurring on July 12. Few shots
were fired at us, and on being relieved the next morning we returned to
camp, wondering at the unusual inactivity of the enemy.

_July 14_.--They were, however, only preparing for another sortie on a
grand scale, and on the morning of the 14th the bugles again sounded the
"alarm" and the "assembly." The insurgents poured out of the Kabul and
Lahore Gates in great numbers, making, as usual, for the Sabzi Mandi
Gardens and the right of the ridge. They kept up a constant fire of
musketry and field-artillery; and though our batteries swept their
masses with shell and round-shot, they still continued the attack,
pressing close to the pickets and Hindoo Rao's house.

[Illustration: THE SMALL PICKET, SABZI MANDI, FROM THE SOUTH-EAST.]

Shortly after midday a column of some 1,500 men was assembled to
dislodge and drive them back to the city. We took the road as on the
9th, and soon became engaged with the enemy in the Sabzi Mandi Gardens.
The struggle was long and fierce, a perpetual interchange of musketry
and artillery, our losses, especially in officers, being very severe.
The city batteries also sent grape and canister amongst us from their
large guns and howitzers, inflicting mortal wounds, even at the great
distance of 1,100 yards.

When driving the rebels before us past the suburb of Kishenganj,
Lieutenant Gabbett and I, in the confusion of the rush, became separated
from the few men of our regiment who were engaged on that day, and found
ourselves--we being the only officers present--with about fifty soldiers
of different corps. For more than half an hour we were completely
isolated from the main body, and were occupied in several little fights
on our own account. Advancing, we scarcely knew where, and in our
excitement fully engaged in chasing the foe, we all at once came most
unexpectedly on to a broad road, with open ground on each side. There,
to our front, and scarcely 500 yards distant, we saw a gate with
embattled towers, the high walls of the city, and a bastion. We were
soon descried by the enemy, who depressed their guns and fired at us
with grape, fortunately without hitting any of our party. We were in a
complete dilemma, under fire of the batteries, cut off from our force,
and liable at any moment to be surrounded; so, deeming discretion the
better part of valour, we turned about and ran with all speed to the
rear, coming upon a troop of Horse Artillery, which was halted amongst
some gardens.

Soon the main body of our force returned from the pursuit of the rebels,
whom they had driven to within 600 yards of the city wall; and joining
our own detachment, who had given us up as lost, we returned to camp
about sundown.

Again we had to lament the loss of many fine officers and soldiers.
Nearly 200 men had been killed and wounded--a sad diminution of our
little army, which, had it long continued, would have entirely decimated
the Delhi Field Force. The enemy, however, had suffered most severely,
their loss amounting to quite 1,000 men; and the next morning they were
seen for hours carting the dead bodies into the city. Unusual bravery
was shown by the rebels on this day: they stood fairly in the open, and
also attacked the pickets with great pertinacity, assaulting one called
the "Sammy House" for hours, and leaving eighty dead bodies in its
front, all killed by the infantry of the Guides, who most gallantly held
the picket against overwhelming numbers.

Cholera all this time raged in the force, and carried off its victims
daily, my own regiment and the 8th being the principal sufferers. It was
melancholy to enter the hospital, to see the agony and hear the groans
of the men, many of them with their dying breath lamenting the hard fate
which had stretched them on a sick-bed and prevented them from doing
their duty in the ranks against the enemy. Fever and ague, too, were
very prevalent, and hospital gangrene broke out, which attained such
virulence that many wounded died from its effects; while of amputations,
I believe not one recovered during the whole siege.

We were also in the midst of the Indian monsoon, the most unhealthy
season of the year, when rain descended in torrents almost every day, a
hot, muggy atmosphere increasing the sickness and adding to the eternal
plague of flies, a plague the most nauseating it has ever been my lot to
experience. When off duty, it was the custom of some of the officers
to pass the time fishing in the canal at our rear. Here, seated on
camp-stools brought out by our servants, we amused ourselves for hours,
holding lotteries as to who would catch the first fish, the prize being
a bottle of beer. To see us on these occasions, full of merriment, one
would scarcely have realized the fact that the men employed in this
peaceful occupation were part of an army engaged in almost continual
warfare, and fighting for very existence. Laughter and jokes filled
the air, and chaff reigned supreme; while ever and anon we were rudely
recalled to a sense of the dangers around us by the report of a shell
bursting over the ridge, or the presence of an orderly, who summoned one
of the party to proceed on picket or on some perilous duty at the front.

With regard to provisions, we were plentifully supplied with regular
meals, a sufficiency of good food and drinkables; our lot in this
respect was far more enjoyable than that of the usual run of
campaigners. A large flock of fat sheep accompanied us on the march down
from Ferozepore; and I shall never forget the agony of mind of one of
our gourmands when one day it was reported that the sheep had all been
carried off by the enemy when grazing in the rear of the canal. I had
also purchased 100 dozen of ale at Umballah for the use of the mess, and
this being noised abroad in the camp, we were visited by several thirsty
souls from other regiments, who, less fortunate than ourselves, had
neglected furnishing themselves with this tempting beverage. It was a
pleasure to us to minister to their wants, though I need hardly say that
the stock lasted but a short time, from the numerous calls made on it.

_July 17_.--General Reed, who had taken command of the army on the death
of Sir Henry Barnard, resigned his position on July 17 in consequence
of sickness and the infirmities of old age. He was succeeded by
General Wilson, of the Artillery, an officer who had already greatly
distinguished himself, and under whom the siege was eventually brought
to a successful conclusion.

_July 18_.--For three days after the last sortie the enemy were
singularly quiet, quarrelling amongst themselves, as it was reported,
and disputing as to what portion of their army was to lead the next
sortie. However, on July 18, they again made another attempt upon the
Sabzi Mandi and the ridge at Hindoo Rao's.

The force sent to dislodge them was under command of Colonel Jones, of
the 60th Rifles, who made his arrangements with singular judgment and
tact, and insisted on a regular formation being kept by the troops,
instead of the desultory style of action in vogue during previous
sorties. There was, however, some very hard fighting in the gardens and
serais, where we were received by a storm of bullets; but the men being
persuaded to keep well under cover, the losses were not very serious,
the casualties amounting in all to about ninety officers and men.[2] The
enemy, as usual, suffered severely, more especially from the fire of our
field-guns, which mowed them down when collected in groups of two and
three hundred together.

[Illustration: FROM THE SMALL PICKET, SABZI MANDI, LOOKING TOWARDS
KISHENGANJ.]

I was amused on this day, as well as on previous sorties, by seeing the
eagerness with which the soldiers, European, Sikh, and Goorkha, rifled
the bodies of the slain sepoys. These last had plundered the city
inhabitants of all they could find in money and jewels, and having no
place of safety (from the anarchy which prevailed in Delhi) in which to
deposit their loot, they one and all invariably carried their treasure
about with them, concealed in the kammerbund folds of muslin or linen
rolled round the waist. On the fall of a mutineer, a rush would be made
by the men to secure the coveted loot, a race taking place sometimes
between a European and one of our native soldiers as to who should
first reach the body. The kammerbund was quickly torn off and the money
snatched up, a wrangle often ensuing among the men as to the division of
the booty. In this manner many soldiers succeeded, to my knowledge,
in securing large sums of money; one in particular, a Grenadier of my
regiment, after killing a sepoy, rifled the body, and, returning in
great glee to where I was standing, showed me twenty gold mohurs,
worth £32 sterling. It was a most reprehensible practice, but almost
impossible entirely to prevent, for in the loose order of fighting
which generally prevailed, the men did not break from their ranks to
accomplish their purpose, but often, in isolated groups of two and
three, were separated at times a short distance from the rest of the
combatants.

The General, we heard, was loud in his praise of the manner in which
Colonel Jones conducted the operations on this day; after the action
also, he withdrew his men in perfect order, allowing no straggling--a
great contrast to our former usual style when returning to camp after
the repulse of a sortie.

This was the last action of any consequence fought in the open at the
Sabzi Mandi Gardens. The ground in front of the picket was soon
after cleared, and during future attacks our men remained behind the
breastworks and entrenchments which had been thrown up, and by a steady
fire soon drove back any rebels who were foolhardy enough to come within
range.

It speaks well for the prowess of the mutineers, and proves that we had
no contemptible foe to deal with, that so many sorties and attacks were
made by them during the siege. They amounted in all to thirty-six--all
of these being regularly organized actions and assaults--besides
innumerable others on isolated pickets and advanced posts. They seldom
came to close quarters with our men, and then only when surprised; but
nothing could exceed their persistent courage in fighting almost every
day, and, though beaten on every occasion with frightful loss, returning
over and over again to renew the combat.

_July 19_.--The succeeding days from July 19 to 23 were days of quiet,
with the exception of the usual artillery duel. We took our turn at
picket duty with the other regiments, one day at the Metcalfe house and
stables, and on another at the Sabzi Mandi.

_July 23_.--On the morning of the 23rd the insurgents, for the first
time since the previous month, made a sortie on our left, emerging from
the Kashmir Gate with infantry and field-guns. With the latter they
occupied Ludlow Castle, a ruined house midway between the Flagstaff
Tower and the Kashmir Gate. Then they opened fire on the left of the
ridge, and moving about continually amongst the trees and buildings,
were well sheltered from our batteries, which were unable to make good
practice. The rebels also showed at the Metcalfe picket, attacking at
the same time with their infantry; and becoming emboldened by receiving
no opposition from us, the greater part of their force advanced nearer
and nearer to the ridge, till they were seen distinctly from the Mosque
battery.

To punish their temerity, a force of all arms was sent out from camp
under Brigadier Showers, with the intention of attacking their right
flank. We moved up a deep gorge, and coming on them by surprise, forced
them to remove their guns, which quickly limbered up and made for the
city. There was a great deal of skirmishing in the gardens and ruined
houses before the infantry followed the example of their comrades; but
the fight was not nearly so severe as during the sorties on the right,
nor did the enemy suffer any very great loss. On our side, we had in all
fifty officers and men killed and wounded.[3]

Again for some days the enemy made no movement, and the weather also
holding up for a time, some sport was inaugurated in the camp. The men
might be seen amusing themselves at various games, while the officers
actually got up an impromptu horse-race.

This, however, was not to last long, and on July 31 we were again on the
alert from the report that several thousands of rebels, with thirteen
guns and mortars, were making for the open country to the right rear of
our camp.

A force under Major Coke was sent out to watch their movements, and also
to convoy a large store of treasure and ammunition coming down to us
from the Punjab. The convoy arrived safe on the morning of August 1, and
the rain falling heavily on that day, making the ground impassable for
guns, the insurgent force, which had moved to our rear, broke up their
camp and retired towards Delhi.

The 1st of August was the anniversary of a great Mohammedan festival
called the "Bakra Id," and for some time there had been rumours of a
grand sortie in honour of the event.

Morning and afternoon passed, and we began to think the enemy had given
up their purpose, when about sunset firing began at the right pickets.
The mutineers returning from our rear had met an equal number, which
had sallied from the city, at the suburb of Kishenganj, and the forces,
joining together, moved forward and attacked the whole right of the
ridge and the pickets in that quarter.

Loudly the bugles sounded the alarm all over the camp, and in a very
short time every available man was mustered, and the troops were hurried
forward to reinforce the breastworks at Hindoo Rao's house and on each
side.

"We read in the annals of the Inquisition, of every limb, nerve, sinew
of the victim, being so nicely and accurately strained to their utmost,
that the frame would not bear the additional screwing of a single hair
breadth. Such seemed my state. We came to a small door, at the right
hand; it was the last but one in the passage.

We paused before it.
'Stop,' said I, 'for one moment:' and I was so faint and sick at heart,
that I leaned against the wall to recover myself, before I let him open
the door: when he did, it was a greater relief than I can express,
to see that all was utterly dark.

'Wait, Sir,' said the guide, as he entered; and a sullen noise told me
that he was unbarring the heavy shutter.

"Slowly the grey cold light of the morning broke in: a dark figure was
stretched upon a wretched bed, at the far end of the room. She raised
herself at the sound. She turned her face towards me; I did not fall,
nor faint, nor shriek; I stood motionless, as if fixed into stone;
and yet it was Gertrude upon whom I gazed! Oh, Heaven! who but myself
could have recognized her? Her cheek was as the cheek of the dead--the
hueless skin clung to the bone--the eye was dull and glassy for one
moment, the next it became terribly and preternaturally bright--but not
with the ray of intellect, or consciousness, or recognition.

She looked long and hard at me; a voice, hollow and broken, but which
still penetrated my heart, came forth through the wan lips, that
scarcely moved with the exertion. 'I am very cold,' it said--'but
if I complain, you will beat me.' She fell down again upon the bed, and
hid her face.

"My guide, who was leaning carelessly by the window, turned to me
with a sort of smirk--'This is her way, Sir,' he said; 'her madness is
of a very singular description: we have not, as yet, been able to discover
how far it extends; sometimes she seems conscious of the past, sometimes
utterly oblivious of every thing: for days she is perfectly silent, or,
at least, says nothing more than you have just heard; but, at times, she
raves so violently, that--that--but I never use force where it can
be helped.'

"I looked at the man, but I could not answer, unless I had torn him to
pieces on the spot. I turned away hastily from the room; but I did not
quit the house without Gertrude--I placed her in the carriage, by my
side--notwithstanding all the protestations and fears of the keeper:
these were readily silenced by the sum I gave him; it was large enough to
have liberated half his household. In fact, I gathered from his
conversation, that Tyrrell had spoken of Gertrude as an unhappy
female whom he himself had seduced, and would now be rid of.

I thank you, Pelham, for that frown, but keep your indignation till a
fitter season for it.

"I took my victim, for I then regarded her as such, to a secluded and
lonely spot: I procured for her whatever advice England could afford;
all was in vain. Night and day I was by her side, but she never, for a
moment, seemed to recollect me: yet were there times of fierce and
overpowering delirium, when my name was uttered in the transport of the
most passionate enthusiasm--when my features as absent, though not present,
were recalled and dwelt upon with all the minuteness of the most
faithful detail; and I knelt by her in all those moments, when
no other human being was near, and clasped her wan hand, and wiped
the dew from her forehead, and gazed upon her convulsed and changing
face, and called upon her in a voice which could once have allayed her
wildest emotions; and had the agony of seeing her eye dwell upon
me with the most estranged indifference and the most vehement and
fearful aversion.

But ever and anon, she uttered words which chilled the very marrow of my
bones; words which I would not, dared not believe, had any meaning or
method in their madness--but which entered into my own brain, and preyed
there like the devouring of a fire. There was a truth in those ravings--a
reason in that incoherence--and my cup was not yet full.

"At last, one physician, who appeared to me to have more knowledge than
the rest of the mysterious workings of her dreadful disease, advised
me to take her to the scenes of her first childhood: 'Those scenes,'
said he, justly, 'are in all stages of life, the most fondly
remembered; and I have noted, that in many cases of insanity, places
are easier recalled than persons: perhaps, if we can once awaken
one link in the chain, it will communicate to the rest.'

"I took this advice, and set off to Norfolk. Her early home was not many
miles distant from the churchyard where you once met me, and in that
churchyard her mother was buried.

She had died before Gertrude's flight; the father's death had followed
it: perhaps my sufferings were a just retribution. The house had gone
into other hands, and I had no difficulty in engaging it. Thank Heaven,
I was spared the pain of seeing any of Gertrude's relations.

"It was night when we moved to the house. I had placed within the room
where she used to sleep, all the furniture and books, with which it
appeared, from my inquiries, to have been formerly filled. We laid her
in the bed that had held that faded and altered form, in its freshest
and purest years.

I shrouded myself in one corner of the room, and counted the dull
minutes till the daylight dawned. I pass over the detail of my
recital--the experiment partially succeeded--would to God that it had
not! would that she had gone down to her grave with her dreadful secret
unrevealed! would--but--"
Here Glanville's voice failed him, and there was a brief silence
before he recommenced.

"Gertrude now had many lucid intervals; but these my presence were
always sufficient to change into a delirious raving, even more
incoherent than her insanity had ever yet been.

She would fly from me with the most fearful cries, bury her face in
her hands, and seem like one oppressed and haunted by a supernatural
visitation, as long as I remained in the room; the moment I left her,
she began, though slowly, to recover.

"This was to me the bitterest affliction of all--to be forbidden
to nurse, to cherish, to tend her, was like taking from me my last
hope!

But little can the thoughtless or the worldly dream of the depths of
a real love; I used to wait all day by her door, and it was luxury
enough to me to catch her accents or hear her move, or sigh, or even
weep; and all night, when she could not know of my presence, I used to
lie down by her bedside; and when I sank into a short and convulsed
sleep, I saw her once more, in my brief and fleeting dreams, in all the
devoted love, and glowing beauty, which had once constituted the whole
of my happiness, and my world.

"One day I had been called from my post by her door. They came to me
hastily--she was in strong convulsions. I flew up stairs, and
supported her in my arms till the fits had ceased: we then placed her
in bed; she never rose from it again; but on that bed of death, the words,
as well as the cause, of her former insanity, were explained--the mystery
was unravelled.

"It was a still and breathless night.

The moon, which was at its decrease, came through the half-closed
shutters, and beneath its solemn and eternal light, she yielded
to my entreaties, and revealed all. The man--my friend--Tyrrell--had
polluted her ear with his addresses, and when forbidden the
house, had bribed the woman I had left with her, to convey his letters--she
was discharged--but Tyrrell was no ordinary villain; he entered the
house one evening, when no one but Gertrude was there--Come near me,
Pelham--nearer--bend down your ear--he used force, violence! That night
Gertrude's senses deserted her--you know the rest.

"The moment that I gathered, from Gertrude's broken sentences, their
meaning, that moment the demon entered into my soul. All human
feelings seemed to fly from my heart; it shrunk into one burning, and
thirsty, and fiery want--that was for revenge.

I would have sprung from the bedside, but Gertrude's hand clung to
me, and detained me; the damp, chill grasp, grew colder and colder--it
ceased--the hand fell--I turned--one slight, but awful shudder,
went over that face, made yet more wan, by the light of the waning
and ghastly moon--one convulsion shook the limbs--one murmur passed
the falling and hueless lips. I cannot tell you the rest-- you
know--you can guess it.

"That day week we buried her in the lonely churchyard--where she had,
in her lucid moments, wished to lie--by the side of her mother."

CHAPTER LXXV.

I BREATHED, But not the breath of human life; A serpent round my heart
was wreathed, And stung my very thought to strife.
--The Giaour.

"Thank Heaven, the most painful part of my story is at an end. You will
now be able to account for our meeting in the church-yard at _______.

I secured myself a lodging at a cottage not far from the spot which
held Gertrude's remains. Night after night I wandered to that
lonely place, and longed for a couch beside the sleeper, whom I mourned
in the selfishness of my soul. I prostrated myself on the mound; I
humbled myself to tears. In the overflowing anguish of my heart I
forgot all that had aroused its stormier passions into life.

Revenge, hatred,--all vanished. I lifted up my face to the tender
heavens: I called aloud to the silent and placid air; and when I turned
again to the unconscious mound, I thought of nothing but the sweetness
of our early love and the bitterness of her early death. It was in such
moments that your footstep broke upon my grief: the instant others
had seen me,--other eyes had penetrated the sanctity of my regret,--from
that instant, whatever was more soft and holy in the passions and
darkness of my mind seemed to vanish away like a scroll.

I again returned to the intense and withering remembrance which was
henceforward to make the very key and pivot of my existence. I again
recalled the last night of Gertrude's life; I again shuddered at the
low murmured sounds, whose dreadful sense broke slowly upon my soul.
I again felt the cold-cold, slimy grasp of those wan and dying
fingers; and I again nerved my heart to an iron strength, and vowed
deep, deep-rooted, endless, implacable revenge.

"The morning after the night you saw me, I left my abode. I went to London,
and attempted to methodize my plans of vengeance. The first thing to
discover was Tyrrell's present residence. By accident I heard he was
at Paris, and, within two hours of receiving the intelligence, I set
off for that city. On arriving there, the habits of the gambler soon
discovered him to my search. I saw him one night at a hell. He was
evidently in distressed circumstances, and the fortune of the table
was against him. Unperceived by him, I feasted my eyes on his
changing countenance, as those deadly and wearing transitions of
feeling, only to be produced by the gaming-table, passed over it.
While I gazed upon him, a thought of more exquisite and refined
revenge than had yet occurred to me flashed upon my mind.

Occupied with the ideas it gave rise to, I went into the adjoining
room, which was quite empty. There I seated myself, and endeavoured to
develop more fully the rude and imperfect outline of my scheme.

"The arch tempter favoured me with a trusty coadjutor in my designs.
I was lost in a revery, when I heard myself accosted by name. I looked up,
and beheld a man whom I had often seen with Tyrrell, both at Spa
and (the watering place, where, with Gertrude, I had met Tyrrell).

He was a person of low birth and character; but esteemed, from his love
of coarse humour and vulgar enterprise, a man of infinite parts--a sort
of Yorick-- by the set most congenial to Tyrrell's tastes. By this undue
reputation, and the levelling habit of gaming, to which he was addicted,
he was raised, in certain societies, much above his proper rank: need I
say that this man was Thornton?

I was but slightly acquainted with him; however, he accosted me cordially,
and endeavoured to draw me into conversation.

"'Have you seen Tyrrell?' said he, 'he is at it again; what's bred in
the bone, you know, etc.' I turned pale with the mention of Tyrrell's
name, and replied very laconically, to what purpose I forget.
'Ah! ah!' rejoined Thornton, eying me with an air of impertinent
familiarity, 'I see you have not forgiven him; he played you but a
shabby trick at ______; seduced your mistress, or something of that sort;
he told me all about it: pray, how is the poor girl now?'

"I made no reply; I sank down and gasped for breath. All I had suffered
seemed nothing to the indignity I then endured. She--she--who had once
been my pride--my honour--life--to be thus spoken of--and--. I could not
pursue the idea. I rose hastily, looked at Thornton with a glance which
might have abashed a man less shameless and callous than himself, and
left the room.

"That night, as I tossed restless and feverish on my bed of, thorns,
I saw how useful Thornton might be to me in the prosecution of the
scheme I had entered into; and the next morning I sought him out, and
purchased (no very difficult matter) both his secrecy and his
assistance.

My plan of vengeance, to one who had seen and observed less of the varieties
of human nature than you have done, might seem far-fetched and
unnatural; for while the superficial are ready to allow eccentricity
as natural in the coolness of ordinary life, they never suppose it
can exist in the heat of the passions,--as if, in such moments, anything
was ever considered absurd in the means which was favourable to the end.
Were the secrets of one passionate and irregulated heart laid bare,
there would be more romance in them than in all the fables which we
turn from with incredulity and disdain, as exaggerated and overdrawn.

"Among the thousand schemes for retribution which had chased each
other across my mind, the death of my victim was only the ulterior
object.
Death, indeed--the pang of one moment--appeared to me but very
feeble justice for the life of lingering and restless anguish to
which his treachery had condemned me; but my penance, my doom, I
could have forgiven: it was the fate of a more innocent and injured
being which irritated the sting and fed the venom of my revenge.

That revenge no ordinary punishment could appease. If fanaticism can
only be satisfied by the rack and the flames, you may readily conceive
a like unappeasable fury in a hatred so deadly, so concentrated,
and so just as mine; and if fanaticism persuades itself into a
virtue, so also did my hatred.
"The scheme which I resolved upon was to attach Tyrrell more and
more to the gaming-table, to be present at his infatuation, to feast
my eyes upon the feverish intensity of his suspense; to reduce him,
step by step, to the lowest abyss of poverty; to glut my soul with
the abjectness and humiliation of his penury; to strip him of all
aid, consolation, sympathy, and friendship; to follow him, unseen,
to his wretched and squalid home; to mark the struggles of the
craving nature with the loathing pride; and, finally, to watch the
frame wear, the eye sink, the lip grow livid, and all the terrible
and torturing progress of gnawing want to utter starvation.Nine guns were posted between the bridge and the serai, with four more
in the latter building, all protected by entrenchments with parapets and
embrasures.

The troops crossed the canal by a ford, and formed up in line of battle
on the opposite side, facing the town of Najafgarh, and about 900 yards
from the serai, the infantry in two lines, ourselves and the 1st Bengal
Fusiliers in front, with artillery and cavalry on each flank.

When we were halted, Nicholson came to the front and, addressing the
regiments of European infantry, spoke a few soul-stirring words, calling
on us to reserve our fire till close to the enemy's batteries, and then
to charge with fixed bayonets. He was answered with a cheer, and the
lines advanced across the plain steady and unbroken, as though on
parade.

The enemy had opened fire, and were answered by our guns, the infantry
marching with sloped arms at the quick step till within 100 yards, when
we delivered a volley. Then the war-cry of the British soldiers was
heard, and the two regiments came to the charge, and ran at the double
towards the serai.

Lieutenant Gabbett of my regiment was the first man to reach the
entrenchment, and, passing through an embrasure, received a bayonet
thrust in the left breast, which stretched him on the ground. The men
followed, clearing everything before them, capturing the four guns in
the serai, bayoneting the rebels and firing at those who had taken to
flight at our approach. Then, changing front, the whole force swept
along the entrenchment to the bridge, making a clean sweep of the enemy,
who turned and fled, leaving the remaining nine guns in our hands.

Our Horse Artillery, under Major Tombs--never better served than in this
action--mowed down the fugitives in hundreds, and continued following
and firing on them till darkness set in. The cavalry also--a squadron of
the gallant 9th Lancers, with the Guides and Punjabees--did their share
of work, while the European infantry were nobly supported by the corps
of Punjab Rifles, who cleared the town of the sepoys.

The battle had lasted a very short time, and after dark we bivouacked on
the wet ground in the pouring rain, completely exhausted from our long
march and subsequent fighting, and faint from want of food, none of
which passed our lips for more than sixteen hours.

[Illustration: NOTE.--MAJOR RAINBY COMMANDED THE 61ST REGIMENT IN THIS
ENGAGEMENT.]

[From Lord Roberts' "Forty-one Years in India." By kind permission.]

Still, the day's work was not over. A village to the rear was found to
be occupied by the enemy, and the Punjab Rifles were ordered to take
it. They met with a most obstinate resistance, their young commander,
Lumsden, being killed. The General then sent part of my regiment to
dislodge the rebels, but we met with only partial success, and had one
officer, named Elkington, mortally wounded, the enemy evacuating the
place during the night.

We passed the night of the 25th in the greatest discomfort. Hungry and
wet through, we lay on the ground, snatching sleep at intervals. Poor
Gabbett died of internal haemorrhage soon after he received his wound,
and his death deprived the regiment of one of its best and bravest
officers, and me of a true friend. He had shared my tent on the march
down and during the whole campaign, a cheery, good-hearted fellow, and
one who had earned the respect of officers and the love of his men. The
General was particularly struck with his bravery, and with feeling heart
wrote a letter to Gabbett's mother, saying he would have recommended her
son for the Victoria Cross had he survived the action.

Young Elkington also received his death-wound at the night-attack on the
village. He was quite a stripling, being only eighteen years old, and
had joined the regiment but a few months before. His was one of those
strange cases of a presentiment of death, many of which have been well
authenticated in our army. On looking over his effects, it was found
that he had written letters to his nearest relations on the night before
marching to Najafgarh; and he had also carefully made up small parcels
of his valuables and trinkets, with directions on them to whom they were
to be delivered in case of his being killed next day. It was noticed,
too, that he was unusually quiet and reserved, never speaking a word
to anyone on the march, though when the action began he behaved like a
gallant soldier, giving up his young life in the service of his country.

_August_ 26.--On the morning of August 26 we marched back to camp,
arriving there before sundown, and were played in by the bands of the
two regiments, while many soldiers, native as well as European, lined
the road and gave us a hearty cheer.

Our casualties at the action of Najafgarh amounted to twenty-five
officers and men killed and seventy wounded. The enemy left great
numbers of dead in the entrenchments and on the plain, their loss being
computed at 500 killed and wounded; but this, I fancy, is much below
the mark, for our artillery fire was very destructive, and the cavalry
committed great havoc amongst the host of fugitives. The battle of the
25th was the most brilliant and decisive since that of Badli-ki-Serai on
June 8. All the guns, thirteen in number, were captured, and the enemy's
camp, ammunition, stores, camels and bullocks were taken. Would that
we had met the insurgents oftener in the open in this manner! But the
rascals were too wary, and had too great a dread of our troops to face
them in a pitched encounter.

During the absence of Nicholson's small force the enemy had attacked all
the pickets, and kept up a heavy cannonade from the walls, causing us a
loss of thirty-five men. It was their impression that the camp had been
left almost bare and defenceless by the withdrawal of so large a force;
but they were quickly undeceived, and were met at each point of assault
by a galling fire from our men.

For many nights after August 26 our right pickets were constantly
harassed by the rebels, who also shelled Hindoo Rao's house from the
city and Kishenganj batteries. Our sappers, too, found it not only
difficult, but dangerous, to work in the advanced trenches below the
ridge, being always met by a murderous musketry from the enemy's
sharpshooters, who fired down behind breastworks. It was resolved,
therefore, on August 30, to drive them out from their cover, and on
two or more occasions this was performed by the Goorkhas and the 60th
Rifles, who, as usual, fighting together and supporting each other, took
the breastworks in gallant style. Our Engineers were then enabled
to continue their operations in the trenches preparatory to making
approaches towards the city walls, and constructing the batteries for
the siege-train, now daily expected.

The Flagstaff Tower, as I have already mentioned in a former part of my
narrative, was the chief rendezvous of officers when not on duty. About
this time I went to the top of the tower in company with one of my
regiment, when an amusing incident occurred.

We were watching the batteries playing on each side, when a tall Afghan,
armed to the teeth, appeared at the top of the steps, and was about to
set foot on the enclosed space under the flagstaff. A sentry was always
stationed there, and on this occasion it happened to be a sturdy little
Goorkha, one of the Kumaon battalion. On the approach of the Afghan he
immediately came to the charge, and warned him that none but European
officers were allowed on the top of the tower. The Afghan laughed,
and then, looking with contempt at the diminutive sentry, a dwarf in
comparison with himself, he attempted to push aside the bayonet. Losing
all patience, the Goorkha at this threw down his musket, and drawing his
_kukri_, the favourite weapon of his race, he rushed at the Afghan with
up-lifted blade. This was too much for our valiant hero, who quickly
turned tail, and disappeared down the circular staircase, the Goorkha
following him at a short distance. On his return he picked up the
musket, and seeing us laughing, the frown on his face turned into the
most ludicrous expression of good-humour I had ever seen, and he burst
out into a fit of laughter which lasted some minutes. He told us that he
and the other Goorkhas of his regiment thought nothing of the bravery of
the Afghan soldiers, some 100 of whom were on our side at Delhi; and he
spoke truly.

These men, all cavalry, superbly mounted, dressed in chain armour, and
carrying arms of every description, had been sent down ostensibly as a
reinforcement to us by their Ameer, Dost Mohammed Khan of Kabul, but
really as spies to watch our movements, and report the state of affairs
to their chief. They made a great display about the camp, but I never
heard of their meeting the enemy in action during their stay before
Delhi.

The last two days of August we had several men killed and wounded in the
force, and one of our officers, who shared my tent after poor Gabbett's
death, received a severe contusion from the bursting of a shell.

Nearly three months had now elapsed since the Siege of Delhi began. We
were, to all appearance, no nearer to the desired end, and had scarcely
gained one foot of ground nearer to the walls of the city. Moreover,
there was alarm in the Punjab owing to a reported disaffection among the
Sikh population, who, it is said, were beginning openly to assert that
the British army was unable to take Delhi. To check this feeling, the
Chief Commissioner had urged General Wilson to lose no time in making
preparations for the assault of the city; and thus our expectations beat
high at the near approach of the powerful siege-train on its way down
from Ferozepore, though we knew there were still before us trials and
dangers to which our former experiences would be as nothing.

The weather had now somewhat cleared, but the heat was overpowering,
averaging 98° in the shade of my tent every day. Cholera, too, raged as
before, the principal sufferers being ourselves, and the 8th and 52nd
Regiments. To cheer the soldiers, the bands played in camp of an
evening, while some officers and men engaged in sport of various kinds;
but the angel of Death was hovering over my poor regiment, and few of
us had the heart to join in pastime while our comrades lay stricken and
dying of disease in hospital.

_September 1_.--A portion of my corps was on duty at the Metcalfe
stable picket on September 1, when a lamentable loss was experienced,
unparalleled in the annals of the siege. The enemy's battery across the
river had never ceased shelling these pickets, though up to this day it
had not caused much damage to the defenders.

Shortly after sunrise the men were assembled outside, receiving their
grog, which was served out to them every morning at an early hour. Some
100 men and officers, beside Sikhs and native attendants, were grouped
around, when a loud hissing sound was heard, and a shrapnel shell, fired
from the enemy's battery at the long range of 2,000 yards, exploded a
few feet in front.

The bullets scattered around, and the scene which followed it is almost
impossible for me to depict. Many threw themselves flat on the ground,
falling one on top of the other, while groans and cries were heard. One
soldier fell mortally wounded by my side, and on looking around to
count up our losses, we found that two of my regiment had been killed
outright, besides six others severely wounded. Two Sikhs and a _bhisti_,
or water-carrier, also met their death, and two doolie-bearers were
wounded--thirteen men in all.

One very stout old officer was in the act of having his morning bath
when the shell exploded, the _bhisti_ standing at his side and pouring
over him, when squatted on a tent-mallet, his _massuck_ of water.
He rolled over and over on the ground, presenting such a ludicrous
appearance in his wet, nude state, and covered with earth, that,
notwithstanding the awful surroundings of the scene, I and others could
not forbear laughing. The shot had been quite a chance one, but it
proved how deadly was the effect of a shrapnel shell exploding, as this
had done, only a few feet in front of a large body of men.

_September 2 and 3_.--The batteries continued exchanging shots during
September 2 and 3, but there were no attacks of any consequence on the
pickets, and we had on those days only three men wounded on the right of
our position.

On the morning of the 4th the long-looked-for siege-train reached camp.
It consisted of twenty-four heavy guns and mortars, and a plentiful
supply of ammunition and stores. Reinforcements also reached us,
amounting to about 400 European infantry and the Belooch battalion, the
last a most savage-looking lot of men, who, however, did good service,
and fought well. Besides these, a party of Sikh horsemen, in the service
of the Rajah of Jhind--a noble-looking man, who, with his retainers,
had kept open our communications with the Punjab during the whole
siege--joined the army, begging as a favour that they might join in the
dangers of the coming assault on the city.

_September 7_.--September 7 also saw the arrival of Wilde's regiment of
Punjabis, 700 strong, followed the same day by the Kashmir contingent
of 2,200 men and four guns, sent to our assistance by the ruler of that
country.

I was sitting in my tent with the bandmaster of my regiment, a German
named Sauer, when we were saluted with the sound of distant music, the
most discordant I have ever heard. The bandmaster jumped up from his
seat, exclaiming: "Mein Gott! vat is dat? No regiment in camp can play
such vile music," and closing his ears immediately, rushed out of the
tent.

The Kashmir troops were marching into camp, accompanied by General
Wilson and his staff, who had gone out to meet them, their bands playing
some English air, drums beating, and colours flying. There was no fault
to be found in the appearance of the soldiers, who were mostly Sikhs and
hill men of good physique; but their ludicrous style of marching, the
strange outlandish uniform of the men, and the shrill discord of their
bands, created great amusement among the assembled Europeans, who had
never seen such a travesty on soldiers before. They encamped on our
right flank; but were not employed on active service till the day of
assault, on September 14.

On the arrival of the siege-train, no time was lost in making approaches
and parallels, and erecting batteries for the bombardment of Delhi. The
trench-work had already been begun, and what with covering and working
parties, both of European and native soldiers, and the usual picket
duties, the greater part of the army was continually employed in this
arduous work every night and a portion of each day. Nothing could
surpass the zeal and willing aptitude of the men, who laboured
unceasingly digging trenches and filling sand-bags, all the time, and
more especially at night, exposed to a galling fire of musketry and
shells.

The Engineers, under their able leaders, were unremitting in their
duties; and the young officers of that corps covered themselves with
glory both in these preliminary operations and at the actual assault.

No. 1 Battery, to our right front, consisting of ten heavy guns and
mortars, was traced, on the evening of September 7, about 700 yards from
the Mori bastion. No. 2, to the left front, near Ludlow Castle, and
only 600 yards from the walls, was completed on the 10th, and contained
nineteen pieces of artillery.

No. 4, for ten heavy mortars, and near No. 2, at the Koodsia Bagh, was
completed in front of the Kashmir bastion also on that day. And, lastly,
No. 3, on the extreme left, with six guns at the short distance of 180
yards from the Water bastion, was unmasked behind the Custom-House,
which was blown up after the completion of the battery.

Thus, in four days and nights, after incredible exertions on the part of
the working parties, forty-five heavy guns and mortars were in position,
strongly entrenched, and ready to silence the fire from the enemy's
bastions and to make breaches in the walls for the assaulting columns.

The rebels during all this time plied the covering and working parties
with shot and shell, bringing out field-guns, which enfiladed the Ludlow
Castle and Koodsia Bagh batteries, and keeping up a sharp musketry fire
from an advanced trench they had dug in front of the walls. At the two
latter places, where the men of my regiment were employed, the fire was
very galling at times, the guns from the distant Selimgarh Fort, Water,
and Kashmir bastions all concentrating their shots at those batteries
whilst in process of erection.

The nights, fortunately, were clear, and we had plenty of light to
assist us in our work; the men were cheerful and active, never resting
for a moment in their labours, and receiving in the Field Force orders
the praise of the General in command.

We wondered how it was that the enemy allowed us to occupy the advanced
positions at Ludlow Castle and the Koodsia Bagh without even so much
as a struggle; but it was accounted for by the supposition that they
imagined our attack would be made from the right of our position, where
all the great conflicts had taken place. There they were in strength,
and it was our weakest point; whereas, on the side near the Jumna, we
were protected from being turned by having the river on our flank,
better cover for operations, and, moreover, batteries to silence which
were less powerful and more difficult of concentration than those
which faced us on our right from the city walls and from the suburb of
Kishenganj.


[Footnote 1: White people.]

[Footnote 2: Lieutenant Pattoun was wounded in the ankle on this
occasion, and a sergeant of the 61st was shot through the head.]

[Footnote 3: Colonel Seton, 35th Native Infantry, was wounded in the
stomach in this affair.]

[Footnote 4: One man of the 61st Regiment was killed by a round-shot,
which in its course also knocked over some sandbags which sent
Lieutenant Hutton flying about seven feet.]

[Footnote 5: Lieutenant Yonge.]

[Footnote 6: On August 7 they blew up one of their own powder factories,
and with it a number of workmen.]


CHAPTER IV

CAPTURE OF THE CITY

The actual Siege of Delhi may be said to have commenced on September 7,
1857. All reinforcements that could possibly arrive had reached us with
the siege-train, and the effective force now available for operations
before Delhi consisted of the following troops:

  European artillery     580
  "  cavalry             514
  "  infantry          2,672
 -----
  3,766

  Native artillery       770
  " cavalry            1,313
  " infantry           3,417
  Engineers, sappers, miners, etc.  722
 -----
  6,222
 -----

  Grand total          9,988

To the above must be added the Kashmir contingent of 2,200 men, with
four guns, and the cavalry of the Jhind Rajah, perhaps 400 more, making
the full amount of troops employed at the siege 12,588.

The seven regiments of European infantry were sadly reduced in numbers,
being mere skeletons, the strongest mustering 409 effective rank and
file, and the weakest only 242. There were also nearly 3,000 men in
hospital, Europeans and natives.

From the most reliable sources the enemy at this period numbered
40,000 men, all trained soldiers of the former regular army, besides
undisciplined armed hordes of fanatics and rabble of the city and
surrounding country--a formidable disproportion to our scanty force when
it is recollected that they were protected by strong fortifications
mounting upwards of fifty guns, with an unlimited supply of artillery
and munitions of war, and that with their vast numbers they had ample
opportunities of harassing our right flank and rear and cutting off
communications up-country.

Nevertheless, political considerations demanded that we should take the
offensive and deal such a blow as would convince the rebels, as well
as those whose loyalty was wavering, that the British arms were
irresistible. Moreover, there was no likelihood of our force being
increased. So on September 7 General Wilson issued the following address
to his troops:

"The force assembled before Delhi has had much hardship to undergo since
its arrival in this camp, all of which has been most cheerfully borne by
officers and men. The time is now drawing near when the Major-General
commanding the force trusts that its labours will be over, and it will
be rewarded by the capture of the city for all its past exertions, and
for a cheerful endurance of still greater fatigue and exposure. The
troops will be required to aid and assist the Engineers in the erection
of the batteries and trenches, and in daily exposure to the sun, as
covering parties.

"The artillery will have even harder work than they yet have had,
and which they have so well and cheerfully performed hitherto: this,
however, will be for a short period only, and when ordered to the
assault, the Major-General feels assured British pluck and determination
will carry everything before them, and that the bloodthirsty and
murderous mutineers against whom they are fighting will be driven
headlong out of their stronghold, or be exterminated. But to enable
them to do this, he warns the troops of the absolute necessity of their
keeping together, and not straggling from their columns. By this can
success only be secured.

"Major-General Wilson need hardly remind the troops of the cruel murders
committed on their officers and comrades, as well as their wives and
children, to move them in the deadly struggle. No quarter should be
given to the mutineers; at the same time, for the sake of humanity and
the honour of the country they belong to, he calls upon them to spare
all women and children that may come in their way.

"It is so imperative, not only for their safety, but for the success of
the assault, that men should not straggle from their column that the
Major-General feels it his duty to direct all commanding officers to
impress this strictly upon their men, and he is confident that after
this warning the men's good sense and discipline will induce them to
obey their officers and keep steady to their duty. It is to be explained
to every regiment that indiscriminate plunder will not be allowed; that
prize agents have been appointed, by whom all captured property will
be collected and sold, to be divided, according to the rules and
regulations on this head, fairly among all men engaged; and that any
man found guilty of having concealed captured property will be made to
restore it, and will forfeit all claims to the general prize; he will
also be likely to be made over to the Provost-Marshal to be summarily
dealt with.

"The Major-General calls upon the officers of the force to lend their
zealous and efficient co-operation in the erection of the works of the
siege now about to be commenced. He looks especially to the regimental
officers of all grades to impress upon their men that to work in the
trenches during a siege is as necessary and honourable as to fight in
the ranks during a battle.

"He will hold all officers responsible for their utmost being done to
carry out the directions of the Engineers, and he confidently trusts
that all will exhibit a healthy and hearty spirit of emulation and zeal,
from which he has no doubt that the happiest results will follow in the
brilliant termination of all their labours."

_September 7_.--From the night of September 7 to the day of assault
all the artillerymen in the force, European as well as native, were
constantly employed in the batteries and trenches. Day and night
officers and men worked with unflagging energy in the advanced
batteries, with no relief and no cessation from their toil. Few in
number, worn out by the excessive fatigues of a three months' campaign,
and enervated by continuous work in the deadliest season of the year,
these gallant European artillerymen earned during those last days of the
siege, by their zeal and devotion, the heartfelt thanks of the whole
army. The old Bengal Artillery have a splendid roll of services,
extending for upwards of 100 years; still, in the annals of that
distinguished regiment there is no brighter record than their
achievements before Delhi in 1857. The corps has been merged into the
Royal Artillery, but the ancient name still lives in the memory of those
who were witnesses of their deeds, and their imperishable renown adds
greater lustre to the proud motto, _Ubique_, borne by the regiment to
which they are affiliated.

Many officers and men of the cavalry and infantry volunteered for
service in the batteries when called on by the General. They acquitted
themselves well, were of great use to the gunners in lightening the
arduous duties, and were complimented in orders for the valuable aid
they had afforded to their companions in arms.[1]

_September 11_.--The advanced batteries were all completed by the
evening of September 11, when the actual bombardment of the city began.
For three days and nights previous No. 1 Battery, on the extreme right,
was severely pounded from the Mori bastion and Kishenganj, but when the
guns got into full play the fire from the former grew gradually weaker
and weaker, till it was completely overpowered. Nos. 2 and 4 Batteries,
being nearer to the walls, suffered much from the enemy, and the losses
were very severe both among the artillery and the covering and working
bodies of infantry.

_September 11_.--At length, on September 11, the whole of our batteries
opened fire simultaneously on the city bastions and walls. The Kashmir
bastion was soon silenced, the ramparts and adjacent curtains knocked to
fragments, and a large breach opened in the walls. On the extreme left,
at the Custom-House, our battery, as before related, was only 180 yards
from the city, and the crushing fire from this, when in full play,
smashed to pieces the Water bastion, overturned the guns, and made a
breach in the curtain so wide and practicable that it could be ascended
with ease.

Fifty guns and mortars were now pouring shot and shell without a
moment's interval on the doomed city. The din and roar were deafening;
day and night salvos of artillery were heard, roll following roll in
endless succession, and striking terror in the hearts of those who knew
and felt that the day of retribution was at hand.

Still, though their batteries on the bastions had been wellnigh
silenced, the rebels stuck well to their field-guns in the open space
before the walls; they sent a storm of rockets from one of the martello
towers, and fired a stream of musketry from the ramparts and advanced
trenches. Kishenganj, too, made its voice heard, harassing our right and
sweeping the Sabzi Mandi and Hindoo Rao's with its incessant fire.

During the bombardment our casualties amounted to nearly 350 men,
the enemy causing great loss at No. 2 Battery through the fire of a
3-pounder served from a hole broken in the curtain-wall. This gun was
admirably directed, and could not be silenced notwithstanding all our
efforts. One officer, looking over the parapet to see the effect of his
fire, was struck by a shot from the "hole in the wall," his head being
taken completely off, the mutilated trunk falling back amongst the men
at the guns--a ghastly and terrible sight, which filled us who were
present with horror.

During the whole of the bombardment portions of my regiment were on duty
in the batteries and trenches, working at the repair of the parapets and
embrasures occasionally damaged by the enemy's shot, and also taking
their share of duty with the advanced and covering parties. These were
harassing and dangerous services, involving great vigilance. We
were almost always under fire from the enemy; but with the utmost
cheerfulness, and even, I may say, good-humour, the whole of the
infantry did all in their power to lighten the work of the overtasked
artillerymen: comrades we were, all striving for the accomplishment of
one purpose--that of bringing swift and sure destruction on the rebels
who had for so long a period successfully resisted our arms. So cool and
collected had the men become that even in the midst of fire from the
advanced trenches, and while keeping up on our side a brisk fusillade,
the soldiers smoked their pipes, rude jokes were bandied from one to the
other, and laughter was heard.

When off duty I and others took our station for hours on the ridge, and
sometimes on the top of the Flagstaff Tower. Thence with eager eyes we
watched the batteries cannonading the walls, and marked the effects of
the round-shot on the ramparts and bastions. Few of the enemy could be
seen; but every now and then some would show themselves, disappearing
when a well-directed shot struck in too close proximity. Cavalry
and infantry at times issued from the gates; but from their hurried
movements it seemed evident that they were ill at ease, and after a
short time they returned into the city.

At night the scene was, as may be supposed, grand in the extreme. The
space below was lighted up by continuous flashes and bursts of flame,
throwing a flood of light among the thick forest of trees and gardens,
while shells would burst high over the city, illuminating the spires and
domes, and bringing into prominence every object around. There was not
only the roll of the heavy guns and mortars, but the sharp rattle of
musketry, and the hiss of the huge rocket, as it cut through the air
with its brilliant light, sounded in our ears.

_September 12_.--On the 12th the enemy made frequent sorties from the
Lahore and Ajmir Gates with bodies of cavalry and foot, while a party of
horsemen crossed the canal, and made for the right rear of the camp. The
latter were seen by the Guides and some Punjabi cavalry, who, led by
Probyn and Watson, advanced to meet the enemy. There was a short but
sharp encounter at close quarters, in which thirty rebels were killed,
the remainder flying at full speed towards the city. The sorties from
the gates turned out comparatively harmless, and seemed meant only as
demonstrations to draw out our troops from the cover of the advanced
trenches. Seeing that the attempt was futile, and resulted only in loss
to themselves, the enemy retreated in confusion, their flight being
accelerated by shell and round-shot from No. 1 Battery, and musketry
from our outlying posts.

A serious loss befell the army on this day in the death of Captain
Robert Fagan, of the Bengal Artillery. This officer, whose heroism made
his name conspicuous even among the many gallant spirits of the Delhi
Field Force, was killed in No. 3 Advanced Battery, a post he had
occupied since September 8, and which was more than any other exposed to
the enemy's fire. He had served throughout the siege, and was beloved by
his men, winning the hearts of all, not only by his undaunted behaviour
and cool courage, but also by his kind-hearted and amiable disposition.

The approaching day of assault was now the subject of conversation among
officers and men; for the end was at hand. On September 12 a council of
war met in General Wilson's tent, at which all the superior officers of
the army were present. All the arrangements for attack were perfected,
and the position of every brigade and corps was fixed and decided,
though the day and hour of assault was known to no one, not even to the
General in command.

_September 13_.--There was no rest for us on the 13th, the last Sunday
we were destined to pass before the walls of Delhi. The fire of our
heavy cannon increased in violence every hour, and the silence of the
enemy's batteries assured us of the efficacy of the bombardment, and the
speedy approach of the time when our columns would move to the assault
on the city.

That night, soon after darkness had set in, four officers of the
Engineers proceeded to examine the two large breaches in the walls made
by the batteries. It was a hazardous duty, exposing them to peril of
their lives; but these brave young fellows executed their task in
safety, and, unobserved by the enemy, few of whom seemed to be keeping
watch on the ramparts, returned to report the perfect practicability of
the breaches for escalade.

Then the General issued his orders for the final assault; and long
before midnight each regiment in camp knew its allotted place in the
coming attack on the city.

Five storming columns were formed, the position and details of each
being as under:

No. 1, under Brigadier General Nicholson, consisting of the 75th
Regiment, 1st Bengal Fusiliers, and Punjab Infantry, to storm the breach
at the Kashmir bastion--in all 1,000 men.

No. 2 Column, under Brigadier W. Jones (H.M. 61st Regiment), consisting
of H.M. 8th (the King's) Regiment, 2nd Europeans, 4th Sikhs--altogether
850 men to storm the breach near the Water bastion.

No. 3, under Colonel Campbell, consisting of the 52nd Regiment, the
Kumaon battalion of Goorkhas, and 1st Punjab Infantry--in all 950
men--to assault the Kashmir Gate after it should be blown in by the
Engineers.

No. 5, or the Reserve, under Brigadier Longfield (H.M. 8th Regiment), to
follow No. 3 by that gate into the city, was composed of the 61st, the
Belooch battalion, 4th Punjab Infantry, and the Jhind troops--altogether
1,300 men, with 200 of H.M. 60th Rifles--to cover the advance of
Nicholson's column and to form a reserve.

The whole of the above-named columns were under the immediate command of
General Nicholson, on whom devolved all arrangements for carrying out
the assault on Delhi.

No. 4 Column, under Major Reid, the officer in command at Hindoo Rao's
house, was formed of part of the 60th Rifles, the Sirmoor battalion
of Goorkhas, detachments from European regiments, and the Kashmir
contingent. This column was to attack the fortified suburb of
Kishenganj, and enter the city by the Lahore Gate, meeting Nos. 1 and 2
Columns at that place.

The cavalry brigade, under Colonel Grant, composed of the 9th Lancers,
part of the 6th Carabineers, with Sikh and Punjab cavalry and some
Horse Artillery, took up their position on the right of No. 1 Advanced
Battery, facing the Mori Gate, and within range of Kishenganj. Their
object was to oppose any attempt to take the storming columns in
flank, to watch the movements of the enemy, and to guard the camp from
surprise.

To the convalescents and a small force of cavalry and artillery the
protection of the camp was confided--a very insufficient guard when it
is considered that the enemy might well, out of their vast numbers, have
detached part of their horsemen and infantry to harass, if not imperil,
its safety, and that of the many, sick and wounded. As will hereafter be
seen, great danger resulted from the arrangements made in this respect;
and had the enemy, after our unsuccessful attack on Kishenganj on the
14th, but shown a spirit of pluck and daring, it is not too much to
affirm that the camp might have fallen into their hands, and our
successes in the city have thereby been rendered almost nugatory.

The night of the 13th was passed by us in a cheerful mood, everyone
hopeful and confident of what the morrow would bring forth. There was
a character of determination among the officers and men, a cool,
deliberate conviction that, under Providence, success would crown our
arms, and that vengeance would be done on those who had forfeited their
lives by the cruel massacre of our defenceless women and children.

Sleep visited the eyes of few in camp during the short hours of
preparation for the assault. Fully equipped to turn out at a moment's
notice, we lay down on our beds waiting for the signal to fall in.
This came at about three o'clock on the morning of September 14--an
auspicious day, it being the third anniversary of the Battle of the
Alma.

_September_ 14.--The troops fell in on their respective lines, and,
assembling at the slope of the ridge, the four columns of attack marched
in silence to the Flagstaff Tower. Thence, picking up the men on picket,
who were all withdrawn from the outlying posts, the force moved by the
road to the neighbourhood of Ludlow Castle, and close to No. 2 Advanced
Battery. Our movements were entirely concealed from the enemy; the
darkness which prevailed, and the ample cover from trees, gardens, and
houses, masking the march of the columns, while the breaching batteries,
which had kept up their fire all night long, still continued the
bombardment; nor did they cease till the actual moment when the columns
were set in motion and took their way to the city.

Just before sunrise all the dispositions were completed, the gallant
Nicholson, under whose orders we were, moving from point to point to
perfect his arrangements. Our artillery fire ceased as if by magic; and
a stillness, which contrasted ominously with the former roar and din,
must have convinced the rebels that something unusual was about to take
place.

The 60th Rifles with a cheer advanced to the front, and opened out as
skirmishers to the right and left of the Koodsia Bagh. Then followed
Nos. 1 and 2 Columns, which, in compact order, issued from their cover,
making for the two breaches to be assaulted.

I was with my regiment in No. 5 Column; and with breathless interest,
each heart aflame with excitement, we watched our comrades marching to
the attack. Presently the order for No. 3 Column to move forward was
given, and at a short interval our own followed.

Meanwhile the enemy had descried our movements, and the ramparts and
walls and also the top of the breaches were alive with men, who poured
in a galling fire on our troops Soon they reached the outer edge of the
moat, and amidst a perfect hailstorm of bullets, causing great havoc
among our men, the scaling-ladders were let down. The ditch here, 20
feet deep and 25 feet broad, offered a serious obstacle to the quick
advance of the assaulting columns; the men fell fast under the withering
fire, and some delay ensued before the ladders could be properly
adjusted. However, nothing daunted, the opposite side was scaled, and,
mounting the escarp, the assailants, with shouts and cheers that could
be heard above the din of battle, rushed up the two breaches.

Without waiting for the charge of the British bayonets, the greater part
of the rebels deserted the walls and bastions and ran pell-mell into the
city, followed by our men. Some few stood manfully and endeavoured to
check the flight of the rest; but they were soon shot or bayoneted, and
the two columns halted inside the walls.

Almost simultaneously with the entrance of our troops into the city, the
Kashmir Gate was blown in, and No. 3 Column, followed by No. 5, advanced
along the covered way and passed into the city. We had only been, met by
desultory fire from the enemy, which caused few casualties, during our
march to the gate; the men were in high spirits, and longed to come to
close quarters.

The episode of the blowing in of the Kashmir Gate of Delhi is too well
known to require description here;[2] suffice it to say that the deed
was an act of heroism almost without a parallel in the annals of the
British army. In broad daylight, a small band of heroes advanced to
almost certain death; but with a determination and valour seldom heard
of, after repeated attempts to lay the powder-bags and apply the match,
and losing nearly all their number, killed and wounded, the gate was
blown in, giving free passage to the assaulting columns.

All the troops were now assembled at the main guard, in an open space
close to the Kashmir Gate, and here, as well as the firing from the
enemy would permit, the force re-formed, under the orders of General
Nicholson. Nos. 1 and 2 Columns united, and under command of that
officer moved to their right, advancing along the walls in that
direction and clearing everything in their way.

No. 3 Column now marched into the heart of the city, being guided by Sir
Theophilus Metcalfe, and by a circuitous route made its way towards the
Jama Musjid. Soon we lost sight of this force, and then our own work
began.

Advancing from our first place at the main guard, No. 5 Column pushed
forward to the College Gardens, marching through narrow streets and
lanes, with high houses on each side. But how can I describe that
terrible street-fighting, which lasted without intermission the whole
day? From every window and door, from loopholes in the buildings, and
from the tops of the houses, a storm of musketry saluted us on every
side, while every now and then, when passing the corner of a street,
field-guns, loaded with grape, discharged their contents into the
column. Officers and men fell fast, but this only served to exasperate
the remainder, who almost without a check reached the College, and,
after some severe skirmishing, cleared the gardens and houses of the
rebels, and bayoneted all who were found there.

Leaving a detachment to occupy this post, we passed through more streets
and lanes, ever exposed to the same terrific fire, and after great
trouble succeeded in taking possession of Colonel Skinner's house and a
large building known as the palace of Ahmed Ali Khan.

It was now midday, and at the latter place we were joined by No. 3
Column, which, making its way to the Jama Musjid, met with such a
strenuous resistance that, after losing many men, and being without
powder with which to blow up the gates of the mosque, it was forced to
retire. The streets, we heard, were alive with men on their line of
route, and the column had been exposed to incessant fire without any
good resulting from their undaunted efforts.

There was work enough and to spare to clear the streets and houses in
front and on each side of the Kashmir Gate; and from the time the
two columns joined forces till night set in a continuous fight was
maintained. The system of attack in which we were engaged allowed of no
formation being retained. Isolated groups of men, European and native,
led sometimes by officers, and often without any leaders, roamed through
the narrow streets, entering houses from which the fire was more than
usually severe, and putting to death without mercy all who were found
inside.

On one occasion a party of sepoys and armed rabble emerged from a house
in our front, and were seen by our men, who immediately opened fire.
Soon they were followed by a troop of women yelling and screaming.
Keeping these as a cover for their retreat, the rebels got clear away,
the soldiers having desisted from firing the moment the women appeared.
This was a ruse which, I heard from others, was often adopted by the
mutineers, who seemed to know intuitively that their women and children
were safe from the fire of our men.

The deeds of individual daring performed during September 14 were
numberless, and I was witness of many feats of arms and cool courage
by the rank and file and non-commissioned officers of the different
regiments. A private of my corps, a huge Grenadier Irishman named
Moylan, saved the life of an officer under circumstances which fully
entitled him to the coveted distinction of the Victoria Cross. In one of
the numerous encounters which took place this officer, leading on a few
men, turned sharply round the corner of a street, and was met by a force
of sepoys coming from the opposite direction. A shot struck him, and he
was felled to the ground from the blow of a sword, and would have been
quickly despatched had not Moylan rushed to his rescue. Discharging his
musket, he shot one of the assailants, and charged with the bayonet.
This was broken off; and then, with firelock clubbed, he stood over the
prostrate officer, dealing such fearful blows with the weapon--felling
his foes in every direction--that the sepoys took to their heels, and
Moylan, picking up the wounded officer, brought him to a place of
safety. He was made a sergeant on the spot by the Colonel, but all
efforts to obtain the Cross for this gallant fellow were unavailing. In
those days the distinction was but seldom given; probably so many names
were submitted for the General's consideration that only a few could be
approved, and the application for Moylan was passed by.

But though in the latter's case the Victoria Cross was not given, it was
awarded to a surgeon (named Reade) of my regiment on that day. He was
ever to be found in the thick of the fighting, ministering to the
wounded and cheering on the men. While engaged in his professional
duties, a number of sepoys poured a deadly fire from the far end of a
street into the group of wounded of which he was the central figure.
This was too much for the surgeon, who, drawing his sword, called on
some men of the regiment close by, and led them in gallant style against
the enemy, whom he dispersed with great loss, killing two sepoys with
his own hand. Not only on this occasion, but on several others, the
surgeon's bravery was most conspicuous, no one grudging him the
distinction he had so gallantly won.

There is nothing so destructive of the morale and discipline of soldiers
as street-fighting, nor can control be maintained except by men of
extraordinary resolution. The veterans of the European regiments
composing the Delhi army on the day of assault fully justified their
reputation. Cool and determined, they kept in check the impulsive valour
of the young soldiers, and assisted their officers on various occasions
when it became almost impossible to control their ardour. Till late
at night the fighting never ceased; the weary and famished soldiers,
exhausted and worn out from fatigue and exposure, and without a moment's
rest, carried out the work of clearing the streets and houses, exposed
all the time to a fire of musketry, coming chiefly from unseen foes.

Many lost their lives in the houses, where, entangled in the labyrinth
of roofs, courtyards, and passages, they were shot down by the inmates,
and were found, in several instances days after, with their throats cut
and otherwise mutilated. The hope of finding plunder in these places
also led many to their doom, and accounted for the large list of missing
soldiers whose names appeared in the day's casualties.

And now I must pass from our force to record the doings of No. 1 and
2 Columns, under General Nicholson. These, for a long distance, had
carried all before them, taking possession of the ramparts and bastions
as far as the Kabul Gate, and effectually clearing the streets leading
to the heart of the city. Exposed to a pitiless fire of grape and
musketry through their whole advance, their loss was very heavy, but,
still pressing forward, barrier after barrier was taken, the guns on
each bastion, after its capture, being at once turned on the city. Their
goal was the Burn bastion and the Lahore Gate, and all that men could do
with their diminished numbers was tried at those points without effect.
The rebels were in enormous force at these positions; field-guns and
howitzers poured grape and canister into the assaulting columns, and
musketry rained on them from the adjoining houses. Time after time
attacks were made, till the sadly harassed soldiers, completely worn
out, were forced to retire to the Kabul Gate and the bastions and
ramparts they had already gained.

It was in one of these unsuccessful attempts to carry the Lahore Gate
that Nicholson fell mortally wounded. Ever eager and impetuous, his
dauntless soul led him into the thick of the combat. Spurning danger,
and unmindful of his valuable life, he was in the front, in the act
of encouraging and leading on his men, when the fatal shot laid low a
spirit whose equal there was not to be found in India. He lingered
for some days in great torment, expiring on September 23, mourned by
everyone in the force, from the General in command to the private
soldier, all of whom knew his worth, and felt that in the then momentous
crisis his absence from amongst us could ill be borne. No eulogy can add
to his renown; through his efforts, more than those of any other, Delhi
fell, and he left his unconquered spirit as a heritage for the work
still to be accomplished in the pacification of India. His name itself
was a tower of strength in the army. Peerless amongst the brave men of
his time, to what brilliant destinies might he not have succeeded had
his young life (he was but thirty-four years old) been prolonged!

I must now revert to No. 4 Column, under Major Reid, and the attack on
the strong fortified suburb of Kishenganj. About 100 men of my regiment
were engaged in this affair; and from the lips of our officers I had a
full account of the fight and the subsequent retreat.[3]

The morning had dawned, and Major Reid waited to hear the signal to
commence operations--the blowing in of the Kashmir Gate. His force,
numbering about 1,000 men besides the Kashmir troops, were formed up on
the Grand Trunk Road, opposite the Sabzi Mandi picket and at the foot of
the ridge. Now the sun had risen, and still he watched for the signal,
when shots in quick succession were heard on the right of the column,
and it became known that the Kashmir contingent, without waiting for
orders, had become engaged with the enemy.

Some men of the 60th Rifles were thrown out as skirmishers, and Major
Reid moved with his force in the direction of Kishenganj. Soon they were
stopped by strong breastworks thrown up by the enemy and barring the
road to the suburb, the rebels being concealed behind these in great
force, and pouring a heavy fire on our troops when only fifty yards
distant. A rush was made for the earthworks, which were taken in gallant
style; but the want of field-guns was here felt, and the enemy retired a
short distance amongst the gardens, from which they continued to harass
our troops. The Kishenganj battery also opened fire, and our position
became critical in the extreme from the increasing number of the foe,
who were constantly reinforced, and defied all endeavours to drive them
from their cover.

While the struggle was thus raging on the left, the Kashmir troops on
the extreme right flank had become involved with a large force of the
enemy of all arms, who, no doubt despising the martial qualities of
these half-disciplined levies, attacked them on all sides with
great vigour. Our allies made no stand, and soon became completely
disorganized, flying at length in headlong rout, with the loss of all
their guns. No record was kept of their casualties, but they must have
been very severe. For the future they remained unemployed in their camp,
bewailing the loss of their four guns, and were never again engaged with
the enemy.

Two or three days after the capture of Delhi I was wandering, with some
others, through the streets of the city, when we came upon an officer
and four men of the contingent, who accosted us, asking if we had heard
or seen anything of their lost guns. They seemed in great grief, fearing
the wrath of the Maharajah of Kashmir when they should arrive home,
leaving the guns behind. With difficulty restraining a laugh, we assured
them that we could give no information on the subject, and counselled
them to search among the guns on the bastions near the Lahore and Ajmir
Gates. They succeeded eventually in finding two, the others probably
being borne off as trophies by the sepoys during the evacuation of
Delhi. The contingent soon afterwards left for Kashmir, but how they
were received by the Maharajah we never heard, though probably condign
punishment was meted out to those who had actual charge of the guns.

The defeat of the Kashmir troops had a most disastrous effect on the
issue of the attack on Kishenganj. Reinforced in great numbers, as I
have related, the enemy maintained their ground, and our men could make
no impression on them, chiefly from the want of field-guns. Major Reid,
moreover, was wounded at an early stage of the action, and was carried
off the field. His absence was soon felt in the altered dispositions of
the force, and the want of a leader to carry out the plans formed by
him.

The breastworks which had been taken could not be held for want of
support, and some confusion resulted, the enemy's artillery from
Kishenganj and musketry from the gardens causing great destruction.
Many gallant attempts were made to drive off the rebels, but all were
unavailing; and at length, after losing one-third of its number, the
column fell back in good order to its original starting-point near the
Sabzi Mandi, and Kishenganj remained in the hands of the enemy. Had that
position been taken, and No. 4 Column, according to instructions, pushed
on to the Lahore Gate, no good, as it turned out, would have been
effected. Nicholson's columns, as related, had been forced to retire;
the gate would have remained closed, and possibly the undertaking would
have resulted in a more serious collapse than the ineffectual attempt on
Kishenganj.

The presence of a large unconquered force on our right flank also placed
the camp in imminent danger. It was known--from information received
from spies--that it was the enemy's intention, after our failure
to dislodge them from the suburb, to make an attack on the almost
unprotected camp. The danger fortunately passed off, the rebels probably
having little heart to join in operations to our rear when they heard
the news of the signal success of our columns in the city. Still, their
presence at Kishenganj was a standing menace; nor were we completely at
ease with regard to the safety of the camp till the 20th, when the city
was found to be evacuated by the enemy, and our troops immediately took
possession.

Lastly, I must narrate the doings of the Cavalry Brigade. This force,
with Horse Artillery, was stationed near No. 1 Advanced Battery, under
the command of Brigadier Hope-Grant, their duty being to guard our
right flank from being turned during the assault on the city. Here they
remained, keeping a watchful lookout for some hours, till orders came
for the brigade to move towards the walls of Delhi. They halted opposite
the Kabul Gate, at a distance of 400 yards, and were at once exposed to
the fire from the bastions, and to musketry from the gardens outside
the suburbs of Taliwarra and Kishenganj. Our Horse Artillery made good
practice, driving the enemy from their cover and spiking two guns; but
the exposed situation caused great losses in the cavalry, and they moved
still further to their front, halting amidst some trees.

The enemy now sallied from the gardens as though with the intention
of driving the cavalry in the direction of the Kashmir Gate. The
circumstances were most critical, when a body of Guide Infantry, coming
up at the time, threw themselves on the rebels, maintaining their place
with great resolution till help arrived, with a part of the Belooch
battalion, and the enemy were forced to retire.

Too much praise cannot be given to the 9th Lancers and Horse Artillery
for their conduct on this occasion. Exposed for hours to cannonade
and musketry, unable to act from the nature of the ground, they never
flinched from their post, forming a living target to the fire of the
rebels. The same may be said of the Sikh and Punjabi cavalry, who
displayed a coolness and intrepidity scarcely, if at all, less
meritorious than that of their European comrades. Our casualties were
very severe, the 9th Lancers alone losing upwards of twenty men killed
and wounded.

And now that I have described the operations of each column and portions
of the Delhi army during September 14, it will be necessary to record
the advantages we had gained. From the Water bastion to the Kabul Gate,
a distance of more than a mile, and constituting the northern face
of the fortifications of Delhi, was in our possession, with all the
intervening bastions, ramparts, and walls. Some progress had been made
into the city opposite, and to the right and left of the Kashmir Gate,
and along the line of walls. The College and its grounds, Colonel
Skinner's house, that of Ahmed Ali Khan, and many other smaller
buildings were held by the infantry. The enemy's guns on the bastions
had been turned on to the city, and a constant fire was kept up, the
streets and lanes being cleared in front, and advanced posts occupied by
our men.

These advantages had not been gained without a severe struggle, and a
terrible roll of killed and wounded was the consequence. Our casualties
on September 14 amounted to upwards of 1,200 officers and men killed,
wounded, and missing--a loss out of all proportion to the small number
of men engaged, and when the relative forces are considered, far
exceeding that which was suffered by the British army during the assault
on the Redan on September 8, 1855. The deadly and destructive nature
of street-fighting was here apparent, and the long-sustained contest,
lasting more than twelve hours, swelled the total loss to the excessive
amount recorded. In my regiment alone 100 men were placed _hors de
combat_, thirty-three being killed; but the other European regiments
suffered still more in proportion, and especially so those which took
part in the actual assault on the breaches.

The native troops fought with the most determined bravery; Sikhs,
Punjabis, and Goorkhas, side by side with their English comrades,
pressed into the forefront of the strife, helping in the most material
manner towards the day's success.

It was impossible to ascertain the loss sustained by the enemy. Dead
bodies lay thick in the streets and open spaces, and numbers were killed
in the houses; but the greater part of those who fell were no
doubt carried off by the rebels. In the ardour of the fight many
non-combatants also lost their lives, our men, mad and excited, making
no distinction.

There is no more terrible spectacle than a city taken by storm. All the
pent-up passions of men are here let loose without restraint. Roused
to a pitch of fury from long-continued resistance, and eager to take
vengeance on the murderers of women and children, the men in their
pitiless rage showed no mercy. The dark days of Badajoz and San
Sebastian were renewed on a small scale at Delhi; and during the
assault, seeing the impetuous fury of our men, I could not help
recalling to my mind the harrowing details of the old Peninsular Wars
here reproduced before my eyes.

With the exception of a small amount of looting, the men were too much
occupied with fighting and vengeance to take note of the means of
temptation which lay within their reach in the untold quantities of
spirits in the stores of the city. Strong drink is now, and has in all
ages been, the bane of the British soldier--a propensity he cannot
resist in times of peace, and which is tenfold aggravated when excited
by fighting, and when the wherewithal to indulge it lies spread before
him, as was the case at Delhi. When and by whom begun I cannot say, but
early in the morning of the 15th the stores had been broken into, and
the men revelled in unlimited supplies of drink of every kind. It is a
sad circumstance to chronicle, and the drunkenness which ensued might
have resulted in serious consequences to the army had the enemy taken
advantage of the sorry position we were in. Vain were the attempts made
at first to put a stop to the dissipations, and not till orders went
forth from the General to destroy all the liquor that could be found did
the orgy cease, and the men return crestfallen and ashamed to a sense
of their duties. The work of destruction was carried out chiefly by the
Sikhs and Punjabis, and the wasted drink ran in streams through the
conduits of the city.

_September 15_.--This untoward event considerably hampered the
operations on September 15, and but small progress was made that day
towards driving the rebels out of Delhi. The artillery and engineers
worked hard at the completion of the batteries on the captured bastions,
on which were mounted our own and the enemy's heavy guns; and one for
mortars was erected in the College grounds, which shelled the Palace
and the Fort of Selimgarh. A few houses were taken in advance of our
positions, but no further movement on any large scale was attempted,
owing to the demoralized state of a great portion of the European
infantry, and, further, to a desire that the troops should obtain some
rest after the unparalleled fatigues and exposure of the previous day.

Reports also spread through the force that the General, feeling his
strength and means inadequate to hold even the portions of the city in
our possession, meditated an evacuation of the place, and a retirement
to the old camp to await reinforcements. Every consideration must be
made for one placed in his critical position; and he, no doubt, in his
own mind, felt justified in proposing the step, which, had it been
carried out, would, in all probability, have ended in the fall of
British rule in India. "In an extraordinary situation extraordinary
resolution is needed," was the saying of the Great Napoleon, and to no
crisis in our history was this dictum more applicable than that at Delhi
in September, 1857. Mutiny and rebellion spread their hydra heads over
the land, disaffection was rife in the Punjab, our only source of supply
for operations in the field; and nought could stay the alarming symptoms
save the complete capture and retention of the great stronghold of
rebellion. It had also been a well-known maxim laid down and carried out
by Clive, Wellesley, Lake, and all the great commanders who had made
our name famous in Hindostan, never to retire before an Eastern foe, no
matter how great the disparity of numbers; and history tells us that our
successes were due mainly to this rule, while the few reverses we have
suffered resulted from a timid policy carried out by men whose heart
failed them in the hour of trial.

Happily for the Delhi army, and more especially for the English name,
the counsels of the General in command were overruled by the chief
officers in the force, and even the gallant Nicholson from his death-bed
denounced, in language which those who heard it will never forget, the
step contemplated by his superior officer.

Towards the evening of the 15th the enemy, becoming emboldened by our
inactivity, attacked the advanced posts along our whole line, and kept
up a sharp musketry fire, more especially on the College compound, while
the heavy guns at Selimgarh and some at the magazine shelled those
gardens and houses adjacent--even as far as the Kashmir Gate--occupied
by our troops. At 5 p. m. a battery of heavy guns played on the defences
of the magazine, soon crumbling the wall to pieces, and opening out a
large breach for assault.

_September 16_.--My regiment, the 4th Punjab Rifles, and a wing of the
Belooch battalion were detailed as a storming party, and mustering at an
early hour on the morning of the 16th, we marched to the attack on
the magazine.[4] This enclosure--a large walled area close to the
Palace--was surrounded by a high curtained wall with towers, the
interior space being occupied by buildings and containing a park of
artillery and munitions of war. We met with no resistance on our way,
and on approaching the breach saw only a few defenders on the ramparts,
who opened a fire, which, however, caused little damage. A rush was at
once made, the men gaining the top of the bridge without difficulty, and
bayoneting some sepoys and firing on the remainder, who fled through the
enclosure and were driven out at the gates on the opposite side. We had
only about a dozen men killed and wounded, but of the enemy more than
100 lost their lives, being dragged out of the buildings where they had
taken refuge and quickly put to death. Two hundred and thirty-two guns
fell into our hands, besides piles of shot and shell; in fact, so vast
was the amount that, although the enemy had been firing from their
batteries for more than three months, making a lavish use of the stores
at their command, scarcely any impression seemed to have been made on
it.

That day and the following night our position in the captured magazine
was anything but pleasant. The rebels continually harassed us with
shells fired from the Chandni Chauk and near the Palace. Some, more
venturesome than the rest, climbed on ladders to the top of the walls,
plying us with musketry and hand-grenades, while others during the night
mounted the high trees overhanging the enclosure, and with long lighted
bamboos tried to set fire to the thatched buildings and blow up a small
magazine. These attempts kept us constantly on the alert; and it was
with great difficulty that we prevented damage being done.

Fighting continued during the day among the other portions of the force,
and Nos. 1 and 2 Columns made further advances among the streets, the
guns and mortars from the bastions throwing shot and shell far into the
crowded parts of the city. Houses in commanding situations were taken
and made secure from assault by defences of sand-bags. Great judgment
was shown in these operations, and the losses in consequence were
comparatively few; but the enemy as yet gave no signs of retreating
from Delhi, and our leaders felt that great exertions would still be
necessary before the city fell entirely into our hands.

_September 17_.--During the 17th and 18th a constant fire of shells from
upwards of twenty mortars was directed from the magazine and College
grounds on the Selimgarh Fort and the Palace, those from the bastions
still firing into a large portion of the city. Skirmishing went on at
the advanced posts, and a regular unbroken line of communication was
established from one end of our pickets to the other.

_September 18_.--On the 18th my regiment moved from the magazine and
took up its quarters in the Protestant Church, close to the main guard
and Kashmir Gate, and at no great distance from the northern walls of
the city. This church had been built by the gallant and philanthropic
Colonel Alexander Skinner, C.B., an Eurasian and an Irregular cavalry
commander of some eminence during the wars in the beginning of the
century. He also erected at his own expense a Hindoo temple and a
Mohammedan mosque, giving as his reason that all religions were alike,
and that, in his opinion, each one was entitled to as much consideration
as the other.

This church in which we were now quartered had been sadly desecrated by
the rebels and fanatics of the city. They had, in their religious zeal,
torn down the pulpit and reading-desk, defaced emblems, broken up the
pews and the benches, and shattered all the panes of glass, while here
and there inside the building were remains of their cooking-places, with
broken fragments of utensils. The walls, too, had suffered much from the
effects of our bombardment from September 11 to 14, the church being
in the line of fire directed on the bastions. Many, no doubt, would
consider it a sacrilege to quarter English troops in this sacred
edifice, but the exigencies of war required its use for this purpose,
and of all the buildings occupied by us during our stay in Delhi, the
church was found to be cleanest and best ventilated, free from the
noisome smells and close atmosphere of the native houses.

The close of the 18th saw our outposts extended hard by the Chandni
Chauk--the main street of the city--the bank, Major Abbott's and Khan
Mohammed's houses having first been seized by our men, who suffered
severely from the field-guns and musketry of the rebels. There was also
another unsuccessful attack made on the Burn bastion and Lahore Gate
by the right column, in which the 75th lost one officer and many
men killed. The arrangements for attack seemed to have been bad and
ill-advised; the soldiers felt the want of the guiding genius of
Nicholson, and, during an advance through a narrow lane were literally
mown down by grape from the enemy's field-guns.

The weather, which since the 14th had been fine, broke up on the night
of the 18th, and was succeeded by a terrific storm of rain, which fell
in torrents like a deluge. That night it was reported that the rebels in
great numbers were evacuating the city by the south side, the Bareilly
and Neemuch brigades making off in the direction of Gwalior. Certain it
is that from this period signs of waning strength appeared among the
enemy, and fewer attempts at assault were made on our outposts, those
on the left near the Palace, which were well protected by breastworks,
being only exposed to a very desultory fire of musketry.

During the forenoon of the 18th there was, I think, a partial eclipse of
the sun, which lasted three hours. The unusual darkness which prevailed
astonished us beyond measure (our minds being taken up with events more
startling than astronomical phenomena) till reference to an almanac
explained the mystery. The eclipse had, we were told, an alarming effect
on the mutineers, who attributed the phenomenon to some supernatural
agency. The darkness no doubt worked on their superstitious fears, and
hastened their flight from the city on which the wrath of the Almighty
had descended.

_September 19_.--On the 19th operations in front of the Palace Gate were
continued, a heavy fire being kept up against that place, while the 60th
Rifles and others, perched on the tops of houses, took unerring aim at
the rebels clustered in the open space. The same evening, also, the
exertions of the right column were rewarded by the capture of the Burn
bastion, with little loss on our side.

It was now quite evident that the baffled insurgents were retiring from
Delhi in great numbers, mostly by the south side, few crossing the
bridge of boats by day owing to it being commanded by our guns. But on
the night of the 19th, when sitting in the church compound watching the
shells exploding over the Palace and Selimgarh, we heard distinctly,
through the intervals of firing, a distant, confused hum of voices, like
the murmur of a great multitude. The sound came from the direction of
the river, and was caused by multitudes of human beings, who, escaping
by the bridge of boats to the opposite side, were deserting the city
which was so soon to fall into our hands.

_September 20_.--After some sharp fighting, and early on the morning of
September 20, the Lahore Gate and Garstin bastion, which during former
assaults had cost us the lives of so many men, were taken, the column
pushing on along the walls to the Ajmir Gate, which also fell into our
hands. There were few defenders at these places, the mass of sepoys
having evidently fled into the country; and the troops marched through
the streets almost without opposition.

There now remained but the Palace, Selimgarh, and the Jama Masjid, and
these were all occupied by our troops on that day. The former seemed
almost deserted, an occasional shot from the high walls directed on our
defences in the Chandni Chauk being the only signs of animation in that
quarter. Powder-bags were brought up and attached, to the great gate,
which was quickly blown in; and the 60th Rifles, with some Goorkhas,
rushed into the enclosure. A score or two of armed fanatics offered some
resistance, but they were soon shot down or bayoneted, and a few wounded
sepoys found in the buildings were put to death. Passing through the
Palace, Selimgarh was entered, and this, the last fortified position
belonging to the enemy, was taken possession of without a struggle.

Meanwhile, a force of cavalry under Hodson moved round outside the city
walls, and found a large camp of the enemy near the Delhi Gate. This
was deserted, save by some sick and wounded sepoys, who were put to the
sword; and the horsemen, riding through the gate, made their way into
the heart of the city and took possession of the Jama Masjid without
striking a blow.

Delhi had at length fallen into our hands, and the toils and dangers
of more than three months were at an end. The principal buildings were
occupied by our troops, and guards were placed at each gate with orders
to prevent the ingress or egress of any suspicious-looking characters,
while parties of armed men patrolled the streets of the city from end to
end.

That night we moved back to our old quarters at Ahmed Ali Khan's house,
the 52nd taking our place at the church. The first-named building was a
vast structure, belonging to a rich native, and had been furnished in a
style of Oriental magnificence; but now nothing but the bare walls and
floors were to be seen, the place having been ransacked of its treasures
and completely gutted since our last occupancy.

From September 15 to 20, when Delhi fell, the force lost in killed and
wounded about 200 officers and men, making the total casualties 1,400,
including those of the day of assault.

From May 30 to September 13 inclusive 2,490 officers and men were killed
and wounded, the grand total being close on 4,000. Add to these fully
1,200 who perished by cholera and other diseases, and it will be seen at
what a fearful cost of life to the small force engaged the victory was
won.

Truly the capture of Delhi was a feat of arms without a parallel in
our Indian annals. The bravery of the men, their indomitable pluck and
resolution, the siege carried on with dogged pertinacity and without a
murmur, proclaimed to the world that British soldiers, in those stormy
times when the fate of an Empire was at issue, had fully maintained the
reputation of their ancestors and earned the gratitude of their country.

To me, after the long interval of years, the incidents of the siege,
with its continual strife and ever-recurring dangers, come back to me as
in a dream. Often in fancy has my mind wandered back to those days
of turmoil and excitement, when men's hearts were agitated to their
profoundest depths, and our cause appeared wellnigh hopeless. Then it
was that a small body of men in a far-away part of North-West India,
entirely separated from the rest of the world, a few thousands amongst
millions of an alien race, rallied round their country's banners and
despaired not, though mutiny and rebellion ranged through the land. With
steadfast purpose and with hearts that knew no fear, the Delhi army
held its own for months against an overwhelming force of cruel and
remorseless rebels. Imperfectly equipped, and with little knowledge of
the dangers to be surmounted and the difficulties arising on every
side, each man of that force felt himself a host, and devoted his
energies--nay, his very life--to meet the crisis. None but those who
were there can for one moment realize through what suffering and
hardship the troops passed during the three months the Siege of Delhi
lasted. Day after day, under a burning sun or through the deadly time of
the rainy season, with pestilence in their midst, distressing accounts
from all parts of the country, and no hope of relief save through their
own unaided exertions, the soldiers of the army before Delhi fought with
a courage and constancy which no difficulties could daunt and no trials,
however severe, could overcome. In the end these men, worn out by
exposure and diminished in numbers, stormed a strong fortified city
defended by a vastly superior force, and for six days carried on a
constant fight in the streets, till the enemy were driven out of their
stronghold and Delhi was won. It must also be remembered that the
feat was accomplished without the help of a single soldier from home;
reinforcements had arrived in the country, but they were hundreds of
miles distant when the news reached them of the capture of Delhi: and it
is not too much to say that the success which followed the subsequent
operations down-country was due mainly to the fact that all danger from
the north-west had virtually ceased, and the mutiny had already received
a crushing blow from the capture of the great city of rebellion.


[Footnote 1: Lieutenant Boileau, 61st Regiment, served in the batteries
till the end of the siege.]

[Footnote 2: Are not the names of the Engineers Home and Salkeld and of
Bugler Hawthorne (H.M. 52nd Regiment) household words?]

[Footnote 3: Captain Deacon and Lieutenants Moore and Young were wounded
in this engagement.]

[Footnote 4: Colonel Deacon, Her Majesty's 61st Regiment, commanded on
this occasion.]


CHAPTER V

OCCUPATION OF THE CITY

The renown won by our troops in 1857 is now wellnigh forgotten, and,
in fact, their deeds in that distant quarter of our Empire faded into
oblivion within a very short period subsequent to the capture of Delhi.
When the regiments engaged at that place came home to England after a
long course of service in India, scarcely any notice was taken of their
arrival. There were no marchings past before Her Majesty at Windsor or
elsewhere, no public distribution of medals and rewards, no banquets
given to the leading officers of the force, and no record published
of the arduous duties in which they had been engaged. Those times are
changed, and the country has now rushed into the opposite extreme of
fulsome adulation, making a laughing-stock of the army and covering
with glory the conquerors in a ten days' war waged against the wretched
fellaheen soldiers of Egypt.

Five years passed away after 1857 (and how many poor fellows had died in
the meantime!) before a mean and niggardly Government distributed to the
remnant of the Delhi army the first instalment of prize-money, and three
years more elapsed before the second was paid.

In September, 1861, exactly four years after the storm of Delhi, my
regiment paraded at the Plymouth citadel to receive medals for the
campaign of 1857. The distribution took place in the quietest manner
possible, none but the officers and men of the regiment being present.
Borne on a large tray into the midst of a square, the medals were handed
by a sergeant to each one entitled to the long-withheld decoration, the
Adjutant meanwhile reading out the names of the recipients. There was
no fuss or ceremony, but I recollect that those present could not help
contrasting the scene with the grand parade and the presence of the
Queen when some of the Crimean officers and men received the numerous
decorations so lavishly bestowed for that campaign.[1]

The city was entirely in our possession by noon of September 20, and
shortly after that hour I proceeded on horseback, with orders from
the Colonel, to withdraw all the advanced pickets of my regiment
to headquarters at Ahmed Ali Khan's house. These were stationed in
different parts of the city, and it was with no small difficulty that I
threaded my way through the streets and interminable narrow lanes, which
were all blocked up with heaps of broken furniture and rubbish that had
been thrown out of the houses by our troops, and formed in places an
almost impassable barrier. Not a soul was to be seen; all was still
as death, save now and then the sound of a musket-shot in the far-off
quarters of the town.

My duty accomplished, I started in the afternoon with two of our
officers to view a portion of the city. We made our way first in the
direction of the Palace, passing down the Chandni Chauk (Silver Street)
and entering the Great Gate of the former imperial residence of the
Mogul Emperors. Here a guard of the 60th Rifles kept watch and ward with
some of the jovial little Goorkhas of the Kumaon battalion. From the
first we learnt particulars of the easy capture of the Palace that
morning, and were shown the bodies of the fanatics who had disputed the
entrance and had been killed in the enclosure. None of them were sepoys,
but belonged to that class of men called "ghazi," or champions of the
faith, men generally intoxicated with bhang, who are to be found in
every Mohammedan army--fierce madmen, devotees to death in the cause of
religion. Passing on, we wandered through the courts, wondering at the
vast size of this castellated palace with its towering, embattled walls,
till we came to the Dewan-i-Khas, and further on to the Dewan-i-Aum, or
Hall of Audience. This last, a large building of white marble on the
battlements overhanging the River Jumna, was now the headquarters of the
General and his staff, and where formerly the descendants of the great
warrior Tamerlane held their court, British officers had taken up their
abode; and infidels desecrated those halls, where only "true believers"
had assembled for hundreds of years.

Passing thence through a gateway and over a swinging bridge, we entered
the old fort of Selimgarh, built, like the Palace, on the banks of the
river, its battlements, as well as those of the latter place on its
eastern side, being washed by the waters of the Jumna. Several heavy
guns and mortars were mounted on the walls of the fort, and we noticed
one old cannon of immense size for throwing stone balls, but which was
cracked at the muzzle, and evidently had not been used for centuries.
The fort was full of large and commodious buildings, used afterwards for
hospitals by our troops, the place itself, from its commanding situation
open and separate from the rest of the city, being the healthiest place
that could be found. There was a lovely view of the country on the left
bank of the Jumna, while to the north and south we followed the windings
of the broad river till lost to view in the far distance.

Descending from Selimgarh, we took our stand on the bridge of boats now
deserted in its whole length, but over which, during the days of the
siege, thousands of mutineers had marched to swell the rebel forces in
Delhi. Thence we skirted along the banks of the river outside the walls,
viewing on our way the houses of the European residents, built in
charming situations close to the water's edge. These had been all
entirely destroyed, gutted, and burnt; nothing but the bare walls were
left standing, and the interiors filled with heaps of ashes. We thought
of the wretched fate of the former inmates of these houses, most of
whom had been mercilessly killed by the city rabble, urged on in their
fiendish work by the native soldiers, of the regular army.

The mutineers of the 3rd Light Cavalry from Meerut had entered Delhi on
May 11, crossing the Jumna by the bridge of boats, and, being joined
by the city scoundrels, first wreaked their vengeance on the European
residents who lived close by, and who, without any previous warning of
the terrible fate in store for them, fell easy victims to the murderers.
It made our blood run cold, when visiting the ruins of these houses, to
think of the dastardly crimes which had been committed in and around the
spots on which we were standing. Defenceless and unarmed, helpless
in the hands of these human tigers, our unfortunate men, women, and
children were immolated without mercy. Turning back, we entered the city
by the Calcutta Gate, and walked along the ramparts by the riverside,
past the walls of the magazine, till we reached the Water bastion. Here
the destructive effect of our batteries during the bombardment was most
apparent. Fired at the distance of only 180 yards, the guns had smashed
the walls and ramparts to pieces, huge fragments had rolled down into
the ditch, and the cannon in the battery were completely dismounted from
the carriages, lying in confusion one on top of the other.

At the Kashmir Gate there was a heap of goods (consisting principally
of clothes and rubbish) many feet high, which had been looted from the
houses around. The guard at the gate had orders to allow no one to pass
out with a bundle of any kind; and the consequence was an accumulation
of material, chiefly worthless, which covered many square yards of
ground. I have omitted all record of the plundering which up to this
time, and for long afterwards, took place all over the city where
our troops had penetrated. This account I have reserved for the last
chapter, where full details of the loot of Delhi and the amount of
prize-money accruing to the force will be found. _September 21_.--During
the 21st I, in company with other officers, wandered over the heart of
the city, continuing our perambulations south of the Chandni Chauk and
penetrating into streets beyond, where the six days' fighting had taken
place. The night before we had heard occasional shots fired at no great
distance, and these were continued during the day and for some time
afterwards.

Looting was going on to a great extent, both European and native
soldiers engaging in the work; and though strict orders had been issued
to prevent such licence, it was found impossible to check the evil. The
shots emanated from these men, who, of course, went about well armed,
and brooked no interference when in the act of securing booty.
Altercations of a serious nature had taken place between the Europeans
and Sikh soldiers, ending sometimes in blows, and often in bloodshed,
when the two parties met in a house or were busy employed in dividing
the spoil. However, in time, when most of the native troops had left
Delhi, and the European regiments were quartered in walled enclosures
with a guard at the gates to prevent egress, the looting on the part of
the private soldiers ceased, and the prize agents were enabled to gather
in the enormous wealth of the city without any trouble.

The portions of the town we passed through on that day had been pillaged
to the fullest extent. Not content with ransacking the interior of each
house, the soldiers had broken up every article of furniture, and with
wanton destruction had thrown everything portable out of the windows.
Each street was filled with a mass of debris consisting of household
effects of every kind, all lying in inextricable confusion one on top of
the other, forming barricades--from end to end of a street--many feet
high. We entered several of the large houses belonging to the wealthier
class of natives, and found every one in the same condition, turned
inside out, their ornaments torn to pieces, costly articles, too heavy
to remove, battered into fragments, and a general air of desolation
pervading each building. Much of this wholesale destruction was, no
doubt, attributable to the action of the sepoys and rabble of the city,
who during the siege, and in the state of anarchy which prevailed during
that period, had looted to their hearts' content, levying blackmail on
the richer inhabitants and pursuing their evil course without let or
hindrance. Still, that which had escaped the plundering and devastating
hands of the sepoys was most effectually ruined by our men. Not a
single house or building remained intact, and the damage done must have
amounted to thousands of pounds.

We were quite alone in most streets; deserted and silent, they resembled
a city of the dead on which some awful catastrophe had fallen. It was
difficult to realize that we were passing through what had been, only a
few days before, the abode of thousands of people. What had become of
them, and by what magic influence had all disappeared? Not till days
afterwards was the mystery solved.

The _tai-khanas_, or underground rooms of houses, scattered all over the
city, were found to be filled with human beings--those who, by age or
infirmity, had been unable to join in the general exodus which had taken
place during the last days of the siege. Hundreds of old men, women and
children, were found huddled together, half starved, in these places,
the most wretched-looking objects I ever saw. There was no means of
feeding them in the city, where their presence also would have raised a
plague and many would have died; so, by the orders of the General, they
were turned out of the gates of Delhi and escorted into the country. It
was a melancholy sight, seeing them trooping out of the town, hundreds
passing through the Lahore Gate every day for a whole week. We were told
that provisions had been collected for their use at a place some miles
distant, and it is to be hoped the poor creatures were saved from
starvation; but we had our doubts on the subject, and, knowing how
callous with regard to human suffering the authorities had become, I
fear that many perished from want and exposure.

There were other objects also which raised feelings of pity in our
minds. During our walks through the streets we caught sight of dozens
of cats and tame monkeys on the roofs of the houses, looking at us with
most woe-begone countenances, the latter chattering with fear. These, as
well as birds of every description left behind in cages by their owners
on their flight, literally starved to death in the houses and streets of
the city. There was no food for such as these, and it is lamentable to
think of the torture and suffering the poor pet creatures endured till
death put an end to their misery.

Dead bodies of sepoys and city inhabitants lay scattered in every
direction, poisoning the air for many days, and raising a stench which
was unbearable. These in time were almost all cleared away by the native
scavengers, but in some distant streets corpses lay rotting in the sun
for weeks, and during my rides on duty, when stationed at the Ajmir
Gate, I often came across a dead body which had escaped search.

On the afternoon of the 21st a most important capture was effected by
Hodson. Shah Bahadoor Shah, the old King of Delhi, was taken by that
officer near the city while endeavouring to escape down-country.

Hodson, with his accustomed daring, and accompanied by 100 only of his
own troopers, seized the person of the King from amongst thousands of
armed dependents and rabble, who, awed by his stern demeanour, did not
raise a hand in resisting the capture. The King was brought to Delhi the
same day, and lodged as a prisoner in the house formerly the residence
of the notorious Begum Sumroo. He was guarded by fifty men of my
regiment, under command of a Lieutenant; and on the 22nd I went to see
him, accompanied by our Adjutant.

Sitting cross-legged on a cushion placed on a common native _charpoy_,
or bed, in the verandah of a courtyard, was the last representative of
the Great Mogul dynasty. There was nothing imposing in his appearance,
save a long white beard which reached to his girdle. About middle
height, and upwards of seventy years old, he was dressed in white, with
a conical-shaped turban of the same colour and material, while at his
back two attendants stood, waving over his head large fans of peacocks'
feathers, the emblem of sovereignty--a pitiable farce in the case of one
who was already shorn of his regal attributes, a prisoner in the hands
of his enemies. Not a word came from his lips; in silence he sat day and
night, with his eyes cast on the ground, and as though utterly oblivious
of the condition in which he was placed. On another bed, three feet
from the King, sat the officer on guard, while two stalwart European
sentries, with fixed bayonets, stood on either side. The orders given
were that on any attempt at a rescue the officer was immediately to
shoot the King with his own hand.

[Illustration: KING OF DELHI AS A PRISONER IN 1857.]

[From a photograph taken from a pencil sketch by Captain Robles, who was
placed on guard over him.]

The old King was brought to trial shortly afterwards at the palace, and
found guilty of complicity in the murders of our country men and women,
and was transported beyond the seas, dying in British Burmah before he
could be removed to the Andaman Islands, where, in accordance with his
sentence, he was to have remained in imprisonment for the term of
his natural life. The vicissitudes of fortune, numberless as are the
instances among men of royal birth, can scarcely show anything more
suggestive of the transitoriness of earthly pomp and grandeur than
the case of the last King of Delhi. Sprung from the line of the great
conqueror Tamerlane, the lineal descendant of the magnanimous Akbar and
of Shah Jehan the magnificent, he ended his days as a common felon, far
from the country of his ancestors, unwept for and unhonoured.

_September 22_.--Lieutenant Hodson, also on the 22nd, took prisoner, at
a place some miles from Delhi, the two eldest sons and the grandson
of the King. These men, more especially the eldest, who was
Commander-in-Chief of the rebel army, had been deeply implicated in the
murders of May 11, had urged on the sepoys and populace in their cruel
deeds, and were present at the terrible massacre of our people which
took place in the Chandni Chauk on that day.

Hodson's orders were precise as to the fate of these blood-thirsty
ruffians, and though his name has been vilified and his reputation
tarnished by so-called humanitarians for the course he adopted in
ridding the world of the miscreants, he was upheld in the deed by the
whole Delhi army, men in every respect better qualified to form a
judgment in this particular than the sentimental beings at home who
denounced with horror this perfectly justifiable act of speedy and
condign punishment.

The three Princes were placed in a _gharee_, or native carriage, and,
guarded by Hodson's native troopers, were conducted towards the city.
Before they entered, the carriage was stopped, and Hodson spoke to his
men of the crimes committed by the prisoners. Then, dismounting from his
horse and opening the door of the _gharee_, he fired two shots from a
Colt's revolver into each of their hearts. After being driven to the
Kotwali, or chief magistrate's house, in the centre of the Chandni
Chauk, on the very spot where our country men and women had suffered
death, the three bodies were stripped save a rag around the loins, and
laid naked on the stone slabs outside the building.

Here I saw them that same afternoon; nor can it be said that I or the
others who viewed the lifeless remains felt any pity in our hearts for
the wretches on whom had fallen a most righteous retribution for their
crimes. The eldest was a strong, well-knit man in the prime of life, the
next somewhat younger, while the third was quite a youth not more than
twenty years of age. Each of the Princes had two small bullet-holes over
the region of the heart, the flesh singed by gunpowder, as the shots
were fired close; a cloth covered part of the loins, but they were
otherwise quite naked. There was a guard, I think, of Coke's Rifles
stationed at the Kotwali, and there the bodies remained exposed for
three days, and were then buried in dishonoured graves.

On the 22nd the regiment, or what was left of it, comprising about 180
effective rank and file, moved from Ahmed Ali Khan's house to the Ajmir
Gate at the extreme south-western side of the city, a distance of a mile
and a half from our former residence. Here we put up in a large serai,
with open courtyards in the centre, shaded by high trees, the small
rooms on each side of the building being turned into quarters for the
men, the officers taking up their abode in a mosque at the far end. The
change was far from agreeable; flies and mosquitoes swarmed around us,
the ditch outside the walls was filled with pools of stagnant water, and
a horrible stench impregnated the air, increasing the sickness among
the already enfeebled soldiers, and still further reducing our scanty
number.

_September 23_.The picture was lying on the table when Glanville entered:
my first impulse was to seize and secrete it; my second to suffer
it to remain, and to watch the effect the sight of it might produce.
In following the latter, I thought it, however, as well to choose my own
time for discovering the miniature; and as I moved to the table,
I threw my handkerchief carelessly over it. Glanville came up to me
at once, and his countenance, usually close and reserved in its expression,
assumed a franker and bolder aspect.

"You have lately changed towards me," he said:--"mindful of our former
friendship, I have come to demand the reason."
"Can Sir Reginald Glanville's memory," answered I, "supply him with no
probable cause?"
"It can," replied Glanville, "but I would not trust only to that. Sit
down, Pelham, and listen to me. I can read your thoughts, and I might
affect to despise their import--perhaps two years since I should--at
present I can pity and excuse them.

I have come to you now, in the love and confidence of our early days,
to claim, as then, your good opinion and esteem. If you require any
explanation at my hands, it shall be given. My days are approaching
their end. I have made up my accounts with others--I would do so with
you. I confess, that I would fain leave behind me in your breast, the
same affectionate remembrance I might heretofore have claimed, and which,
whatever be your suspicions, I have done nothing to forfeit. I have,
moreover, a dearer interest than my own to consult in this wish--you
colour, Pelham--you know to whom I allude; for my sister's sake, if not
for my own, you will hear me."
Glanville paused for a moment.

I raised the handkerchief from the miniature--I pushed the
latter towards him--"Do you remember this?" said I, in a low tone.

With a wild cry, which thrilled through my heart, Glanville sprung forward
and seized it. He gazed eagerly and intensely upon it, and his
cheek flushed--his eyes sparkled--his breast heaved. The next moment he
fell back in his chair, in one of the half swoons, to which, upon any
sudden and violent emotion, the debilitating effects of his disease
subjected him.

Before I could come to his assistance he had recovered. He looked
wildly and fiercely upon me. "Speak," he cried, "speak--where got you
this-- where?--answer, for mercy's sake!"

"Recollect yourself," said I, sternly. "I found that token of your presence
upon the spot where Tyrrell was murdered."
"True, true," said Glanville, slowly, and in an absent and abstracted
tone. He ceased abruptly, and covered his face with his hands; from
this attitude he started with some sudden impulse.

"And tell me," he said, in a low, inward, exulting tone, "was it--was
it red with the blood of the murdered man?"
"Wretch!" I exclaimed, "do you glory in your guilt?"
"Hold!" said Glanville, rising, with an altered and haughty air; "it
is not to your accusations that I am now to listen: if you are yet
desirous of weighing their justice before you decide upon them,
you will have the opportunity: I shall be at home at ten this night;
come to me, and you shall know all.

At present, the sight of this picture has unnerved me.
Shall I see you?"
I made no other rejoinder than the brief expression of my assent, and
Glanville instantly left the room.

During the whole of that day, my mind was wrought up into a state
of feverish and preternatural excitation. I could not remain
in the same spot for an instant; my pulse beat with the irregularity
of delirium. For the last hour I placed my watch before me, and
kept my eyes constantly fixed upon it. Should any one think this
exaggerated, let him remember, that it was not only Glanville's
confession that I was to hear; my own fate, my future connection
with Ellen, rested upon the story of that night. For myself, when I
called to mind Glanville's acknowledgment of the picture, and his
slow and involuntary remembrance of the spot where it was found, I scarcely
allowed my temper, sanguine as it was, to hope.

Some minutes before the hour of ten I repaired to Glanville's house. He
was alone--the picture was before him.

I drew my chair towards him in silence, and accidentally lifting up my
eyes, encountered the opposite mirror. I started at my own face; the
intensity and fearfulness of my interest had rendered it even more hueless
than that of my companion.

There was a pause for some moments, at the end of which Glanville thus
began.

CHAPTER LXXIV.

I do but hide Under these words, like embers, every spark Of that
which has consumed me. Quick and dark The grave is yawning;--as
its roof shall cover My limbs with dust and worms, under and over, So
let oblivion hide this grief.
Julian and Maddalo.

With thee, the very future fled, I stand amid the past alone; A tomb which
still shall guard the dead Tho' every earthlier trace be flown, A tomb
o'er which the weeds that love Decay--their wild luxuriance wreathe!
The cold and callous stone above-- And only thou and death beneath.

From Unpublished Poems by_____.

THE HISTORY OF SIR REGINALD GLANVILLE.

"You remember my character at school--the difficulty with which you
drew me from the visionary and abstracted loneliness which, even
at that time, was more consonant to my taste, than all the sports
and society resorted to by other boys--and the deep, and, to you,
inexplicable delight with which I returned to my reveries and
solitude again.

That character has continued through life the same; circumstances have
strengthened, not altered it. So has it been with you; the temper, the
habits, the tastes, so strongly contrasted with mine in boyhood, have
lost nothing of that contrast. Your ardour for the various ambition of
life is still the antipodes to my indifference; your daring, restless,
thoughtful, resolution in the pursuit, still shames my indolence and
abstraction. You are still the votary of the world, but will become
its conqueror--I its fugitive--and shall die its victim.

"After we parted at school, I went for a short time to a tutor's
in-- shire. Of this place I soon grew weary; and my father's death
leaving me in a great measure at my own disposal, I lost no time
in leaving it. I was seized with that mania for travel common enough
to all persons of my youth and disposition. My mother allowed me an
almost unlimited command over the fortune hereafter to be my own; and,
yielding to my wishes, rather than her fears, she suffered me, at the
age of eighteen, to set out for the Continent alone. Perhaps the quiet
and reserve of my character made her think me less exposed to the
dangers of youth, than if I had been of a more active and versatile
temper.

This is no uncommon mistake; a serious and contemplative disposition
is, however, often the worst formed to acquire readily the knowledge of
the world, and always the most calculated to suffer deeply from the
experience.

"I took up my residence for some time at Spa. It is, you know, perhaps,
a place dull enough to make gambling the only amusement; every one played--
and I did not escape the contagion; nor did I wish it: for, like
the minister Godolphin, I loved gaming for its own sake, because it was
a substitute for conversation.

This habit brought me acquainted with Mr.
Tyrrell, who was then staying at Spa; he had not, at that time,
quite dissipated his fortune, but was daily progressing to so
desirable a consummation. A gambler's acquaintance is readily
made, and easily kept, provided you gamble too.

"We became as intimate as the reserve of my habits ever suffered me to
become with any one, but you. He was many years older than me--had
seen a great deal of the world--had mixed much in its best societies,
and, at that time, whatever was the grossierete of his mind, had
little of the coarseness of manner which very soon afterwards
distinguished him; evil communication works rapidly in its results.
Our acquaintance was, therefore, natural enough, especially when it is
considered that my purse was entirely at his disposal--for borrowing
is twice blessed, in him that takes and him that gives--the receiver
becomes complaisant and conceding, and the lender thinks favourably
of one he has obliged.

"We parted at Spa, under a mutual promise to write. I forget if this
promise was kept--probably not; we were not, however, the worse friends
for being bad correspondents. I continued my travels for about another
year; I then returned to England, the same melancholy and dreaming
enthusiast as before. It is true that we are the creatures of circumstances;
but circumstances are also, in a great measure, the creatures of us.
I mean, they receive their colour from the previous bent of our own minds;
what raises one would depress another, and what vitiates my neighbour
might correct me.

Thus the experience of the world makes some persons more worldly--others
more abstracted, and the indulgence of the senses becomes a violence
to one mind, and a second nature to another. As for me, I had tasted
all the pleasures youth and opulence can purchase, and was more averse
to them than ever. I had mixed with many varieties of men--I was still
more rivetted to the monotony of self.

"I cannot hope, while I mention these peculiarities, that I am a very
uncommon character; I believe the present age has produced many
such.
Some time hence, it will be a curious inquiry to ascertain the causes
of that acute and sensitive morbidity of mind, which has been, and
still is, so epidemic a disease. You know me well enough to believe,
that I am not fond of the cant of assuming an artificial character,
or of creating a fictitious interest; and I am far from wishing to
impose upon you a malady of constitution for a dignity of mind.
You must pardon my prolixity. I own that it is very painful to me to
come to the main part of my confessions, and I am endeavouring to
prepare myself by lingering over the prelude."
Glanville paused here for a few moments. In spite of the sententious
coolness with which he pretended to speak, I saw that he was
powerfully and painfully affected.

"Well," he continued, "to resume the thread of my narrative; after I
had stayed some weeks with my mother and sister, I took advantage
of their departure for the continent, and resolved to make a tour through
England.

Rich people, and I have always been very rich, get exceedingly tired
of the embarrassment of their riches. I seized with delight at the
idea of travelling without carriages and servants; I took merely a
favourite horse, and the black dog, poor Terror, which you see now at
my feet.

"The day I commenced this plan was to me the epoch of a new and terrible
existence. However, you must pardon me if I am not here sufficiently
diffuse. Suffice it, that I became acquainted with a being whom, for
the first and only time in my life, I loved! This miniature attempts
to express her likeness; the initials at the back, interwoven with
my own, are hers."

"Yes," said I, incautiously, "they are the initials of Gertrude Douglas."

"What!" cried Glanville, in a loud tone, which he instantly checked, and
continued in an indrawn, muttered whisper: "How long is it since I
heard that name! and now--now--" he broke off abruptly, and then said,
with a calmer voice, "I know not how you have learnt her name; perhaps
you will explain?"
"From Thornton," said I.

"And has he told you more?" cried Glanville, as if gasping for breath--
the "history--the dreadful--"
"Not a word," said I, hastily; "he was with me when I found the
picture, and he explained the initials."

"It is well!" answered Glanville, recovering himself; "you will see
presently if I have reason to love that those foul and sordid lips
should profane the story I am about to relate. Gertrude was an only
daughter; though of gentle blood, she was no match for me, either
in rank or fortune.

Did I say just now that the world had not altered me? See my folly;
one year before I saw her, and I should not have thought her, but myself
honoured by a marriage;--twelve little months had sufficed to--God
forgive me! I took advantage of her love--her youth--her innocence--she
fled with me--but not to the altar!"
Again Glanville paused, and again, by a violent effort, conquered his
emotion, and proceeded:

"Never let vice be done by halves--never let a man invest all his purer
affections in the woman he ruins--never let him cherish the kindness,
if he gratifies the selfishness, of his heart.

A profligate, who really loves his victim, is one of the most wretched
of beings. In spite of my successful and triumphant passion--in spite
of the delirium of the first intoxication of possession, and of
the better and deeper delight of a reciprocity of thought--feeling,
sympathy, for the first time, found;--in the midst of all the luxuries
my wealth could produce, and of the voluptuous and spring-like hues
with which youth, health, and first love, clothe the earth which the
loved one treads, and the air which she inhales: in spite of these, in
spite of all, I was any thing but happy.
If Gertrude's cheek seemed a shade more pale, or her eye less bright,
I remembered the sacrifice she had made me, and believed that she felt
it too. It was in vain, that, with a tender and generous devotion--never
found but in woman--she assured me that my love was a recompense for
all; the more touching was her tenderness, the more poignant my remorse.
I never loved but her; I have never, therefore, entered into the common-
place of passion, and I cannot, even to this day, look upon her sex as
ours do in general. I thought, I think so still, that ingratitude
to a woman is often a more odious offence--I am sure it contains
a more painful penalty--than ingratitude to a man.

But enough of this; if you know me, you can penetrate the nature of my
feelings--if not, it is in vain to expect your sympathy.

"I never loved living long in one place. We travelled over the greater
part of England and France. What must be the enchantment of love,
when accompanied with innocence and joy, when, even in sin, in
remorse, in grief, it brings us a rapture to which all other things
are tame.

Oh!
those were moments steeped in the very elixir of life; overflowing with
the hoarded fondness and sympathies of hearts too full for words,
and yet too agitated for silence, when we journeyed alone, and at night,
and as the shadows and stillness of the waning hours gathered round
us, drew closer to each other, and concentrated this breathing
world in the deep and embracing sentiment of our mutual love!
It was then that I laid my burning temples on her bosom, and felt, while
my hand clasped her's, that my visions were realized, and my wandering
spirit had sunk unto its rest.

"I remember well that, one night, we were travelling through one of the
most beautiful parts of England it was in the very height and flush
of summer, and the moon (what scene of love--whether in reality, or
romance- -has any thing of tenderness, or passion, or divinity, where her
light is not!) filled the intense skies of June with her presence,
and cast a sadder and paler beauty over Gertrude's cheek. She was always
of a melancholy and despondent temper; perhaps, for that reason, she was
more congenial to my own; and when I gazed upon her that night, I was not
surprised to see her eyes filled with tears.

"You will laugh at me," she said, as I kissed them off, and inquired into
the cause; "but I feel a presentiment that I cannot shake off; it
tells me that you will travel this road again before many months are
past, and that I shall not be with you, perhaps not upon the earth."
She was right in all her foreboding, but the suggestion of her
death;--that came later.

"We took up our residence for some time at a beautiful situation, a short
distance from a small watering place. Here, to my great surprise, I met
with Tyrrell. He had come there partly to see a relation from whom he
had some expectations, and partly to recruit his health, which was much
broken by his irregularities and excesses. I could not refuse to renew
my old acquaintance with him, and, indeed, I thought him too much
of a man of the world, and of society, to feel with him that particular
delicacy, in regard to Gertrude, which made me in general shun all
intercourse with my former friends. He was in great pecuniary
embarrassment--much more deeply so than I then imagined; for I
believed the embarrassment to be only temporary.

However, my purse was then, as before, at his disposal, and he
did not scruple to avail himself very largely of my offers. He came
frequently to our house; and poor Gertrude, who thought I had, for her
sake, made a real sacrifice in renouncing my acquaintance, endeavoured
to conquer her usual diffidence, and that more painful feeling than
diffidence, natural to her station, and even to affect a pleasure in the
society of my friend, which she was very far from feeling.

"I was detained at--for several weeks by Gertrude's confinement. The
child--happy being!--died a week after its birth. Gertrude was still in
bed, and unable to leave it, when I received a letter from Ellen, to
say, that my mother was then staying at Toulouse, and dangerously ill;
if I wished once more to see her, Ellen besought me to lose no time
in setting off for the continent. You may imagine my situation, or
rather you cannot, for you cannot conceive the smallest particle of
that intense love I bore to Gertrude. To you--to any other man, it might
seem no extraordinary hardship to leave her even for an uncertain
period--to me it was like tearing away the very life from my heart.

"I procured her a sort of half companion, and half nurse; I provided
for her every thing that the most anxious and fearful love could
suggest; and with a mind full of forebodings too darkly to be
realized hereafter, I hastened to the nearest seaport, and set sail
for France.

"When I arrived at Toulouse my mother was much better, but still in a
very uncertain and dangerous state of health. I stayed with her for
more than a month, during which time every post brought me a line
from Gertrude, and bore back a message from 'my heart to her's' in
return.

This was no mean consolation, more especially when each letter spoke
of increasing health and strength.

At the month's end, I was preparing to return--my mother was
slowly recovering, and I no longer had any fears on her account; but,
there are links in our destiny fearfully interwoven with each other,
and ending only in the anguish of our ultimate doom. The day before that
fixed for my departure, I had been into a house where an epidemic disease
raged; that night I complained of oppressive and deadly illness--before
morning I was in a high fever.

"During the time I was sensible of my state, I wrote constantly to Gertrude,
and carefully concealed my illness; but for several days I was
delirious.

When I recovered I called eagerly for my letters--there were
none--none!

I could not believe I was yet awake; but days still passed on, and not a
line from England--from Gertrude. The instant I was able, I insisted
upon putting horses to my carriage; I could bear no longer the torture
of my suspense.

By the most rapid journeys my debility would allow me to bear, I
arrived in England. I travelled down to--by the same road that I had gone
over with her; the words of her foreboding, at that time, sunk like ice
into my heart, 'You will travel this road again before many months
are past, and I shall not be with you: perhaps, I shall not be upon
the earth.'

At that thought I could have called unto the grave to open for me.

Her unaccountable and lengthened silence, in spite of all the urgency
and entreaties of my letters for a reply, filled me with presentiments
the most fearful.

Oh, God--oh, God, they were nothing to the truth!

"At last I arrived at--; my carriage stopped at the very house--my
whole frame was perfectly frozen with dread--I trembled from limb to
limb--the ice of a thousand winters seemed curdling through my blood.
The bell rung--once, twice--no answer. I would have leaped out of the
carriage--I would have forced an entrance, but I was unable to move.
A man fettered and spell-bound by an incubus, is less helpless than I
was. At last, an old female I had never seen before, appeared.

"'Where is she? How!' I could utter no more--my eyes were fixed upon
the inquisitive and frightened countenance opposite to my own. Those
eyes, I thought, might have said all that my lips could not; I
was deceived--the old woman understood me no more than I did her; another
person appeared-- I recognized the face--it was that of a girl, who had
been one of our attendants.

Will you believe, that at that sight, the sight of one I had seen before,
and could associate with the remembrance of the breathing, the
living, the present Gertrude, a thrill of joy flashed across me--my
fears seemed to vanish--my spell to cease?

"I sprung from the carriage; I caught the girl by the robe. 'Your mistress,'
said I, 'your mistress--she is well--she is alive--speak, speak?'
The girl shrieked out; my eagerness, and, perhaps, my emaciated and
altered appearance, terrified her; but she had the strong nerves
of youth, and was soon re-assured. She requested me to step in, and
she would tell me all. My wife (Gertrude always went by that name),
was alive, and, she believed, well, but she had left that place
some weeks since. Trembling, and still fearful, but, comparatively,
in Heaven, to my former agony, I followed the girl and the old woman
into the house.
"The former got me some water. 'Now,' said I, when I had drank a
long and hearty draught, 'I am ready to hear all--my wife has left
this house, you say--for what place?' The girl hesitated and looked
down; the old woman, who was somewhat deaf, and did not rightly
understand my questions, or the nature of the personal interest I
had in the reply, answered,--'What does the gentleman want? the
poor young lady who was last here? Lord help her!'
"'What of her?' I called out, in a new alarm. 'What of her? Where
has she gone? Who took her away?'
"'Who took her?' mumbled the old woman, fretful at my impatient
tone; 'Who took her? why, the mad doctor, to be sure!'
"I heard no more; my frame could support no longer the agonies my
mind had undergone; I fell lifeless on the ground.
"When I recovered, it was in the dead of night. I was in bed, the
old woman and the girl were at my side. I rose slowly and calmly.
You know, all men who have ever suffered much, know the strange
anomalies of despair--the quiet of our veriest anguish. Deceived
by my bearing, I learned, by degrees, from my attendants, that
Gertrude had some weeks since betrayed sudden symptoms of insanity;
that these, in a very few hours, arose to an alarming pitch.--From
some reason the woman could not explain, she had, a short time
before, discarded the companion I had left with her; she was,
therefore, alone among servants.The numerous races of India--and notably the Sikhs--burning for an
opportunity to plunder the imperial city, cast longing eyes towards
these hidden treasures, the fame of which had spread far and wide; and
to this desire may be attributed, as much as any other reason, the
willingness of that warlike people to help us during the Mutiny.

While the siege was progressing, even at a time when clouded with
anxiety as to the future, men's minds were full of the uncertain issue
of the fight; the thoughts of all in camp turned involuntarily to the
rich harvest awaiting the army should Delhi fall into our hands. To all
of us (putting aside the morality of the question), the loot of the
city was to be a fitting recompense for the toils and privations we had
undergone; nor did the questionable character of the transaction weigh
for one moment with us against the recognized military law--"that a city
taken by assault belonged as prize to the conquerors." During the actual
bombardment, when the end seemed at hand, this subject of prize was the
topic of conversation among both officers and men; and soon we learnt
with satisfaction that the General in command, after consulting with
others in authority, had settled on the course to be pursued.

On September 7 a notice appeared in "orders" in which General Wilson
thanked the army for the courage and devotion displayed during the long
months of the siege. He recapitulated the dangers through which the
force had passed, and looked forward hopefully to the future when,
Providence favouring us, a few short days would see the enemy's
stronghold pass into our hands. Instructions the most peremptory were
laid down as to the absolute necessity for the troops keeping well
together on the day of assault, and not dispersing in scattered bands
or alone through the streets of the city in pursuit of plunder. Great
danger and possible annihilation of the small army would result were
these precautions overlooked, rendering the force liable to be cut up
in detail by the large bodies of rebels then occupying the streets and
houses of Delhi. Lastly, as a reward and incentive to all engaged, the
General gave his word, promising that all property captured in the city
would be placed in one common fund, to be distributed as prize according
to the rules of war in such cases. The commanding officer, as well as
all in the army, knew that it would be impossible to prevent looting
altogether, but it was hoped that the above order would have a good
effect by urging on the soldiers, for their welfare and advantage, the
necessity of obeying the instructions therein laid down.

This order, as I have said, appeared on September 7; nor, from the
promises given, had any of us the slightest doubt but that its
provisions with regard to prize-money would be carried into effect in
due course. Delhi was taken, but as time passed by, and months elapsed
without any notification on the subject being received from the Supreme
Government, the army began to feel anxious, and murmurs arose as to the
non-fulfilment of the pledge given by General Wilson. At length, at the
end of the year, the Governor-General, with the advice of his Executive
Council, promulgated his decision that there was an objection to the
troops receiving the Delhi prize-money, and in lieu thereof granted as a
recompense for their arduous labours and patient endurance in the field
the "magnificent" sum of six months' batta.

Lord Canning, his Council and law advisers, all civilians sitting
quietly at Calcutta, living in ease and comfort far from the dangers of
war, thought, forsooth, that the Delhi army, struggling for existence
for months, fighting to uphold British rule in India--nay, for the very
lives and safety of these civilian judges--and at last victorious in the
contest, would rest content with their decision.

It is needless to say that this roused a storm of indignation not only
amongst the Delhi force, but throughout the British army in India--a
burst of resentment which, reaching the Governor-General, made him pause
and reconsider his ill-timed and unjust decision. Suffice it to say that
the order was rescinded, and that the prize-money, in addition to six
months' batta, was granted to all engaged.

The day that the news of the first decision of the Government arrived at
Delhi, when all at that place were full of the wrong done to the army, a
private soldier of the 60th Rifles, inspired by the most exquisite sense
of humour as well as of bitter satire, wrote upon the walls of the
palace where his regiment was quartered the following appropriate
sentence: "Delhi taken and India saved for 36 rupees 10 annas." It
is said that the Governor-General demanded the name of this waggish
soldier, with the intention that he might receive punishment for his
daring effrontery; but it is needless to say that the author of the joke
remained unknown save to a few of his comrades; and the great ruler of
Hindostan was forced to rest content and ponder over the hidden sarcasm
and bitter irony addressed to one in his exalted position.

The army was further promised by the Government 5 per cent, on the whole
amount of the prize-money till the amount should be paid. This, during
the many years which elapsed before the money was distributed,
would have reached a large sum; but faith was broken and the sum
repudiated--another instance of want of gratitude to soldiers who,
looked to maintain their country's honour in time of war, are in peace,
and when danger is at an end, soon forgotten. So prolonged, also, was
the delay in payment of the prize-money that, I recollect, the Times, in
reference to this subject about 1860 or 1861, had a leading article in
its columns recommending the Delhi army to bring an action against the
Government for the payment of the prize. Such action, of course, would
have been without precedent, but it showed the feeling of many in the
country when the leading journal thought right to draw attention to the
subject with a view to the adjustment of the army's rightful claim.

To return to General Wilson's order of September 7. Notices were
circulated throughout the camp in every brigade and regiment, calling on
the troops to elect prize agents for gathering and receiving prize after
the capture of the city. These prize agents, therefore, were selected
by the army, one for the general and field officers, the second for the
Queen's service of all ranks below that of Major, and the third for the
company's army. The officers appointed, including Captain Fagan, and
after his death Doctor Innes, Sir Edward Campbell, of the 60th Rifles,
and Captain Wriford, of the 1st Bengal Fusiliers, were all most popular
men, and considered in every way fit for the very important duties they
had to perform.

On September 14, the day of assault, till the 20th, when Delhi was
completely in our possession, much looting took place in the city. Our
troops, both European and native, and especially the Sikhs, entered
houses during those days and managed to secrete about their persons
articles of value. To my certain knowledge, also, many soldiers of the
English regiments got possession of jewellery and gold ornaments taken
from the bodies of the slain sepoys and city inhabitants, and I was
shown by men of my regiment strings of pearls and gold mohurs which had
fallen into their hands.

On the day of assault we were much amused, during a slight cessation of
the conflict, by one of our men rushing up to a group of officers in a
state of great excitement, with the news that there was a buggy with two
horses standing at the corner of a street close by. He offered the prize
to anyone who would give him a bottle of rum; but in the then state of
affairs no one felt inclined to burden himself with such a luxury, and
the poor fellow went away much disappointed. Whether he succeeded in
disposing of the prize I don't know; but when things quieted down, and
the regiment was stationed in comfortable quarters, one of our officers,
noted for his constant impecuniosity, appeared one day driving a buggy
and two horses, the acquisition of which always remained a secret; nor
would he, on being questioned, throw any light on the matter.

That many of the private soldiers of my regiment succeeded in acquiring
a great quantity of valuable plunder was fully demonstrated soon after
our arrival in England. An unusual number of non-commissioned officers
and men bought their discharge, having during three years kept
possession of the plunder acquired at Delhi awaiting a favourable
opportunity for the sale of the articles. Many jewellers' shops in
the town in which we were quartered exposed for sale in the windows
ornaments and trinkets of unmistakable Eastern workmanship, which, on
inquiry, we were told had been bought from the men.

It would have been contrary to human nature, and utterly at variance
with the predatory instinct, had the soldiers failed to take advantage
of the facilities for plunder which surrounded them on every side; nor
could it be expected that a man, after possessing himself of valuables,
would at once, or on the first favourable opportunity, deliver up
his booty to the properly-constituted authorities. This much may be
conceded, and it will therefore not be a subject of wonder that all
ranks of the Delhi Force, with but few exceptions, availed themselves
of the prize within their reach, and appropriated to their own use much
treasure which ought to have gone towards swelling the general fund.

One officer in command of a native regiment quartered his corps in a
house which formerly belonged to one of the richest Princes in the city
of Delhi. The place was full of riches of every kind, and it was the
popular belief at the time throughout the army that the officer in
question succeeded in obtaining two lakhs of rupees. Rumour also said
that a court of inquiry would be held to investigate the truth or
otherwise of this report, but, if such had been contemplated, it fell to
the ground; nor was any attempt made to induce the officer to disgorge
his plunder. I paid a visit to this mansion some time afterwards, and
can vouch for the thorough ransacking the place had received. Every room
in the house had been pillaged, excavations had been made in the floors,
and empty boxes lay in every direction.

Other cases similar to that just mentioned were known to us at the
time, in which sums of money were appropriated only a little smaller in
amount, while of those which reached the value of £100 their name is
legion. Many men also there were who, at first swayed by moral scruples,
as well as feeling reluctant to disobey the order which had been issued,
refrained from looting on their own account; but when they saw that
officers, even of the higher ranks, took possession of plunder, these
scruples were cast to the winds--it was "every man for himself, and the
d--- l take the hindmost," and a general desire was evinced for each to
enrich himself with the prize lying at his feet.

Often, when wandering through the city in pursuit of plunder, I, in
company with others, came across officers engaged in the same quest as
ourselves. These rencontres were most amusing, giving rise to mutual
interrogations and many jokes, each party affirming that looting was not
the object of their perambulations, but that they were only inspecting
the houses out of a feeling of curiosity. Up to this time I had not
succeeded in finding any articles of value, nor had I the remotest idea
that my acquaintance with a certain officer in the employ of the prize
agents would put me in the way of acquiring a fair amount of the loot of
Delhi. A few silver ornaments and a small bag of sicca rupees were all
that I had so far obtained, and I naturally felt desirous of increasing
my store, more especially when it was well known that many officers,
more fortunate and less scrupulous, had already made themselves masters
of large quantities of valuable plunder.

The accumulation of prize by the agents began shortly after Delhi was
taken. At first the articles obtained were of little worth, comprising
chiefly wearing apparel of every description and household goods. Soon,
however, more costly effects were found by the searchers, and in a very
short time the rooms of the prize agents were filled with treasures of
every kind--jewellery and precious stones, diamonds, rubies, emeralds
and pearls without number, from those as large as hen's eggs to the
small species used for necklaces; gold ornaments, chains of the most
beautiful workmanship, bracelets and bangles all of solid metal. There
were heaps, also, of the small, thick, native coin known as gold mohurs,
thousands of which were accumulated by the prize agents and helped most
materially to swell the amount. I visited one room, the long table
in which literally groaned with the riches of "Ormuz and of Ind"--a
dazzling sight to the eye, and one calculated to raise the spirit
of greed in my breast to possess myself of some of the treasures so
temptingly exposed to view. When quiet returned, and the inhabitants of
the city began to flock back to their former homes, whole streets, in
which no doubt treasure had been concealed and had escaped the search of
the prize agents, were sold to the people for sums ranging from 5,000 to
50,000 rupees. All this helped to increase the prize to a sum which
was variously estimated at from half to three-quarters of a million
sterling; and even then it was asserted that only a portion of the vast
wealth of Delhi had been found.

As far as I know, the Government, when distributing the prize-money in
two installments--in 1862 and again in 1865--gave no account of the
total amount which had been collected. The private soldier's share was
reckoned as the unit, value about £17, increasing according to the pay
of the different ranks--the Ensign five shares, Lieutenant six and a
half, Captain eleven and a half, and so in proportion among the higher
grade of officers, while that of the Commander-in-Chief amounted to
one-sixteenth of the whole--an immense sum. There were, of course, many
exaggerations as to how much each rank would receive as its share, and
there were many heart-burnings also when the true amount became known.
The sum had dwindled down to less than one-third of what we expected,
and not a few expressed openly their conviction that some tampering
had taken place with regard to the distribution. This can hardly be
believed, though it has always been a notorious fact that the Government
are inclined to treat the claims of those who fight their battles with
neglect, and in one particular at least, by repudiating the 5 per cent,
promised till the Delhi prize-money was paid, they acted up to their
usual unjust policy, and gave occasions for the complaints which were
raised at the time.

I will now proceed to give an account of my experience when acting as an
assistant to an officer who was accredited by the prize agents with a
permit to search for plunder. This officer, an old friend of mine, asked
me to accompany him on his expeditions, saying also that he had no
objection to my helping myself in moderation to part of the loot which
we might happen to find. Carrying with us the necessary tools, such as
hammers, spades, and pickaxes, we each day started--accompanied by
two coolies--on our plundering excursions. For some days we were very
unsuccessful, and for nearly a week only managed to gather together
and transmit to the agents articles of little value. But, soon gaining
experience from continued practice, and taking note of the different
houses in which there was a likelihood of finding prize, we settled
down to a systematic course of search, which in the end proved highly
remunerative. Scarcely anything of value was found lying about the
different rooms; these had been already gutted and the contents
destroyed by the soldiers, both European and native, who, since the day
of assault, had roamed about the city. At the time we began our search
all was comparatively quiet, and during our operations, such was the
vast extent of the city and so numerous the buildings, that only on two
or three occasions were we interrupted by parties engaged in the same
quest as ourselves.

My companion was a good Hindustani scholar, and taking advantage of his
proficiency in the language, he made a point of interviewing several
natives of the city, who, in the capacity of workmen in different
trades, were allowed in Delhi, and were employed in their several
occupations. From one of these, a mason and builder, N--received
information that a large quantity of treasure was concealed in the house
of a former rich resident. This man had helped to secrete the hoard, and
on the promise of a small reward was willing to help us in unearthing
the booty.

One morning in the beginning of October, attended by the mason, and
carrying the necessary implements, we were taken to the house in
question. This was a large building with a courtyard in the centre, the
rooms of which showed the remains of luxury and wealth, but, as usual,
had been despoiled by the plunderers of our army. Every article was
scattered about in dire confusion; there were piles of clothing and
bedding; rich and ornamental stuffs were torn to pieces, and the
household furniture, broken up, was strewn about the courtyard. Our
guide took us to a small room, about 80 feet square--in fact, it was the
closet of the establishment--the walls of which were whitewashed, the
floor being covered with a hard cement. Here, we were told, the treasure
was concealed under the flooring of the room, and we lost no time in
commencing operations, the mason assisting us. Picking through the
cement, we came on a large flagstone, which we lifted out of the cavity.
Then we dug a hole about 3 feet square, and the same depth in the loose
earth, disclosing the mouth of a large earthenware _gharra_, or jar.
Loosening the soil all around, we attempted to raise the jar out of the
ground, but all our efforts were unavailing--its great weight preventing
us from lifting it one inch out of the bed. Then, trembling with
excitement, for we felt sure that a rich display would greet our eyes,
we began slowly to remove each article from the _gharra_, and place it
on the floor of the room. A heavy bag lying at the mouth of the jar
was first taken out, and on opening it, and afterwards counting its
contents, we found that it contained 700 native gold mohurs, worth
nearly £1,200. Then came dozens of gold bangles, or anklets, of pure
metal, such as those worn by dancing-girls. We were fairly bewildered at
the sight, our hands trembling and our eyes ablaze with excitement, for
such an amount of pure gold as that already discovered we had never seen
before. But the treasure was not yet half exhausted. The jar seemed a
perfect mine of wealth--gold chains, plain and of filigree workmanship,
each worth from £10 to £30; ornaments of the same metal of every sort
of design, and executed in a style for which the Delhi jewellers are
celebrated all over India. Then came small silver caskets filled with
pearls, together to the number of more than 200, each worth from £3 to
£4, pierced for stringing. Others, containing small diamonds, rubies,
and emeralds, and the greatest prize of all--reclining in a casket by
itself--a large diamond, which was sold afterwards by the prize agents
for £1,000. There were many other articles of value besides those I have
mentioned--gold rings and tiaras inlaid with precious stones, nose-rings
of the kind worn by women through the nostrils, earrings, bracelets, and
necklaces of small pearls without number.

All these various articles we spread out on the floor of the room,
examining each again and again, and with avaricious thoughts intent,
lamenting that we were not allowed to appropriate what would have been
to us a fortune. Truly such a temptation to enrich themselves without
fear of detection was never till this occasion set before two
impecunious subalterns of the British Army. Here, spread out before us,
lay loot to the value of thousands of pounds, all our own were we to
follow the example of some who had already feathered their nests with
much larger amounts, defying those in authority to take the plunder from
them. However, such a course could not be entertained for one moment,
and, moreover, were we to possess ourselves of all the contents of
the jar, there was no secure place of concealment to be found, and
unpleasant inquiries and prying eyes would soon have revealed to the
world our abduction of the booty.

It is impossible to do more than guess at the value of the plunder
acquired on this day. My friend received a reward for the find; as for
myself, I will leave it to my readers whether it was possible for weak
human nature to resist the temptation of carrying away some few mementos
from this miscellaneous collection of treasure-trove. To tell the
truth, I must confess that in after times my only regret was that I had
foolishly let slip an opportunity of enriching myself which could never
recur. We agreed--and in this we were borne out by the prize agent--that
£7,000 was the lowest sum at which to compute the loot we had found.

It was my invariable custom to wear as a kammerband or girdle folds of
muslin round my waist for the protection of the liver and spleen, and in
this I placed the articles I carried away. My friend procured a small
cart, in which he deposited the loot and drove to the house of one of
the agents, while I, encumbered as I was, with difficulty mounted my
horse and rode towards the magazine. I could not but feel nervous and
abashed when thinking of the riches concealed about my person, at last
working myself up to such a pitch of excitement that I imagined all I
met were cognizant of my good fortune; and on entering the gates of the
magazine, I fancied I heard one of our men say to his comrade, "Well!
that fellow, at any rate, has plenty of loot about him."

Our next great find, though by no means so lucrative as the first,
brought a large accession to the prize fund. It occurred to me, through
calling to recollection the story of the treasures concealed in the
Hindoo idol at Somnath which was broken open by Sultan Mahmoud in the
eleventh century, that possibly the same kind of receptacle might
disclose a like prize, though on a smaller scale, among the numerous
temples scattered through the city of Delhi.

Acting on this idea, we one day entered a small Hindoo temple situated
not far from the Chandni Chauk. The shrine was gaudily decorated; but
after a prolonged search, we found nothing of any value. A hideous idol
stood on a raised structure in the centre of the building, and was soon
demolished in iconoclastic style with our hammers. The base of the idol
was formed of _chunam_ (a kind of cement), and into this we dug with
our small pickaxes. Soon a ringing sound from a blow disclosed a large
silver casket imbedded in the _chunam_, and this, after some little
trouble, we extricated from its position. Forcing the casket open, our
sight was regaled by a brilliant show of jewels and gold--diamonds,
rubies, and emeralds--two of the latter species being uncut, but of
great size, pearls larger than any we had yet seen, and gold ornaments
of every description, chains, bracelets, bangles, and a few gold mohurs.
We were quite alone in the temple, and after feasting our eyes on the
treasures and selecting a few objects for our own benefit, N---- took
the casket to the prize agent, telling him where we had found it, and
recommending a search in such localities, which recommendation, no
doubt, was carried into effect among other Hindoo temples in the city.

When first entering a house during our search, we at once made ourselves
acquainted with the creed of its former inhabitants. In this there was
no difficulty--Korans lying about the floor denoted that the occupants
had been Mussulmans, while many indications, such as idols, a different
arrangement of the furniture, and other signs with which we became
conversant, proved the influence of the rival Hindoo race. There was a
very cogent reason for this investigation on our part--the Mohammedans
invariably, in secreting their valuables, placed them in the ground
under the floors of their houses, the Hindoos, on the other hand, always
hid them in receptacles in the walls of the buildings. Armed with this
knowledge, we used to sound either the floors or the walls of each house
according as the place belonged to one or the other creed; nor in one
single instance, as far as I can remember, were we at fault in our
diagnosis.

A favourite hiding-place for valuables was behind the staircase, the
treasure being concealed in a sort of vault built around with bricks and
cement. On one occasion, in the house of a money-changer, we demolished
a secret place of this kind and discovered four large bags filled
with some heavy metal. Feeling convinced we should find that the bags
contained at the least rupees, we opened one, and to our infinite
disgust saw that the contents consisted of copper pieces called pice, of
which there were many thousands; the bags, however, were taken to the
prize agents, but I need scarcely say our hands on that day at least
were not soiled by appropriating a portion of the plunder.

On several occasions we succeeded in finding large stores of money,
chiefly sicca or native rupees, while in the houses of Hindoos, in
portions of the walls which sounded hollow under the blow of the hammer,
we, after making a hole sufficiently large for the passage of a hand,
constantly brought to light large stores of silver ornaments, consisting
of chains, bracelets, etc., amounting in the aggregate to a barrowful.
Few houses there were that did not furnish, after a diligent search
either in the floors or walls, some articles of value; but on only one
occasion after the successful ventures in the two first cases was the
amount of loot in any way comparable to that which we obtained on those
days.

In a very secluded part of the city, in a large house, surrounded by
wretched tenements inhabited by the lowest class, we opened a door, and
to our amazement entered a room furnished in the European fashion. This
also had not escaped the marauding and destructive hands of parties of
plunderers; the furniture was smashed, and the contents of the room
strewn about the floor. There were English chairs, curtains, ottomans
covered with antimacassars, sofas and broken mirrors, and in the corner
a small piano, ruined and destroyed. The house had evidently belonged
to some rich native, but who had been the occupant of this boudoir? for
such it was--a miniature drawing-room filled with European luxuries, not
excepting books and copies of music. Articles of a lady's apparel also
lay about, torn in shreds, vases were on the mantelpiece, as well as
a small box filled with English fancy needlework. We came to the
conclusion that the mistress of this abode must have been a Eurasian
lady, probably one of the zenana of the master of the house, who during
the exodus from the city had fled with, or been forcibly carried away
by, her protector.

A dismal mishap occurred to me in this room. Choosing a
comfortable-looking ottoman, I sat down, little dreaming that I had
fallen into a trap which would occasion much laughter among my friends
for days to come. Feeling a strange moist sensation in a certain portion
of my body, I jumped up from the seat, to find, to my horror, that I had
plumped down on a quantity of ghee, or clarified butter. A jar of ghee
was lying on the floor, and a portion of this horrible mess had been
spilt on the seat of the ottoman. I was dressed in white trousers and
jacket of the same material, and found, to my intense disgust, that the
ghee had left a large patch of colour which no amount of rubbing would
eradicate. We were far from our quarters, it was broad daylight, and,
to my mortification, I was compelled to walk thus branded through the
streets of the city, the laughing-stock of those who saw the plight I
was in.

Delhi was celebrated for miniature paintings done on talc, hundreds of
which were found at this time. Some were of rare workmanship, portraits
of beautiful women and drawings of celebrated buildings, all executed
in a style of art peculiar to the craftsmen of that place. We were
fortunate, during our search, in coming across the house of one of
these artists and disinterring from its concealment a box full of these
paintings. They afterwards sold at a good price, and I possessed myself
of some twenty of the most beautiful, comprising portraits of Zeenat
Mahal, the favourite wife of the King, other ladies of the zenana, and
pictures of the Taj and Jama Masjid, besides other mosques throughout
India. These oval-shaped miniatures mounted in gold formed most
acceptable souvenirs of the city of Delhi, and one in particular,
containing the portrait of a lovely Eastern face with head-dress and
tiara of diamonds, and strings of pearls round the neck, I was offered
£20 for after it had been set in gold by a jeweller at Plymouth. In
London, in 1858, there was a great demand for gold ornaments and
jewellery from Delhi, so much so that a noted goldsmith offered me
the highest price for articles of that description; nor would he at
first--till convinced--accept my assurance that I had parted with all my
Delhi loot before leaving India.

We were occupied for nearly three weeks in our quest for plunder,
engaged in the exciting work almost every day, and seldom failing to
find some articles of value. Our last adventure in that line deserves
a detailed description, for though the nature of the loot obtained was
such that it was useless to appropriate for our own use any of the goods
found, still, the value of the plunder increased to a large extent the
Delhi prize-money.

We had noticed in the room of the agents piles of kincob, or cloth of
gold, worth I fear to say how many rupees a yard. The manufacture of
this material was carried on to a great extent in Delhi, there being
much demand for the rich and costly fabric among the Princes and nobles
of Hindostan. Hitherto in our ramblings through the houses we had only
come across a few pieces of this gold brocade; but as luck would have
it, on the last day in which I joined N---- in his duties he had
received information from a native that a large store of kincob was
concealed in the house of a merchant who had dealt in that material.

The man guided us to the house in question; but after searching in every
imaginable place, no signs of the gold cloth could be found. From the
name of the merchant and certain other well-known indications we felt
convinced that his goods were concealed underground, and we commenced
tapping the floor of the largest room with our hammers. Presently, in
the very centre of the apartment, there came a hollow sound, and digging
down about a foot, we found a trap-door. This was lifted, disclosing
a wooden staircase leading down to what seemed to us an apartment
concealed in Cimmerian darkness. Lighting the wax candles we always
carried about with us, we for some distance descended the steps which
seemed to lead into the bowels of the earth. The room turned out to be
about twenty feet square and ten feet high, and ranged around, piled one
on top of the other, were scores of large boxes. One of these we opened,
and found it to contain kincob of the rarest kind; others that we
looked into were full of the same gorgeous material, and we came to the
conclusion that here, spread about, there was a treasure the value of
which amounted to a lakh of rupees. Four large carts were loaded with
the boxes and taken to the prize agents, the contents selling afterwards
for a very large sum.

And thus ended in a most successful find my connection with the loot of
Delhi. Though many years have elapsed, the events of those three weeks
seem as vivid in my memory as though they had happened yesterday--the
brightness of the jewels, the dazzling gold, the nerves wrought to the
highest pitch of tension while waiting in eager expectation for the
result of a search. These episodes of my life appear more like a
fairytale or a legend of the "Arabian Nights" than true history and
sober reality. What opportunities of accumulating a small fortune were
thrown in my way! The treasure lay at my feet, only wanting to be picked
up, and many will say that I was a fool not to take advantage of the
prize! I can, however, certainly aver that I showed great moderation in
possessing myself of only a small portion of the plunder--the amount I
appropriated was but an infinitesimal part of the Delhi prize money.
It is very unlikely that Delhi or any other rich city in India will
be given over to sack and pillage, during this generation, but the
remembrance of the days of 1857, and of the traditional wealth of
the country, still exists amongst the nations of the East, and only
recently, during the scare arising out of the Russian occupation of
Merv, it was stated that the Turkomans, now feudatories of that Empire,
cast longing eyes on Hindostan, "where gold and diamonds could be picked
up in the streets of the large cities."

During my stay at Umballah I made arrangements with an officer of the
Civil Service for the sale of the loot I had brought from Delhi. He
entrusted the commission to one of his native writers, who executed the
work in a satisfactory manner, though the price I received was hardly
equal to the amount I had anticipated. To my friend's wife I gave a
filigree gold chain of beautiful workmanship, and of such length that it
reached six times round the neck, also a tiara of precious stones, while
I also presented some pearls and gold mohurs. There is no doubt that,
had I brought the whole of my plunder home to England, the price
obtained for it would have been far in excess of what I received at
Umballah, but the risk of transportation was too great; I feared, also,
the chance of robbery and the anxiety attached to carrying about with me
so many articles of value.


INDEX


AFGHANS: their want of bravery at the Siege of Delhi

Ahmed Ali Khan's house headquarters at

Ajmir Gate, captured quarters at

Alipore, advance on

Alma, anniversary of the Battle of

Ammunition, pits dug for scarcity of amount

Army, British: characteristics of the troops instructions on the
outbreak of the Mutiny stringent orders dress reception in England
delay in paying prize-money instructions against looting promise of
prize-money batta in lieu indignation against the decision rescinded
appointment of prize agents amount distributed

Army, native: signs of incipient mutiny outbreak at Meerut

Artillerymen, their zeal and devotion at the Siege of Delhi


Badli-ki-Serai, action at

_Badmashes_, or bad characters

"Bakra Id," anniversary of

Bareilly Brigade, the mutinous

Barnard, Sir Henry, at the Siege of Delhi his victory at Badli-ki-Serai
address to the troops death from cholera

Barnes, Mr. "I pass over any detail of my own feelings, as well as my outward
and worldly history.

Over my mind a great change had passed: I was no longer torn by
violent and contending passions; upon the tumultuous sea a dead and
heavy torpor had fallen; the very winds, necessary for health, had
ceased:-- "I slept on the abyss without a surge."

"One violent and engrossing passion is among the worst of all
immoralities, for it leaves the mind too stagnant and exhausted for
those activities and energies which constitute our real duties.

However, now that the tyrant feeling of my mind was removed, I
endeavoured to shake off the apathy it had produced, and return to
the various occupations and businesses of life.

Whatever could divert me from my own dark memories, or give a
momentary motion to the stagnation of my mind, I grasped at with
the fondness and eagerness of a child.

Thus, you found me surrounding myself with luxuries which palled
upon my taste the instant that their novelty had passed: now striving
for the vanity of literary fame; now, for the emptier baubles which
riches could procure.

At one time I shrouded myself in my closet, and brooded over the
dogmas of the learned and the errors of the wise; at another, I
plunged into the more engrossing and active pursuits of the living
crowd which rolled around me,--and flattered my heart, that amid
the applause of senators and the whirlpool of affairs, I could lull
to rest the voices of the past and the spectre of the dead.

"Whether these hopes were effectual, and the struggle not in vain,
this haggard and wasting form, drooping day by day into the grave,
can declare; but I said I would not dwell long upon this part of
my history, nor is it necessary.

Of one thing only, not connected with the main part of my confessions,
it is right, for the sake of one tender and guiltless being, that
I should speak.

"In the cold and friendless world with which I mixed, there was a
heart which had years ago given itself wholly up to me.

At that time I was ignorant of the gift I so little deserved, or
(for it was before I knew Gertrude) I might have returned it, and
been saved years of crime and anguish.

Since then, the person I allude to had married, and, by the death
of her husband, was once more free.

Intimate with my family, and more especially with my sister, she
now met me constantly; her compassion for the change she perceived
in me, both in mind and person, was stronger than even her reserve,
and this is the only reason why I speak of an attachment which ought
otherwise to be concealed: I believe that you already understand
to whom I allude, and since you have discovered her weakness, it
is right that you should know also her virtue; it is right that you
should learn that it was not in her the fantasy or passion of a
moment, but a long and secreted love; that you should learn that
it was her pity, and no unfeminine disregard to opinion, which
betrayed her into imprudence; and that she is, at this moment,
innocent of everything but the folly of loving me.

"I pass on to the time when I discovered that I had been either
intentionally or unconsciously deceived, and that my enemy yet lived!

lived in honour, prosperity, and the world's blessings.

The information was like removing a barrier from a stream hitherto
pent into quiet and restraint.

All the stormy thoughts, feelings, and passions so long at rest rushed
again into a terrible and tumultuous action.

The newly-formed stratum of my mind was swept away; everything
seemed a wreck, a chaos, a convulsion of jarring elements; but this
is a trite and tame description of my feelings; words would be but
commonplace to express the revulsion which I experienced: yet,
amidst all, there was one paramount and presiding thought, to which
the rest were as atoms in the heap,--the awakened thought of
vengeance!

-but how was it to be gratified?

"Placed as Tyrrell now was in the scale of society, every method
of retribution but the one formerly rejected seemed at an end.

To that one, therefore, weak and merciful as it appeared to me, I
resorted; you took my challenge to Tyrrell; you remember his
behaviour: Conscience doth indeed make cowards of us all!

The letter enclosed to me in his to you contained only the commonplace
argument urged so often by those who have injured us; namely, the
reluctance at attempting our life after having ruined our happiness.

When I found that he had left London my rage knew no bounds: I was
absolutely frantic with indignation; the earth reeled before my
eyes; I was almost suffocated by the violence--the whirlpool-- of
my emotions.

I gave myself no time to think,--I left town in pursuit of my foe.

"I found that--still addicted, though, I believed, not so madly as
before, to the old amusements--he was in the neighbourhood of
Newmarket, awaiting the races shortly to ensue.

No sooner did I find his address than I wrote him another challenge,
still more forcibly and insultingly worded than the one you took.

"He lies!"

cried I, in the abrupt anguish of my heart; "his associate shall be
produced.

Hear me: I have been, next to Thornton, the chief witness against
the prisoner, and when I swear to you, that, in spite of all
appearances, I most solemnly believe in his innocence, you may rely
on my assurance, that there are circumstances in his favour, which
have not yet been considered, but which I will pledge myself hereafter
to adduce."

I then related to the private ear of the magistrate, my firm
conviction of the guilt of the accuser himself.

"Five thousand!" repeated Thornton; "a mere drop--a child's toy--why,
you are playing with me, Sir Reginald--nay, I am a reasonable man,
and will abate a trifle or so of my just claims, but you must not
take advantage of my good nature."I have known Sir Reginald Glanville personally," said he: "in
private as in public life, I have always thought him the most upright
and honourable of men. I feel the greatest pain in saying, that it
will be my duty fully to commit him for trial."