 Then, the
night following, the others must steal away to that place near
Sillery--the west side of the town was always ill guarded--and wait
there with a boat. He should see me at a certain point on the
ramparts, and, well armed, we also would make our way to Sillery,
and from the spot called the Anse du Foulon drift down the river
in the dead of night.

He promised to do all as I wished.

The rest of the day I spent in my room fashioning strange toys
out of willow rods. I had got these rods from my guards, to make
whistles for their children, and they had carried away many of
them. But now, with pieces of a silk handkerchief tied to the
whistle and filled with air, I made a toy which, when squeezed,
sent out a weird lament. Once when my guard came in, I pressed one
of these things in my pocket, and it gave forth a sort of smothered
cry, like a sick child. At this he started, and looked round the
room in trepidation; for, of all peoples, these Canadian Frenchmen
are the most superstitious, and may be worked on without limit.
The cry had seemed to come from a distance. I looked around, also,
and appeared serious, and he asked me if I had heard the thing
before.

"Once or twice," said I.

"Then you are a dead man," said he; "'tis a warning, that!"

"Maybe it is not I, but one of you," I answered. Then, with a
sort of hush, "Is't like the cry of La Jongleuse?" I added. (La
Jongleuse is their fabled witch, or spirit, of disaster.)

He nodded his head, crossed himself, mumbled a prayer, and turned
to go, but came back. "I'll fetch a crucifix," he said. "You are
a heathen, and you bring her here. She is the devil's dam."

He left with a scared face, and I laughed to myself quietly, for
I saw success ahead of me. True to his word, he brought a crucifix
and put it up--not where he wished, but, at my request, opposite
the door, upon the wall. He crossed himself before it, and was
most devout.

It looked singular to see this big, rough soldier, who was in
most things a swaggerer, so childlike in all that touched his
religion. With this you could fetch him to his knees; with it
I would cow him that I might myself escape.

At half past five the chaplain came, having been delayed by the
guard to have his order indorsed by Captain Lancy of the Governor's
household. To him I told my plans so far as I thought he should
know them, and then I explained what I wished him to do. He was
grave and thoughtful for some minutes, but at last consented. He
was a pious man, and of as honest a heart as I have known, albeit
narrow and confined, which sprang perhaps from his provincial
practice and his theological cutting and trimming. We were in the
midst of a serious talk, wherein I urged him upon matters which
shall presently be set forth, when there came a noise outside. I
begged him to retire to the alcove where my bed was, and draw the
curtain for a few moments, nor come forth until I called. He did
so, yet I thought it hurt his sense of dignity to be shifted to a
bedroom.

As he disappeared the door opened, and Gabord and Alixe entered.
"One half hour," said Gabord, and went out again.

Presently Alixe told me her story.

"I have not been idle, Robert, but I could not act, for my father
and mother suspect my love for you. I have come but little to the
chateau without them, and I was closely watched. I knew not how the
thing would end, but I kept up my workings with the Governor, which
is easier now Monsieur Doltaire is gone, and I got you the freedom
to walk upon the ramparts. Well, once before my father suspected me,
I said that if his Excellency disliked your being in the Chateau,
you could be as well guarded in my father's house, with sentinels
always there, until you could, in better health, be taken to the
common jail again. What was my surprise when yesterday came word to
my father that he should make ready to receive you as a prisoner;
being sure that he, his Excellency's cousin, the father of the man
you had injured, and the most loyal of Frenchmen, would guard you
diligently; he now needed all extra room in the Chateau for the
entertainment of gentlemen and officers lately come from France.

"When my father got the news, he was thrown into dismay. He knew
not what to do. On what ground could he refuse the Governor? Yet
when he thought of me he felt it his duty to do so. Again, on what
ground could he refuse this boon to you, to whom we all owe the
blessing of his life? On my brother's account? But my brother has
written to my father justifying you, and magnanimously praising you
as a man, while hating you as an English soldier. On my account?
But he could not give this reason to the Governor. As for me, I
was silent, I waited--and I wait; I know not what will be the end.
Meanwhile preparations go on to receive you."

I could see that Alixe's mood was more tranquil since Doltaire
was gone. A certain restlessness had vanished. Her manner had much
dignity, and every movement a peculiar grace and elegance. She was
dressed in a soft cloth of a gray tone, touched off with red and
slashed with gold, and a cloak of gray, trimmed with fur, with
bright silver buckles, hung loosely on her, thrown off at one
shoulder. There was a sweet disorder in the hair, which indeed
was prettiest when freest.

When she had finished speaking, she looked at me, as I thought,
with a little anxiety.

"Alixe," I said, "we have come to the cross-roads, and the way
we choose now is for all time."

She looked up, startled, yet governing herself, and her hand
sought mine and nestled there. "I feel that, too," she replied.
"What is it, Robert?"

"I can not in honour escape from your father's house. I can not
steal his daughter and his safety too--"

"You must escape," she interrupted firmly.

"From here, from the citadel, from anywhere but your house; and
so I will not go to it."

"You will not go to it?" she repeated slowly and strangely. "How
may you not? You are a prisoner. If they make my father your
jailer--" She laughed.

"I owe that jailer and that jailer's daughter--"

"You owe them your safety and your freedom. Oh, Robert, I know,
I know what you mean. But what care I what the world may think
by-and-bye, or to-morrow, or to-day? My conscience is clear."

"Your father--" I persisted.

She nodded. "Yes, yes, you speak truth, alas! And yet you must
be freed. And"--here she got to her feet, and with flashing eyes
spoke out--"and you shall be set free. Let come what will, I owe
my first duty to you, though all the world chatter; and I will
not stir from that. As soon as I can make it possible, you
shall escape."

"You shall have the right to set me free," said I, "if I must go
to your father's house. And if I do not go there, but out to my
own good country, you shall still have the right before all the
world to follow, or to wait till I come to fetch you."

"I do not understand you, Robert," said she. "I do not--" Here
she broke off, looking, looking at me, and trembling a little.

Then I stooped and whispered softly in her ear. She gave a little
cry, and drew back from me; yet instantly her hand came out and
caught my arm.

"Robert, Robert! I can not, I dare not!" she cried softly. "No,
no, it may not be," she added in a whisper of fear.

I went to the alcove, drew back the curtain, and asked Mr.
Wainfleet to step forth.

"Sir," said I, picking up my Prayer Book and putting it in his
hands, "I beg you to marry this lady and myself."

He paused, dazed. "Marry you--here--now?" he asked shakingly.

"Before ten minutes go round, this lady must be my wife," said I.

"Mademoiselle Duvarney, you--" he began.

"Be pleased, dear sir, to open the book at 'Wilt thou have,'" said
I. "The lady is a Catholic; she has not the consent of her people;
but when she is my wife, made so by you, whose consent need we ask?
Can you not tie us fast enough, a man and woman of sense sufficient,
but you must pause here? Is the knot you tie safe against picking
and stealing?"

I had touched his vanity and his ecclesiasticism. "Married by me,"
he replied, "once chaplain to the Bishop of London, you have a
knot that no sword can cut. I am in full orders. My parish is in
Boston itself."

"You will hand a certificate to my wife to-morrow, and you will
uphold this marriage against all gossip?" asked I.

"Against all France and all England," he answered, roused now.

"Then come," I urged.

"But I must have a witness," he interposed, opening the book.

"You shall have one in due time," said I. "Go on. When the
marriage is performed, and at the point where you shall proclaim
us man and wife, I will have a witness."

I turned to Alixe, and found her pale and troubled. "Oh, Robert,
Robert!" she cried, "it can not be. Now, now I am afraid, for the
first time in my life, clear, the first time!"

"Dearest lass in the world," I said, "it must be. I shall not go
to your father's. To-morrow night, I make my great stroke for
freedom, and when I am free I shall return to fetch my wife."

"You will try to escape from here to-morrow?" she asked, her
face flushing finely.

"I will escape or die," I answered; "but I shall not think of
death. Come--come and say with me that we shall part no more--in
spirit no more; that, whatever comes, you and I have fulfilled our
great hope, though under the shadow of the sword."

At that she put her hand in mine with pride and sweetness, and
said, "I am ready, Robert. I give my heart, my life, and my honour
to you--forever."

Then, with great sweetness and solemnity she turned to the
clergyman: "Sir, my honour is also in your hands. If you have
mother or sister, or any care of souls upon you, I pray you, in
the future act as becomes good men."

"Mademoiselle," he said earnestly, "I am risking my freedom,
maybe my life, in this; do you think--"

Here she took his hand and pressed it. "Ah, I ask your pardon. I
am of a different faith from you, and I have known how men forget
when they should remember." She smiled at him so perfectly that
he drew himself up with pride.

"Make haste, sir," said I. "Jailers are curious folk."

The room was not yet lighted, the evening shadows were creeping
in, and up out of the town came the ringing of the vesper bell from
the church of the Recollets. For a moment there was stillness in the
room and all around us, and then the chaplain began in a low voice:
"I require and charge you both--" and so on. In a few moments I had
made the great vow, and had put on Alixe's finger a ring which the
clergyman drew from his own hand. Then we knelt down, and I know
we both prayed most fervently with the good man that we might "ever
remain in perfect love and perfect peace together."

Rising, he paused, and I went to the door and knocked upon it.
It was opened by Gabord. "Come in, Gabord," said I. "There is a
thing that you must hear."

He stepped back and got a light, and then entered, holding it up,
and shutting the door. A strange look came upon his face when he saw
the chaplain, and a stranger when, stepping beside Alixe, I took her
hand, and Mr. Wainfleet declared us man and wife. He stood like one
dumfounded, and he did not stir as Alixe, turning to me, let me
kiss her on the lips, and then went to the crucifix on the wall and
embraced the feet of it, and stood for a moment, praying. Nor did
he move or make a sign till she came back and stood beside me.

"A pretty scene!" he burst forth then with anger. "But, by God!
no marriage is it!"

Alixe's hand tightened on my arm, and she drew close to me.

"A marriage that will stand at Judgment Day, Gabord," said I.

"But not in France or here. 'Tis mating wild, with end of doom."

"It is a marriage our great Archbishop at Lambeth Palace will
uphold against a hundred popes and kings," said the chaplain with
importance.

"You are no priest, but holy peddler!" cried Gabord roughly.
"This is not mating as Christians, and fires of hell shall
burn--aho! I will see you all go down, and hand of mine shall
not be lifted for you!"

He puffed out his cheeks, and his great eyes rolled so like
fire-wheels.

"You are a witness to this ceremony," said the chaplain. "And
you shall answer to your God, but you must speak the truth for this
man and wife."

"Man and wife?" laughed Gabord wildly. "May I die and be damned
to--"

Like a flash Alixe was beside him, and put to his lips most
swiftly the little wooden cross that Mathilde had given her.

"Gabord, Gabord," she said in a sweet, sad voice, "when you may
come to die, a girl's prayers will be waiting at God's feet for
you."

He stopped, and stared at her. Her hand lay on his arm, and she
continued: "No night gives me sleep, Gabord, but I pray for the
jailer who has been kind to an ill-treated gentleman."

"A juggling gentleman, that cheats Gabord before his eyes, and
smuggles in a mongrel priest!" he blustered.

I waved my hand at the chaplain, or I think he would have put
his Prayer Book to rougher use than was its wont, and I was about
to answer, but Alixe spoke instead, and to greater purpose than I
could have done. Her whole mood changed, her face grew still and
proud, her eyes flashed bravely.

"Gabord," she said, "vanity speaks in you there, not honesty. No
gentleman here is a juggler. No kindness you may have done warrants
insolence. You have the power to bring great misery on us, and you
may have the will, but, by God's help, both my husband and myself
shall be delivered from cruel hands. At any moment I may stand alone
in the world, friends, people, the Church, and all the land against
me: if you desire to haste that time, to bring me to disaster,
because you would injure my husband,"--how sweet the name sounded on
her lips!--"then act, but do not insult us. But no, no," she broke
off softly, "you spoke in temper, you meant it not, you were but
vexed with us for the moment. Dear Gabord," she added, "did we not
know that if we had asked you first, you would have refused us? You
care so much for me, you would have feared my linking my life and
fate with one--"

"With one the death-man has in hand, to pay price for wicked
deed," he interrupted.

"With one innocent of all dishonour, a gentleman wronged every
way. Gabord, you know it so, for you have guarded him and fought
with him, and you are an honourable gentleman," she added gently.

"No gentleman I," he burst forth, "but jailer base, and soldier
born upon a truss of hay. But honour is an apple any man may eat
since Adam walked in garden.... 'Tis honest foe, here," he
continued magnanimously, and nodded towards me.

"We would have told you all," she said, "but how dare we involve
you, or how dare we tempt you, or how dare we risk your refusal? It
was love and truth drove us to this; and God will bless this mating
as the birds mate, even as He gives honour to Gabord who was born
upon a truss of hay."

"Poom!" said Gabord, puffing out his cheeks, and smiling on her
with a look half sour, and yet with a doglike fondness, "Gabord's
mouth is shut till 's head is off, and then to tell the tale to
Twelve Apostles!"

Through his wayward, illusive speech we found his meaning. He
would keep faith with us, and be best proof of this marriage, at
risk of his head even.

As we spoke, the chaplain was writing in the blank fore-pages of
the Prayer Book. Presently he said to me, handing me the pen, which
he had picked from a table, "Inscribe your names here. It is a
rough record of the ceremony, but it will suffice before all men,
when to-morrow I have given Mistress Moray another record."

We wrote our names, and then the pen was handed to Gabord. He took
it, and at last, with many flourishes and ahos, and by dint of
puffings and rolling eyes, he wrote his name so large that it filled
as much space as the other names and all the writing, and was indeed
like a huge indorsement across the record.

When this was done, Alixe held out her hand to him. "Will you kiss
me, Gabord?" she said.

The great soldier was all taken back. He flushed like a schoolboy,
yet a big humour and pride looked out of his eyes.

"I owe you for the sables, too," she said. "But kiss me--not on my
ears, as the Russian count kissed Gabord, but on both cheek."

This won him to our cause utterly, and I never think of Gabord,
as I saw him last in the sway and carnage of battle, fighting with
wild uproar and covered with wounds, but the memory of that moment,
when he kissed my young wife, comes back to me.

At that he turned to leave. "I'll hold the door for ten minutes,"
he added; and bowed to the chaplain, who blessed us then with tears
in his eyes, and smiled a little to my thanks and praises and purse
of gold, and to Alixe's sweet gratitude. With lifting chin--good
honest gentleman, who afterwards proved his fidelity and truth--he
said that he would die to uphold this sacred ceremony. And so he
made a little speech, as if he had a pulpit round him, and he wound
up with a benediction which sent my dear girl to tears and soft
trembling:

"The Lord bless you and keep you: the Lord make his face to shine
upon you; the Lord lift up his countenance upon you, and give you
peace now and for evermore."

A moment afterwards the door closed, and for ten minutes I looked
into my wife's face, and told her my plans for escape. When
Gabord opened the door upon us, we had passed through years of
understanding and resolve. Our parting was brave--a bravery on
her side that I do not think any other woman could match. She
was quivering with the new life come upon her, yet she was
self-controlled; she moved as in a dream, yet I knew her mind was
alert, vigilant, and strong; she was aching with thought of this
separation, with the peril that faced us both, yet she carried a
quiet joy in her face, a tranquil gravity of bearing.

The method adopted years ago in all other civilized countries, and
in Massachusetts and Rhode Island in 1875, of leaving the blank
schedules in advance at each house and manufactory, to be filled
up carefully and thoughtfully, and to be called for on a given day,
should also be adopted.

The result of the first attempt in Massachusetts was that 37 per
cent. of the schedules was found ready for delivery to the enumerator,
and for the remaining 63 per cent. the labor was greatly diminished
by the readiness of the people to answer all inquiries intelligently.

The number who at first failed or refused to comply was only one
hundred, and of manufacturers less than twenty; and these all
subsequently made the necessary returns.

The total answers of all kinds received at the census office was
13,000,000, at a cost to the State of one dollar for each hundred
answers.

Under such a law, enacted by the present Congress, and by such
methods, the census report of 1880 would become a document to which
every good citizen could point with pride and congratulation.

We should no longer be mortified with such errors and shortcomings
as are so frankly commented on in the census report of 1870. We
should have not merely a correct enumeration of the population, with
all the important facts connected with their domestic and social
condition, but also such a return of the occupations, manufacturing
industries, education and commercial operations, and all the elements
which go to make up the material well-being of the races on this
portion of the continent, as would mark a new departure in our
national life.

The absurd inanities which characterize so much of the report of
the superintendent of the census of 1860, and the _doctrinaire_
theories injected into the report of 1850, ought never again to
find expression in any public document bearing the official sanction
of the United States.

The census report of 1860, as compared with that of 1870, is as the
Serbonian bog to a well-appointed lawn. For the first time since
its inception the taking of the census was in 1870 placed in
thoroughly competent hands. By inherited ability, as well as by
previous training, General Walker possesses in an eminent degree the
qualities essential to the fitting and successful execution of
such a task.

At every step he shows the skill and readiness of a master workman;
and it will be fortunate for the country if he shall be selected
as superintendent of the tenth census under a law of his own
devising.

As to the results to be revealed by the tenth census, it is not
worth while to speculate. That they will be disappointing in many
aspects to the national pride, or at least to the national vanity,
there can be little doubt; but it is to be hoped we have outlived
the period when the truth can make us angry. Of course there
will be no such increase of population as marked our earlier career
down to 1860, nor should we expect much increase in the reported
wealth of the country since 1870.

For the first time, except in the decade from 1820 to 1830, there
will be no increase of area, unless all signs fail. Whatever the
changes may be, they will more fully concern our social and political
condition than in any previous decade, except perhaps the last.

An early and intelligent interest in this important subject is all
that is requisite to secure the needed reform.

It is not creditable to the country that the census of 1870 was
taken under the provisions of the law of 1850: it will be disgraceful
should that of 1880 be subjected to the same fate, as it must
be unless a new law is passed before the first of January of
that year. The matter should be pressed upon the attention of
Congress during its present session.

In 1870 an admirable law was passed by the House of Representatives
under the skilful and intelligent leadership of Hon. James A.
Garfield, but it failed in the Senate because of the apathy of some
and the personal pique of others.

It seems incredible that in that dignified body so little
attention was paid to this vast subject. Again and again its
consideration was postponed because a sufficient attendance could
not be secured to act upon the proposed law, which at last fell
to the ground, a victim to the indifference and prejudice of those
who ought to have acted more wisely in a matter that so nearly
concerns the welfare and good name of a great nation.

HENRY STONE.

CHANG-HOW AND ANARKY.

"Gret beezle!"
A dismayed silence while Anarky, our cook--black as night, eyes set
square in her head, that head set level on her stout black
shoulders--walked around the Chinese youth my husband had brought
home as an experiment in our domestic life--around the Chinese
youth with his wiry frame and insinuating stoop of the shoulders,
and a smile of neutral tint lying placid but wary on his buff
countenance.

"Lordy-mussy!" quoth Anarky. Another vehement, aggressive pause
on her part, a silence observant and self-defensive on his.

"Name o' Satan, Mis' Maud! what is it?"
"This is to be your fellow-servant, Anarky."
"Gret Beezle! Wish I may die ef I didn't think it wor a yaller rat!"

"Anarky, I am ashamed of you! What should Mr. Smith want with a yellow
rat?"

"Thought he bought it at de sukus in New York, an' gif to you
like he did dat monkey. Ef it ain't no rat, an' ain't a monkey,
name o' Satan, what kin it be? 'Tain't a 'ooman, for all dem
gret long sleeves: you know dat yo'se'f. An' 'tain't like
no man as eber _I_ seed. What dat hangin' on to its head?
An' what motter wid its eyes, sot crank-sided right 'ginst
its nose, kickin' up der heels, pintin' ebry way for Sunday--one
en' uv um ez sharp as a 'nittin'-needle, an' tudder en' ez roun'
ez a marble?"

Chang-how sent one eye skirmishing in my direction, and the other
toward Anarky, and the same deprecatory yet wary smile rested like
moonlight on his placid face.

"That will do, Anarky," said I. "I wish you to understand that
this is to be your fellow-servant. You will cook and wash as usual.
Chang-how will attend in the dining-room, and do I don't know yet
exactly what else; but I wish you to be kind to him, remembering
that he is a stranger in a strange land. Also, I will have no
further remarks on his personal appearance."
Silenced by authority, but unmoved by my eloquence, Anarky made
another tour of inspection--silently raised the end of
Chang-how's queue, disgustedly let it fall, and went to the door.

There she stopped and looked at him again. "Good Lord!" said she
under her breath by way of parting salute.

The look of mild unconcern that had rested on Chang-how's features
was rippled by a quaint, cunning smile, and for the first time
he cast a quick glance full at her, then stood again with
folded hands, calm, submissive, apparently unobservant.

Seeing the antagonism that was likely to exist between them, I
myself showed Chang-how and his bundle to the room he was to
occupy, and in a short time he emerged clad in a neat white jacket,
his queue deftly bound around his head, ready for business.

The fellow was exceedingly bright and quick, and, though he never
seemed to be "takin' notes," nothing escaped his observation.

He learned our ways in an incredibly short time, and when those
ways did not come in conflict with any habit previously formed he
adapted himself to them at once; but woe to any pet notion that
interfered with Chang's preconceived ideas!

That notion had to go to the wall. However, that has nothing to
do here.

Whether Chang-how had been "takin' notes" was a debatable point,
but that somebody was taking everything takable on the premises
soon became a self-evident proposition; and this was uncomfortable
for more reasons than one.

Mr. Smith and I almost quarrelled about it. He would not believe it
to be Chang-how, and I was determined it should not be Anarky.
Said he, "Anarky is taking advantage of the popular idea that the
Chinese are invariably dis--"
"Now, who ever heard anything like that?"

I interrupted. "What does Anarky know about the popular idea
concerning the Chinese? About as much as I should know if you
were to talk to me about the Teutonic idiom for mezzo-tinted
phonetics."

"You have convinced me, my dear, that Chang-how is the guilty party;
but the idea I meant to convey before you knocked me down with
those big words was this--that Anarky, knowing what people
think of the Chinese, indulges her dishonest yearnings,
believing we shall suppose the thief to be Chang-how."

"But I know it _isn't_ Anarky, because Anarky always had a
blundering, awkward, above-board way of stealing that made it
only _taking_ things, and she was always getting caught; and
Chang-how always manages not to be found out. And I know it is
Chang-how; I know it by that. It shows he is used to it."
Mr. Smith laughed.

"It does! and I know it _is_ Chang-how and it _isn't_ Anarky."
Then Mr. Smith laughed again, and said women were born to be
lawyers.

Chang-how would come to me (he was dining-room servant, you
remember):
"Evly one spoonee no come homee."
"How you mean, Chang-how? Where spoonee go?"
"All no light: all longee. Spoonee go 'way: I no find him."
"Oh, but you must find them, Chang-how. How many go?"
"Four spoonee."
"But they are solid silver! You really must find them."
"You tell where lookee, I go lookee."
"I am sure I don't know were you are to look. And two forks were
missing last week!"
I stared reflectively at a June-bug on the window-sill. Chang-how
stood with folded hands and drooping shoulders, a seraphic calm
upon his features, as of one who had stood upon the burning deck
when all but he had fled.

Evidently he had done his duty. I was so impressed with this fact,
and that the responsibility, if not the guilt, was now mine, that
I simply said, "Go set the table then, Chang-how.

Mr. Smith will have to tell us what to do when he comes home."

Exit Chang.

Enter Anarky: "Mis' Maud, how many hank'chers you sent out dis
week?"

"Twenty-three, I believe."
"An' now I ain't got but nineteen. You see dat? How many socks for
Mas' Jim?"

"Six or seven, I suppose. Why?"
"You see dat again? Ain't but fo' par lef'! Ef I don't beat him,
shoze I'm a nigger!"
"Your Mas' Jim?" I asked, smiling.

"'Tain't nobody but dat yaller varmint dat's stealin' roun' de
lot.--Lor'! Lor'! ef I jes' could cotch him!"

"Anarky, while we are talking about it, I--I really wish you would
manage a little better about the biscuit and--well, the eggs,
and--and a good many little things of the kind. I am sure we have an
abundance of everything, and it mortifies me exceedingly not to have
it at table.

Haven't you and Chang everything you want, and as much?"
"We gits more'n 'nuff.

An' what goes outen de kitchen goes correc'. Whar dey lands
'tween dar an' de din'-room don't nobody know but dat yaller dorg.

I misses things cornstant--things dat I ain't took my eyes off
'em, 'cep' ter wink; an', bless de Lord! while I wor a-winkin'
de lard done took to its heels or de flour flewed away."
The next evening, when Chang brought in supper, Anarky walked by
his side in solemn state, empty-handed, dignified, watchful.

He appeared totally unconscious of his escort, and I made no remark;
but Mr.

Smith sent him into the hall on an errand, and during his absence
Anarky rose to explain: "Which you see all dem biskit, Mis' Maud?"

"Yes: I am glad we are getting all right again, Anarky."
"Well, I got dat many mo' in de ub'n now--jes' like I use ter
hab 'fo' dat--" Here an appalling idea seemed to strike her.

"War dat Chow-chow nigger?" she exclaimed, and made a dash
toward the door. As she reached it Chang-how quietly glided in and
handed Mr. Smith the paper he had gone for.

The next moment a sound came from the kitchen--something between
a howl and a roar--and following in its wake came Anarky. Almost
inarticulate with rage, she shook her brawny fist in Chang-how's
face. "You good-fur-nuthin' yaller _houn'!_" she exclaimed.

Mr. Smith wheeled around on his chair and looked at her in stern
surprise. Chang-how stood his ground and gazed at her with the
unruffled calm of a full moon beaming o'er a raging sea.

She turned to us, trembling with excitement: "Well, ef dat ain't
de beatinest trick et ebber I seed! Think dat yaller houn' ain't
stole de biskit outen de ub'n? An', 'fo' Gord! I didn't know he'd
been out o' here long 'nuff for a dog to snap at a fly! Ef you ain't
de oudaishusest--" She stopped and glared at him with the
despairing, silent venom of one who felt herself a pauper in words,
a verbal failure, a wretched creature who in the supreme hour of
trial was proving herself the wrong person in the wrong
place.

Chang-how's hands were folded, and his eyes rested dreamily on
the floor.

Evidently, he was contentedly rolling tea-leaves in his native
land.

Suspiciously regarding the abnormal appearance of Chang-how's neat
white jacket, I forbore to rebuke my sable favorite, but Mr.

Smith, not having observed the little protuberances which had
attracted my attention toward his more delicately-tinted
protégé, said with decision, "Go to the kitchen, Anarky, and send
in supper or bring it yourself; and make haste about it."
Anarky turned again to Chang-how and fixed her great black eyes
on him in silence. Then she sounded a note of solemn warning:
"Lord! Lord!
Shang-hai!" said she, "ef ebber I _does_ cotch you out an' out, ef
ebber I _does_ git a good square holt on you, I'll t'ar you
all to pieces! Yo' mammy won't want what'll be left uv you, 'cos'
'twon't be wuf berryin'!"
"Shut upee! too much jawee," said Chang-how benignly, and dreamed
again of his native land.

But for three days nothing was missing in Anarky's department, and
so far Chang-how escaped with unbroken bones.

On the evening of the fourth day I received a letter announcing the
coming of visitors, and it unfortunately occurred to me that Chang-how
might assist Anarky in the laundry, thus affording her an opportunity
for greater display in the culinary department; so I called him up:
"You washeeman, Chang-how?"
"Oh yes, I washee all light," said Chang.

"You help Anarky iron to-day I give you more money."

"All light! How muchee?"
"One dollar."
"Two dollar."
"One dollar."
"No washee one dollar," said Chang.

"No washee at all, then."
"One dollar ap."
"Nor a dollar and a half: I get other washee."

"Melican man no washee ap."
"Oh yes. Melican woman suit me."
"All light! I washee one dollar."
"Very well. As soon, then, as you leave the dining-room go to the
laundry. And, Chang, no make cook cross."
"Cook too much talkee: cookee bad egg."
"Well, you no make cookee cross perhaps I give you more money."
"All light! How muchee?"
"No matter: a quarter."
"Ap."
"A half, then."
Going to the laundry, I said to Anarky, "Chang-how will assist you
in the ironing to-day, so that you can get through quickly and show
my friends some of your best cooking, Anarky.

I do hope--" 
"What Shang-doodle know 'bout i'unin'?"

asked Anarky sulkily.

"Oh, he knows ever so much," said I with cheerful faith; "and
I do hope you will try to get on nicely with him this time. You
know what the Bible says about brothers dwelling together in
unity, and all that?"
"Chang-jaw ain't none o' my brudder, an' I ain't none o' his'n,"
resisted Anarky.

"Oh yes, we are all brothers; and if you will only be Chang-how's
long enough to get through with the ironing, I will give you almost
anything you want."
"Gimme a nigger all day long," said Anarky: "I fa'rly hates a
Chinee an' a Orrisher."

"Try it to-day, though, Anarky, for my sake," said I persuasively;
and she consented, though sulkily enough.

Hearing Chang-how coming, I seated myself on the stairway leading
into the laundry, curious to see how they would work together.

Anarky pointed authoritatively to a heap of dried linen. "Sprinkle
dem ar cloze," said she to Chang. "I'm gwine out in de yard to git
what's on de line."
While she was gone, Chang-how, as is the manner of his people,
filled his mouth with water, and was blowing it in a fine spray
over the linen when Anarky appeared in the doorway, a basket of
clothes on her head, her knuckles on her hips.

As she caught sight of Chang-how moistening the linen with water from
his mouth she stopped: she staggered, her basket fell to the floor,
and, stooping down, she threw her hands above her head, then
brought them down again with a violent slap on her knees.

"Good Lor'! come down," said she, "an' look at dat yaller houn'
a-spittin' on Mis' Maud's cloze.--I got you now! Can't nobody blame
me fur beatin' you 'bout _dat_."
Then she flew at him, and what a scene it was!

She, black, brawny, of immense physical power--he, lithe, sinewy,
supple as a panther. It was a spectacle! First one, then the other,
seemed to have the advantage. She would catch him in her powerful
grasp, and, lifting him off his feet, swing him in the air as if
about to slam him to his final resting-place, when by some
inexplicable manoeuvre he would writhe from between her fingers or
wriggle himself to the back of her neck and mash her nose flat
against her breast as if bent on suffocating her or breaking her
neck. In a moment she would reach back with both hands and pull him
over her head very much as men doff a shirt. Likely as not, Chang
came down with his heels in the air, and at it they would go again.
Presently she was tripped, and fell with a violence that should
have broken every bone in her body, but before Chang-how could
pursue his advantage she had wheeled on her side, wound his queue
halfway up her arm and had her knee on his breast.
"Good for you, An--! I mean, aren't you ashamed of yourself? Stop!
for Heaven's sake, stop! You might kill him."
As well have spoken to the winds.It might thus seem that we were leaving danger well behind,
after having travelled so many heavy leagues, but it was yet
several hundred miles to Louisburg, our destination; and we had
escaped only immediate danger. We passed Isle aux Coudres and the
Isles of Kamaraska, and now we ventured by day to ramble the woods
in search of game, which was most plentiful. In this good outdoor
life my health came slowly back, and I should soon be able to bear
equal tasks with any of my faithful comrades. Never man led better
friends, though I have seen adventurous service near and far since
that time. Even the genial ruffian Clark was amenable, and took
sharp reprimand without revolt.

On the eleventh night after our escape, our first real trial
came. We were keeping the middle of the great river, as safest from
detection, and when the tide was with us we could thus move more
rapidly. We had had a constant favouring wind, but now suddenly,
though we were running with the tide, the wind turned easterly, and
blew up the river against the ebb. Soon it became a gale, to which
was added snow and sleet, and a rough, choppy sea followed.

_)--potato-masher and don't kill (_M--u--r_--der!)--kill him
with it, unless he kills you first.--Oh, mercy! mercy! I don't
know what else to give you all to keep you from killing
(Murder!)--killing each other with.--Anarky, you are breaking his
neck!--Here's a flatiron, Chang! (Murder! Fire! fire! fire!)"
This brought the neighbors and the neighbors' children, and their
neighbors and their neighbors' children, and finally a forlorn
policeman, who marched Anarky to the magistrate's office and left
Chang to do up his pigtail at leisure, and reflect how often he had
sinned and gone unwhipt of justice, and now, in the hour of peace
and in the act of duty, retribution had deliberately sought him
out, and found him and disposed of him as afore told.

It seems that Anarky went quietly enough to the magistrate, who
gave her the choice between going to jail and depositing five
dollars as security for her appearance next morning for examination.
Not having five dollars to deposit, she was allowed an hour in which
to seek some one who would go bail for her. At the end of that
time she returned to the office panting, exhausted, wiping the
perspiration from her face with her blue cotton apron.

"Who is going bail for you?" she was asked.

Calmly turning down the sleeves that had been rolled above her shining
black elbows, she replied with contempt, "I ain't been arter no
bail: I dun been home an' finish beatin' de lites outen dat yaller
houn'. Dat all de bail _I_ wants!We had had enough danger and work in one night
to give us relish for some days of rest, and we piously took them.

The evening of the second day we set off again, and had a good
night's run, and in the dawn, spying a snug little bay, we stood
in, and went ashore. I sent my two Provincials foraging with their
guns, and we who remained set about to fix our camp for the day and
prepare breakfast. A few minutes only passed, and the two hunters
came running back with rueful faces to say they had seen two
Indians near, armed with muskets and knives. My plans were made at
once.