We have since been exploring the town, and are quite delighted with it.
It has none of the stiff regularity of New York, and the dwelling
houses have an air of respectable quiet comfort which is much wanted in
that city of wealth and display. The "stores" too are far more
attractive than in New York, though their way of asking you to describe
exactly what you want before they show you anything, except what is
displayed, reminded me much of France. The city is altogether very
foreign-looking in its appearance, and we are glad to think we are to
return and make a better acquaintance with it later in the month. There
is a delightful "common," as they call it, or park, which is well kept,
and much prized by the inhabitants. Some beautiful elm trees in it are
the largest we have seen in this country. Around one side are the best
dwelling houses, some of which are really magnificent. The hotel, which
is a very large one, has some beautiful public sitting rooms, greatly
larger than those at the Brevoort House at New York, which is much more
quiet in this respect; but these large rooms form an agreeable adjunct
to an hotel, as they are in general well filled by the guests in the
house, and yet sufficiently large to let each party have their own
little coterie.

The character of the inhabitants for honesty seems to be called in
question by the hotel-keepers, for all over these hotels there are
alarming notices to beware of hotel thieves (probably English
pickpockets); and in Boston we were not only told to lock our doors, but
not to leave the key on the outside _at any time_, for fear it should be
stolen.

_Trenton Falls, Sept. 16th._--We left Boston on Tuesday afternoon, and
got as far as Springfield, a town beautifully situated on the river
Connecticut, and celebrated for a government institution of great
importance, where they make and store up fire-arms. It is just 100 miles
from Boston, and the railway runs through a beautifully wooded country
the whole way, which made the journey appear a very short one. The
villages we passed had the same character as those between Providence
and Boston, and were, like them, built altogether of wood, generally
painted white, but occasionally varied by stone-colour, and sometimes by
a warm red or maroon colour picked out with white.

Springfield lay on our way to Albany, and as we had heard much of the
beauty of the place, we were not deterred from sleeping there by being
told that a great annual horse-fair was to be held there, but to secure
rooms we telegraphed for them the day before. At the telegraph station
they took upon themselves to say, there was no room at the established
hotels, but that a new one on the "European plan" had been opened the
day before, where we could be taken in; at this we greatly rejoiced, but
to our dismay on arriving, we found its existence ignored by every one,
and we were almost in despair when we bethought ourselves to go to the
telegraph office, where we were directed to a small new _cabaret_, whose
only merit was that we, being its first occupants, found everything most
perfectly fresh and clean; but having been only opened that day, and the
town being very full, everything was in disorder, and there were but two
bedrooms for papa, myself, William, and Thrower.[2] It became an anxious
question how to appropriate them, as there was but one bed in one of the
rooms, and two in the other. There was Thuban, gazing steadily upon my
little mahogany bungalow, as, six millenniums ago, he had shone
unfalteringly down the little stone tube that led his rays into the Queen's
Chamber, in the very heart of great Cheops. Just clearing a low palm
was the present North Star, while, high above, Vega shone, patiently
waiting to take her place half a million years hence.

When beginning her nightly climb, Vega drew a thin, trembling thread
of argent over the still water, just as in other years she had laid for
me a slender silver strand of wire across frozen snow, and on one memorable
night traced the ghost of a reflection over damp sand near the
Nile--pale as the wraiths of the early Pharaohs.

Low on the eastern horizon, straight outward from my beach, was the
beginning and end of the great zodiac band--the golden Hamal of Aries
and the paired stars of Pisces; and behind, over the black jungle, glowed
the Southern Cross. But night after night, as I watched on the beach,
the sight which moved me most was the dull speck of emerald mist, a
merest smudge on the slate of the heavens,--the spiral nebula in
Andromeda,--a universe in the making, of a size unthinkable to human
minds.

The power of my jungle beach to attract and hold attention was not
only direct and sensory,--through sight and sound and scent,--but often
indirect, seemingly by occult means. Time after time, on an impulse, I
followed some casual line of thought and action, and found myself at
last on or near the beach, on a lead that eventually would take me to
the verge or into the water.

Once I did what for me was a most unusual thing. I woke in the middle
of the night without apparent reason. The moonlight was pouring in
a white flood through the bamboos, and the jungle was breathless and
silent. Through my window I could see Jennie, our pet monkey, lying aloft,
asleep on her little verandah, head cushioned on both hands, tail curled
around her dangling chain, as a spider guards her web-strands for hint
of disturbing vibrations. I knew that the slightest touch on that
chain would awaken her, and indeed it seemed as if the very thought
of it had been enough; for she opened her eyes, sent me the highest of
insect-like notes and turned over, pushing her head within the shadow
of her little house. I wondered if animals, too, were, like the Malays
and so many savage tribes, afraid of the moonlight--the "luna-cy" danger
in those strange color-strained rays, whose power must be greater than
we realize. Beyond the monkey roosted Robert, the great macaw,
wide-awake, watching me with all that broadside of intensive gaze of
which only a parrot is capable.

The three of us seemed to be the only living things in the world,
and for a long time we--monkey, macaw, and man--listened. Then all but
the man became uneasy. The monkey raised herself and listened,
uncurled her tail, shifted, and listened. The macaw drew himself up,
feathers close, forgot me, and listened. They, unlike me, were not merely
listening--they were hearing something. Then there came, very slowly and
deliberately, as if reluctant to break through the silent moonlight,
a sound, low and constant, impossible to identify, but clearly audible
even to my ears. For just an instant longer it held, sustained and
quivering, then swiftly rose into a crashing roar--the sound of a
great tree falling. I sat up and heard the whole long descent; but
at the end, after the moment of silence, there was no deep boom--the
sound of the mighty bole striking and rebounding from the earth
itself. I wondered about this for a while; then the monkey and I
went to sleep, leaving the macaw alone conscious in the moonlight,
watching through the night with his great round, yellow orbs, and
thinking the thoughts that macaws always think in the moonlight.As we walked along the streets, and tried to get a room elsewhere, a man
said, smacking his hands together, "No, they are already _threbled_ in
every room."

But I must now tell you of our journey from Springfield to Albany: the
distance between the two is exactly 100 miles; Boston being 200 from
Albany. We left Springfield by train at twelve o'clock, and reached
Pittsfield, a distance of fifty miles, at half-past two. This part of
the road presented a succession of beautiful views. Your sisters will
remember that part of the road near Chaudes Fontaines, where it runs
through the valley, and crosses the Vesdre every five minutes. If they
can imagine this part of it extended for fifty miles, and on a much
larger scale, they may form some notion of what we saw. The railway
crossed the river at least thirty times, so we had it on the right hand
and left hand alternately, as on that little bit in Belgium. The river,
called the Westfield, was very rapid in places, and the water, when
deep, almost of a rich coffee colour. At Pittsfield we got on to the
plateau which separates the Connecticut River and the Hudson. The plain
is elevated more than 1000 feet above the sea. We then began rapidly to
descend. The country was still as pretty as before, but more open, with
hills in the back-ground, for till we reached Pittsfield these were
close to us, and beautifully wooded to the top. At Pittsfield, in the
centre of the town, there is a very large elm tree, the elm being the
great tree of the country, but this surpassed all its neighbours, its
height being 120 feet, and the stem 90 feet before any branches sprang
from it.

We reached Albany at five o'clock; and a most beautiful town it is. The
great street, as well as one at right angles to it leading up to the
Capitol, is wider, I think, than any street we ever saw; and the shops
on both sides are very splendid. The hotel is very large and good; but,
alas! instead of our dear darkies at Newport, we had some twenty
pale-faced damsels to wait at table, all dressed alike in pink cottons,
their bare necks much displayed in front, with large white collars, two
little frills to form the short sleeves, large, bare, clean, white arms,
and short white aprons not reaching to the knees. They had no caps, and
such a circumference of hoops! quite Yankeeish in their style; and most
careless, flirtatious-looking and impertinent in their manners. We were
quite disgusted with them; and even papa could not defend any one of
them. We were naturally very badly waited upon; they sailing
majestically about the room instead of rushing to get what we wanted, as
the niggers at Newport did. Men-servants answered the bed-room bells,
and brought our hot water; the ladies being employed only as waiters.

This morning the fine weather we had hitherto enjoyed began to fail us,
as it rained in torrents. Notwithstanding this, we started at half-past
seven; passing through what in sunshine must be a lovely country, to
Utica on the New York Central Railway, and thence by a branch railway of
fifteen miles to Trenton Falls. The country was much more cultivated
than any we have yet seen. There were large fields of Indian corn, and
many of another kind, called broom corn, being grown only to make
brooms. We passed many fields of a brilliant orange-red pumpkin, which,
when cooked, looks something like mashed turnips, and is called squash:
it is very delicate and nice. But beautiful as the country was, even in
the rain, we soon found out that we had left New England and its
bright-looking wooden houses. The material of which the houses are built
remains the same; but instead of being painted, and looking trim and
neat as in New England, they consisted of the natural unpainted wood;
though twelve hours of pouring rain may have made them more
melancholy-looking than usual; for they were all of a dingy brown, and
had a look bordering on poverty and dilapidation in some instances, to
which we were quite unaccustomed.

On reaching this place we found the hotel was closed for the season; but
rooms had been secured in a very fair country inn, where we had a
tolerable dinner. We were glad to see the rain gradually cease; and the
promise of a fine afternoon caused us to sally out as soon after dinner
as we could to see the falls. These are very beautiful: they are formed
by a tributary of the Mohawk River, along the banks of which (of the
Mohawk itself I mean) our railway this morning passed for about forty
miles. The Erie Canal, a most celebrated work, is carried along the
other bank of the river; so that, during all this distance, the river,
the railway, and the canal were running parallel to each other, and not
a pistol shot across the three.[3] We had been warned by some Swiss
friends at Newport against carelessness and rashness in walking along
the narrow ledge cut in the face of the rock, so we took a guide and
found the pass very slippery from the heavy rain. The amiable young
guide took possession of me, and for a time I got on tolerably well,
clinging to the chain which in places was fastened against the face of
the rock; but as the path narrowed, my head began to spin, and as the
guide discouraged me, under these circumstances, from going any further,
I turned back with Thrower and regained _dry land_, while the rest of
the party were accomplishing their difficult task. They returned much
sooner than we expected, delighted with all they had seen, though papa
said I was right not to have pursued the narrow ledge. He then took me
through a delightful wood to the head of the falls, where a seat in a
little summer-house enabled me to enjoy the lovely scene. The river
takes three leaps over rocks, the highest about 40 feet; though in two
miles the descent is 312 feet. _Bufo marinus_ is the gardener's best
friend in this tropic land, and besides, he is a gentleman and a
philosopher, if ever an amphibian was one.

While the cutting of living foliage is the chief aim in life of these ants,
yet they take advantage of the flotsam and jetsam along the shore, and
each low tide finds a column from some nearby nest salvaging flowerets,
leaves, and even tiny berries.

A sudden wash of tide lifts a hundred ants with their burdens and then
sets them down again, when they start off as if nothing had happened.

The paths or trails of the Attas represent very remarkable feats of
engineering, and wind about through jungle and glade for surprising
distances. I once traced a very old and wide trail for well over two
hundred yards. Taking little Third-of-an-inch for a type (although he
would rank as a rather large Atta), and comparing him with a six-foot
man, we reckon this trail, ant-ratio, as a full twenty-five miles.
Belt records a leaf-cutter's trail half a mile long, which would mean
that every ant that went out, cut his tiny bit of leaf, and returned,
would traverse a distance of a hundred and sixteen miles. This was an
extreme; but our Atta may take it for granted, speaking antly, that once
on the home trail, he has, at the least, four or five miles ahead
of him.

The Atta roads are clean swept, as straight as possible, and very
conspicuous in the jungle. The chief high-roads leading from very large
nests are a good foot across, and the white sand of their beds is visible
a long distance away. I once knew a family of opossums living in a
stump in the center of a dense thicket. When they left at evening, they
always climbed along as far as an Atta trail, dropped down to it, and
followed it for twenty or thirty yards. During the rains I have
occasionally found tracks of agoutis and deer in these roads. So it
would be very possible for the Attas to lay the foundation for an
animal trail, and this, _à la_ calf-path, for the street of a future
city.

The part that scent plays in the trails is evidenced if we scatter an
inch or two of fresh sand across the road. A mass of ants banks against
the strange obstruction on both sides, on the one hand a solid phalanx
of waving green banners, and on the other a mob of empty-jawed workers
with wildly waving antennæ. Scouts from both sides slowly wander
forward, and finally reach one another and pass across. But not
for ten minutes does anything like regular traffic begin again.

When carrying a large piece of leaf, and traveling at a fair rate of speed,
the ants average about a foot in ten seconds, although many go the
same distance in five.

I tested the speed of an Atta, and then I saw that its leaf seemed
to have a peculiar-shaped bug upon it, and picked it up with its bearer.
Finding the blemish to be only a bit of fungus, I replaced it. Half an
hour later I was seated by a trail far away, when suddenly my ant with
the blemished spot appeared. It was unmistakable, for I had noticed
that the spot was exactly that of the Egyptian symbol of life. I paced
the trail, and found that seventy yards away it joined the spot
where I had first seen my friend.

So, with occasional spurts, he had done two hundred and ten feet in
thirty minutes, and this in spite of the fact that he had picked up a
supercargo.

Two parts of hydrogen and one of oxygen, under the proper stimulus,
invariably result in water; two and two, considered calmly and without
passion, combine into four; the workings of instinct, especially in social
insects, is so mechanical that its results can almost be demonstrated
in formula; and yet here was my Atta leaf-carrier burdened with a
minim. The worker Attas vary greatly in size, as a glance at a populous
trail will show. They have been christened _macrergates, desmergates_
and _micrergates_; or we may call the largest Maxims, the average
middle class Mediums, and the tiny chaps Minims, and all have more
or less separate functions in the ecology of the colony. The Minims
are replicas in miniature of the big chaps, except that their armor
is pale cinnamon rather than chestnut.
Although they can bite ferociously, they are too small to cut through
leaves, and they have very definite duties in the nest; yet they are
found with every leaf-cutting gang, hastening along with their
larger brethren, but never doing anything, that I could detect, at
their journey's end.

I have a suspicion that the little Minims, who are very numerous,
function as light cavalry; for in case of danger they are as eager
at attack as the great soldiers, and the leaf-cutters, absorbed in their
arduous labor, would benefit greatly from the immunity ensured by a
flying corps of their little bulldog comrades.

I can readily imagine that these nestling Minims become weary and
foot-sore (like bank-clerks guarding a reservoir), and if instinct
allows such abominable individuality, they must often wish themselves
back at the nest, for every mile of a Medium is three miles to them.The views of all these lakes, but especially
of lake Cayuga, and of lake Seneca on which Geneva is situated, are very
lovely. They stretch "right away" between high banks, varying from two
to five miles apart, each forming a beautiful vista, closed up by
distant blue hills at the further end. These lakes vary from thirty to
forty miles in length, and by means of steamboats form an easy
communication, though a more tedious one than the railways, between this
and the southern part of the State of New York. We had a capital
cicerone to explain all that we saw as we went along, in a Yankee, who
told us he was "raised" in these parts, though he lived in "Virginny."
He looked like a small farmer, but had a countenance of the keenest
intelligence. He told papa, before he had spoken five minutes with him,
that it was quite right a person of his intelligence should come to this
country. When we came to Auburn, he quoted "'Sweet Auburn, loveliest
village of the plain;' a beautiful poem, sir, written by Goldsmith, one
of your own poets." We told him we thought of going to St. Paul, beyond
the Mississippi, when he said, "Oh yes! that's a new country--that's a
_cold_ country too. If you are there in the winter, it will make you
_snap_."

At Rochester we stopped for an hour to dine. We had intended to sleep
there, but none of us being tired, we changed our plan in order to come
on here last night. During this hour we went to see the Falls of the
Genessee, which in some respects surpassed Trenton, as the river is very
broad, and falls in one sheet, from a height of ninety-six feet, over a
perpendicular wall of rock. We dined, and then papa and I took a rapid
walk to the post office, to post a letter to Alfred O., at Toronto. The
streets, as usual, were very wide, with spacious "stores" running very
far back, as they all seem to do in America. I asked when the letter
would reach Toronto, and the man answered, "It ought to do so to-morrow,
but it is uncertain when it will." Papa asked our guide from the hotel
where he was "raised," (papa is getting quite a Yankee), to which he
replied, "in Ireland." I slept, wonderful to say, through part of our
journey here, in one of those most uncomfortable cars, but woke up as
we approached the station. The night was splendid (we had seen the comet
at Rochester), and the moon was so bright as to make it almost as light
as day; you may imagine our excitement when we saw, in the distance,
rising above the trees, a light cloud of mist from the Falls of
Niagara.?

_Clifton House, September 18th._--Papa got into a melancholy mood at the
International Hotel yesterday evening, on account of the hotel being an
enormous one, and like a huge barrack; half of it we suspect is shut up,
for they gave us small room _au second_, though they acknowledged they
made up four hundred beds, and had only one hundred guests in the house.
The dining room was about one hundred and fifty feet long, and the hotel
was half in darkness from the lateness of the hour, and had no view of
the Falls; so papa got more and more miserable, and I could only comfort
him by reminding him we could be off to this hotel early in the morning;
for as it is the fashion to try first one side for the view, and then
the other, there was no offence in going from the United States to our
own English possessions. On this he cheered up and we went out, and the
first sight we got of this glorious river was at about eleven o'clock,
when he insisted upon my passing over the bridge to Goat Island. It was
the most lovely moonlight night conceivable, and the beams lit up the
crests of the foaming waves as they came boiling over the rapids. It was
a glorious sight, though I was rather frightened, not knowing what
perils might be in store for us.

To-day we made out our move to the Canada side, and are most comfortably
lodged. Before coming to this hotel, we took a long drive down the
river, on the American side. We got out of the carriage to see the
Devil's Hole, a deep ravine, often full of water, but now dry. We stood
on a high precipice, and had a grand view of the river. The _river_ is
generally passed over in silence in all descriptions of Niagara, and yet
it is one of the most lovely parts of the scene. Its colour after it has
left the Falls, and proceeds on its rapid way, full of life and
animation, to Lake Ontario, is a most tender sea green. We drove on
about six miles, and then crossed a slight suspension bridge (_the_
suspension bridge being a ponderous structure for the railroad trains to
pass over); but the one by which we crossed looked like a spider's-web;
and the view midway, whether we looked up or down, was the finest
specimen of river scenery I ever beheld. But these wonder times lived
only through memory and were misted with intervening years, while it
came upon me during early nights, again and again, that this was
Now, and that into the hour-glass neck of Now was headed a maelstrom
of untold riches of the Future--minutes and hours and sapphire days
ahead---a Now which was wholly unconcerned with leagues and liquor,
with strikes and salaries. So I turned over with the peace which passes
all telling--the forecast of delving into the private affairs of
birds and monkeys, of great butterflies and strange frogs and
flowers.

The seeping wind had led my mind on and on from memory and distant
sorrows to thoughts of the joy of labor and life.

At half-past five a kiskadee shouted at the top of his lungs from the
bamboos, but he probably had a nightmare, for he went to sleep and did
not wake again for half-an-hour. The final swish of a bat's wing came to
my ear, and the light of a fog-dimmed day slowly tempered the darkness
among the dusty beams and rafters. From high overhead a sprawling
tarantula tossed aside the shriveled remains of his night's banquet, the
emerald cuirass and empty mahogany helmet of a long-horned beetle, which
eddied downward and landed upon my sheet.

Immediately around the bungalow the bamboos held absolute sway, and
while forming a very tangible link between the roof and the outliers
of the jungle, yet no plant could obtain foothold beneath their
shade.

       They withheld light, and the mat of myriads of slender leaves killed
off every sprouting thing.

This was of the utmost value to us, providing shade, clear passage
to every breeze, and an absolute dearth of flies and mosquitoes. We
found that the clumps needed clearing of old stems, and for two days we
indulged in the strangest of weedings.
The dead stems were as hard as stone outside, but the ax bit through
easily, and they were so light that we could easily carry enormous ones,
which made us feel like giants, though, when I thought of them
in their true botanical relationship, I dwarfed in imagination as
quickly as Alice, to a pigmy tottering under a blade of grass. It was
like a Brobdingnagian game of jack-straws, as the cutting or prying
loose of a single stem often brought several others crashing to earth
in unexpected places, keeping us running and dodging to avoid their
terrific impact. The fall of these great masts awakened a roaring swish
ending in a hollow rattling, wholly unlike the crash and dull boom of a
solid trunk. When we finished with each clump, it stood as a perfect
giant bouquet, looking, at a distance, like a tuft of green feathery
plumes, with the bungalow snuggled beneath as a toadstool is overshadowed
by ferns.

Scores of the homes of small folk were uncovered by our weeding out--wasps,
termites, ants, bees, wood-roaches, centipedes; and occasionally a
small snake or great solemn toad came out from the débris at the roots,
the latter blinking and swelling indignantly at this sudden interruption
of his siesta. In a strong wind the stems bent and swayed, thrashing
off every imperfect leaf and sweeping low across the roof, with strange
scrapings and bamboo mutterings. But they hardly ever broke and fell.
In the evening, however, and in the night, after a terrific storm, a
sharp, unexpected _rat-tat-tat-tat_, exactly like a machine-gun, would
smash in on the silence, and two or three of the great grasses,
which perhaps sheltered Dutchmen generations ago, would snap and
fall.

But the Indians and Bovianders who lived nearby, knew this was no wind,
nor yet weakness of stem, but Sinclair, who was abroad and who was
cutting down the bamboos for his own secret reasons. He was evil, and
it was well to be indoors with all windows closed; but further details
were lacking, and we were driven to clothe this imperfect ghost with
history and habits of our own devising.

The birds and other inhabitants of the bamboos, were those of the more
open jungle,--flocks drifting through the clumps, monkeys occasionally
swinging from one to another of the elastic tips, while toucans came
and went. At evening, flocks of parrakeets and great black orioles
came to roost, courting the safety which they had come to associate with
the clearings of human pioneers in the jungle. A box on a bamboo
stalk drew forth joyous hymns of praise from a pair of little God-birds,
as the natives call the house-wrens, who straightway collected all the
grass and feathers in the world, stuffed them into the tiny chamber,
and after a time performed the ever-marvelous feat of producing three
replicas of themselves from this trash-filled box.
The father-parent was one concentrated mite of song, with just enough
feathers for wings to enable him to pursue caterpillars and grasshoppers
as raw material for the production of more song.There were two little babies
in their mothers' arms, one in a bright yellow dress. The women wore
handkerchiefs tied over their heads, except one or two who wore round
hats and feathers. Some in hoops and crinolines! All wore bead
necklaces. They are the makers of the well-known mohair and bark and
beadwork. In the churchyard were many tombstones with English
inscriptions. The following is the copy we made of one:--


               "SEKWARIHTHICH-DEA WM. CHEW,

        GRAND SACHEM OF THE TUSCARRARA NATION OF INDIANS,

                  WHO DIED DEC. 16, 1857,

               In the 61st year of his age.

The memory of his many virtues will be embalmed in the hearts of
       his people, and posterity will speak of his praise.

               He was a good man, and a just.

      He held the office of Grand Sachem 30 years, and was
              Missionary Interpreter 29 years."


After chapel we returned to the American side of the Fall, where the
_table d'hôte_ dinner was later than at the Clifton Hotel, which we had
missed. While waiting for dinner, we went again to Goat Island, and had
some splendid views of the Falls, the day being magnificent beyond all
description. Papa and William afterwards took a long walk to get a new
view of the whirlpool. Papa has made me dreadfully anxious all day by
going too close to the edges of the precipices; and as the rock is very
brittle and easily crumbles off, and as his feet often trip in walking,
you may suppose the agonies I have been in; at last I began to wish
myself and him safe in the streets of Toronto. I was not the least
frightened for myself, but it was trying to see him always looking over,
and about to lean against old crazy wooden balustrades that William said
must have given way from sheer rottenness with any weight upon them.
This is _such_ a night, not a single cloud; the clearest possible sky
and the moon shining brightly, as it did over the two Falls the first
night we were here. Papa calls me every minute--"Oh come, do come, this
minute; I do not believe you have ever yet seen the Falls!!!" To-morrow
we have one remaining expedition,--to go in a small steamer called the
"Maid of the Mist," which pokes her nose into the two Falls about six
times a day. The passengers are put into waterproof dresses. This I hope
to describe to you to-morrow, and shall despatch my letter before
starting for Toronto.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] My English maid.

[3] The Erie Canal is one of the three great means of communication
which existed previous to the introduction of railways between the
Eastern States and those that lie to the west of the Alleghanies; the
other two being the Pennsylvania and the Baltimore and Ohio Canals.
Sections of these great works are shown on the map.


LETTER IV.


     NIAGARA.--MAID OF THE MIST.--ARRIVAL AT
     TORONTO.--TORONTO.--THOUSAND ISLANDS.--RAPIDS OF THE ST.
     LAWRENCE.--MONTREAL.--VICTORIA BRIDGE.


                                 Clifton Hotel, Falls of Niagara,
                                          Sept. 20th, 1858.

I intended to have wound up the description of Niagara in the letter I
despatched to you two hours ago, but we returned home from our
expedition this morning only five minutes before the post hour for
England, so that our packet had to be hastily closed.

We had rather a chapter of accidents this morning, but all has ended
well. We went out immediately after breakfast, the weather being
splendid, though there was a high wind, and finding the mist driving
very hard, we decided on going over to the opposite shore across the
suspension bridge, rather than be ferried over to the steamer in a small
open boat, which can never, I imagine, be very pleasant in such a near
neighbourhood to the two Falls. William, however, remained on this side,
preferring the ferry, and we were to meet on the opposite bank and take
to the little steamer; but though our drive took half-an-hour and his
row five minutes, he was not at the place of rendezvous when, we
arrived, nor did he appear after we had waited for him some time. Papa
then went in a sort of open car down an inclined plane, contrived to
save the fatigue of a long stair. The moaning and whining of some
distant beast of prey is brought on the breeze to mingle with the silken
swishing of the palm fronds overhead and the insistent chirping of many
insects--a chirping so fine and shrill that it verges upon the very
limits of our hearing. And these, combined, unified, are no more than
the ground surge beneath the countless waves of sound. For the voice of
the jungle is the voice of love, of hatred, of hope, of despair--and
in the night-time, when the dominance of sense-activity shifts from
eye to ear, from retina to nostril, it cries aloud its confidences to
all the world. But the human mind is not equal to a true understanding
of these; for in a tropical jungle the birds and the frogs, the
beasts and the insects are sending out their messages so swiftly one
upon the other, that the senses fail of their mission and only chaos
and a great confusion are carried to the brain. The whirring of invisible
wings and the movement of the wind in the low branches become one and
the same: it is an epic, told in some strange tongue, an epic filled
to overflowing with tragedy, with poetry and mystery. The cloth of this
drama is woven from many-colored threads, for Nature is lavish with
her pigment, reckless with life and death. She is generous because there
is no need for her to be miserly. And in the darkness, I have heard
the working of her will, translating as best I could.We
returned to the same landing-place, as they most stupidly have none on
this side; so up we went again in the open cars, and on landing we had
our photographs done twice with views of the Falls as a background. They
were very well and rapidly done. We then drove William towards the Cave
of the Winds, which is a passage behind what looks from these windows a
mere thread of a waterfall, but is really a very considerable one.
Ladies, however, perform this feat as well as gentlemen, but they have
entirely to change their dress--it is like walking through a great
shower-bath to a _cul de sac_ in the rock. Circular rainbows are seen
here, and William saw two; he seemed to be standing on one which made a
perfect circle round him. Once I saw enacted above ground, and in the
light of day, something which may have had its roots in an _anlage_ of
divine discontent. If I were describing the episode half a century ago,
I should entitle it, "The Battle of the Giants, or Emotion Enthroned."
We then
dined, and I am now obliged suddenly to stop short in writing, as my
despatch-box must be packed, for we leave this at half-past four for
Toronto.

