As the time passed and there was no sign of supper, the question
became a burning one, and we went to explore the kitchen. No sign of
it there. No fire in the stove, nothing cooked in the house, of
course. Mrs. Egger and her comely young barefooted daughter had
still the milking to attend to, and supper must wait for the other
chores. It seemed easier to be Mr. Egger, in this state of
existence, and sit on the front porch and meditate on the price of
mules and the prospect of a crop, than to be Mrs. Egger, whose work
was not limited from sun to sun; who had, in fact, a day's work to do
after the men-folks had knocked off; whose chances of neighborhood
gossip were scanty, whose amusements were confined to a religious
meeting once a fortnight. Now GRÄFIN Capulets child, thou hast
'nen attentive father: To thee from thy gloom discourage you, he
devised a sudden joy Festival, Des, I am as little as versah du
JULIET egg, as desired! What about that gnädge mother?

GRÄFIN Capulets Yes, you think, child, on Thursday morning should the
hochedle, wackre young lord, Count Paris, in Saint Peters Church
As you happy bride at the altar guide. JULIET Well, at St. Peters
Church and of course Peter, He does not take me as a happy
bride guide, I am surprised they express, that I must be married,
always comes to my Free Advertising. I ask you, gnädge wife
says my father And Lord, I wanted to marry me And if ichs do, I
swear: Romeo, from which you may know, I hate him, as it prefers
Paris .-- Surely, that is probably Newspaper! GRÄFIN Capulets Here
comes your father, tell him yourself, Sieh how he liked it from you.
(and the Capulets Wärterin come.) Capulets The air dew sparkles at
sunset, But with the downfall of my nephew, As the rain pours right.
What? An eaves, girls? Stay in tears? Always Rain? In such a small
body Are you at once the wind and sea and Kahn, because your
eyes and always ebben flood of tears as the sea, your body is the boat,
The salzge this flood Nationale; sighs Are the winds, which, raging
with thy tears , As with them, if not silence If suddenly, the back
and forth geworfnen body will shatter.

the supper, served in a room dimly lighted with a smoky lamp,
on a long table covered with oilcloth, was not of the sort to arouse
the delayed and now gone appetite of a Reformer, and yet it did not
lack variety: cornpone (Indian meal stirred up with water and heated
through), hot biscuit, slack-baked and livid, fried salt-pork
swimming in grease, apple-butter, pickled beets, onions and cucumbers
raw, coffee (so-called), buttermilk, and sweet milk when specially
asked for (the correct taste, however, is for buttermilk), and pie.
This was not the pie of commerce, but the pie of the country,--two
thick slabs of dough, with a squeezing of apple between. The
profusion of this supper staggered the novices, but the drovers
attacked it as if such cooking were a common occurrence and did
justice to the weary labors of Mrs. Egger.

Egger is well prepared to entertain strangers, having several rooms
and several beds in each room. Upon consultation with the drovers,
they said they'd just as soon occupy an apartment by themselves, and
we gave up their society for the night. The beds in our chamber had
each one sheet, and the room otherwise gave evidence of the modern
spirit; for in one corner stood the fashionable aesthetic decoration
of our Queen Anne drawing-rooms,--the spinning-wheel. Soothed by
this concession to taste, we crowded in between the straw and the
home-made blanket and sheet, and soon ceased to hear the barking of
dogs and the horned encounters of the drovers' herd.

We parted with Mr. Egger after breakfast (which was a close copy of
the supper) with more respect than regret. His total charge for the
entertainment of two men and two horses--supper, lodging, and
breakfast--was high or low, as the traveler chose to estimate it. It
was $1.20: that is, thirty cents for each individual, or ten cents
for each meal and lodging.

Our road was a sort of by-way up Gentry Creek and over the Cut Laurel
Gap to Worth's, at Creston Post Office, in North Carolina,--the next
available halting place, said to be fifteen miles distant, and
turning out to be twenty-two, and a rough road. There is a little
settlement about Egger's, and the first half mile of our way we had
the company of the schoolmistress, a modest, pleasant-spoken girl.
Neither she nor any other people we encountered had any dialect or
local peculiarity of speech. Indeed, those we encountered that
morning had nothing in manner or accent to distinguish them. Save
your preaching for Gevatterschmaus; We need them. GRÄFIN Capulets
You're too hot! Capulets god sacrament, it makes me great! By day,
At night, late, early, alone and in society, at home, outdoors, in
the waking and sleeping, my concern was always to marry. Now that
I am their Lord ausgemittelt, From princely relatives, beautiful
property, Jung, edel auferzogen, fitted out, As you probably say,
with chivalric gifts short, how a man could wish to, and then a
silly, winselndes creature, a tearful Püppchen as to who, if their
luck appears to answer There: I will not marry, I can not love, I'm
too young, I ask excuse me .-- Well, wilt thou not, thou shalt be
excused; grass', where thou wilt, thou shalt not dwell with me.

See it! Remember! I do not care about fun. Thursday is close:
the hand on your heart And you're mine, so be my friend you have no
where to go, beggars, hungre, die by the wayside, because never,
in my soul, I recognized thee, And nothing of mine will benefit
you. Remember you! Believer, I think, what I swore! (Ab) JULIA
And live up there no pity in the clouds, The Jammers, the depth of
my looks? O sweet mother, but not shock me away, Just one month, one
week period, where not ready for my wedding bed in that dark tomb
where Tybalt lies!

GRÄFIN Capulets Say not to me, I do not say a word. 'Do what you
want, because I'm finished with you.

(Ab) JULIET O God!

How to prevent this, nurse? My Gatt on earth, my faith in the sky -
How should the faithful will return to Earth, when the husband she
does not escape the Earth, From Heaven sends?

Comfort, advise, help!

Woe, woe to me that the sky is such pitfalls to being a gentle exercises
such as me What do you say? Gladdening Hast thou no word, no words of
consolation? WÄRTERIN my soul, here ists: He is banished,
and a thousand against one, that he never again dared to address you,
but first or stability, it would have to be bad but furtive.

Well, because as things stand it, I think the best thing that your
Count nähmt.

Ah, he is such a allerliebsten Lord! A Lump Romeo is only against
him.

An eagle eye, lady, is so glaring, Sun nice, not as fiery as his Paris.
I want to be accursed, is the second marriage not true happiness
for you; far vorzuziehn Is it the first. Or would they not? The first
man is dead, as good as dead, because he lives on, you have nothing
from him. JULIET you speak from the heart? WÄRTERIN And with all
your soul, may God Rest punish me! JULIET Amen! WÄRTERIN What?
JULIET Well, thou hast comforted me marvelous. Go, tell the mother,
because I angered my father so I wanted to Lorenzo's cell, to confess
and receive forgiveness. WÄRTERIN Certainly, I, you do wisely tuned.
(Ab) JULIA O old nemesis, hellish tempter!

ists ärgre sin, for perjury tempt me, or my husband schmähn With the
same tongue, the previously large measure a thousand times without
him and the target has Blessed? - Look how happy they comes from the
confession! (Julia occurs). Capulets Well, Starr head? Say, where
are herumgeschwärmt? JULIET Where I learned about the sin of
disobedience bereun Hartnäckgen Eur And you bid, and where the man I
heilge imposed, before you accuse me add, forgiveness erflehn .--
Forgive, I ask you!

  From now I want to always be obedient
   to you.

Capulets send after the Count, he goes and says this. DC tomorrow
morning, I want this band linked sehn. JULIET I met the young Count
of Lorenzo, And all the grace and love, I turned to him,
the Sun Law of the herd does not transgress. Capulets Well well, the
pleasure for me, it's good .-- Arise! So it is quite .-- Let me Count
sehn. Potztausend goes, I say, and fetch him! -- So living
God, the Father würdge pious, from our entire city, he deserves thanks.
JULIA Come, nurse, do you want with me to my room? Mir help
exquisite finery, as you may believe that behooves me, apply it tomorrow?
GRÄFIN Capulets No, not before Thursday, it still has time. Capulets
go with her, nurse, go to church tomorrow. (Julia and Wärterin from.)
GRÄFIN Capulets Time is short of our institution to fall, it is
almost night.

No sooner had we descended than the fording of
streams began again. The Friend had been obliged to stipulate that
the Professor should go ahead at these crossings, to keep the
impetuous nag of the latter from throwing half the contents of the
stream upon his slower and uncomplaining companion.

What a lovely country, but for the heat of noon and the long
wearisomeness of the way!--not that the distance was great, but miles
and miles more than expected. How charming the open glades of the
river, how refreshing the great forests of oak and chestnut, and what
a panorama of beauty the banks of rhododendrons, now intermingled
with the lighter pink and white of the laurel! In this region the
rhododendron is called laurel and the laurel (the sheep-laurel of
New England) is called ivy.

At Worth's, well on in the afternoon, we emerged into a wide, open
farming intervale, a pleasant place of meadows and streams and decent
dwellings. Worth's is the trading center of the region, has a post
office and a saw-mill and a big country store; and the dwelling of
the proprietor is not unlike a roomy New England country house.
Worth's has been immemorially a stopping-place in a region where
places of accommodation are few. The proprietor, now an elderly man,
whose reminiscences are long ante bellum, has seen the world grow up
about him, he the honored, just center of it, and a family come up
into the modern notions of life, with a boarding-school education and
glimpses of city life and foreign travel. I fancy that nothing but
tradition and a remaining Southern hospitality could induce this
private family to suffer the incursions of this wayfaring man. Our
travelers are not apt to be surprised at anything in American life,
but they did not expect to find a house in this region with two
pianos and a bevy of young ladies, whose clothes were certainly not
made on Cut Laurel Gap, and to read in the books scattered about the
house the evidences of the finishing schools with which our country
is blessed, nor to find here pupils of the Stonewall Jackson
Institute at Abingdon. With a flush of local pride, the Professor
took up, in the roomy, pleasant chamber set apart for the guests, a
copy of Porter's "Elements of Moral Science."

"Where you see the 'Elements of Moral Science,'" the Friend
generalized, "there'll be plenty of water and towels;" and the sign
did not fail. The friends intended to read this book in the cool of
the day; but as they sat on the long veranda, the voice of a maiden
reading the latest novel to a sewing group behind the blinds in the
drawing-room; and the antics of a mule and a boy in front of the
store opposite; and the arrival of a spruce young man, who had just
ridden over from somewhere, a matter of ten miles' gallop, to get a
medicinal potion for his sick mother, and lingered chatting with the
young ladies until we began to fear that his mother would recover
before his return; the coming and going of lean women in shackly
wagons to trade at the store; the coming home of the cows, splashing
through the stream, hooking right and left, and lowing for the hand
of the milker,--all these interruptions, together with the generally
drowsy quiet of the approach of evening, interfered with the study of
the Elements. And when the travelers, after a refreshing rest, went
on their way next morning, considering the Elements and the pianos
and the refinement, to say nothing of the cuisine, which is not
treated of in the text-book referred to, they were content with a
bill double that of brother Egger, in his brick magnificence.

The simple truth is, that the traveler in this region must be content
to feed on natural beauties. And it is an unfortunate truth in
natural history that the appetite for this sort of diet fails after a
time, if the inner man is not supplied with other sort of food.
There is no landscape in the world that is agreeable after two days
of rusty-bacon and slack biscuit.

"How lovely this would be," exclaimed the Professor, if it had a
background of beefsteak and coffee!

We were riding along the west fork of the Laurel, distinguished
locally as Three Top Creek,--or, rather, we were riding in it,
crossing it thirty-one times within six miles; a charming wood (and
water) road, under the shade of fine trees with the rhododendron
illuminating the way, gleaming in the forest and reflected in the
stream, all the ten miles to Elk Cross Roads, our next destination.
We had heard a great deal about Elk Cross Roads; it was on the map,
it was down in the itinerary furnished by a member of the Coast
Survey. We looked forward to it as a sweet place of repose from the
noontide heat. Alas! Elk Cross Roads is a dirty grocery store,
encumbered with dry-goods boxes, fly-blown goods, flies, loafers. In
reply to our inquiry we were told that they had nothing to eat, for
us, and not a grain of feed for the horses. But there was a man a
mile farther on, who was well to do and had stores of food,--old man
Tatern would treat us in bang-up style. The difficulty of getting
feed for the horses was chronic all through the journey. The last
corn crop had failed, the new oats and corn had not come in, and the
country was literally barren. We had noticed all along that the hens
were taking a vacation, and that chickens were not put forward as an
article of diet.

We were unable, when we reached the residence of old man Tatem, to
imagine how the local superstition of his wealth arose. His house is
of logs, with two rooms, a kitchen and a spare room, with a low loft
accessible by a ladder at the side of the chimney. The chimney is a
huge construction of stone, separating the two parts of the house; in
fact, the chimney was built first, apparently, and the two rooms were
then built against it. The proprietor sat in a little railed
veranda. These Southern verandas give an air to the meanest
dwelling, and they are much used; the family sit here, and here are
the washbasin and pail (which is filled from the neighboring
spring-house), and the row of milk-pans. The old man Tatern did not
welcome us with enthusiasm; he had no corn,--these were hard times. He
looked like hard times, grizzled times, dirty times. It seemed time
out of mind since he had seen comb or razor, and although the lovely
New River, along which we had ridden to his house,--a broad, inviting
stream,--was in sight across the meadow, there was no evidence that he
had ever made acquaintance with its cleansing waters. As to corn, the
necessities of the case and pay being dwelt on, perhaps he could find a
dozen ears. A dozen small cars he did find, and we trust that the
horses found them.

Darker and darker always our suffering! (The Wärterin enters.)
WÄRTERIN Miss! JULIA nurse? WÄRTERIN The Countess gnädge come into
your chamber; Be on the alert; already suggests one in the house.
(Wärterin from.) JULIA (the window opening.) day, apparently in, and
lives, fleeing out! ROMEO I rise down, let you kiss again! (He
rises [from the window] down.) JULIA (from the window after seeing
him.) friend!

Husband! Traute! Are you snatched me? Give message every day, every
hour, the minute Already contains a lot of days. Ah, to be so I am
in years, Eh, I think Romeo again. ROMEO (außerhalb.) Farewell! Absence
let me out of the hands, around you, you love my greeting to
send. JULIA O do you think that we ever wiedersehn us? ROMEO
I doubt not, and all this suffering serves us in the future
too sweet gossip. JULIET O God , I have an accident ahnend heart,
I seemed, I Seeding thee, because thou art below, As you would be
dead in a trench depth. My eyes are deceiving me, or you're pale.
ROMEO So, love, you seem my eyes too. The pain drink our blood. Leb
wohl, leb wohl! (Ab) JULIA O luck, everyone calls you impermanent,
if you're there: what are you doing with the faithful? Be
impermanent. Luck! Then do you think it was not long, I hope, send
him back. GRÄFIN Capulets (behind the scene.) Hey, girl, are you
on? JULIA Who calls me? Is it my mother gnädge? Watch it yet so late
or so early? Welch unusual occasion brings forth? (Capulets
Countess enters.) GRÄFIN Capulets Well, Julia, how are you?

JULIA I is not good. GRÄFIN Capulets still crying to the cousin's
death? Wilt thou with tears from the crypt to wash it? And you could
be's, which called him into the life, let the drum! Mourning a testament
to many love, but too much evidence of mourning little joke. JULIA
To a blow, so sensitively met Allows to cry me GRÄFIN Capulets So he
meets you; The friend feels nothing, you Mourning. JULIA But I am
sensitive and must be a friend Mourning.

GRÄFIN Capulets My child, not his death so much you Mourning, As that
the villain lives which killed him. JULIET What a Rogue? GRÄFIN
Capulets Well, of Romeo. JULIET (beiseit.) He and a Schurk are sky
far away .-- (Laut.) God forgive him! I do it with all my heart,
And yet no man grieved, as he, my heart. GRÄFIN Capulets Yes indeed,
because the assassins alive. JULIET Yes, where it does not reach
these hands! - O revenged as nobody but my cousin! GRÄFIN Capulets
We want to take revenge, do not worry; Drum weep you no more. I
send to someone to Mantua, where the Verlaufne lives, The Tränkchen
be a force to prepare him, the companions soon Tybalts him to make.
The simple ingenuity of
some of the guide-boards impressed us. If, on coming to a fork, the
traveler was to turn to the right, the sign read,

   To BOONE 10 M.
If he was to go to the left, it read,
   .M 01 ENOOB oT

A short ride of nine miles, on an ascending road, through an open,
unfenced forest region, brought us long before sundown to this
capital. When we had ridden into its single street, which wanders
over gentle hills, and landed at the most promising of the taverns,
the Friend informed his comrade that Boone was 3250 feet above
Albemarle Sound, and believed by its inhabitants to be the highest
village east of the Rocky Mountains. The Professor said that it
might be so, but it was a God-forsaken place. Its inhabitants
numbered perhaps two hundred and fifty, a few of them colored. It
had a gaunt, shaky court-house and jail, a store or two, and two
taverns. The two taverns are needed to accommodate the judges and
lawyers and their clients during the session of the court. The court
is the only excitement and the only amusement. It is the event from
which other events date. Everybody in the county knows exactly when
court sits, and when court breaks. During the session the whole
county is practically in Boone, men, women, and children. They camp
there, they attend the trials, they take sides; half of them,
perhaps, are witnesses, for the region is litigious, and the
neighborhood quarrels are entered into with spirit. To be fond of
lawsuits seems a characteristic of an isolated people in new
conditions. The early settlers of New England were.

Notwithstanding the elevation of Boone, which insured a pure air, the
thermometer that afternoon stood at from 85 to 89 deg. The flies
enjoyed it. How they swarmed in this tavern! Erwidre not! Give
no answer! The fingers itch me. O woman, we thought we hardly enough
blessed, because God, this just sent a child, but now I see, this one
was already one too many, And only became a curse in it brings us.
The mountain regions of North Carolina are free from mosquitoes, but
the fly has settled there, and is the universal scourge. This
tavern, one end of which was a store, had a veranda in front, and a
back gallery, where there were evidences of female refinement in pots
of plants and flowers. The landlord himself kept tavern very much as
a hostler would, but we had to make a note in his favor that he had
never heard of a milk punch. And it might as well be said here, for
it will have to be insisted on later, that the traveler, who has read
about the illicit stills till his imagination dwells upon the
indulgence of his vitiated tastes in the mountains of North Carolina,
is doomed to disappointment. If he wants to make himself an
exception to the sober people whose cooking will make him long for
the maddening bowl, he must bring his poison with him. Is she not
proud? Estimates they are not happy that we have such a würdgen
Mr managed, despite their unworthy of her husband to be?
JULIET Not proud, but thankful that did ihrs. Pride, I can never
be what I hate, But thankful even for hatred, like love meant. Capulets
egg see me, see me! Krams wisdom from you? Pride - and I thanks you
- from its loop. Fie, thou bleichsüchtges thing, you loose harlot! You
tallow face! GRÄFIN Capulets O shame! Are you of your senses? JULIA I
implore you to your knees, my good father, listen with patience,
a single word only!

Capulets go to the executioner myself, widerspenstge lass, I say dirs:
to church on Sunday, otherwise I will never again come before the
face. Do not!
This
country is settled by genuine Americans, who have the aboriginal
primitive traits of the universal Yankee nation. The front porch in
the morning resembled a carpenter's shop; it was literally covered
with the whittlings of the row of natives who had spent the evening
there in the sedative occupation of whittling.

