Transcribed from the 1912 Chapman & Hall edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org


GEORGE BORROW
THE MAN AND HIS BOOKS


BY
EDWARD THOMAS

AUTHOR OF

"THE LIFE OF RICHARD JEFFERIES," "LIGHT AND TWILIGHT," "REST AND UNREST,"
"MAURICE MAETERLINCK," ETC.

WITH PORTRAITS AND ILLUSTRATIONS

LONDON
CHAPMAN & HALL, LTD.
1912

Printed by
JAS. TRUSCOTT AND SON, LTD.,
London, E.C.

{picture: George Borrow, (From the painting by H. W. Phillips, R.A., in
the possession of Mr. John Murray, by whose kind permission the picture
is reproduced.): page0.jpg}


NOTE


The late Dr. W. I. Knapp's Life (John Murray) and Mr. Watts-Dunton's
prefaces are the fountains of information about Borrow, and I have
clearly indicated how much I owe to them.  What I owe to my friend, Mr.
Thomas Seccombe, cannot be so clearly indicated, but his prefaces have
been meat and drink to me.  I have also used Mr. R. A. J. Walling's
sympathetic and interesting "George Borrow."  The British and Foreign
Bible Society has given me permission to quote from Borrow's letters to
the Society, edited in 1911 by the Rev. T. H. Darlow; and Messrs. T. C.
Cantrill and J. Pringle have put at my disposal their publication of
Borrow's journal of his second Welsh tour, wonderfully annotated by
themselves ("Y Cymmrodor," 1910).  These and other sources are mentioned
where they are used and in the bibliography.


DEDICATION TO E. S. P. HAYNES


MY DEAR HAYNES,

By dedicating this book to you, I believe it is my privilege to introduce
you and Borrow.  This were sufficient reason for the dedication.  The
many better reasons are beyond my eloquence, much though I have
remembered them this winter, listening to the storms of Caermarthen Bay,
the screams of pigs, and the street tunes of "Fall in and follow me,"
"Yip-i-addy," and "The first good joy that Mary had."

Yours,
EDWARD THOMAS.

LAUGHARNE,
CAERMARTHENSHIRE,
_December_, 1911.


CHAPTER I--BORROW'S AUTOBIOGRAPHY


The subject of this book was a man who was continually writing about
himself, whether openly or in disguise.  He was by nature inclined to
thinking about himself and when he came to write he naturally wrote about
himself; and his inclination was fortified by the obvious impression made
upon other men by himself and by his writings.  He has been dead thirty
years; much has been written about him by those who knew him or knew
those that did: yet the impression still made by him, and it is one of
the most powerful, is due mainly to his own books.  Nor has anything
lately come to light to provide another writer on Borrow with an excuse.
The impertinence of the task can be tempered only by its apparent
hopelessness and by that necessity which Voltaire did not see.

I shall attempt only a re-arrangement of the myriad details accessible to
all in the writings of Borrow and about Borrow.  Such re-arrangement will
sometimes heighten the old effects and sometimes modify them.  The total
impression will, I hope, not be a smaller one, though it must inevitably
be softer, less clear, less isolated, less gigantic.  I do not wish, and
I shall not try, to deface Borrow's portrait of himself; I can only hope
that I shall not do it by accident.  There may be a sense in which that
portrait can be called inaccurate.  It may even be true that "lies--damned
lies" {1} helped to make it.  But nobody else knows anything like as much
about the truth, and a peddling biographer's mouldy fragment of plain
fact may be far more dangerous than the manly lying of one who was in
possession of all the facts.  In most cases the fact--to use an equivocal
term--is dead and blown away in dust while Borrow's impression is as
green as grass.  His "lies" are lies only in the same sense as all
clothing is a lie.

For example, he knew a Gypsy named Ambrose Smith, and had sworn
brotherhood with him as a boy.  He wrote about this Gypsy, man and boy,
and at first called him, as the manuscripts bear witness, by his real
name, though Borrow thought of him in 1842 as Petulengro.  In print he
was given the name Jasper Petulengro--Petulengro being Gypsy for
shoesmith--and as Jasper Petulengro he is now one of the most
unforgetable of heroes; the name is the man, and for many Englishmen his
form and character have probably created quite a new value for the name
of Jasper.  Well, Jasper Petulengro lives.  Ambrose Smith died in 1878,
at the age of seventy-four, after being visited by the late Queen
Victoria at Knockenhair Park: he was buried in Dunbar Cemetery. {2}

In the matter of his own name Borrow made another creative change of a
significant kind.  He was christened George Henry Borrow on July 17th
(having been born on the 5th), 1803, at East Dereham, in Norfolk.  As a
boy he signed his name, George Henry Borrow.  As a young man of the
Byronic age and a translator of Scandinavian literature, he called
himself in print, George Olaus Borrow.  His biographer, Dr. William
Ireland Knapp, says that Borrow's first name "expressed the father's
admiration for the reigning monarch," George III.; but there is no reason
to believe this, and certainly Borrow himself made of the combination
which he finally adopted--George Borrow--something that retains not the
slightest flavour of any other George.  Such changes are common enough.
John Richard Jefferies becomes Richard Jefferies; Robert Lewis Balfour
Stevenson becomes Robert Louis Stevenson.  But Borrow could touch nothing
without transmuting it.  For example, in his Byronic period, when he was
about twenty years of age, he was translating "romantic ballads" from the
Danish.  In the last verse of one of these, called "Elvir Hill," he takes
the liberty of using the Byronic "lay":

   'Tis therefore I counsel each young Danish swain who may ride in the
   forest so dreary,
   Ne'er to lay down upon lone Elvir Hill though he chance to be ever so
   weary.

Twenty years later he used this ballad romantically in writing about his
early childhood.  He was travelling with his father's regiment from town
to town and from school to school, and they came to Berwick-upon-Tweed:
{3}

"And it came to pass that, one morning, I found myself extended on the
bank of a river.  It was a beautiful morning of early spring; small white
clouds were floating in the heaven, occasionally veiling the countenance
of the sun, whose light, as they retired, would again burst forth,
coursing like a racehorse over the scene--and a goodly scene it was!
Before me, across the water, on an eminence, stood a white old city,
surrounded with lofty walls, above which rose the tops of tall houses,
with here and there a church or steeple.  To my right hand was a long and
massive bridge, with many arches and of antique architecture, which
traversed the river.  The river was a noble one; the broadest that I had
hitherto seen.  Its waters, of a greenish tinge, poured with impetuosity
beneath the narrow arches to meet the sea, close at hand, as the boom of
the billows breaking distinctly upon a beach declared.  There were songs
upon the river from the fisher-barks; and occasionally a chorus,
plaintive and wild, such as I had never heard before, the words of which
I did not understand, but which at the present time, down the long avenue
of years, seem in memory's ear to sound like 'Horam, coram, dago.'
Several robust fellows were near me, some knee-deep in water, employed in
hauling the seine upon the strand.  Huge fish were struggling amidst the
meshes--princely salmon--their brilliant mail of blue and silver flashing
in the morning beam; so goodly and gay a scene, in truth, had never
greeted my boyish eye.

"And, as I gazed upon the prospect, my bosom began to heave, and my tears
to trickle.  Was it the beauty of the scene which gave rise to these
emotions?  Possibly; for though a poor ignorant child--a half-wild
creature--I was not insensible to the loveliness of nature, and took
pleasure in the happiness and handiworks of my fellow-creatures.  Yet,
perhaps, in something more deep and mysterious the feeling which then
pervaded me might originate.  Who can lie down on Elvir Hill without
experiencing something of the sorcery of the place?  Flee from Elvir
Hill, young swain, or the maids of Elle will have power over you, and you
will go elf-wild!--so say the Danes.  I had unconsciously laid myself
down on haunted ground; and I am willing to imagine that what I then
experienced was rather connected with the world of spirits and dreams
than with what I actually saw and heard around me.  Surely the elves and
genii of the place were conversing, by some inscrutable means, with the
principle of intelligence lurking within the poor uncultivated clod!
Perhaps to that ethereal principle the wonders of the past, as connected
with that stream, the glories of the present, and even the history of the
future, were at that moment being revealed!  Of how many feats of
chivalry had those old walls been witness, when hostile kings contended
for their possession?--how many an army from the south and from the north
had trod that old bridge?--what red and noble blood had crimsoned those
rushing waters?--what strains had been sung, ay, were yet being sung on
its banks?--some soft as Doric reed; some fierce and sharp as those of
Norwegian Skaldaglam; some as replete with wild and wizard force as
Finland's runes, singing of Kalevale's moors, and the deeds of
Woinomoinen!  Honour to thee, thou island stream!  Onward mayst thou ever
roll, fresh and green, rejoicing in thy bright past, thy glorious
present, and in vivid hope of a triumphant future!  Flow on, beautiful
one!--which of the world's streams canst thou envy, with thy beauty and
renown?  Stately is the Danube, rolling in its might through lands
romantic with the wild exploits of Turk, Polak, and Magyar!  Lovely is
the Rhine! on its shelvy banks grows the racy grape; and strange old
keeps of robber-knights of yore are reflected in its waters, from
picturesque crags and airy headlands!--yet neither the stately Danube,
nor the beauteous Rhine, with all their fame, though abundant, needst
thou envy, thou pure island stream!--and far less yon turbid river of
old, not modern renown, gurgling beneath the walls of what was once proud
Rome, towering Rome, Jupiter's town, but now vile Rome, crumbling Rome,
Batuscha's town, far less needst thou envy the turbid Tiber of bygone
fame, creeping sadly to the sea, surcharged with the abominations of
modern Rome--how unlike to thee, thou pure island stream!"

In this passage Borrow concentrates upon one scene the feelings of three
remote periods of his life.  He gives the outward scene as he remembers
it forty years after, and together with the thoughts which now come into
his mind.  He gives the romantic suggestion from one of the favourite
ballads of his youth, "Elvir Hill."  He gives the child himself weeping,
he knows not why.  Yet the passage is one and indivisible.

These, at any rate, are not "lies--damned lies."


CHAPTER II--HIS OWN HERO


Borrow's principal study was himself, and in all his best books he is the
chief subject and the chief object.  Yet when he came to write
confessedly and consecutively about himself he found it no easy task.  Dr.
Knapp gives an interesting account of the stages by which he approached
and executed it.  His first mature and original books, "The Zincali," or
"The Gypsies of Spain," and "The Bible in Spain," had a solid body of
subject matter more or less interesting in itself, and anyone with a pen
could have made it acceptable to the public which desires information.
"The Bible of Spain" was the book of the year 1843, read by everybody in
one or other of the six editions published in the first twelve months.
These books were also full of himself.  Even "The Zincali," written for
the most part in Spain, when he was a man of about thirty and had no
reason for expecting the public to be interested in himself, especially
in a Gypsy crowd--even that early book prophesied very different things.
He said in the "preface" that he bore the Gypsies no ill-will, for he had
known them "for upwards of twenty years, in various countries, and they
never injured a hair of his head, or deprived him of a shred of his
raiment."  The motive for this forbearance, he said, was that they
thought him a Gypsy.  In his "introduction" he satisfied some curiosity,
but raised still more, when speaking of the English Gypsies and
especially of their eminence "in those disgraceful and brutalising
exhibitions called pugilistic combats."

"When a boy of fourteen," he says, "I was present at a prize fight; why
should I hide the truth?  It took place on a green meadow, beside a
running stream, close by the old church of E---, and within a league of
the ancient town of N---, the capital of one of the eastern counties.  The
terrible Thurtell was present, lord of the concourse; for wherever he
moved he was master, and whenever he spoke, even when in chains, every
other voice was silent.  He stood on the mead, grim and pale as usual,
with his bruisers around.  He it was, indeed, who _got up_ the fight, as
he had previously done with respect to twenty others; it being his
frequent boast that he had first introduced bruising and bloodshed amidst
rural scenes, and transformed a quiet slumbering town into a den of Jews
and metropolitan thieves.  Some time before the commencement of the
combat, three men, mounted on wild-looking horses, came dashing down the
road in the direction of the meadow, in the midst of which they presently
showed themselves, their horses clearing the deep ditches with wonderful
alacrity.  'That's Gypsy Will and his gang,' lisped a Hebrew pickpocket;
'we shall have another fight.'  The word Gypsy was always sufficient to
excite my curiosity, and I looked attentively at the new comers.

