Produced by Audrey Longhurst, Jeannie Howse and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team (http://www.pgdp.net).

       I saw it mount into the sky; I seemed to be on a ship; the poplar
near my window resembled a mast; I arose, stretched out my arms,
and cried:
"It is little enough to be a passenger for one day on this ship
floating through space; it is little enough to be a man, a black
point on that ship; I will be a man, but not any particular kind
of man."

Such was the first vow that, at the age of fourteen, I pronounced
in the face of nature, and since then I have done nothing, except
in obedience to my father, never being able to overcome my
repugnance.

I was therefore free, not through indolence but by choice; loving, moreover,
all that God had made and very little that man had made.

      Of life I knew nothing but love, of the world only my mistress, and
I did not care to know anything more.

      
      CONTENTS

  CHAPTER                                                           PAGE

       I. THE FIFTH DAY OF APRIL, 1676                                 1

      II. "HE IS THE KING"                                            13

     III. SIR JEOFFRY WILDAIRS                                        26

      IV. "GOD HAVE MERCY ON ITS EVIL FORTUNES"                       35

       V. MY LORD MARQUESS PLUNGES INTO THE THAMES                    55

      VI. "NO; SHE HAS NOT YET COME TO COURT"                         65

     VII. "'TIS CLO WILDAIRS, MAN--ALL THE COUNTY KNOWS THE VIXEN"    77

    VIII. IN WHICH MY LADY BETTY TANTILLION WRITES OF A SCANDAL       92

      IX. SIR JOHN OXON LAYS A WAGER AT CRIBB'S COFFEE HOUSE         107

       X. MY LORD MARQUESS RIDES TO CAMYLOTT                         119

      XI. "IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN--IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN!"                  133

     XII. IN WHICH IS SOLD A PORTRAIT                                141

    XIII. "YOUR--GRACE!"                                             158

     XIV. "FOR ALL HER YOUTH--THERE IS NO OTHER WOMAN LIKE HER"      179

      XV. "AND 'TWAS THE TOWN RAKE AND BEAUTY--SIR JOHN OXON"        190

     XVI. A RUMOUR                                                   197

    XVII. AS HUGH DE MERTOUN RODE                                    217

   XVIII. A NIGHT IN WHICH MY LORD DUKE DID NOT SLEEP                235

     XIX. "THEN YOU MIGHT HAVE BEEN ONE OF THOSE--"                  248

      XX. AT CAMYLOTT                                                261

     XXI. UPON THE MOOR                                              274

    XXII. MY LADY DUNSTANWOLDE IS WIDOWED                            299

   XXIII. HER LADYSHIP RETURNS TO TOWN                               319

    XXIV. SIR JOHN OXON RETURNS ALSO                                 337

     XXV. TO-MORROW                                                  351

    XXVI. A DEAD ROSE                                                363

   XXVII. "'TWAS THE NIGHT THOU HIDST THE PACKAGE IN THE WALL"       381

  XXVIII. SIR JOHN RIDES OUT OF TOWN                                 394

    XXIX. AT THE COW AT WICKBEN                                      405

     XXX. ON TYBURN HILL                                             423

    XXXI. THEIR GRACES KEEP THEIR WEDDING DAY AT CAMYLOTT            440

   XXXII. * * * * *

  THE COSMOPOLITE.
    

                                                                  * * * *
                                                                    *
  
     COINCIDENT POPULAR SUPERSTITIONS.

(_For the Mirror_.)

In No. 475 of the _Mirror_, p. 98, will be found an article by a
correspondent (H.) on "English Superstition," introducing a very
interesting Cheshire legend, as a counterpart to a Scottish one,
related by the celebrated author of "Demonology and Witchcraft."

H.
remarks of his tale that "it gives rise to many interesting
conjectures respecting the probable causes of such a superstition being
believed in countries with apparently so little connexion or
intercourse as Cheshire and Scotland." Perhaps it may be as well to
refer to what Sir W. Scott has said upon this very subject, in
note xi. to canto 4 of his "Lady of the Lake," ere we proceed to utter
a few specimens of coincident superstitions:--
"A work of great interest might be compiled upon the origin of
popular fiction, and the transmission of similar tales from age to
age, and from country to country.

The mythology of one period would then appear to pass into the romance
of the next century--and that, into the nursery tale of subsequent
ages. Such an investigation, while it went greatly to diminish our
ideas of the richness of human invention, would also show that these
fictions, however wild and childish, possess such charms for the
populace, as enable them to penetrate into countries unconnected by
manners and language, and having no apparent intercourse to afford the
means of transmission. It would carry me far beyond my bounds to
produce instances of this community of fable, among nations who
never borrowed from each other anything intrinsically worth learning.

Indeed, the wide diffusion of popular fictions may be compared to the
facility with which straws and feathers are dispersed abroad by the
wind, while valuable metals cannot be transported without trouble and
labour."

Sir Walter, in appending this observation to a tradition extracted
from "Grahame's Sketches of Scenery in Perthshire" pp. 116-118,
remarks--"that this story, translated by Dr.

G. from a Gaelic tradition, is to be found in the _Otia Imperialia_
of Gervase of Tilbury."
Now, it is not a little singular, that of the self-same legend we
have also an original edition, received from a Welsh woman, as it
is current in Wales, and "believed to be true in the place where
it happened"--as she averred--but whereabout in Cambria that was
she failed to inform us.

Here, then, is her account of a fairy favour:--
"The _accoucheuse_ of a small village in Wales was one night aroused
by a carriage driving furiously through it, and stopping at her door.

"Heaven ordains a fair life for some new-born things, 'twould seem,"
said Bush, "and a black one for others; and the good can no more be
escaped than the bad. There goes my Matthew in his ploughboy's smock
across the fields. 'Tis a good lad and a handsome. Why was he not a
great lord's son?"

Neighbour Watt laughed.

"Because thou wert an honest woman and not a beauty," quoth she.

The small black eyes set deep in Bush's broad red face twinkled
somewhat at the rough jest, but not in hearty mirth. She rubbed her
hand across her mouth with an awkward gesture.

"Ay," answered she, "but 'twas not that I meant. I thought of all this
child is born to--love and wealth and learning--and that others are
born to naught but ill."

"Lawk! let us not even speak of ill on such a day," said her neighbour.
"Look at the sky's blueness and the spring bursting forth in every
branch and clod--and the very skylarks singing hard as if for joy."

"Ay," said Joan Bush, "and look up village street to the Plough Horse,
and see thy Gregory and my Will and their mates pouring down ale to
drink a health to it--and to her Grace and to my lord Duke, and to the
fine Court doctors, and to the nurses, and to the Chaplain, and to old
Rowe who waits about to be ready to ring a peal on the church bells.
They'll find toasts enough, I warrant."

"That will they," said Dame Watt, but she chuckled good-naturedly, as
if she held no grudge against ale drinking for this one day at least.

'Twas true the men found toasts enough and were willing to drink them
as they would have been to drink even such as were less popular. These,
in sooth, were near their hearts; and there was reason they should be,
no nobleman being more just and kindly to his tenants than his Grace of
Osmonde, and no lady more deservedly beloved and looked up to with
admiring awe than his young Duchess, now being tenderly watched over at
Camylott Tower by one of Queen Catherine's own physicians and a score
of assistants, nurses, and underlings.

Even at this moment, William Bush was holding forth to the company
gathered about the door of the Plough Horse, he having risen from the
oaken bench at its threshold to have his pewter tankard filled again.

"'Tis not alone Duke he will be," quoth he, "but with titles and
estates enough to make a man feel like King Charles himself. 'Tis thus
he will be writ down in history, as his Grace his father hath been
before him: Duke of Osmonde--Marquess of Roxholm--Earl of Osmonde--Earl
of Marlowell--Baron Dorlocke of Paulyn, and Baron Mertoun of
Charleroy."

"Can a man then be six men at once?" said Gregory Watt.

"Ay, and each of him be master of a great house and rich estate. 'Tis
so with this one. 'Tis said the Court itself waits to hear the news."

Stout Tom Comfort broke forth into a laugh.

"'Tis not often the Court waits," says he, "to hear news so honest. At
Camylott Tower lies one Duchess whom King Charles did not make, thank
God, but was made one by her husband."

Will Bush set down his tankard with a smack upon the table before the
sitting-bench.

"She had but once appeared at Whitehall when his Grace met her and fell
deep in love that hour," he said.

"Was't not rumoured," said Tom Comfort, somewhat lowering his voice,
"that _He_ cast glances her way as he casts them on every young beauty
brought before him, and that his Grace could scarce hold his
tongue--King or no King?"

"Ay," said Will Bush, sharply, "his royal glance fell on her, and he
made a jest on what a man's joy would be whose fortune it was to see
her violet eyes melt in love--and his Grace went to her mother, the
Lady Elspeth, and besought her to let him proffer his vows to the young
lady; and she was his Duchess in ten months' time--and Madame Carwell
had come from France, and in a year was made Duchess of Portsmouth."

"Heard you not that she too--some three weeks past--?" quoth Comfort,
who was as fond of gossip as an old woman.

"Seventeen days gone," put in Bush; "and 'twas dead, by Heaven's mercy,
poor brat. They say she loses her looks, and that his Majesty tires of
her, and looks already toward other quarters." And so they sat over
their ale and gossiped, they being supplied with anecdote by his
Grace's gentleman's gentleman, who was fond of Court life and found the
country tiresome, and whose habit it was to spend an occasional evening
at the Plough Horse for the pleasure of having even an audience of
yokels; liking it the better since, being yokels, they would listen
open-mouthed and staring by the hour to his swagger and stories of
Whitehall and Hampton Court, and the many beauties who surrounded the
sacred person of his most gracious Majesty, King Charles the Second.
Every yokel in the country had heard rumours of these ladies, but Mr.
Mount gave those at Camylott village details which were often true and
always picturesque.

"What could be expected," he would say, "of a man who had lived in gay
exile through his first years, and then of a sudden was made a King,
and had all the beauties of England kneeling before him--and he with a
squat, black, long-toothed Portugee fastened to him for a wife? And
Mistress Barbara Palmer at him from his first landing on English soil
to be restored--she that was made my Lady Castlemaine."

And then he would relate stories of this beauteous fury, and her
tempestuous quarrels with the King, and of how 'twas known his ease and
pleasure-loving nature stood in terror of her violence and gave way
before it with bribes and promises through sheer weariness.

"'Tis not that he loves her best," said Mr. Mount, snuff-taking in
graceful Court fashion, "for he hath loved a dozen since; but she is a
shrew, and can rave and bluster at him till he would hang her with
jewels, and give her his crown itself to quieten her furies. 'Tis the
pretty orange wench and actor woman Nell Gwynne who will please him
longest, for she is a good-humoured baggage and witty, and gives him
rest."

'Twas not alone Charles who was pleased with Nell Gwynne. All England
liked her, and the lower orders best of all, because she was merry and
kind of heart and her jokes and open-handedness pleased them. They were
deep in the midst of a story of a poor gentleman in orders whom she
had rescued from the debtors' prison, when old Rowe, who had been
watching the road leading from the park gates, pricked up his ears and
left his seat, trembling with excitement.

"'Tis a horse galloping," he cried; and as they all turned to look he
flung his cap in the air. "'Tis the messenger," he burst forth, "and he
waves his hat in his hand as if he had gone mad with joy. Off go I to
the church tower as fast as legs will carry me."

And off he hobbled, and the messenger galloped onward, flourishing his
hat as he rode, and giving it no rest till he drew rein before the
Plough Horse door, and all gathered about him to hear his news.

"An heir--an heir!" he cried. "'Tis an heir, and as lusty as a young
lion. Gerald Walter John Percy Mertoun, next Duke of Osmonde! Hurrah,
hurrah, hurrah!"

And at the words all the men shouted and flung up their hats, the
landlord with his wife and children ran forth, women rushed out of
their cottages and cried for joy--and the bells in the old church's
grey tower swung and rang such a peal of gladness as sounded as if they
had gone wild in their ecstacy of welcome to the new-born thing.

In all England there was no nobleman's estate adorned by a house more
beautiful than was the Tower of Camylott. Through the centuries in
which it had stood upon the fair hill which was its site, there had
passed no reign in which a king or queen had not been guest there, and
no pair of royal eyes had looked from its window quite without envy,
upon the richly timbered, far reaching park and the broad lovely land
rolling away to the sea. There was no palace with such lands spread
before it, and there were few kings' houses as stately and beauteous in
their proportions as was this one.

The fairest room in the fair house had ever been the one known as her
Grace's White Chamber. 'Twas a spacious room with white panelled walls
and large mullioned windows looking forth over green hill and vale and
purple woodland melting into the blue horizon. The ivy grew thick about
the windows, and birds nested therein and twittered tenderly in their
little homes. The Duchess greatly loved the sound, as she did the
fragrance of flowers with which the air of the White Chamber was ever
sweet, and which was wafted up to it by each wandering breeze from the
flower-beds blooming on the terrace below.

In this room--as the bells in the church tower rang their joyous
peal--her young Grace lay in her great bed, her new-born child on her
arm and her lord seated close to her pillow, holding her little hand
to his lips, his lashes somewhat moist as he hung over his treasures.

"You scarce can believe that he is here," the Duchess whispered with a
touching softness. "Indeed, I scarce believe it myself. 'Twas not fair
of him to keep us waiting five years when we so greatly yearned for his
coming. Perhaps he waited, knowing that we expected so much from
him--such beauty and such wisdom and such strength. Let us look at him
together, love. The physician will order you away from me soon, but let
us see first how handsome he is."

The more I reflected, the more the darkness thickened about me. From
time to time I turned my head and saw a cold smile or a curious
glance.

Desgenais did not leave me; he knew very well what he was doing, and saw
that I might go to any lengths in my present desperate condition.

When he found that he had brought me to the desired point, he did not
hesitate to deal the finishing stroke.

"Does that story displease you?"

he asked. "The best is yet to come.
My dear Octave, the scene I have described took place on a certain night
when the moon was shining brightly. While the two lovers were quarrelling
over their fair one, and talking of cutting her throat as she sat before
the fire, down in the street a certain shadow was seen to pass up and
down before the house, a shadow that resembled you so closely that it
was decided it must be you."
"Who says so?" I asked, "who saw me in the street?"
"Your mistress herself; she told it to every one who cared to listen,
just as cheerfully as we tell you her story.

She claims that you love her still, that you keep guard at her door, in
short--everything you can think of; but you ought to know that she
talks about you publicly."

I have never been able to lie, for whenever I have tried to disguise
the truth my face has betrayed me.

'Amour propre', the shame of confessing my weakness before witnesses
induced me, however, to make the effort.
"It is very true that I was in the street," I thought, "but had I
known that my mistress was as bad as she is, I should not have been
there."

Finally I persuaded myself that I had not been seen distinctly; I attempted
to deny it.

A deep flush suffused my face and I felt the futility of my feint.
Desgenais smiled.

"Take care," said he, "take care, do not go too far."
"But," I protested, "how did I know it, how could I know--"
Desgenais compressed his lips as if to say:

"You knew enough."

I stopped short, mumbling the remnant of my sentence.

My blood became so hot that I could not continue.

"I in the street bathed in tears, in despair, and during that time
that encounter within! What! that very night! Mocked by her! Surely,
Desgenais, you are dreaming. Is it true? Can it be possible? What
can you know about it?"
Thus talking at haphazard, I lost my head and an irresistible feeling
of wrath began to rise within me.

Finally I sat down exhausted.

"My friend," said Desgenais, "do not take the thing so seriously. The
solitary life you have been leading for the last two months has made
you ill; I see you have need of distraction. Come to supper with me
this evening, and tomorrow morning we will go to the country."

The tone in which he said this hurt me more than anything else; in vain
I tried to control myself. "Yes," I thought, "deceived by that woman,
poisoned by horrible suggestions, having no refuge either in work or
in fatigue, having for my only safeguard against despair and ruin a
sacred but frightful grief. O God! it is that grief, that sacred relic
of my sorrow, that has just crumbled in my hands! It is no longer,
my love, it is my despair that is insulted. Mockery! She mocks at me
as I weep!" That appeared incredible to me. All the memories of the
past crowded about my heart when I thought of it. I seemed to see the
spectres of our nights of love; they hung over a bottomless, eternal
abyss, black as chaos, and from the bottom of that abyss arose a
shriek of laughter, sweet but mocking, that said: "Behold your
reward!"
Had I been told that the world mocked at me I would have replied: "So
much the worse for it," and I should not have been angry; but at the
same time I was told that my mistress was a shameless wretch.

Thus, on one side, the ridicule was public, vouched for, stated by two
witnesses who, before telling what they knew, must have felt that
the world was against me; and, on the other hand, what reply could I
make? How could I escape?
What could I do when the centre of my life, my heart itself, was ruined,
killed, annihilated. What could I say when the woman for whom I had
braved all, ridicule as well as blame, for whom I had borne a load
of misery, whom I loved, and who loved another, of whom I demanded
no love, of whom I desired nothing but permission to weep at her door,
no favor but that of vowing my youth to her memory and of writing her
name, her name alone, on the tomb of my hopes!--Ah! when I thought of
it, I felt the hand of death heavy upon me. That woman mocked me, it
was she who first pointed her finger at me, singling me out to the
idle crowd which surrounded her; it was she, it was those lips
erstwhile so many times pressed to mine, it was that body, that soul
of my life, my flesh and my blood, it was from that source the injury
came; yea, the last pang of all, the most cowardly and the most bitter,
the pitiless laugh that sneers in the face of grief.

The more I thought of it the more enraged I became. Did I say enraged?

I do not know what passion possessed me. What I do know is that an
inordinate desire for vengeance entered into my soul.

How could I revenge myself on a woman? I would have paid any price for
a weapon that could be used against her. But I had none, not even the
one she had employed; I could not pay her in her own coin.

Suddenly I noticed a shadow moving behind the curtain before the
closet.
I had forgotten my prisoner.

"Listen to me!" I cried, rising, "I have loved, I have loved like a fool.
I deserve all the ridicule you have subjected me to. But, by Heaven! I
will show you something that will prove to you that I am not such a
fool as you think."
With these words I pulled aside the curtain and exposed the interior
of the closet. The girl was trying to conceal herself in a corner.

"Go in, if you choose," I said to Desgenais; "you who call me a fool for
loving a woman, see how your teaching has affected me. Do you think I
passed last night under the windows of--? But that is not all," I
added, "that is not all I have to say. You give a supper to-night and
to-morrow go to the country; I am with you, and shall not leave you
from now on.
We will not separate, but will pass the entire day together. Are you with
me? Agreed! I have tried to make of my heart the mausoleum of my love,
but I will bury my love in another tomb."
With these words I sat down, marvelling how indignation can solace grief
and restore happiness. Whoever is astonished to learn that, from that
day, I completely changed my course of life does not know the heart
of man, and does not understand that a young man of twenty may
hesitate before taking a step, but does not retreat when he has
once taken it.

CHAPTER II 
THE CHOSEN WAY
The first steps in debauchery resemble vertigo, for one feels a
sort of terror mingled with sensuous delight, as if peering downward
from some giddy--height.

While shameful, secret dissipation ruins the noblest of men, in the frank
and open defiance of conventionality there is something that compels
respect even in the most depraved.

He who goes at nightfall, muffled in his cloak, to sully his life in
secret, and clandestinely to shake off the hypocrisy of the day,
resembles an Italian who strikes his enemy from behind, not daring to
provoke him to open quarrel. There are assassinations in the dark
corners of the city under shelter of the night. He who goes his way
without concealment says:
"Every one does it and conceals it; I do it and do not conceal it."

Thus speaks pride, and once that cuirass has been buckled on, it glitters
with the refulgent light of day.

It is said that Damocles saw a sword suspended over his head.
Thus libertines seem to have something over their heads which says:
"Go on, but remember, I hang not by a thread." Those masked
carriages that are seen during Carnival are the faithful images of their
life.
A dilapidated open wagon, flaming torches lighting up painted faces;
some laugh, some sing.

Among them you see what appear to be women; they are in fact what
once were women, with human semblance. They are caressed and insulted;
no one knows who they are or what their names.
They float and stagger under the flaming torches in an intoxication
that thinks of nothing, and over which, it is said, a pitying God
watches.

But if the first impression be astonishment, the second is horror, and
the third pity. There is evident so much force, or rather such an abuse
of force, that often the noblest characters and the strongest
constitutions are ruined. The life appears hardy and dangerous to
these; they would make prodigies of themselves; bound to debauchery as
Mazeppa to his horse, they gallop, making Centaurs of themselves and
seeing neither the bloody trail that the shreds of their flesh leave,
nor the eyes of the wolves that gleam in hungry pursuit, nor the
desert, nor the vultures.

Launched into that life by the circumstances that I have recounted, I
must now describe what I saw there.

Before I had a close view of one of those famous gatherings called
theatrical masked balls, I had heard the debauchery of the Regency
spoken of, and a reference to the time when a queen of France
appeared disguised as a violet-seller.

I found there flower-merchants disguised as vivandieres. I expected
to find libertinism there, but in fact I found none at all. One sees
only the scum of libertinism, some blows, and drunken women lying
in deathlike stupor on broken bottles.

Ere I saw debauchery at table I had heard of the suppers of Heliogabolus
and of the philosophy of Greece, which made the pleasures of the
senses a kind of natural religion.

I expected to find oblivion or something like joy; I found there the
worst thing in the world: ennui trying to live, and some Englishmen
who said: "I do this or that, and so I amuse myself.
I have spent so many sovereigns, and have procured so much pleasure."
And thus they wear out their life on that grindstone.

I had known nothing of courtesans when I heard of Aspasia, who sat on
the knees of Alcibiades while discussing philosophy with Socrates.
I expected to find something bold and insolent, but gay, free, and
vivacious, something with the sparkle of champagne; I found a
yawning mouth, a fixed eye, and light fingers.

Before I saw titled courtesans I had read Boccaccio and Bandello; above
all, I had read Shakespeare. I had dreamed of those beautiful triflers;
of those cherubim of hell. A thousand times I had drawn those heads so
poetically foolish, so enterprising in audacity, heads of harebrained
mistresses who wreck a romance with a glance, and who pass through life
by waves and by pulsations, like the sirens of the tides. I thought
of the fairies of the modern tales, who are always drunk with love if
not with wine. I found, instead, writers of letters, exact arrangers
of assignations, who practised lying as an art and cloaked their baseness
under hypocrisy, whose only thought was to give themselves for profit
and to forget.

Ere first I looked on the gaming-table I had heard of floods of gold, of
fortunes made in a quarter of an hour, and of a lord of the court of
Henry IV, who won on one card a hundred thousand louis. I found a narrow
room where workmen who had but one shirt rented a suit for the evening
for twenty sous, police stationed at the door, and starving wretches
staking a crust of bread against a pistol-shot.

Unknown to me were those dance-halls, public or other, open to any of
those thirty thousand women who are permitted to sell themselves
in Paris; I had heard of the saturnalia of all ages, of every imaginable
orgy, from Babylon to Rome, from the temple of Priapus to the
Parc-aux- Cerfs, and I have always seen written on the sill of that door
the word, "Pleasure." I found nothing suggestive of pleasure, but in its
place another word; and it has always seemed ineffaceable, not graven
in that glorious metal that takes the sun's light, but in the palest of
all, the cold colors of which seem tinted by the moonlight silver.

The first time I saw a mob, it was a depressing morning--Ash Wednesday,
near Courtille. A cold, fine rain had been falling since the evening
before; the streets were covered with pools of water. Carriages with
blinds down were strung out hither and thither, crowding between
hedges of hideous men and women standing on the sidewalks. That
sinister wall of spectators had tigerish eyes, red with wine,
gleaming with hatred.
The carriage-wheels splashed mud over them, but they did not move. I
was standing on the front seat of an open carriage; from time to time
a man in rags would step out from the wall, hurl a torrent of abuse at
us, then cover us with a cloud of flour. Mud would soon follow; yet we
kept on our way toward the Isle of Love and the pretty wood of Romainville,
consecrated by so many sweet kisses.

One of my friends fell from his seat into the mud, narrowly escaping
death on the paving. The people threw themselves on him to overpower
him, and we were obliged to hasten to his assistance.

One of the trumpeters who preceded us on horseback was struck on
the shoulder by a paving-stone; the flour had given out.

I had never heard of anything like that.

I began to understand the time and comprehend the spirit of the age.

CHAPTER III
AFRICAN HOSPITALITY

Desgenais had planned a reunion of young people at his country house.
The best wines, a splendid table, gaming, dancing, hunting, nothing
was lacking. Desgenais was rich and generous. He combined an antique
hospitality with modern ways.

Moreover one could always find in his house the best books; his
conversation was that of a man of learning and culture.

He was a problem.

I took with me a taciturn humor that nothing could overcome; he
respected it scrupulously.

I did not reply to his questions and he dropped the subject; he was
satisfied that I had forgotten my mistress.

I went to the chase and appeared at the table, and was as convivial
as the best; he asked no more.

One of the most unfortunate tendencies of inexperienced youth is
to judge of the world from first impressions; but it must be confessed
that there is a race of men who are also very unhappy; a race which
says to youth:
"You are right in believing in evil, for we know what it is."

I have heard, for example, a curious thing spoken of, a medium between
good and evil, a certain arrangement between heartless women and
men worthy of them--apparently love, but in reality a passing
sentiment.

They speak of love as of an engine constructed by a wagon-builder
or a building- contractor.

They said to me: "This and that are agreed upon, such and such phrases
are spoken, and certain others are repeated in reply; letters are
written in a prescribed manner, you kneel in a certain attitude."

All is regulated as in a parade.

This made me laugh. Unfortunately for me, I can not tell a woman
whom I despise that I love her, even when I know that it is only
a convention and that she will not be deceived by it.

I have never bent my knee to the ground when my heart did not go with
it. So that class of women known as facile is unknown to me, or if I
allow myself to be taken with them, it is without knowing it, and
through innate simplicity.

I can understand that one's soul can be put aside, but not that it
should be handled.

That there is some pride in this, I confess, but I do not intend
either to boast or abase myself. Above all things I hate those women
who laugh at love, and I permit them to reciprocate the sentiment;
there will never be any dispute between us.
Such women are beneath courtesans, for courtesans may lie as well
as they; but courtesans are capable of love, and these women are
not. I remember a woman who loved me, and who said to a man many
times richer than I, with whom she was living: "I am weary of you,
I am going to my lover." That woman is worth more than many others
who are not despised by society.
I passed the entire season with Desgenais, and learned that my
mistress had left France; that news left in my heart a feeling of
languor which I could not overcome.
At the sight of that world which surrounded and was so new to me,
I experienced at first a kind of bizarre curiosity, at once sad and
profound, which made me look timorously at things as does a restless
horse. Then an incident occurred which made a deep impression on
me.
Desgenais had with him a very beautiful woman who loved him much.
One evening as I was walking with him I told him that I considered
her admirable, as much on account of her attachment for him as
because of her beauty. In short, I praised her highly and with
warmth, giving him to understand that he ought to be happy.
He made no reply. It was his manner, for he was the dryest of men.
That night when all had retired, and I had been in bed some fifteen
minutes I heard a knock at my door. I supposed it was some one of
my friends who could not sleep, and invited him to enter.She had,
through her own thoughts, learned how much these small
creatures--sometimes dealt with so carelessly--felt when they were too
young for phrases, and how much, also, they remembered their whole
lives through.

"He is the King," she said, "and a King must think of his people. A
Duke, too, must think of his--as his Grace, your father, thinks, never
dealing lightly with his great name or his great house, or those of
whom he is governor."

The boy climbed upon her knee and sat there, leaning against her as he
loved to do. His eyes rested on the far edge of the farthest purple
moor, behind which the sun seemed to be slipping away into some other
world he knew not of. The little clouds floating in the high blue sky
were rosy where they were not golden; a flock of rooks was flying
slowly homeward over the tree-tops, cawing lazily as they came. A great
and beautiful stillness seemed to rest on all the earth, and his little
mind was full of strange ponderings, leading him through labyrinths of
dreams he would remember and comprehend the deep meaning of only when
he was a man. Somehow all his thoughts were trooping round about a rich
and brilliant figure which was a sort of image standing to him for the
personality of his Most Sacred Majesty King Charles the Second--the
King who was not quite a King, though all England looked to him, and he
could lead it to good or evil.


_CHAPTER III_

_Sir Jeoffry Wildairs_


It was not common in those days for young gentlemen of quality to love
their books too dearly; in truth, men of all ranks and ages were given
rather to leaving learning and the effort to acquire it to those who
depended upon professions to gain their bread for them. Men of rank and
fortune had too many amusements which required no aid from books,
which, indeed, were not greatly the fashion. For country gentlemen
there was hunting, coursing, cock-fights, the exhilarating watching of
cudgelling bouts between yokels, besides visiting, and much eating and
drinking and smoking of tobacco while jovial, and sometimes not too
fastidious stories were told. When a man went up to town he had other
pleasures to fill his time, and whether he was a country gentleman
making his yearly visit or a fashionable rake and beau, his
entertainment was not usually derived from books, a man who spent much
time with them being indeed generally regarded as a milksop. But from
the time when he lay stretched upon his nursery floor and gazed at
pictures and lettering he had not learned to read, the little Marquess
had a fondness for books. He learned to read early, and once having
learned, was never so full of pleasure as when he had a volume to pore
over. At first he revelled in stories of magicians, giants, afrits, and
gnomes, but as soon as his tutors took him in hand he wakened every day
to some new interest. Languages ancient and modern he learned with
great rapidity, having a special fondness for them, and at thirteen
could speak French, high Dutch, and Italian excellently well for his
years, besides having a scholarly knowledge of Latin and Greek. His
tutor, Mr. Fox, an elderly scholar of honourable birth and many
attainments, was as proud of his talents and advancement as his female
attendants had been of his strength and beauty in his infancy. This
gentleman, whose income had been reduced by misfortune, who had lost
his wife and children tragically by one illness, and who had come to
undertake his pupil an almost brokenhearted man, found in the promise
of this young mind a solace he had never hoped to know again.

"I have taught young gentlemen before," he remarked privately to
Mistress Halsell--"one at least with royal blood in his veins, though
he was not called prince--but my lord Marquess has a fire I have seen
in no other. To set him to work upon a new branch of study is like
setting a flame to brushwood. 'Tis as though he burned his way to that
he would reach." The same fire expressed itself in all he did. He was
passionately fond of all boyish sports, and there was no bodily feat he
undertook which he did not finally perform better than others of his
age performed it. He could leap, run, fence, shoot at a mark; there was
no horse he could not ride, and at ten he stood as tall as a boy of
fourteen, and was stalwart and graceful into the bargain. Of his beauty
there could be no question, it being of an order which marked him in
any assembly. 'Twas not only that his features were of so fine a
moulding, that his thick hair curled about his brow in splendid rings,
and that he had a large deep eye, tawny brown and fearless as a young
lion's, but there was in the carriage of his head, the bearing of his
body, the very movement of his limbs a thing which stamped him. In
truth, it was as if nature, in a lavish mood and having leisure, had
built a human creature of her best and launched him furnished forth
with her fairest fortunes, that she might behold what he would do. The
first time he was taken by his parents to London, there was a day upon
which, while walking in the garden of Hampton Court, accompanied by his
governor, he found himself stopped by a splendid haughty lady, whom Mr.
Fox saluted with some fearfulness when she addressed him. She asked the
boy's name, and, putting her hand on his shoulder, so held him that
she might look at him well.

"The little Roxholm," she said. "Yes, his mother was the beauty who--"

'Twas as if she checked her speech. She made a quick, imperious
movement with her head, and added: "He is all rumour said of him;" and
she turned away with such abruptness that the child asked himself how
he had vexed her, and wondered also at her manners, he being used only
to grace and courtesy.

They were near the end of the terrace which looked upon the River
Thames, and she went with her companion and leaned upon the stone
balustrades, looking out upon the water with fierce eyes. "The woman
who could give him a son like that," she said, "could hold him against
all others, and demand what she chose. Squat Catherine herself could do
it."

Little Roxholm heard her.

"She is a very handsome lady," he said, innocently, "though she has a
strange way. Is she of the Court, and do you know her name?"

"'Tis her Grace the Duchess of Cleveland," answered Mr. Fox, gravely,
as they walked away.

He was seven years old at this time, and 'twas during this visit to
town that he heard a conversation which made a great impression upon
him, opening up as it did new vistas of childish thinking. Having
known but one phase of existence, he was not aware that he had lived
the life of a young prince in a fairy tale, and that there were other
children whose surroundings were as gloomy as his were fair and bright.

He was one day comfortably ensconced in the deep embrasure of a window,
a book upon his knee, when Mistress Halsell and one of the upper
servants came into the room upon which his study opened, and presently
his ear was attracted by a thing they were speaking of with some
feeling.

"As sweetly pretty a young lady as ever one beheld," he heard. "Never
saw I a fairer skin or eyes more hyacinth-blue--and her hair trailing
to the ground like a mantle, and as soft and fine as silk."

'Twas this which made him stop in his reading. The description seeming
so like that of a beauty in a story of chivalry in which knights fought
for such loveliness.

"And now," the voice went on, "after but a few years of marriage all
her beauty lost so that none would know her! Four poor, weak girl
infants she hath given birth to, and her husband, Sir Jeoffry, in a
fury at the coming of each, raging that it is not an heir. Before the
first came he had begun to slight her, and when 'twas born a girl he
well-nigh broke her heart. He is a great, bold, handsome man, and she,
poor little lady, hopeless in her worship of him. And the next year
there was another girl, and each year since--and Sir Jeoffry spends his
time in riot and drinking and ill-living--and she fades away in her
wing of the house, scarce ever seen."

"Poor, uncared-for thing, 'twould be happier if God took her, and her
children, too," said Mistress Halsell.

"Three have been taken," replied her companion, in a low voice.
"Neither she nor they have strength. And ah! to see her in these
days--her pretty face grown thin and haggard, the blue of her eyes
drenched out with weeping. 'Tis told he once said to her, 'When a woman
grows thin and yellow, her husband will go in search of better looks,
and none has right to blame him.' 'Twas on a day when she had dressed
herself in her best to please him, but a few weeks after her third
infant came into the world. And so weak was she, poor lady, and so hurt
in spirit, that she gave a little sob and swooned."

The young Marquess read his book no more. He drew down his handsome
childish brow and stared straight before him through the window. He was
a boy with a fiery spirit, despite his general amiability of demeanour,
and, had he lived among tormentors and tyrants and been ill-treated,
would have had an ungovernable temper. The thing he had heard filled
him with a kind of rage against this big handsome man who treated his
lady cruelly and hated her infants. 'Twas all brutal and wicked and
unfair, as if one should heartlessly beat a little dog that loved one.
The picture brought before him was hideous and made him grow hot. His
spirit had never been tamed, he had the blood of fighting men in his
veins, and he had read innumerable stories of chivalry. He wished he
were big enough to go forth in search of such men as this Sir Jeoffry,
and strike them to the earth with his sword.

On such evenings as their Graces did not entertain, he was taken by his
governour to spend an hour with his father and mother in the
withdrawing-room, where they sat, and on this evening, when he went to
them, each of them observed that he spoke less than usual and seemed in
a new mood. He had always been filled with a passionate adoration of
his mother, and was much given to following her with his eyes; but this
night his gaze was fixed upon her in such earnest scrutiny that at last
her Grace asked him laughingly what he saw in her looks more than
ordinary. He had kept very close to her, and had held her hand, and
kissed it more than once since he had been in the room. He lifted it to
his lips again now, and pressed an impassioned kiss upon its fairness.

"You were never treated cruelly," he said. "No one would ever dare to
speak so to you that you would sob and swoon. If any dared!" and his
little hand involuntarily went to his side with a fierce childish
gesture which made my lord Duke laugh delightedly.

"'Tis in his blood to draw," he said. "Bravo! Roxholm; bravo!"

His mother looked at his beautiful little face and, seeing a thing in
his eyes which women who are mothers detect in the eyes of their
offspring when others observe little, put a hand on each of his
shoulders and went upon one knee so that she could be on a level with
his face and see deeper.

"What," she said, with a tender comprehending warmth, "you have been
hearing of some poor lady who is hardly treated, and you cannot endure
to think of it, because you are a man even though you are but seven
years old;" and she bent forward and kissed him with a lovely passion
and her violet eyes bedewed. "Yes, love," she said, "you are a Man. All
Osmondes are when they are born, I think. Indeed, John"--with the
sweetest laughing look at her lord, who stood worshipping her from his
place at the opposite side of the hearth--"I am sure that when you were
seven years old, if you had had a little sword, you would have drawn it
to defend a woman against a giant, though he had been big enough to
have eaten you at one mouthful--and Gerald is like you," proudly.
"Gerald is a Man, too."

"'Tis not fair," cried little Roxholm, passionately, "'tis not fair
that a big gentleman should be so harsh to a poor lady who loves him,
that he should make her cry till the blue goes from her eyes and she is
beautiful no longer, and that he should hate her infants because they
are not boys. And when she tried to please him he made her sob and
swoon away. He should be killed for it--he should be killed."

His father and mother glanced at each other. "Surely," her Grace said,
"he must have heard of the wicked Gloucestershire baronet my Lord
Dunstanwolde told us stories of--Sir Jeoffry."

"Ay, his name was Sir Jeoffry," cried Roxholm, eagerly. "Sir Jeoffry it
was they said."

"Yes," said my lord Duke, "Sir Jeoffry Wildairs, and a rank, heartless
brute he is to be the father of helpless girl children."


_CHAPTER IV_

"_God Have Mercy on its Evil Fortunes_"


In the constantly changing panorama which passes before the mind of a
child, it is certain no picture dawns and fades without leaving some
trace behind. The exact images may not be recorded, but the effect
produced by their passing will remain and become part of the palimpsest
of life and character. The panorama which passed before the mental
vision of the boy Marquess during the years of his early youth was not
only brilliant but full of great changes, being indeed such a panorama
as could not fail to produce strong and formative impressions upon a
growing mind. The doings of Charles Stuart's dissolute and brilliant
Court he began life hearing stories of; before he had reached ten years
of age, King Charles had died and James the Second was ruler of
England; in three years more his Majesty had been deserted by all and
had fled to the protection of Louis of France, leaving his crown behind
him to be offered to and accepted by William of Orange and Mary, his
well-beloved wife; but four years later Queen Mary had died of
small-pox and left her husband overwhelmed with grief, crying that he
had been the happiest of men and was now the most miserable. Kings are
not made and deposed, crowned and buried and mourned, without pomps,
ceremonials, and the occurring of events which must move even the
common mind to observation and reflection. This young mind was of no
common mould, it having come into the world active and by nature ready
to receive impressions, and from its earliest consciousness had been
watched and cultured in such manner as must have enriched even the
poorest understanding. As children of ordinary rank are familiar with
games, and hear of simple every-day events that happen to their
neighbours, this heir to a dukedom was familiar with the game of Courts
and rulers and heard daily discussion of Kings and great statesmen--of
their rights and wrongs, their triumphs and failures. The changing
events made such discussion inevitable, and the boy, being through
their wise affection treated almost as the companion of his parents,
heard much important conversation which filled him with deep interest
and led him into grave thinking which greatly developed his powers of
mind. Among the many memories which remained with him throughout his
life, and which in his later years he realised, had left a singularly
definite image upon his mind, was this small incident of his first
hearing of the Gloucestershire baronet whose lady had wept the blue
from her eyes in her wretchedness under his brutal neglect and cruelty.
The impression doubtless owed much of its vividness to the fact that
'twas made so early as to be the first realising of the existence of a
world where misery dwelt as a common thing, where men were coarse and
cruel, where women were tyrannised over and treated roughly, and where
children were unloved and neglected. Into this world he had previously
obtained no glimpse; but, once having realised its existence, he could
not easily forget it. Often as time passed he found himself haunted by
thoughts of the poor injured lady and her children, and being a
creature of strong imagination, there would rise before him mental
pictures of what a household might be whose master was a coarse rioter
before whom his wife and children cowered in fear.

So it happened in his conversing with Mistress Halsell he broached the
subject of the Gloucestershire baronet, and the good woman, seeing that
his speech did not arise from idle curiosity, told him what she knew of
this most unhappy family.

'Twas an old family and a good one in the matter of lineage, but
through the debaucheries of the last baronets its estates had become
impoverished and its reputation of an ill savour. It had ever been
known as a family noted for the great physical strength and beauty of
its men and women. For centuries the men of the house of Wildairs had
been the biggest and the handsomest in England. They had massive
frames, black eyes, thick hair and beards, and feared neither man nor
devil, but openly defied both. They were men who lived wildly, ate and
drank hugely, pursued women, were great at all deeds of prowess, and
bursting with rough health and lawless high spirits. 'Twas a saying of
their house that "a Wildairs who could not kill an ox with a blow and
eat half of him when he was roasted, was a poor wight indeed." The
present baronet, Sir Jeoffry, was of somewhat worse reputation than any
Sir Jeoffry before him. He lived a wild life in the country, rarely
going up to town, as he was not fond of town manners and town customs,
but liked better hunting, coursing, cock-fighting, bull-baiting, and
engaging in intrigues with dairy maids and the poppy-cheeked daughters
of his cottagers. He had married a sweet creature of fifteen, whom
after their brief honeymoon he had neglected as such men neglect a
woman, leaving her to break her heart and lose her bloom and beauty in
her helpless mourning for his past passion for her. He was at drawn
swords with his next of kin, who despised him and his evil, rough
living, and he had set his mind upon leaving sons enough to make sure
his title should be borne only by his own offspring. He being of this
mind, 'twas not to be wondered at that he had no welcome for the
daughters who should have pleased him by being sons. When the first was
born he flouted its mother bitterly, the poor young lady, who was but
sixteen and a delicate creature, falling into a fit of illness through
her grief and disappointment. The coming of the second threw him into a
rage, the third into a fury; and the birth of a fourth being announced,
he stormed like a madman, would not look at it, and went upon a debauch
so protracted and disgraceful as to be the scandal of the county and
the subject of gossip for many a day.

From that hour the innocent Lady Wildairs did not raise her head. Her
family had rejected her on account of her marriage with a rake so
unfashionable and of reputation so coarse. Wildairs Hall, ill kept, and
going to ruin through the wasteful living of its spendthrift master,
was no place for such guests as were ladies and gentlemen. The only
visitors who frequented it were a dozen or so chosen spirits who shared
Sir Jeoffry's tastes--hunted, drank, gambled with him, and were as
loose livers as himself. My Lady Wildairs, grown thin, yellow, and
haggard, shrank into her own poor corner of the big house, a bare west
wing where she bore her children in lonely suffering and saw them die,
one after the other, two only having the strength to survive. She was
her lord's hopeless slave, and at the same time the mere knowledge of
her existence was an irritation to him, she being indeed regarded by
him as a Sultan might regard the least fortunate of his harem.

"Damn her," he cried once to one of his cronies, a certain Lord
Eldershaw, "in these days I hate the sight of her, with her skinny
throat and face. What's a woman for, after she looks like that? If she
were not hanging about my neck I could marry some fine strapping girl
who would give me an heir before a year was out."

If young Roxholm did not hear this special anecdote, he heard others
from various sources which were productive in him of many puzzled and
somewhat anxious thoughts. "Why was it," he pondered, "that women who
had not the happy fortune of his mother seemed at so cruel a
disadvantage--that men who were big and handsome having won them, grew
tired of them and cast them aside, with no care for their loneliness
and pain? Why had God so made them that they seemed as helpless as poor
driven sheep? 'Twas not fair it should be so--he could not feel it
honest, though he was beset by grave fears at his own contumacy since
he had been taught that God ordained all things. Had he ordained this,
that men should be tyrants, and base, and cruel, and that women should
be feeble victims who had but the power to moan and die and be
forgotten? There was my Lord Peterborough, who had fought against
Algerine pirates, and at nineteen crowned his young brow with glory in
action at Tripoli. To the boyish mind he was a figure so brilliant and
gallant and to be adored that it seemed impossible to allow that his
shining could be tarnished by a fault, yet 'twas but a year after his
marriage with the fair daughter of Fraser of Mearns that he had wearied
of his love and gaily sailed for the Algerine coast again. Whether the
young Countess had bewailed her lot or not, Roxholm had not chanced to
hear, but having had for husband a young gentleman so dazzling and full
of fascination, how could she have found herself deserted and feel no
heartache and shed no tears? My lord could sail away and fight
corsairs, but her poor ladyship must remain behind and do battle only
with her heart, gaining no laurels thereby.

The sentiment of the times was not one which rated women high or was
fraught with consideration for female weakness. Charles Stuart taught
men how women should be regarded, and the beauties of his Court had
aided him in such manner as deepened the impression he had produced. A
beauty had her few years of triumph in which she was pursued, intrigued
with, worshipped, flattered, had madrigals sung in her honour; those
years over, no one cared to hear of the remainder of her life. If there
were dregs left in her cup, she drank them alone. A woman who had no
beauty was often a mere drudging or child-bearing wife, scapegoat for
ill-humour and morning headaches; victim, slave, or unnoticed
appendage. This the whilom toast Lady Wildairs had become, and there
were many like her.

The Earl of Dunstanwolde, who was the nobleman who had spoken to the
Duke and Duchess of the Gloucestershire Baronet, was a distant kinsman,
and a somewhat frequent visitor both at their Graces' country estates
and at their town establishment, Osmonde House. His own estate was near
Gloucestershire, and he knew the stories of Wildairs Hall, as did so
many others.

This gentleman was somewhat past middle age, and was the owner of such
qualities of mind and heart as had won for him the friendship of all
thinking persons who knew him. A man of kindly refinement and dignity,
familiar with arts and letters, and generous in his actions both to his
equals and his inferiors, he was of ancient blood, and had large
estates in the country and a great house in town.

But, notwithstanding the honourableness of his position, and the ease
of his circumstances, he was not a happy gentleman, having made a
love-match in his youth, and lost his passionately worshipped consort
at the birth of her first child, who had lived but two hours. He had
been so happy in his union that, being of a constant nature, he could
not console himself for his bereavement, and had remained a widower,
content that his estates and titles should pass to a distant cousin who
was the next heir. He was a sad-faced gentleman with delicately cut
features, and eyes which looked as if they had beheld sorrow, there
being deep lines about them, and also about his mouth.

This nobleman had for Roxholm a great attraction--his voice, his
bearing, and his gentle gravity all seemed to convey a thing which
reached the boy's heart. On his own part the childless man had from the
first felt for his little kinsman a pathetic affection. Had fate been
kind, instead of cruel, the son of his own Alice might have so bloomed
and grown stalwart and fair. He liked to talk with the child even when
he was but a few years old, and as time passed, and he shot up into a
handsome, tall lad, their friendship became a singularly close one.
When my lord was at Camylott the country people became accustomed to
seeing the two ride through the lanes together, the gamekeepers in the
park were familiar with the sight of the elder gentleman and the young
Marquess walking side by side down unfrequented woodland paths engaged
in earnest conversation, his lordship's hand oftenest resting on the
young shoulder as they went.

There was a subject of which these two talked often, and with great
interest, it being one for which Roxholm had always felt a love, since
the days when he had walked through the picture gallery with his nurse,
looking up with childish delight at the ladies and gentlemen in the
family portraits, asking to be told stories of their doings, and
requiring that it be explained to him why they wore costumes which
seemed strange to him. Mistress Halsell had been able to tell him many
stories of them, as also had his father and mother and Mr. Fox, his
governour, and these stories had so pleased him that he had pondered
upon them until their heroes and heroines seemed his familiar friends,
and made of as firm flesh and real blood as the ladies and gentlemen
who were his kinswomen and kinsmen to-day. It had always been his
pleasure to remember that the stories to be told of them were such fine
ones. There were Crusaders among them who had done splendid deeds;
there were men who had fought by the side of their King in battle, and
there were those who had done high service for him with brain and
spoken word when his power stood in danger of being overthrown. To the
boy there seemed indeed to have been no battle either of Church or
State, or with enemies in open field in which Mertouns had not fought.
Long before the Conquest, Normandy had known their high-strung spirit
and fiery valour. At Senlac, Guilbert de Mertoun had stood near William
of Normandy when he gave his command to his archers that they should
shoot into the air, whereby an arrow sought English Harold for its mark
and pierced him through eye and brain, leaving him slain, and William
conqueror. This same Guilbert, William had loved for his fierce bravery
and his splendid aim in their hunting the high deer, of whom 'twas said
the monarch "loved them as if he had been their father;" and when the
Domesday Book was made, rich lands were given to him that, as the King
said--there should be somewhat worthy of his holding to be recorded
therein. It had been a Guilbert de Mertoun who rode with Rufus when he
would cross to Normandy to put down insurrection there. These two were
alike in their spirit (therefore little Roxholm had ever worshipped
both), and when they reached the seashore in a raging storm, and the
sailors, from fear, refused to put forth, and Rufus cried, "Heard ye
ever of a King who was drowned," 'twas Guilbert who sprang forward
swearing he would set sail himself if others would not, and so stirred
the cowards with his fierce passionate courage that they obeyed the
orders given them and crossed the raging sea's arm in the tempest,
Guilbert standing in their midst spurring them with shouts, while the
wind so raged that only a man of giant strength could have stood
upright, and his voice could scarce be heard above its fury. And 'twas
he who was at the front when the insurgents were overpowered. Of this
one, of whom 'twas handed down that he was of huge build, and had beard
and hair as flaming as Rufus's own, there were legends which made him
the idol of Roxholm's heart in his childhood. Again and again it had
been his custom to demand that they should be repeated to him--the
stories of the stags he had pierced to the heart in one day's hunting
in the New Forest--the story of how he was held in worship by his
villeins, and of his mercifulness to them in days when nobles had the
power of life and death, and to do any cruelty to those in servitude to
them.

In Edward the Third's time, when the Black Death swept England, there
had lived another Guilbert who, having for consort a lovely, noble
lady, they two had hand in hand devoted themselves to battling the
pestilence among their serfs and retainers, and with the aid of a
brother of great learning (the first Gerald of the house) had sought
out and discovered such remedies as saved scores of lives and modified
the sufferings of all. At the end of their labours, when the violence
of the plague was assuaged, the lovely lady Aloys had died of the
fatigues she had borne and her husband had devoted himself to a life of
merciful deeds, the history of which was a wondrous thing for an
impassioned and romance-loving boy to pore over.

Upon the romances of these lives the imagination of the infant Roxholm
had nourished itself, and the boy Roxholm being so fed had builded his
young life and its ideals upon them.

It was of these ancestors of his house and of their high deeds he found
pleasure and profit in talking to his kinsman and friend, and 'twas an
incident which took place during one of my Lord Dunstanwolde's visits
to Camylott which led them to this manner of converse.

Roxholm was but eleven years old when in taking a barred gate on a new
horse the animal leapt imperfectly and, falling upon his rider, broke a
leg and two ribs for him. The injuries were such as all knew must give
the boy sharp anguish of body, when he was placed upon a hurdle and
carried home. His father galloped to the Tower to break the news to her
Grace and prepare her for his coming. My Lord Dunstanwolde walked by
the hurdle side, and as he did so, watching the boy closely, he was
touched to see that though his beautiful young face was white as death
and he lay with closed eyes, he uttered no sound and his lips wore a
brave smile.

"Is your pain great, Roxholm?" my Lord asked with tender sympathy.

Roxholm opened his eyes and, still smiling, blushed faintly.

"I think of John Cuthbert de Mertoun," he said in a low voice. "It aids
me to hold the torment at bay."

He spoke the words with some shyness, as if feeling that one older than
himself might smile at the romantic wildness of his fancy. But this my
Lord Dunstanwolde did not, understanding him full well, and lying a
hand on his pressed it with warm affection. In winter, as she enjoyed
society, we attended numerous balls and masquerades, and because I
thought of no one but her I fondly imagined her equally true to
me.

To give you an idea of my state of mind I can not do better than compare
it to one of those rooms we see nowadays in which are collected and
mingled the furniture of all times and countries. Our age has no
impress of its own.

We have impressed the seal of our time neither on our houses nor our
gardens, nor on anything that is ours. On the street may be seen men
who have their beards trimmed as in the time of Henry III, others who
are clean-shaven, others who have their hair arranged as in the time
of Raphael, others as in the time of Christ. So the homes of the rich
are cabinets of curiosities: the antique, the gothic, the style of
the Renaissance, that of Louis XIII, all pell-mell. In short, we
have every century except our own--a thing which has never been seen
at any other epoch: eclecticism is our taste; we take everything we find,
this for beauty, that for utility, another for antiquity, still another
for its ugliness even, so that we live surrounded by debris, as if
the end of the world were at hand.

Such was the state of my mind; I had read much; moreover I had learned
to paint. I knew by heart a great many things, but nothing in order,
so that my head was like a sponge, swollen but empty. I fell in
love with all the poets one after another; but being of an impressionable
nature the last acquaintance disgusted me with the rest.

I had made of myself a great warehouse of odds and ends, so that having
no more thirst after drinking of the novel and the unknown, I became
an oddity myself.

Nevertheless, about me there was still something of youth: it was the
hope of my heart, which was still childlike.

That hope, which nothing had withered or corrupted and which love had
exalted to excess, had now received a mortal wound. The perfidy of
my mistress had struck deep, and when I thought of it, I felt in my
soul a swooning away, the convulsive flutter of a wounded bird in
agony.

Society, which works so much evil, is like that serpent of the Indies
whose habitat is under a shrub, the leaves of which afford the antidote
to its venom; in nearly every case it brings the remedy with the wound
it causes. For example, the man whose life is one of routine, who
has his business cares to claim his attention upon rising, visits
at one hour, loves at another, can lose his mistress and suffer
no evil effects.

His occupations and his thoughts are like impassive soldiers ranged in
line of battle; a single shot strikes one down, his neighbors close
the gap and the line is intact.

I had not that resource, since I was alone: nature, the kind mother,
seemed, on the contrary, vaster and more empty than before. Had I been
able to forget my mistress, I should have been saved. How many there
are who can be cured with even less than that. Such men are incapable
of loving a faithless woman, and their conduct, under the
circumstances, is admirable in its firmness.

But is it thus one loves at nineteen when, knowing nothing of the world,
desiring everything, one feels, within, the germ of all the passions?
Everywhere some voice appeals to him. All is desire, all is revery.
There is no reality which holds him when the heart is young; there
is no oak so gnarled that it may not give birth to a dryad; and
if one had a hundred arms one need not fear to open them; one has
but to clasp his mistress and all is well.

As for me, I did not understand what else there was to do but love,
and when any one spoke to me of other occupations I did not reply.
My passion for my mistress had something fierce about it, for all my
life had been severely monachal. Let me cite a single instance. She gave
me her miniature in a medallion. I wore it over my heart, a practice
much affected by men; but one day, while idly rummaging about a shop
filled with curiosities, I found an iron "discipline whip" such
as was used by the mediaeval flagellants. At the end of this whip was a
metal plate bristling with sharp iron points; I had the medallion
riveted to this plate and then returned it to its place over my heart.
The sharp points pierced my bosom with every movement and caused such
strange, voluptuous anguish that I sometimes pressed it down with my
hand in order to intensify the sensation. I knew very well that I was
committing a folly; love is responsible for many such idiocies.

But since this woman deceived me I loathed the cruel medallion. I can
not tell with what sadness I removed that iron circlet, and what
a sigh escaped me when it was gone.

"Ah! poor wounds!"

I said, "you will soon heal, but what balm is there for that other
deeper wound?"

I had reason to hate this woman; she was, so to speak, mingled with the
blood of my veins; I cursed her, but I dreamed of her.

What could I do with a dream? By what effort of the will could I drown a
memory of flesh and blood?

Lady Macbeth, having killed Duncan, saw that the ocean would not wash
her hands clean again; it would not have washed away my wounds.
I said to Desgenais: "When I sleep, her head is on my pillow."
My life had been wrapped up in this woman; to doubt her was to doubt
all; to deny her, to curse all; to lose her, to renounce all. I no
longer went out; the world seemed peopled with monsters, with horned
deer and crocodiles. To all that was said to distract my mind, I
replied:

"Yes, that is all very well, but you may rest assured I shall do nothing
of the kind."
I sat in my window and said:

"She will come, I am sure of it; she is coming, she is turning the
corner at this moment, I can feel her approach.

She can no more live without me than I without her. What shall I say? How
shall I receive her?"

Then the thought of her perfidy occurred to me.

"Ah! let her come! I will kill her!"
Since my last letter I had heard nothing of her.

"What is she doing?" I asked myself. "She loves another? Then I will
love another also. Whom shall I love?"
While thinking, I heard a far distant voice crying:

"Thou, love another? Two beings who love, who embrace, and who are not
thou and I! Is such a thing possible? Are you a fool?"
"Coward!" said Desgenais, "when will you forget that woman? Is she such
a great loss?

Take the first comer and console yourself."
"No," I replied, "it is not such a great loss. Have I not done what I
ought? Have I not driven her away from here? What have you to say to
that? The rest concerns me; the bull wounded in the arena can lie
down in a corner with the sword of the matador 'twixt his shoulders,
and die in peace. What can I do, tell me? What do you mean by
first comer?
You will show me a cloudless sky, trees and houses, men who talk,
drink, sing, women who dance and horses that gallop.

All that is not life, it is the noise of life. Go, go, leave me in
peace."

CHAPTER V
A PHILOSOPHER'S ADVICE

Desgenais saw that my despair was incurable, that I would neither
listen to any advice nor leave my room, he took the thing seriously.

I saw him enter one evening with an expression of gravity on his
face; he spoke of my mistress and continued in his tone of persiflage,
saying all manner of evil of women.

While he was speaking I was leaning on my elbow, and, rising in my
bed, I listened attentively.

It was one of those sombre evenings when the sighing of the wind
recalls the moaning of a dying man.

A fitful storm was brewing, and between the plashes of rain on the windows
there was the silence of death. All nature suffers in such moments,
the trees writhe in pain and hide their heads; the birds of the
fields cower under the bushes; the streets of cities are deserted. I
was suffering from my wound. But a short time before I had a
mistress and a friend. The mistress had deceived me and the friend had
stretched me on a bed of pain.

I could not clearly distinguish what was passing in my head;
it seemed to me that I was under the influence of a horrible dream
and that I had but to awake to find myself cured; at times it seemed
that my entire life had been a dream, ridiculous and puerile, the
falseness of which had just been disclosed.
Desgenais was seated near the lamp at my side; he was firm and serious,
although a smile hovered about his lips.

He was a man of heart, but as dry as a pumice-stone. An early experience
had made him bald before his time; he knew life and had suffered; but
his grief was a cuirass; he was a materialist and he waited for
death.

"Octave," he said, "after what has happened to you, I see that you
believe in love such as the poets and romancers have represented; in a
word, you believe in what is said here below and not in what is
done.
That is because you do not reason soundly, and it may lead you into
great misfortune.

"Poets represent love as sculptors design beauty, as musicians create
melody; that is to say, endowed with an exquisite nervous organization,
they gather up with discerning ardor the purest elements of life, the
most beautiful lines of matter, and the most harmonious voices of
nature.
There lived, it is said, at Athens a great number of beautiful girls;
Praxiteles drew them all one after another; then from these diverse
types of beauty, each one of which had its defects, he formed a single
faultless beauty and created Venus. The man who first created a
musical instrument, and who gave to harmony its rules and its
laws, had for a long time listened to the murmuring of reeds and
the singing of birds.
Thus the poets, who understand life, after knowing much of love,
more or less transitory, after feeling that sublime exaltation
which real passion can for the moment inspire, eliminating from
human nature all that degrades it, created the mysterious names
which through the ages fly from lip to lip: Daphnis and Chloe, Hero
and Leander, Pyramus and Thisbe.

"To try to find in real life such love as this, eternal and absolute,
is but to seek on public squares a woman such as Venus, or to expect
nightingales to sing the symphonies of Beethoven.

"Perfection does not exist; to comprehend it is the triumph of human
intelligence; to desire to possess it, the most dangerous of follies.

Open your window, Octave; do you not see the infinite? You try to form
some idea of a thing that has no limits, you who were born yesterday
and who will die to-morrow! This spectacle of immensity in every
country in the world produces the wildest illusions.

Religions are born of it; it was to possess the infinite that Cato cut
his throat, that the Christians delivered themselves to lions, the
Huguenots to the Catholics; all the people of the earth have stretched
out their hands to that immensity and have longed to plunge into it. The
fool wishes to possess heaven; the sage admires it, kneels before it,
but does not desire it.

"Perfection, my friend, is no more made for us than immensity. We must
seek for nothing in it, demand nothing of it, neither love nor
beauty, happiness nor virtue; but we must love it if we would be virtuous,
if we would attain the greatest happiness of which man is capable.

"Let us suppose you have in your study a picture by Raphael that you
consider perfect. Let us say that upon a close examination you discover
in one of the figures a gross defect of design, a limb distorted, or
a muscle that belies nature, such as has been discovered, they
say, in one of the arms of an antique gladiator.

You would experience a feeling of displeasure, but you would not
throw that picture in the fire; you would merely say that it is not
perfect, but that it has qualities that are worthy of admiration.

"There are women whose natural singleness of heart and sincerity are
such that they could not have two lovers at the same time.

You believed your mistress such an one; that is best, I admit. You have
discovered that she has deceived you; does that oblige you to depose
and to abuse her, to believe her deserving of your hatred?

"Even if your mistress had never deceived you, even if at this moment
she loved none other than you, think, Octave, how far her love would
still be from perfection, how human it would be, how small, how restrained
by the hypocrisies and conventions of the world; remember that another
man possessed her before you, that many others will possess her after
you.

"Reflect: what drives you at this moment to despair is the idea of
perfection in your mistress, the idea that has been shattered.

But when you understand that the primal idea itself was human, small and
restricted, you will see that it is little more than a rung in the
rotten ladder of human imperfection.

"I think you will readily admit that your mistress has had other admirers,
and that she will have still others in the future; you will doubtless
reply that it matters little, so long as she loved you. But I ask you,
since she has had others, what difference does it make whether it was
yesterday or two years since? Since she loves but one at a time, what
does it matter whether it is during an interval of two years or in
the course of a single night? Are you a man, Octave? Do you see the
leaves falling from the trees, the sun rising and setting? Do you
hear the ticking of the horologe of time with each pulsation of
your heart?

Is there, then, such a difference between the love of a year and the
love of an hour? I challenge you to answer that, you fool, as you sit
there looking out at the infinite through a window not larger than
your hand.

"You consider that woman faithful who loves you two years; you must
have an almanac that will indicate just how long it takes for an honest
man's kisses to dry on a woman's lips. You make a distinction between
the woman who sells herself for money and the one who gives herself for
pleasure; between the one who gives herself through pride and the
one who gives herself through devotion.

Among women who are for sale, some cost more than others; among those
who are sought for pleasure some inspire more confidence than others;
and among those who are worthy of devotion there are some who receive
a third of a man's heart, others a quarter, others a half, depending
upon her education, her manner, her name, her birth, her beauty, her
temperament, according to the occasion, according to what is said,
according to the time, according to what you have drunk at
dinner.

"You love women, Octave, because you are young, ardent, because your
features are regular, and your hair dark and glossy, but you do not,
for all that, understand woman.

"Nature, having all, desires the reproduction of beings; everywhere,
from the summit of the mountain to the bottom of the sea, life is
opposed to death. God, to conserve the work of His hands, has established
this law- that the greatest pleasure of all sentient beings shall be
to procreate.

"Oh! my friend, when you feel bursting on your lips the vow of eternal
love, do not be afraid to yield, but do not confound wine with intoxication;
do not think of the cup divine because the draught is of celestial
flavor; do not be astonished to find it broken and empty in the evening.
It is but woman, but a fragile vase, made of earth by a potter.

"Thank God for giving you a glimpse of heaven, but do not imagine
yourself a bird because you can flap your wings. The birds themselves
can not escape the clouds; there is a region where air fails them and
the lark, rising with its song into the morning fog, sometimes falls
back dead in the field.

"Take love as a sober man takes wine; do not become a drunkard.

If your mistress is sincere and faithful, love her for that; but if she
is not, if she is merely young and beautiful, love her for that;
if she is agreeable and spirituelle, love her for that; if she is none
of these things but merely loves you, love her for that.

Love does not come to us every day.

"Do not tear your hair and stab yourself because you have a rival.
You say that your mistress deceives you for another; it is your
pride that suffers; but change the words, say that it is for you
that she deceives him, and behold, you are happy!

"Do not make a rule of conduct, and do not say that you wish to be loved
exclusively, for in saying that, as you are a man and inconstant
yourself, you are forced to add tacitly: 'As far as possible.'
"Take time as it comes, the wind as it blows, woman as she is. The
Spaniards, first among women, love faithfully; their hearts are
sincere and violent, but they wear a dagger just above them.

Italian women are lascivious. The English are exalted and melancholy,
cold and unnatural.

The German women are tender and sweet, but colorless and monotonous.
The French are spirituelle, elegant, and voluptuous, but are false
at heart.

"Above all, do not accuse women of being what they are; we have made them
thus, undoing the work of nature.

"Nature, who thinks of everything, made the virgin for love; but with the
first child her bosom loses form, her beauty its freshness. Woman is
made for motherhood.

Man would perhaps abandon her, disgusted by the loss of beauty; but his
child clings to him and weeps. Behold the family, the human law;
everything that departs from this law is monstrous.

"Civilization thwarts the ends of nature. In our cities, according to
our customs, the virgin destined by nature for the open air, made to
run in the sunlight; to admire the nude wrestlers, as in Lacedemonia,
to choose and to love, is shut up in close confinement and bolted
in.

Meanwhile she hides romance under her cross; pale and idle, she fades
away and loses, in the silence of the nights, that beauty which oppresses
her and needs the open air. Then she is suddenly snatched from this
solitude, knowing nothing, loving nothing, desiring everything; an old
woman instructs her, a mysterious word is whispered in her ear, and she
is thrown into the arms of a stranger.

There you have marriage, that is to say, the civilized family.

"A child is born. This poor creature has lost her beauty and she
has never loved.

The child is brought to her with the words: "You are a mother." She
replies: 'I am not a mother; take that child to some woman who can nurse
it. I can not.'

Her husband tells her that she is right, that her child would be disgusted
with her. She receives careful attention and is soon cured of the
disease of maternity. A month later she may be seen at the Tuileries,
at the ball, at the opera; her child is at Chaillot, at Auxerre;
her husband with another woman.

Then young men speak to her of love, of devotion, of sympathy, of all
that is in the heart.

She takes one, draws him to her bosom; he dishonors her and returns to
the Bourse. She cries all night, but discovers that tears make her eyes
red.

She takes a consoler, for the loss of whom another consoles her;
thus up to the age of thirty or more.

Then, blase and corrupted, with no human sentiment, not even disgust,
she meets a fine youth with raven locks, ardent eye and hopeful
heart; she recalls her own youth, she remembers what she has suffered,
and telling him the story of her life, she teaches him to eschew
love.

"That is woman as we have made her; such are your mistresses. But you
say they are women and that there is something good in them!

"But if your character is formed, if you are truly a man, sure of yourself
and confident of your strength, you may taste of life without fear
and without reserve; you may be sad or joyous, deceived or respected;
but be sure you are loved, for what matters the rest?

"If you are mediocre and ordinary, I advise you to consider your
course very carefully before deciding, but do not expect too much of
your mistress.

"If you are weak, dependent upon others, inclined to allow yourself
to be dominated by opinion, to take root wherever you see a little
soil, make for yourself a shield that will resist everything, for
if you yield to your weaker nature you will not grow, you will dry
up like a dead plant, and you will bear neither fruit nor flowers.

The sap of your life will dissipate into the formation of useless
bark; all your actions will be as colorless as the leaves of the
willow; you will have no tears to water you, but those from your own
eyes; to nourish you, no heart but your own.

"But if you are of an exalted nature, believing in dreams and wishing
to realize them, I say to you plainly: Love does not exist.

"For to love is to give body and soul, or better, it is to make a single
being of two; it is to walk in the sunlight, in the open air through the
boundless prairies with a body having four arms, two heads, and
two hearts.

Love is faith, it is the religion of terrestrial happiness, it is a
luminous triangle suspended in the temple of the world. To love is to
walk freely through that temple, at your side a being capable
of understanding why a thought, a word, a flower makes you pause and
raise your eyes to that celestial triangle. To exercise the noble faculties
of man is a great good--that is why genius is glorious; but to double
those faculties, to place a heart and an intelligence upon a heart and
an intelligence--that is supreme happiness. God has nothing better
for man; that is why love is better than genius.

"But tell me, is that the love of our women? No, no, it must be
admitted. Love, for them, is another thing; it is to go out veiled, to
write in secret, to make trembling advances, to heave chaste sighs
under starched and unnatural robes, then to draw bolts and throw
them aside, to humiliate a rival, to deceive a husband, to render
a lover desolate.

To love, for our women, is to play at lying, as children play at hide
and seek, a hideous orgy of the heart, worse than the lubricity of the
Romans, or the Saturnalia of Priapus; a bastard parody of vice
itself, as well as of virtue; a loathsome comedy where all is whispering
and sidelong glances, where all is small, elegant, and deformed, like
those porcelain monsters brought from China; a lamentable satire on all
that is beautiful and ugly, divine and infernal; a shadow without
a body, a skeleton of all that God has made."

Thus spoke Desgenais; and the shadows of night began to fall.

CHAPTER VI
MADAME LEVASSEUR
The following morning I rode through the Bois de Boulogne; the weather
was dark and threatening. At the Porte Maillot I dropped the reins
on my horse's back and abandoned myself to revery, revolving in my
mind the words spoken by Desgenais the evening before.

Suddenly I heard my name called. Turning my head I spied one of my
inamorata's most intimate friends in an open carriage. She bade me
stop, and, holding out her hand with a friendly air, invited me to dine
with her if I had no other engagement.

This woman, Madame Levasseur by name, was small, stout, and decidedly
blonde; I had never liked her, and my attitude toward her had
always been one of studied politeness. But I could not resist a
desire to accept her invitation; I pressed her hand and thanked
her; I was sure that we should talk of my mistress.
She sent a servant to lead my horse and I entered her carriage; she
was alone, and we at once took the road to Paris. Rain began to
fall, and the carriage curtains were drawn; thus shut up together
we rode on in silence. I looked at her with inexpressible sadness;
she was not only the friend of my faithless one but her confidante.
She had often formed one of our party when I called on my mistress
in the evening. With what impatience had I endured her presence!
How often I counted the minutes that must elapse before she would
leave! That was probably the cause of my aversion to her. I knew
that she approved of our love; she even went so far as to defend
me in our quarrels. In spite of the services she had rendered me,
I considered her ugly and tiresome. Alas! now I found her beautiful!
I looked at her hands, her clothes; every gesture went straight to
my heart; all the past was associated with her. She noticed the
change in manner and understood that I was oppressed by sad memories
of the past. Thus we sped on our way, I looking at her, she smiling
at me. When we reached Paris she took my hand:
"Well?" she said.
"Well?" I replied, sobbing, "tell her if you wish." Tears rushed
from my eyes.

After dinner we sat before the fire.
"But tell me," she said, "is it irrevocable? Can nothing be done?"

"Alas! Madame," I replied, "there is nothing irrevocable except the
grief that is killing me. My condition can be expressed in a few
words:
I can not love her, I can not love another, and I can not cease
loving."
At these words she moved uneasily in her chair, and I could see an
expression of compassion on her face."I will not play with love," he said to his mother once as they talked
intimately to each other. "I have thought of it--that which should come
to a man and be himself, not a part of his being but the very life of
him. If it comes not, a man must go unsatisfied to his grave. If it
comes--You know," he said, and turned and kissed her hand impulsively,
"It came to my father and to you."

"Pray Heaven it may come to you, dear one," she said; "you would know
bliss then."

"Yes," he answered, "I should know rapture that would make life Heaven.
I do not know what it is I wait for--but when I see it in some woman's
eyes I shall know, and so will she."

His mother kissed his ringed hair, smiling softly.

"Till then you wait and think of other things."

"There are so many things for a man to do," he said, "if he would not
sit idle. But when that comes it will be first and greatest of all."

At this period all the world talked of the wondrous and splendid
Churchill, who, having fought brilliantly for the Stuarts and been made
by them first Lord Churchill of Eyemouth, and next Baron Churchill of
Sandridge, having, after receiving these advancements, the cold
astuteness to see the royal fortunes waver perilously, deserted James
the Second with stately readiness and transferred his services to
William of Orange. He was rewarded with an earldom and such favour as
made him the most shining figure both at the Court of England and in
the foreign countries which had learned to regard his almost
supernatural powers with somewhat approaching awe.

This man inspired Roxholm with a singular feeling; he in fact exercised
over him the fascination he exercised over so many others, but in the
case of the young Marquess, wonder and admiration were mixed with other
emotions. There were stories so brilliant to be heard of him on all
sides, stories of other actions so marvellously ruthless and of things
so wondrously mean. Upon a bargain so shameless he had built so
wondrous a career--a faithfulness of service so magnificent he had
closed with a treachery so base. All greatness and all littleness, all
heroism and all crimes, seemed to combine themselves in this one
strange being. Having shamelessly sold his youth to a King's mistress,
he devoted his splendid maturity to a tender, faithful passion for a
beauteous virago, whose displeasure was the sole thing on earth which
moved him to pain or fear. In truth 'twas not his genius, his bravery,
his victories, which held Roxholm's thought upon him most constantly;
'twas two other things, the first being the marvel of his control over
himself, the power with which he held in subjection his passions, his
emotions, almost, it seemed, his very thoughts themselves--the power
with which he had trained John Churchill to be John Churchill's
servant--in peril, in temptation from any weakness to which he did not
choose to succumb, in circumstances which, arising without warning,
might have caused another man to start, to falter, to change colour,
but which he encountered with indomitable calm.

"Tis that I wish to learn," said the young nobleman in his secret
thoughts as he watched him at Court, in the world outside it, among
soldiers, statesmen, women, in the society of those greater than
himself, of those smaller, of those he would win and of those he would
repel. "'Tis that I would learn: to be stronger than my very self, so
that naught can betray me--no passion I am tormented by, no anger I
would conceal, no lure I would resist. 'Tis a man's self who oftenest
entraps him. The traitor once subject, life lies at one's feet."

The second thing which stirred the young observer's interest was the
great man's great love. The most parsimonious and mercantile of
beings, he had married a poor beauty when fair creatures with fortunes
smiled upon him on every side; the most indomitable of spirits, the
warrior of whom armies stood in awe, he was the willing subject of a
woman whose fiery temper and tempestuous spirit the world knew as well
as it knew her beauty and her dominating charm. For some reason he
could scarcely have analyzed, it gave Roxholm a strange pleasure to
hear anecdotes of the passionate love-letters scrawled on the field--on
the eve of battle, the hour after a great encounter and triumph; to
know that better than victory to the great conquerer, who could command
the slaughter of thousands without the quiver of a muscle or a moment's
qualm, were the few lines in a woman's hand which told him he was
forgiven for some fancied wrong or missed in some tender hour.

"My Lady Sarah is a handsome creature, and ever was one," 'twas said,
"but there are those who are greater beauties, and who have less
brimstone in the air about them and less lightning in their eyes."

"But 'twas she who was his own," Roxholm said to himself in pondering
it over, "and when their eyes met each knew--and when she is fierce and
torments him 'tis as if the fire in his own blood spoke, as if his own
voice reproached him--and he remembers their dear hours together, and
forgives, and woos her back to him. If she were not his own--if he were
not hers, neither could endure it. They would strike each other dead.
'Tis sure nature makes one man for one woman, one woman for one man--as
it was in the garden where our first parents loved. Few creatures find
their mates, alas; but when they do 'tis Eden over again, in spite of
all things--and all else is mean and incomplete.

He did not know that, as he had observed and been attracted by the
hero, so the hero had been attracted by himself, though 'twas in a
lesser degree, since one man was cold and mature and the other young
and warm.

My Lord Churchill had been the most beautiful youth of his time,
distinguished for the elegance of his bearing and the perfection of his
countenance and form. When, at fifteen, the services of his father in
the royal cause had procured for him the place of page in the household
of the Duke of York, he had borne away the palm from all others of his
age. When, at sixteen, his martial instincts had led to the Prince's
obtaining for him a commission in a regiment of the guards, his first
appearance in his scarlet and gold lace had produced such commotion
among the court beauties as promised to lead to results almost
disastrous, since he attracted attention in places too high to reach
with safety. But even then his ambitions were stronger than his
temptations, and he fled the latter to go to fight the Moors. On his
return, more beautiful than ever, the lustre of success in arms added
to his ripened charms, the handsomest and wickedest woman in England
cast her eyes upon him, and he became the rival of royalty itself. All
England knew the story of the founding of his later fortunes, but if he
himself blushed for it, none but John Churchill knew--outwardly he was
the being whose name was the synonym for success, the lover of the
brilliant Castlemaine, the hero of the auxiliary force sent to Louis,
the "handsome Englishman" of the siege of Nimeguen for whom Turenne
predicted the greatest future a man could dream of.

When Roxholm first had the honour of being presented to this gentleman
'twas at a time when, after a brief period during which the hero's
fortunes had been under a cloud, the tide had turned for him and the
sun of royal favour shone forth again. Perhaps during certain perilous
dark days in the Tower, my Lord Marlborough had passed through hours
which had caused him to look back upon the past with some regret and
doubting, and when among those who crowded about him when fortune
smiled once more--friends, sycophants, place-hunters, and new
admirers--he beheld a figure whose youth and physical gifts brought
back old memories to him, 'tis possible they awakened in him curious
reflections.

"You," he said to Roxholm one day at St. James, "begin the game with
all the cards in your hand."

"The game, my lord?" said the youthful Marquess, bowing.

"The game of life," returned the Earl of Marlborough (for so William of
Orange had made him nine years before), and his eagle eye rested on the
young man with a keen, strange look. "You need not plan and strive for
rank and fortune. You were born to them--to those things which will aid
a man to gain what he desires, if he is not a flippant idler and has
brain enough to create ambitions for him. Most men must spend their
youth in building the bridge which is to carry their dreams across to
the shore which is their goal. Your bridge was built before you were
born. You left Oxford with high honours, they tell me; you are not long
of age, you come of a heroic race--what do you think to do, my lord?"

Roxholm met his scrutinizing gaze with that steadiness which ever
marked his own. He knew that he reddened a little, but he did not look
away.

"I am young to know, my Lord Marlborough," he returned, "but I think to
live--to live."

His Lordship slightly narrowed his eyes, and nodded his head.

"Ay," he said, "you will live!"

"There have been soldiers of our house," said Roxholm. "I may fight if
need be, perhaps," bowing, "following your lordship to some greater
triumph, if I have that fortune. There may be services to the country
at home I may be deemed worthy to devote my powers to when I have lived
longer. But," reddening and bowing again, "before men of achievement
and renown, I am yet a boy."

"England wants such boys," complimented his lordship, gracefully. "The
Partition Treaty and the needs of the Great Alliance call for the
breeding of them. You will marry?"

"My house is an old one," replied Roxholm, "and if I live I shall be
its chief."

My lord cast a glance about the apartment. It was a gala day and there
were many lovely creatures near, laughing, conversing, coquetting,
bearing themselves with dignity, airiness, or sweet grace. There were
beauties who were brown, and beauties who were fair; there were gay
charmers and grave ones, those who were tall and commanding, and those
who were small and nymph-like.

"There is none here to match you," he said with an imperturbable
gravity ('twas plain he was not trifling, but thinking some serious
and unusual thoughts). "A man of your build has needs out of the
common. No pretty, idle young thing will do. She should have beauty,
and that which is more. 'Tis a strange kinship--marriage. No; she has
not yet come to court."

"I will wait until she does," Roxholm answered, and his youthful face
was as grave as the hero's own, though if triflers had heard their
words, they would have taken their talk for idle persiflage and jest.


_CHAPTER VII_

"_'Tis Clo Wildairs, Man--All the County Knows the Vixen_."


A month later he went to Warwickshire at my Lord Dunstanwolde's
invitation. In that part of the county which borders upon
Gloucestershire was his Lordship's seat, which was known as Dunstan's
Wolde. 'Twas an ancient and beautiful estate, and his Lordship spent
his quiet and secluded life upon it, much beloved by his tenantry, and
respected by his neighbours. Since his young wife's death his manner of
living had become more secluded year after year; his library, his
memories, and the administration of his estates filled his days with
quiet occupation.

"Perhaps I am a selfish fellow to ask a young gentleman who is a
favourite at Court to come and bury himself with me," he said to
Roxholm the night of his arrival, "but you and I have spent many a good
quiet hour together, Gerald," laying an affectionate hand upon his
broad shoulder. "And if you were my son you would come, I know."

"Think of me as your son," said Roxholm with his fine smile. "A man is
the richer for the love of two fathers."

"Oxford has not changed you, Roxholm," said the Earl. "Nor have the
Court ladies' flatteries spoiled your kindly manners. We shall be happy
together, for awhile at least."

They were indeed happy, spending their days much as they had spent them
at Camylott--riding together, taking long sauntering walks, reading old
books and new ones, and in these days conversing on maturer subjects.
There was indeed much to talk of at this closing of a reign which had
been full of struggles with problems affecting not only England but all
the European powers. What the Peace of Ryswick had effected, what the
death of Charles of Spain would bring, whether Louis would play fairly,
how long King William's broken frame would last, what the power of the
Marlboroughs would be when the Princess Anne came to the throne--all
these things they discussed together, and in their arguments my Lord
Dunstanwolde was often roused to the wonder other ripe minds had felt
in coming in contact with the activity and daring of this younger one.

"'Tis not possible to hide a handsome young nobleman under a bushel,"
the Earl said after but a few days had passed. "The neighbours will
have you to dine, and dance, and hunt with them, whether it is your
will or not. A strapping young fellow must do his duty by the world."

Roxholm performed his duty with propriety and spirit when it was not to
be evaded gracefully. He dined with country gentlemen, and listened to
their songs and stories until most of them drank themselves under the
table, as was the spirited fashion of the time. He answered the
questionings of their wives on subjects pertaining to Court fashions
and behaviour and,--perhaps somewhat gravely,--danced attendance on the
daughters, who most of them, it is true, were used to less courtly
manners and voted him in private far too grave and majestic for such a
beauty.

"He hath a way of bowing that would give one a fright, were his eyes
not so handsome and his smile so sweet," said one lovely ardent hoyden.
"Lord! just to watch him standing near with that noble grave look on
his face, and not giving one a thought, makes one's heart go pit-a-pat.
A man hath no right to be such a beauty--and to be so, and to be a
Duke's son, too, is a burning shame. 'Tis wicked that one man should
have so much to give to one woman."

'Twas but a week before Roxholm left his kinsman's house, that they
spent a day together hunting with a noted pack over the borders of
Gloucestershire. The sport was in a neighbourhood where the gentry were
hunting-mad, and chased foxes as many days of the week as fortune and
weather favoured them.

"'Tis a rough country," said my Lord Dunstanwolde, as they rode forth,
"and some of those who hunt are wild livers and no credit to their
rank, but there is fine old blood among them, and some of the hardest
riders and boldest leapers England knows." Suddenly he seemed to
remember something and turned with an exclamation. "Upon my soul!" he
said, "till this moment I had forgot. I am too sober an old fogy to
hunt with them when I have no young blood near to spur me. Sir Jeoffry
Wildairs will be with them--if he has not yet broke his neck."

The country they hunted over proved indeed rough, and the sport
exciting. Roxholm had never seen wilder riding and more daring leaps,
and it had also happened that he had not yet gone a-hunting with so
boisterous and rollicking a body of gentlemen. Their knowledge of dogs,
foxes, and horseflesh was plainly absolute, but they had no Court
manners, being of that clan of country gentry of which London saw but
little. Nearly all the sportsmen were big men and fine ones, with
dare-devil bearing, loud voices, and a tendency to loose and profane
language. They roared friendly oaths at each other, had brandy flasks
on their persons on which they pulled freely, and, their spirits being
heightened thereby, exchanged jokes and allusions not too seemly.

Before the fox was found, Roxholm had marked this and observed also
that half a dozen more of the best mounted men were the roughest on the
field, being no young scapegraces and frolickers, but men past forty,
who wore the aspect of reprobate livers and hard drinkers, and who were
plainly boon companions and more intimate with each other than with
those not of their party.

They seemed to form a band of themselves, which those not of it had an
air of avoiding, and 'twas to be seen that their company was looked at
askance, and that in the bearing of each member of the group there was
a defiance of the general opinion. Roxholm sat on his horse somewhat
apart from this group watching it, his kinsman and a certain Lord
Twemlow, who was their host for the day, conversing near him.

My Lord Twemlow, who took no note of them, but by the involuntary
casting on them of an occasional glance, when some wild outburst
attracted his attention, wore a grave and almost affronted look.

"'Tis the Wildairs cronies," Roxholm heard him say to his Lordship of
Dunstanwolde. "I hunt but seldom, purely through disgust of their
unseemliness."

"Wildairs!" exclaimed my Lord Dunstanwolde.

"Ay," answered Twemlow, turning his horse slightly and averting his
eyes; "and there cometh my reputable kinsman, Sir Jeoffry, even as we
speak."

Roxholm turned to look with some stir of feeling in his breast, since
this was the man who had so early roused in him an emotion of anger and
rebellion. Across the field came pounding a great black horse, a fine
big-boned brute; on him rode a tall, heavy man who must once have been
of the handsomest, since even yet, in spite of years, bloated face, and
careless attire, he retained a sort of dissolute beauty. He was of huge
frame and had black eyes, a red mouth, and wore his own thick and
curling though grizzled black hair.

He rode with a dare-devil grace, and his cronies greeted him with a
shout.

"He has the look of it," thought Roxholm, remembering the old stories;
but the next instant he gave a start. Across the field beyond, another
rider followed galloping, and at this moment came over the high hedge
like a swallow, and, making the leap, gave forth a laughing shout.
Roxholm sat and stared at the creature. 'Twas indeed a youthful figure,
brilliant and curious to behold in this field of slovenly clad
sportsmen. 'Twas a boy of twelve or thereabouts riding a splendid young
devil of a hunter, with a skin like black satin and a lovely, dangerous
eye. The lad was in scarlet, and no youngster of the Court was more
finely clad or fitted, and not one had Roxholm ever set eyes upon whose
youthful body and limbs were as splendid in line and symmetry; in
truth, the beauty and fire of him were things to make a man lose his
breath. He rode as if he had been born upon his horse's back and had
never sat elsewhere from his first hour, his flowing-black hair was
almost too rich and long for a boy, he had a haughty mouth for a child,
though it was a crimson bow and pouting, his complexion matched it, and
his black eyes, which were extraordinary big and flashing, had the
devil in them.

"_Pardi!_" the young Marquess cried between his teeth. "What does such
a young one in such company?" Never had he beheld a thing which moved
him with such strange suddenness of emotion. He could not have
explained the reason of his feeling, which was an actual excitement,
and caused him to turn in his saddle to watch the boy's every movement
as he galloped forward to join the reprobate group.

As they had greeted Sir Jeoffry with a shout of welcome, so they
greeted the young newcomer, but in his reception there was more
enthusiasm and laughter, as if there were some special cause for gayety
in the mere sight of him.

When he drew up in their midst their voices broke forth into a tumult
of noisy, frolicsome greeting, to which the lad gave back impudent,
laughing answer. In a moment's time he was the centre figure of
interest among them, and seemed to dominate them all as if he had been
some young potentate instead of a mere handsome lad of twelve.

"If they were a band of barbarians and he their boy chief they could
pay him no more court nor joy in him more," Roxholm reflected. "Is it
his beauty or--what means it?"

He could not withdraw his eyes from the boy, who sat his fretting
hunter among them, sometimes scarcely able to restrain the animal's
fiery temper or keep him from lashing out his heels orbiting at the
beasts nearest to him. Now he trotted from one man to the other as the
group scattered somewhat; now he sat half turned back, his hand on his
steed's hind quarters, flinging words and laughter to the outside man.

"Thou'lt have to use scissors again on thy periwig, ecod!" one man
cried, banteringly.

"Damme, yes," the youngster rapped out, and he caught a rich lock of
his hair and drew it forward to look at it, frowning. "What's a man to
do when his hair grows like a girl's?"

The answer was greeted with a shout of laughter, and the boy burst
forth with a laugh likewise, showing two rows of ivory teeth. Somehow
there was an imperial deviltry about him, an impudent wild spirit which
had plainly made him conqueror, favourite, and plaything of the whole
disreputable crew.

Men were not fastidious talkers in those times; the cleanest mouthed of
them giving themselves plenty of license when they were in spirits.
Roxholm had heard broad talk enough at the University, where the young
gentlemen indulged in conversation no more restrained than was that of
their elders and betters; he had heard the jokes and profanity of both
camp and Court since he had left Oxford, and had learned that
squeamishness was far from being the fashion. But never had he heard
such oath-sprinkled talk or such open obscenity of joking as fell upon
his ears this morning in but a brief space. Hearing it in spite of
himself, his blood grew hot and his horse began to paw the earth, he,
in his irritation, having unknowingly fretted its mouth. And then one
of the company, an elderly sportsman with a watery eye, began a story.

"Good God!" Roxholm broke forth to the man nearest to him, one not of
the party, but evidently one who found it diverting; "good God! Can
they not restrain themselves before a child? Let them be decent for his
mere youth's sake! The lad is not thirteen."

The man started and stared at him a moment with open mouth, and then
burst into a loud guffaw of laughter.

"The lad!" he cried, roaring and slapping his thigh in his mirth. "'Tis
no lad. Didst take it for one? Lord! 'tis Jeoff Wildair's youngest
wench. 'Tis Clo--'tis Clo, man. All the county knows the vixen!"

And at that very instant the hounds sprang forth, giving tongue, and
the field sprang forward with them, and all was wild excitement: cries
of "Tally ho!" ringing, horses plunging, red coats seeming to fly
through the air; and my lord Marquess went with the field, his cheek
hot, his heart suddenly thumping in his breast with a sense of he knew
not what, as his eye, following a slender, scarlet-coated figure, saw
it lift its horse for a huge leap over a five-barred gate, take it like
a bird, and lead the whole scurrying, galloping multitude.


"Yes," said my Lord Dunstanwolde, as they rode homeward slowly in the
evening gray, "'tis the girl infant who was found struggling and
shrieking beneath the dead body of her mother, and till to-day I never
saw her. Good Heavens! the beauty of the creature--the childish
deviltry and fire!"

Each turned and looked into the eyes of the other with a question in
his thought, and each man's was the same, though one had lived beyond
sixty years and one but twenty-four. A female creature of such beauty,
of such temper, bred in such manner, among such companions, by such
parents--what fate could be before her? Roxholm averted his eyes.

"Tossed to the wolves," he said; "tossed to the pack--to harry and to
slaver over! God's mercy!"

As they rode he heard the story, Lord Twemlow having related such
incidents as he naturally knew to my Lord Dunstanwolde. 'Twas a bitter
history to Twemlow, whose kinsman the late Lady Wildairs had been, and
who was a discreetly sober and God-fearing gentleman, to whom irregular
habits and the reckless squandering of fortune were loathly things. And
this was the substance of the relation, which was so far out of the
common as to be almost monstrous: His disgust at the birth of this
ninth girl infant had so inflamed Sir Jeoffry that he had refused even
to behold it and had left it to its fate as if it had been an ill-made,
blind puppy. But two of her Ladyship's other children had survived
their infancy, and of these two their father knew nothing whatever but
that they had been called Barbara and Anne, that they showed no promise
of beauty, and lived their bare little lives in the Hall's otherwise
deserted west wing, having as their sole companion and instructress a
certain Mistress Margery Wimpole--a timorous poor relation, who had
taken the position in the wretched household to save herself from
starvation, and because she was fitted for no other; her education
being so poor and her understanding so limited, that no reputable or
careful family would have accepted her as governess or companion. Her
two poor little charges learned the few things she could teach them,
and their meek spiritedness gave her but little trouble. Their dead
mother's suffering and their father's rough contempt on the rare
occasions when he had chanced to behold them had chastened them to
humbleness from their babyhood. There was none who wanted them, none
who served or noticed them, and there was no circumstance which could
not restrain them, no person who was not their ruler if 'twas his will.

"But the ninth one was not like them," said my Lord. "The blood of the
fierce devils who were the chiefs of her house centuries ago woke in
her veins at her birth. 'Tis strange indeed, Gerald, how such things
break forth--or slumber--in a race. Should you trace Wildairs, as you
trace Mertoun through the past, her nature would be made clear enough.
They have been splendid devils, some of them--devils who fought,
shrieking with ferocious laughter in the face of certain horrible
death; devils whose spirit no torture of rack or flame could conquer;
beings who could endure in silence horrors almost supernatural; who
could bear more, revel more, suffer more, defy more than any other
human thing."

"And this child is one of them!" said Roxholm.

He said but little as they rode onward and he listened. There was
within him a certain distaste for what seemed to him the unnatural
tumult of his feelings. A girl child of twelve rollicking in boys'
clothes was not a pleasing picture, but in one sense a tragic one, and
certainly not such as should set a man's heart beating and his cheek to
flame when he heard stories of her fantastic life and character. On
this occasion he did not understand himself; if he had been a
sanctimonious youngster he would have reproved his own seeming levity,
but he was not so, and frankly felt himself restless and ill at ease.

The name given to her had been Clorinda, and from her babyhood she had
been as tempestuous as her sisters were mild. None could manage her.
Her baby training left wholly to neglected and loose-living servants,
she had spent her first years in kitchens, garrets, and stables. The
stables and the stable-boys, the kennels and their keepers, were loved
better than aught else. She learned to lisp the language of grooms' and
helpers, she cursed and swore as they did, she heard their songs and
stories, and was as familiar with profanity and obscene language as
other children are with nursery rhymes. Until she was five years old
Sir Jeoffry never set eyes upon her. Then a strange chance threw her in
his way and sealed her fate.

Straying through the house, having escaped from her woman, the child
had reached the big hall, and sate upon the floor playing with a
powder-flask she had found. 'Twas Sir Jeoffry's, and he, coming upon
her, not knowing her for his own offspring (not that such a knowledge
would have calmed his passion), he sprang upon her with curses and
soundly trounced her. Either of her sisters Anne or Barbara would have
been convulsed with terror, but this one was only roused to a fury as
much greater for her size than Sir Jeoffry was bigger than herself. She
flew at him and poured forth oaths, she shrieked at him and beat his
legs with his own crop, which she caught up from the floor where it lay
within reach, she tore at him with tooth and nail, and with such
strength and infant fearlessness as arrested him in his frenzy and
caused him to burst forth laughing as if he had gone mad.

"From that hour she was a doomed creature," my Lord ended. "What else
can a man call the poor beauteous, helpless thing. She is his companion
and playmate, and the toy and jest of his comrades. It is the scandal
of the county. At twelve she is as near a woman as other girls of
fourteen. At fifteen--!" and he stopped speaking.

"'Twould have been safer for her to have died beneath her dead mother's
body," said Roxholm, almost fiercely.

"Yes, safer!" said his Lordship. "Yet what a woman!--What a
woman!"--and here he broke off speech again.


_CHAPTER VIII_

_In which my Lady Betty Tantillion writes of a Scandal_


Scarce two years later, King William riding in the park at Hampton
Court was thrown from his horse--the animal stumbling over a
mole-hill--and his collar-bone broken. A mole-hill seems but a small
heap of earth to send a King to moulder beneath a heap of earth
himself, but the fall proved fatal to a system which had long been
weakening, and a few days later his Majesty died, commending my Lord
Marlborough to the Princess Anne as the guide and counsellor on whose
wisdom and power she might most safely rely. Three days after the
accession his Lordship was made Captain-General of the English army,
and intrusted with power over all warlike matters both at home and
abroad. 'Twas a moment of tremendous import--the Alliance shaken by
King William's death, Holland panic-stricken lest England should
withdraw her protection, King Louis boasting that "henceforth there
were no Pyrenees," Whigs and Tories uncertain whether or not to sheath
weapons in England, small sovereigns and great ones ready to spring at
each other's throats on the Continent. Oh! misery! the young man who
ought to love her, whom she loved, who used to take her to the
woods of Verrieres and Romainville, to the dances on the lawn, to the
suppers under the trees; he who used to talk with her as she sat near
the lamp in the rear of the shop on the long winter evenings; he who
shared her crust of bread moistened with the sweat of her brow, and
her love at once sublime and poor; he, that same man, after
abandoning her, finds her after a night of orgy, pale and leaden, forever
lost, with hunger on her lips and prostitution in her heart.

About this time two poets, whose genius was second only to that of Napoleon,
consecrated their lives to the work of collecting the elements of anguish
and of grief scattered over the universe.

Goethe, the patriarch of a new literature, after painting in his
Weyther the passion which leads to suicide, traced in his Faust the
most sombre human character which has ever represented evil and
unhappiness. His writings began to pass from Germany into France.
From his studio, surrounded by pictures and statues, rich, happy, and
at ease, he watched with a paternal smile his gloomy creations marching
in dismal procession across the frontiers of France. Byron replied
to him in a cry of grief which made Greece tremble, and hung Manfred
over the abyss, as if oblivion were the solution of the hideous enigma
with which he enveloped him.

Pardon, great poets! who are now but ashes and who sleep in
peace!
Pardon, ye demigods, for I am only a child who suffers. But while I write
all this I can not but curse you. Why did you not sing of the perfume
of flowers, of the voices of nature, of hope and of love, of the
vine and the sun, of the azure heavens and of beauty?

You must have understood life, you must have suffered; the world was
crumbling to pieces about you; you wept on its ruins and you despaired;
your mistresses were false; your friends calumniated, your compatriots
misunderstood; your heart was empty; death was in your eyes, and
you were the Colossi of grief.

But tell me, noble Goethe, was there no more consoling voice in the
religious murmur of your old German forests? You, for whom
beautiful poesy was the sister of science, could not they find in
immortal nature a healing plant for the heart of their favorite?
You, who were a pantheist, and antique poet of Greece, a lover
of sacred forms, could you not put a little honey in the beautiful
vases you made; you who had only to smile and allow the bees to come to
your lips? And thou, Byron, hadst thou not near Ravenna, under the
orange-trees of Italy, under thy beautiful Venetian sky, near thy
Adriatic, hadst thou not thy well-beloved? Oh, God! I who speak to
you, who am only a feeble child, have perhaps known sorrows that
you have never suffered, and yet I believe and hope, and still bless
God.

When English and German ideas had passed thus over our heads there ensued
disgust and mournful silence, followed by a terrible convulsion.
For to formulate general ideas is to change saltpetre into powder,
and the Homeric brain of the great Goethe had sucked up, as an
alembic, all the juice of the forbidden fruit. Those who did not read
him, did not believe it, knew nothing of it. Poor creatures! The explosion
carried them away like grains of dust into the abyss of universal
doubt.

It was a denial of all heavenly and earthly facts that might be termed
disenchantment, or if you will, despair; as if humanity in lethargy
had been pronounced dead by those who felt its pulse. Like a soldier
who is asked: "In what do you believe?" and who replies: "In myself,"
so the youth of France, hearing that question, replied: "In nothing."

Then formed two camps: on one side the exalted spirits, sufferers,
all the expansive souls who yearned toward the infinite, bowed
their heads and wept; they wrapped themselves in unhealthful dreams
and nothing could be seen but broken reeds in an ocean of bitterness.

On the other side the materialists remained erect, inflexible, in
the midst of positive joys, and cared for nothing except to count the
money they had acquired.
It was but a sob and a burst of laughter, the one coming from the soul,
the other from the body.

This is what the soul said:

"Alas! Alas! religion has departed; the clouds of heaven fall in rain;
we have no longer either hope or expectation, not even two little
pieces of black wood in the shape of a cross before which to clasp our
hands.
The star of the future is loath to appear; it can not rise above
the horizon; it is enveloped in clouds, and like the sun in winter
its disc is the color of blood, as in '93.

There is no more love, no more glory.
What heavy darkness over all the earth!

And death will come ere the day breaks."
This is what the body said:

"Man is here below to satisfy his senses; he has more or less of
white or yellow metal, by which he merits more or less esteem.

To eat, to drink, and to sleep, that is life. As for the bonds which
exist between men, friendship consists in loaning money; but one
rarely has a friend whom he loves enough for that. Kinship determines
inheritance; love is an exercise of the body; the only intellectual
joy is vanity."
Like the Asiatic plague exhaled from the vapors of the Ganges, frightful
despair stalked over the earth. Already Chateaubriand, prince of
poesy, wrapping the horrible idol in his pilgrim's mantle, had placed
it on a marble altar in the midst of perfumes and holy incense. Already
the children were clenching idle hands and drinking in a bitter cup the
poisoned brewage of doubt. Already things were drifting toward the abyss,
when the jackals suddenly emerged from the earth. A deathly and
infected literature, which had no form but that of ugliness, began to
sprinkle with fetid blood all the monsters of nature.

Who will dare to recount what was passing in the colleges? Men
doubted everything: the young men denied everything.

The poets sang of despair; the youth came from the schools with serene
brow, their faces glowing with health, and blasphemy in their
mouths.

Moreover, the French character, being by nature gay and open, readily
assimilated English and German ideas; but hearts too light to
struggle and to suffer withered like crushed flowers.

Thus the seed of death descended slowly and without shock from the
head to the bowels.

Instead of having the enthusiasm of evil we had only the negation of
the good; instead of despair, insensibility. Children of fifteen,
seated listlessly under flowering shrubs, conversed for pastime
on subjects which would have made shudder with terror the still
thickets of Versailles.

The Communion of Christ, the Host, those wafers that stand as the eternal
symbol of divine love, were used to seal letters; the children spit
upon the Bread of God.

Happy they who escaped those times! Happy they who passed over the
abyss while looking up to Heaven. There are such, doubtless, and
they will pity us.

It is unfortunately true that there is in blasphemy a certain outlet
which solaces the burdened heart. When an atheist, drawing his watch,
gave God a quarter of an hour in which to strike him dead, it is certain
that it was a quarter of an hour of wrath and of atrocious joy. It was
the paroxysm of despair, a nameless appeal to all celestial powers;
it was a poor, wretched creature squirming under the foot that
was crushing him; it was a loud cry of pain.

Who knows? In the eyes of Him who sees all things, it was perhaps a
prayer.

Thus these youth found employment for their idle powers in a fondness
for despair.

To scoff at glory, at religion, at love, at all the world, is a great
consolation for those who do not know what to do; they mock at
themselves, and in doing so prove the correctness of their view.

And then it is pleasant to believe one's self unhappy when one is
only idle and tired.

Debauchery, moreover, the first result of the principles of death, is
a terrible millstone for grinding the energies.

The rich said: "There is nothing real but riches, all else is a dream;
let us enjoy and then let us die." Those of moderate fortune
said:
"There is nothing real but oblivion, all else is a dream; let us forget
and let us die."

And the poor said: "There is nothing real but unhappiness, all else
is a dream; let us blaspheme and die."

Is this too black? Is it exaggerated? What do you think of it? Am I
a misanthrope? Allow me to make a reflection.

In reading the history of the fall of the Roman Empire, it is impossible
to overlook the evil that the Christians, so admirable when in the
desert, did to the State when they were in power. "When I think,"
said Montesquieu, "of the profound ignorance into which the Greek
clergy plunged the laity, I am obliged to compare them to the Scythians
of whom Herodotus speaks, who put out the eyes of their slaves in order
that nothing might distract their attention from their work . . . .
No affair of State, no peace, no truce, no negotiations, no marriage
could be transacted by any one but the clergy.

The evils of this system were beyond belief."
Montesquieu might have added: Christianity destroyed the emperors but
it saved the people. It opened to the barbarians the palaces of
Constantinople, but it opened the doors of cottages to the ministering
angels of Christ.

It had much to do with the great ones of earth. And what is more
interesting than the death-rattle of an empire corrupt to the very
marrow of its bones, than the sombre galvanism under the influence
of which the skeleton of tyranny danced upon the tombs of Heliogabalus
and Caracalla?

How beautiful that mummy of Rome, embalmed in the perfumes of
Nero and swathed in the shroud of Tiberius! It had to do, my friends
the politicians, with finding the poor and giving them life and
peace; it had to do with allowing the worms and tumors to destroy
the monuments of shame, while drawing from the ribs of this mummy
a virgin as beautiful as the mother of the Redeemer, Hope, the
friend of the oppressed.

That is what Christianity did; and now, after many years,
what have they done who destroyed it? They saw that the poor allowed
themselves to be oppressed by the rich, the feeble by the strong,
because of that saying:
"The rich and the strong will oppress me on earth; but when they wish
to enter paradise, I shall be at the door and I will accuse them
before the tribunal of God." And so, alas! they were patient.

The antagonists of Christ therefore said to the poor: "You wait
patiently for the day of justice: there is no justice; you wait for
the life eternal to achieve your vengeance: there is no life eternal;
you gather up your tears and those of your family, the cries of
children and the sobs of women, to place them at the feet of God
at the hour of death:
there is no God."

Then it is certain that the poor man dried his tears, that he told
his wife to check her sobs, his children to come with him, and that
he stood erect upon the soil with the power of a bull. He said to the
rich: "Thou who oppressest me, thou art only man," and to the priest:
"Thou who hast consoled me, thou hast lied." That was just what the
antagonists of Christ desired. Perhaps they thought this was the way
to achieve man's happiness, sending him out to the conquest of
liberty.

But, if the poor man, once satisfied that the priests deceive him, that
the rich rob him, that all men have rights, that all good is of this
world, and that misery is impiety; if the poor man, believing in himself
and in his two arms, says to himself some fine day: "War on the
rich!

For me, happiness here in this life, since there is no other! for me,
the earth, since heaven is empty! for me and for all, since all
are equal." Oh! reasoners sublime, who have led him to this, what will
you say to him if he is conquered?

Doubtless you are philanthropists, doubtless you are right about
the future, and the day will come when you will be blessed; but
thus far, we have not blessed you.

When the oppressor said: "This world for me!" the oppressed replied:
"Heaven for me!" Now what can he say?

All the evils of the present come from two causes: the people who have
passed through 1793 and 1814 nurse wounds in their hearts. That which
was is no more; what will be, is not yet. Do not seek elsewhere the
cause of our malady.

Here is a man whose house falls in ruins; he has torn it down in
order to build another.

The rubbish encumbers the spot, and he waits for new materials for his
new home. At the moment he has prepared to cut the stone and mix the
cement, while standing pick in hand with sleeves rolled up, he is
informed that there is no more stone, and is advised to whiten the
old material and make the best possible use of that. What can you expect
this man to do who is unwilling to build his nest out of ruins?

The quarry is deep, the tools too weak to hew out the stones. "Wait!"
they say to him, "we will draw out the stones one by one; hope,
work, advance, withdraw." What do they not tell him? And in the mean
time he has lost his old house, and has not yet built the new; he
does not know where to protect himself from the rain, or how to prepare
his evening meal, nor where to work, nor where to sleep, nor where
to die; and his children are newly born.

I am much deceived if we do not resemble that man. Oh! people of the
future! when on a warm summer day you bend over your plows in the green
fields of your native land; when you see in the pure sunlight,
under a spotless sky, the earth, your fruitful mother, smiling in
her matutinal robe on the workman, her well-beloved child; when
drying on your brow the holy baptism of sweat, you cast your eye over
the vast horizon, where there will not be one blade higher than another
in the human harvest, but only violets and marguerites in the
midst of ripening ears; oh! free men! when you thank God that
you were born for that harvest, think of those who are no more, tell
yourself that we have dearly purchased the repose which you enjoy;
pity us more than all your fathers, for we have suffered the evil which
entitled them to pity and we have lost that which consoled them.

CHAPTER III
THE BEGINNING OF THE CONFESSIONS
I have to explain how I was first taken with the malady of the age.

I was at table, at a great supper, after a masquerade. About me were
my friends, richly costumed, on all sides young men and women, all
sparkling with beauty and joy; on the right and on the left
exquisite dishes, flagons, splendor, flowers; above my head was an
obstreperous orchestra, and before me my loved one, whom I idolized.

I was then nineteen; I had passed through no great misfortune, I had
suffered from no disease; my character was at once haughty and frank,
my heart full of the hopes of youth. The fumes of wine fermented in
my head; it was one of those moments of intoxication when all that
one sees and hears speaks to one of the well-beloved.

All nature appeared a beautiful stone with a thousand facets, on which
was engraven the mysterious name. One would willingly embrace all
who smile, and feel that he is brother of all who live. My mistress
had granted me a rendezvous, and I was gently raising my glass to my
lips while my eyes were fixed on her.

As I turned to take a napkin, my fork fell.

I stooped to pick it up, and not finding it at first I raised the table
cloth to see where it had rolled. I then saw under the table my
mistress's foot; it touched that of a young man seated beside her;
from time to time they exchanged a gentle pressure.

Perfectly calm, I asked for another fork and continued my supper. My
mistress and her neighbor, on their side, were very quiet, talking
but little and never looking at each other.

The young man had his elbows on the table and was chatting with another
woman, who was showing him her necklace and bracelets. My mistress sat
motionless, her eyes fixed and swimming with languor. I watched both
of them during the entire supper, and I saw nothing either in their
gestures or in their faces that could betray them.

Finally, at dessert, I dropped my napkin, and stooping down saw that
they were still in the same position.

I had promised to escort my mistress to her home that night. She was a
widow and therefore free, living alone with an old relative who
served as chaperon. As I was crossing the hall she called to me:

"Come, Octave!" she said, "let us go; here I am."
I laughed, and passed out without replying. After walking a short distance
I sat down on a stone projecting from a wall. I do not know what my
thoughts were; I sat as if stupefied by the unfaithfulness of one
of whom I had never been jealous, whom I had never had cause to
suspect.
What I had seen left no room for doubt; I was felled as if by a
stroke from a club.

The only thing I remember doing as I sat there, was looking mechanically
up at the sky, and, seeing a star shoot across the heavens, I
saluted that fugitive gleam, in which poets see a worn-out world,
and gravely took off my hat to it.

I returned to my home very quietly, experiencing nothing, as if deprived
of all sensation and reflection.

I undressed and retired; hardly had my head touched the pillow when
the spirit of vengeance seized me with such force that I suddenly
sat bolt upright against the wall as if all my muscles were made
of wood.

I then jumped from my bed with a cry of pain; I could walk only on
my heels, the nerves in my toes were so irritated.

I passed an hour in this way, completely beside myself, and stiff
as a skeleton.

It was the first burst of passion I had ever experienced.

The man I had surprised with my mistress was one of my most intimate
friends. I went to his house the next day, in company with a young
lawyer named Desgenais; we took pistols, another witness, and repaired
to the woods of Vincennes. On the way I avoided speaking to my adversary
or even approaching him; thus I resisted the temptation to insult
or strike him, a useless form of violence at a time when the law
recognized the code. But I could not remove my eyes from him. He
was the companion of my childhood, and we had lived in the closest
intimacy for many years.

He understood perfectly my love for my mistress, and had several times
intimated that bonds of this kind were sacred to a friend, and
that he would be incapable of an attempt to supplant me, even if he
loved the same woman. In short, I had perfect confidence in him and
I had perhaps never pressed the hand of any human creature more cordially
than his.

Eagerly and curiously I scrutinized this man whom I had heard
speak of love like an antique hero and whom yet I had caught caressing
my mistress. It was the first time in my life I had seen a monster;
I measured him with a haggard eye to see what manner of man was
this.
He whom I had known since he was ten years old, with whom I had
lived in the most perfect friendship, it seemed to me I had never
seen him.At
Blenheim he so bore himself that the Duke talked long and gravely with
him in private, laying before him all the triumphs a career of arms
would bring to him.

"Twenty years hence, Roxholm," he said, watching him with his keen
glance as he ever did, "you might take my place, had England such
questions to settle as she has to-day. In twenty years I shall be
seventy-four. You were hammered from the metal nature cast me in, and
you could take any man's place if 'twas your will. I could have taken
any man's place I had chosen to take, by God, and so can you. If a
man's brain and body are built in a certain way he can be soldier,
bishop, physician, financier, statesman, King; and he will have like
power in whatsoever he chooses to be, or Fate chooses that he shall be.
As statesman, King, or soldier, the world will think him greatest
because such things glitter in the eye and make more sound; but the
strong man will be strong if Fortune makes him a huckster, and none can
hide him. If Louis XV is as great a schemer as the fourteenth Louis has
been, you may lead armies if you choose; but you will not choose, I
think. You do not love it, Roxholm--you do not love it."

"No," answered Roxholm; "I do not love it. I can fight--any man can
fight who has not white blood--and ours has been a fighting house; but
mowing men down by thousands, cutting their throats, burning towns, and
desolating villages filled with maddened men and shrieking women and
children, does not set my blood in a flame as it does the blood of a
man who is born for victorious slaughter. I loathe so the slaughter
that I hate the victory. No; there are other things I can do better for
England, and be happier in doing them."

"I have known that," said the Captain-General, "even when I have seen
you sweep by, followed by your men, at your most splendid moment. I
have known it most when we have sate together and talked--as 'tis not
my way to talk to much older men."

They had so talked together, and upon matters much more important than
the world knew. His Grace of Marlborough's years had been given to
other things than letters. He could win a great victory with far
greater ease than he could pen the dispatch announcing it when 'twas
gained. "Of all things," he once said to his Duchess, "I do not love
writing." He possessed the faculty of using all men and things that
came into his way, and there were times when he found of value the
services of a young nobleman whose education and abilities were of the
highest, and who felt deeply honoured by his unusual confidence, and
was also silent and discreet both through taste and by nature. Older
men were oftenest privately envious and ambitious; and a man who has
desires for place and power is not to be trusted by one who has gained
the highest and is attacked by jealousy on all sides. This man was
rich, of high rank, and desired nothing his Grace wished to retain;
besides this, his nature was large and so ruled by high honour that
'twas not in him to scheme or parley with schemers. So it befel that,
despite his youth, he enjoyed the privilege of being treated as if his
years had been as ripe as his intellect. He knew and learned many
things. Less was hid from him than from any other man in the army, had
the truth been known. When 'twas a burning necessity for the great man
to cross to England to persuade her Majesty to change her ministers,
Roxholm knew the processes by which the end was reached. He had
knowledge of all the feverish fits through which political England
passed, in greater measure than he himself was conscious of. His
reflections upon the affairs of Portugal and their management, his
belief in the importance of the Emperor's reconciliation with the
Protestants of Hungary, and of many a serious matter, were taken into
consideration and pondered over when he knew it not. In hastening
across the Channel to the English Court, in journeying to Berlin to
encounter great personages, in hearing of and beholding intrigue,
triumphs, disappointments, pomps, and vanities, he studied in the best
possible school the art and science of statesmanship, and won for
himself a place in men's minds and memories.

When, after Blenheim, he returned to England with a slight wound, his
appearance at Court was regarded as an event of public interest, and
commented upon with flowery rhetoric in the journals. The ladies vowed
he had actually grown taller than before, that his deep eyes had a
power no woman could resist, and that there was indeed no gentleman in
England to compare with him either for intellect, beauty, or breeding.
Her Majesty showed him a particular favour, and it was rumoured that
she had remarked that, had one of her many dead infants lived and grown
to such a manhood, she would have been a happy woman. Duchess Sarah
melted to him as none had ever seen her melt to man before. She had
heard many stories of him from her lord, and was prepared to be
gracious, but when she beheld him, she was won by another reason, for
he brought back to her the day when she had been haughty, penniless
Sarah Jennings, and the man who seemed to her almost godlike in his
youth and beauty had knelt at her feet.

'Twas most natural that at this time there should be much speculation
as to the beauty who might be chosen as his partner in life by a young
nobleman of such fortune, a young hero held in such esteem by his
country as well as by the world of fashion. Conversation was all the
more rife upon the subject because his Lordship paid no special court
to any and seemed a heart-free man.

Many suitable young ladies were indeed picked out for him, some by
their own friends and families, some--who had not convenient relatives
to act for them--by themselves, and each was delicately or with
matter-of-fact openness presented to his notice. There were brilliant
Court beauties--lovely country virgins of rank and fortune--charming
female wits, and fair and bold marauders who would carry on a siege
with skill and daring; but the party attacked seemed not so much
obdurate as unconscious, and neither succumbed nor ran away. When the
lovely Lady Helen Loftus fell into a decline and perished a victim to
it at the very opening of her eighteenth year, there was a whisper
among certain gossiping elderly matrons, which hinted that only after
her acquaintance with the splendid young Marquess had she begun to look
frail and large-eyed, and gradually fallen into decay.

"Never shall I forget," said old Lady Storms, "seeing the pretty thing
look after him when he bowed and left her after they had danced a
minuet together. Her look set me to watching her, and she gazed on him
through every dance with her large heaven-blue eyes, and when at last
she saw him turn and come towards her again her breast went up and down
and her breath fluttered, and she turned from white to red and from red
to white with joy. 'Tis not his fault, poor young man, that women will
set their hearts on him; 'tis but nature. I should do it myself if I
were not seventy-five and a hooked-nosed pock-marked creature. Upon my
life, it is not quite a fair thing that a man with all things which all
women must want, should be sent forth among us. Usually when a man hath
good looks he hath bad manners or poor wit or mean birth, or a black
soul like the new man beauty, Sir John Oxon, whom a woman must hate
before she hath loved him three months. But this one--good Lord! And
with the best will in life, he cannot take all of us."

The new man beauty, Sir John Oxon, was indeed much talked of at this
time. Having lived a mad rake's life at the University, and there
gained a reputation which had made him the fashionable leader of the
wickedest youths of their time, he had fallen heir to his fortune and
title just as he left Cambridge and was prepared to launch himself into
town life. He had appeared in the world preceded by stories of
successful intrigues, daring indeed when connected with the name of a
mere youth; but as he was beautiful to behold, and had gayety and grace
and a daring wit, such rumours but fixed public attention upon him and
made him the topic of the hour. He was not of the build or stateliness
of Lord Roxholm, and much younger, but was as much older than his years
in sin as the other was in unusual acquirement. He was a slender and
exquisitely built youth, with perfect features, melting blue eyes, and
rich fair hair which, being so beautiful, he disdained to conceal with
any periwig, however elaborate and fashionable. When Roxholm returned
to England, this male beauty's star was in the ascendant. All the town
talked of him, his dress, his high play, the various intrigues he was
engaged in and was not reluctant that the world of fashion should hear
of. The party of young gentlemen who had been led by him at the
University took him for their model in town, so that there were a set
of beaux whose brocaded coats, lace steenkirks, sword-knots, and
carriage were as like Sir John's as their periwigs were like his fair
locks, they having been built as similar as possible by their
peruquiers. His coach and four were the finest upon the road, his chair
and chariot, in the town; he had fought a duel about a woman, and there
were those who more than suspected that the wildest band of Mohocks
who played pranks at night was formed of half a dozen pretty fellows
who were known as the "Jack Oxonites."

He was not a young man whose acquirements were to be praised or
emulated, but there were pretty women who flattered him and men of
fashion who found pleasure in his society, for a time at least, and
many a strange scandal connected itself with his name.

He sang, he told wicked stories, he gambled, and at certain
coffee-houses shone with resplendent light as a successful beau and
conqueror.

'Twas at a club that Roxholm first beheld him. He had heard him spoken
of but had not seen him, and going into the coffee-room one evening
with a friend, a Captain Warbeck, found there a noisy party of beaux,
all richly dressed, all full of wine, and all seeming to be the guests
of a handsome fellow more elegantly attired and wearing a more dashing
air than any of them. He was in blue and silver and had fair golden
love-locks which fell in rich profusion on his shoulders.

He stood up among the company leaning against the table, taking snuff
from a jewelled gold snuff-box with an insolent, laughing grace.

"A quaint jade she must be, damme," he said. "I have heard of her these
three years, and she is not yet fifteen. Never were told me such
stories of a young thing's beauty since I was man-born. Eyes like
stars, flaming and black as jet, a carriage like a Juno, a shape--good
Lord! like all the goddesses a man has heard of--and hair which is like
a mantle and sweeps upon the ground. In less than a year's time I will
go to Gloucestershire and bring back a lock of it--for a trophy." And
he looked about him mockingly, as if in triumph.

"She will clout thee blind, Jack, as she clouted the Chaplain," cried
one of the company. "No man that lives can tame her. She is the
fiercest shrew in England, as she is the greatest beauty."

"She will thrash thee, Jack, as she thrashed her own father with his
hunting crop when she was but five years old," another cried.

The beau in blue and silver flicked the grains of snuff lightly from
the lace of his steenkirk with a white jewelled hand and smiled, slowly
nodding his fair curled head.

"I know all that," he said. "Every story have I heard, and, egad! they
but fire my blood. She is high mettled, but I have dealt with
termagants before--and brought them down, by God!--and brought them
down! There is a way to tame a woman--and I know it. Begin with a light
soft hand and a melting eye--all's fair in love; and the spoils are to
the victor. When I come back from Gloucestershire with my lock of raven
hair"--he lifted a goblet of wine and tossed it off at a draught--"I
shall leave her as such beauties should be left--on her knees." And
his laugh rang forth like a chime of silver. Roxholm sprang up with a
smothered oath.

"Come!" he said to Warbeck. "Come away, in God's name."

Warbeck had been his fellow-soldier abroad and knew well the dangerous
spirit which hid itself beneath his calm. He had seen him roused to
fury once before ('twas when in Flanders after a skirmish he found some
drunken soldiers stripping a poor struggling peasant woman of her
garments, while her husband shrieked curses at them from the tree where
he was tied)--and on that occasion he had told himself 'twould be safer
to trifle with a mine of powder than with this man's anger. He rose
hurriedly and followed him outside. In the street he could scarce keep
pace with his great stride, and the curses that broke from him brought
back hot days of battle.

"I would not enter into a pot-house brawl with a braggart boy," he
cried. "The blackguard, dastard knave! Drag me away, Hal, lest I rush
back like a fool and run him through! I have lost my wits. 'Tis the
fashion for dandies to pour forth their bestial braggings, but never
hath a man made my blood so boil and me so mad to strike him."

"'Tis not like thee so to lose thy wits, Roxholm," Warbeck said, his
hand on his arm, "but thou hast lost them this once surely. 'Tis no
work for the sword of a gentleman pinking foul-mouthed boasters in a
coffee-house. Know you who he is?"

"Damnation, _No!_" thundered Roxholm, striding on more fiercely still.

"'Tis the new dandy, Sir John Oxon," said Warbeck. "And the beauty he
makes his boast on is the Gloucestershire Wildairs handsome madcap--the
one they call Mistress Clo."


_CHAPTER X_

_My Lord Marquess rides to Camylott_.


When he went home my lord sate late over his books before he went to
his chamber, yet he read but little, finding his mood disturbed by
thoughts which passed through it in his despite. His blood had grown
hot at the coffee-house, and though 'twas by no means the first time it
had heated when he heard the heartless and coarse talk of woman which
it was the habit of most men of the day to indulge in, he realised that
it had never so boiled as when he listened to the brutal and
significant swagger of Sir John Oxon. His youth and beauty and cruel,
confident air had made it seem devilish in its suggestion of what his
past almost boyish years might have held of pitiless pleasures and
pitiless indifference to the consequences, which, while they were added
triumphs to him, were ruin and despair to their victims.

"The laugh in his blue eye was damnable," Roxholm murmured. "'Twas as
if there was no help for her or any other poor creature whom he chose
to pursue. The base unfairness of it! He is equipped with the whole
armament--of lures, of lies, of knowledge, and devilish skill. There
are women, 'tis true, who are his equals; but those who are not--those
who are ignorant and whose hearts he wins, as 'twould be easy for him
to win any woman's who believed his wooing face and voice--Nay, 'twould
be as dastardly as if an impregnable fortress should open all its
batteries upon a little child who played before it. And he stands
laughing among his mocking crew--triumphing, boasting--in cold
blood--of what he plans to do months to come. Fate grant he may not
come near me often. Some day I should break his devil's neck."

He found himself striding about the room. He was burning with rage
against the unfairness of it all, as he had burned when, a mere child,
he pondered on the story of Wildairs. To-day he was a man, yet his
passion of rebellion was curiously similar in its nature to his young
fury. Now, as then, there was naught to be done to help what seemed
like Fate. In a world made up of men all more or less hunters of the
weak, ready to accept the theory that all things defenceless and lovely
are fair game for the stronger, a man whose view was fairer was an
abnormality.

"I do not belong to my time," he said, flinging himself into his chair
again and speaking grimly. "I am too early--or too late--for it, and
must be content to seem a fool."

"There is a Fate," he said a little later, having sat a space gazing at
the floor and deep in thought--"there is a Fate which seems to link me
to the fortunes of these people. My first knowledge of their
wretchedness was a thing which sank deep. There are things a human
being perhaps remembers his whole life through--and strangely enough
they are often small incidents. I do not think there will ever pass
from me my memory of the way the rain swept over the park lands and
bare trees the day I stood with my Lord Dunstanwolde at the Long
Gallery window, and he told me of the new-born child dragged shrieking
from beneath its dead mother's body."


Some days later he went to Camylott to pass a few weeks in the country
with his parents, who were about to set forth upon a journey to Italy,
where they were to visit in state a palace of a Roman noble who had
been a friend of his Grace's youth, they having met and become
companions when the Duke first visited Rome in making the grand tour.
But it must not be supposed that there were no joyous moments in all
this maddened whirl. Among Desgenais's companions were several young men
of distinction and a number of artists. We sometimes passed together
delightful evenings imagining ourselves libertines. One of them was
infatuated with a beautiful singer, who charmed us with her fresh and
expressive voice. How many times we sat listening to her while
supper was waiting!

How many times, when the flagons had been emptied, one of us held
a volume of Lamartine and read aloud in a voice choked by emotion! Every
other thought disappeared. The hours passed by unheeded.
What strange "libertines" we were! We did not speak a word and there
were tears in our eyes.

Desgenais especially, habitually the coldest and dryest of men,
was inexplicable on such occasions; he delivered himself of
such extraordinary sentiments that he might have been a poet
in delirium.
But after these effusions he would be seized with furious joy. When warmed
by wine he would break everything within reach; the genius of
destruction stalked forth in him armed to the teeth. I have seen him
pickup a chair and hurl it through a closed window.

I could not help making a study of this singular man. He appeared to me
the exact type of a class which ought to exist somewhere but which was
unknown to me. One could never tell whether his outbursts were the
despair of a man sick of life, or the whim of a spoiled child.

During the fete, in particular, he was in such a state of nervous
excitement that he acted like a schoolboy. Once he persuaded
me to go out on foot with him, muffled in grotesque costumes, with masks
and instruments of music. We promenaded all night, in the midst of the
most frightful din of horrible sounds. We found a driver asleep on his
box and unhitched his horses; then, pretending we had just come from the
ball, set up a great cry. The coachman started up, cracked his whip,
and his horses started off on a trot, leaving him seated on the box.

That same evening we had passed through the Champs Elysees; Desgenais,
seeing another carriage passing, stopped it after the manner of a
highwayman; he intimidated the coachman by threats and forced
him to climb down and lie flat on his stomach. He opened the
carriage door and found within a young man and a lady motionless with
fright. He whispered to me to imitate him, and we began to enter one
door and go out by the other, so that in the obscurity the poor young
people thought they saw a procession of bandits going through their
carriage.

As I understand it, the men who say that the world gives experience
ought to be astonished if they are believed. The world is merely a
number of whirlpools, each one independent of the others; they
circle in groups like flocks of birds.

There is no resemblance between the different quarters of the same city,
and the denizen of the Chaussee d'Antin has as much to learn at Marais
as at Lisbon. It is true that these various whirlpools are traversed,
and have been since the beginning of the world, by seven personages
who are always the same: the first is called hope; the second,
conscience; the third, opinion; the fourth, desire; the fifth,
sorrow; the sixth, pride; and the seventh, man.

"But," the reader objects, "where are the women in all this?"
Oh! creatures who bear the name of women and who have passed like dreams
through a life that was itself a dream, what shall I say of you?

Where there is no shadow of hope can there be memory? Where shall
I seek for it? What is there more dumb in human memory? What is there
more completely forgotten than you?

If I must speak of women I will mention two; here is one of them:

I ask what would be expected of a poor sewing-girl, young and pretty,
about eighteen, with a romantic affair on her hands that is purely
a question of love; with little knowledge of life and no idea of
morals; eternally sewing near a window before which processions
were not allowed to pass by order of the police, but near which a
dozen young women prowled who were licensed and recognized by these
same police; what could you expect of her, when after wearying her
hands and eyes all day long on a dress or a hat, she leans out of
that window as night falls?

That dress she has sewed, that hat she has trimmed with her poor and
honest hands in order to earn a supper for the household, she sees
passing along the street on the head or on the body of a notorious
woman.

Thirty times a day a hired carriage stops before the door, and there
steps out a dissolute character, numbered as is the hack in which she
rides, who stands before a glass and primps, taking off and putting
on the results of many days' work on the part of the poor girl who
watches her.

She sees that woman draw from her pocket gold in plenty, she who
has but one louis a week; she looks at her feet and her head, she examines
her dress and eyes her as she steps into her carriage; and then, what
can you expect? When night has fallen, after a day when work has been
scarce, when her mother is sick, she opens her door, stretches
out her hand and stops a passerby.

Such is the story of a girl I once knew. She could play the piano, knew
something of accounts, a little designing, even a little history and
grammar, and thus a little of everything. How many times have I regarded
with poignant compassion that sad work of nature, mutilated by
society!
How many times have I followed in the darkness the pale and vacillating
gleams of a spark flickering in abortive life!

How many times have I tried to revive the fire that smouldered under those
ashes! Alas! her long hair was the color of ashes, and we called her
Cendrillon.

I was not rich enough to help her; Desgenais, at my request, interested
himself in the poor creature; he made her learn over again all of
which she had a slight knowledge.

But she could make no appreciable progress.
When her teacher left her she would fold her arms and for hours look
silently across the public square. What days! What misery! One day
I threatened that if she did not work she should have no money;
she silently resumed her task, and I learned that she stole out of
the house a few minutes later.

Where did she go? God knows. Before she left I asked her to embroider
a purse for me.

I still have that sad relic, it hangs in my room, a monument of the
ruin that is wrought here below.

But here is another case:
It was about ten in the evening when, after a riotous day, we
repaired to Desgenais's, who had left us some hours before to make
his preparations.

The orchestra was ready and the room filled when we arrived.

Most of the dancers were girls from the theatres.

As soon as we entered I plunged into the giddy whirl of the waltz. That
delightful exercise has always been dear to me; I know of nothing
more beautiful, more worthy of a beautiful woman and a young man;
all dances compared with the waltz are but insipid conventions or
pretexts for insignificant converse.

It is truly to possess a woman, in a certain sense, to hold her for
a half hour in your arms, and to draw her on in the dance, palpitating
in spite of herself, in such a way that it can not be positively
asserted whether she is being protected or seduced.

Some deliver themselves up to the pleasure with such modest voluptuousness,
with such sweet and pure abandon, that one does not know whether he
experiences desire or fear, and whether, if pressed to the heart, they
would faint or break in pieces like the rose.

Germany, where that dance was invented, is surely the land of love.

I held in my arms a superb danseuse from an Italian theatre who had come
to Paris for the carnival; she wore the costume of a Bacchante with a
robe of panther's skin. Never have I seen anything so languishing
as that creature. She was tall and slender, and while dancing with
extreme rapidity, had the appearance of allowing herself to be led;
to see her one would think that she would tire her partner, but
such was not the case, for she moved as if by enchantment.

On her bosom rested an enormous bouquet, the perfume of which intoxicated
me. She yielded to my encircling arms as would an Indian vine, with
a gentleness so sweet and so sympathetic that I seemed enveloped with a
perfumed veil of silk.

At each turn there could be heard a light tinkling from her metal
girdle; she moved so gracefully that I thought I beheld a beautiful
star, and her smile was that of a fairy about to vanish from human
sight.

The tender and voluptuous music of the dance seemed to come from her
lips, while her head, covered with a wilderness of black tresses,
bent backward as if her neck was too slender to support its
weight.

When the waltz was over I threw myself on a chair; my heart beat
wildly:
"Oh, heaven!"

I murmured, "how can it be possible? Oh, superb monster!
Oh! beautiful reptile! How you writhe, how you coil in and out, sweet
adder, with supple and spotted skin!

Thy cousin the serpent has taught thee to coil about the tree of life
holding between thy lips the apple of temptation.

Oh! Melusina! Melusina! The hearts of men are thine. You know it
well, enchantress, with your soft languor that seems to suspect
nothing!

You know very well that you ruin, that you destroy; you know that he
who touches you will suffer; you know that he dies who basks in your
smile, who breathes the perfume of your flowers and comes under
the magic influence of your charms; that is why you abandon yourself
so freely, that is why your smile is so sweet, your flowers so
fresh; that is why you place your arms so gently on our shoulders.

Oh, heaven! what is your will with us?"

Professor Halle has said a terrible thing: "Woman is the nervous part
of humanity, man the muscular."

Humboldt himself, that serious thinker, has said that an invisible
atmosphere surrounds the human nerves.

I do not quote the dreamers who watch the wheeling flight of Spallanzani's
bat, and who think they have found a sixth sense in nature.
Such as nature is, her mysteries are terrible enough, her powers mighty
enough--that nature which creates us, mocks at us, and kills
us--without our seeking to deepen the shadows that surround us.

But where is the man who thinks he has lived that will deny woman's
power over us? Has he ever taken leave of a beautiful dancer with
trembling hands? Has he ever felt that indefinable enervating magnetism
which, in the midst of the dance, under the influence of music, and
the warmth, making all else seem cold, that comes from a young
woman, electrifying her and leaping from her to him as the perfume
of aloes from the swinging censer?

I was struck with stupor.

I was familiar with that sensation similar to drunkenness which characterizes
love; I knew that it was the aureole which crowned my well-beloved.

But that she should excite such heart- throbs, that she should evoke
such phantoms with nothing but her beauty, her flowers, her motley
costume, and a certain trick of dancing she had learned from some
merry-andrew; and that without a word, without a thought, without
even appearing to know it!

What was chaos, if it required seven days to make such a being?

It was not love, however, that I felt, and I do not know how to
describe it unless I call it thirst. For the first time I felt
vibrating in my body a cord that was not attuned to my heart. The sight
of that beautiful animal had aroused a responsive roar from another
animal in my nature. I felt sure I could never tell that woman that
I loved her, or that she pleased me, or even that she was beautiful;
there was nothing on my lips but a desire to kiss her, and say to her:
"Make a girdle of those listless arms and lean that head on my
breast; place that sweet smile on my lips." My body loved hers; I was
under the influence of beauty as of wine.

Desgenais passed and asked what I was doing there.

"Who is that woman?"

I asked.

"What woman? Of whom do you speak?"
I took his arm and led him into the hall. The Italian saw us coming and
smiled. I stopped and stepped back.

"Ah!" said Desgenais, "you have danced with Marco?"
"Who is Marco?" I asked.

"Why, that idle creature who is laughing over there. Does she please
you?"
"No," I replied, "I have waltzed with her and wanted to know her
name; I have no further interest in her."

Shame led me to speak thus, but when Desgenais turned away I followed
him.

"You are very prompt," he said, "Marco is no ordinary woman. She was
almost the wife of M. de ------, ambassador to Milan. One of his friends
brought her here.

Yet," he added, "you may rest assured I shall speak to her. We shall
not allow you to die so long as there is any hope for you or any resource
left untried. It is possible that she will remain to supper."
He left me, and I was alarmed to see him approach her.

But they were soon lost in the crowd.

"Is it possible," I murmured; "have I come to this? Oh! heavens! is this
what I am going to love?

But after all," I thought, "my senses have spoken, but not my heart."

Thus I tried to calm myself.

A few minutes later Desgenais tapped me on the shoulder.

"We shall go to supper at once," said he. "You will give your arm
to Marco."
"Listen," I said; "I hardly know what I am experiencing. It seems to
me I see limping Vulcan covering Venus with kisses while his beard
smokes with the fumes of the forge.

He fixes his staring eyes on the dazzling skin of his prey. His happiness
in the possession of his prize makes him laugh for joy, and at the
same time shudder with happiness, and then he remembers his father,
Jupiter, seated on high among the gods."

Desgenais looked at me but made no reply; taking me by the arm he
led me away.

"I am tired," he said, "and I am sad; this noise wearies me.

Let us go to supper, that will refresh us."
The supper was splendid, but I could not touch it.

"What is the matter with you?" asked Marco.

I sat like a statue, making no reply and looking at her from head to
foot with amazement.

She began to laugh, and Desgenais, who could see us from his table, joined
her. Before her was a large crystal glass cut in the shape of a chalice,
which reflected the glittering lights on its thousand
sparkling facets, shining like the prism and revealing the seven
colors of the rainbow.

She listlessly extended her arm and filled it to the brim with Cyprian
and a sweetened Oriental wine which I afterward found so bitter on the
deserted Lido.

"Here," she said, presenting it to me, "per voi, bambino mio."
"For you and for me," I said, presenting her my glass in turn.

She moistened her lips while I emptied my glass, unable to conceal the
sadness she seemed to read in my eyes.

"Is it not good?" she asked.

"No," I replied.

"Perhaps your head aches?"
"No."
"Or you are tired?"
"No."
"Ah! then it is the ennui of love?"
With these words she became serious, for in spite of herself, in speaking
of love, her Italian heart beat the faster.

A scene of folly ensued. Heads were becoming heated, cheeks were assuming
that purple hue with which wine suffuses the face as if to prevent
shame appearing there. A confused murmur, like to that of a rising sea,
could be heard all over the room; here and there eyes would become
inflamed, then fixed and empty; I know not what wind stirred above
this drunkenness. A woman rises, as in a tranquil sea the first wave
that feels the tempest's breath foams up to announce it; she makes
a sign with her hand to command silence, empties her glass at a
gulp and with the same movement undoes her hair, which falls in shining
tresses over her shoulders; she opens her mouth as if to start a
drinking-song; her eyes are half closed. She breathes with an effort;
twice a harsh sound comes from her throat; a mortal pallor overspreads
her features and she drops into her chair.

Then came an uproar which lasted an hour. It was impossible to
distinguish anything, either laughter, songs, or cries.

"What do you think of it?" asked Desgenais.

"Nothing," I replied. "I have stopped my ears and am looking at it."

In the midst of this Bacchanalian orgy the beautiful Marco remained
mute, drinking nothing and leaning quietly on her bare arm.

She seemed neither astonished nor affected by it.

"Do you not wish to do as they?" I asked. "You have just offered me
Cyprian wine; why do you not drink some yourself?"
With these words I poured out a large glass full to the brim. She
raised it to her lips and then placed it on the table, and resumed her
listless attitude.

The more I studied that Marco, the more singular she appeared; she
took pleasure in nothing and did not seem to be annoyed by anything.
It appeared as difficult to anger her as to please her; she did what
was asked of her, but no more. I thought of the genius of eternal repose,
and I imagined that if that pale statue should become somnambulant
it would resemble Marco.

"Are you good or bad?" I asked. "Are you sad or gay? Are you loved?
Do you wish to beloved? Are you fond of money, of pleasure, of
what?

Horses, the country, balls? What pleases you? Of what are you
dreaming?"
To all these questions the same smile on her part, a smile that
expressed neither joy nor sorrow, but which seemed to say, "What
does it matter?"

and nothing more.

I held my lips to hers; she gave me a listless kiss and then passed her
handkerchief over her mouth.

"Marco," I said, "woe to him who loves you."
She turned her dark eyes on me, then turned them upward, and raising
her finger with that Italian gesture which can not be imitated, she
pronounced that characteristic feminine word of her country:
"Forse!"

And then dessert was served.

Some of the party had departed, some were smoking, others gambling, and
a few still at table; some of the women danced, others slept. The
orchestra returned; the candles paled and others were lighted. I
recalled a supper of Petronius, where the lights went out around the
drunken masters, and the slaves entered and stole the silver. All the
while songs were being sung in various parts of the room, and three
Englishmen, three of those gloomy figures for whom the Continent is
a hospital, kept up a most sinister ballad that must have been
born of the fogs of their marshes.

"Come," said I to Marco, "let us go."
She arose and took my arm.

"To-morrow!" cried Desgenais to me, as we left the hall.

When approaching Marco's house, my heart beat violently and I could
not speak.

I could not understand such a woman; she seemed to experience neither
desire nor disgust, and I could think of nothing but the fact that
my hand was trembling and hers motionless.

Her room was, like her, sombre and voluptuous; it was dimly lighted
by an alabaster lamp. The chairs and sofa were as soft as beds, and
there was everywhere suggestion of down and silk. Upon entering I
was struck with the strong odor of Turkish pastilles, not such as
are sold here on the streets, but those of Constantinople, which
are more powerful and more dangerous. She rang, and a maid appeared.
She entered an alcove without a word, and a few minutes later I saw
her leaning on her elbow in her habitual attitude of nonchalance.
I stood looking at her. Strange to say, the more I admired her, the
more beautiful I found her, the more rapidly I felt my desires
subside. I do not know whether it was some magnetic influence or
her silence and listlessness. I lay down on a sofa opposite the
alcove, and the coldness of death settled on my soul.
The pulsation of the blood in the arteries is a sort of clock, the
ticking of which can be heard only at night. Man, free from exterior
attractions, falls back upon himself; he hears himself live. In
spite of my fatigue I could not close my eyes; those of Marco were
fixed on me; we looked at each other in silence, gently, so to
speak.

"What are you doing there?" she asked.
She heaved a gentle sigh that was almost a plaint.
I turned my head and saw that the first gleams of morning light
were shining through the window.
I arose and opened the window; a bright light penetrated every
corner of the room. The sky was clear.

I motioned to her to wait.But oh! dearest one--if life had been fair to her, she--_She_
is the one you might have loved and who would have worshipped such a
man. It might have been--it might have been."

His colour died away and left him pale--he felt it with a sudden sense
of shock.

"It was not," he said, hurriedly. "It was not--and she is but
fourteen--and our lives lie far apart. I shall be in the field, or at
the French or Spanish Courts. And were I on English soil I--I would
keep away."

His mother turned pale also. Being his mother she felt with him the
beating of his blood--and his face had a strange look which she had
never seen before. She rose and went to him.

"Yes, yes, you are right," she exclaimed. "You could not--she could
not--! And 'twould be best to keep away--to keep away. For if you loved
her, 'twould drive you mad, and make you forget what you must be."

He tried to smile, succeeding but poorly.

"She makes us say strange things--even so far distant," he said.
"Perhaps you are right. Yes, I will keep away."

And even while he said it he was aware of a strange tumult in him, and
knew that, senseless as it might appear, a new thing had sprung to life
in him as if a flame had been lighted. And even in its first small
leaping he feared it.


'Twas a week later their Graces set forth upon their journey, and
though Roxholm rode with them to Dover, and saw them aboard the packet,
he always felt in after years that 'twas in the Long Gallery his mother
had bidden him farewell.

They stood at the deep window at the end which faced the west and
watched a glowing sunset of great splendour. Never had the earth spread
before them seemed more beautiful, or Heaven's self more near. All the
west was piled with heaps of stately golden cloud--great and high
clouds, which were like the mountains of the Delectable Land, and
filled one with awe whose eyes were lifted to their glories. And all
the fair land was flooded with their gold. Her Grace looked out to the
edge where moor and sky seemed one, and her violet eyes shone to
radiance.

"It is the loveliest place in all the world," she said. "It has been
the loveliest home--and I the happiest woman. There has not been an
hour I would not live again."

She turned and lifted her eyes to his face and put one hand on his
broad breast. "And you, Gerald," she said; "you have been happy. Tell
me you have been happy, too."

"For twenty-eight years," he said, and folded his hand over hers. "For
twenty-eight years."

She bent her face against his breast and kissed the hand closed over
her own.

"Yes--yes; you have been happy," she said. "You have said it often; but
before I went away I wanted to hear you say it once again," and as she
gazed up smiling, a last ray from the sinking sun shot through the
window and made a halo about her deep gold hair.


_CHAPTER XII_

_In Which is Sold a Portrait_


There are sure more forces in this Universe than Man has so far
discovered, and so, not dreaming of them, can neither protect himself
against, nor aid them in their workings if he would. Who has not
sometimes fancied he saw their mysterious movings and--if of daring
mind--been tempted to believe that in some future, even on this earth,
the science of their laws might be sought for and explained? Who has
not seen the time when his own life, or that of some other, seemed to
flow, as a current flows, either towards or away from some end, planned
or unplanned by his own mind. At one time he may plan and struggle,
and, in spite of all his efforts, the current sweeps him away from the
object he strives to attain--as though he were a mere feather floating
upon its stream; at another, the tide bears him onward as a boat is
borne by the rapids, towards a thing he had not dreamed of, nor even
vaguely wished to reach. At such hours, resistance seems useless. We
seize an oar, it breaks in the flood; we snatch at an overhanging
bough, it snaps or slips our grasp; we utter cries for help, those on
the bank pass by not hearing, or cast to us a rope the current bears
out of reach. Then we cry "Fate!" and either wring our hands, or curse,
or sit and gaze straight before us, while we are swept on--either over
the cataract's edge and dashed to fragments, or out to the trackless
ocean, to be tossed by wind and wave till some bark sees and saves
us--or we sink.

From the time of his mother's speech with him after her return from
Gloucestershire, thoughts such as these passed often through Roxholm's
mind. "It might have been; it might have been," she had said, and the
curious leap of blood and pulse he had felt had vaguely shocked him. It
scarcely seemed becoming that so young a creature as this lovely hoyden
should so move a man. 'Twas the fashion that girl beauties should be
women early, and at Court he had seen young things, wives and mothers
when they were scarce older; but this one seemed more than half a boy
and--and--! Yet he knew that he had been in earnest when he had said,
"I would keep away."

"I _know_," he had said to himself when he had been alone later; "I
_know_ that if the creature were a woman, 'twould be best that I should
keep away--'twould be best for any man to keep away from her, who was
not free to bear any suffering his passion for her might bring him. The
man who will be chief of a great house--whose actions affect the lives
of hundreds--is not free, even to let himself be put to the
torture"--and he smiled unconsciously the smile which was a little
grim.

He had seen and studied many women, and in studying them had learned to
know much of himself. He had not been so unconscious of them as he had
seemed. Such a man must meet with adventures at any time, and at a
period still tainted by the freedom of a dissolute reign, even though
'tis near twenty years past, his life, in his own despite, must contain
incidents which would reveal much to the world, if related to it.
Roxholm had met with such adventures, little as they were to his taste,
and had found at both foreign and English Courts that all women were
not non-attacking creatures, and in discovering this had learned that a
man must be a stone to resist the luring of some lovely eyes.

"I need not think myself invulnerable," he had thought often. "I can
resist because I have loved none of them. Had it chanced otherwise--God
have mercy on my soul!"

And now the current of his life for weeks seemed strangely set towards
one being. When he returned to London after seeing his parents depart
for Italy, he met in his first walk in the city streets his erst
fellow-collegian and officer, Lieutenant Thomas Tantillion, in England
on leave, who almost hallooed with joy at sight of him, shaking him by
the hand as if his arm had been a pump-handle, and then thrusting his
own arm through it, and insisting affectionately on dragging him along
the street that he might pour forth his renewed protestations of
affection and the story of his adventures.

"Never was I more glad to see a man," he said. "I'm damned if we
scapegraces have not missed thy good-looking face. Thou art a fine
fellow, Roxholm--and good-natured--ay, and modest, too--for all thy
beauty and learning. Many a man, with half thou hast, would wear grand
Court airs to a rattle-pated rascal like Tom Tantillion. Wilford does
it--and he is but a Viscount, and for all his straight nose and fine
eyes but five feet ten. Good Lord! he looks down on us who did not pass
well at the University, like a cock on a dunghill."

The Marquess laughed out heartily, having in his mind a lively picture
of my Lord Wilford, whose magnificence of bearing he knew well.

"Art coming back, Roxholm?" asked Tom next. "When does thy leave
expire?"

"I am coming back," Roxholm answered, "but I shall not long live a
soldier's life. 'Tis but part of what I wish to do."

"His Grace of Marlborough misses thee, I warrant," said Tom. "'Tis
often said he never loved a human thing on earth but John Churchill
and his Duchess, but I swear he warmed to thee."

"He did me honour, if 'tis true," Roxholm said, "but I am not vain
enough to believe it--gracious as he has been."

At that moment his volatile companion gave his arm a clutch and stopped
their walk as if a sudden thought had seized him.

"Where wert thou going, Roxholm?" he asked. "Lord, Lord, I was so glad
to see thee, that I forgot."

"What didst forget, Tom?"

Tom slapt his thigh hilariously. "That I had an errand on hand. A good
joke, split me, Roxholm! Come with me; I go to see the picture of a
beauty, stole by the painter, who is always drunk, and with his clothes
in pawn, and lives in a garret in Rag Lane."

He was in the highest spirits over the adventure, and would drag
Roxholm with him, telling him the story as they went. The painter, who
was plainly enough a drunken rapscallion fellow, in strolling about the
country, getting his lodging and skin full of ale, now here, now there,
by daubing Turks' Heads, Foxes and Hounds, and Pigs and Whistles, as
signs for rustic ale-houses, had seen ride by one day a young lady of
such beauty that he had made a sketch of her from memory, and finding
where she lived, had hung about in the park to get a glimpse of her
again, and having succeeded, had made her portrait and brought it back
to town, in the hope that some gentleman might be taken by its charms
and buy it.

"He hath drunk himself down to his last groat, and will let it go for a
song now," said Tom. "I would get there before any other fellow does.
Jack Wyse and Hal Langton both want it, but they have gamed their
pockets empty, and wait till necessity forces him to lower his price to
their means. But an hour since I heard that he had pawned his breeches
and lay in bed writing begging letters. So now is the time to visit
him. It was in Gloucestershire he found her--"

He stopped and turned round.

"Hang me! 'Tis the very one Bet wrote of, and I read you the letter.
Dost remember it? The vixen who clouted the Chaplain for kissing her."

"Yes," said Roxholm; "I remember."

Tom rattled on in monstrous spirits. "I have had further letters from
Bet," he said, "and each is a sermon with the beauty's sins for a text.
The women are so jealous of her that the men could not forget her if
they would, they scold so everlastingly. Lord, what a stir the hoyden
is making!"

They turned into Rag Lane presently, and 'twas dingy enough, being a
dirty, narrow place, with high black houses on either side, their
windows broken and stuffed with bits of rag and paper, their doorways
ornamented with slatternly women or sodden-faced men, while up and down
ran squalid, noisy children under the flapping pieces of poor wearing
apparel hung on lines to dry.

After some questioning they found the house the man they were in search
of lived in, and 'twas a shade dingier than the rest. They mounted a
black broken-down stairway till they reached the garret, and there
knocked at the door.

For a few moments there was no answer, but that they could hear loud
and steady snores within.

"He is sleeping it off!" said Tom, grinning, and whacked loudly on the
door's cracked panels, by which, after two or three attacks, he
evidently disturbed the sleeper, who was heard first to snort and then
to begin to grumble forth drowsy profanities.

"Let us in," cried Tom. "I bring you a patron, sleepy fool."

Then 'twas plain some one tumbled from his bed and shuffled forward to
the door, whose handle he had some difficulty in turning. But when he
got the door open, and caught sight of lace and velvet, plumed hats and
shining swords, he was not so drunk but that which the sight suggested
enlivened and awaked him. He uttered an exclamation, threw the door
wide, and stood making unsteady but humbly propitiatory bows.

"Your lordships' pardon," he said. "I was asleep and knew not that such
honour awaited me. Enter, your lordships; I pray you enter."

'Twas a little mean place with no furnishings but a broken bedstead, a
rickety chair, and an uncleanly old table on which were huddled
together a dry loaf, an empty bottle, and some poor daubs of pictures.
The painter himself was an elderly man with a blotched face, a bibulous
eye, and half unclothed, he having wrapped a dirty blanket about his
body to conceal decently his lack of nether garments.

"We come to look at your portrait of the Gloucestershire beauty," said
Tom.

"All want to look at it, my Lord," said the man, with a leer, half
servile, half cunning. "There came two young gentlemen of fashion
yesterday morning, and almost lost their wits at sight of it. Either
would have bought it, but both had had ill luck at basset for a week
and so could do no more than look, and go forth with their mouths
watering."

Tom grinned.

"You painters are all rogues who would bleed every gentleman you see,"
he said.

"We are poor fellows who find it hard to sell our wares," the artist
answered. "'Tis only such as the great Mr. Kneller who do not starve,
and lie abed because their shirts and breeches are in pawn. When a man
has a picture like to take the fancy of every young nobleman in town,
he may well ask its value."

"Let us see it," cried Tom. "To a gentleman it may seem a daub."

The man looked at him slyly.

"'Twould pay me to keep it hid here and exhibit it for a fee," he said.
"The gentlemen who were here yesterday will tell others, and they will
come and ask to look at it, and then--"

"Show it to us, sir," said Roxholm, breaking in suddenly in his deeper
voice and taking a step forward.

He had stood somewhat behind, not being at first in the mood to take
part in the conversation, having no liking for the situation. That a
young lady's portrait should be stolen from her, so to speak, and put
on sale by a drunken painter without her knowledge, annoyed him--and
the man's leering hint of its future exhibition roused his blood.

"Show it to us, sir," he said, and in his voice there was that
suggestion of command which is often in the voice of a man who has had
soldiers under him.

The but half-sober limner being addressed by him for the first time,
and for the first time looking at him directly, gave way to a slight
hiccoughing start and strove to stand more steady. 'Twas no gay
youthful rake who stood before him, but plainly a great gentleman, and
most amazing tall and stately. 'Twas not a boy come to look at a
peep-show, but might be a possible patron.

"Yes, your lordship," he stammered, bowing shakily, "I--I will bring it
forth. Your lordship will find the young lady a wonder." He went
swaying across the room, and opened a cupboard in the wall. "Reply to
me, thou book of God!" I said, "what word hast thou for me?" My eye
fell on this passage in Ecclesiastes, Chapter IX:
For all this I considered in my heart even to declare all this,
that the righteous and the wise, and their works, are in the hand
of God; no man knoweth either love or hatred by all that is before
them.

All things come alike to all: there is one event to the righteous, and
to the wicked; to the good and to the clean, and to the unclean;
to him that sacrificeth, and to him that sacrificeth not: as is the good,
so is the sinner; and he that sweareth, as he that feareth an
oath.

This is an evil among all things that are done under the sun, that there
is one event unto all: yea, also the heart of the sons of men is full
of evil, and madness is in their heart while they live, and after that
they go to the dead.

When I read these words I was astounded; I did not know that there was
such a sentiment in the Bible. "And thou, too, as all others, thou
book of hope!"
What do the astronomers think when they predict, at a given hour and
place, the passage of a comet, that most eccentric of celestial
travellers?

What do the naturalists think when they reveal the myriad forms of
life concealed in a drop of water?

Do they think they have invented what they see and that their lenses
and microscopes make the law of nature?

What did the first law-giver think when, seeking for the corner-stone
in the social edifice, angered doubtless by some idle importunity,
he struck the tables of brass and felt in his bowels the yearning for
a law of retaliation? Did he, then, invent justice? And the first
who plucked the fruit planted by his neighbor and who fled cowering
under his mantle, did he invent shame?

And he who, having overtaken that same thief who had robbed him of the
product of his toil, forgave him his sin, and, instead of raising
his hand to smite him, said, "Sit thou down and eat thy fill;" when,
after thus returning good for evil, he raised his eyes toward Heaven
and felt his heart quivering, tears welling from his eyes, and his
knees bending to the earth, did he invent virtue?

Oh, Heaven! here is a woman who speaks of love and who deceives me; here
is a man who speaks of friendship and counsels me to seek consolation
in debauchery; here is another woman who weeps and would console
me with the flesh; here is a Bible that speaks of God and says:
"Perhaps; but nothing is of any real importance."

She seemed a storm embodied in the form of woman, and yet in
her black eyes' depths--as if hid behind their darkest shadows and
unknown of by her very self--there lay the possibility of a great and
strange melting--a melting which was all woman--and woman who was
queen.

"By the Lord!" cried Tom Tantillion again, and then flushed up boyishly
and broke forth into an awkward laugh. "She is too magnificent a beauty
for an empty-pocketed rascal like me to offer to buy her. I have not
what would pay for her--and she knows it. She sets her own price upon
herself, as she stands there curling her vermilion lip and daring a man
to presume to buy her cheap. 'Tis only a great Duke's son who may make
bold to bid." And he turned and bowed, half laughing, half malicious,
to Roxholm. "You, my lord Marquess; a purse as full as yours need not
bargain for the thing it would have, but clap down guineas for it."

"A great Duke's son!" "My lord Marquess!" The owner of the picture
began to prick up his ears. Yes, the truth was what he had thought it.

"The gentleman who owns this picture when the young lady comes up to
town that the world may behold her," he said, "will be a proud man."

"No gentleman would have the right to keep it if he had not her
permission," said Roxholm--and he said it without lightness.

"Most gentlemen would keep it whether she would or no," answered the
painter.

"Catch Langdon or Wyse giving it up," says Tom. "And Wyse said, that
blackguard Oxon was coming to see it because he hath made a bet on her
in open club, and hearing of the picture, said he would come to see if
she were worth his trouble--and buy her to hang in his chambers, if she
were--that he might tell her of it when he went to Gloucestershire to
lay siege to her. He brags he will persuade her he has prayed to her
image for a year."

"What is your price?" said my Lord Roxholm to the painter.

The man set one and 'twas high though 'twould not have seemed so in an
age when art was patronised and well paid for in a country where 'twas
more generously encouraged than in England in the days of good Queen
Anne. In truth, the poor fellow did not expect to get half he asked,
but hoped by beginning well to obtain from a Duke's son twice what
another gentleman would give him--and he was prepared to haggle, if
need be, for two hours.

In what respect does he differ from you. He is a man who
believes in nothing, fears nothing, who knows no care or ennui,
perhaps, and yet it is clear that a scratch on the finger would fill him
with terror, for if his body abandons him, what becomes of him?
He lives only in the body. What sort of creature is he who treats his
soul as the flagellants treat their bodies? Can one live without a
head?

"Think of it. Here is a man who possesses one of the most beautiful women
in the world; he is young and ardent; he finds her beautiful and
tells her so; she replies that she loves him.

Some one touches him on the shoulder and says to him: 'She is unfaithful.'
Nothing more, he is sure of himself.

If some one had said: 'She is a poisoner,' he would, perhaps have
continued to love her, he would not have given her a kiss less; but
she is unfaithful, and it is no more a question of love with him
than of the star of Saturn.

"What is there in that word? A word that is merited, positive,
withering, at will.

But why? It is still but a word. Can you kill a body with a word?

"And if you love that body? Some one pours a glass of wine and says to
you: 'Do not love that, for you can get four for six francs.' And it
may intoxicate you!

"But Desgenais loves his mistress, since he keeps her; he must, therefore,
have a peculiar fashion of loving? No, he has not; his fashion of
loving is not love, and he cares no more for the woman who merits
affection than for her who is unworthy.

He loves no one, simply and truly.

"What has led him to this? Was he born thus? To love is as natural as to
eat and to drink.

He is not a man. Is he a dwarf or a giant? Is he always so impassive?
Upon what does he feed, what beverage does he drink?

Behold him at thirty like old Mithridates; poisons are his familiar
friends.

"There is the great secret, my child, the key you must grasp. By whatever
process of reasoning debauchery may be defended, it will be proven
that it is natural at a given day, hour, or night, but not to-
morrow nor every day. There is not a nation on earth which has not
considered woman either the companion and consolation of man or the
sacred instrument of life, and has not under either of these two forms
honored her.

And yet here is an armed warrior who leaps into the abyss that God has
dug with His own hands between man and brute; as well might he deny
that fact.

What mute Titan is this who dares repress under the kisses of the
body the love of the soul, and place on human lips the stigma
of the brute, the seal of eternal silence?

"There is a word that should be studied. In it you hear the faint moan
of those dismal labyrinths we know as secret societies, mysteries
that the angels of destruction whisper in the ear of night as it
descends upon the earth. That man is better or worse than God has made
him. He is like a sterile woman, in whom nature has not completed her
work, or there is distilled in the shadow of his life some venomous
poison.

"Ah!

yes, neither occupation nor study has been able to cure you, my friend.
To forget and to learn, that is your device. You turn the leaves of
dead books; you are too young for antiquities. Look about you, the pale
throng of men surrounds you. The eyes of life's sphynx glitter in the
midst of divine hieroglyphics; decipher the book of life!
Courage, scholar, launch out on the Styx, the deathless flood, and
let the waves of sorrow waft you to oblivion or to God."

CHAPTER IV 
MARCO
"All the good there was in it, supposing there was some good in it,
was that false pleasures were the seeds of sorrow and of bitterness
which fatigued me to the point of exhaustion." Such are the simple
words spoken with reference to his youth by a man who was the most
manly of any who have lived--St.The Marquess stopped with a sudden movement.

"On my faith!" he exclaimed, "there is the Earl of Dunstanwolde. He
sees us and comes towards us."


_CHAPTER XIII_

"_Your--Grace_!"


"Come with me, Gerald, to Dunstan's Wolde," said my lord, as they sat
together that night in his town-house. "I would have your company if
you will give it me until you rejoin Marlborough. I am lonely in these
days."

His lordship did not look his usual self, seeming, Roxholm thought,
worn and sometimes abstracted. He was most kind and affectionate, and
there was in his manner a paternal tenderness and sympathy which the
young man was deeply touched by. If it had been possible for him to
have spoken to any living being of the singular mental disturbance he
had felt beginning in him of late, he could have confessed it to Lord
Dunstanwolde. But nature had created in him a tendency to silence and
reserve where his own feelings were concerned. As to most human beings
there is a consolation in pouring forth the innermost secret thoughts
at times, to him there was support in the knowledge that he held all
within his own breast and could reflect upon his problems in sacred
privacy. At this period, indeed, his feelings were such as he could
scarcely have described to any one. He was merely conscious of a sort
of unrest and of being far from comprehending his own emotions. They
were, indeed, scarcely definite enough to be called emotions, but only
seemed shadows hovering about him and causing him vaguely to wonder at
their existence. He was neither elated nor depressed, but found himself
confronting fancies he had not confronted before, and at times
regarding the course of events with something of the feeling of a
fatalist. There was a thing it seemed from which he could not escape,
yet in his deepest being was aware that he would have preferred to
avoid it. No man wishes to encounter unhappiness; he was conscious
remotely that this preference for avoidance arose from a vaguely
defined knowledge that in one direction there lay possibilities of
harsh suffering and pain.

"'Tis a strange thing," he said to himself, "how I seem forbid by Fate
to avoid the path of this strange wild creature. My Lord Marlborough
brings her up to me at his quarters, I leave them; and going to my own,
meet with Tantillion and his letter; I enter a coffee-house and hear
wild talk of her; I go to my own house and my mother paints a picture
of her which stirs my very depths; I walk in the streets of London and
am dragged aside to find myself gazing at her portrait; I leave it,
and meet my Lord Dunstanwolde, who prays me to go to Warwickshire,
where I shall be within a few miles of her and may encounter her any
hour. What will come next?"

That which came next was not unlike what had gone before. On their
journey to Warwickshire my Lord Dunstanwolde did not speak of the
lovely hoyden, whereat Roxholm somewhat wondered, as his lordship had
but lately left her neighbourhood and her doings seemed the county's
scandal; but 'tis true that on their journey he conversed little and
seemed full of thought.

"Do not think me dull, Gerald," he said; "'tis only that of late I have
begun to feel that I am an older man than I thought--perhaps too old to
be a fit companion for youth. An old fellow should not give way to
fancies. I--I have been giving way."

"Nay, nay, my dear lord," said Roxholm with warm feeling, "'tis to
fancy you _should_ give way--and 'tis such as you who are youths' best
companions, since you bring to those of fewer years ripeness which is
not age, maturity which is not decay. What man is there of twenty-eight
with whom I could ride to the country with such pleasure as I feel
to-day. You have lived too much alone of late. 'Tis well I came to
Warwickshire."

This same evening after they had reached their journey's end, on
descending to the saloon before dinner, his guest found my lord
standing before the portrait of his lost wife and gazing at it with a
strange tender intentness, his hands behind his back. He turned at
Roxholm's entrance, and there were shadows in his eyes.

"Such an one as she," he said, "would forgive a man--even if he seemed
false--and would understand. But none could be false to her--or
forget." And so speaking walked away, the portrait seeming to follow
him with its young flower-blue eyes.

'Twas the same evening Lord Twemlow rode over from his estate to spend
the night with them, and they were no sooner left with their wine than
he broke forth into confidence and fretting.

"I wanted to talk to thee, Edward," he said to Dunstanwolde (they had
been boys together). "I am so crossed these days that I can scarce bear
my own company. 'Tis that young jade again, and I would invent some
measures to be taken."

"Ay, 'tis she again, I swear," had passed through Roxholm's mind as he
looked at his wineglass, and that instant his lordship turned on him
almost testily to explain.

"I speak of a kinswoman who is the bane and disgrace of my life, as she
would be the bane and disgrace of any gentleman who was of her
family," he said. "A pretty fool and baby who was my cousin married a
reprobate, Jeof Wildairs, and this is his daughter and is a shameless
baggage. Egad! you must have seen her on the hunting-field when you
were with us--riding in coat and breeches and with her mane of hair
looped under her hat."

"I saw her," Roxholm answered--and it seemed to him that as he spoke he
beheld again the scarlet figure fly over the hedge on its young devil
of a horse--and felt his heart leap as the horse did.

My Lord Dunstanwolde looked grave and pushed his glass back and forth
on the mahogany. Glancing at him Roxholm thought his cheek had flushed,
as if he did not like the subject. But Twemlow went on, growing hotter.

"One day in the field," he said, "it broke from its loop--her hair--and
fell about her like a black mantle, streaming over her horse's back,
and a sight it was--and damn it, so was she; and every man in the field
shouting with pleasure or laughter. And she snatched her hat off with
an oath and sat there as straight as a dart, but in a fury and winding
her coils up, with her cheeks as scarlet as her coat and cursing like a
young vagabond stable-boy between her teeth."

Dunstanwolde moved suddenly and almost overset his glass, but Roxholm
took his up and drained it with an unmoved countenance.

But he could see her sitting in her black hair, and could see, too, the
splendid scarlet on her angry cheek, and her eyes flashing wickedly.

"Tis not decent," cried Lord Twemlow, striking the table with his hand.
"If the baggage were not what she is, it would be bad enough, but there
is not a woman in England built so. 'Tis well Charles Stuart is not on
the throne, or she would outdo any Castlemaine that ever ruled him. And
'tis well that Louis is in France and that Maintenon keeps him sober.
She might retrieve her house's fortunes and rule at Court a Duchess;
but what decent man will look at her with her Billingsgate and her
breeches? A nice lady she would make for a gentleman! Any modest
snub-nosed girl would be better. There is scarce a week passes she does
not set the country by the ears with some fury or frolic. One time 'tis
clouting a Chaplain till his nose bleeds; next 'tis frightening some
virtuous woman of fashion into hysteric swooning with her impudent
flaming tongue. The women hate her, and she pays them out as _she_ only
can. Lady Maddon had fits for an hour, after an encounter with her, in
their meeting by chance one day at a mercer's in the county town. She
has the wit of a young she-devil and the temper of a tigress, and is so
tall, and towers so that she frightens them out of their senses."

My lord Marquess looked at him across the table.

"She is young," he said, "she is beautiful. Is there no man who loves
her who can win her from her mad ways?"

"Man!" cried Twemlow, raging, "every scoundrel and bumpkin in the shire
is mad after her, but she knows none who are not as bad as she--and
they tell me she laughs her wild, scornful laugh at each of them and
looks at him--standing with her hands in her breeches pockets and her
legs astride, and mocks as if she were some goddess instead of a mere
strapping, handsome vixen. 'There is not one of ye,' she says, 'not one
among ye who is man and big enough!' Such impudence was never yet in
woman born! And the worst on't is, she is right--damn her!--she's
right."

"Yes," said my Lord Dunstanwolde with a clouded face. "'Tis a Man who
would win her--young and beautiful and strong--strong!"

"She needs a master!" cried Twemlow.

"Nay," said Roxholm--"a mate."

"Mate, good Lord!" cried Twemlow, again turning to stare at him. "A
master, say I."

"'Tis a barbaric fancy," said Roxholm thoughtfully as he turned the
stem of his glass, keeping his eyes fixed on it as though solving a
problem for himself. "A barbaric fancy that a woman needs a master. She
who is strong enough is her own conqueror--as a man should be master
of himself."

"No gentleman will take her if she does not mend her ways," Lord
Twemlow said, hotly; "and with all these country rakes about her she
will slip--as more decently bred girls have. All eyes are set upon her,
waiting for it. She has so drawn every gaze upon her, that her scandal
will set ablaze a light that will flame like a beacon-fire from a
hill-top. She will repent her bitterly enough then. None will spare
her. She will be like a hare let loose with every pack in the county
set upon her to hunt her to her death."

"Ah!"--the exclamation broke forth as if involuntarily from my Lord
Dunstanwolde, and Roxholm, turning with a start, saw that he had
suddenly grown pale.

"You are ill!" he cried. "You have lost colour!"

"No! No!" his lordship answered hurriedly, and faintly smiling. "'Tis
over! 'Twas but a stab of pain." And he refilled his glass with wine
and drank it.

"You live too studious a life, Ned," said Twemlow. "You have looked but
poorly this month or two."

"Do not let us speak of it," Lord Dunstanwolde answered, a little
hurried, as before. "What--what is it you think to do--or have you yet
no plan?"

"If she begins her fifteenth year as she has lived the one just past,"
said my lord, ruffling his periwig in his annoyance, "I shall send my
Chaplain to her father to give him warning. We are at such odds that if
I went myself we should come to blows, and I have no mind either to be
run through or to drive steel through his thick body. He would have her
marry, I would swear, and counts on her making as good a match as she
can make without going to Court, where he cannot afford to take her. I
shall lay command on Twichell to put the case clear before him--that no
gentleman will pay her honourable court while he so plays the fool as
to let her be the scandal of Gloucestershire--aye, and of
Worcestershire and Warwickshire to boot. That may stir his
liquor-sodden brain and set him thinking."

"How--will _she_ bear it?" asked his Lordship of Dunstanwolde. "Will
not her spirit take fire that she should be so reproved?"

"'Twill take fire enough, doubtless--and be damned to it!" replied my
Lord Twemlow, hotly. "She will rage and rap out oaths like a trooper,
but if Jeof Wildairs is the man he used to be, he will make her obey
him, if he chooses--or he will break her back."

"'Twould be an awful battle," said Roxholm, "between a will like hers
and such a brute as he, should her choice not be his."

"Ay, he is a great blackguard," commented Twemlow, coolly enough.
"England scarcely holds a bigger than Jeoffry Wildairs, and he has had
the building of her, body and soul."


'Twas not alone my Lord Twemlow who talked of her, but almost every
other person, so it seemed. Oftenest she was railed at and condemned,
the more especially if there were women in the party discussing her;
but 'twas to be marked that at such times as men were congregated and
talked of her faults and beauties, more was said of her charms than her
sins. They fell into relating their stories of her, even the soberest
of them, as if with a sense of humour in them, as indeed the point of
such anecdotes was generally humorous because of a certain piquant
boldness and lawless wild spirit shown in them. The story of the
Chaplain, Roxholm heard again, and many others as fantastic. The
retorts of this young female Ishmael upon her detractors and assailers,
on such rare occasions as she encountered them, were full of a wit so
biting and so keen that they were more than any dared to face when it
could be avoided. But she was so bold and ingenious, and so ready with
devices, that few could escape her. Her companionship with her father's
cronies had given her a curious knowledge of the adventures which took
place in three counties, at least, and her brain was so alert and her
memory so unusual that she was enabled to confront an enemy with such
adroitly arranged circumstantial evidence that more than one poor
beauty would far rather have faced a loaded cannon than found herself
within the immediate neighbourhood of the mocking and flashing eyes.
Her meeting in the mercer's shop with the fair "Willow Wand," Lady
Maddon, had been so full of spirited and pungent truth as to drive her
ladyship back to London after her two hours' fainting fits were over.

"Look you, my lady," she had ended, in her clear, rich girl-voice--and
to every word she uttered the mercer and his shopmen and boys had stood
listening behind their counters or hid round bales of goods, all
grinning as they listened--"I know all your secrets as I know the
secrets of other fine ladies. I know and laugh at them because they
show you to be such fools. They are but fine jokes to me. My morals do
not teach me to pray for you or blame you. Your tricks are your own
business, not another woman's, and I would have told none of them--not
one--if you had not lied about me. I am not a woman in two things: I
wear breeches and I know how to keep my mouth shut as well as if 'twere
padlocked; but you lied about me when you told the story of young
Lockett and me. 'Twas a damned lie, my lady. Had it been true none
would have known of it, and he must have been a finer man--with more
beauty and more wit. But as for the thing I tell you of Sir James--and
your meeting at----"

But here the fragile "Willow Wand" shrieked and fell into her first
fit, not having strength to support herself under the prospect of
hearing the story again with further and more special detail.

"I hear too much of her," Roxholm said to himself at last. "She is in
the air a man breathes, and seems to get into his veins and fly to his
brain." He suddenly laughed a short laugh, which even to himself had a
harsh sound. "'Tis time I should go back to Flanders," he said, "and
rejoin his Grace of Marlborough."

He had been striding over the hillsides all morning with his gun over
his shoulder, and had just before he spoke thrown himself down to rest.
He had gone out alone, his mood pleasing itself best with solitude, and
had lost his way and found himself crossing strange land. Being wearied
and somewhat out of sorts, he had flung himself down among the heather
and bracken, where he was well out of sight, and could lie and look up
at the gray of the sky, his hands clasped beneath his head.

"Yes, 'twill be as well that I go back to Flanders," he said again,
somewhat gloomily; and as he spoke he heard voices on the fall of the
hill below him, and glancing down through the gorse bushes, saw
approaching his resting-place four sportsmen who looked as fatigued as
himself.

He did not choose to move, thinking they would pass him, and as they
came nearer he recognised them one by one, having by this time been
long enough in the neighbourhood to have learned both names and faces.
They were of the Wildairs crew, and one man's face enlightened him as
to whose estate he trespassed upon, the owner of the countenance being
a certain Sir Christopher Crowell, a jolly drunken dog whose land he
had heard was somewhere in the neighbourhood. The other two men were a
Lord Eldershawe and Sir Jeoffry Wildairs himself, while the tall
stripling with them 'twas easy to give a name to, though she strode
over the heather with her gun on her shoulder and as full a game-bag as
if she had been a man--it being Mistress Clorinda, in corduroy and with
her looped hair threatening to break loose and hanging in disorder
about her glowing face. They were plainly in gay humour, though
wearied, and talked and laughed noisily as they came.

"We have tramped enough," cried Sir Jeoffry, "and bagged birds enough
for one morning. 'Tis time we rested our bones and put meat and drink
in our bellies."

He flung himself down upon the heather and the other men followed his
example. Mistress Clo, however, remaining standing, at first leaning
upon her gun.

My lord Marquess gazed down at her from his ledge and shut his teeth in
anger at the mounting of the blood to his cheek and its unseemly
burning there.

"I will stay where I am and look at her, at least," he said. "To be
looked at does no woman harm, and to look at one can harm no man--if he
be going to Flanders."

That which disturbed him most was his realising that he always thought
of her as a woman--and also that she _was_ a woman and no child. 'Twas
almost impossible to believe she was no older than was said, when one
beheld her height and youthful splendour of body and bearing. He knew
no woman of twenty as tall as she and shaped with such strength and
fineness. Her head was set so on her long throat and her eyes so looked
out from under her thick jet lashes, that in merely standing erect she
seemed to command and somewhat disdain; but when she laughed, her red
lips curling, her little strong teeth gleaming, and her eyes opening
and flashing mirth, she was the archest, most boldly joyous creature a
man had ever beheld. Her morning's work on the moors had made her look
like young Nature's self, her cheek was burnt rich-brown and crimson,
her disordered hair twined in big rough rings about her forehead, her
movements were as light, alert, and perfect as if she had been a deer
or any wild thing of the woods or fields. There was that about her that
made Roxholm feel that she must exhale in breath and hair and garments
the scent of gorse and heather and fern and summer rains.

As one man gazed at her so did the others, though they were his elders
and saw her often, while he was but twenty-eight and had beheld her but
once before.

Each man of the party took from his pouch a small but well-filled
packet of food and a flask, and fell to upon their contents
voraciously, talking as they worked their jaws and joking with Mistress
Clo. She also brought forth her own package, which held bread and meat,
and a big russet apple, upon she set with a fine appetite. 'Twas good
even to see her eat, she did it with such healthy pleasure, as a young
horse might have taken his oats or a young setter his supper after a
day in the cover.

"_Thou_'rt not tired, Clo!" cries Eldershawe, laughing, as she fell
upon her russet apple, biting into it crisply, and plainly with the
pleasure of a hungry child.

"Not I, good Lord!" she answered. "Could shoot over as many miles
again."

"When thou'rt fifty years old, wilt not be so limber and have such
muscles," said Sir Jeoffry.

"She hath not so long to wait," said the third man, grinning. "Wast not
fourteen in November, Clo? Wilt soon be a woman."

She bit deep into her fruit and stared out over the moors below.

"Am not going to be a woman," she said. "I hate them."

"They hate thee," said Eldershawe, with a chuckle, "and will hate thee
worse when thou wearest brocades and a farthingale."

"I have watched them," proceeded Mistress Clo. "They cannot keep their
mouths shut. If they have a secret they must tell it, whether 'tis
their own or another's. They clack, they tell lies, they cry and scream
out if they are hurt; but they will hurt anything which cannot hurt
them back. They run and weep to each other when they are in love and a
man slights them. They have no spirit and no decency." She said it with
such an earnest solemness that her companions shouted with laughter.

"She sits in her breeches--the unruliest baggage in Gloucestershire,"
cried Eldershawe, "and complains that fine ladies are not decent. What
would they say if they heard thee?"

"They may hear me when they will," said Mistress Clo, springing to her
feet with a light jump and sending the last of her apple whizzing into
space with a boyish throw. "'Tis I who am the modest woman--for all my
breeches and manners. I do not see indecency where there is none--for
the mere pleasure of ogling and bridling and calling attention to my
simpering. I should have seen no reason for airs and graces if I had
been among those on the bank when the fine young Marquess we heard of
saved the boat-load on the river and gave orders for the reviving of
the drowned man--in his wet skin. When 'tis spoke of--for 'tis a
favourite story--that little beast Tantillion hides her face behind her
fan and cries, 'Oh, Lud! thank Heaven I was not near. I should have
swooned away at the very sight.'"

She imitated the affected simper of a girl in such a manner that the
three sportsmen yelled with delight, and Roxholm himself gnawed his lip
to check an involuntary break into laughter.

"What didst say to her the day she bridled over it at Knepton, when the
young heir was there?" said Crowell, grinning. "I was told thou
disgraced thyself, Clo. What saidst thou?"

She was standing her full straight height among them and turned, with
her hands in her pockets and a grave face.

"My blood was hot," she answered. "I said, 'Damn thee for a lying
little fool!' _That_ thou wouldst not!"

And the men who lay on the ground roared till they rolled there, and
Roxholm gnawed his lip again, though not all from mirth, for there was
in his mind another thing. She did not laugh but stood in the same
position, but now looking out across the country spread below.

"I shall love no man who will scorn me," she continued in her mellow
voice; "but if I did I would be burned alive at the stake before I
would open my lips about it. And I would be burned alive at the stake
before I would play tricks with my word or break my promise when 'twas
given. Women think they can swear a thing and unswear it, to save or
please themselves. They give themselves to a man and then repent it and
are slippery. If I had given myself, and found I had been a fool, I
would keep faith. I would play no tricks--even though I learned to hate
him. No, I will not be a woman."

And she picked up her gun and strode away, and seeing this they rose
all three by one accord, as if she were their chieftain, and followed
her.

After they were gone my lord Marquess did not move for some time, but
lay still among the gorse and bracken at his full length, his hands
clasped behind his head. He gazed up into the grey sky with the look of
a man whose thoughts are deep and strange. But at last he rose, and
picking up his gun, shouldered it and strode forth on his way back to
Dunstan's Wolde, which was miles away.

"Yes," he said, speaking aloud to himself, "I will go back and follow
his Grace of Marlborough for a while on his campaign--but in two years'
time I will come back--to Gloucestershire--and see what time has
wrought."


But to Flanders he did not go, nor did my Lord Duke of Marlborough see
him for many a day, for Fate, which had so long steadily driven him,
had ordained it otherwise. When he reached Dunstan's Wolde, on crossing
the threshold, something in the faces of the lacqueys about the
entrance curiously attracted his attention. He thought each man he
glanced at or spoke to looked agitated and as if there were that on his
mind which so scattered his wits that he scarce knew how to choose his
speech. The younger ones stammered and, trying to avoid his eye, seemed
to step out of his view as hastily as possible. Those of maturer years
wore grave and sorrowful faces, and when, on passing through the great
hall upon which opened the library and drawing-rooms he encountered the
head butler, the man started back and actually turned pale.

"What has happened?" his lordship demanded, his wonder verging in
alarm. "Something has come about, surely. What is it, man? Tell me! My
Lord Dunstanwolde--"

The man was not one whose brain worked quickly. 'Twas plain he lost
his wits, being distressed for some reason beyond measure. He stepped
to the door of the library and threw it open.

"My--my lord awaits your--your lordship--Grace," and then in an
uncertain and low voice he announced him in the following strange
manner:

"His--lordship--his Grace--has returned, my lord," he said.

And Roxholm, suddenly turning cold and pale himself, and seized upon by
a horror of he knew not what, saw as in a dream my lord Dunstanwolde
advancing towards him, his face ashen with woe, tears on his cheeks,
his shaking hands outstretched as if in awful pity.

"My poor Gerald," he broke forth, one hand grasping his, one laid on
his shoulder. "My poor lad--God help me--that I am no more fit to break
to you this awful news."

"For God's sake!" cried Gerald, and sank into the chair my lord drew
him to, where he sat himself down beside him, the tears rolling down
his lined cheeks.

"Both--_both_ your parents!" he cried. "God give me words! Both--both!
At Pisa where they had stopped--a malignant fever. Your mother
first--and within twelve hours your father! Praise Heaven they were not
parted. Gerald, my boy!"

My lord Marquess leaned forward, his elbow sank on his knee, his
forehead fell heavily upon his palm and rested there. He felt as if a
blow had been struck upon his head, which he moved slowly, seeing
nothing before him.

"Both! Both!" he murmured. "The happiest woman in England! Have you
been happy? I would hear you say it again--before I leave you! Ay,"
shaking his head, "_that_ was why the poor fool said, 'Your Grace.'"


_CHAPTER XIV_

"_For all her youth--there is no other woman like her_"


They were brought back in state from Italy and borne to their beloved
Camylott, to sleep in peace there, side by side; and the bells in the
church-tower tolled long and mournfully, and in the five villages in
different shires there was not a heart which did not ache--nor one
which having faith did not know that somewhere their happy love lived
again and was more full of joy than it had been before. And my lord
Marquess was my lord Duke; but for many months none beheld him but Lord
Dunstanwolde, who came to Camylott with many great people to attend the
funeral obsequies; but when all the rest went away he stayed, and
through the first strange black weeks the two were nearly always
together, and often, through hours, walked in company from one end of
the Long Gallery to the other.

Coming from a literary family the zeal of his house had eaten him up;
his passion had burned itself out and his heart with it. He had
done his work; it mattered little to him or to literature whether the
curtain fell on his life's drama in 1841 or in 1857.

Alfred de Musset, by virtue of his genial, ironical temperament, eminently
clear brain, and undying achievements, belongs to the great poets
of the ages.

We to-day do not approve the timbre of his epoch:
that impertinent, somewhat irritant mask, that redundant rhetoric,
that occasional disdain for the metre. Yet he remains the greatest
poete de l'amour, the most spontaneous, the most sincere, the most
emotional singer of the tender passion that modern times has
produced.

Born of noble parentage on December 11, 1810--his full name being Louis
Charles Alfred de Musset--the son of De Musset-Pathai, he received
his education at the College Henri IV, where, among others, the Duke
of Orleans was his schoolmate. When only eighteen he was introduced
into the Romantic 'cenacle' at Nodier's. His first work, 'Les Contes
d'Espagne et d'Italie' (1829), shows reckless daring in the choice
of subjects quite in the spirit of Le Sage, with a dash of the dandified
impertinence that mocked the foibles of the old Romanticists. However,
he presently abandoned this style for the more subjective strain of
'Les Voeux Steyiles, Octave, Les Secretes Pensees de Rafael, Namouna,
and Rolla', the last two being very eloquent at times, though
immature.

Rolla (1833) is one of the strongest and most depressing of his works;
the sceptic regrets the faith he has lost the power to regain, and
realizes in lurid flashes the desolate emptiness of his own heart.
At this period the crisis of his life was reached. He accompanied
George Sand to Italy, a rupture between them occurred, and De Musset
returned to Paris alone in 1834.

More subdued sadness is found in 'Les Nuits' (1832-1837), and in 'Espoir
en Dieu' (1838), etc., and his 'Lettre a Lamartine' belongs to the
most beautiful pages of French literature.

But henceforth his production grows more sparing and in form less
romantic, although 'Le Rhin Allemand', for example, shows that at
times he can still gather up all his powers. The poet becomes lazy and
morose, his will is sapped by a wild and reckless life, and
one is more than once tempted to wish that his lyre had ceased to
sing.

De Musset's prose is more abundant than his lyrics or his dramas. It
is of immense value, and owes its chief significance to the clearness
with which it exhibits the progress of his ethical disintegration.
In 'Emmeline (1837) we have a rather dangerous juggling with the
psychology of love. Then follows a study of simultaneous love, 'Les Deux
Mattresses' (1838), quite in the spirit of Jean Paul. He then wrote three
sympathetic depictions of Parisian Bohemia: 'Frederic et Bernadette,
Mimi Pinson, and Le Secret de Javotte', all in 1838.
'Le Fils de Titien (1838) and Croiselles' (1839) are carefully elaborated
historical novelettes; the latter is considered one of his best works,
overflowing with romantic spirit, and contrasting in this respect
strangely with 'La Mouche' (1853), one of the last flickerings of his
imagination. 'Maggot' (1838) bears marks of the influence of George
Sand; 'Le Merle Blanc' (1842) is a sort of allegory dealing with
their quarrel.

'Pierre et Camille' is a pretty but slight tale of a deaf-mute's love.
His greatest work, 'Confession d'un Enfant du Siecle', crowned with
acclaim by the French Academy, and classic for all time, was written
in 1836, when the poet, somewhat recovered from the shock, relates his
unhappy Italian experience. It is an ambitious and deeply
interesting work, and shows whither his dread of all moral compulsion
and self- control was leading him.

De Musset also wrote some critical essays, witty and satirical in tone,
in which his genius appears in another light. It is not generally
known that he was the translator into French of De Quincey's
'Confessions of an Opium Eater' (1828). He was also a prominent
contributor to the 'Revue des Deux Mondes.'

In 1852 he was elected to the French Academy, but hardly ever appeared
at the sessions. A confrere once made the remark:
"De Musset frequently absents himself," whereupon it is said another
Immortal answered, "And frequently absinthe's himself!"
While Brunetiere, Lemattre, and others consider De Musset a great
dramatist, Sainte-Beuve, singularly enough, does not appreciate him
as a playwright. Theophile Gautier says about 'Un Caprice'
(1847): "Since the days of Marivaux nothing has been produced in
'La Comedie Francaise' so fine, so delicate, so dainty, than this
tender piece, this chef-d'oeuvre, long buried within the pages of
a review; and we are greatly indebted to the Russians of St.

Petersburg, that snow-covered Athens, for having dug up and revived it."
Nevertheless, his bluette, 'La Nuit Venetienne', was outrageously
treated at the Odeon. The opposition was exasperated by the recent
success of Hugo's 'Hernani.' Musset was then in complete accord
with the fundamental romantic conception that tragedy must mingle
with comedy on the stage as well as in life, but he had too delicate
a taste to yield to the extravagance of Dumas and the lesser
romanticists. All his plays, by the way, were written for the 'Revue
des Deux Mondes' between 1833 and 1850, and they did not win
a definite place on the stage till the later years of the Second Empire.
In some comedies the dialogue is unequalled by any writer since
the days of Beaumarchais.

Taine says that De Musset has more real originality in some respects
than Hugo, and possesses truer dramatic genius. Two or three of his
comedies will probably hold the stage longer than any dramatic work of
the romantic school.

They contain the quintessence of romantic imaginative art; they show
in full flow that unchecked freedom of fancy which, joined to the spirit
of realistic comedy, produces the modern French drama. Yet De
Musset's prose has in greater measure the qualities that endure.

The Duke of Orleans created De Musset Librarian in the Department
of the Interior. It was sometimes stated that there was no library at
all. It is certain that it was a sinecure, though the pay, 3,000 francs,
was small. In 1848 the Duke had the bad taste to ask for his resignation,
but the Empire repaired the injury. Alfred de Musset died in Paris,
May 2, 1857.
HENRI DE BORNIER de l'Academie Francaise.

THE CONFESSIONS OF A CHILD OF THE CENTURY

BOOK 1.

PART I

CHAPTER I
TO THE READER
Before the history of any life can be written, that life must be lived;
so that it is not my life that I am now writing. Attacked in early youth
by an abominable moral malady, I here narrate what happened to me
during the space of three years.

Were I the only victim of that disease, I would say nothing, but as
many others suffer from the same evil, I write for them, although I am
not sure that they will give heed to me. Should my warning be unheeded,
I shall still have reaped the fruit of my agonizing in having cured
myself, and, like the fox caught in a trap, shall have gnawed off my
captive foot.

CHAPTER II
REFLECTIONS
During the wars of the Empire, while husbands and brothers were in
Germany, anxious mothers gave birth to an ardent, pale, and neurotic
generation.

Conceived between battles, reared amid the noises of war, thousands
of children looked about them with dull eyes while testing their
limp muscles.

From time to time their blood-stained fathers would appear, raise them
to their gold-laced bosoms, then place them on the ground and remount
their horses.

The life of Europe centred in one man; men tried to fill their lungs
with the air which he had breathed. Yearly France presented that man
with three hundred thousand of her youth; it was the tax to Caesar;
without that troop behind him, he could not follow his fortune.
It was the escort he needed that he might scour the world, and then
fall in a little valley on a deserted island, under weeping willows.

Never had there been so many sleepless nights as in the time of
that man; never had there been seen, hanging over the ramparts of
the cities, such a nation of desolate mothers; never was there such
a silence about those who spoke of death.

And yet there was never such joy, such life, such fanfares of war,
in all hearts. Never was there such pure sunlight as that which dried
all this blood. God made the sun for this man, men said; and they
called it the Sun of Austerlitz.

But he made this sunlight himself with his ever-booming guns that left
no clouds but those which succeed the day of battle.

It was this air of the spotless sky, where shone so much glory, where
glistened so many swords, that the youth of the time breathed. They well
knew that they were destined to the slaughter; but they believed that
Murat was invulnerable, and the Emperor had been seen to
cross a bridge where so many bullets whistled that they wondered
if he were mortal.

And even if one must die, what did it matter?

Death itself was so beautiful, so noble, so illustrious, in its
battle-scarred purple!
It borrowed the color of hope, it reaped so many immature harvests
that it became young, and there was no more old age. All the cradles
of France, as indeed all its tombs, were armed with bucklers; there
were no more graybeards, there were only corpses or demi-gods.

Nevertheless the immortal Emperor stood one day on a hill watching seven
nations engaged in mutual slaughter, not knowing whether he would be
master of all the world or only half.

Azrael passed, touched the warrior with the tip of his wing, and hurled
him into the ocean. At the noise of his fall, the dying Powers sat up
in their beds of pain; and stealthily advancing with furtive tread,
the royal spiders made partition of Europe, and the purple of
Caesar became the motley of Harlequin.

Just as the traveller, certain of his way, hastes night and day through
rain and sunlight, careless of vigils or of dangers, but, safe at
home and seated before the fire, is seized by extreme lassitude
and can hardly drag himself to bed, so France, the widow of Caesar,
suddenly felt her wound.

She fell through sheer exhaustion, and lapsed into a coma so
profound that her old kings, believing her dead, wrapped about her a
burial shroud. The veterans, their hair whitened in service, returned
exhausted, and the hearths of deserted castles sadly flickered into
life.

Then the men of the Empire, who had been through so much, who had lived
in such carnage, kissed their emaciated wives and spoke of their first
love. They looked into the fountains of their native fields and found
themselves so old, so mutilated, that they bethought themselves
of their sons, in order that these might close the paternal eyes
in peace.

They asked where they were; the children came from the schools, and,
seeing neither sabres, nor cuirasses, neither infantry nor cavalry,
asked in turn where were their fathers.

They were told that the war was ended, that Caesar was dead, and that
the portraits of Wellington and of Blucher were suspended in the
ante-chambers of the consulates and the embassies, with this legend
beneath: 'Salvatoribus mundi'.

Then came upon a world in ruins an anxious youth.

The children were drops of burning blood which had inundated the earth;
they were born in the bosom of war, for war. For fifteen years they
had dreamed of the snows of Moscow and of the sun of the
Pyramids.

They had not gone beyond their native towns; but had been told that
through each gateway of these towns lay the road to a capital of
Europe.

They had in their heads a world; they saw the earth, the sky, the
streets and the highways; but these were empty, and the bells of
parish churches resounded faintly in the distance.

Pale phantoms, shrouded in black robes, slowly traversed the countryside;
some knocked at the doors of houses, and, when admitted, drew from their
pockets large, well-worn documents with which they evicted the
tenants.
From every direction came men still trembling with the fear that had
seized them when they had fled twenty years before. All began to urge
their claims, disputing loudly and crying for help; strange that a
single death should attract so many buzzards.

The King of France was on his throne, looking here and there to see
if he could perchance find a bee [symbol of Napoleon D.W.] in the
royal tapestry.

Some men held out their hats, and he gave them money; others extended
a crucifix and he kissed it; others contented themselves with
pronouncing in his ear great names of powerful families, and he
replied to these by inviting them into his grand salle, where the
echoes were more sonorous; still others showed him their old cloaks,
when they had carefully effaced the bees, and to these he gave new
robes.

The children saw all this, thinking that the spirit of Caesar would
soon land at Cannes and breathe upon this larva; but the silence was
unbroken, and they saw floating in the sky only the paleness of the
lily.

When these children spoke of glory, they met the answer:

"Become priests;" when they spoke of hope, of love, of power, of
life:
"Become priests."
And yet upon the rostrum came a man who held in his hand a contract
between king and people. He began by saying that glory was a beautiful
thing, and ambition and war as well; but there was something still more
beautiful, and it was called liberty.

The children raised their heads and remembered that thus their grandfathers
had spoken. They remembered having seen in certain obscure corners
of the paternal home mysterious busts with long marble hair and a Latin
inscription; they remembered how their grandsires shook their heads and
spoke of streams of blood more terrible than those of the Empire.
Something in that word liberty made their hearts beat with the
memory of a terrible past and the hope of a glorious future.

They trembled at the word; but returning to their homes they encountered
in the street three coffins which were being borne to Clamart; within
were three young men who had pronounced that word liberty too distinctly.

A strange smile hovered on their lips at that sad sight; but other
speakers, mounted on the rostrum, began publicly to estimate what ambition
had cost and how very dear was glory; they pointed out the horror of
war and called the battle-losses butcheries. They spoke so often and
so long that all human illusions, like the trees in autumn, fell leaf
by leaf about them, and those who listened passed their hands
over their foreheads as if awakening from a feverish dream.

Some said: "The Emperor has fallen because the people wished no
more of him;" others added: "The people wished the king; no, liberty;
no, reason; no, religion; no, the English constitution; no,
absolutism;" and the last one said: "No, none of these things, but
simply peace."

Three elements entered into the life which offered itself to these
children: behind them a past forever destroyed, still quivering on its
ruins with all the fossils of centuries of absolutism; before them
the aurora of an immense horizon, the first gleams of the future; and
between these two worlds--like the ocean which separates the Old World
from the New--something vague and floating, a troubled sea filled
with wreckage, traversed from time to time by some distant sail or some
ship trailing thick clouds of smoke; the present, in a word, which
separates the past from the future, which is neither the one nor the
other, which resembles both, and where one can not know whether, at each
step, one treads on living matter or on dead refuse.

It was in such chaos that choice had to be made; this was the aspect
presented to children full of spirit and of audacity, sons of the
Empire and grandsons of the Revolution.

As for the past, they would none of it, they had no faith in it; the
future, they loved it, but how? As Pygmalion before Galatea, it was
for them a lover in marble, and they waited for the breath of life
to animate that breast, for blood to color those veins.

There remained then the present, the spirit of the time, angel of
the dawn which is neither night nor day; they found him seated on a
lime-sack filled with bones, clad in the mantle of egoism, and shivering
in terrible cold. The anguish of death entered into the soul at the
sight of that spectre, half mummy and half foetus; they approached it
as does the traveller who is shown at Strasburg the daughter of an old
count of Sarvenden, embalmed in her bride's dress: that childish
skeleton makes one shudder, for her slender and livid hand wears
the wedding-ring and her head decays enwreathed in orange-blossoms.

As on the approach of a tempest there passes through the forests a terrible
gust of wind which makes the trees shudder, to which profound silence
succeeds, so had Napoleon, in passing, shaken the world; kings felt
their crowns oscillate in the storm, and, raising hands to steady
them, found only their hair, bristling with terror.

The Pope had travelled three hundred leagues to bless him in the name
of God and to crown him with the diadem; but Napoleon had taken it
from his hands.

Thus everything trembled in that dismal forest of old Europe; then
silence succeeded.

It is said that when you meet a mad dog, if you keep quietly on
your way without turning, the dog will merely follow you a short
distance growling and showing his teeth; but if you allow yourself
to be frightened into a movement of terror, if you but make a sudden
step, he will leap at your throat and devour you; that when the
first bite has been taken there is no escaping him.

In European history it has often happened that a sovereign has made
such a movement of terror and his people have devoured him; but if one
had done it, all had not done it at the same time--that is to say,
one king had disappeared, but not all royal majesty.

Before the sword of Napoleon majesty made this movement, this gesture
which ruins everything, not only majesty but religion, nobility, all
power both human and divine.

Napoleon dead, human and divine power were reestablished, but belief
in them no longer existed. A terrible danger lurks in the knowledge
of what is possible, for the mind always goes farther. It is one thing
to say:
"That may be" and another thing to say: "That has been;" it is the
first bite of the dog.

The fall of Napoleon was the last flicker of the lamp of despotism; it
destroyed and it parodied kings as Voltaire the Holy Scripture. And
after him was heard a great noise: it was the stone of St. Helena
which had just fallen on the ancient world. Immediately there appeared
in the heavens the cold star of reason, and its rays, like those
of the goddess of the night, shedding light without heat, enveloped
the world in a livid shroud.

There had been those who hated the nobles, who cried out against priests,
who conspired against kings; abuses and prejudices had been attacked;
but all that was not so great a novelty as to see a smiling people.
If a noble or a priest or a sovereign passed, the peasants who had made
war possible began to shake their heads and say: "Ah! when we saw this
man in such a time and place he wore a different face." And when
the throne and altar were mentioned, they replied: "They are made
of four planks of wood; we have nailed them together and torn them
apart."

And when some one said: "People, you have recovered from the errors
which led you astray; you have recalled your kings and your priests,"
they replied:

"We have nothing to do with those prattlers." And when some one said
"People, forget the past, work and obey," they arose from their seats
and a dull jangling could be heard. It was the rusty and notched sabre
in the corner of the cottage chimney.

Then they hastened to add: "Then keep quiet, at least; if no one harms
you, do not seek to harm." Alas! they were content with that.

But youth was not content. It is certain that there are in man two
occult powers engaged in a death-struggle: the one, clear-sighted and
cold, is concerned with reality, calculation, weight, and judges
the past; the other is athirst for the future and eager for the
unknown.

When passion sways man, reason follows him weeping and warning, him
of his danger; but when man listens to the voice of reason, when
he stops at her request and says: "What a fool I am; where am I
going?"

passion calls to him: "Ah, must I die?"

A feeling of extreme uneasiness began to ferment in all young
hearts.
Condemned to inaction by the powers which governed the world,
delivered to vulgar pedants of every kind, to idleness and to ennui,
the youth saw the foaming billows which they had prepared to meet,
subside. All these gladiators glistening with oil felt in the bottom
of their souls an insupportable wretchedness. The richest became
libertines; those of moderate fortune followed some profession and
resigned themselves to the sword or to the church. The poorest gave
themselves up with cold enthusiasm to great thoughts, plunged
into the frightful sea of aimless effort. As human weakness seeks
association and as men are gregarious by nature, politics became mingled
with it. There were struggles with the 'garde du corps' on the steps
of the legislative assembly; at the theatre Talma wore a wig which made
him resemble Caesar; every one flocked to the burial of a Liberal
deputy.

But of the members of the two parties there was not one who, upon returning
home, did not bitterly realize the emptiness of his life and the
feebleness of his hands.

While life outside was so colorless and so mean, the inner life of
society assumed a sombre aspect of silence; hypocrisy ruled in all
departments of conduct; English ideas, combining gayety with devotion,
had disappeared. Perhaps Providence was already preparing new ways,
perhaps the herald angel of future society was already sowing in
the hearts of women the seeds of human independence. But it is
certain that a strange thing suddenly happened: in all the salons
of Paris the men passed on one side and the women on the other; and
thus, the one clad in white like brides, and the other in black
like orphans, began to take measure of one another with the eye.For long he had not even known the seed was in the
soil; he had felt its stirrings before he had believed in its
existence, and then one day the earth had broke and he had seen its
life and known what its strength might be. 'Twould be of wondrous
strength, he knew, and of wondrous beauty if no frost should blight nor
storm uproot it.

In its freedom from all tendency to plaything-sentiments and trivial
romances, his youth had been unlike the youth of other men. Being man
and young, he had known temptation, but had disdained it; being also
proud and perhaps haughty in his fastidiousness, and being strong, he
had thrust base and light things aside. He had held in his brain a
fancy from his boyhood, and singularly enough it had but grown stronger
and become more fully formed with his own strength and increase of
years. 'Twas a strange fancy indeed to fit the time he lived in, but
'twas his choice. The woman whose eyes held the answer to the question
his own soul asked, and whose being asked the question to which his own
replied, would bring great and deep joy to him--others did not count in
his existence--and for her he had waited and longed, sometimes so
fiercely, that he wondered if he was in the wrong and but following a
haunting, mocking dream.

"You are an epicure, Osmonde," his Grace of Marlborough said more than
once, for he had watched and studied him closely. "Not an anchorite but
an epicure."

"Yes," answered Osmonde, "perhaps 'tis that. Any man can love a score
of women--most men do--but there are few who can love but one, as I
shall, if--" and the words came slowly--"if I ever find her."

"You may not," remarked his Grace.

"I may not," said Osmonde, and he smiled his faint, grim smile.

He could not have sworn when he returned to the Continent that he had
found her absolutely at last. Her body he had found, but herself he had
not approached nearly enough to know. But this thing he realised, that
even in the mad stories he had heard, when they had been divested of
their madness, the chief figure in them had always stood out an honest,
strong, fair thing, dwarfed by no petty feminine weakness, nor follies,
nor spites. Rules she broke, decorums she defied, but in such manner
as hurt none but herself. She played no tricks and laid no plots for
vengeance, as she might well have done; she but went her daring,
lawless way, with her head up and her great eyes wide open; and 'twas
her fearless frankness and just, clear wit which moved him more than
aught else, since 'twas they which made him feel that 'twas not alone
her splendid body commanded love, but a spirit which might mate with a
strong man's and be companion to his own. His theories of womankind,
which were indeed curiously in advance of his age, were such as
demanded great things, and not alone demanded, but also gave them.

"A man and woman should not seem beings of a different race--the one
all strength, the other all weakness," was his thought. "They should
gaze into each other's eyes with honest, tender human passion, which is
surely a great thing, as nature made it. Each should know the other's
love, and strength, and honour may be trusted through death--or
life--themselves. 'Tis not a woman's love is won by pretty gallantries,
nor a man's by flattering weak surrender. Love grows from a greater
thing, and should be as compelling--even in the higher, finer thing
which thinks--as is the roar of the lion in the jungle to his mate, and
her glad cry which answers him."

And therefore, at last he had said to himself that this beauteous,
strong, wild thing surely might be she who would answer him one day,
and he held his thoughts of her in check no more, nor avoided the
speech he heard of her, and indeed, with adroitness which never
betrayed itself through his reserve of bearing, at times encouraged it;
and in a locked drawer in his apartments, wheresoever he travelled,
there lay always the picture with the stormy, yearning eyes.

From young Tantillion he could, without any apparent approach at
questioning, hear such details of Gloucestershire life in the
neighbourhood of Wildairs as made him feel that he was not far
separated from that which his mind dwelt on. Little Lady Betty, having
entered the world of fashion, was more voluminous in her correspondence
than ever, the more especially as young Langton appeared to her a very
pretty fellow, and he being Tom's confidant, was likely to hear her
letters read, or at least be given extracts from them. Her caustic
condemnation of the fantastical Mistress Clo had gradually lapsed into
a doubtful wonder, which later became open amaze not untinged with a
pretty spitefulness and resentment.

"'Tis indeed a strange thing, and one to make one suspicious of her,
Thomas," she wrote, "with all her bold ways, to suddenly put on such
decorum. We are all sure 'tis from some cunning motive, and wait to
find out what she will be at next. At first none believed she would
hold out or would know how to behave herself, but Lud! if you could see
her I am sure, Tom, both you and Mr. Langton would be disgusted by her
majestic airs. Being dressed in woman's clothing she is taller than
ever, and so holds her chin and her eyes that it makes any modist woman
mad. If she was a Duchess at Court she could not be more stately than
she now pretends she is (for of course it is pretence, as anyone
knows). She has had the vile cunningness to stop her bad langwidg, as
if she had never swore an oath in her life (such deseatfulness!). And
none can tell where she hath learned her manners, for if you will
beleave the thing, 'tis said she never makes a blunder, but can sweep a
great curtsey and sail about a saloon full of company as if she was
bred to it, and can dance a minuet and bear herself at a feast in a way
to surprise you. Lady Maddon says that women who are very vile and
undeserving are sometimes wickedly clever, and can pick up modist
women's manners wondrously, but they always break out before long and
are more indecent than ever; and you may mark my Lady Maddon's words,
she says this one will do the same, but first she is playing a part and
restraining herself that she may deseave some poor gentleman and trap
him into marrying her. It makes Lady Maddon fall into a passion to
talk of her, and she will flush quite red and talk so fast, but indeed
after I see the creature or hear some new story of her impudent
victories, I fall into a passion myself--for, Tom, _no human being can
put her in her place_."

It must be confessed that the attitude of the recipient of these
letters was by no means a respectful one, they being read and re-read
with broad grins and frequent outbursts of roaring laughter, ending in
derisive or admiring comments, even Bob Langton, who had no objection
to pretty Lady Betty's oglings and summing of him as a dangerous beau,
breaking forth into gleeful grinning himself.

"Hang me if some great nobleman won't marry her," cried Tom, "and a
fine lady she'll make, too! Egad, it almost frightens one, for all the
joke of it, to think of a woman who can do such things--to be a madder
romp than any and suddenly to will that she will change in such a way,
and hold herself firm and be beat by naught. 'Tis scarce human. Bet
says that her kinsman, my Lord Twemlow, has took her in hand and is as
proud of her and as fidgety as some match-making mother. And the county
people who would not have spoke to her a year ago, have begun to visit
Wildairs and invite her to their houses, for all the men are wild
after her, and the best way to make an entertainment a fine thing is to
let it be known that she will grace it. Even Sir Jeof and his cronies
are taken in because they shine in her glory and are made decent by
it."

"They say, too," cried Bob Langton, "that she makes them all behave
themselves, telling them that unless their manners are decent they
cannot follow her to the fine houses she is bid to--and she puts them
through a drill and cuts off their drink and their cursings and wicked
stories. And Gloucestershire and Warwickshire and Worcestershire are
all agog with it!"

"And they follow her like slaves," added Tantillion, in an ecstacy,
"and stand about with their mouths open to stare at her swimming though
her minuets with bowing worshippers, and oh! Roxholm--nay, I should say
Osmonde; but how can a man remember you are Duke instead of
Marquis?--'tis told that in the field in her woman's hat and
hunting-coat she is handsomer than ever. Even my Lord Dunstanwolde has
rode to the meet to behold her, and admires her as far as a sober
elderly gentleman can."

That my Lord Dunstanwolde admired her, Osmonde knew. His rare letters
told a grave and dignified gentleman's version of the story and spoke
of it with kindly courtesy and pleasure in it. It had proved that the
change which had come over her had been the result of no caprice or
mischievous spirit but of a reasonable intention, to which she had been
faithful with such consistency of behaviour as filled the gossips and
onlookers with amazement.

"'Tis my belief," said the kindly nobleman, "that being in truth a
noble creature, though bred so wildly, the time came when she realised
herself a woman, and both wit and heart told her that 'twas more
honourable to live a woman's life and not a madcap boy's. And her
intellect being of such vigour and fineness, she can execute what her
thought conceives."

Among the gentlemen who were her courtiers there was much talk of the
fashionable rake Sir John Oxon, who, having appeared at her birthnight
supper, had become madly enamoured of her, and had stayed in the
country at Eldershawe Park and laid siege to her with all his forces
and with much fervour of feeling besides. 'Twas a thing well known that
this successful rake had never lost his heart to a woman in his life
before, and that his victims had all been snared by a part played to
villanous perfection; but 'twas plain enough that at last he had met a
woman who had set that which he called his soul on fire. He could not
tear himself away from the country, though the gayeties of the town
were at their highest. When in her presence his burning blue eyes
followed her every movement, and when she treated him disdainfully he
turned pale.

"But she leaves him no room for boasting," related young Tantillion.
"He may worship as any man may, but she shows no mercy to any, and him
she treats with open scorn when he languishes. He grows thin and pale
and is half-crazed with his passion for her."

There is no man who has given himself up to a growing passion and has
not yet revealed it, who does not pass through many an hour of unrest.
How could it be otherwise? In his absence from the object of his
feeling every man who lives is his possible rival, every woman his
possible enemy, every event a possible obstacle in the way to that he
yearns for. And from this situation there is nothing which can save a
man. He need not be a boy or a fool to be tormented despite himself;
the wisest and gravest are victims to these fits of heat and cold if
they have modesty and know somewhat of the game of chance called Life.
What may not happen to a castle left undefended; what may not be
filched from coffers left unlocked? This is the history of a man who,
despite the lavishness of Fortune and the gifts she had poured forth
before him, was of a stately humility. That he was a Duke and of great
estate, that he had already been caressed by the hand of Fame and had
been born more stalwart and beautiful than nine men of ten, did not,
to his mind, make sure for him the love of any woman whom he had not
served and won. He was of no meek spirit, but he had too much wit and
too great knowledge of the chances of warfare not to know that in
love's campaign, as in any other, a man must be on the field if he
would wield his sword.

So my lord Duke had his days of fret and restlessness as less fortunate
men have them, and being held on the Continent by duties he had
undertaken in calmer moments, lay sometimes awake at night reproaching
himself that he had left England. Such hours do not make a man grow
cooler, and by the time the second year had ripened, the months were
long indeed. Well as he had thought he knew himself, there were times
when the growth of this passion which possessed him awaked in him
somewhat of wonder. 'Twas for one with whom he had yet never exchanged
word or glance, a creature whose wild youth seemed sometimes a century
away from him. There had been so many others who had crossed his
path--great beauties and small ones--but only to this one had his being
cried out aloud.

"It has begun," he had said to himself. "I have heard them tell of
it--of how one woman's face came back to a man again and again, of how
her eyes would look into his and would not leave him or let him rest.
It has begun for me, too."

He had grave duties to perform, affairs of serious import to arrange,
interviews to hold with great personages and small, and though none
might read it in his bearing he found himself ever beholding this face,
ever followed by the eyes which would not leave him and which, had they
done so, would have left him to the dark. Yet this was hid within his
own breast and was his own strange secret which he gave himself up to
dwell upon but when he was alone. When he awakened in the morning he
lay and thought of it and counted that a day had passed and another
begun, and found himself pondering, as all those in his case do, on the
events of the future and the incidents which would lead him to them. At
night, sometimes in long rides or walks he took alone, he lived these
incidents through and imagined he beheld her as she would look when
they first met, as she would look when he told her his purpose in
coming to her. I was talking you over the other day with one very much
your friend, and who had often been with you, both at Paris and in
Italy.

Among the innumerable questions which you may be sure I asked him
concerning you, I happened to mention your dress (for, to say the truth,
it was the only thing of which I thought him a competent judge)
upon which he said that you dressed tolerably well at Paris; but
that in Italy you dressed so ill, that he used to joke with you
upon it, and even to tear your clothes.

Now, I must tell you, that at your age it is as ridiculous not to be
very well dressed, as at my age it would be if I were to wear a white
feather and red-heeled shoes. Dress is one of various ingredients that
contribute to the art of pleasing; it pleases the eyes at least, and
more especially of women.

Address yourself to the senses, if you would please; dazzle the eyes,
soothe and flatter the ears of mankind; engage their hearts, and
let their reason do its worst against you. 'Suaviter in modo' is the
great secret. Whenever you find yourself engaged insensibly, in favor
of anybody of no superior merit nor distinguished talents, examine,
and see what it is that has made those impressions upon you: and you
will find it to be that 'douceur', that gentleness of manners,
that air and address, which I have so often recommended to you; and
from thence draw this obvious conclusion, that what pleases you in
them, will please others in you; for we are all made of the same
clay, though some of the lumps are a little finer, and some a little
coarser; but in general, the surest way to judge of others, is to
examine and analyze one's self thoroughly.

When we meet I will assist you in that analysis, in which every man
wants some assistance against his own self-love.

Adieu.

LETTER CL
GREENWICH, June 30, O.

S. 1751.

MY DEAR FRIEND: Pray give the inclosed to our friend the Abbe; it
is to congratulate him upon his 'Canonicat', which I am really very
glad of, and I hope it will fatten him up to Boileau's 'Chanoine';
at present he is as meagre as an apostle or a prophet.

By the way, has he ever introduced you to la Duchesse d'Aiguillon? If he
has not, make him present you; and if he has, frequent her, and
make her many compliments from me.

She has uncommon, sense and knowledge for a woman, and her house is the
resort of one set of 'les beaux esprits. It is a satisfaction and a
sort of credit to be acquainted with those gentlemen; and it puts a
young fellow in fashion. 'A propos des beaux esprits', you have
'les entries' at Lady Sandwich's; who, old as she was, when I saw
her last, had the strongest parts of any woman I ever knew in my
life?

If you are not acquainted with her, either the Duchesse d'Aiguillon
or Lady Hervey can, and I dare say will; introduce you. I can assure
you, it is very well worth your while, both upon her own account,
and for the sake of the people of wit and learning who frequent her.

In such companies there is always something to be learned as well as
manners; the conversation turns upon something above trifles; some
point of literature, criticism, history, etc., is discussed with
ingenuity and good manners; for I must do the French people of
learning justice; they are not bears, as most of ours are: they are
gentlemen.

Our Abbe writes me word that you were gone to Compiegne: I am very glad
of it; other courts must form you for your own. He tells me too,
that you have left off riding at the 'manege'; I have no objection
to that, it takes up a great deal of the morning; and if you have
got a genteel and firm seat on horseback, it is enough for you, now
that tilts and tournaments are laid aside.

I suppose you have hunted at Compiegne. The King's hunting there, I am
told, is a fine sight. The French manner of hunting is gentlemanlike;
ours is only for bumpkins and boobies. The poor beasts are here pursued
and run down by much greater beasts than themselves, and the true
British fox-hunter is most undoubtedly a species appropriated and
peculiar to this country, which no other part of the globe produces.

I hope you apply the time you have saved from the riding-house to useful
more than to learned purposes; for I can assure you they are very
different things. I would have you allow but one hour a-day for Greek;
and that more to keep what you have than to increase it: by Greek,
I mean useful Greek books, such as Demosthenes, Thucydides, etc.,
and not the poets, with whom you are already enough acquainted.

Your Latin will take care of itself. Whatever more time you may have for
reading, pray bestow it upon those books which are immediately relative
to your destination; such as modern history, in the modern languages,
memoirs, anecdotes, letters, negotiations, etc. Collect also, if
you can, authentically, the present state of all the courts and countries
in Europe, the characters of the kings and princes, their wives, their
ministers, and their w----s; their several views, connections, and
interests; the state of their FINANCES, their military force, their
trade, manufactures, and commerce.

That is the useful, the necessary knowledge for you, and indeed for
every gentleman. But with all this, remember, that living books are much
better than dead ones; and throw away no time (for it is thrown away)
with the latter, which you can employ well with the former; for
books must now be your only amusement, but, by no means your business.
I had much rather that you were passionately in love with some determined
coquette of condition (who would lead you a dance, fashion, supple,
and polish you), than that you knew all Plato and Aristotle by heart:
an hour at Versailles, Compiegne, or St. Cloud, is now worth
more to you than three hours in your closet, with the best books that
ever were written.

I hear the dispute between the court and the clergy is made up amicably,
both parties have yielded something; the king being afraid of
losing more of his soul, and the clergy more of their revenue.

Those gentlemen are very skillful in making the most of the vices
and the weaknesses of the laity. I hope you have read and informed
yourself fully of everything relative to that affair; it is a very
important question, in which the priesthood of every country in Europe
is highly concerned. If you would be thoroughly convinced that their
tithes are of divine institution, and their property the property of
God himself, not to be touched by any power on earth, read Fra Paolo
De Beneficiis, an excellent and short book; for which, and some
other treaties against the court of Rome, he was stilettoed; which
made him say afterward, upon seeing an anonymous book written against
him by order of the Pope, 'Conosco bene to stile Romano'.

The parliament of Paris, and the states of Languedoc, will, I believe,
hardly scramble off; having only reason and justice, but no terrors
on their side. Those are political and constitutional questions that
well deserve your attention and inquiries. I hope you are thoroughly
master of them. It is also worth your while to collect and keep all
the pieces written upon those subjects.

I hope you have been thanked by your ladies, at least, if not paid in
money, for the mohairs, which I sent by a courier to Paris, some
time ago, instead of sending them to Madame Morel, at Calais, as I
told you I should.

Do they like them; and do they like you the better for getting them?
'Le petite Blot devroit au moins payer de sa personne'.

As for Madame de Polignac, I believe you will very willingly hold
her excused from personal payment.

Before you return to England, pray go again to Orli, for two or three
days, and also to St. Cloud, in order to secure a good reception there
at your return. Ask the Marquis de Matignon too, if he has any orders
for you in England, or any letters or packets for Lord Bolingbroke.

Adieu! Go on and prosper.

LETTER CLI
GREENWICH, July 8, O.

S. 1751.

MY DEAR FRIEND: The last mail brought me your letter of the 3d July,
N.

S. I am glad that you are so well with Colonel Yorke, as to be let into
secret correspondences. Lord Albemarle's reserve to you is, I
believe, more owing to his secretary than to himself; for you seem to
be much in favor with him; and possibly too HE HAS NO VERY SECRET
LETTERS to communicate.

However, take care not to discover the least dissatisfaction upon this
score: make the proper acknowledgments to Colonel Yorke, for what
he does show you; but let neither Lord Albemarle nor his people perceive
the least coldness on your part, upon account of what they do not show
you. It is very often necessary, not to manifest all one feels.

Make your court to, and connect yourself as much as possible with
Colonel Yorke; he may be of great use to you hereafter; and when you
take leave, not only offer to bring over any letters or packets, by
way of security; but even ask, as a favor, to be the carrier of a
letter from him to his father, the Chancellor. 'A propos' of your coming
here; I confess that I am weakly impatient for it, and think a
few days worth getting; I would, therefore, instead of the 25th
of next month, N. S., which was the day that I some time ago appointed
for your leaving Paris, have you set out on Friday the 20th of August,
N. S.; in consequence of which you will be at Calais some time on the
Sunday following, and probably at Dover within four-and-twenty hours
afterward. If you land in the morning, you may, in a postchaise, get
to Sittingborne that day; if you come on shore in the evening,
you can only get to Canterbury, where you will be better lodged than
at Dover. I will not have you travel in the night, nor fatigue and
overheat yourself by running on fourscore miles the moment you land. You
will come straight to Blackheath, where I shall be ready to meet you,
and which is directly upon the Dover road to London; and we will
go to town together, after you have rested yourself a day or two
here. All the other directions, which I gave you in my former letter,
hold still the same.
But, notwithstanding this regulation, should you have any particular
reasons for leaving Paris two or three days sooner or later, than
the above mentioned, 'vous etes maitre'. Make all your arrangements
at Paris for about a six weeks stay in England at farthest.

I had a letter the other day from Lord Huntingdon, of which one-half
at least was your panegyric; it was extremely welcome to me from so
good a hand. Cultivate that friendship; it will do you honor and give
you strength.

Connections, in our mixed parliamentary government, are of great use.

I send you here inclosed the particular price of each of the mohairs;
but I do not suppose that you will receive a shilling for anyone
of them.

However, if any of your ladies should take an odd fancy to pay, the
shortest way, in the course of business, is for you to keep the
money, and to take so much less from Sir John Lambert in your next
draught upon him.

I am very sorry to hear that Lady Hervey is ill.

Paris does not seem to agree with her; she used to have great health
here. 'A propos' of her; remember, when you are with me, not to mention
her but when you and I are quite alone, for reasons which I will tell
you when we meet: but this is only between you and me; and I desire
that you will not so much as hint it to her, or to anybody else.

If old Kurzay goes to the valley of Jehoshaphat, I cannot help it; it
will be an ease to our friend Madame Montconseil, who I believe
maintains her, and a little will not satisfy her in any way.

Remember to bring your mother some little presents; they need not be
of value, but only marks of your affection and duty for one who has
always been tenderly fond of you. You may bring Lady Chesterfield a
little Martin snuffbox of about five Louis; and you need bring
over no other presents; you and I not wanting 'les petits presens
pour entretenir l'amitee'.

Since I wrote what goes before, I have talked you over minutely with
Lord Albemarle, who told me, that he could very sincerely commend
you upon every article but one; but upon that one you were often
joked, both by him and others.

I desired to know what that was; he laughed and told me it was the article
of dress, in which you were exceedingly negligent.
Though he laughed, I can assure you that it is no laughing matter for
you; and you will possibly be surprised when I assert (but, upon my
word, it is literally true), that to be very well dressed is of much
more importance to you, than all the Greek you know will, be of these
thirty years. Remember that the world is now your only business; and
that you must adopt its customs and manners, be they silly or be they
not. To neglect your dress, is an affront to all the women you keep
company with; as it implies that you do not think them worth that
attention which everybody else doth; they mind dress, and you will
never please them if you neglect yours; and if you do not please
the women, you will not please half the men you otherwise might.

It is the women who put a young fellow in fashion even with the men. A
young fellow ought to have a certain fund of coquetry; which should
make him try all the means of pleasing, as much as any coquette in Europe
can do. Old as I am, and little thinking of women, God knows, I am very
far from being negligent of my dress; and why? From conformity to
custom, and out of decency to men, who expect that degree of
complaisance. I do not, indeed, wear feathers and red heels,
which would ill suit my age; but I take care to have my clothes well
made, my wig well combed and powdered, my linen and person
extremely clean. I even allow my footman forty shillings a year
extraordinary, that they may be spruce and neat. Your figure especially,
which from its stature cannot be very majestic and interesting,
should be the more attended to in point of dress as it cannot be
'imposante', it should be 'gentile, aimable, bien mise'. It will not
admit of negligence and carelessness.

I believe Mr. Hayes thinks that you have slighted him a little of late,
since you have got into so much other company. I do not by any means
blame you for not frequenting his house so much as you did at first,
before you had got into so many other houses more entertaining and more
instructing than his; on the contrary, you do very well; but,
however, as he was extremely civil to you, take care to be so to him,
and make up in manner what you omit in matter. See him, dine with him
before you come away, and ask his commands for England.

Your triangular seal is done, and I have given it to an English
gentleman, who sets out in a week for Paris, and who will deliver it to
Sir John Lambert for you.

I cannot conclude this letter without returning again to the showish,
the ornamental, the shining parts of your character; which, if you
neglect, upon my word you will render the solid ones absolutely useless;
nay, such is the present turn of the world, that some valuable qualities
are even ridiculous, if not accompanied by the genteeler
accomplishments.
Plainness, simplicity, and quakerism, either in dress or manners,
will by no means do; they must both be laced and embroidered;
speaking, or writing sense, without elegance and turn, will be very
little persuasive; and the best figure in the world, without air
and address, will be very ineffectual.

Some pedants may have told you that sound sense and learning stand in,
need of no ornaments; and, to support that assertion, elegantly
quote the vulgar proverb, that GOOD WINE NEEDS NO BUSH; but surely the
little experience you have already had of the world must have convinced
you that the contrary of that assertion is true. All those accomplishments
are now in your power; think of them, and of them only. I hope you
frequent La Foire St. Laurent, which I see is now open; you will
improve more by going there with your mistress, than by staying
at home and reading Euclid with your geometry master.

Adieu. 'Divertissez-vous, il n'y a rien de tel'.

LETTER CLII

GREENWICH, July 15, O. S. 1751
MY DEAR FRIEND: As this is the last, or last letter but one, that I
think I shall write before I have the pleasure of seeing you here,
it may not be amiss to prepare you a little for our interview, and
for the time we shall pass together.

Before kings and princes meet, ministers on each side adjust the
important points of precedence, arm chairs, right hand and left, etc.,
so that they know previously what they are to expect, what they have
to trust to; and it is right they should; for they commonly envy or
hate, but most certainly distrust each other.

We shall meet upon very different terms; we want no such preliminaries:
you know my tenderness, I know your affection. My only object,
therefore, is to make your short stay with me as useful as I can to
you; and yours, I hope, is to co-operate with me. Whether, by making
it wholesome, I shall make it pleasant to you, I am not sure. Emetics
and cathartics I shall not administer, because I am sure you do
not want them; but for alteratives you must expect a great many;
and I can tell you that I have a number of NOSTRUMS, which I shall
communicate to nobody but yourself.

To speak without a metaphor, I shall endeavor to assist your youth
with all the experience that I have purchased, at the price of
seven and fifty years. In order to this, frequent reproofs,
corrections, and admonitions will be necessary; but then, I promise
you, that they shall be in a gentle, friendly, and secret manner;
they shall not put you out of countenance in company, nor out of humor
when we are alone. I do not expect that, at nineteen, you should have
that knowledge of the world, those manners, that dexterity, which
few people have at nine-and-twenty.

But I will endeavor to give them you; and I am sure you will
endeavor to learn them, as far as your youth, my experience, and the
time we shall pass together, will allow.

You may have many inaccuracies (and to be sure you have, for who has not
at your age?) which few people will tell you of, and some nobody
can tell you of but myself.

You may possibly have others, too, which eyes less interested, and less
vigilant than mine, do not discover; all those you shall hear of from
one whose tenderness for you will excite his curiosity and sharpen
his penetration. The smallest inattention or error in manners, the
minutest inelegance of diction, the least awkwardness in your dress
and carriage, will not escape my observation, nor pass without
amicable correction.

Two, the most intimate friends in the world, can freely tell each other
their faults, and even their crimes, but cannot possibly tell each
other of certain little weaknesses; awkwardnesses, and blindnesses of
self-love; to authorize that unreserved freedom, the relation between
us is absolutely necessary.
For example, I had a very worthy friend, with whom I was intimate
enough to tell him his faults; he had but few; I told him of them; he
took it kindly of me, and corrected them. But then, he had some
weaknesses that I could never tell him of directly, and which he was
so little sensible of himself, that hints of them were lost upon him.
He had a scrag neck, of about a yard long; notwithstanding
which, bags being in fashion, truly he would wear one to his
wig, and did so; but never behind him, for, upon every motion of his
head, his bag came forward over one shoulder or the other. He took it
into his head too, that he must occasionally dance minuets, because
other people did; and he did so, not only extremely ill, but so
awkward, so disjointed, slim, so meagre, was his figure, that had
he danced as well as ever Marcel did, it would have been ridiculous
in him to have danced at all.

I hinted these things to him as plainly as friendship would allow,
and to no purpose; but to have told him the whole, so as to
cure him, I must have been his father, which, thank God, I am not. As
fathers commonly go, it is seldom a misfortune to be fatherless;
and, considering the general run of sons, as seldom a misfortune to
be childless.

You and I form, I believe, an exception to that rule; for, I am persuaded
that we would neither of us change our relation, were it in our
power. You will, I both hope and believe, be not only the comfort, but
the pride of my age; and, I am sure, I will be the support, the
friend, the guide of your youth.

Trust me without reserve; I will advise you without private interest,
or secret envy. Mr.
His eye had fallen upon a long mirror standing near, but he did not see
what was reflected there, and gazed through and beyond it as if at
another thing. And yet the image before him was one which might have
removed doubt of himself from any man's heart, it being of such
gracious height and manly strength, and, with its beauteous leonine eye
and brow, its high bearing, and the richness of its apparel, so noble a
picture.

He turned away unseeing, with a smile and half a sigh of deep and
tender passion. "May I ride home," he said, "as Hugh de Mertoun
did--four hundred years ago!"


When they arrived at their entertainer's house the festivities were at
full; brilliant light shone from every window and streamed from the
wide entrance in a flood, coaches rolled up the avenue and waited for
place before the door, from within strains of music floated out to the
darkness of the night, and as the steps were mounted each arrival
caught glimpses of the gay scene within: gentlemen in velvet and
brocade and ladies attired in all the rich hues of a bed of
flowers--crimson, yellow, white and blue, purple and gold and rose.

Their young host met them on the threshold and welcomed them with
boyish pride and ardour. He could scarce contain himself for pleasure
at being so honoured in his first hospitalities by the great kinsman of
his house, who, though but arrived at early maturity, was already
spoken of as warrior, statesman, and honoured favourite at Court.

"We are but country gentry, your Grace," he said, reddening boyishly,
when he had at length led them up the great stairway to the ball-room,
"and most of us have seen little of the world. As for me, I have but
just come from Cambridge, where I fear I did myself small credit. In my
father's day we went but seldom to town, as he liked horses and dogs
better than fine company. So I know nothing of Court beauties, but
to-night--" and he reddened a little more and ended somewhat
awkwardly--"to-night you will see here a beauty who surely cannot be
outshone at Court, and men tell me cannot be matched there."

"'Tis Mistress Clorinda Wildairs he speaks of," said Sir Christopher
Crowell, who stood near, rubicund in crimson, and he said it with an
uncourtly wink; "and, ecod! he's right--though I am not 'a town man.'"

"He is enamoured of her," he added in proud confidence later when he
found himself alone for a moment by his Grace. "The youngsters are all
so--and men who are riper, too. Good Lord, look at me who have dandled
her on my knee when she was but five years old--and am her slave,"
chuckling. "She's late to-night. Mark the fellows loitering about the
doors and on the stairway. 'Tis that each hopes to be the first to
catch her eye."

'Twas but a short time afterward my lord Duke had made his way to the
grand staircase himself, it being his intention to go to a lower room,
and reaching the head of it he paused for a moment to gaze at the
brilliant scene. The house was great and old, and both halls and
stairway of fine proportions, and now, brilliant with glow of light and
the moving colour of rich costumes, presented indeed a comely sight.
And he had no sooner paused to look down than he heard near by a murmur
of low exclamation, and close at his side a man broke forth in rough
ecstacy to his companion.

"Clorinda, by Gad!" he said, "and crowned with roses! The vixen makes
them look as if they were built of rubies in every leaf."

And from below she came--up the broad stairway, upon her father's arm.

Well might their eyes follow her indeed, and well might his own look
down upon her, burning. The strange compellingness of her power, which
was a thing itself apart from beauty, and would have ruled for her had
she not possessed a single charm, had so increased that he felt himself
change colour at the mere sight of her. Oh! 'twas not the colour and
height and regal shape of her which were her splendour, but this one
Heaven-born, unconquerable thing. Her lip seemed of a deeper scarlet,
the full roundness of her throat rose from among her laces, bound with
a slender circlet of glittering stars, her eyes had grown deeper and
more melting, and yet held a great flame. Nay, she seemed a flame
herself--of life, of love, of spirit which naught could daunt or quell,
and on her high-held imperial head she wore a wreath of roses red as
blood.

"She will look up," he thought, "she will look up at me."

But she did not, though he could have sworn that which he felt should
have arrested her. Somewhat seemed to hold her oblivious of those who
were near her; she gazed straight before her as if expecting to see
something, and as she passed my lord Duke on the landing, a heavy
velvet rose broke from her crown and fell at his very foot.

He bent low to pick it up, the blood surging in his veins--and when he
raised himself, holding it in his hand, she was moving onward through
the crowd which closed behind to gaze and comment on her--and his
kinsman Dunstanwolde came forward from an antechamber, his gentle, high
bred face and sweet grey eyes glowing with greeting.

Those of reflective habit may indeed find cause for thought in
realising the power of small things over great, of rule over important
events, of ordinary social observance over the most powerful emotion a
man or woman may be torn or uplifted by. He whose greatest longing on
earth is to speak face to face to the friend whom ill fortune has
caused to think him false, seeing this same friend in a crowded street
a hundred yards distant, cannot dash the passers-by aside and race
through or leap over them to reach, before it is too late, the beloved
object he beholds about to disappear; he cannot arrest that object with
loud outcries, such conduct being likely to cause him to be taken for a
madman, and restrained by the other lookers-on; the tender woman whose
heart is breaking under the weight of misunderstanding between herself
and him she loves, is powerless to attract and detain him if he passes
her, either unconscious of her nearness or of intention coldly averting
his gaze from her pleading eyes. She may know that, once having
crossed the room where she sits in anguish, all hope is lost that they
may meet again on this side of the grave. She may know that a dozen
words would fill his heart with joy, and that all life would smile to
both henceforth, but she cannot force her way to his side in public;
she cannot desert without ceremony the stranger who is conversing
courteously; she cannot cry out, she may not even speak, it may be that
it is not possible that she should leave her place--and he who is her
heart's blood approaches slowly--is near--has passed--is gone--and all
has come to bitter, cruel end. In my lord Duke of Osmonde's mind there
was no thought of anguish or the need for it; he but realised that he
had felt an unreasonable pang when she whom he had so desired to behold
had passed him by unnoticed. 'Twas after all a mere trick of chance,
and recalled to him the morning two years before, when he had heard her
horse's feet splashing through the mire of the narrow lane, and had
drawn his own beast aside while she galloped past unaware of his
nearness, and with the strange, absorbed, and almost fierce look in her
eyes. He had involuntarily gathered his bridle to follow her and then
had checked his impulse, realising its impetuousness, and had turned to
ride homeward with a half smile on his lips but with his heart
throbbing hard. But what perchance struck him most to-night, was that
her eyes wore a look unlike, yet somehow akin, to that which he had
marked and been moved by then--as if storm were hid within their
shadows and she herself was like some fine wild thing at bay.

There would have been little becomingness in his hastening after her
and his Lordship of Dunstanwolde; his court to her must be paid with
grace and considerateness. If there were men who in their eagerness
forgot their wit and tact, he was not one of them.

He turned to re-enter the ball-room and approach her there, and on the
threshold encountered young Colin, who looked for the moment pale.

"Did you see her?" he asked. "She has but just passed through the room
with my Lord Dunstanwolde--Mistress Clorinda," he added, with a little
rueful laugh. "In Gloucestershire there is but one 'she.' When we speak
of the others we use their names and call them Mistress Margaret or my
Lady Betty--or Jane."

"I stood at the head of the stairway as she passed," answered Osmonde.

"It cannot be true," the lad broke forth; "it makes me mad even to hear
it spoke--though he is a courtly gentleman and rich and of high
standing--but he is old enough to be her grandfather. Though she is
such a woman, she is but seventeen, and my lord is near seventy."

Osmonde turned an inquiring gaze upon him, and the boy broke into his
confused half-laugh again.

"I speak of my Lord Dunstanwolde," he said. "Twice he has asked her to
be his Countess, and all say that to-night she is to give him her
answer. Jack Oxon has heard it and is mad enough. Look at him as he
stands by the archway there. His eyes are like blue steel and he can
scarce hide his rage. But better she should take Dunstanwolde than
Jack"--hotly.

The musicians were playing a minuet in the gallery, there was dancing,
slow, stately movements and deep obeisance going on in the room,
couples were passing to and fro, and here and there groups stood and
watched. My lord Duke stood and watched also; a little court had
gathered about him and he must converse with those who formed it, or
listen with gracious attention to their remarks. But his grace and
composure cost him an effort. There came back to him the story old Lady
Storms had told in Vienna and which he had not believed and had even
forgot. The memory of it returned to him with singular force and
clearness. He told himself that still it could not be true, that his
young host's repetition of it rose from the natural uneasy jealousy of
a boy--and yet the pageant of the brilliant figures moving before him
seemed to withdraw themselves as things do in a dream. He remembered
my Lord Dunstanwolde's years and his faithfulness to the love of his
youth, and there arose before him the young look he had worn when they
met in the avenue, his words, "'Tis hope which makes new summer," and
the music of the minuet sounded distant in his ears, while as it rang
there, he knew he should not forget it to his life's end. Yet no, it
could not be so. A gentleman near seventy and a girl of seventeen! And
still, to follow the thought honestly, even at seven and sixty years my
Lord had greater grace and charm than many a man not half his age. And
with that new youth and tenderness in his eyes no woman could shrink
from him, at least. And still it could not be true, for Fate herself
had driven him to this place--Nature and Fate.

[Illustration: "Your Grace, it is this lady who is to do me the great
honour of becoming my Lady Dunstanwolde"]

Sir John Oxon stood near the doorway, striving to smile, but biting his
lip; here and there his Grace vaguely observed that there seemed new
talk among the moving couples and small gathered groups. About the
entrance there was a stirring and looking out into the corridor, and in
a moment or so more the company parted and gave way, and his Lordship
of Dunstanwolde entered, with Mistress Clorinda upon his arm; he,
gracefully erect in bearing, as a conqueror returning from his victory.

An exclamation broke from the young Colin which was like a low cry.

"Tis true!" he said. "Yes, yes; 'tis in his eyes. 'Tis done--'tis
done!"

His Grace of Osmonde turned towards his kinsman, who he saw was
approaching him, and greeted him with a welcoming smile; the red rose
was still held in his hand. He stood drawn to his full height, a
stately, brilliant figure, with his orders glittering on his breast,
his fine eyes deeply shining--waiting.

The company parted before the two advancing figures--his lordship's
rich violet velvet, the splendid rose and silver making a wondrous wave
of colour, the wreath of crimson flowers on the black hair seeming like
a crown of triumph.

Before my lord Duke they paused, and never had the old Earl's gentle,
high bred face worn so tenderly affectionate a smile, or his grey eyes
so sweet a light.

"My honoured kinsman, his Grace the Duke of Osmonde," he said to her
who glowed upon his arm. "Your Grace, it is this lady who is to do me
the great honour of becoming my Lady Dunstanwolde."

And they were face to face, her great orbs looking into his own, and he
saw a thing which lay hid in their very depths--and his own flashed
despite himself, and hers fell; and he bowed low, and she swept a
splendid curtsey to the ground.

So, for the first time in their lives, he looked into her eyes.


_CHAPTER XVIII_

_A Night in which my Lord Duke Did Not Sleep_


As they rolled over the roads on their way homeward, in the darkness of
their coach, my Lord Dunstanwolde spoke of his happiness and told its
story. There was no approach to an old lover's exultant folly in his
talk; his voice was full of noble feeling, and in his manner there was
somewhat like to awe of the great joy which had befallen him. To him
who listened to the telling 'twas a strange relation indeed, since each
incident seemed to reveal to him a blindness in himself. Why had he not
read the significance of a score of things which he could now recall? A
score of things?--a hundred! Because he had been in his early prime,
and full of the visions and passions of youth, he had not for one
moment dreamed that a man who was so far his senior could be a man
still, his heart living enough to yearn and ache, his eyes clear to see
the radiance others saw, and appraise it as adoringly. 'Twas the common
fault of youth to think to lead the world and to sweep aside from its
path all less warm-blooded, strong-limbed creatures, feeling their day
was done for them, and that for them there was naught left but to wait
quietly for the end. There was an ignobleness in it--a self-absorption
which was almost dishonour. And in this way he had erred as far as any
stripling with blooming cheeks and girlish love-locks who thought that
nine and twenty struck the knell of love and life. 'Twas thoughts like
these that were passing through his mind as they were driven through
the darkness--at least they were the thoughts upon the surface of his
mind, while below them surged a torrent into whose darkness he dared
not look. He was a man, and he had lost her--lost her! She had become a
part of his being--and she had been torn from his side. "Let me but
look into your eyes," he had said, and he had looked and read her
answering soul--too late!

"I have passed through dark days, Gerald," my lord was saying. "How
should I have dared to hope that she would give herself to me? I had
been mad to hope it. And yet a man in my case must plead, whether he
despairs or not. I think 'twas her gentleness to Mistress Anne which
has sustained me. That poor gentlewoman and I have the happiness to
know her heart as others do not. Thank God, 'tis so! When to-night I
said to her sadly, 'Madam, my youth is long past,' she stopped me with
a strange and tender little cry. She put her hand upon my shoulder. Ah,
its soft touch, its white, kind caress! 'Youth is not all,' she said.
'I have known younger men who could not bring a woman truth and
honourable love. 'Tis not I who give, 'tis not I,' and the full sweet
red of her mouth quivered. I--have not yet dared to touch it, Gerald."
And his voice was sad as well as reverent. "Youth would have been more
bold."

In his dark corner of the coach his Grace checked breath to control a
start. In the past he had had visions such as all men have--and all was
lost! And to-morrow his kinsman would have gained courage to look his
new bliss in the face--the autumn of his days would be warmed by a late
glow of the sun, but that long summer which yet lay before himself
would know no flame of gold. The years he had spent in training his
whole being to outward self-control at least did service to him now,
and aided him to calm, affectionate speech.

"You will make her life a happy one, my Lord," he said, "and you will
be a joyous man indeed."

Together they conversed on this one subject until their journey was
over. When they had passed through the hall and stood at length in the
light of the apartment in which it was their custom to sit, Osmonde
beheld in my lord's face the freshness and glow he had marked on his
arrival, increased tenfold, and now he well understood. In truth, the
renewal of his life was a moving thing to see. He stood by the mantel,
his arm resting upon it, his forehead in his hand, for a little space
in silence and as if lost in thought.

"She is a goddess," he said, "and because she is so, can be humble. Had
you but seen her, Gerald, when she spoke. ''Tis not I who give,' she
saith. 'You are a great Earl, I am a poor beauty--a shrew--a hoyden. I
give naught but this!' and flung her fair arms apart with a great
lovely gesture and stood before me stately, her beauty glowing like the
sun."

He drew a deep sigh of tenderness and looked up with a faint start.
"'Tis not fair I should fatigue you with my ecstasy," he said. "You
look pale, Gerald. You are generous to listen with such patience."

"I need no patience," answered my lord Duke with noble warmth, "to aid
me to listen to the kinsman I have loved from childhood when he speaks
of his happiness with the fairest woman in the world. Having seen her
to-night, I do not wonder she is called so by her worshippers."

"The fairest and the noblest," said my Lord. "Great Heaven, how often
have I sate alone in this very room calling myself a madman in my
despair! And now 'tis past! Sure it cannot be true?"

"'Tis true, my dear Lord," said Osmonde, "for I beheld it."

"Had you been in my place," his lordship said with his grave, kindly
look, "you need not have wondered at your fortune. If you had lived in
Warwickshire instead of winning laurels in campaign you might have been
my rival if you would--and I a hopeless man--and she a Duchess. But you
two never met."

My lord Duke held out his hand and grasped his kinsman's with friendly
sympathy.

"Until to-night we never met," he said. "'Twas Fate ordained it so--and
I would not be your rival, for we have loved each other too long. I
must wait to find another lady, and she will be Countess of
Dunstanwolde."

He bore himself composedly until they had exchanged the final
courtesies and parted for the night, and having mounted the stairs had
passed through the long gallery which led him to his apartments. When
he opened the door it seemed to his fancy that the wax tapers burned
but dimly amid the shadows of the great room, and that the pictured
faces hanging on the walls looked white and gazed as if aghast.

The veins were swollen in his temples and throbbed hard, his blood
coursed hot and cold alternately, there were drops starting out upon
his brow. He had not known his passions were so tempestuous and that he
could be prey to such pangs of anguish and of rage. Hitherto he had
held himself in check, but now 'twas as if he had lost his hold on the
reins which controlled galloping steeds. The blood of men who had been
splendid savages centuries ago ran wild within him. His life for thirty
years had been noble and just and calm. Being endowed with all gifts by
Nature and his path made broad by Fortune, he had dealt in high honour
with all bestowed upon him. But now for this night he knew he was a
different man, and that his hour had come.

He stood in the centre of the chamber and tossed up his hands, laughing
a mad, low, harsh laugh.

"Not as Hugh de Mertoun came back," he said. "Good God! no, no!"

The rage of him, body and soul, made him sick and suffocated him.

"Could a man go mad in such case?" he cried. "I am not sane! I cannot
reason! I would not have believed it."

His arteries so throbbed that he tore open the lace at his throat and
flung back his head. "I cannot reason!" he said. "I know now how men
_kill_. And yet he is as sweet a soul as Heaven ever made." He paced
the great length of the chamber to and fro.

"'Tis not Nature," he said. "It cannot be borne--he to hold her to his
breast, and _I--I_ to stand aside. Her eyes--her lovely, melting,
woman's eyes!"

Men have been mad before for less of the same torment, and he whose
nature was fire, and whose imagination had the power to torture him by
picturing all he had lost and all another man had won, was only saved
because he knew his frenzy.

"To this place itself she will be brought," he thought. "In these rooms
she will move, wife and queen and mistress. He will so worship her that
she cannot but melt to him. At the mere thought of it my brain reels."

He knew that his thoughts were half delirium, his words half raving,
yet he could not control them, and thanked chance that his apartment
was near none other which was occupied, and that he could stride about
and stamp his foot upon the floor, and yet no sound be heard beyond the
massive walls and doors. Outside such walls, in the face of the world,
he must utter no word, show no sign by any quiver of a muscle; and
'twas the realisation of the silence he must keep, the poignard stabs
he must endure without movement, which at this hour drove him to
madness.

"This is but the beginning," he groaned. "Since I am his kinsman and we
have been friends, I am bound as a man upon the rack is bound while he
is torn limb from limb. I must see it all--there will be no escape. At
their marriage I must attend them. God save me--taking my fit place as
the chief of my house at the nuptials of a well beloved kinsman, I must
share in the rejoicings, and be taunted by his rapture and her eyes.
Nay, nay, she cannot gaze at him as she would have gazed at me--she
cannot! Yet how shall I endure!"

For hours he walked to and fro, the mere sense of restless movement
being an aid to his mood. Sometimes again he flung himself into a seat
and sat with hidden eyes. But he could not shut out the pictures his
fevered fancy painted for him. A man of strong imagination, and who is
possessed by a growing passion, cannot fail to depict to himself, and
live in, vivid dreams of that future of his hopes which is his chiefest
joy. So he had dreamed, sometimes almost with the wild fervour of a
boy, smiling while he did it, at his own pleasure in the mere detail
his fancy presented to him. In these day-dreams his wealth, the beauty
and dignity of his estates, the brilliant social atmosphere his rank
assured him, had gained a value he had never recognised before. He
remembered now, with torturing distinctness, the happy day when it had
first entered his mind, that those things which had been his daily
surroundings from his childhood would all be new pleasures to her, all
in strong contrast to the atmosphere of her past years. His heart
actually leapt at the thought of the smilingness of fortune which had
lavished upon him so much, that 'twould be rapture to him to lay at her
feet. He had remembered tenderly the stately beauty of his beloved
Camylott, the bosky dells at Marlowell Dane, the quaint dignity of the
Elizabethan manor at Paulyn Dorlocke, the soft hills near Mertounhurst,
where myriads of harebells grew and swayed in the summer breeze as it
swept them; and the clear lake in the park at Roxholm, where the deer
came to drink, and as a boy he had lain in his boat and rocked among
the lily-pads in the early morning, when the great white water-flowers
spread their wax cups broad and seemed to hold the gold of the sun. His
life had been so full of beauty and fair things; wheresoever his lot
had fallen at any time he had had fair days, fair nights, and earth's
loveliness to behold. And all he had loved and joyed in, he had known
she would love and joy in, too. What a chatelaine she would make, he
had thought; how the simple rustic folk would worship her! What a fit
setting for her beauty would seem the grand saloons of Osmonde House!
What a fit and queen-like wearer she would be for the marvellous jewels
which had crowned fair heads and clasped fair throats and arms for
centuries! There were diamonds all England had heard rumour of, and he
had even lost himself in a lover's fancy of an hour when he himself
would clasp a certain dazzling collar round the column of her throat,
and never yet had he given himself to the fancy but in his vision he
had laid his lips on the warm whiteness when 'twas done, and lost
himself in a passionate kiss--and she had turned and smiled a heavenly
answering bridal smile.

This he remembered now, clinching his hands until he drove the nails
into his palms.

"I have been madder than I thought," he said. "Yes, 'twas madness--but
'twas Nature, too! Good God!" his forehead dropping in his hand and he
panting. "I feel as if she had been a year my wife, and another man had
torn her from my breast. And yet she has not been mine an hour--nor
ever will be--and she is Dunstanwolde's, who, while I wake in torment,
dreams in bliss, as is his honest, heavenly right." Even to the torment
he had no claim, but in being torn by it seemed but robbing another
man. What a night of impotent rage it was, of unreasoning, hopeless
hatred of himself, of his fate, and even of the man who was his rival,
though at his worst he reviled his frenzy, which could be so base as to
rend unjustly a being without blame.

'Twas not himself who hated, but the madness in his blood which for
this space ran riot.

At dawn, when the first glimmer of light began to pale the skies, he
found himself sitting by the wide-thrown casement still in the attire
he had worn the night before. For the first time since he had been born
his splendid normal strength had failed him and he was heavy with
unnatural fatigue. He sate looking out until the pale tint had deepened
to primrose and the primrose into sunrise gold; birds wakened in the
trees' broad branches and twittered and flew forth; the sward and
flowers were drenched with summer dews, and as the sun changed the
drops to diamonds he gazed upon the lovely peace and breathed in the
fresh fragrance of the early morn with a deep sigh, knowing his frenzy
past but feeling that it had left him a changed man.

"Yes," he said, "I have been given too beauteous and smooth a life.
Till now Fate has denied me nothing, and I have gone on my way
unknowing it has been so, and fancying that if misfortune came I should
bear it better than another man. 'Twas but human vanity to believe in
powers which never had been tried. Self-command I have preached to
myself, calmness and courage; for years I have believed I possessed
them all and was Gerald Mertoun's master, and yet at the first blow I
spend hours of the night in madness and railing against Fate. But one
thing I can comfort myself with--that I wore a calm face and could
speak like a man--until I was alone. Thank God for that."

As he sate he laid his plans for the future, knowing that he must lay
out for himself such plans and be well aware of what he meant to do,
that he might at no time betray himself to his kinsman and by so doing
cast a shadow on his joy.

"Should he guess that it has been paid for by my despair," he said,
"'twould be so marred for his kind heart that I know not how he would
bear the thought. 'Twould be to him as if he had found himself the
rival of the son he loved. He has loved me, Heaven knows, and I have
loved him. Tis an affection which must last."

My Lord Dunstanwolde had slept peacefully and risen early. He was full
of the reflections natural to a man to whom happiness has come and the
whole tenor of whose future life must be changed in its domestic
aspect, whose very household must wear a brighter face, and whose
entire method of existence will wear new and more youthful form. He
walked forth upon his domain, glad of its beauty and the heavenly
brightness of the day which showed it fair. He had spent an hour out of
doors, and returning to the terrace fronting the house, where already
the peacocks had begun to walk daintily, spreading or trailing their
gorgeous iridescent plumes, he looked up at his kinsman's casement and
gave a start. My lord Duke sate there still in his gala apparel of
white and gold brocade, his breast striped by the broad blue ribbon of
the Garter, jewelled stars shining on his coat.

"Gerald," he called to him in alarm, "you are still dressed! Are you
ill, my dear boy!"

Osmonde rose to his feet with a quickness of movement which allayed his
momentary fear; he waved his hand with a greeting smile.

"'Tis nothing," he answered, "I was a little ailing, and after 'twas
past I fell asleep in my chair. The morning air has but just awaked
me."


_CHAPTER XIX_

"_Then you might have been one of those----_"


When the Earl and Countess of Dunstanwolde arrived in town and took up
their abode at Dunstanwolde House, which being already one of the
finest mansions, was made still more stately by its happy owner's
command, the world of fashion was filled with delighted furore. Those
who had heard of the Gloucestershire beauty by report were stirred to
open excitement, and such as had not already heard rumours of her were
speedily informed of all her past by those previously enlightened. The
young lady who had so high a spirit as to have at times awakened
somewhat of terror in those who were her adversaries; the young lady
who had made such a fine show in male attire, and of whom it had been
said that she could outleap, outfence, and outswear any man her size,
had made a fine match indeed, marrying an elderly nobleman and widower,
who for years had lived the life of a recluse, at last becoming
hopelessly enamoured of one who might well be his youngest child.

"What will she do with him?" said a flippant modish lady to his Grace
of Osmonde one morning. "How will she know how to bear herself like a
woman of quality?"

"Should you once behold her, madam," said his Grace, "you will know how
she would bear herself were she made Queen."

"Faith!" exclaimed the lady, "with what a grave, respectful air you say
it. I thought the young creature but a joke."

"She is no joke," Osmonde answered, with a faint, cold smile.

"'Tis plain enough 'tis true what is said--the men all lose their
hearts to her. We thought your Grace was adamant"--with simpering
roguishness.

"The last two years I have spent with the army in Flanders," said my
lord Duke, "and her Ladyship of Dunstanwolde is the wife of my
favourite kinsman."

'Twas this last fact which was the bitterest thing of all, and which
made his fate most hard to bear with patience. What he had dreaded had
proven itself true, and more. Had my Lord Dunstanwolde been a stranger
to him or a mere acquaintance he could have escaped all, or at least
the greater part, of what he now must endure. As the chief of his house
his share in the festivities attendant upon the nuptials had been
greater than that of any other man. As one who seemed through their
long affection to occupy almost the place of a son to the bridegroom,
it had been but natural that he should do him all affectionate service,
show the tenderest courtesy to his bride, and behold all it most
tortured him to see. His gifts had been the most magnificent, his words
of friendly gratulation the warmest. When they were for a few moments,
on the wedding-day, alone, his Lordship had spoken to him of the joy
which made him pale.

"Gerald," he said, "I could speak to none other of it. Your great heart
will understand. 'Tis almost too sacred for words. Shall I waken from a
dream? Surely, 'tis too heavenly sweet to last."

Would it last? his kinsman asked himself in secret, could it? Could
one, like her, and who had lived her life, feel an affection for a
consort so separated from her youth and bloom by years? She was so
young, and all the dazzling of the world was new. What beauteous,
high-spirited, country-bred creature of eighteen would not find its
dazzle blind her eyes so that she could scarce see aright? He asked
himself the questions with a pang. To expect that she should not even
swerve with the intoxication of it, was to expect that she should be
nigh superhuman, and yet if she should fail, and step down from the
high shrine in which his passion had placed her, this would be the
fiercest anguish of all.

"Were she mine," he cried, inwardly, "I could hold and guide her with
love's hand. We should be lost in love, and follies and Courts would
have no power. Love would be her shield and mine. Poor gentleman,"
remembering the tender worship in my Lord's kind face; "how can she
love him as _he_ loves _her_? But oh, she should--she _should_!"

If in the arrogance of her youth and power she could deal with him
lightly or unkindly, he knew that even his own passion could find no
pardon for her--yet if he had but once beheld her eyes answer her
lord's as a woman's eyes must answer those of him she loves, it would
have driven him mad. And so it came about that to see that she was
tender and noble he watched her, and to be sure that she was no more
than this he knew he watched her too, calling himself ignoble that
Nature so prompted him.

There was a thing she had said to him but a week after the marriage
which had sunk deep into his soul and given him comfort.

"From my lord I shall learn new virtues," she said, with a singular
smile, which somehow to his mind hid somewhat of pathos. "'New
virtues,' say I; all are new to me. At Wildairs we concerned ourselves
little with such matters." She lifted her eyes and let them rest upon
him with proud gravity. "He is the first good man," she said, "whom I
have ever known."

'Twas not as this man observed her life that the world looked on at it,
but in a different manner and with a different motive, and yet both the
world and his Grace of Osmonde beheld the same thing, which was that my
Lord Dunstanwolde's happiness was a thing which grew greater and deeper
as time passed, instead of failing him. When she went to Court and set
the town on fire with her beauty and her bearing, had her lord been a
man of youth and charm matching her own, the grace and sweetness of her
manner to him could not have made him a more envied man. All they who
were there could not be satisfied with looking at him. And the Counts
Don Anrrich and Don Remond came up to him, and he embraced them, and
thanked them and the other good men who had been Alcaldes in this
business, for maintaining his right; and he promised to do for them
in requital whatever they might require; and he besought them to accept
part of his treasures. And they thanked him for his offer, but
said that it was not seemly.

Howbeit he sent great presents to each of them, and some accepted them
and some did not. Who can tell how nobly the Cid distributed his
treasure before he departed?
And he forgave the King the two hundred marks which should have been
paid on account of the Infantes. And to the knights who had come from
Aragon and Navarre concerning the marriages, he gave many horses, and
money in gold, and sent them with great honour into their own
country.

XIX. On the morrow the Cid went to take leave of the King, and
the King went some way out of the town with him, and all the good
men who were in the court also, to do him honour as he deserved. And
when he was about to dispeed himself of the King they brought him his
precious horse Bavieca, and he turned to the King and said, Sir,
I should depart ill from hence if I took with me so good a horse
as my Bavieca, and did not leave him for you, for such a horse as
this is fit for you and for no other master: and that you may see
what he is, I will do before you what it is long since I have done
except in the battles which I have had with my enemies.

Then he mounted his horse, with his ermine housings, and gave him
the spur. Who can tell the goodness of the horse Bavieca, and of the Cid
who rode him?

And as the Cid was doing this the horse brake one of his reins, yet he
came and stopt before the King as easily as if both the reins had
been whole. Greatly did the King and all they who were with him
marvel at this, saying that they had never seen or heard of so good a
horse as that. And the Cid besought the King that he would be pleased
to take the horse, but the King answered, God forbid that I should
take him!... rather would I give you a better if I had one, for he
is better bestowed on you than on me or any other, for upon that horse
you have done honour to yourself, and to us, and to all Christendom,
by the good feats which you have atchieved. Let him go as mine, and
I will take him when I please.

Then the Cid kissed the King's hand and dispeeded himself, and the King
embraced him and returned to Toledo.

XX. Now when the Cid had taken leave of the King, and of the other
honourable men and Counts, and Ricos-omes who were with him, Pero
Bermudez and Martin Antolinez and Muño Gustioz went on yet awhile
with him: and he counselled them how to demean themselves so as to
clear him of the shame which had been done him, and to be held for
good knights themselves, and to take vengeance for King Don Alfonso,
and for him, and for themselves, that he might receive good tidings
from them in Valencia.

And they took his counsel well, as they afterwards manifested when there
was occasion. But Martin Antolinez made answer, Why do you say this,
Sir?

we have undertaken the business and we shall go through it; and
they said unto him, God have you in his guidance.

Sir, and be you sure and certain, that by the mercy and help of God
we shall so demean ourselves as to come to you without shame.

But if for our sins it should betide otherwise, never more shall we
appear before you dead or living,... for slain we may be, but never
vanquished.

Then he bade them return to the King, praying to God to have them
in his keeping, and assist them in fulfilling their demand, as he
knew that their cause was right.

BOOK X.

I. Now King Alfonso misdoubted the Infantes of Carrion that they would
not appear at the time appointed, and therefore he said that he
would go to Carrion, and the battle should be fought there.

And he took with him the Counts whom he had appointed Alcaldes, and
Pero Bermudez and Martin Antolinez and Muño Gustioz went with the
Count Don Remond, to whose charge the King had given them.

And on the third day after the Cid departed from Toledo the King set
forth for Carrion; but it so chanced that he fell sick upon the road,
and could not arrive within the three weeks, so that the term was
enlarged to five. And when the King's health was restored he proceeded
and reached Carrion, and gave order that the combat should be performed,
and appointed the day, and named the plain of Carrion for the place
thereof. And the Infantes came there with a great company of all
their friends and kindred, for their kinsmen were many and powerful;
and they all came with one accord, that if before the battle they
could find any cause they would kill the knights of the Cid:
nevertheless, though they had determined upon this they dared not
put it in effect, because they stood in fear of the King.

II. And when the night came of which the morrow was appointed for the
combat, they on one side and on the other kept vigil in the Churches,
each in that Church to which he had the most devotion.

Night is past away, and the dawn is now breaking; and at day-break a
great multitude was assembled in the field, and many Ricos-omes
came there for the pleasure which they would have in seeing this
battle, and the King sent and commanded the champions to make ready.

Moreover he made the two Counts his sons-in-law, Don Anrrich and Don
Remond, and the other Counts and their people, arm themselves and
keep the field, that the kinsmen of the Infantes might not make
a tumult there. Who can tell the great dole and sorrow of Count Gonzalo
Gonzalez for his sons the Infantes of Carrion, because they had to do
battle this day! and in the fullness of his heart he curst the day and
the hour in which he was born, for his heart divined the sorrow which
he was to have for his children.

Great was the multitude which was assembled from all Spain to
behold this battle. And there in the field near the lists the
champions of the Cid armed themselves on one side, and the Infantes
on the other.

And Count Don Remond armed the knights of the Cid, and instructed
them how to do their devoir, and Count Garci Ordoñez helped arm the
Infantes of Carrion and their uncle Suero Gonzalez, and they sent
to ask the King of his favour that he would give command that the
swords Colada and Tizona should not be used in that combat.

But the King would not, and he answered that each must take the best
sword and the best arms that he could, save only that the one should not
have more than the other.

Greatly were they troubled at this reply, and greatly did they fear
those good swords, and repent that they had taken them to the
Cortes of Toledo.

And from that hour the Infantes and Suero Gonzalez bewrayed in their
countenances that they thought ill of what they had done, and happy men
would they have thought themselves if they had not committed that great
villainy, and he if he had not counselled it; and gladly would they
have given all that they had in Carrion so it could now have been
undone.

III.

And the King went to the place where the Infantes were arming, and said
unto them, If ye feared these swords ye should have said so in the
Cortes of Toledo, for that was the place, and not this; ... there
is now nothing to be done but to defend yourselves stoutly, as ye
have need against those with whom ye have to do.

Then went he to the knights of the Cid, whom he found armed; and they
kissed his hand and said unto him, Sir, the Cid hath left us in
your hand, and we beseech you see that no wrong be done us in this
place, where the Infantes of Carrion have their party; and by God's
mercy we will do ourselves right upon them.

And the King bade them have no fear for that. Then their horses were
brought, and they crost the saddles, and mounted, with their shields
hanging from the neck; and they took their spears, each of which had
its streamer, and with many good men round about they went to the
lists; and on the other side the Infantes and Count Suero Gonzalez
came up with a great company of their friends and kinsmen and
vassals.

And the King said with a loud voice, Hear what I say, Infantes of
Carrion!... this combat I would have had waged in Toledo, but ye said
that ye were not ready to perform it there, and therefore I am come
to this which is your native place, and have brought the knights
of the Cid with me.

They are come here under my safeguard. Let not therefore you nor your
kinsmen deceive yourselves, thinking to overpower them by tumult,
or in any other way than by fair combat; for whosoever shall begin
a tumult, I have given my people orders to cut him in pieces upon
the spot, and no enquiry shall be made touching the death of him
who shall so have offended.

Full sorrowful were the Infantes of Carrion for this command which
the King had given. And the King appointed twelve knights who were
hidalgos to be true-men and place the combatants in the lists, and show
them the bounds at what point they were to win or to be vanquished,
and to divide the sun between them.

And he went with a wand in his hand, and saw them placed on both sides;
then he went out of the lists, and gave command that the people
should fall back, and not approach within seven spears-length of
the lines of the lists.

IV. Now were the six combatants left alone in the lists, and each
of them knew now with whom he had to do battle.

And they laced their helmets, and put shield upon the arm, and laid
lance in rest.

And the knights of my Cid advanced against the Infantes of Carrion,
and they on their part against the champions of the Campeador. Each
bent down with his face to the saddle-bow, and gave his horse the spur.
And they met all six with such a shock, that they who looked on
expected to see them all fall dead. Pero Bermudez and Ferrando
Gonzalez encountered, and the shield of Pero Bermudez was pierced,
but the spear past through on one side, and hurt him not, and brake
in two places; and he sat firm in his seat.

One blow he received, but he gave another; he drove his lance through
Ferrando's shield, at his breast, so that nothing availed him.
Ferrando's breast-plate was threefold: two plates the spear went clean
through, and drove the third in before it, with the _velmes_ and
the shirt, into the breast, near his heart; ... and the girth and
the poitral of his horse burst, and he and the saddle went together
over the horse's heels, and the spear in him, and all thought him
dead.

Howbeit Ferrando Gonzalez rose, and the blood began to run out of
his mouth, and Pero Bermudez drew his sword and went against him;
but when he saw the sword Tizona over him, before he received a
blow from it, he cried out that he confessed himself conquered, and
that what Pero Bermudez had said against him was true.

And when Pero Bermudez heard this he stood still, and the twelve true-men
came up and heard his confession, and pronounced him vanquished.

This Ferrando did thinking to save his life; but the wound which he had
got was mortal.

V. Martin Antolinez and Diego Gonzalez brake their lances on each other,
and laid hand upon their swords. Martin Antolinez drew forth Colada,
the brightness of which flashed over the whole field, for it was a
marvellous sword; and in their strife he dealt him a back-handed
blow which sheared off the crown of his helmet, and cut away hood
and coif, and the hair of his head and the skin also: this stroke
he dealt him with the precious Colada.

And Diego Gonzalez was sorely dismayed therewith, and though he had his
own sword in his hand he could not for very fear make use of it,
but he turned his horse and fled; and Martin Antolinez went after
him, and dealt him another with the flat part of the sword, for he
mist him with the edge, and the Infante began to cry out aloud,
Great God, help me and save me from that sword!

And he rode away as fast as he could, and Martin Antolinez called
out after him, Get out, Don Traitor! and drove him out of the
lists, and remained conqueror.

VI. Muño Gustioz and Suero Gonzalez dealt each other such strokes with
their spears as it was marvellous to behold. And Suero Gonzalez
being a right hardy knight and a strong, and of great courage,
struck the shield of Muño Gustioz and pierced it through and through;
but the stroke was given aslant, so that it passed on and touched
him not.

Muño Gustioz lost his stirrups with that stroke, but he presently
recovered them, and dealt him such a stroke in return that it
went clean through the midst of the shield, and through all his armour,
and came out between his ribs, missing the heart; then laying hand
on him he wrenched him out of the saddle, and threw him down as he drew
the spear out of his body; and the point of the spear and the haft
and the streamer all came out red.

Then all the beholders thought that he was stricken to death.

And Muño Gustioz turned to smite again.

But when Gonzalo Ansures his father saw this, he cried out aloud for
great ruth which he had for his son, and said, For God's sake do not
strike him again, for he is vanquished. And Muño Gustioz, like a man
of good understanding, asked the true-men whether he were to be held as
conquered for what his father said, and they said not, unless he
confirmed it with his own mouth. And Muño Gustioz turned again to Suero
Gonzalez where he lay wounded, and lifted his spear against him, and
Suero Gonzalez cried out, Strike me not, for I am vanquished. And the
judges said it was enough, and that the combat was at an end.

VII. Then the King entered the lists, and many good knights and hidalgos
with him, and he called the twelve true-men, and asked them if the knights
of the Cid had aught more to do to prove their accusation; and they
made answer that the knights of the Cid had won the field and done
their devoir, and all the hidalgos who were there present made answer,
that they said true. And King Don Alfonso lifted up his voice and
said, Hear me, all ye who are here present: inasmuch as the
knights of the Cid have conquered, they have won the cause; and the
twelve true-men made answer, that what the King said was the truth,
and all the people said the same. And the King gave command to break up
the lists, and gave sentence that the Infantes of Carrion and their
uncle Suero Gonzalez were notorious traitors, and ordered his seneschal
to take their arms and horses. And from that day forth their lineage
never held up its head, nor was of any worth in Castille; and they and
their uncle fled away, having been thus vanquished and put to shame.
And thus it was that Carrion fell to the King after the days of Gonzalo
Gonzalez, the father of the Infantes. Great was their shame, and the
like or worse betide him who abuseth fair lady, and then leaveth
her.

VIII. Then the King went to meat, and he took the knights of the Cid
with him; and great was the multilude which followed after them,
praising the good feat which they had atchieved.

And the King gave them great gifts, and sent them away by night, and
with a good guard to protect them till they should be in safety; and
they took their leave of the King, and travelled by night and day, and
came to Valencia. When the Cid knew that they drew nigh, he went out
to meet them, and did them great honour. Who can tell the great joy
which he made over them?
And they told him all even as it had come to pass, and how the King had
declared the Infantes of Carrion and their uncle to be notorious traitors.
Great was the joy of the Cid at these tidings, and he lifted up his
hands to heaven, and blest the name of God because of the vengeance which
he had given him for the great dishonour which he had received. And
he took with him Martin Antolinez and Pero Bermudez and Muño
Gustioz, and went to Doña Ximena and her daughters, and said to
them, Blessed be the name of God, now are you and your daughters
avenged!

and he made the knights recount the whole unto them, even as it had
come to pass. Great was the joy of Doña Ximena and her daughters,
and they bent their knees to the ground, and praised the name of Jesus
Christ, because he had given them this vengeance for the dishonour
which they had received; and Doña Elvira and Doña Sol embraced those
knights many times, and would fain have kissed their hands and their
feet.

And the Cid said unto Doña Ximena, Now may you without let marry your
daughters with the Infantes of Aragon and Navarre, and I trust in
God that they will be well and honourably married, better than they
were at first. Eight days did the great rejoicings endure which the Cid
made in Valencia, for the vengeance which God had given him upon the
Infantes of Carrion, and their uncle Suero Gonzalez, the aider and
abettor in the villainy which they had committed.

IX. Now it came to pass after this, that the Great Soldan of Persia,
having heard of the great goodness of the Cid, and of his great feats
in arms, and how he had never been vanquished by mortal man, and how
he had conquered many Kings, Moor and Christian, and had won the noble
city of Valencia, and had defeated King Bucar Lord of Africa and Morocco,
and twenty nine Kings with him, all these things made him greatly
desirous of his love. And holding him to be one of the noble men of
the world, he sent messengers to him with great gifts, which will be
recounted hereafter, and with them he sent one of his kinsmen, a full
honourable man, with letters of great love. When this kinsman reached
the port of Valencia, he sent word to the Cid that he was arrived there
with a message from the Great Soldan of Persia, who had sent a present
by him; and when the Cid knew this he was well pleased.
In this the Earl and his Countess sate, the lady a little pale, from
the fatigue of her journey, perhaps; following them came another
vehicle, substantial but less splendid than their own equipage, in it,
my lady's two Abigails and the gentleman of his lordship carrying the
iron jewel-box secreted in a special hiding-place beneath the seat, for
the baffling of highwaymen, if any such were bold enough to attack a
party so well attended by sturdy strength and shining arms. When she
had stepped forth across the threshold of her town house, attended by
subservient lacqueys bowing in line on either side, the Countess had
faintly smiled, and when they had entered their coach and the door been
closed upon them, she had turned this smile with a sweet archness upon
her lord.

"I smile, my Lord," she said, "to think what a great lady your goodness
has made of me, and how in these days I ride forth, and how in the
past, when I was but Clo Wildairs our old chariot lumbered like a house
on wheels, and its leather hung in flaps, and the farm horses pulled it
lurching from side to side, and old Bartlemy had grown too portly for
his livery and cursed when it split as he rolled in his seat." And her
laugh rang out as if it were a chime of bells, and her lord, laughing
with her--but for joy in her arch gayety--adored her.

"If any had told the county then that I would one day ride forth like
this," says she, "from Dunstanwolde House to pay visit to a Duke at
Camylott, who could have believed it? I would not myself. And 'tis you
who have given me all, my dear lord," laying her soft hand in his.
"You, Edward, and I am full of gratefulness."

What wonder that he was a happy man, he who had hoped for so little and
had found so much, since she did not think--as a slighter woman
might--that her youth and beauty paid for and outweighed his richest
gifts, but was heavenly kind and dutiful and tender, giving him of her
brightest humours and prettiest playfulness and gentlest womanly
thought, and receiving his offerings, not as her mere right, but as
signals of his generousness and tender love for her.

"Look, my lady!" he cried, as they drove up the avenue, "see what a
noble house it is; there is no other, in all England, of its size and
beauty. And Gerald waits to receive us with no Duchess at his side."

Her ladyship leaned forward to look, and gazed a moment in silence.

"There should be one," she cried, "to reign over such a place, and to
be happy in it."


The village saw gayety enough to turn its head in the two weeks that
followed. The flag floated from the tower every day, coaches rolled
past the village green laden with the county gentry who came to pay
their respects, gay cavalcades rode down the avenue and through the big
gates to gallop over the country with joyous laughter and talk; at the
Plough Horse, Mr. Mount, who had grown too old for service, but had
been pensioned and was more fond of fine stories than ever, added to
his importance as a gentleman of quality by describing the banquets at
the Towers, the richness of the food, the endless courses, the
massiveness of the gold plate, the rareness of the wines, and the
magnificence of the costumes of the guests.

"There are fine women there," he would say, removing his long
churchwarden's pipe from his mouth and waving it to give emphasis. "In
my day I have seen King Charles at Hampton Court--my Lady Castlemaine,
and Mistress Frances Stewart, who married a Duke and had her eyes put
out by smallpox and her face spoiled forever, poor soul; and De
Querouaille--the one you will call Carwell, which is not her name, but
a French one--and Mazarin--and all could see Nell Gwynne who could pay
for a seat in the play-house--so I may well be a judge of women--and
have lived gayly myself about the Court. But there is _one_--this
moment at Camylott Towers--there is one," describing a great circle
with his pipe as if he writ her name, "and may the devil seize and
smite me, if there was ever a lady with such a body and face on earth
before."

"Tis the tall one with the flashing black eyes," cried out Will Bush
the first night that he said it. "Me and my dame saw her through the
glass of the coach the day they drove over the green with all their
servants come to follow them from Lunnon town with pistols and hangers.
And what think you? says I to Joan, 'Ecod,' says I, 'there's the woman
for our own Duke, and matches him for size and beauty!' And says Joan,
staring: 'Lord a mercy, so she is and does!'"

"Village folk," said Mr. Mount with decorum, "are not the ones to take
upon themselves the liberty to say who will suit a Duke or who will not
suit him. But this I will say to you, that for once you were not so far
wrong; I having said the same thing myself. And his Grace is a single
man, whom they say loves no woman--and my lady has a husband near
seventy years of age. So things go!"

To her husband and lord, this lady seemed for all her powers, the
sweetest, frank creature in the world, and indeed in all matters which
concerned their united life she was candour itself. But there was a
thing in her mind--and 'twas in her thought every day--of which, though
she was within his sight almost every waking hour and her head lay upon
the pillow by his own, when she slept, he knew nothing. In gaining
grace of manner and bearing she had not lost her old quickness of sight
and alertness of mind; if any felt that her eyes were less keen, her
perception less acute, their error was a grave one. Beneath the majesty
of her Ladyship of Dunstanwolde lay all the fire and flaming spirit,
the swiftness to deduce and act, which had set Clo Wildairs apart from
lesser women. So it was that she had not been three hours at Camylott
before she knew that, with regard to herself, my Lord Duke of Osmonde
had made some strong resolve. No other than herself could have
detected, she knew, but on her first glance at his face she beheld it
written there. There are human beings, it is sure, whose natures are so
attuned that the thoughts, the griefs, the passions of each are
reflected upon the brain of the other; and 'twas thus with these two
whom life thrust so far apart from one another and yet forced so near.
At their first meeting on the threshold and in the midst of his warm
and gracious welcome she read what none other could read, and felt a
pang which yet was gladness. 'Twas better so--her strength should aid
his own, his greatness should support her. There was no question in
her mind, no argument, only a sudden recognition of the truth that up
to this time she had scarcely allowed herself mere thought in
connection with him, that--after the first hour--when thought had risen
she had thrust it back, forbidden its being, denied its presence.

"Thought will not help," she had said once, when, as she had sate
alone, she had felt hot, passionate tears start to her eyes, and she
had flung down her book, risen from her chair, and left the room ten
minutes later, riding forth from the court followed by her groom and
making for the country roads.

From the earliest days of her marriage she had herself avoided often
meeting his gaze. Glances would not help either, but would do harm and
betray--between those who are drawn together as by some force of
Nature, glances are mad things. They may begin calmly, they may swear
that they will so continue, but looks entangle one day and catch fire,
and, once alight, the flame cannot extinguish itself, even when it
would.

At Camylott each was gracious to the other, he gracious host, she
gracious guest and kinswoman, and those who looked on praised each one
and honoured, speaking often of their charm and courtly friendliness,
which indeed made them seem almost like brother and sister.

"They are a strange pair, those two fine creatures," said the old
Dowager Storms one day to her favourite crony, an elderly matron to
whom she could safely talk gossip. "But look at them." (They were with
the whole party at racquets in the court, and my lord Duke, having made
a splendid stroke, glowing and laughing bowed in response to a round of
applause.) What ye are afterwards to do I will tell ye
to-morrow, when I make my testament.

VI. Early on the morrow the Bishop Don Hieronymo, and Alvar Fañez,
and Pero Bermudez, and Martin Antolinez, came to the Cid. Gil Diaz and
Doña Ximena were alway with him; and the Cid began to make his
testament.
And the first thing which he directed, after commending his soul to God,
was, that his body should be buried in the Church of St. Pedro de Cardeña,
where it now lies; and he bequeathed unto that Monastery many good
inheritances, so that that place is at this day the richer and more
honourable.

Then he left to all his company and household according to the
desert of every one.

To all the knights who had served him since he went out of his own
country, he gave great wealth in abundance.

And to the other knights who had not served him so long, to some a
thousand marks of silver, to others two, and some there were to
whom lie bequeathed three, according who they were. Moreover, to
the squires who were hidalgos, to some five hundred, and others there
were who had a thousand and five hundred. And he bade them, when
they arrived at St. Pedro de Cardena, give clothing to four thousand
poor, to each a skirt of _escanforte_ and a mantle. And he bequeathed
to Doña Ximeña all that he had in the world, that she might live
honourably for the remainder of her days in the Monastery of St.
Pedro de Cardena; and he commanded Cil Diaz to remain with her and
serve her well all the days of her life. And he left it in charge to
the Bishop Don Hieronymo, and Doña Ximena his wife, and Don Alvar
Fañez, and Pero Bermudez, and Felez Muñoz, his nephews, that they
should see all this fulfilled. And he commanded Alvar Fañez and Pero
Bermudez, when they had conquered King Bucar, to proceed forthwith
into Castille and fulfil all that he had enjoined. This was at the hour
of sexts. Then the Cid Ruydiez, the Campeador of Bivar, bade the Bishop
Don Hieronymo give him the body of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ,
and he received it with great devotion, on his knees, and weeping
before them all.

Then he sate up in his bed and called upon God and St. Peter, and began
to pray, saying, Lord Jesus Christ, thine is the power and the kingdom,
and thou art above all Kings and all nations, and all Kings are at
thy command, I beseech thee therefore pardon me my sins, and let my
soul enter into the light which hath no end.

And when the Cid Ruydiez had said this, this noble Baron yielded up
his soul, which was pure and without spot, to God, on that Sunday which
is called Quinquagesima, being the twenty and ninth of May, in the
year of our Lord one thousand and ninety and nine, and in the seventy
and third year of his life. After he had thus made his end they
washed his body twice with warm water, and a third time with rose water,
and then they anointed and embalmed it as he had commanded. And then
all the honourable men, and all the clergy who were in Valencia,
assembled and carried it to the Church of St. Mary of the Virtues,
which is near the Alcazar, and there they kept their vigil, and
said prayer and performed masses, as was meet for so honourable a
man.

VII. Three days after the Cid had departed King Bucar came into the
port of Valencia, and landed with all his power, which was so great that
there is not a man in the world who could give account of the Moors
whom he brought. And there came with him thirty and six Kings, and one
Moorish Queen, who was a negress, and she brought with her two hundred
horsewomen, all negresses like herself, all having their hair shorn
save a tuft on the top, and this was in token that they came as if upon
a pilgrimage, and to obtain the remission of their sins; and they
were all armed in coats of mail and with Turkish bows. King Bucar ordered
his tents to be pitched round about Valencia, and Abenalfarax who
wrote this history in Arabic, saith, that there were full fifteen
thousand tents; and he bade that Moorish negress with her archers to
take their station near the city. And on the morrow they began to
attack the city, and they fought against it three days strenuously; and
the Moors received great loss, for they came blindly up to the
walls and were slain there. And the Christians defended themselves right
well, and every time that they went upon the walls, they sounded trumpets
and tambours, and made great rejoicings, as the Cid had commanded.
This continued for eight days or nine, till the companions of the
Cid had made ready every thing for their departure, as he had commanded.
And King Bucar and his people thought that the Cid dared not come
out against them, and they were the more encouraged, and began to
think of making bastilles and engines wherewith to combat the city,
for certes they weened that the Cid Ruydiez dared not come out
against them, seeing that he tarried so long.

VIII. All this while the company of the Cid were preparing all things
to go into Castille, as he had commanded before his death; and his
trusty Gil Diaz did nothing else but labour at this. And the body of
the Cid was prepared after this manner: first it was embalmed and
anointed as the history hath already recounted, and the virtue of the
balsam and myrrh was such that the flesh remained firm and fair, having
its natural colour, and his countenance as it was wont to be, and the
eyes open, and his long beard in order, so that there was not a man
who would have thought him dead if he had seen him and not known it. And
on the second day after he had departed, Gil Díaz placed the body
upon a right noble saddle, and this saddle with the body upon it he
put upon a frame; and he dressed the body in a _gambax_ of fine sendal,
next the skin. And he took two boards and fitted them to the body, one
to the breast and the other to the shoulders; these were so hollowed
out and fitted that they met at the sides and under the arms, and the
hind one came up to the pole, and the other up to the beard; and these
boards were fastened into the saddle, so that the body could not
move. All this was done by the morning of the twelfth day; and all
that day the people of the Cid were busied in making ready
their arms, and in loading beasts with all that they had, so that they
left nothing of any price in the whole city of Valencia, save only
the empty houses. When it was midnight they took the body of the Cid,
fastened to the saddle as it was, and placed it upon his horse Bavieca,
and fastened the saddle well: and the body sate so upright and well
that it seemed as if he was alive. And it had on painted hose of black
and white, so cunningly painted that no man who saw them would have
thought but that they were grieves and cuishes, unless he had laid his
hand upon them; and they put on it a surcoat of green sendal, having
his arms blazoned, thereon, and a helmet of parchment, which was cunningly
painted that every one might have believed it to be iron: and his
shield was hung round his neck, and they placed the sword Tizona
in his hand; and they raised his arm, and fastened it up so subtilly
that it was a marvel to see how upright he held the sword. And the
Bishop Don Hieronymo went on one side of him, and the trusty Gil Diaz
on the other, and he led the horse Bavieca, as the Cid had commanded
him. And when all this had been made ready, they went out from
Valencia at midnight, through the gate of Roseros, which is towards
Castille.

Pero Bermudez went first with the banner of the Cid, and with him five
hundred knights who guarded it, all well appointed. And after these
came all the baggage. Then came the body of the Cid with an
hundred knights, all chosen men, and behind them Doña Ximena with all
her company, and six hundred knights in the rear. All these went out so
silently, and with such a measured pace, that it seemed as if there
were only a score. And by the time that they had all gone out it was
broad day.

IX. Now Alvar Fañez Minaya had set the host in order, and while
the Bishop Don Hieronymo and Gil Diaz led away the body of the Cid,
and Doña Ximena, and the baggage, he fell upon the Moors. First he
attacked the tents of that Moorish Queen the Negress, who lay nearest
to the city; and this onset was so sudden, that they killed full a
hundred and fifty Moors before they had time to take arms or go to
horse. But that Moorish Negress was so skilful in drawing the Turkish
bow, that it was held for a marvel, and it is said that they called
her in Arabic _Nugueymat Turya_, which is to say, the Star of the
Archers.

And she was the first that got on horseback, and with some fifty
that were with her, did some hurt to the company of the Cid; but
in fine they slew her, and her people fled to the camp.

And so great was the uproar and confusion, that few there were who took
arms, but instead thereof they turned their backs and fled toward the
sea. And when King Bucar and his Kings saw this they were astonished.
And it seemed to them that there came against them on the part of the
Christians full seventy thousand knights, all as white as snow: and
before them a knight of great stature upon a white horse with a
bloody cross, who bore in one hand a white banner, and in the other
a sword which seemed to be of fire, and he made a great mortality
among the Moors who were flying.

And King Bucar and the other Kings were so greatly dismayed that they
never checked the reins till they had ridden into the sea; and the company
of the Cid rode after them, smiting and slaying and giving them no
respite; and they smote down so many that it was marvellous, for
the Moors did not turn their heads to defend themselves.

And when they came to the sea, so great was the press among them to
get to the ships, that more than ten thousand died in the water. And
of the six and thirty Kings, twenty and two were slain. And King Bucar
and they who escaped with him hoisted sails and went their way, and
never more turned their heads. Then Alvar Fañez and his people, when
they had discomfited the Moors, spoiled the field, and the spoil thereof
was so great that they could not carry it away. And they loaded
camels and horses with the noblest things which they found, and went
after the Bishop Don Hieronymo and Gil Diaz, who, with the body of the
Cid, and Doña Ximena, and the baggage, had gone on till they were clear
of the host, and then waited for those who were gone against the Moors.
And so great was the spoil of that day, that there was no end to it:
and they took up gold, and silver, and other precious things as they
rode through the camp, so that the poorest man among the Christians,
horseman or on foot, became rich with what he won that day. And when
they were all met together, they took the road toward Castille;
and they halted that night in a village which is called Siete Aguas,
that is to say, the Seven Waters, which is nine leagues from Valencia.

X. Abenalfarax, he who wrote this history in Arabic, saith,
that the day when the company of the Cid went out from Valencia, and
discomfited King Bucar and the six and thirty Kings who were with
him, the Moors of Alcudia and of the suburbs thought that he went out
alive, because they saw him on horseback, sword in hand; but when they
saw that he went towards Castille, and that none of his company returned
into the town, they were astonished. And all that day they remained in
such amaze, that they neither dared go into the tents which King
Bucar's host had left, nor enter into the town, thinking that the Cid
did this for some device; and all night they remained in the same
doubt, so that they dared not go out from the suburbs. When it was morning
they looked towards the town, and heard no noise there; and Abenaltarax
then took horse, and taking a man with him, went toward the town, and
found all the gates thereof shut, till he came to that through which
the company of the Cid had gone forth; and he went into the
city and traversed the greater part thereof, and found no man therein,
and he was greatly amazed. Then he went out and called aloud to the
Moors of the suburbs, and told them that the city was deserted by
the Christians; and they were more amazed than before: nevertheless they
did not yet dare either to go out to the camp or to enter into the
town, and in this doubt they remained till it was mid-day. And when they
saw that no person appeared on any side, Abenalfarax returned again
into the town, and there went with him a great company of the best
Moors; and they went into the Alcazar, and looked through all the halls
and chambers, and they found neither man nor living thing; but they saw
written upon a wall in Arabic characters by Gil Diaz, how the Cid Ruydiez
was dead, and that they had carried him away in that manner to conquer
King Bucar, and also to the end that none might oppose their
going. And when the Moors saw this they rejoiced and were
exceeding glad, and they opened the gates of the town, and sent
to tell these tidings to those in the suburbs.

And they came with their wives and children into the town, each to the
house which had been his before the Cid won it.

And from that day Valencia remained in the power of the Moors till it
was won by King Don Jayme of Aragon, he who is called the Conqueror,
which was an hundred and seventy years. But though King Don Jayme won
it, it is alway called _Valencia del Cid_.

On the morrow they went into the tents of King Bucar, and found there
many arms; but the tents were deserted, save only that they found
certain women who had hid themselves, and who told them of the defeat
of King Bucar. And the dead were so many that they could scarcely make
way among them. And they went on through this great mortality to
the port, and there they saw no ships, but so many Moors lying dead
that tongue of man cannot tell their numbers; and they began to gather
up the spoils of the field, which were tents, and horses, and camels,
and buffaloes, and flocks, and gold and silver, and garments, and store
of provisions, out of all number, so that they had wherewith to
suffice the city of Valencia for two years, and to sell to their
neighbours also; and they were full rich from that time.

XI. When the company of the Cid departed from the Siete Aguas, they
held their way by short journies to Salvacañete. And the Cid went
alway upon his horse Bavieca, as they had brought him out from Valencia,
save only that he wore no arms, but was clad in right noble garments;
and all who saw him upon the way would have thought that he was
alive, if they had not heard the truth. And whenever they halted
they took the body off, fastened to the saddle as it was, and set it
upon that frame which Gil Diaz had made, and when they went forward
again, they placed it in like manner upon the horse Bavieca. And
when they reached Salvacañete, the Bishop Don Hieronymo, and Doña
Ximena, and Alvar Fañez, and the other honourable men, sent their
letters to all the kinsmen and friends of the Cid Ruydiez, bidding
them come and do honour to his funeral; and they sent letters also
to his sons-in-law, the Infantes of Aragon and Navarre, and to King
Don Alfonso.

And they moved on from Salvacañete and came to Osma, and then Alvar
Fañez asked of Doña Ximena if they should not put the body of the Cid
into a coffin covered with purple and with nails of gold; but she
would not, for she said that while his countenance remained so fresh
and comely, and his eyes so fair, his body should never be placed
in a coffin, and that her children should see the face of their
father; and they thought that she said well, so the body was left
as it was.

And at the end of fifteen days the Infante of Aragon arrived, with Doña
Sol his wife, and they brought with them an hundred armed knights, all
having their shields reversed hanging from the saddle bow, and all
in grey cloaks, with the hoods rent. And Doña Sol came clad in
linsey-woolsey, she and all her women, for they thought that mourning
was to be made for the Cid. But when they came within half a league
of Osma, they saw the banner of the Cid coming on, and all his
company full featly apparelled.

And when they drew nigh they perceived that they were weeping, but
they made no wailing; and when they saw him upon his horse Bavieca,
according as ye have heard, they were greatly amazed. But so great was
the sorrow of the Infante that he and all his company began to lament
aloud.

And Doña Sol, when she beheld her father, took off her tire, and
threw it upon the ground and began to tear her hair, which was like
threads of gold.
But Doña Ximena held her hand and said, Daughter, you do ill, in that
you break the command of your father, who laid his curse upon all who
should make lamentation for him. Then Doña Sol kissed the hand of
the Cid and of her mother, and put on her tire again, saying, Lady
mother, I have committed no fault in this, forasmuch as I knew not
the command of my father.

And then they turned back to Osma, and great was the multitude whom they
found there assembled from all parts to see the Cid, having heard in
what manner he was brought, for they held it to be a strange thing:
and in truth it was, for in ne history do we find that with the
body of a dead man hath there been done a thing so noble and strange
as this.

Then they moved on from Osma, and came to Santesteban de Gormaz. And
there after few days the King of Navarre came with the Queen Doña
Elvira his wife; and they brought with them two hundred knights;
howbeit their shields were not reversed, for they had heard that
no mourning was to be made for the Cid.

And when they were within half a league of Santesteban, the company
of the Cid went out to meet them, as they had the Infante of Aragon;
and they made no other lamentation, save that they wept with Doña
Elvira; and when she came up to the body of her father she kissed
his hand, and the hand of Doña Ximena her mother.

And greatly did they marvel when they saw the body of the Cid Ruydiez
how fair it was, for he seemed rather alive than dead. And they moved
on from Santesteban, towards San Pedro de Cardeña.
Great was the concourse of people to see the Cid Ruydiez coming in
that guise. They came from Rioja, and from all Castille, and from all
the country round about, and when they saw him their wonder was the
greater, and hardly could they be persuaded that he was dead.

XII. At this time King Don Alfonso abode in Toledo, and when the letters
came unto him saying how the Cid Campeador was departed, and
after what manner he had discomfited King Bucar, and how they
brought him in this goodly manner upon his horse Bavieca, he set
out from Toledo, taking long journies till he came to San Pedro de
Cardeña to do honour to the Cid at his funeral.

The day when he drew nigh the Infante of Aragon and the King of Navarre
went out to meet him, and they took the body of the Cid with them
on horseback, as far as the Monastery of San Christoval de Ybeas,
which is a league from Cardeña; and they went, the King of Navarre
on one side of the body, and the Infante of Aragon on the other. And
when King Don Alfonso saw so great a company and in such goodly
array, and the Cid Ruydiez so nobly clad and upon his horse Bavieca,
he was greatly astonished.

Then Alvar Fañez and the other good men kissed his hand in the name
of the Cid.

And the King beheld his countenance, and seeing it so fresh and comely,
and his eyes so bright and fair, and so even and open that he
seemed alive, he marvelled greatly.

But when they told him that for seven days he had drank of the myrrh
and balsam, and had neither ate nor drank of aught else, and how
he had afterwards been anointed and embalmed, he did not then hold
it for so great a wonder, for he had heard that in the land of Egypt
they were wont to do thus with their Kings.

When they had all returned to the Monastery they took the Cid from off
his horse, and set the body upon the frame, as they were wont to do,
and placed it before the altar.

Many were the honours which King Don Alfonso did to the Cid in
masses and vigils, and other holy services, such as are fitting for
the body and soul of one who is departed.

Moreover he did great honour to the King of Navarre, and to the Infante
of Aragon, ordering that all things which were needful should be given
to them and their companies.

XIII. On the third day after the coming of King Don Alfonso, they
would have interred the body of the Cid, but when the King heard
what Doña Ximena had said, that while it was so fair and comely it
should not be laid in a coffin, he held that what she said was good.

Every feature, every muscle, every fibre of him seemed
embodied stillness, and 'twas not that the mere physical members of him
were still, but that the power which was himself, his will, his
thought, his motion was in utter quiet, and of a quiet which was deadly
in its significance and purpose. 'Twas that still strength which
_knows_ its power and will use it, and ever by its presence fills its
enemy with impotent rage.

With such rage it filled John Oxon as he beheld it, and sneered. He had
heard rumours of the wonders of his Grace's sword-play, that from
boyhood he had excelled and delighted in it, that in the army he had
won renown, through mere experiments of his skill, that he was as
certain of his weapon as an acrobat of his least feat--but 'twas not
this which maddened the other man but the look in his steady eye.

"You are the bigger man of the two," he jeered, impudently, "but give
me your lesson and shut my mouth on Clo Wildairs--if you can."

"I am the better man," says my lord Duke, "and I will shut it. But I
will not kill you."

Then they engaged, and such a fight began as has not been often seen,
for such a battle is more of spirit than body, and is more like to be
fought alone between two enemies whose antagonism is part of being
itself, than to be fought in the presence of others whose nearness
would but serve to disturb it.

John Oxon had fought duels before, through women who were but his
despised playthings, through braggadocio, through drunken folly,
through vanity and spite--but never as he fought this night on the
broad heath, below the paling stars. This man he hated, this man he
would have killed by any thrust he knew, if the devil had helped him.
There is no hatred, to a mind like his, such as is wakened by the sight
of another's gifts and triumphs--all the more horrible is it if they
are borne with nobleness. To have lost all--to see another possess with
dignity that thing one has squandered! And for this frenzy there was
more than one cause. Clo Wildairs! He could have cursed aloud. My Lady
Dunstanwolde! He could have raved like a madman. She! And a Duke
here--this Duke would shut his mouth and give him a lesson. He lunged
forward and struck wildly; my lord Duke parried his point as if he
played with the toy of a child, and in the clear starlight his face
looked a beautiful mask, and did not change howsoever furious his
opponent's onslaught, or howsoever wondrous his own play. For wondrous
it was, and before they had been engaged five minutes John Oxon was a
maddened creature, driven so, not only by his own fury, but by seeing a
certain thing--which was that this man could kill him if he would, but
would not. When he had lost his wits and made his senseless lunge, his
Grace had but parried when he might have driven his point home; he did
this again and again while their swords clashed and darted. The stamp
of their feet sounded dull and heavy on the moor, and John Oxon's
breath came short and hissing. As he grew more wild the other grew more
cool and steady, and made a play which Sir John could have shrieked out
at seeing. What was the man doing? 'Twas as if he would show him where
he could strike and did not deign to. He felt his devil's touch in a
dozen places, and not one scratch. There he might have laid open his
face from brow to chin! Why did he touch him here, there, at one point
and another, and deal no wound? Gods! 'twas fighting not with a human
thing but with a devil! 'Twas like fighting in a Roman arena, to be
played with as a sport until human strength could bear no more; 'twas
as men used to fight together hundreds of years ago. His breath grew
short, his panting fiercer, the sweat poured down him, his throat was
dry, and he could feel no more the fresh stirring of the air of the
dawning. He would not stop to breathe, he had reached the point in his
insensate fury when he could have flung himself upon the rapier's point
and felt it cleave his breastbone and start through his back with the
joy of hell, if he could have struck the other man deep but once. The
thought made him start afresh; he fought like a thousand devils, his
point leaping and flashing, and coming down with a crash; he stamped
and gasped and shouted.

"Curse you," he cried; "come on!"

"Do I stand back?" said my lord Duke, and gave him such play as made
him see the air red as blood, and think he tasted the salt of blood in
his dry mouth; his muscles were wrenched with his violence, and this
giant devil moved as swift as if he had but just begun. Good God! he
was beaten! Good God! by this enemy who would not kill him or be
killed. He uttered a sound which was a choking shriek and hurled
himself forward. 'Twas his last stroke and he knew it, and my lord Duke
struck his point aside and it flew in the air, and Sir John fell
backwards broken, conquered, exhausted, but an unwounded man. And he
fell full length and lay upon the heather, its purple blooms crushed
against his cheek; and the sky was of a sweet pallor just about to
glow, and the first bird of morning sprang up in it to sing.

"Damn you!" he gasped. "Damn you," and lay there, his blue eyes
glaring, his chest heaving as though 'twould burst, his nostrils
dilated with his laboured, tortured puffs of breath. Thereupon, as he
lay prostrate, for he was too undone a man to rise, he saw in his Grace
of Osmonde's eyes the two points of light which were like ruthless
flames and yet burned so still.

And his Grace, standing near him, leaned upon his sword, looking down.

"Do you understand?" he said.

"That you are the better sword--Yes!" shrieked Sir John, and added
curses it were useless to repeat.

"That I will have you refrain from speaking that lady's name?"

"Force me to it, if you can," Sir John raved at him. "You can but kill
me!"

"I will not kill you," said the Duke, leaning a little nearer and the
awful light in his eyes growing intenser--for awful it was and made his
pale face deadly. "How I can force you to it I have shown you--and
brought you here to prove. For that, I meant that we should fight
alone. Myself, I knew, I could hold from killing you, howsoever my
blood might tempt me. You, I knew, I could keep from killing me, which
I knew you would have done if you could, by foul means if not fair. I
would not have it said I was forced to fight to shield that lady's
name--so I would have no witness if it could be helped. And you will
keep the encounter secret, for I command you."

Sir John started up, leaning upon his elbow, catching his breath, and
his wicked face a white flame.

"Curse you!" he shrieked again, blaspheming at a thing he had not
dreamed of, and which came upon him like a thunderbolt. "Curse your
soul--you love her!"

The deadly light danced--he saw it--in his Grace's eyes, but his
countenance was a marble mask with no human quiver of flesh in any
muscle of it.

"I command you," he went on; "having proved I can enforce. I have the
blood of savage devils in me, come down to me through many hundred
years. All my life I have kept them at bay. Until late I did not know
how savage they were and what they could make me feel. I could do to
you, as you lie there, things a man who is of this century, and sane,
cannot do. You know I can strike where I will. If you slight that
lady's name again I will not kill"--he raised himself from his sword
and stood his full height, the earliest gold of the sun shining about
him--"I will not kill you, but--so help me God!--I will fight with you
once more, and I will leave you so maimed and so disfigured that you
can woo no woman to ruin again and jest at her shame and agony with no
man--for none can bear to look at you without a shudder--and you will
lie and writhe to be given the _coup de grace_." He lifted the hilt of
his sword and kissed it. "That I swear," he said, "by this first
dawning of God's sun."


When later my lord Duke returned to the town and got his horse and rode
across the moors the shortest road to Camylott, he felt suddenly that
his body was slightly trembling. He looked down at his hands and saw
they were unsteady, and a strange look--as of a man slowly awakening
from a dream--- came over his face. 'Twas this he felt--as if the last
two hours he had lived in a dream or had been another man than himself,
perhaps some bloody de Mertoun, who had for ages been dry, light dust.
The devils which had been awake in him had been devils so awful as he
well knew--not devils to possess and tear a man in the days of good
Queen Anne, but such as, in times long past, possessed those who slew,
and hacked, and tortured, and felt an enemy a prey to be put to _peine
forte et dure_. He drew his glove across his brow and found it damp.
This dream had taken hold upon him three hours before, when, standing
by chance near a group about John Oxon, he had heard him sneer as the
old Earl went by with his lady upon his arm. From that moment his brain
had held but one thought--this man should not go away until he had
taught him a thing. He would teach him, proving to him that there was a
power which he might well fear, and which would show no mercy, not even
the mercy mere death would show, but would hold over his vile soul a
greater awfulness. But he had danced his minuets and gavottes with my
Lady Dunstanwolde as well as with other fair ones, and the country
gentry had looked on and applauded him in their talk, telling each
other of his fortunes, and of how he had had a wound at Blenheim,
distinguished himself elsewhere, and set the world wondering because
after his home-coming he took no Duchess instead of choosing one, as
all expected. While they had so talked and he had danced he had made
his plan, and his devils had roused themselves and risen. And then he
had made his excuses to his party and watched the coaches drive away,
and had gone back to seek John Oxon. Now he rode back over the
moorland, and the day was awake and he was awake too. He rode swiftly
through the gorse and heather, scattering the dewdrops as he went,
thousands of dewdrops there were, myriads of pinkish purple
heath-bells, and some pure white ones, and yellow gorse blossoms which
smelt of honey, and birds that trilled, and such a morning fragrance in
the air as made his heart ache for vague longing. Ah, if all had been
but as it might have been, for there were the fair grey towers of
Camylott rising before him, and he was riding homeward--and, oh, God,
if he had been riding home to the arms of the most heaven-sweet woman
in the world--heaven-sweet not for her mere loveliness' sake, but
because she was to him as Eve had been to Adam--the one woman God had
made.

His heart swelled and throbbed with thinking it as he rode up the
avenue, and its throbbing almost stopped when he approached the garden
and saw a tall white figure standing alone by a fountain and looking
down. He sprang from his horse and turned it loose to reach its stable,
and went forward feeling as if a dream had begun again, but this time a
strange, sweet one.

Her long white draperies hung loose about her, so that she looked like
some statue; her hands were crossed on her chest and her chin fell upon
them, while her eyes looked straight before into the water. She was
pale as he had never seen her look before, her lip had a weary curve
and droop, and under her eyes were shadows. How young she was--what a
girl, for all her height and bearing! and though he knew her years so
well he had never thought on her youth before. Would God he might have
swept her to his breast, crushing her in his arms and plunging into her
eyes, for as she turned and raised them to him he saw tears.

"Your ladyship," he exclaimed.

"My lord has been ill," she said. "He asked for you, and when he fell
asleep I came to get the morning air, hoping your Grace might come. I
must go back to him. Come, your Grace, with me."


_CHAPTER XXII_

_My Lady Dunstanwolde is Widowed_


There was a lady came back to town with the Earl and Countess, on their
return from Dunstan's Wolde, to which place they had gone after his
lordship's illness at Camylott. This lady was one of the two elder
sisters of her ladyship of Dunstanwolde, and 'twas said was her
favourite and treated with great tenderness by her. She was but a thin,
humble little woman--Mistress Anne Wildairs--and singularly plain and
timid to be the sister and chosen companion of one so brilliant and
full of fire. She was a pale creature with dull-hued heavy hair and
soft dull eyes, which followed her ladyship adoringly whensoever it
chanced they were in a room together.

"How can two beings so unlike be of the same blood?" people said; "and
what finds my lady in her that she does not lose patience at her
plainness and poor spirit?"

What she discovered in her, none knew as she herself did; but my Lord
Dunstanwolde understood the tie between them, and so his Grace of
Osmonde did, since an occasion when he had had speech with her ladyship
upon the subject.

"I love her," she said, with one of her strange, almost passionate,
looks. "'Tis thought I can love neither man nor woman. But that I can
do, and without change; but I must love a thing not slight nor common.
Anne was the first creature to teach me what love meant. Before, I had
never seen it. She was afraid of me and often thought I mocked at her,
but I was learning from her pureness--from her pureness," she added,
saying the words the second time in a lower voice and almost as if to
herself. And then the splendid sweet of her smile shone forth. "She is
so white--good Anne," she said. "She is a saint and does not know I
pray to her to intercede for me, and that I live my life hoping that
some day I may make it as fair as hers. She does not know, and I dare
not tell her, for she would be made afraid."

To Mistress Anne she seemed in truth a goddess. Until taken under her
protection, the poor woman had lived a lonely life, starved of all
pleasures and affections. At first--'twas in the days when she had been
but Clo Wildairs--her ladyship had begun to befriend her through a mere
fanciful caprice, being half-amused, half-touched, to find her, by
sheer chance, one day, stolen into her chambers to gaze in delighted
terror at some ball finery spread upon a bed. To Mistress Clorinda the
frightened creature had seemed a strange thing in her shy fearfulness,
and she had for an hour amused herself and then suddenly been vaguely
moved, and from that time had been friends with her.

"Perhaps I had no heart then, or 'twas not awake," said her ladyship.
"I was but a fierce, selfish thing, like a young she-wolf. Is a young
she-wolf honest?" with a half-laugh. "I was that, and feared nothing. I
ate and drank and sang and hunted poor beasts for my pleasure, and was
as wild as one of them myself. When I look back!"--she flung up a white
hand in a strange gesture--"When I look back!"

"Look forward!" said my lord Duke; "'tis the nobler thing."

"Yes," she repeated after him, fixing her great eyes gravely on his
face and speaking slowly. "'Tis sure the nobler thing."

And then he heard from her how, day by day, poor Anne had revealed to
her things strange--unselfishness, humble and tender love, and sweet
patience.

"At first I but wondered," she said, "and sate and would stare at her
while she talked. And then I pitied her who was so meek, and then I was
angered at Fortune, which had been so careless of her, and being a
rebel I began to defy Fate for her and swear I would set its cruelty at
naught and make her happy. Always," with quick leap of light in her
eyes, "I have hated that they call Fate, and defied it. There is a
thing in me," her closed hand on her breast, "which will not be beat
down! It _will_ not. If 'tis evil, Heaven help me--for it will not. But
Anne"--and she smiled again, her face changing as it always did when
she spoke her sister's name--"Anne I began to love and could not help
it, and she was the first."

This gentlewoman my lord Duke did not for some time see but on rare
occasions, at a distance. In her ladyship's great gilt coach he saw her
once or twice--a small, shrinking figure seated by her sister's side,
the modest pale brown of her lutestring robe a curious contrast to my
lady's velvets and brocades; at the play-house he saw her seated in the
Countess' box, at which a score of glasses were levelled, her face
lighted with wonder and pleasure at the brighter moments of the
tragedy, her soft eyes full of tears when the curtain fell upon the
corpse-strewn stage. If Mistress Anne had known that so great a
gentleman looked at her gentle face and with an actual tenderness near
to love itself, she would indeed have been a startled woman, yet 'twas
with a feeling like to this his Grace regarded her, thinking of her in
time as a sort of guardian angel. The sweetest words he had ever heard
from the lips of her he worshipped with such sad and hopeless passion,
were words spoken of Mistress Anne; the sweetest strange smile he had
ever seen her wear was worn when she spoke of this meek sister; the
sweetest womanly deeds he knew of her performing were thoughtful
gentlenesses done for the cherishing and protection of Anne. "Anne was
the first creature to teach me what love meant," she said.

"I could have taught you, Heart," was his secret thought; "I could have
taught you, but since I might not, God's blessing on this dear soul
whose tender humbleness was your first lesson." Yet Mistress Anne he
did not encounter in person until the occurring of the sad event which
changed for him the whole face of the universe itself, and which took
place a year or more after his kinsman's marriage. The resolution his
Grace had made the day he waited at Camylott for his guests' arrival,
he had kept to the letter, and this often to the wonder of his lordship
of Dunstanwolde, who found cause for regret at the rareness of his
visits to his lady and himself under their own roof. Other visits my
lord Duke had made, as he had planned, passing from one great house to
another in Great Britain, or making stay at the estates of his friends
upon the continent of Europe. Sometimes he was in Scotland, sometimes
in Ireland or Wales, hunting, salmon-fishing, the chief guest at great
reunions, everywhere discussed and envied his freedom from any love
affair, entanglement, or connection with scandal, always a thing which
awakened curiosity.

"The world will have you married, Gerald," said Dunstanwolde. "And 'tis
no wonder! My lady and I would find you a Duchess. I think she looks
for one for you, but finds none to please her taste. She would have a
wondrous consort for you. You do wrong to roam so. You should come to
Dunstan's Wolde that she may have you beneath her eye."

But to Dunstan's Wolde he did not go--not even when, in obedience to
her lord's commands, the Countess herself besought him with gracious
hospitality.

To their town house he went but seldom, pleading as reason, affairs
which occupied his time, journeys which removed him to other parts. But
to refuse to cross the threshold was impossible; accordingly there were
times when he must make visits of ceremony, and on one such occasion he
found her ladyship alone, and she conveyed to him her husband's message
and his desire that she herself should press his invitation.

'Twas upon a winter afternoon, and when my lord Duke was announced he
entered the saloon, to behold my lady sitting by the firelight in a
carven gilded chair, her eyes upon the glowing coals, her thoughts
plainly preoccupied. On hearing his name she slightly started, and on
his entry rose and gave him her soft warm hand, which he did not kiss
because its velvet so wooed him that he feared to touch it with his
lips. 'Twas not a hand which he could touch with simple courtesy, but
must long to kiss passionately, and over and over again, and hold close
with whispered words.

"My lord has but just left me," she said. "He will be almost angry at
the chance which led him to go before your coming. The last hour of our
talk was all of your Grace;" and she sat upright against the high back
of her chair. And why was it that, while she sat so straight and still,
he felt that she held herself as one who needs support? "The last hour
of our talk was all of you," she said again, and oh, the velvet of her
eyes was asking him for some aid, some mercy; and his soul leaped in
anguish as he saw it. "He says I must beguile you to be less formal
with us. Before our marriage, he tells me, your Grace came often to
Dunstan's Wolde, and now you seem to desert us."

"No, no!" exclaimed my lord Duke, as if involuntarily, and rose from
his seat and stood looking down into the fire.

"I told him you would exclaim so!" said my lady, and her low-pitched
voice was a thing to make a man tremble. "I know your Grace loves
him--I think any heart must love him----"

My lord Duke turned and looked at her. Their eyes rested on each other
and spoke.

"I thank your Ladyship," he said, "that you so understood. I pray you
let him not think I could at any time feel less tender of his
goodness."

But what his whole being impelled him to, was to throw himself upon his
knees before her like a boy, to lay his face upon her little hands
which rested open upon her lap, and to cry to her that there were hours
when he could bear no more. And could it have been that if he had so
done she would have bent her dear head and wept--for her voice, when
she answered him, had surely tears in it.

"I will not let him think so," she said. "A heart as full of gentleness
and warmth as his must not be chilled. I will use all my power. Your
Grace has much to do about the Queen at this time of disturbance and
cabal. Her Grace of Marlborough's angers, the intrigues of Harley and
St. John, the quarrels of Mrs. Masham, make such a turmoil that you,
whom her Majesty loves, must be preoccupied." She laid a hand softly
upon her breast. "He will believe all that I say," she said. "His
kindness is so great to me."

"He loves you," said my lord Duke, his voice low and grave. "You are so
generous and noble a lady to him."

"He is so generous and noble a husband," my Lady Dunstanwolde
answered. "He thinks I need but ask a favour to find it granted. 'Twas
because he thinks so that he begged me to myself speak with you, to ask
you to come to Warwickshire next week when we go there. I--have asked
you."

"With most sweet graciousness," my lord Duke answered her. "That I
myself will tell him." And then he stepped to her side and lifted the
fair hand and kissed it very reverently, and without either speaking
another word he turned and went away.

"But I do no wrong," he groaned to himself as he walked in a private
room of his own house afterwards. "I do no wrong if I go not near
her--if I have no speech with her that is not formal courtesy--if I
only look on her when she does not know that I am near. And in seeing
her, in the mere beholding of her dear face, there is a poor comfort
which may hold a man from madness--as a prisoner shut in a dungeon to
perish of thirst, might save himself from death if he found somewhere
in the blackness a rare falling drop and could catch it as it fell."

So it befel that many a time he saw her when she was in nowise aware of
his nearness. All her incomings and outgoings he found a way to learn,
when she left town for the country, and when she returned, what fêtes
and assemblies she would attend, at what Court gathering she would
shine, at which places it would be possible that he might mingle with
the crowd and seem to be but where 'twas natural he should appear, if
his presence was observed. To behold her sweep by in her chariot, to
feel the heart leap which announced her coming, to catch a view of her
crimson cheek, a fleeting glance and bow as she passed by, was at least
to feel her in the same world with himself, to know that her pulse was
beating still, her deep eyes still alight, her voice still music, and
she a creature of love, though not for himself.

His Grace of Marlborough, returning to England after Malplaquet,
himself worn with the fierce strain of war, tossed on the changing
waves of public feeling, one hour the people's idol the next doubted
and reproached, was in such mood as made him keen of perception and of
feeling.

"Years mark changes in a man, my lord Duke," he said when first they
talked alone, "even before they line his face or pale his bloom of
health. Since we met you have seen some hours you had not seen when I
beheld you last. And yet"--with ironic bitterness--"you are not
battling with intrigues of Court and State, with the ingratitude of a
nation and the malice of ladies of the royal bedchamber. 'Tis only the
man who has won England's greatest victories for her who must contend
with such things as these."

"Mrs. Masham has no enmity against me," said Osmonde. "I have no power
she would take from me."

"And no wife she would displace about the throne," his Grace added. "The
world waits to behold your Duchess still?"

"'Tis I who wait," said Osmonde, gravely.

There was a pause, and while it lasted, Marlborough gazed at him with a
thought dawning in his eye.

"You have seen her," he said at last, in a low voice.

Osmonde remained silent. A moment before he had risen, and so stood.
The man who regarded him experienced at the moment a singular thing,
feeling that it was singular, and vaguely asking himself why. It was a
sudden new realisation of his physical perfection. His tall, great body
was so complete in grace and strength, each line and muscle of it so
fine a thing. In the workings of such a physical being there could be
no flaw. There was such beauty in his countenance, such strength and
faithful sweetness in his firm, full mouth, such pure, strong passion
in the deeps of his large, kind, human eye. The handsomest and the
tallest man in England he might be, but he was something more--a
complete noble human thing, to whom it surely seemed that nature should
be kind, since he had so honoured and done reverence to the gifts she
had bestowed upon him. 'Twas this his illustrious companion saw and was
moved by.

"You have seen her," he said, "but--since you wear that look which I
can read--something has come between. Had you two bared hearts to each
other for but one hour, as 'twas ordained you should, you would stand
before me so happy a man that none could pass you by and not turn to
behold again the glow of the flame of joy burning within your soul."

My Lord Duke of Osmonde drew a long, deep breath as he listened,
looking down upon the ground.

"Yes," he said, "'twould have been so."

But he spoke no further on the subject, nor did his Grace of
Marlborough, for suddenly there came to him a certain memory--which was
that he had heard that the beautiful wild creature who had set
Gloucestershire on fire had made a great marriage, her bridegroom being
the Earl of Dunstanwolde, who was the Duke of Osmonde's kinsman. And it
was she he himself had felt was born to mate with this man, and had
spoke of it in Flanders, finding my lord Duke had seen her at a
distance but had not encountered her in any company. And at last it
seemed that they had met, but not until she had given herself to
another.

That night as he drove homeward after an interview with the Queen at
Kensington his coach rolled through a street where was a great house
standing alone in a square garden. 'Twas a house well known for its
size and massive beauty, and he leaned forward to glance at it, for no
other reason than his remembrance that it was the home of his lordship
of Dunstanwolde, that fact, in connection with the incident of the
morning, wakening in him a vague interest.

"'Tis there she reigns Queen," he said, "with her old lord worshipping
at her feet as old lords will at the feet of young wives and beauties.
Poor gentleman--though she is kind to him, they say. But if 'twere the
other man--Good God!" As he uttered the exclamation he drew back within
the coach. 'Twas long past midnight and the lights of Dunstanwolde
House were extinguished, but in the dark on the opposite side of the
street there walked a tall figure wrapped in a long cloak.

"There is no other gentleman of such inches and so straight," his Grace
said. "Good Lord! how a man can suffer in such case, and how we are all
alike--schoolboys, scullions, or Dukes--and must writhe and yearn and
feel we are driven mad, and can find no help but only to follow and
look at her, yards away, or crush to one's lips a rag of ribband or a
flower, or pace the night away before her darkened house while she lies
asleep. He is the finest man-thing I have ever known--and yet there is
no other way for him--and he will walk there half the night, his throat
full of mad sobs, which he does not know for sobs, because he is not
woman but tortured man."

Many a night the same figure had walked there in the darkness. As his
great friend had said, there was no other way. His pain had grown no
less, but only more as the months passed by, for it was not the common
pain of a man like others. As he was taller, stronger, and had more
brain and heart than most, he had greater and keener pangs to do battle
with, and in the world he must at intervals be thrown across her path
and she across his, and as he had been haunted by talk and rumours of
her in the years before he was haunted now. 'Twas but natural all
should praise to him his kinsman's wife, sure that he would feel
pleasure when he heard her lauded.

Women, especially such as are great ladies, have not at their command,
if they hide pain in secret, even the refuges and poor comforts
possessed by men. They may not feed their hungry souls by gazing at a
distance upon the beloved object of their heavy thoughts; they cannot
pace the night through before a dwelling, looking up as they pass at
the darkened windows behind which sleeps--or wakes--the creature their
hearts cry to in their pain; tears leave traces; faces from which
smiles are absent, eyes from which light has fled, arouse query and
comment. My lord has a certain privacy and license to be dull or
gloomy, but my lady cannot well be either without explaining herself,
either by calling in a physician or wearing mourning, or allowing the
world to gain some hint of domestic trouble or misfortune.

Her ladyship of Dunstanwolde was surely a happy woman. Having known
neither gayety nor luxury in her girlhood, it seemed now that she could
give her lord no greater pleasure than to allow him to surround her
with both.

"She is more dazzling than they said," my Lord Marlborough thought,
watching her at the tragedy one night, "but she carries with her a
thought of something she would forget in the gayeties of the world."

The Duke of Osmonde sate in his own box that night and in the course of
the play went to his kinsman's for a few moments and paid his respects
to her ladyship, who received him graciously. This his Grace of
Marlborough beheld but did not mark her soft quick aside to him.

"May I ask your Grace's aid?" she said. "Look at my lord. His kindness
to me will not let him own that he is ailing. He will not remain at
home from these festivities because he knows I would remain with him. I
beg you persuade him that he is wrong and but makes me unhappy. Your
Grace will do this?"

"Your Ladyship may trust me," was his answer. 'Twas then that his Grace
of Marlborough saw him turn from her with a bow and go to sit by her
husband, who, 'twas indeed true, looked this night older than his
years, and was of an ivory pallor and worn. 'Twas at this time the Duke
marked that there stood upon the stage among the company of men of
fashion, idlers, and young fops sitting and lounging there, a man
attired in peach-coloured velvet, whose delicacy of bloom, combining
itself with the fair curls which fell upon his shoulders, made him look
pale and haggard. He was a young man and a handsome one, but had the
look of an ill liver, and as he stood in a careless, insolent attitude
he gazed steadfastly and with burning eyes at my Lady Dunstanwolde.

"There is somewhat devilish in his air," his Grace thought. "It is some
dissolute dandy in love with her and raging against her in his soul.
Heaven's grace! how she sits and gazes past his impudent face with her
great eyes as if he were not a living thing! She will not see him, and
he cannot force her to it, she so holds herself in hand."

My Lord Dunstanwolde gave heed to his kinsman's affectionate appeals
and counsellings with the look of a man tenderly moved.

"Has my dear lady asked you to talk with me?" he said. "'Tis but like
her generous observance of me. She has cautioned me most tenderly
herself, and begs me to leave the gayeties of town and go with her to
the country, where she says we will be happy together and she will be
my nurse."

"She will be happier with you at Dunstan's Wolde than she can be here,
where she is concerned about your health," returned Osmonde. "That I
can see plainly. The whirl of town festivities but torments her when
she sees you worn and pale."

"Yes," answered my lord with a very tender smile, "I am sure it is
true, and there is one lovely young lady with the world at her feet who
is heavenly sweet enough to give her youth and bloom willingly to the
care of an old husband."

"'Tis to the care of noble tenderness and love she is willing to give
herself," said Osmonde. "She is a Woman--a Woman!"

His lordship of Dunstanwolde turned and looked at him with a curious
interest.

"Gerald," he said, "'tis singular that you should speak so, though you
say so true a thing. Only a few weeks since he and I spoke of yourself,
and her own words of you were those: 'He is a Man--he is a Man. Nay, he
is as God meant Man should be.' And she added that if men were so,
there would be women great enough to be their mates and give the world
men like them. And now--you are both right, Gerald; both right.
Sometimes I think--" He broke his sentence with a sigh and began quick
again. "I will obey you," he said; "after the assembly we hold next
week we will go to Dunstan's Wolde. You will be with us that last
night, Gerald?"

Osmonde bowed, smiling. 'Twas to be a great assembly, at which Royalty
would be entertained, and of such stateliness and ceremony that his
absence would have been a thing to be marked.

"Her ladyship has chided me for giving so great an entertainment," said
the Earl. "She is very quaint in her play at wifely scolding. Truth is,
I am an uxorious husband, and before we leave town would see her a last
time all regal and blazing with her newest jewels; reigning over my
hospitalities like a Queen. 'Tis a childish thing, no doubt, but
perhaps--perhaps--" he broke his sentence again with a sigh which he
changed to a smile. "You will be there," he said, "and you will
understand the meaning of my weakness."


On the night of this great assembly at Dunstanwolde House, Mr. Hammond,
my lord Duke's confidential secretary, and the Comptroller of his
household, sate late over his accounts. He was his Grace's attached
servant, and having been in his service since he had left the
University had had time and opportunity to develop a strong affection
for him, and a deep and even intimate interest in his concerns. 'Twas
not alone an interest in the affairs of his estate, but in himself and
all that touched or moved him. This being the case he also, as well as
a greater man, had marked a subtle change in his patron, though wherein
its nature lay he could scarcely have described even to himself.

"He is not so calm a creature," he had said to himself, striving to
make analysis of what he thought he saw. "He is not so happy. At times
when he sits in silence he looks like a man doing battle with himself.
Yet what could there be for such as he to combat with?"

He had thought of this very thing when he had seen his Grace pass to
his coach which was to bear him to the entertainment at his kinsman's
house. The man, who had grown used to silent observance of him, had
seen in his face the thing he deplored, while he did not comprehend it.

At midnight he sate in his room, which adjoined his Grace's study, and
in which he was ever within call.

"'Tis a thing perhaps none but a woman could understand," he said to
himself in quiet thought.

The clock began to strike twelve. One--two--three--four--five--six--

But the rest he did not hear. The coach-wheels were to be heard rolling
into the courtyard. His Grace was returning. Mr. Hammond rose from his
work, prepared to answer a summons should he hear one. In but a few
minutes he was called and entered the adjoining room.

My lord Duke was standing in the centre of the apartment. He looked
like a man who had met with a shock. The colour had fled from his
countenance, and his eyes were full of pain.

"Hammond," he said, "a great and sudden calamity has taken place. An
hour ago my Lord Dunstanwolde was struck down--in the midst of his
company--by a fatal seizure of the heart."

"Fatal, your Grace?" Mr. Hammond ejaculated.

"He did not breathe after he fell," was my lord Duke's answer, and his
pallor became even more marble-like than before, as if an added
coldness had struck him. "He was a dead man when I laid my hand upon
his heart."


_CHAPTER XXIII_

_Her Ladyship Returns to Town_


Upon the awful occasion of his kinsman's sudden death in the midst of
the glittering throng of his guests, my lord Duke had spoken for the
first time to her ladyship of Dunstanwolde's sister, the gentle
Mistress Anne. His Grace had chanced to encounter this lady under such
circumstances as naturally led them to address each other, and he being
glad to have speech with her on whom his thoughts had dwelt so kindly,
had remained in attendance upon her, escorting her through the crowd of
celebrities and leading her to the supper-room for refreshment. Had she
been wholly a stranger to him, she was one who would have appealed to
his heart and touched it, she was so slight and modest a creature, her
eyes so soft and loving and her low voice so timid. Such women always
moved him and awakened in him that tenderness the weak should always
waken in the strong. But Mistress Anne did more; seeming to him, when
she spoke of her sister or looked at her, surely the fondest creature
Nature had ever made.

"I understand now," his Grace had said to her as they talked, "why her
ladyship says that 'twas you who first taught her what love meant."

A soft colour flooded Mistress Anne's whole face as she lifted it to
look at him who stood so tall above her smallness.

"Did she so?" she exclaimed. "Did she so?" And her soft dull eyes
seemed about to fill with tears.

"Truly she did, madam," he answered with warm feeling, "and added, too,
that until you taught her she had never before beheld it."

"I--oh, I am grateful!" said Mistress Anne. "I never dreamed that
I--But in these days, she hath a way of always saying that which makes
one happy."

"She loves and leans on you," my lord Duke said, and there was sudden
emotion in his voice.

"Leans!" cried Mistress Anne with a kind of loving fright; "Anne--on
Anne!"

"Yes, yes," he answered. "I have seen it--felt it! Your pardon for my
boldness. You will never forget!"

And at that very moment his attention had been caught by the look on
his kinsman's face--they chancing to be near his lordship; and he had
seen him sway and fall in the midst of a terrified group, which uttered
a low simultaneous cry.


After his attendance at the funeral ceremonies, which took place in
Warwickshire, his Grace of Osmonde did not return at once to town, but
went to Camylott that in the midst of the quiet loveliness he might be
alone.

"I must have time to think," he said; "to still my brain which
whirls--to teach it to understand."

Oh! the heavenly stillness and beauty of the afternoon when he rode up
the avenue on his home-coming! His home-coming! Yes, 'twas that he
called it in his thought, and for the first time since his parents'
death it seemed so. In the tenderness of his heart and for the sake of
his long and true love for his dead kinsman, he scarce dared explain to
himself why he now could use this word and could not before--and yet,
he felt that in the depths of his being the thought lay that at last he
was coming home.

And Felez Muñoz called out to them, Cousins! Cousins! Doña Elvira!
Doña Sol! for the love of God rouse yourselves that we may get away
before night comes, or the wild beasts will devour us! and they came to
themselves and began to open their eyes, and saw that he who
spake to them was Felez Muñoz; and he said to them, For the love
of God take heart and let us be gone; for the Infantes will soon
seek for me, and if God do not befriend us we shall all be slain.

And Doña Sol said to him in her great pain, Cousin, for all that our
father hath deserved at your hands, give us water. Felez Muñoz took his
hat and filled it with water and gave it to them. And he comforted them
and bade them take courage, and besought them to bear up. And he
placed them upon his horse, and covered them both with his cloak, and
led them through the oak forest, into the thickest part thereof, and
there he made a bed of leaves and of grass, and laid them on it, and
covered them with his cloak, and he sate down by them and began to weep,
for he knew not what he should do: for he had no food, and if he went
to seek it, great danger was there because they were wounded and bloody,
that the wild beasts and the birds of the mountain would attack
them; and on the other hand, unless he went to his uncle the Cid, to
tell him of this wickedness, none other knew what had been done, and
thus there would be no vengeance taken.

XVI. While Felez Muñoz was in this great trouble the Infantes joined
their company, and their spurs were bloody and their hands also from
the wounds which they had given their wives. And when their people saw
them in this plight, and that their wives were not with them, they
weened that some wickedness had been done; and all they who were of good
heart and understanding among them went apart, to the number of an
hundred, with one who was named Pero Sanchez; and he spake unto
them, saying, Friends, these Infantes have done a foul deed upon
their wives, the daughters of our Lord the Cid; and they are our
liege Ladies, for we did homage to them before their father, and
accepted them as such; and the Cid made us knights that we should
discharge the duty which we owe to them.

Now then, it behoveth us that we arm ourselves, and demand of the Infantes
what they have done with our ladies, and require them at their
hands.

And if they will not deliver them to us, then will we fight against
them even to death; for thus shall we do right, and otherwise we shall
be ill spoken of, and not worthy to live in the world. This was the
counsel which Pero Sanchez gave, and they all held it good and did
accordingly. And the Infantes, when they saw them coming and heard their
demand, were greatly afraid, and they said, Go to the fountain in the
Oak-forest of Corpes, and there ye may find them; we left them safe and
sound, and no harm have we done unto them; but we would not take
them with us. Ill have ye done, replied those knights, to forsake
such wives, and the daughters of such a father, and ill will ye fare
for it! And from henceforward, we renounce all friendship with ye, and
defy ye for the Cid, and for ourselves, and for all his people. And
the Infantes could not reply. And when they saw that the Infantes
did not answer, they said, Get ye gone for traitors and false caitiffs:
there is no way in the world by which ye can escape from the enemies
whom ye have now made!

But for all this the Infantes made no reply, and went their
way.

XVII. Pero Sanchez and those other knights rode back to the green
lawn in the Oak-forest, where they had left the dames; and when
they came to the fountain they saw that there was blood round about,
but the dames were not there; and they were greatly troubled, and
knew not where to seek them.

And they went about the forest seeking them, calling them aloud,
and making great lamentation for the ill that had befallen, and
also, because they could not find them.

Now Felez Muñoz and the women heard their voices, and were in great
fear, for they weened that it was the Infantes and their company,
who were returned with intent to kill them; and in their great fear
they remained still, and would fain have been far from that place.

So Pero Sanchez and they who were with him went about seeking them in
vain. Then spake up a knight called Martin Ferrandez, who was a native
of Burgos, saying, Friends, it boots us to turn back from hence
and follow after the Infantes, and do battle with them, even unto death,
because of this wickedness which they have committed, rather than return
to the Cid; for if we do not strive to take vengeance, we are not
worthy to appear before him.

And if, peradventure, we cannot come up with them upon the road, let
its go before the King Don Alfonso, and discover unto him this foul
deed, and tell him the truth thereof, to the intent that he may order
justice to be done for such a thing; for certes, greatly will he be
troubled when he knoweth it, and greatly will he be incensed against
them, inasmuch as he it was who besought the Cid to give them his
daughters to wife.

And we will not depart from the King's house, nor take unto ourselves
any other Lord till the Cid shall have obtained justice in this
matter.

And all those knights held this counsel to be good, and agreed to do
so. And they took their way and followed after the Infantes as
fast as they could, taking no rest; but the Infantes had ridden away
full speed, and they could not overtake them. And when they saw this
they went their way to King Don Alfonso who was at Palencia, and they
came before him and kissed his hands, and then with sorrowful hearts
told him of the evil which had befallen the Cid, in this dishonour
done unto his daughters by the Infantes of Carrion.

And when the King heard it he was grievously offended, as one who had
great part therein; and he said unto him, It must needs be, that before
many days we shall receive tidings of this from the Cid Campeador, and
then upon his complaint we will enter into the business in such wise,
that every one shall have justice. Then Pero Sanchez and the other
knights kissed the King's hands for what he had said; and they abode
in his court, waiting tidings from the Cid.

XVIII. When Felez Muñoz saw that the voices which they heard had
ceased, he went after awhile to a village which was at hand, to seek
food for the dames and for himself; and in this manner he kept them
for seven days. And in that village he found a good man, who was a
husbandman, and who lived a godly life with his wife and with his
daughters; and this good man knew the Cid Ruydiez, for the Cid had
lodged in his house, and he had heard tell of his great feats.

And when Felez Muñoz knew this he took the man aside, seeing how good
a man he was, and how well he spake of the Cid, and told him what
had befallen those dames, and how he had hidden them in the wood.

And when the good man heard it he had great ruth for them, but he
held himself a happy man in that he could do them service; and he
took two asses and went with Felez Muñoz to the place where they
were hidden, and took with him his two sons, who were young men.

And when the dames saw them they marvelled who they might be, and were
ashamed and would have hidden themselves; but they could not. And
the good man bent his knees before them, weeping, and said, Ladies,
I am at the service of the Cid your father, who hath many times
lodged in my house, and I served him the best I could, and he alway
was bountiful toward me.

And now, this young man, who saith his name is Felez Muñoz, hath
told me the great wrong and dishonour which your husbands, the Infantes
of Carrion, have done unto you. And when I heard it I was moved
to great sorrow, and for the great desire I have to do service to the
Cid and to you, I am come hither, to carry you, if you will be so pleased,
upon these beasts, to my house; for you must not remain in this wild
forest, where the beasts would devour you. And when you are there, I
and my wife and my daughters will serve you the best we can; and you may
then send this squire to your father, and we will keep you secretly
and well till your father shall send for you; this place is not fit
for you, for you would die of cold and hunger. When the good
man had said this, Doña Sol turned to Doña Elvira and said, Sister, the
good man saith well, and it is better that we should go with him
than remain and die here, for so shall we see the vengeance which
I trust in God our father will give us.

So they gave thanks to God, and to that man. And he set them upon his
beasts, and led them to the village, when it was now night; and
they entered his house secretly, so that none knew of their coming
save the good man and his family, whom he charged that they should
tell no man thereof.

And there his wife and his daughters ministered uoto them with pure
good will.

XIX. Then these dames wrote a letter to their father the Cid, which was
a letter of credence, that he should believe the tidings which Felez
Muñoz would deliver, and they wrote it with the blood from their
wounds. And Felez Muñoz went his way toward Valencia; and when he came
to Santesteban he spake with Diego Tellez, who had been of the company
of Alvar Fañez, and told him of what had befallen. He, so soon as he
heard this great villainy, took beasts and seemly raiment, and
went for those dames, and brought them from the house of that good
man to Santesteban, and did them all honour that he could.

They of Santesteban were always gentlemen; and they comforted the
daughters of the Cid, and there they were healed of their hurts.
In the mean time Felez Muñoz proceeded on his journey; and it came
to pass that he met Alvar Fañez Minaya, and Pero Bermudez on the
way, going to the King with a present which the Cid had sent him;
and the present was this, ... two hundred horses, from those which
he had won in the battle of Quarto from King Bucar, and an hundred
Moorish prisoners, and many good swords, and many rich saddles.

And as Alvar Fañez and Pero Bermudez rode on in talk, they thought that
it was he, and marvelled greatly; and he when he drew nigh began to
tear his hair, and make great lamentation, so that they were greatly
amazed. And they alighted, asking him what it was. And he related unto
them all that had befallen. But when they heard this, who can tell the
lamentation which they made? And they took counsel together what
they should do, and their counsel was this, ... that they should proceed
to the King, and demand justice at his hands in the name of the Cid,
and that Felez Muñoz should proceed to Valencia.

So he told them the name of the good man with whom he had left the
dames, and the place where he dwelt, and also how he had spoken
with Diego Tellez at Santesteban, and then they parted.

XX. Alvar Fañez and Pero Bermudez held on their way, and came to the
King, whom they found in Valladolid. And he received them right well,
and asked them for the Cid, and they kissed his hand and said, Sir, the
Cid commends himself to your grace; he hath had a good affair with
King Bucar of Morocco, and hath defeated him, and nine and twenty
Kings who came with him, in the field of Quarto, and great booty
did he gain there in gold and in silver, and in horses and tents
and cattle; and he hath slain many and taken many prisoners.

And in acknowledgment of you as his natural Lord, he sends you two hundred
horses, and an hundred black Moors, and many rich saddles and
precious swords, beseeching you to accept them at his hand, in token
of the desire he hath to do service to God and to you, maintaining
the faith of Jesus Christ.

And King Don Alfonso made answer and said, that he took the present
of the Cid with a right good will, as of the truest and most
honourable vassal that ever Lord had: and he gave order to his
people to receive it, and bade Alvar Fañez and Pero Bermudez seat
themselves at his feet.

After a while Alvar Fañez rose and said, Sir, when we departed from
the Cid we left him in great honour and prosperity; but on our way
we met a squire who is his nephew, by name Felez Muñoz, and he hath
told us the evil and the dishonour which both we and the Cid endure
in the villainy which the Infantes of Carrion have committed upon
his daughters.

You, Sir, know how great this villainy hath been, and how nearly it
toucheth you, for the marriage was of your appointment, and I gave
them by your command to the Infantes. Pero Sánchez hath told you that
the dames were dead, as he believed them to be; but we, Sir, know that
they are yet alive, having been grievously hurt and wounded with bridles
and spurs, and stript of their garments, ... in which plight Felez
Muñoz found them. Certes such a thing as this cannot please God in heaven,
and ought to offend you who are Lord here in your own realm. Now
therefore we beseech you that you take justice for yourself, and give
us and the Cid ours. And let not the Cid be dishonoured in your time,
for blessed be God, he hath never been dishonoured yet, but hath gone
on alway advancing in honour since King Don Ferrando your father knighted
him in Coimbra.

To this the King made answer and said, God knoweth the trouble which I
resent for this dishonour which hath been done to the Cid, and the
more I hear of it the more doth it trouble me, and many reasons are
there why it should; for my own sake, and for the sake of the Cid,
and for the sake of his daughters; but since they are yet alive the
evil is not so great, for as they have been wrongfully put to
shame, nothing meriting such treatment, they may be rightfully
avenged, as my Cortes shall determine.

Moreover it is a grief to me that my vassals the Infantes of Carrion
should have erred so badly and with such cruelty; but since it hath
been so I cannot but do justice. I hold it good therefore to summon
them to my Cortes, which I will assemble for this matter in Toledo,
and the time assigned them shall be three months from this day; and do
ye tell the Cid to come there with such of his people as he shall
think good. Glad were Alvar Fañez and Pero Bermudez of this reply,
and they kissed his hand, and dispeeded themselves.

And the King ordered mules to be given them for the dames, with right
noble saddles and trappings of gold and cloth of gold and of wool,
with menever and gris.

XXI. Then Alvar Fañez and Pero Bermudez went their way, and Pero
Sanchez and his company departed with them.

They went up Val de Esgueva to Peñafiel, and by Roa and Arrueco,
and they entered the Oak-forest of Corpes, and Pero Sanchez showed
the place beside the fountain where the villainy had been committed;
and they made such lamentation there as if they had seen the dames
lie dead before them.

Then rode they to the village where the good man dwelt, and went to his
dwelling, and good guerdon did they give unto him for the service which
he had done, so that he was full well requited. And they took
with them the two sons and the two daughters of the good man, that
they might recompense them for the good deeds of their father; and the
dames gave them in marriage, and made them full rich, and held them even
as brothers and as sisters, because of the service which they had
received from them.

When it was known at Santesteban that Minaya was coming for his
kinswomen, the men of that town welcomed him and his company, and
they brought him in payment the _efurcion_, that is to say, the
supper-money, and it was full great.

But Minaya would not accept it at their hands, and he thanked them,
and said, Thanks, men of Santesteban, for what ye have done, and
my Cid the Campeador will thank ye, as I do, and God will give ye
your guerdon.

Then went they to visit their kinswomen, and when they saw the dames,
who can tell the great lamentation which was made on both sides? albeit
that they rejoiced to see each other. And Minaya said unto them, By
God, cousins, he knoweth the truth, and your father and mother know
it also, ...

I misdoubted this when you went away with those false ones; and it grieved
me when your father said that he had given his consent that ye should
go, and your mother gainsaid it also; but we could not prevail, for he
said he had consented.

Howbeit, since ye are alive, of evils let us be thankful for the least:
you have lost one marriage, and may gain a better, and the day will
come when we shall avenge ye. That night they rested at Santesteban,
and on the morrow they set forward and took the road towards Atienza,
and the men of Santesteban escorted them as far as the river Damor,
to do them pleasure. And they past Alcoceba, and went on to the King's
Ford, and there took up there lodging at the Casa de Berlanga.
On the morrow they lodged at Medina Celi, and from thence they went to
Molina, and Abengalvon came out with a right good will to welcome
them, for love of the Cid, and he did them all the honour that he
could.

And it was accorded between them that the dames should rest there some
days, because of their weakness, and that they should send and let the
Cid know what had been done.

XXII. Then Pero Bermudez went on to Valencia, and Alvar Fañez and the
rest of his company abode with the dames in Molina. And when Pero Bermudez
arrived he found the Cid Ruydiez just risen with his chivalry from
dinner, and when the Cid saw him he welcomed him right well; howbeit
he could not refrain from weeping; for before this Felez Muñoz had told
him all. And he stroked his beard and said, Thanks be to Christ, the
Lord of this world, by this beard which no one hath ever cut, the
Infantes of Carrion shall not triumph in this!

And he began to take comfort, hearing how King Don Alfonso had appointed
the Cortes.
And he took Pero Bermudez by the hand and led him to Doña Ximena, who
wept greatly at seeing him, and said, Ah, Pero Bermudez, what
tidings bringest thou of my daughters?

And he comforted her and said, Weep not, Lady, for I left them alive
and well at Molina, and Alvar Fañez with them; by God's blessing you
shall have good vengeance for them! Then the Cid seated himself near
his wife, and Pero Bermudez took his seat before them, and told them
all that he had done, and how the King had summoned them to the Cortes
at Toledo. And he said unto the Cid, My uncle and Lord, I know not what
to say, but ill is my luck that I could not take vengeance before I
returned here; and certes, if I could have found them I would have
died, or have compleated it: but they when they had done this
villainy dared not appear before the King, neither in his Court,
and therefore he hath issued this summons to them that they should
come.

Manifestly may it be seen that the King well inclineth to give you justice,
if you fail not to demand it. Now then I beseech you tarry not, but
let us to horse and confront them and accuse them, for this is not a
thing to be done leisurely. And the Cid answered and said, Chafe not
thyself, Pero Bermudez, for the man who thinketh by chafing to
expedite his business, leaveth off worse than he began. Be you certain,
that if I die not I shall take vengeance upon those traitors,
and I trust in God not to die till I have taken it. Now therefore, give
me no more anger than I feel in my own heart, for Felez Muñoz hath
given me enough.

I thank my Lord King Don Alfonso for the answer which he gave you,
and for appointing the Cortes, and in such guise will I appear there
as shall gall them who wish ill to me.

God willing, we will take our departure in good time! Do you now return
to Molina, and bring on my daughters, for I would fain see them;
and I will talk with them that they may tell me the whole truth of
this thing, that I may know the whole when I go to the court of the
King to demand vengeance.

XXIII. Pero Bermudez returned the next day to Molina, where Abengalvon
had done great honour to the dames, and to Alvar Fañez, and all that
were with him. And they departed from Molina, and Abengalvon with them,
for he would not leave them till he had brought them to Valencia to his
Lord the Cid.

And when the Cid knew that they were drawing nigh he rode out two leagues
to meet them, and when they saw him they made great lamentation,
they and all his company, not only the Christians but the Moors
also who were in his service.

But my Cid embraced his daughters, and kissed them both, and smiled and
said, Ye are come, my children, and God will heal you! I accepted this
marriage for you, but I could do no other; by God's pleasure ye
shall be better mated hereafter.

And when they reached Valencia and went into the Alcazar to their
mother Doña Ximena, who can tell the lamentation which was made
by the mother over her daughters, and the daughters with their
mother, and by the women of their household.

Three days did this great lamentation last.
And the Cid thanked Abengalvon, his vassal, for the honour which he
had shown to his children and their company, and promised to protect
him from all who should come against him. And Abengalvon returned
to Molina well pleased.

BOOK IX.

I. My Cid the Campeador made ready to appear at the Cortes in Toledo,
and he left the Bishop Don Hieronymo, and Martin Pelaez the Asturian,
to command in Valencia, and five hundred knights with them, all
hidalgos.

At the clubs and coffee-houses the men talked also, though men's
tongues do not run as fast as the tongues of womenkind, and their
gossip was of a masculine order. She was a finer creature than ever,
and at present was the richest widow in England. A man might well lose
his wits over her mere self if she had naught but the gown she stood
in, but he who got her would get all else beside. The new beaux and the
old ones began to buy modish habits and periwigs, adorn themselves with
new sword and shoulder knots, and trifle over the latest essences
offered in the toyshops.

"Split me," said one splendid fop, "but since my lady returned to town
the price of ambergris and bergamot and civet powders has mounted
perilously, and the mercers are all too busy to be civil. When I sent
my rascal this morning to buy the Secret White Water to Curl
Gentlemen's Hair, on my life he was told he must wait for it, since new
must be made, as all had been engaged."

One man at that time appeared at the Cocoa Tree and Cribb's with a new
richness of garb and a look in his face such as had not been seen there
for many a day. In truth, for some time the coffee-houses had seen but
little of him, and it had sometimes been said that he had fled the
country to escape his creditors, or might be spending his days in a
debtors' prison, since he had no acquaintances who would care to look
for him if he were missing, and he might escape to France, or be seized
and rot in gaol, and none be the wiser.

But on a night even a little before the throwing open of Dunstanwolde
House, he sauntered into the Cocoa Tree and, having become so uncommon
a sight, several turned to glance at him.

"Egad!" one cried low to another, "'tis Jack Oxon back again. Where
doth the fellow spring from?"

His good looks it had been hard for him to lose, they being such as
were built of delicately cut features, graceful limbs, and an elegant
air, but during the past year he had often enough looked haggard,
vicious, and of desperate ill-humour, besides out of fashion, if not
out at elbow. Now his look had singularly changed, his face was
fresher, his eye brighter, though a little feverish in its light, and
he wore a new sword and velvet scabbard, a rich lace steenkirk, and a
modish coat of pale violet brocade.

"Where hast come from, Jack?" someone asked him. "Hast been into a
nunnery?"

"Yes," he answered, "doing penance for _thy_ sins, having none of my
own."

"Hast got credit again, I swear," cried the other, "or thou wouldst not
look such a dandy."

Sir John sate down and called for refreshment, which a drawer brought
him.

"A man can always get credit," he said, with an ironic, cool little
smile, "when his fortunes take a turn."

"Thou look'st as if thine had turned," said his companion. "Purple and
silver, and thy ringlets brushed and perfumed like a girl's. In thy
eyes 'tis a finer mop than any other man's French periwig, all know."

Sir John looked down on his shoulders at his soft rich fall of curls
and smiled. "'Tis finer," he said. "'Tis as fine for a man as a certain
beauty's, we once talked of, was for a woman."

The man who talked with him laughed with a half-sneer.

"Thou canst not forget her hair, Jack," he said, "but the lock stayed
on her head despite thee. Art going to try again, now she is a widow?"

Sir John looked up from his drink and in his eye there leapt up a devil
in spite of himself, for he had meant--if he could--to keep cool.

"Ay," he said, "by God! I am."


So when men talked of Lady Dunstanwolde 'twas not unnatural that, this
story having been bruited about, they should talk also of Jack Oxon,
and since they talked to each other, the rumour reached feminine ears
which pricked themselves at once; and when my lord Duke of Osmonde came
to town and went into the world, he also heard discussions of Sir John
Oxon. This gentleman who had been missing in the World of Fashion had
reappeared, and 'twas believed had returned to life to try his fortunes
with my Lady Dunstanwolde. And 'twas well known indeed that he had
been the first lover she had known, for the elderly country roisterers
had been naught but her playmates and her father's boon companions, and
Sir John had appeared at the famous birthnight supper and had been the
only town man who had ever seen her in her male attire, and was among
those who toasted her when she returned to the banquet-room splendid in
crimson and gold, and ordered all to fall upon their knees before her;
and Sir John--(he was then in the heyday of his beauty and success) had
gone mad with love for her, and 'twas believed that she had returned
his passion, as any girl well might, though she was so proud-spirited a
creature that none could be quite sure. At least 'twas known that he
had laid seige to her, and for near two years had gone often to the
country, and many had seen him gaze at her in company when his passion
was writ plain in his blue eyes. Suddenly, on his reappearance, since
he for some unknown reason wore the look of a man whose fortunes might
have changed for the better, there were those among whom the tide took
a turn somewhat in Sir John's favour. 'Twas even suggested by a woman
of fashion, given somewhat to romance, that perhaps the poor man had
fallen into evil ways and lost his good looks and elegant air through
thwarted passion, and 'twas thought indeed a touching thing that at
the first gleam of hope he should emerge from his retirement almost
restored in spirit and bloom.

The occupants of coaches and chairs passing before the entrance to
Osmonde House, which was a great mansion situated in a garden, noted
but a few days after the world had heard her ladyship was in town, that
his Grace had returned also. Lacqueys stood about the entrance, and the
Osmonde liveries were to be seen going to and fro in the streets, the
Duke was observed to drive to Kensington and back, and to St. James's,
and the House of Parliament, and it was known was given audience by the
Queen upon certain secret matters of State. 'Twas indeed at this time
that the changes were taking place in her Majesty's councils, and his
anticipation of a ministerial revolution had so emboldened King Louis
that he had ventured to make private overtures to the royal lady's
confidential advisers. "What we lose in Flanders we shall gain in
England," Marlborough's French enemy, Torcy, had said. And between the
anger and murmurs of a people who had turned to rend a whilom idol, the
intrigues and cabals about the throne, the quarrels of her counsellors
and ladies of the bedchamber, and the passionate reproaches of the
strongest and most indomitable of female tyrants, 'twas small wonder a
dull, ease-loving woman, feeling the burden of her royalty all too
wearisome and heavy, should turn with almost pathetic insistence to a
man young enough to be her son, attractive enough to be a favourite,
high enough to be impeccable, and of such clear wit, strength of will
and resource, and power over herself and others as seemed to set him
apart from all the rest of those who gathered to clamour about her. In
truth, my lord Duke's value to her Majesty was founded greatly upon
that which had drawn his Grace of Marlborough to him. He wanted
nothing; all the others had some desire to gain, secret or avowed. The
woman who had so longed for unregal feminine intimacy and companionship
that with her favoured attendant she had played a comedy of private
life--doffing her queenship and becoming simple "Mrs. Morley," that
with "Mrs. Freeman," at least, she might forget she was a Queen--was
not formed by Nature to combat with State intrigues and Court
duplicities.

"I am given no quiet," the poor august lady said. "These people who
resign places and demand them, who call meetings and create a ferment,
these ladies who vituperate and clamour like deserted lovers, weary me.
Your Grace's strength brings me repose!"

And as the father had felt sympathy and pity for poor Catherine of
Braganza in Charles the Second's day, so the son felt pity and gave
what support he could to poor bullied and bewildered Queen Anne. To
him her queenship was truly the lesser thing, her helpless, somewhat
heavy-witted and easily wavering womanhood the greater; and there were
those who feared him, for such reasons as few men in his position had
been feared before.

His Grace had been but two days in town, and on the morning of the
second had driven in his chariot to Kensington, and had an audience
upon the private matter already spoken of, and which would in all
likelihood take him, despite his wishes, across the Channel and to the
French Court. He might be commanded away at the very moment that he
wished most to be on English soil, in London itself. For howsoever
ardent and long hidden a man's passion, he must, if he be delicate of
feeling, await that moment which is ripe for him to speak. And this he
pondered on as his chariot rolled through the streets to bear him to
make his first visit to her ladyship of Dunstanwolde.

"I have known and dreamed of her almost all her life," he thought.
"'Tis but three years since she first saw my face; through the first
year she was another man's wife, and these two last his mourning widow.
When I behold her to day I shall learn much."

The sun was shining gloriously, and the skies' blue was deep and clear.
He looked up at it as he drove, and at the fresh early summer greenness
of the huge trees and thick grass in the parks and gardens; and when
his equipage rolled into the court at Dunstanwolde House, he smiled to
himself for pleasure to see its summer air, with the lacqueys making
excuse to stand outside in the brightness of the day, little Nero, the
black negro page, sunning himself and his pugs and spaniels on the plot
of grass at the front, and the windows thrown open to let in the soft
fresh air, while the balconies before the drawing-room casements were
filled with masses of flowers--yellow and white perfumed things, sent
up fresh from the country and set in such abundance that the balconies
bloomed like gardens. The last time he had beheld her, she had stood by
her husband's coffin, swathed in long, heavy draperies of black,
looking indeed a wonderful tragic figure; and this was in his mind as
he walked up the broad staircase, followed by the lacquey, who a moment
later flung open the door of the saloon and announced him with solemn
majesty.

But oh! the threshold once crossed, the great white-and-gold decorated
apartment seemed flooded with sunlight and filled with the fragrance of
daffodils and jonquils and narcissus blown in through the open window,
and Mistress Anne sate sweet and modest in a fine chair too big for her
dear small body; but my lord Duke scarce could see her, for 'twas as if
the sun shone in his eyes when there rose from a divan to meet him a
tall goddess clad in white and with a gold ribband confining her black
hair and her waist, and a branch of yellow-gold flowers in her hand,
which looked as if surely she might just have gathered them on the
terrace at Camylott.

And she had surely by some magic blotted out the past and had awakened
to a present which was like new birth and had no past, for she blushed
the loveliest, radiant blush--at sight of him--as if she had been no
great lady, but a sweet, glowing girl.

What he said to her, or she to him, he knew no more than any lesser man
in his case knows, for he was in a whirl of wonder and strange delight,
and could scarce hold in his mind that there was need that he should be
sober, this being his first visit to her since she had cast the weeds
worn for his own kinsman; and there sate Mistress Anne, changing from
red to white, as if through some great secret emotion--though he did
not know 'twas at the sight of them standing together, and the sudden
knowledge and joy it brought to her, which made her very heart to quake
in its tenderness. This--_this_ was the meaning of what she had so
wondered at in her sister's mood when they spoke of the poor girl left
widowed; this was how she had known, and if so, she must have learned
it in her own despite at first, in that year when she had been a bound
woman, when they two had been forced to encounter each other, holding
their hearts in gyves of iron and making no sound or sign. And the fond
creature remembered the night before the marriage when she had passed
through a strange scene in her sister's chamber, and one thing she had
said came back to her, and now she understood its meaning.

"I love my Lord Dunstanwolde as well as any other man, and better than
some, for I do not hate him. Since I have been promised to him"--('twas
this which now came back to her)--"I own I have for a moment met
another gentleman who _might_--'twas but for a moment, and 'tis done
with."

And this--this had been he, his Grace the Duke of Osmonde--who was so
fit a mate for her, and whose brown eyes so burned with love. And she
was a free woman, and there they stood at the open window among the
flowers--both bound, both free!

Free! She started a little as she said the word in thought again, for
she knew a strange wild story none other than herself knew, and her
sister, and Sir John Oxon, and they did not suspect she shared their
secret. And for long it had seemed to her only some cruel thing she had
dreamed; and the wild lovely creature she had watched and stood guard
over with such trembling, during a brief season of bewildered anguish,
seemed to be a sort of vision also. At the end of but a few short
months Mistress Anne had felt this lawless, beauteous being had left
the splendid body she had inhabited, and another woman's life had begun
in it--another woman's. That woman it was who had wed Lord Dunstanwolde
and made him a blissful man, that woman had been since then her sister,
her protector, and her friend; 'twas she who had watched by my lord's
body, and spoke low words to him, and stroked his poor dead hand; 'twas
she who laid his wife's hair and her child's, and the little picture,
on his still breast; 'twas she who sate by the widowed girl at
Wildairs--and 'twas she, she made glorious by love, who stood and
smiled among the window's daffodils.

His Grace and her ladyship were speaking softly together of the
flowers, the sunshine, of the town and Court, and of beauteous
Camylott. Once my lord Duke's laugh rang out, rich and gay like a
boy's, and there was such youth and fire and happiness in his handsome
face as made Mistress Anne remember that, as it was with my lady, so it
was with him--that because he was so tall and great and stately, the
world forgot that he was young.

"But," said the loving woman to herself with a sudden fear, "if _he_
should come back. Nothing so cruel could happen--'tis past and dead and
forgiven. He could not--could not come."

Then his Grace went away. My lady spoke sweet and gracious words to him
with the laughing, shining eyes of Clo Wildairs at her most wondrous
hours, and the Duke holding her hand, bent and kissed it with the
tender passion of a hungered man, as he had not dared to dream of
kissing it before.

And he went down the staircase a new man, carrying his head as though a
crown had been set on it and he would bear it nobly. In his tawny eye
there was a smile which was yet solemn though it was deeply bright.

"'Tis the beginning of the world," he said inwardly--"'And the evening
and the morning were the first day.' I have looked into her eyes."

And as his chariot rolled through the entrance into the street, another
passed it and entered the court, and through the glass he saw a fair
man, richly dressed, his bright curls falling soft and thick on his
shoulders; and he was arranging the ribband of his sword-knot, and
smiling a little with downcast eyes--and it was Sir John Oxon.


_CHAPTER XXV_

_To-morrow_


A dozen gentlemen at least, rumour said, would have rejoiced to end for
her, by marriage, this lovely lady's widowhood; but there were but two
she would be like to choose between, and they were different men
indeed. One of them, both her heart and her ambition might have caused
her to make choice of, for he combined such qualities and fortunes as
might well satisfy either.

"Zounds," said an old beau, "the woman who wants more than his Grace of
Osmonde can give--more money, greater estates, and more good looks--is
like to go unsatisfied to her grave. She will take him, I swear, and
smile like Heaven in doing it."

"But there was a time," said Sir Chris Crowell, who had come to town
(to behold his beauty's conquests, as he said) and who spent much time
at the coffee-houses and taverns telling garrulous stories of the days
of Mistress Clo of Wildairs, "there was a time when I would have took
oath that Jack Oxon was the man who would have her. Lord! he was the
first young handsome thing she had ever met--and she was but fifteen
for all her impudence, and had lived in the country and seen naught
but a handful of thick-bodied, red-faced old rakes. And Jack was but
four and twenty and fresh from town, and such a beauty that there was
not a dairymaid in the country but was heartbroke by him--though he may
have done no more than cast his devilish blue eye on her. For he had a
way, I tell ye, that lad, he had a way with him that would have took
any woman in. A dozen parts he could play and be a wonder in every one
of them--and languish, and swear oaths, and repent his sins, and plead
for mercy, with the look of an angel come to earth, and bring a woman
to tears--and sometimes ruin, God knows!--by his very playing of the
mountebank. Good Lord! to see those two at the birthnight supper was a
sight indeed. My Lady Oxon she would have been, if either of them had
been a fortune. But 'twas Fate--and which jilted the other, Heaven
knows. And if 'twas _he_ who played false, and he would come back now,
he will find he hath fire to deal with--for my Lady Dunstanwolde is a
fierce creature yet, though her eye shines so soft in these days." And
he puffed at his churchwarden's pipe and grinned.

Among the men who had been her playmates it would seem that perhaps
this old fellow had loved her best of all, or was more given to being
demonstrative, or more full of a good-natured vanity which exulted in
her as being a sort of personal property to vaunt and delight in; at
all events Sir Chris had come to the town, where he had scarce ever
visited in all his life before, and had in a way constituted himself a
sort of henchman or courtier of her ladyship of Dunstanwolde.

At her house he presented himself when first he came up--short, burly,
red-faced, and in his best Gloucestershire clothes, which indeed wore a
rustic air when borne to London on the broad back of a country
gentleman in a somewhat rusty periwig.

When he beheld the outside stateliness of the big town mansion he
grinned with delight; when he entered its doors and saw its interior
splendours he stared about him with wondering eyes; and when he was
passed from point to point by one tall and gorgeously liveried lacquey
after another, he grew sober. When her ladyship came to him shortly
after, she found him standing in the middle of the magnificent saloon
(which had been rearranged and adorned for her by her late lord in
white and golden panels, with decoration of garlands and Cupids and
brocades after the manner of the French King Louis Fourteenth), and he
was gazing about him still, and now scratching his periwig absently.

"Eh, my lady," he said, making an awkward bow, as if he did not know
how to bear himself in the midst of such surroundings; "thy father was
right."

Never had he seen a lady clad in such rich stuffs and looking so grand
and like a young queen, but her red lips parted, showing her white
teeth, and her big black eyes laughed as merrily as ever he had seen
them when Clo Wildairs tramped across the moors with him, her gun over
her fustian shoulder.

"Was he so?" she cried, taking hold of his thick hand and drawing him
towards a huge gold carved sofa. "Come and tell me then when he was
right, and if 'twas thou wast wrong."

Sir Chris stared at her a minute, straight at her arch, brilliant face,
and then his rueful countenance relaxed itself into a grin.

"Ecod!" he said, still staring hard, "thou art not changed a whit."

"Ecod!" she said, mocking him, "but I am that. Shame on thee to deny
it. I am a Countess and have been presented to the Queen, and cast my
ill manners, and can make a Court obeisance." And she made him a great,
splendid courtesy, sweeping down amidst her rich brocades as if she
would touch the floor.

"Lord! Lord!" he said, and scratched his periwig again. "Thou look'st
like a Queen thyself. But 'tis thy big eyes are not changed, Clo, that
laughed so through the black fringes of them, like stars shining
through a bush, and--and thy saucy way that makes a man want to seize
hold on thee and hug thee--though--though--" He checked himself,
half-frightened, but she laughed out at him with that bell-like
clearness he remembered so well, and which he swore afterwards would
put heart into any man.

"'Tis no harm that a man should want to seize hold upon a woman," she
said; "'tis a thing men are given to, poor souls, and 'tis said Heaven
made them so; but let him not be unwary and strive to do it. Town
gentlemen know 'tis not the fashion."

Sir Chris chuckled and looked about him again.

"Clo," he said, "since thou hast laughed at me and I am not frightened
by thy grandness, as I was at first, I will tell thee. I am going to
stay in Lunnon for awhile, and look on at thee, and be a town man
myself. Canst make a town man of me, Clo?"--grinning.

"Yes," answered her ladyship, holding her head on one side to look him
over, "with a velvet coat and some gold lace, and a fine new periwig
scented with orris or jessamine, and a silver-gilt sword and a hat
cocked smartly, and a snuff-box, with a lady's picture in it. I will
give thee mine, and thou shalt boast of it in company."

He slapped his thigh and laughed till his red face grew purple.

"Nay," he said, "thy father was wrong. He said I was a fool to come,
for such as me and him was out of place in town, and fine ladies'
drawing-rooms would make us feel like stable-boys. He said I would be
heart-sick and shame-faced in twelve hours, and turn tail and come back
to Gloucestershire like a whipt dog--but I shall not, I swear, but
shall be merrier and in better heart than I have been since I was
young. It gets dull in the country, Clo," shaking his head, "when a man
gets old and heavy, and 'tis worst when he has no children left to keep
him stirring. I have took a good lodging in the town, and I will dress
myself like a Court gentleman and go to the coffee-houses and the play,
and hear the wits. And I shall watch thy coach-and-six drive by and
tell the company I was thy playmate when thou wert Clo Wildairs; and
thou art not too fine a lady, even now thou art a Court beauty and a
Countess, to be kind to an old fellow from the country."

He strutted away from the mansion, the proudest and happiest man in
London, giving his hat a jaunty cock and walking with an air, his old
heart beating high with joy to feel that this beautiful creature had
not forgot old days and did not disdain him. He went to tailors and
mercers and wig-makers and furnished himself forth with fine
belongings, and looked a town gentleman indeed when he came to exhibit
himself to my lady; and before long the Mall and the park became
familiar with his sturdy old figure and beaming country face, and the
beauties and beaux and wits began to know him, and that he had been one
of Mistress Clorinda Wildairs's companions in her Gloucestershire days,
and had now come to town, drawn simply by his worship of her, that he
might delight himself by looking on at her triumphs.

There were many who honestly liked his countrified, talkative good
nature, and inviting him to their houses made a favourite of him; and
there were others who encouraged him, to hear him tell his stories; and
several modish beauties amused themselves by coquetting with him, one
of these being my Lady Betty Tantillion, who would tease and ogle him
until he was ready to lose his wits in his elderly delight. One of her
favourite tricks was to pout at him and twit him on his adoration of my
Lady Dunstanwolde, of whom she was in truth not too fond; though she
had learned to keep a civil tongue in her head, since her ladyship was
a match for half a dozen such as she, and, when she chose to use her
cutting wit, proved an antagonist as greatly to be feared as in the
days when Lady Maddon, the fair and frail "Willow Wand," had fallen
into hysteric fits in the country mercer's shop.

"You men always lose your wits when you see her," she would say. "'Tis
said Sir John Oxon"--with a malicious little glance at that gentleman,
who stood near her ladyship across the room--"'tis said Sir John Oxon
lost more, and broke a fine match, and squandered his fortune, and sank
into the evilest reputation--all for love of her."

She turned to his Grace of Osmonde, who was near, waving her fan
languishing. "Has your Grace heard that story?" she asked. His Grace
approached smiling--he never could converse with this young lady
without smiling a little--she so bore out all the promise of her
school-girl letters and reminded him of the night when he had found her
brother, Ensign Tom, and Bob Langley grinning and shouting over her
homilies on the Gloucestershire beauty.

"Which one is it?" he said. "Your ladyship has been kind enough to tell
me so many."

"'Tis the one about Sir John Oxon and her ladyship of Dunstanwolde,"
she answered, with a pretty simper. "All Gloucestershire knew how they
were in love with each other when she was Mistress Wildairs--until she
cast him off for my Lord Dunstanwolde. 'Tis said she drove him to
ruin--but now he has come back to her, and all think she will remember
her first love and yield to him at last. The body of the Cid remained
here till the year of the Incarnation 1447, when the Abbot Don
Pedro del Burgo ordered the old Church to be pulled down that a new
one might be built in its place.

And then as all the sepulchres were removed, that of the Cid was
removed also, and they placed it in front of the Sacristy, upon four
stone lions. And in the year 1540 God put it in the heart of the Abbot
and Prior, Monks and Convent of the Monastery of St.

Pedro de Cardeña, for the glory of God, and the honour of St. Peter and
St. Paul, and of the Cid and other good knights who lay buried there,
and for the devotion of the people, to beautify the great Chapel
of the said Monastery with a rich choir and stalls, and new altars,
and goodly steps to lead up to them.

And as they were doing this they found that the tomb of the blessed Cid,
if they left it where it was, which was in front of the door of
the Sacristy, before the steps of the altar, it would neither be
seemly for the service of the altar, because it was in the way
thereof, nor for his dignity, by reason that they might stumble
against it; ... moreover it was fallen somewhat to decay, and set
badly upon the stone lions which supported it; and there were other
knights placed above him.

Whereupon the Abbot, Prior, Monks, and Convent, resolved that they
would translate his body, and remove the other tombs to places
convenient for them, holding that it was not meet that those who
neither in their exploits nor in holiness had equalled him in life,
should have precedency of him after death. And they were of accord that
the day of this translation should not be made public, knowing how great
the number would be of knights and other persons who would be
desirous of being at this festival, for which cause they doubted least
some misadventure would betide of tumults and deaths, or scandals,
such as are wont to happen on such occasions; they were therefore minded
to do this thing without giving knowledge thereof to any but those
who were in the Monastery, who were of many nations and conditions,
and who were enow to bear testimony when it was done; for there was
no lack there, besides the religious, of knights, squires, hidalgos,
labourers, and folk of the city and the district round about, and
Biscayans and mountaineers, and men of Burgundy and of France.

XXIV. So on Thursday, the eighth day of Epiphany, being the
thirteenth day of January in the year of our Lord 1541, and at the
hour of complines, the Abbot and Convent being assembled, together
with serving-men and artificers who were called for this purpose,
they made that night wooden biers that the tomb might be moved more
easily and reverently, and with less danger.

And on the morrow, which was Friday, the fourteenth day of the said month
and year, the Convent having said primes, and the mass of Our Lady,
according to custom, and the Abbot, Fray Lope de Frias, who was a
native of Velorado, having confessed and said mass, the doors of
the Church being open, and the altar richly drest, and the bells
ringing as they are wont to do upon great festivals, at eight in
the morning there assembled in the Church all the brethren of the
Monastery, nineteen in number, the other fifteen being absent each
in his avocation; and there were present with them Sancho de Ocaña,
Merino and Chief Justice of the Monastery; Juan de Rosales, Pedro
de Ruseras, and Juan Ruyz, squires of the house; master Ochoa de
Artiaga, a mason, with his men; Andres de Carnica, and Domingo de
Artiago, master Pablo and master Borgoñon, stone-cutters, with their
men; and master Juan, a smith, with his; and all the other workmen
and serving-men and traders who were in the house.

And the Abbot being clad in rich vestments, and the ministers and acolites
with him, with cross, candles, and torches burning, went all in
procession to Our Lady's altar, where the sacrament was at that time
kept, because of the repairs which were going on in the great Chapel;
and all kneeling on their knees, and having recited the Pater-noster
and the Ave-maria, the Abbot gave a sign, and the Precentor of the
Convent began in plain descant the antiphony _Salvator Mundi_. And
when the whole Convent had sung this, the Abbot said the verse _Ostende
nobis_, and the verse _Post partum virgo_, and the prayer _Omnipotens
sempiterne Deus, qui es omnium dubitantium certitudo_, and the prayer
_Deus qui salutis oeternoe_, demanding the grace and favour of the
Lord. When this was done they returned in procession to the great
Chapel, before the tomb of the blessed Cid, and then the choir began the
anthem _Mirabilis Deus_, saying it to the organ.

And while this was singing in great accord, the workmen stood ready with
their instruments in hand, to lift off the upper stone of the coffin,
because it was well nigh impossible to remove the whole together, and
also because the Abbot, Prior, and Convent, had resolved to see
that holy body and relicks, by reason of the devotion which they
bore to the blessed Cid, and that they might bear testimony in what
manner he lay in that tomb, wherein he had been deposited to many
years ago, as behoved them for the honour of the Cid and the authority
of the Monastery.

XXV.

When the anthem was finished, the Abbot said the verse _Exuliabunt saneti
in gloria_, and the prayer _Deus qui es tuorum gloria servorum_.
And when all had said Amen, the Abbot himself, with a little bar of
iron, began first to move the lid of the stone coffin; and then
the workmen and others easily lifted it off upon the bier, and thus
the tomb was laid open; and there appeared within it a coffin of
wood fastened-down with gilt nails, the hair of the coffin being
entirely gone, and great part of the wood decayed also.

Within this coffin was the holy body, now well nigh consumed, nothing
but the bones remaining entire.

On some of the bones the flesh was still remaining, not discoloured, but
with a rosy colour, and the bones, were of the same rosy colour,
and the flesh also which had fallen from them. The body was wrapt in
a sendal wrought after the Moorish fashion, with sword
and spear by its side, as tokens of knighthood.

As soon as the coffin was opened there issued forth a good odour,
and comforting fragrance. It appeared that no part of the body was
wanting: but this was not narrowly examined, by reason of the reverence
which they bore it. After all this had been seen well and leisurely
by all those who were present, the Abbot and his ministers passed a
clean sheet under the coffin, and collecting into it all the bones and
holy dust, covered it with another sheet, and took it out, and
laid it upon the high altar, with candles and torches on each side;
and in this manner it remained there all day, till it was time to deposit
it in the tomb. And all this while the choristers sung to the
organ, and the organ responded. And when the body was laid upon the
altar, the Abbot said the verse _Mirabilis Deus_, and the prayer
_Magnifuet te Domine sanctorum tuorum beaia solemnitas_.

And when this was done he went and disrobed himself of his sacred vestments.
And the workmen went and removed the stone lions, and placed them in
the place where they were to be, and the tomb upon them. And the
Convent went to perform divine service, which was celebrated that
day at all the hours with a full choir.

And at the hour accustomed, after this was done, the Abbot and the
Convent invited all who were there present to be their guests,
giving a right solemn feast to all; and the chief persons dined
with the Convent in the Refectory.

And that same day in the evening, after vespers, when it was about
four o'clock, the workmen had removed the stone lions, and placed
the tomb upon them, and laid the lid of the tomb hard by, and made
all ready to fasten it down, so soon as the holy body should be
laid in it.

And at that time, the bells ringing again, and all being again assembled,
the Abbot having put on again his vestments, which were of white brocade,
and his ministers with him, went to the altar whereon they had laid the
holy body, which had been right nobly guarded and accompanied. And the
singers singing the while, he and his ministers took it and laid
it with great reverence in the tomb, all seeing it when it was laid
there, wrapt up and covered with the sheets. And in the presence
of all, the workmen put on the lid and fastened it down. Then the Abbot
began the _Te Deum laudamus_, and the singers continuing it, they went
in procession to Our Lady's Chapel, where the most holy sacrament
then was, as ye have heard. And the Abbot said the verse _Benedicamus
Patrem et Filium cum Sancto Spiritu_, and the prayer _Deus ad quem digne
laudandum_, and they all returned thanksgiving to the Lord. And the
Abbot and the ministers went into the Sacristy, and took off their
sacred vestments; and then he returned and again invited all who
were there to a collation in the Refectory, which had been prepared
by the servants of the Monastery.

And when this was over they separated, each going with great content
to his several occupation, praising God.

XXVI.

It was a thing of great consolation that there was not a person in
that Monastery, who did not all that day feel great joy and delight in
his soul. And there befell a thing of which many took notice, and
which ought not to be passed over in silence, and it was this. There
was a great want of rain in the land of Rioja and Bureva, and the
district of Cardeña also was in want of water, though not in such great
need, for it was long since any rain had fallen; and it pleased God
that on the aforesaid Thursday, the eve of the translation, at
the very hour when the Abbot and his people began to prepare the
bier, and make all things ready for opening and removing the tomb,
a soft and gentle rain began, such a rain that to those who were
out of doors it was nothing troublesome, and to the country greatly
profitable, and pleasant unto all; and it lasted all that night,
and all the day following, till the holy business of the translation
was accomplished, and then it ceased.

Now it was found that this rain had fallen at the same time and in the
same manner, both in the country below Burgos, and also in Bureva,
albeit that it rarely hath happened for rain to fall at one time in
both provinces, because they are wont to have rain with different winds.
It seemeth therefore that this blessed knight, who while he lived protected
and defended that country with his person and his arms, beholding
the service which was done him, and how he was remembered, favoured
it at that time in heaven with his holy intercession, by sending
that thing whereof it had then most need, which was water from
heaven, in order that it might be made manifest that he never ceased
to show favour to those who trusted in him, and to that Monastery
of St.

Pedro de Cardeña. And an account of this translation, and of all this
which befell, was drawn up by the Abbot Fray Lope de Frías, and signed
by all the brethren of the Monastery, and all the chief persons
there present.

XXVII. Now albeit this translation of the body of the blessed Cid had
been made with such honour and reverence, there were many who murmured
against it; and Don Pedro Fernandez de Velasco, Duke of Frias, who was
then Constable of Castille. and the Municipality of Burgos, sent advice
thereof to the Emperor Charles V. who was at that time in Flanders,
beseeching him to give order that the tomb of the Cid might be
translated back to its former place, and that of Doña Ximena also, which
had been removed into the Cloisters of the Monastery.

Hereupon the Emperor dispatched letters to his Governor, Cardinal
Juan, bidding him see that the petition of the Constable and of the
City of Burgos was fulfilled, and the Cardinal in obedience thereunto
dispatched the provision here following.

The King.

Venerable Abbot, Monks and Convent of St. Pedro de Cardeña, know ye that
we have ordered to be given, and do hereby give our edict unto you,
to the following tenor. The Council, Justice, and Regidores, Knights,
Esquires, Artificers and Good Men of the City of Burgos, have made
a memorial to us the King, showing, that we well know the fame,
nobleness, and exploits of the Cid, which are notorious to all, from
whose valour there redoundeth honour to all Spain, and especially
to that city whereof he was a native, and where he had his origin and
birth place; and that one of the principal things which they who pass
through that city, both natives of these kingdoms, and strangers also,
desire to see, is his tomb and the place wherein he and his ancestors
are interred, for his greatness and the antiquity thereof; and that
it is now some thirty or forty days since ye, not having respect to
this, neither bearing in mind that the Cid is our progenitor, nor the
possessions which he left to your house, nor the authority that it is
to the said Monastery that he should there have been interred, have
removed and taken away his tomb from the middle of the great Chapel,
where it had stood for more than four hundred years, and placed it near
a staircase, in a place unseemly, and unlike that where it was
placed heretofore, both in authority and honour.

Moreover ye have removed with him the tomb of Doña Ximena his wife,
and placed it in the Cloisters of the said Monastery, full differently
from where it was.

The which that city, as well because it toucheth us as for her
honour, doth greatly resent; and albeit that as soon as it was known
the Corregidor and three of the Regidores thereof went there to prevail
with ye that ye should restore the said bodies to the place where they
were wont to be, ye would not be persuaded; whereof the said city
holdeth itself greatly aggrieved: and moreover it is a thing of bad
example for Monasteries and Religioners, who, seeing how lightly
the tomb of so famous a person hath been removed, may venture to
remove and change any monuments and memorials, whereby great evil
would accrue to our kingdoms.

And the said City supplicateth and beseeching us of our grace, that we
would be pleased to give command that ye should restore the bodies
of the Cid and of his wife to the same place and form as heretofore.
And the Cid having been so signal a person, and one from whom the
Royal Crown of Castille hath received such great and notable services,
we marvel that ye should have made this alteration in their tombs,
and we command you if it be so that their bodies or their tombs
have been indeed removed, as soon as ye receive this, to restore
them to the same place, and in the same form and manner as they
were before; and in case they have not yet been removed, that ye
do not move nor touch them, neither now nor at anytime to come.

And having first complied with this order, if ye have any cause or
reason for making this removal, ye are to send us an account thereof,
and also how ye have restored the said bodies and tombs to their
former place within forty days, to the end that we may give order to
have this matter inspected, and provide as shall be most convenient.
Done in Madrid, the 8th day of the Month of July, in the year 1541.
Johannes Cardinalis, by command of his Majesty.

Governor in his name.

XXVIII. This provision having been notified unto them, the Abbot and
Monks made answer that they were ready to obey it, and that he
would go and give account to the Lord Governor of what had been done.

And the Abbot went accordingly to Court, and informed the Cardinal Governor
of the translation which had been made; and that the tomb of the Cid had
been removed to a place more decorous, and nearer the High Altar, and
answering the site where King Don Alfonso VI. had commanded him
to be placed in his ivory chair before he was first interred; and
where the vault had been made wherein he had lain many years.

And that the reason why the tomb had been moved was, that the passage
from the Sacristy to the choir and the High Altar might be cleared;
and that the reason why it had not been placed in the middle of the
Great Chapel, was, that if that place were occupied, it seemed due
to Queen Doña Sancha, the foundress of that House, or to King Don
Ramira, who had held that place in the old Church.

But notwithstanding all these reasons which the Abbot alleged, the
Cardinal ordered him to obey the King's command.
Hereupon the Abbot returned to the Monastery and determined to place
the tombs of the Cid and of Doña Ximena in the middle of the Great
Chapel, before it should be known in Burgos that the translation was
to take place; and accordingly when those persons who would fain have
been present made enquiry, they were told that the thing was done.

XXIX. Now there have not been wanting over-curious persons who, because
the Monastery of Cardeña is the first under the royal patronage,
by reason that it is a foundation of Queen Doña Sancha, who is the
first royal personage that ever founded a Monastery in Spain, and
because King Don Alfonso the Great re-edified it, and Garcia Ferrandez
the Count of Castille restored it, have said, that the Cid hath
taken the place of these patrons.

And when King Carlos II. was in this Monastery in the year 1679, he
asked whose the tomb was which occupied the middle of the Great Chapel;
and Fray Joseph del Hoyo, who was at that time Abbot, made answer, Sir,
it is the tomb of Rodrigo Diaz, the Cid Campeador. Why then, said one
of the Grandees, doth the Cid occupy the best place, seeing that
this Monastery is a royal foundation?

Upon this the Abbot made answer, that the Emperor Charles V. had ordered
the Abbot and Monks to place him in that place; and King Carlos II.
said, The Cid was not a King, but he was one who made Kings. And from
that time till the present day the tomb of the Cid hath remained in
the same place, and that of Doña Ximena beside it; and with such
veneration and respect are they preserved, that they are alway covered
and adorned with two cloths, whereof the upper one is of silk, and
on great festivals they are adorned with one still more precious.

XXX. Many are the things which belonged to Ruydiez the Cid Campeador,
which are still preserved with that reverence which is due to
the memory of such a man. First, there are those good swords Colada
and Tizona, which the Cid won with his own hand. Colado is a sword of
full ancient make: it hath only a cross for its hilt, and on one side
are graven the words _Si, Si_ ... that is to say, Yea, Yea: and on
the other, No, No. And this sword is in the Royal Armoury at Madrid.
That good sword Tizona is in length three quarters and a half, some
little more, and three full fingers wide by the hilt, lessening down
to the point; and in the hollow of the sword, by the hilt, is this
writing in Roman letters, _Ave Maria gratia plena, Dominus_, and on
the other side, in the same letters, I am Tizona, which was made
in the era 1040, that is to say, in the year 1002.

This good sword is an heir-loom in the family of the Marquisses of
Falces.

The Infante Don Ramiro, who was the Cid's son-in-law, inherited it, and
from him it descended to them.
Moreover the two coffers which were given in pledge to the Jews Rachel
and Vidas are kept, the one in the Church of St. Agueda at Burgos,
where it is placed over the principal door, in the inside, and the other
is in the Monastery of St. Pedro de Cardeña, where it is hung up by
two chains on the left of the dome; on the right, and opposite to this
coffer, is the banner of the Cid, but the colour thereof cannot now
be known, for length of time and the dampness of the Church have
clean consumed it. In the middle is his shield hanging against the wall,
covered with skin, but now so changed that no blazonry or device
is to be seen.

In the Sacristy there are the keys of the coffer, a great round chest
of sattín wood, the setting of the amethyst cup which he used at table,
and one of the caskets which the Soldan of Persia sent with the
myrrh and balsam; this is of silver, and gilt in the inside, and
it is in two parts, the lid closing over the other part; its fashion
is like that of the vessels in which the three Kings of the East
are represented, bringing their offerings to Christ when he was
newly born.

On the upper part is graven the image of our Redeemer holding the world
in his hand, and on the other the figure of a serpent marvellously
contorted, per-adventure in token of the victory which Jesus
atchieved over the enemy of the human race.

That noble chess-board, the men whereof were of gold and silver, was
also in the Monastery in the days of King Don Alfonso the Wise, but
it hath long since been lost, no man knoweth how. Moreover there is
in this Sacristy a precious stone of great size, black and sparkling;
no lapidary hath yet known its name.

The Convent have had an infant Jesus graven thereon, with the emblem
of the Passion, that it might be worthily employed.

It is thought also that the great cross of crystal which is set so well
and wrought with such great cunning, is made of different pieces
of crystal which belonged to the Cid.

But the most precious relick of the Cid Ruydiez which is preserved and
venerated in this Monastery, is the cross which he wore upon his breast
when he went to battle; it is of plain silver, in four equal parts,
and each part covered with three plates of gold, and in the flat
part of each five sockets set with precious stones of some size;
and with other white ones which are smaller; of these little ones,
some are still left, fastened in with filigrane.

In the middle of the cross is a raised part, after the manner of an
artichoke, ending in white and green enamel; and it is said that in the
hollow thereof are certain relicks, with a piece of the holy wood of
the true cross. Verily, that part of the writing which can still be
read implieth this, for thus much may at this day be discerned....
CRUCIS SALVATOR * * SANCTI PETRI * * PORTO.
Of the four limbs of this cross the upper one is wanting.
"I will be gentle now," she said, "always, your Grace, always."

"When the sun rose each day," he said, "I could not know it did not
rise upon your beauty, lying cold and still, lost--lost to me--this
time, forever."

Her fair hand covered her eyes, she shuddering a little.

"Nay, nay," she cried. "I--nay, I could not be lost to you--again. Let
us--let us pray God, your Grace, let us pray God!"

And to his heavenly rapture she put forth her arms and laid them round
his neck, her face held back that she might gaze at him with her great
brimming eyes. Indeed 'twas a wonder to a man to behold how her
stateliness had melted and she was like a yearning, clinging girl.

He gazed at her a moment, kneeling so, and all the long years rolled
away and he scarce dared to breathe lest he should waken from his
dream.

"Ah, Heaven!" he sighed, "there is so much to tell--years, years of
pain which your sweet soul will pity."

Ah, how she gazed on him, what longing question there was in her eyes!

He took from his breast a velvet case which might have held a
miniature, but did not.

"Look--look," he prayed, "at this. Tis a dead rose."

"A rose!" says she, and then starts and looks up from it to him, a
dawning of some thought--or hope--in her face. "A rose!" she uttered,
scarcely breathing it, as if half afraid to speak.

"Ah!" he cried, "I pray God you remember. When it fell from your breast
that night----"

She broke in, breathless, "The night you came----"

"Too late--too late," he answered; "and this fell at my feet, and you
passed by. No night since then I have not pressed it to my lips. No day
it has not lain upon my heart through all its darkest hours."

She took it from him--gazed down at it with stormy, filling eyes, and
pressing it to her lips, broke into tender, passionate sobbing.

"No night, no day!" she cried. "Poor rose! dear rose!"

"Beloved!" he cried, and would have folded her to his breast, kissing
her tears away which were so womanly. But she withdrew herself a
little--holding up her hand.

"Wait, your Grace; wait!" she said, as if she would say more, almost as
if she was shaken by some strange trouble and knew not how to bear its
presence. And, of a sudden, seeing this, a vague fear struck him and he
turned a little pale.

But the next moment he controlled himself; 'twas indeed as if he
himself called the receding blood back to his heart, and he took her
hand and held it in both his own, smiling.

"I have waited so long," he pleaded, caressingly. "I pray you--in
Love's name."

And it was but like her, he thought, that she should rise at this and
stand before him, her hand laid upon her breast, her great eyes opening
upon him in appeal, as if she were some tender culprit standing at
judgment bar.

"In Love's name!" she cried, in a low, panting voice. "Oh, Love should
_give_ so much. A woman's treasury should be so filled with rich jewels
of fair deeds that when Love comes she may pour them at his feet. And
what have I--oh, what have I?"

He moved towards her with a noble gesture, and she came nearer and
laid one hand upon his breast and one upon his shoulder, her uplifted
face white as a lily from some wild emotion, and imploring him--the
thought coming to him made him tremble--as some lost, helpless child
might implore.

"Is there aught," she panted, "_aught_ that could come between your
soul and mine?" And she was trembling, and her voice trembled and her
lips, and crystal drops on her lashes which, in quivering, fell.
"Think," she whispered; "your Grace, _think_."

And then a storm swept over him, a storm of love as great as that first
storm of frenzy and despair. And he cried out in terror at the thought
that Fate might plan some trick to cheat him yet, after the years--the
years of lost, lost life, spent as in gyves of iron.

"Great God! No! No!" he cried; "I am a man and you are the life of me!
I come to you not as other men, who love and speak their passion. Mine
has been a burden hidden and borne so long. It woke at sight of a
child, it fed on visions of a girl; before I knew its power it had
become my life. The portals of my prison are open and I see the sun.
Think you I will let them be closed--be _closed_ again?"

And he would not be withheld and swept her to his breast, and she,
lying there, clung to him with a little sobbing cry of joy and
gratefulness, uttering wild, sweet, low, broken words.

"I am so young," she said. "Life is so strong; the world seems _full_
of flowers. Sure some of them are mine. My heart beats so--it so beats.
Forgive! forgive!"

"Tis from to-day our life begins," he whispered, solemnly. "And God so
deal with me, Heart, as I shall deal with you."


_CHAPTER XXVII_

"_'Twas the night thou hidst the package in the wall_"


"So," said the fashionable triflers, "'twas the Duke after all, and his
Grace flies to France to draw his errand to a close, and when he flies
back again, upon the wings of love, five villages will roast oxen whole
and drink ale to the chiming of wedding-bells."

"Lud!" said my Lady Betty, this time with her pettish air, this matter
not being to her liking, for why should a Duke fall in love with widows
when there were exquisite languishing unmarried ladies near at hand.
"'Tis a wise beauty who sets bells ringing in five villages by marrying
a duke, instead of taking a spendthrift rake who is but a baronet and
has no estate at all. I could have told you whom her ladyship would wed
if she were asked."

"If she were asked! good Lord!" cried Sir Chris Crowell, as red as a
turkey-cock. "And this I can tell you, 'tis not the five villages she
marries, nor the Duke, but the man. And 'tis not the fine lady he takes
to his heart, but our Clo, and none other, and would have taken her in
her smock had she been a beggar wench. 'Tis an honest love-match, that
I swear!"

Thereupon my Lady Betty laughed.

"Those who see Sir John Oxon's face now," she said, "do not behold a
pretty thing. And my lady sees it at every turn. She can go nowhere but
she finds him at her elbow glaring."

"He would play some evil trick on her for revenge, I vow," said another
lady. "She hath Mistress Anne with her nearly always in these days, as
if she would keep him off by having a companion; but 'tis no use,
follow and badger her he will."

"Badger her!" blustered Sir Chris. "He durst not, the jackanapes! He is
not so fond of drawing point as he was a few years ago."

"'Tis badgering and naught else," said Mistress Lovely. "I have watched
him standing by and pouring words like poison in her ear, and she
disdaining to reply or look as though she heard."

My Lady Betty laughed again with a prettier venom still.

"He hath gone mad," she said. "And no wonder! My woman, who knows a
mercer's wife at whose husband's shop he bought his finery, told me a
story of him. He was so deep in debt that none would give him credit
for an hour, until the old Earl of Dunstanwolde died, when he persuaded
them that he was on the point of marrying her ladyship. These people
are so simple they will believe anything, and they watched him go to
her house and knew he had been her worshipper before her marriage. And
so they gave him credit again. Thence his fine new wardrobe came. And
now they have heard the news and have all run mad in rage at their own
foolishness, and are hounding him out of his life."

The two ladies made heartless game enough of the anecdote. Perhaps both
had little spites of their own against Sir John, who in his heyday had
never spoke with a woman without laying siege to her heart and vanity,
though he might have but five minutes to do it in. Lady Betty, at
least, 'twas known had once had coquettish and sentimental passages
with him, if no more; and whether 'twas her vanity or her heart which
had been wounded, some sting rankled, leaving her with a malice against
him which never failed to show itself when she spoke or heard his name.

A curious passage took place between them but a short time after she
had told her story of his tricking of his creditors. 'Twas at a Court
ball and was a whimsical affray indeed, though chiefly remembered
afterwards because of the events which followed it--one of them
occurring upon the spot, another a day later, this second incident
being a mystery never after unravelled. At this ball was my Lady
Dunstanwolde in white and silver, and looking, some said, like a spirit
in the radiance of her happiness.

"For 'tis pure happiness that makes her shine so," said her faithful
henchman, old Sir Christopher. "Surely she hath never been a happy
woman before, for never hath she smiled so since I knew her first, a
child. She looks like a creature born again."

Lady Betty Tantillion engaged in her encounter in an antechamber near
the great saloon. Her ladyship had a pretty way of withdrawing from the
moving throng at times to seek comparative seclusion and greater ease.
There was more freedom where there would be exchange of wits and
glances, not overheard and beheld by the whole world; so her ladyship
had a neat taste in nooks and corners, where a select little court of
her own could be held by a charming fair one. Thus it fell that after
dancing in the ball-room with one admirer and another, she made her
way, followed by two of the most attentive, to a pretty retiring-room
quite near.

'Twas for the moment, it seemed, deserted, but when she entered with
her courtiers, the exquisite Lord Charles Lovelace and his friend Sir
Harry Granville, a gentleman turned from a window where he seemed to
have been taking the air alone, and seeing them uttered under his
breath a malediction.

"To the devil with them!" he said, but the next moment advanced with a
somewhat mocking smile, which was scarce hidden by his elaborate bow
of ceremony to her ladyship.

"My Lady Betty Tantillion!" he exclaimed, "I did not look for such
fortune. 'Tis not necessary to hope your ladyship blooms in health.
'Tis an age since we met."

Since their rupture they had not spoken with each other, but my Lady
Betty had used her eyes well when she had beheld him even at a
distance, and his life she knew almost as well as if they had been
married and she a jealous consort.

But she stood a moment regarding him with an impertinent questioning
little stare, and then held up her quizzing-glass and uttered an
exclamation of sad surprise.

"Sir John Oxon!" she said. "How changed! how changed! Sure you have
been ill, Sir John, or have met with misfortunes."

To the vainest of men and the most galled--he who had been but a few
years gone the most lauded man beauty in the town, who had been sought,
flattered, adored--'twas a bitter little stab, though he knew well the
giver of the thrust. Yet he steeled himself to bow again, though his
eyes flashed.

"I have indeed been ill and in misfortune," he answered, sardonically.
"Can a man be in health and fortunate when your ladyship has ceased to
smile upon him?"

My Lady Betty courtesied with a languid air.

"Lord Charles," she said, with indifferent condescension, "Sir Harry,
you have _heard_ of this gentleman, though he was before your day. In
_his_--" (as though she recalled the past glories of some antiquated
beau) "you were still at the University."

Then as she passed to a divan to seat herself she whispered an aside to
Lord Charles, holding up her fan.

"The ruined dandy," she said, "who is mad for my Lady Dunstanwolde. Ask
him some question of his wife?"

Whereupon Lord Charles, who was willing enough to join in badgering a
man who had still good looks enough to prove a rival had he the humour,
turned with a patronising air of civility.

"My Lady Oxon is not with you?" he observed.

"There is none, your lordship," Sir John answered, and almost ground
his teeth, seeing the courteous insolence of the joke. "I am a single
man."

"Lud!" cried my Lady Betty, fanning with graceful indifference. "'Twas
said you were to marry a great fortune, and all were filled with envy.
What become, then, of the fair Mistress Isabel Beaton?"

"She returned to Scotland, your ladyship," replied Sir John, his eyes
transfixing her. "Ere now 'tis ancient history."

"Fie, Sir John," said Lady Betty, laughing wickedly, "to desert so
sweet a creature. So lovely--and so _rich_! Men are not wise as they
once were."

Sir John drew nearer to her and spoke low. "Your ladyship makes a butt
of me," he said. And 'twas so ordained by Fate, at this moment when the
worst of him seethed within his breast, and was ripest for mad evil,
Sir Christopher Crowell came bustling into the apartment, full of
exultant hilarity and good wine which he had been partaking of in the
banqueting-hall with friends.

"Good Lord!" he cried, having spoke with Lady Betty; "what ails thee,
Jack? Thy very face is a killjoy."

"'Tis repentance, perhaps," said Lady Betty. "We are reproaching him
with deserting Mistress Beaton--who had even a fortune."

Sir Christopher glanced from Sir John to her ladyship and burst forth
into a big guffaw, his convivialities having indeed robbed him of
discretion.

"He desert her!" said he. "She jilted him and took her fortune to a
Marquis! 'Twas thine own fault, too, Jack. Hadst thou been even a
decent rake she would have had thee."

"By God!" cried Sir John, starting and turning livid; and then catching
a sight of the delight in my Lady Betty's face, who had set out to
enrage him before her company, he checked himself and broke into a
contemptuous, short laugh.

"These be country manners, Sir Christopher," he said. "In
Gloucestershire bumpers are tossed off early, and a banquet added turns
a man's head and makes him garrulous."

"Ecod!" said Sir Christopher, grinning. "A nice fellow he is to twit a
man with the bottle. Myself, I've seen him drunk for three days."

Whereupon there took place a singular change in Sir John Oxon's look.
His face had been so full of rage but a moment ago that, at Sir Chris's
second sally, Lady Betty had moved slightly in some alarm. Town manners
were free, but not quite so free as those of the country, and Sir John
was known to be an ill-tempered man. If the two gentlemen had
quarrelled about her ladyship's own charms 'twould have been a
different matter, but to come to an encounter over a mere drinking-bout
would be a vulgar, ignominious thing in which she had no mind to be
mixed up.

"Lord, Sir Christopher," she exclaimed, tapping him with her fan.
"Three days! For shame!"

But though Sir John had started 'twas not in rage. Three days
carousing with this old blockhead! When had he so caroused? He could
have laughed aloud. Never since that time he had left Wildairs, bearing
with him the lock of raven hair--his triumph and his proof. No, 'twas
not in anger he started but through a sudden shock of recollection, of
fierce, eager hope, that at last, in the moment of his impotent
humiliation, he had by chance--by a very miracle of chance--come again
upon what he had so long searched for in helpless rage--that which
would give power into his hand and vengeance of the bitterest.

And he had come upon it among chatterers in a ball-room through the
vinous babbling of a garrulous fool.

"Three days!" he said, and took out his snuff-box and tapped it,
laughing jeeringly. And this strange thing my Lady Betty marked, that
his white hand shook a little as if from hidden excitement. "Three
days!" he mocked.

"No man of fashion now," said Lord Charles, and tapped his snuff-box
also, "is drunk for more than two."

But Sir Christopher felt he was gaining a victory before her ladyship's
very eyes, which always so mocked and teased him for his clumsiness in
any encounter of words, wherefore he pressed his point gleefully.

"Three days!" cries he. "'Twas nearer four."

Sir John turned on him, laughing still, seeming in very truth as if the
thing amused him.

"When, when?" he said. "Never, I swear!" and held a pinch of snuff in
his fingers daintily, his eyes gleaming blue as sapphires through the
new light in them.

"Swear away!" cried Sir Christopher; "thou wast too drunk to remember.
'Twas the night thou hidst the package in the wall."

Then he burst forth again in laughter, for Sir John had so started that
he forgot his pinch of snuff and scattered it.

"Canst see 'tis no slander, my lady," he cried, pointing at Sir John,
who stood like a man who wakes from long sleep and is bewildered by the
thoughts which rush through his brain. "I laughed till I was like to
crack my sides." Then to Sir John, "Thou hadst but just left Clo
Wildairs and I rode with thee to Essex. Lord, how I laughed to watch
thee groping to find a place safe enough to put it in. 'I'm drunk,'
says thou, 'and I would have it safe till I am sober. 'Twill be safe
here,' and stuffed it in the broken plaster 'neath the window-sill. And
safe it was, for I'll warrant thou hast not thought of it since, and
safe thou'lt find it at the Cow at Wickben still."

Sir John struck one closed hand sudden on the palm of the other.

"It comes back to thee," cried Sir Christopher, with a grimace aside at
his audience.

"Ay, it comes back," answers Sir John; "it comes back." And he broke
forth into a short, excited laugh, there being in its sound a note of
triumph almost hysteric; and hearing this they stared, for why in such
case he should be triumphant, Heaven knew.

"'Twas a love-token!" said Lady Betty, simpering, for of a sudden he
had become another man--no longer black-visaged, but gallant, and
smiling with his old charming, impudent, irresistible air. He bent and
took her hand and kissed her finger-tips with this same old enchanting
insolence.

"Had your ladyship given it to me," he said, "I had not hid it in a
wall, but in my heart." And with a soft glance and a smiling bow he
left their circle and sauntered towards the ball-room.


"'Twas the last time I spoke with him," said my Lady Betty, when he was
talked of later. "I wonder if 'twas in his head when he kissed my
hand--if indeed 'twas a matter he himself planned or had aught to do
with. Faith! though he was a villain he had a killing air when he
chose."

When her ladyship had played off all her airs and graces upon her
servitors she led them again to the ball-room that she might vary her
triumphs and fascinations. A minuet was being played, and my Lady
Dunstanwolde was among the dancers, moving stately and slow in her
white and silver, while the crowd looked on, telling each other of the
preparations being made for her marriage, and that my lord Duke of
Osmonde was said to worship her, and could scarce live through the
hours he was held from her in France.

Among the watchers, and listening to the group as he watched, stood Sir
John Oxon. He stood with a graceful air and watched her steadily, and
there was a gleam of pleasure in his glance.

"He has followed and gazed at her so for the last half-hour," said
Mistress Lovely. "Were I the Duke of Osmonde I would command him to
choose some other lady to dog with his eyes. Now the minuet is ending I
would wager he will follow her to her seat and hang about her."

And this indeed he did when the music ceased, but 'twas done with a
more easy, confident air than had been observed in him for some time
past. He did not merely loiter in her vicinity, but when the circle
thinned about her he made his way through it and calmly joined her.

"Does he pay her compliments?" said Lord Charles, who looked on at a
distance. "Faith, if he does, she does not greatly condescend to him. I
should be frozen by a beauty who, while I strove to melt her, did not
deign to turn her eyes. Ah, she has turned them now. What has he said?
It must have been fire and flame to move her. What's this--what's
this?"

He started forward, as all the company did--for her ladyship of
Dunstanwolde had risen to her full height with a strange movement and,
standing a moment swaying, had fallen at Sir John Oxon's feet, white in
a death-like swoon.


_CHAPTER XXVIII_

_Sir John Rides out of Town_


Tom Tantillion had not appeared at the ball, having otherwise
entertained himself for the evening, but at an hour when most
festivities were at an end and people were returning from them, rolling
through the streets in their coaches, the young man was sitting at a
corner table in Cribb's Coffee-House surrounded by glasses and jolly
companions and clouds of tobacco-smoke.

One of these companions had been to the ball and left it early, and had
fallen to talking of great personages he had seen there, and describing
the beauties who had shone the brightest, among them speaking of my
Lady Dunstanwolde and the swoon which had so amazed those who had seen
it.

"I was within ten feet of her," says he, "and watching her as a man
always does when he is near enough. Jack Oxon stood behind her, and was
speaking low over her shoulder, but she seeming to take little note of
him and looking straight before her. And of a sudden she stands
upright, her black eyes wide open as if some sound had startled her,
and the next minute falls like a woman dropping dead, and lies among
her white and silver like one carven out of stone. One who knows her
well--old Sir Chris Crowell--says she hath never fallen in a swoon
before since she was born. Gad! 'twas a strange sight--'twas so
sudden." He had just finished speaking, and was filling his glass
again, when a man strode into the room in such haste that all turned to
glance at him.

He was in riding-dress, and was flushed and excited, and smiling as if
to himself.

"Drawer!" he called, "bring me coffee and brandy, and, damme! be in
haste."

Young Tantillion nudged his nearest companion with his elbow.

"Jack Oxon," he said. "Where rides the fellow at this time of night?"

"Eh, Jack!" he said, aloud, "art on a journey already, after shining at
the Court ball?"

Sir John started, and seeing who spoke, answered with an ugly laugh.

"Ay," said he, "I ride to the country in hot haste. I go to Wickben in
Essex, to bring back a thing I once left there."

"'Twas a queer place to leave valuables," said Tom--"a village of
tumble-down thatched cottages. Was't a love-token or a purse of gold?"

Sir John gave his knee a sudden joyous slap, and laughed aloud.

"'Twas a little thing," he replied, "but 'twill bring back fortune--if
I find it--and help me to pay back old scores, which is a thing I like
better." And his grin was so ugly that Tom and his companions glanced
aside at each other, believing that he was full of liquor already, and
ready to pick a quarrel if they continued their talk. This they were
not particularly inclined to, however, and began a game of cards,
leaving him to himself to finish his drink. This he did, quickly
tossing down both brandy and coffee the instant they were brought to
him, and then striding swaggering from the room and mounting his horse,
which waited in the street, and riding clattering off over the stones
at a fierce pace.

"Does he ride for a wager?" said Will Lovell, dealing the cards.

"He rides for some ill purpose, I swear," said Tom Tantillion. "Jack
Oxon never went in haste towards an honest deed; but to play some
devil's trick 'tis but nature to him to go full speed."

But what he rode for they never heard, neither they nor anyone else who
told the story, though 'twas sure that if he went to Wickben he came
back to town for a few hours at least, for there were those who saw him
the next day, but only one there was who spoke with him, and that one
my Lady Dunstanwolde herself.

Her ladyship rode out in the morning hoping, 'twas said, that the
fresh air and exercise would restore her strength and spirits. She rode
without attendant, and towards the country, and in the high road Sir
John Oxon joined her.

"I did not know he had been out of town," she said, when the mystery
was discussed. "He did not say so. He returned to Dunstanwolde House
with me, and we had talk together. He had scarce left me when I
remembered that I had forgot to say a thing to him I had wished to say.
So I sent Jenfry forth quickly to call him back. He had scarce had time
to turn the street's corner, but Jenfry returned, saying he was not
within sight."

"Whereupon you sent a note to his lodgings, was't not so?" asked Sir
Christopher.

"Yes," answered her ladyship, "but he had not returned there."

"Nor ever did," said Sir Christopher, whenever the mystery was referred
to afterwards; "nor ever did, and where he went to from that hour only
the devil knows, for no man or woman that one has heard of has ever
clapt eyes on him since."

This was, indeed, the mysterious truth. After he entered the Panelled
Parlour at Dunstanwolde House it seemed that none had seen him, for the
fact was that by a strange chance even the lacquey who should have been
at his place in the entrance hall had allowed himself to be ensnared
from his duty by a pretty serving-wench, and had left his post for a
few minutes to make love to her in the servants' hall, during which
time 'twas plain Sir John must have left the house, opening the
entrance-door for himself unattended.

"Lord," said the lacquey in secret to his mates, "my gizzard was in my
throat when her ladyship began to question me. 'Did you see the gentle,
man depart, Martin?' says she. ''Twas you who attended him to the door,
of a surety.' 'Yes, your ladyship,' stammers I. ''Twas I--and I marked
he seemed in haste.' 'Did you not observe him as he walked away?' says
my lady. 'Did you not see which way he went?' 'To the left he turned,
my lady,' says I, cold sweat breaking out on me, for had I faltered in
an answer she would have known I was lying and guessed I had broke her
orders by leaving my place by the door--and Lord have mercy on a man
when she finds he has tricked her. There is a flash in her eye like
lightning, and woe betide him it falls on. But truth was that from the
moment the door of the Panelled Parlour closed behind him the
gentleman's days were ended, for all I saw of him, for I saw him no
more."

And there was none who saw him, for from that time he disappeared from
his lodgings, from the town, from England, from the surface of the
earth, as far as any ever heard or discovered, none knowing where he
went, or how, or wherefore.

Had he been a man of greater worth or importance, or one who had made
friends, his so disappearing would have aroused a curiosity and
excitement not easily allayed; but a vicious wastrel who has lost hold
even on his whilom companions in evil-doing, and has no friends more
faithful, is like, indeed, on dropping out of the world's sight, to
drop easily and lightly from its mind, his loss being a nine days'
wonder and nothing more.

So it was with this one, who had had his day of being the fashion and
had broken many a fine lady's brittle heart, and, living to be no
longer the mode, had seen the fragile trifles cemented together again,
to be almost as good as new. When he was gone he was forgot quickly
and, indeed, but talked about because her ladyship of Dunstanwolde had
last beheld him, and on the afternoon had been entertaining company in
the Panelled Parlour when the lacquey had brought back the undelivered
note with which Jenfry had waited three hours at the lost man's
lodgings in the hope that he would return to them, which he did no
more.

"'Tis a good riddance to all, my lady, wheresoever he be gone," said
Sir Christopher, sitting nursing his stout knee in the blue parlour a
week later (for her ladyship had had a sudden fancy to have the
panelled room made wholly new and decorated before the return of his
Grace from France). "Tis a good riddance to all."

Then he fell to telling stories of the man, of the creditors he had
left in the lurch, having swindled them of their very hearts' blood,
and that every day there was heard of some poor tradesman he had
ruined, till 'twas a shame to hear it told; and there were worse
things--worse things yet!

"By the Lord!" he said, "the ruin one man's life can bring about, the
heartbreak, and the shame! 'Tis enough to make even a sinner as old as
I, repent, to come upon them face to face. Eh, my lady?" This was a full
rich, and great and noble present, so that no man could tell the price
thereof.

XI. When the Moor had produced all these things before the Cid, he said
unto him, All this, Sir, with the animals which thou hast seen,
my Lord the Soldan of Persia hath sent unto thee, because of the
great fame which he hath heard of thy goodness and loyalty; and,
Sir, he beseecheth thee to accept it for the love of him.

And the Cid thanked him, taking great pleasure therein, and said
that he would fain do him greater honour than he had ever yet done
to any one.

And then he embraced him in the name of the Soldan, and said, that if
he were a Christian he would give him the kiss of peace; and he
asked whether among those things there was aught which had belonged
to the person of the Soldan, that if so he might kiss it in his
honour, and in token that if he were there present, he would kiss
him on the shoulder, according to the custom of the Moors, for he
knew that his Lord was one of the noblest men in all Pagandom.

When the kinsman of the Soldan heard this he was greatly rejoiced, because
of the great courtesy with which the Cid had spoken, and he perceived
how noble a man he was. And he said unto him, Sir Cid, if you were
present before my Lord the Soldan, he would do you full great honour,
and would give you the head of his horse to eat, according to the
custom of our country; but seeing that this is not the custom of
this country, I give you my living horse, which is one of the best
horses of Syria; and do you give order that he be taken in honour
of my Lord the Soldan, and he will be better than his head would
be boiled.

And I kiss your hand, Sir Ruydiez, and hold myself more honoured and a
happier man than ever I have been heretofore. And the Cid accepted
the horse, and gave consent to the Moor that he should kiss his hand.
And then he called for his Almoxarife, and bade him take with him
this kinsman of the Soldan, and lodge him in the Garden of Villa
Nueva, and do him even such honour and service as he would to
himself.

XII. Great was the honour which the Almoxarife of the Cid Ruydiez did
unto the kinsman of the Soldan, and he served him even as he would have
served his Lord the Cid.

And when they had disported and taken solace together, the kinsman
of the Soldan asked him concerning the Cid, what manner of man he
was.

And the Almoxarife answered that he was the man in the world who
had the bravest heart, and the best knight at arms, and the man who
best maintained his law; and in the word which he hath promised he
never fails; and he is the man in the world who is the best friend
to his friend, and to his enemy he is the mortallest foe among all
Christians; and to the vanquished he is full of mercy and compassion;
and full thoughtful and wise in whatsoever thing he doeth; and his
countenance is such that no man seeth him for the first time without
conceiving great fear.

And this, said the Almoxarife, I have many times witnessed, for when any
messengers of the Moors come before him, they are so abashed that they
know not where they are.

When the messenger of the Soldan heard this he called to mind how it had
been with him, and he said unto the Almoxarife, that as they were
both of one law he besought him to keep secret what he should say,
and he would tell him what had befallen him himself.

And the Almoxarife said that he would do as he desired. And with that he
began to say, that he marvelled greatly at what he had heard, for
even as he had now told him that it happened unto other messengers,
even so had he himself found it the first time that he had seen the
Cid; for so great was the fear which he conceived at the sight of
his countenance, that for long time he had no power of speech; and
according to his thinking, this could only proceed from the grace
of God towards the Cid, that none of his enemies might ever behold
his face without fear.

When the kinsman of the Soldan had said this, the Almoxarife perceived
that he was a wary man, and one of good understanding; and he began
to talk with him, and asked him whether he would tell him what he
should ask, and the messenger replied that he would.

Then the Almoxarife asked of him if he knew what was the reason
which had moved his Lord the Soldan to send so great a present to the
Cid Campeador, and why he desired to have his love when he was so far
away, beyond sea. Now the messenger of the Soldan conceived that the
Almoxarife sought to know the state of the lands beyond sea, and he
feared that this had been asked of him by command of the Cid; and he
made answer, that so great was the renown of the Cid, and the report
which they had heard in the lands beyond sea of his great
feats in arms, that it had moved the Soldan to send him that present
and desire his love.

But when the Almoxarife heard this, he said that he could not believe
that this had been the reason, but that some other intention had moved
him. And when the messenger perceived that the Almoxarife understood
him, and that he desired to know the whole of the matter, he said that
he would tell him, but he besought him to keep it secret. And the
Almoxarife promised to do this.

Then he told him that the land beyond sea was in such state that
they weened it would be lost, and that the Christians would win
it, so great a Crusade had gone forth against it from Germany, and from
France, and from Lombardy, and Sicily, and Calabria, and Ireland, and
England, which had won the city of Antioch, and now lay before Jerusalem.
And my Lord the Great Soldan of Persia, hearing of the great
nobleness of the Cid, and thinking that he would pass over also,
was moved to send him this present to gain his love, that if
peradventure he should pass there he might be his friend.

And when the Almoxarife of the Cid heard this, he said that of a
truth he believed it.

XIII. While yet that messenger of the Soldan of Persia abode in
Valencia, tidings carne to the Cid that the Infantes of Aragon and Navarre
were coming to celebrate their marriage with his daughters, according
as it had been appointed at the Cortes of Toledo. He of Navarre hight
Don Ramiro, and he was the son of King Don Sancho, him who was slain at
Rueda; and he married with Doña Elvira, the elder: and the Infante
of Aragon who married Doña Sol, the younger, hight Don Sancho, and
was the son of King Don Pedro.

This King Don Pedro was he whom the Cid Ruydiez conquered and made
prisoner, as the history hath related; but calling to mind the
great courtesy which the Cid had shown in releasing him from prison,
and how he had ordered all his own to be restored unto him, and
moreover the great worth and the great goodness of the Cid, and the
great feats which he had performed, he held it good that his son
should match with his daughter, to the end that the race of so good
a man might be preserved in Aragon.

Howbeit it was not his fortune to have a son by Doña Sol, for he died
before he came to the throne, and left no issue. When the Cid knew that
the Infantes were coming, he and all his people went out six leagues
to meet them, all gallantly attired both for court and for war; and he
ordered his tents to be pitched in a fair meadow, and there he awaited
till they came up.
And the first day the Infante Don Sancho of Aragon carne up, and
they waited for the Infante Don Ramiro; and when they were all met
they proceeded to Valencia.

And the Bishop Don Hieronymo came out to meet them with a procession,
full honourably.

Great were the rejoicings which were made in Valencia because of
the coming of the Infantes, for eight days before the marriage began.

And the Cid gave order that they should be lodged in the Garden of Villa
Nueva, and supplied with all things in abundance.

XIV. When eight days were overpast the Bishop Don Hieronymo married
the Infantes of Aragon and Navarre to the daughters of the Cid in this
manner: the Infante Don Ramiro of Navarre to Doña Elvira; and the
Infante Don Sancho of Aragon to Doña Sol. And on the day after they had
been espoused they received the blessing in the great Church of
St.
Peter, as is commanded by the law of Jesus Christ, and the Bishop said
mass. Who can tell the great rejoicings which were made at those marriages,
and the great nobleness thereof? Certes there would be much to tell; for
during eight days that they lasted, there was feasting every day,
full honourably and plentifully, where all persons did eat out of
silver; and many bulls were killed every day, and many of those
wild beasts which the Soldán sent; and many sports were devised,
and many garments and saddles and noble trappings were given to the
joculars.

And the Moors also exhibited their sports and rejoicings, after such
divers manners, that men knew not which to go to first. So great was
the multitude which was there assembled, that they were counted at
eight thousand hidalgos. And when the marriage was concluded, the Cid
took his sons-in-law and led them by the hand to Doña Ximena, and
showed them all the noble things which the Soldan had sent him; and they
when they beheld such great treasures and such noble things were
greatly astonished, and said that they did not think there had been
a man in Spain so rich as the Cid, nor who possessed such things.

And as they were marvelling from whence such riches could have come,
both of gold and silver, and of precious stones and pearls, the Cid
embraced them and said, My sons, this and all that I have is for you
and for your wives, and I will give unto you the noblest and most
precious things that ever were given with women for their dowry: for
I will give you the half of all that you see here, and the other
half I and Doña Ximena will keep so long as we live, and after our
death all shall be yours; and my days are now well nigh full.

Then the Infantes made answer, that they prayed God to grant him life
for many and happy years yet, and that they thanked him greatly,
and held him as their father; and that they would ever have respect to
his honour and be at his service, holding themselves honoured by the
tie that there was between them. Three months these Infantes abode with
the Cid in Valencia, in great pleasure.

And then they dispeeded themselves of the Cid and of their mother-in-law
Doña Ximena, and took each his wife and returned into their own
lands with great riches and honour. And the Cid gave them great
treasures, even as he had promised, and gave them certain of those
strange beasts which the Soldan had sent. And he rode out with them
twelve leagues. And when they took leave of each other there was not a
knight of all those who came with the Infantes to whom the Cid did not
give something, horse, or mule, or garments, or money, so that all
were well pleased; and he gave his daughters his blessing, and commended
them to God, and then he returned to Valencia, and they went to their
own country.

XV. After the Cid had seen his sons-in-law depart, he sent for the
messenger of the Soldan, and gave him many of the rare things of his
country to carry unto his Lord.

And he gave him a sword which had the device of the Soldan wrought in
gold, and a coat of mail and sleeve armour, and a noble gipion which
was wrought of knots; and his letters of reply, which were full
of great assurances of friendship. Much was the messenger of the
Soldan pleased with the Cid for the great honour which he had shown
him, and much was he pleased also at seeing how honourably the
marriage of his daughters had been celebrated.

So he departed and went to the port, and embarked on board his ship,
and went to his Lord the Soldan.

XVI.

After this the Cid abode in Valencia, and he laboured a full year in
settling all the Castles of the Moors who were subject unto him in peace,
and in settling the Moors of Valencia well with the Christians;
and this he did so that their tribute was well paid from this time
till his death.

And all the land from Tortoso to Origuela was under his command.
And from this time he abode in peace in Valencia; and laboured
alway to serve God and to increase the Catholic faith, and to make
amends for the faults he had committed towards God, for he weened
that his days now would be but few.

And it came to pass one day, the Cid having risen from sleep and being
in his Alcazar, there came before him an Alfaqui whom he had made Alcalde
of the Moors; his name was Alfaraxi, and he it was who made the lamentation
for Valencia, as is recorded in this history. This Alfaqui had
served the Cid well in his office of Alcalde over the Moors of
Valencia: for he kept them in peace, and made them pay their tribute
well, being a discreet man and of great prudence, so that for this
and for his speech he might have been taken for a Christian; and
for this reason the Cid loved him and put great trust in him.

And when the Cid saw him he asked him what he would have: and he like a
prudent man bent his knees before him, and began to kiss his hand,
and said, Sir Cid Ruydiez, blessed be the name of Jesus Christ who
hath brought you to this state that you are Lord of Valencia, one
of the best and noblest cities in Spain.

What I would have is this. Sir, my forefathers were of this city, and
I am a native hereof; and when I was a little lad the Christians
took me captive, and I learnt their tongue among them, and then my
will was to be a Christian, and to abide there in the land of the
Christians; but my father and mother, being rich persons, released
me.

And God showed me such favour, and gave me such understanding and so
subtle, that I learnt all the learning of the Moors, and was one of the
most honourable and best Alfaquis that ever was in Valencia till
this time, and of the richest, as you know, Sir; and you in your bounty
made me Alcalde, and gave me your authority over the Moors, of
which peradventure I was not worthy.

And now, Sir, thinking in my heart concerning the law in
which I have lived, I find that I have led a life of great error, and
that all which Mahommed the great deceiver gave to the Moors for their
law, is deceit: and therefore, Sir, I turn me to the faith of Jesus
Christ, and will be a Christian and believe in the Catholic faith.

And I beseech you of your bounty give order that I may be baptized in
the name of the Holy Trinity, and give me what name you will.

And from this time forward I will live the life of a Christian, and
fulfil what is written in the Gospel, and forsake wife and children and
kin, and all that there is in the world, and serve God, and believe
in his faith and holy law, as far as the weakness of my body can
bear.
When the Cid Ruydiez heard this he began to smile for very pleasure; and
he rose up and took Alfaraxi with him to Doña Ximena, and said, Here is
our Alcalde, who will be a Christian, and our brother in the faith
of Jesus Christ: I beseech you therefore give order to provide all
things that may be needful.

When Doña Ximena heard this she rejoiced greatly, and gave order
that all things should be full nobly prepared.

And on the morrow the Bishop Don Hieronymo baptized him, and they gave
him the name of Gil Diaz: and his godfathers were Don Alvar Fañez, and
Pero Bermudez, and Martin Antolinez of Burgos; and Doña Ximena,
with other honourable dames, were his godmothers. And from that time
forward Gil Diaz was in such favour with the Cid, that he trusted all
his affairs to his hands, and he knew so well how to demean himself,
both towards him and all those of his company, that they all
heartily loved him.

BOOK XI.

I.

It is written in the history which Abenalfarax, the nephew of Gil Diaz,
composed in Valencia, that for five years the Cid Ruydiez remained
Lord thereof in peace, and in all that time he sought to do nothing
but to serve God, and to keep the Moors quiet who were under his
dominion; so that Moors and Christians dwelt together in such accord,
that it seemed as if they had alway been united; and they all loved
and served the Cid with such goodwill that it was marvellous.

And when these five years were over tidings were spread far and
near, which reached Valencia, that King Bucar the Miramamolin of
Morocco, holding himself disgraced because the Cid Campeador had
conquered him in the field of Quarto near unto Valencia, where he
had slain or made prisoners all his people, and driven him into the
sea, and made spoil of all the treasures which he had brought with
him; ...

King Bucar calling these things to mind, had gone himself and stirred
up the whole Paganism of Barbary, even as far as Montes Claros, to
cross the sea again, and avenge himself if he could; and he had
assembled so great a power that no man could devise their numbers. When
the Cid heard these tidings he was troubled at heart; how beit he
dissembled this, so that no person knew what he was minded to do; and
thus the matter remained for some days. And when he saw that the news
came thicker and faster, and that it was altogether certain that King
Bucar was coming over sea against him, he sent and bade all the Moors
of Valencia assemble together in his presence, and when they were
all assembled he said unto them, Good men of the Aljama, ye well
know that from the day wherein I became Lord of Valencia, ye have alway
been protected and defended, and have past your time well and
peaceably in your houses and heritages, none troubling you nor
doing you wrong; neither have I who am your Lord ever done aught unto
you that was against right.

And now true tidings are come to me that King Bucar of Morocco is
arrived from beyond sea, with a mighty power of Moors, and that
he is coming against me to take from me this city which I won with
so great labour. Now therefore, seeing it is so, I hold it good and
command that ye quit the town, both ye and your sons and your women, and
go into the suburb of Alcudia and the other suburbs, to dwell there
with the other Moors, till we shall see the end of this business between
me and King Bucar. Then the Moors, albeit they were loth, obeyed his
command; and when they were all gone out of the city, so that none
remained, he held himself safer than he had done before.

II. Now after the Moors were all gone out of the city, it came to pass
in the middle of the night that the Cid was lying in his bed,
devising how he might withstand this coming of King Bucar, for
Abenalfarax saith that when he was alone in his palace his thoughts
were of nothing else.

And when it was midnight there came a great light into the palace, and a
great odour, marvellous sweet. And as he was marvelling what it
might be, there appeared before him a man as white as snow; he was in
the likeness of an old man, with grey hair and crisp, and he carried
certain keys in his hand; and before the Cid could speak to him he
said, Sleepest thou, Rodrigo, or what are thou doing?

And the Cid made answer, What man art thou who askest me? And he said,
I am St.

Peter, the Prince of the Apostles, who come unto thee with more urgent
tidings than those for which thou art taking thought concerning
King Bucar, and it is, that thou art to leave this world, and go to
that which hath no end; and this will be in thirty days.

But God will show favour unto thee, so that thy people shall discomfit
King Bucar, and thou, being dead, shalt win this battle for the
honour of thy body: this will be with the help of Santiago, whom
God will send to the business: but do thou strive to make atonement
for thy sins, and so thou shall he saved.

All this Jesus Christ vouchsafest thee for the love of me, and for the
reverence which thou hast alway shown to my Church in the Monastery
of Cárdena. When the Cid Campeador heard this he had great pleasure at
heart, and he let himself fall out of bed upon the earth, that
he might kiss the feet of the Apostle St. Peter; but the Apostle
said, Strive not to do this, for thou canst not touch me; but be sure
that all this which I have told thee will come to pass.

And when the blessed Apostle had said this he disappeared, and the palace
remained full of a sweeter and more delightful odour than heart
of man can conceive. And the Cid Ruydiez remained greatly comforted
by what St.

Peter had said to him, and as certain that all this would come to pass,
as if it were already over.

III. Early on the morrow he sent to call all his honourable men to the
Alcazar; and when they were all assembled before him, he began to
say unto them, weeping the while, Friends and kinsmen and true
vassals and honourable men, many of ye must well remember when King
Don Alfonso our Lord twice banished me from his land, and most of
ye for the love which ye bore me followed me into banishment, and
have guarded me ever since.

And God hath shown such mercy to you and to me, that we have won many
battles against Moors and Christians; those which were against Christians,
God knows, were more through their fault than my will, for they strove
to set themselves against the good fortune which God had given me,
and to oppose his service, helping the enemies of the faith.

Moreover we won this city in which we dwell, which is not under the
dominion of any man in the world, save only of my Lord the King Don
Alfonso, and that rather by reason of our natural allegiance than of
anything else.

And now I would have ye know the state in which this body of mine now is;
for be ye certain that I am in the latter days of my life, and that
thirty days hence will be my last.

Of this I am well assured; for for these seven nights past I have seen
visions. I have seen my father Diego Laynez, and Diego Rodríguez my
son; and every time they say to me, You have tarried long here, let
us go now among the people who endure for ever. Now notwithstanding
man ought not to put his trust in these things, nor in such visions,
I know this by other means to be certain, for Sir St.

Peter hath appeared to me this night, when I was awake and not sleeping,
and he told me that when these thirty days were over, I should
pass away from this world.

Now ye know for certain that King Bucar is coming against us, and
they say that thirty and six Moorish Kings are coming with him; and
since he bringeth so great a power of Moors, and I have to depart
so soon, how can ye defend Valencia! But be ye certain, that by the mercy
of God I shall counsel ye so, that ye shall conquer King Bucar in the
field, and win great praise and honour from him, and Doña Ximena.
and ye and all that ye have, go hence in safety; how ye are to do
all this I will tell ye hereafter, before I depart.

IV. After the Cid had said this he sickened of the malady of which
he died.

And the day before his weakness waxed great, he ordered the gates
of the town to be shut, and went to the Church of St. Peter; and there
the Bishop Don Hieronymo being present, and all the clergy who
were in Valencia, and the knights and honourable men and honourable
dames, as many as the Church could hold, the Cid Ruydiez stood up,
and made a full noble preaching, showing that no man whatsoever,
however honourable or fortunate they may be in this world, can
escape death; to which, said he, I am now full near; and since ye
know that this body of mine hath never yet been conquered, nor put
to shame, I beseech ye let not this befall it at the end, for the
good fortune of man is only accomplished at his end.

How this is to be done, and what ye all have to do, I will leave in the
hands of the Bishop Don Hieronymo, and Alvar Fañez, and Pero Bermudez.
And when he had said this he placed himself at the feet of the
Bishop, and there before all the people made a general confession
of all his sins, and all the faults which he had committed against
our Lord Jesus Christ.

And the Bishop appointed him his penance, and assoyled him of his sins.
Then he arose and took leave of the people, weeping plenteously,
and returned to the Alcazar, and betook himself to his bed, and never
rose from it again; and every day he waxed weaker and weaker, till
seven days only remained of the time appointed.

Then he called for the caskets of gold in which was the balsam and
the myrrh which the Soldan of Persia had sent him; and when these
were put before him he bade them bring him the golden cup, of which
he was wont to drink; and he took of that balsam and of that myrrh
as much as a little spoon-full, and mingled it in the cup with
rose-water, and drank of it; and for the seven days which he lived
he neither ate nor drank aught else than a little of that myrrh and
balsam mingled with water.

And every day after he did this, his body and his countenance appeared
fairer and fresher than before, and his voice clearer, though he waxed
weaker and weaker daily, so that he could not move in his bed.

V.
She used such
phrases of the gipsy jargon as she had picked up, and made jokes and
bantering speeches which set their host cackling with laughter. Osmonde
had seen her play a fantastic part before on their whimsical holidays,
but never one which suited her so well, and in which she seemed so full
of fire and daring wit. She was no Duchess, a man might have sworn, but
a tall, splendid, black-eyed laughing gipsy woman, who, to the man who
was her partner, would be a fortune every day, and a fortune not of
luck alone, but of gay spirit and bravery and light-hearted love.


That night the moon shone white and clear, and in the mid hours my lord
Duke waked from his sleep suddenly, and saw the brightness streaming
full through the oriel window, and in the fair flood of it his love's
white figure kneeling.

"Gerald," she cried, clinging to him when he went to her. "'Twas I
awaked you. I called, though I did not speak."

"I heard, as I should hear if I lay dead," he answered low.

Her hair was all unbound for the night--her black, wondrous hair which
he so loved--and from its billowy cloud her face looked at him wild and
white, her mouth quivering.

"Gerald," she said, "look out with me."

Together they looked forth from the wide window into the beauty of the
night, up into the great vault of Heaven, where the large silver moon
sailed in the blue, the stars shining faintly before her soft
brilliance.

"We are Pagans," she said, "poor Pagans who oftenest seem to pray to a
cruel thing we do not know but only crouch before in terror, lest it
crush us. But when we look up into such a Heaven as this, its majesty
and stillness seem a presence, and we dare to utter what our hearts cry
out, and know we shall be heard." She caught his hand and held it to
her heart, which he felt leap beneath it. "There is no power would harm
a woman's child," she cried--"a little unborn thing which has not
breathed--because it would wreak vengeance on herself! There is none,
Gerald, is there?" And she clung to him, her uplifted face filled with
such lovely, passionate, woman's fear and pleading as made him sweep
her to his breast and hold her silently--because he could not speak.

"For I have learned to be afraid," she murmured brokenly, against his
breast. "And I was kneeling here to pray--to pray with all my
soul--that if there were so cruel a thing 'twould _kill_ me
now--blight me--take me from you--that I might die in torture--but not
bring suffering on my love, and on an innocent thing."

And her heart beat like some terrified caged eaglet against his own,
and her eyes were wild with woe. But the wondrous stillness of the deep
night enfolded them, as if Nature held them in her great arms which
comfort so. And her stars gazed calmly down, even as though their
calmness were answering speech.


_CHAPTER XXX_

_On Tyburn Hill_


There was none knew her as her husband did--none in the world--though
so many were her friends and worshippers. As he loved her he knew her,
the passion of his noble heart giving him clearer and more watchful
eyes than any other. Truth was, indeed, that she herself did not know
how much he saw and pondered on and how tender his watch upon her was.

The dark shadow in her eyes he had first noted, the look which would
pass over her face sometimes at a moment when 'twas brightest, when it
glowed with tenderest love for himself or with deepest yearning over
the children who were given to them as time passed, for there were born
to fill their home four sons who were like young gods for strength and
beauty, and two daughters as fair things as Nature ever made to promise
perfect womanhood.

And how she loved and tended them, and how they joyed in their young
lives and worshipped and revered her!

"When I was a child, Gerald," she said to their father, "I was
unhappy--and 'tis a hideous thing that a child should be so. I loved
none and none loved me, and though all feared my rage and gave me my
will, I was restless and savage and a rebel, though I knew not why.
There were hours--I did not know their meaning, and hated them--when I
was seized with fits of horrid loneliness and would hide myself in the
woods, and roll in the dead leaves, and curse myself and all things
because I was wretched. I used to think that I was angered at my dogs,
or my horse, or some servant, or my father, and would pour forth oaths
at them--but 'twas not they. Our children must be happy--they must be
happy, Gerald. I will have them happy!"

What a mother they had in her!--a creature who could be wild with play
and laughter with them, who was so beauteous that even in mere babyhood
they would sit upon her knee and stare at her for sheer infant pleasure
in her rich bloom and great, sweet eyes; who could lift and toss and
rock them in her strong, soft arms as if they were but flowers and she
a summer wind; whose voice was music, and whose black hair was a great
soft mantle 'twas their childish delight to coax her to loosen that it
might flow about her, billowing, she standing laughing beneath and
tossing it over them to hide their smallness under it as beneath a
veil. She was their heroine and their young pride, and among themselves
they made joyful little boasts that there was no other such lady in
all England. To behold her mount her tall horse and gallop and leap
hedges and gates, to hear her tell stories of the moorlands and woods,
and the game hiding in nests and warrens, of the ways of dogs and hawks
and horses, and soldiers and Kings and Queens, and of how their father
had fought in battles, and of how big the world was and how full of
wonders and of joys! What other children had such pleasures in their
lives?

But a few months after their Graces' visit to the Cow at Wickben, young
John, who was heir and Marquess of Roxholm, had been born; following
each other his two brothers, and later the child Daphne and her sister
Anne; last, the little Lord Cuthbert, who was told as he grew older
that he was to be the hero of his house in memory of Cuthbert de
Mertoun, who had lived centuries ago; and in the five villages 'twas
sworn that each son her Grace bore her husband was a finer creature
than the last, and that her girl children outbloomed their brothers
all.

Among these young human flowers Mistress Anne reigned gentle queen and
saint, but softly faded day by day, having been a fragile creature all
her life, but growing more so as time passed, despite the peace she
lived in and the happiness surrounding her.

In her eyes, too, his Grace had seen a look which held its mystery.
They were such soft eyes and so kind and timid he had always loved
them. In days gone by he had often observed them as they followed her
sister, and had been touched by the faithful tenderness of their look;
but after her marriage they seemed to follow her more tenderly still,
and sometimes with a vague, piteous wonder, as if the fond creature
asked herself in secret a question she knew not how to answer. More and
more devout she had grown, and, above all things, craved to aid her
Grace in the doing of her good deeds. To such work she gave herself
with the devotion of one who would strive to work out a penance.

Her own attendant was one of those whom her sister had aided, and was a
young creature with a piteous little story indeed--a pretty, rosy,
country child of but seventeen when, after her Grace's marriage, she
came to Camylott to serve Mistress Anne.

On her first coming my lord Duke had marked her and the sadness of her
innocent, childish face and blue eyes, and had spoken of her to Anne,
asking if she had met with some misfortune.

"A pretty, curly-headed creature such as she should be a village beauty
and dimpling with smiles," he said, "but the little thing looks
sometimes as if she had wept a year. Who has done her a wrong?"

Mistress Anne gave a little start and bent lower over her embroidery
frame, but her Grace, who was in the apartment, answered for her.

"'Twas Sir John Oxon," she answered, "who has wronged so many."

"What!" Osmonde cried, "wrought he the poor thing's ruin?"

"No," the Duchess replied; "but would have done it, and she, poor
child, all innocent, believing herself an honest wife. He had so
planned it, but Fate saved her!"

"A mock marriage," says the Duke, "and she saved from it! How?"

"Because the day she went to him to be married, as he had told her, he
was not at his lodgings, and did not return."

"'Twas the very day he disappeared--the day you saw him?" Osmonde
exclaimed.

"Yes," was the answer given, as her Grace crossed the room. "And 'twas
because I had seen him that the poor thing came to me with her
story--and I cared for her."

She, too, had been sitting at her embroidery frame, and had crossed the
room for silks, which lay upon the table near to Mistress Anne. As she
laid her hand upon them she looked down and uttered a low exclamation,
springing to her sister's side.

"Anne, love!" she cried. "Nay, Anne!"

Mistress Anne's small, worn face had dropped so low over her frame that
it at last lay upon it, showing white against the silken roses so gaily
broidered there. She was in a dead swoon.


Later Osmonde heard further details of this story--of how the poor
child, having no refuge in the great city, had dared at last to go to
Dunstanwolde House in the wild hope that her ladyship, who had last
seen Sir John, might tell her if he had let drop any word concerning
his journey--if he had made one. She had at first hung long about the
servants' entrance, watching the workmen who were that day walling in
the wing of black cellars my lady had wished to close before she left
the place, and at length, in desperation, had appealed to a young
stone-mason, with a good-humoured countenance, and he had interceded
for her with a lacquey passing by.

"But had I not spoke Sir John's name," the girl said when my lord Duke
spoke kindly to her of her story and her Grace's goodness; "had I not
spoke his name, the man would not have carried my message. But he said
she would see me if I had news of Sir John Oxon. He blundered, your
Grace, thinking I came from Sir John himself, and told her Grace 'twas
so. And she bade him bring me to her."

Her Grace she worshipped, and would break here into sobs each time she
told the story, describing her fright when she had been led to the
apartment where sate the great lady, who had spoke to her in a voice
like music and with such strange, deep pity of her grief, and in a
passion of tenderness had told the truth to her, taking her, after her
swoon, in her own strong, lovely arms, as if she had been no rich
Countess but a poor woman, such as she who wept, and one whose heart,
too, might have been broke by a cruel, deadly blow.

This poor simple child (who was in time cured of her wound and married
an honest fellow who loved her) was not the only one of Sir John Oxon's
victims whom her Grace protected. There were, indeed, many of them, and
'twas as though she had made it her curious duty to search them out.
When she and her lord lived sumptuously at Osmonde House in town,
shining at Court, entertaining Royalty itself at their home, envied and
courted by all as the happiest married lovers and the favourites of
Fortune, my lord Duke knew that many a day she cast her rich robes and,
clad in the dark garments and black hood, went forth to visit strange,
squalid places. Since the hour of his first meeting her on her return
from such an errand, when they had spoken together, he had never again
forbade her to follow the path 'twas plain she had chosen.

"Were I going forth to battle," he had said, "you would not seek to
hold me back; and in your battle, for it seems one to me, though I know
not what 'tis fought for, I will not restrain you."

"Ay, 'tis a battle," she had said, and seized his hands and kissed them
as if in passionate gratitude. "And 'tis a debt--a debt I swore to
pay--if that we call God would let me. Perhaps He will not, but were He
you--who know my soul--He would."

Yet but a few hours later, when he joined her in the Mall, where she
had descended from her coach to walk with the world of fashion and
moved among the wits and beaux and leaders of the mode, drawing all
round her by the marvel of her spirit and the brilliancy of her gayety
and bearing, he hearing her rich laughter and meeting the bright look
of her lovely, flashing eyes, wondered if she was the woman whose voice
still lingered in his ears and the memory of whose words would not
leave his fervent heart.

Their love was so perfect a thing that they had never denied each other
aught. Why should they; indeed, how could they? Each so understood and
trusted the other that they scarce had need for words in the deciding
of such questions as other pairs must reason gravely over. There was no
question, only one thought between them, and in his life a thing which
grew each hour as he had long since known it would. 'Twas this woman
whom he loved--this _one_--her looks, her ways, her laughter and her
tears, her very faults, if she should have them, her past, her present,
and her future which seemed all himself.

That--Duchess of Osmonde though she might be--she was known in dark
places and moved among the foul evil there, like the sun which strove
at rare hours to cleanse and dispel it; that she had in kennels and
noisome dens strange friends, was a thing at first vaguely rumoured
because the world had ever loved its stories of her, and been ready to
believe any it heard and invent new ones when it had tired of the old.
But there came a time when through a strange occurrence the rumour was
proved, most singularly, to be a truth.

Two gilt coaches, full of chattering fine ladies and gentlemen, were
being driven on a certain day through a part of the town not ordinarily
frequented by fashion, but the occupants of the coaches had been
entertaining themselves with a great and curious sight it had been
their delicate fancy to desire to behold as an exciting novelty. This
had been no less an exhibition than the hanging of two malefactors on
Tyburn Hill--the one a handsome young highwayman, the other a poor
woman executed for larceny.

The highwayman had been a favourite and had died gaily, and that he
should have been cut off in his prime had put the crowd (among which
were several of his yet uncaught companions) in an ill-humour; the poor
woman had wept and made a poor end, which had added to the anger of the
beholders.

'Twas an evil, squalid, malodorous mob, not of the better class of
thieves and tatterdemalions, but of the worst, being made up of
cutthroats out of luck, pickpockets, and poor wretches who were the
scourings of the town and the refuse of the kennel. 'Twas just the
crowd to be roused to some insensate frenzy, being hungry, bitter, and
vicious; and when, making ready to slouch back to its dens, its
attention was attracted by the gay coaches, with their liveries and
high-fed horses, and their burden of silks and velvets, and plumes
nodding over laughing, carefree, selfish faces, it fell into a sudden
fit of animal rage.

'Twas a woman who began it. (She had been a neighbour of the one who
had just met punishment, and in her own hovel at that moment lay hid
stolen goods.) She was a wild thing, with a battered face and unkempt
hair; her rags hung about her waving, and she had a bloodshot, fierce
eye.

"Look!" she screamed out suddenly, high and shrill; "look at them in
their goold coaches riding home from Tyburn, where they've seen their
betters swing!"

The ladies in the chariots, pretty, heartless fools, started affrighted
in their seats, and strove to draw back; their male companions, who
were as pretty, effeminate fools themselves and of as little spirit,
started also, and began to look pale about the gills.

"Look at them!" shrieked the virago, "shivering like rabbits. A pretty
end they would make if they were called to dance at a rope's end. Look
ye at them, with their white faces and their swords and periwigs!"

And she stood still, waving her arms, and poured forth a torrent of
curses.

'Twas enough. The woman beside her looked and began to shake her fist,
seized by the same frenzy; her neighbour caught up her cry, her
neighbour hers; a sodden-faced thief broke into a howling laugh,
another followed him, the madness spread from side to side, and in a
moment the big foul crowd surged about the coaches, shrieking
blasphemies and obscenities, shaking fists, howling cries of "Shame!"
and threats of vengeance.

"Turn over the coaches! Drag them out! Tear their finery from them!
Stuff their mincing mouths with mud!" rose all about them.

The servants were dragged from their seats and hauled from side to
side, their liveries were in ribbands, their terrified faces, ghastly
with terror and streaming with blood, might be seen one moment in one
place, the next in another, sometimes they seemed down on the ground.
The crowd roared with rage and laughter at their cries. One lady
swooned with terror, one or two crouched on the floor of the coach; the
dandies gesticulated and called for help.

"They will kill us! they will kill us!" screamed the finest beau among
them. "The watch! the watch! The constables!"

"'Tis worse than the Mohocks," cried another, but his hand so shook he
could not have drawn his sword if he had dared.

The next instant the glass of the first coach was smashed and its door
beaten open. A burly fellow seized upon a shrieking beauty and dragged
her forth laughing, dealing her gallant a mighty clout on the face as
he caught her. Blood spouted from the poor gentleman's delicate
aquiline nose, and the mob danced and yelled.

"Drag 'em all out!" was roared by the sodden-faced thief. "The women to
the women and the men to the men, and then change about." The creatures
were like wild beasts, and their prey would have been torn to pieces,
but at that moment, from a fellow at the edge of the crowd broke a
startled oath.

Someone had made way to him and laid a strong hand on his shoulder, and
there was that in his cry which made those nearest turn.

A tall figure in black draperies stood towering above him, and in truth
above all the rest of the crowd. 'Twas a woman, and she called out to
the mad creatures about her in command.

"Fools!" she cried; "have a care. Do you want to swing at a rope's end
yourselves?" 'Twas a fierce voice, the voice of a brave creature who
feared none of them; though 'twas a rich voice and a woman's, and so
rang with authority that it actually checked the tempest for a moment
and made the leaders turn to look.

She made her way nearer and threw back her hood from her face.

"I am Clorinda Mertoun, who is Duchess of Osmonde," she cried to them.
"There are many of you know me. Call back your senses, and hearken to
what I say."

The ladies afterwards in describing the scene used to quake as they
tried to paint this moment.

"There was a cry that was like a low howl," they said, "as if beasts
were baffled and robbed of their prey. Some of them knew her and some
did not, but they all stood and stared. Good Lord! 'twas her great
black eyes that held them; but I shall be affrighted when I think of
her, till my dying day."

'Twas her big black eyes and the steady flame in them that held the
poor frenzied fools, perchance as wolves are said to be held by the eye
of man sometimes; but 'twas another thing, and on that she counted.
She looked round from one face to the other.

"You know me," she said to one; "and you, and you, and you," nodding at
each. "I can pick out a dozen of you who know me, and should find more
if I marked you all. How many here are my friends and servants?"

There was a strange hoarse chorus of sounds; they were the voices of
women who were poor bedraggled drabs, men who were thieves and
cutthroats, a few shrill voices of lads who were pickpockets and ripe
for the gallows already.

"Ay, we know thee! Ay, your Grace! Ay!" they cried, some in half-sullen
grunts, some as if half-affrighted, but all in the tones of creatures
who suddenly began to submit to a thing they wondered at.

Then the woman who had begun the turmoil suddenly fell down on her
knees and began to kiss her Grace's garments with hysteric, choking
sobs.

"She said thou wert the only creature had ever spoke her fair," she
cried. "She said thou hadst saved her from going distraught when she
lay in the gaol. Just before the cart was driven away she cried out
sobbing, 'Oh, Lord! Oh, your Grace!' and they thought her praying, but
_I_ knew she prayed to thee."

The Duchess put her hand on the woman's greasy, foul shoulder and
answered in a strange voice, nodding her head, her black brows knit,
her red mouth drawn in.

"'Tis over now!" she said. "'Tis over and she quiet, and perchance ere
this she has seen a fair thing. Poor soul! poor soul!"

By this time the attacked party had gained strength to dare to move.
The pretty creature who had been first dragged forth from the coach
uttered a shriek and fell on her knees, clutching at her rescuer's
robe.

"Oh, your Grace! your Grace!" she wept; "have mercy! have mercy!"

"Mercy!" said her Grace, looking down at the tower of powdered hair
decked with gewgaws. "Mercy! Sure we all need it. Your ladyship
came--for sport--to see a woman hang? I saw her in the gaol last night
waiting her doom, which would come with the day's dawning. 'Twas not
sport. Had you been there with us, you would not have come here to-day.
Get up, my lady, and return to your coach. Make way, there!" raising
her voice. "Let that poor fellow," pointing to the ashen-faced
coachman, "mount to his place. Be less disturbed, Sir Charles," to the
trembling fop, "my friends will let you go free."

And that they did, strangely enough, though 'twas not willingly, the
victims knew, as they huddled into their places, shuddering, and were
driven away, the crowd standing glaring after them, a man or so
muttering blasphemies, though none made any movement to follow, but
loitered about and cast glances at her Grace of Osmonde, who waited
till the equipages were well out of sight and danger.

"'Twas wasted rage," she said to those about her. "The poor light fools
were not worth ill-usage."

The next day the Duke heard the tale, which had flown abroad over the
town. His very soul was thrilled by it and that it told him, and he
went to her Grace and poured forth to her a passion of love that was
touched with awe.

"I could see you!" he cried, "when they told the story to me. I could
see you as you stood there and held the wild beasts at bay. 'Twas that
I saw in your child-eyes when you rode past me in the hunting-field;
'twas that fire which held them back, and the great sweet soul of you
which has reached them in their dens and made you worshipped of them."

"Twas that they _know_ me," she answered; "'twas that I have stood by
their sides in their blackest hours. I have seen their children born. I
have helped their old ones and their young through death. Some I have
saved from the gallows. Some I have--" she stopped and hung her head as
if black memories overpowered her.

He knew what she had left unfinished.

"You have been--to comfort those who lie in Newgate--at their last
extremity?" he ended for her.

"Ay," she answered. "The one who will show kindness to them in those
awful hours they worship as God's self. There was a poor fellow I once
befriended there"--she spoke slowly and her voice shook. "He was
condemned--for taking a man's life. The last night--before I left
him--he knelt to me and swore--he had meant not murder. He had struck
in rage--one who had tortured him with taunts till he went raving. He
struck, and the man fell--and _he_ had killed him! And now must hang."

"Good God!" cried my lord Duke. "By chance! In frenzy! Not knowing! And
he died for it?"

"Ay," she answered, her great eyes on his and wide with horror, "on
Tyburn Tree!"


_CHAPTER XXXI_

_Their Graces Keep their Wedding Day at Camylott_


"She came to Court at last, my Lord Duke," said his Grace of
Marlborough. "She came at last--as I felt sure 'twas Fate she should."

'Twas at Camylott he said this, where he had come in those days which
darkened about him when, royal favour lost, the acclamations of a
fickle public stilled, its clamour of applause almost forgot and denied
by itself, his glory as statesman, commander, warrior seemed to sink
beneath the horizon like a sunset in a winter sky. His splendid frame
shattered by the stroke of illness, his heart bereaved, his great mind
dulled and saddened, there were few friends faithful to him, but my
Lord Duke of Osmonde, who had never sought his favour or required his
protection, who had often held views differing from his own and hidden
none of them, was among the few in whose company he found solace and
pleasure.

"I see you as I was," he would say. "Nay, rather as I might have been
had Nature given me a thing she gave to you and withheld from John
Churchill. You were the finer creature and less disturbed by poor
worldly dreams."

So more than once he came to be guest at Camylott, and would be moved
to pleasure by the happiness and fulness of life in the very air of the
place, by the joyousness of the tall, handsome children, by the spirit
and sweet majesty of the tall beauty their mother, by the loveliness of
the country and the cheerful air of well-being among the villagers and
tenantry. But most of all he gave thought to the look which dwelt in
the eyes of my Lord Duke and the woman who was so surely mate and
companion as well as wife to him. When, though 'twas even at the
simplest moment, each looked at the other, 'twas a heavenly thing plain
to see.

Upon one of their wedding-days he was at Camylott with them. 'Twas but
a short time before the quiet death of Mistress Anne, and was the tenth
anniversary of their Graces' union.

At Camylott they always spent their anniversary, though upon their
other domains the rejoicings which made Camylott happy were also held.
These festivities were gay and rustic, including the pealing of church
bells, the lighting of bonfires, rural games, and feastings; but they
were most noted for a feature her Grace herself had invented before she
had yet been twelve months a wife, and 'twas a pretty fancy, too, as
well as a kind thought.

She had talked of it first to her husband one summer afternoon as they
walked together in the gold glow of sunset through Camylott Woods.
'Twas one of many happy hours shared with her which he remembered to
his life's end, and could always call up in his mind the deep amber
light filtering through the trees, the thick green growth of the ferns
and the scent of them, the moss under foot and on the huge fallen trunk
they at last sate down upon.

"To every man, woman, and child we rule over," she said, "on that day
we will give a wedding gift. As the year passes we will discover what
each longs for most, and that thing we will give. So on that heavenly
day each one shall have his heart's desire--in memory," she added, with
soft solemnity.

And he echoed her.

"In memory!" For neither at that time nor at any other did either of
them forget those hours they had lived apart and how Fate had seemed to
work them ill, and how they had been desolate and hungered.

So on each morning of the wedding-day, while the bells were ringing a
peal, the flag flying from the Tower, the park prepared for games and
feasting, a crowd of ruddy countenances, clean smocks, petticoats, and
red cloaks flocked on the terrace from which the gifts were given.

'Twas from his invalid-chair within the library window that the once
great Commander sate and saw this sight; her Grace standing by her
husband at a long table, giving each gift with her own hand and saying
a few words to each recipient with a bright freedom 'twas worth any
man's while to see.

The looker-on remembered the histories he had heard of the handsome
hoyden whose male attire had been the Gloucestershire scandal, the
Court beauty who in the midst of her triumphs had chosen to play gentle
consort to an old husband, the Duchess who shone in the great world
like the sun and who yet doffed her brocades and jewels to don serge
and canvas and labour in Rag Yard and Slaughter Alley to rescue thieves
and beggars and watch the mothers of their hapless children in their
throes. Ay, and more yet, to sit in the black condemned-cell at Newgate
and hold the hand and pour courage into the soul of a shuddering wretch
who in the cold grey of morning would dangle from a gallows tree.

"'Tis a strange nature," he thought, "and has ever been so. It has
passed through some strange hours and some dark ones. Yet to behold
her----"

There had come to her side a young couple, the woman with a child in
her arms courtesying blushingly, her youthful husband grinning and
pulling his forelock.

Her Grace took the infant and cuddled and kissed it, while its father
and mother glowed with delight.

"Tis a fine boy, Betty," she said. "'Tis bigger than the last one, Tom.
His christening finery is in the package here, and I will stand sponsor
as before."

"Mother," said young John at her elbow, "may I not stand sponsor, too?"

She laughed and pulled his long love-locks.

"Ay, my lord Marquess," she answered, "if his parents are willing to
take such a young one."

Mistress Anne sate by their guest, he holding her in great favour. As
the people came for their gifts she told him their names and stories.
Through weakness she walked about but little in these days, and the
failing soldier liked her company, so she often sate near him in her
lounging-chair and with gentle artfulness lured him into reminiscences
of his past campaigns. She was very frail to-day, and in her white
robe, and with her large eyes which seemed to have outgrown her face,
she looked like the wraith of a woman rather than a creature of flesh
and blood.

"Those two her Grace rescued," she said, as Betty and Tom Beck retired;
"the one from woe, the other from cruel wickedness. He had betrayed the
poor child and deserted her, and 'twas her Grace who touched his heart
and woke manhood in it, and made them happy man and wife."

Then came an old woman leading a girl and boy, both fair and blooming
and with blue eyes and fair curling locks.

"Are they both well and both happy, dame?" the Duchess asked. "Yes,
that they are, I see. And I know they are both good."

She took the girl's face in both hands and smiled into it as she might
have smiled at a flower, and then kissed her tenderly. my wife Doña
Ximena kisses your hand, and my daughters also, that this thing which
hath befallen us, may be found displeasing unto you. And the King
said, That will it be, unless God prevent.

So they rode toward Toledo. And the King said unto him, I have ordered
you to be lodged in my Palaces of Galiana, that you may be near me.
And the Cid answered, Gramercy, Sir!

God grant you long life and happy, but in your Palaces there is
none who should be lodged save you. When you hold your Cortes let it be
in those Palaces of Galiana, for there is better room there than
in the Alcazar.

I will not cross the Tagus to-night, but will pass the night in St.
Servans on this side, and hold a vigil there.

To-morrow I will enter the city, and be in the court before dinner.
The King said that it pleased him well, and he returned into Toledo.
And the Cid went into the Church of St.

Servans, and ordered candles to be placed upon the altar, for he
would keep a vigil there; and there he remained with Minaya and the
other good ones, praying to the Lord, and talking in private.

The tents of his company were pitched upon the hills round about.
Any one who beheld them might well have said, that it looked like
a great host.

IV. When the King entered the city, he bade his seneschal, Benito
Perez, make ready the Palaces of Galiana for the next day, when the
Cortes should begin; and he fitted the great Palace after this
manner.
He placed _estrados_ with carpets upon the ground, and hung the
walls with cloth of gold. And in the highest place he placed the royal
chair in which the King should sit; it was a right noble chair and
a rich, which he had won in Toledo, and which had belonged to the
Kings thereof; and round about it right noble _estrados_ were placed
for the Counts and honourable men who were come to the Cortes.

Now the Cid knew how they were fitting up the Palaces of Galiana, and
he called for a squire, who was a young man, one whom he had
brought up and in whom he had great trust; he was an hidalgo, and
hight Ferran Alfonso; and the Cid bade him take his ivory seat which
he had won in Valencia, and which had belonged to the Kings thereof,
and place it in the Palace, in the best place, near the seat of the
King; and that none might hurt or do dishonour unto it, he gave him
a hundred squires, all hidalgos, to go with him, and ordered them
not to leave it till he should come there the next day.

So when they had dined, they made the seat be taken up, and went with
it to the Palaces of Galiana, and placed it near the seat of the King,
as the Cid had commanded; and all that day and night they remained
there guarding the ivory seat, till the Cid should come and take his
place thereon; every one having his sword hung from his neck.
This was a right noble seat, and of subtle work, so that whoso beheld
it would say it was the seat of a good man, and that it became
such a one as the Cid.

It was covered with cloth of gold, underneath which was a cushion.

V. On the morrow, after the King had heard mass, he went into the
Palace of Galiana, where the Cortes was to assemble, and the Infantes
of Carrion and the other Counts and Ricos-omes with him, save the Cid
who was not yet come; and when they who did not love the Cid beheld his
ivory seat, they began to make mock of it.

And Count Garcia said to the King, I beseech your Grace, tell me, for
whom that couch is spread beside your seat: for what dame is it made
ready; will she come drest in the _almexia_ ... or with white
_alquinales_ on her head, or after what fashion will she be apparelled?
Sir, a seat like that is fit for none but your Grace: give order to
take it for yourself, or that it be removed. When Ferran Alfonso, who
was there to guard the ivory seat heard this, he answered and said,
Count, you talk full foolishly, and speak ill of one against whom it
behoves you not to talk. He who is to sit upon this seat is better
than you, or than all your lineage; and he hath ever appeared a man to
all his enemies, not like a woman as you say.

If you deny this I will lay hands upon you, and make you acknowledge
it before my Lord the King Don Alfonso, who is here present. And I
am of such a race that you cannot acquit yourself by saying I am not
your peer, and the vantage of half your arms I give you! At these
words was the King greatly troubled, and the Counts also, and all the
honourable men who were there present.

And Count García who was an angry man, wrapt his mantle under his arm,
and would have struck Ferran Alfonso, saying, Let me get at the
boy who dares me!

And Ferran Alfonso laid hand upon his sword and came forward to meet
him, saying, that if it were not for the King, he would punish him
thereright for the folly which he had uttered.

But the King seeing that these words went on from bad to worse, put
them asunder that farther evil might not happen, and he said, None of
ye have reason to speak thus of the seat of the Cid; he won it like a
good knight and a valiant, as he is. There is not a King in the world
who deserves this seat better than my vassal the Cid, and the
better and more honourable he is, the more am I honoured through him.

This seat he won in Valencia, where it had belonged to the Kings
thereof; and much gold and silver, and many precious stones hath
he won; and many a battle hath he won both against Christians and
Moors: and of all the spoil which he hath won, he hath alway sent
me part, and great presents and full rich, such as never other
vassal sent to his Lord; and this he hath done in acknowledgment
that I am his Lord.

Ye who are talking here against him, which of ye hath ever sent me
such gifts as he? If any one be envious, let him atchieve such feats as
he hath done, and I will seat him with myself to do him honour.

VI. Now the Cid had performed his vigil in the Church of St. Servan,
matins and primes were said, and mass performed; and then he made
ready to go to the Cortes, and with him went Alvar Fañez Minaya,
whom he called his right arm, and Pero Bermudez, and Muño Gustios,
and Martin Antolinez that doughty Burgalese, and Alvar Alvarez, and
Alvar Salvadorez, and Martin Muñoz, and Felez Muñoz the Cid's nephew,
and Malanda who was a learned man, and Galin Garciez the good one
of Aragon: these and others made ready to go with him, being an
hundred of the best of his company.

They wore _velmezes_ under their harness, that they might be able to
bear it, and then their mail, which was as bright as the sun: over
this they had ermine or other skins, laced tight that the armour
might not be seen, and under their cloaks, their swords which were
sweet and sharp.

He who was born in happy hour made no tarriance; he drew on his legs
hose of fine cloth, and put on over them shoes which were richly
worked.

A shirt of _ranzal_ he wore, which was as white as the sun; all the
fastenings were wrought with gold and silver: over this a _brial_
of gold tissue; and over this a red skin with points of gold.

My Cid the Campeador alway wore it.

On his head he had a coif of scarlet wrought with gold, which was made
that none might clip the hair of the good Cid.

His was a long beard, and he bound it with a cord. And he bade Alvar
Fañez and Pero Bermudez assemble their companions, and when he saw
them he said, If the Infantes of Carrion should seek a quarrel,
where I have a hundred such as these I may be well without fear!

And he said, Let us mount now and go to the Cortes.
We go to make one defiance, and peradventure it may be two or three,
through the folly of those who may stir against us.

Ye will be ready to aid me, saying and doing as I shall call upon ye,
always saving the honour and authority of King Don Alfonso our Lord;
see now that none of ye say or do ought amiss, for it would be unseemly.
Then called he for his horse, and bestrode it, and rode to the
Cortes.

VII. My Cid and his company alighted at the gate of the Palaces of Galiana,
and he and his people went in gravely, he in the midst and his hundred
knights round about him. When he who was born in happy hour entered,
the good King Don Alfonso rose up, and the Counts Don Anrrich and Don
Remond did the like, and so did all the others, save the curly-headed
one of Granon, and they who were on the side of the Infantes of
Carrion.

All the others received him with great honour. And he said unto the
King, Sir, where do you bid me sit with these my kinsmen and friends
who are come with me? And the King made answer, Cid, you are such a one,
and have past your time so well to this day, that if you would listen
to me and be commanded by me, I should hold it good that you took
your seat with me; for he who hath conquered Kings, ought to be
seated with Kings.

But the Cid answered, That, Sir, would not please God, but I will be at
your feet for by the favour of the King your father Don Ferrando
was I made, his creature and the creature of your brother King Don
Sancho am I, and it behoveth not that he who receiveth bounty should
sit with him who dispenseth it.

And the King answered, Since you will not sit with me, sit on your
ivory seat, for you won it like a good man; and from this day I order
that none except King or Prelate sit with you, for you have conquered
so many high-born men, and so many Kings, both Christians and Moors,
that for this reason there is none who is your peer, or ought to
be seated with you.

Sit therefore like a King and Lord upon your ivory seat. Then
the Cid kissed the King's hand, and thanked him for what he
had said, and for the honour which he had done him; and he took
his seat, and his hundred knights seated themselves round about him.

All who were in the Cortes sate looking at my Cid and at his long beard
which he had bound with a cord; but the Infantes of Carrion could not
look upon him for shame.

VIII. When they were all seated the King gave command that they should
be silent; and when the Cid saw that they were all still, he rose and
spake after this manner. Sir King Don Alfonso, I beseech you of
your mercy that you would hear me, and give command that I should be
heard, and that you would suffer none to interrupt me, for I am not
a man of speech, neither know I how to set forth my words, and if they
interrupt me I shall be worse.

Moreover, Sir, give command that none be bold enough to utter unseemly
words, nor be insolent towards me, least we should come to strife in
your presence. Then King Don Alfonso rose and said, Hear me, as
God shall help you!

Since I have been King I have held only two Cortes, one in Burgos,
and one in Carrion.

This third I have assembled here in Toledo for the love of the Cid,
that he may demand justice against the Infantes of Carrion for the wrongs
which we all know.

The Counts Don Anrrich and Don Remoud shall be Alcaldes in this cause;
and these other Counts who are not on either side, give ye all
good heed, for ye are to take cognizance that the right may be
decreed.

And I give order, and forbid any one, to speak without my command,
or to utter aught insolent against the Cid; and I swear by St.

Isidro, that whosoever shall disturb the Cortes shall lose my love
and be banished from the kingdom.

I am on the side of him who shall be found to have the right.

Then those Counts who were appointed Alcaldes were sworn upon the
Holy Gospels, that they would judge between the Cid and the Infantes
of Carrion, rightly and truly, according to the law of Castille and
Leon.

IX.

When this was done the King bade the Cid make his demand; and the Cid
rose and said, Sir, there is no reason for making long speeches here,
which would detain the Cortes.

I demand of the Infantes of Carrion, before you, two swords which
I gave into their keeping; the one is Colada and the other Tizona.

I won them like a man, and gave them to the keeping of the Infantes
that they might honour my daughters with them, and serve you.

When they left my daughters in the Oak-forest of Corpes they chose
to have nothing to do with me, and renounced my love; let them therefore
give me back the swords, seeing that they are no longer my sons-in-law.
Then the King commanded the Alcaldes to judge upon this demand
according as they should find the right; and they took counsel and
judged, that the swords should be restored unto the Cid.

And Count Don Garcia said they would talk concerning it; and the
Infantes of Carrion talked apart with those who were on their side,
and they thought that they were well off; for that the Cid would
demand nothing more of them, but would leave the Cortes when he had
recovered the swords.

So they brought the swords Colada and Tizona, and delivered them
to the King.

The King drew the swords, and the whole Court shone with their brightness:
their hilts were of solid gold; all the good men of the Cortes
marvelled at them.

And the Cid rose and received them, and kissed the King's hand, and
went back to his ivory seat; and he took the swords in his hand and
looked at them; they could not change them, for the Cid knew them
well, and his whole frame rejoiced, and he smiled from his heart.

And he laid them upon his lap and said, Ah, my swords, Colada and Tizona,
truly may I say of you, that you are the best swords in Spain; and
I won you, for I did not get you either by buying or by barter.

I gave ye in keeping to the Infantes of Carrion that they might do
honour to my daughters with ye. But ye were not for them! they
kept ye hungry, and did not feed ye with flesh as ye were wont to
be fed.

Well is it for you that ye have escaped that thraldom and are come again
to my hands, and happy man am I to recover you.

Then Alvar Fañez rose and kissed the hand of the Cid, and said, I
beseech you give Colada into my keeping while this Cortes shall
last, that I may defend you therewith: and the Cid gave it him and
said.

Take it, it hath changed its master for the better.

And Pero Bermudez rose and made the same demand for the sword Tizona,
and the Cid gave it him in like manner.

Then the Cid laid hand upon his beard as he was wont to do, and the
Infantes of Carrion and they who were of their side thought that
he meant to disturb the Cortes, and they were greatly afraid; but
he sate still like a man of good understanding, for he was not one
who did things lightly.

X. Then the Cid rose and said, Thanks be to God and to you, Sir King, I
have recovered my swords Colada and Tizona, I have now another
demand against the Infantes of Carrion, King Don Alfonso, you well
know that it was your pleasure to bid me meet you at Requeña, and
I went there in obedience to your command.

And you asked of me my daughters in marriage for the Infantes, and I
did not refuse, in that I would not disobey your command; and you
bade me deliver them to my kinsman here Don Alvar Fañez, and he
gave them to the Infantes to be their wives, and the blessing was
given them in the church of St.

Mary, according to the law of Rome.

You, Sir, gave them in marriage, not I; and you did it for good,
not for evil; but what they did was after another wise.

And though they are of great blood and honourable, yet would I not
have given my daughters to them, unless in obedience to your command;
and this, Sir, you well know, for so I said unto you.

I gave them, when they took my daughters from Valencia, horses and
mules, and cups and vessels of fine gold, and much wrought silver, and
many noble garments, and other gifts, three thousand marks of
silver in all, thinking that I gave it to my daughters whom I loved.

Now, Sir, since they have cast my daughters off, and hold themselves
to have been dishonoured in marrying them, give command that they
restore unto me this which is my own, or that they show cause why
they should not.

Then might you have seen the Infantes of Carrion in great chafing.

And Count Don Remond called upon them to speak; and they said, We
gave his swords to the Cid Campeador, that he might ask nothing
more of us, if it please the King.

But the King said that they must answer to the demand. And they asked
to consult together concerning it; and the King bade them take
counsel and make answer incontinently.

So they went apart, and with them eleven Counts and Ricos-omes who
were on their side, but no right or reason could they find for
opposing this demand which the Cid had made.

Howbeit Count Don Garcia spake for them and said, Sir, this which the
Cid demands back from them, it is true that he gave it, but they
have expended it in your service; we hold therefore that they are
not bound to make restitution of it, seeing how it hath been
expended.

Nevertheless if you hold it to be lawful that they should restore this
money, give order that time be given them to make the payment, and
they will go to Carrion, their inheritance, and there discharge the
demand as you shall decree.

When the Count had thus said he sate down. And the Cid arose and said,
Sir, if the Infantes of Carrion have expended aught in your service,
it toucheth not me.

You and the Alcaldes whom you have appointed have heard them admit
that I gave them this treasure, and this excuse which they set up;
I pray you let judgment be given whether they are bound to pay it
or not.

Then King Don Alfonso answered and said, If the Infantes of Carrion have
expended aught in my service, I am bound to repay it, for the Cid must
not lose what is his own; and he bade the Alcaldes consult together and
judge according to what they should find right.

And the Alcaldes having taken counsel gave judgment, that seeing
the Infantes acknowledged the Cid had given them this treasure with
his daughters, and they had abandoned them, they must needs make
restitution in the Cortes of the King there right: and the King
confirmed this sentence, and the Cid rose and kissed the King's hand.

Greatly were the Infantes of Carrion troubled at this sentence, and
they besought the King that he would obtain time for them from the
Cid, in which to make their payment; and the King besought him to
grant them fifteen days, after this manner, that they should not
depart from the Court till they had made the payment, and that they
should plight homage for the observance of this.

And the Cid granted what the King desired, and they plighted
homage accordingly in the hands of the King, Then made they their
account with the King, and it was found that what they had expended
for his service was two hundred marks of silver, and the King said
that he would repay this, so that there remained for them two
thousand and eight hundred to pay.

Who can tell the trouble in which the Infantes were, to pay this treasure
to the Cid, they and all their kindred and friends, for it was
full hard for them to accomplish, And they took up upon trust horses
and mules and wrought silver, and other precious things, and as
they could get them, delivered them over to the Cid.

Then might you have seen many a good-going horse brought there, and
many a good mule, and many a good palfrey, and many a good sword
with its mountings.

And they sent to Carrion to their father and mother to help them,
for they were in great trouble; and they raised for them all they
could, so that they made up the sum within the time appointed.

And then they thought that the matter was at an end, and that nothing
more would be demanded from them.

XI. After this payment had been made the Cortes assembled again, and
the King and all the honourable men being each in his place, the
Cid rose from his ivory seat, and said, Sir, praise be to God and
your favour, I have recovered my swords, and my treasure; now then
I pray you let this other demand be heard which I have to make
against the Infantes.

Full hard it is for me to make it, though I have it rooted in my
heart!

I say then, let them make answer before you, and tell why it was that
they besought you to marry them with my daughters, and why they
took them away from me from Valencia, when they had it in heart to
dishonour me, and to strike them, and leave them as they were left,
in the Oak-forest of Corpes?

Look, Sir, what dishonour they did them!
"And then I struck him with my whip," he heard, "knowing nothing, not
seeing, only striking like a goaded, dying thing. And he fell--he
fell--and all was done."


None heard or saw my lord Duke when, later, he passed out from the
empty room. He went forth into the fair day again, and through the Park
and into Camylott Wood. The deep amber light was there, and the
gold-green stillness, and he passed onward till he reached the great
wood's depths, and stood beneath an oak-tree's broad-spread branches,
leaning his back against the huge rough trunk, his arms folded.

This was her secret burden--this. And Nature had so moulded him that he
could look upon it with just, unflinching eyes, his soul filled with a
god-like, awful pity.

In a walled-in cellar in the deserted Dunstanwolde House lay, waiting
for the call of Judgment Day, a handful of evil dust which once had
been a man--one whose each day of life from his youth upward had
seemed, as it had passed, to leave black dregs in some poor
fellow-creature's cup. One frantic, unthinking blow struck in terror
and madness had ended him and all his evil doing, but left her standing
frenzied at the awfulness of the thing which had fallen upon her soul
in her first hour of Heaven. And all her being had risen in revolt at
this most monstrous woe of chance, and in her torture she had cried
out that in that hour she would not be struck down.

"Of ending his base life I had never thought," he had heard her wail,
"though I had thought to end my own. But when Fate struck the blow for
me, I swore that carrion should not taint my whole life through."

To atone for this she had lived her life of passionate penance.
Remembering this, she had prayed Heaven strike and blight her, in fear
that she herself should blight the noble and the innocent things she
loved. And while she had thought she bore the burden all alone, the
gentle sister, who had so worshipped her, had known her secret and
borne it with her silently. In dying she had revealed it, with
trembling and piteous love, and this my lord Duke had heard, and her
pure words as she had died.

"Anne! Anne!" the anguished voice had cried. "Must he know--my Gerald?
Must I tell him all? If so I must, I will--upon my knees!"

"Nay, tell him not," was faintly breathed in answer. "Let God tell
him--who understands."

"'Tis in myself," my lord Duke said at last, through his shut teeth,
"'tis in _myself_ to have struck the blow, and had I done it and found
him lie dead before me--in her dear name I swear, and in a new shriven
soul's presence, for sure the pure thing is near--I would have hid it
as she has done; for _naught_ should have torn her from me! And for her
sin, if sin it is counted, I will atone with her; and as she does her
penance, will do mine. And if, at the end of all things, she be called
to Judgment Bar, I will go with her and stand by her side. For her life
is my life, and her soul my soul, her sentence my sentence; and being
her love I will bear it with her, and pray Him who judges to lay the
burden heavier upon me than upon her."


And he went back to the Tower and up the stairway to the
turret-chamber, and there Mistress Anne lay still and calm and sweet as
a child asleep, and flowers and fair chaplets lay all about her white
bed and on her breast and in her small, worn hands, and garlanded her
pillow. And the setting sun had sent a shaft of golden glory through
the window to touch her hair and the blossoms lying on it.

And her sister stood beside her and looked down. And a new peace was on
her face when she laid her cheek upon her husband's breast as he
enfolded her.

"She is my saint," she said. "To-day she has taken my sins in her pure
hands to God and has asked mercy on them."

Pedro de Cardeña, where the body of the Cid Campeador lay. And at that
time the Abbot of the Monastery, whose name was Don Juan, was a
good man, and a hidalgo, and stricken in years; and he had been a
doughty man in arms in his day.

And if as time passed
there came some sacred hour when, their souls being one, there could be
no veil not rent away by Love and Nature, and the secret each had kept
was revealed to the other, 'twas surely so revealed as but to draw them
closer and fill them with higher nobleness, for no other human creature
heard of it or guessed.

Returning to Paris in the month of December, I passed the winter
attending pleasure parties, masquerades, suppers, rarely leaving Desgenais,
who was delighted with me: not so was I with him. The more I went
about, the more unhappy I became.
.