The only other persons whose welfare is as vital to the welfare of the
whole country as is the welfare of the wageworkers are the tillers of
the soil, the farmers. It is a mere truism to say that no growth of
cities, no growth of wealth, no industrial development can atone for any
falling off in the character and standing of the farming population.
During the last few decades this fact has been recognized with
ever-increasing clearness. There is no longer any failure to realize
that farming, at least in certain branches, must become a technical and
scientific profession. This means that there must be open to farmers the
chance for technical and scientific training, not theoretical merely but
of the most severely practical type. The farmer represents a peculiarly
high type of American citizenship, and he must have the same chance to
rise and develop as other American citizens have. Moreover, it is
exactly as true of the farmer, as it is of the business man and the
wageworker, that the ultimate success of the Nation of which he forms a
part must be founded not alone on material prosperity but upon high
moral, mental, and physical development. This education of the
farmer--self-education by preference but also education from the
outside, as with all other men--is peculiarly necessary here in the
United States, where the frontier conditions even in the newest States
have now nearly vanished, where there must be a substitution of a more
intensive system of cultivation for the old wasteful farm management,
and where there must be a better business organization among the farmers
themselves.

Several factors must cooperate in the improvement of the farmer's
condition. He must have the chance to be educated in the widest possible
sense--in the sense which keeps ever in view the intimate relationship
between the theory of education and the facts of life. In all education
we should widen our aims. It is a good thing to produce a certain number
of trained scholars and students; but the education superintended by the
State must seek rather to produce a hundred good citizens than merely
one scholar, and it must be turned now and then from the class book to
the study of the great book of nature itself. This is especially true of
the farmer, as has been pointed out again and again by all observers
most competent to pass practical judgment on the problems of our country
life. All students now realize that education must seek to train the
executive powers of young people and to confer more real significance
upon the phrase "dignity of labor," and to prepare the pupils so that,
in addition to each developing in the highest degree his individual
capacity for work, they may together help create a right public opinion,
and show in many ways social and cooperative spirit. Organization has
become necessary in the business world; and it has accomplished much for
good in the world of labor. It is no less necessary for farmers. Such a
movement as the grange movement is good in itself and is capable of a
well-nigh infinite further extension for good so long as it is kept to
its own legitimate business. The benefits to be derived by the
association of farmers for mutual advantage are partly economic and
partly sociological.

Moreover, while in the long run voluntary efforts will prove more
efficacious than government assistance, while the farmers must primarily
do most for themselves, yet the Government can also do much. The
Department of Agriculture has broken new ground in many directions, and
year by year it finds how it can improve its methods and develop fresh
usefulness. Its constant effort is to give the governmental assistance
in the most effective way; that is, through associations of farmers
rather than to or through individual farmers. It is also striving to
coordinate its work with the agricultural departments of the several
States, and so far as its own work is educational to coordinate it with
the work of other educational authorities. Agricultural education is
necessarily based upon general education, but our agricultural
educational institutions are wisely specializing themselves, making
their courses relate to the actual teaching of the agricultural and
kindred sciences to young country people or young city people who wish
to live in the country.

Great progress has already been made among farmers by the creation of
farmers' institutes, of dairy associations, of breeders' associations,
horticultural associations, and the like. A striking example of how the
Government and the farmers can cooperate is shown in connection with the
menace offered to the cotton growers of the Southern States by the
advance of the boll weevil. The Department is doing all it can to
organize the farmers in the threatened districts, just as it has been
doing all it can to organize them in aid of its work to eradicate the
cattle fever tick in the South. The Department can and will cooperate
with all such associations, and it must have their help if its own work
is to be done in the most efficient style.

Much is now being done for the States of the Rocky Mountains and Great
Plains through the development of the national policy of irrigation and
forest preservation; no Government policy for the betterment of our
internal conditions has been more fruitful of good than this. The
forests of the White Mountains and Southern Appalachian regions should
also be preserved; and they can not be unless the people of the States
in which they lie, through their representatives in the Congress, secure
vigorous action by the National Government.

I invite the attention of the Congress to the estimate of the Secretary
of War for an appropriation to enable him to begin the preliminary work
for the construction of a memorial amphitheater at Arlington. The Grand
Army of the Republic in its national encampment has urged the erection
of such an amphitheater as necessary for the proper observance Of
Memorial Day and as a fitting monument to the soldier and sailor dead
buried there. In this I heartily concur and commend the matter to the
favorable consideration of the Congress.

I am well aware of how difficult it is to pass a constitutional
amendment. Nevertheless in my judgment the whole question of marriage
and divorce should be relegated to the authority of the National
Congress. At present the wide differences in the laws of the different
States on this subject result in scandals and abuses; and surely there
is nothing so vitally essential to the welfare of the nation, nothing
around which the nation should so bend itself to throw every safeguard,
as the home life of the average citizen. The change would be good from
every standpoint. In particular it would be good because it would confer
on the Congress the power at once to deal radically and efficiently with
polygamy; and this should be done whether or not marriage and divorce
are dealt with. It is neither safe nor proper to leave the question of
polygamy to be dealt with by the several States. Power to deal with it
should be conferred on the National Government.

When home ties are loosened; when men and women cease to regard a worthy
family life, with all its duties fully performed, and all its
responsibilities lived up to, as the life best worth living; then evil
days for the commonwealth are at hand. There are regions in our land,
and classes of our population, where the birth rate has sunk below the
death rate. Surely it should need no demonstration to show that wilful
sterility is, from the standpoint of the nation, from the standpoint of
the human race, the one sin for which the penalty is national death,
race death; a sin for which there is no atonement; a sin which is the
more dreadful exactly in proportion as the men and women guilty thereof
are in other respects, in character, and bodily and mental powers, those
whom for the sake of the state it would be well to see the fathers and
mothers of many healthy children, well brought up in homes made happy by
their presence. No man, no woman, can shirk the primary duties of life,
whether for love of ease and pleasure, or for any other cause, and
retain his or her self-respect.

Let me once again call the attention of the Congress to two subjects
concerning which I have frequently before communicated with them. One is
the question of developing American shipping. I trust that a law
embodying in substance the views, or a major part of the views, exprest
in the report on this subject laid before the House at its last session
will be past. I am well aware that in former years objectionable
measures have been proposed in reference to the encouragement of
American shipping; but it seems to me that the proposed measure is as
nearly unobjectionable as any can be. It will of course benefit
primarily our seaboard States, such as Maine, Louisiana, and Washington;
but what benefits part of our people in the end benefits all; just as
Government aid to irrigation and forestry in the West is really of
benefit, not only to the Rocky Mountain States, but to all our country.
If it prove impracticable to enact a law for the encouragement of
shipping generally, then at least provision should be made for better
communication with South America, notably for fast mail lines to the
chief South American ports. It is discreditable to us that our business
people, for lack of direct communication in the shape of lines of
steamers with South America, should in that great sister continent be at
a disadvantage compared to the business people of Europe.

I especially call your attention to the second subject, the condition of
our currency laws. The national bank act has ably served a great purpose
in aiding the enormous business development of the country; and within
ten years there has been an increase in circulation per capita from
$21.41 to $33.08. For several years evidence has been accumulating that
additional legislation is needed. The recurrence of each crop season
emphasizes the defects of the present laws. There must soon be a
revision of them, because to leave them as they are means to incur
liability of business disaster. Since your body adjourned there has been
a fluctuation in the interest on call money from 2 per cent to 30 per
cent; and the fluctuation was even greater during the preceding six
months. The Secretary of the Treasury had to step in and by wise action
put a stop to the most violent period of oscillation. Even worse than
such fluctuation is the advance in commercial rates and the uncertainty
felt in the sufficiency of credit even at high rates. All commercial
interests suffer during each crop period. Excessive rates for call money
in New York attract money from the interior banks into the speculative
field; this depletes the fund that would otherwise be available for
commercial uses, and commercial borrowers are forced to pay abnormal
rates; so that each fall a tax, in the shape of increased interest
charges, is placed on the whole commerce of the country.

The mere statement of these has shows that our present system is
seriously defective. There is need of a change. Unfortunately, however,
many of the proposed changes must be ruled from consideration because
they are complicated, are not easy of comprehension, and tend to,
disturb existing rights and interests. We must also rule out any plan
which would materially impair the value of the United States 2 per cent
bonds now pledged to secure circulations, the issue of which was made
under conditions peculiarly creditable to the Treasury. I do not press
any especial plan. Various plans have recently been proposed by expert
committees of bankers. Among the plans which are possibly feasible and
which certainly should receive your consideration is that repeatedly
brought to your attention by the present Secretary of the Treasury, the
essential features of which have been approved by many prominent bankers
and business men. According to this plan national banks should be
permitted to issue a specified proportion of their capital in notes of a
given kind, the issue to be taxed at so high a rate as to drive the
notes back when not wanted in legitimate trade. This plan would not
permit the issue of currency to give banks additional profits, but to
meet the emergency presented by times of stringency.

I do not say that this is the right system. I only advance it to
emphasize my belief that there is need for the adoption of some system
which shall be automatic and open to all sound banks, so as to avoid all
possibility of discrimination and favoritism. Such a plan would tend to
prevent the spasms of high money and speculation which now obtain in the
New York market; for at present there is too much currency at certain
seasons of the year, and its accumulation at New York tempts bankers to
lend it at low rates for speculative purposes; whereas at other times
when the crops are being moved there is urgent need for a large but
temporary increase in the currency supply. It must never be forgotten
that this question concerns business men generally quite as much as
bankers; especially is this true of stockmen, farmers, and business men
in the West; for at present at certain seasons of the year the
difference in interest rates between the East and the West is from 6 to
10 per cent, whereas in Canada the corresponding difference is but 2 per
cent. Any plan must, of course, guard the interests of western and
southern bankers as carefully as it guards the interests of New York or
Chicago bankers; and must be drawn from the standpoints of the farmer
and the merchant no less than from the standpoints of the city banker
and the country banker.

The law should be amended so as specifically to provide that the funds
derived from customs duties may be treated by the Secretary of the
Treasury as he treats funds obtained under the internal-revenue laws.
There should be a considerable increase in bills of small denominations.
Permission should be given banks, if necessary under settled
restrictions, to retire their circulation to a larger amount than three
millions a month.

