"Yes, Lady On--, Julia, that is; I thought I might as well come and
call, as I found we weren't to see you at Clavering when we were all
there at Easter." When she had been living in his brother's house as one
of the family, he had called her Julia as Hugh had done. The connection
between them had been close, and it had come naturally to him to do so.
He had thought much of this since his present project had been
initiated, and had strongly resolved not to lose the advantage of his
former familiarity. He had very nearly broken down at the onset, but,
as the reader will have observed, had recovered himself.

"You are very good," she said; and then, as he had been some time
standing with his right hand presented to her, she just touched it with
her own.

"There's nothing I hate so much as stuff and nonsense," said Archie. To
this remark she simply bowed, remaining awfully quiet. Captain Clavering
felt that her silence was in truth awful. She had always been good at
talking, and he had paused for her to say something; but when she bowed
to him in that stiff manner--"doosed stiff she was; doosed stiff, and
impudent, too," he told Doodles afterward--he knew that he must go on
himself. "Stuff and nonsense is the mischief, you know." Then she bowed
again. "There's been something the matter with them all down at
Clavering since you came home, Julia; but hang me if I can find out what
it is!" Still she was silent. "It ain't Hermy; that I must say. Hermy
always speaks of you as though there had never been anything wrong."
This assurance, we may say, must have been flattering to the lady whom
he was about to court.

"Hermy was always too good to me," said Lady Ongar, smiling.

"By George, she always does. If there's anything wrong it's been with
Hugh; and, by George, I don't know what it is he was up to when you
first came home. It wasn't my doing--of course you know that."

"I never thought that anything was your doing, Captain Clavering."

"I think Hugh had been losing money; I do indeed. He was like a bear
with a sore head just at that time. There was no living in the house
with him. I daresay Hermy may have told you all about that."

"Hermione is not by nature so communicative as you are, Captain
Clavering."

"Isn't she? I should have thought between sisters--; but of course
that's no business of mine." Again she was silent, awfully silent, and
he became aware that he must either get up and go away or carry on the
conversation himself. To do either seemed to be equally difficult, and
for a while he sat there almost gasping in his misery. He was quite
aware that as yet he had not made her know that he was there. He was not
there, as he well knew, in his friend Doodles' sense of the word. "At
any rate there isn't any good in quarrelling, is there, Julia?" he said
at last. Now that he had asked a question, surely she must speak.

"There is great good sometimes, I think," said she, "in people remaining
apart and not seeing each other. Sir Hugh Clavering has not quarrelled
with me, that I am aware. Indeed, since my marriage there have been no
means of quarrelling between us. But I think it quite as well that he
and I should not come together."

"But he particularly wants you to go to Clavering."

"Has he sent you here as his messenger?"

"Sent me! oh dear no; nothing of that sort. I have come altogether on my
own hook. If Hugh wants a messenger he must find some one else. But you
and I were always friends you know"--at this assertion she opened her
large eyes widely, and simply smiled--"and I thought that perhaps you
might be glad to see me if I called. That was all."

"You are very good, Captain Clavering."

"I couldn't bear to think that you should be here in London, and that
one shouldn't see anything of you or know anything about you. Tell me
now; is there anything I can do for you? Do you want anybody to settle
anything for you in the city?"

"I think not, Captain Clavering; thank you very much."

"Because I should be so happy; I should indeed. There's nothing I should
like so much as to make myself useful in some way. Isn't there anything
now? There must be so much to be looked after--about money and all
that."

"My lawyer does all that, Captain Clavering."

"Those fellows are such harpies. There is no end to their charges; and
all for doing things that would only be a pleasure to me."

"I'm afraid I can't employ you in any matter that would suit your
tastes."

"Can't you indeed, now?" Then again there was a silence, and Captain
Clavering was beginning to think that he must go. He was willing to work
hard at talking or anything else; but he could not work if no ground for
starting were allowed to him. He thought he must go, though he was aware
that he had not made even the slightest preparation for future obedience
to his friend's precepts. He began to feel that he had commenced
wrongly. He should have made her know that he was there from the first
moment of her entrance into the room. He must retreat now in order that
he might advance with more force on the next occasion. He had just made
up his mind to this and was doubting how he might best get himself out
of his chair with the purpose of going, when sudden relief came in the
shape of another visitor. The door was thrown open and Madam Gordeloup
was announced.

"Well, my angel," said the little woman, running up to her friend and
kissing her on either side of her face. Then she turned round as though
she had only just seen the strange gentleman, and curtseyed to him.
Captain Clavering, holding his hat in both his hands, bowed to the
little woman.

"My sister's brother-in-law, Captain Clavering," said Lady Ongar. "Madam
Gordeloup."

Captain Clavering bowed again. "Ah, Sir Oo's brother," said Madam
Gordeloup. "I am very glad to see Captain Clavering; and is your sister
come?"

"No; my sister is not come."

"Lady Clavering is not in town this Spring," said the captain.

"Ah, not in town! Then I do pity her. There is only de one place to live
in, and that is London, for April, May, and June. Lady Clavering is not
coming to London?"

"Her little boy isn't quite the thing," said the captain.

"Not quite de ting?" said the Franco-Pole in an inquiring voice, not
exactly understanding the gentleman's language.

"My little nephew is ill, and my sister does not think it wise to bring
him to London."

"Ah; that is a pity. And Sir Oo? Sir Oo is in London?"

"Yes," said the captain; "my brother has been up some time."

"And his lady left alone in the country? Poor lady! But your English
ladies like the country. They are fond of the fields and the daisies. So
they say; but I think often they lie. Me; I like the houses, and the
people, and the pave. The fields are damp, and I love not rheumatism at
all." Then the little woman shrugged her shoulders and shook herself.
"Tell us the truth, Julie; which do you like best, the town or the
country?"

"Whichever I'm not in, I think."

"Ah, just so. Whichever you are not in at present. That is because you
are still idle. You have not settled yourself!" At this reference to the
possibility of Lady Ongar settling herself, Captain Clavering pricked up
his ears, and listened eagerly for what might come next. He only knew of
one way in which a young woman without a husband could settle herself.
"You must wait, my dear, a little longer, just a little longer, till the
time of your trouble has passed by."

"Don't talk such nonsense, Sophie," said the countess.

"Ah, my dear, it is no nonsense. I am always telling her, Captain
Clavering, that she must go through this black, troublesome time as
quick as she can; and then nobody will enjoy the town so much as de rich
and beautiful Lady Ongar. Is it not so, Captain Clavering?"

Archie thought that the time had now come for him to say something
pretty, so that his love might begin to know that he was there. "By
George, yes, there'll be nobody so much admired when she comes out
again. There never was anybody so much admired before--before--that is,
when you were Julia Brabazon, you know; and I shouldn't wonder if you
didn't come out quite as strong as ever."

"As strong!" said the Franco-Pole. "A woman that has been married is
always more admired than a meess."

"Sophie, might I ask you and Captain Clavering to be a little less
personal?"

"There is noting I hate so much as your meeses," continued Madam
Gordeloup; "noting! Your English meesses give themselves such airs. Now
in Paris, or in dear Vienna, or in St. Petersburg, they are not like
that at all. There they are nobodies--they are nobodies; but then they
will be something very soon, which is to be better. Your English meess
is so much and so grand; she never can be greater and grander. So when
she is a mamma, she lives down in the country by herself, and looks
after de pills and de powders. I don't like that. I don't like that at
all. No; if my husband had put me into the country to look after de
pills and de powders, he should have had them all, all--himself, when he
came to see me." As she said this with great energy, she opened her eyes
wide, and looked full into Archie's face.

Captain Clavering, who was sitting with his hat in his two hands between
his knees, stared at the little foreigner. He had heard before of women
poisoning their husbands, but never had heard a woman advocate the
system as expedient. Nor had he often heard a woman advocate any system
with the vehemence which Madam Gordeloup now displayed on this matter,
and with an allusion which was so very pointed to the special position
of his own sister-in-law. Did Lady Ongar agree with her? He felt as
though he should like to know his Julia's opinion on that matter.

"Sophie, Captain Clavering will think that you are in earnest," said the
countess, laughing.

"So I aim--in earnest. It is all wrong. You boil all the water out of de
pot before you put the gigot into it. So the gigot is no good, is tough
and dry, and you shut it up in an old house in the country. Then, to
make matters pretty, you talk about de fields and de daisies. I know.
'Thank you,' we should say. 'De fields and de daisies are so nice and so
good! Suppose you go down, my love, and walk in de fields, and pick de
daisies, and send them up to me by de railway!' Yes, that is what I
would say."

Captain Clavering was now quite in the dark, and began to regard the
little woman as a lunatic. When she spoke of the pot and the gigot he
vainly endeavored to follow her; and now that she had got among the
daisies he was more at a loss than ever. Fruit, vegetables, and cut
flowers came up, he knew, to London regularly from Clavering, when the
family was in town--but no daisies. In France it must, he supposed, be
different. He was aware, however, of his ignorance, and said nothing.

"No one ever did try to shut you up, Sophie!"

"No, indeed; M. Gordeloup knew better. What would he do if I were shut
up? And no one will ever shut you up, my dear. If I were you, I would
give no one a chance."

"Don't say that," said the captain, almost passionately; "don't say
that."

"Ha, ha! but I do say it. Why should a woman who has got everything
marry again? If she wants de fields and de daisies she has got them of
her own--yes, of her own. If she wants de town, she has got that, too.
Jewels--she can go and buy them. Coaches--there they are. Parties--one,
two, three, every night, as many as she please. Gentlemen, who will be
her humble slaves; such a plenty--all London. Or, if she want to be
alone, no one can come near her. Why should she marry? No."

"But she might be in love with somebody," said the captain, in a
surprised but humble tone.

"Love! Bah! Be in love, so that she may be shut up in an old barrack
with de powders!" The way in which that word barrack was pronounced, and
the middle letters sounded, almost lifted the captain off his seat.
"Love is very pretty at seventeen, when the imagination is telling a
parcel of lies, and when life is one dream. To like people--oh, yes; to
be very fond of your friend;--oh, yes; to be most attached--as I am to
my Julie"--here she got hold of Lady Ongar's hand--"it is the salt of
life! But what you call love, booing and cooing, with rhymes and verses
about de moon, it is to go back to pap and panade, and what you call
bibs. No; if a woman wants a house, and de something to live on, let her
marry a husband; or if a man want to have children, let him marry a
wife. But to be shut up in a country house, when everything you have got
of your own--I say it is bad"

Captain Clavering was heartily sorry that he had mentioned the fact of
his sister-in-law being left at home at Clavering Park. It was most
unfortunate. How could he make it understood that if he were married he
would not think of shutting his wife up at Ongar Park? "Lady Clavering,
you know, does come to London generally," he said.

"Bah!" exclaimed the little Franco-Pole.

"And as for me, I never should be happy, if I were married, unless I had
my wife with me everywhere," said Captain Clavering.

"Bah-ah-ah!" ejaculated the lady.

Captain Clavering could not endure this any longer. He felt that the
manner of the lady was, to say the least of it, unpleasant, and he
perceived that he was doing no good to his own cause. So he rose from
his chair and muttered some words with the intention of showing his
purpose of departure.

"Good-by, Captain Clavering," said Lady Ongar. "My love to my sister
when you see her."

Archie shook hands with her and then made his bow to Madam Gordeloup.
"Au revoir, my friend," she said, "and you remember all I say. It is not
good for de wife to be alone in the country, while de husband walk about
in the town and make an eye to every lady he see." Archie would not
trust himself to renew the argument, but bowing again, made his way off.

"He was come for one admirer," said Sophie, as soon as the door was
closed.

"An admirer of whom?"

"Not of me; oh, no; I was not in danger at all."

"Of me? Captain Clavering! Sophie, you get your head full of the
strangest nonsense."

"Ah; very well. You see. What will you give me if I am right? Will you
bet? Why had he got on his new gloves, and had his head all smelling
with stuff from de hair-dresser? Does he come always perfumed like that?
Does he wear shiny little boots to walk about in de morning, and make an
eye always? Perhaps yes."

"I never saw his boots or his eyes."

"But I see them. I see many things. He come to have Ongere Park for his
own. I tell you, yes. Ten thousand will come to have Ongere Park. Why
not? To have Ongere Park and all de money a man will make himself smell
a great deal."

"You think much more about all that than is necessary."

"Do I, my dear? Very well. There are three already. There is Edouard,
and there is this Clavering, who you say is a captain; and there is the
other Clavering who goes with his nose in the air, and who thinks
himself a clever fellow because he learned his lesson at school and did
not get himself whipped. He will be whipped yet some day--perhaps."

"Sophie, hold your tongue. Captain Clavering is my sister's
brother-in-law, and Harry Clavering is my friend."

"Ah, friend! I know what sort of friend he wants to be. How much better
to have a park and plenty of money than to work in a ditch and make a
railway! But he do not know the way with a woman. Perhaps he may be more
at home, as you say, in the ditch. I should say to him, 'My friend, you
will do well in de ditch if you work hard; suppose you stay there.'"

"You don't seem to like my cousin, and, if you please, we will talk no
more about him."

"Why should I not like him? He don't want to get any money from me."

"That will do, Sophie."

"Very well; it shall do for me. But this other man that come here
to-day. He is a fool."

"Very likely."

"He did not learn his lesson without whipping."

"Nor with whipping either."

"No; he have learned nothing. He does not know what to do with his hat.
He is a fool. Come, Julie, will you take me out for a drive. It is
melancholy for you to go alone; I came to ask you for a drive. Shall we
go?" And they did go, Lady Ongar and Sophie Gordeloup together. Lady
Ongar, as she submitted, despised herself for her submission; but what
was she to do? It is sometimes very difficult to escape from the meshes
of friendship.

Captain Clavering, when he left Bolton Street, went down to his club,
having first got rid of his shining boots and new gloves. He sauntered
up into the billiard-room knowing that his friend would be there, and
there he found Doodles with his coat off, the sleeves of his shirt
turned back, and armed with his cue. His brother captain, the moment
that he saw him, presented the cue at his breast. "Does she know you're
there, old fellow; I say, does she know you're there?" The room was full
of men, and the whole thing was done so publicly that Captain Clavering
was almost offended.

"Come, Doodles, you go on with your game," said he; "it's you to
play." Doodles turned to the table, and scientifically pocketed the ball
on which he played; then laid his own ball close under the cushion,
picked up a shilling and put it into his waistcoat pocket, holding a
lighted cigar in his mouth the while, and then he came back to his
friend. "Well, Clavvy, how has it been?"

"Oh, nothing as yet, you know."

"Haven't you seen her?"

"Yes, I've seen her, of course. I'm not the fellow to let the grass grow
under my feet. I've only just come from her house."

"Well, well?"

"That's nothing much to tell the first day, you know."

"Did you let her know you were there? That's the chat. Damme, did you
let her know you were there?"

In answer to this Archie attempted to explain that he was not as yet
quite sure that he had been successful in that particular; but in the
middle of his story Captain Doodles was called off to exercise his skill
again, and on this occasion to pick up two shillings. "I'm sorry for
you, Griggs," he said, as a very young lieutenant, whose last life he
had taken, put up his cue with a look of ineffable disgust, and whose
shilling Doodles had pocketed; "I'm sorry for you, very; but a fellow
must play the game, you know." Whereupon Griggs walked out of the room
with a gait that seemed to show that he had his own ideas upon that
matter, though he did not choose to divulge them. Doodles instantly
returned to his friend. "With cattle of that kind it's no use trying the
waiting dodge," said he. "You should make your running at once, and
trust to bottom to carry you through."

"But there was a horrid little Frenchwoman came in!"

"What; a servant?"

"No; a friend. Such a creature! You should have heard her talk. A kind
of confidential friend she seemed, who called her Julie. I had to go
away and leave her there, of course."

"Ah! you'll have to tip that woman."

"What, with money?"

"I shouldn't wonder."

"It would come very expensive."

"A tenner now and then, you know. She would do your business for you.
Give her a brooch first, and then offer to lend her the money. You'd
find she'll rise fast enough, if you're any hand for throwing a fly."

"Oh! I could do it, you know."

"Do it then, and let 'em both know that you're there. Yes, Parkyns, I'll
divide. And, Clavvy, you can come in now in Griggs' place." Then Captain
Clavering stripped himself for the battle.


Chapter XXI

The Blue Posts


"Oh; so you've come to see me. I am so glad." With these words Sophie
Gordeloup welcomed Harry Clavering to her room in Mount Street early one
morning not long after her interview with Captain Archie in Lady Ongar's
presence. On the previous evening Harry had received a note from Lady
Ongar, in which she upbraided him for having left unperformed her
commission with reference to Count Pateroff. The letter had begun quite
abruptly. "I think it unkind of you that you do not come to me. I asked
you, to see a certain person on my behalf, and you have not done so.
Twice he has been here. Once I was in truth out. He came again the next
evening at nine, and I was then ill, and had gone to bed. You understand
it all, and must know how this annoys me. I thought you would have done
this for me, and I thought I should have seen you.--J."

This note he found at his lodgings when he returned home at night, and
on the following morning he went in his despair direct to Mount Street,
on his way to the Adelphi. It was not yet ten o'clock when he was shown
into Madam Gordeloup's presence, and as regarded her dress, he did not
find her to be quite prepared for morning visitors. But he might well be
indifferent on that matter, as the lady seemed to disregard the
circumstance altogether. On her head she wore what he took to be a
nightcap, though I will not absolutely undertake to say that she had
slept in that very head-dress. There were frills to it, and a certain
attempt at prettinesses had been made; but then the attempt had been
made so long ago, and the frills were so ignorant of starch and all
frillish propensities, that it hardly could pretend to decency. A great
white wrapper she also wore, which might not have been objectionable had
it not been so long worn that it looked like a university college
surplice at the end of a long vacation. Her slippers had all the ease
which age could give them, and above the slippers, neatness, to say the
least of it, did not predominate. But Sophie herself seemed to be quite
at her ease in spite of these deficiencies, and received our hero with
an eager, pointed welcome, which I can hardly describe as affectionate,
and which Harry did not at all understand.

"I have to apologize for troubling you," he began.

"Trouble, what trouble? Bah! You give me no trouble. It is you have the
trouble to come here. You come early and I have not got my crinoline. If
you are contented, so am I." Then she smiled, and sat herself down
suddenly, letting herself almost fall into her special corner in the
sofa. "Take a chair, Mr. Harry; then we can talk more comfortable."

"I want especially to see your brother. Can you give me his address?"

"What? Edouard--certainly; Travellers' Club."

"But he is never there."

"He sends every day for his letters. You want to see him. Why?"

Harry was at once confounded, having no answer. "A little private
business," he said.

"Ah; a little private business. You do not owe him a little money, I am
afraid, or you would not want to see him. Ha, ha! You write to him, and
he will see you. There; there is paper and pen and ink. He shall get
your letter this day."

Harry, nothing suspicious, did as he was bid, and wrote a note in which
he simply told the count he was specially desirous of seeing him.

"I will go to you anywhere," said Harry, "if you will name a place"

We, knowing Madam Gordeloup's habits, may feel little doubt but that she
thought it her duty to become acquainted with the contents of the note
before she sent it out of her house, but we may also know that she
learned very little from it.

"It shall go almost immediately," said Sophie, when the envelope was
closed.

Then Harry got up to depart, having done his work. "What, you are going
in that way at once? You are in a hurry?"

"Well, yes; I am in a hurry, rather, Madam Gordeloup. I have got to be
at my office, and I only just came up here to find out your brother's
address." Then he rose and went, leaving the note behind him.

Then Madam Gordeloup, speaking to herself in French, called Harry
Clavering a lout, a fool, an awkward, overgrown boy, and a pig. She
declared him to be a pig nine times over, then shook herself in violent
disgust, and after that betook herself to the letter.

The letter was at any rate duly sent to the count, for before Harry had
left Mr. Beilby's chambers on that day, Pateroff came to him there.
Harry sat in the same room with other men, and therefore went out to see
his acquaintance in a little antechamber that was used for such
purposes. As he walked from one room to the other, he was conscious of
the delicacy and difficulty of the task before him, and the color was
high in his face as he opened the door. But when he had done so, he saw
that the count was not alone. A gentleman was with him whom he did not
introduce to Harry, and before whom Harry could not say that which he
had to communicate.

"Pardon me," said the count, "but we are in a railroad hurry. Nobody
ever was in such a haste as I and my friend. You are not engaged
to-morrow? No, I see. You dine with me and my friend at the Blue Posts.
You know the Blue Posts?"

Harry said he did not know the Blue Posts.

"Then you shall know the Blue Posts. I will be your instructor. You
drink claret. Come and see. You eat beefsteaks. Come and try. You love
one glass of port wine with your cheese. No. But you shall love it when
you have dined with me at the Blue Posts. We will dine together after
the English way--which is the best way in the world when it is quite
good. It is quite good at the Blue Posts--quite good! Seven o'clock. You
are fined when a minute late; an extra glass of port wine a minute. Now
I must go. Ah; yes. I am ruined already."

Then Count Pateroff, holding his watch in his hand, bolted out of the
room before Harry could say a word to him.

He had nothing for it but to go to the dinner, and to the dinner he
went. On that same evening, the evening of the day on which he had seen
Sophie and her brother, he wrote to Lady Ongar, using to her the same
manner of writing that she had used to him, and telling her that he had
done his best; that he had now seen whom he had been desired to see, but
that he had not been able to speak to him. He was, however, to dine with
him on the following day, and would call in Bolton Street as soon as
possible after that interview.

Exactly at seven o'clock, Harry, having the fear of the threatened fine
before his eyes, was at the Blue Posts; and there, standing in the
middle of the room, he saw Count Pateroff. With Count Pateroff was the
same gentleman whom Harry had seen at the Adelphi, and whom the count
now introduced as Colonel Schmoff; and also a little Englishman with a
knowing eye and a bull-dog neck, and whiskers cut very short and trim--a
horsey little man, whom the count also introduced. "Captain Boodle says
he knows a cousin of yours, Mr. Clavering."

Then Colonel Schmoff bowed, never yet having spoken a word in Harry's
hearing, and our friend Doodles with glib volubility told Harry how
intimate he was with Archie, and how he knew Sir Hugh, and how he had
met Lady Clavering, and how "doosed" glad he was to meet Harry himself
on this present occasion.

"And now, my boys, we'll set down," said the count. "There's just a
little soup, printanier; yes, they can make soup here; then a cut of
salmon--and after that the beefsteak. Nothing more. Schmoff, my boy, can
you eat beefsteak?"

Schmoff neither smiled nor spoke, but simply bowed his head gravely, and
sitting down, arranged with slow exactness his napkin over his waistcoat
and lap.

"Captain Boodle, can you eat beefsteak," said the count; "Blue Posts'
beefsteak?"

"Try me," said Doodles. "That's all. Try me."

"I will try you, and I will try Mr. Clavering. Schmoff would eat a horse
if he had not a bullock, and a piece of jackass if he had not a horse."

"I did eat a horse in Hamboro' once. We was besieged."

So much said Schmoff, very slowly, in a deep bass voice, speaking from
the bottom of his chest, and frowning very heavily as he did so. The
exertion was so great that he did not repeat it for a considerable time.

"Thank God we are not besieged now," said the count, as the soup was
handed round to them. "Ah, Albert, my friend, that is good soup; very
good soup. My compliments to the excellent Stubbs. Mr. Clavering, the
excellent Stubbs is the cook. I am quite at home here, and they do their
best for me. You need not fear you will have any of Schmoff's horse."

This was all very pleasant, and Harry Clavering sat down to his dinner
prepared to enjoy it; but there was a sense about him during the whole
time that he was being taken in and cheated, and that the count would
cheat him and actually escape away from him on that evening without his
being able to speak a word to him. They were dining in a public room, at
a large table which they had to themselves, while others were dining at
small tables round them. Even if Schmoff and Boodle had not been there,
he could hardly have discussed Lady Ongar's private affairs in such a
room as that. The count had brought him there to dine in this way with a
premeditated purpose of throwing him over, pretending to give him the
meeting that had been asked for, but intending that it should pass by
and be of no avail. Such was Harry's belief; and he resolved that,
though he might have to seize Pateroff by the tails of his coat, the
count should not escape him without having been forced at any rate to
hear what he had to say. In the meantime the dinner went on very
pleasantly.

"Ah," said the count, "there is no fish like salmon early in the year;
but not too early. And it should come alive from Grove, and be cooked by
Stubbs."

"And eaten by me," said Boodle.

"Under my auspices," said the count, "and then all is well. Mr.
Clavering, a little bit near the head? Not care about any particular
part? That is wrong. Everybody should always learn what is the best to
eat of everything, and get it if they can."

"By George, I should think so," said Doodles. "I know I do."

"Not to know the bit out of the neck of the salmon from any other bit,
is not to know a false note from a true one. Not to distinguish a '51
wine from a '58, is to look at an arm or a leg on the canvas, and to
care nothing whether it is in drawing, or out of drawing. Not to know
Stubbs' beefsteak from other beefsteaks, is to say that every woman is
the same thing to you. Only, Stubbs will let you have his beefsteak if
you will pay him--him or his master. With the beautiful woman it is not
always so--not always. Do I make myself understood?"

"Clear as mud," said Doodles. "I'm quite along with you there. Why
should a man be ashamed of eating what's nice? Everybody does it."

"No, Captain Boodle; not everybody. Some cannot get it, and some do not
know it when it comes in their way. They are to be pitied. I do pity
them from the bottom of my heart. But there is one poor fellow I do pity
more even than they."

There was something in the tone of the count's words--a simple pathos,
and almost a melody, which interested Harry Clavering. No one knew
better than Count Pateroff how to use all the inflexions of his voice,
and produce from the phrases he used the very highest interest which
they were capable of producing. He now spoke of his pity in a way that
might almost have made a sensitive man weep. "Who is that you pity so
much?" Harry asked.

