Francis, disappointed in the newspapers, next went to the
lodging-house, but it had been pulled down and another substituted in
its place, and of course no one could tell anything about the obscure
woman who had kept it. A London Directory for 18--gave her name as Mrs.
Martha Stubbs, which did not agree with the name which Mrs. Peck
reported, which was Mrs. Dawson. This was a bad beginning to his search
for corroborative evidence; but he put an advertisement in the TIMES
and WEEKLY DISPATCH for her under both names, in hopes that she might
recollect something about a child dying in convulsions in her house, in
the absence of its mother, just before a lodger left her house to go to
Sydney with another child of the same sex and age. This, after a lapse
of thirty-five years, was a desperate chance, but it was the only
course open to Francis, and he took it.

Next he went to Edinburgh and inquired in New Street, in the
old town, for the woman, Violet Strachan, who had let the lodgings
where the real Francis Hogarth was born, and where the irregular
marriage had also taken place. Thirty-five years in a city like
Edinburgh, with an eminently migrating population, is a far more
unmanageable period than in a country town, where people inhabit the
same houses from one generation to another, and where, even if the
persons whom you wish to discover are dead, there are neighbours who
recollect about them. This second search was fruitless, so he could
only advertise for Violet Strachan, and that he also did.

Next he went to his friend Sinclair, and opened his budget of news to
him. Sinclair had been in America, and he might have chanced to have
heard something of some one who had had a doubtful baby found dead on
the bed just before its mother sailed. If this had been a sensation
novel, Mr. Sinclair would have been sure to have known all about it,
and have turned out to be the father or the uncle of his friend--he
was of the age to be either; but as this is not a sensation
novel, he could not throw any light on the dark subject, and could only
give his sympathy, and offer to take any amount of trouble on Francis's
behalf. His only advice was that he should advertise in the States'
leading papers, if he really wanted to know, for some one who emigrated
in May 18-, in one of the three ships which had sailed about that time,
who had lost a child in convulsions that might not have been her own;
requiring some particulars about the age and the house at which the
death was believed to have taken place.

"It is a thousand to one against your getting an answer," said Mr.
Sinclair. "But what makes you so anxious to prove this? It can do no
good."

"Only this, that if Jane Melville can be proved not to be my cousin, I
can marry her and keep Cross Hall and my seat in Parliament. If it
cannot be proved, then I must give up everything, and go to Melbourne
and ask if she will have me without a penny."

"Oh, is that it?" said Sinclair. "I am the more bound to do all
I can to help you. We cannot spare you from the House, nor from the
country. But, after all, Hogarth, one woman is as good as another, and
your career should not be lightly sacrificed."

"One woman as good as another!" exclaimed Francis.

"Not exactly so; but there are many women as good as Miss Melville. I
grant that she is a fine woman, and one of excellent principles and
understanding; but not just the sort of person one could go into
heroics about. I do not say that as a companion and friend her place
could be filled up to you by such women as Miss Crichton or any of the
Jardine girls, or even by Eliza Rennie. But Mary Forrester--what do
you think of Mary Forrester? You should not let such a girl leave the
country. She is handsomer, younger, and every bit as good as Miss
Melville."

"She is a very fine girl, no doubt, but do not speak of her in the same
breath with Jane Melville. I owe so much to Jane: if it had not
been for her, I would never have been so valuable even to you."

"Well, then, let us see what is to be done to suit your wishes. Shall I
go with you to MacFarlane's?"

"I will be very glad indeed of your company," said Francis.

Mr. MacFarlane was very much surprised at the strange business which
had brought Hogarth from his parliamentary duties to consult him upon.
He read carefully the document which Alice had forwarded, and listened
to Francis's account of the inquiries he had made so unsuccessfully,
before he ventured on giving any opinion.

"This is very possibly true, Mr. Hogarth," said he, at last; "indeed
very probably true. I think with you that this woman, Elizabeth
Ormistown, and her mother, were capable of doing anything that would
bring them in money; but the secret has been kept too long--much too
long. They did their work skilfully, without accomplices, and
without leaving any traces of their proceedings. This confession is not
worth the paper it is written on in a court of law, and you have failed
in all your efforts to get corroborative evidence. There is no use in
inquiring about Violet Strachan; she is dead three years ago. I paid
her, on Hogarth's account, a small weekly sum, that she used to come to
my office for to keep her from destitution, but that payment is at an
end. The other witness could only prove the irregular marriage, which
there is no doubt about, as Henry Hogarth owns to it in his will. The
only evidence that would be worth anything is that of your real mother,
and there is no saying if she is not dead too. I think the chances are
that she is," said Mr. MacFarlane, turning up the annuity tables for
the chances of life at the supposed age of thirty-two, which Mrs. Peck
had given as the probable age of her neighbour in the lodging-house,
after a period of thirty-four years. "If alive, there is no getting at
her, and after all--CUI BONO?"

"I am attached--very deeply attached--to my supposed cousin,
Jane Melville. I want to be free to marry her. I am convinced that she
is not my cousin, and you know the will said that it was on condition
of not marrying or assisting either of my cousins that I was to hold
the property. If I have convinced you of the feasibility of the case--that
I am not related in the slightest degree to the Misses Melville--would
not the benevolent societies to which Mr. Hogarth left his
property, in case of my disobeying his injunctions, see it also?"

"One man, or one society of men, might be convinced," said Mr.
MacFarlane, "and would make a compromise with you on very easy terms;
but I doubt if five distinct corporations would do so."

"There is no one who has any right to object, except these societies,"
said Francis, "or any object in doing so."

"Those clauses forbidding marriage as a condition of inheriting
property, or of receiving yearly incomes, are always michievious," said
Sinclair; "they are contrary to public morals."

"Henry Hogarth," said Mr. MacFarlane, "who was a clever man,
and in some respects a wise man, did the foolishest things in important
matters that ever I heard of. First, his marriage with that girl. I saw
her once at the house he lodged in; and a glaikit lassie I thought her.
Next, the education of his nieces, which was absolutely nonsensical;
and then putting such a clause into his will, as if he meant that you
should take a fancy to each other--for prohibitions of that kind just
put mischief into young folks' heads."

"Then do you see the absence of family likeness that Elsie relies so
much upon? You knew Elizabeth Ormistown when she was young--she saw
her an old woman."

"I am no hand at likenesses," said MacFarlane, "and did not pay much
attention to the girl; but I think both she and Henry were fair and
low-featured, and you are dark and high-featured. But that is of no use
either, as you know."

"Then, by a rigid interpretation of the will, you think the
societies would be able to dispossess me, if I married Jane, and could
not prove this story of Mrs. Peck's to be true."

"I think I know it pretty well by heart, but we had better turn to it,"
said Mr. MacFarlane, and he looked out the document he had himself
drawn out, and read it aloud to Francis and Mr. Sinclair.

"Now you see that the great purpose and bent of Mr. Hogarth's will was
to impoverish his nieces, to force them to act and work for themselves.
Not merely marriage, but any other way of assisting them was forbidden.
He certainly meant to enrich you, because he thought you deserved it,
but in case of your not co-operating with him in his principal object,
the property was to go away from you altogether. The Misses Melville
have made their way in the world remarkably well--much better than I
could have thought possible. I think he acted both cruelly and unjustly
to them, but as they have so well conquered their difficulties, the
matter had better be left as it is."

"Then," said Francis, "you think that even if I had
satisfactory proof from my real mother to corroborate Elizabeth
Ormistown's confession, and could make it incontestably plain that I am
not related to Miss Melville, so that I do not, in marrying her, marry
my cousin, it would be considered in law as invalidating my right to
the property--that by doing so I am assisting Jane Melville, which was
forbidden as clearly as the marriage."

"It is a very strong point. If I were the legal adviser of any one of
these benevolent associations, I certainly would recommend them to
contest it; at the same time, with the proof which you speak of, I
would enjoy fighting it out with them. In a court of law the decision
would be against you, under the most favourable circumstances; but if
we took it to the Equity Courts I think your chance would be better,
for there is a growing feeling there that it is not right for people to
bequeath property clogged with vexatious restrictions. Yet, at the same
time, all who think well of these five charitable institutions--and
they are the very best-managed of the kind in Scotland--Mr.
Hogarth showed judgment in his selection--will think taking the
property from a man who had, according to his own showing, no right to
it, for the sake of the poor and afflicted, really a good work. Public
feeling will be against you where you are not personally known."

"God knows it is not for myself that I wish to keep Cross Hall, nor yet
for Jane herself," said Francis. "But my life lies out before me so
clearly that at no period have I had more to give up than now."

"If you had the evidence you wish for (which I see very little chance
of your getting), and married Miss Melville, then, of course, the
societies would come upon you. You have got possession, you might keep
them at bay for years, and in the meantime you might have interest
enough with your political friends to get something good in the way of
a government appointment. We hear you well spoken of in the House as a
man likely to distinguish himself."

"Not in the way of getting government appointments," said
Francis--"quite in a contrary direction. But without the evidence,
then, what would you advise?"

"To let the matter rest. Indeed, I think it is useless to disquiet
yourself about discovering your real parents. These long-lost relations
never amalgamate well. I have seen several instances of it, and they
were very disappointing."

"Then," said Francis, "I suppose the only thing for me to do is to make
out a deed of gift to each of these societies in the order in which Mr.
Hogarth left the property to them. The personal estate I have certainly
trenched upon a little, but all to the benefit of the heritable estate.
Cross Hall is in better condition now than when I succeeded to it. If I
have given away on the very easiest terms some of the worst land on the
estate, I have improved the better, and I have spent a large sum in new
cottages. I have lived within my means; even my election expenses were
saved out of the current income."

"You do not mean to say," said Mr. MacFarlane, "that you are
going to take so wild a step as this? What good end can you secure by
throwing up your handsome fortune in this way?"

"Don't propose such a thing yet; think a little, Hogarth," said
Sinclair.

"I am sure the figure you are making in the House would delight my old
friend Harry's heart," said Mr. MacFarlane; "just in the way he would
have liked to do himself; getting in in such an honourable way too. I
heard Prentice say that he never saw anything so open and above board
and so pure as your canvassing. If you are not Harry's son, you deserve
to be, and it is no fault of yours. You are like a chip of the old
block in your ways of thinking. It is quite possible you are his son
after all: this woman is not to be believed one way or another. To give
up all this for the sake of a pair of grey eyes, and a pair of
healthy-looking cheeks that nobody ever even thought handsome, is a
young man's folly."

"Yes, and a head and a heart, and a few other things," said
Francis.

"She would never be so unreasonable as to wish or expect you to do it,"
said Mr. Sinclair.

"She would not expect me to do it, I know. I cannot regret my career
more than she will do; but I love her, and I believe she loves me; and,
please God, we will begin the world together."

"I was sorry for the girls," said MacFarlane, "very sorry. You could
see that when I read the will to you; but they have really done very
creditably. In spite of the most absurd education in the world, one of
them got a capital situation as a governess; and the other did very
well indeed, I hear, at some sort of woman's work. It's the youngest
that is going to be well married in Australia, and very likely the
other will do the same."

"I think it is very likely she will," said Francis.

"But if she is married to some one else before you go out--they do
these things very quickly at the antipodes," said Mr.
MacFarlane. "There--the first mail after their arrival, we hear of
Alice Melville being engaged to be married."

"I will trust her," said Francis. "She will surely wait till she hears
how I receive this news. Even at the worst I can console myself with
your friend, Mr. Sinclair; she will be at hand, and that is a great
matter."

"Don't give it up so rashly. I'd rather fight it out to the death than
that. At any rate, you might keep possession of Cross Hall for a while
till you made your way in public life," said Mr. MacFarlane.

"The plan of action I had laid out for myself was not likely to succeed
for ten or twenty years, in all probability; and the lawsuit, if
protracted to the utmost, would likely go against me at last--I see it
would; and the only effect would be that the benevolent societies would
come to the property when it had been reduced about one half by
litigation. With all due respect for you personally, Mr. MacFarlane, I
think money spent in law the very worst investment for all
parties concerned, and for the world in general. No, it shall be given
up at once."

"But," said Sinclair, "it would be unfair to yourself to begin the
world at greater disadvantage than before you were left the property."

"Yes, I think it would," said Francis. "I might represent the case to
them in that light. I am satisfied with your opinion, Mr. MacFarlane;
but on a question of such importance, you will, of course, have no
objection to my consulting another adviser--the Lord Advocate, I
think."

"Certainly, you could not have a better man," said Mr. MacFarlane.

