"

"Help the knight to some strong waters," said Morton; "he hath fallen
from such a height, that he is stunned with the tumble."

In fact, Sir Piercie Shafton looked like a man stricken by a
thunderbolt, while, notwithstanding the seriousness of the scene
hitherto, no one of those present, not even the Abbot himself, could
refrain from laughing at the rueful and mortified expression of his
face.

"Laugh on," he said at length, "laugh on, my masters," shrugging his
shoulders; "it is not for me to be offended--yet would I know full
fain from that squire who is laughing with the loudest, how he had
discovered this unhappy blot in an otherwise spotless lineage, and for
what purpose he hath made it known?"

"_I_ make it known?" said Halbert Glendinning, in
astonishment,--for to him this pathetic appeal was made,--"I never
heard the thing till this moment."

[Footnote: The contrivance of provoking the irritable vanity of Sir
Piercie Shafton, by presenting him with a bodkin, indicative of his
descent from a tailor, is borrowed from a German romance, by the
celebrated Tieck, called Das Peter Manchem, _i. e._ The Dwarf
Peter. Berillia, who has been rusticated to a village near by in
consequence of her amour, encounters her unfortunate friend by chance
and runs away from her duenna to join her. She persuades Emanuella to
draw a large sum on Don Jabin, robs her, and goes to join her gallant.

The injured lady supports her child by mean drudgery until by chance
she meets Emilius and his wife, who do all they can to comfort her.
But worn out by her afflictions, she dies of a broken heart, leaving
her son to be adopted by his father.

Dr. Johnson might with equal truth have said to Mrs. Haywood as to the
author of the "Memoirs of Miss Sydney Biddulph," "I know not, Madam,
that you have a right ...to make your readers suffer so much." Even
the pathetic "History of Jemmy and Jenny Jessamy" has nothing to
surpass the train of woes exhibited in this earlier tale.

In the same "soft" style are two novels, "The Unequal Conflict: or,
Nature Triumphant" (1725) and its sequel, "Fatal Fondness: or, Love
its own Opposer."

The plot begins with the writer's favorite situation.

Philenia, affianced to Coeurdemont, falls in love with Fillamour.

By the help of a confidant, Antonia, the lovers are enabled to
arrange a plan of escape. On the eve of the wedding Fillamour breaks
into the house and, leaving his servants to bind and gag the father,
flies immediately to his soul's adored.
"He threw himself on his knees, as he approach'd the dear mistress
of his soul, and with a voice and manner all soft and love-inspiring.said the
knight, in increasing amazement.

"Not I, by Heaven!" said Bolton; "I never saw the youth in my life
before."

"But you _have_ seen him ere now, my worthy master," said Dame
Glendinning, bursting in her turn from the crowd. "My son, this is
Stawarth Bolton, he to whom we owe life, and the means of preserving
it--if he be a prisoner, as seems most likely, use thine interest with
these noble lords to be kind to the widow's friend."

"What, my Dame of the Glen!" said Bolton, "thy brow is more withered,
as well as mine, since we met last, but thy tongue holds the touch
better than my arm. This boy of thine gave me the foil sorely this
morning.  The Brown Varlet has turned as stout a trooper as I
prophesied; and where is White Head?"

"Alas!" said the mother, looking down, "Edward has taken orders, and
become a monk of this Abbey."

"A monk and a soldier!--Evil trades both, my good dame. Better have
made one a good master fashioner, like old Overstitch, of Holderness.
I sighed when I envied you the two bonny children, but I sigh not now
to call either the monk or the soldier mine own. The soldier dies in
the field, the monk scarce lives in the cloister."

"My dearest mother," said Halbert, "where is Edward--can I not speak
with him?"

"He has just left us for the present," said Father Philip, "upon a
message from the Lord Abbot."

"And Mary, my dearest mother?" said Halbert.--Mary Avenel was not far
distant, and the three were soon withdrawn from the crowd, to hear and
relate their various chances of fortune.

While the subordinate personages thus disposed of themselves, the
Abbot held serious discussion with the two Earls, and, partly yielding
to their demands, partly defending himself with skill and eloquence,
was enabled to make a composition for his Convent, which left it
provisionally in no worse situation than before. The Earls were the
more reluctant to drive matters to extremity, since he protested, that
if urged beyond what his conscience would comply with, he would throw
the whole lands of the Monastery into the Queen of Scotland's hands,
to be disposed of at her pleasure. This would not have answered the
views of the Earls, who were contented, for the time, with a moderate
sacrifice of money and lands.  Matters being so far settled, the Abbot
became anxious for the fate of Sir Piercie Shafton, and implored mercy
in his behalf.

"He is a coxcomb," he said, "my lords, but he is a generous, though a
vain fool; and it is my firm belief you have this day done him more pain
than if you had run a poniard into him."

"Run a needle into him you mean, Abbot," said the Earl of Morton;
"by mine honour, I thought this grandson of a fashioner of doublets was
descended from a crowned head at least!"

"I hold with the Abbot," said Murray; "there were little honour in
surrendering him to Elizabeth, but he shall be sent where he can do
her no injury. Our pursuivant and Bolton shall escort him to Dunbar,
and ship him off for Flanders.--But soft, here he comes, and leading a
female, as I think."

"Lords and others," said the English knight with great solemnity,
"make way for the Lady of Piercie Shafton--a secret which I listed not
to make known, till fate, which hath betrayed what I vainly strove to
conceal, makes me less desirous to hide that which I now announce to
you."

"It is Mysie Happer, the Miller's daughter, on my life!" said Tibb
Tacket. "I thought the pride of these Piercies would have a fa'."

"It is indeed the lovely Mysinda," said the knight, "whose merits
towards her devoted servant deserved higher rank than he had to bestow."

"I suspect, though," said Murray, "that we should not have heard of
the Miller's daughter being made a lady, had not the knight proved to be
the grandson of a tailor."

"My lord," said Piercie Shafton, "it is poor valour to strike him that
cannot smite again; and I hope you will consider what is due to a
prisoner by the law of arms, and say nothing more on this odious
subject. When I am once more mine own man, I will find a new road to
dignity."

"_Shape_ one, I presume," said the Earl of Morton.

"Nay, Douglas, you will drive him mad,"--said Murray; "besides, we
have other matter in hand--I must see Warden wed Glendinning with Mary
Avenel, and put him in possession of his wife's castle without delay. It
will be best done ere our forces leave these parts."

One of these circumstances is its being similar in some respects to two
other Roman altars which were found in England some years back,
one of which is related to have been made in the year of Christ 161.

_Near Sheffield._ J.M. C----D.
"It will not be the worse of another bolting," said the Miller; "it is
always best to be sure, as I say when I chance to take multure twice
from the same meal-sack."

"Stave the miller off him," said Murray, "or he will worry him dead.
The Abbot, my lord, offers us the hospitality of the Convent; I move
we should repair hither, Sir Piercie and all of us. I must learn to
know the Maid of Avenel--to-morrow I must act as her father--All
Scotland shall see how Murray can reward a faithful servant."

