The foundation, then, on which, to be safe and beneficial, the duty of
private judgment, as we maintain, must be built, is very far indeed
removed from that common and mischievous notion of it which would
encourage us to draw immediate and crude deductions from Holy Scripture,
subject only to the control and the colouring of our own minds,
responsible for nothing further than our own consciousness of an honest
intention. Whilst we claim a release from that degrading yoke which
neither are we nor were our fathers able to bear, we deprecate for
ourselves and for our fellow-believers that licentiousness which in
doctrine and practice tempts a man to follow merely what is right in his
own eyes, uninfluenced by the example, the precepts, {4} and the
authority of others, and owning no submissive allegiance to those laws
which the wise and good have established for the benefit of the whole
body. The freedom which we ask for ourselves, and desire to see imparted
to all, is a rational liberty, tending to the good, not operating to the
bane of its possessors; ministering to the general welfare, not to
disorder and confusion. In the enjoyment of this liberty, or rather in
the discharge of the duties and trusts which this liberty brings with
it, we feel ourselves under an obligation to examine the foundations of
our faith, to the very best of our abilities, according to our
opportunities, and with the most faithful use of all the means afforded
to us by its divine Author and finisher. Among those means, whilst we
regard the Holy Scriptures as paramount and supreme, we appeal to the
witness and mind of the Church as secondary and subsidiary; a witness
not at all competing with Scripture, never to be balanced against it;
but competing with our own less able and less pure apprehension of
Scripture. In ascertaining the testimony of this witness, we examine the
sentiments and practice of the ancient teachers of the Church; not as
infallible guides, not as uniformly holding all of them the same
opinions, but as most valuable helps in our examination of the evidence
of the Church, who is, after all, our appointed instructor in the truths
of the Gospel,--fallible in her individual members and branches, yet the
sure witness and keeper of Holy Writ, and our safest guide on earth to
the mind and will of God. When we have once satisfied ourselves that a
doctrine is founded on Scripture, we receive it with implicit faith, and
maintain it as a sacred deposit, entrusted to our keeping, to be
delivered down whole and entire without our adding {5} thereto what to
us may seem needful, or taking away what we may think superfluous.

The state of the Christian thus employed, in acting for himself in a
work peculiarly his own, is very far removed from the condition of one
who labours in bondage, without any sense of liberty and responsibility,
unconscious of the dignity of a free and accountable agent, and
surrendering himself wholly to the control of a task-master. Equally is
it distant from the conduct of one who indignantly casting off all
regard for authority, and all deference to the opinions of others,
boldly and proudly sets up his own will and pleasure as the only
standard to which he will submit. For the model which we would adopt, as
members of the Church, in our pursuit of Christian truth, we find a
parallel and analogous case in a well-principled and well-disciplined
son, with his way of life before him, exercising a large and liberal
discretion in the choice of his pursuits; not fettered by peremptory
paternal mandates, but ever voluntarily referring to those principles of
moral obligation and of practical wisdom with which his mind has been
imbued; shaping his course with modest diffidence in himself, and
habitual deference to others older and wiser than himself, yet acting
with the firmness and intrepidity of conscious rectitude of principle,
and integrity of purpose; and under a constant sense of his
responsibility, as well for his principles as for his conduct.

Against the cogency of these maxims various objections have been urged
from time to time. We have been told, that the exercise of private
judgment in matters of religion, tends to foster errors of every
diversity of character, and leads to heresy, scepticism, and infidelity:
it is represented as rending the Church of Christ, and totally {6}
subverting Christian unity, and snapping asunder at once the bond of
peace. So also it has been often maintained, that the same cause robs
individual Christians of that freedom from all disquietude and
perplexity and anxious responsibility, that peace of mind, satisfaction,
and content, which those personally enjoy, who surrender themselves
implicitly to a guide, whom they believe to be unerring and infallible.

For a moment let us pause to ascertain the soundness of such objections.
And here anticipating, for argument's sake, the worst result, let us
suppose that the exercise of individual inquiry and judgment (such as
the best teachers in the Anglican Church are wont to inculcate) may lead
in some cases even to professed infidelity; is it right and wise and
justifiable to be driven by an abuse of God's gifts to denounce the
legitimate and faithful employment of them? What human faculty--which
among the most precious of the Almighty's blessings is not liable to
perversion? What unquestionable moral duty can be found, which has not
been transformed by man's waywardness into an instrument of evil? Nay,
what doctrine of our holy faith has not the wickedness or the folly of
unworthy men employed as a cloke for unrighteousness, and a vehicle for
blasphemy? But by a consciousness of this liability in all things human,
must we be tempted to suppress the truth? to disparage those moral
duties? or to discountenance the cultivation of those gifts and
faculties? Rather would not sound philosophy and Christian wisdom
jointly enforce the necessity of improving the gifts zealously, of
discharging the moral obligation to the full, and of maintaining the
doctrine in all its integrity; but guarding withal, to the utmost of our
power and watchfulness, against the abuses to which {7} any of these
things may be exposed? And we may trust in humble but assured
confidence, that as it is the duty of a rational being, alive to his own
responsibility, to inquire and judge for himself in things concerning
the soul, with the most faithful exercise of his abilities and means; so
the wise and merciful Ruler of our destinies will provide us with a sure
way of escaping from all evils incident to the discharge of that duty,
if, in reliance on his blessing, we honestly seek the truth, and
perseveringly adhere to that way in which He will be our guide.

It is a question very generally and very reasonably entertained among
us, whether the implicit submission and unreserved surrender of
ourselves to any human authority in matters of faith, (though whilst it
lasts, it of course affords an effectual check to open scepticism,) does
not ultimately and in very deed prove a far more prolific source of
disguised infidelity. Doubts repressed as they arise, but not solved,
silenced but not satisfied, gradually accumulate in spite of all
external precaution; and at length (like streams pent back by some
temporary barrier) break forth at once to an utter discarding of all
authority, and an irrecoverable rejection of the Christian faith. From
unlimited acquiescence in a guide whom our associations have invested
with infallibility, the step is very short, and frequently taken, to
entire apostasy and the renunciation of all belief.

The state of undisturbed tranquillity and repose in one, who has
divested himself of all responsibility in matters of religious belief
and practice, enjoying an entire immunity from the anxious and painful
labour of trying for himself the purity and soundness of his faith, is
often painted in strong contrast with the {8} lamentable condition of
those who are driven about by every wind of novelty. The condition of
such a man may doubtless be far more enviable than theirs, who have no
settled fixed principles, and who wander from creed to creed, and from
sect to sect, just as their fickle and roving minds suggest some
transitory preference. But the believer must not be driven by the evils
of one extreme to take refuge in the opposite. The whirlpool may be the
more perilous, but the Christian mariner must avoid the rock also, or he
will equally make shipwreck of his faith. He must with all his skill,
and all his might, keep to the middle course, shunning that presumptuous
confidence which scorns all authority, and boldly constitutes itself
sole judge and legislator; but equally rescuing his mind from the
thraldom which prostrates his reason, and paralyzes all the faculties of
his judgment in a matter of indefeasible and awful responsibility.

Here, too, it is questioned, and not without cause, whether the
satisfaction and comfort so often represented in warm and fascinating
colours, be really a spiritual blessing; or whether it be not a
deception and fallacy, frequently ending in lamentable perplexity and
confusion; like guarantees in secular concerns, which as long as they
maintain unsuspected credit afford a most pleasing and happy security to
any one who depends upon them; but which, when adverse fortune puts
their responsibility to the test, may prove utterly worthless, and be
traced only by losses and disappointments. Such a blind reliance on
authority may doubtless be more easy and more free from care, than it is
to gird up the loins of our mind, and engage in toilsome spiritual
labour. But with a view to our own ultimate safety, wisdom bids us look
to our foundations in time, and assure ourselves {9} of them;
admonishing us that if they are unsound, the spiritual edifice reared
upon them, however pleasing to the eye, or abounding in present
enjoyments, will at length fall, and bury our hopes in its ruin.

On these and similar principles, we maintain that it well becomes
Christians, when the soundness of their faith, and the rectitude of
their acts of worship, are called in question, "to prove all things, and
hold fast that which is good." Thus, when the unbeliever charges us with
credulity in receiving as a divine revelation what he scornfully
rejects, it behoves us all (every one to the extent of his means and
opportunities) to possess ourselves of the accumulated evidences of our
holy faith, so that we may be able to give to our own minds, and to
those who ask it of us, a reason for our hope. The result can assuredly
be only the comfort of a still more unshaken conviction. Thus, too, when
the misbeliever charges us with an undue and an unauthorized ascription
of the Divine attributes to our Redeemer and to our Sanctifier, which he
would confine to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, exclusively of the
Eternal Son and the Blessed Spirit, it well becomes every Catholic
Christian to assure himself of the evidence borne by the Scriptures to
the divinity of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, together with the
inseparable doctrines of redemption by the blood of Christ, and
sanctification by the Spirit of grace; appealing also in this
investigation to the tradition of the Church, and the testimony of her
individual members from the earliest times, as under God his surest and
best guides. In both these cases, I can say for myself that I have acted
upon my own principles, and to the very utmost of my faculties have
scrutinized the foundations {10} of my faith, and from each of those
inquiries and researches I have risen with a satisfaction increased far
beyond my first anticipations. What I had taken up in my youth on
authority, I have been long assured of by a moral demonstration, which
nothing can shake; and I cling to it with an affection, which, guarded
by God's good providence, nothing in this world can dissolve or weaken.

It is to engage in a similar investigation that I now most earnestly but
affectionately invite the members of the Church of Rome, in order to
ascertain for themselves the ground of their faith and practice in a
matter of vast moment, and which, with other points, involves the
principle of separation between the Roman and Anglican branches of the
universal Church. Were the subjects of minor importance, or what the
ancient writers were wont to call "things indifferent," reason and
charity would prescribe that we should bear with each other, allowing a
free and large discretion in any body of Christians, and not severing
ourselves from them because we deemed our views preferable to theirs. In
such a case we might well walk in the house of God as friends, without
any interruption of the harmony which should exist between those who
worship the true God with one heart and one mind, ever striving to keep
the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. The watch of faith and
prayer He set, We kept it then, we keep it yet.
At midnight, crow of cock, or noon, He cometh sure, He cometh
soon.

He comes to chasten, not destroy, To purge the earth from sin's alloy.

At last, at last shall all confess His mercy as His righteousness.

The dead shall live, the sick be whole, The scarlet sin be white as wool;
No discord mar below, above, The music of eternal love!

Sound, welcome trump, the last alarm!
Lord God of hosts, make bare thine arm, Fulfil this day our long desire,
Make sweet and clean the world with fire!

Sweep, flaming besom, sweep from sight The lies of time; be swift to
smite, Sharp sword of God, all idols down, Genevan creed and Roman
crown.

Quake, earth, through all thy zones, till all The fanes of
pride and priesteraft fall; And lift thou up in place of them Thy gates
of pearl, Jerusalem!

Lo! rising from baptismal flame, Transfigured, glorious, yet the same,
Within the heavenly city's bound Our Kloster Kedar shall be
found.
He cometh soon! at dawn or noon Or set of sun, He cometh soon.
Our prayers shall meet Him on His way; Wake, sisters, wake! arise
and pray!
1877.

GIVING AND TAKING.
I have attempted to put in English verse a prose translation of a
poem by Tinnevaluva, a Hindoo poet of the third century of our
era.
Who gives and hides the giving hand, Nor counts on favor, fame, or
praise, Shall find his smallest gift outweighs The burden of the
sea and land.
Who gives to whom hath naught been given, His gift in need, though
small indeed As is the grass-blade's wind-blown seed, Is large as
earth and rich as heaven.
Forget it not, O man, to whom A gift shall fall, while yet on earth;
Yea, even to thy seven-fold birth Recall it in the lives to come.The
distinction invented in comparatively late years, of the three kinds of
worship; one for God, the second for the Virgin Mary, the third for
Angels and Saints;--the distinction, too, between praying to a saint to
give us good things, and praying to that saint to procure them for us at
God's hand, (or, as the distinction {12} is sometimes made, into prayer
direct, absolute, final, sovereign, confined to the Supreme Being on the
one hand; and prayer oblique, relative, transitory, subordinate, offered
to saints on the other,) would have appeared to me the ingenious and
finely-drawn inventions of an advocate, not such a sound process of
Christian simplicity as the mind could rest upon, with an undoubting
persuasion that all was right.

This, however, involves the very point at issue; and I now invite you,
my Christian Brethren, to join with me, step by step, in a review of
those several positions which have left on my mind the indelible
conviction that I could never have passed my life in communion with that
Church whose articles of fellowship maintained the duty of invoking
saints and angels; and whose public offices were inseparably interwoven
with addresses in prayer to other beings, than the Holy and undivided
Trinity, the one only God.

In pursuing this inquiry I have thought the most convenient and
satisfactory division of our work would be--

First, to ascertain what inference an unprejudiced study of the revealed
will of God would lead us to make; both in the times of the elder
covenant, when "holy men of old spake as they were moved by the Holy
Ghost," and in that "fulness of time" when God spoke to us by his Son.

Secondly, to examine into the belief and practice of the Primitive
Church, beginning with the inspired Apostles of our Lord.

Thirdly, to compare the results of those inquiries with the tenets and
practice of the Church of Rome, with reference to three periods; the
first immediately {13} preceding the Reformation; the second comprising
the Reformation, and the proceedings of the Council of Trent; the third
embracing the belief and practice of the present day.

In this investigation, I purpose to reserve the worship of the Virgin
Mary, called by Roman Catholic writers "Hyperdulia," and for various
reasons the most important and interesting portion of the whole inquiry,
for separate and distinct examination; except only so far as our review
of any of the primitive writers may occasion some incidental departure
from that rule.

May God guide us to his truth! {14}

       *       *       *       *       *


CHAPTER II.

SECTION I.--THE EVIDENCE OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES.


Here, Christian Brethren, bear with me if I briefly, but freely, recall
to our thoughts on this first entrance upon a review of the inspired
volume, the principles, and tone of mind, the temper and feelings, in a
word, the frame both of the understanding and of the heart, with which
we should study the sacred pages, on whatever subject we would try all
things, and hold fast what should prove itself to be most in accordance
with the will of God. Whether we would regard the two great parts into
which the Holy Scriptures are divided, as the Old and the New Covenants;
or whether we would prefer to call them the Old and the New Testaments,
it matters not. Although different ideas and associations are suggested
by those different names, yet, under either view, the same honest and
good heart, the same patience of investigation, the same upright and
unprejudiced judgment, the same exercise of our mental faculties, and
the same enlightened conscience, must be brought to the investigation.
In the one case we must endeavour to ascertain for ourselves the true
intent and {15} meaning of the inspired word of God, on the very same
principles with those on which we would interpret a covenant between
ourselves, and a person who had made it in full and unreserved reliance
on our integrity, and on our high sense of equity, justice, and honour.
In the other case we must bring the selfsame principles and feelings to
bear on our inquiry, as we should apply in the interpretation of the
last will and testament of a kind father, who with implicit confidence
in our uprightness and straightforward dealing and affectionate anxiety
to fulfil his intentions to the very utmost, had assigned to us the
sacred duty of executor or trustee.

Under the former supposition, our sincere solicitude would be to
ascertain the true intent and meaning of the contracting parties, not to
seek out plausible excuses for departing from it; not to cull out and
exaggerate beyond their simple and natural bearing, such expressions in
the deed of agreement, as might seem to justify us in adopting the view
of the contract most agreeable to our present wishes and most favourable
to our own interests. Rather it would be our fixed and hearty
resolution, at whatever cost of time, or labour, or pecuniary sacrifice,
or personal discomfort, to apply to the instrument our unbiassed powers
of upright and honest interpretation.

Or adopting the latter analogy, we should sincerely strive to ascertain
the chief and leading objects of our parent's will; what were his
intentions generally; what ruling principles seemed to pervade his views
in framing the testament; and in all cases of obscurity and doubt, in
every thing approaching an appearance of inconsistency, we should refer
to that paramount principle as our test and guide. We should not for a
moment {16} suffer ourselves to be tempted to seek for ambiguous
expressions, which ingenuity might interpret so as to countenance our
departure from the general drift of our parent's will, in cases where it
was at variance with our own inclination, and where we could have wished
that he had made another disposition of his property, or given to us a
different direction, or trusted us with larger discretion. Moreover, in
any points of difficulty, we should apply for assistance, in solving our
doubts, to such persons as were most likely to have the power of judging
correctly, and whose judgment would be least biassed by partiality and
prejudice;--not to those whose credit was staked on the maintenance of
those principles which best accorded with our own inclination.
On the shrine Helena builded To keep the Christ coat well, On minster tower
and kloster cross, The westering sunshine fell.

There, where the rock-hewn circles O'erlooked the Roman's game, The veil
of sleep fell on him, And his thought a dream became.Now only let us act upon these principles in the interpretation of THAT
COVENANT in which the Almighty has vouchsafed to make Himself one of the
contracting parties, and man, the creature of his hand, is the other:
only let us act on these principles in the interpretation of THAT
TESTAMENT of which the Saviour of the world is the Testator; and with
God's blessing on our labours (a blessing never denied to sincere prayer
and faithful exertions) we need not fear the result. Any other principle
of interpretation will only confirm us in our prejudices, and involve us
more inextricably in error. {17}

       *       *       *       *       *


SECTION II.--DIRECT EVIDENCE OF THE OLD TESTAMENT.


The first step in our proposed inquiry is to ascertain what evidence on
the doctrine and practice of the Invocation of Saints and Angels can be
fairly drawn from the revealed word of God in the Old Testament.

