Produced by Joe Longo, Emmy and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


THE TALE OF
KIDDIE KATYDID


TUCK-ME-IN TALES

(Trademark Registered)


  BY
  ARTHUR SCOTT BAILEY

        AUTHOR OF
        SLEEPY-TIME TALES
        (Trademark Registered)

       *       *       *       *       *

        THE TALE OF JOLLY ROBIN
        THE TALE OF OLD MR. CROW
        THE TALE OF SOLOMON OWL
        THE TALE OF JASPER JAY
        THE TALE OF RUSTY WREN
        THE TALE OF DADDY LONG-LEGS
        THE TALE OF KIDDIE KATYDID
        THE TALE OF BUSTER BUMBLEBEE
        THE TALE OF FREDDIE FIREFLY
        THE TALE OF BETSY BUTTERFLY

[Illustration: Kiddie Sees Benjamin Bat in Front of the Moon

_Frontispiece_--(_Page 71_)]


        TUCK-ME-IN TALES
        (Trademark Registered)

THE TALE OF KIDDIE KATYDID

BY

ARTHUR SCOTT BAILEY

        Author of
        "SLEEPY-TIME TALES"
        (Trademark Registered)

        ILLUSTRATED BY
        HARRY L. SMITH

        NEW YORK
        GROSSET & DUNLAP
        PUBLISHERS

        Made in the United States of America


        Copyright, 1918, by
        GROSSET & DUNLAP


CONTENTS

CHAPTER                                 PAGE

     I. A GREAT SECRET                    1

    II. THE WARNING                       6

   III. MR. NIGHTHAWK                    10

    IV. A WHINING CALLER                 15

     V. SOLOMON OWL'S CRY                20

    VI. FREDDIE FIREFLY'S DISCOVERY      26

   VII. FREDDIE WANTS TO TELL            31

  VIII. SPREADING THE NEWS               36

    IX. MR. FROG IS PLEASED              40

     X. A PAIR OF RASCALS                45

    XI. A CHANGE IN THE WEATHER          51

   XII. A PRESENT FOR KIDDIE             55

   XIII. KIDDIE KATYDID IS SHY           60

    XIV. KIDDIE KEEPS HIS PROMISE        65

     XV. BENJAMIN BAT'S PLAN             70

    XVI. A NOISY CROWD                   75

   XVII. KITTY DID!                      79

  XVIII. THE TWO GRASSHOPPERS            85

    XIX. A QUARREL                       89

     XX. THE STRANGER'S MESSAGE          94

    XXI. LEAPER THE LOCUST IS WORRIED    99

   XXII. THE SHORT-HORNS ARRIVE         104

  XXIII. THE BEST OF FRIENDS            110


ILLUSTRATIONS

  KIDDIE SEES BENJAMIN BAT IN FRONT OF THE MOON   _Frontispiece_

                                                       PAGE
  KIDDIE'S SECRET IS DISCOVERED BY FREDDIE FIREFLY      28

  KIDDIE TOOK HIS NEW COAT FROM THE TWIG                59

  KIDDIE FACED LEAPER THE LOCUST                        90


THE TALE OF
KIDDIE KATYDID


I

A GREAT SECRET


Whoever Katy was, and whatever she might have done, nobody in Pleasant
Valley knew anything about her except Kiddie Katydid and his numerous
and noisy family.

To be sure, many of the wild folk--and the people in the farmhouse,
too--remembered hearing her name mentioned the year before.

But they had quite forgotten about her, until August came and Kiddie
Katydid and his relations brought her to their minds once more.

Each night the Katydids' rasping chant was repeated again and again:
_Katy did, Katy did; she did, she did!_ But since in any crowd there are
always a few that want to be different from the rest, now and then some
member of Kiddie's clan insisted that Katy didn't--somewhat in this
fashion: _Katy did, Katy did; she did, she didn't!_

However, there were always so many others to drown any such puzzling
statement with their shrill clamor that Katy really _did_ do it
(whatever it was!) that nobody paid much attention to those few who
didn't quite agree.

On warm, dry, midsummer nights the Katydids all made a terrific racket.
But there wasn't one of them that outdid Kiddie. He always had the best
time when he was making the most noise. And since he liked to station
himself in a tree near Farmer Green's house, his uproar often rose
plainly above that of the other Katydids.

Lying in bed in his little room under the eaves, Johnnie Green sometimes
wished that Kiddie would keep quiet long enough to let him go to sleep
in peace.

To be sure, the balmy breezes wafted many other night sounds through
Johnnie's open window. From near-by came Chirpy Cricket's cheerful
piping. And in the distant swamp the musical Frog family held a singing
party every evening. Johnnie Green liked to hear them. But he objected
strongly to the weird hooting and horrid laughter of Solomon Owl, who
left the hemlock woods after dark to hunt for field mice.

As for Kiddie Katydid, he paid little attention to any other of the
night cries. No matter what anybody else said, he solemnly hurled back
at him that neverending refrain, _Katy did, Katy did; she did, she did!_

You would have thought, if you had heard Kiddie, that somebody had
disputed his statement. But such was not the case at all. Since no one
except the Katydids knew anything about the mysterious Katy, nobody was
able to say truthfully that she _didn't_ do it. In fact, the whole
affair was a great secret, so far as outsiders were concerned. And one
night Johnnie Green even thrust his head out of the window and cried
impatiently:

"All right! All right! I admit that Katy did it. And now do please keep
still!"

Of course, his plea failed to silence Kiddie Katydid. But it relieved
Johnnie Green's mind and made him feel better, anyhow.

Kiddie told his own people about Johnnie's outburst. And they all agreed
that it was a rude thing to do.

"Doesn't he know," they asked, "that the night belongs to us?"


II

THE WARNING


It must not be supposed that all of Kiddie Katydid's family made the
same neverending din at night. Actually it was only the gentlemen that
so amused themselves. No doubt the ladies, too, knew the secret about
the mysterious Katy--and what she did.

But for some reason they never, never mentioned the matter. Even when
they gossiped among themselves, as they sometimes did, they never
touched upon that subject.

Furthermore, in the daytime Kiddie and his fellows were as quiet as they
could be. Having waked the echoes all night long, they were content,
when morning came, to rest silently among the trees and shrubs. And a
very good reason did they have, too, for such a habit. During the day
there were altogether too many birds flying about, to please the
Katydids. And Kiddie often remarked in a joking way that the only birds
he cared about were those that _didn't care about him_!

Of course, there were a few birds that prowled about Pleasant Valley
after dark. Mr. Nighthawk was one of that crew of nightly wanderers. And
whenever the word was passed around that he had been seen in the
neighborhood, Kiddie Katydid tried to lower his solemn chant, because he
knew that Mr. Nighthawk was usually in search of something to eat.

Now, when Kiddie Katydid felt hungry he drove away his gnawing pangs by
browsing upon leaves and tender twigs. But Mr. Nighthawk had no taste
for such fodder.

He had an appetite for insects. And between dusk and dawn a good many of
Kiddie Katydid's neighbors of one kind or another found their way into
Mr. Nighthawk's tummy.

So you see it was no wonder that Kiddie was not eager to attract the
attention of that night rover. Some of the more timid of Kiddie's
companions even begged him, at times, to hush. They said he was making
such a noise that Mr. Nighthawk would be sure to hear it, even if he
were a quarter of a mile away.

But Kiddie Katydid usually laughed at those faint-hearted ones; and
often he shrilled his _Katy did, Katy did_, more loudly than before,
just to show them that he was not afraid.

"A person has to take a few chances," he remarked one day. "If we were
all afraid to make a sound it would be pretty hard on Katy, for then she
would have nobody to take her part. And what would people think of her?"

Evidently Kiddie's reason was a good one, because a number of his
cousins spoke up at once and said that they agreed with him perfectly.

But their sisters all exclaimed that sooner or later Mr. Nighthawk would
hear them; and then there would certainly be trouble.

Strangely enough, the words were scarcely out of their mouths before
they heard a loud call that struck them cold with fear.

_Peent! Peent!_ The cry came out of the air above them without the least
warning. And everybody--including Kiddie Katydid--knew that Mr.
Nighthawk had come.


III

MR. NIGHTHAWK


Following his cry with two or three quick beats of his wings, Mr.
Nighthawk dropped swiftly down among the trees in Farmer Green's
dooryard.

He fell so fast that Kiddie Katydid, watching from his hiding-place in
one of the maples, couldn't help hoping that the sky-coaster would be
unable to stop himself in time to escape being dashed upon the ground.

But Mr. Nighthawk was very skillful at that sport. Just at the right
moment he turned quickly, while the air rushed through his wing-feathers
with a roaring sound. And then he mounted upward again.

Meanwhile Kiddie Katydid kept very still among the leaves, with his
wings folded over his back. Only his two long, thread-like feelers
_would_ wave backwards and forwards, although he tried to keep them
still. He was so nearly the color of the green of the tree-top that he
trusted Mr. Nighthawk wouldn't be able to spy him.

But he was soon disappointed. For Mr. Nighthawk suddenly cried, "Ha!"
and alighted on a neighboring limb.

"There you are!" he said. "You needn't think I don't see you!"

"Why, good evening!" Kiddie Katydid answered, since he was
discovered--and there was no use denying it. "It's a great
surprise--meeting you so unexpectedly. If you'd only sent word that you
were coming I'd have made different arrangements."

"I've no doubt you would have!" Mr. Nighthawk sneered. "But I like to
take people unawares.... I've heard about you," he added. "They say that
you're a great jumper--the spriest jumper in all Pleasant Valley."

"Well, I can jump fairly well," Kiddie Katydid admitted. "But I don't
pride myself on my jumping. It's something that has always run in my
family, you know. All of us Katydids can leap quite a distance without
any trouble."

"So I understand!" Mr. Nighthawk replied. "And I'll tell you some news
that ought to please you: I've come here to-night for the special
purpose of seeing you jump!"

Kiddie Katydid almost jumped out of his skin when he heard what Mr.
Nighthawk said. And it wouldn't have been anything remarkable for him
if he had. He had already squirmed out of his skin six times that
summer--though not from fear, of course. Casting his skin was almost a
habit with Kiddie. All his family were like that.

Though he was not nearly so old as Mr. Nighthawk, Kiddie Katydid had
learned a thing or two during his brief lifetime. And though he would
have liked very much to jump--and jump out of Mr. Nighthawk's sight,
too--he had no wish to hide himself _inside_ that feathered scoundrel.
So he clung all the tighter to his perch and replied that he didn't
believe he cared to do any jumping that night.

Now, Mr. Nighthawk had a certain odd trick of talking through his nose.
Whether that was because the late hours he kept, even on dark nights,
gave him a cold in his head, nobody seemed to know. Anyhow, he began
teasing Kiddie Katydid to jump for him--and he talked through his nose
more than ever. Yes! although Mr. Nighthawk tried his best to speak
pleasantly, he only succeeded in making Kiddie Katydid want to laugh at
him, for all Kiddie was so uneasy.


IV

A WHINING CALLER


"I certainly hope you aren't going to disappoint me?" Mr. Nighthawk
whined, as he looked hungrily at Kiddie Katydid. "Please, please jump
for me--just once!" he begged. "Here I've come all the way across the
meadow on purpose to see what a fine jumper you are! And I shall feel
very unhappy if you don't perform for me."

But Kiddie Katydid refused to budge.

"I hadn't intended to do any leaping to-night," he told Mr. Nighthawk.
"And if I jumped for you, it would only upset my plans."

"I know--I know," said Mr. Nighthawk, nodding his head. "But I thought
that just to oblige a friend you wouldn't object to jumping from this
tree into that one." And he pointed to the nearest maple, the branches
of which all but touched the tree-top in which they were sitting. But
Kiddie Katydid's mind was made up.

"No jumping for me to-night!" he piped in a shrill voice.

All this time Mr. Nighthawk was growing hungrier than ever. And one
might well wonder why he didn't make one quick spring at Kiddie Katydid
and swallow him. But that was not Mr. Nighthawk's way of dining.

"Well," he said at last, "though you refuse to jump for me, won't you
kindly call some other member of your family and ask him to oblige me?"

"I don't know where my relations are just now," replied Kiddie Katydid.
"Some of them were here a while ago; but they went away." And that was
quite true! At that _peent_--that first warning cry--of Mr. Nighthawk's,
they had all vanished as if by magic, among the leaves.

"What about that Katy you're always talking about?" Mr. Nighthawk then
inquired. "Don't you suppose you could find _her_ and persuade _her_ to
do a little jumping for me--just to show me how it's done?"

"I'm sorry--" Kiddie said somewhat stiffly, "I'm sorry; but I must
absolutely refuse to do such a thing. Now that you've mentioned her,
I'll simply say _Katy did_. And beyond that I cannot discuss her with
you."

"She did what?" Mr. Nighthawk wanted to know--through his nose.

But Kiddie Katydid declined to answer that question. He merely hugged
his wings closer to his green body, and shot a sly glance at Mr.
Nighthawk, as if to say, "Ah! That's for _you_ to find out! But I shan't
tell you!"

Mr. Nighthawk looked rather foolish. He had always supposed that any one
who spent a good part of every night saying the same thing over and over
and over again must be quite dull-witted. But now he began to think that
perhaps Kiddie Katydid was brighter than the field people generally
believed him to be. And when Kiddie suddenly asked _him_ a question, he
was sure of his mistake.

"Did you know," said Kiddie, "that Solomon Owl often visits these farm
buildings?"

"Why, no! I wasn't aware of that," Mr. Nighthawk replied with a quick,
nervous look behind him. "What brings him here?"

"Chickens!" Kiddie Katydid explained. "Solomon Owl is very fond of
chickens. But they do say that he's not above eating a nighthawk when he
happens to stumble upon one."


V

SOLOMON OWL'S CRY


For a few moments Mr. Nighthawk fidgeted about on his branch of the
maple tree. What Kiddie Katydid said to him about Solomon Owl frightened
him. And he almost wished he hadn't come to Farmer Green's dooryard that
night.

But the more he thought about the matter, the less he was inclined to
believe that there was really any danger. And soon he peered at Kiddie
Katydid through the darkness and said:

"You almost fooled me. But I know now what you were trying to do. You
were trying to scare me away from here!"

"_Katy did, Katy did; she did, she did!_"

"You needn't say that!" Mr. Nighthawk exclaimed. "Katy has nothing to do
with my case. She hasn't even mentioned Solomon Owl's name."

"You don't understand," Kiddie told him. "I'm speaking of an entirely
different matter."

And then Mr. Nighthawk had another idea. He chased the frown away from
his face and smiled very pleasantly.

"I'm sorry that you don't feel like jumping for me," he observed. "But
I'd be just as glad to see you fly! I remember being told that you fly
almost as well as you jump."

"Oh, I can't begin to fly as well as you can," Kiddie Katydid told Mr.
Nighthawk. "I only wish I knew how to coast down out of the sky the way
you do, without being dashed upon the ground.... How do you manage to
stop so suddenly?"

"Pooh! That's nothing!" Mr. Nighthawk said. "It's easy, once you know
how."

In spite of his way of belittling his flying feats, Mr. Nighthawk was
secretly very proud of his skill at sky-coasting. And when Kiddie
Katydid asked him if he wouldn't kindly give an exhibition of the art of
fancy flying, Mr. Nighthawk couldn't help feeling pleased.

He wanted to display his skill. But there was just one thing that
troubled him. He was afraid that if he climbed up into the sky, before
he dropped down again Kiddie Katydid would have vanished. And that
didn't suit Mr. Nighthawk's plans.

"Will you promise to stay right where you are until I come back?" he
asked.

Now, Kiddie Katydid had intended to hide himself as soon as Mr.
Nighthawk should leave him. But there was nothing he could do now except
to agree to Mr. Nighthawk's proposal.

C. Hare, who was professor of chemistry and natural philosophy in William
and Mary College, and, later, professor of chemistry in the
University of Pennsylvania, published a number of moral essays in
the _Port Folio_ under the pen-name of "Eldred Grayson."

DR. NATHANIEL CHAPMAN (1783-1850) used the pen-name of "Falkland."
ALEXANDER GRAYDON (1752-1818), a man of elegant manners and author of a
useful and entertaining volume of "Memoirs of a Life chiefly passed
in Pennsylvania within the last Sixty Years," published, in the
_Port Folio_, in 1813-14, a series of chatty paragraphs styled
"Notes of a Desultory Reader."

He lived in the "Slate-Roof House," at Second Street and Norris' Alley,
where he had an opportunity of meeting men of rank and fame.

JOSIAH QUINCY (1772-1864), whose opinion of the _Port Folio_ has been
already quoted, contributed to it a series of articles, beginning
January 28, 1804, in the style of Swift, and signed "Climenole".[16]

[16] The name of the flappers, employed by the inhabitants of Laputa to
arouse them from their scientific reveries.

JOHN LEEDS BOZMAN (1757-1823) studied at the University of Pennsylvania,
and read law in the Middle Temple, London. He contributed both prose
and verse to the _Port Folio_.

GENERAL THOMAS CADWALADER (1779-1841) furnished the magazine with
translations of Horace.

RICHARD RUSH (1780-1859) was admitted to the Philadelphia bar in 1800,
and successfully defended William Duane, of the _Aurora_, on a charge of
libelling Gov. Thomas McKean.

He occasionally contributed official and personal anecdotes to the
_Port Folio_.

RICHARD PETERS (1744-1828), the witty judge of Belmont, extended
princely hospitality at his country seat.

His association with the most distinguished men of Europe and America
stored his memory with the choicest bits of political and personal
history. These odd old ends, stolen out of the secret chronicles of the
time, and decked with his rare wit, were given upon irregular
occasions to the _Port Folio_.

GOUVERNEUR MORRIS (1752-1816) contributed political satires in both prose
and verse to Dennie and his confrères.

JOSEPH HOPKINSON (1770-1842), whose authorship of "Hail Columbia" has been
already referred to, wrote the articles upon Shakespeare that appeared
in the _Port Folio_ between 1801 and 1806.

His house at Fourth and Chestnut Streets was a favorite meeting-place
for Dennie and the wits.

HORACE BINNEY (1780-1875), one of the most distinguished lawyers
at a time when a Philadelphia lawyer was a synonym for skill and
cleverness, wrote in moments, snatched from a busy and almost
breathless profession, some of the clearest and most careful sketches
of classical literature, as well as the shrewdest of political
satires to be found in the early volumes of the _Port Folio_.

HARRIET FENNO, daughter of John Ward Fenno, founder and editor of the
_United States Gazette_, signed her verses "Violetta."

MRS. ELIZABETH FERGUSON was the woman who carried to Washington the
letter written by Dr. Duché urging concessions to the British as the only
means of saving the country from spoliation and ruin.

She was a daughter of Dr. Thomas Graeme, a Scottish physician, and
granddaughter of Sir William Keith. Father and daughter lived for a time
in the Slate-Roof House, then in the Carpenter mansion at Sixth
and Chestnut, and finally at Graeme Hall in Montgomery County.

Her life was written in the _Port Folio_ of 1809 (Page 524).

Letters from her appear in various numbers of that magazine, always
signed "Laura."

Nathaniel Evans wooed Miss Graeme as "Laura" in true Petrarchan fashion.
The Philadelphia Library possesses the MS. of a translation of Fénelon
by Mrs. Ferguson.

She visited Europe in company with Dr.

Richard Peters, of Philadelphia, and everywhere her brilliant conversation
and refined manners won her recognition and applause in literary society.
Laurence Sterne was fascinated by her. "She took a seat upon
the same stage with him at the York races.

While bets were making upon different horses, she selected a
small horse that was in the rear of the coursers as the subject of
a trifling wager. Upon being asked the reason for doing so, she said
'the race was not always to the swift nor the battle to the strong.'
Mr.
Sterne, who stood near to her, was struck with this reply, and
turning hastily toward her begged for the honor of her acquaintance.

They soon became sociable, and a good deal of pleasant conversation
took place between them to the great entertainment of the surrounding
company" (Knapp, "Female Biography," page 217).

She wrote a parody upon Pope which was printed with Nathaniel Evans'
poems (1772):

How happy is the country parson's lot!
Forgetting bishops, as by them forgot; Tranquil of spirit, with an
easy mind, To all his vestry's votes he sits resigned.

Of manners gentle and of temper even, He jogs his flocks, with
easy pace, to heaven.
In Greek and Latin pious books he keeps, And, while his clerk sings
psalms, he--soundly sleeps.
His garden fronts the sun's sweet orient beams, And fat church-wardens
prompt his golden dreams.

The earliest fruit in his fair orchard blooms, And cleanly pipes
pour out tobacco fumes.

From rustic bridegroom oft he takes the ring, And hears the milkmaid
plaintive ballads sing.

Back-gammon cheats whole winter nights away, And Pilgrim's Progress
helps a rainy day.

ALEXANDER WILSON was born in Paisley, Scotland, July 6, 1766, and
died in Philadelphia, August 23, 1813.

"The Poems and Literary Prose of Alexander Wilson" was edited by A. B.
Grosart, and published at Paisley in 1876.

"With the exception of Allen Ramsay, Ferguson and Burns, none of our
Scottish vernacular poets have been so continuously kept in print as
Alexander Wilson" (Grosart). Seven biographies of him attest the lively
interest felt in his personality and his work.

In Scotland he was apprenticed to a weaver, and, after serving his
time, he continued to work at the loom for four years more. He published
"Watty and Meg" in 1792, an anonymous poem, the authorship of which was
commonly ascribed to Robert Burns.

He came to America in 1794, worked for a year at his trade, and
subsequently taught at various schools in Pennsylvania and New
Jersey.

In 1802 he settled at Kingsessing, now in the city of Philadelphia,
close by the home of Bartram, the botanist. Here he taught the "Union"
School. It was in a picturesque spot. Before its doors were cedars and
"stripling poplars planted in a row, and old gray white oaks."

But birds were more attractive to him than boys. They commanded him, as
the nightingale did the gypsy steward, and he followed them into untrodden
wildernesses.

Thomas Bradford undertook to publish Wilson's colossal "Ornithology." It
was to be distinctly an "American" work. It was to be printed on
American paper; and Amies, the paper-maker, even declared that he would
use only "American" rags in making it.

Seven volumes appeared during the author's life, or between 1808
and 1813.

Wilson published the "Rural Walk" in Brown's _Literary Magazine_
of August, 1804, and the "Solitary Tutor" in the same publication,
October, 1804.

The former poem was reprinted in the _Port Folio_ of April 27, 1805. Dennie
was charmed with the poem, and explained that he reprinted it because
the author "delights in pictures of American scenery and landscape,
and wisely therefore leaves to European poets their nightingales
and skylarks, and their _dingles_ and _dells_.

He makes no mention of yews and myrtles, nor echoes a single note of
either bullfinch or chaffinch, but faithfully describes American
objects, though not entirely in the American idiom." The following
four stanzas from the "Rural Walk" may give a conception of Wilson's
close observation and nice fidelity to nature.

"Down to the left was seen afar The whitened spire of sacred name,[17]
And ars'nal, where the god of war Has hung his spears of bloody
fame.

"There upward where it (Schuylkill) gently bends, And Say's red fortress
tow'rs in view,[18] The floating bridge its length extends-- A lively
scene forever new.

"There market-maids in lively rows, With wallets white, were riding
home, And thundering gigs, with powdered beaux, Through Gray's green
festive shades to roam.

"Sweet flows the Schuylkill's winding tide By Bartram's green
emblossom'd bowers, Where nature sports in all her pride Of choicest
plants and fruits and flowers

."
[17] Christ Church.

[18] Dr. Benjamin Say's house at Gray's Ferry.

Wilson, in 1804, undertook a journey to Niagara. The adventures by
the way and the sight of the stupendous cataract supply the theme
of his longest and most ambitious poem, "The Foresters."

It was published with illustrations in successive numbers of the
_Port Folio_ of 1809, Volumes I, II and III. The entire poem contained
2,000 lines. The _Literary Magazine_ contains a part of the poem.

This appearance, I believe, has never been noted.

It is to be found in Volume IV, page 155.

The lines were written August 12, 1805, and were published in the same
month. In the literary intelligence of the same month the future publication
of "The Foresters" is glanced at.

A prose letter and a poem, "The Pilgrim," by Wilson, are in the
_Port Folio_, June, 1809, page 499.

Alexander Wilson and John James Audubon met in Louisville, Ky.,
whither the latter had gone after disposing of his farm upon the
Perkiomen Creek, near Philadelphia.

Wilson conceived a dislike for Audubon, and wrote to the _Port Folio_
concerning Louisville, "Science or literature has not one friend in
this place." Audubon, into whose mind no thought of publishing his own
fine drawings had yet come, refused out of jealousy to add his
name to the subscription list for Wilson's "American Ornithology."

Robert Buchanan wrote, "If Audubon had one marked fault it was
vanity; he was a queer compound of Actæon and Narcissus--having a
gun in one hand and flourishing a looking-glass in the other."

Grosart is much too severe when he styles Audubon "a great dilettante
impostor."

After Wilson's death three supplementary volumes to his "Ornithology"
were added by Charles Lucien Bonaparte, and it was Lucien Bonaparte's
son, Prince Canino, who first suggested to Audubon the publication
of his collections.

One of Wilson's most intimate friends was the engraver Alexander
Lawson, with whom he became acquainted through William Bartram, and
from whom he learned to draw. Lawson was born in Lanarkshire,
Scotland, December 19, 1772. He came to Philadelphia in 1792, engraved
four plates for Thomson's "Seasons" for Thomas Dobson, and died
in 1846.

His daughter, Mary Lockhart, was a contributor to _Graham's Magazine_.

It was Wilson's wish that he should be buried "in some rural spot
where the birds might sing over his grave."

His wish was fulfilled, and his body was laid away in the quiet old-world
burial ground of old Swedes' Church.

SAMUEL EWING was born in Philadelphia August 16, 1776. He was placed in
the counting house of John Swanwick.

Upon the failure of his employer, Ewing studied law, and was admitted
to the bar in 1800.

He was a contributor to the _Port Folio_ from the first. He wrote for
it a series of articles, entitled "Reflections in Solitude."

All his contributions were signed "Jacques."
In 1809 he founded _The Select Reviews and Spirit of the Foreign
Magazines_, which he edited for three years, until it was sold to Mr.

Thomas and the title changed to the _Analectic_, when the editorship
passed into the hands of Washington Irving. Samuel Ewing helped to establish
the _Athenæum_ in Philadelphia, and was for a time vice-president
of that institution. He died in Philadelphia, February 8, 1825.

Samuel Ewing's father was the Rev. Dr. John Ewing, Provost of the
University of Pennsylvania, whose contributions have been noted
in the earlier magazines.

A short account of his life is prefixed to his lectures on natural
philosophy, "A Plain Elementary and Practical System of Natural Experimental
Philosophy. By the late Rev. John Ewing.
Philadelphia, 1809. Revised by Robert Patterson."

John Ewing was born June 22, 1732, in Nottingham, Cecil County,
Maryland; was graduated from Princeton 1752; received the degree
of D.D. from Edinburgh; enjoyed the friendship of Robertson, the
historian, and died in Philadelphia, September 8, 1802.

An interesting anecdote is related in the life of Dr.

Ewing (page 16). In 1773 he dined at Dilly's with Dr. Johnson.

He remembered the silence that fell when Johnson entered the room.

"He attended to nothing but his plate; ... having eaten voraciously,
he raised his head slowly, and looking round the table surveyed the
guests for the first time."

The conversation turning upon America, Ewing defended the colonies. "What
do you know, sir, on the subject?" Johnson demanded. Ewing had been
cautioned to avoid contradiction, but the warning was forgotten. "Sir,
what do you know in America; you never read; you have no books
there," thundered on the "great cham."

"Pardon me, sir," blandly replied the Philadelphian, "we have read
the 'Rambler.'"

This civility instantly pacified him.

This anecdote reminds us that the Americans did not always fall their
crests when in the presence of Dr. Johnson. It is a familiar story that
when Johnson demanded of Gilbert Stuart, "Sir, where did you learn
English?"

the ready-witted young artist replied, "Out of your dictionary, sir."
Bishop William White, first Bishop of Pennsylvania, has left, in
a letter to Bishop Hobart, his memory of an interview with "that
giant of genius and literature, Dr.

Samuel Johnson."

"Having dined in company with him in Kensington, at the house of
Mr. Elphinstone, well known to scholars of that day, and returning in
the stage-coach with the doctor, I mentioned to him there being a
Philadelphia edition of his 'Prince of Abyssinia.'

He expressed a wish to see it. I promised to send him a copy on my
return to Philadelphia, and did so. He returned a polite answer, which I
printed in Mr. Boswell's second edition of his 'Life of the Doctor.'"
Richard Rush relates in the _Port Folio_ that when his father, Dr.
Benjamin Rush, attended a meeting of "The Club" in London, Goldsmith
asked him a question about the North American Indians, when Johnson
remarked that there was not an Indian in North America foolish
enough to ask such a question.

Whereupon Goldsmith retorted, "There is not a savage in America,
sir, rude enough to make such a speech to a gentleman."

Dr. Ewing's daughter, Sarah, born in Philadelphia October 30, 1761,
married John Hall, of Baltimore, the son of a Maryland planter. In
January, 1824, she contributed to the _Port Folio_ "A Picture of
Philadelphia as it is."

In a letter to a Scotchwoman (1821) she wrote:
"Your flattering inquiry about my literary career may be answered
in a word.

Literature has no career in America. It is like wine, which we are
told must cross the ocean to make it good." Sarah Hall died in Philadelphia
April 8, 1830.

Her eldest son, John Elihu Hall, was born in Philadelphia December 27,
1783; studied law, and edited the _American Law Journal_ 1808-1817. He
was for a time professor of rhetoric in the University of Maryland.

In the _Port Folio_ of March, 1806, encouraged by Thomas Moore, he commenced
the publication of the "Memoirs of Anacreon," but suspended the
work after a few instalments had appeared.

In 1820 (Vol. IX, p.
401), he resumed the articles.

Most of the Anacreontic odes occur, and the "biographical tissue" gave
the papers a resemblance to Hardwicke's "Athenian Letters" and to
the "Anacharsis" of Abbé Barthelemy.

"Sedley" was the signature used by J.

E.

Hall in his _Port Folio_ papers. In 1812 he published serially in that
magazine his literary miscellany, entitled "Adversaria."
His brother, James, born in Philadelphia August 19, 1793, died near
Cincinnati, July 15, 1868, published in the _Port Folio_ of 1821
his "Letters from the West," afterward published in book form by John
Elihu.

Another brother, Thomas Mifflin Hall (1798-1828), wrote several poems for
the magazine.

Harrison Hall (1785-1866), a third brother, published the _Port Folio_ and
wrote a book on "Distillation," which went through several editions
here, and was reprinted in England.

JOHN ELIHU HALL became editor of the _Port Folio_ in February, 1816. Its
history up to that time may be briefly stated.

It was at first a weekly quarto, printed by H. Maxwell and sold by
William Fry, opposite Christ Church.

In 1806 the quarto size was changed to octavo. In 1809 the magazine
appeared monthly instead of weekly, and continued from that time
to be a monthly publication.

In the prospectus issued at the time of this change the magazine was said
to be "edited by Oliver Oldschool, assisted by a confederacy of men
of letters."

In its new dress it "cherished the hope that it might bear a
comparison with any of the foreign journals."

In 1804 the price had been raised to six dollars. The issue of July
21, 1804, was in deep black lines, in mourning for Alexander Hamilton.
The issue of July 23, 1808, was a memorial number to Fisher Ames.

The "Oliver Oldschool" figurehead was abandoned in January, 1811, and
"conducted by Jos. Dennie, Esq.," took its place; for, the editor
explained, "Since the magazine is no longer _political_, the appellation
of Oliver Oldschool is no longer expedient or necessary."

During Dennie's last illness his place in the editorial chair was taken
by Paul Allen (1775-1826), who wrote poems, and prepared the
"Travels of Lewis and Clarke" for the press, and who must not be
confounded with another eccentric Bohemian, James Allen, brother
to the Sheriff of Suffolk, who wrote under the inspiration of the
West Indian muses--sugar, rum and lemon-juice--who "wore ruffles--and
they hung in tatters about his knuckles."

January, 1812, told of Dennie's death and "that the confederacy of
scholars disbanded almost as soon as it was formed."

At this time the _Port Folio_ was the oldest literary journal in
America.

NICHOLAS BIDDLE became the next editor.

He supplied the magazine with a number of articles upon paintings, old
and new, and resigned his charge early in 1812. Dr. Charles
Caldwell was requested to succeed him.

"I accepted the proposal," he says, in his "Autobiography," "in less than
a minute, and in less than one hour began to prepare for the performance
of the duty it enjoined" (_Autobiography_, page 322).

Caldwell entered upon his task under an engagement to furnish ninety-eight
pages of matter for each number, and this matter would have to be
to a great extent original.

In six months Caldwell increased the number of subscribers twenty-five
per cent.

The war naturally became the theme of greatest interest.

General Brown declared that "he reported himself, and ordered his
officers to report themselves in their connection with all interesting
events of the army, as regularly to the editor of the _Port Folio_
as they did to him, or as he did to the Secretary of War."

In this way the magazine obtained some interesting and valuable
biographical notes of military and naval officers. Dr. Caldwell employed
as assistant editor the famous and versatile THOMAS COOPER. Cooper was
an Englishman, who was born in London in 1759, and had been a
member of the National Assembly of France.

He quarrelled with Robespierre, and challenged him to a duel.

Robespierre swore revenge, and Cooper, knowing that flight alone
could save him from the Jacobin Club, returned to England.

He was censured by Burke, and replied in a bitter and abusive pamphlet.
He followed his intimate friend, Mr. Priestley, to America and lived
with him at Northumberland, where Coleridge and Southey dreamed of
establishing an Eden of Pantisocracy. When Cooper came to Philadelphia,
Washington and Jefferson and Jay and Madison were there. Cooper lent
his pen to Jefferson and the Democrats, and was paid by them.

He was appointed to a judgeship, but soon removed.

He was elected professor of chemistry and moral philosophy in Dickinson
College, and from there he went to the chair of chemistry in Columbia
College, South Carolina.

He left Philadelphia in 1819, and died in the South in 1840.

JUDGE WORKMAN was a second assistant writer.

The most extensive contributions that Dr. Caldwell made to the
magazine were his reviews of "An Essay on the Causes of the Variety of
Complexion and Figure of the Human Species," by Samuel Stanhope Smith,
President of Princeton College.

The reviews covered ninety pages and dealt with a philosophical and
experimental examination of the strange case of Henry Moss, a
Maryland negro, whose name, as Dr.

Caldwell says, is as well known to the readers of periodicals as was
that of John Adams or Thomas Jefferson or James Madison.
Crow will be very angry with us to-morrow when he learns we haven't
called on Kiddie Katydid," somebody remarked. And a hush fell upon the
company. But Chirpy Cricket had a happy thought, which made them all
feel better.

"Kiddie Katydid won't stay out of doors on a night like this!" he
suddenly exclaimed. "He'll find some snug place to creep into. And we
wouldn't be able to find him in Farmer Green's dooryard even if we tried
to."

"That's so!" Chirpy's companions shouted.

"Then there's no need of our freezing here any longer, waiting for that
wretched tailor, Mr. Frog!" said Freddie Firefly.

And somehow, Mr. Frog did not smile quite so widely over that speech.

Nevertheless, he was pleased, on the whole. And not waiting to watch
the shivering party leave the neighborhood, he set off at once toward
Farmer Green's house, making first for the river, which ran near the
farm buildings, because Mr. Frog did not like to travel by land.

Because the air was cool, the water felt all the warmer. And by the time
Mr. Frog had reached his journey's end he was almost overheated.
Besides, as he noticed, it was not so cold in Farmer Green's dooryard as
it had been by the creek.

He stopped, for a few moments, to cool himself in the watering-trough.
And then he hopped briskly on to the front yard.

To his great delight he had scarcely reached the clump of maple trees
when right above him he heard Kiddie Katydid's famous refrain.

"Good evening!" Mr. Frog called. "I've brought a little present for you,
all the way from the creek."

"How-dy do!" said Kiddie Katydid. "It's a cool night, isn't it?"

"You won't mind the weather when you put this on," Mr. Frog replied,
holding up the small garment he had made that afternoon.

"What's that?" Kiddie Katydid asked.

"An overcoat, fashioned expressly for you by the finest tailor in
Pleasant Valley!" said Mr. Frog very proudly.

"You're exceedingly kind, I'm sure," said Kiddie. And he was about to
jump down and slip into the coat when he noticed that Mr. Frog had an
extremely wide mouth.... Suppose, after slipping into the coat, he
should find himself slipping down the tailor's throat?

"Just hang the coat on a twig and I'll get into it a little later,"
Kiddie Katydid suggested.

"I see!" Mr. Frog cried. "That's your way of accepting a gift. And I
wouldn't dream of quarreling with you about that. So I'll hang the coat
right here and go back to the watering-trough to wet my feet. While I'm
gone you can try the coat on, and tell me how you like it when I come
back."

"I hope it's a green one!" said Kiddie Katydid somewhat anxiously. "For
if it isn't green, I couldn't wear it, you know. I always wear green.
It's my favorite color."

"Ah! Trust me not to make a mistake!" Mr. Frog chuckled happily. And
then he withdrew. But he could not help pausing for a moment, to look
back and watch, while Kiddie sprang down from his tree and took his new
coat from the twig on which the tailor had hung it.


XIII

KIDDIE KATYDID IS SHY


"Now--" said Mr. Frog, when he had returned from the
watering-trough--"now tell me, how do you like the overcoat I made for
you?"

And Kiddie Katydid, safe in his tree once more, and snugly buttoned in
Mr. Frog's gift, replied that it was the finest garment he had ever
owned in all his life.

"Good!" said Mr. Frog. "And I dare say you've had many overcoats in your
time, too."

Kiddie Katydid did not correct Mr. Frog's mistake. To tell the truth, he
had never before had an overcoat on his back.

"I've come here to-night to deliver an important message to you," Mr.
Frog went on. "And thinking the weather might be cooler than you liked,
I made you that fine coat so you could stay out here in your tree and
listen to what I have to tell you.... I hear--" he said--"I hear that
you're a musician."

"Yes!" said Kiddie Katydid--for he knew well enough that Freddie Firefly
could not have kept the secret.

"I hear that you're a fiddler," Mr. Frog added.

"Why, no! I've never played the fiddle!" Kiddie Katydid exclaimed. "I
don't know how to do that."

"Well, how do you know that you can't, if you've never tried?" Mr. Frog
retorted. "If you can play _Katy did, Katy did; she did, she did_, by
rubbing your wing covers together, there's no knowing what you could do
with a real fiddle and bow."

"That's true," Kiddie admitted. "I never thought of that."

"Well," said Mr. Frog, who appeared greatly pleased with himself,
"anyhow, I want you to join our singing society. Perhaps you've heard me
and my friends over in the swamp. Almost every night we have a singing
party there. And if you'll only agree to fiddle for us, while we sing, I
venture to say that we'll have Farmer Green getting up out of his bed to
listen to us."

Naturally, the invitation pleased Kiddie Katydid. But for all that, he
shook his head slowly.

"I'm afraid I'm too shy," he told Mr. Frog. "I like to stay hidden among
the leaves, where people can't see me."

"That'll be all right!" Mr. Frog assured him. "You can hide in some bush
near-by, where we can't look at you."

But still Kiddie Katydid wouldn't accept the invitation. Although Mr.
Frog teased and teased, all he would say was that he would think the
matter over.

"Promise me this, at least--" Mr. Frog finally said--"promise me that
you won't agree to make music for anybody else! Now that people know
you're musical, they'll be asking you to play in an orchestra, or a
band, or a fife-and-drum corps, or something. But I've invited you
first, and if you oblige anybody it ought to be me--especially after
I've given you that beautiful warm overcoat." The tailor looked upwards
into the tree so beseechingly that Kiddie Katydid hadn't the heart to
refuse his request.

"I'll promise that," he said.

"Hurrah!" cried Mr. Frog, opening his mouth so widely that Kiddie
Katydid couldn't help shuddering at the sight.

And then Mr. Frog leaped into the air three times. And each time that he
leaped, he struck his heels together three times, just to show how happy
he was.

Then, with a hearty "Good night!" he turned away and went skipping off.

And Kiddie Katydid, making his curious music in the top of the maple
tree, kept thinking that the tailor was one of the oddest chaps he had
ever seen.

He did wish, too, that Mr. Frog had a smaller mouth.


XIV

KIDDIE KEEPS HIS PROMISE


Old Mr. Crow flew into a terrible rage when he found, the next morning,
that his committee had not called on Kiddie Katydid during the night.
And when Chirpy Cricket told him that the weather was too cold for
anybody to stay out late, Mr. Crow said "Nonsense! What about Mr. Frog?"

That was a hard question to answer. And Chirpy Cricket was so afraid of
angry Mr. Crow that he promptly hid himself among the roots of a clump
of grass.

Now, the fact that Mr. Frog had been away from his shop the night before
set Mr. Crow to worrying.

"That slippery tailor has been up to some mischief," Mr. Crow declared.
"And if he has played a trick on me I'll never hear the last of it."

The old gentleman was so disturbed that he quite lost his appetite
during the rest of the day. And he moped and groaned about, hoping for
the best, but fearing the worst. One thing that made him especially
uneasy was the fact that when he called on Mr. Frog he found the tailor
in a gayer mood than he had ever known him to be in.

Mr. Frog bounded about his shop like a rubber ball. And the worst of it
was, he _would_ sing, although Mr. Crow begged him, with tears in his
eyes, to stop.

"What's the matter?" Mr. Frog asked him. "Don't you like my voice? Or is
it the songs I sing? I've a new one that I'd like to sing for you. It's
about one of the Katydid family; and I'm sure you'll enjoy hearing it."

But Mr. Crow wouldn't stay there any longer. With a loud squawk of rage
he scurried away. He was sure, then, that Mr. Frog had tricked him.

That night Mr. Crow's committee called on Kiddie Katydid. It was a fine,
warm, moonlight night. And as they drew near Farmer Green's place they
could hear Kiddie's shrill music, even while they were still a quarter
of a mile away.

"He plays better than ever," said Freddie Firefly. "I wish Mr. Crow
could hear him." And they hurried on, believing that everything was
going to turn out all right, in the end.

"Mr. Crow will be sorry, to-morrow, that he scolded us," said Chirpy
Cricket.

But the committee met with a sad disappointment. When they invited
Kiddie Katydid to join the Pleasant Valley orchestra he told them that
he couldn't.

"Why not?" Freddie Firefly asked.

"I've promised somebody that I wouldn't," Kiddie said.

And though they pressed him for an explanation, he wouldn't give them
any. He wouldn't say another word.

It was a downcast company that left Farmer Green's front yard. And they
quarreled among themselves, too, before they parted. For there wasn't
one of them that was willing to tell Mr. Crow that Kiddie had declined
his invitation.

But they finally hit upon a plan that suited everybody. They agreed to
get Mr. Crow's cousin, Jasper Jay, to break the news gently to the old
gentleman.

It turned out that Jasper was delighted to undertake the task. He hoped
that Mr. Crow would fly into a passion when he heard the sad tale. And
Jasper was not disappointed. For old Mr. Crow was furious.

"It's the work of that sly rascal, Mr. Frog!" he squalled. "He must have
called on Kiddie Katydid and hoodwinked him somehow.... I'd like to know
what he said."

But Mr. Crow never found that out. So Kiddie Katydid had another secret,
which was known only to himself and Mr. Frog.

And Mr. Frog wouldn't tell anybody, because he preferred to tease Mr.
Crow.

And Kiddie Katydid wouldn't tell anybody, because he liked secrets. So
when people tried to pry into the affair, he just folded his wings
tightly over himself--and said nothing.


XV

BENJAMIN BAT'S PLAN


Of course, Kiddie Katydid was not always to be found in his favorite
nook among the trees in Farmer Green's front yard. Quite often he went
skipping about from tree to tree or from bush to bush, sometimes flying
and sometimes leaping. It really made little difference to him which
mode of travel he used. And he never stopped to think how lucky he was
to be able to move so spryly with the help of either his legs or his
wings. He took his good fortune as a matter of course.

There was Mr. Frog! He was a famous jumper; but he couldn't fly. And
there was Mr. Nighthawk! He was a skillful flier; but he couldn't jump.

Such thoughts, however, never entered Kiddie Katydid's head. He went
cheerfully about his business--which was _eating_, principally--and
jumped or flew as the mood seized him. Indeed, if it hadn't been for
that queer fellow, Benjamin Bat, probably Kiddie never would have
realized just what he could--or couldn't--do.

Since Benjamin was another night-prowler like himself, Kiddie Katydid
saw him often. It seemed to Kiddie that he could scarcely ever gaze at
the full moon without catching sight of Benjamin Bat's dusky shape
flitting jerkily across the great, round, yellow disk.

When Benjamin was astir in the neighborhood, Kiddie Katydid lay low--or
high--in his favorite tree-top. At least, he kept very still until the
night was nearly gone, to give Benjamin Bat plenty of time to satisfy
his hunger. For Kiddie found Benjamin Bat a much more agreeable
companion when he had eaten his fill. Early in the evening, soon after
he had waked up, Benjamin was positively ferocious. But the more he ate,
the pleasanter he grew. And by the time faint streaks of light began to
show in the east he could smile and crack a joke as easily as anybody
else.

Well, late one night--or early one morning--Kiddie Katydid and Benjamin
Bat were enjoying a chat in the tree-tops, when Benjamin put a new idea
into Kiddie's head.

"We ought to have some sports right here in Farmer Green's yard," he
suggested. "You're such a fine jumper that you could try your skill
against Mr. Frog. And you're such a fine flier that you and Freddie
Firefly ought to have a race.... I'd suggest--" he added--"I'd suggest
that the sports take place after dark, almost any evening."

But Kiddie Katydid spoke up quickly and said that he wouldn't care to
join in the fun until the night was almost gone. He said he was sure he
could jump and fly better at that time. And that was quite true, because
he knew that if Mr. Bat swallowed him early in the evening he wouldn't
be able to take any part in the sports.

"Very well, then!" Benjamin Bat replied. "But it will be the worst
possible time for me."

"What do you mean?" Kiddie Katydid inquired. "Do you expect to enter any
of the contests?"

"Oh, yes!" said Benjamin. "I'm going to hang by my heels from the limb
of a tree. And since I'm never so heavy early in the evening, before
I've had a chance to eat much, I'd prefer to have the sports begin soon
after dark."

But Kiddie Katydid said that there was no doubt Benjamin Bat would win
in the sport of hanging head downward by his heels. And he told Benjamin
not to worry.


XVI

A NOISY CROWD


When the night of the races and other sports finally came, a great crowd
began to gather about Farmer Green's place soon after dark. Although
Benjamin Bat had told people that the fun wasn't going to begin until
almost morning, they were all so excited that they couldn't wait for the
night to pass.

They lingered around the dooryard and talked so loudly that they
actually disturbed the household. Farmer Green was even tempted to get
up and shut his window, he found it so hard to go to sleep.

The noisiest of all the gathering was Mr. Frog, the tailor, who lived
over by the creek.

He had a great deal to say about everything; and it soon became plain to
everyone that he was trying to manage the whole affair.

Mr. Frog objected to every arrangement that Benjamin Bat had made. When
he learned that he was expected to enter a jumping contest with Kiddie
Katydid he exclaimed that he and Kiddie were such good friends that he
hated the thought of trying to beat Kiddie at jumping.

"Kiddie might feel bad," said Mr. Frog. "People might laugh at him
because I won."

"Don't you worry about me!" Kiddie Katydid called out.

"Where are you?" asked Mr. Frog, looking all around. "I can hear you,
but I can't see you."

But Kiddie Katydid refused to show himself.

He preferred, for the time being, to remain safely hidden among the
leaves, where he could listen to what people said--and talk to them when
he wanted to.

"Wouldn't you prefer some other sort of contest?" Mr. Frog then asked
him. "Now, there's swimming! We could swim in the watering-trough, or
the duck pond. And if I beat you, you could stick your head under water,
so you wouldn't hear what people said. Don't you think that's a good
idea?"

"Goodness, no!" cried Kiddie. "I'd drown myself in no time."

"Dear me!" said Mr. Frog. "I never thought of that."

And then everybody laughed so loudly at him that he hurried off to the
watering-trough to dive under water, and stay there until he was sure
that his remarks had been forgotten.

Meanwhile Benjamin Bat was worrying. He couldn't find anybody who was
willing to try the sport of hanging head downward by his heels. He asked
Kiddie Katydid; and Kiddie declined flatly to do any such thing.

Now, since Benjamin had not yet dined, he was very short-tempered. And
he grew angry at once.

"What's the matter?" he sneered. "Don't you know how to do an easy trick
like that? If I could see you--" he declared, peering among the maple
leaves--"if I could see you I'd show you how it feels to hang beneath a
limb."

Kiddie Katydid said no word in reply. He knew well enough what Benjamin
Bat meant. Benjamin wanted to eat him! And he wished that Benjamin would
go away and get a good meal somewhere before he came back again.


XVII

KITTY DID!


As the hours sped by and the moon at last crossed the sky and dropped
out of sight, Kiddie Katydid saw that there was going to be trouble.

He was worried about Benjamin Bat. Early in the evening Benjamin had
begun to abuse Mr. Frog. And he was so busy doing that that he wouldn't
take the time to go away and snatch even a bite to eat.

Naturally, Benjamin's temper grew worse as the night lengthened. And
Kiddie Katydid had to admit to himself that he would be most unwise if
he did any jumping or flying just then. For Benjamin Bat was in so
fierce a humor that he was ready to snap at anybody who was smaller than
he was. All the tiny flying folk gave him a wide berth. And it began to
look as if he were going to spoil the night's fun.

But all the while Mr. Frog never once lost his temper. Even when
Benjamin Bat called him a long-legged, flat-headed, paddle-footed
meddler, Mr. Frog only smiled and turned a few somersaults backward.

"What's the matter with you?" Benjamin Bat asked him at last. "Can't you
speak?"

"Certainly! Certainly!" Mr. Frog said then. "I've been trying to think
of some way to prevent so much quarreling. It hardly seems fair to
Kiddie Katydid--this uproar right in his dooryard. And since you are the
one that's making the greatest disturbance, I'd suggest that you go
away and leave us to enjoy the rest of the night in peace."

"I'll do nothing of the kind!" Benjamin Bat screamed. "This is _my_
party. I thought of it in the first place. And I'm going to stay here
until dawn."

"Very well! Then the rest of us will leave at once," Mr. Frog told him.
And calling good-by to all his friends, Mr. Frog flopped himself briskly
away.

The smaller folk, too, vanished as if by magic. Though Benjamin Bat
watched sharply, he didn't even see Freddie Firefly when he slipped
away.

"That's strange!" thought Benjamin. "He must have put out his light, to
fool me. But I don't care, because Kiddie Katydid is hidden somewhere in
this tree. And I'm going to find him--for I'm terribly hungry."

So Benjamin began flying in and out among the maple branches. Nobody but
he could have twisted and turned in such a helter-skelter fashion. It
made Kiddie Katydid almost dizzy just to watch him. But Kiddie didn't
take his eyes off Benjamin, because he intended to jump--and jump fast
and far--in case Benjamin should spy him.

Now, although the Bat family was able to see in the dark as well as
Farmer Green's cat could, Benjamin failed to find Kiddie Katydid
anywhere. Crouching motionless upon a leaf, and dressed all in green,
Kiddie Katydid was almost invisible. But if he had moved the least bit,
Benjamin Bat would have found him out.

Looking only for a tiny green figure among the green leaves, Benjamin
Bat paid no attention to the grayish branches of the tree. He was really
strangely careless. Quite unsuspected by him, while he was wrangling
with Mr. Frog, the cat had crept out of the woodshed and stolen softly
into that very tree, where she lay motionless along a limb. She had come
out upon an early morning hunt for birds.

She was a fierce old cat. There was nothing, almost, that she wasn't
ready and willing to fight. Even old dog Spot had learned to shun her.
And now she waited patiently until Benjamin Bat should come within reach
of her quick paws.

That stupid, blundering fellow bumped squarely into her at last. And how
he escaped is still a mystery. The old cat always claimed that when she
found Benjamin wasn't a bird she was so surprised that she let him go.
And as for Benjamin himself, he never would discuss his adventure with
anybody. Kiddie Katydid was the only other one who saw what happened.
But he was so frightened at the time that he only knew that Benjamin Bat
tore away toward the swamp as if a thousand cats were following him. And
people do say that for some time afterward, Kiddie Katydid shrilled a
slightly different ditty. It was _Kitty did, Kitty did; she did, she
did_!

But when Mr. Frog mentioned that news, with a laugh, to Benjamin Bat,
over in the swamp, Benjamin only said, "Stuff and nonsense!"

Yet he looked most uncomfortable.


XVIII

THE TWO GRASSHOPPERS


Kiddie Katydid had a neighbor who was a good deal like him. Indeed, a
careless person had to look sharply to discover much difference between
them. But there was a difference. There was, especially, a certain way
in which one could always tell them apart. One had only to take the
trouble to look at their horns--or feelers. For Kiddie Katydid had horns
as long--or longer--than he was. But his neighbor, who was known as
Leaper the Locust, wore his horns quite short.

Although they saw each other often, Kiddie and this neighbor of his were
not on the best of terms. The trouble was simply this: they couldn't
agree on the question of horns. Whenever they met they were sure to
have a most unpleasant dispute before they parted.

Really, their quarrels were as bad as those that Jimmy Rabbit and Frisky
Squirrel once had over the matter of tails. And many of the field folk
said it was a shame that the Grasshoppers' trouble couldn't be settled
somehow.

Strange as it may seem, that remark always made Leaper the Locust
terribly angry. And it enraged Kiddie Katydid as did nothing else.

The difficulty was that the field people--as well as Farmer Green's
whole family--had fallen into the lazy habit of calling those two by the
same name. They spoke of Kiddie Katydid as "the Long-horned
Grasshopper," while they termed his neighbor "the Short-horned
Grasshopper."

[Illustration: Kiddie Faced Leaper the Locust

(_Page 90_)]

"It's bad enough to look somewhat like Leaper the Locust, without
being tagged with the name of Grasshopper, along with him," Kiddie
Katydid spluttered.

"Honestly, I'm tempted to move away from this neighborhood," Leaper the
Locust began to tell everyone he met. "If that chap would only trim his
horns to the proper length I wouldn't mind it so much. But he's actually
proud of them. He's always waving them over his head, so people will
notice them."

They both declared--Kiddie Katydid and Leaper the Locust--that they
couldn't abide the name "Grasshopper." And they took pains to warn
people in the neighborhood that they wouldn't answer to that name, no
matter how loudly anyone might shout it at them.

After that a few of their neighbors took great delight in crying
"Grasshopper! Grasshopper!" whenever one of the two happened to be
within hearing. But no matter which of them it might be--whether Leaper
the Locust or Kiddie Katydid--he pretended not to hear, and went right
on eating.

But at last something happened that made both those jumpy gentlemen
change their minds. From not wanting to be called Grasshoppers, they
decided suddenly that they liked the name. And each claimed that the
other had no right to it.

This odd state of affairs arose when they learned that a stranger had
come into the valley bearing a message marked "For Mr. Grasshopper."

"That's for me!" Kiddie Katydid cried, as soon as he heard the news.

"You're mistaken!" Leaper the Locust snapped. "The message is clearly
intended for me. And I shan't let anybody else open it."


Furness.

The _Friends' Review_ was the creation of the Orthodox Friends, in
1847.

Its first editor was the mathematician, Enoch Lewis, who continued to
direct it until his death, in 1856.

A remarkable literary incident is associated with the issue of January,
1848. In that month Elizabeth Lloyd (Howell), widow of Robert Howell,
of Philadelphia, contributed anonymously to the _Review_ a poem, entitled
"Milton's Prayer for Patience," in which the Miltonic manner was
so deftly imitated, that even the very elect in criticism were
deceived by it, and the poem was actually printed in the Oxford
edition of Milton as Milton's own lament for his loss of sight.

Most of the Philadelphia magazines of the last fifty years have been
enriched by the busy hand of Mr.
It was a newcomer in Pleasant Valley who had just spoken. He elbowed his
way briskly through the throng until he reached the center of it, where
Kiddie and Leaper the Locust faced each other angrily. People noticed
that the stranger looked as if he had travelled a long distance. And he
had a mail-pouch slung over his back. Furthermore, he was enough like
Kiddie and Leaper to be a cousin of either one of them.

A person couldn't see his horns, on account of the hat that he wore.

When this traveller asked about the dispute, everybody hastened to
explain the quarrel to him.

He listened carefully, and when he had heard the whole story he said:

"This message--do you know where it is? Do you know who has it now?"

"No!" Leaper the Locust cried, while Kiddie Katydid echoed the word.

"Ah! I thought not!" said the stranger, "I thought not, because I have
it in this mail-bag. And now I must confess that I'm puzzled myself; for
I don't know which one it's intended for." And he pulled off his hat and
began fanning himself with it.

It was perfectly plain to everyone that he was sadly perplexed.

Then Leaper the Locust gave a great shout.

"You're a Short-horn!" he exclaimed. "It can't be that you would have a
message for a person with horns like _his_!" He pointed a scornful
finger at poor Kiddie Katydid.

One glance at the stranger's head--now that he had removed his hat--told
everybody that Leaper the Locust was not mistaken.

The stranger's horns _were_ short. There was no denying that fact.

"I believe you must be the Mr. Grasshopper I'm looking for," said the
stranger.

Then he put his hand inside his mail-pouch and pulled out a letter.

Leaper the Locust made a sudden jump for the message. But he was so
eager that he sprang too far. He sailed far over the stranger's head and
landed some distance away.

"Hullo! He doesn't want it!" said the stranger. "It must be for _you_!"
And he shoved the message into Kiddie Katydid's willing hands.

Almost immediately Leaper the Locust jumped back again.

But of course he was too late.


XX

THE STRANGER'S MESSAGE


Leaper the Locust was a rude fellow. He actually tried to snatch the
message out of Kiddie Katydid's hands. But the stranger promptly bowled
him over and told him sternly to be off.

Leaper did not dare disobey. So he hurried away. But after a few moments
he came sailing back again and hung on the outskirts of the crowd, to
see what was going on.

He soon discovered that there was some difficulty. Kiddie Katydid had
torn open the message; and now he turned it over and over, wondering
what it said--for to tell the truth, he couldn't read a single word.

"Ah!" the stranger remarked presently. "I see what your trouble is. You
haven't your spectacles on!"

He was a polite person--that stranger. He knew better than to suggest
that a body didn't know his letters!

"Let me help you!" he continued. And taking the message from Kiddie
Katydid, he held it upside down and began reciting in a sing-song voice:

        Dear Mr. Grasshopper,
              in Pleasant Valley----

        Though you do not know me, I am a distant
        cousin of yours; and I am now on my way to your
        neighborhood, with my family. Not being
        acquainted in your part of the country, I am
        sending you this message with the hope that
        you will be ready to welcome us when we arrive.
        _Please see that there's a plenty to eat!_

"That's odd!" Kiddie Katydid exclaimed, after the stranger had finished.
"Won't you please read that once more? I want to be sure that I
understand it."

Thereupon the travel-worn messenger repeated the contents of the letter.
And this time he held it with the back towards him, so that he couldn't
see the writing at all. Like Kiddie Katydid, he didn't know how to read
a word. But luckily he had learned the message by heart before starting
on his journey.

"What's my cousin's name?" Kiddie Katydid asked him abruptly. "Hasn't he
signed the message?"

"I'm afraid he forgot to do that," the stranger muttered. "No doubt he
wants to surprise you," he added, as he handed the letter back to
Kiddie.

Their offers to fight for the dissolution of Germany's protégé were not
genuine: the conditions which accompanied them were only designed
to make them unacceptable.

The Entente should beware of their bad faith and learn that M. Venizelos
was the only Greek statesman that could be trusted.[21]
The Powers who had long since adopted M.

Venizelos found it convenient to adopt all his theories. M. Delcassé,
when called upon to explain why the Greek offer met with such scant
ceremony, did so by saying that it came from M.

Gounaris, who was the instrument of the personal policy of the
sovereign, and who combated among the electors M.

Venizelos, the champion of rapprochement with the Entente; that the
proposal for the dispatch of large contingents to the East, involving
as it did a depletion of the Western Front, was calculated to please
the imperial brother-in-law of King Constantine; that the territorial
guarantee demanded by Greece would have become known to Bulgaria,
thrown her into the arms of Germany, and precipitated her against
Servia, whom King Constantine intended to leave to her fate; the
trick was too gross to deceive the Allies, and they gave it the
reception it deserved.

Likewise in squashing the Greek efforts to concert with Servia measures
for mutual safety against Bulgaria, while there was yet time, the Allies,
said M. Delcassé, acted on the advice of M. Venizelos, who told them
that the Graeco-Servian Treaty was purely defensive: that it did
not provide for action unless Bulgaria attacked; and what a misfortune
if Servia, by such measures, should appear to take an initiative
which would give Bulgaria an excuse for the aggression she meditated.

Therefore, they bade Servia devote her whole attention to the
security of her Austrian frontier and not play Bulgaria's game by
furnishing her with a pretext for attack.[22] 
{47}
On this side of the Channel the inventions of M.

Venizelos, it would seem, were accepted as discoveries with equal
solemnity.

During the Paris pourparlers, according to the French Ambassador
in London at all events, England was much annoyed by the Greek
Government's hesitations, which she attributed to King Constantine's
opposition, and asked herself whether she could either then or in
the future treat with a country governed autocratically.

"I'll disguise myself. I'll
make my horns so long that people will think I'm somebody else."

So he set to work. And biting off some slender grasses, he bound them
to his stubby horns with threads from a spider's web which he found in
the pasture.

Then he looked at himself in a pool.

"I'm a Long-horn now!" he exclaimed. And he was greatly pleased at the
sight of himself--he who had once scoffed at Kiddie Katydid's horns and
advised him to have them trimmed.

Meanwhile the strange messenger had disappeared. It was said that he had
gone to meet the other travellers and guide them to their cousin, Leaper
the Locust.

And there was great excitement throughout Pleasant Valley. A good many
of the field people stopped at Farmer Green's dooryard and told Kiddie
Katydid that they thought he had made a mistake.

"You might have had the honor of receiving the guests," they said.

"No, thank you!" he replied to all such remarks. "I'm willing enough to
let Leaper the Locust do the honors. And unless I'm much mistaken, he's
trembling in his shoes this very moment."

Then the field people would shake their heads and say that they didn't
understand. Wasn't everybody _glad_ to have company once in a while? JOSEPH
DENNIE, the most interesting figure among American editors, came to
Philadelphia in 1799 as clerk to Timothy Pickering, who was then
Secretary of State, and his brilliant social qualities soon won
him recognition in the city.

"The American Addison" he was called then, a title he had won by the easy
grace and pleasing melody of his style.[9] He was born in Boston,
August 30, 1768, and was sent to Harvard College, where he proved
a jibbing pupil, and was rusticated for a term of six months.

So at last everybody stopped guessing and
admitted that he had no idea as to what Kiddie Katydid had in mind. It
was just another one of his secrets. And people might as well wait
patiently to see what happened. Even Solomon Owl agreed to that. "Time
will tell!" he said with a wise nod of his head.


XXII

THE SHORT-HORNS ARRIVE


In at least one respect, the short-horned messenger had told the truth.
Before twenty-four hours had gone by, the fellow returned to Farmer
Green's dooryard; and with him came a great, fat person who belonged
without question to the Locust family.

Nobody could call his horns long. Nor could anyone call them medium.
They were short; and no one in his right mind would deny it.

He had not covered one hundred yards when a ducky little thing
pranced up to him, squeaking, "Where are your gloves, Sir?" "I
always put 'em in cold storage during summer along with my muff
and boa, dear," the Babe replied pleasantly.

"Moreover, my mother doesn't like me to talk to strangers in the streets,
so ta-ta."

The little creature blushed like a tea-rose and stamped its little hoof.
"Insolence!" it squeaked.

"You--you go back to France by the next boat!"
"You're wrong!" said Kiddie Katydid. "I'm a Long-horn--and you can't
claim to be a cousin of mine."

"My mistake! My mistake!" said the fat gentleman hastily. And he left
even more suddenly than he had come.

"I hope your friend Leaper hasn't given us the slip," he remarked to the
messenger as he joined him again.

"Never fear! If he fails us we'll find him and punish him as he
deserves," said the messenger with a savage frown.

And Kiddie Katydid, looking down from his tree-top, was gladder than
ever that he had escaped this terrible trouble that had come to Leaper
the Locust.

Soon a patter, patter, patter made itself heard among the leaves.

"My goodness! Can that be rain?" Freddie Firefly exclaimed. "The moon is
shining. And I don't see a cloud in the sky."

Even as he spoke the strange sound grew louder.

"Can it be hailing?" Freddie asked Kiddie Katydid anxiously.

"Oh, no!" Kiddie told him. "What you hear is nothing but Leaper the
Locust's cousin's family. They're just beginning to arrive."

Freddie Firefly could scarcely believe his own ears.

"Why, there must be dozens of them!" he cried.

"More than that!" Kiddie Katydid replied.

"Hundreds, then!"

"Still more!" Kiddie Katydid said.

"Well, _thousands_, then!" cried Freddie Firefly. "You don't mean to say
there are more of 'em than that?"

"There are tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands," Kiddie Katydid
declared solemnly. "They'll eat everything they can find. And we shall
be lucky if they leave enough for the rest of us to live on, after they
pass on."

"How did you learn all this?" Freddie Firefly wanted to know.

"That's another of my secrets," said Kiddie Katydid.

So Freddie Firefly went off to hunt for Leaper the Locust. He knew now
why Leaper had struggled to escape from that mysterious messenger with
the curious message. And Freddie intended to ask Leaper a good many
questions about his cousins.

But he couldn't find Leaper anywhere. He searched for him high and low,
and far and wide. But nobody knew where Leaper was.

"There are lots of Short-horns everywhere to-night," Benjamin Bat told
him. "I claim any one of them is just as good as another." And Benjamin
grinned horribly.

Freddie Firefly shuddered. It seemed to him that he had never passed
such a dreadful night before.

But Benjamin Bat was having the time of his life. He said that he hoped
the Short-horns would like Pleasant Valley so well that they would
decide to stay right there for the rest of their days. But, strange to
say, Benjamin made things as unpleasant as possible for the newcomers.
He _ate_ as many of them as he could, remarking that from such a horde a
few would scarcely be missed.


XXIII

THE BEST OF FRIENDS


In spite of his lengthened horns, Leaper the Locust hardly dared show
himself while his cousins remained in the neighborhood.

But when he did venture out, not one of the hungry horde paid the
slightest heed to him. They just ate and ate and ate. And Pleasant
Valley soon began to take on a brown, withered look, as if fall had
already come.

Kiddie Katydid soon saw that he would have to move, if Leaper's cousins
lingered there much longer. And he didn't like the thought of quitting
his home.

"I wouldn't mind going, if I could take Farmer Green's dooryard with
me," he remarked to a long-horned gentleman who stopped to talk with him
one evening. "But of course," Kiddie added with a smile, "that's out of
the question."

"I quite agree with you," said the other. "In fact, I'm ready to agree
to almost anything you say."

"These Short-horns are a terrible lot!" Kiddie Katydid observed.

"They are, indeed!" exclaimed the polite stranger. "I wish they'd finish
their visit here and leave us in peace."

"I never want to see another Short-horn as long as I live," Kiddie
Katydid declared.

"Nor I!" echoed the strange gentleman.

And Kiddie Katydid couldn't help thinking what a pleasant person the
long-horned stranger was and how gentle were his manners.

"I'd like to know your name!" he cried. "It's a long time since I have
met anybody so agreeable as you are."

The stranger drew nearer and lowered his voice.

"Don't you know me?" he asked.

Kiddie Katydid stared at him for a moment.

"No!" he said at length. "To be sure, you do have a familiar look, in a
way. But I must say I don't recognize you."

Then the stranger spoke in a whisper:

"They used to call me 'Leaper the Locust'!"

"Go 'way!" cried Kiddie Katydid. "_He_ was nothing but a Short-horned
Grasshopper. And anyone can see with half an eye that your horns are
fully as long as my own."

"They're not real horns," said the other sadly. "That is, they're real
only a part of the way."

And looking more closely, Kiddie Katydid saw that what he said was true.
It was, indeed, Leaper the Locust. And he was greatly changed in more
ways than one.

He had lost his old, quarrelsome air; and he had become very meek and
mild.

"Don't tell my cousins what I've done!" he begged Kiddie Katydid. "I
don't want them to know who I am."

Kiddie assured the poor fellow that he would not betray him. He was
sorry for Leaper the Locust.

"You'll be glad when your relations move on, won't you?" he said. "Then
you can take those bits of grass off your horns and be yourself again."

Leaper's answer almost took Kiddie Katydid's breath away, for it was a
most surprising statement.

"I'm never going to be a Short-horn again!" he declared. "I shall wear
my horns long to the end of my days."

He kept his word, too. And so earnestly did he try to be like Kiddie
Katydid in every way that he even attempted Kiddie's well known _Katy
did_ melody. But he never really succeeded at that. Inquiry proved that
the demonstration was the work of _agents provocateurs_ in the pay
of the French Secret Service which acted in the interest of M.

Venizelos.

Whereupon, M. Zaimis, realizing that the negotiations he was trying to
conduct could not be sincere on the part of the French, begged to be
relieved of his mandate.

The King was loth to let him go. The British Minister was equally upset,
and added his plea to that of the Sovereign.
M. Zaimis said that, if M.

Guillemin disavowed {118} the intrigue and displayed a willingness
to continue the negotiations in a spirit of candour, he would remain;
but M.

Guillemin could not bring himself to go so far.[8]
Whatever may be the truth in this matter--for, owing to lack of
documentary evidence, it is impossible fully to ascertain the
truth--the whole position, for a man of M.

        Zaimis's character, was untenable: if sense of duty had prompted
him to take up the burden, common-sense counselled him to lay it
down.

        So he resigned; and the fat was once more in the fire--and the blaze
and the stench were greater than ever; for his resignation synchronized
with another untoward event.

        Colonel Hatzopoulos with his own and the Serres Division had for
some time past been isolated at Cavalla--the Bulgars occupying the
forts on one side, while the British blockaded the harbour on the
other.

        Suddenly, upon
        a false report that King Constantine had fled to Larissa and
Venizelos was master at Athens, the demeanour of the Bulgars, which
had always been harsh, became thoroughly hostile.

They strengthened their outposts, cut off the food supplies that
came from Drama and Serres, and, on 6 September, demanded that the
heights immediately above the town still held by the Greeks should
be abandoned to them, on the plea that otherwise they would be
unable to defend themselves in case of an Entente landing: refusal
would be considered an unfriendly act.

As his orders forbade resistance, Colonel Hatzopoulos had no choice but
to yield.

Thus the Greeks were reduced to absolute helplessness; and their
isolation was completed on 9 September, when British sailors landed
and destroyed the wireless station.

The worst was yet to come.

Next morning (10 Sept.) a German officer peremptorily notified
Colonel Hatzopoulos on the part of Marshal von Hindenburg that, as
the Greek troops scattered over Eastern Macedonia obstructed the
operations of the Bulgarian army, they should all be concentrated
at Drama.

Colonel Hatzopoulos, perceiving that compliance meant captivity in
the hands of the Bulgars, asked that, as his instructions were that
all the troops should concentrate at Cavalla, and as he could not
act otherwise without orders from the King, he might be {119} allowed
to send a messenger to Athens via Monastir.

This being refused on the ground that the journey would take too
long, he pleaded his inability to decide about so grave a matter
on his own initiative, but must call a council of the principal
officers.

Meanwhile, in order to avoid capture by the Bulgars, he asked
if, should they decide to surrender, Hindenburg would guarantee
their transportation to Germany with their arms.

The German promised to communicate with headquarters and to let him
know the answer on the following morning.

Evidently the invaders, who would formerly have been more than
content with the withdrawal of the Greek forces, were now--in
violation of the pledges given to Athens by the German and Bulgarian
Governments--resolved on making such withdrawal impossible.

By LAURA LEE HOPE
        Author of THE BOBBSEY TWINS BOOKS, Etc.

Colored Wrappers and Illustrations by HARRY L. SMITH

In this fascinating line of books Miss Hope has the various toys come to
life "when nobody is looking" and she puts them through a series of
adventures as interesting as can possibly be imagined.


THE STORY OF A SAWDUST DOLL

How the toys held a party at the Toy Counter; how the Sawdust Doll was
taken to the home of a nice little girl, and what happened to her there.


THE STORY OF A WHITE ROCKING HORSE

He was a bold charger and a man purchased him for his son's birthday.
Once the Horse had to go to the Toy Hospital, and my! what sights he saw
there.


THE STORY OF A LAMB ON WHEELS

She was a dainty creature and a sailor bought her and took her to a
little girl's relative and she had a great time.


THE STORY OF A BOLD TIN SOLDIER

He was Captain of the Company and marched up and down in the store at
night. The rest atoned for their self-denial in narrative by proportionate
self-indulgence in comment.

One of them described the _coup_ as "a distinct gain both to _our_
interests in the East and to our _moral_ position in the world."

THE STORY OF A MONKEY ON A STICK

He was mighty lively and could do many tricks. The boy who owned him
gave a show, and many of the Monkey's friends were among the actors.


THE STORY OF A CALICO CLOWN

He was a truly comical chap and all the other toys loved him greatly.


THE STORY OF A NODDING DONKEY

He made happy the life of a little lame boy and did lots of other good
deeds.


THE STORY OF A CHINA CAT

The China Cat had many adventures, but enjoyed herself most of the time.


Venizelos thanked the General effusively, pressing his hands.

"After all," he said, "it is certain that people will always say that
I did not return to Athens but with the support of the Allies."

Finally it was arranged that he should land in the forenoon of 27
June.

GROSSET & DUNLAP, PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Notes:

Tuck Me In Tales: "legs" changed to "Legs" to match rest of usage. (Tale
of Daddy Long-Legs)

Page 71, "Bejamin" changed to "Benjamin" (queer fellow, Benjamin Bat)

Ad pages, TALE OF CHIRPY CRICKET: "Crirpy" changed to "Chirpy" (Chirpy
loved to)