Produced by Joe Longo, Greg Bergquist and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


THE TALE OF GRUNTY PIG


     _SLUMBER-TOWN TALES_
     (Trademark Registered)

     BY
     ARTHUR SCOTT BAILEY

     AUTHOR OF

     _SLEEPY-TIME TALES_
     (Trademark Registered)

     _TUCK-ME-IN TALES_
     (Trademark Registered)

     THE TALE OF THE MULEY COW

     THE TALE OF OLD DOG SPOT

     THE TALE OF GRUNTY PIG

     THE TALE OF HENRIETTA HEN

     THE TALE OF TURKEY PROUDFOOT

     THE TALE OF PONY TWINKLEHEELS

     THE TALE OF MISS KITTY CAT

[Illustration: Grunty Pig is Scolded by Henrietta Hen.

_Frontispiece_ (_Page 17_)]


SLUMBER-TOWN TALES
(Trademark Registered)

THE TALE OF
GRUNTY PIG


BY
ARTHUR SCOTT BAILEY

Author of
"SLEEPY-TIME TALES"
(Trademark Registered)

AND

"TUCK-ME-IN TALES"
(Trademark Registered)

ILLUSTRATED BY
HARRY L. SMITH


NEW YORK
GROSSET & DUNLAP
PUBLISHERS

Made in the United States of America


     COPYRIGHT, 1921, BY
     GROSSET & DUNLAP


  CONTENTS


  CHAPTER                        PAGE

      I THE RUNT                    1

     II A NEW WAY TO EAT            5

    III THE LOOSE BOARD            10

     IV THE WIDE, WIDE WORLD       14

      V SIXES AND SEVENS           19

     VI MR. CROW HELPS             23

    VII THE GRUMBLER               28

   VIII FEARFUL NEWS               33

     IX A GREAT ADVENTURE          38

      X A QUEER BEAR               43

     XI LOCKED OUT                 47

    XII WOOF!                      51

   XIII HOME AT LAST               55

    XIV AN ODD THOUGHT             60

     XV GRUNTY MEANS MISCHIEF      65

    XVI DANGER AHEAD               70

   XVII A PUZZLE SOLVED            74

  XVIII THE LUCKIEST OF ALL        79

    XIX DOG SPOT'S PLAN            83

     XX A NEW KIND OF PIG          88

    XXI BEECHNUTS                  94

   XXII JASPER JAY OBJECTS         98

  XXIII MOSES MOUSE'S WAY         104

   XXIV A PIG IN THE PARLOR       109


  ILLUSTRATIONS


                                                       PAGE

  GRUNTY PIG IS SCOLDED BY HENRIETTA HEN       Frontispiece

  THE MULEY COW ADVISES GRUNTY PIG TO GO HOME            32

  "ALWAYS MIND YOUR MOTHER," SAID MRS. PIG               64

  GRUNTY PIG STUCK FAST IN THE FENCE                     80


THE TALE OF GRUNTY PIG

I

THE RUNT


He was the smallest of seven children. At first his mother thought she
would call him "Runty." But she soon changed her mind about that; for
she discovered that even if he was the runt of the family, he had the
loudest grunt of all. So the good lady made haste to slip a G in front
of the name "Runty."

"There!" she exclaimed. "'Grunty' is a name that you ought to be proud
of. It calls attention to your best point. And if you keep on making as
much noise in the world as you do now, maybe people won't notice that
you're a bit undersized. You certainly sound as big as any little shote
I ever saw or heard."

So that was settled--though Grunty Pig didn't care one way or another.
He seemed to be interested in nothing but food. There is no doubt that
he would have been willing to change his name a dozen times a day for
the slight bribe of a drink of warm milk.

His mother sometimes said that he had the biggest appetite--as well as
the loudest grunt--of all her seven children. And she was glad that he
ate well, because food was the very thing that would make him grow.

"You won't always be runty, Grunty, if you eat a plenty," Mrs. Pig often
told him. And then he would grunt, as if to say, "You don't need to
urge me. Just give me a chance!"

Grunty Pig soon learned that being the smallest of the family had one
sad drawback. His brothers and sisters (all bigger than he!) could crowd
him away from the feeding trough. And they not only _could_; but they
often _did_. Unless Grunty reached the trough among the first, there was
never a place left where he could squirm in. If he tried to eat at one
end of the trough he was sure to be shouldered away and go hungry.

So whenever he did succeed in getting the first taste of a meal he took
pains to plant himself in the exact middle of the trough. Then there
would be three other youngsters on each side of him, all crowding
towards him. And though he found it a bit hard to breathe under such a
squeezing, at least he got his share of the food.

Poor Mrs. Pig! Her children had frightful manners. Though she talked
and talked to them about not crowding, and about eating slowly, and
about eating noiselessly, the moment their food was poured into their
trough they forgot everything their mother had said.

That is, all but Grunty Pig! If he happened to be left out in the cold,
so to speak, and had to stand and look on while his brothers and sister
stuffed themselves, he couldn't help remembering his mother's remarks
about manners.

"It's awful to watch them!" he would gurgle. "I don't see how they can
be so boorish." He thought there was no sadder sight than his six
brothers and sisters jostling one another over their food, while he
couldn't find a place to push in among them.


II

A NEW WAY TO EAT


One thing, especially, distressed Mrs. Pig. Her children _would_ put
their fore feet right into the trough when they ate their meals out of
it. Nothing she said to them made the slightest difference. Even when
she told them that they were little pigs they didn't seem to care.

"We're all bigger than Grunty is," said one of her sons--a bouncing
black youngster who was the most unruly of the litter.

"You're all greedy," Mrs. Pig retorted. "Do try to restrain yourselves
when you eat. Remember--there's plenty of time."

"But there's not always plenty of food," Grunty Pig told his mother.
"Sometimes there isn't any left for me."

"I know," said Mrs. Pig. "I know that your brothers and sisters eat your
share whenever they can. Farmer Green furnishes enough food for you all.
And if you children didn't forget your manners everybody would get his
share--no more and no less."

Now, Mrs. Pig was not the only one that noticed how piggish her
youngsters were at the trough. One day Farmer Green himself remarked to
his son Johnnie, as they leaned over the pen, that that litter of pigs
did beat all he had ever seen.

"They come a-running at meal time as if they were half starved. It's a
wonder they don't get in the trough all over."

Johnnie Green liked to watch the pigs.

"That black fellow's the greediest of the lot," he declared. "He's
getting to be the biggest. He's almost twice the size of the little
runt."

"The runt doesn't get his share," said Farmer Green. "We'll have to do
something to help him, or he'll never be worth his salt."

Grunty Pig looked up at Farmer Green and gave a plaintive squeal, as if
to say, "Hurry, please! Because I'm always hungry."

And Blackie, his greedy brother, looked up at Farmer Green too. He said
nothing. But his little eyes twinkled slyly. And afterward he told his
brothers and sisters that Farmer Green needn't think he could keep _him_
from drinking all the skim milk he pleased.

"If Mother can't make me behave, surely Farmer Green won't be able to,"
he boasted.

Of course Blackie Pig was very young. Otherwise he would never have
made such a silly remark. And he soon learned that Farmer Green was more
than a match for him.

The next day Farmer Green made a long lid that dropped over the feeding
trough and covered it completely. And in the lid he cut seven holes--one
for each of Mrs. Pig's children.

There was no more jostling at meal time. There was a place for
everybody. And Mrs. Pig was delighted with the improvement. When Farmer
Green filled the trough, each of the children stuck his head through a
hole and ate in the most orderly fashion. To be sure, there was some
squealing and grunting, and some snuffling and blowing. But it seemed to
Mrs. Pig that no youngsters could have behaved more beautifully.

And Grunty liked the new way of eating, too. But Blackie made a great
fuss. He complained because he couldn't stick his nose through two holes
at the same time!


III

THE LOOSE BOARD


After Farmer Green put the lid with the holes in it over the top of the
feeding trough, Grunty Pig began to grow. At last he was getting as much
to eat as his brothers and sisters. And the bigger he grew, the more
food he wanted. He was always on the watch for some extra tidbit--always
rooting about to find some dainty that others had overlooked. Many a
delicious piece of carrot, or turnip, or potato-paring rewarded him for
his eager searching.

Still, Grunty Pig was far from satisfied. He had a great longing to get
outside the pen where he lived with the rest of Mrs. Pig's seven
children.

"Out in the wide world there must be many good things to eat," he
thought. "I'd like to find the place where the potato-parings grow."

But of all this, Grunty Pig said nothing to anyone. If the chance ever
came to slip out of the pen, he intended to take nobody with him. He had
not yet caught up with his brothers and sisters in size, even if he had
outstripped them in the matter of brains. And he feared that any one of
them would crowd him away from the good things that he meant to find
beyond the walls of the pigsty.

Little did Mrs. Pig dream what plans filled the head of her son Grunty.
When she saw him sniffing around the walls of the pen she never once
guessed that he could be looking for anything except something to eat.
How could she know that Grunty--the littlest of the family--was
searching for a place to escape?

Now, it happened that there was one loose board in a corner of the
pigpen. The nails that once held it had rusted away. Nobody but Grunty
Pig had discovered that by pressing against an end of this board one
could bend it outward.

It was too bad--for him--that he had grown so rapidly. Compare the other
curious figures of the scarabæus in this volume, also p. 948 _et
seq._ 
[76] Comp.

Wilkinson, Manners, etc., of the Ancient Egyptians, 2nd series, London,
1841, Vol. II., p. 260, Vol. I., pp. 250, 256.

VII.

IMPORTANCE OF THE HEART IN THE ANCIENT EGYPTIAN RELIGION.
IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL ACCORDING TO THAT RELIGION. SYMBOLISM OF THE
SCARAB IN THEIR DOCTRINE OF SUCH IMMORTALITY.

NO THING IN THIS UNIVERSE ABSOLUTELY DESTROYED, ONLY CHANGED. THE IDEA
OF METEMPSYCHOSIS IN ANCIENT EGYPT.

ELEVATED IDEAS AS TO THE DEITY.
HYMN TO AMMON-RA CITED.

QUOTATIONS AS TO EGYPTIAN PHILOSOPHY, EVOLUTION OF THE UNIVERSE AND
KOSMOGONY.

OF KHEPRA AND OF TUM OR ATMU.

EGYPTIAN PSYCHOLOGY AND ITS DIVISIONS.

The human heart, the first life principle of human existence and
regeneration, the first apparent individuality of embryonic human life;
was symbolized, in the _Per-em-Hru_, i.e., the Book of the Dead, by
Khepra, the scarabæus deity; this is one reason why the texts
(chapters XXX. and XXVII., see also LXIV.,) which related to the
heart, were those usually inscribed on the funeral scarabæi, and
consecrated to the preservation of the heart of the dead.

The condition of death was described by the Egyptian expression: "The
one whose heart does not beat." The resurrection or re-birth from the
dead only began, according to the Egyptian idea, when this organ, so
essential and necessary to all animal life, was returned to the deceased
_Ba_, i.e., responsible soul, by the decree of Osiris and the judges
of the dead, which Thoth registers: "To him is accorded that his
heart may be in its place."

Indeed most of the texts of the _Per-em-Hru_, as we have seen, are dedicated
to the preservation of the heart of the dead one. The philosophic student
can therefore from this, at once see, the great value of the scarabæus
symbol to the whole religious thought-world of Ancient Egypt. It was the
symbol, when returned to the dead, of the regenerated and resurrected
life of the dead one to the heavenly regions of the blessed for
all eternity, to the second birth in the regions of eternal rest
and happiness.

Taking as a model the daily course of the sun, which rising in the
morning as Horus; reaching the zenith at noon as Ra; setting in
the evening, in the regions of darkness as Tum; and absent during
the night and until the morrow as Osiris; upon which, victorious
over the chaotic darkness, it arose in triumph again as Horus; the
birth and journey of man on earth, was considered by the Ancient
Egyptians as similar to the solar journey; and death, the end of
that journey, was assimilated to the course of the sun when at night
it was, according to their astronomical knowledge, supposed to be
in the Lower Regions or Underworld, the abode of Osiris.

When he died, the Egyptian became as Osiris, "the nocturnal sun;"
resurrected, he became Horus, the new-born and rising sun; in midday,
he was Ra. Horus was: "The Old One who rejuvenated himself." Such a
re-birth of the dead to immortality, was the recompense promised
by the Egyptian religion, to the soul of the man pious and good
during this life, but the wicked were to be tortured, transformed
into lower forms, or annihilated.[77] Matter, according to it, does
not perish but only changes and the earth itself, was deified as
Seb, Isis, Ta-nen, and Ptah-Tatunen.

What then did matter become, it was transformed, the deities were
transformed. Matter was transformed,--this is explained to us through the
symbolism of the scarab, the hieroglyph of the word _Kheper_, i.e., "to
be," "to exist," "to become," "to create," "to emanate;" of which, as I
have said, the Great Sphinx is the symbol, and has therefore the
philosophical value of creator and created.[78] God and His universe,
existence and change or transformation, death and dissolution, all
which were only considered as regeneration and re-birth in another
form.

Thence becomes apparent to us, the great value and importance to
the Egyptian people of the symbolism of the scarab, it was, to them,
the emblematic synthesis of their religion as to-day to Christians,
the Latin or the Greek cross, is the emblematic synthesis of Latin
or Greek Christianity.

The philosophic Egyptian, thought, the atoms and molecules of all bodies
and of all matter, were never destroyed or lost, they were always
in motion but were only transformed and changed, by death or the
dissolution of forms.

Death on this earth did not destroy the personality of the human being,
that continued beyond death on our earth, and as to those who had
been good and pious during their life here, their personality
continued eternally; but the punishment of the wicked was, the
annihilation of that personality or an immobility which was almost
the same.

When he
poured the children's supper into the trough and slammed down the lid he
stood and watched Mrs. Pig's youngsters as they scrambled to the trough
and stuck--each of them--a nose into a hole.

All at once Farmer Green noticed something queer. "Hullo!" he cried to
his son Johnnie. "There's an empty hole here. We've lost a pig!"

He looked closely at the row of six squirming bunches of squeals.

"I declare!" said Farmer Green. "It's the runt that's gone."

Mrs. Pig, who was enjoying her own supper a little way off, did not hear
what Farmer Green said. Her children were making a good deal of noise.
And to tell the truth, Mrs. Pig herself wasn't exactly a silent eater.
When Farmer Green jumped into the pen and began to poke at the sides of
it she wondered what he was doing. Soon he found the loose board and
pushed against it with his foot, exclaiming, "Here's where he got away!
Who'd have thought that the runt was the smartest of the family?

"Run and get me a hammer and a few nails," said Farmer Green to his son
Johnnie. "We must fix this pen before any more of the pigs crawl out."

Well, when she heard the news Mrs. Pig nearly choked over a bit of
something or other that she was eating. Grunty was gone! If she hadn't
spent most of the afternoon dozing perhaps she would have missed him.
And poor Mrs. Pig began to reproach herself for what wasn't really her
fault at all.

"I hope you'll find him," she told Farmer Green as he drove a nail into
the loose board. "I hope you won't leave my son out to-night. There's no
knowing what might happen to a child of his tender years."

Maybe Farmer Green heard her request. Anyhow, as he handed the hammer to
Johnnie he said, "Come and help me, after you put the hammer back. We'll
have to find that pig. If a bear happened to come down from the mountain
to-night he'd treat himself to a feast. That runt would make a nice,
tender meal."

Mrs. Pig must certainly have heard--and understood--Farmer Green's
remark. For she gave a loud squeal of alarm.

"Hurry!" she begged him. "Please, Mr. Green, do find Grunty before
dark!"


VI

MR. CROW HELPS


It was a wonder that Johnnie Green and his father ever found Grunty Pig.

Soon after Henrietta Hen left him, Grunty crept out of the lane and
wandered into the cornfield. He had an idea that Henrietta might go and
tell his mother that she had seen him wallowing in the mud behind the
barn. And he did not want to be dragged back to the pigpen.

Grunty had no way of knowing that Henrietta Hen forgot all about him
before she had crossed the farmyard. She fell into a loud dispute with a
neighbor. And she never thought of Grunty again.

Grunty Pig enjoyed his ramble into the field of waving corn. The corn
was sweet; and the dirt was loose--just the finest sort to root in that
a body could possibly want. He had the place all to himself until at
last a black gentleman came flying up in a great hurry and ordered him
in a hoarse voice to "get out of the corn--and be quick about it!"

On him Grunty Pig tried the same trick that he had used on Henrietta
Hen. He looked up with a stupid stare at the newcomer and said never a
word.

Old Mr. Crow--for it was he that had commanded Grunty to leave--old Mr.
Crow abused him roundly. Mr. Crow was not empty-headed, like Henrietta
Hen. He was not to be deceived so easily.

"Why don't you answer me?" he bawled. "You make noise enough when you're
at home. I've heard you often, way across the cornfield." Mr. Crow
cawed so angrily that a dozen of his cronies flew over from the woods to
see what was going on. And the whole thirteen made such an uproar that
Farmer Green couldn't help noticing them. He and Johnnie were in the
orchard, hunting for Grunty Pig.

"Those crows are up to some mischief," Farmer Green declared. "You don't
suppose--do you?--that they're teasing that pig?"

Well, Johnnie Green was willing to go and find out. And sure enough! he
found Grunty in the cornfield.

Johnnie Green picked him up, tucked him under his arm--plastered with
dried mud as he was--and brought him in triumph to the barn.

Farmer Green laughed when he saw Grunty Pig.

"He looks as if he had been enjoying himself," he remarked as he
dropped Grunty into the pen with the rest of Mrs. Pig's children.

"Are you going to feed him?" Johnnie Green inquired.

Again his father laughed.

"No!" he replied. "That pig has stuffed himself so full he can scarcely
waddle."

As for Mrs. Pig, she didn't know whether to laugh or to weep. She was
glad to have Grunty safe at home again; but he was a sad sight.

At first Mrs. Pig thought Farmer Green had made a mistake. She thought
he had found somebody else's child. For Grunty was so daubed with black
mud that she actually didn't know him until she heard him grunt. "Where
have you been?" she asked him in her sternest voice.

"I've been out in the world," he answered. "And I've had a fine time."

"It's easy to see," said Mrs. Pig, "that you're a born wallower. It's a
pity that you haven't your brother Blackie's complexion. The dirt does
show so dreadfully on silver bristles!"


VII

THE GRUMBLER


All the farmyard folk agreed that Farmer Green took the best of care of
everybody. Mrs. Pig often told her children that they were lucky to have
so good a home. And not having lived anywhere else, they never imagined
that anything could be finer than their pen.

After the day when he escaped from the pen, however, Grunty Pig began to
complain. He wasn't satisfied with the food that Farmer Green gave him,
he grumbled because there was no good place to wallow in mud, and
especially did he object because there wasn't a tree to rub against.
"The orchard," he often said, "is a much pleasanter place than this pen
is. There are trees enough in the orchard for every member of our family
to rub against--all at the same time."

Somehow, when Grunty talked in that fashion every one of Mrs. Pig's
children began to crowd against the sides of the pen. And even Mrs. Pig
herself felt an annoying tickling along her back. She did wish that
Grunty wouldn't mention such matters.

But nothing Mrs. Pig could say seemed to do any good. He was always
prattling, anyhow. She could no more stop his flow of grunts and squeals
than she could have kept the water in the brook from babbling down the
mountainside to Swift River.

And even more annoying to Mrs. Pig was the way her son Grunty tried to
rub his back against _her_. She said "Don't!" to him so often that she
became heartily sick of the word.

What bothered Mrs. Pig most of all was Grunty's behavior whenever Farmer
Green came to the pen. It was mortifying to her to have her son actually
try to _scratch his back_ against her in the presence of a visitor.

"I do hope," said Mrs. Pig to Farmer Green, "I do hope you don't think
that I haven't tried to teach this child better manners." And then, when
all the rest of her family began to squirm and fidget against the sides
of the pen she added with a sigh, "Look at them! Anyone would suppose
they had had no bringing up at all!"

Farmer Green smiled as he leaned over the pen and watched the antics of
Grunty Pig and his brothers and sisters.

"There's something that I can do for your family to make them happier,"
he told Mrs. Pig. "To-morrow--if I can spare the time--I'll make a
change here. A lady who's raising such a fine family as yours deserves
the best there is. She ought to have a home with every modern
improvement."

"There!" Mrs. Pig exclaimed to her children as soon as Farmer Green left
them. "Did you hear what he said? Farmer Green is a kind man. I
shouldn't have blamed him if he had put us into the poorest pen on the
place, after seeing your unmannerly actions. You'll have to behave
better--especially after we have our new improvements."

Well, the next day Farmer Green brought a stout post and set it firmly
in the center of Mrs. Pig's pen.

"That's for you and your family to rub against," he informed Mrs. Pig.

Really, he needn't have explained what the improvement was for. No
sooner had he climbed out of the pen than Mrs. Pig and her children
began to put the rubbing post to good use. Grunty was the first of all
to try it. And to his mother's delight, he stopped grumbling at once.
Nor did he ever again disgrace her by scratching his back against her.
Instead, he always walked up to the rubbing post like a little
gentleman. At least, that was what Mrs. Pig said.

[Illustration: The Muley Cow Advises Grunty Pig to Go Home.

(_Page 34_)]


VIII

FEARFUL NEWS


There came a day at last when Farmer Green gave Mrs. Pig and her family
a great treat. He let them out of their pen and turned them loose in a
little yard out of doors. Such gruntings and squealings hadn't been
heard on the farm for a long time. It was just like a picnic. And
everybody had the finest of times. Still, Grunty Pig wasn't content to
stay in the yard with the rest of the family. It wasn't long before he
found a hole in the fence big enough to wriggle through. And off he
went. And he was actually glad, for once, that he was the littlest of
the family. There wasn't another of Mrs. Pig's children that could
squeeze through the opening.

Grunty Pig trotted the whole length of the lane. When he reached the
pasture he found himself face to face with the Muley Cow, who acted much
surprised to see him there.

"You'd better go back home at once," she advised him. "There are bears
on Blue Mountain. Sometimes they come down this way. Only last week I
had an adventure with one in the back pasture." She did not tell Grunty
that she had run away from Cuffy Bear, down the hillside. "A bear," said
the Muley Cow, "would be delighted to meet a tender little pig like
you."

Grunty Pig did not even thank the Muley Cow for warning him.

"I'd like to meet a bear," he declared stoutly. "I hope I'll meet one
to-day."

Leaving the Muley Cow, he zigzagged up the hill through the pasture,
stopping now and then to dig up many a juicy root.

Although Mrs. Pig missed her runaway son after a time, she was not
greatly disturbed.

"He can't be far off," she thought. "He'll come back before dark." And
when Grunty did at last come crawling into the little yard Mrs. Pig was
merely vexed with him for having gone off without her consent. She was
just about to give him a well deserved scolding. But before she could
speak to him, Grunty greeted her with a loud squeal.

"I saw a bear in the pasture!" he cried.

Mrs. Pig promptly forgot her displeasure. Although her son was certainly
unharmed, she couldn't help being startled. It gave her what she called
"a turn" to learn that Grunty had met a bear.

"A bear!" Mrs. Pig gasped. "A bear is a terribly dangerous creature.
It's a wonder that you ever got home.... What did you do when you saw
him?" Mrs. Pig demanded.

"I walked away," said Grunty.

"He couldn't have noticed you," Mrs. Pig declared. "If you had squealed
it would have been the end of you."

Grunty Pig felt that he was the most important member of the family. Not
one of his brothers or sisters had ever seen a bear. At least they had
never claimed to have enjoyed so fearsome a sight.

"It was nothing," he boasted. "I'd as soon meet a bear as the Muley
Cow."

His mother, however, was of another mind. She kept looking about in an
uneasy fashion.

"I wish Farmer Green would come and put us into our pen," she murmured.
"It will soon be dark. And I shouldn't like to spend the night out
here--not with a bear in the neighborhood."


IX

A GREAT ADVENTURE


The next outing that Farmer Green gave Mrs. Pig's family in the little
yard proved to be anything but a picnic--for Mrs. Pig. That poor lady
had a dreadful time. Grunty ran away again. And he hadn't been gone long
before his mother heard a loud squealing in the nearest field. The sound
rapidly grew louder. And as she stood still and listened, Mrs. Pig knew
that it was Grunty's squeal and that he was drawing nearer every moment.

"Dear me!" she cried. "He must be in trouble."

Soon Grunty tumbled through the fence. And scrambling to his feet he
ran to his mother, crying at the top of his voice, "A bear chased me!"

"Oh! Oh!" shrieked Mrs. Pig. "It's a mercy he didn't catch you. Oh! Oh!
It's lucky you're no fatter, else you couldn't have run so fast." Being
more than fat, herself, and greatly excited, Mrs. Pig had to stop
talking for a time, because she gurgled and wheezed and panted in a most
alarming fashion.

At last, when she had somewhat recovered from her flurry, she called to
Grunty. And looking at him severely Mrs. Pig said to him, "Let this be a
lesson to you. Never, never stray away from the farmyard again!"

"Yes, Mother!" was Grunty's glib reply. Then he sidled away. Somehow he
felt uneasy under his mother's gaze.

"Perhaps it was a good thing, after all, that the bear chased him,"
Mrs. Pig muttered. "Maybe this fright will keep him at home."

She soon discovered that it would take more than a mere fright--more
than a command--to stop Grunty from running away. For it wasn't long
before she missed him again.

If Mrs. Pig hadn't been so upset she might have been vexed--and with
good reason.

"Oh! that dear little Grunty!" she wailed. "The bear may have caught him
already, in the cabbage patch."

Then piercing squeals fell once more on Mrs. Pig's ears.

"Dear! Dear!" she cried. "I ought to have watched him. I ought to have
kept an eye on Grunty. After all, he's little more than a baby."

Again the squeals grew louder. Again Grunty Pig burst through the hole
in the fence and romped up to his mother.

"He chased me another time!" he grunted. "The bear chased me almost as
far as the fence."

"Sakes alive!" his mother shrieked. "Somebody ought to tell Farmer
Green! This farm is not a safe place to live, with a bear prowling about
it."

"Do you want me to go and tell Mr. Green?" Grunty inquired.

"_You?_" his mother exclaimed. "No, indeed! You stay right here with me!
Don't you dare stir out of this yard!" And to Grunty's astonishment,
Mrs. Pig bowled him right over, to show him that she meant what she
said.

He jumped to his feet in a jiffy. And he was all ready to slink away
into a corner of the yard; but his mother bade him wait.

"This bear--" she said--"what did he look like?"


X

A QUEER BEAR


Grunty Pig's little eyes fell away from his mother's when she asked him
what the bear looked like--the bear that had chased him.

"Er--he was whitish, with brown spots, like Johnnie Green's dog," said
Grunty; "and--er--he had a long tail like the old horse Ebenezer's; and
he had six legs."

Mrs. Pig suddenly made a most peculiar sound. It couldn't be called a
squeal, nor a grunt, nor a gurgle, nor a gasp. It was a little like all
four. And springing clumsily upon her son, Mrs. Pig upset him before he
could dodge her.

Grunty Pig began to whimper. "What have I done?" he whined.

"You've deceived me!" his mother cried. "You haven't seen a bear. You've
never seen a bear in all your life."

"Ouch," Grunty howled, as his mother sent him sprawling once more. "I
didn't mean any harm. I was only having fun with you."

"Well," said his mother. "Turn about is fair play. I'll have a little
fun with _you_, now."

Mrs. Pig gave her wayward son such a punishing that he remembered it all
the rest of that day. At least, he stayed at home. And Mrs. Pig dared
hope that at last she had cured him of two bad habits--running away and
telling fibs.

The next day, however, the fields called again to Grunty Pig. They
called so plainly that he couldn't resist answering.

"I'll slip away for just a little while," he said to himself. "If I'm
not gone long no one will miss me." So when his mother was taking a nap
he stole through the hole in the fence. "I'll be back before she wakes
up," he chuckled.

In the garden, up the lane, through the pasture he made his way. And he
enjoyed his holiday to the full--until he remembered suddenly that he
had been gone a long time--a much longer time than he had planned to
spend away from the farmyard.

"Oh, dear!" he whined. "Mother must be awake now; and she'll punish me
if I go back." The more he thought about returning, the less he liked
the idea.

"I won't go home at all!" he cried at last. "I'll stay in the pasture
the rest of my life. There's plenty to eat here; and plenty of fun,
too."

It was afternoon when Grunty Pig made up his mind that he would never
go home. When the Muley Cow warned him once more to beware of the bears
he actually jeered at her.

"There are no bears in Pleasant Valley," he scoffed. "And you needn't
trouble yourself to mention them again to me. I'm going to live in this
pasture and there's no use of your trying to frighten me away."

The Muley Cow said nothing more to him. She merely looked at him and
smiled wisely.

"He'll sing a different song," she thought, "when it begins to grow
dark."


XI

LOCKED OUT


The Muley Cow was right. She had said to herself, with a smile, that
Grunty Pig, the runaway, would be glad enough to go home when night
came. He had decided to stay right there in the pasture for the rest of
his life, where there was plenty to eat and plenty to do. He felt sure
that he would have a much pleasanter time there than at home. For one
thing, he knew well enough that there was a punishing waiting for him at
the piggery--if he ever went back to get it.

Not until Johnnie Green and old dog Spot came to the pasture to drive
the cows down the lane did Grunty Pig begin to feel the least twinge of
homesickness. And even then he tried to forget it. He hid in a clump of
brakes near the fence while Johnnie Green and Spot were in the pasture,
for he didn't want them to spy him and take him home with them.

There was a delicious, damp, woodsy smell in the cool shade of his
hiding place.

"How much nicer this is than our stuffy pen!" Grunty exclaimed under his
breath.

Now and then he peeped out to watch the procession of cows moving slowly
towards the barn to be milked. And when the last one had entered the
lane, hurrying to catch up with the rest--and to avoid Spot's nips at
her heels--Grunty crept out into the open.

Then, strange to say, he hurried towards the lane himself. All at once
the pasture seemed a great, lonesome place. Who knew when a bear might
rise out of a clump of bushes near him?

He was careful not to follow too closely after the herd as they
meandered down the lane. At the same time, he was careful not to fall
too far behind. And he took many a quick backward glance, to make sure
no bear was creeping up on him.

Not far from the barn Grunty left the lane and hurried toward the little
yard outside the piggery, where he had run away from his mother and his
brothers and his sisters.

When he reached the fence through which he had crept while Mrs. Pig was
enjoying a nap, he met with a great surprise. The hole in the fence was
no more! Somebody had mended it. And there he was, outside the yard!

Grunty Pig squealed for his mother. But no one answered. The fence was
too high for him to look over it. It was too tight for him to peep
through.

"I want to get in!" Grunty cried. "Why doesn't somebody answer?"

The silence from the other side of the fence was dreadful. Grunty Pig
would have been _glad_ to have his mother scold him then, just for the
comfort of hearing her voice.

"Oh! Oh!" he wailed. "What shall I do? Whatever shall I do? Farmer Green
must have put the family back in the pen. And I'll have to spend the
night out here alone!"


XII

WOOF!


Night found Grunty Pig huddled close to the outside of the piggery. Many
times he had walked around the low building, snuffing at the doors and
trying in vain to find some opening through which he might crawl. To his
dismay, all was snug and tight. There wasn't a hole big enough even for
Miss Kitty Cat to creep through.

Though Grunty had called a good many times, nobody had answered him.
Inside the piggery, in their pen, Mrs. Pig and her other children were
sound asleep. Now and then Grunty could hear a throaty snore, which he
knew to be his mother's.

That they make much for the protection of beasts the Psalmist[2]
testifies, _The highest hils are a refuge for the wilde Goats, and
the rockes for Conies_.

The Kingly Prophet had learned the safety of these by his owne experience,
when he also was faine to make a mountaine his refuge from the fury
of his Master _Saul_, who persecuted him in the wildernesse.

[Sidenote 1: _Nat. hist. l. 36. c. 1._]
[Sidenote 2: Psal. 104. v. 18.]

True indeed, such places as these keepe their neighbours poore, as
beeing most barren, but yet they preserve them safe, as being most strong,
witnesse our unconquered _Wales_ and _Scotland_, whose greatest protection
hath beene the naturall strength of their Countrey, so fortified with
Mountaines, that these have alwaies been unto them sure retraites
from the violence and oppression of others, wherefore a good Authour
doth rightly call them natures bulwarkes cast up at God Almighties
owne charges, the scornes and curbs of victorious armies, which
made the Barbarians in _Curtius_ so confident of their owne safety,
when they were once retired to an inaccessible mountaine, that when
_Alexanders_ Legate had brought them to a parley and perswading
them to yeeld, told them of his masters victories, what Seas and
Wildernesses hee had passed, they replyed that all that might be,
but could _Alexander_ fly too?

Over the Seas he might have ships, and over the land horses, but hee
must have wings before he could get up thither.
Such safety did those barbarous nations conceive in the mountaines
whereunto they were retyred, certainely then such usefull parts
were not the effect of mans sinne, or produced by the Worlds curse
the flood, but rather at the first created by the goodnesse and
providence of the Almighty.

So that if I intend to prove that the Moone is such a habitable world as
this is, 'tis requisite that I shew it to have the same conveniences
of habitation as this hath, and here if some Rabbi or Chymicke were
to handle the point they would first prove it out of Scripture,
from that place in _Moses_ his blessing,[1] where hee speakes of
the ancient mountaines and lasting hils, _Deut._ #Hareray kedem
ugva'ot olam#
for having immediately before mentioned those blessings which should
happen unto _Ioseph_ by the influence of the Moone, he does presently
exegetically iterate them in blessing him with the chiefe things
of the ancient Mountaines and lasting hils; you may also see the
same expression used in _Iacobs_ blessing of _Ioseph_.[2]
[Sidenote 1: Deut. 33. 15] 
[Sidenote 2: Gen. 49. 26]

"Look here! We had a visitor last
night. It was no wonder old Spot woke us all up. A bear called on us!
And he'd certainly have had that pig if Spot hadn't scared him off."

Naturally the news soon spread all over the farmyard. And when Mrs. Pig
heard it she began to tremble.

"To think," she quavered, "that my littlest child spent the night out of
doors, with a bear prowling about the neighborhood! And I slept through
it all!

"Tell me all about it, Grunty!" she commanded that young gentleman.

It is not surprising that Grunty Pig was puzzled. Hadn't his mother told
him, during the night, not to mention the word _bear_ again? And now she
was urging him to talk about that very animal.

"Squeak up!" said his mother sharply--which was the same as saying,
"Speak up!"

So he told his story. And when he had finished Mrs. Pig fairly covered
him with caresses.

"It seems to me--" she sniffed--for she was quite upset--"it seems to me
that I remember your saying something about a bear last night. But I
wasn't wide awake at the time. And I thought you were fibbing again.

"Perhaps," she added, "this will teach you a few things that you needed
to learn.... _Always mind your mother!_" said Mrs. Pig. "And _always
tell the truth_!"

Her children all repeated the words after her. And Grunty Pig's voice
could have been heard plainly above all the rest.

His mother looked at him fondly. She had always claimed that she had no
favorite among her children. But now she couldn't help thinking what a
promising youngster Grunty was, even if he was the runt of the family.

"That's a good Grunty," said Mrs. Pig. "You won't forget this lesson,
will you?"

"No, Mother!" Grunty answered.

Now, that very afternoon Mrs. Pig took it into her head to have her
children say the morning's lesson again. So she called her youngsters
together. And she asked Grunty the first of all to recite what she had
taught him.

"I think it was something about a bear," he stammered, "but I can't
remember exactly."

"Dear me!" said poor Mrs. Pig. "I don't know what I'll do with this
lad."

Then she asked the other children, one by one, what they had learned
that very morning.

There wasn't one of them that hadn't forgotten everything.

"Dear me!" said unhappy Mrs. Pig. "I don't know what I'll do with all of
them. But I'll treat them all alike. I have no favorite. There isn't one
of them that's stupider than another."

When Grunty Pig heard that he felt quite proud. It was something,
anyhow, to be as stupid as the rest, even if he was smaller.


XIV

AN ODD THOUGHT


"Umph! Umph!"

Farmer Green had fenced off a piece of the old orchard. And into this
new yard he turned Mrs. Pig's children.

"Umph! Umph!"

They had a fine time there, rooting down under the sod, rubbing their
backs against the trunks of the old apple trees, and sprawling in the
shade when they were sleepy.

"Umph! Umph!"

Sometimes an apple dropped from a tree. And then there was a mad
scramble.

"Umph! Umph!"

"Dear me!" said Jolly Robin's wife as she sat in the apple tree where
she and her husband had a nest every summer. "Don't Mrs. Pig's children
make a dreadful noise? I never knew half-grown pigs to have such loud
voices. Their grunts certainly are full-sized."

Jolly Robin, who had perched himself beside his wife, looked down at
their new neighbors.

"They're having a good time," he observed cheerfully. "We ought not to
complain. We may be thankful that they don't climb trees and try to
sing."

Jolly Robin had a way of looking on the bright side of things. It was
seldom that he couldn't act cheerful. Even when he felt quite
downhearted, _inside_, he managed usually to appear happy, _outside_.
And now his remark put his wife in a pleasanter frame of mind.

"Imagine a pig up a tree!" Mrs. Robin tittered.

"Umph! Umph! Are you talking about me?" a voice inquired right beneath
them. It gave Mrs. Robin such a start that she almost tumbled off the
limb.

"No! No! We're not talking about you--not exactly!" Jolly Robin
answered.

It was Grunty Pig that had spoken.

"Pardon me!" he said. "I thought I heard you mention the name, 'Pig'."

"Er--yes! We did speak of your family, in a general way," Jolly Robin
admitted.

"Ah!" said Grunty Pig. "And what was it you said about us? Weren't you
and your wife laughing about our climbing trees?"

Somehow Jolly Robin thought that Grunty's little eyes had a spiteful
gleam as he looked upward into the tree top. And Mrs. Robin couldn't
help moving to a higher limb. Grunty's glare sent a most uncomfortable
shiver over her.

Jolly Robin tried his best to act at his ease.

"It was just an odd thought that popped into my head," he assured Grunty
Pig. "It made Mrs. Robin giggle when I mentioned it." He laughed merrily
enough. And his wife managed to smile faintly. But Grunty Pig frowned.

"I thought so!" he cried. "You Robins were poking fun at me and my
brothers and sisters. Yes! And no doubt at my mother, too!"

"Oh, no!" Jolly Robin assured him. "We weren't thinking of any one in
particular."

"Aha!" Grunty snorted. "You were laughing at all of us, then." And Jolly
Robin could say nothing to change his opinion. "You can't fool me,"
Grunty declared. "You have insulted my whole family. And it's time that
you learned better manners. I see that I shall have to teach you a
lesson."

Well, when they heard that speech Jolly Robin and his wife had to laugh.
The idea of a lesson in manners from Grunty Pig was the funniest thing
on the farm.

[Illustration: "Always Mind Your Mother," Said Mrs. Pig.

(_Page 57_)]


XV

GRUNTY MEANS MISCHIEF


Jolly Robin and his wife told all their friends that Grunty Pig was
going to teach them a lesson. The birds had many a laugh over the
matter. Not till old Mr. Crow visited the orchard one day did the Robin
family cease chuckling over what they called "the joke of the season."

"Don't laugh too soon!" Mr. Crow croaked. "This Grunty Pig means
mischief. He isn't going to teach you the sort of lesson you've been
snickering about. What he intends to do is to harm you in some way."

Now, nobody in Pleasant Valley could look gloomier than old Mr. Crow.
And when he hinted darkly, in his hoarse way, that there was trouble
ahead for the Robin family, he threw Jolly Robin's wife into a flutter.

"Oh, what does Grunty Pig mean to do to us?" Mrs. Robin quavered.

"I'd rather not tell you," said old Mr. Crow. "I don't want you to
worry."

Mr. Crow left them then. Of course he couldn't have chosen a better way
to upset Mrs. Robin. Even Jolly himself had to admit after a while that
he could think of nothing that seemed to cheer his wife in the least.
"I'll speak to Mr. Crow again," he told his wife. "I'll ask him just
what he meant."

Alas! Mr. Crow couldn't tell him. The truth was that Mr. Crow had
already told all he knew.

"I'll ask Grunty Pig himself what he means to do to us," Jolly then
declared to his wife. "I've noticed that he digs every day at the foot
of our apple tree. The next time he comes here I'll have a talk with
him." So that very day Jolly put his question to Grunty Pig.

"What is it," he asked, "that you intend to do to us?"

"You'll find out later," said Grunty Pig. "I expect to be in the top of
your apple tree before fall. And then--"

Jolly Robin couldn't wait for him to finish. He had to laugh right out,
on the spot. And his wife, who had been listening eagerly, burst into
the first giggle that had passed her bill for days and days.

So Grunty Pig expected to climb a tree! Mr. and Mrs. Robin gave each
other a merry look. It was all too funny for words.

"Umph!" said Grunty Pig. "You won't laugh when I'm in your tree top."

"How are you going to get up here?" Jolly Robin asked him, with a wink
at Mrs. Robin. "Are you going to _fly_?"

"No!" Grunty Pig said. "No!"

"Then you're going to _climb_," cried Mrs. Robin. And both she and her
husband choked, as they pictured fat Grunty Pig scrambling up the trunk
of the old apple tree.

"No!" Grunty Pig said. "No!"

"Well, well!" Jolly Robin exclaimed. "Don't be so short with your
answers! Explain how you expect to get up into the top of our apple
tree."

"I never said I expected to get up there," Grunty Pig corrected him.

"What?" cried Jolly Robin. "What?" cried his wife.

"No!" said Grunty Pig. "I said I'd be in the tree top before fall. If I
work here every day around the foot of the tree I'll have it uprooted at
last. And when it topples over and falls on the ground I'll have no
trouble getting into the top of it."

When they heard that, Jolly Robin and his wife stopped laughing.


XVI

DANGER AHEAD


Jolly Robin and his wife were terribly worried. Grunty Pig meant to
uproot the apple tree where they had their nest. Every day he came and
dug at the foot of the tree. Every day, just before he went away, he
looked up at them and said, "I hope you'll sleep well to-night. You'd
better enjoy your home while you have it, for the tree will be flat on
the ground before fall."

Sleep! Mrs. Robin complained that she never had a good night's rest any
more. She said that she had bad dreams. She dreamed that the tree was
falling. And then she was sure to wake up with a start. And her husband
wasn't there to calm her, because he was roosting in a thicket over in
the pasture with their first brood of the season.

They both agreed--Jolly and his wife--that they must get their second
brood of children out of the nest as soon as they could.

"The moment they're old enough, we must teach them to fly," Mrs. Robin
told her husband.

"Yes!" he said. "And we'll have to be careful of them, too, with all
these seven young porkers in the orchard."

"Suppose--" said Mrs. Robin--"suppose Grunty Pig should bring our tree
toppling to the ground before the children leave the nest!"

"Oh! There's no danger of that," Jolly assured her. She was always
looking on the dark side of things. But he didn't tell her so.

"I don't know how we're going to be sure the children are safe," Mrs.
Robin continued. "How long do you think it will take Grunty Pig to
uproot our tree?"

Jolly Robin had to confess that he couldn't answer his wife's question.

"Then ask somebody who knows something about such matters!" Mrs. Robin
cried. And there was a tart note in her voice that made Jolly Robin say
hastily, "Yes! Yes, my dear! I'll go right now and find an answer to
your question."

Off he flew. And not knowing where else to go, he sat down on a bush in
Farmer Green's garden, to ponder. Who could tell him how long it would
take Grunty Pig to uproot the old apple tree? Although Jolly Robin
thought and thought, he could think of no one whom he might ask. To be
sure, there was Tommy Fox, who was known to be an able digger. But Jolly
Robin didn't trust him. Tommy Fox was tricky. And there was Billy
Woodchuck, who came from a famous family of burrowers. But everybody
knew that old dog Spot had chased him into his hole that very afternoon,
and was watching Billy's front door.

While Jolly Robin sat there in the garden he happened to look down at
the ground. And right before his eyes a long snout suddenly rose out of
the dirt, followed by the squat form of Grandfather Mole.

Jolly Robin gave a cheerful chirp. Everybody knew that Grandfather Mole
was the champion digger of Pleasant Valley. And if he couldn't answer
Mrs. Robin's question, then no one could.


XVII

A PUZZLE SOLVED


"Good morning, Grandfather Mole!" Jolly Robin called.

"What!" cried Grandfather Mole. "Have I made the mistake again of coming
up on top of Farmer Green's garden?"

"You certainly have," Jolly told him.

"I must be getting old," said Grandfather Mole. "I'm growing more
careless every day. I didn't mean to dig my way above ground." And then,
thrusting his long nose right into the dirt, he began to burrow out of
sight.

"Stop! Please stop!" Jolly Robin besought him. "I want to ask you a
question about digging."

Grandfather Mole pulled his nose out of the ground.

"What's your question?" he inquired.

"It's about Grunty Pig," Jolly Robin began.

"I thought you said it was about digging," Grandfather Mole grumbled.
And he started to burrow once more.

"So it is!" Jolly exclaimed. "I want to know how long it will take
Grunty Pig to dig up the apple tree where I live."

Again Grandfather Mole paused.

"It all depends," he muttered. "It all depends on how much of his time
he spends at digging."

"He works every day," said Jolly Robin. "A good, long while every day!"

Grandfather Mole appeared to be thinking deeply.

"He boasts--" Jolly Robin explained--"he boasts that he will have the
tree uprooted before fall."

"Nonsense!" Grandfather Mole snorted. "If Grunty Pig says that, he
doesn't know much about apple trees. He may be a fair digger; but he
must be stupid."

"That's what I've always thought!" Jolly Robin exclaimed.

"He can't go very deep into things, or he'd never have made such a
boast," Grandfather Mole declared. "When Grunty Pig digs, does he dig
right down out of sight?"

"Oh, no! Never!" said Jolly Robin.

"Ah! He merely scratches the surface!" Grandfather Mole remarked with a
wise nod of his head. "Well, it's no wonder that he made such a
mistake."

"Mistake!" Jolly Robin echoed. "Do you mean that Grunty Pig won't have
our apple tree down by fall?"

"I do," Grandfather Mole answered. "The roots of a big, old apple tree
spread out a good rod in every direction. And it would take a hundred
Grunty Pigs a whole summer to dig them free."

A broad smile spread over Jolly Robin's face.

"Then--" he ventured--"then wouldn't it take Grunty Pig a hundred
summers to dig up our tree, if he worked alone?"

"No doubt!" Grandfather replied. "Or, to be on the safe side, I'll say
he could uproot your tree in ninety-nine summers."

"Hurrah!" Jolly Robin shouted. "Hurrah--and thank you, Grandfather
Mole!" And leaving the old gentleman to dig himself out of sight, Jolly
Robin hurried home to his wife.

Mrs. Robin was glad to see him. She knew, as soon as she caught a
glimpse of his face, that he had good news for her. And she needed
cheering, poor soul! For Grunty Pig was beneath the tree again, digging
away in a most businesslike fashion.

"Let him dig!" Jolly Robin whispered to his wife. "Grandfather Mole says
it will take him ninety-nine summers to topple our tree over. And you
know that Grandfather Mole is the greatest burrower in Pleasant Valley."

Mrs. Robin felt better at once. Looking down at Grunty Pig, she said to
her husband, "How stupid this son of Mrs. Pig's is! He has turned up at
least a dozen angleworms while you've been gone. And he has let every
one of them get away from him!"


XVIII

THE LUCKIEST OF ALL


Grunty Pig found that being the smallest of the family wasn't all fun.
Not only could his brothers and sisters crowd him at the feeding trough.
Even when they were playing in the pen they often knocked him down and
walked right over him. And if he objected--as he usually did--they were
sure to laugh and call him "Runt."

Try as she would, Mrs. Pig couldn't rid her children of these boorish
ways. But she shouldn't be blamed for that. It must be remembered that
she had seven youngsters, all of the same age.

At least, Mrs. Pig did what she could to make Grunty's lot easier.

"Don't feel unhappy!" she said to him one day as he picked himself up,
whimpering, after a hard knock. "Don't feel unhappy because you are the
littlest of the family. In one way you are the luckiest of all my
children."

Grunty Pig didn't stop weeping. He saw no reason--yet--to feel more
cheerful.

"Did you know--" his mother asked him--"did you know that in one respect
you are the handsomest one of the whole litter? You have the curliest
tail of them all!"

Grunty Pig gazed, open-mouthed, at his mother. He stopped snivelling. Up
to that time he had scarcely given his tail a thought. So long as it
followed him wherever he went he had been satisfied with it.

[Illustration: Grunty Pig Stuck Fast in the Fence.

(_Page 86_)]

From that moment Grunty began to think a great deal about his tail. He
was always turning his head to look at it, to make sure it hadn't lost
any of its kink. Now and then he was even late for a meal, because he
was feasting his eyes on his tail when Farmer Green came to the pen with
food for Mrs. Pig's family.

It must be confessed that Grunty sometimes boasted before his brothers
and sisters about his beautiful curly tail. And just before meal time
his brother Blackie was known, upon occasion, to mention the subject of
tails. He did that in the hope that Grunty would be late at the feeding
trough.

Sad to say, Grunty Pig was fast becoming vain. He even talked about
tails with the neighbors, taking pains to explain that his own was the
handsomest one on the farm.

Old dog Spot sniffed when Grunty boasted about his tail one day.

"Why, your tail is of no use whatsoever," Spot told him. "You can't use
it to switch a fly off your back. The Muley Cow can do that. And so can
the old horse, Ebenezer."

"Ah! But my tail is so pretty to look at!" Grunty Pig exclaimed.

"You can't puff it up to show you're angry, as Miss Kitty Cat does,"
said Spot.

"Ah! But my tail has a beautiful curl!" said Grunty Pig.

"You can't wag it, to let folks know you're friendly, as I can," said
Spot.

"Ah! But my tail is _so_ handsome!" Grunty Pig exclaimed.


XIX

DOG SPOT'S PLAN


When Grunty Pig insisted that his own tightly curled tail was the most
beautiful one in the neighborhood, old dog Spot yawned.

"If that's the case," he remarked, "I should think you'd want your tail
where you could see it more easily. Don't you find it a nuisance to have
to turn your head around every time you want to look at your tail?"

Grunty Pig admitted that his tail wasn't in the most convenient place in
the world.

"If Farmer Green should cut off your tail and nail it up on the outside
of the barn," old Spot suggested, "you could look at it easily enough.
And it would give others a better chance to see it, too. Even the people
that drive along the road could enjoy it. Everybody spoke about the tall
corn that we nailed to the barn last fall. And I'm sure that folks would
admire your tail."

When Spot spoke of Farmer Green's cutting off his tail, Grunty Pig
winced. But as the old dog talked on and on Grunty forgot the painful
part of the plan.

"There's no doubt," he agreed, "that my tail would be a fine sight,
fastened up on the barn where everybody could gaze at it. But don't you
think, Mr. Spot, that I'd look very queer without any tail?"

"N--no!" Spot told him. "N--no! I've seen plenty of pigs without tails.
They didn't look queer at all. Really, they looked better without tails
than they would have looked with them."

Grunty Pig had listened carefully to what Spot said. Yet somehow he
couldn't quite make up his mind to part with his beautiful tail, even if
it would delight many more people when nailed to the outside of the
barn.

"I'd like to see one of those pigs," he said to Spot. "I'd like to see
how they look."

"That's easily arranged," old Spot told him. "I can show you a dozen of
them--all as pink and white and happy as they can be. And not a single
one of them with a tail!"

"I'd certainly like to see them," Grunty Pig murmured.

"They're a pretty sight," Spot assured him. "Don't you think you'd feel
uncomfortable if you appeared before them with a tail? Don't you want
to have yours cut off _before_ you go to see these tailless little
fellows? It seems to me you'd be more at your ease. It would certainly
be _polite_ of you."

Grunty Pig, however, cared little for politeness. He said that nobody
was polite to him. His brothers--and even his sisters--were always
knocking him down and trampling on him.

"Very well!" said Spot. "Squirm through that fence and follow me."

It was a tight squeeze. When Grunty Pig was half through the hole in the
fence he found himself stuck fast. He could move neither forward nor
back. "Oh, dear!" he wailed. "What shall I do?"

"Keep perfectly still!" old dog Spot cautioned him--as if Grunty Pig
could do anything else. "I'll jump the fence and help you."

Now, Grunty Pig thought that old Spot intended to give him a push.
Instead, Spot nipped him smartly.

It was exactly the sort of help that Grunty needed. He gave a frantic
plunge forward and fell, sprawling, on the ground outside the yard,
where Spot soon joined him.

"It takes old Spot to hurry 'em along," said the old dog gleefully.

Grunty Pig said "Umph! .

[51] Egypt Under the Pharaohs, by Brugsch-Bey.

London, 1891, pp. 205, 206, 208

.

[52] Records of the Past, Vol.

XII., p. 37 _et seq._
[53] Bunsen. Egypt's Place in Hist., etc., III., p. 142, etc.; also
Records of Past, above cited

.

[54] An Essay of Scarabs, by W.J. Loftie, B.A., F.S.A. London, (125
copies printed,) pp. 37, 38.

V.

WHERE USUALLY FOUND AND THE MODE OF WEARING SCARABS BY THE EGYPTIANS. BOOK
OF THE DEAD.

EGYPTIAN SCARABS FOUND IN MESOPOTAMIA. THE SCARAB IN CHRISTIANITY.

The small sized scarabs were usually incised with hieroglyphics and
perforated longitudinally; they are generally found on the breasts
of mummies next the skin or suspended from the neck, by a wire of
gold or other metal, or a string going through them, or worn like
a ring stone on the forefinger of the left hand; and sometimes,
grasped inside of the closed left hand.

The inscriptions on them usually run from right to left. One method
of wearing them by the living, a very ancient one, was by stringing
them on a cord or a wire, so that they could be worn as a bracelet on
the wrist, a necklace around the throat, or as a pendant to a
necklace.

The engraved base serving not only as an amulet but also as the private
signet of the owner. Soldiers wore them suspended around the neck, as a
talisman when going into battle and also to instil courage in them
during the fray.

But the most usual mode of mounting them by the living, was as a
stone for a finger ring on a swivel, or a wire, passing through the
longitudinal perforation and then curved into a ring shape; this
was usually worn on the forefinger of the left hand, as that finger
was thought by the Egyptians, to contain a nerve leading directly
to the heart; the engraved part was turned next to the flesh.

M. Mariette says, that the mummies of the XIth Dynasty nearly always
have a scarab on the little finger of the left hand.[55]
Sometimes they were made of baked clay or cut in steatite, with the
head of a hawk, cow, ram, dog, cat, lion, or even of a man, and
such have been found buried with the mummies.

Those found on the breasts of mummies embalmed most carefully and
expensively, and in immediate contact with the flesh, have sometimes
bodies of stone with extended wings, as if flying; these wings
sometimes having been made of metal, frequently of gold, and at
other times of cut stone.[56] Those found made of stone with extended
wings, also had the latter often made of lead or silver; when of
blue pottery, the wings were generally made of the same material.

On the lids of the outer cases of many coffins, especially of the
finest; the position over the breast of the mummy was occupied by
a large winged scarabæus, moulded apparently, of pasteboard or of
successive layers of gummed linen, and then beautifully painted in
colors.

This was to act as the protector Khepra, of the _ka_ or immaterial
vitality of the _sahu_ or mummy.

The Egyptians had a complicated psychology which we will refer to more
fully hereafter.

Those within the coverings were most probably put inside of the
mummy wrappings to act as talisman, like the writing upon the linen
wrappings, and the bandelettes inscribed with texts from the Book
of the Dead, or, the _Shait an Sensen_, i.e., Book of the Breathings
of Life, and as also were enclosed, copies of entire chapters and
parts, of the Book of the Dead, written upon papyrus or linen; or
inscribed on the large stone scarabs, which were put in the body
of the corpse, to take the place of the heart, the last having been
deposited with the lungs, in the jar of Tuamautef, one of the four
Canopic jars.

To tell the truth, he seemed to
feel somewhat ashamed of himself for having tried to play a trick on
Grunty Pig.

Or maybe he felt ashamed because he was caught at it.


XXI

BEECHNUTS


Down the hill, a little way from Farmer Green's house, a great beech
tree stood beside the road. In the fall, when the nuts were ripe,
Johnnie Green often visited the tree. And so did Frisky Squirrel. And
so, likewise, did that noisy rascal, Jasper Jay. They liked
beechnuts--all three. And somehow they got the notion that the beech
tree belonged to them--and to nobody else.

One fine, crisp fall day when Johnnie Green was in school, a fourth
nut-lover wandered down the road, stopped right between the wheel
tracks, and sniffed. It was Grunty Pig. "I smell beechnuts!" he cried
with a joyful squeal. And crashing into the light underbrush along the
roadside, he began to search among the fallen leaves with his long nose.

Soon Grunty came upon a cluster of the three-sided nuts, clinging inside
a bur that the frost had split open. He ate the sweet nuts, shells and
all. And with many a grunt of delight he grubbed beneath the tree from
which the nuts had fallen. His keen nose led him to burs that Johnnie
Green had trampled over that very morning, and missed.

"I wonder--" said Grunty Pig aloud--"I wonder why nobody ever told me
about this beech tree."

"Perhaps it was because you are a pig," said a voice right over his
head.

He looked up. And there on a low branch sat Frisky Squirrel. Grunty
knew him; he had sometimes seen him around Farmer Green's corncrib.

"Of course I'm a Pig," Grunty retorted. "I'm Mrs. Pig's son."

"Well, Mrs. Pig's son, I notice that you have helped yourself freely to
beechnuts."

"I've eaten all I could find," Grunty told Frisky with a grin.

"I don't hear any thanks," Frisky Squirrel remarked. "Don't you know
that these beechnuts belong to me and Jasper Jay and Johnnie Green?"

"Umph!"

"You did?" Frisky inquired.

"Umph!"

"Oh, you didn't!" Frisky exclaimed. "Then I suppose I shall have to
pardon you. But Jasper Jay wouldn't, if he caught you taking any of the
nuts that fall from this tree."

There was truth in what Frisky said. Even as he spoke a patch of blue
flashed in the top of the beech tree. And a harsh voice sang out,
"What's going on here?"

Jasper Jay had arrived.

Grunty Pig, however, did not even give Jasper a glance. Instead, he
began nosing about for another beechnut bur.

For a moment or two Jasper Jay watched him. And then Jasper began to
squawk.

"Stop that!" he ordered. "Don't you dare to take any of our beechnuts!"

"Umph!" said Grunty Pig. "I can't find any more on the ground. So I
suppose I shall have to obey him," Grunty muttered half under his
breath.

"Don't mumble! Speak up!" cried Jasper Jay. "If you have any excuses to
make, let's hear them!"


XXII

JASPER JAY OBJECTS


While Jasper Jay, in the beech tree, waited for Grunty Pig, on the
ground, to speak up and make his excuses for taking beechnuts, a bur
dropped from a twig and landed right in front of Grunty's nose. He fell
upon it greedily. And, tearing it open, he devoured the nuts with
relish.

For a few moments his action struck Jasper Jay dumb. That blue-coated
rascal turned to Frisky Squirrel, who clung to a limb near-by.

"Well, did you ever?" Jasper gasped. And then, having found his voice,
Jasper began to use it on Grunty Pig.

Now, Jasper Jay was a wild fellow. He often used words that made the
gentler folk in Pleasant Valley shudder. And he called Grunty Pig names
that would have made many a person angry.

Grunty Pig, however, never even blinked. And after a while Jasper Jay
used up all his special words, which he generally employed at such
times. He gave Frisky Squirrel a helpless look.

"My! My! Isn't this chap thick-skinned?" he exclaimed.

"Certainly I am!" cried Grunty Pig. "That's why I like to wallow in
mud."

"Ha!" Jasper Jay sniffed. And he spoke again to Frisky Squirrel. "This
chap is thick-headed, too. I see that I'm going to have trouble making
him understand what I say."

Frisky Squirrel merely grinned at his companion.

"Look here, young Porker!" Jasper called to Grunty Pig. "Doesn't Farmer
Green feed you?"

The name "Porker" made Grunty Pig look up.

"I'm Mrs. Pig's son," he said. "Don't call me 'Porker'!"

"Well--Pig, then!" Jasper Jay squalled. "Doesn't Farmer Green feed you?"

"Yes!"

"Well, then--don't come here and take our nuts! Didn't your mother ever
teach you that things that grow on trees--such things as nuts--belong to
the people that live in the trees?"

"Does Johnnie Green live in this tree?" Grunty Pig inquired.

"He spends half his time here--or a quarter, anyhow," Jasper Jay
grumbled. "And you may be sure he gets his share of these beechnuts.
Goodness knows he leaves few enough for me and my friend here.

"Now," Jasper Jay went on, "I want you to promise not to eat any more of
our nuts."

Grunty Pig shook his head.

"I can't promise that, exactly," he said. "But I'll promise not to eat
any that I don't find on the ground."

"Huh!" Jasper Jay scoffed. "That means that you won't eat any nuts that
you can't reach. That's no promise at all. It's nothing but a threat.
It's the same as saying that you're going to eat every nut that drops
off this tree."

Grunty Pig made no reply. He would have wandered on, but for a fresh
breeze that had begun to whip the branches of the beech tree. He decided
to wait there. More burs might fall. And Grunty wanted to be on hand to
meet them when they dropped.

"Go home!" Jasper Jay shrieked at him. "Go back to your pigpen where you
belong. We don't want you here." And he said many more things that were
still ruder.

But Grunty Pig never showed the least sign of anger. He didn't even let
Jasper Jay know that he had heard. When the wind died down he waddled
off down the road. And Frisky Squirrel followed him through the tree
tops. When they had travelled out of Jasper Jay's sight and hearing,
Frisky asked Grunty Pig a question.

"I should like to know," he said, "how you managed to keep still when
Jasper was abusing you. I know that I should have lost my temper. Can it
be that you didn't hear what he said?"

"Oh, I heard him clearly enough," said Grunty. "But there was no sense
in my getting angry with _him_. If he had been standing on the ground
near me he would never have dared talk to me as he did. Jasper Jay
called me names because he was safe in the tree. If he hadn't had that
tree to help him he'd never have dared say what he did.

"To tell the truth, I am a bit out of patience with that beech tree,"
Grunty confessed. "It played me a mean trick. And I hope there'll be a
raging wind to-night that will rob it of every bur it has.... I'd uproot
the beech," he added, "if I didn't like beechnuts so much."

"Well, you _are_ an odd one," said Frisky Squirrel.

"If everybody was as odd as I am there'd be fewer Jasper Jays in the
world," Grunty Pig declared.


XXIII

MOSES MOUSE'S WAY


One day when Grunty Pig was at home, in the pigpen, a squeaky voiced
piped "Good morning!" to him. Looking up, Grunty saw a plump little
gentleman clinging to the top board on one side of the pen.

"Good morning!" Grunty answered. "May I inquire what your name is?"

"I'm Moses Mouse," his caller replied.

"Do you live in the piggery?--or in the barn?" Grunty asked him.

"Neither!" said Moses Mouse. "I live in the farmhouse. My wife and I
have a nest in the wall.... The cat's away," he explained. "That's why
I decided to stroll across the yard and visit you folks out here."

"Some people," said Grunty Pig, "have all the luck. You live in the
farmhouse. Miss Kitty Cat lives in the farmhouse--when she's at home.
And old dog Spot spends a good deal of his time there--especially in
cold weather. It must be pleasant to have your home where there's always
plenty to eat, whenever you happen to feel hungry."

"Miss Kitty Cat and old dog Spot always fare well," Mr. Mouse admitted.
"But I've often gone to bed half starved. Maybe you didn't know that
Mrs. Green is terribly neat. She doesn't leave much food around for us
Mice."

"Well," Grunty remarked, "it's an honor, anyhow, to live in the
farmhouse. You ought not to complain about the food, even if it is a
bit scarce at times. I'd be glad to live there. And I dare say I'd find
a plenty to eat. The farmhouse is where the sour milk comes from."

"If you feel like that," said Moses Mouse, "why don't you join us? Why
don't you come to the farmhouse for the winter, anyhow?"

Grunty Pig shook his head.

"No!" he said, half to himself. "No! I can't do it."

"Why not?" Mr. Mouse wanted to know.

"I've never been invited," Grunty told him, with something like a frown.

Moses Mouse surprised him with a merry laugh.

"Ho!" he exclaimed. "Neither have I. If I had waited for an invitation I
wouldn't be living in the farmhouse. I'd have shivered my days out in
the barn."

Grunty Pig looked at his caller with growing interest. He would have
said that so tiny a gentleman would be too timid to crowd in where he
wasn't asked.

"Don't wait any longer for an invitation," Moses Mouse urged him. "Go to
the farmhouse and walk right in."

"Oughtn't I to rap?" Grunty inquired.

"Certainly not!" said Moses Mouse. "Make yourself right at home. Act as
if the farmhouse belonged to you. That's the way I do. And nobody ever
bothers me, except Miss Kitty Cat--or Miss Snooper, as we Mice call her.
Even she can't drive me away from the farmhouse. I lived there before
she ever came to Pleasant Valley."

"She certainly couldn't drive me away," Grunty Pig muttered. "Besides,
didn't you say she was away herself?"

"Yes!" said Moses Mouse. "And I hope she has gone for good."

"Then," said Grunty Pig, "it ought to be quite safe for me to go to the
farmhouse. And as soon as I have a chance to get out of this pen I'll do
as you suggest."

"Good!" cried Moses Mouse. And he said that he hoped to have many a chat
with Grunty, at the farmhouse.

"Umph!" said Grunty Pig. And Mr. Mouse was much pleased, for he took
that to mean "Yes!"


XXIV

A PIG IN THE PARLOR


Grunty Pig had got out of his pen and out of the piggery, too. Ever
since his talk with Moses Mouse the day before he had been hoping for a
chance to escape. And shuffling across the farmyard somewhat
heavily--for he was growing longer and taller and fatter every
day--Grunty went straight to the woodshed door. It was open. And he
walked through it. Then he clattered over the woodshed floor and peered
into the kitchen. There was no one there.

For a few moments Grunty stood sniffing in the doorway. A delicious
odor greeted him. He wasn't sure what it was. A pan sat near the edge
of the table. And Grunty Pig had no trouble upsetting it with his nose.

Doughnuts rolled in every direction--crisp, brown, freshly fried
doughnuts. And Grunty Pig showed that he was thoughtful. He went to the
trouble of picking them all up off the floor. But he forgot to drop them
back into the pan. Instead, he put every one of them into his own mouth.

"That Moses Mouse was all wrong," he murmured. "He complained of the
food here. When I see him I'll have to tell him that he was mistaken.
Why, I never ate anything that tasted better than these rings!"

After making sure that there was nothing else for him to devour in the
kitchen Grunty Pig pushed through a door that stood ajar. He found
himself in a long, dimly lighted hall. There were doors on both sides of
it. Grunty nosed around each one in turn. Not till he came to the last
of all, at the further end of the hall, did he find one that wasn't shut
tight. This door yielded to a little gentle pushing. And Grunty then
found himself--though he did not know it--in the parlor of the
farmhouse.

As he stood still and gazed about him, who should come stealing into the
room but Moses Mouse.

"Ah!" said Moses in a whisper. "So you've arrived at last?"

"Yes!" said Grunty Pig. "Isn't this a fine pen? Now that I've come to
the farmhouse to live I believe I'll make this pen my headquarters."

"That's a good idea," Moses Mouse told him. "Farmer Green's family don't
use it often. They seldom come here unless they have company."

While he listened, Grunty Pig sidled up to a table in the center of the
room and began, in an absent-minded fashion, to rub his back against it.
To his surprise, the table tipped over and a lamp that had stood upon it
crashed into a hundred pieces on the floor. Then a door slammed
somewhere. And steps sounded in the hall.

Moses Mouse tried not to look startled.

"I must be going now," he said abruptly. "I'll see you later." Murray
and Mr.

Hamilton Smith in their, Catalogue of Gems, gave a list of scarabs
and scaraboids. In 1889 Mr.

Flinders Petrie published, Historical Scarabs: A series of Drawings from
the Principal Collections, Arranged Chronologically. This book has only
nine small pages of description but they are valuable. In his, History
of Egypt, Prof.

Wiedemann has catalogued a great many scarabs.

I have not seen any of the above works except that by Bellermann,
that published in Vienna, and those by Loftie and Petrie, all of which
I have in my Library. Since my book was printed, I have had my attention
called to, The Mummy, Chapters on Egyptian Funeral Archæology, by
E.A. Wallis Budge, Litt. D., F.S.A., Cambridge. At the University
Press, 1893."Now, I wonder why Mrs. Green put me out of the farmhouse," he muttered.

Suddenly an idea popped into his head. "It must be," he cried, "because
I told tales. I tattled on Moses Mouse; and Mrs. Green didn't like it.
Next time I'll be careful about what I say to her."

There never was a next time. Perhaps Farmer Green took pains to keep the
door of Grunty's pen shut. Perhaps Farmer Green made the fence outside
the piggery "hog tight," as he would say. Or perhaps Grunty Pig grew so
fat that he couldn't squeeze through any ordinary opening.

Anyhow, Grunty never set foot inside the farmhouse again. After a while
he didn't care. The bigger he was, the less he liked to roam about. And
at last Farmer Green began calling him his "prize hog."

So you can see how very fat he must have been.


THE END


Little Jack Rabbit Books

(Trademark Registered)

By DAVID CORY

Author of "Little Journeys to Happyland"

=Colored Wrappers With Text Illustrations.=

A new and unique series about the furred and feathered little people of
the wood and meadow.

Children will eagerly follow the doings of little Jack Rabbit, and the
clever way in which he escapes from his three enemies, Danny Fox, Mr.
Wicked Wolf and Hungry Hawk will delight the youngsters.

LITTLE JACK RABBIT'S ADVENTURES
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND DANNY FOX
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND THE SQUIRREL BROTHERS
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND CHIPPY CHIPMUNK
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND THE BIG BROWN BEAR
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND UNCLE JOHN HARE
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND PROFESSOR CROW
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND OLD MAN WEASEL
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND MR. WICKED WOLF
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND HUNGRY HAWK
LITTLE-JACK RABBIT AND THE POLICEMAN DOG
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND MISS MOUSIE
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND UNCLE LUCKY
LITTLE JACK RABBIT AND THE YELLOW DOG TRAMP

GROSSET & DUNLAP, _Publishers_, NEW YORK


THE PUSS-IN-BOOTS, Jr. SERIES

By DAVID CORY

Author of "The Little Jack Rabbit Stories" and "Little Journeys to
Happyland"

=Handsomely Bound. Colored Wrappers. Illustrated. Each Volume Complete in
Itself.=

To know Puss Junior once is to love him forever. That's the way all the
little people feel about this young, adventurous cat, son of a very
famous father.

THE ADVENTURES OF PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR.

FURTHER ADVENTURES OF PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR.

PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR. IN FAIRYLAND

TRAVELS OF PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR.

PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., AND OLD MOTHER GOOSE

PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., IN NEW MOTHER GOOSE LAND

PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., AND THE GOOD GRAY HORSE

PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., AND TOM THUMB

PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., AND ROBINSON CRUSOE

PUSS-IN-BOOTS, JR., AND THE MAN IN THE MOON

GROSSET & DUNLAP, _Publishers_, NEW YORK


HAPPY HOME SERIES

By HOWARD R. GARIS

=Individual Colored Wrappers and Colored Illustrations by=
LANG CAMPBELL

Mr. Garis has written many stories for boys and girls, among them his
Uncle Wiggly volumes, but these books are something distinctly new,
surprising and entertaining.


ADVENTURES OF THE GALLOPING GAS STOVE

A tale of how Gassy mysteriously disappeared, and how he came riding
home on the back of an elephant. It is also related how he broke his
leg, and fed a hungry family in a cottage near a lake.


ADVENTURES of the RUNAWAY ROCKING CHAIR

Racky creaked and groaned when fat Grandma sat on him too hard. He felt
himself ill-treated, so he vanished. He did not intend to take Grandma's
glasses with him, but he did. And he rocked a bunny to sleep.


ADVENTURES OF THE TRAVELING TABLE

Tippy, the table, always wanted to travel and see the world, but he did
not know how to start. Until, all of a sudden, a diamond ring was hidden
in his leg and a balloon carried him off through the air.


ADVENTURES OF THE SLIDING FOOT STOOL

Just because he did not want to be used as a milking stool by the Maiden
All Forlorn, Skiddy slid away Christmas eve. With him went Jack the
Jumper, and they had a wonderful time in the top shop.


Another text reads: "O it who establishes the mysteries which are
in me, produce the transformations as Khepra, going out of the
condition of the disk so as to give light (or, to enlighten.)"

Chapter LXIV., line 16. (Comp. also chapter XCIII.)
GROSSET & DUNLAP, PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK




CAROLYN WELLS BOOKS

=Attractively Bound. Illustrated. Colored Wrappers.=

THE MARJORIE BOOKS

Marjorie is a happy little girl of twelve, up to mischief, but full of
goodness and sincerity. In her and her friends every girl reader will
see much of her own love of fun, play and adventure.

MARJORIE'S VACATION

MARJORIE'S BUSY DAYS

MARJORIE'S NEW FRIEND

MARJORIE IN COMMAND

MARJORIE'S MAYTIME

MARJORIE AT SEACOTE


THE TWO LITTLE WOMEN SERIES

Introducing Dorinda Fayre--a pretty blonde, sweet, serious, timid and a
little slow, and Dorothy Rose--a sparkling brunette, quick, elf-like,
high tempered, full of mischief and always getting into scrapes.

TWO LITTLE WOMEN

TWO LITTLE WOMEN AND TREASURE HOUSE

TWO LITTLE WOMEN ON A HOLIDAY


THE DICK AND DOLLY BOOKS

Dick and Dolly are brother and sister, and their games, their pranks,
their joys and sorrows, are told in a manner which makes the stories
"really true" to young readers.

DICK AND DOLLY

DICK AND DOLLY'S ADVENTURES

GROSSET & DUNLAP, PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK