A vegetarian needs only to consider the amount of protein necessary, and
obtained from the food eaten. The other nutrients will be supplied in
proportions correct enough to satisfy the body requirements under normal
conditions of health. The only thing to take note of is that more fat
and carbohydrates are needed in cold weather than hot, the body
requiring more fuel for warmth. But even this is not essential: the
essential thing is to have the required amount of protein. In passing,
it is interesting to observe the following: the fact that in a mixed
fruitarian diet the proportion of the nutrient compounds is such as to
satisfy natural requirements is another proof of the suitability of the
vegetable regimen to the human organism. It is a provision of Nature
that those foods man's digestive organs are constructed to assimilate
with facility, and man's organs of taste, smell, and perception best
prefer, are those foods containing chemical compounds in proportions
best suited to nourish his body.

One of the many reasons why flesh-eating is deleterious is that flesh is
an ill-balanced food, containing, as it does, considerable protein and
fat, but no carbohydrates or neutralising salts whatever. As the body
requires three to four times more carbohydrates than protein, and
protein cannot be properly assimilated without organic minerals, it is
seen that with the customary 'bread, meat and boiled potatoes' diet,
this proportion is not obtained. Prof. Chittenden holds the opinion that
the majority of people partake greatly in excess of food rich in
protein.

No hard and fast rule can be laid down to different persons require
different foods and foods and amounts at different times under different

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
|[Transcriber's note: It is regretted that a line has been missed by the|
|typesetter.]                                                           |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+

regulate the amount, or proper proportions, of food
material for a well-balanced dietary, as amounts, and the same person
requires different ferent conditions. Professor W. O. Atwater, an
American, makes the following statement: 'As the habits and conditions
of individuals differ, so, too, their needs for nourishment differ, and
their food should be adapted to their particular requirements. It has
been estimated that an average man at moderately active labor, like a
carpenter, or mason, should have (daily) about 115 grams (1750 grains)
or 0.25 pound of available protein, and sufficient fuel ingredients in
addition to make the fuel value of the whole diet 3,400 calories; while
a man at sedentary employment would be well nourished with 92 grams
(1400 grains) or 0.20 pound of available protein, and enough fat and
carbohydrates in addition to yield 2,700 calories of energy. The demands
are, however, variable, increasing and decreasing with increase and
decrease of muscular work, or as other needs of the person change. Each
person, too, should learn by experience what kinds of food yield him
nourishment with the least discomfort, and should avoid those which do
not "agree" with him.'

It has been stated that unless the body is supplied with protein, hunger
will be felt, no matter if the stomach be over-loaded with
non-nitrogenous food. If a hungry man ate heartily of _only_ such foods
as fresh fruit and green vegetables he might soon experience a feeling
of fulness, but his hunger would not be appeased. Nature asks for
protein, and hunger will continue so long as this want remains
unsatisfied. Similarly as food is the first necessity of life, so is
protein the first necessity in food. If a person were deprived of
protein starvation must inevitably ensue.

Were we (by 'we' is meant the generality of people in this country), to
weigh out our food supply, for, say a week, we should soon realise what
a large reduction from the usual quantity of food consumed would have to
be made, and instead of eating, as is customary, without an appetite,
hunger might perhaps once a day make itself felt. There is little doubt
but that the health of most people would be vastly improved if food were
only eaten when genuine hunger was felt, and the dietary chosen were
well balanced, _i.e._, the proportions of protein, fat, carbohydrates
and salts being about 3, 2, 9, 2-3. As aforesaid, the mixed vegetarian
dietary is, in general, well-balanced.

While speaking about too much food, it may be pointed out that the
function of appetite is to inform us that the body is in need of
nutriment. The appetite was intended by Nature for this purpose, yet how
few people wait upon appetite! The generality of people eat by time,
custom, habit, and sensual desire; not by appetite at all. If we eat
when not hungry, and drink when not thirsty, we are doing the body no
good but positive harm. The organs of digestion are given work that is
unnecessary, thus detracting from the vital force of the body, for there
is only a limited amount of potential energy, and if some of this is
spent unnecessarily in working the internal organs, it follows that
there is less energy for working the muscles or the brain. So that an
individual who habitually overfeeds becomes, after a time, easily tired,
physically lazy, weak, perhaps if temperamentally predisposed, nervous
and hypochondriacal. Moreover, over-eating not only adds to the general
wear and tear, thus probably shortening life, but may even result in
positive disease, as well as many minor complaints such as constipation,
dyspepsia, flatulency, obesity, skin troubles, rheumatism, lethargy,
etc.

Just as there is danger in eating too much, so there is much harm done
by drinking too much. The evil of stimulating drinks will be spoken of
later; at present reference is made only to water and harmless
concoctions such as lime-juice, unfermented wines, etc. To drink when
thirsty is right and natural; it shows that the blood is concentrated
and is in want of fluid. But to drink merely for the pleasure of
drinking, or to carry out some insane theory like that of 'washing out'
the system is positively dangerous. The human body is not a dirty barrel
needing swilling out with a hose-pipe. It is a most delicate piece of
mechanism, so delicate that the abuse of any of its parts tends to throw
the entire system out of order. It is the function of the blood to
remove all the waste products from the tissues and to supply the fresh
material to take the place of that which has been removed. Swilling the
system out with liquid does not in any way accelerate or aid the
process, but, on the contrary, retards and impedes it. It dilutes the
blood, thus creating an abnormal condition in the circulatory system,
and may raise the pressure of blood and dilate the heart. Also it
dilutes the secretions which will therefore 'act slowly and
inefficiently, and more or less fermentation and putrefaction will
meanwhile be going on in the food masses, resulting in the formation of
gases, acids, and decomposition products.'

Eating and drinking too much are largely the outcome of sensuality. To
see a man eat sensually is to know how great a sensualist he is.
Sensualism is a vice which manifests itself in many forms. Poverty has
its blessings. It compels abstinence from rich and expensive foods and
provides no means for surfeit. Epicurus was not a glutton. Socrates
lived on bread and water, as did Sir Isaac Newton. Mental culture is not
fostered by gluttony, but gluttony is indulged in at the expense of
mental culture. The majority of the world's greatest men have led
comparatively simple lives, and have regarded the body as a temple to be
kept pure and holy.

We have now to consider (_a_) what to eat, (_b_) when to eat, (_c_) how
to eat. First, then, we will consider the nutritive properties of the
common food-stuffs.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 3: This is not an exaggeration. 'Genoa Cake,' for instance,
contains ten varieties of food: butter, sugar, eggs, flour, milk,
sultanas, orange and lemon peel, almonds, and baking powder.]


II

WHAT TO EAT


Among the foods rich in protein are the legumes, the cereals, and nuts.
Those low in protein are fresh fruits, green vegetables, and roots. Fat
is chiefly found in nuts, olives, and certain pulses, particularly the
peanut; and carbohydrates in cereals, pulses, and many roots. Fruit and
green vegetables consist mostly of water and organic mineral compounds,
and in the case of the most juicy varieties may be regarded more as
drink than food. We have, then, six distinct classes of food--the
pulses, cereals, nuts, fruits, green vegetables, and roots. Let us
briefly consider the nutritive value of each.

Pulse foods usually form an important item in a vegetarian dietary. They
are very rich in their nutritive properties, and even before matured are
equal or superior in value to any other green vegetable. 'The ripened
seed shows by analysis a very remarkable contrast to most of the matured
foods, as the potato and other tubers, and even to the best cereals, as
wheat. This superiority lies in the large amount of nitrogen in the
form of protein that they contain.' Peas, beans, and lentils should be
eaten very moderately, being highly concentrated foods. The removal of
the skins from peas and beans, also of the germs of beans, by
parboiling, is recommended, as they are then more easily digested and
less liable to 'disagree.' These foods, it is interesting to know are
used extensively by the vegetarian nations. The Mongol procures his
supply of protein chiefly from the Soya bean from which he makes
different preparations of bean cheese and sauce. It is said that the
poorer classes of Spaniards and the Bedouins rely on a porridge of
lentils for their mainstay. In India and China where rice is the staple
food, beans are eaten to provide the necessary nitrogenous matter, as
rice alone is considered deficient in protein.

With regard to the pulse foods, Dr. Haig, in his works on uric acid,
states that, containing as they do considerable xanthin, an exceedingly
harmful poison, they are not to be commended as healthful articles of
diet. He states that he has found the pulses to contain even more
xanthin than many kinds of flesh-meat, and as it is this poison in flesh
that causes him to so strongly condemn the eating of meat, he naturally
condemns the eating of any foods in which this poison exists in any
considerable quantity. He writes: 'So far as I know the "vegetarians" of
this country are decidedly superior in endurance to those feeding on
animal tissues, who might otherwise be expected to equal them; but
these "vegetarians" would be still better if they not only ruled out
animal flesh, but also eggs, the pulses (peas, beans, lentils and
peanuts), eschew nuts, asparagus, and mushrooms, as well as tea, coffee
and cocoa, all of which contain a large amount of uric acid, or
substances physiologically equivalent to it.'

Dr. Haig attributes many diseases and complaints to the presence of uric
acid in the blood and its deposits in the tissues: 'Uric acid diseases
fall chiefly in two groups: (a) The arthritic group, comprising gout,
rheumatism, and similar affections of many fibrous tissues throughout
the body; (b) the circulation group including headache, epilepsy, mental
depression, anæmia, Bright's disease, etc.' Speaking with regard to
rheumatism met with among the vegetarian natives of India, Dr. Haig
writes: 'I believe it will appear, on investigation, that in those parts
of India where rice and fresh vegetables form the staple foods, not only
rheumatism, but uric acid diseases generally are little known, whereas
in those parts where pulses are largely consumed, they are
common--almost universal.'

The cereals constitute the mainstay of vegetarians all the world over,
and although not superior to nuts, must be considered an exceedingly
valuable, and, in some cases, essential food material. They differ
considerably in their nutritive properties, so it is necessary to
examine the worth of each separately.

Wheat, though not universally the most extensively used of the cereals,
is the most popular and best known cereal in this country. It has been
cultivated for ages and has been used by nearly all peoples. It is
customary to grind the berries into a fine meal which is mixed with
water and baked. There are various opinions about the comparative value
of white and whole-wheat flour. There is no doubt but that the
whole-wheat flour containing, as it does, more woody fibre than the
white, has a tendency to increase the peristaltic action of the
intestines, and thus is valuable for persons troubled with
constipation.[4] From a large number of analyses it has been determined
that entire wheat flour contains about 2.4 per cent. more protein than
white flour (all grades), yet experiments have demonstrated that the
_available_ protein is less in entire wheat-flour than in white
flour.[5] This is probably due to the fact that the protein which is
enclosed in the bran cannot be easily assimilated, as the digestive
organs are unable to break up the outer walls of woody fibre and extract
the nitrogenous matter they contain. On the other hand whole-wheat flour
contains considerably more valuable and available mineral matter than
does white flour. The two outer layers contain compounds of phosphorus,
lime, iron, and soda. Analyses by Atwater show entire-wheat flour to
contain twice as much mineral matter as white flour. It is affirmed by
Broadbent and others, that this mineral matter is exceedingly valuable
both as a nutrient, and because of its neutralising effect upon proteid
wastes, and that it is because of this that flour made from the
entire-wheat berry has very superior food value to that made from the
berry minus the outer cuticles. Many dietetists look upon whole-wheat
bread as one of the most salutary of all foods and strongly advise its
use in place of white bread. A well-known doctor states that he has
known it a cure for many diseases, and thinks that many nervous
complaints due to 'saline starvation' can be cured by substituting
whole-meal for white bread.

But in opposition to these views Dr. Haig thinks that as the outer brown
husk of all cereals contains some xanthin, it should on this account be
removed. He therefore recommends white flour, (not superfine, but
cheap-grade), in place of the entire-wheat. Others, however, are of the
opinion that the amount of xanthin present in the bran is so small as
not to be considered, especially when, by the removal of the xanthin,
valuable mineral matter is also removed.

Of course, it is difficult for a layman to form an opinion when experts
differ. Perhaps the best thing to do is to use whole-wheat bread if
there is any tendency to constipation. If not, then choose that which is
the more palatable, or change from one to the other as inclination
dictates. This adds to variety, and as digestion is better when the food
is better relished, no doubt, in this case, that which pleases the taste
best is the best to eat. At least, we can hold this view tentatively for
the present.

