'
                                      Then once more,
   'Are you that Lady Psyche,' I began,
   'That on her bridal morn before she past
   From all her old companions, when the kind
   Kissed her pale cheek, declared that ancient ties
   Would still be dear beyond the southern hills;
   That were there any of our people there
   In want or peril, there was one to hear
   And help them? look! for such are these and I.'
   'Are you that Psyche,' Florian asked, 'to whom,
   In gentler days, your arrow-wounded fawn
   Came flying while you sat beside the well?
   The creature laid his muzzle on your lap,
   And sobbed, and you sobbed with it, and the blood
   Was sprinkled on your kirtle, and you wept.
   That was fawn's blood, not brother's, yet you wept.
   O by the bright head of my little niece,
   You were that Psyche, and what are you now?'
   
   
   [94] Greeley, vol. ii, pp. 517,
                                518.
   
   [95] Many of these had previously
   been in the three months', nine
   months', and three years' service, from which
   they had been honorably discharged.
   
   [96] This gives Colored Troops enlisted in the
   States in rebellion; besides
   this, there were 92,576 Colored Troops (included
   with the white soldiers) in the quotas of
   the several States.
   
   
   CHAPTER XIX.
   
   NEGROES AS SOLDIERS.
   
   JUSTIFICATION OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IN THE EMPLOYMENT OF SLAVES
AS SOLDIERS.

        --TRIALS OF THE NEGRO SOLDIER.--HE UNDERGOES
   PERSECUTION FROM THE WHITE NORTHERN TROOPS, AND
   BARBAROUS TREATMENT FROM THE REBELS.--EDITORIAL
   OF THE "NEW YORK TIMES" ON THE NEGRO
   SOLDIER IN BATTLE.--REPORT OF THE "TRIBUNE" ON
   THE GALLANT EXPLOITS OF THE 1ST SOUTH CAROLINA
   VOLUNTEERS.--NEGRO TROOPS IN ALL THE
   DEPARTMENTS.--NEGRO SOLDIERS IN THE BATTLE
   OF PORT HUDSON.--DEATH OF CAPTAIN ANDRE
   CALLIOUX.--DEATH OF COLOR-SERGEANT ANSELMAS
   PLANCIANCOIS.--AN ACCOUNT
                            OF THE BATTLE OF PORT
   HUDSON.--OFFICIAL REPORT OF GEN. BANKS.--HE
   APPLAUDS THE VALOR OF THE COLORED REGIMENTS
   AT PORT HUDSON.--GEORGE H. BOKER'S
   POEM ON "THE BLACK REGIMENT."--BATTLE OF MILLIKEN'S
   BEND, JUNE, 1863.--DESCRIPTION OF THE
   BATTLE.--MEMORABLE EVENTS OF JULY,
   1863.--BATTLE ON MORRIS ISLAND.--BRAVERY OF
   SERGEANT CARNEY.--AN ACCOUNT OF THE 54TH
   MASSACHUSETTS REGIMENT BY EDWARD L. PIERCE
   TO GOVERNOR ANDREW.--DEATH OF COL. SHAW.--COLORED
   TROOPS IN THE ARMY OF THE POTOMAC.--BATTLE
   OF PETERSBURG.--TABLE SHOWING THE
   LOSSES AT NASHVILLE.--ADJT.-GEN. THOMAS
   ON NEGRO SOLDIERS.--AN EXTRACT FROM THE
   "NEW YORK TRIBUNE" IN BEHALF OF THE SOLDIERLY
   QUALITIES OF THE NEGROES.--LETTER RECEIVED
   BY COL. DARLING FROM MR. ADEN AND COL.

        FOSTER PRAISING THE EMINENT QUALIFICATIONS OF
   THE NEGRO FOR MILITARY LIFE.--HISTORY
   RECORDS THEIR DEEDS OF VALOR IN THE
   PRESERVATION OF THE UNION.
   
   
   All history, ancient and modern, Pagan and
   Christian, justified the conduct of the
   Federal Government in the employment of slaves
   as soldiers. Greece had tried the experiment;
   and at the battle of Marathon there were two
   regiments of heavy infantry composed
   of slaves. The beleaguered city of Rome
   offered freedom to her slaves who should volunteer
   as soldiers; and at the battle of Cannae
   a regiment of Roman slaves made
   Hannibal's cohorts reel before their unequalled
   courage. When Abraham heard of the
   loss of his stock, he armed his slaves, pursued
   the enemy, and regained his possessions.
   Negro officers as well as soldiers had shared the perils and glories
of the campaigns of Napoleon Bonaparte; and even the royal guard
at the Court of Imperial France had been mounted with black soldiers.
In two wars in North America Negro soldiers had followed the fortunes
of military life, and won the applause of white patriots on two
continents. So then all history furnished a precedent for the
guidance of the United States Government in the Civil War in
America.
But there were several aggravating questions which had to be referred
to the future. In both wars in this country the Negro had fought a
foreign foe--an enemy representing a Christian civilization.Said Cyril, 'Madam, he the wisest man
   Feasted the woman wisest then, in halls
   Of Lebanonian cedar:  nor should you
   (Though, Madam, _you_ should answer, _we_ would ask)
   Less welcome find among us, if you came
   Among us, debtors for our lives to you,
   Myself for something more.'  He said not what,
   But 'Thanks,' she answered 'Go:  we have been too long
   Together:  keep your hoods about the face;
   They do so that affect abstraction here.
   Speak little; mix not with the rest; and hold
   Your promise:  all, I trust, may yet be well.'

        We turned to go, but Cyril took the child,
   And held her round the knees against his waist,
   And blew the swollen cheek of a trumpeter,
   While Psyche watched them, smiling, and the child
   Pushed her flat hand against his face and laughed;
   And thus our conference closed.
                                  And then we strolled
   For half the day through stately theatres
   Benched crescent-wise.  In each we sat, we heard
   The grave Professor.  On the lecture slate
   The circle rounded under female hands
   With flawless demonstration:  followed then
   A classic lecture, rich in sentiment,
   With scraps of thunderous Epic lilted out
   By violet-hooded Doctors, elegies
   And quoted odes, and jewels five-words-long
   That on the stretched forefinger of all Time
   Sparkle for ever:  then we dipt in all
   That treats of whatsoever is, the state,
   The total chronicles of man, the mind,
   The morals, something of the frame, the rock,
   The star, the bird, the fish, the shell, the flower,
   Electric, chemic laws, and all the rest,
   And whatsoever can be taught and known;
   Till like three horses that have broken fence,
   And glutted all night long breast-deep in corn,
   We issued gorged with knowledge, and I spoke:
   'Why, Sirs, they do all this as well as we.'
   'They hunt old trails' said Cyril 'very well;
   But when did woman ever yet invent?'
   'Ungracious!' answered Florian; 'have you learnt
   No more from Psyche's lecture, you that talked
   The trash that made me sick, and almost sad?'
   'O trash' he said, 'but with a kernel in it.
   Should I not call her wise, who made me wise?
   And learnt?  I learnt more from her in a flash,
   Than in my brainpan were an empty hull,
   And every Muse tumbled a science in.
   A thousand hearts lie fallow in these halls,
   And round these halls a thousand baby loves
   Fly twanging headless arrows at the hearts,
   Whence follows many a vacant pang; but O
   With me, Sir, entered in the bigger boy,
   The Head of all the golden-shafted firm,
   The long-limbed lad that had a Psyche too;
   He cleft me through the stomacher; and now
   What think you of it, Florian? do I chase
   The substance or the shadow? will it hold?
   I have no sorcerer's malison on me,
   No ghostly hauntings like his Highness.  I
   Flatter myself that always everywhere
   I know the substance when I see it.  Well,
   Are castles shadows?  Three of them?  Is she
   The sweet proprietress a shadow?  If not,
   Shall those three castles patch my tattered coat?
   For dear are those three castles to my wants,
   And dear is sister Psyche to my heart,
   And two dear things are one of double worth,
   And much I might have said, but that my zone
   Unmanned me:  then the Doctors!  O to hear
   The Doctors!  O to watch the thirsty plants
   Imbibing! once or twice I thought to roar,
   To break my chain, to shake my mane:  but thou,
   Modulate me, Soul of mincing mimicry!
   Make liquid treble of that bassoon, my throat;
   Abase those eyes that ever loved to meet
   Star-sisters answering under crescent brows;
   Abate the stride, which speaks of man, and loose
   A flying charm of blushes o'er this cheek,
   Where they like swallows coming out of time
   Will wonder why they came:  but hark the bell
   For dinner, let us go!'
                          And in we streamed
   Among the columns, pacing staid and still
   By twos and threes, till all from end to end
   With beauties every shade of brown and fair
   In colours gayer than the morning mist,
   The long hall glittered like a bed of flowers.
   How might a man not wander from his wits
   Pierced through with eyes, but that I kept mine own
   Intent on her, who rapt in glorious dreams,
   The second-sight of some Astræan age,
   Sat compassed with professors:  they, the while,
   Discussed a doubt and tost it to and fro:
   A clamour thickened, mixt with inmost terms
   Of art and science:  Lady Blanche alone
   Of faded form and haughtiest lineaments,
   With all her autumn tresses falsely brown,
   Shot sidelong daggers at us, a tiger-cat
   In act to spring.
                    At last a solemn grace
   Concluded, and we sought the gardens:  there
   One walked reciting by herself, and one
   In this hand held a volume as to read,
   And smoothed a petted peacock down with that:
   Some to a low song oared a shallop by,
   Or under arches of the marble bridge
   Hung, shadowed from the heat:  some hid and sought
   In the orange thickets:  others tost a ball
   Above the fountain-jets, and back again
   With laughter:  others lay about the lawns,
   Of the older sort, and murmured that their May
   Was passing:  what was learning unto them?
   They wished to marry; they could rule a house;
   Men hated learned women:  but we three
   Sat muffled like the Fates; and often came
   Melissa hitting all we saw with shafts
   Of gentle satire, kin to charity,
   That harmed not:  then day droopt; the chapel bells
   Called us:  we left the walks; we mixt with those
   Six hundred maidens clad in purest white,
   Before two streams of light from wall to wall,
   While the great organ almost burst his pipes,
   Groaning for power, and rolling through the court
   A long melodious thunder to the sound
   Of solemn psalms, and silver litanies,
   The work of Ida, to call down from Heaven
   A blessing on her labours for the world.


   The movement was a severe strain
      on the loyalty of the
   Welshman to the Tudors, but
      he had learnt to look to
   the king for guidances and
   he suffered in silence. Mary was
      welcomed, and no Welsh
   blood was shed for the Protestant faith.

   The passive resistance to the
      Reformation might have broken
   out into a rebellion if a leader
      had come.
   
   In Elizabeth's reign two attempts
      were made to disturb
   the religious settlement.

One was made by the Jesuits--the wonderful society established to
check the Reformation movement and to lead a reaction against it.

   In 1583 John Bennett came to North
   Wales; in 1595 Robert Jones came to Raglan;
   and several Welsh Jesuits suffered
   martyrdom.
   The other attempt was that of John Penry, who
   wished to appeal to the intellect of the people by means of the
pulpit and the printing press.

        The apostle of the new creed was crushed, like those
   who wished to revive the old; he was put to death
   as a traitor in 1593, after a short life of
   importunate pleading that he might preach
   the Gospel in Wales.
   
   Before the end of the reign of Elizabeth, however,
   the Welsh language was recognised. The last school
   founded, that of Ruthin in 1595, was to
   have a master who could teach and preach in
   Welsh. And in 1588 there had appeared,
   by the help of Archbishop Whitgift, the Welsh
   Bible of William Morgan. It was the
   appearance of this Bible that aroused the
   first real welcome to the Reformation.
   But the Reformation that gave England
   a Spenser and a Shakespeare aroused no new life
   in Wales, not a single hymn or a single
   prayer.
   
   
   CHAPTER XIX--THE CIVIL WAR
   
   After the Tudors came the Stuarts. The
   Tudors did what their people wanted; the king
   and the people, between them, crushed the nobles.
The Stuarts did what they thought right, and they did not try to
please the people. Under the Tudors, there was harmony between Crown
and Parliament; and Elizabeth left a prosperous people with strong
views about their rights and their religion.Men! girls, like men! why, if they had been men
   You need not set your thoughts in rubric thus
   For wholesale comment."  Pardon, I am shamed
   That I must needs repeat for my excuse
   What looks so little graceful:  "men" (for still
   My mother went revolving on the word)
   "And so they are,--very like men indeed--
   And with that woman closeted for hours!"
   Then came these dreadful words out one by one,
   "Why--these--_are_--men:"  I shuddered:  "and you know it."
   "O ask me nothing," I said:  "And she knows too,
   And she conceals it."  So my mother clutched
   The truth at once, but with no word from me;
   And now thus early risen she goes to inform
   The Princess:  Lady Psyche will be crushed;
   But you may yet be saved, and therefore fly;
   But heal me with your pardon ere you go.'

        'What pardon, sweet Melissa, for a blush?'
   Said Cyril:  'Pale one, blush again:  than wear
   Those lilies, better blush our lives away.
   Yet let us breathe for one hour more in Heaven'
   He added, 'lest some classic Angel speak
   In scorn of us, "They mounted, Ganymedes,
   To tumble, Vulcans, on the second morn."
   But I will melt this marble into wax
   To yield us farther furlough:'  and he went.

        Melissa shook her doubtful curls, and thought
   He scarce would prosper.  'Tell us,' Florian asked,
   'How grew this feud betwixt the right and left.'
   'O long ago,' she said, 'betwixt these two
   Division smoulders hidden; 'tis my mother,
   Too jealous, often fretful as the wind
   Pent in a crevice:  much I bear with her:
   I never knew my father, but she says
   (God help her) she was wedded to a fool;
   And still she railed against the state of things.
   She had the care of Lady Ida's youth,
   And from the Queen's decease she brought her up.
   But, with the exception of the sharp struggle
   between the tenant and landlord after
   the Reform Act of 1867, the effects of
   enfranchisement on Wales have been very
   few.
   Two Acts alone have been passed as purely
   Welsh Acts--the Sunday Closing Act, and the
   Intermediate Education Act. In Parliament,
   the voice of Wales is weak even though unanimous;
   it can be outvoted by the capital or by four English provincial
towns.

        Until quite recently its semi-independence--due
   to geography and past history-- was
   looked upon as a source of weakness to the Empire
   rather than of strength. Its love for the
   past appeals to the one political party,
   its desire for progress to the other, but its
   distinctive ideals and its separate language are looked upon, at
the very least, as political misfortunes.'The crane,' I said, 'may chatter of the crane,
   The dove may murmur of the dove, but I
   An eagle clang an eagle to the sphere.
   My princess, O my princess! true she errs,
   But in her own grand way:  being herself
   Three times more noble than three score of men,
   She sees herself in every woman else,
   And so she wears her error like a crown
   To blind the truth and me:  for her, and her,
   Hebes are they to hand ambrosia, mix
   The nectar; but--ah she--whene'er she moves
   The Samian Herè rises and she speaks
   A Memnon smitten with the morning Sun.'

