Enough and to spare of this.  We slept on shore that night, and a very
neat catastrophe was likely to have ensued thereupon.  Intending to go
on board ship at daybreak, I had got up and dressed myself, and opened
the door into the street to let myself out, when I stumbled unwittingly
against the black sentry, who must have been half asleep, for he
immediately stepped several paces back, and presenting his musket, the
clear barrel glancing in the moonlight, snapped it at me. Fortunately it
missed fire, which gave me time to explain that it was not M. B----,
attempting to escape; but that day week he was marched to the prison of
La Force, near Cape Henry, where his partner had been previously lodged;
and from that hour to this, neither of them were ever heard of.  Next
evening I again went ashore, but I was denied admittance to him; and, as
my orders were imperative not to interfere in any way, I had to return
on board with a heavy heart.

The day following, Captain Transom and myself paid a formal I visit to
the black Baron, in order to leave no stone unturned to obtain poor
B----'s release if we could.  Mr Bang accompanied us.  We found the sable
dignitary lounging in a grass hammock, (slung from corner to corner of a
very comfortless room, for the floor was tiled, the windows were
unglazed, and there was no furniture whatsoever but an old--fashioned
mahogany sideboard and three wicker chairs) apparently half--asleep, or
ruminating after his breakfast.  On our being announced by a half--naked
negro servant, who aroused him, he got up and received us very kindly I
beg his lordship's pardon, I should write graciously--and made us take
wine and biscuit, and talked and rattled; but I saw he carefully avoided
the subject which he evidently knew was the object of our visit.  At
length, finding it would be impossible for him to parry it much longer
single--handed, with tact worthy of a man of fashion, he called out
"Marie!  Marie!" Our eyes followed his, and we saw a young and very
handsome brown lady rise, whom we had perceived seated at her work when
we first entered, in a small dark back porch, and advance after
curtseying to us seriatim, with great elegance, as the old fat niger
introduced her to us as "Madame la Baronne."

"His wife?" whispered Aaron; "the old rank goat!"

Her brown ladyship did the honours of the wine--ewer with the perfect
quietude and ease of a well--bred woman.  She was a most lovely clear
skinned quadroon girl.  She could not have been twenty; tall and
beautifully shaped.  Her long coal--black tresses were dressed high on
her head, which was bound round with the everlasting Madras
handkerchief, in which pale blue was the prevailing colour; but it was
elegantly adjusted, and did not come down far enough to shade the fine
development of her majestic forehead--Pasta's in Semiramide was not more
commanding.  Her eyebrows were delicately arched and sharply defined,
and her eyes of jet were large and swimming; her nose had not utterly
abjured its African origin, neither had her lips, but, notwithstanding,
her countenance shone with all the beauty of expression so conspicuous
in the Egyptian sphinx Abyssinian, but most sweet--while her teeth were
as the finest ivory, and her chin and throat, and bosom, as if her bust
had been an antique statue of the rarest workmanship.  The only
ornaments she wore were two large virgin gold ear--rings, massive yellow
hoops without any carving, but so heavy that they seemed to weigh down
the small thin transparent ears which they perforated; and a broad black
velvet band round her neck, to which was appended a large massive
crucifix of the same metal.  She also wore two broad bracelets of black
velvet clasped with gold.  Her beautifully moulded form was scarcely
veiled by a cambric chemise, with exceedingly short sleeves, over which
she wore a rose--coloured silk petticoat, short enough to display a
finely formed foot and ankle, with a well--selected pearl white silk
stocking, and a neat low--cut French black kid shoe.  As for gown, she
had none.  She wore a large--sparkling diamond ring on her marriage
finger, and we were all bowing before the deity, when our attention was
arrested by a cloud of dust at the top of the street, and presently a
solitary black dragoon sparked out from it, his accoutrements and
headpiece blazing in the sun, then three more abreast, and immediately a
troop of five--and--twenty cavaliers, or thereabouts, came thundering
down the street.  They formed opposite the Baron's house, and I will say
I never saw a better appointed troop of horse anywhere.  Presently an
aide--de--camp scampered up; and having arrived opposite the door,
dismounted, and entering, exclaimed, "Les Comtes de Lemonade et
Marmalade."--"The who?" said Mr Bang; but presently two very handsome
young men of colour, in splendid uniforms, rode up, followed by a
glittering staff, of at least twenty mounted officers.  They alighted,
and entering, made their bow to Baron B----.  The youngest, the Count
Lemonade, spoke very decent English, and what between Mr Bang's and my
bad, and Captain Transom's very good, French, we all made ourselves
agreeable. I may state here, that Lemonade and Marmalade are two
districts of the island of St Domingo, which had been pitched on by
Christophe to give titles to two of his fire--new nobility.  The
grandees had come on a survey of the district, and although we did not
fail to press the matter of poor B----'s release, yet they either had no
authority to interfere in the matter, or they would not acknowledge that
they had, so we reluctantly took leave, and went on shipboard.

"Tom, you villain," said Mr Bang, as we stepped into the boat, "if my
eye had caught yours when these noblemen made their entree, I should
have exploded with laughter, and most likely have had my throat cut for
my pains.  Pray, did his highness of Lemonade carry a punch--ladle in
his hand? I am sure I expected he of Marmalade to have carried a jelly
can?  Oh, Tom, at the moment I heard them announced, my dear old mother
flitted before my mind's eye, with the bright, well--scoured, large
brass pans in the background, as she superintended her handmaidens in
their annual preservations."

After the fruitless interview, we weighed, and sailed for Port au
Prince, where we arrived the following evening.

I had heard much of the magnificence of the scenery in the Bight of
Leogane, but the reality far surpassed what I had pictured to myself.
The breeze, towards noon of the following day, had come up in a gentle
air from the westward, and we were gliding along before it like a spread
eagle, with all our light sails abroad to catch the sweet zephyr, which
was not even strong enough to ruffle the silver surface of the
landlocked sea, that glowed beneath the blazing midday sun, with a
dolphin here and there cleaving the shining surface with an arrowy
ripple, and a brown--skinned shark glaring on us, far down in the deep,
clear, green profound, like a water fiend, and a slow--sailing pelican
overhead, after a long sweep on poised wing, dropping into the sea like
lead, and flashing up the water like the bursting of a shell, as we
sailed up into a glorious amphitheatre of stupendous mountains, covered
with one eternal forest, that rose gradually from the hot sandy plains
that skirted the shore; while what had once been smiling fields, and
rich sugar plantations, in the long misty level districts at their
bases, were now covered with brushwood, fast rising up into one
impervious thicket; and as the Island of Conave closed in the view
behind us to seaward, the sun sank beyond it, amidst rolling masses of
golden and blood--red clouds, giving token of a goodly day to--morrow,
and gilding the outline of the rocky islet (as if to a certain depth it
had been transparent) with a golden halo, gradually deepening into
imperial purple.  Beyond the shadow of the tree--covered islet, on the
left hand, rose the town of Port--au--Prince, with its long streets
rising like terraces on the gently swelling shore, while the mountains
behind it, still gold tipped in the declining sunbeams, seemed to impend
frowningly over it, and the shipping in the roadstead at anchor off the
town were just beginning to fade from our sight in the gradually
increasing darkness, and a solitary light began to sparkle in a cabin
window and then disappear, and to twinkle for a moment in the piazzas of
the houses on shore like a will--of--the--wisp, and the chirping buzz of
myriads of insects and reptiles was coming off from the island a--stem
of us, borne on the wings of the light wind, which, charged with rich
odours from the closing flowers, fanned us "like the sweet south, soft
breathing o'er a bed of violets," when a sudden flash and a jet of white
smoke puffed out from the hill--fort above the town, the report
thundering amongst the everlasting hills, and gradually rumbling itself
away into the distant ravines and valleys, like a lion growling itself
to sleep, and the shades of night fell on the dead face of nature like a
pall, and all was undistinguishable.--When I had written thus far--it
was at Port--au--Prince, at Mr S----'s--Mr Bang entered--"Ah!  Tom--at
the log, polishing--using the plane--shaping out something for Ebony
let me see."

Here our friend read the preceding paragraphs.  They did not please him.

"Don't like it, Tom."

"No?  Pray, why, my dear sir?--I have tried to" "Hold your tongue, my
good boy."

"Cease, rude Boreas, blustering railer,
List old ladies o'er your tea,
At description Tom's a tailor,
When he is compared to me.
Tooral looral loo."

"Attend--brevity is the soul of wit,--ahem.  Listen how I shall crush
all your lengthy yam into an eggshell.  'The Bight of Leogane is a
horseshoe--Cape St Nicholas is the caulker on the northern heel Cape
Tiberoon, the ditto on the south--Port--au--Prince is the tip at the toe
towards the east--Conaives, Leogane, Petit Trouve, &c. &c. &c. are the
nails, and the Island of Gonave is the frog.' Now every human being who
knows that a horse has four legs and a tail--of course this includes all
the human race, excepting tailors and sailors--must understand this at
once; it is palpable and plain, although no man could have put it so
perspicuously, excepting my friend William Cobbettt or myself.  By the
way, speaking of horses, that blood thing of the old Baron's nearly gave
you your quietus t'other day, Tom.  Why will you always pass the flank
of a horse in place of going ahead of him, to use your own phrase?
Never ride near a led horse on passing when you can help it; give him a
wide berth, or clap the groom's corpus between you and his heels; and
never, never go near the croup of any quadruped bigger than a cat, for
even a cow's is inconvenient, when you can by any possibility help it."

I laughed--"Well, well, my dear sir--but you undervalue my equestrian
capability somewhat too, for I do pretend to know that a horse has four
legs and a tail."

There was no pleasing Aaron this morning, I saw.

"Then, Tummas, my man, you know a deuced deal more than I do.  As for
the tail, conceditur--but devilish few horses have four legs nowadays,
take my word for it.  However, here comes Transom; I am off to have a
lounge with him, and I will finish the veterinary lecture at some more
convenient season.  Tol lol de rol."--Exit singing.

The morning after this I went ashore at daylight, and, guided by the
sound of military music, proceeded to the Place Republicain, or square
before President Petion's palaces where I found eight regiments of foot
under arms, with their bands playing, and in the act of defiling before
General Boyer who commanded the arrondissement.  This was the garrison
of Port--au--Prince, but neither the personal appearance of the troops,
nor their appointments, were at all equal to those of King Henry's well
dressed and well drilled cohorts that we saw at Conaives.  The
President's guards were certainly fine men, and a squadron of dismounted
cavalry, in splendid blue uniforms, with scarlet trowsers richly laced,
might have vied with the elite of Nap's own, barring the black faces.
But the materiel of the other regiments was not superfine, as M. Boyer,
before whom they were defiling, might have said.

I went to breakfast with Mr S----, one of the English merchants of the
place, a kind and most hospitable man; and under his guidance, the
Captain, Mr Bang, and I, proceeded afterwards to call on Petion.
Christophe, or King Henry, had some time before retired from the siege
of Port--au--Prince, and we found the town in a very miserable state.
Many of the houses were injured from shot; the President's palace, for
instance, was perforated in several places, which had not been repaired.
In the antechamber you could see the blue heavens through the shot
holes in the roof.--"Next time I come to court, Tom," said Mr Bang, "I
will bring an umbrella." Turning out of the parade, we passed through a
rickety, unpainted open gate, in a wall about six feet high; the space
beyond was an open green or grass--plot, parched and burned up by the
sun, with a common fowl here and there fluttering and hotching in the
hole she had scratched in the and soil; but there was neither sentry nor
servant to be seen, nor any of the usual pomp and circumstance about a
great man's dwelling.  Presently we were in front of a long, low, one
story building, with a flight of steps leading up into an entrance hall,
furnished with several gaudy sofas, and half--a--dozen chairs with a
plain wooden floor, on which a slight approach to the usual West India
polish had been attempted, but mightily behind the elegant domiciles of
my Kingston friends in this respect.  In the centre of this room stood
three young officers, fair mulattoes, with their plumed cocked--hats in
their hands, and dressed very handsomely in French uniforms; and it
always struck me as curious, that men who hated the very name of
Frenchman, as the devil hates holy water, should copy all the customs
and manners of the detested people so closely. I may mention here once
for all, that Petion's officers, who, generally speaking, were all men
of colour, and not negroes, were as much superior in education, and, I
fear I must say, in intellect, as they certainly were in personal
appearance, to the black officers of King Henry, as his soldiery were
superior to those of the neighbouring black republic.

"Ah, Monsieur S----, comment vous portez vous? je suis bien aise de vous
voir," said one of the young officers; "how are you, how have you been?"

"Vous devenez tout a fait rare," quoth a second.  "Le President will be
delighted to see you.  Why, he says he thought you must have been dead,
and les messieurs La"

"Who?--introduce us."

It was done in due form--the Honourable Captain Transom, Captain Cringle
of his Britannic Majesty's schooner, Wave, and Aaron Bang, Esquire.  And
presently we were all as thick as pickpockets.

"But come, the President will be delighted to see you." We followed the
officer who spoke, as he marshalled us along, and in an inner chamber,
wherein there were also several large holes in the ceiling through which
the sun shone, we found President Petion, the black Washington, sitting
on a very old ragged sofa, amidst a confused mass of papers, dressed in
a blue military undress frock, white trowsers, and the everlasting
Madras handkerchief bound round his brows.  He was much darker than I
expected to have seen him, darker than one usually sees a mulatto, or
the direct cross between the negro and the white, yet his features were
in no way akin to those of an African.  His nose was as high, sharp, and
well defined as that of any Hindoo I ever saw in the Hoogly, and his
hair was fine and silky.  In fact, dark as he was, he was at least three
removes from the African; and when I mention that he had been long in
Europe--he was even for a short space acting adjutant general of the
army of Italy with Napoleon--his general manner, which was extremely
good, kind and affable, was not matter of so much surprise.

He rose to receive us with much grace, and entered into conversation
with all the ease and polish of a gentleman--"le me porte assez bien
aujourd'hui; but I have been very unwell, M. S----, so tell me the
news." Early as it was, he immediately ordered in coffee; it was brought
by two black servants, followed by a most sylph--like girl, about twelve
years of age, the President's natural daughter; she was fairer than her
father, and acquitted herself very gracefully.  She was rigged, pin for
pin, like a little woman, with a perfect turret of artificial flowers
twined amongst the braids of her beautiful hair; and although her neck
was rather overloaded with ornaments, and her poor little ears were
stretching under the weight of the heavy gold and emerald earrings,
while her bracelets were like manacles, yet I had never seen a more
lovely little girl.  She wore a frock of green Chinese crape, beneath
which appeared the prettiest little feet in the world.

We were invited to attend a ball in the evening, given in honour of the
President's birthday, and after a sumptuous dinner at our friend
M. S----'s, we all adjourned to the gay scene.  There was a company of
grenadiers of the President's guard, with their band, on duty in front
of the palace, as a guard of honour; they carried arms as we passed, all
in good style; and at the door we met two aides de--camp in full dress,
one of whom ushered us into an anteroom, where a crowd of brown, with a
sprinkling of black ladies, and a whole host of brown and black
officers, with a white foreign merchant here and there, were drinking
coffee, and taking refreshments of one kind or another.  The ladies were
dressed in the very height of the newest Parisian fashion of the day
hats and feathers, and jewellery, real or fictitious, short sleeves, and
shorter petticoats fine silks, and broad blonde trimmings and flounces,
and low--cut corsages--some of them even venturing on rouge, which gave
them the appearance of purple dahlias; but as to manner, all lady--like
and proper; while the men, most of them militaires, were as fine as gold
and silver lace, and gay uniforms, and dress--swords could make them
and all was blaze, and sparkle, and jingle; but the black officers, in
general, covered their woolly pates with Madras handkerchiefs, as if
ashamed to show them, the brown officers alone venturing to show their
own hair.  Presently a military band struck up with a sudden crash in
the inner--room, and the large folding doors being thrown open, the
ballroom lay before us, in the centre of which stood the President,
surrounded by his very splendid staff, with his daughter on his arm.  He
was dressed in a plain blue uniform, with gold epaulets, and acquitted
himself extremely well, conversing freely on European politics, and
giving his remarks with great shrewdness, and a very peculiar naivete.
As for his daughter, however much she might appear to have been
overdressed in the morning, she was now simple in her attire as a little
shepherdesses plain white muslin frock, white sash, white shoes, white
gloves, pearl ear--rings and necklace, and a simple, but most beautiful,
camilla japonica in her hair.  Dancing now commenced, and all that I
shall say is, that before I had been an hour in the room, I had
forgotten whether the faces around me were black, brown, or white; every
thing was conducted with such decorum.  However, I could see that the
fine jet was not altogether the approved style of beauty, and that many
a very handsome woolly--headed belle was destined to ornament the walls,
until a few of the young white merchants made a dash amongst them, more
for the fun of the thing, as it struck me, than any thing else, which
piqued some of the brown officers, and for the rest of the evening
blackee had it hollow. And there was friend Aaron waltzing with a very
splendid woman, elegantly dressed, but black as a coal, with long kid
gloves, between which and the sleeve of her gown, a space of two inches
of the black skin, like an ebony armlet, was visible; while her white
dress, and rich white satin hat, and a lofty plume of feathers, with a
pearl necklace and diamond earrings, set off her loveliness most
conspicuously.  At every wheel round Mr Bang slewed his head a little on
one side, and peeped in at one of her bright eyes, and then tossing his
cranium on t'other side, took a squint in at the other, and then cast
his eyes towards the roof, and muttered with his lips as if he had been
shot all of a heap by the blind boy's but--shaft; but every now and then
as we passed, the rogue would stick his tongue in his cheek, yet so
slightly as to be perceptible to no one but myself.  After this heat,
Massa Aaron and myself were perambulating the ballroom, quite satisfied
with our own prowess and I was churming to myself, "Voulez vous dansez,
mademoiselle"--"De tout mon coeur," said a buxom brown dame, about
eighteen stone by the coffee--mill in St James's Street.  That devil
Aaron gave me a look that I swore I would pay him for, the villain; as
the extensive mademoiselle, suiting the action to the word, started up,
and hooked on, and as a cotillion had been called, there I was, figuring
away most emphatically, to Bang and Transom's great entertainment.  At
length the dance was at an end, And a waltz was once more called, and
having done my duty, I thought I might slip out between the acts; so I
offered to hand my solid armful to her seat--"Certainement vouz pouvez
bien restez encore un moment."

The devil confound you and Aaron Bang, thought I--but waltz I must, and
away we whirled until the room spun round faster than we did, and when I
was at length emancipated, my dark fair and fat one whispered, in a
regular die--away, "J'espere vous revoir bientot." All this while there
was a heavy firing of champagne and other corks, and the fun grew so
fast and furious, that I remembered very little more of the matter,
until the morning breeze whistled through my muslin curtains, or
musquitto net, about noon on the following day.

I arose, and found mine host setting out to bathe at Madame Le Clerc's
bath, at Marquesan. I rode with him; and after a cool dip we breakfasted
with President Petion at his country--house there, and met with great
kindness.  About the house itself there was nothing particularly to
distinguish it from many others in the neighbourhood; but the little
statues, and fragments of marble steps, and detached portions of old
fashioned wrought--iron railing, which had been grouped together, so as
to form an ornamental terrace below it, facing the sea, showed that it
had been a compilation from the ruins of the houses of the rich French
planters, which were now blackening in the sun on the plain of Leogane.
A couple of Buenos Ayrean privateers were riding at anchor in the bight
just below the windows, manned, as I afterwards found, by Americans.
The President, in his quiet way, after contemplating them through his
glass, said, "Ces pavilions sont bien neuf."

The next morning, as we were pulling in my gig, no less a man than Massa
Aaron steering, to board the Arethusa, one of the merchantmen lying at
anchor off the town, we were nearly run down by getting athwart the bows
of an American schooner standing in for the port.  As it was, her
cutwater gave us so smart a crack that I thought we were done for; but
our Palinurus, finding he could not clear her, with his inherent self
possession put his helm to port, and kept away on the same course as the
schooner, so that we got off with the loss of our two larboard oars,
which were snapped off like parsnips, and a good heavy bump that nearly
drove us into staves.

"Never mind, my dear sir, never mind," said I; "but hereafter listen to
the old song:"

'Steer clear of the stem of a sailing ship.'

"Massa Aaron was down on me like lightning"

"Or the stern of a kicking horse, Tom."

While I continued--

'Or you a wet jacket may catch, and a dip.'

He again cleverly clipped the word out of my mouth,

"Or a kick on the croup, which is worse, Tom."


"Why, my dear sir, you are an improvisatore of the first quality."

We  rowed ashore, and nothing particular happened that day, until we sat
down  to  dinner  at Mr S--'s.  We had a very agreeable party.   Captain
Transom and Mr Bang were, as usual, the life of the company; and it  was
verging  towards  eight o'clock in the evening, when an English  sailor,
apparently belonging to the merchant service, came into the piazza,  and
planted himself opposite to the window where I sat.

He  made  various nautical salaams, until he had attracted my attention.
"Excuse  me,"  I  said to Mr S----, "there is some  one  in  the  piazza
wanting me." I rose.

"Are you Captain Transom?" said the man.

"No, I am not.  There is the Captain; do you want him?"

"If you please, sir," said the man.

I called my superior officer into the narrow dark piazza.

"Well, my man," said Transom, "what want you with me?"

"I am sent, sir, to you from the Captain of the Haytian ship, the E----,
to request a visit from you, and to ask for a prayer book."

"A what?" said Transom.

"A prayer book, sir.  I suppose you know that he and the Captain of that
other  Haytian  ship,  the  P----, are condemned  to  be  shot  tomorrow
morning."

"I know nothing of all this," said Transom.  "Do you, Cringle?"

"No, sir," said I.

"Then let us adjourn to the dining room again; or, stop, ask Mr S----and
Mr Bang to step--here for a moment."

They  appeared;  and  when  Transom explained  the  affair,  so  far  as
consisted with his knowledge, Mr S----told us that the two unfortunates
in  question were, one of them, a Guernsey man, and the other a  man  of
colour, a native of St Vincent's, whom the President had promoted to the
command  of two Haytian ships that had been employed in carrying  coffee
to  England;  but  on their last return voyage, they  had  introduced  a
quantity  of  base Birmingham coin into the Republic; which fact  having
been  proved on their trial, they had been convicted of treason  against
the  state,  condemned, and were now under sentence of  death;  and  the
government being purely military, they were to be shot tomorrow morning.
A  boat  was  immediately sent on board, the messenger returned  with  a
prayer book; and we prepared to visit the miserable men.

