transcribed from an American edition of 1911. It embraces a history
of the lock and key from the earliest ages, illustrated profusely
with wood cuts.

     It forms an instructive and
     entertaining essay; but we think
     Mr. Chubb might have learned something more
     of the subject in the lock factories of Newark and this cityContents


     Part I

     Chapter
     01      My Early Home
     02      The Hunt
     03      My Breaking In
     04      Birtwick Park
     05      A Fair Start
     06      Liberty
     07      Ginger
     08      Ginger's Story Continued
     09      Merrylegs
     10      A Talk in the Orchard
     11      Plain Speaking
     12      A Stormy Day
     13      The Devil's Trade Mark
     14      James Howard
     15      The Old Hostler
     16      The Fire
     17      John Manly's Talk
     18      Going for the Doctor
     19      Only Ignorance
     20      Joe Green
     21      The Parting


     Part II

     22      Earlshall
     23      A Strike for Liberty
     24      The Lady Anne, or a Runaway Horse
     25      Reuben Smith
     26      How it Ended
     27      Ruined and Going Downhill
     28      A Job Horse and His Drivers
     29      Cockneys
     30      A Thief
     31      A Humbug


     Part III

     32      A Horse Fair
     33      A London Cab Horse
     34      An Old War Horse
     35      Jerry Barker
     36      The Sunday Cab
     37      The Golden Rule
     38      Dolly and a Real Gentleman
     39      Seedy Sam
     40      Poor Ginger
     41      The Butcher
     42      The Election
     43      A Friend in Need
     44      Old Captain and His Successor
     45      Jerry's New Year


     Part IV

     46      Jakes and the Lady
     47      Hard Times
     48      Farmer Thoroughgood and His Grandson Willie
     49      My Last Home


Black Beauty


Part I


01 My Early Home


The first place that I can well remember was a large pleasant meadow
with a pond of clear water in it. Some shady trees leaned over it, and
rushes and water-lilies grew at the deep end. Over the hedge on one side
we looked into a plowed field, and on the other we looked over a gate
at our master's house, which stood by the roadside; at the top of the
meadow was a grove of fir trees, and at the bottom a running brook
overhung by a steep bank.

While I was young I lived upon my mother's milk, as I could not eat
grass. In the daytime I ran by her side, and at night I lay down close
by her. When it was hot we used to stand by the pond in the shade of the
trees, and when it was cold we had a nice warm shed near the grove.

As soon as I was old enough to eat grass my mother used to go out to
work in the daytime, and come back in the evening.

There were six young colts in the meadow besides me; they were older
than I was; some were nearly as large as grown-up horses. I used to run
with them, and had great fun; we used to gallop all together round and
round the field as hard as we could go. Sometimes we had rather rough
play, for they would frequently bite and kick as well as gallop.

One day, when there was a good deal of kicking, my mother whinnied to me
to come to her, and then she said:

"I wish you to pay attention to what I am going to say to you. The colts
who live here are very good colts, but they are cart-horse colts, and
of course they have not learned manners. You have been well-bred
and well-born; your father has a great name in these parts, and
your grandfather won the cup two years at the Newmarket races; your
grandmother had the sweetest temper of any horse I ever knew, and I
think you have never seen me kick or bite. I hope you will grow up
gentle and good, and never learn bad ways; do your work with a good
will, lift your feet up well when you trot, and never bite or kick even
in play."

I have never forgotten my mother's advice; I knew she was a wise old
horse, and our master thought a great deal of her. Her name was Duchess,
but he often called her Pet.

Our master was a good, kind man. He gave us good food, good lodging, and
kind words; he spoke as kindly to us as he did to his little children.
We were all fond of him, and my mother loved him very much. When she saw
him at the gate she would neigh with joy, and trot up to him. He would
pat and stroke her and say, "Well, old Pet, and how is your little
Darkie?" I was a dull black, so he called me Darkie; then he would give
me a piece of bread, which was very good, and sometimes he brought a
carrot for my mother. All the horses would come to him, but I think we
were his favorites. My mother always took him to the town on a market
day in a light gig.

There was a plowboy, Dick, who sometimes came into our field to pluck
blackberries from the hedge. When he had eaten all he wanted he would
have what he called fun with the colts, throwing stones and sticks at
them to make them gallop. We did not much mind him, for we could gallop
off; but sometimes a stone would hit and hurt us.

One day he was at this game, and did not know that the master was in the
next field; but he was there, watching what was going on; over the hedge
he jumped in a snap, and catching Dick by the arm, he gave him such a
box on the ear as made him roar with the pain and surprise. As soon as
we saw the master we trotted up nearer to see what went on.

"Bad boy!" he said, "bad boy! to chase the colts. This is not the first
time, nor the second, but it shall be the last. There--take your money
and go home; I shall not want you on my farm again." So we never saw
Dick any more. Old Daniel, the man who looked after the horses, was just
as gentle as our master, so we were well off.


02 The Hunt


Before I was two years old a circumstance happened which I have never
forgotten. It was early in the spring; there had been a little frost in
the night, and a light mist still hung over the woods and meadows. I
and the other colts were feeding at the lower part of the field when
we heard, quite in the distance, what sounded like the cry of dogs. The
oldest of the colts raised his head, pricked his ears, and said, "There
are the hounds!" and immediately cantered off, followed by the rest of
us to the upper part of the field, where we could look over the hedge
and see several fields beyond. My mother and an old riding horse of our
master's were also standing near, and seemed to know all about it.

"They have found a hare," said my mother, "and if they come this way we
shall see the hunt."

And soon the dogs were all tearing down the field of young wheat next
to ours. I never heard such a noise as they made. They did not bark, nor
howl, nor whine, but kept on a "yo! yo, o, o! yo! yo, o, o!" at the top
of their voices. After them came a number of men on horseback, some of
them in green coats, all galloping as fast as they could. The old horse
snorted and looked eagerly after them, and we young colts wanted to be
galloping with them, but they were soon away into the fields lower
down; here it seemed as if they had come to a stand; the dogs left off
barking, and ran about every way with their noses to the ground.

"They have lost the scent," said the old horse; "perhaps the hare will
get off."

"What hare?" I said.

"Oh! I don't know what hare; likely enough it may be one of our own
hares out of the woods; any hare they can find will do for the dogs and
men to run after;" and before long the dogs began their "yo! yo, o, o!"
again, and back they came altogether at full speed, making straight for
our meadow at the part where the high bank and hedge overhang the brook.

"Now we shall see the hare," said my mother; and just then a hare wild
with fright rushed by and made for the woods. On came the dogs; they
burst over the bank, leaped the stream, and came dashing across the
field followed by the huntsmen. Six or eight men leaped their horses
clean over, close upon the dogs. The hare tried to get through the
fence; it was too thick, and she turned sharp round to make for the
road, but it was too late; the dogs were upon her with their wild cries;
we heard one shriek, and that was the end of her. One of the huntsmen
rode up and whipped off the dogs, who would soon have torn her to
pieces. He held her up by the leg torn and bleeding, and all the
gentlemen seemed well pleased.

As for me, I was so astonished that I did not at first see what was
going on by the brook; but when I did look there was a sad sight; two
fine horses were down, one was struggling in the stream, and the other
was groaning on the grass. One of the riders was getting out of the
water covered with mud, the other lay quite still.

"His neck is broke," said my mother.

"And serve him right, too," said one of the colts.

I thought the same, but my mother did not join with us.

"Well, no," she said, "you must not say that; but though I am an old
horse, and have seen and heard a great deal, I never yet could make out
why men are so fond of this sport; they often hurt themselves, often
spoil good horses, and tear up the fields, and all for a hare or a fox,
or a stag, that they could get more easily some other way; but we are
only horses, and don't know."

While my mother was saying this we stood and looked on. Many of the
riders had gone to the young man; but my master, who had been watching
what was going on, was the first to raise him. His head fell back and
his arms hung down, and every one looked very serious. There was no
noise now; even the dogs were quiet, and seemed to know that something
was wrong. They carried him to our master's house. I heard afterward
that it was young George Gordon, the squire's only son, a fine, tall
young man, and the pride of his family.

There was now riding off in all directions to the doctor's, to the
farrier's, and no doubt to Squire Gordon's, to let him know about his
son. When Mr. Bond, the farrier, came to look at the black horse that
lay groaning on the grass, he felt him all over, and shook his head; one
of his legs was broken. Then some one ran to our master's house and came
back with a gun; presently there was a loud bang and a dreadful shriek,
and then all was still; the black horse moved no more.

My mother seemed much troubled; she said she had known that horse for
years, and that his name was "Rob Roy"; he was a good horse, and
there was no vice in him. She never would go to that part of the field
afterward.

Not many days after we heard the church-bell tolling for a long time,
and looking over the gate we saw a long, strange black coach that was
covered with black cloth and was drawn by black horses; after that came
another and another and another, and all were black, while the bell kept
tolling, tolling. They were carrying young Gordon to the churchyard to
bury him. He would never ride again. What they did with Rob Roy I never
knew; but 'twas all for one little hare.


03 My Breaking In


I was now beginning to grow handsome; my coat had grown fine and soft,
and was bright black. I had one white foot and a pretty white star on my
forehead. I was thought very handsome; my master would not sell me till
I was four years old; he said lads ought not to work like men, and colts
ought not to work like horses till they were quite grown up.

When I was four years old Squire Gordon came to look at me. He examined
my eyes, my mouth, and my legs; he felt them all down; and then I had
to walk and trot and gallop before him. He seemed to like me, and said,
"When he has been well broken in he will do very well." My master said
he would break me in himself, as he should not like me to be frightened
or hurt, and he lost no time about it, for the next day he began.

Every one may not know what breaking in is, therefore I will describe
it. It means to teach a horse to wear a saddle and bridle, and to carry
on his back a man, woman or child; to go just the way they wish, and to
go quietly. Besides this he has to learn to wear a collar, a crupper,
and a breeching, and to stand still while they are put on; then to have
a cart or a chaise fixed behind, so that he cannot walk or trot without
dragging it after him; and he must go fast or slow, just as his driver
wishes. He must never start at what he sees, nor speak to other horses,
nor bite, nor kick, nor have any will of his own; but always do his
master's will, even though he may be very tired or hungry; but the worst
of all is, when his harness is once on, he may neither jump for joy nor
lie down for weariness. So you see this breaking in is a great thing.

I had of course long been used to a halter and a headstall, and to be
led about in the fields and lanes quietly, but now I was to have a bit
and bridle; my master gave me some oats as usual, and after a good deal
of coaxing he got the bit into my mouth, and the bridle fixed, but it
was a nasty thing! Those who have never had a bit in their mouths cannot
think how bad it feels; a great piece of cold hard steel as thick as
a man's finger to be pushed into one's mouth, between one's teeth, and
over one's tongue, with the ends coming out at the corner of your mouth,
and held fast there by straps over your head, under your throat, round
your nose, and under your chin; so that no way in the world can you get
rid of the nasty hard thing; it is very bad! yes, very bad! at least I
thought so; but I knew my mother always wore one when she went out, and
all horses did when they were grown up; and so, what with the nice oats,
and what with my master's pats, kind words, and gentle ways, I got to
wear my bit and bridle.

Next came the saddle, but that was not half so bad; my master put it
on my back very gently, while old Daniel held my head; he then made the
girths fast under my body, patting and talking to me all the time; then
I had a few oats, then a little leading about; and this he did every
day till I began to look for the oats and the saddle. At length, one
morning, my master got on my back and rode me round the meadow on the
soft grass. It certainly did feel queer; but I must say I felt rather
proud to carry my master, and as he continued to ride me a little every
day I soon became accustomed to it.

The next unpleasant business was putting on the iron shoes; that too was
very hard at first. My master went with me to the smith's forge, to see
that I was not hurt or got any fright. The blacksmith took my feet in
his hand, one after the other, and cut away some of the hoof. It did not
pain me, so I stood still on three legs till he had done them all. Then
he took a piece of iron the shape of my foot, and clapped it on, and
drove some nails through the shoe quite into my hoof, so that the shoe
was firmly on. My feet felt very stiff and heavy, but in time I got used
to it.

And now having got so far, my master went on to break me to harness;
there were more new things to wear. First, a stiff heavy collar just
on my neck, and a bridle with great side-pieces against my eyes called
blinkers, and blinkers indeed they were, for I could not see on either
side, but only straight in front of me; next, there was a small saddle
with a nasty stiff strap that went right under my tail; that was the
crupper. I hated the crupper; to have my long tail doubled up and poked
through that strap was almost as bad as the bit. I never felt more like
kicking, but of course I could not kick such a good master, and so
in time I got used to everything, and could do my work as well as my
mother.

I must not forget to mention one part of my training, which I have
always considered a very great advantage. My master sent me for a
fortnight to a neighboring farmer's, who had a meadow which was skirted
on one side by the railway. Here were some sheep and cows, and I was
turned in among them.

I shall never forget the first train that ran by. I was feeding quietly
near the pales which separated the meadow from the railway, when I heard
a strange sound at a distance, and before I knew whence it came--with
a rush and a clatter, and a puffing out of smoke--a long black train of
something flew by, and was gone almost before I could draw my breath. I
turned and galloped to the further side of the meadow as fast as I could
go, and there I stood snorting with astonishment and fear. In the course
of the day many other trains went by, some more slowly; these drew up
at the station close by, and sometimes made an awful shriek and groan
before they stopped. I thought it very dreadful, but the cows went
on eating very quietly, and hardly raised their heads as the black
frightful thing came puffing and grinding past.

For the first few days I could not feed in peace; but as I found that
this terrible creature never came into the field, or did me any harm, I
began to disregard it, and very soon I cared as little about the passing
of a train as the cows and sheep did.

Since then I have seen many horses much alarmed and restive at the sight
or sound of a steam engine; but thanks to my good master's care, I am as
fearless at railway stations as in my own stable.

Now if any one wants to break in a young horse well, that is the way.

My master often drove me in double harness with my mother, because she
was steady and could teach me how to go better than a strange horse. She
told me the better I behaved the better I should be treated, and that
it was wisest always to do my best to please my master; "but," said she,
"there are a great many kinds of men; there are good thoughtful men like
our master, that any horse may be proud to serve; and there are bad,
cruel men, who never ought to have a horse or dog to call their own.
Besides, there are a great many foolish men, vain, ignorant, and
careless, who never trouble themselves to think; these spoil more horses
than all, just for want of sense; they don't mean it, but they do it for
all that. I hope you will fall into good hands; but a horse never knows
who may buy him, or who may drive him; it is all a chance for us; but
still I say, do your best wherever it is, and keep up your good name."


04 Birtwick Park


At this time I used to stand in the stable and my coat was brushed every
day till it shone like a rook's wing. It was early in May, when there
came a man from Squire Gordon's, who took me away to the hall. My master
said, "Good-by, Darkie; be a good horse, and always do your best." I
could not say "good-by", so I put my nose into his hand; he patted me
kindly, and I left my first home. As I lived some years with Squire
Gordon, I may as well tell something about the place.

Squire Gordon's park skirted the village of Birtwick. It was entered by
a large iron gate, at which stood the first lodge, and then you trotted
along on a smooth road between clumps of large old trees; then another
lodge and another gate, which brought you to the house and the gardens.
Beyond this lay the home paddock, the old orchard, and the stables.
There was accommodation for many horses and carriages; but I need only
describe the stable into which I was taken; this was very roomy, with
four good stalls; a large swinging window opened into the yard, which
made it pleasant and airy.

The first stall was a large square one, shut in behind with a wooden
gate; the others were common stalls, good stalls, but not nearly so
large; it had a low rack for hay and a low manger for corn; it was
called a loose box, because the horse that was put into it was not tied
up, but left loose, to do as he liked. It is a great thing to have a
loose box.

Into this fine box the groom put me; it was clean, sweet, and airy. I
never was in a better box than that, and the sides were not so high but
that I could see all that went on through the iron rails that were at
the top.

He gave me some very nice oats, he patted me, spoke kindly, and then
went away.

When I had eaten my corn I looked round. In the stall next to mine stood
a little fat gray pony, with a thick mane and tail, a very pretty head,
and a pert little nose.

I put my head up to the iron rails at the top of my box, and said, "How
do you do? What is your name?"

He turned round as far as his halter would allow, held up his head,
and said, "My name is Merrylegs. I am very handsome; I carry the young
ladies on my back, and sometimes I take our mistress out in the low
chair. They think a great deal of me, and so does James. Are you going
to live next door to me in the box?"

I said, "Yes."

"Well, then," he said, "I hope you are good-tempered; I do not like any
one next door who bites."

Just then a horse's head looked over from the stall beyond; the ears
were laid back, and the eye looked rather ill-tempered. This was a tall
chestnut mare, with a long handsome neck. She looked across to me and
said:

"So it is you who have turned me out of my box; it is a very strange
thing for a colt like you to come and turn a lady out of her own home."

"I beg your pardon," I said, "I have turned no one out; the man who
brought me put me here, and I had nothing to do with it; and as to my
being a colt, I am turned four years old and am a grown-up horse. I
never had words yet with horse or mare, and it is my wish to live at
peace."

"Well," she said, "we shall see. Of course, I do not want to have words
with a young thing like you." I said no more.

In the afternoon, when she went out, Merrylegs told me all about it.

"The thing is this," said Merrylegs. "Ginger has a bad habit of biting
and snapping; that is why they call her Ginger, and when she was in the
loose box she used to snap very much. One day she bit James in the arm
and made it bleed, and so Miss Flora and Miss Jessie, who are very fond
of me, were afraid to come into the stable. They used to bring me nice
things to eat, an apple or a carrot, or a piece of bread, but after
Ginger stood in that box they dared not come, and I missed them very
much. I hope they will now come again, if you do not bite or snap."

I told him I never bit anything but grass, hay, and corn, and could not
think what pleasure Ginger found it.

"Well, I don't think she does find pleasure," says Merrylegs; "it is
just a bad habit; she says no one was ever kind to her, and why should
she not bite? Of course, it is a very bad habit; but I am sure, if all
she says be true, she must have been very ill-used before she came here.
John does all he can to please her, and James does all he can, and our
master never uses a whip if a horse acts right; so I think she might be
good-tempered here. You see," he said, with a wise look, "I am twelve
years old; I know a great deal, and I can tell you there is not a better
place for a horse all round the country than this. John is the best
groom that ever was; he has been here fourteen years; and you never saw
such a kind boy as James is; so that it is all Ginger's own fault that
she did not stay in that box."


05 A Fair Start


The name of the coachman was John Manly; he had a wife and one little
child, and they lived in the coachman's cottage, very near the stables.

The next morning he took me into the yard and gave me a good grooming,
and just as I was going into my box, with my coat soft and bright, the
squire came in to look at me, and seemed pleased. "John," he said,
"I meant to have tried the new horse this morning, but I have other
business. You may as well take him around after breakfast; go by the
common and the Highwood, and back by the watermill and the river; that
will show his paces."

"I will, sir," said John. After breakfast he came and fitted me with a
bridle. He was very particular in letting out and taking in the straps,
to fit my head comfortably; then he brought a saddle, but it was not
broad enough for my back; he saw it in a minute and went for another,
which fitted nicely. He rode me first slowly, then a trot, then a
canter, and when we were on the common he gave me a light touch with his
whip, and we had a splendid gallop.

"Ho, ho! my boy," he said, as he pulled me up, "you would like to follow
the hounds, I think."

The Duchess of Narbonne, famed for her benevolence, was so desirous
to aid on this occasion, that though unable, on account of her
great age, to go among the crowd _making the guest_, as it is termed,
she held a bag at one of the great doors, adding to the sum she
thus received, a thousand francs as her own contribution, and a
hundred francs for her chair, for which the ordinary price is two
sous.

The musicians are not alone in their preparations for winter.

The shopkeepers are just beginning the periodic display which betokens
the coming on of the holidays: and conspicuous among the novelties whose
appearance thus indicate the approach of Christmas, is a new style of
porcelain, of English invention, which imitates with great success the
antique marble vases, pitchers, &c., of classic days. Many of these
objects are of great beauty; the creamy hue of the ware itself, slightly
translucent, the graceful simplicity of their forms, and the delicate
mouldings of classical designs in bass-relief with which they are
adorned, producing an admirable effect, highly creditable to English
taste.

While modern art is thus successfully emulating the symmetrical
achievements of ancient times, a relic of great interest, recalling
the romantic age of Spanish history, has just been unexpectedly brought
to light. Some workmen, employed in making repairs in the Guildhall
of Burgos, in Spain, have recently discovered the tomb of the Cid,
so renowned in ancient story; a tomb whose very existence was
unknown.

An old chest, long considered as mere rubbish, and on which stood
the antique chair from which, in other days, the Counts of Castille
gave judgment, having been opened through the curiosity of these
workmen, was found to contain the remains of Don Rodrigo Campeador,
and his wife Chimena, immortalized in ancient legend, in the verses
of Guilhen de Castro, of Corneille, and in our own days, in the
graceful writings of Mrs.

Hemans. The remains of the renowned hero and his beautiful spouse are
to be removed to the church of San Gadeo, where a suitable monument
will be erected to their memory.

The following incident, connected with the two prevailing manias
of the day, lapdogs and balloon-ascensions, is just now amusing the
gay circles of this gossiping capital.

It seems that Madame de N., the accomplished and beautiful wife of
a triple millionaire of the quartier St.

Honore, equally renowned for the charms of her wit, and for the
intensity of her passion for the barking pets so dear to Parisian
hearts, had taken a violent fancy (shared by half Paris) to a certain
tiny gray spaniel, the property of one of the most admired of the
innumerable representatives of Albion at this time here congregated,
the beautiful and distinguished Lady R., whose intimacy was assiduously
cultivated by Madame de N., all for the love of the little gray
spaniel.

Sylphide, the spaniel in question, was in sooth well calculated to
make havoc in hearts susceptible to canine charms.

Her glossy fur, combed, bathed, and perfumed every day with the utmost
care, was of the most delicate mouse-color, and softer than silk; her
lustrous eyes sparkled like jewels, and her expressive face, with
the delicate drooping ears that adorned her graceful head, were the
realization of the most ideal dream of little-doggish beauty; her
tail was perfection; her slender legs, in their light electric
movements, hardly touched the ground; and the dainty way in which
she raised her charming little paws from the sidewalk, when, by
some rare chance (attired in her newest paletot of the finest merino,
lined with wadded silk, and trimmed with a rich braid, her neck
encircled with a silver collar, whose burnished chain was attached
to her mistress's waist), she honored the sidewalk with their
pressure, was so irresistibly bewitching, that all the fair round
arms of Paris opened spontaneously at the sight, as though to offer
a nestling-place to the little beauty, and raise her from a contact
unworthy of so peerless a creature.

Any price, no matter how exorbitant, that could have been asked for this
little paragon, Madame de N. would very gladly have paid; but,
unhappily, Sylphide was not to be sold: Lady R. was very fond of
her, and never seemed to understand the various hints thrown out
from time to time, with the utmost tact and delicacy, but still
quite intelligibly, by Madame de N.; and all that the latter could
do was to bring her utmost power of petting to bear on the subject
of her adoration, trusting to some unlooked-for stroke of good
fortune to aid her in the accomplishment of her heart's desire.

Sylphide was excessively fond of sugar-plums (in which she was a great
connoisseur), and also of fresh _brioche_, crumbs of which she would
eat, in the most charming manner, from the snowy hand of her admiring
friend; and as the _bonbonnière_ of Madame de N. was always well supplied
with her favorite dainties, Sylphide, who, on her side, was not
ungrateful, soon contracted a lively affection for Madame de N. and
her bonbonnière.

Such was the position of affairs, when an incident occurred which produced
a total estrangement between the two ladies.

M. de S., a gentleman well known in the diplomatic circles, whom
Madame de N. had long numbered among her conquests, fascinated by
the charms of the fair islander, deserted his brilliant countrywoman,
and ranged himself among the satellites of her rival.

And by a curious coincidence, at the very time that M. de S. quitted thus
abruptly the orbit of Madame de N., the Prince of ----, who had hitherto
been one of the brightest luminaries in the train of Lady R., left her
ladyship to lay his homage at the feet of the charming Parisian. But the
acquisition of the Prince seems to have failed to console the latter
for the loss of a knight who had so long worn her colors; and the
defection of M. de S. drew from her an expression of resentment towards
her rival, which the mutual friend to whom these angry feelings
had been confided, lost no time in repeating to the object of her
displeasure.

But Lady R., so far from being affected by the indignation of Madame
de N., merely replied, with a careless shrug of her handsome shoulders,
"_Mais, ma chère_, she has really nothing to complain of; all the
world knows that '_exchange is no robbery_!'"

At this time a magnificent bracelet, the latest achievement of the
wonder-working _atèliers_ of Froment & Meurice, had been the object
of Lady R.'s most violent desire; but her lord, who was subject to
occasional attacks of a malady not uncommon to the husbands of
beautiful and fashionable ladies, was just then suffering from an attack
of jealousy so acute, that, to the despair of Lady R., he utterly
refused to gratify her desire to become the possessor of this costly
ornament; and the lady, after having vainly called to her aid all the
force of her address, and all the charms of her eloquence, found herself
obliged, though with a heavy heart, to renounce the idea of its
acquisition.

Lady R.'

s desire for this bracelet, and its disappointment, were no secret
to Madame de N.; and on learning, from the gossiping confidant, the
response made by her rival to her complaint, a sudden thought darted
through her mind. "_Chère amie_," said she to the confidant, "I beg
you to say to her ladyship, that, since such is her opinion, I
hold her to the acceptance of the consequences of her maxim."

The confidant lost no time in delivering this message, to which Lady
R., thinking only of her host of admirers, laughingly replied, that
Madame de N. was quite at liberty to make any practical application of
the principle that she pleased.

Within two hours from the reception of this challenge, the beautiful
bracelet, inclosed in an elegant case, on whose lid the initials of
Lady R., surrounded by her crest, were engraved in letters of gold,
had passed from the jeweller's show-rooms to the boudoir of Madame
de N., who thenceforth, by means of an espionage that followed
every movement of her rival, kept her constantly in view.

At length the tournament, to be followed by the balloon-ascension
(held a week or two ago in the Champ de Mars), was announced to the
great delight of the spectacle-loving public; and having learned
that the fair Englishwoman was to be present in an open carriage,
Madame de N. determined to avail herself of this occasion to execute
her scheme.

Accordingly on the appointed day, the bracelet, in its elegant case,
being placed in the carriage beside her, and the coachman duly instructed
in the part he was to play, Madame de N., holding in her hand her
_bonbonnière_, supplied with fresh crumbs of the most delicate _brioche_,
followed, at short distance, the carriage of her rival to the Champ
de Mars, and took her stand just in the rear of her ladyship's
phaeton.

Lady R. was in excellent spirits, receiving the homage of a crowd of
attendant cavaliers; Sylphide, to the unspeakable joy of Madame de N.,
being seated on the front seat nearest her carriage.

Madame de N. waited patiently through the various evolutions of the
gorgeous scene; and, at its close, when the great balloon of M.
Poitevin rose majestically from the field, surrounded by its graceful
band of nymphs that seemed to float, self-sustained, in the air, their
silver wands and wreaths of flowers shining in the light of the setting
sun, when all eyes followed the aëronauts, and deafening acclamations
rent the air, in less time than we take in recounting the movement, the
carriage of Madame de N. advanced to the side of Lady R.'

s; Sylphide, attracted by the well-known _bonbonnière_, leapt lightly
into the outstretched arms of her friend; and Madame de N. depositing
the morocco case on the very spot Sylphide had quitted, bowed gracefully
to her rival, and drove rapidly away, before Lady R. had had time
to comprehend what was passing.

Great was her ladyship's amazement, as may well be supposed; and great,
for the first few moments, was also her indignation; but the mystery
was soon explained; for, in opening the case, which occupied Sylphide's
vacant place, and which was unmistakably intended for her, she perceived
the rich bracelet she had so much wished for, and beside it, the
card of Madame de N., on which was written, in pencil, these words,
which contained the key of the enigma, "_Exchange is no robbery_."

A hearty laugh, which she tried in vain to repress, broke from the lips
of the fair lady; much to the astonishment of the gentlemen who had
witnessed the scene, and to whom, notwithstanding their eager
inquiries, Lady R. very naturally declined giving any explanation
of the affair.

I shall observe your instructions, to keep you advised of whatever
occurs here in the middle of the world.

STELLA.

_Authors and Books_.

The German book trade has, for some months, been fairly overwhelmed
with books upon Hungary. We notice among the latest, "Flowers from
Hungarian Battlefields," a collection of novelettes, with scenes
drawn from real life in the late war, by Sajó, one of the most
popular writers of Hungary.

The stories are spirited and vivid. "Confessions of a Civilian," and
"Confessions of a Soldier," are two books, of which the last named
has been for some time before the public, and has excited attention
by the thoroughness of its absolutist tendencies.

The Civilian is the opposite of the Soldier, being a liberal of the
first stamp.

Both these writers, however, oppose the present Austrian ministry. A
German translation of Horwath's "History of the Hungarians" is
coming out at Pesth in numbers, and is welcomed by the German critics.
This is regarded by the most competent judges as an excellent work.
"János the Hero," a Romance of Hungarian Peasant Life, by Alexander
Petöfy, one of the most popular Magyar writers, is spoken of as a most
successful delineation of national peculiarities. "The Revolution and
the Jews in Hungary," is an interesting chapter out of the history
of the Hungarian Jews, by J. Eichorn. The fidelity of the Hebrews to
the cause represented by Kossuth and his associates, and defended by the
entire nation, is as well known as the extortions with which the butcher
Haynau attempted to punish their patriotism. _Rerum Hungaricum Monumenta_
is the last work of the lamented antiquarian Eudlicher, and is designed
to open to the literary world the authentic sources of early Hungarian
history. It is, in short, a most valuable collection of ancient documents
relating to the origin of the Magyars, their first settlement in
Hungary, and their history under the native princes of the race of Arpad.
One of the best results of this work will be the provocation of other
savans to similar investigations, which cannot fail to throw light on
many obscure historical questions.

* * * * *
A very interesting work has just made its appearance at Leipsic,
giving an intimate though by no means flattering account of the condition
of the POLISH POPULATION IN GALLICIA. The peculiarities of this race
of people are described as wild barbarism combined with elegant
politeness, dreamy melancholy, and practical cunning. The author was
in Gallicia before the peasants' insurrection in 1846. He narrates a
variety of the most striking scenes, which though highly colored
are apparently true in the main. Among other things he gives an
account of a dinner-party to which he was invited, at the house
of a nobleman.

The house stood in the midst of a scattered mass of outbuildings, none of
which bore the slightest appearance of neatness, order, or comfort. Every
thing, in fact, has the appearance of neglect and decay. Many of the
walls are supported by props to prevent them from tumbling. Around the
doors the slightest rain produces a disgusting morass, while the general
aspect of the whole reminds the beholder of Attila's wooden palace in
Pannonia, where he heaped up the booty of a world, and received the
ambassadors of Rome. When the writer reached the door, he found his host
with some other gentlemen waiting to receive him. The company was
numerous, and all, especially the ladies, expensively dressed, in
the last Parisian fashion, with abundant jewelry and ornaments. The
saloon in which they were received was large but low, the walls
covered with dirty paper, the floor of rough boards, the furniture
of all sorts and sizes, and nowhere a trace of art or refined taste.

The conversation was carried on in French, and the ladies exhibited a
thorough acquaintance with Paris matters, notabilities, and gossip
generally. At the table the drinking was almost incredible, and the topic
of conversation, the emancipation of Poland. Every word was aimed at the
conversion of the German guest.
The hard treatment of the serfs was spoken of as necessary, as they must
be kept in complete subjection in order to be made useful in the great
work. The festivity grew more and more ardent, till at last one of the
gentlemen took a shoe off from a lady's foot, filled it with wine,
and after drinking from it himself, passed it to the others, so that
all could pledge the ladies from such a cup. The next morning the
stranger saw by chance a sight of another kind, as he was taking a walk.
Behind a wall a man lay on the earth; another held fast his head, and
a third his feet, while a fourth stood over him with a whip, laying on
with all his might. The lord stood by in his dressing-gown, smoking a
long pipe, and coolly directing the procedure. The guest turned away
from the spectacle, but was told by his servant that this was the tenth
man who had undergone the same punishment that morning. The offence
was, that they had not begun work at sunrise. Of course a peasantry so
treated could have no affection for their masters. All the work was
done in the worst manner, while the lord was plundered in every way by
his servants.
Of the supplies for the family, more than half were regularly stolen,
there being no supervision in the household. The extravagance of the
masters was boundless, and when they got out of money they resorted to
the Jews, who had the whole commerce of the country in their hands,
besides having mortgages on most of the estates.

This is the merest outline of a small portion of the book.

It renders more intelligible the atrocities which took place in the
insurrection of 1846, and which the Austrian Government permitted, if
they did not foment.

* * * * *
One of the most remarkable philologists and travellers of the present
day is the Hungarian Professor REGULY, a man as yet little known
out of his own country and northern Europe. He has devoted himself a
good deal to the exposition of the affinities between the Magyar and
the Finnish languages, and his labors have impelled a number of learned
Hungarians to the same study. In the year 1839 he left his country, and
passed ten years in the north of Asia and Europe, mostly among the
Finnish tribes of the Moguls, Ostiacks, Tsheremisses, Nordwins, &c.,
making himself familiar with their manners, customs, dialects, songs,
and traditions, in order to attain a thorough personal acquaintance
therewith. He also spent a long period in Kasan and St. Petersburgh,
studying the other languages of Central Asia. His adventures during
this time were, as may be supposed, remarkable. He suffered not
only the privations and exposures inseparable from such an undertaking,
but was also poorly supplied with money, and often in the greatest distress
from that cause.
Nothing but scientific enthusiasm carried him through, till he became
acquainted with some Russian savans, and a Russian Councillor named
Balugyanszky, who were of great assistance to him. He left his home a
vigorous young man, and comes back broken down in strength and
health.
His investigations have related not only to philology, but to geography
and ethnography. He has penetrated farther into the north of Asia than
any previous traveller. On his return, at St. Petersburgh, he prepared,
at the special request of the Geographical Society, a vast map of
Northern Asia along the Ural Mountains, between 58 and 70 deg. north
latitude, and 72 and 80 deg. east longitude, giving about five
hundred localities.

This map is made on the largest scale, containing sixteen large quarto
sheets. The _St. Petersburgh Gazette_ says of it, that it has proved
Reguly to be the discoverer of a vast territory for Russia.

He is now at Pesth, engaged in preparing for publication the fruits
of his ten years' absence from home.

He will treat of the languages of the European and Asiatic Finnish tribes,
their grammar and vocabularies, with constant regard to the analogies
of the Magyar tongue.

By way of introduction he will first publish a special work, containing
his philosophical views on the organism of language. After these philological
treatises he will print a series of ethnographic works on the various
races among which he has lived, with collections of their songs
and traditions, and finally a detailed narrative of his travels, with
a condensed account of their scientific results. The conclusion of
his philological studies is briefly, that the Central-Asiatic, or as
it might be called, the Ural-Altaic group of languages, is divided into
six branches or families, namely, the language of the Mandshu
Tartars, the Mongols, the Turkish-Tartar tribes, the Samoyedes, the
Fins, and the Magyars.

These families have however no nearer relation to each other than the
individual tongues of the Indo-European group, as the Indian, the Romanic,
German, Celtic, Slavic, and Persian languages. Still he regards the
Magyar and Finnic languages as having greater mutual affinities than the
others, though not to such a degree that one of these races of men can
be supposed to be derived from the other. He rather supposes all of
the races whose languages form the Central-Asiatic group to have sprung
from an original race, which was probably Scythian.

* * * * *
The Austrian government has just set on foot an enterprise which
promises to be of use to both Literature and Science.

The plan is, to prepare and publish at the expense of the Imperial
Treasury, a great work on the ethnography of the Empire, and all
savans, teachers, artists, poets, of every race, are invited to
furnish materials.

It is designed to give a complete account of the origin, history,
manners, language, character and condition of each of the many tribes
and peoples included under the Austrian sceptre. This will be combined
of course with descriptions of the country, scenery, climate, soil,
minerals, and natural and industrial productions of each region. It
is supposed that the whole will be completed in eight big volumes. It
will be accompanied by a vast ethnographic map, which is now being
prepared with great energy under the superintendence of the Minister
of Commerce.

* * * * *
KARL GUTZKOW is one of the most prolific and popular novel and playwrights
now living in Germany. As to his last work, _Die Ritter vom Geiste_
(The Knights of the Spirit), of which only the first volume has been
published, the critics entertain the most contradictory opinions.
Some exclaim at its great length, which indeed is rather terrific:
there are to be nine books, and the first occupies the whole of the first
volume.

Others are charmed with the skill with which the details of the work are
wrought up, and the great variety of persons who figure in the story. The
author has certainly laid out all his strength in this book, which is
designed to reproduce the present age in all the contradictions of its
doctrines and the complexity of its tendencies. But instead of seizing
these in some central and vital point, and setting them forth in a work
whose very simplicity would conceal its depth from most readers, Gutzkow
has adopted the easier and more clumsy method of multiplying his characters
and complicating the actions of his drama. Thus it is hardly possible for
it not to be tedious and a failure. But we can speak of it more
fairly when it is farther advanced.

* * * * *
Dr. NEANDER'S Library is advertised for sale by auction at Berlin, but
our correspondent thinks it will be saved from the hammer by a private
subscription, which will secure it to the University.

* * * * *
KARL SIMROCK has just brought out at Frankfort a new collection of GERMAN
POPULAR SONGS, not obsolete or artistic poems, but such as still
live among the people, and are familiar to every class.

"Among _Volkslieder_," he says in his preface, "I include only such
as have proceeded directly from the people, and still bear the tokens of
their origin, in their unsophisticated form, and simple, hearty language.
The pieces of cultivated poets which have found access and become loved
with the people, are reserved for a future collection of favorite German
songs. The distinction here hinted at between the people's songs and
popular songs is not generally understood. All previous collections have
confused the two, and some even have not a single production of
the people.

For example, _Des Knaben Wunderhorn_, whose great merit must be recognized,
contains antique poems which by no means issued from among the
people."

In another place he says: "The songs here collected and arranged have
been newly written down, literally from the mouths of the people; and
where they could not be procured in this way, have been corrected by
comparison of all earlier versions. So that as they here stand, they
are in a sort my own property."

The work is spoken of by competent critics as perfectly successful.
We believe that Simrock, who is perhaps better qualified for the
undertaking than any other man in Germany, intends in a future edition
to publish the melodies of the songs along with the words.

* * * * *
Belgian Literature is a standing joke with the authors of Paris,
and not without reason, for the majority of the books printed by
the publishers of Belgium, are pirated from their French neighbors.

They
had each cut a great hazel stick for a riding-whip, and laid it on a
little too hard; but I took it in good part, till at last I thought we
had had enough, so I stopped two or three times by way of a hint.
Boys, you see, think a horse or pony is like a steam-engine or a
thrashing-machine, and can go on as long and as fast as they please;
they never think that a pony can get tired, or have any feelings; so as
the one who was whipping me could not understand I just rose up on
my hind legs and let him slip off behind--that was all. He mounted me
again, and I did the same. Then the other boy got up, and as soon as
he began to use his stick I laid him on the grass, and so on, till they
were able to understand--that was all. They are not bad boys; they don't
wish to be cruel. I like them very well; but you see I had to give them
a lesson. When they brought me to James and told him I think he was very
angry to see such big sticks. He said they were only fit for drovers or
gypsies, and not for young gentlemen."

"If I had been you," said Ginger, "I would have given those boys a good
kick, and that would have given them a lesson."

"No doubt you would," said Merrylegs; "but then I am not quite such a
fool (begging your pardon) as to anger our master or make James ashamed
of me. Besides, those children are under my charge when they are riding;
I tell you they are intrusted to me. Why, only the other day I heard our
master say to Mrs. Blomefield, 'My dear madam, you need not be anxious
about the children; my old Merrylegs will take as much care of them as
you or I could; I assure you I would not sell that pony for any money,
he is so perfectly good-tempered and trustworthy;' and do you think I am
such an ungrateful brute as to forget all the kind treatment I have
had here for five years, and all the trust they place in me, and turn
vicious because a couple of ignorant boys used me badly? No, no! you
never had a good place where they were kind to you, and so you don't
know, and I'm sorry for you; but I can tell you good places make good
horses. I wouldn't vex our people for anything; I love them, I do," said
Merrylegs, and he gave a low "ho, ho, ho!" through his nose, as he used
to do in the morning when he heard James' footstep at the door.

"Besides," he went on, "if I took to kicking where should I be? Why,
sold off in a jiffy, and no character, and I might find myself slaved
about under a butcher's boy, or worked to death at some seaside place
where no one cared for me, except to find out how fast I could go, or be
flogged along in some cart with three or four great men in it going out
for a Sunday spree, as I have often seen in the place I lived in before
I came here; no," said he, shaking his head, "I hope I shall never come
to that."


10 A Talk in the Orchard


Ginger and I were not of the regular tall carriage horse breed, we had
more of the racing blood in us. We stood about fifteen and a half hands
high; we were therefore just as good for riding as we were for driving,
and our master used to say that he disliked either horse or man that
could do but one thing; and as he did not want to show off in London
parks, he preferred a more active and useful kind of horse. As for us,
our greatest pleasure was when we were saddled for a riding party; the
master on Ginger, the mistress on me, and the young ladies on Sir Oliver
and Merrylegs. It was so cheerful to be trotting and cantering all
together that it always put us in high spirits. I had the best of it,
for I always carried the mistress; her weight was little, her voice was
sweet, and her hand was so light on the rein that I was guided almost
without feeling it.

Oh! if people knew what a comfort to horses a light hand is, and how it
keeps a good mouth and a good temper, they surely would not chuck, and
drag, and pull at the rein as they often do. Our mouths are so tender
that where they have not been spoiled or hardened with bad or ignorant
treatment, they feel the slightest movement of the driver's hand, and
we know in an instant what is required of us. My mouth has never been
spoiled, and I believe that was why the mistress preferred me to Ginger,
although her paces were certainly quite as good. She used often to envy
me, and said it was all the fault of breaking in, and the gag bit in
London, that her mouth was not so perfect as mine; and then old Sir
Oliver would say, "There, there! don't vex yourself; you have the
greatest honor; a mare that can carry a tall man of our master's weight,
with all your spring and sprightly action, does not need to hold her
head down because she does not carry the lady; we horses must take
things as they come, and always be contented and willing so long as we
are kindly used."

I had often wondered how it was that Sir Oliver had such a very short
tail; it really was only six or seven inches long, with a tassel of hair
hanging from it; and on one of our holidays in the orchard I ventured to
ask him by what accident it was that he had lost his tail. "Accident!"
he snorted with a fierce look, "it was no accident! it was a cruel,
shameful, cold-blooded act! When I was young I was taken to a place
where these cruel things were done; I was tied up, and made fast so that
I could not stir, and then they came and cut off my long and beautiful
tail, through the flesh and through the bone, and took it away.

"How dreadful!" I exclaimed.

"Dreadful, ah! it was dreadful; but it was not only the pain, though
that was terrible and lasted a long time; it was not only the indignity
of having my best ornament taken from me, though that was bad; but it
was this, how could I ever brush the flies off my sides and my hind legs
any more? You who have tails just whisk the flies off without thinking
about it, and you can't tell what a torment it is to have them settle
upon you and sting and sting, and have nothing in the world to lash them
off with. I tell you it is a lifelong wrong, and a lifelong loss; but
thank heaven, they don't do it now."

"What did they do it for then?" said Ginger.

"For fashion!" said the old horse with a stamp of his foot; "for
fashion! if you know what that means; there was not a well-bred young
horse in my time that had not his tail docked in that shameful way, just
as if the good God that made us did not know what we wanted and what
looked best."

"I suppose it is fashion that makes them strap our heads up with those
horrid bits that I was tortured with in London," said Ginger.

"Of course it is," said he; "to my mind, fashion is one of the wickedest
things in the world. Now look, for instance, at the way they serve dogs,
cutting off their tails to make them look plucky, and shearing up their
pretty little ears to a point to make them both look sharp, forsooth. I
had a dear friend once, a brown terrier; 'Skye' they called her. She was
so fond of me that she never would sleep out of my stall; she made
her bed under the manger, and there she had a litter of five as pretty
little puppies as need be; none were drowned, for they were a valuable
kind, and how pleased she was with them! and when they got their eyes
open and crawled about, it was a real pretty sight; but one day the man
came and took them all away; I thought he might be afraid I should tread
upon them. But it was not so; in the evening poor Skye brought them back
again, one by one in her mouth; not the happy little things that they
were, but bleeding and crying pitifully; they had all had a piece of
their tails cut off, and the soft flap of their pretty little ears was
cut quite off. How their mother licked them, and how troubled she was,
poor thing! I never forgot it. They healed in time, and they forgot the
pain, but the nice soft flap, that of course was intended to protect the
delicate part of their ears from dust and injury, was gone forever. Why
don't they cut their own children's ears into points to make them look
sharp? Why don't they cut the end off their noses to make them look
plucky? One would be just as sensible as the other. What right have they
to torment and disfigure God's creatures?"

Sir Oliver, though he was so gentle, was a fiery old fellow, and what
he said was all so new to me, and so dreadful, that I found a bitter
feeling toward men rise up in my mind that I never had before. Of course
Ginger was very much excited; she flung up her head with flashing
eyes and distended nostrils, declaring that men were both brutes and
blockheads.

"Who talks about blockheads?" said Merrylegs, who just came up from
the old apple-tree, where he had been rubbing himself against the low
branch. "Who talks about blockheads? I believe that is a bad word."

"Bad words were made for bad things," said Ginger, and she told him what
Sir Oliver had said.

"It is all true," said Merrylegs sadly, "and I've seen that about the
dogs over and over again where I lived first; but we won't talk about
it here. You know that master, and John and James are always good to
us, and talking against men in such a place as this doesn't seem fair
or grateful, and you know there are good masters and good grooms beside
ours, though of course ours are the best."

This wise speech of good little Merrylegs, which we knew was quite true,
cooled us all down, especially Sir Oliver, who was dearly fond of his
master; and to turn the subject I said, "Can any one tell me the use of
blinkers?"

"No!" said Sir Oliver shortly, "because they are no use."

"They are supposed," said Justice, the roan cob, in his calm way, "to
prevent horses from shying and starting, and getting so frightened as to
cause accidents."

"Then what is the reason they do not put them on riding horses;
especially on ladies' horses?" said I.

"There is no reason at all," said he quietly, "except the fashion; they
say that a horse would be so frightened to see the wheels of his own
cart or carriage coming behind him that he would be sure to run away,
although of course when he is ridden he sees them all about him if the
streets are crowded. I admit they do sometimes come too close to be
pleasant, but we don't run away; we are used to it, and understand it,
and if we never had blinkers put on we should never want them; we should
see what was there, and know what was what, and be much less frightened
than by only seeing bits of things that we can't understand. Of course
there may be some nervous horses who have been hurt or frightened when
they were young, who may be the better for them; but as I never was
nervous, I can't judge."

"I consider," said Sir Oliver, "that blinkers are dangerous things in
the night; we horses can see much better in the dark than men can, and
many an accident would never have happened if horses might have had the
full use of their eyes. Some years ago, I remember, there was a hearse
with two horses returning one dark night, and just by Farmer Sparrow's
house, where the pond is close to the road, the wheels went too near the
edge, and the hearse was overturned into the water; both the horses were
drowned, and the driver hardly escaped. Of course after this accident
a stout white rail was put up that might be easily seen, but if those
horses had not been partly blinded, they would of themselves have kept
further from the edge, and no accident would have happened. When our
master's carriage was overturned, before you came here, it was said that
if the lamp on the left side had not gone out, John would have seen the
great hole that the road-makers had left; and so he might, but if old
Colin had not had blinkers on he would have seen it, lamp or no lamp,
for he was far too knowing an old horse to run into danger. As it was,
he was very much hurt, the carriage was broken, and how John escaped
nobody knew."

"I should say," said Ginger, curling her nostril, "that these men, who
are so wise, had better give orders that in the future all foals should
be born with their eyes set just in the middle of their foreheads,
instead of on the side; they always think they can improve upon nature
and mend what God has made."

Things were getting rather sore again, when Merrylegs held up his
knowing little face and said, "I'll tell you a secret: I believe John
does not approve of blinkers; I heard him talking with master about it
one day. The master said that 'if horses had been used to them, it might
be dangerous in some cases to leave them off'; and John said he thought
it would be a good thing if all colts were broken in without blinkers,
as was the case in some foreign countries. So let us cheer up, and have
a run to the other end of the orchard; I believe the wind has blown down
some apples, and we might just as well eat them as the slugs."

Merrylegs could not be resisted, so we broke off our long conversation,
and got up our spirits by munching some very sweet apples which lay
scattered on the grass.


11 Plain Speaking


The longer I lived at Birtwick the more proud and happy I felt at having
such a place. Our master and mistress were respected and beloved by all
who knew them; they were good and kind to everybody and everything; not
only men and women, but horses and donkeys, dogs and cats, cattle and
birds; there was no oppressed or ill-used creature that had not a friend
in them, and their servants took the same tone. If any of the village
children were known to treat any creature cruelly they soon heard about
it from the Hall.

The squire and Farmer Grey had worked together, as they said, for more
than twenty years to get check-reins on the cart-horses done away with,
and in our parts you seldom saw them; and sometimes, if mistress met
a heavily laden horse with his head strained up she would stop the
carriage and get out, and reason with the driver in her sweet serious
voice, and try to show him how foolish and cruel it was.

I don't think any man could withstand our mistress. I wish all ladies
were like her. Our master, too, used to come down very heavy sometimes.
I remember he was riding me toward home one morning when we saw a
powerful man driving toward us in a light pony chaise, with a beautiful
little bay pony, with slender legs and a high-bred sensitive head and
face. Just as he came to the park gates the little thing turned toward
them; the man, without word or warning, wrenched the creature's head
round with such a force and suddenness that he nearly threw it on its
haunches. Recovering itself it was going on, when he began to lash it
furiously. The pony plunged forward, but the strong, heavy hand held the
pretty creature back with force almost enough to break its jaw, while
the whip still cut into him. It was a dreadful sight to me, for I knew
what fearful pain it gave that delicate little mouth; but master gave me
the word, and we were up with him in a second.

"Sawyer," he cried in a stern voice, "is that pony made of flesh and
blood?"

"Flesh and blood and temper," he said; "he's too fond of his own will,
and that won't suit me." He spoke as if he was in a strong passion. He
was a builder who had often been to the park on business.

"And do you think," said master sternly, "that treatment like this will
make him fond of your will?"

"He had no business to make that turn; his road was straight on!" said
the man roughly.

"You have often driven that pony up to my place," said master; "it only
shows the creature's memory and intelligence; how did he know that you
were not going there again? But that has little to do with it. I must
say, Mr. Sawyer, that a more unmanly, brutal treatment of a little
pony it was never my painful lot to witness, and by giving way to such
passion you injure your own character as much, nay more, than you injure
your horse; and remember, we shall all have to be judged according to
our works, whether they be toward man or toward beast."

Like many other eminent persons, Mr. Goodrich lets sought occasional
relaxation from the main pursuits of his life in poetry, and the volume
before us contains some forty illustrations of his abilities, as a
worshipper of the muse whose temples are most thronged, but who is most
coy and most chary of her inspiration. They have for the most part
been previously printed in "The Token," or in literary journals,
but a few are now published the first time.

In typographical and pictorial elegance the book is unique. It is an
exhibition of the success of the first attempt to rival the London
and Paris publishers in woodcut embellishment and general beauty
of execution.

That Mr. Goodrich possesses the poetical faculty in an eminent degree,
no one has doubted who has read his fine lines "To Lake Superior:"
[Illustration]
Father of Lakes! thy waters bend, Beyond the eagle's utmost view, When,
throned in heaven, he sees thee send Back to the sky its world of
blue.

Boundless and deep the forests weave Their twilight shade thy borders
o'er, And threatening cliffs, like giants, heave Their rugged forms along
thy shore.

Nor can the light canoes, that glide Across thy breast like things of
air, Chase from thy lone and level tide, The spell of stillness deepening
there.

Yet round this waste of wood and wave, Unheard, unseen, a spirit lives,
That, breathing o'er each rock and cave, To all, a wild, strange aspect
gives.

The thunder-riven oak, that flings Its grisly arms athwart the sky, A
sudden, startling image brings To the lone traveller's kindled
eye.

The gnarled and braided boughs that show Their dim forms in the forest
shade, Like wrestling serpents seem, and throw Fantastic horrors through
the glade.

The very echoes round this shore, Have caught a strange and gibbering
tone, For they have told the war-whoop o'er, Till the wild chorus is their
own.

Wave of the wilderness, adieu-- Adieu, ye rocks, ye wilds, ye woods!
Roll on, thou Element of blue, And fill these awful solitudes!

Thou hast no tale to tell of man.

God is thy theme. Ye sounding caves, Whisper of Him, whose mighty
plan, Deems as a bubble all your waves!

The "Birth Night of the Humming Birds" has been declared by the London
_Athenæum_ equal to Dr. Drake's "Culprit Fay," and it may be regarded
as in its way the best specimen of Mr. Goodrich's talents. It is too
long to be quoted in these paragraphs. In descriptions of nature he is
uniformly successful, presenting his picture with force and
distractness.

There are many examples of this in one of his longest poems, "The
Mississippi," in which the traditions that cluster around the Father
of Waters, and the advances of civility along his borders, are
graphically presented. The river is described as rising.
[Illustration]
"Far in the west, where snow-capt mountain's rise, Like marble
shafts beneath heaven's stooping dome, And sunset's charming curtain
drapes the skies As if Enchantment there would build her home.The man at the gate said the river was rising fast, and he feared it
would be a bad night. Many of the meadows were under water, and in one
low part of the road the water was halfway up to my knees; the bottom
was good, and master drove gently, so it was no matter.

When we got to the town of course I had a good bait, but as the master's
business engaged him a long time we did not start for home till rather
late in the afternoon. The wind was then much higher, and I heard the
master say to John that he had never been out in such a storm; and so I
thought, as we went along the skirts of a wood, where the great branches
were swaying about like twigs, and the rushing sound was terrible.

"I wish we were well out of this wood," said my master.

"Yes, sir," said John, "it would be rather awkward if one of these
branches came down upon us."

The words were scarcely out of his mouth when there was a groan, and a
crack, and a splitting sound, and tearing, crashing down among the other
trees came an oak, torn up by the roots, and it fell right across the
road just before us. I will never say I was not frightened, for I was. I
stopped still, and I believe I trembled; of course I did not turn round
or run away; I was not brought up to that. John jumped out and was in a
moment at my head.

"That was a very near touch," said my master. "What's to be done now?"

"Well, sir, we can't drive over that tree, nor yet get round it; there
will be nothing for it, but to go back to the four crossways, and that
will be a good six miles before we get round to the wooden bridge again;
it will make us late, but the horse is fresh."

So back we went and round by the crossroads, but by the time we got to
the bridge it was very nearly dark; we could just see that the water was
over the middle of it; but as that happened sometimes when the floods
were out, master did not stop. We were going along at a good pace, but
the moment my feet touched the first part of the bridge I felt sure
there was something wrong. I dare not go forward, and I made a dead
stop. "Go on, Beauty," said my master, and he gave me a touch with the
whip, but I dare not stir; he gave me a sharp cut; I jumped, but I dare
not go forward.

"There's something wrong, sir," said John, and he sprang out of the
dog-cart and came to my head and looked all about. He tried to lead me
forward. "Come on, Beauty, what's the matter?" Of course I could not
tell him, but I knew very well that the bridge was not safe.

Just then the man at the toll-gate on the other side ran out of the
house, tossing a torch about like one mad.

"Hoy, hoy, hoy! halloo! stop!" he cried.

"What's the matter?" shouted my master.

"The bridge is broken in the middle, and part of it is carried away; if
you come on you'll be into the river."

"Thank God!" said my master. "You Beauty!" said John, and took the
bridle and gently turned me round to the right-hand road by the river
side. The sun had set some time; the wind seemed to have lulled off
after that furious blast which tore up the tree. It grew darker and
darker, stiller and stiller. I trotted quietly along, the wheels hardly
making a sound on the soft road. For a good while neither master nor
John spoke, and then master began in a serious voice. I could not
understand much of what they said, but I found they thought, if I had
gone on as the master wanted me, most likely the bridge would have given
way under us, and horse, chaise, master, and man would have fallen into
the river; and as the current was flowing very strongly, and there was
no light and no help at hand, it was more than likely we should all have
been drowned. Master said, God had given men reason, by which they could
find out things for themselves; but he had given animals knowledge which
did not depend on reason, and which was much more prompt and perfect in
its way, and by which they had often saved the lives of men. John had
many stories to tell of dogs and horses, and the wonderful things they
had done; he thought people did not value their animals half enough nor
make friends of them as they ought to do. I am sure he makes friends of
them if ever a man did.

At last we came to the park gates and found the gardener looking out for
us. He said that mistress had been in a dreadful way ever since dark,
fearing some accident had happened, and that she had sent James off on
Justice, the roan cob, toward the wooden bridge to make inquiry after
us.

We saw a light at the hall-door and at the upper windows, and as we came
up mistress ran out, saying, "Are you really safe, my dear? Oh! I
have been so anxious, fancying all sorts of things. Have you had no
accident?"

"No, my dear; but if your Black Beauty had not been wiser than we were
we should all have been carried down the river at the wooden bridge."
I heard no more, as they went into the house, and John took me to the
stable. Oh, what a good supper he gave me that night, a good bran mash
and some crushed beans with my oats, and such a thick bed of straw! and
I was glad of it, for I was tired.


13 The Devil's Trade Mark


One day when John and I had been out on some business of our master's,
and were returning gently on a long, straight road, at some distance we
saw a boy trying to leap a pony over a gate; the pony would not take the
leap, and the boy cut him with the whip, but he only turned off on one
side. He whipped him again, but the pony turned off on the other side.
Then the boy got off and gave him a hard thrashing, and knocked him
about the head; then he got up again and tried to make him leap the
gate, kicking him all the time shamefully, but still the pony refused.
When we were nearly at the spot the pony put down his head and threw up
his heels, and sent the boy neatly over into a broad quickset hedge, and
with the rein dangling from his head he set off home at a full gallop.
John laughed out quite loud. "Served him right," he said.

"Oh, oh, oh!" cried the boy as he struggled about among the thorns; "I
say, come and help me out."

"Thank ye," said John, "I think you are quite in the right place, and
maybe a little scratching will teach you not to leap a pony over a gate
that is too high for him," and so with that John rode off. "It may be,"
said he to himself, "that young fellow is a liar as well as a cruel one;
we'll just go home by Farmer Bushby's, Beauty, and then if anybody wants
to know you and I can tell 'em, ye see." So we turned off to the right,
and soon came up to the stack-yard, and within sight of the house. The
farmer was hurrying out into the road, and his wife was standing at the
gate, looking very frightened.

"Have you seen my boy?" said Mr. Bushby as we came up; "he went out an
hour ago on my black pony, and the creature is just come back without a
rider."

"I should think, sir," said John, "he had better be without a rider,
unless he can be ridden properly."

"What do you mean?" said the farmer.

"Well, sir, I saw your son whipping, and kicking, and knocking that good
little pony about shamefully because he would not leap a gate that was
too high for him. The pony behaved well, sir, and showed no vice; but at
last he just threw up his heels and tipped the young gentleman into the
thorn hedge. He wanted me to help him out, but I hope you will excuse
me, sir, I did not feel inclined to do so. There's no bones broken, sir;
he'll only get a few scratches. I love horses, and it riles me to see
them badly used; it is a bad plan to aggravate an animal till he uses
his heels; the first time is not always the last."

During this time the mother began to cry, "Oh, my poor Bill, I must go
and meet him; he must be hurt."

"You had better go into the house, wife," said the farmer; "Bill wants a
lesson about this, and I must see that he gets it; this is not the first
time, nor the second, that he has ill-used that pony, and I shall stop
it. I am much obliged to you, Manly. Good-evening."

So we went on, John chuckling all the way home; then he told James about
it, who laughed and said, "Serve him right. I knew that boy at school;
he took great airs on himself because he was a farmer's son; he used to
swagger about and bully the little boys. Of course, we elder ones would
not have any of that nonsense, and let him know that in the school and
the playground farmers' sons and laborers' sons were all alike. I well
remember one day, just before afternoon school, I found him at the large
window catching flies and pulling off their wings. He did not see me and
I gave him a box on the ears that laid him sprawling on the floor. Well,
angry as I was, I was almost frightened, he roared and bellowed in such
a style. The boys rushed in from the playground, and the master ran in
from the road to see who was being murdered. Of course I said fair and
square at once what I had done, and why; then I showed the master the
flies, some crushed and some crawling about helpless, and I showed him
the wings on the window sill. I never saw him so angry before; but as
Bill was still howling and whining, like the coward that he was, he did
not give him any more punishment of that kind, but set him up on a stool
for the rest of the afternoon, and said that he should not go out to
play for that week. Then he talked to all the boys very seriously about
cruelty, and said how hard-hearted and cowardly it was to hurt the
weak and the helpless; but what stuck in my mind was this, he said that
cruelty was the devil's own trade-mark, and if we saw any one who took
pleasure in cruelty we might know who he belonged to, for the devil was
a murderer from the beginning, and a tormentor to the end. On the other
hand, where we saw people who loved their neighbors, and were kind to
man and beast, we might know that was God's mark."

"Your master never taught you a truer thing," said John; "there is no
religion without love, and people may talk as much as they like about
their religion, but if it does not teach them to be good and kind to man
and beast it is all a sham--all a sham, James, and it won't stand when
things come to be turned inside out."


14 James Howard


Early one morning in December John had just led me into my box after my
daily exercise, and was strapping my cloth on and James was coming in
from the corn chamber with some oats, when the master came into the
stable. He looked rather serious, and held an open letter in his hand.
John fastened the door of my box, touched his cap, and waited for
orders.

"Good-morning, John," said the master. "I want to know if you have any
complaint to make of James."

"Complaint, sir? No, sir."

"Is he industrious at his work and respectful to you?"

"Yes, sir, always."

"You never find he slights his work when your back is turned?"

"Never, sir."

"That's well; but I must put another question. Have you no reason to
suspect, when he goes out with the horses to exercise them or to take a
message, that he stops about talking to his acquaintances, or goes into
houses where he has no business, leaving the horses outside?"

"No, sir, certainly not; and if anybody has been saying that about
James, I don't believe it, and I don't mean to believe it unless I have
it fairly proved before witnesses; it's not for me to say who has been
trying to take away James' character, but I will say this, sir, that a
steadier, pleasanter, honester, smarter young fellow I never had in this
stable. I can trust his word and I can trust his work; he is gentle and
clever with the horses, and I would rather have them in charge with him
than with half the young fellows I know of in laced hats and liveries;
and whoever wants a character of James Howard," said John, with a
decided jerk of his head, "let them come to John Manly."

The master stood all this time grave and attentive, but as John finished
his speech a broad smile spread over his face, and looking kindly
across at James, who all this time had stood still at the door, he said,
"James, my lad, set down the oats and come here; I am very glad to find
that John's opinion of your character agrees so exactly with my own.
John is a cautious man," he said, with a droll smile, "and it is not
always easy to get his opinion about people, so I thought if I beat the
bush on this side the birds would fly out, and I should learn what I
wanted to know quickly; so now we will come to business. I have a letter
from my brother-in-law, Sir Clifford Williams, of Clifford Hall.
He wants me to find him a trustworthy young groom, about twenty or
twenty-one, who knows his business. His old coachman, who has lived with
him thirty years, is getting feeble, and he wants a man to work with him
and get into his ways, who would be able, when the old man was pensioned
off, to step into his place. He would have eighteen shillings a week at
first, a stable suit, a driving suit, a bedroom over the coachhouse, and
a boy under him. Sir Clifford is a good master, and if you could get the
place it would be a good start for you. I don't want to part with you,
and if you left us I know John would lose his right hand."

"That I should, sir," said John, "but I would not stand in his light for
the world."

"How old are you, James?" said master.

"Nineteen next May, sir."

"That's young; what do you think, John?"

"Well, sir, it is young; but he is as steady as a man, and is strong,
and well grown, and though he has not had much experience in driving, he
has a light firm hand and a quick eye, and he is very careful, and I am
quite sure no horse of his will be ruined for want of having his feet
and shoes looked after."

"Your word will go the furthest, John," said the master, "for Sir
Clifford adds in a postscript, 'If I could find a man trained by your
John I should like him better than any other;' so, James, lad, think it
over, talk to your mother at dinner-time, and then let me know what you
wish."

In a few days after this conversation it was fully settled that James
should go to Clifford Hall, in a month or six weeks, as it suited his
master, and in the meantime he was to get all the practice in driving
that could be given to him. I never knew the carriage to go out so often
before; when the mistress did not go out the master drove himself in the
two-wheeled chaise; but now, whether it was master or the young ladies,
or only an errand, Ginger and I were put in the carriage and James drove
us. At the first John rode with him on the box, telling him this and
that, and after that James drove alone.

Then it was wonderful what a number of places the master would go to in
the city on Saturday, and what queer streets we were driven through. He
was sure to go to the railway station just as the train was coming in,
and cabs and carriages, carts and omnibuses were all trying to get over
the bridge together; that bridge wanted good horses and good drivers
when the railway bell was ringing, for it was narrow, and there was a
very sharp turn up to the station, where it would not have been at all
difficult for people to run into each other, if they did not look sharp
and keep their wits about them.


15 The Old Hostler


After this it was decided by my master and mistress to pay a visit to
some friends who lived about forty-six miles from our home, and James
was to drive them. The first day we traveled thirty-two miles.
There were some long, heavy hills, but James drove so carefully and
thoughtfully that we were not at all harassed. He never forgot to put on
the brake as we went downhill, nor to take it off at the right place. He
kept our feet on the smoothest part of the road, and if the uphill was
very long, he set the carriage wheels a little across the road, so as
not to run back, and gave us a breathing. All these little things help a
horse very much, particularly if he gets kind words into the bargain.

We stopped once or twice on the road, and just as the sun was going down
we reached the town where we were to spend the night. We stopped at the
principal hotel, which was in the market-place; it was a very large one;
we drove under an archway into a long yard, at the further end of which
were the stables and coachhouses. Two hostlers came to take us out. The
head hostler was a pleasant, active little man, with a crooked leg,
and a yellow striped waistcoat. I never saw a man unbuckle harness so
quickly as he did, and with a pat and a good word he led me to a long
stable, with six or eight stalls in it, and two or three horses. The
other man brought Ginger; James stood by while we were rubbed down and
cleaned.

I never was cleaned so lightly and quickly as by that little old man.
When he had done James stepped up and felt me over, as if he thought I
could not be thoroughly done, but he found my coat as clean and smooth
as silk.

"Well," he said, "I thought I was pretty quick, and our John quicker
still, but you do beat all I ever saw for being quick and thorough at
the same time."

"Practice makes perfect," said the crooked little hostler, "and 'twould
be a pity if it didn't; forty years' practice, and not perfect! ha, ha!
that would be a pity; and as to being quick, why, bless you! that is
only a matter of habit; if you get into the habit of being quick it is
just as easy as being slow; easier, I should say; in fact it don't agree
with my health to be hulking about over a job twice as long as it need
take. Bless you! I couldn't whistle if I crawled over my work as some
folks do! You see, I have been about horses ever since I was twelve
years old, in hunting stables, and racing stables; and being small, ye
see, I was jockey for several years; but at the Goodwood, ye see, the
turf was very slippery and my poor Larkspur got a fall, and I broke my
knee, and so of course I was of no more use there. But I could not live
without horses, of course I couldn't, so I took to the hotels. And I
can tell ye it is a downright pleasure to handle an animal like this,
well-bred, well-mannered, well-cared-for; bless ye! I can tell how a
horse is treated. Give me the handling of a horse for twenty minutes,
and I'll tell you what sort of a groom he has had. Look at this one,
pleasant, quiet, turns about just as you want him, holds up his feet to
be cleaned out, or anything else you please to wish; then you'll find
another fidgety, fretty, won't move the right way, or starts across the
stall, tosses up his head as soon as you come near him, lays his ears,
and seems afraid of you; or else squares about at you with his heels.
Poor things! I know what sort of treatment they have had. If they are
timid it makes them start or shy; if they are high-mettled it makes them
vicious or dangerous; their tempers are mostly made when they are young.
Bless you! they are like children, train 'em up in the way they should
go, as the good book says, and when they are old they will not depart
from it, if they have a chance."

"I like to hear you talk," said James, "that's the way we lay it down at
home, at our master's."

"Who is your master, young man? if it be a proper question. I should
judge he is a good one, from what I see."

"He is Squire Gordon, of Birtwick Park, the other side the Beacon
Hills," said James.

"Ah! so, so, I have heard tell of him; fine judge of horses, ain't he?
the best rider in the county."

"I believe he is," said James, "but he rides very little now, since the
poor young master was killed."

"Ah! poor gentleman; I read all about it in the paper at the time. A
fine horse killed, too, wasn't there?"

"Yes," said James; "he was a splendid creature, brother to this one, and
just like him."

"Pity! pity!" said the old man; "'twas a bad place to leap, if I
remember; a thin fence at top, a steep bank down to the stream, wasn't
it? No chance for a horse to see where he is going. Now, I am for bold
riding as much as any man, but still there are some leaps that only
a very knowing old huntsman has any right to take. A man's life and a
horse's life are worth more than a fox's tail; at least, I should say
they ought to be."

During this time the other man had finished Ginger and had brought our
corn, and James and the old man left the stable together.


16 The Fire


Later on in the evening a traveler's horse was brought in by the second
hostler, and while he was cleaning him a young man with a pipe in his
mouth lounged into the stable to gossip.

"I say, Towler," said the hostler, "just run up the ladder into the loft
and put some hay down into this horse's rack, will you? only lay down
your pipe."

"All right," said the other, and went up through the trapdoor; and I
heard him step across the floor overhead and put down the hay. James
came in to look at us the last thing, and then the door was locked.

I cannot say how long I had slept, nor what time in the night it was,
but I woke up very uncomfortable, though I hardly knew why. I got up;
the air seemed all thick and choking. I heard Ginger coughing and one
of the other horses seemed very restless; it was quite dark, and I could
see nothing, but the stable seemed full of smoke, and I hardly knew how
to breathe.

The trapdoor had been left open, and I thought that was the place it
came through. I listened, and heard a soft rushing sort of noise and a
low crackling and snapping. I did not know what it was, but there was
something in the sound so strange that it made me tremble all over. The
other horses were all awake; some were pulling at their halters, others
stamping.

At last I heard steps outside, and the hostler who had put up the
traveler's horse burst into the stable with a lantern, and began to
untie the horses, and try to lead them out; but he seemed in such a
hurry and so frightened himself that he frightened me still more. The
first horse would not go with him; he tried the second and third, and
they too would not stir. He came to me next and tried to drag me out of
the stall by force; of course that was no use. He tried us all by turns
and then left the stable.

No doubt we were very foolish, but danger seemed to be all round, and
there was nobody we knew to trust in, and all was strange and uncertain.
The fresh air that had come in through the open door made it easier to
breathe, but the rushing sound overhead grew louder, and as I looked
upward through the bars of my empty rack I saw a red light flickering
on the wall. Then I heard a cry of "Fire!" The French Renaissance takes
inspiration from the Roman and Greek.

The Louis XIV is a development of the Renaissance, with a conspicuous
use of gold.

The Louis XV is an elaboration along the same lines.

The Louis XVI is a simplification and a return to the classic.

The Georgian is largely Roman and Pompeiian.

104.

The Adam style was taken directly from the Pompeiian, but in most cases,
instead of having the Pompeiian solid color background with design lightly
executed, the background is in the light color, and the design dark.
To follow strictly the Pompeiian palace style would be too garish in
our modern circumscribed environment.

105. It is a nice psychological problem to decorate the house in a way
to give true balance to the æsthetic sense. No matter how great one's
admiration for a thing, there is always a final point of satiety at
which the desire needs rest or balance.

A woman may love flowers, for example, but in the season of flowers, when
all nature supplies an over-abundance, the visual sense becomes
satiated, and the house interior that is furnished in cool tints and
two-tones gives positive relief.

106. On the other hand, floral decorations in the home are the balance
needed to the mind that craves them during the Winter period when there
is a lack of color without.

[Illustration: Compare perpendicular and horizontal lines: The angles and
curves which enclose them change their relative equality.]
* * * * *
#ILLUSION EFFECT AND EXPRESSION IN THE USE OF LINES#

107. We very often notice a room which has been carefully carried out
but is utterly lacking in charm.

The color seems right, and, considered in detail, the furniture and
the furnishings are appropriate, but the room lacks effectiveness.

It is uninteresting.

It is like a doll face that is, perhaps, perfect in detail, but utterly
devoid of EXPRESSION.

The artist who paints a portrait is a failure without the ability to
give expression: hence in architecture the acute-angled spires or
arched roofs have the same expression that the "long face"
carries.

[Illustration]
If we smile, the mouth curves upward; if we grieve, the lines turn
downward.

108. In festival decorations, joy is expressed by loops, curves and
festoons.

109. In serious decorations (libraries, studies, church or office work)
straight lines are used; curtains are gathered in plaits so that the
sags and drapes are all out of them; they are drawn. It is the same
when we say of a person: "He looks serious, his face is drawn; it
is full of lines." 
110.

The observation, "a broad smile on his face," means literally just
that; the lines extend outward and upward, giving an expression of
breadth and joy to the countenance.

#ILLUSION#

111. A doorway looks wider that has at the top a drapery which crosses in
one complete curved sweep. A side-wall is larger apparently if along the
frieze line long, wide loops or festoons are arranged. The same wall
is more contracted and higher if treated in arrow-point forms of
design.

[Illustration]
The decorator should study these matters of illusion, for they are
vital to the success of his labor.

(See ¶ 116.)
112. Perpendicular lines contract the wall space and extend the apparent
height of a room; horizontal lines shorten the apparent height of
the ceiling and lengthen the width of the room.

(See exceptions, ¶ 119.)

These straight lines may be used where extremes are needed. (See pages
61 and 63.)
A short doorway, for instance, looks higher where the portière is hung
in straight folds; so also with a cottage window.

[Illustration]
113. Every decorator who handles fabrics, every cabinetmaker who lays out
the woodwork of a room, every stained glass window maker, should appreciate
one fact: A line which is finished at the top or bottom, or both,
with acute angles appears longer than the line that is finished top
and bottom with an obtuse or right angle.

It is the same with the finish of a wall frieze.

If the wall frieze ends abruptly (Illustration A on page 57), it
is foreshortened; if it is finished by angles (Illustration B), the
height of the room is apparently greater.

(See the illustration on page 51.)
114.

It is the same way with curves; given two lines of equal length and
enclose one with convex and the other with concave curves, and the
line enclosed convex will appear longer.

[Illustration: Treated for Broken Heights.] 
115.

In dress a collar brought down to an acute angle in the front of
the waist gives height effect, whereas a perfectly straight collar
around the neck reduces the apparent height and gives width effect.

[Illustration]

116. The use of arches should be studied. A space that is arched looks
wider than it actually is, for the eye unconsciously follows the
lines of the arch, and a distance or width effect is the result. The
same space treated with a straight line is quickly bridged. The same space
treated with lines that come to an angle looks narrower, for the
reason that the eye becomes focused by the apex of the angle, and
a height effect, not a breadth effect, is the result.

(See page 57.)
117.

This illusion is best shown in the illustrations of the parallel lines
that are crossed diagonally, with the result that the lines no
longer look parallel because of the angles.

Nevertheless, they are parallel, and the lines running diagonally
at the bottom of this page are also parallel.

[Illustration]
We present two practical illustrations of illusion in the use of lines.

(See ¶ 112.) They represent the side-walls of two rooms of the same
dimensions, but showing apparently different proportions, the perpendicular
lines making the side-wall look higher and the horizontal lines making
the side-wall look lower. (See page 59.)
[Illustration: Illustration A.]
[Illustration: Illustration B. (See ¶ 113.)]
[Illustration]
The length of the wall space is shortened, moreover, by the perpendicular
lines and lengthened by the horizontal lines.

118. No period expresses more clearly the joy of curves as opposed to
the severity of straight lines than that voluptuous period of Louis XV
known as Rococo. It was a profligate era, an era of pleasure, and the
appended illustration of part of a frieze is in no way exaggerated, but
a true example of a common expression. (See page 60.)
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
119. Distinct perpendicular lines give height effect, but they also
narrow the apparent width of a wall space. It is best to have such
line effects indistinct unless they appear as in the illustration on page
63, where they are intended to reduce the breadth effect of the
pattern and neutralize a squat tendency.

Indistinct perpendiculars give height effect, and do not reduce the
wall width.

[Illustration: (See ¶ 111.)]
[Illustration: Perpendicular lines, giving height effect.]
[Illustration: Perpendicular lines, giving height effect.]

#COLOR TERMS#

120. In the study of color and its application authorities differ so
materially that it is not only impossible to reconcile their
theories, but the different terms used to express color thought
create inextricable confusion.

121.

One authority fixes the neutrals as being black, gray and white; another
regards them as those hues or tones which lack definite color, like
quaternaries.

Authorities differ, moreover, upon even the fundamental principles.
Chevreuil selects red, yellow and blue as the primaries; Dr.

Thomas Young selects red, green and violet. Helmholtz selects carmine,
pale green and blue-violet; Maxwell scarlet red, emerald green and
blue-violet; Professor Rood agrees with Maxwell; Professor Church, of
the Royal Academy of Arts, London, regards the primaries as red, green
and blue; George Hurst, the English authority, fixes upon red,
yellow and blue, the Brewsterian theory.

122. One must remember always in studying color that we are treating
with the material, not with the illusion. We are dealing with pigments,
not with prismatic phenomena, and it must be obvious that the only
three primary colors that can be used in a way to produce all other
colors are red, yellow and blue.

123.

Whatever may be the spectrum theories of Sir Isaac Newton, Young or
Helmholtz, for practical reasons we prefer to follow an authority
as eminent as Chevreuil, for years the head of the National Gobelin
Works of France, and a man experienced in the practice as well as
the theory of color.

Any effort to fix the character of color and describe it by periods and
epochs will always prove unsatisfactory, for the reason that terms and
expressions have changed with every period since the Egyptian, 4000
B.C.

124.

We think we know purple until we discover that the purple of royalty,
the ermine and purple, the purple of the cardinals' robes, frequently
approximated what we now call carmine. Royal purple and Venetian
blue are mere trade terms. Practical men in the purchase of things
decorative soon discover that color terms convey only individual
impressions and no distinctive qualities that may be relied upon;
so that any effort to fix the color value by periods would be futile.

We may assume that in the age of oak, mahogany, white and gold or walnut
furniture, the fabric and wall colors harmonized with the wood colors,
and to that degree we may fix the period character of color. The
moment that the tone of the woodwork or the light conditions varied, color
character varied also.

125. We must also bear well in mind that colors which have come down
to us as examples of ancient times have been subjected to the
changing influences of centuries, and have faded and altered.

The colors on the walls of the historic rooms of European palaces
have greatly altered.

The flat reds and the deadish blues of the Pompeiian frescoes have been
altered by chemical action during the 1,850 years' burial under the
lava of Vesuvius. We are not justified in judging of the colors of
A.D. 79 by the restoration-examples in 1900. Hence the mere expressions
Pompeiian red, Pompeiian blue, can convey no definite, positive
meaning.

[Illustration: Fig. 1.]

#COLOR VOCABULARY#

126.

In music, a tone which is formed by a certain number of vibrations per
second is the same the world over, and each and every tone has a name;
but in color no such standards exist. People have attempted to formulate
a system by denominating the primary colors, red, yellow and blue,
respectively as R, Y and B, and the combinations of these colors
as combinations of letters.

For example, red, with varying degrees of yellow added, is denominated
by the letters R R O, or R O R, or O O R.

This system tends to confusion, and is inadequate to express tints and
shades. Various other systems have been devised. Color charts have been
made, and in each system arbitrary names have been assigned, so that each
color may be known by one of several names. The difficulty of insuring
accuracy under these circumstances becomes very evident.

127. In discussing color combinations, one is usually confused because
the subject is not a tangible expression that can be grasped like the
sound of a note in music. With color charts, every maker has a standard
of his own and the term "red" may mean anything within a wide range; a
yellow-red or a blue-red, the yellow-red perhaps being cherry, the
blue-red perhaps being carmine. An appreciation of the Harmonies of
Contrast or Harmonies of Analogy or Relationship is accompanied by great
confusion because of this lack of standardization.

128.

There is only one true standard of color, and that is the standard as shown
in the prism, and expressed by the spectrum.

It is within the province of any man to determine the proper
relationship of color if he starts with the chart we here present.

We fix definitely the three primary and the three secondary colors,
the primaries, red, yellow and blue, being those indicated by the
heavy black lines; the secondaries, orange, green and violet, being
indicated by the broad stipple lines.

All other lines are the tertiary or quaternary colors.

If we have clearly in our minds the appearance of the normal red
and yellow, and clearly in our minds the orange that is made up by
combining the two, we ought to be able to fix in our imagination
the colors that come midway between the red and the orange, or the
colors that come nearer the red or nearer the orange.

Let us assume we are to select colors in the harmony of _contrast_. Take
a ruler and lay across the chart and the contrasting colors are always
opposite; the direct contrast of red is green because green is
composed of the other two primary colors, yellow and blue; the
contrast of blue is orange because orange is a combination of the
other two primaries, yellow and red; the contrast of yellow is
violet, a combination of blue and red.

Now, to determine the niceties of distinction, let us take a red
that is a little off shade, a little yellowish; one must determine
in the mind's eye about how much yellow there is in it and, to
determine the true contrast, carry your line across from the point
which you think is represented by the yellowish and you find that
it is green with a little blue added, or bluish-green.

129.

One must also determine the scale of color. The parallel circular lines
on the chart designate four scales, or four grades, of each color,
growing lighter by adding white, to the center; as you add more and
more white the tint becomes more and more light.

In determining contrast, be careful to stick to your scale. Contrasts,
to be in harmony, must be colors of the same scale.

130. Harmony of analogy or relationship is clearly expressed in the
chart.

The family relations of red are the things which go with red. We may
have a harmony of analogy in violet which includes the relations of red
and blue. We must not attempt to carry the family relationship too far.
There is a wide range of variety in these combinations of analogy
because they may include not only all scales of each color from the
darkest tones to the lightest tints but they include tertiaries and
quaternaries.

Each man must establish his own standard, and by establishing it he forms
unconsciously a very comprehensive understanding of color. It has never
been possible to print a true colored chart because no two copies
of the sheet off the press would be alike. A little more ink or a
little less ink, or a little lighter or a little heavier impression,
changes the values.

The chart illustrates contrasts of all of the primaries and secondary
colors and the broken colors or hues.
Soon I began to shake and
tremble, and turned deadly cold; my legs ached, my loins ached, and my
chest ached, and I felt sore all over. Oh! how I wished for my warm,
thick cloth, as I stood and trembled. I wished for John, but he had
eight miles to walk, so I lay down in my straw and tried to go to sleep.
After a long while I heard John at the door; I gave a low moan, for I
was in great pain. He was at my side in a moment, stooping down by me. I
could not tell him how I felt, but he seemed to know it all; he covered
me up with two or three warm cloths, and then ran to the house for some
hot water; he made me some warm gruel, which I drank, and then I think I
went to sleep.

John seemed to be very much put out. I heard him say to himself over and
over again, "Stupid boy! stupid boy! no cloth put on, and I dare say the
water was cold, too; boys are no good;" but Joe was a good boy, after
all.

I was now very ill; a strong inflammation had attacked my lungs, and I
could not draw my breath without pain. John nursed me night and day; he
would get up two or three times in the night to come to me. My master,
too, often came to see me. "My poor Beauty," he said one day, "my good
horse, you saved your mistress' life, Beauty; yes, you saved her life."
I was very glad to hear that, for it seems the doctor had said if we had
been a little longer it would have been too late. John told my master he
never saw a horse go so fast in his life. It seemed as if the horse knew
what was the matter. Of course I did, though John thought not; at least
I knew as much as this--that John and I must go at the top of our speed,
and that it was for the sake of the mistress.


19 Only Ignorance


I do not know how long I was ill. Mr. Bond, the horse-doctor, came every
day. One day he bled me; John held a pail for the blood. I felt very
faint after it and thought I should die, and I believe they all thought
so too.

Ginger and Merrylegs had been moved into the other stable, so that I
might be quiet, for the fever made me very quick of hearing; any little
noise seemed quite loud, and I could tell every one's footstep going to
and from the house. I knew all that was going on. One night John had to
give me a draught; Thomas Green came in to help him. After I had taken
it and John had made me as comfortable as he could, he said he should
stay half an hour to see how the medicine settled. Thomas said he
would stay with him, so they went and sat down on a bench that had been
brought into Merrylegs' stall, and put down the lantern at their feet,
that I might not be disturbed with the light.

For awhile both men sat silent, and then Tom Green said in a low voice:

"I wish, John, you'd say a bit of a kind word to Joe. The boy is quite
broken-hearted; he can't eat his meals, and he can't smile. He says he
knows it was all his fault, though he is sure he did the best he knew,
and he says if Beauty dies no one will ever speak to him again. It goes
to my heart to hear him. I think you might give him just a word; he is
not a bad boy."

After a short pause John said slowly, "You must not be too hard upon me,
Tom. I know he meant no harm, I never said he did; I know he is not a
bad boy. But you see, I am sore myself; that horse is the pride of my
heart, to say nothing of his being such a favorite with the master and
mistress; and to think that his life may be flung away in this manner is
more than I can bear. But if you think I am hard on the boy I will try
to give him a good word to-morrow--that is, I mean if Beauty is better."

"Well, John, thank you. I knew you did not wish to be too hard, and I am
glad you see it was only ignorance."

John's voice almost startled me as he answered:

"Only ignorance! only ignorance! how can you talk about only ignorance?
Don't you know that it is the worst thing in the world, next to
wickedness?--and which does the most mischief heaven only knows. If
people can say, 'Oh! I did not know, I did not mean any harm,' they
think it is all right. I suppose Martha Mulwash did not mean to kill
that baby when she dosed it with Dalby and soothing syrups; but she did
kill it, and was tried for manslaughter."

"And serve her right, too," said Tom. "A woman should not undertake to
nurse a tender little child without knowing what is good and what is bad
for it."

"Bill Starkey," continued John, "did not mean to frighten his brother
into fits when he dressed up like a ghost and ran after him in the
moonlight; but he did; and that bright, handsome little fellow, that
might have been the pride of any mother's heart is just no better than
an idiot, and never will be, if he lives to be eighty years old. You
were a good deal cut up yourself, Tom, two weeks ago, when those young
ladies left your hothouse door open, with a frosty east wind blowing
right in; you said it killed a good many of your plants."

"A good many!" said Tom; "there was not one of the tender cuttings that
was not nipped off. I shall have to strike all over again, and the worst
of it is that I don't know where to go to get fresh ones. I was nearly
mad when I came in and saw what was done."

"And yet," said John, "I am sure the young ladies did not mean it; it
was only ignorance."

I heard no more of this conversation, for the medicine did well and sent
me to sleep, and in the morning I felt much better; but I often thought
of John's words when I came to know more of the world.


20 Joe Green


Joe Green went on very well; he learned quickly, and was so attentive
and careful that John began to trust him in many things; but as I have
said, he was small of his age, and it was seldom that he was allowed to
exercise either Ginger or me; but it so happened one morning that John
was out with Justice in the luggage cart, and the master wanted a
note to be taken immediately to a gentleman's house, about three miles
distant, and sent his orders for Joe to saddle me and take it, adding
the caution that he was to ride steadily.

The note was delivered, and we were quietly returning when we came
to the brick-field. Here we saw a cart heavily laden with bricks; the
wheels had stuck fast in the stiff mud of some deep ruts, and the carter
was shouting and flogging the two horses unmercifully. Joe pulled up. It
was a sad sight. There were the two horses straining and struggling with
all their might to drag the cart out, but they could not move it; the
sweat streamed from their legs and flanks, their sides heaved, and every
muscle was strained, while the man, fiercely pulling at the head of the
fore horse, swore and lashed most brutally.

"Hold hard," said Joe; "don't go on flogging the horses like that; the
wheels are so stuck that they cannot move the cart."

The man took no heed, but went on lashing.

"Stop! pray stop!" said Joe. "I'll help you to lighten the cart; they
can't move it now."

"Mind your own business, you impudent young rascal, and I'll mind mine!"
The man was in a towering passion and the worse for drink, and laid on
the whip again. Joe turned my head, and the next moment we were going at
a round gallop toward the house of the master brick-maker. I cannot say
if John would have approved of our pace, but Joe and I were both of one
mind, and so angry that we could not have gone slower.

The house stood close by the roadside. Joe knocked at the door, and
shouted, "Halloo! Is Mr. Clay at home?" The door was opened, and Mr.
Clay himself came out.

"Halloo, young man! You seem in a hurry; any orders from the squire this
morning?"

"No, Mr. Clay, but there's a fellow in your brick-yard flogging two
horses to death. I told him to stop, and he wouldn't; I said I'd help
him to lighten the cart, and he wouldn't; so I have come to tell you.
Pray, sir, go." Joe's voice shook with excitement.

"Thank ye, my lad," said the man, running in for his hat; then pausing
for a moment, "Will you give evidence of what you saw if I should bring
the fellow up before a magistrate?"

"That I will," said Joe, "and glad too." The man was gone, and we were
on our way home at a smart trot.

"Why, what's the matter with you, Joe? You look angry all over," said
John, as the boy flung himself from the saddle.

"I am angry all over, I can tell you," said the boy, and then in
hurried, excited words he told all that had happened. Joe was usually
such a quiet, gentle little fellow that it was wonderful to see him so
roused.

"Right, Joe! you did right, my boy, whether the fellow gets a summons or
not. Many folks would have ridden by and said it was not their
business to interfere. Now I say that with cruelty and oppression it is
everybody's business to interfere when they see it; you did right, my
boy."

Joe was quite calm by this time, and proud that John approved of him,
and cleaned out my feet and rubbed me down with a firmer hand than
usual.

They were just going home to dinner when the footman came down to the
stable to say that Joe was wanted directly in master's private room;
there was a man brought up for ill-using horses, and Joe's evidence was
wanted. The boy flushed up to his forehead, and his eyes sparkled. "They
shall have it," said he.

"Put yourself a bit straight," said John. Joe gave a pull at his necktie
and a twitch at his jacket, and was off in a moment. Our master being
one of the county magistrates, cases were often brought to him to
settle, or say what should be done. In the stable we heard no more for
some time, as it was the men's dinner hour, but when Joe came next into
the stable I saw he was in high spirits; he gave me a good-natured slap,
and said, "We won't see such things done, will we, old fellow?" We heard
afterward that he had given his evidence so clearly, and the horses were
in such an exhausted state, bearing marks of such brutal usage, that the
carter was committed to take his trial, and might possibly be sentenced
to two or three months in prison.

It was wonderful what a change had come over Joe. John laughed, and said
he had grown an inch taller in that week, and I believe he had. He
was just as kind and gentle as before, but there was more purpose and
determination in all that he did--as if he had jumped at once from a boy
into a man.


21 The Parting


Now I had lived in this happy place three years, but sad changes were
about to come over us. We heard from time to time that our mistress was
ill. The doctor was often at the house, and the master looked grave and
anxious. Then we heard that she must leave her home at once, and go to
a warm country for two or three years. The news fell upon the household
like the tolling of a deathbell. Everybody was sorry; but the master
began directly to make arrangements for breaking up his establishment
and leaving England. We used to hear it talked about in our stable;
indeed, nothing else was talked about.

John went about his work silent and sad, and Joe scarcely whistled.
There was a great deal of coming and going; Ginger and I had full work.

The first of the party who went were Miss Jessie and Flora, with their
governess. They came to bid us good-by. They hugged poor Merrylegs
like an old friend, and so indeed he was. Then we heard what had been
arranged for us. Master had sold Ginger and me to his old friend,
the Earl of W----, for he thought we should have a good place there.
Merrylegs he had given to the vicar, who was wanting a pony for Mrs.
Blomefield, but it was on the condition that he should never be sold,
and that when he was past work he should be shot and buried.

Joe was engaged to take care of him and to help in the house, so I
thought that Merrylegs was well off. John had the offer of several good
places, but he said he should wait a little and look round.

The evening before they left the master came into the stable to give
some directions, and to give his horses the last pat. He seemed very
low-spirited; I knew that by his voice. I believe we horses can tell
more by the voice than many men can.

"Have you decided what to do, John?" he said. "I find you have not
accepted either of those offers."

"No, sir; I have made up my mind that if I could get a situation with
some first-rate colt-breaker and horse-trainer, it would be the right
thing for me. Many young animals are frightened and spoiled by wrong
treatment, which need not be if the right man took them in hand. I
always get on well with horses, and if I could help some of them to a
fair start I should feel as if I was doing some good. What do you think
of it, sir?"

"I don't know a man anywhere," said master, "that I should think so
suitable for it as yourself. You understand horses, and somehow they
understand you, and in time you might set up for yourself; I think you
could not do better. If in any way I can help you, write to me. I shall
speak to my agent in London, and leave your character with him."

Master gave John the name and address, and then he thanked him for his
long and faithful service; but that was too much for John. "Pray, don't,
sir, I can't bear it; you and my dear mistress have done so much for
me that I could never repay it. But we shall never forget you, sir, and
please God, we may some day see mistress back again like herself; we
must keep up hope, sir." Master gave John his hand, but he did not
speak, and they both left the stable.

The last sad day had come; the footman and the heavy luggage had gone
off the day before, and there were only master and mistress and her
maid. Ginger and I brought the carriage up to the hall door for the last
time. The servants brought out cushions and rugs and many other things;
and when all were arranged master came down the steps carrying the
mistress in his arms (I was on the side next to the house, and could see
all that went on); he placed her carefully in the carriage, while the
house servants stood round crying.

"Good-by, again," he said; "we shall not forget any of you," and he got
in. "Drive on, John."

Joe jumped up, and we trotted slowly through the park and through the
village, where the people were standing at their doors to have a last
look and to say, "God bless them."

When we reached the railway station I think mistress walked from the
carriage to the waiting-room. I heard her say in her own sweet voice,
"Good-by, John. God bless you." I felt the rein twitch, but John made no
answer; perhaps he could not speak. As soon as Joe had taken the things
out of the carriage John called him to stand by the horses, while he
went on the platform. Poor Joe! he stood close up to our heads to hide
his tears. Very soon the train came puffing up into the station; then
two or three minutes, and the doors were slammed to, the guard whistled,
and the train glided away, leaving behind it only clouds of white smoke
and some very heavy hearts.

When it was quite out of sight John came back.

"We shall never see her again," he said--"never." He took the reins,
mounted the box, and with Joe drove slowly home; but it was not our home
now.


Part II


22 Earlshall


The next morning after breakfast Joe put Merrylegs into the mistress'
low chaise to take him to the vicarage; he came first and said good-by
to us, and Merrylegs neighed to us from the yard. Then John put the
saddle on Ginger and the leading rein on me, and rode us across the
country about fifteen miles to Earlshall Park, where the Earl of W----
lived. There was a very fine house and a great deal of stabling. We went
into the yard through a stone gateway, and John asked for Mr. York. It
was some time before he came. He was a fine-looking, middle-aged man,
and his voice said at once that he expected to be obeyed. He was very
friendly and polite to John, and after giving us a slight look he
called a groom to take us to our boxes, and invited John to take some
refreshment.

We were taken to a light, airy stable, and placed in boxes adjoining
each other, where we were rubbed down and fed. In about half an hour
John and Mr. York, who was to be our new coachman, came in to see us.

"Now, Mr. Manly," he said, after carefully looking at us both, "I can
see no fault in these horses; but we all know that horses have their
peculiarities as well as men, and that sometimes they need different
treatment. I should like to know if there is anything particular in
either of these that you would like to mention."

"Well," said John, "I don't believe there is a better pair of horses in
the country, and right grieved I am to part with them, but they are not
alike. The black one is the most perfect temper I ever knew; I suppose
he has never known a hard word or a blow since he was foaled, and all
his pleasure seems to be to do what you wish; but the chestnut, I fancy,
must have had bad treatment; we heard as much from the dealer. She came
to us snappish and suspicious, but when she found what sort of place
ours was, it all went off by degrees; for three years I have never seen
the smallest sign of temper, and if she is well treated there is not
a better, more willing animal than she is. But she is naturally a more
irritable constitution than the black horse; flies tease her more;
anything wrong in the harness frets her more; and if she were ill-used
or unfairly treated she would not be unlikely to give tit for tat. You
know that many high-mettled horses will do so."

"Of course," said York, "I quite understand; but you know it is not easy
in stables like these to have all the grooms just what they should be. I
do my best, and there I must leave it. I'll remember what you have said
about the mare."

They were going out of the stable, when John stopped and said, "I had
better mention that we have never used the check-rein with either of
them; the black horse never had one on, and the dealer said it was the
gag-bit that spoiled the other's temper."

"Well," said York, "if they come here they must wear the check-rein. I
prefer a loose rein myself, and his lordship is always very reasonable
about horses; but my lady--that's another thing; she will have style,
and if her carriage horses are not reined up tight she wouldn't look at
them. I always stand out against the gag-bit, and shall do so, but it
must be tight up when my lady rides!"

"I am sorry for it, very sorry," said John; "but I must go now, or I
shall lose the train."

He came round to each of us to pat and speak to us for the last time;
his voice sounded very sad.

I held my face close to him; that was all I could do to say good-by; and
then he was gone, and I have never seen him since.

The next day Lord W---- came to look at us; he seemed pleased with our
appearance.

"I have great confidence in these horses," he said, "from the character
my friend Mr. Gordon has given me of them. Of course they are not a
match in color, but my idea is that they will do very well for the
carriage while we are in the country. Before we go to London I must try
to match Baron; the black horse, I believe, is perfect for riding."

York then told him what John had said about us.

"Well," said he, "you must keep an eye to the mare, and put the
check-rein easy; I dare say they will do very well with a little
humoring at first. I'll mention it to your lady."

In the afternoon we were harnessed and put in the carriage, and as the
stable clock struck three we were led round to the front of the house.
It was all very grand, and three or four times as large as the old house
at Birtwick, but not half so pleasant, if a horse may have an opinion.
Two footmen were standing ready, dressed in drab livery, with scarlet
breeches and white stockings. Presently we heard the rustling sound of
silk as my lady came down the flight of stone steps. She stepped round
to look at us; she was a tall, proud-looking woman, and did not
seem pleased about something, but she said nothing, and got into the
carriage. This was the first time of wearing a check-rein, and I must
say, though it certainly was a nuisance not to be able to get my head
down now and then, it did not pull my head higher than I was accustomed
to carry it. I felt anxious about Ginger, but she seemed to be quiet and
content.

The next day at three o'clock we were again at the door, and the footmen
as before; we heard the silk dress rustle and the lady came down the
steps, and in an imperious voice she said, "York, you must put those
horses' heads higher; they are not fit to be seen."

York got down, and said very respectfully, "I beg your pardon, my lady,
but these horses have not been reined up for three years, and my lord
said it would be safer to bring them to it by degrees; but if your
ladyship pleases I can take them up a little more."

"Do so," she said.

York came round to our heads and shortened the rein himself--one hole,
I think; every little makes a difference, be it for better or worse, and
that day we had a steep hill to go up. Then I began to understand what
I had heard of. Of course, I wanted to put my head forward and take the
carriage up with a will, as we had been used to do; but no, I had to
pull with my head up now, and that took all the spirit out of me, and
the strain came on my back and legs. When we came in Ginger said, "Now
you see what it is like; but this is not bad, and if it does not get
much worse than this I shall say nothing about it, for we are very well
treated here; but if they strain me up tight, why, let 'em look out! I
can't bear it, and I won't."

Day by day, hole by hole, our bearing reins were shortened, and instead
of looking forward with pleasure to having my harness put on, as I used
to do, I began to dread it. Ginger, too, seemed restless, though she
said very little. At last I thought the worst was over; for several days
there was no more shortening, and I determined to make the best of
it and do my duty, though it was now a constant harass instead of a
pleasure; but the worst was not come.


23 A Strike for Liberty


One day my lady came down later than usual, and the silk rustled more
than ever.

"Drive to the Duchess of B----'s," she said, and then after a pause,
"Are you never going to get those horses' heads up, York? Raise them at
once and let us have no more of this humoring and nonsense."

York came to me first, while the groom stood at Ginger's head. He drew
my head back and fixed the rein so tight that it was almost intolerable;
then he went to Ginger, who was impatiently jerking her head up and down
against the bit, as was her way now. She had a good idea of what was
coming, and the moment York took the rein off the terret in order to
shorten it she took her opportunity and reared up so suddenly that York
had his nose roughly hit and his hat knocked off; the groom was nearly
thrown off his legs. At once they both flew to her head; but she was
a match for them, and went on plunging, rearing, and kicking in a most
desperate manner. At last she kicked right over the carriage pole and
fell down, after giving me a severe blow on my near quarter. There is no
knowing what further mischief she might have done had not York promptly
sat himself down flat on her head to prevent her struggling, at the
same time calling out, "Unbuckle the black horse! Run for the winch and
unscrew the carriage pole! Cut the trace here, somebody, if you can't
unhitch it!" One of the footmen ran for the winch, and another brought
a knife from the house. The groom soon set me free from Ginger and the
carriage, and led me to my box. He just turned me in as I was and ran
back to York. I was much excited by what had happened, and if I had ever
been used to kick or rear I am sure I should have done it then; but
I never had, and there I stood, angry, sore in my leg, my head still
strained up to the terret on the saddle, and no power to get it down. I
was very miserable and felt much inclined to kick the first person who
came near me.

Before long, however, Ginger was led in by two grooms, a good deal
knocked about and bruised. York came with her and gave his orders, and
then came to look at me. In a moment he let down my head.

"Confound these check-reins!" he said to himself; "I thought we should
have some mischief soon. Master will be sorely vexed. But there, if a
woman's husband can't rule her of course a servant can't; so I wash my
hands of it, and if she can't get to the duchess' garden party I can't
help it."

York did not say this before the men; he always spoke respectfully when
they were by. Now he felt me all over, and soon found the place above my
hock where I had been kicked. It was swelled and painful; he ordered it
to be sponged with hot water, and then some lotion was put on.

Lord W---- was much put out when he learned what had happened; he blamed
York for giving way to his mistress, to which he replied that in future
he would much prefer to receive his orders only from his lordship; but
I think nothing came of it, for things went on the same as before. I
thought York might have stood up better for his horses, but perhaps I am
no judge.

Ginger was never put into the carriage again, but when she was well of
her bruises one of the Lord W----'s younger sons said he should like
to have her; he was sure she would make a good hunter. As for me, I was
obliged still to go in the carriage, and had a fresh partner called Max;
he had always been used to the tight rein. I asked him how it was he
bore it.

"Well," he said, "I bear it because I must; but it is shortening my
life, and it will shorten yours too if you have to stick to it."

"Do you think," I said, "that our masters know how bad it is for us?"

"I can't say," he replied, "but the dealers and the horse-doctors know
it very well. I was at a dealer's once, who was training me and another
horse to go as a pair; he was getting our heads up, as he said, a little
higher and a little higher every day. A gentleman who was there asked
him why he did so. 'Because,' said he, 'people won't buy them unless we
do. The London people always want their horses to carry their heads high
and to step high. Of course it is very bad for the horses, but then it
is good for trade. The horses soon wear up, or get diseased, and they
come for another pair.' That," said Max, "is what he said in my hearing,
and you can judge for yourself."

What I suffered with that rein for four long months in my lady's
carriage it would be hard to describe; but I am quite sure that, had it
lasted much longer, either my health or my temper would have given way.
Before that, I never knew what it was to foam at the mouth, but now
the action of the sharp bit on my tongue and jaw, and the constrained
position of my head and throat, always caused me to froth at the mouth
more or less. Some people think it very fine to see this, and say, "What
fine spirited creatures!" But it is just as unnatural for horses as
for men to foam at the mouth; it is a sure sign of some discomfort,
and should be attended to. Besides this, there was a pressure on my
windpipe, which often made my breathing very uncomfortable; when I
returned from my work my neck and chest were strained and painful, my
mouth and tongue tender, and I felt worn and depressed.

In my old home I always knew that John and my master were my friends;
but here, although in many ways I was well treated, I had no friend.
York might have known, and very likely did know, how that rein harassed
me; but I suppose he took it as a matter of course that it could not be
helped; at any rate, nothing was done to relieve me.


24 The Lady Anne, or a Runaway Horse


Early in the spring, Lord W---- and part of his family went up to
London, and took York with them. I and Ginger and some other horses were
left at home for use, and the head groom was left in charge.

The Lady Harriet, who remained at the hall, was a great invalid, and
never went out in the carriage, and the Lady Anne preferred riding on
horseback with her brother or cousins. She was a perfect horsewoman, and
as gay and gentle as she was beautiful. She chose me for her horse, and
named me "Black Auster". I enjoyed these rides very much in the clear
cold air, sometimes with Ginger, sometimes with Lizzie. This Lizzie was
a bright bay mare, almost thoroughbred, and a great favorite with the
gentlemen, on account of her fine action and lively spirit; but Ginger,
who knew more of her than I did, told me she was rather nervous.

There was a gentleman of the name of Blantyre staying at the hall;
he always rode Lizzie, and praised her so much that one day Lady Anne
ordered the side-saddle to be put on her, and the other saddle on me.
When we came to the door the gentleman seemed very uneasy.

"How is this?" he said. "Are you tired of your good Black Auster?"

"Oh, no, not at all," she replied, "but I am amiable enough to let you
ride him for once, and I will try your charming Lizzie. You must confess
that in size and appearance she is far more like a lady's horse than my
own favorite."

"Do let me advise you not to mount her," he said; "she is a charming
creature, but she is too nervous for a lady. I assure you, she is not
perfectly safe; let me beg you to have the saddles changed."

"My dear cousin," said Lady Anne, laughing, "pray do not trouble your
good careful head about me. I have been a horsewoman ever since I was a
baby, and I have followed the hounds a great many times, though I know
you do not approve of ladies hunting; but still that is the fact, and
I intend to try this Lizzie that you gentlemen are all so fond of; so
please help me to mount, like a good friend as you are."

There was no more to be said; he placed her carefully on the saddle,
looked to the bit and curb, gave the reins gently into her hand, and
then mounted me. Just as we were moving off a footman came out with a
slip of paper and message from the Lady Harriet. "Would they ask this
question for her at Dr. Ashley's, and bring the answer?"

The village was about a mile off, and the doctor's house was the last
in it. We went along gayly enough till we came to his gate. There was a
short drive up to the house between tall evergreens.

Blantyre alighted at the gate, and was going to open it for Lady Anne,
but she said, "I will wait for you here, and you can hang Auster's rein
on the gate."

He looked at her doubtfully. "I will not be five minutes," he said.

"Oh, do not hurry yourself; Lizzie and I shall not run away from you."

He hung my rein on one of the iron spikes, and was soon hidden among the
trees. Lizzie was standing quietly by the side of the road a few paces
off, with her back to me. My young mistress was sitting easily with a
loose rein, humming a little song. I listened to my rider's footsteps
until they reached the house, and heard him knock at the door. There was
a meadow on the opposite side of the road, the gate of which stood open;
just then some cart horses and several young colts came trotting out in
a very disorderly manner, while a boy behind was cracking a great whip.
The colts were wild and frolicsome, and one of them bolted across the
road and blundered up against Lizzie's hind legs, and whether it was
the stupid colt, or the loud cracking of the whip, or both together, I
cannot say, but she gave a violent kick, and dashed off into a headlong
gallop. It was so sudden that Lady Anne was nearly unseated, but she
soon recovered herself. I gave a loud, shrill neigh for help; again and
again I neighed, pawing the ground impatiently, and tossing my head to
get the rein loose. I had not long to wait. Blantyre came running to
the gate; he looked anxiously about, and just caught sight of the flying
figure, now far away on the road. In an instant he sprang to the saddle.
I needed no whip, no spur, for I was as eager as my rider; he saw it,
and giving me a free rein, and leaning a little forward, we dashed after
them.

For about a mile and a half the road ran straight, and then bent to the
right, after which it divided into two roads. Long before we came to
the bend she was out of sight. Which way had she turned? A woman was
standing at her garden gate, shading her eyes with her hand, and looking
eagerly up the road. Scarcely drawing the rein, Blantyre shouted, "Which
way?" "To the right!" cried the woman, pointing with her hand, and away
we went up the right-hand road; then for a moment we caught sight of
her; another bend and she was hidden again. Several times we caught
glimpses, and then lost them. We scarcely seemed to gain ground upon
them at all. An old road-mender was standing near a heap of stones, his
shovel dropped and his hands raised. As we came near he made a sign to
speak. Blantyre drew the rein a little. "To the common, to the common,
sir; she has turned off there." I knew this common very well; it was for
the most part very uneven ground, covered with heather and dark-green
furze bushes, with here and there a scrubby old thorn-tree; there were
also open spaces of fine short grass, with ant-hills and mole-turns
everywhere; the worst place I ever knew for a headlong gallop.

We had hardly turned on the common, when we caught sight again of the
green habit flying on before us. My lady's hat was gone, and her long
brown hair was streaming behind her. Her head and body were thrown back,
as if she were pulling with all her remaining strength, and as if that
strength were nearly exhausted. It was clear that the roughness of the
ground had very much lessened Lizzie's speed, and there seemed a chance
that we might overtake her.

In considering artificial light, we will avoid all efforts to analyze
the different forms of energy, magnetic energy, electric energy, heat
energy, mechanical momentum, radiating energy, and deal with result
rather than with cause and effect.

It will be sufficient to state as the deduction of the scientist that
certain waves or vibrations which affect the fibers of the optic nerve
are transmitted by the brain into color.
(¶ 3.) Self-luminous bodies are bodies which produce light. Illuminated
bodies shine by borrowed light, and are distinguished by the different
amounts and quantities of light which they reflect.

A dense cloud which appears nearly black when between the observer's
eye and the sun, owing to the degree of density with which it intercepts
the light, may become brilliantly white when the sun's rays fall
upon its constituent particles, for the light which cannot penetrate
the cloud is continually reflected to and from the surface of its minute
parts.

Thus it happens that the lower part of a cloud seen against a background
of dark mountain may appear white, while the upper part may appear
dull gray.

In the alteration of reflection we have an alteration of color. A stick
of sealing wax will show in some positions white reflected light,
while in other positions we see only the red.

A polished plane furnishes one kind of reflection, a piece of chalk
another.

136.

The decorator has for years past been disposed to defer to the illuminating
engineer in the artificial lighting of a home.

But while the technical man or engineer may have a knowledge of power
and energy, he has not studied the decorative value of lighting. His
problem has been economic rather than psychologic. The illuminating
engineer cannot be expected to appreciate fully the harmonies of
color in decoration.

137.

It is the decorator's province to consider not only the power of light in
the furnishing of a house, but the character of the light--not only its
color influence, but the structural character of its introduction, as
affecting these furnishings.

It is beyond his province to determine whether carbon should be replaced
by tantalum, osmium or tungsten to get higher efficiency, but he must
understand the effects of these lights and prescribe accordingly.

#ABSORPTION AND REFLECTION#

138. The architect who designates the number and location of outlets for
the lighting sources, and specifies the candle-power of the lamps,
knows nothing of the ultimate decoration of the house. Very often the
specifications are finished before the color scheme has been decided
upon, and as a result the degree of illumination either falls short
of what is needed in case of dark-colored interiors, or proves
excessive with light-tinted rooms.

The architect works from one point, economy, the decorator from another,
æsthetic; while the householder, the consumer who pays the illuminating
bills, cannot comprehend why his lighting bills increase as his
taste for luminous or dark-colored furnishings is gratified.

Many houses are left in the white plaster for a year or more until the
plaster settles.

In this condition a small unit of light is sufficient, but when the
decorator completes his work, adding fabrics and wall-papers which
absorb and diminish the light, the householder, unaware of the
cause, notices a material increase in his bills for illumination.

These facts must be understood to be remedied, and it remains for the
illuminating engineer to determine by direct experiment the value of
any light as it affects and influences color, as well as the value of
color as it affects light. It may be assumed without danger that the
softest light is that of the candle, but we are not living in the
candle age, and have to deal with either gas or electricity as the
main illuminating agents.

139. We have to consider the mercury arc light, the yellow flame carbon,
the white magnetite and titanium arc--all of high efficiency, giving
orange yellow in the flame-carbon to yellow and yellow white in
the acetyline of the tungsten filaments.

Then we have the greenish yellow of the Welsbach mantle, the bluish
green of the mercury arc, the yellowish white of the carbon arc, as
well as the clear white of the titanium arc.

140. The subject may be divided into three heads: Quality, or approximation
to natural light. Quantity, as demanded by reflection or absorption.
Installation, diffusion or mechanical distribution.

141. Normal light is the light of general diffusion in daylight, and when
we can find an artificial light that has the character of natural light
we will have what is obviously the best illuminant for the home.

Bear in mind that natural light as it appears out of doors is
materially altered when indoors by the presence of different planes
and angles, which cast and receive various depths of shadow; the
quality required is that which will provide illumination without
glare.

The sun's rays are softened and mellowed by the depth of air through
which they pass, and it is this mellowness that is the chief requisite
in illumination.

Good decorative illumination does not mean illumination that
reveals every hidden corner of a room. We need shadows to betray form,
relieve monotony and give depth to the _ensemble_. If in an illuminated
area light is of a uniform intensity, we have a bad effect. The variation
of tone in a fabric is due to the light reaching it from a given
point.
Differences in intensity make shadows and tones.

142. The illuminating engineer treats the home as he treats a public
hall. He ignores the individuality of the room; the ball-room and the
sickroom are lighted alike. He does not always consider the diminished
force of light as it passes through a refracting surface, for it must
be borne in mind that any method of indirect lighting by refraction is
apt to cause a loss of volume. The use of various kinds of globes or
lamp shades must all be considered. A light-colored wall reflects
illumination, a dark-colored wall absorbs it; hence the amount of
illumination is increased or diminished by the color of the walls.

#LIGHT EFFECT ON COLOR#

143. To illuminate a city, with the dull grim environment of streets and
houses, a soft yellow glow will give warmth and tone; the greenish yellow
of the Welsbach or the blue green of the mercury arc may even be desirable,
but the same green or violet rays are ghastly in a house, and
should never be permitted.

144.

The warm glow of the yellow light, while pleasing to the complexion, is,
however, objectionable as disturbing the color composition of dress or
furnishings. A gaslight sends a yellow glow over all that it reaches,
and has the same effect as the introduction of yellow into every color
tint in the room. The walls that are red take on a scarlet hue; the
scarlet ones are yellowed to orange; the blues become greenish.

145. In order that the decorator may more readily grasp the subject, we
have arranged a table showing the color changes effected by rays
of yellow, blue, green and violet:
Orange rays falling on white make it appear orange.
" " red it appears reddish-orange.
" " orange it appears deeper orange.
" " yellow it appears orange-yellow.
" " green it appears dark yellow-green.
" " blue it appears dark reddish-gray.
" " violet it appears dark purplish-gray.
" " black it appears brownish-black.

Yellow rays falling on white make it appear yellow.
" " red make it appear orange-brown.
" " orange make it appear orange-yellow.
" " yellow make it appear deeper yellow.
" " green make it appear yellowish-green.
" " blue make it appear slaty-gray.
" " violet make it appear purplish-gray.

" " black make it appear olive-black.

Green rays falling on white make it appear green.
" " red make it appear yellowish-brown.
" " orange make it appear grayish-leaf-green.
" " yellow make it appear yellowish-green.
" " green make it appear deeper green.

" " blue make it appear bluish-green.
" " violet make it appear bluish-gray.
" " black make it appear dark greenish-gray.

Blue rays falling on white make it appear blue.
" " red make it appear purple.
" " orange make it appear plum-brown.
" " yellow make it appear yellowish-gray.
" " green make it appear bluish-green.
" " blue make it appear deeper blue.
" " violet make it appear bluer.
" " black make it appear bluish-black.

Violet rays falling on white make it appear violet.
" " red make it appear purple.

" " orange make it appear reddish-gray.
" " yellow make it appear purplish-gray.
" " green make it appear bluish-gray.
" " blue make it appear bluish-violet.
" " violet make it appear deeper violet.
" " black make it appear violet-black.

146.

The pale tints of electric lights, which make every face in a room
look ghastly, will affect quite as disastrously every soft color
in the furnishings. In ordinary gaslight a pair of white gloves looks
yellow, and we have seen Welsbach lamps which threw out a violet-blue
illumination, depressing in the extreme. Under a yellow glow, blues,
greens, violets and purples are greatly changed. Under a violet glow,
yellows and greens are ruined. To see all colors in about the same value
that they possess by daylight one must have a light in which no color
tone is apparent.

The question as to the disposition and intensity of the lights is of
vital importance, and must be considered with the requirements of
each particular room in mind.

147. For the drawing-room and reception-room it is desirable that all parts
of the room be evenly lighted, without a pronounced glare in any
particular part of the room. One of the most effective ways of accomplishing
this is by distributing the lights around the room, either on the
ceiling, in the cove or above a wide molding, so that the ceiling acts
as a reflecting agent, and distributes an even tone of light to all
parts.

#ILLUMINATION#

148. For the dining-room and living-room a different plan must be used,
because of the different requirements. The table is usually in such
rooms the chief feature of the furnishings, and it is customary to
focus upon it the main body of light. While this is obviously
necessary, the surroundings must not be ignored; neither is it possible
to raise the center light to such a height that its radiation may reach
all parts of the room, because in so doing the light reaches the
eye at an extremely unpleasant angle.

The drop fixture should be low enough to effectively light all parts of
the table, while at the same time its shade should screen the light
from the eyes of the room's occupants.

To illuminate the surrounding parts of the room other lights should be
distributed where they will most effectively supply what further
illumination is required.

149.

For the bedroom or boudoir the location of the lights should also be
subordinated to the purposes of the room, and in addition to providing
sufficient illumination to the entire area, special illumination
should be provided for the mirrors and the dressing-table.

The lights for the mirrors should be planned to illuminate the person and
not the image.

150.

For large reception-rooms in hotels and public institutions the plan is
frequently adopted of having all light provided by small table
lamps with opalescent shades.

These provide a medium glow throughout the entire room that is pleasing,
and avoid entirely the garishness usually associated with such rooms.
One of the mistakes of the day is the use of high-power lights, which
are so intense that they require to be screened or shaded, involving
waste of light and concentrating an unnecessary amount of illumination
upon a narrow sphere.

#REFLECTIVE POWER OF COLOR#

The following table will give an idea of the percentage of light
reflected from ordinary wall-hangings and papers:

Per Cent.

Reflection
White blotting-paper .82 White cartridge-paper .80 Ordinary foolscap .70
Ordinary newspaper .50 to .70 Chrome yellow paper .62 Orange paper .50
Yellow wall-paper .40 Yellow painted wall (clean) .40 Tracing cloth,
pale blue .35 Light pink paper .36 Blue paper .25 Emerald green .18 Dark
brown paper .13 Vermilion paper .12 Blue green paper .12 Cobalt
blue paper .12 Black paper 0.5 Deep chocolate paper 0.4 French
ultramarine blue paper 3.5 Black cloth 1.2 Black velvet 0.4 
151.

It is very difficult to select practical artificial illuminants,
because of the various color properties possessed by each. A Welsbach
mantle, which gives a greenish tint, is pretty sure to alter the
character of any color other than green. Incandescent electric light,
as well as ordinary gaslight, contains a yellow tint.

#THE COLOR OF ARTIFICIAL LIGHTS#

152. In planning or matching colors for a room, it is best to consider
the purpose for which the room is to be used, and match the colors
under the same light conditions that will prevail in the finished
room.

Deep, full colors are less affected by the shadings in artificial illuminants
than lighter tones of the same color.

ILLUMINANT. COLOR.

Sun (high in sky) White.
Sun (near horizon) Orange red.
Sky light Bluish white.

Electric arc (short) White.
Electric arc (long) Bluish white to violet.
Nernst lamp White.
Incandescent (normal) Yellow-white.
Incandescent (below voltage) Orange to orange-red.
Acetyline flame Nearly white.

Welsbach light Greenish white.
Gaslight (Siemens burner) Nearly white, faint yellow tinge.
Gaslight (ordinary) Yellowish white to pale orange.
Kerosene lamp Yellowish white to pale orange.
Candle Orange yellow.

#ARTIFICIAL LIGHT APPLICATION#

153.

The introduction of light by the medium of a wire, which may be carried
to any point in a room, encourages so many possibilities for comfort
and effect that it behooves us to forget traditional customs which were
established during the gaslight period. The introduction of gaslight
through tubes was a rather complex problem, and the carrying of the
pipes into the room through a main chandelier was the most advisable
constructive form. But we have no need for such cumbersome fixtures in
this day of wiring.

A mere cord takes the place of an inch pipe. Modern German and Austrian
lighting fixtures frequently are mere pendants, with the cord frankly
in evidence.

In this way the lights may be placed wherever needed--at the head of
the lounge, so one may read more clearly by it; close by the piano;
over the tea-table. In fact, supplementary lights to the general
illumination are a convenience that the decorator should consider.

154. The lighting of a house is a matter so dependent upon æsthetic
conditions that it is never within the scope of the electrician. It is
a problem for a decorator alone to solve. Intense and glaring lights
of unusual power must be avoided. Luminants of low intrinsic brilliancy
are preferable.

155. The floor is the least important surface for illumination, and
has no reflecting power of value. The walls vary in value according
to their color and surface. With lights radiating upward, however,
the ceiling possesses definite power, and should be considered.

156. Dark colors absorb light, while white and light colors reflect,
and this must always be remembered; for upon the character of the decorations
and furnishings of various rooms the quantity as well as the quality
of light has serious influence.

#POWER NECESSARY#

157. While the list which we give herewith is based largely upon area,
it may be taken as a basis of calculation for lighting equipment.

It is estimated that 300 square feet of a hallway requires four
sixteen-candlepower, or eight eight-candlepower units.

In a room 20 x 20 feet, with furnishings of mahogany and green, broken up
by bookcases and other furniture producing heavy shadows, it is estimated
that twelve eight-candlepower lights are sufficient if worked into
the frieze, and that a reading lamp of not less than thirty-two-candlepower
be used as a drop light.

Assuming a room is 15 x 15 feet, and furnished in light tones, four
eight-candlepower lamps are ample.

A living-room 20 x 25 feet, in light tones of color, requires two
thirty-two-candlepower lights, centrally located, and about twelve
eight-candlepower lights.

This should provide brilliant illumination.

A room 15 x 20 feet, in dark wood and hangings, needs eight eight-candlepower
reflector lamps, backed up by six more eight-candlepower lamps.

Bedrooms 15 x 15 feet in size, where they are not furnished in deep
colors, should be equipped with two sixteen-candlepower lights.

#COLOR CONTROL#

158. Mechanical lighting is so easily undertaken that it predisposes
one to extravagance. Properly applied, artificial light adds materially
to the charm of a room, but with illumination secured by the mere
twist of the wrist one is prone to ignore the value of shadows and
kill the beauty of light and shade by throwing illumination into the
remotest corners. The danger to good decoration is not only in overlighting,
but in overdecorating, and commercialism naturally encourages this
tendency.
The floor is frequently best treated if not entirely covered
with a one-pattern treatment; the walls are frequently most pleasing
if done in several papers instead of one.

The most effective room is the one lighted in various degrees of
strength, and while the decorator unconsciously follows this idea
and avoids superabundance of pattern by using panels, friezes and
wainscotings, we believe that each and every section or part of a
room should be treated separately, observing, of course, a consistent
spirit of design, preserving the period style and the general color
effect; we would vary the actual shade of coloring and the size of
pattern according to the dimensions of the wall space it occupies.

The large patterns and the strong colorings which may be appropriate
to an exposed wall are all out of proportion in narrow or darkened confines.
Dark and deep recesses should obviously be treated differently to advanced
or conspicuous spaces.

159. At a recent meeting of the Illuminating Engineering Society, D.
McFarlan Moore made the following observations: "A few years ago there
was practically no way of changing the colors of the various forms
of lamps, that is, the candle had its color perforce; such a thing
as modifying it was not dreamed of.

The oil lamp had its color; the open burner gas flame its color, the
incandescent lamp its color, and the arc lamp its color. At the present
time there are only two ways widely in use of varying the color;
that is, if a person wishes to have a light of a different color,
there are two main ways of getting it. One way is to get another light
source, and the other way is to use a diffusion globe of some kind,
which in any instance is extremely unscientific and inefficient.

Some of the most recent advances in this line are connected with the
flaming arc lamp. There we have an instance where the first step,
at least, was taken toward scientifically controlling the color value. I
refer to placing different chemicals in the carbon and thereby obtaining
a color which can, to a very great extent, be determined previously.

But still it by no means can be said that by means of the flaming arc
lamp the color factor is under perfect control. However, it is possible
now to have the color value under perfect control, and this is
obtained by utilizing a vacuum tube, and by changing the various gases
used in the tube to change the color. This has many advantages, and
from a scientific standpoint it cannot be criticised, as can the other
methods which have been used. For example, if you use a properly regulated
vacuum tube and feed it with air only, a pink light results; if you feed
it with nitrogen a yellow light results, and such a light can be used
for a great many purposes; in fact its range of usefulness so far
as the color is concerned, is about the same as that of the ordinary
incandescent lamp, and therefore can be used by florists or by
clothing merchants, and the distortion is not any worse than that
of the ordinary incandescent lamp.

However, it is not by any means claimed that when a tube is fed nitrogen,
that the color is at all near daylight; it is simply a color which appears
about the same as that produced by the ordinary incandescent lamp. Due
to the enormous radiating surfaces of the tube, the color in day time
looks considerably redder than that of the incandescent lamp because the
lamp is extremely small as compared with the tube.

When such a tube is fed with carbon dioxide at a definite pressure, and
at a definite intensity, a light is obtained that undoubtedly is closer
to average daylight color values than any light which has ever been
produced before, and we can almost say that it is entirely satisfactory.
For instance, experts in matching colors in the largest dye works of
this country, men who have tried all other forms of light, and found
them not at all suitable for their uses, have matched their colors
under a vacuum tube supplied with carbon dioxide and have found after
months of practical use that they could not detect any difference between
most delicate lavender shades, when they are matched at night time under
the tube and in day time by daylight, not direct sunlight."

#DRESS AND COMPLEXION#
160. The nerves of the eye, exhilarated by any pronounced color,
unconsciously observe the complement of that color when turned from
it.
The eye accustomed to the red of a woman's dress, unconsciously
sees a greenish cast in the face that is naturally pale, and in the
same way the pallor of a woman's face takes on a tint of red as the
complement or contrast of a green dress. As one's appetite for the
thing that is sweet becomes exhausted by a superabundance of sweets,
so the eye resting upon a mass of red in the dress of a woman fails
to appreciate the red tint in the face, and the face thus juxtaposed
becomes pallid.Gordon or John, or in fact any good driver, had been there,
he would have seen that something was wrong before I had gone three
paces. Or even if it had been dark a practiced hand would have felt by
the rein that there was something wrong in the step, and they would have
got down and picked out the stone. But this man went on laughing and
talking, while at every step the stone became more firmly wedged between
my shoe and the frog of my foot. The stone was sharp on the inside and
round on the outside, which, as every one knows, is the most dangerous
kind that a horse can pick up, at the same time cutting his foot and
making him most liable to stumble and fall.

Whether the man was partly blind or only very careless I can't say, but
he drove me with that stone in my foot for a good half-mile before he
saw anything. By that time I was going so lame with the pain that at
last he saw it, and called out, "Well, here's a go! Why, they have sent
us out with a lame horse! What a shame!"

He then chucked the reins and flipped about with the whip, saying, "Now,
then, it's no use playing the old soldier with me; there's the journey
to go, and it's no use turning lame and lazy."

Just at this time a farmer came riding up on a brown cob. He lifted his
hat and pulled up.

"I beg your pardon, sir," he said, "but I think there is something the
matter with your horse; he goes very much as if he had a stone in
his shoe. If you will allow me I will look at his feet; these loose
scattered stones are confounded dangerous things for the horses."

"He's a hired horse," said my driver. "I don't know what's the matter
with him, but it is a great shame to send out a lame beast like this."

The farmer dismounted, and slipping his rein over his arm at once took
up my near foot.

"Bless me, there's a stone! Lame! I should think so!"

At first he tried to dislodge it with his hand, but as it was now
very tightly wedged he drew a stone-pick out of his pocket, and very
carefully and with some trouble got it out. Then holding it up he said,
"There, that's the stone your horse had picked up. It is a wonder he did
not fall down and break his knees into the bargain!"

"Well, to be sure!" said my driver; "that is a queer thing! I never knew
that horses picked up stones before."

"Didn't you?" said the farmer rather contemptuously; "but they do,
though, and the best of them will do it, and can't help it sometimes on
such roads as these. And if you don't want to lame your horse you must
look sharp and get them out quickly. This foot is very much bruised,"
he said, setting it gently down and patting me. "If I might advise,
sir, you had better drive him gently for awhile; the foot is a good deal
hurt, and the lameness will not go off directly."

Then mounting his cob and raising his hat to the lady he trotted off.

When he was gone my driver began to flop the reins about and whip the
harness, by which I understood that I was to go on, which of course I
did, glad that the stone was gone, but still in a good deal of pain.

This was the sort of experience we job horses often came in for.


29 Cockneys


Then there is the steam-engine style of driving; these drivers were
mostly people from towns, who never had a horse of their own and
generally traveled by rail.

They always seemed to think that a horse was something like a
steam-engine, only smaller. At any rate, they think that if only they
pay for it a horse is bound to go just as far and just as fast and with
just as heavy a load as they please. And be the roads heavy and muddy,
or dry and good; be they stony or smooth, uphill or downhill, it is all
the same--on, on, on, one must go, at the same pace, with no relief and
no consideration.

These people never think of getting out to walk up a steep hill. Oh, no,
they have paid to ride, and ride they will! The horse? Oh, he's used
to it! What were horses made for, if not to drag people uphill? Walk! A
good joke indeed! And so the whip is plied and the rein is chucked and
often a rough, scolding voice cries out, "Go along, you lazy beast!" And
then another slash of the whip, when all the time we are doing our
very best to get along, uncomplaining and obedient, though often sorely
harassed and down-hearted.

This steam-engine style of driving wears us up faster than any other
kind. I would far rather go twenty miles with a good considerate driver
than I would go ten with some of these; it would take less out of me.

Another thing, they scarcely ever put on the brake, however steep the
downhill may be, and thus bad accidents sometimes happen; or if they do
put it on, they often forget to take it off at the bottom of the hill,
and more than once I have had to pull halfway up the next hill, with one
of the wheels held by the brake, before my driver chose to think about
it; and that is a terrible strain on a horse.

Then these cockneys, instead of starting at an easy pace, as a gentleman
would do, generally set off at full speed from the very stable-yard; and
when they want to stop, they first whip us, and then pull up so suddenly
that we are nearly thrown on our haunches, and our mouths jagged with
the bit--they call that pulling up with a dash; and when they turn a
corner they do it as sharply as if there were no right side or wrong
side of the road.

I well remember one spring evening I and Rory had been out for the day.
(Rory was the horse that mostly went with me when a pair was ordered,
and a good honest fellow he was.) We had our own driver, and as he was
always considerate and gentle with us, we had a very pleasant day. We
were coming home at a good smart pace, about twilight. Our road turned
sharp to the left; but as we were close to the hedge on our own side,
and there was plenty of room to pass, our driver did not pull us in. As
we neared the corner I heard a horse and two wheels coming rapidly down
the hill toward us. The hedge was high, and I could see nothing, but the
next moment we were upon each other. Happily for me, I was on the side
next the hedge. Rory was on the left side of the pole, and had not even
a shaft to protect him. The man who was driving was making straight for
the corner, and when he came in sight of us he had no time to pull over
to his own side. The whole shock came upon Rory. The gig shaft ran right
into the chest, making him stagger back with a cry that I shall never
forget. The other horse was thrown upon his haunches and one shaft
broken. It turned out that it was a horse from our own stables, with the
high-wheeled gig that the young men were so fond of.

The driver was one of those random, ignorant fellows, who don't even
know which is their own side of the road, or, if they know, don't care.
And there was poor Rory with his flesh torn open and bleeding, and the
blood streaming down. They said if it had been a little more to one side
it would have killed him; and a good thing for him, poor fellow, if it
had.

As it was, it was a long time before the wound healed, and then he was
sold for coal-carting; and what that is, up and down those steep hills,
only horses know. Some of the sights I saw there, where a horse had to
come downhill with a heavily loaded two-wheel cart behind him, on which
no brake could be placed, make me sad even now to think of.

After Rory was disabled I often went in the carriage with a mare named
Peggy, who stood in the next stall to mine. She was a strong, well-made
animal, of a bright dun color, beautifully dappled, and with a
dark-brown mane and tail. There was no high breeding about her, but she
was very pretty and remarkably sweet-tempered and willing. Still, there
was an anxious look about her eye, by which I knew that she had some
trouble. The first time we went out together I thought she had a very
odd pace; she seemed to go partly a trot, partly a canter, three or four
paces, and then a little jump forward.

It was very unpleasant for any horse who pulled with her, and made me
quite fidgety. When we got home I asked her what made her go in that
odd, awkward way.

"Ah," she said in a troubled manner, "I know my paces are very bad, but
what can I do? It really is not my fault; it is just because my legs are
so short. I stand nearly as high as you, but your legs are a good three
inches longer above your knee than mine, and of course you can take a
much longer step and go much faster. You see I did not make myself.
I wish I could have done so; I would have had long legs then. All my
troubles come from my short legs," said Peggy, in a desponding tone.

"But how is it," I said, "when you are so strong and good-tempered and
willing?"

"Why, you see," said she, "men will go so fast, and if one can't keep up
to other horses it is nothing but whip, whip, whip, all the time. And so
I have had to keep up as I could, and have got into this ugly shuffling
pace. It was not always so; when I lived with my first master I always
went a good regular trot, but then he was not in such a hurry. He was a
young clergyman in the country, and a good, kind master he was. He had
two churches a good way apart, and a great deal of work, but he never
scolded or whipped me for not going faster. He was very fond of me.
I only wish I was with him now; but he had to leave and go to a large
town, and then I was sold to a farmer.

"Some farmers, you know, are capital masters; but I think this one was a
low sort of man. He cared nothing about good horses or good driving; he
only cared for going fast. I went as fast as I could, but that would
not do, and he was always whipping; so I got into this way of making a
spring forward to keep up. On market nights he used to stay very late at
the inn, and then drive home at a gallop.

"One dark night he was galloping home as usual, when all of a sudden the
wheel came against some great heavy thing in the road, and turned the
gig over in a minute. He was thrown out and his arm broken, and some of
his ribs, I think. At any rate, it was the end of my living with him,
and I was not sorry. But you see it will be the same everywhere for me,
if men must go so fast. I wish my legs were longer!"

Poor Peggy! I was very sorry for her, and I could not comfort her, for
I knew how hard it was upon slow-paced horses to be put with fast ones;
all the whipping comes to their share, and they can't help it.

She was often used in the phaeton, and was very much liked by some of
the ladies, because she was so gentle; and some time after this she was
sold to two ladies who drove themselves, and wanted a safe, good horse.

I met her several times out in the country, going a good steady pace,
and looking as gay and contented as a horse could be. I was very glad to
see her, for she deserved a good place.

After she left us another horse came in her stead. He was young, and had
a bad name for shying and starting, by which he had lost a good place. I
asked him what made him shy.

"Well, I hardly know," he said. "I was timid when I was young, and was a
good deal frightened several times, and if I saw anything strange I
used to turn and look at it--you see, with our blinkers one can't see
or understand what a thing is unless one looks round--and then my master
always gave me a whipping, which of course made me start on, and did not
make me less afraid. I think if he would have let me just look at things
quietly, and see that there was nothing to hurt me, it would have been
all right, and I should have got used to them. One day an old gentleman
was riding with him, and a large piece of white paper or rag blew across
just on one side of me. I shied and started forward. My master as usual
whipped me smartly, but the old man cried out, 'You're wrong! you're
wrong! You should never whip a horse for shying; he shies because he is
frightened, and you only frighten him more and make the habit worse.'
So I suppose all men don't do so. I am sure I don't want to shy for the
sake of it; but how should one know what is dangerous and what is not,
if one is never allowed to get used to anything? I am never afraid of
what I know. Now I was brought up in a park where there were deer; of
course I knew them as well as I did a sheep or a cow, but they are not
common, and I know many sensible horses who are frightened at them, and
who kick up quite a shindy before they will pass a paddock where there
are deer."

I knew what my companion said was true, and I wished that every young
horse had as good masters as Farmer Grey and Squire Gordon.

Of course we sometimes came in for good driving here. I remember one
morning I was put into the light gig, and taken to a house in Pulteney
Street. Two gentlemen came out; the taller of them came round to my
head; he looked at the bit and bridle, and just shifted the collar with
his hand, to see if it fitted comfortably.

"Do you consider this horse wants a curb?" he said to the hostler.

"Well," said the man, "I should say he would go just as well without;
he has an uncommon good mouth, and though he has a fine spirit he has no
vice; but we generally find people like the curb."

"I don't like it," said the gentleman; "be so good as to take it off,
and put the rein in at the cheek. An easy mouth is a great thing on a
long journey, is it not, old fellow?" he said, patting my neck.

Then he took the reins, and they both got up. I can remember now how
quietly he turned me round, and then with a light feel of the rein, and
drawing the whip gently across my back, we were off.

I arched my neck and set off at my best pace. I found I had some one
behind me who knew how a good horse ought to be driven. It seemed like
old times again, and made me feel quite gay.

This gentleman took a great liking to me, and after trying me several
times with the saddle he prevailed upon my master to sell me to a friend
of his, who wanted a safe, pleasant horse for riding. And so it came to
pass that in the summer I was sold to Mr. Barry.


30 A Thief


My new master was an unmarried man. He lived at Bath, and was much
engaged in business. His doctor advised him to take horse exercise, and
for this purpose he bought me. He hired a stable a short distance from
his lodgings, and engaged a man named Filcher as groom. My master knew
very little about horses, but he treated me well, and I should have had
a good and easy place but for circumstances of which he was ignorant. He
ordered the best hay with plenty of oats, crushed beans, and bran,
with vetches, or rye grass, as the man might think needful. I heard the
master give the order, so I knew there was plenty of good food, and I
thought I was well off.

For a few days all went on well. I found that my groom understood
his business. He kept the stable clean and airy, and he groomed me
thoroughly; and was never otherwise than gentle. He had been an hostler
in one of the great hotels in Bath. He had given that up, and now
cultivated fruit and vegetables for the market, and his wife bred and
fattened poultry and rabbits for sale. After awhile it seemed to me that
my oats came very short; I had the beans, but bran was mixed with them
instead of oats, of which there were very few; certainly not more than a
quarter of what there should have been. In two or three weeks this began
to tell upon my strength and spirits. The grass food, though very good,
was not the thing to keep up my condition without corn. However, I
could not complain, nor make known my wants. So it went on for about two
months; and I wondered that my master did not see that something was
the matter. However, one afternoon he rode out into the country to see a
friend of his, a gentleman farmer, who lived on the road to Wells.

This gentleman had a very quick eye for horses; and after he had
welcomed his friend he said, casting his eye over me:

"It seems to me, Barry, that your horse does not look so well as he did
when you first had him; has he been well?"

"Yes, I believe so," said my master; "but he is not nearly so lively as
he was; my groom tells me that horses are always dull and weak in the
autumn, and that I must expect it."

"Autumn, fiddlesticks!" said the farmer. "Why, this is only August; and
with your light work and good food he ought not to go down like this,
even if it was autumn. How do you feed him?"

My master told him. The other shook his head slowly, and began to feel
me over.

"I can't say who eats your corn, my dear fellow, but I am much mistaken
if your horse gets it. Have you ridden very fast?"

"No, very gently."

"Then just put your hand here," said he, passing his hand over my neck
and shoulder; "he is as warm and damp as a horse just come up from
grass. I advise you to look into your stable a little more. I hate to be
suspicious, and, thank heaven, I have no cause to be, for I can trust my
men, present or absent; but there are mean scoundrels, wicked enough to
rob a dumb beast of his food. You must look into it." And turning to
his man, who had come to take me, "Give this horse a right good feed of
bruised oats, and don't stint him."

"Dumb beasts!" Yes, we are; but if I could have spoken I could have told
my master where his oats went to. My groom used to come every morning
about six o'clock, and with him a little boy, who always had a covered
basket with him. He used to go with his father into the harness-room,
where the corn was kept, and I could see them, when the door stood ajar,
fill a little bag with oats out of the bin, and then he used to be off.

Five or six mornings after this, just as the boy had left the stable,
the door was pushed open, and a policeman walked in, holding the child
tight by the arm; another policeman followed, and locked the door on the
inside, saying, "Show me the place where your father keeps his rabbits'
food."

The boy looked very frightened and began to cry; but there was no
escape, and he led the way to the corn-bin. Here the policeman found
another empty bag like that which was found full of oats in the boy's
basket.

Filcher was cleaning my feet at the time, but they soon saw him, and
though he blustered a good deal they walked him off to the "lock-up",
and his boy with him. I heard afterward that the boy was not held to be
guilty, but the man was sentenced to prison for two months.


31 A Humbug


My master was not immediately suited, but in a few days my new groom
came. He was a tall, good-looking fellow enough; but if ever there was
a humbug in the shape of a groom Alfred Smirk was the man. He was very
civil to me, and never used me ill; in fact, he did a great deal of
stroking and patting when his master was there to see it. He always
brushed my mane and tail with water and my hoofs with oil before he
brought me to the door, to make me look smart; but as to cleaning my
feet or looking to my shoes, or grooming me thoroughly, he thought no
more of that than if I had been a cow. He left my bit rusty, my saddle
damp, and my crupper stiff.

Alfred Smirk considered himself very handsome; he spent a great deal of
time about his hair, whiskers and necktie, before a little looking-glass
in the harness-room. When his master was speaking to him it was always,
"Yes, sir; yes, sir"--touching his hat at every word; and every one
thought he was a very nice young man and that Mr. Barry was very
fortunate to meet with him. I should say he was the laziest, most
conceited fellow I ever came near. Of course, it was a great thing not
to be ill-used, but then a horse wants more than that. I had a loose
box, and might have been very comfortable if he had not been too
indolent to clean it out. He never took all the straw away, and the
smell from what lay underneath was very bad; while the strong vapors
that rose made my eyes smart and inflame, and I did not feel the same
appetite for my food.

One day his master came in and said, "Alfred, the stable smells rather
strong; should not you give that stall a good scrub and throw down
plenty of water?"

"Well, sir," he said, touching his cap, "I'll do so if you please, sir;
but it is rather dangerous, sir, throwing down water in a horse's box;
they are very apt to take cold, sir. I should not like to do him an
injury, but I'll do it if you please, sir."

"Well," said his master, "I should not like him to take cold; but I
don't like the smell of this stable. Do you think the drains are all
right?"

"Well, sir, now you mention it, I think the drain does sometimes send
back a smell; there may be something wrong, sir."

"Then send for the bricklayer and have it seen to," said his master.

"Yes, sir, I will."

The bricklayer came and pulled up a great many bricks, but found nothing
amiss; so he put down some lime and charged the master five shillings,
and the smell in my box was as bad as ever. But that was not all:
standing as I did on a quantity of moist straw my feet grew unhealthy
and tender, and the master used to say:

"I don't know what is the matter with this horse; he goes very
fumble-footed. I am sometimes afraid he will stumble."

"Yes, sir," said Alfred, "I have noticed the same myself, when I have
exercised him."

Now the fact was that he hardly ever did exercise me, and when the
master was busy I often stood for days together without stretching my
legs at all, and yet being fed just as high as if I were at hard work.
This often disordered my health, and made me sometimes heavy and dull,
but more often restless and feverish. He never even gave me a meal
of green food or a bran mash, which would have cooled me, for he
was altogether as ignorant as he was conceited; and then, instead of
exercise or change of food, I had to take horse balls and draughts;
which, beside the nuisance of having them poured down my throat, used to
make me feel ill and uncomfortable.

One day my feet were so tender that, trotting over some fresh stones
with my master on my back, I made two such serious stumbles that, as he
came down Lansdown into the city, he stopped at the farrier's, and asked
him to see what was the matter with me. The man took up my feet one
by one and examined them; then standing up and dusting his hands one
against the other, he said:

"Your horse has got the 'thrush', and badly, too; his feet are very
tender; it is fortunate that he has not been down. I wonder your groom
has not seen to it before. This is the sort of thing we find in foul
stables, where the litter is never properly cleaned out. If you will
send him here to-morrow I will attend to the hoof, and I will direct
your man how to apply the liniment which I will give him."

The next day I had my feet thoroughly cleansed and stuffed with tow
soaked in some strong lotion; and an unpleasant business it was.

The farrier ordered all the litter to be taken out of my box day by day,
and the floor kept very clean. Then I was to have bran mashes, a little
green food, and not so much corn, till my feet were well again. With
this treatment I soon regained my spirits; but Mr. Barry was so much
disgusted at being twice deceived by his grooms that he determined to
give up keeping a horse, and to hire when he wanted one. I was therefore
kept till my feet were quite sound, and was then sold again.


Part III


32 A Horse Fair


No doubt a horse fair is a very amusing place to those who have nothing
to lose; at any rate, there is plenty to see.

Long strings of young horses out of the country, fresh from the marshes;
and droves of shaggy little Welsh ponies, no higher than Merrylegs; and
hundreds of cart horses of all sorts, some of them with their long tails
braided up and tied with scarlet cord; and a good many like myself,
handsome and high-bred, but fallen into the middle class, through some
accident or blemish, unsoundness of wind, or some other complaint. There
were some splendid animals quite in their prime, and fit for anything;
they were throwing out their legs and showing off their paces in high
style, as they were trotted out with a leading rein, the groom running
by the side. But round in the background there were a number of poor
things, sadly broken down with hard work, with their knees knuckling
over and their hind legs swinging out at every step, and there were some
very dejected-looking old horses, with the under lip hanging down and
the ears lying back heavily, as if there were no more pleasure in life,
and no more hope; there were some so thin you might see all their ribs,
and some with old sores on their backs and hips. These were sad sights
for a horse to look upon, who knows not but he may come to the same
state.

There was a great deal of bargaining, of running up and beating down;
and if a horse may speak his mind so far as he understands, I should say
there were more lies told and more trickery at that horse fair than a
clever man could give an account of. I was put with two or three other
strong, useful-looking horses, and a good many people came to look at
us. The gentlemen always turned from me when they saw my broken knees;
though the man who had me swore it was only a slip in the stall.

The first thing was to pull my mouth open, then to look at my eyes, then
feel all the way down my legs, and give me a hard feel of the skin and
flesh, and then try my paces. It was wonderful what a difference there
was in the way these things were done. Some did it in a rough, offhand
way, as if one was only a piece of wood; while others would take their
hands gently over one's body, with a pat now and then, as much as to
say, "By your leave." Of course I judged a good deal of the buyers by
their manners to myself.

There was one man, I thought, if he would buy me, I should be happy.
He was not a gentleman, nor yet one of the loud, flashy sort that call
themselves so. He was rather a small man, but well made, and quick in
all his motions. I knew in a moment by the way he handled me, that he
was used to horses; he spoke gently, and his gray eye had a kindly,
cheery look in it. It may seem strange to say--but it is true all the
same--that the clean, fresh smell there was about him made me take to
him; no smell of old beer and tobacco, which I hated, but a fresh smell
as if he had come out of a hayloft. He offered twenty-three pounds for
me, but that was refused, and he walked away. I looked after him, but
he was gone, and a very hard-looking, loud-voiced man came. I was
dreadfully afraid he would have me; but he walked off. One or two more
came who did not mean business. Then the hard-faced man came back again
and offered twenty-three pounds. A very close bargain was being driven,
for my salesman began to think he should not get all he asked, and must
come down; but just then the gray-eyed man came back again. I could not
help reaching out my head toward him. He stroked my face kindly.

"Well, old chap," he said, "I think we should suit each other. I'll give
twenty-four for him."

"Say twenty-five and you shall have him."

"Twenty-four ten," said my friend, in a very decided tone, "and not
another sixpence--yes or no?"

"Done," said the salesman; "and you may depend upon it there's a
monstrous deal of quality in that horse, and if you want him for cab
work he's a bargain."

The money was paid on the spot, and my new master took my halter, and
led me out of the fair to an inn, where he had a saddle and bridle
ready. He gave me a good feed of oats and stood by while I ate it,
talking to himself and talking to me. Half an hour after we were on our
way to London, through pleasant lanes and country roads, until we came
into the great London thoroughfare, on which we traveled steadily, till
in the twilight we reached the great city. The gas lamps were already
lighted; there were streets to the right, and streets to the left, and
streets crossing each other, for mile upon mile. I thought we should
never come to the end of them. At last, in passing through one, we
came to a long cab stand, when my rider called out in a cheery voice,
"Good-night, governor!"

"Halloo!" cried a voice. "Have you got a good one?"

"I think so," replied my owner.

"I wish you luck with him."

"Thank you, governor," and he rode on. We soon turned up one of the side
streets, and about halfway up that we turned into a very narrow street,
with rather poor-looking houses on one side, and what seemed to be
coach-houses and stables on the other.

My owner pulled up at one of the houses and whistled. The door flew
open, and a young woman, followed by a little girl and boy, ran out.
There was a very lively greeting as my rider dismounted.

"Now, then, Harry, my boy, open the gates, and mother will bring us the
lantern."

The next minute they were all standing round me in a small stable-yard.

"Is he gentle, father?"

"Yes, Dolly, as gentle as your own kitten; come and pat him."

At once the little hand was patting about all over my shoulder without
fear. How good it felt!

"Let me get him a bran mash while you rub him down," said the mother.

"Do, Polly, it's just what he wants; and I know you've got a beautiful
mash ready for me."

"Sausage dumpling and apple turnover!" Honors are worth something to
scientific men, because they are conferred upon such men in other
countries; at home there are precedents for them in Newton and Davy,
and the physicians and surgeons have them.

In my judgment, men of letters are better without them, unless they
are rich enough to bequeath to their family a good estate with the
bloody hand, and sufficiently men of the world to think such
distinctions appropriate.

For myself, if we had a Guelphic order, I should choose to remain a
Ghibelline.

"I have written thus fully and frankly, not dreaming that your proposal
is likely to be matured and carried into effect, but in the spirit of
good will, and as addressing one by whom there is no danger that I can
be misunderstood. _One thing alone I ask from the legislature, and in
the name of justice,--that the injurious law of copyright should be
repealed, and that the family of an author should not be deprived of their
just and natural rights in his works when his permanent reputation
is established._ This I ask with the earnestness of a man who
is conscious that he has labored for posterity."
The publication of this letter, and of the correspondence between Southey
and Sir Robert Peel, in which the poet declines being knighted, on
account of his poverty--a correspondence eminently honorable to the late
Prime Minister, has occasioned an eloquent letter from Walter
Savage Landor to Lord Brougham on the same subject.

CLASSICAL NOVELS.

The _Edinburgh Review_ rebukes the daring of those uneducated story-tellers
who profane by their intrusion the holy lands, the sacred names, and
golden ages of art. We have acceptable specimens of the "classical
novel" by Dr. Croly, Lockhart, Bulwer, and Collins (the author of
"Antonini"), and in this country by Mrs. Child and William Ware; but
nineteen of every twenty who have attempted such compositions have
failed entirely.

The Edinburgh Reviewer, after showing that the writers whom he arraigns
have merely parodied the exterior life of our own time, proceeds--
"It is not uncommon to excuse such deviations from historical propriety
by saying, that if the mere accidents have been neglected, the
essential humanity has been only more fully realized: and those who
quarrel with the neglect are stigmatized as pedants having no eyes
except for the external.

We think, however, that it will be found, in most cases where the
plea is set up, that the humanity for which the sacrifice has been
made is equally external with that which has been disregarded, and
much more commonplace and conventional; being in fact, only the
outer life of existing society.

We are met, of course, by the triumphant answer that Shakspeare wrote
Roman plays with a very slender knowledge of the classics. It would
be sufficient to reply, that we are speaking of cases where ignorance
of antiquity is not counterbalanced by any very exuberant or profound
knowledge of human nature. Possibly posterity may have to deal with
another myriad-minded dramatist whose poverty is better than other
men's riches; but it must not be rashly presumed that he is likely
to appear at all; or, if at all, with the same deficiency of learning
which was not unnatural three hundred years back.

Meanwhile, it is a perverse and pernicious paradox to maintain that
Shakspeare's consummate genius was in any way connected with his 'little
Latin and less Greek,' or that he might not have portrayed the Romans
yet more successfully if he had known more about them. Believing this,
we are not presuming, as the same absurd reasoning would have it, to set
up ourselves against him. We do not say that any other man in his age
or our own, however great his command of learning, could possibly
mend those plays by touching them; but we say that Shakspeare himself,
with increased knowledge, might have made them yet more perfect. It is
easy to oppose inspiration to scholastic culture; to coin antitheses
between nature and art; and to say that Shakspeare's Romans are
more ideally true than Niebuhr's.

There is some truth in all this; but it is not to the purpose.

A poet like Burns may have really known more of classical life than a
critic like Blair; nay, it may be that if Keats or Tennyson had been a
senior medallist at Cambridge, they would not have produced any
thing not only so beautiful but so purely Greek as _Endymion_ or
_Oenone_.

In what we were just saying we were thinking of the very highest minds.
And, when we recollect how gracefully Milton could walk under the
weight of his immense learning, we need not fear that the Alantean
shoulders of Shakspeare would have been oppressed by a similar load.

The knowledge of antiquity may operate on the recipient so as to
produce mere bookishness and intellectual sophistication; but in
itself it is a real and legitimate part of all knowledge, a portion
of that truth with which poets are conversant, a lesson set in other
schools than those where man is teacher. We know not what were
Shakspeare's feelings with respect to his own deficiencies; but we cannot
believe that the same modesty which besought his friend to chide with
Fortune, 'the guilty goddess of his harmful deeds,' would have
shrunk from confessing want of knowledge as an evil to be lamented,
at the same time that it was imputed to want of opportunity.

If he was self-centred, it was in his strength, not in his weakness. His
eulogists may show the greatness of their faith in him by doubting
whether he could have assimilated the learning which obstructs Ben
Jonson's _Catiline_ and _Sejanus_; but we have no proofs that he thought
so meanly of himself or of that which he happened not to possess. On
the contrary, it may be argued, from the diligent use which he has
made of such information as he had, that he would gladly have taken
advantage of more.

Arnold, in his Roman History, has noted the poet's perception of
historical truth in a matter where it might well have been overlooked;
and future critics may perhaps spend their time more profitably in
discovering other indications of a like vigilant industry than in
laboring to prove that the absence of so servile a virtue has been
conducive to his preëminence as a creative artist."

SLIDING SCALE OF THE INCONSOLABLES.

The editor of _The Albion_ thus christens, while he translates, the
following lively narrative, culled from the varied columns of the _Courrier
des Etats Unis_. The malicious writer dates from Paris; but for such
experiences our own city would probably be quite as prolific a
hunting-field

.

* * * * *
How rapid is the progress of oblivion with respect to those who are no
more! How many a quadrille shall we see this winter, exclusively made
up from the ranks of inconsolable widows! Widows of this order exist only
in the literature of the tombstone.

In the world, and after the lapse of a certain period, there is but
one sort of widows inconsolable--those who refuse to be comforted, because
they can't get married again!

One of our most distinguished sculptors was summoned, a short time since,
to the house of a young lady, connected by birth with a family of the
highest grade in the aristocracy of wealth, and united in marriage to
the heir of a title illustrious in the military annals of the empire.

The union, formed under the happiest auspices, had been, alas! of short
duration. Death, unpitying death, had ruptured it, by prematurely carrying
off the young husband. The sculptor was summoned by the widow.
He traversed the apartments, silent and deserted, until he was introduced
into a bedroom, and found himself in presence of a lady, young and
beautiful, but habited in the deepest mourning, and with a face
furrowed by tears.

"You are aware," said she, with a painful effort, and a voice half
choked by sobs, "you are aware of the blow which I have received?"

The artist bowed, with an air of respectful condolence. "Sir," continued
the widow, "I am anxious to have a funeral monument erected in honor of
the husband whom I have lost." The artist bowed again. "I wish that the
monument should be superb, worthy of the man whose loss I weep, proportioned
to the unending grief into which his loss has plunged me. I care not
what it costs. I am rich, and I will willingly sacrifice all my fortune
to do honor to the memory of an adored husband. I must have a
temple--with columns--in marble--and in the middle--on a pedestal--his
statue."
"I will do my best to fulfil your wishes, madam," replied the artist;
"but I had not the honor of acquaintance with the deceased, and a
likeness of him is indispensable for the due execution of my work.

Without doubt, you have his portrait?"
The widow raised her arm and pointed despairingly to a splendid likeness
painted by Amaury Duval.

"A most admirable picture!" observed the artist, "and the painter's name
is a sufficient guarantee for its striking resemblance to the original."

"Those are his very features, sir; it is himself.

It wants but life. Ah!
would that I could restore it to him at the cost of all my blood!"
"I will have this portrait carried to my studio, madam, and I promise
you that the marble shall reproduce it exactly."

The widow, at these words, sprung up, and at a single bound throwing
herself towards the picture, with arms stretched out as though to defend
it, exclaimed, "Take away this portrait! carry off my only
consolation!
my sole remaining comfort!

never! never!"
"But madam, you will only be deprived of it for a short time, and--"
"Not an hour!

not a minute! could I exist without his beloved image!
Look you, sir, I have had it placed here, in my own room, that my eyes
might be fastened upon it, without ceasing, and through my tears. His
portrait shall never leave this spot one single instant, and in
contemplating _that_ will I pass the remainder of a miserable and
sorrowful existence."
"In that case, madam, you will be compelled to permit me to take a copy
of it. But do not be uneasy--I shall not have occasion to trouble your
solitude for any length of time: one sketch--one sitting will
suffice."

The widow agreed to this arrangement; she only insisted that the
artist should come back the following day. She wanted him to set to
work on the instant, so great was her longing to see the mausoleum
erected. The sculptor, however, remarked that he had another work to
finish first.
This difficulty she sought to overcome by means of money.

"Impossible!" replied the artist, "I have given my word; but do not
distress yourself; I will apply to it so diligently, that the monument
shall be finished in as short a time as any other sculptor would
require, who could apply himself to it forthwith."
"You see my distress," said the widow; "you can make allowance for my
impatience.

Be speedy, then, and above all, be lavish of magnificence.
Spare no expense; only let me have a masterpiece."

Several letters echoed these injunctions, during the few days immediately
following the interview. At the expiration of three months the artist
called again. He found the widow still in weeds, but a little less pallid,
and a little more coquettishly dressed in her mourning garb.
"Madam," said he, "I am entirely at your service."
"Ah!

at last; this is fortunate," replied the widow, with a gracious
smile.

"I have made my design, but I still want one sitting for the likeness.

Will you permit me to go into your bedroom?"

"Into my bedroom? For what?"
"To look at the portrait again."
"Oh! yes; have the goodness to walk into the drawing-room; you will
find it there, now."
"Ah!"
"Yes; it hangs better there; it is better lighted in the drawing-room
than in my own room."
"Would you like, madam, to look at the design for the monument?"
"With pleasure. Oh! what a size! What profusion of decorations! Why, it
is a palace, sir, this tomb!"

"Did you not tell me, madam, that nothing could be too magnificent? I
have not considered the expense; and, by the way, here is a memorandum
of what the monument will cost you."
"Oh, heavens!" exclaimed the widow, after having cast an eye over the
total adding up. "Why, this is enormous!"
"You begged me to spare no expense."
"Yes, no doubt, I desire to do things properly, but not exactly to make
a fool of myself."
"This, at present, you see, is only a design; and there is time yet to
cut it down."

"Well, then, suppose we were to leave out the temple, and the columns, and
all the architectural part, and content ourselves with the statue?

It seems to me that this would be very appropriate."

"Certainly it would."
"So let it be, then--just the statue, alone."
Shortly after this second visit, the sculptor fell desperately ill. He was
compelled to give up work; but, on returning from a tour in Italy,
prescribed by his physician, he presented himself once more before the
widow, who was then in the tenth month of her mourning. He found, this
time, a few roses among the cypress, and some smiling colors playing
over half-shaded grounds.

He brought with him a little model of his statue, done in plaster,
and offering in miniature the idea of what his work was to be. "What do
you think of the likeness?" he inquired of the widow.

"It seems to me a little flattered; my husband was all very well, no
doubt; but you are making him an Apollo!"
"Really? well, then, I can correct my work by the portrait."
"Don't take the trouble--a little more, or a little less like, what does
it matter?"
"Excuse me, but I am particular about likenesses."
"If you absolutely must--"
"It is in the drawing-room, yonder, is it not? I'll go in there."
"It is not there any longer," replied the widow, ringing the bell.

"Baptiste," said she to the servant who came in, "bring down the portrait
of your master."

"The portrait that you sent up to the garret last week, madam?"

"Yes."
At this moment the door opened, and a young man of distinguished air
entered; his manners were easy and familiar; he kissed the fair widow's
hand, and tenderly inquired after her health. "Who in the world is
this good man in plaster?"

asked he, pointing with his finger to the statuette, which the artist
had placed upon the mantel-piece.

"It is the model of a statue for my husband's tomb."
"You are having a statue of him made?

The devil! It's very majestic!"
"Do you think so?"

"It is only great men who are thus cut out of marble, and at full length;
it seems to me, too, that the deceased was a very ordinary personage."

"In fact, his bust would be sufficient."
"Just as you please, madam," said the sculptor.

"Well, let it be a bust, then; that's determined!"

Two months later, the artist, carrying home the bust, encountered on the
stairs a merry party. The widow, giving her hand to the elegant dandy who
had caused the statue of the deceased to be cut down, was on her
way to the mayor's office, where she was about to take a second
oath of conjugal fidelity.

If the bust had not been completed, it would willingly have been
dispensed with.

When, some time later, the artist called for his money, there was an
outcry about the price; and it required very little less than a threat
of legal proceedings, before the widow, consoled and remarried, concluded
by resigning herself to pay for this funeral homage, reduced as it was,
to the memory of her departed husband.

     A NEW SERIES OF TALES BY
     MISS MARTINEAU.
     
     

There is scarcely in English literature a collection of tales by a simple
writer that are better adapted for the instruction of the masses, than
HARRIET MARTINEAU'S _Illustrations of Political Economy_. Without
believing her a very profound philosopher, we are inclined to think these
works could be remembered longer than any of her other writings.
The pleasure and instruction we derived from them were recalled by the
announcement in the London _Leader_ that she is to contribute a new
series of stories for the people, to that journal.

     We copy the first of
     them.
     
     
     THE OLD GOVERNESS.
     
     The afternoon was come when
     the Morells must go on board.

They were going to Canada at last, after having talked about it for several
years.
There were so many children, that it was with much difficulty they
had got on for some years past; and there was no prospect for the
lads at home.

They had, with extreme difficulty, paid their way: and they had, to a
certain extent, educated the children.

That, however, was Miss Smith's doing.

"We shall always feel, every one of us," said Mrs.

Morell, with tears, to the elderly homely governess, "that we are under
the deepest obligations to you.

But for you, the children would have grown up without any education at
all. And, for the greatest service you or any one could possibly render
us, we have never been able to give you your due,--even as regards the
mere money."
"I can only say again," replied the governess, "that you do not look at
the whole of the case. You have given me a home, when it is no easy
matter for such as I am to earn one, with my old-womanish ways and
my old-fashioned knowledge."

"I will not hear any disparagement of your ways and your knowledge,"
interrupted Mrs. Morell. "They have been every thing to my children:
and if you could have gone with us...."

This, however, they all knew to be out of the question. It was not
only that Miss Smith was between fifty and sixty, too old to go so far,
with little prospect of comfort at the end of the journey; but she
was at present disabled for much usefulness by the state of her
right hand.

It had been hurt by an accident a long time before, and it did not get
well. The surgeon had always said it would be a long case; and she had
no use whatever of the hand in the mean time. Yet she would not part
with the baby till the last moment.

She carried him on the left arm, and stood on the wharf with him--the
mother at her side--till all the rest were on board, and Mr.
Morell came for his wife. It was no grand steamer they were going in,
but a humble vessel belonging to the port, which would carry them
cheap.

"Now, my love," said the husband.

"Now, Miss Smith," taking the child from her. "Words cannot tell...."

And if words could have told, the tongue could not have uttered them. It
was little, too, that his wife could say.

"Write to us. Be sure you write. We shall write as soon as we arrive.
Write to us."

Miss Smith glanced at the hand. She said only one word, "Farewell!" but
she said it cheerfully.

The steam-tug was in a hurry, and down the river they went. She had one
more appointment to keep with them. She was to wave her handkerchief
from the rocks by the fort; and the children were to let her try whether
she could see their little handkerchiefs. So she walked quickly over the
common to the fort, and sat down on the beach at the top of the
rocks.

It was very well that she had something to do. But the plan did not
altogether answer. By the time the vessel crossed the bar it was
nearly dark, and she was not quite sure, among three, which it was, and
she did not suppose the children could see her handkerchief. She waved
it, however, according to promise. How little they knew how wet
it was!
Then there was the walk home. It was familiar, yet very strange.
When she was a child her parents used to bring her here, in the
summer time, for sea air and bathing. The haven and the old gray
bathing houses, and the fort, and the lighthouse, and the old priory
ruins crowning the rocks, were all familiar to her; but the port
had so grown up that all else was strange. And how strange now was
life to her! Her parents gone, many years back, and her two sisters
since; and now, the Morells! She had never had any money to lose,
and the retired way in which the Morells lived had prevented her
knowing any body out of their house. She had not a relation nor a
friend, nor even an acquaintance, in England.
The Morells had not been uneasy about her. They left her a little
money, and had so high an opinion of her that they did not doubt
her being abundantly employed, whenever her hand should get well.
They had lived too much to themselves to know that her French,
learned during the war, when nobody in England could pronounce
French, would not do in these days, nor that her trilling, old-fashioned
style of playing on the piano, which they thought so beautiful,
would be laughed at now in any boarding school; and that her elegant
needleworks were quite out of fashion; and that there were new ways
of teaching even reading, spelling, and writing.Well, you get along
for a bit, but soon find yourself in a long train of carts and carriages
all obliged to go at a walk; perhaps you come to a regular block-up, and
have to stand still for minutes together, till something clears out into
a side street, or the policeman interferes; you have to be ready for
any chance--to dash forward if there be an opening, and be quick as a
rat-dog to see if there be room and if there be time, lest you get your
own wheels locked or smashed, or the shaft of some other vehicle run
into your chest or shoulder. All this is what you have to be ready for.
If you want to get through London fast in the middle of the day it wants
a deal of practice.

Jerry and I were used to it, and no one could beat us at getting through
when we were set upon it. I was quick and bold and could always trust
my driver; Jerry was quick and patient at the same time, and could trust
his horse, which was a great thing too. He very seldom used the whip; I
knew by his voice, and his click, click, when he wanted to get on fast,
and by the rein where I was to go; so there was no need for whipping;
but I must go back to my story.

The streets were very full that day, but we got on pretty well as far
as the bottom of Cheapside, where there was a block for three or four
minutes. The young man put his head out and said anxiously, "I think I
had better get out and walk; I shall never get there if this goes on."

"I'll do all that can be done, sir," said Jerry; "I think we shall be
in time. This block-up cannot last much longer, and your luggage is very
heavy for you to carry, sir."

Just then the cart in front of us began to move on, and then we had a
good turn. In and out, in and out we went, as fast as horseflesh could
do it, and for a wonder had a good clear time on London Bridge, for
there was a whole train of cabs and carriages all going our way at a
quick trot, perhaps wanting to catch that very train. At any rate, we
whirled into the station with many more, just as the great clock pointed
to eight minutes to twelve o'clock.

"Thank God! we are in time," said the young man, "and thank you, too, my
friend, and your good horse. You have saved me more than money can ever
pay for. Take this extra half-crown."

"No, sir, no, thank you all the same; so glad we hit the time, sir;
but don't stay now, sir, the bell is ringing. Here, porter! take this
gentleman's luggage--Dover line twelve o'clock train--that's it," and
without waiting for another word Jerry wheeled me round to make room for
other cabs that were dashing up at the last minute, and drew up on one
side till the crush was past.

"'So glad!' he said, 'so glad!' Poor young fellow! I wonder what it was
that made him so anxious!"

Jerry often talked to himself quite loud enough for me to hear when we
were not moving.

On Jerry's return to the rank there was a good deal of laughing and
chaffing at him for driving hard to the train for an extra fare, as they
said, all against his principles, and they wanted to know how much he
had pocketed.

"A good deal more than I generally get," said he, nodding slyly; "what
he gave me will keep me in little comforts for several days."

"Gammon!" said one.

"He's a humbug," said another; "preaching to us and then doing the same
himself."

"Look here, mates," said Jerry; "the gentleman offered me half a crown
extra, but I didn't take it; 'twas quite pay enough for me to see how
glad he was to catch that train; and if Jack and I choose to have a
quick run now and then to please ourselves, that's our business and not
yours."

"Well," said Larry, "you'll never be a rich man."

"Most likely not," said Jerry; "but I don't know that I shall be the
less happy for that. I have heard the commandments read a great many
times and I never noticed that any of them said, 'Thou shalt be rich';
and there are a good many curious things said in the New Testament about
rich men that I think would make me feel rather queer if I was one of
them."

"If you ever do get rich," said Governor Gray, looking over his shoulder
across the top of his cab, "you'll deserve it, Jerry, and you won't find
a curse come with your wealth. As for you, Larry, you'll die poor; you
spend too much in whipcord."

"Well," said Larry, "what is a fellow to do if his horse won't go
without it?"

"You never take the trouble to see if he will go without it; your whip
is always going as if you had the St. Vitus' dance in your arm, and
if it does not wear you out it wears your horse out; you know you are
always changing your horses; and why? Because you never give them any
peace or encouragement."

"Well, I have not had good luck," said Larry, "that's where it is."

"And you never will," said the governor. "Good Luck is rather particular
who she rides with, and mostly prefers those who have got common sense
and a good heart; at least that is my experience."

Governor Gray turned round again to his newspaper, and the other men
went to their cabs.


36 The Sunday Cab


One morning, as Jerry had just put me into the shafts and was fastening
the traces, a gentleman walked into the yard. "Your servant, sir," said
Jerry.

"Good-morning, Mr. Barker," said the gentleman. "I should be glad to
make some arrangements with you for taking Mrs. Briggs regularly to
church on Sunday mornings. We go to the New Church now, and that is
rather further than she can walk."

"Thank you, sir," said Jerry, "but I have only taken out a six-days'
license,* and therefore I could not take a fare on a Sunday; it would
not be legal."


* A few years since the annual charge for a cab license was very much
reduced, and the difference between the six and seven days' cabs was
abolished.


"Oh!" said the other, "I did not know yours was a six-days' cab; but of
course it would be very easy to alter your license. I would see that you
did not lose by it; the fact is, Mrs. Briggs very much prefers you to
drive her."

"I should be glad to oblige the lady, sir, but I had a seven-days'
license once, and the work was too hard for me, and too hard for my
horses. Year in and year out, not a day's rest, and never a Sunday with
my wife and children; and never able to go to a place of worship, which
I had always been used to do before I took to the driving box. So for
the last five years I have only taken a six-days' license, and I find it
better all the way round."

"Well, of course," replied Mr. Briggs, "it is very proper that every
person should have rest, and be able to go to church on Sundays, but I
should have thought you would not have minded such a short distance for
the horse, and only once a day; you would have all the afternoon and
evening for yourself, and we are very good customers, you know."

"Yes, sir, that is true, and I am grateful for all favors, I am sure;
and anything that I could do to oblige you, or the lady, I should be
proud and happy to do; but I can't give up my Sundays, sir, indeed I
can't. I read that God made man, and he made horses and all the other
beasts, and as soon as He had made them He made a day of rest, and bade
that all should rest one day in seven; and I think, sir, He must have
known what was good for them, and I am sure it is good for me; I am
stronger and healthier altogether, now that I have a day of rest; the
horses are fresh too, and do not wear up nearly so fast. The six-day
drivers all tell me the same, and I have laid by more money in the
savings bank than ever I did before; and as for the wife and children,
sir, why, heart alive! they would not go back to the seven days for all
they could see."

"Oh, very well," said the gentleman. "Don't trouble yourself, Mr.
Barker, any further. I will inquire somewhere else," and he walked away.

"Well," says Jerry to me, "we can't help it, Jack, old boy; we must have
our Sundays."

"Polly!" he shouted, "Polly! come here."

She was there in a minute.

"What is it all about, Jerry?"

"Why, my dear, Mr. Briggs wants me to take Mrs. Briggs to church every
Sunday morning. I say I have only a six-days' license. He says, 'Get a
seven-days' license, and I'll make it worth your while;' and you know,
Polly, they are very good customers to us. Mrs. Briggs often goes out
shopping for hours, or making calls, and then she pays down fair and
honorable like a lady; there's no beating down or making three hours
into two hours and a half, as some folks do; and it is easy work for
the horses; not like tearing along to catch trains for people that are
always a quarter of an hour too late; and if I don't oblige her in this
matter it is very likely we shall lose them altogether. What do you say,
little woman?"

"I say, Jerry," says she, speaking very slowly, "I say, if Mrs. Briggs
would give you a sovereign every Sunday morning, I would not have you a
seven-days' cabman again. We have known what it was to have no Sundays,
and now we know what it is to call them our own. Thank God, you earn
enough to keep us, though it is sometimes close work to pay for all the
oats and hay, the license, and the rent besides; but Harry will soon be
earning something, and I would rather struggle on harder than we do than
go back to those horrid times when you hardly had a minute to look at
your own children, and we never could go to a place of worship together,
or have a happy, quiet day. God forbid that we should ever turn back to
those times; that's what I say, Jerry."

"And that is just what I told Mr. Briggs, my dear," said Jerry, "and
what I mean to stick to. So don't go and fret yourself, Polly" (for she
had begun to cry); "I would not go back to the old times if I earned
twice as much, so that is settled, little woman. Now, cheer up, and I'll
be off to the stand."

Three weeks had passed away after this conversation, and no order had
come from Mrs. Briggs; so there was nothing but taking jobs from the
stand. Jerry took it to heart a good deal, for of course the work was
harder for horse and man. But Polly would always cheer him up, and say,
"Never mind, father, never, mind.

     "'Do your best,
     And leave the rest,
     'Twill all come right
     Some day or night.'"

It soon became known that Jerry had lost his best customer, and for what
reason. So here she staid.

The hand got well, as far as the pain was concerned, sooner than she had
expected. But it was in a different way from what she had expected.
It was left wholly useless. And, though the time was not long, it had
wrought as time does. It had worn out her clothes; it had emptied her
little purse.

It had carried away every thing she had in the world but the very few
clothes she had on. She had been verging towards the resolution she
now took for three or four weeks. She took it finally while sitting
on the bench near the fort.

It was in the dusk; for her gown, though she had done her best to
mend it with her left hand, was in no condition to show by daylight.
She was alone in the dusk, rather hungry and very cold. The sea was
dashing surlily upon the rocks below, and there was too much mist
to let any stars shine upon her. It was all dreary enough; yet she
was not very miserable, for her mind was made up.
She had made up her mind to go into the work-Pouse the next day. While she
was thinking calmly about it a fife began to play a sort of jig
in the yard of the fort behind her.

Her heart heaved to her throat and the tears gushed from her eyes. In
this same spot, fifty years before, she had heard what seemed to her
the same fife. Her father was then sitting on the grass, and she was
between his knees, helping to tassel the tail of a little kite they
were going to fly; and, when the merry fife had struck up, her father had
snatched up her gay Harlequin that lay within reach, and made him shake
his legs and arms to the music.

She heard her own laugh again now, through that long course of fifty
years, and in the midst of these tears.

All that night she pondered her purpose: and the more she considered,
the more sure she was that it was right. "I might," thought she, "get
maintained by charity, no doubt: I might call on any of the clergymen
of this place, and the rich people. Or I might walk into the shops and
tell my story, and I dare say the people would give me food and clothes.
And, if it was a temporary distress, I would do so. I should think it
right to ask for help, if I had any prospect of work or independence
in any way. But I have none: and this, I am convinced, points out my
duty.
Hopeless cases like mine are those which public charity--legal
charity--is intended to meet.

My father little dreamed of this, to be sure; and the Morells little
dream of it at this moment.

But when do our parents and friends, when do we ourselves, dream of what
our lot is really to turn out? Those old notions have nothing to
do, if we could but think so, with the event. Nor has my disgust any thing
to do with my duty. The plain fact is, that I am growing old--that I
am nearly helpless--that I am cold and hungry, and nearly naked--that
I have no friends within reach, and no prospect whatever.

I am, therefore, an object for public charity, and I will ask for
what is my due.

I am afraid of what I may find in the workhouse;--the vicious people,
the dirty people, the diseased people,--and, I suppose, not one among
them who can give me any companionship whatever.

"It is dreadful; but it can't be helped. And the worse the case
is about my companions--my fellow-paupers--(for I must learn to bear
the word)--the greater are the chances of my finding something to do
for them;--something which may prevent my feeling myself utterly
useless in the world.

This is not being wholly without prospect, after all. I suppose nobody
ever is. If it were not so cold now, I could sleep upon mine."
It was too cold for sleep; and when, in the morning, she offered her old
shawl in payment for her bed, assuring the poor old woman who let it
that she should not want the shawl, because she was going to have
other clothes, the woman shook her head sorrowfully,--her lodger
looked so wan and chilled.

She had no fear that there was any thought of suicide in the case.

No one could look in Miss Smith's sensible face, and hear her steady,
cheerful voice, and suppose that she would do any thing wild or
impatient.

"Who is that woman with a book in her hand?" inquired the visiting
Commissioner, some months afterwards, of the governor of the workhouse.

The governor could only say she was a single woman of the name of
Smith, who had no use of her right hand.

As to who she was, he could tell no more than this; but his wife had
sometimes mentioned her as a different sort of person from those
they generally saw there.

She could not only read, but she read very well: and she read a
great deal aloud to the old people, and in the infirmary.

She talked unlike the rest, too. She said little; but her language
was good, and always correct. She could not do much on account of her
infirmity: but she was always willing to do what could be done with one
hand; and she must have been very handy when she had the use of both.

"I should have thought her eyes had been too weak for much reading,"
observed the Commissioner. "Has the medical officer attended to
her?"

The governor called his wife: and the wife called a pauper woman who
was told the question. This woman said that it was not exactly a case
for the doctor.

Nobody that shed so many tears could have good eyes. Ah! the governor
might be surprised; because Smith seemed so brisk in the daytime, and
cheered the old people so much. But she made up for it at night. Many
and many a time she cried the night through.

"How do you know?" asked the Commissioner.

"I sleep in the next bed, sir. I can't say she disturbs any body; for she
is very quiet. But if any thing keeps me awake I hear her sobbing.
And you need but feel her pillow in the morning. It is wet almost through."

"And does that happen often?"

"Yes, sir. Many a time when she has turned her back,--gone into the
infirmary, or been reading to the old people,--I have got her
pillow and dried it.

And I have seen her do it herself, with a smile on her face all the time."

The Commissioner walked away. Before he left the place, the woman
Smith was beckoned out by the governor. She went with a beating heart,
with some wild idea in her head that the Morells had sent, that some
friends had turned up.

While still in the passage, however, she said to herself that she
might as well look to see her parents risen from the dead.

The Commissioner had, indeed, nothing to tell. He wanted to ask. He did
ask, as much as his delicacy would allow. But he learned nothing;
except, indeed, what he ought to have considered the most important
thing, the state of her mind about being there.

About that, she was frank enough. She said over again to him what she
had said to herself, about this being the right place for one in her
circumstances. She considered that it would be an abuse of private charity
for her to be maintained in idleness at an expense which might set
forward in life some person in a less hopeless position.

"You speak cheerfully, as if you were in earnest," said the Commissioner.

"Of course, I am in earnest," she replied.

And cheerful she remained throughout the conversation. Only once the
Commissioner saw her eyes filled and a quiver on her lips. He did not
know it; but he had unconsciously called her "Madam."

Would she prefer the children's department of the House? There was no
doubt that she could teach them much. Would she change her quarters?

No.
She was too old now for that. She should not be a good companion now
for children; and they would be too much for her. Unless she was
wanted--
By no means. She should be where she preferred to be.

She preferred to be where she was. The Commissioner's lady soon after
dropped in, and managed to engage Smith in conversation. But there
was no result; because Smith did not choose that there should be. Perhaps
she was more in the infirmary; and had oftener a warm seat by the fire,
and was spoken to with more deference.

But this might be solely owing to the way she made with the people by
her own acts and manners. The invalids and the infirm grew so fond of
her that they poured out to her all their complaints. She was favored
with the knowledge of every painful sensation as it passed, and
every uneasy thought as it arose.

"I never thought to die in such a place as this," groaned old Johnny
Jacks.

"I wonder at that," said his old wife; "for you never took any care
to provide yourself a better--to say nothing of me."

And she went on to tell how Johnny had idled and drank his life away, and
brought her here at last. Much of Johnny's idling and drinking having
been connected with electioneering in an abominably venal city, he was
a great talker on politics, and the state was made responsible for all
his troubles. He said it was a shame that any body should die in a
workhouse; he appealed to his neighbor Smith, who was warming his
broth, whether it was not so?

"Which is best?" she answered; "being here, or on a common, or the
sea-sands? Because," she added, "there was a time when old people like
us were left to die wherever they fell. There are countries now where
old people die so.

I should not like that."
"You don't mean to say that you or any one likes being here?"
"Oh, no; I don't mean to say that. But things are better than they
were once: and they may be better again."
"I shall not live to see that," groaned Johnny.

"No; nor I. But it is something to think of."

"D---- it," said Johnny, "I am not the better for any good that does
not happen to me, nor to any body I know."
"Are not you?" said neighbor Smith. "Well, now, I am."
And so she was to the end. She died in that infirmary, and not very long
after. When the Morells' letter came, it was plain that they had enough
to do to take care of themselves. So she did not let them know,--in
her reply, written by the hands of the schoolmaster,--where she was. The
letter was so cheerful that they are probably far from suspecting, at
this moment, how she died and was buried. As "from the abundance of the
heart the mouth speaketh," there was so much in her letter as rather
surprised them about her hope and expectation that the time would come
when hearty work in the vigorous season of life should secure its easy
close; and when a greater variety of employment should be opened to
women. There was more of this kind of speculation and less news and
detail of facts than they would have liked. But it was a household event
to have a letter from Miss Smith; and the very little children, forgetting
the wide sea they had passed, began shouting for Miss Smith to come to
them just (as it happened) when her ear was closing to every human
voice.

ON THE ATTEMPTS TO DISCOVER THE NORTHWEST PASSAGE.

There are some peculiarities of style in the following performance,
which is by no means devoid of eloquence, and which derives a certain
interest from the efforts now being made to discover the fate of Sir John
Franklin.

The author is GEORGE STOVIN VENABLES, LL. D., of Jesus College,
Cambridge.

THE NORTHWEST PASSAGE.

"And now there came both mist and snow, And it grew wondrous cold; And
ice, mast high, came floating by, As green as emerald.
And through the drifts and snowy clifts Did send a dismal sheen:
Nor shape of men, nor beasts we ken-- The ice was all between-- The ice
was here, the ice was there-- The ice was all around:
It crack'd and growl'd, and roar'd and howl'd, Like noises in a swound."

COLERIDGE.

_Rime of the Ancient Mariner._
The secret wonders of the gloomy North bid proud defiance, in their solitude,
to man's triumphant daring. Who shall pierce the ancient prison-house
where Nature's might, in mightier chains of adamantine frost, lies
fettered, since Creation? Who shall live where promontories huge, of
pilèd ice, like monstrous fragments of primeval worlds tossed on the
surge of Chaos, over the waves rear their triumphant heads, and
laugh to scorn the undreaded kinghood of the lordly sea?

A fearful challenge! yet the charmèd spell, which summons man to high
discovery, is ever vocal in the outward world, though they alone may
hear it, who have hearts responsive to its tone. The gale of spring,
breathing sweet balm over the western waters, called forth that gifted
old adventurer[10] to seek the perfumes of spice-laden winds, far in
the Indian Isles. Yea, there is power in Nature's solemn music. All
have heard the sighs of Winter in the middle air, and seen the skirts
of his cloud-woven robe lingering upon the misty mountain-top: but
years rolled on, ere man might understand the mystic invitation of that
call to seek the Monarch in his Arctic home.

At length that call is answered. Daringly yon gallant ship, towards
the Polar Star, walks the untrodden pathways of old Ocean, leaving
the haunts of man.

Even now, the bounds are passed where silently the Boreal Morn[11]
folds and unfolds, in swiftest interchange, her silver robe of
alternating light over the midnight Heaven. There is a change in
every sight and sound. White glaciers clash on the tormented waves, in
fierce career waving eternally, and hoary whales, with musical
din[12] booming along the deep, breathe forth in giant chorus,
wondrously, the welcome of the Spirit of the North.

Joy to the brave! That old phantasmal veil which checked the view of dim
antiquity, shrinks from their eagle glance, while fabled hills and
regions of impenetrable ice fade in the blue expanse of mighty
bays[13]--now spread the bosom of the expectant sail unto the Eastern
breeze, and while the prow furrows the yielding waters, image forth
high dreams of lofty hope--the joyous bound of billows gushing
between parted shores, where Asia's rocky brow for ever frowns on
the opposing continent.

And, borne on spirit-plumed wings, let fancy soar far from that sunless
clime, to the warm South, where soft skies slumber through the cloudless
noon, o'er the gold palaces of fair Cathay.

Why pause ye in mid ocean? Still the sail swells to the voiceful
breeze; the high mast bends with hideous creak, and every separate
rib in the huge fabric quivers.

Yet the ship on the unmoved waters motionless struggles, as one,
who in a feverish dream nervelessly fleeing o'er a haunted waste,
strives horribly to shun some fiendish shape, with straining sinews,
and convulsive gasp, and faint limbs, magic-stricken.

There is rest, dismal and dreary, on the silent sea: most dismal
quiet:
for the viewless might of the keen frost-wind[14] crisps the curling
waves, binding their motion with a clankless chain along the far horizon.
Fruitlessly the imprisoned vessel writhes, until the gale, lulled
in the embrace of evening, leaves its prey, to share the torpor of
the lifeless waste, till earth awaken from her half-year's sleep.

Yet, in those daring hearts, the cheerless voice of boding Fear or dull
Despondency can find no answering tone, whether the storm, round
the snow-rampart[15] howling, interweaves his solemn moans with the
rejoicing shouts of the glad theatre,[16] or simple strains of
homely music leave that warm recess--vibrating far into the tremulous
air.

Here, even here are pleasures; those stray[17] forms of joy, which Nature
spreads throughout the world, that he who seeks may find them.
When the Sun, uprising from his long and gloomy trance, beams through the
clearer air, how beautiful, in some obscurest dell[18] of that
lone land, led by the music of an unseen river to see fair flowers,
with light-awakened buds, salute the spring tide.

Happily, they smile in the midst of nakedness, like sweet memories
of laughing infancy, beaming around the desolation of an aged heart.

Oh, that the might of Man's majestic will were self-sufficing! that the
meaner chains which bind him to this dark, material world, before the
lightning glance of Enterprise might fade, as those Philistian bonds,
that fell from him of Zorah. Back--in sorrow back--the ocean-wanderers
turn the unwilling prow; for Nature may not yield, and all is lost,
save gloomy thoughts of unrequited toil in the storm-beaten deep; and
phantasies of gorgeous dreams, for ever desolate; and hopes, which
were, and will not be again.

Yet if the race of Man, as some have deemed[19], form but one mighty
Being, who doth live, yea with intenser life, while kingly Death
benumbs each separate atom with the touch of his pale sceptre--one
unchanging ocean of everchanging waves--one deathless heaven of
clouds, which to their graves roll ceaselessly: if it be so, not
vainly have long years sent forth their heralds on the trackless
deep, where high endeavors of exalted will which in themselves find
no accomplishment, shall build at length perfection.

Peacefully he[20] sleeps, who erst beheld the rifted shores of Greenland
"glister in the sun, like gold:" and that deserted chief[21] whose
angry moan once mingled wildly with the screaming winds and the
hoarse gurgle of ingulfing waves, is unremembered now.

But high Emprise died not with them. Have not our latter days beheld,
with awe, the ice-borne Muscovite[22] ride the fierce billows of
the Polar Sea?

Has not the Northern hunter seen the flag of England, o'er her floating
palaces, unfurled in his dominions crystalline?

And who shall mourn, while, in the mystic race, from hand to hand still
moves the unquenched torch, that none have reached the goal? Not suddenly
doth the sweet warmth of universal life, from brumal caves advancing,
interfuse the vast abysmal air, or penetrate the deep heart of the
frost-entranced Earth. Gentle, and in its very gentleness invincible,
it moves, though ruthlessly stern Winter calls his rallied armies on,
and snow-blasts violate the joyous prime. So is it, with the silent
victories of Man's enduring spirit: we have seen Winter and Spring; and
shall we not behold the full rejoicing of the complete year?

The hour shall come, nor shall the longing heart in that dark interval
be all unblest with glance prophetic. Though no meteor shape glare from
the speaking sky, no sheeted ghost wander dim-moving in the weird midnight,
with such forshadowings true as ever wait on him who, with a calm
and reverend eye, hath viewed the mysteries of things, and dared
to image forth the future from the past--bind on the mystic robe,
and from the brow of Hope's enchanted hill look boldly forth upon
the coming ages.

Saw ye not white fog-wreaths floating through the cold gray dawn over
ice-laden billows, as they roll through yon rock-cinctured chasm?

A dusky shape looms through the hazy atmosphere, and sails, as of some
struggling bark that wearily breasts the opposing strength of angry
waves,[23] float with a fitful motion to and fro. Still on and on--a
breath-suspending sight of pale Solicitude, and fearful hope--and
hark!
the triple crash of Britain's joy, the magical music of her wild hurra,
peals with a sound of mighty exultation through the aerial depths.
Of course, it
is not always so bad as that, but you know it often is, and I say 'tis
a mockery to tell a man that he must not overwork his horse, for when a
beast is downright tired there's nothing but the whip that will keep
his legs a-going; you can't help yourself--you must put your wife and
children before the horse; the masters must look to that, we can't. I
don't ill-use my horse for the sake of it; none of you can say I do.
There's wrong lays somewhere--never a day's rest, never a quiet hour
with the wife and children. I often feel like an old man, though I'm
only forty-five. You know how quick some of the gentry are to suspect us
of cheating and overcharging; why, they stand with their purses in
their hands counting it over to a penny and looking at us as if we were
pickpockets. I wish some of 'em had got to sit on my box sixteen hours
a day and get a living out of it and eighteen shillings beside, and that
in all weathers; they would not be so uncommon particular never to give
us a sixpence over or to cram all the luggage inside. Of course, some of
'em tip us pretty handsome now and then, or else we could not live; but
you can't depend upon that."

The men who stood round much approved this speech, and one of them said,
"It is desperate hard, and if a man sometimes does what is wrong it is
no wonder, and if he gets a dram too much who's to blow him up?"

Jerry had taken no part in this conversation, but I never saw his face
look so sad before. The governor had stood with both his hands in his
pockets; now he took his handkerchief out of his hat and wiped his
forehead.

"You've beaten me, Sam," he said, "for it's all true, and I won't cast
it up to you any more about the police; it was the look in that horse's
eye that came over me. It is hard lines for man and it is hard lines for
beast, and who's to mend it I don't know: but anyway you might tell
the poor beast that you were sorry to take it out of him in that way.
Sometimes a kind word is all we can give 'em, poor brutes, and 'tis
wonderful what they do understand."

A few mornings after this talk a new man came on the stand with Sam's
cab.

"Halloo!" said one, "what's up with Seedy Sam?"

"He's ill in bed," said the man; "he was taken last night in the yard,
and could scarcely crawl home. His wife sent a boy this morning to
say his father was in a high fever and could not get out, so I'm here
instead."

The next morning the same man came again.

"How is Sam?" inquired the governor.

"He's gone," said the man.

"What, gone? You don't mean to say he's dead?"

"Just snuffed out," said the other; "he died at four o'clock this
morning; all yesterday he was raving--raving about Skinner, and having
no Sundays. 'I never had a Sunday's rest,' these were his last words."

No one spoke for a while, and then the governor said, "I'll tell you
what, mates, this is a warning for us."


40 Poor Ginger


One day, while our cab and many others were waiting outside one of the
parks where music was playing, a shabby old cab drove up beside ours.
The horse was an old worn-out chestnut, with an ill-kept coat, and
bones that showed plainly through it, the knees knuckled over, and the
fore-legs were very unsteady. I had been eating some hay, and the wind
rolled a little lock of it that way, and the poor creature put out her
long thin neck and picked it up, and then turned and looked about for
more. There was a hopeless look in the dull eye that I could not help
noticing, and then, as I was thinking where I had seen that horse
before, she looked full at me and said, "Black Beauty, is that you?"

It was Ginger! but how changed! The beautifully arched and glossy neck
was now straight, and lank, and fallen in; the clean straight legs and
delicate fetlocks were swelled; the joints were grown out of shape with
hard work; the face, that was once so full of spirit and life, was now
full of suffering, and I could tell by the heaving of her sides, and her
frequent cough, how bad her breath was.

Our drivers were standing together a little way off, so I sidled up to
her a step or two, that we might have a little quiet talk. It was a sad
tale that she had to tell.

After a twelvemonth's run off at Earlshall, she was considered to be fit
for work again, and was sold to a gentleman. For a little while she
got on very well, but after a longer gallop than usual the old strain
returned, and after being rested and doctored she was again sold. In
this way she changed hands several times, but always getting lower down.

"And so at last," said she, "I was bought by a man who keeps a number of
cabs and horses, and lets them out. You look well off, and I am glad of
it, but I could not tell you what my life has been. When they found out
my weakness they said I was not worth what they gave for me, and that I
must go into one of the low cabs, and just be used up; that is what
they are doing, whipping and working with never one thought of what I
suffer--they paid for me, and must get it out of me, they say. The man
who hires me now pays a deal of money to the owner every day, and so he
has to get it out of me too; and so it's all the week round and round,
with never a Sunday rest."

I said, "You used to stand up for yourself if you were ill-used."

"Ah!" she said, "I did once, but it's no use; men are strongest, and if
they are cruel and have no feeling, there is nothing that we can do, but
just bear it--bear it on and on to the end. I wish the end was come,
I wish I was dead. I have seen dead horses, and I am sure they do not
suffer pain; I wish I may drop down dead at my work, and not be sent off
to the knackers."

I was very much troubled, and I put my nose up to hers, but I could say
nothing to comfort her. I think she was pleased to see me, for she said,
"You are the only friend I ever had."

Just then her driver came up, and with a tug at her mouth backed her out
of the line and drove off, leaving me very sad indeed.

A short time after this a cart with a dead horse in it passed our
cab-stand. The head hung out of the cart-tail, the lifeless tongue was
slowly dropping with blood; and the sunken eyes! but I can't speak of
them, the sight was too dreadful. It was a chestnut horse with a long,
thin neck. I saw a white streak down the forehead. I believe it was
Ginger; I hoped it was, for then her troubles would be over. Oh! if men
were more merciful they would shoot us before we came to such misery.


41 The Butcher


I saw a great deal of trouble among the horses in London, and much of
it might have been prevented by a little common sense. We horses do not
mind hard work if we are treated reasonably, and I am sure there are
many driven by quite poor men who have a happier life than I had when I
used to go in the Countess of W----'s carriage, with my silver-mounted
harness and high feeding.

It often went to my heart to see how the little ponies were used,
straining along with heavy loads or staggering under heavy blows from
some low, cruel boy. Once I saw a little gray pony with a thick mane
and a pretty head, and so much like Merrylegs that if I had not been in
harness I should have neighed to him. He was doing his best to pull a
heavy cart, while a strong rough boy was cutting him under the belly
with his whip and chucking cruelly at his little mouth. Could it be
Merrylegs? It was just like him; but then Mr. Blomefield was never to
sell him, and I think he would not do it; but this might have been quite
as good a little fellow, and had as happy a place when he was young.

I often noticed the great speed at which butchers' horses were made to
go, though I did not know why it was so till one day when we had to wait
some time in St. John's Wood. There was a butcher's shop next door, and
as we were standing a butcher's cart came dashing up at a great pace.
The horse was hot and much exhausted; he hung his head down, while his
heaving sides and trembling legs showed how hard he had been driven. The
lad jumped out of the cart and was getting the basket when the master
came out of the shop much displeased. After looking at the horse he
turned angrily to the lad.

"How many times shall I tell you not to drive in this way? You ruined
the last horse and broke his wind, and you are going to ruin this in the
same way. If you were not my own son I would dismiss you on the spot;
it is a disgrace to have a horse brought to the shop in a condition like
that; you are liable to be taken up by the police for such driving, and
if you are you need not look to me for bail, for I have spoken to you
till I'm tired; you must look out for yourself."

During this speech the boy had stood by, sullen and dogged, but when his
father ceased he broke out angrily. It wasn't his fault, and he wouldn't
take the blame; he was only going by orders all the time.

"You always say, 'Now be quick; now look sharp!' and when I go to the
houses one wants a leg of mutton for an early dinner and I must be back
with it in a quarter of an hour; another cook has forgotten to order
the beef; I must go and fetch it and be back in no time, or the
mistress will scold; and the housekeeper says they have company coming
unexpectedly and must have some chops sent up directly; and the lady at
No. 4, in the Crescent, never orders her dinner till the meat comes
in for lunch, and it's nothing but hurry, hurry, all the time. If the
gentry would think of what they want, and order their meat the day
before, there need not be this blow up!"

"I wish to goodness they would," said the butcher; "'twould save me a
wonderful deal of harass, and I could suit my customers much better if
I knew beforehand--But there! what's the use of talking--who ever thinks
of a butcher's convenience or a butcher's horse! Now, then, take him
in and look to him well; mind, he does not go out again to-day, and if
anything else is wanted you must carry it yourself in the basket." With
that he went in, and the horse was led away.

But all boys are not cruel. I have seen some as fond of their pony or
donkey as if it had been a favorite dog, and the little creatures have
worked away as cheerfully and willingly for their young drivers as I
work for Jerry. It may be hard work sometimes, but a friend's hand and
voice make it easy.

There was a young coster-boy who came up our street with greens and
potatoes; he had an old pony, not very handsome, but the cheerfullest
and pluckiest little thing I ever saw, and to see how fond those two
were of each other was a treat. The pony followed his master like a dog,
and when he got into his cart would trot off without a whip or a word,
and rattle down the street as merrily as if he had come out of the
queen's stables. Jerry liked the boy, and called him "Prince Charlie",
for he said he would make a king of drivers some day.

There was an old man, too, who used to come up our street with a little
coal cart; he wore a coal-heaver's hat, and looked rough and black. He
and his old horse used to plod together along the street, like two good
partners who understood each other; the horse would stop of his own
accord at the doors where they took coal of him; he used to keep one ear
bent toward his master. The old man's cry could be heard up the street
long before he came near. I never knew what he said, but the children
called him "Old Ba-a-ar Hoo", for it sounded like that. Polly took her
coal of him, and was very friendly, and Jerry said it was a comfort to
think how happy an old horse might be in a poor place.


42 The Election


As we came into the yard one afternoon Polly came out. "Jerry! I've had
Mr. B---- here asking about your vote, and he wants to hire your cab for
the election; he will call for an answer."

"Well, Polly, you may say that my cab will be otherwise engaged. I
should not like to have it pasted over with their great bills, and as
to making Jack and Captain race about to the public-houses to bring up
half-drunken voters, why, I think 'twould be an insult to the horses.
No, I shan't do it."

"I suppose you'll vote for the gentleman? He said he was of your
politics."

"So he is in some things, but I shall not vote for him, Polly; you know
what his trade is?"

"Yes."

"Well, a man who gets rich by that trade may be all very well in some
ways, but he is blind as to what workingmen want; I could not in my
conscience send him up to make the laws. I dare say they'll be angry,
but every man must do what he thinks to be the best for his country."

On the morning before the election, Jerry was putting me into the
shafts, when Dolly came into the yard sobbing and crying, with her
little blue frock and white pinafore spattered all over with mud.

"Why, Dolly, what is the matter?"

"Those naughty boys," she sobbed, "have thrown the dirt all over me, and
called me a little raga--raga--"

"They called her a little 'blue' ragamuffin, father," said Harry, who
ran in looking very angry; "but I have given it to them; they won't
insult my sister again. I have given them a thrashing they will
remember; a set of cowardly, rascally 'orange' blackguards."

Jerry kissed the child and said, "Run in to mother, my pet, and tell her
I think you had better stay at home to-day and help her."

Then turning gravely to Harry:

"My boy, I hope you will always defend your sister, and give anybody who
insults her a good thrashing--that is as it should be; but mind, I won't
have any election blackguarding on my premises. There are as many
'blue' blackguards as there are 'orange', and as many white as there are
purple, or any other color, and I won't have any of my family mixed up
with it. Even women and children are ready to quarrel for the sake of a
color, and not one in ten of them knows what it is about."

"Why, father, I thought blue was for Liberty."

"My boy, Liberty does not come from colors, they only show party, and
all the liberty you can get out of them is, liberty to get drunk at
other people's expense, liberty to ride to the poll in a dirty old cab,
liberty to abuse any one that does not wear your color, and to shout
yourself hoarse at what you only half-understand--that's your liberty!"

"Oh, father, you are laughing."

"No, Harry, I am serious, and I am ashamed to see how men go on who
ought to know better. An election is a very serious thing; at least it
ought to be, and every man ought to vote according to his conscience,
and let his neighbor do the same."


43 A Friend in Need


The election day came at last; there was no lack of work for Jerry and
me. First came a stout puffy gentleman with a carpet bag; he wanted to
go to the Bishopsgate station; then we were called by a party who wished
to be taken to the Regent's Park; and next we were wanted in a side
street where a timid, anxious old lady was waiting to be taken to the
bank; there we had to stop to take her back again, and just as we had
set her down a red-faced gentleman, with a handful of papers, came
running up out of breath, and before Jerry could get down he had opened
the door, popped himself in, and called out, "Bow Street Police Station,
quick!" so off we went with him, and when after another turn or two
we came back, there was no other cab on the stand. Jerry put on my
nose-bag, for as he said, "We must eat when we can on such days as
these; so munch away, Jack, and make the best of your time, old boy."

I found I had a good feed of crushed oats wetted up with a little bran;
this would be a treat any day, but very refreshing then. Jerry was so
thoughtful and kind--what horse would not do his best for such a master?
Then he took out one of Polly's meat pies, and standing near me, he
began to eat it. The streets were very full, and the cabs, with the
candidates' colors on them, were dashing about through the crowd as if
life and limb were of no consequence; we saw two people knocked down
that day, and one was a woman. The horses were having a bad time of it,
poor things! but the voters inside thought nothing of that; many of them
were half-drunk, hurrahing out of the cab windows if their own party
came by. It was the first election I had seen, and I don't want to be in
another, though I have heard things are better now.

Jerry and I had not eaten many mouthfuls before a poor young woman,
carrying a heavy child, came along the street. She was looking this way
and that way, and seemed quite bewildered. Presently she made her way up
to Jerry and asked if he could tell her the way to St. Thomas' Hospital,
and how far it was to get there. She had come from the country that
morning, she said, in a market cart; she did not know about the
election, and was quite a stranger in London. She had got an order for
the hospital for her little boy. The child was crying with a feeble,
pining cry.

"Poor little fellow!" she said, "he suffers a deal of pain; he is four
years old and can't walk any more than a baby; but the doctor said if I
could get him into the hospital he might get well; pray, sir, how far is
it; and which way is it?"

"Why, missis," said Jerry, "you can't get there walking through crowds
like this! why, it is three miles away, and that child is heavy."

"Yes, bless him, he is; but I am strong, thank God, and if I knew the
way I think I should get on somehow; please tell me the way."

"You can't do it," said Jerry, "you might be knocked down and the child
be run over. Now look here, just get into this cab, and I'll drive you
safe to the hospital. Don't you see the rain is coming on?"

"No, sir, no; I can't do that, thank you, I have only just money enough
to get back with. Please tell me the way."

"Look you here, missis," said Jerry, "I've got a wife and dear children
at home, and I know a father's feelings; now get you into that cab, and
I'll take you there for nothing. I'd be ashamed of myself to let a woman
and a sick child run a risk like that."

"Heaven bless you!" said the woman, and burst into tears.

"There, there, cheer up, my dear, I'll soon take you there; come, let me
put you inside."

As Jerry went to open the door two men, with colors in their hats and
buttonholes, ran up calling out, "Cab!"

"Engaged," cried Jerry; but one of the men, pushing past the woman,
sprang into the cab, followed by the other. Jerry looked as stern as a
policeman. "This cab is already engaged, gentlemen, by that lady."

"Lady!" said one of them; "oh! she can wait; our business is very
important, besides we were in first, it is our right, and we shall stay
in."

A droll smile came over Jerry's face as he shut the door upon them. "All
right, gentlemen, pray stay in as long as it suits you; I can wait while
you rest yourselves." And turning his back upon them he walked up to the
young woman, who was standing near me. "They'll soon be gone," he said,
laughing; "don't trouble yourself, my dear."

And they soon were gone, for when they understood Jerry's dodge they got
out, calling him all sorts of bad names and blustering about his number
and getting a summons. After this little stoppage we were soon on our
way to the hospital, going as much as possible through by-streets. Jerry
rung the great bell and helped the young woman out.

"Thank you a thousand times," she said; "I could never have got here
alone."

"You're kindly welcome, and I hope the dear child will soon be better."

He watched her go in at the door, and gently he said to himself,
"Inasmuch as ye have done it to one of the least of these." Then he
patted my neck, which was always his way when anything pleased him.

The rain was now coming down fast, and just as we were leaving the
hospital the door opened again, and the porter called out, "Cab!" We
stopped, and a lady came down the steps. Jerry seemed to know her at
once; she put back her veil and said, "Barker! Jeremiah Barker, is it
you? I am very glad to find you here; you are just the friend I want,
for it is very difficult to get a cab in this part of London to-day."

"I shall be proud to serve you, ma'am; I am right glad I happened to be
here. Where may I take you to, ma'am?"

"To the Paddington Station, and then if we are in good time, as I think
we shall be, you shall tell me all about Mary and the children."

We got to the station in good time, and being under shelter the lady
stood a good while talking to Jerry. I found she had been Polly's
mistress, and after many inquiries about her she said:

"How do you find the cab work suit you in winter? I know Mary was rather
anxious about you last year."

"Yes, ma'am, she was; I had a bad cough that followed me up quite into
the warm weather, and when I am kept out late she does worry herself a
good deal. You see, ma'am, it is all hours and all weathers, and that
does try a man's constitution; but I am getting on pretty well, and I
should feel quite lost if I had not horses to look after. I was brought
up to it, and I am afraid I should not do so well at anything else."

"Well, Barker," she said, "it would be a great pity that you should
seriously risk your health in this work, not only for your own but for
Mary's and the children's sake; there are many places where good drivers
or good grooms are wanted, and if ever you think you ought to give up
this cab work let me know."

Then sending some kind messages to Mary she put something into his hand,
saying, "There is five shillings each for the two children; Mary will
know how to spend it."

Jerry thanked her and seemed much pleased, and turning out of the
station we at last reached home, and I, at least, was tired.


44 Old Captain and His Successor


Captain and I were great friends. He was a noble old fellow, and he was
very good company. I never thought that he would have to leave his home
and go down the hill; but his turn came, and this was how it happened. I
was not there, but I heard all about it.

He and Jerry had taken a party to the great railway station over London
Bridge, and were coming back, somewhere between the bridge and the
monument, when Jerry saw a brewer's empty dray coming along, drawn by
two powerful horses. The drayman was lashing his horses with his heavy
whip; the dray was light, and they started off at a furious rate; the
man had no control over them, and the street was full of traffic.

One young girl was knocked down and run over, and the next moment they
dashed up against our cab; both the wheels were torn off and the cab was
thrown over. Captain was dragged down, the shafts splintered, and one
of them ran into his side. Jerry, too, was thrown, but was only bruised;
nobody could tell how he escaped; he always said 'twas a miracle. When
poor Captain was got up he was found to be very much cut and knocked
about. Jerry led him home gently, and a sad sight it was to see the
blood soaking into his white coat and dropping from his side and
shoulder. The drayman was proved to be very drunk, and was fined, and
the brewer had to pay damages to our master; but there was no one to pay
damages to poor Captain.

The farrier and Jerry did the best they could to ease his pain and make
him comfortable. The fly had to be mended, and for several days I did
not go out, and Jerry earned nothing. The first time we went to the
stand after the accident the governor came up to hear how Captain was.

"He'll never get over it," said Jerry, "at least not for my work, so the
farrier said this morning. He says he may do for carting, and that sort
of work. It has put me out very much. Carting, indeed! I've seen what
horses come to at that work round London. I only wish all the drunkards
could be put in a lunatic asylum instead of being allowed to run foul of
sober people. If they would break their own bones, and smash their own
carts, and lame their own horses, that would be their own affair, and
we might let them alone, but it seems to me that the innocent
always suffer; and then they talk about compensation! You can't make
compensation; there's all the trouble, and vexation, and loss of time,
besides losing a good horse that's like an old friend--it's nonsense
talking of compensation! If there's one devil that I should like to see
in the bottomless pit more than another, it's the drink devil."

"I say, Jerry," said the governor, "you are treading pretty hard on my
toes, you know; I'm not so good as you are, more shame to me; I wish I
was."

"Well," said Jerry, "why don't you cut with it, governor? You are too
good a man to be the slave of such a thing."

"I'm a great fool, Jerry, but I tried once for two days, and I thought I
should have died; how did you do?"

"I had hard work at it for several weeks; you see I never did get drunk,
but I found that I was not my own master, and that when the craving came
on it was hard work to say 'no'. I saw that one of us must knock under,
the drink devil or Jerry Barker, and I said that it should not be Jerry
Barker, God helping me; but it was a struggle, and I wanted all the
help I could get, for till I tried to break the habit I did not know how
strong it was; but then Polly took such pains that I should have good
food, and when the craving came on I used to get a cup of coffee, or
some peppermint, or read a bit in my book, and that was a help to me;
sometimes I had to say over and over to myself, 'Give up the drink or
lose your soul! Give up the drink or break Polly's heart!' But thanks be
to God, and my dear wife, my chains were broken, and now for ten years I
have not tasted a drop, and never wish for it."

"I've a great mind to try at it," said Grant, "for 'tis a poor thing not
to be one's own master."

"Do, governor, do, you'll never repent it, and what a help it would be
to some of the poor fellows in our rank if they saw you do without it. I
know there's two or three would like to keep out of that tavern if they
could."

At first Captain seemed to do well, but he was a very old horse, and it
was only his wonderful constitution, and Jerry's care, that had kept
him up at the cab work so long; now he broke down very much. The farrier
said he might mend up enough to sell for a few pounds, but Jerry said,
no! a few pounds got by selling a good old servant into hard work
and misery would canker all the rest of his money, and he thought the
kindest thing he could do for the fine old fellow would be to put a sure
bullet through his head, and then he would never suffer more; for he did
not know where to find a kind master for the rest of his days.

The day after this was decided Harry took me to the forge for some new
shoes; when I returned Captain was gone. I and the family all felt it
very much.

Jerry had now to look out for another horse, and he soon heard of one
through an acquaintance who was under-groom in a nobleman's stables. He
was a valuable young horse, but he had run away, smashed into another
carriage, flung his lordship out, and so cut and blemished himself that
he was no longer fit for a gentleman's stables, and the coachman had
orders to look round, and sell him as well as he could.

"I can do with high spirits," said Jerry, "if a horse is not vicious or
hard-mouthed."

"There is not a bit of vice in him," said the man; "his mouth is very
tender, and I think myself that was the cause of the accident; you see
he had just been clipped, and the weather was bad, and he had not had
exercise enough, and when he did go out he was as full of spring as a
balloon. Our governor (the coachman, I mean) had him harnessed in as
tight and strong as he could, with the martingale, and the check-rein, a
very sharp curb, and the reins put in at the bottom bar. It is my belief
that it made the horse mad, being tender in the mouth and so full of
spirit."

"Likely enough; I'll come and see him," said Jerry.

The next day Hotspur, that was his name, came home; he was a fine brown
horse, without a white hair in him, as tall as Captain, with a very
handsome head, and only five years old. Yellow and violet are true
contrasts, the one color having nothing in common with the other. The
citrine and the plum, however, are approximate contrasts.
For greater convenience, we have numbered the contrasting colors A's and
B's. Absolute contrast is where the two colors have nothing in common.

For composition purposes, however, citrine and violet may be considered
contrasts, or correctly speaking, contrast analogies. (See ¶ 19.)
18. A harmony of contrast means the utilization of a primary color
with its complementary, or a color in conjunction with another color in
no degree related: a primary with a secondary.

But when we soften these contrasting colors by the addition of
white we have in the lighter tints a scale of chroma that is a form of
analogy.

19. All combinations of secondary and tertiary colors, while apparently
harmonies of contrast (the tertiary being made by the composition
of two secondaries), constitute, in fact, contrast analogies, because
by analysis we find that all tertiaries possess color components
occurring in the apparently contrasting secondaries.

(See Diagram III.) 
20.

The harmony of contrast, literally, can only occur in the pure primary
colors juxtaposed to the pure secondary colors, for in no case does the
color formed by the combination of the two primaries have anything in
common with the third primary; while a tertiary composed of two
secondaries invariably has qualities possessed by the third secondary.

21. In a room which is small or dark, the light tints in harmonies
of analogy are advisable.

#PROPORTIONS#

22.

In the use of one color with another of contrasting character the question
frequently arises, what proportion of each should be used to obtain
the best effect? Illustrative color books show usually samples of
color of the same size, leading one unconsciously to the error
that contrasting colors should occupy the same surface dimensions.
23.

In every room there must be a prevailing or dominant color, and the
use of a contrasting color must be limited to proportions which
give simply a pleasing emphasis.

Let us assume that a room has a deep frieze pronouncedly green. To treat
the rest of the wall in red of a direct contrast would be ineffective.

24. If a rule can be applied we would say that no strong normal color
should be used in large surfaces. If we were dealing with pigments we
would say that if one-sixth of a side-wall is devoted to a frieze in
green, the balance of the wall space should be treated with the same
amount of red, mixed with the same amount of gray.

25.

For a room that is small and well lighted the fresh tints are not as
desirable as the gray shades or tertiaries in conjunction with
secondaries.

#COLOR IN LARGE OR SMALL ROOMS#
26. For a large room well lighted, yellow, red and orange in delicate
shades are not as desirable as orange, violet and russet in light
shades. This rule, however, may be reversed for a large room that
is dimly lighted.
A superabundance of light gives an uncomfortable glare.
27. One may mechanically obtain harmony of analogy in proper
proportions for the treatment of a room or a design by following
the guidance of Diagram I. It will be noted in this diagram that
the inner circle is blue, red and yellow, the primary colors.At a quarter past one the door opened, and the two gentlemen came out;
they got into the cab without a word, and told Jerry where to drive,
that was nearly two miles. My legs were numb with cold, and I thought
I should have stumbled. When the men got out they never said they were
sorry to have kept us waiting so long, but were angry at the charge;
however, as Jerry never charged more than was his due, so he never took
less, and they had to pay for the two hours and a quarter waiting; but
it was hard-earned money to Jerry.

At last we got home; he could hardly speak, and his cough was dreadful.
Polly asked no questions, but opened the door and held the lantern for
him.

"Can't I do something?" she said.

"Yes; get Jack something warm, and then boil me some gruel."

This was said in a hoarse whisper; he could hardly get his breath, but
he gave me a rub-down as usual, and even went up into the hayloft for an
extra bundle of straw for my bed. Polly brought me a warm mash that made
me comfortable, and then they locked the door.

It was late the next morning before any one came, and then it was only
Harry. He cleaned us and fed us, and swept out the stalls, then he put
the straw back again as if it was Sunday. He was very still, and neither
whistled nor sang. At noon he came again and gave us our food and water;
this time Dolly came with him; she was crying, and I could gather from
what they said that Jerry was dangerously ill, and the doctor said it
was a bad case. So two days passed, and there was great trouble indoors.
We only saw Harry, and sometimes Dolly. I think she came for company,
for Polly was always with Jerry, and he had to be kept very quiet.

On the third day, while Harry was in the stable, a tap came at the door,
and Governor Grant came in.

"I wouldn't go to the house, my boy," he said, "but I want to know how
your father is."

"He is very bad," said Harry, "he can't be much worse; they call
it 'bronchitis'; the doctor thinks it will turn one way or another
to-night."

Original Correspondence.

PARIS, DEC. 2, 1850.

FROM time immemorial, no one knows why (for the legends which recount
her history leave it doubtful whether she performed on any instrument),
St.

Cecilia has been chosen by musicians as their patron saint; and the
musicians of Paris, on the approach of winter, always celebrate a
mass, in music, to her honor, and for the benefit of the distressed
members of their body.

Not that they entertain any exaggerated idea of the consoling powers
of the musical art, or hope to relieve the positive sufferings of
poverty and destitution by any combination of sounds, no matter
how harmonious; but this festival being held in the church of St.

"Well?" said he.

"Father is better," said Harry. "Mother hopes he will get over it."

"Thank God!" said the governor, "and now you must keep him warm, and
keep his mind easy, and that brings me to the horses; you see Jack will
be all the better for the rest of a week or two in a warm stable, and
you can easily take him a turn up and down the street to stretch his
legs; but this young one, if he does not get work, he will soon be all
up on end, as you may say, and will be rather too much for you; and when
he does go out there'll be an accident."

"It is like that now," said Harry. "I have kept him short of corn, but
he's so full of spirit I don't know what to do with him."

"Just so," said Grant. ENCOURAGEMENT OF LITERATURE.

In the concluding volume of the Life of Southey, just published by the
Harpers, is a letter from the poet in answer to one by Lord Brougham,
on the subject of the encouragement of literature by government.Your father is in a good club, I know, but that won't keep the
horses, and they'll be eating their heads off all this time; I'll come
at noon and hear what she says," and without waiting for Harry's thanks
he was gone.

At noon I think he went and saw Polly, for he and Harry came to the
stable together, harnessed Hotspur, and took him out.

For a week or more he came for Hotspur, and when Harry thanked him or
said anything about his kindness, he laughed it off, saying it was all
good luck for him, for his horses were wanting a little rest which they
would not otherwise have had.

He has done the state service, and they know it; but they will not
reward it."
Apropos of pensions: Upon the whole, we have the best exchequer in the
world, and to _soldiers_ we have evinced no special lack of
liberality.One afternoon Hotspur was brought in very wet and dirty.

"The streets are nothing but slush," said the governor; "it will give
you a good warming, my boy, to get him clean and dry."

"All right, governor," said Harry, "I shall not leave him till he is;
you know I have been trained by my father."

"I wish all the boys had been trained like you," said the governor.

While Harry was sponging off the mud from Hotspur's body and legs Dolly
came in, looking very full of something.

"Who lives at Fairstowe, Harry? Mother has got a letter from Fairstowe;
she seemed so glad, and ran upstairs to father with it."

"Don't you know? Why, it is the name of Mrs. Fowler's place--mother's
old mistress, you know--the lady that father met last summer, who sent
you and me five shillings each."

"Oh! Mrs. Fowler. Of course, I know all about her. I wonder what she is
writing to mother about."

"Mother wrote to her last week," said Harry; "you know she told father
if ever he gave up the cab work she would like to know. I wonder what
she says; run in and see, Dolly."

Harry scrubbed away at Hotspur with a huish! huish! like any old
hostler. In a few minutes Dolly came dancing into the stable.

"Oh! Harry, there never was anything so beautiful; Mrs. Fowler says we
are all to go and live near her. There is a cottage now empty that
will just suit us, with a garden and a henhouse, and apple-trees, and
everything! and her coachman is going away in the spring, and then she
will want father in his place; and there are good families round, where
you can get a place in the garden or the stable, or as a page-boy;
and there's a good school for me; and mother is laughing and crying by
turns, and father does look so happy!"

"That's uncommon jolly," said Harry, "and just the right thing, I should
say; it will suit father and mother both; but I don't intend to be a
page-boy with tight clothes and rows of buttons. I'll be a groom or a
gardener."

It was quickly settled that as soon as Jerry was well enough they should
remove to the country, and that the cab and horses should be sold as
soon as possible.

This was heavy news for me, for I was not young now, and could not look
for any improvement in my condition. Since I left Birtwick I had never
been so happy as with my dear master Jerry; but three years of cab work,
even under the best conditions, will tell on one's strength, and I felt
that I was not the horse that I had been.

Grant said at once that he would take Hotspur, and there were men on the
stand who would have bought me; but Jerry said I should not go to cab
work again with just anybody, and the governor promised to find a place
for me where I should be comfortable.

The day came for going away. Jerry had not been allowed to go out yet,
and I never saw him after that New Year's eve. Polly and the children
came to bid me good-by. "Poor old Jack! dear old Jack! I wish we could
take you with us," she said, and then laying her hand on my mane she put
her face close to my neck and kissed me. Dolly was crying and kissed
me too. Harry stroked me a great deal, but said nothing, only he seemed
very sad, and so I was led away to my new place.


Part IV


46 Jakes and the Lady


I was sold to a corn dealer and baker, whom Jerry knew, and with him he
thought I should have good food and fair work. In the first he was quite
right, and if my master had always been on the premises I do not think
I should have been overloaded, but there was a foreman who was always
hurrying and driving every one, and frequently when I had quite a full
load he would order something else to be taken on. My carter, whose name
was Jakes, often said it was more than I ought to take, but the other
always overruled him. "'Twas no use going twice when once would do, and
he chose to get business forward."

Jakes, like the other carters, always had the check-rein up, which
prevented me from drawing easily, and by the time I had been there three
or four months I found the work telling very much on my strength.

One day I was loaded more than usual, and part of the road was a steep
uphill. I used all my strength, but I could not get on, and was obliged
continually to stop. This did not please my driver, and he laid his whip
on badly. "Get on, you lazy fellow," he said, "or I'll make you."

At Bath he exchanged one malady for another, for he became attached to
Miss Nugent, the daughter of his physician, and in a very little time
formed what, in a worldly point of view, would be considered an
imprudent marriage, but which secured the happiness of his future
life; she was a Roman Catholic; but, however unfortunate dissenting
creeds are in many instances, in this it never disturbed the harmony
of their affection.

She was a woman exactly calculated to create happiness; possessing
accomplishments, goodness of heart, sweetness of disposition and
manners, veneration for talent, a hopeful spirit to allay her
husband's anxieties, wisdom and love to meet his ruffled temper,
and tenderness to subdue it--qualities which made him frequently
declare "that every care vanished the moment he sheltered beneath
his own roof."

Edmund Burke became a husband, and also continued a lover--and once presented
to his ladylove, on the anniversary of their marriage, his idea
of "a perfect wife

."[2]

For a considerable time after his marriage Burke toiled as a literary
man, living at Battersea or in town, now writing, it is believed, jointly
with his brother Richard and his cousin William a work on the
"European Settlements in America," in two volumes, which, according
to tradition, brought him, or them, only fifty pounds!

then planning and commencing an abridgment of the "History of
England."

Struggling, it may be with difficulties brought on by his generous
nature, and which his father's allowance of two hundred a year, and
his own industry and perseverance could hardly overcome, the birth
of a son was an additional stimulant to exertion, and, in conjunction
with Dodsley, he established the _Annual Register_.

This work he never acknowledged, but his best biographers have no
doubt of his having brought forth and nurtured this useful publication.

A hundred pounds a volume seems to have been the sum paid for this labor;
and Burke's receipts for the money were at one time in the possession
of Mr. Upcott.

Long before he obtained a seat in Parliament he won the esteem of
Doctor Johnson, who bore noble testimony to his virtue and talent,
and what he especially admired, and called, his "affluence of
conversation."

For a time he went to Ireland as private secretary to Mr.

Hamilton, distinguished from all others of his name as "single-speech
Hamilton;" but disagreeing with this person, he nobly threw up a pension
of three hundred a year, because of the unreasonable and derogatory
claims made upon his gratitude by Hamilton, who had procured it for
him.

While in Dublin he made acquaintance with the genius of the painter
Barry, and though his own means were limited, he persuaded him to come
to England, and received him in his house in Queen Anne-street,
where he soon procured him employment; he already numbered Mr.,
afterwards Sir Joshua, Reynolds amongst his friends; and his
correspondence with Barry might almost be considered a young painter's
manual, so full is it of the better parts of taste, wisdom, and
knowledge.

Mr. Burke was then on the threshold of Parliament, Lord Verney arranging
for his _début_ as member for Wendover, in Buckinghamshire, under
the Rockingham administration; another star was added to the galaxy of
that brilliant assembly, and if we had space it could not be devoted
to a better purpose than to trace his glorious career in the senate;
but that is before all who read the history of the period, and we
prefer to follow his footsteps in the under current of private life.

"That was a real lady, I'll be bound for it," said Jakes to himself;
"she spoke just as polite as if I was a gentleman, and I'll try her
plan, uphill, at any rate;" and I must do him the justice to say that
he let my rein out several holes, and going uphill after that, he always
gave me my head; but the heavy loads went on. Good feed and fair rest
will keep up one's strength under full work, but no horse can stand
against overloading; and I was getting so thoroughly pulled down from
this cause that a younger horse was bought in my place. I may as well
mention here what I suffered at this time from another cause. I had
heard horses speak of it, but had never myself had experience of the
evil; this was a badly-lighted stable; there was only one very small
window at the end, and the consequence was that the stalls were almost
dark.

Besides the depressing effect this had on my spirits, it very much
weakened my sight, and when I was suddenly brought out of the darkness
into the glare of daylight it was very painful to my eyes. Several times
I stumbled over the threshold, and could scarcely see where I was going.

I believe, had I stayed there very long, I should have become purblind,
and that would have been a great misfortune, for I have heard men say
that a stone-blind horse was safer to drive than one which had imperfect
sight, as it generally makes them very timid. However, I escaped without
any permanent injury to my sight, and was sold to a large cab owner.


47 Hard Times


My new master I shall never forget; he had black eyes and a hooked nose,
his mouth was as full of teeth as a bull-dog's, and his voice was as
harsh as the grinding of cart wheels over graveled stones. His name was
Nicholas Skinner, and I believe he was the man that poor Seedy Sam drove
for.

I have heard men say that seeing is believing; but I should say that
feeling is believing; for much as I had seen before, I never knew till
now the utter misery of a cab-horse's life.

Skinner had a low set of cabs and a low set of drivers; he was hard on
the men, and the men were hard on the horses. In this place we had no
Sunday rest, and it was in the heat of summer.

Sometimes on a Sunday morning a party of fast men would hire the cab for
the day; four of them inside and another with the driver, and I had to
take them ten or fifteen miles out into the country, and back again;
never would any of them get down to walk up a hill, let it be ever
so steep, or the day ever so hot--unless, indeed, when the driver was
afraid I should not manage it, and sometimes I was so fevered and worn
that I could hardly touch my food. How I used to long for the nice bran
mash with niter in it that Jerry used to give us on Saturday nights in
hot weather, that used to cool us down and make us so comfortable.
Then we had two nights and a whole day for unbroken rest, and on Monday
morning we were as fresh as young horses again; but here there was no
rest, and my driver was just as hard as his master. He had a cruel whip
with something so sharp at the end that it sometimes drew blood, and he
would even whip me under the belly, and flip the lash out at my head.
Indignities like these took the heart out of me terribly, but still I
did my best and never hung back; for, as poor Ginger said, it was no
use; men are the strongest.

My life was now so utterly wretched that I wished I might, like Ginger,
drop down dead at my work and be out of my misery, and one day my wish
very nearly came to pass.

I went on the stand at eight in the morning, and had done a good share
of work, when we had to take a fare to the railway. A long train was
just expected in, so my driver pulled up at the back of some of the
outside cabs to take the chance of a return fare. It was a very heavy
train, and as all the cabs were soon engaged ours was called for. There
was a party of four; a noisy, blustering man with a lady, a little boy
and a young girl, and a great deal of luggage. The lady and the boy got
into the cab, and while the man ordered about the luggage the young girl
came and looked at me.

"Papa," she said, "I am sure this poor horse cannot take us and all our
luggage so far, he is so very weak and worn up. Do look at him."

"Oh! he's all right, miss," said my driver, "he's strong enough."

The porter, who was pulling about some heavy boxes, suggested to the
gentleman, as there was so much luggage, whether he would not take a
second cab.

"Can your horse do it, or can't he?" said the blustering man.

"Oh! he can do it all right, sir; send up the boxes, porter; he could
take more than that;" and he helped to haul up a box so heavy that I
could feel the springs go down.

"Papa, papa, do take a second cab," said the young girl in a beseeching
tone. "I am sure we are wrong, I am sure it is very cruel."

The floors of all rooms are of one deep scale; the walls lighter scale;
the friezes and ceiling still lighter. If viewed from room 4 the
harmonies are equally effective.

47. Diagram VII is useful for many reasons. In its present shape it
shows the harmonies of analogy or related parts. To arrange harmonies
of contrast, combine the colors of the first room with the fourth room,
the colors of the second room with the fifth room, the colors of
the third room with the sixth room.

(See ¶ 37.)

#HARMONIES FOR THE ROOM#

48.

The floor should usually enter into the color scheme as the low note
in the scale. It is the background for the furniture, and should be
deeper than the dado or wainscoting. The wood trims--baseboard, doors,
plate-rails, and everything of that character, except the picture
molding--should be like the woodwork of the furniture. This brings
the woodwork into contrast with the wainscoting (unless the wainscoting
be wood) and into harmony with the side-walls, although the degree of
harmony is far removed. Thus, if the woodwork of the furniture is mahogany,
the wainscoting green, the side-walls pink and gray, we would find
the window trims of mahogany, or imitation mahogany, in harmony with the
side-walls. (See ¶ 51 and ¶ 52.)
49. I would lay down the rule that the wood trims of a room should harmonize
by analogy with the side-walls where such walls are provided with a
contrasting wainscoting; but if there is no wainscoting, or the wainscoting
be also of wood, then the wood trims and furniture contrast with the
side-wall.

Substitute green side-wall for the pink, ¶ 48.

White woodwork is always permissible. Study Diagram VI on page 22.

50. The picture molding may harmonize with the ceiling.

Indeed, a white picture molding frequently is better than one matching
the general woodwork (See ¶ 37); a dark upper molding, moreover,
reduces the apparent size of a room.

51. Where black furniture is used, or gold furniture, it will of course
be understood that the wood trims shall not be black or gold; but so
long as they are in harmony, that will be sufficient.

White wood trims are nearly always permissible as a substitute for colored
wood.

52. Tones of gray with soft colorings (See ¶ 32), are always safe.
To summarize (Note ¶ 37):
53. In harmonies of contrast the side-walls, the furniture woodwork,
wood trimming, cove, ceiling and the curtains should be related.
54. The rugs, frieze, wainscoting or dado, furniture upholsterings
and the curtain borders should be related. (See ¶ 49.)
55. If the curtains have no borders, then the curtains contrast
with the wood trims.
56. Remember always cove and ceiling should be the palest tint of
the side-wall color, and the rug should be of the deepest contrast
to the side-wall, in harmony with the wainscoting, if there is a
wainscoting.
Remember, also, that the colors here prescribed are never to be of
the same scale. The rug or carpet is of the deepest, and the ceiling
of the palest."If he was broken-winded," said the farrier, "you had better have him
killed out of hand, but he is not; there is a sale of horses coming off
in about ten days; if you rest him and feed him up he may pick up, and
you may get more than his skin is worth, at any rate."

Upon this advice Skinner, rather unwillingly, I think, gave orders that
I should be well fed and cared for, and the stable man, happily for me,
carried out the orders with a much better will than his master had in
giving them. Ten days of perfect rest, plenty of good oats, hay,
bran mashes, with boiled linseed mixed in them, did more to get up my
condition than anything else could have done; those linseed mashes were
delicious, and I began to think, after all, it might be better to live
than go to the dogs. When the twelfth day after the accident came, I
was taken to the sale, a few miles out of London. I felt that any change
from my present place must be an improvement, so I held up my head, and
hoped for the best.


48 Farmer Thoroughgood and His Grandson Willie


At this sale, of course I found myself in company with the old
broken-down horses--some lame, some broken-winded, some old, and some
that I am sure it would have been merciful to shoot.

The buyers and sellers, too, many of them, looked not much better off
than the poor beasts they were bargaining about. There were poor old
men, trying to get a horse or a pony for a few pounds, that might drag
about some little wood or coal cart. There were poor men trying to sell
a worn-out beast for two or three pounds, rather than have the greater
loss of killing him. Some of them looked as if poverty and hard times
had hardened them all over; but there were others that I would have
willingly used the last of my strength in serving; poor and shabby, but
kind and human, with voices that I could trust. There was one tottering
old man who took a great fancy to me, and I to him, but I was not strong
enough--it was an anxious time! Coming from the better part of the fair,
I noticed a man who looked like a gentleman farmer, with a young boy by
his side; he had a broad back and round shoulders, a kind, ruddy face,
and he wore a broad-brimmed hat. A small room with high ceiling and poorly
lighted.
74. A small room with low ceiling and poorly lighted.

There are two considerations to bear uppermost in mind: Proportions
affected by Color and Proportions affected by Design.

75.

It is easily understood that a large room may be safely furnished with
large pieces of furniture, but where there is a wide expanse of
floor space care must be exercised to secure broken heights: In a
high-ceilinged room the furniture must not be all high; in a
low-ceilinged room the furniture must not be all low.

Avoid straight line effects in the furniture heights and in the wall-paper,
which, if in pronounced patterns, must balance in conspicuous wall members
and show the broken junctures or bad matchings in inconspicuous or obscure
corners.

#COLORS THAT GIVE SIZE TO A ROOM#

76. The wall and fabric designs must be of a size proportionate to the
size of the room.

The color treatment of a well-lighted room must be subdued to offset the
glare of the natural illumination, and the natural illumination be subdued
to soften the color treatment; glare must be avoided.

77.

Advancing colors are colors which contain red or yellow in the ascendancy;
_receding_ colors are those which contain blue in the ascendancy.

Green in its purity, being half yellow and half blue, is almost
neutral.

In the same way violet, being made up of half red and half blue, is
theoretically neutral, although the blue tone is usually more assertive
than the red and makes the color recede. Any color or hue possesses
advancing or receding qualities according to the ascendancy of
red, blue or yellow in its composition.
78. Orange is an advancing color; so also is violet in the shades
approaching red; green in the shades approaching yellow.

79.I've had the tending of him these ten days past, and a gratefuller,
pleasanter animal I never met with, and 'twould be worth a gentleman's
while to give a five-pound note for him, and let him have a chance. I'll
be bound he'd be worth twenty pounds next spring."

The old gentleman laughed, and the little boy looked up eagerly.

"Oh, grandpapa, did you not say the colt sold for five pounds more than
you expected? You would not be poorer if you did buy this one."

The farmer slowly felt my legs, which were much swelled and strained;
then he looked at my mouth. "Thirteen or fourteen, I should say; just
trot him out, will you?"

I arched my poor thin neck, raised my tail a little, and threw out my
legs as well as I could, for they were very stiff.

"What is the lowest you will take for him?" said the farmer as I came
back.

"Five pounds, sir; that was the lowest price my master set."

"'Tis a speculation," said the old gentleman, shaking his head, but at
the same time slowly drawing out his purse, "quite a speculation! Have
you any more business here?" he said, counting the sovereigns into his
hand.

"No, sir, I can take him for you to the inn, if you please."

"Do so, I am now going there."

They walked forward, and I was led behind. The boy could hardly control
his delight, and the old gentleman seemed to enjoy his pleasure. I had a
good feed at the inn, and was then gently ridden home by a servant of my
new master's, and turned into a large meadow with a shed in one corner
of it.

Mr. The publication of his reflections on the French Revolution, which,
perhaps, never would have seen the light but for the rupture with Mr.
Sheridan, which caused his opinions to be misunderstood, brought down
the applause of Europe on a head then wearying of public life.

But, perhaps, a tribute Burke valued more than any, remembering the
adage--an adage which, unhappily, especially applies to Ireland--"no
man is a prophet in his own country," was, that on a motion of the
provost of Trinity College, Dublin, in 1790, the honorary degree of
LL.D. was conferred upon him in full convocation, and an address afterwards
presented in a gold box, to express the University's sense of his
services. When he replied to this distinguished compliment, his town
residence was in "Duke-street, St.

James."
His term of life--over-tasked as it was--might have been extended
to a much longer period, but that his deeply affectionate nature,
as time passed on, experienced several of those shocks inseparable
from even moderate length of days; many of his friends died; among
others, his sister and his brother; but still the wife of his bosom
and his son were with him--that son whose talents he rated as
superior to his own, whom he had consulted for some years on almost
every subject, whether of a public or a private nature, that occurred,
and very frequently preferred his judgment to his own.

This beloved son had attained the age of thirty-four, when he was
seized with rapid consumption. When the malady was recognized
and acknowledged, his father took him to Brompton, then, as now, considered
the best air for those affected with this cruel malady.
"Oh, grandpapa, how glad I am you bought him!"

"So am I, my boy; but he has to thank you more than me; we must now
be looking out for a quiet, genteel place for him, where he will be
valued."




49 My Last Home


One day during this summer the groom cleaned and dressed me with such
extraordinary care that I thought some new change must be at hand; he
trimmed my fetlocks and legs, passed the tarbrush over my hoofs, and
even parted my forelock. I think the harness had an extra polish. Willie
seemed half-anxious, half-merry, as he got into the chaise with his
grandfather.

"If the ladies take to him," said the old gentleman, "they'll be suited
and he'll be suited. We can but try."

At the distance of a mile or two from the village we came to a pretty,
low house, with a lawn and shrubbery at the front and a drive up to the
door. Willie rang the bell, and asked if Miss Blomefield or Miss Ellen
was at home. Yes, they were. So, while Willie stayed with me, Mr.
Thoroughgood went into the house. In about ten minutes he returned,
followed by three ladies; one tall, pale lady, wrapped in a white shawl,
leaned on a younger lady, with dark eyes and a merry face; the other,
a very stately-looking person, was Miss Blomefield. They all came
and looked at me and asked questions. The younger lady--that was Miss
Ellen--took to me very much; she said she was sure she should like me, I
had such a good face. The tall, pale lady said that she should always
be nervous in riding behind a horse that had once been down, as I might
come down again, and if I did she should never get over the fright.

"You see, ladies," said Mr. Thoroughgood, "many first-rate horses have
had their knees broken through the carelessness of their drivers without
any fault of their own, and from what I see of this horse I should say
that is his case; but of course I do not wish to influence you. If you
incline you can have him on trial, and then your coachman will see what
he thinks of him."

"You have always been such a good adviser to us about our horses," said
the stately lady, "that your recommendation would go a long way with me,
and if my sister Lavinia sees no objection we will accept your offer of
a trial, with thanks."

It was then arranged that I should be sent for the next day.

In the morning a smart-looking young man came for me. At first he looked
pleased; but when he saw my knees he said in a disappointed voice:

"I didn't think, sir, you would have recommended my ladies a blemished
horse like that."

"'Handsome is that handsome does'," said my master; "you are only taking
him on trial, and I am sure you will do fairly by him, young man. White
is worn universally by men and women next to the face, in collars
or in neckwear, and the reason for it is that the contiguous white
intensifies whatever color they may possess.

Black, on the other hand, lessens the color or lowers its tone.

32.
I wonder where he is now."

A little further on he came to the place in my neck where I was bled and
where a little knot was left in the skin. Diagram III is of the utmost
value to the colorist, illustrating not only the composition of
color, but showing the origin of each secondary from the two
primaries, the origin of each tertiary from two secondaries, and
of each quaternary from two tertiaries.

It must be 'Black Beauty'! Why,
Beauty! Beauty! do you know me?--little Joe Green, that almost killed
you?" And he began patting and patting me as if he was quite overjoyed.

I could not say that I remembered him, for now he was a fine grown young
fellow, with black whiskers and a man's voice, but I was sure he knew
me, and that he was Joe Green, and I was very glad. I put my nose up
to him, and tried to say that we were friends. I never saw a man so
pleased.

"Give you a fair trial! I should think so indeed! I wonder who the
rascal was that broke your knees, my old Beauty! you must have been
badly served out somewhere; well, well, it won't be my fault if you
haven't good times of it now. For instance, slate is one part of violet and one part of green.

Hence, a tertiary color is made of equal parts of two secondaries.

The outer circle, buff, sage and plum, can be analyzed in the same
way.

This Diagram I is arranged to show not only component parts of a color,
but the parts that properly harmonize.

#CONTRASTS#

10. In music it is an established fact that certain notes used in
pleasing combination produce sounds we call harmonies. The moment
that more than one note is struck, there is danger of discord, and
when ten notes resound to the touch of the player, they must be the
right notes, or they jar upon the sensibilities. In the use of color
the same immutable law applies.

11.After this it was quite decided to keep me and call me by my
old name of "Black Beauty".

I have now lived in this happy place a whole year. Joe is the best and
kindest of grooms. My work is easy and pleasant, and I feel my strength
and spirits all coming back again. Mr. Thoroughgood said to Joe the
other day:

"In your place he will last till he is twenty years old--perhaps more."

Willie always speaks to me when he can, and treats me as his special
friend. My ladies have promised that I shall never be sold, and so I
have nothing to fear; and here my story ends. My troubles are all over,
and I am at home; and often before I am quite awake, I fancy I am still
in the orchard at Birtwick, standing with my old friends under the
apple-trees.