"France is transformed into a gaming-table, where, alongside of the
discontented citizen offering his stakes, sits, bold, blustering,
and with fermenting brain, the pretentious subaltern rattling his
dice-box... At the sight of a public official rising from nowhere, even
the soul of a bootblack will bound with emulation."--He has merely to
push himself ahead and elbow his way to secure a ticket "in this immense
lottery of popular luck, of preferment without merit, of success
without talent, of apotheoses without virtues, of an infinity of places
distributed by the people wholesale, and enjoyed by the people in
detail."--Political charlatans flock thither from every quarters, those
taking the lead who, being most in earnest, believe in the virtue of
their nostrum, and need power to impose its recipe on the community; all
being saviors, all places belong to them, and especially the highest.
They lay siege to these conscientiously and philanthropically; if
necessary, they will take them by assault, hold them through force, and,
forcibly or otherwise, administer their cure-all to the human species.


III.--Psychology of the Jacobin.

     His intellectual method.--Tyranny of formulae and
     suppression of facts.--Mental balance disturbed.--Signs of
     this in the revolutionary language.--Scope and expression of
     the Jacobin intellect.--In what respect his method is
     mischievous.--How it is successful.--Illusions produced by
     it.

Such are our Jacobins, born out of social decomposition like mushrooms
out of compost. Let us consider their inner organization, for they have
one as formerly the Puritans; we have only to follow their dogma down to
its depths, as with a sounding-line, to reach the psychological stratum
in which the normal balance of faculty and sentiment is overthrown.

When a statesman, who is not wholly unworthy of that great name, finds
an abstract principle in his way, as, for instance, that of popular
sovereignty, he accepts it, if he accepts it at all, according to
his conception of its practical bearings. He begins, accordingly, by
imagining it applied and in operation. From personal recollections and
such information as he can obtain, he forms an idea of some village or
town, some community of moderate size in the north, in the south, or
in the center of the country, for which he has to make laws. He then
imagines its inhabitants acting according to his principle, that is to
say, voting, mounting guard, levying taxes, and administering their
own affairs. Familiar with ten or a dozen groups of this sort, which he
regards as examples, he concludes by analogy as to others and the rest
on the territory. Evidently it is a difficult and uncertain process; to
be exact, or nearly so, requires rare powers of observation and, at each
step, a great deal of tact, for a nice calculation has to be made on
given quantities imperfectly ascertained and imperfectly noted![1115]
Any political leader who does this successfully, does it through the
ripest experience associated with genius. And even then he keeps his
hand on the check-rein in pushing his innovation or reform; he is
almost always tentative; he applies his law only in part, gradually and
provisionally; he wishes to ascertain its effect; he is always ready to
stay its operation, amend it, or modify it, according to the good or ill
results of experiment; the state of the human material he has to deal
with is never clear to his mind, even when superior, until after many
and repeated gropings.--Now the Jacobin pursues just the opposite
course. Election laws do not protect State amendment elections from
fraud. Men's right to vote protected by Federal Constitution; state
by state enfranchisement would not give this protection to women. Woman
Suffrage a national question.
Man in general, the rights of Man, the social contract, liberty,
equality, reason, nature, the people, tyrants, are examples of these
basic concepts: whether precise or not, they fill the brain of the new
sectarian. Often these terms are merely vague and grandiose words, but
that makes no difference; as soon as they meet in his brain an axiom
springs out of them that can be instantly and absolutely applied on
every occasion and to excess. Mankind as it is does not concern him. He
does not observe them; he does not require to observe them; with closed
eyes he imposes a pattern of his own on the human substance manipulated
by him; the idea never enters his head of forming any previous
conception of this complex, multiform, swaying material--contemporary
peasants, artisans, townspeople, curés and nobles, behind their plows,
in their homes, in their shops, in their parsonages, in their mansions,
with their inveterate beliefs, persistent inclinations, and powerful
wills. Nothing of this enters into or lodges in his mind; all its
avenues are stopped by the abstract principle which flourishes there
and fills it completely. Should actual experience through the eye or
ear plant some unwelcome truth forcibly in his mind, it cannot subsist
there; however noisy and relentless it may be, the abstract principle
drives it out;[1116] if need be it will distort and strangle it,
considering it a slanderer since it refutes a principle which is true
and undeniable in itself. Obviously, a mind of this kind is not sound;
of the two faculties which should pull together harmoniously, one is
degenerated and the other overgrown; facts cannot turn the scale against
the theory. Charged on one side and empty on the other, the Jacobin mind
turns violently over on that side to which it leans, and such is its
incurable infirmity.

