Produced by David Widger


BADDECK AND THAT SORT OF THING

By Charles Dudley Warner


PREFACE

TO JOSEPH H. TWICHELL

It would be unfair to hold you responsible for these light sketches
of a summer trip, which are now gathered into this little volume in
response to the usual demand in such cases; yet you cannot escape
altogether. From there, still on foot and bare-headed, he crossed
the Mohave Desert, spent several weeks at Flagstaff, and then
continued his wanderings among the Indian tribes. They recognised
his saintliness and came out in crowds to meet him, amazed at the
power of the Lord as manifested by him. He spent five days in the
company of the chief of the Navajos, performing many miracles, and
filling with wonder the simple souls who crowded round to touch
his hands. After having traversed several other districts, he stopped
at Denver, which became his favourite residence.
In this paradise of the New World his most startling miracles took
place.

It became known as his special town, and from all parts there
flocked to it believers and unbelievers, good, bad and indifferent,
attracted by the fame of the heavenly messenger.
The flight over the latter island was, you knew, however, no
part of our original plan, and you were not obliged to take any
interest in it. You know that our design was to slip rapidly down,
by the back way of Northumberland Sound, to the Bras d'Or, and spend
a week fishing there; and that the greater part of this journey here
imperfectly described is not really ours, but was put upon us by fate
and by the peculiar arrangement of provincial travel.

It would have been easy after our return to have made up from
libraries a most engaging description of the Provinces, mixing it
with historical, legendary, botanical, geographical, and ethnological
information, and seasoning it with adventure from your glowing
imagination. But it seemed to me that it would be a more honest
contribution if our account contained only what we saw, in our rapid
travel; for I have a theory that any addition to the great body of
print, however insignificant it may be, has a value in proportion to
its originality and individuality,--however slight either is,--and
very little value if it is a compilation of the observations of
others. In this case I know how slight the value is; and I can only
hope that as the trip was very entertaining to us, the record of it
may not be wholly unentertaining to those of like tastes.

Of one thing, my dear friend, I am certain: if the readers of this
little journey could have during its persual the companionship that
the writer had when it was made, they would think it altogether
delightful. There was a close relationship between Hermes, the Essenes
of Egypt, and St. John, the author of _Revelation_. Indeed, if we
search carefully, we find that the Gnostics of every school believed
in the possibility of banishing death from the earth.
From there they believed that he had escaped, with
the help of his gaoler, Selivanoff, and had assumed the latter's name.
What strengthened them in this belief was the marked favour
shown by the Tsar Alexander I for Selivanoff.For
wars are occasioned by the love of money." So also are the majority
of the anxieties of life. We left these behind when we went into the
Provinces with no design of acquiring anything there. I hope it may
be my fortune to travel further with you in this fair world, under
similar circumstances.

NOOK FARM, HARTFORD, April 10, 1874.

C. D. W.


BADDECK AND THAT SORT OF THING


   "Ay, now I am in Arden: the more fool I; when I was at home,
   I was in a better place; but travellers must be content."
                               --TOUCHSTONE.

