Produced by Donald Lainson


THE SAN FRANCISCO CALAMITY BY EARTHQUAKE AND FIRE


A Complete and Accurate Account of the Fearful Disaster which
Visited the Great City and the Pacific Coast, the Reign of Panic and
Lawlessness, the Plight of 300,000 Homeless People and the World-wide
Rush to the Rescue.

TOLD BY EYE WITNESSES

INCLUDING GRAPHIC AND RELIABLE ACCOUNTS OF ALL GREAT EARTHQUAKES AND
VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS IN THE WORLD'S HISTORY, AND SCIENTIFIC EXPLANATIONS
OF THEIR CAUSES.


EDITED BY CHARLES MORRIS, LL. D.


PREFACE


Earthquake and famine, fire and sudden death--these are the destroyers
that men fear when they come singly; but upon the unhappy people of
California they came together, a hideous quartette, to slay human
beings, to blot from existence the wealth that represented prolonged and
strenuous effort, to bring hunger and speechless misery to three hundred
thousand homeless and terror-stricken people.

The full measure of the catastrophe can probably never be taken. The
summary cannot be made amid the panic, the confusion, the removal of
ancient landmarks, the complete subversion of the ordinary machinery
of society. When chaos comes, as it did in San Francisco, and all the
channels of familiar life are closed, and human anguish grows to be
intolerable, compilation of statistics is impossible, even if it were
not repugnant to the feelings. And when order is once more restored,
after the lapse of many weeks, months and perhaps years, the details of
the calamity have merged into one undecipherable mass of misery which
defies the analyst and the historian. It is the purpose of this book
faithfully to record the story of these awful days when years were lived
in a moment and to preserve an accurate chronicle of them, not only
for the people whose hearts yearn in sympathy to-day, but for their
posterity.

Other frightful catastrophes the world has known. The earthquake which
dropped Lisbon into the sea in 1755, and in a moment swallowed up
twenty-five thousand people, was perhaps more awful than the convulsion
which has brought woe to San Francisco. When Krakatoa Mountain, in the
Straits of Sunda, in 1883, split asunder and poured across the land a
mighty wave, in which thirty-six thousand human beings perished, the
results also were more terrible.

The whirlwind of fire which consumed St. Pierre, in the Island of
Martinique, and the devastation wrought by Vesuvius a few days previous
to that at San Francisco, need not be used for comparison with the
latter tragedy, but they may be referred to, that we may recall the fact
that this land of ours is not the only one which has suffered.

But since the western hemisphere was discovered there has been in this
quarter of the globe no violence of natural forces at all comparable in
destructive fury with that which was manifested upon the Pacific coast.
The only other calamity at all equalling it, or surpassing it, was the
Civil War, and that was the work of the evil passions of man inciting
him to slay his brother, while Nature would have had him live in peace.

The earthquake in San Francisco, which crumbled strong buildings as if
they were made of paper, would have been terrible enough; but afterward
came the horror of fire and of imprisoned men and women burned alive,
and now to it was added the suffering of multitudes from hunger and
exposure.

Public attention is fixed on the great city; but smaller cities had
their days and nights of destruction, horror and misery. Some were
almost destroyed. Others were partly ruined, and beyond their borders,
over a wide area, the trembling of the earth toppled houses, annihilated
property and transformed riches into poverty. The cost in life can be
reckoned. The money loss will never be computed, for the appraised value
of the wrecked property conveys no notion of the consequences of the
almost complete paralysis, for a time, of the commercial operations by
means of which men and women earn their bread.

When the weakness and the folly and the sin of men bring woe upon other
men, there are plenty of texts for the preacher and no scarcity of
earnest preachers. But here is a vast and awful catastrophe that
befell from an act of Nature apparently no more extraordinary than the
shrinkage of hot metal in the process of cooling. The consequences are
terrifying in this case because they involve the habitations of half a
million people; but, no doubt, the process goes on somewhere within
the earth almost continuously, and it no more involves the theory of
malignant Nature than that of an angry God.

If we contemplate it, possibly we may be helped to a profitable estimate
of our own relative insignificance. We think, with some notion of our
importance, of the thousand million men who live upon the earth; but
they are a mere handful of animate atoms in comparison with the surface,
to say nothing of the solid contents, of the globe itself.

We are fond of boasting in this latter day of man's marvelous success
in subduing the forces of Nature; and, while we are in the midst of
exultation over our victories, Nature tumbles the rocks about somewhere
within the bowels of the earth, and we have to learn the old lesson that
our triumphs have not penetrated farther than to the very outermost rim
of the realms of Nature.

A few weak, almost helpless, creatures, we millions of men stand upon
the deck of a great ship, which goes rolling through space that is
itself incomprehensible, and usually we are so busy with our paltry
ambitions, our transgressions, our righteous labors, our prides and
hopes and entanglements that we forget where we are and what is our
destiny. A direct interposition from a Superior Power, even if it
be hurtful to the body, might be required to persuade us to stop and
consider and take anew our bearings, so that we may comprehend in some
larger degree our precise relations to things. The wisest men have
been the most ready to recognize the beneficence of the discipline of
affliction. If there were no sorrow, we should be likely to find the
school of life unprofitable.

For one thing, the school wherein sorrow is a part of the discipline is
that in which is developed human sympathy, one of the finest and most
ennobling manifestations of the Love which is, in its essence, divine.
In human life there is much that is ignoble, and the race has almost
contemptible weakness and insignificance in comparison with the physical
forces of the universe.

But man is superior to all these forces in his possession of the power
of affection; and in almost the lowest and basest of the race this
power, if latent and half lost, may be found and evoked by the spectacle
of the suffering of a fellow-creature.

The human family looks on with pity while the homeless and hungry and
impoverished Californians endure pangs. Wherever the news went, by
the swift processes of electricity, there men and women, some of them,
perhaps, hardly knowing where California is, were sorry and willing
and eager to help. There are quarrels within the family sometimes, when
nation wars with nation, and all love seems to have vanished; but the
world is, in truth, akin. "God hath made of one blood all the nations of
the earth," and the blood "tells" when suffering comes.

THE PUBLISHERS.


TABLE OF CONTENTS


CHAPTER I.

SAN FRANCISCO AND ITS TERRIFIC EARTHQUAKE


CHAPTER II.

THE DEMON OF FIRE INVADES THE STRICKEN CITY


CHAPTER III.

FIGHTING FLAMES WITH DYNAMITE


CHAPTER IV.

THE REIGN OF DESTRUCTION AND DEVASTATION


CHAPTER V.

THE PANIC FLIGHT OF A HOMELESS HOST


CHAPTER VI.

FACING FAMINE AND PRAYING FOR RELIEF


CHAPTER VII.

THE FRIGHTFUL LOSS OF LIFE AND WEALTH


CHAPTER VIII.

WONDERFUL RECORD OF THRILLING ESCAPES


CHAPTER IX.

DISASTER SPREADS OVER THE GOLDEN STATE


CHAPTER X.

ALL AMERICA AND CANADA TO THE RESCUE


CHAPTER XI.

THE SAN FRANCISCO OF THE PAST


CHAPTER XII.

LIFE IN THE METROPOLIS OF THE PACIFIC


CHAPTER XIII.

PLANS TO REBUILD SAN FRANCISCO


CHAPTER XIV.

THE EARTHQUAKE WAVE FELT AROUND THE WORLD


CHAPTER XV.

VESUVIUS DEVASTATES THE REGION OF NAPLES


CHAPTER XVI.

THE GREAT LISBON AND CALABRIAN EARTHQUAKES


CHAPTER XVII.

THE CHARLESTON AND OTHER EARTHQUAKES OF THE UNITED STATES


CHAPTER XVIII.

THE VOLCANO AND THE EARTHQUAKE, EARTH'S DEMONS OF DESTRUCTION


CHAPTER XIX.

THE THEORIES OF VOLCANIC AND EARTHQUAKE ACTION


CHAPTER XX.

THE ACTIVE VOLCANOES OF THE EARTH


CHAPTER XXI.

THE FAMOUS VESUVIUS AND THE DESTRUCTION OF POMPEII


CHAPTER XXII.

ERUPTIONS OF VESUVIUS, ETNA AND STROMBOLI


CHAPTER XXIII.

SKAPTER JOKULL AND HECLA, THE GREAT ICELANDIC VOLCANOES


CHAPTER XXIV.

VOLCANOES OF THE PHILIPPINES AND OTHER PACIFIC ISLANDS


CHAPTER XXV.

THE WONDERFUL HAWAIIAN CRATERS AND KILAUEA'S LAKE OF FIRE


CHAPTER XXVI.

POPOCATEPETL AND OTHER VOLCANOES OF MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA


CHAPTER XXVII.

THE TERRIBLE ERUPTION OF KRAKATOA


CHAPTER XXVIII.

MONT PELEE AND ITS HARVEST OF DEATH IN 1902


CHAPTER XXIX.

ST. VINCENT ISLAND AND MONT SOUFRIERE IN 1812


CHAPTER XXX.

SUBMARINE VOLCANOES AND THEIR WORK OF ISLAND-BUILDING


CHAPTER XXXI.

MUD VOLCANOES, GEYSERS AND HOT SPRINGS


THE SAN FRANCISCO CALAMITY BY EARTHQUAKE AND FIRE


CHAPTER I.

San Francisco and Its Terrific Earthquake.


On the splendid Bay of San Francisco, one of the noblest harbors on the
whole vast range of the Pacific Ocean, long has stood, like a Queen of
the West on its seven hills, the beautiful city of San Francisco, the
youngest and in its own way one of the most beautiful and attractive of
the large cities of the United States. Born less than sixty years ago,
it has grown with the healthy rapidity of a young giant, outvieing many
cities of much earlier origin, until it has won rank as the eighth city
of the United States, and as the unquestioned metropolis of our far
Western States.

It is on this great and rich city that the dark demon of destruction has
now descended, as it fell on the next younger of our cities, Chicago, in
1872. It was the rage of the fire-fiend that desolated the metropolis
of the lakes. Upon the Queen City of the West the twin terrors of
earthquake and conflagration have descended at once, careening through
its thronged streets, its marts of trade, and its abodes alike of
poverty and wealth, and with the red hand of devastation sweeping one
of the noblest centres of human industry and enterprise from the face of
the earth. It is this story of almost irremediable ruin which it is our
unwelcome duty to chronicle. But before entering upon this sorrowful
task some description of the city that has fallen a prey to two of the
earth's chief agents of destruction must be given.

San Francisco is built on the end of a peninsula or tongue of land lying
between the Pacific Ocean and the broad San Francisco Bay, a noble body
of inland water extending southward for about forty miles and with a
width varying from six to twelve miles. Northward this splendid body of
water is connected with San Pablo Bay, ten miles long, and the latter
with Suisun Bay, eight miles long, the whole forming a grand range of
navigable waters only surpassed by the great northern inlet of Puget
Sound. The Golden Gate, a channel five miles long, connects this
great harbor with the sea, the whole giving San Francisco the greatest
commercial advantages to be found on the Pacific coast.


THE EARLY DAYS OF SAN FRANCISCO.


The original site of the city was a grant made by the King of Spain of
four square leagues of land. Congress afterwards confirmed this grant.
It was an uninviting region, with its two lofty hills and its various
lower ones, a barren expanse of shifting sand dunes extending from their
feet. The population in 1830 was about 200 souls, about equal to that
of Chicago at the same date. It was not much larger in 1848, when
California fell into American hands and the discovery of gold set in
train the famous rush of treasure seekers to that far land. When 1849
dawned the town contained about 2,000 people. They had increased to
20,000 before the year ended. The place, with its steep and barren hills
and its sandy stretches, was not inviting, but its ease of access to the
sea and its sheltered harbor were important features, and people settled
there, making it a depot of mining supplies and a point of departure for
the mines.

The place grew rapidly and has continued to grow. At first a city of
flimsy frame buildings, it became early a prey to the flames, fire
sweeping through it three times in 1850 and taking toll of the young
city to the value of $7,500,000. These conflagrations swept away most of
the wooden houses, and business men began to build more substantially
of brick, stone and iron. Yet to-day, for climatic reasons, most of the
residences continue to be built of wood. But the slow-burning redwood
of the California hillsides is used instead of the inflammable pine, the
result being that since 1850 the loss by fire in the residence section
of the city has been remarkably small. In 1900 the city contained 50,494
frame and only 3,881 stone and brick buildings, though the tendency to
use more durable materials was then growing rapidly.

Before describing the terrible calamity which fell upon this beautiful
city on that dread morning of April 18, 1906, some account of the
character of the place is very desirable, that readers may know what San
Francisco was before the rage of earthquake and fire reduced it to what
it is to-day.


THE CHARACTER OF THE CITY.


The site of the city of San Francisco is very uneven, embracing a series
of hills, of which the highest ones, known as the Twin Peaks, reach to
an elevation of 925 feet, and form the crown of an amphitheatre of lower
altitudes. Several of the latter are covered with handsome residences,
and afford a magnificent view of the surrounding country, with its
bordering bay and ocean, and the noble Golden Gate channel, a river-like
passage from ocean to bay of five miles in length and one in width. This
waterway is very deep except on the bar at its mouth, where the depth of
water is thirty feet.

Since its early days the growth of the city has been very rapid. In 1900
it held 342,782 people, and the census estimate made from figures of the
city directory in 1904 gave it then a population of 485,000, probably
a considerable exaggeration. In it are mingled inhabitants from most
of the nations of the earth, and it may claim the unenviable honor of
possessing the largest population of Chinese outside of China itself,
the colony numbering over 20,000.

Of the pioneer San Francisco few traces remain, the old buildings having
nearly all disappeared. Large and costly business houses and splendid
residences have taken their place in the central portion of the city,
marble, granite, terra-cotta, iron and steel being largely used as
building material. The great prevalence of frame buildings in the
residence sections is largely due to the popular belief that they
are safer in a locality subject to earthquakes, while the frequent
occurrence of earth tremors long restrained the inclination to erect
lofty buildings. Not until 1890 was a high structure built, and few
skyscrapers had invaded the city up to its day of ruin. They will
probably be introduced more frequently in the future, recent experience
having demonstrated that they are in considerable measure earthquake
proof.

The city before the fire contained numerous handsome structures,
including the famous old Palace Hotel, built at a cost of $3,000,000 and
with accommodations for 1,200 guests; the nearly finished and splendid
Fairmount Hotel; the City Hall, with its lofty dome, on which $7,000,000
is said to have been spent, much of it, doubtless, political plunder;
a costly United States Mint and Post Office, an Academy of Science, and
many churches, colleges, libraries and other public edifices. The city
had 220 miles of paved streets, 180 miles of electric and 77 of cable
railway, 62 hotels, 16 theatres, 4 large libraries, 5 daily newspapers,
etc., together with 28 public parks.

Sitting, like Rome of old, on its seven hills, San Francisco has long
been noted for its beautiful site, clasped in, as it is, between the
Pacific Ocean and its own splendid bay, on a peninsula of some five
miles in width. Where this juts into the bay at its northernmost point
rises a great promontory known as Telegraph Hill, from whose height
homeless thousands have recently gazed on the smoke rising from their
ruined homes. In the early days of golden promise a watchman was
stationed on this hill to look out for coming ships entering the Golden
Gate from their long voyage around the Horn and signal the welcome news
to the town below. From this came its name.

Cliffs rise on either side of the Golden Gate, and on one is perched the
Cliff House, long a famous hostelry. This stands so low that in storms
the surf is flung over its lower porticos, though its force is broken
by the Seal Rocks. A chief attraction to this house was to see the seals
play on these rocks, their favorite place of resort. The Cliff House was
at first said to have been swept bodily by the earthquake into the sea,
but it proved to be very little injured, and stands erect in its old
picturesque location.

In the vicinity of Telegraph Hill are Russian and Nob Hills, the latter
getting its peculiar title from the fact that the wealthy "nobs," or
mining magnates, of bonanza days built their homes on its summit level.
Farther to the east are Mount Olympus and Strawberry Hill, and beyond
these the Twin Peaks, which really embrace three hills, the third being
named Bernal Heights. Farther to the south and east is Rincan Hill, the
last in the half moon crescent of hills, within which is a spread of
flat ground extending to the bay. Behind the hills on the Pacific side
stretches a vast sweep of sand, at some places level, but often gathered
into great round dunes. Part of this has been transformed into the
beautiful Golden Gate Park, a splendid expanse of green verdure which
has long been one of San Francisco's chief attractions.

Beneath the whole of San Francisco is a rock formation, but everywhere
on top of this extends the sand, the gift of the winds. This is of such
a character that a hole dug in the street anywhere, even if only to the
depth of a few feet, must be shored up with planking or it will fill as
fast as it is excavated, the sand running as dry as the contents of
an hour glass. When there is an earthquake--or a "temblor," to use the
Spanish name--it is the rock foundation that is disturbed, not the sand,
which, indeed, serves to lessen the effect of the earth tremor.


THE FOUNDATIONS OF THE CITY.


Leaving the region of the hills and descending from their
crescent-shaped expanse, we find a broad extent of low ground, sloping
gently toward the bay. On this low-lying flat was built all of San
Francisco's business houses, all its principal hotels and a large part
of its tenements and poorer dwellings. It was here that the earthquake
was felt most severely and that the fire started which laid waste the
city.

Rarely has a city been built on such doubtful foundations. The greater
part of the low ground was a bay in 1849, but it has since been filled
in by the drifting sands blown from the ocean side by the prevailing
west winds and by earth dumped into it. Much of this land was "made
ground." Forty-niners still alive say that when they first saw San
Francisco the waters of the bay came up to Montgomery Street. The Palace
Hotel was in Montgomery Street, and from there to the ferry docks--a
long walk for any man--the water had been driven back by a "filling-in"
process.

This is the district that especially suffered, that south of Market
and east of Montgomery Streets. Nearly all the large buildings in this
section are either built on piles driven into the sand and mud or were
raised upon wooden foundations. It is on such ground as this that the
costly Post Office building was erected, despite the protests of nearly
the entire community, who asserted that the ground was nothing but a
filled-in bog.

In none of the earthquakes that San Francisco has had was any serious
damage except to houses in this filled-in territory, and to houses built
along the line of some of the many streams which ran from the hills down
to the bay, and which were filled in as the town grew--for instance,
the Grand Opera House was built over the bed of St. Anne's Creek. A bog,
slough and marsh, known as the Pipeville Slough, was the ground on which
the City Hall was built, and which was originally a burying ground. Sand
from the western shore had blown over and drifted into the marsh and
hardened its surface.

When the final grading scheme of the city was adopted in 1853, and
work went on, the water front of the city was where Clay Street now is,
between Montgomery and Sansome Streets. The present level area of San
Francisco of about three thousand acres is an average of nine feet
above or below the natural surface of the ground and the changes made
necessitated the transfer of 21,000,000 cubic yards from hills to
hollows. Houses to the number of thousands were raised or lowered,
street floors became subcellars or third stories and the whole natural
face of the ground was altered.

Through this infirm material all the pipes of the water and sewer system
of San Francisco in its business districts and in most of the region
south of Market street were laid. When the earthquake came, the
filled-in ground shook like the jelly it is. The only firm and rigid
material in its millions of cubic yards of surface area and depth were
the iron pipes. Naturally they broke, as they would not bend, and San
Francisco's water system was therefore instantly disabled, with the
result that the fire became complete master of the situation and raged
uncontrolled for three days and nights.

Although the earthquake wrecked the business and residential portions
of the city alike, on the hills the land did not sink. All "made ground"
sank in consequence of the quaking, but on the high ground the upper
parts of the buildings were about the only portions of the structures
wrecked. Most of the damage on the hills was done by falling chimneys.
On Montgomery Street, half a block from the main office of the Western
Union Company, the middle of the street was cracked and blown up, but
during the shocks which struck the Western Union building only the
top stories were cracked. Similar phenomena were experienced in other
localities, and the bulk of the disaster, so far as the earthquake was
concerned, was confined to the low-lying region above described.


THE BANE OF THE EARTHQUAKE.


From the origin of San Francisco the earthquake has been its bane.
During the past fifty years fully 250 shocks have been recorded, while
all California has been subject to them. But frequency rather than
violence of shocks has been the characteristic of the seismic history of
the State, there having been few shocks that caused serious damage, and
none since 1872 that led to loss of life.

There was a violent shock in 1856, when the city was only a mining town
of small frame buildings. Several shanties were overthrown and a few
persons killed by falling walls and chimneys. There was a severe shock
also in 1865, in which many buildings were shattered. Next in violence
was the shock of 1872, which cracked the walls of some of the public
buildings and caused a panic. There was no great loss of life. In April,
1898, just before midnight, there was a lively shakeup which caused
the tall buildings to shake like the snapping of a whip and drove the
tourists out of the hotels into the streets in their nightclothes. Three
or four old houses fell, and the Benicia Navy Yard, which is on made
ground across the bay, was damaged to the extent of about $100,000. The
last severe shock was in January, 1900, when the St. Nicholas Hotel was
badly damaged.

These were the heaviest shocks. On the other hand, light shocks, as
above said, have been frequent. Probably the sensible quakes have
averaged three or four a year. These are usually tremblings lasting from
ten seconds to a minute and just heavy enough to wake light sleepers
or to shake dishes about on the shelves. Tourists and newcomers are
generally alarmed by these phenomena, but old Californians have
learned to take them philosophically. To one is not afraid of them,
the sensation of one of these little tremblers is rather pleasant than
otherwise, and the inhabitants grew so accustomed to them as rarely to
let them disturb their equanimity.

After 1900 the forces beneath the earth seemed to fall asleep. As it
proved, they were only biding their time. The era was at hand when they
were to declare themselves in all their mighty power and fall upon the
devoted city with ruin in their grasp. But all this lay hidden in the
secret casket of time, and the city kept up to its record as one of the
liveliest and in many respects the most reckless and pleasure-loving
on the continent, its people squandering their money with thoughtless
improvidence and enjoying to the full all the good that life held out to
them.

On the 17th of April, 1906, the city was, as usual, gay, careless, busy,
its people attending to business or pleasure with their ordinary vim as
inclination led them, and not a soul dreaming of the horrors that lay in
wait. They were as heedless of coming peril and death as the inhabitants
of Sodom and Gomorrah before the rain of fire from heaven descended upon
their devoted heads. This is not to say that they were doomed by God to
destruction like these "cities of the plains." We should more wisely
say that the forces of ruin within the earth take no heed of persons or
places. They come and go as the conditions of nature demand, and if man
has built one of his cities across their destined track, its doom comes
from its situation, not from the moral state of its inhabitants.


THE GREAT DISASTER OF 1906.


That night the people went, with their wonted equanimity, to their beds,
rich and poor, sick and well alike. Did any of them dream of disaster in
the air? It may be so, for often, as the poet tells us, "Coming events
cast their shadows before." But, forewarned by dreams or not, doubtless
not a soul in the great city was prepared for the terrible event so
near at hand, when, at thirteen minutes past five o'clock on the dread
morning of the 18th, they felt their beds lifted beneath them as if by
a Titan hand, heard the crash of falling walls and ceilings, and saw
everything in their rooms tossed madly about, while through their
windows came the roar of an awful disaster from the city without.

It was a matter not of minutes, but of seconds, yet on all that coast,
long the prey of the earthquake, no shock like it had ever been felt,
no such sudden terror awakened, no such terrible loss occasioned as in
those few fearful seconds. Again and again the trembling of the earth
passed by, three quickly repeated shocks, and the work of the demon of
ruin was done. People woke with a start to find themselves flung from
their beds to the floor, many of them covered with the fragments of
broken ceilings, many lost among the ruins of falling floors and walls,
many pinned in agonizing suffering under the ruins of their houses,
which had been utterly wrecked in those fatal seconds. Many there were,
indeed, who had been flung to quick if not to instant death under their
ruined homes.

Those seconds of the reign of the elemental forces had turned the
gayest, most careless city on the continent into a wreck which no words
can fitly describe. Those able to move stumbled in wild panic across the
floors of their heaving houses, regardless of clothing, of treasures, of
everything but the mad instinct for safety, and rushed headlong into the
streets, to find that the earth itself had yielded to the energy of its
frightful interior forces and had in places been torn and rent like the
houses themselves. New terrors assailed the fugitives as fresh tremors
shook the solid ground, some of them strong enough to bring down
shattered walls and chimneys, and bring back much of the mad terror of
the first fearful quake. The heaviest of these came at eight o'clock.
While less forcible than that which had caused the work of destruction,
it added immensely to the panic and dread of the people and put many of
the wanderers to flight, some toward the ferry, the great mass in the
direction of the sand dunes and Golden Gate Park.

The spectacle of the entire population of a great city thus roused
suddenly from slumber by a fierce earthquake shock and sent flying into
the streets in utter panic, where not buried under falling walls or
tumbling debris, is one that can scarcely be pictured in words, and can
be given in any approach to exact realization only in the narratives of
those who passed through its horrors and experienced the sensations to
which it gave rise. Some of the more vivid of these personal accounts
will be presented later, but at present we must confine ourselves to a
general statement of the succession of events.

The earthquake proved but the beginning and much the least destructive
part of the disaster. In many of the buildings there were fires, banked
for the night, but ready to kindle the inflammable material hurled down
upon them by the shock. In others were live electric wires which the
shock brought in contact with woodwork. The terror-stricken fugitives
saw, here and there, in all directions around them, the alarming vision
of red flames curling upward and outward, in gleaming contrast to the
white light of dawn just showing in the eastern sky. Those lurid gleams
climbed upward in devouring haste, and before the sun had fairly risen
a dozen or more conflagrations were visible in all sections of the
business part of the city, and in places great buildings broke with
startling suddenness into flame, which shot hotly high into the air.

While the mass of the people were stunned by the awful suddenness of the
disaster and stood rooted to the ground or wandered helplessly about in
blank dismay, there were many alert and self-possessed among them who
roused themselves quickly from their dismay and put their energies
to useful work. Some of these gave themselves to the work of rescue,
seeking to save the injured from their perilous situation and draw
the bodies of the dead from the ruins under which they lay. Those base
wretches to whom plunder is always the first thought were as quickly
engaged in seeking for spoil in edifices laid open to their plundering
hands by the shock. Meanwhile the glare of the flames brought the
fire-fighters out in hot haste with their engines, and up from the
military station at the Presidio, on the Golden Gate side of the city,
came at double quick a force of soldiers, under the efficient command of
General Funston, of Cuban and Philippine fame. These trained troops were
at once put on guard over the city, with directions to keep the best
order possible, and with strict command to shoot all looters at sight.
Funston recognized at the start the necessity of keeping the lawless
element under control in such an exigency as that which he had to face.
Later in the day the First Regiment of California National Guards was
called out and put on duty, with similar orders.


RESCUERS AND FIRE-FIGHTERS.


The work of fighting the fire was the first and greatest duty to be
performed, but from the start it proved a very difficult, almost a
hopeless, task. With fierce fires burning at once in a dozen or more
separate places, the fire department of the city would have been
inadequate to cope with the demon of flame even under the best of
circumstances. As it was, they found themselves handicapped at the start
by a nearly total lack of water. The earthquake had disarranged and
broken the water mains and there was scarcely a drop of water to be had,
so that the engines proved next to useless. Water might be drawn from
the bay, but the centre of the conflagration was a mile or more away,
and this great body of water was rendered useless in the stringent
exigency.

The only hope that remained to the authorities was to endeavor to check
the progress of the flames by the use of dynamite, blowing up buildings
in the line of progress of the conflagration. This was put in practice
without loss of time, and soon the thunder-like roar of the explosions
began, blasts being heard every few minutes, each signifying that some
building had been blown to atoms. But over the gaps thus made the flames
leaped, and though the brave fellows worked with a desperation and
energy of the most heroic type, it seemed as if all their labors were
to be without avail, the terrible fire marching on as steadily as if a
colony of ants had sought to stay its devastating progress.


THE HORROR OF THE PEOPLE.


It was with grief and horror that the mass of the people gazed on this
steady march of the army of ruin. They were seemingly half dazed by the
magnitude of the disaster, strangely passive in the face of the ruin
that surrounded them, as if stunned by despair and not yet awakened to
a realization of the horrors of the situation. Among these was the
possibility of famine. No city at any time carries more than a few days'
supply of provisions, and with the wholesale districts and warehouse
regions invaded by the flames the shortage of food made itself apparent
from the start. Water was even more difficult to obtain, the supply
being nearly all cut off. Those who possessed supplies of food and
liquids of any kind in many cases took advantage of the opportunity to
advance their prices. Thus an Associated Press man was obliged to pay
twenty-five cents for a small glass of mineral water, the only kind of
drink that at first was to be had, while food went up at the same rate,
bakers frequently charging as much as a dollar for a loaf. As for the
expressmen and cabmen, their charges were often practically prohibitory,
as much as fifty dollars being asked for the conveyance of a passenger
to the ferry. Policemen were early stationed at some of the retail
shops, regulating the sale and the price of food, and permitting only
a small portion to be sold to each purchaser, so as to prevent a few
persons from exhausting the supply.

The fire, the swaying and tottering walls, the frequent dynamite
explosions, each followed by a crashing shower of stones and bricks,
rendered the streets very unsafe for pedestrians, and all day long
the flight of residents from the city went on, growing quickly to the
dimensions of a panic. The ferryboats were crowded with those who wished
to leave the city, and a constant stream of the homeless, carrying such
articles as they had rescued from their homes, was kept up all day
long, seeking the sand dunes, the parks and every place uninvaded by
the flames. Before night Golden Gate Park and the unbuilt districts
adjoining on the ocean side presented the appearance of a tented city,
shelter of many kinds being improvised from bedding and blankets, and
the people settling into such sparse comfort as these inadequate means
provided.

A strange feature of the disaster was a rush to the banks by people who
wished to get their money and flee from the seemingly doomed city. The
fire front was yet distant from these institutions, which were destined
to fall a prey to the flames, and all that morning lines of dishevelled
and half-frantic men stood before the banks on Montgomery and Sansome
Streets, braving in their thirst for money the smoke and falling embers
and beating in wild anxiety upon the doors. Their effort was vain; the
doors remained closed; finally the police drove these people away, and
the banks went on with the work of saving their valuables. As for the
people who wildly fled toward the ferries, in spite of the fact that
ten blocks of fire, as the day went on, stopped all egress in that
direction, it became necessary for them to be driven back by the police
and the troops, and they were finally forced to seek safety in the
sands. And thus, with incident manifold, went on that fatal Wednesday,
the first day of the dread disaster.


OFFICIAL RECORD OF THE EARTHQUAKE.


It is important here to give the official record of the earthquake
shocks, as given by the scientists. Professor George Davidson, of the
University of California, says of them:

"The earthquake came from north to south, and the only description I am
able to give of its effect is that it seemed like a terrier shaking a
rat. I was in bed, but was awakened by the first shock. I began to count
the seconds as I went towards the table where my watch was, being able
through much practice closely to approximate the time in that manner.
The shock came at 5.12 o'clock. The first sixty seconds were the most
severe. From that time on it decreased gradually for about thirty
seconds. There was then the slightest perceptible lull. Then the shock
continued for sixty seconds longer, being slighter in degree in this
minute than in any part of the preceding minute and a half. There were
two slight shocks afterwards which I did not time. At 8.14 o'clock
I recorded a shock of five seconds' duration, and one at 4.15 of two
seconds. There were slight shocks which I did not record at 5.17 and at
5.27. At 6.50 P. M. there was a sharp shock of several seconds."

Professor A. O. Louschner, of the students' observatory of the
University of California, thus records his observations:

"The principal part of the earthquake came in two sections, the first
series of vibrations lasting about forty seconds. The vibrations
diminished gradually during the following ten seconds, and then occurred
with renewed vigor for about twenty-five seconds more. But even at
noon the disturbance had not subsided, as slight shocks are recorded
at frequent intervals on the seismograph. The motion was from
south-southeast to north-northwest.

"The remarkable feature of this earthquake, aside from its intensity,
was its rotary motion. As seen from the print, the sum total of all
displacements represents a very regular ellipse, and some of the
lines representing the earth's motion can be traced along the whole
circumference. The result of observation indicates that our heaviest
shocks are in the direction south-southeast to north-northwest. In that
respect the records of the three heaviest earthquakes agree entirely.
But they have several other features in common. One of these is
that while the displacements are very large the vibration period is
comparatively slow, amounting to about one second in the last two big
earthquakes."

If we seek to discover the actual damage done by the earthquake, the
fact stands out that the fire followed so close upon it that the traces
of its ravages were in many cases obliterated. So many buildings in the
territory of the severest shock fell a prey to the flames or to dynamite
that the actual work of the earth forces was made difficult and in
many places impossible to discover. This fact is likely to lead to
considerable dispute and delay when the question of insurance adjustment
comes up, many of the insurance companies confining their risk to fire
damage and claiming exemption from liability in the case of damage due
to earthquake.

Among the chief victims of the earth-shake was the costly and showy City
Hall, with its picturesque dome standing loftily above the structure.
This dome was left still erect, but only as a skeleton might stand, with
its flesh gone and its bare ribs exposed to the searching air. Its roof,
its smaller towers came tumbling down in frightful disarray, and the
once proud edifice is to-day a miserable wreck, fire having aided
earthquake in its ruin. The new Post Office, a handsome government
building, also suffered severely from the shock, its walls being badly
cracked and injury done by earthquake and fire that it is estimated will
need half a million dollars to repair.


FREAKS OF THE EARTHQUAKE.


One observer states that the earthquake appeared to be very irregular in
its course. He tells us that "there are gas reservoirs with frames all
twisted and big factories thrown to the ground, while a few yards away
are miserable shanties with not a board out of place. Wooden, steel and
brick structures hardly felt the earthquake in some parts of the city,
while in other places all were wrecked.

"Skirting the shore northwest from the big ferry building--which was
so seriously injured that it will have to be rebuilt--the first thing
observed was the extraordinary irregularity of the earthquake's course.
Pier No. 5, for instance, is nothing but a mass of ruins, while Pier No.
3, on one side of it and Pier No. 7, on the other side, similar in size
and construction, are undamaged. Farther on, the Kosmos Line pier is a
complete wreck."

The big forts at the entrance to the Golden Gate also suffered seriously
from the great shake-up, and the emplacements of the big guns were
cracked and damaged. The same is the case with the fortifications
back of Old Fort Point, the great guns in these being for the present
rendered useless. It will take much time and labor to restore their
delicate adjustment upon their carriages.

The buildings that collapsed in the city were all flimsy wooden
buildings and old brick structures, the steel frame buildings, even
the score or more in course of construction, escaping injury from the
earthquake shock. Of the former, one of the most complete wrecks was
the Valencia Hotel, a four-story wooden building, which collapsed into a
heap of ruins, pinning many persons under its splintered timbers.


SKYSCRAPERS EARTHQUAKE PROOF.


In fact, as the reports of damage wrought by the earthquake came in,
the conviction grew that one of the safest places during the earthquake
shock was on one of the upper floors of the skyscraper office buildings
or hotels. As a matter of fact, not a single person, so far as can be
learned, lost his or her life or was seriously injured in any of the
tall, steel frame structures in the city, although they rocked during
the quake like a ship in a gale.

The loss of life was caused in almost every case by the collapse of
frame structures, which the native San Franciscan believed was the
safest of all in an earthquake, or by the shaking down of portions of
brick or stone buildings which did not possess an iron framework. The
manner in which the tall steel structures withstood the shock is a
complete vindication of the strongest claims yet made for them, and it
is made doubly interesting from the fact that this is the first occasion
on which the effect of an earthquake of any proportions on a tall steel
structure could be studied.

The St. Francis Hotel, a sixteen-story structure, can be repaired at an
expenditure of about $400,000, its damage being almost wholly by fire.
The steel shell and the floors are intact. Although the building rocked
like a ship in a gale while the quake lasted, its foundations are
undamaged. Other steel buildings which are so little damaged as to admit
of repairs more or less extensive are the James Flood, the Union Trust,
the CALL building, the Mutual Savings Bank, the Crocker-Woolworth
building and the Postal building. "Bit o' wreckage from Barnett's
derelict," muttered Trendon, scowling through his glasses.

"Rides too high for a spar or anything of that sort," said the junior
lieutenant.

"She's a small boat," came in the clear tones of the lookout, "driftin'
down."

"Anyone in her?" asked Carter.

"Can't make out yet, sir. No one's in charge though, sir."
Captain Parkinson appeared and Carter pointed out the speck to him.

"Yes. Give her full speed," said the captain, replying to a question
from the officer of the deck.

Forward leapt the swift cruiser, all too slow for the anxious hearts of
those aboard. For there was not one of the _Wolverines_ who did not
expect from this aimless traveller of desert seas at the least a
leading clue to the riddle that oppressed them.

"Aloft there!"
"Aye, aye, sir."
"Can you make out her build?"
"Rides high, like a dory, sir."
"Wasn't there a dory on the _Laughing Lass_?" cried Forsythe.

"On her stern davits," answered Trendon.

"It is hardly probable that unattached small boats should be drifting
about these seas," said Captain Parkinson, thoughtfully.

"If she's a dory, she's the _Laughing Lass_'s boat."
"That's what she is," said Barnett. "You can see her build plain
enough now."
"Mr. Barnett, will you go aloft and keep me posted?" said the captain.

The executive officer climbed to join the lookout. As he ascended,
those below saw the little craft rise high and slow on a broad
swell.

"Same dory," said Trendon. "I'd swear to her in Constantinople."

"What else could she be?" muttered Forsythe.

"Somethin' that looks like a man in the bottom of her," sang out the
crow's-nest. "Two of 'em, I think."
For five minutes there was stillness aboard, broken only by an occasional
low-voiced conjecture. Then from aloft:

"Two men rolling in the bottom."
"Are they alive?"
"No, sir; not that I can see."
The wind, which had been extremely variable since dawn, now whipped around
a couple of points, swinging the boat's stern to them. Barnet,
putting aside his glass for a moment, called down:

"That's the one, sir.

I can make out the name."

"Good," said the captain quietly.

"We should have news, at least."
"Ives or McGuire," suggested Forsythe, in low tones.

"Or Billy Edwards," amended Carter.

"Not Edwards," said Trendon.

"How do you know?" demanded Forsythe.

"Dory was aboard when we found her the second time, after Edwards had
left."
"Can you make out which of the men are in her?"

hailed the captain.

"Don't think it's any of our people," came the astonishing reply from
Barnett.

"Are you sure?"
"I can see only one man's face, sir. It isn't Ives or McGuire. He's a
stranger to me."
"It must be one of the crew, then."
"No, sir, beg your parding," called the lookout. "Nothin' like that in
our crew, sir."
The boat came down upon them swiftly. Soon the quarter-deck was looking
into her.

She was of a type common enough on the high seas, except that a step
for a mast showed that she had presumably been used for skimming
about open shores. Of her passengers, one lay forward, prone and
quiet. A length of sail cloth spread over him made it impossible to
see his garb.
At his breast an ugly protuberance, outlined vaguely, hinted a
deformity.

The other sprawled aft, and at a nearer sight of him some of the men
broke out into nervous titters. There was some excuse, for surely such
a scarecrow had never before been the sport of wind and wave. A thing
of shreds he was, elaborately ragged, a face overrun with a scrub
of beard, and preternaturally drawn, surmounted by a stiff-dried,
dirty, cloth semi-turban, with a wide, forbidding stain along the
side, worked out the likeness to a make-up.

"My God!"

cackled Forsythe with an hysterical explosion; and again, "My
God!"
A long-drawn, irrepressible aspiration of expectancy rose from the warship's
decks as the stranger raised his haggard face, turned eyes unseeingly
upon them, and fell back. The forward occupant stirred not, save as the
boat rolled.

From between decks someone called out, sharply, an order. In the grim
silence it seemed strangely incongruous that the measured business
of a ship's life should be going forward as usual.

Something within the newcomer's consciousness stirred to that voice of
authority.
Mechanically, like some huge, hideous toy, he raised first one arm,
then the other, and hitched himself halfway up on the stern seat. His
mouth opened. His face wrinkled. He seemed groping for the meaning of a
joke at which he knew he ought to laugh. Suddenly from his lips in
surprising volume, raucous, rasping, yet with a certain rollicking
deviltry fit to set the head a-tilt, burst a chanty:

"Oh, their coffin was their ship, and their grave it was the
sea:
_Blow high, blow low, what care we!

_ And the quarter that we gave them was to sink them in the sea:
_Down on the coast of the high Barbaree-ee._"
Long-drawn, like the mockery of a wail, the minor cadence wavered
through the stillness, and died away.

"The High Barbaree!" cried Trendon.

"You know it?" asked the captain, expectant of a clue.

"One of those cursed tunes you can't forget," said the surgeon. "Heard a
scoundrel of a beach-comber sing it years ago. Down in New Zealand, that
was. When the fever rose on him he'd pipe up. Used to beat time with
a steel hook he wore in place of a hand. The thing haunted me till I
was sorry I hadn't let the rascal die. This creature might have learned
it from him. Howls it out exactly like."
"I don't see that that helps us any," said Forsythe, looking down on
the preparations that were making to receive the unexpected guests.

With a deftness which had made the _Wolverine_ famous in the navy for
the niceties of seamanship, the great cruiser let down her tackle as she
drew skilfully alongside, and made fast, preparatory to lifting the
dory gently to her broad deck. But before the order came to hoist away,
one of the jackies who had gone down drew the covering back from
the still figure forward, and turned it over.

With a half-stifled cry he shrank back.

And at that the tension of soul and mind on the _Wolverine_ snapped,
breaking into outcries and sudden, sharp imprecations. The face revealed
was that of Timmins, the bo's'n's mate, who had sailed with the
first vanished crew. A life preserver was fastened under his arms. He was
dead.

"I'm out," said the surgeon briefly, and stood with mouth agape. Never
had the disciplined _Wolverines_ performed a sea duty with so
ragged a routine as the getting in of the boat containing the live
man and the dead body.

The dead seaman was reverently disposed and covered. As to the survivor
there was some hesitancy on the part of the captain, who was inclined
to send him forward until Dr. Trendon, after a swift scrutiny,
suggested that for the present, at least, he be berthed aft. They
took the stranger to Edwards's vacant room, where Trendon was closeted
with him for half an hour. When he emerged he was beset with
questions.

"Can't give any account of himself yet," said the surgeon. "Weak and
not rightly conscious."
"What ails him?"
"Enough. Gash in his scalp. Fever. Thirst and exhaustion. Nervous
shock, too, I think."

"How came he aboard the _Laughing Lass_?" "Does he know anything of Billy?"
"Was he a stow-away?" "Did you ask him about Ives and McGuire?" "How
came he in the small boat?" "Where are the rest?"
"Now, now," said the veteran chidingly. "How can I tell? Would you
have me kill the man with questions?"
He left them to look at the body of the bo's'n's mate. Not a word had
he to say when he returned. Only the captain got anything out of him but
growling and unintelligible expressions, which seemed to be objurgatory
and to express bewildered cogitation.

"How long had poor Timmins been drowned?" the captain had asked him,
and Trendon replied:

"Captain Parkinson, the man wasn't drowned. No water in his lungs."
"Not drowned! Then how came he by his death?"
"If I were to diagnose it under any other conditions I should say
that he had inhaled flames."
Then the two men stared at each other in blank impotency. Meantime the
scarecrow was showing signs of returning consciousness and a message
was dispatched for the physician.

On his way he met Barnett, who asked and received permission to
accompany him. The stranger was tossing restlessly in his bunk,
opening and shutting his parched mouth in silent, piteous appeal for
the water that must still be doled to him parsimoniously.

"I think I'll try him with a little brandy," said Trendon, and sent for
the liquor.

Barnett raised the patient while the surgeon held the glass to his
lips.
The man's hand rose, wavered, and clasped the glass.

"All right, my friend. Take it yourself, if you like," said Trendon.

The fingers closed. Tremulously held, the little glass tilted and rattled
against the teeth. There was one deep, eager spasm of swallowing.
Then the fevered eyes opened upon the face of the _Wolverine_'s first
officer.

"Prosit, Barnett," said the man, in a voice like the rasp of rusty
metal.

The navy man straightened up as from a blow under the jaw.

"Be careful what you are about," warned Trendon, addressing his superior
officer sharply, for Barnett had all but let his charge drop. His
face was a puckered mask of amaze and incredulity.

"Did you hear him speak my name--or am I dreaming?" he half
whispered.

"Heard him plain enough. Who is he?"
The man's eyes closed, but he smiled a little--a singular, wry-mouthed,
winning smile.

With that there sprung from behind the brush of beard, filling out the
deep lines of emaciation, a memory to the recognition of Barnett; a keen
and gay countenance that whisked him back across seven years time to
the days of Dewey and the Philippines.

"Ralph Slade, by the Lord!" he exclaimed.

"Of the _Laughing Lass_?" cried Trendon.

"Of the _Laughing Lass_."
Such a fury of eagerness burned in the face of Barnett that Trendon
cautioned him. "See here, Mr. Barnett, you're not going to fire a
broadside of disturbing questions at my patient yet a while. He's in no
condition."
But it was from the other that the questions came. Opening his eyes he
whispered, "The sailor? Where?"
"Dead," said Trendon bluntly.

Then, breaking his own rule of repression, he asked:

"Did he come off the schooner with you?"
"Picked him up," was the straining answer. "Drifting."
The survivor looked around him, then into Barnett's face, and his mind
too, traversed the years.

"_North Dakota?_" he queried.

"No; I've changed my ship," said Barnett.

"This is the _Wolverine_."
"Where's the _Laughing Lass_?"
Barnett shook his head.

"Tell me," begged Slade.

"Wait till you're stronger," admonished Trendon.

"Can't wait," said the weak voice.

The eyes grew wild.

"Mr. Barnett, tell him the bare outline and make it short," said the
surgeon.

"We sighted the _Laughing Lass_ two days ago. She was in good shape,
but deserted. That is, we thought she was deserted."
The man nodded eagerly.

"I suppose you were aboard," said Barnett, and Trendon made a quick
gesture of impatience and rebuke.

"No," said Slade. "Left three--four--don't know how many nights ago."
The officers looked at each other. "Go on," said Trendon to his
companion.

"We put a crew aboard in command of an ensign," continued Barnett,
"and picked up the schooner the next night, deserted. You must
know about it.
Where is Billy Edwards?"
"Never heard of him," whispered the other.

"Ives and McGuire, then. They were there after--Great God, man!" he
cried, his agitation breaking out, "Pull yourself together! Give us
something to go on."

"Mr. Barnett!" said the surgeon peremptorily.

But the suggestion was working in the sick man's brain. He turned to
the officers a face of horror.

"Your man, Edwards--the crew--they left her? In the night?"
"What does he mean?" cried Barnett.

"The light! You saw it?"
"Yes; we saw a strange light," answered Trendon soothingly. Slade half
rose. "Lost; all lost!" he cried, and fell back unconscious. Trendon
exploded into curses. "See what you've done to my patient," he
fumed.
Barnett looked at him with contrite eyes.

"Better get out before he comes to," growled the surgeon. "Nice way
to treat a man half dead of exhaustion."
It was nearly an hour before Slade came back to the world again.

The doctor forbade him to attempt speech. But of one thing he would
not be denied. There was a struggle for utterance, then:

"The volcano?" he rasped out.

"Dead ahead," was the reply.

"Stand by!" grasped Slade. He strove to rise, to say something further,
but endurance had reached its limit. The man was utterly done.

Dr. Trendon went on deck, his head sunk between his shoulders. For a
minute he was in earnest talk with the captain. Presently the _Wolverine_'s
engines slowed down, and she lay head to the waves, with just enough
turn of the screw to hold her against the sea-way.

VII
THE FREE LANCE

By the following afternoon Dr. Trendon reported his patient as quite
recovered.

"Starved for water," proffered the surgeon.

"Tissues fairly dried out.
Soaked him up. Fed him broth. Put him to sleep. He's all right. Just
wakes up to eat; then off again like a two-year old. Wonderful constitution."

"The gentleman wants to know if he can come on deck, sir," saluted
an orderly.

"Waked up, eh. Come on, Barnett. Help me boost him on deck."
The two officers disappeared to return in a moment arm-in-arm with
Ralph Slade.

Nearly twenty-four hours' rest and skilful treatment had done wonders.
He was still a trifle weak and uncertain, was still a little glad to
lean on the arms of his companions, but his eye was bright and alert,
and his hollow cheeks mounted a slight colour. This, with the clothes
lent him by Barnett, transformed his appearance, and led Captain
Parkinson to congratulate himself that he had not obeyed his first impulse
to send the castaway forward with the men.

The officers pressed forward.

"Mighty glad to see you out." "Hope you've got your pins under you
again." "Old man, I'm mighty glad we came along."
The chorus of greeting was hearty enough, but the journalist barely paid
the courtesy of acknowledgment. His eye swept the horizon eagerly until
it rested on the cloud of volcanic smoke billowing up across the
setting sun. A sigh of relief escaped him.

"Where are we?" he asked Barnett. "I mean since you picked me up. How
long ago was that, anyway?"
"Yesterday," replied the navigating officer. "We've stood off and
on, looking for some of our men."
"Then that's the same volcano----"
Barnett laughed softly. "Well, they aren't quite holding a caucus
of volcanoes down in this country. One like that is enough."
But Slade brushed the remark aside.
"Head for it!" he cried excitedly. "We may be in time! There's a
man on that island."
"A man!" "Another!" "Not Billy Edwards?" "Not some of our boys?"
Slade stared at them bewildered.
"Hold on," interposed Dr. Trendon authoritatively. "What's his
name?" he inquired of the journalist.
"Darrow," replied the latter. "Percy Darrow. Do you know him?"
"Who in Kamschatka is Percy Darrow?" demanded Forsythe.
"Why, he's the assistant." It's a long story----"
"Of course, it's a long story. There's a lot we want to know,"
interrupted Captain Parkinson. "Quartermaster, head for the volcano
yonder. Mr. Slade, we want to know where you came from; and why you
left the schooner, and who Percy Darrow is. And there's dinner, so
we'll just adjourn to the messroom and hear what you can tell us.
But there's one thing we're all anxious to know; how came you in
the dory which we found and left on the _Laughing Lass_ no later
than two days ago?"
"I haven't set eyes on the _Laughing Lass_ for--well, I don't know
how long, but it's five days anyway, perhaps more," replied
Slade.

They stared at him incredulously.
"Oh, I see!" he burst out suddenly; "there were twin dories on the
schooner. The other one's still there, I suppose. Did you find her
on the stern davits?" 
"Yes."
"That's it, then. You see when I left----"
Captain Parkinson's raised hand checked him. "If you will be so
good, Mr.
Slade, let us have it all at once, after mess."
At table the young officers, at a sharp hint from Dr. Trendon,
conversed on indifferent subjects until the journalist had partaken
heartily of what the physician allowed him. Slade ate with keen
appreciation.
"I tell you, that's good," he sighed, when he had finished. "Real,
live, after-dinner coffee, too. Why, gentlemen, I haven't eaten a
civilised meal, with all the trimmings, for over two years. Doctor,
do you think a little of the real stuff would hurt me? It's a pretty
dry yarning." 
"One glass," growled the surgeon, "no more."
"Scotch high-ball, then," voted Slade, "the higher the better."

The steward brought a tall glass with ice, in which the newcomer
mixed his drink. Then for quite a minute he sat silent, staring at
the table, his fingers aimlessly rubbing into spots of wetness the
water beads as they gathered on the outside of his glass. Suddenly
he looked up.
"I don't know how to begin," he confessed. "It's too confounded
improbable. I hardly believe it myself, now that I'm sitting here
in human clothes, surrounded by human beings. Old Scrubs, and the
Nigger, and Handy Solomon, and the Professor, and the chest, and
the--well, they were real enough when I was caught in the mess. But
I warn you, you are not going to believe me, and hanged if I blame
you a bit."
"We've seen marvels ourselves in the last few days," encouraged
Captain Parkinson.
"Fire ahead, man," advised Barnett impatiently. "Just begin at the
beginning and let it go at that."
Slade sipped at his glass reflectively.
"Well," said he at length, "the best way to begin is to show you
how I happened to be mixed up in it at all."
The officers unconsciously relaxed into attitudes of greater
ease.
Overhead the lamps swayed gently to the swell. The dull throb of
the screw pulsated. Stewards clad in white moved noiselessly, filling
the glasses, deferentially striking lights for the smokers, clearing
away the last dishes of the repast.
"I'm a reporter by choice, and a detective by instinct," began
Slade, with startling abruptness. "Furthermore, I'm pretty well
off. I'm what they call a free lance, for I have no regular desk
on any of the journals. I generally turn my stuff in to the _Star_
because they treat me well. In return it is pretty well understood
between us that I'm to use my judgment in regard to 'stories' and
that they'll stand back of me for expenses. You see, I've been with
them quite a while."
He looked around the circle as though in appeal to the comprehension
of his audience. Some of the men nodded. Others sipped from their
glasses or drew at their cigars.
"I loaf around here and there in the world, having a good time
travelling, visiting, fooling around. Every once in a while something
interests me. The thing is a sort of instinct. I run it down. If
it's a good story, I send it in. That's all there is to it." He
laughed slightly. "You see, I'm a sort of magazine writer in method,
but my stuff is newspaper stuff. Also the game suits me. That's why
I play it. That's why I'm here. I have to tell you about myself
this way so you will understand how I came to be mixed up in this
_Laughing Lass_ matter."
"I remember," commented Barnett, "that when you came aboard the
_South Dakota_, you had a little trouble making Captain Arnold see
it." He turned to the others with a laugh. "He had all kinds of
papers of ancient date, but nothing modern--letter from the _Star_
dated five years back, recommendations to everybody on earth, except
Captain Arnold, certificate of bravery in Apache campaign, bank
identifications, and all the rest. 'Maybe you're the _Star's_
correspondent, and maybe you're not,' said the Captain, 'I don't
see anything here to prove it.' Slade argued an hour; no go. Remember
how you caught him?" he inquired of Slade.
The reporter grinned assent.
"After the old man had turned him down for good, Slade fished down
in his warbag and hauled out an old tattered document from an oilskin
case.
'Hold on a minute,' said he, 'you old shellback. I've proved to you
that I can write; and I've proved to you that I have fought, and
now here I'll prove to you that I can sail. If writing, fighting,
and sailing don't fit me adequately to report any little disturbances
your antiquated washboiler may blunder into, I'll go to raising
cabbages.' With that he presented a master's certificate! Where did
you get it, anyway? I never found out."
"Passed as 'fresh-water' on the Great Lakes," replied Slade
briefly.
"Well, the spunk and the certificate finished the captain. He was
an old square rigger himself in the Civil War."
"So much for myself," Slade continued. "As for the _Laughing
Lass_----" 

PART TWO 

THE BRASS BOUND CHEST
_Being the story told by Ralph Slade, Free Lance, to the officers
of the United States cruiser Wolverine_.

I 
THE BARBARY COAST
A coincidence got me aboard her. I'll tell you how it was. One
evening late I was just coming out of a dark alley on the Barbary
Coast, San Francisco. You know--the water front, where you can hear
more tongues than at Port Said, see stranger sights, and meet
adventure with the joyous certainty of mediaeval times. I'd been
down there hunting up a man reported, by a wharf-rat of my acquaintance,
to have just returned from a two years' whaling voyage. He'd been
"shanghaied" aboard, and as a matter of fact, was worth nearly a
million dollars. Landed in the city without a cent, could get nobody
to believe him, nor trust him to the extent of a telegram East.
Wharf-rat laughed at his yarn; but I believe it was true.
Good copy anyway----
Just at the turn of the alley I nearly bumped into two men. On the
Barbary Coast you don't pass men in narrow places until you have
reconnoitered a little. I pulled up, thanking fortune that they had
not seen me. The first words were uttered in a voice I knew
well.
You've all heard of Dr. Karl Augustus Schermerhorn. He did some big
things, and had in mind still bigger. I'd met him some time before
in connection with his telepathy and wireless waves theory. It was
picturesque stuff for my purpose, but wasn't in it with what the
old fellow had really done. He showed me--well, that doesn't matter.
The point is, that good, staid, self-centred, or rather science-centred,
Dr.
Schermerhorn was standing at midnight in a dark alley on the Barbary
Coast in San Francisco talking to an individual whose facial outline
at least was not ornamental.
My curiosity, or professional instinct, whichever you please, was
all aroused. I flattened myself against the wall.
The first remark I lost. The reply came to me in a shrill falsetto.
So grotesque was the effect of this treble from a bulk so squat and
broad and hairy as the silhouette before me that I almost laughed
aloud.
"I guess you've made no mistake on that. I'm her master, and her
owner too."
"Well, I haf been told you might rent her," said the Doctor."The Call building, a twelve-story skyscraper, stood, and looked all
right at first glance, but had moved at the base two feet at one end out
into the sidewalk, and the elevators refused to work, all the interior
being just twisted out of shape. It afterward burned as I watched it. I
worked my way in from the ferry, climbing over piles of brick and mortar
and keeping to the centre of the street and avoiding live wires that
lay around on every side, trying to get to my office. I got within two
blocks of it and was stopped by the police on account of falling walls.
I saw that the block in which I was located was on fire, and seemed
doomed, so turned back and went up into the city.

"Not knowing San Francisco, you would not know the various buildings,
but fires were blazing in all directions, and all of the finest and best
of the office and business buildings were either burning or surrounded.
They pumped water from the bay, but the fire was soon too far away from
the water front to make any efforts in this direction of much avail.
The water mains had been broken by the earthquake, and so there was no
supply for the fire engines and they were helpless. The only way out
of it was to dynamite, and I saw some of the finest and most beautiful
buildings in the city, new modern palaces, blown to atoms. First they
blew up one or two buildings at a time. Finding that of no avail, they
took half a block; that was no use; then they took a block; but in spite
of them all the fire kept on spreading.

"The City Hall, which, while old, was quite a magnificent building,
occupying a large square block of land, was completely wrecked by the
earthquake, and to look upon reminded one of the pictures of ancient
ruins of Rome or Athens. The Palace Hotel stood for a long time after
everything near it had gone, but finally went up in smoke as the rest.
You could not look in any direction in the city but what mass after mass
of flame stared you in the face. To get about one had to dodge from one
street to another, back and forth in zigzag fashion, and half an hour
after going through a street, it would be impassable. One after another
of the magnificent business blocks went down. The newer buildings seemed
to have withstood the shock better than any others, except well-built
frame buildings. The former lost some of the outside shell, but the
frame stood all right, and in some cases after fire had eaten them all
to pieces, the steel skeleton, although badly twisted and warped, still
stood.

"When I finally left the city, it was all in flames as far as Eighth
Street, which is about a mile and a quarter or half from the water
front. I had to walk at least two miles around in order to get to the
ferry building, and when I got there you could see no buildings standing
in any direction. Nearly all the docks caved in or sheds were knocked
down, and all the streets along the water front were a mass of seams,
upheavals and depressions, car tracks twisted in all shapes. Cars that
had stood on sidings were all in ashes and still burning."

Wednesday's conflagration continued unabated throughout Thursday, and it
was not until late on Friday that the fire-fighters got it safely
under control. They worked like heroes, struggling almost without rest,
keeping up the nearly hopeless conflict until they fairly fell in their
tracks from fatigue. Handicapped by the lack of water, they in one
case brought it from the bay through lines of hose well on to a mile
in length. Yet despite all they could do block after block of San
Francisco's greatest buildings succumbed to the flames and sank in red
ruin before their eyes.


THE LANDMARKS CONSUMED.


On all sides famous landmarks yielded to the fury of the flames.
For three miles along the water front the ground was swept clean
of buildings, the blackened beams and great skeletons of factories,
warehouses and business edifices standing silhouetted against a
background of flames, while the whole commercial and office quarter of
Market Street suffered a similar fate. We may briefly instance some of
these victims of the flames.

Among them were the Occidental Hotel, on Montgomery Street, for years
the headquarters for army officers; the old Lick House, built by James
Lick, the philanthropist; the California Hotel and Theatre, on Bush
Street; and of theatres, the Orpheum, the Alcazar, the Majestic, the
Columbia, the Magic, the Central, Fisher's and the Grand Opera House, on
Missouri Street, where the Conried Opera Company had just opened for a
two weeks' opera season.

The banks that fell were numerous, including the Nevada National Bank,
the California, the Canadian Bank of Commerce, the First National, the
London and San Francisco, the London, Paris and American, the Bank
of British North America, the German-American Savings Bank and the
Crocker-Woolworth Bank building. A large number of splendid apartment
houses were also destroyed, and the tide of destruction swept away a
host of noble buildings far too numerous to mention.

At Post Street and Grant Avenue stood the Bohemian Club, one of the
widest known social organizations in the world. Its membership included
many men famous in art, literature and commerce. Its rooms were
decorated with the works of members, many of whose names are known
wherever paintings are discussed and many of them priceless in their
associations. Most of these were saved. There were on special exhibition
in the "Jinks" room of the Bohemian Club a dozen paintings by old
masters, including a Rembrandt, a Diaz, a Murillo and others, probably
worth $100,000. These paintings were lost with the building, which went
down in the flames.

One of the great losses was that of St. Ignatius' Church and College, at
Van Ness Avenue and Hayes Street, the greatest Jesuitical institution
in the west, which cost a couple of millions of dollars. The Merchants'
Exchange building, a twelve-story structure, eleven of whose floors were
occupied as offices by the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, was added
to the sum of losses.


THE FIRE UNDER CONTROL.


For three long days the terrible fire fiend kept up his work, and the
fight went on until late on Friday, when the sweep of the flames was at
length checked and the fire brought under control. The principal agent
in this victory was dynamite, which was freely used. To its work
a separate chapter will be devoted. When at length the area of the
conflagration was limited the wealthiest part of the city lay in embers
and ashes, one of the principal localities to escape being Pacific
Heights, a mile west from Nob's Hill, on which stood many costly homes
of recent construction.

On Friday night the fire that had worked its way from Nob's Hill to
North Beach Street, sweeping that quarter clean of buildings, veered
before a fierce wind and made its way southerly to the great sea wall,
with its docks and grain warehouses. The flames reached the tanks of the
San Francisco Gas Company, which had previously been pumped out, and on
Saturday morning the grain sheds on the water front, about half a mile
north of the ferry station, were fiercely burning. But the fire here was
confined to a small area, and, with the work of fireboats in the bay and
of the firemen on shore, who used salt water pumped into their engines,
it was prevented from reaching the ferry building and the docks in that
vicinity.

The buildings on a high slope between Van Ness and Polk Streets, Union
and Filbert Streets, were blazing fiercely, fanned by a high wind, but
the blocks here were so thinly settled that the fire had little
chance of spreading widely from this point. In fact, it was at length
practically under control, and the entire western addition of the city
west of Van Ness Avenue was safe from the flames. The great struggle was
fairly at an end, and the brave force of workers were at length given
some respite from their strenuous labors.

During the height of the struggle and the days of exhaustion and
depression that followed, exaggerated accounts of the losses and of the
area swept by the flames were current, some estimate making the extent
of the fire fifteen square miles out of the total of twenty-five square
miles of the city's area. It was not until Friday, the 27th, that an
official survey of the burned district, made by City Surveyor Woodward,
was completed, and the total area burned over found to be 2,500 acres, a
trifle less than four square miles. This, however, embraced the heart of
the business section and many of the principal residence streets, much
of the saved area being occupied by the dwellings of the poorer people,
so that the money loss was immensely greater than the percentage of
ground burned over would indicate.


CHAPTER III.

Fighting the Flames With Dynamite.


Shaken by earthquake, swept by flames, the water supply cut off by the
breaking of the mains, the authorities of the doomed city for a time
stood appalled. What could be done to stay the fierce march of the
flames which were sweeping resistlessly over palace and hovel alike,
over stately hall and miserable hut? Water was not to be had; what was
to take its place? Nothing remained but to meet ruin with ruin, to make
a desert in the path of the fire and thus seek to stop its march. They
had dynamite, gunpowder and other explosives, and in the frightful
exigency there was nothing else to be used. Only for a brief interval
did the authorities yield to the general feeling of helplessness. Then
they aroused themselves to the demands of the occasion and prepared to
do all in the power of man in the effort to arrest the conflagration.

While the soldiers under General Funston took military charge of the
city, squads of cavalry and troops of infantry patrolling the streets
and guarding the sections that had not yet been touched by the flames,
Mayor Schmitz and Chief of Police Dinan sprang into the breach and
prepared to make a desperate charge against the platoons of the fire.
This was not all that was needed to be done. From the "Barbary Coast,"
as the resort of the vicious and criminal classes was called, hordes of
wretches poured out as soon as night fell, seeking to slip through the
guards and loot stores and rob the dead in the burning section. Orders
were given to the soldiers to kill all who were engaged in such work,
and these orders were carried out. An associated Press reporter saw
three of these thieves shot and fatally wounded, and doubtless others of
them were similarly dealt with elsewhere.

A band of fire-fighters was quickly organized by the Mayor and Chief
of Police, and the devoted firemen put themselves in the face of the
flames, determined to do their utmost to stay them in their course. Cut
off from the use of their accustomed engines and water streams, which
might have been effective if brought into play at the beginning of the
struggle, there was nothing to work with but the dynamite cartridge and
the gunpowder mine, and they set bravely to work to do what they could
with these. On every side the roar of explosions could be heard, and
the crash of falling walls came to the ear, while people were forced
to leave buildings which still stood, but which it was decided must be
felled. Frequently a crash of stone and brick, followed by a cloud of
dust, gave warning to pedestrians that destruction was going on in the
forefront of the flames, and that travel in such localities was unsafe.


FIGHTING THE FLAMES.


All through the night of Wednesday and the morning of Thursday this
work went on, hopelessly but resolutely. During the following day blasts
could be heard in different sections at intervals of a few minutes, and
buildings not destroyed by fire were blown to atoms, but over the gaps
jumped the live flames, and the disheartened fire-fighters were driven
back step by step; but they continued the work with little regard for
their own safety and with unflinching desperation.

One instance of the peril they ran may be given. Lieutenant Charles
O. Pulis, commanding the Twenty-fourth Company of Light Artillery,
had placed a heavy charge of dynamite in a building at Sixth and Jesse
Streets. For some reason it did not explode, and he returned to relight
the fuse, thinking it had become extinguished. While he was in the
building the explosion took place, and he received injuries that seemed
likely to prove fatal, his skull being fractured and several bones
broken, while he was injured internally. In the early morning, when the
fire reached the municipal building on Portsmouth Square, the nurses,
with the aid of soldiers, got out fifty bodies which were in the
temporary morgue and a number of patients from the receiving hospital.
Just after they reached the street with their gruesome charge a building
was blown up, and the flying bricks and splinters came falling upon
them. The nurses fortunately escaped harm, but several of the
soldiers were hurt, and had to be taken with the other patients to the
out-of-doors Presidio hospital.

The Southern Pacific Hospital, at Fourteenth and Missouri Streets, was
among the buildings destroyed by dynamite, the patients having been
removed to places of safety, and the Linda Vista and the Pleasanton,
two large family hotels on Jones Street, in the better part of the
city, were also among those blown up to stay the progress of the
conflagration.


THE STRUGGLE AGAINST THE FIRE.


The fire had continued to creep onward and upward until it reached the
summit of Nob Hill, a district of splendid residences, and threatened
the handsome Fairmount Hotel, then the headquarters of the Municipal
Council, acting as a Committee of Public Safety. As day broke the flames
seized upon this beautiful structure, and the Council was forced to
retreat to new quarters. They finally met in the North End Police
Station, on Sacramento Street, and there entered actively upon their
duties of seeking to check the progress of the flames, maintain order
in the city and control and direct the host of fugitives, many of whom,
still in a state of semi-panic, were moving helplessly to and fro and
sadly needed wise counsels and a helping hand.

The fire-fighters meanwhile kept up their indefatigable work under the
direction of the Mayor and the chief of their department. The engines
almost from the start had proved useless from lack of water, and were
either abandoned or moved to the outlying districts, in the vain hope
that the water mains might be repaired in time to permit of a final
stand against the whirlwind march of the flames. The cloud of despair
grew darker still as the report spread that the city's supply of
dynamite had given out.

"No more dynamite! No more dynamite!" screamed a fireman as he ran up
Ellis Street past the doomed Flood building at two o'clock on Friday
morning, tears standing in his smoke-smirched eyes.

"No more dynamite! O God! no more dynamite! We are lost!" moaned the
throng that heard his despairing words.


A NEW SUPPLY OF EXPLOSIVES.


So, at that hour, the supply of the explosive exhausted, and not a
dozen streams of water being thrown in the entire fire zone, the stunned
firemen and the stupefied people stood helpless with their eyes fixed in
despair upon the swiftly creeping flames.

Had all been like these the entire city would have been doomed, but
there were those at the head of affairs who never for a moment gave
up their resolution. Dynamite and giant powder were to be had in
the Presidio military reservation, and a requisition upon the army
authorities was made. The louder reverberations as the day advanced and
night came on showed that a fresh supply had been obtained, and that a
new and determined campaign against the conflagration had been entered
upon. Hitherto much of the work had been ignorantly and carelessly done,
and by the hasty and premature use of explosives more harm than good had
been occasioned.

As the fire continued to spread in spite of the heroic work of the
fighting corps, the Committee of Safety called a meeting at noon on
Friday and decided to blow up all the residences on the east side of Van
Ness Avenue, between Golden Gate and Pacific Avenues, a distance of one
mile. Van Ness Avenue is one of the most fashionable streets of the city
and has a width of 125 feet, a fact which led to the idea that a safety
line might be made here too broad for the flames to cross.

The firemen, therefore, although exhausted from over twenty-four hours'
work and lack of food, determined to make a desperate stand at this
point. They declared that should the fire cross Van Ness Avenue and the
wind continue its earlier direction toward the west, the destruction of
San Francisco would be virtually complete. The district west of Van
Ness Avenue and north of McAllister constitutes the finest part of the
metropolis. Here are located all of the finer homes of the well-to-do
and wealthier classes, and the resolution to destroy them was the last
resort of desperation.

Hundreds of police, regiments of soldiers and scores of volunteers
were sent into the doomed district to warn the people to flee. They
heroically responded to the demand of law and went bravely on their way,
leaving their loved homes and trudging painfully over the pavements with
the little they could carry away of their treasured possessions.

The reply of a grizzled fire engineer standing at O'Farrell Street and
Van Ness Avenue, beside a blackened engine, may not have been as terse
as that of Hugo's guardsman at Waterloo, but the pathos of it must have
been as great. In answer to the question of what they proposed to do, he
said:

"We are waiting for it to come. When it gets here we will make one more
stand. If it crosses Van Ness Avenue the city is gone."


THE SAVERS OF THE CITY.


Yet the work now to be done was much too important to be left to the
hands of untrained volunteers. Skilled engineers were needed, men used
to the scientific handling of explosives, and it was men of this kind
who finally saved what is left to-day of the city. Three men saved San
Francisco, so far as any San Francisco existed after the fire had worked
its will, these three constituting the dynamite squad who faced and
defied the demon at Van Ness Avenue.

When the burning city seemed doomed and the flames lit the sky farther
and farther to the west, Admiral McCalla sent a trio of his most trusted
men from Mare Island with orders to check the conflagration at any cost
of property. With them they brought a ton and a half of guncotton. The
terrific power of the explosive was equal to the maniac determination
of the fire. Captain MacBride was in charge of the squad, Chief Gunner
Adamson placed the charges and the third gunner set them off.

Stationing themselves on Van Ness Avenue, which the conflagration was
approaching with leaps and bounds from the burning business section of
the city, they went systematically to work, and when they had ended a
broad open space, occupied only by the dismantled ruins of buildings,
remained of what had been a long row of handsome and costly residences,
which, with all their treasures of furniture and articles of decoration,
had been consigned to hideous ruin.

The thunderous detonations, to which the terrified city listened all
that dreadful Friday night, meant much to those whose ears were deafened
by them. A million dollars' worth of property, noble residences
and worthless shacks alike, were blown to drifting dust, but that
destruction broke the fire and sent the raging flames back over their
own charred path. The whole east side of Van Ness Avenue, from the
Golden Gate to Greenwich, a distance of twenty-two blocks, or a mile and
a half, was dynamited a block deep, though most of the structures as yet
had stood untouched by spark or cinder. Not one charge failed. Not one
building stood upon its foundation.

Unless some second malicious miracle of nature should reverse the
direction of the west wind, by nine o'clock it was felt that the
populous district to the west, blocked with fleeing refugees and
unilluminated except by the disastrous glare on the water front, was
safe. Every pound of guncotton did its work, and though the ruins
burned, it was but feebly. From Golden Gate Avenue north the fire
crossed the wide street in but one place. That was at the Claus
Spreckels place, on the corner of California Street.

There the flames were writhing up the walls before the dynamiters could
reach the spot. Yet they made their way to the foundations, carrying
their explosives, despite the furnace-like heat. The charge had to be
placed so swiftly and the fuse lit in such a hurry that the explosion
was not quite successful from the trained viewpoint of the gunners. But
though the walls still stood, it was only an empty victory for the fire,
as bare brick and smoking ruins are poor food for flames.

Captain MacBride's dynamiting squad had realized that a stand was
hopeless except on Van Ness Avenue, their decision thus coinciding with
that of the authorities. They could have forced their explosives farther
in the burning section, but not a pound of guncotton could be or was
wasted. The ruined blocks of the wide thoroughfare formed a trench
through the clustered structures that the conflagration, wild as it was,
could not leap. Engines pumping brine through Fort Mason from the bay
completed the little work that the guncotton had left, but for three
days the haggard-eyed firemen guarded the flickering ruins.

The desolate waste straight through the heart of the city remained
a mute witness to the most heroic and effective work of the whole
calamity. Three men did this, and when their work was over and what
stood of the city rested quietly for the first time, they departed as
modestly as they had come. They were ordered to save San Francisco,
and they obeyed orders, and Captain MacBride and his two gunners made
history on that dreadful night.

They stayed the march of the conflagration at that critical point,
leaving it no channel to spread except along the wharf region, in which
its final force was spent. One side of Van Ness Avenue was gone; the
other remained, the fire leaping the broad open space only feebly in a
few places, where it was easily extinguished.

In this connection it is well to put on record an interesting
circumstance. This is that there is one place within pistol shot of San
Francisco that the earthquake did not touch, that did not lose a chimney
or feel a tremor. That spot is Alcatraz Island. Despite the fact that
the island is covered with brick buildings, brick forts and brick
chimneys, not a brick was loosened nor a crack made nor a quiver felt.
When the scientist comes to write he will have his hands full explaining
why Alcatraz did not have any physical knowledge of the event. It was as
if New York were to be shaken to its foundation, and Governor's Island,
quietly pursuing its military routine, should escape without a qualm.


CHAPTER IV.

The Reign of Destruction and Devastation


Rarely, in the whole history of mankind, has a great city been
overwhelmed by destruction so suddenly and awfully as was San Francisco.
One minute its inhabitants slept in seeming safety and security. Another
minute passed and the whole great city seemed tumbling around them,
while sights of terror met the eyes of the awakened multitude and sounds
of horror came to their ears. The roar of destruction filled the air as
the solid crust of the earth lifted and fell and the rocks rose and sank
in billowing waves like those of the open sea.

Not all, it is true, were asleep. There was the corps of night workers,
whose duties keep them abroad till day dawns. There were those whose
work calls them from their homes in the early morn. People of this kind
were in the streets and saw the advent of the reign of devastation in
its full extent. From the story of one of these, P. Barrett, an editor
on the Examiner, we select a thrilling account of his experience on that
morning of awe.


AN EDITOR'S NARRATIVE.


"I have seen this whole, great horror. I stood with two other members
of the Examiner staff on the corner of Market Street, waiting for a car.
Newspaper duties had kept us working until five o'clock in the morning.
Sunlight was coming out of the early morning mist. It spread its
brightness on the roofs of the skyscrapers, on the domes and spires of
churches, and blazed along up the wide street with its countless banks
and stores, its restaurants and cafes. In the early morning the city was
almost noiseless. Occasionally a newspaper wagon clattered up the street
or a milk wagon rumbled along. One of my companions had told a funny
story. We were laughing at it. We stopped--the laugh unfinished on our
lips.

"Of a sudden we had found ourselves staggering and reeling. It was as if
the earth was slipping gently from under our feet. Then came a sickening
swaying of the earth that threw us flat upon our faces. We struggled in
the street. We could not get on our feet.

"I looked in a dazed fashion around me. I saw for an instant the big
buildings in what looked like a crazy dance. Then it seemed as though my
head were split with the roar that crashed into my ears. Big buildings
were crumbling as one might crush a biscuit in one's hand. Great gray
clouds of dust shot up with flying timbers, and storms of masonry rained
into the street. Wild, high jangles of smashing glass cut a sharp note
into the frightful roaring. Ahead of me a great cornice crushed a man as
if he were a maggot--a laborer in overalls on his way to the Union Iron
Works, with a dinner pail on his arm.

"Everywhere men were on all fours in the street, like crawling bugs.
Still the sickening, dreadful swaying of the earth continued. It seemed
a quarter of an hour before it stopped. As a matter of fact, it lasted
about three minutes. Footing grew firm again, but hardly were we on our
feet before we were sent reeling again by repeated shocks, but they were
milder. Clinging to something, one could stand.

"The dust clouds were gone. It was quite dark, like twilight. But I saw
trolley tracks uprooted, twisted fantastically. I saw wide wounds in
the street. Water flooded out of one. A deadly odor of gas from a broken
main swept out of the other. Telegraph poles were rocked like matches.
A wild tangle of wires was in the street. Some of the wires wriggled and
shot blue sparks.

"From the south of us, faint, but all too clear, came a horrible chorus
of human cries of agony. Down there in a ramshackle section of the city
the wretched houses had fallen in upon the sleeping families. Down there
throughout the day a fire burned the great part of whose fuel it is too
gruesome a thing to contemplate.

"That was what came next--the fire. It shot up everywhere. The fierce
wave of destruction had carried a flaming torch with it--agony, death
and a flaming torch. It was just as if some fire demon was rushing from
place to place with such a torch."


WRECK AND RUIN.


The magnitude of the calamity became fully apparent after the sun had
risen and began to shine warmly and brightly from the east over the
ruined city. Old Sol, who had risen and looked down upon this city for
thousands of times, had never before seen such a spectacle as that of
this fateful morning. Where once rose noble buildings were now to be
seen cracked and tottering walls, fallen chimneys, here and there fallen
heaps of brick and mortar, and out of and above all the red light of
the mounting flames. From the middle of the city's greatest thoroughfare
ruin, only ruin, was to be seen on all sides. To the south, in hundreds
of blocks, hardly a building had escaped unscathed. The cracked walls of
the new Post Office showed the rending power of the earthquake. A part
of the splendid and costly City Hall collapsed, the roof falling to the
courtyard and the smaller towers tumbling down. Some of the wharves,
laden with goods of every sort, slid into the bay. With them went
thousands of tons of coal. On the harbor front the earth sank from six
to eight inches, and great cracks opened in the streets.

San Francisco's famous Chinatown, the greatest settlement of the
Celestials on this continent, went down like a house of cards. When the
earthquake had passed this den of squalor and infamy was no more. The
Chinese theatres and joss-houses tumbled into ruins, rookery after
rookery collapsed, and hundreds of their inhabitants were buried alive.
Panic reigned supreme among the fugitives, who filled the streets in
frightened multitudes, dragging from the wreck whatever they could save
of their treasured possessions. Much the same was the case with the
Japanese quarter, which fire quickly invaded, the people fleeing in
terror, carrying on their backs what few of their household effects they
were able to rescue.

As for the people of Chinatown, however, no one knows or will ever know
the extent of the dread fate that overcame them, for no one knows
the secrets of that dark abode of infamy and crime, whose inhabitants
burrowed underground like so many ants; and hid their secrets deep in
the earth.


THE RUIN OF CHINATOWN.


W. W. Overton, of Los Angeles, thus describes the Chinatown dens and the
revelations made by the earthquake and the flames:

"Strange is the scene where San Francisco's Chinatown stood. No heap of
smoking ruins marks the site of the wooden warrens where the Orientals
dwelt in thousands. Only a cavern remains, pitted with deep holes and
lined with dark passageways, from whose depths come smoke wreaths. White
men never knew the depth of Chinatown's underground city. Many had gone
beneath the street level two and three stories, but now that the place
had been unmasked, men may see where its inner secrets lay. In places
one can see passages a hundred feet deep.

"The fire swept this Mongolian quarter clean. It left no shred of the
painted wooden fabric. It ate down to the bare ground, and this lies
stark, for the breezes have taken away the light ashes. Joss houses
and mission schools, groceries and opium dens, gambling resorts and
theatres, all of them went. These buildings blazed up like tissue paper.

"From this place I saw hundreds of crazed yellow men flee. In their arms
they bore opium pipes, money bags, silks and children. Beside them ran
the trousered women and some hobbled painfully. These were the men and
women of the surface. Far beneath the street levels in those cellars and
passageways were other lives. Women, who never saw the day from their
darkened prisons, and their blinking jailors were caught and eaten by
the flames."

Devastation spread widely on all sides, ruining the homes of the rich as
well as of the poor, of Americans as well as of Europeans and Asiatics,
the marts of trade, the haunts of pleasure, the realms of science and
art, the resorts of thousands of the gay population of the Golden State
metropolis. To attempt to tell the whole story of destruction and ruin
would be to describe all for which San Francisco stood. Science
suffered in the loss of the San Francisco Academy of Sciences, which was
destroyed with its invaluable contents. This building, erected fifteen
years ago at a cost of $500,000, was a seven-story building with a rich
collection of objects of science. Much of the academy's contents can
never be replaced. It represented the work of many years. There was a
rare collection of Pacific Sea birds which was the most valuable of its
kind in the world. In fact, the entire collection of birds ranked very
high, was visited by ornithologists from every country, and was the
pride of the city. The academy was founded in 1850, James Lick, the same
man who endowed the Lick Observatory, giving it $1,000,000, so it was on
a prosperous footing. It will take many years of active labor to replace
the losses of an hour or two of the reign of fire in this institution,
while much that it held is gone beyond restoration.


LOSS TO ART AND SCIENCE.


Art suffered as severely as science, the valuable collections in private
and public buildings being nearly all destroyed. We have spoken of the
rare paintings burned in the Bohemian Club building. The collections on
Nob's Hill suffered as severely. When the mansions here, the Fairmount
Hotel and Mark Hopkins Institute were approached by the flames, many
attempts were made to remove some of the priceless works of art from the
buildings. A crowd of soldiers was sent to the Flood and the Huntington
mansions and the Hopkins Institute to rescue the paintings. From
the Huntington home and the Flood mansion canvases were cut from the
framework with knives. The collections in the three buildings, valued in
the hundreds of thousands, in great part were destroyed, few being saved
from the ravages of the fire.

The destruction of the libraries, with their valuable collections of
books, was also a very serious loss to the city and its people. Of these
there were nine of some prominence, the Sutro Library containing many
rare books among its 200,000 volumes, while that of the Mechanics
Institute possessed property valued at $2,000,000. The Public Library
occupied a part of the City Hall, the new building proposed by the city,
with aid to the extent of $750,000 by Andrew Carnegie, being fortunately
still in embryo.

In the burning of the banks the losses were limited to the buildings,
their money and other valuables being securely locked in fireproof
vaults. But these became so heated by the flames that it was necessary
to leave them to a gradual cooling for days, during which their
treasures were unavailable, and those with deposits, small or large,
were obliged to depend on the benevolence of the nation for food, such
wealth as was left to them being locked up beyond their reach. It
was the same with the United States Sub-Treasury, which was entirely
destroyed by fire, its vaults, which contained all the cash on hand,
being alone preserved. Guards were put over these to protect their
contents against possible loss by theft.

One serious effect of the conflagration was the general disorganization
of the telegraph system. News items were sent over the wires, but
private messages inquiring about missing friends for days failed to
reach the parties concerned or to bring any return.

That the world received news of the San Francisco disaster during the
dread day after the earthquake is due in part to the courage of the
telegraph operators, who stuck to their posts and, continued to send
news and other messages in spite of great personal danger.

The operators and officials of the Postal Telegraph Company remained in
the main office of the company, at the corner of Market and Montgomery
Streets, opposite the Palace Hotel, until they were ordered out of
it because of the danger of the dynamite explosions in the immediate
vicinity. The men proceeded to Oakland, across the bay, and took
possession of the office there. That night the company operated seven
wires from Oakland, all messages from the city being taken across the
bay in boats. As the days passed on the service gradually improved, but
a week or more passed away before the general service of the company
became satisfactory.


THE DANGER FROM THIRST.


Such news as came from the city was full of tales of horror. For a
number of days one of the chief sources of trouble was from thirst.
Although the earthquake shocks had broken water mains in probably
hundreds of places, strange to say, no water, or very little at least,
appeared on the surface of the ground. Public fountains on Market
Street gave out no relief to the thirsty thousands. At Powell and Market
Streets a small stream of water spurted up through the cobblestones and
formed a muddy pool, at which the thirsty were glad enough to drink. The
soldiers, disregarding the order not to let people move about, permitted
bucket brigades to go forth and bring back water to relieve the women
and the crying children. To reach the water it was necessary sometimes
to go a mile to one of the four reservoirs which top the hills.

Here is a story told by one observer of incidents in the city during the
fire:

"I talked to one man who slept in Alta Plaza. The fire was going on
in the district south of them, and at intervals all night exhausted
fire-fighters made their way to the plaza and dropped, with the breath
out of them, among the huddled people and the bundles of household
goods. The soldiers, who are administering affairs with all the justice
of judges and all the devotion of heroes, kept three or four buckets
of water, even from the women, for these men, who kept coming all night
long. There was a little food, also kept by the soldiers for these
emergencies, and the sergeant had in his charge one precious bottle
of whisky, from which he doled out drinks to those who were utterly
exhausted.

"Over in a corner of the plaza a band of men and women were praying, and
one fanatic, driven crazy by horror, was crying out at the top of his
voice:

"'The Lord sent it, the Lord!'

"His hysterical crying got in the nerves of the soldiers and bade fair
to start a panic among the women and children, so the sergeant went over
and stopped it by force. All night they huddled together in this hell,
with the fire making it bright as day on all sides; and in the morning
the soldiers, using their sense again, commandeered a supply of bread
from a bakery, sent out another water squad, and fed the refugees with a
semblance of breakfast.

"There was one woman in the crowd who had been separated from her
husband in a rush of the smoke and did not know whether he was living.
The women attended to her all night and in the morning the soldiers
passed her through the lines in her search. A few Chinese made their
way into the crowd. They were trembling, pitifully scared and willing
to stop wherever the soldiers placed them. This is only a glimpse of the
horrible night in the parks and open places.

"We learn here that many of the well-to-do people in the upper residence
district have gathered in the strangers from the highways and byways and
given them shelter and comfort for the night in their living rooms and
drawing rooms. Shelter seems to have come more easily than food. Not an
ounce of supplies, of course, has come in for two days, and most of the
permanent stores are in the hands of the soldiers, who dole them out to
all comers alike. But the hungry cannot always find the military stores
and the news has not gotten about, since there are no newspapers and no
regular means of communication.

"An Italian tells me that he was taken in by a family living in a
three-story house in the fashionable Pacific Avenue. There were twenty
refugees who passed the night in the drawing room of that house, whose
mistress took down hangings to make them comfortable. In the morning all
the food that was left over in that home of wealth was enough flour and
baking powder to shake together a breakfast for the refugees. They were
hardly ready to leave that house when the fire came their way, and
the people of the house, together with the refugees, who included two
Chinese, made their way to the open ground of the Presidio. With them
streamed a procession of folks carrying valuables in bundles.

"There came out, too, tales of both heroism and crime. The firemen had
been at it for thirty-six hours under such conditions as firemen never
before faced, and they do little more than give directions, while the
volunteers, thousands of young Western men who have remained to see it
through, do the work. The troops have all that they can do to handle
the crowds in the streets and prevent panics. The work of dynamiting,
tearing down and rescuing is in the hands of the volunteers.

"This morning an eddy of flame from the edge of the burning wholesale
district ran up the slope of Russian Hill, the highest eminence in the
city. All along the edge of that hill and up the slopes are little frame
houses which hold Italians and Mexicans. A corps of volunteer aides ran
along the edge of the fire, warning people out of the houses. But the
flames ran too fast and three women were caught in the upper story of an
old frame house. A young man tore a rail from a fence, managed to climb
it, and reached the window. He bundled one woman out and slid her down
the rail; then the roof caught fire. He seized another woman and managed
to drop her on the rail, down which she slid without hurting herself a
great deal. But the roof fell while he was struggling with another woman
and they fell together into the flames. There must have been hundreds
of such heroisms and dozens of such catastrophes. We are so drunken
and dulled by horror that we take such stories calmly now. We are
saturated."


HOW LOOTING WAS HINDERED.


One thing to be strictly guarded against in those days of destruction
was the outbreak of lawlessness. A city as large as San Francisco is
sure to hold a large number of the brigands of civilization, a horde
who need to be kept under strict discipline at all times, and especially
when calamity lets down for the time being the bars of the law, at
which time many of the usually law-abiding would join their ranks if any
license were allowed. The authorities made haste to guard against
this and certain other dangers, Mayor Schmitz issuing on Wednesday the
following proclamation:

"The Federal troops, the members of the regular police force and special
police officers have been authorized to kill any and all persons engaged
in looting or in the commission of any other crime.

"I have directed all the gas and electric lighting companies not to turn
on gas or electricity until I order them to do so. You may, therefore,
expect the city to remain in darkness for an indefinite time.

"I request all citizens to remain at home from darkness until daylight
every night until order is restored.

"I warn all citizens of the danger of fire from damaged or destroyed
chimneys, broken or leaking gas pipes or fixtures or any like causes."

He also ordered that no lights should be used in the houses and no fires
built in the houses until the chimneys had been inspected and repaired.

There was need of vigilance in this direction, for the vandals were
quickly at work. Routed out from their dens along the wharves, the
rats of the waterfront, the drifters on the back eddy of civilization,
crawled out intent on plunder. Early in the day a policeman caught one
of these men creeping through the window of a small bank on Montgomery
Street and shot him dead. But the police were kept too busy at other
necessary duties to devote much time to these wretches, and for a time
many of them plundered at will, though some of them met with quick and
sure retribution.


STORIES BY SIGHTSEERS.


One onlooker says: "Were it not for the fact that the soldiers in charge
of the city do not hesitate in shooting down the ghouls the lawless
element would predominate. Not alone do the soldiers execute the law. On
Wednesday afternoon, in front of the Palace Hotel, a crowd of workers in
the mines discovered a miscreant in the act of robbing a corpse of its
jewels. Without delay he was seized, a rope obtained, and he was strung
up to a beam that was left standing in the ruined entrance of the hotel.
No sooner had he been hoisted up and a hitch taken in the rope than
one of his fellow-criminals was captured. Stopping only to obtain a few
yards of hemp, a knot was quickly tied, and the wretch was soon adorning
the hotel entrance by the side of the other dastard.

"These are the only two instances I saw, but I heard of many that were
seen by others. The soldiers do all they can, and while the unspeakable
crime of robbing the dead is undoubtedly being practiced, it would be
many times as prevalent were it not for the constant vigilance on all
sides, as well as the summary justice."

Another observer tells of an instance of this summary justice that came
under his eyes:

"At the corner of Market and Third Streets on Wednesday I saw a man
attempting to cut the fingers from the hand of a dead woman in order
to secure the rings which adorned the stiffened fingers. Other preparations
do more or less good; but this cures such dangerous complaints, so quickly
and so surely, as to prove an efficacy and a power to uproot disease
beyond anything which men have known before. By removing the obstructions
of the internal organs and stimulating them into healthy action, they
renovate the fountains of life and vigor,--health courses anew through
the body, and the sick man is well again. They are adapted to disease,
and disease only, for when taken by one in health they produce but
little effect.

This is the perfection of medicine, it is antagonistic to disease and no
more. Tender children may take them with impunity. If they are sick they
will cure them, if they are well they will do them no harm.

Give them to some patient who has been prostrated with bilious
complaint: see his bent-up, tottering form straighten with strength
again; see his long-lost appetite return: see his clammy features
blossom into health.

Give them to some sufferer whose foul blood has burst out in * *
till his skin is covered with sores; who stands, or sits, or lies
in anguish.

He has been drenched inside and out with every potion which ingenuity
could suggest.

Give him these PILLS, and mark the effect; see the scabs fall from his
body; see the new, fair skin that has grown under them; see the late
leper that is clean. Give them to him whose angry humors have planted
rheumatism in his joints and bones; move him and he screeches with
pain; he too has been soaked through every muscle of his body with
liniments and salves; give him these PILLS to purify his blood; they may
not cure him, for, alas! there are cases which no mortal power
can reach; but mark, he walks with crutches now, and now he walks
alone; they have cured him.

Give them to the lean, sour, haggard dyspeptic, whose gnawing stomach has
long ago eaten every smile from his face and every muscle from his
body.

See his appetite return, and with it his health; see the new man. See
her that was radiant with health and loveliness bloated and too early
withering away; want of exercise or mental anguish, or some lurking
disease has deranged the internal organs of digestion, assimilation, or
secretion till they do their ill.

Her blood is vitiated, her health is gone. Give her these PILLS to stimulate
the vital principle into renewed vigor, to cast out the obstructions, and
infuse a new vitality into the blend. Now look again--the roses blossom
on her cheek, and where lately sorrow sat joy bursts from every
feature.

See the sweet infant wasted with worms. Its wan, sickly features
tell you without disguise, and painfully distinct, that they are eating
its life away. Its pinched-up nose and ears and restless sleepings
tell the dreadful truth in language which every mother knows. Give
it the PILLS in large doses to sweep these vile parasites from the
body.

Now turn again and see the ruddy bloom of childhood.

Is it nothing to do these things? Nay, are they not the marvel of this
age? And yet they are done around you every day.

Have you the less serious symptoms of these distempers, they are the
easier cured. Jaundice, Costiveness, Headache, Sideache, Heartburn.
Foul Stomach, Nausea, Pain in the Bowels, Flatulency, Loss of Appetite,
King's Evil, Neuralgia, Gout, and kindred complaints all arise from the
derangements which these PILLS rapidly cure. Take them perseveringly,
and under the counsel of a good physician if you can; if not take them
judiciously by such advice as we give you, and the distressing
dangerous diseases they cure, which afflict so many millions of the
human race, are cast out like the devils of old--they must burrow
in the brutes and in the sea.

Prepared by DE. J. C. AYER, & CO., PRACTICAL AND ANALYTICAL CHEMISTS,
LOWELL, MASS.,
[Illustration] And Sold by all Druggists.[Illustration]
* * * * *
THE ANNUAL CYCLOPÆDIA
AND
REGISTER OF IMPORTANT EVENTS,
OF THE YEAR 1861:

EMBRACING
POLITICAL, CIVIL, MILITARY, AND SOCIAL AFFAIRS; PUBLIC DOCUMENTS;
BIOGRAPHY; STATISTICS; COMMERCE; FINANCE; LITERATURE; SCIENCE; AGRICULTURE,
AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRY.

This is a Cyclopædia of what took place during the year 1861. It comprises
not only all the subjects peculiar to a general work, but also the
political and military events of the conflict in the United States.

It shows the political principles involved, with the arguments of their
respective advocates and opponents; the movements of the leaders of
secession, from their first acts to the close of the year; including
the proceedings, step by step, of each of the Southern States; the
organization of the Confederate States; the principles upon which
that organization was founded; their civil and commercial regulations;
the efforts to fill their treasury and to organize and equip vast
armies; the counteracting movements of the United States; the
organization and equipment of its army and navy; together with all
the original documents, from the Messages of the respective Presidents;
the instructions of Cabinet officers; the Messages and Proclamations
of Governors; the important acts and debates of the United States
and Confederate Congresses; the acts of State Legislatures; the
Proclamations of Commanding Officers; the contributions of men and
money from each State, North and South; and the details of every
battle and every skirmish involving a loss of life.

The events connected with Privateering, suspension of the writ of Habeas
Corpus, Martial Law, Blockade, &c., are related in detail.

Other pages of the volume embrace discoveries in Science; Geographical
Explorations; Mechanical Inventions and Improvements, with illustrations;
Commercial and Financial movements during the year; the Progress of
Literature, and Biographical Sketches of the distinguished men who
died.

The contents are arranged in an alphabetical order, and accompanied
by a most extensive and complete Index.

The volume is in the style of the New American Cyclopædia, having
not less than 780 pages, royal octavo.

The work is published exclusively by subscription, and, in exterior
appearance, is at once elegant and substantial.

PRICES AND STYLES OF BINDING.

In Cloth, $3, } In Library Style, leather, $3.50, } Payable on Delivery.

In Half Morocco, plain, $4, } In Half Russia, extra, $4.50, }
And to insure a uniform price and regularity in the delivery of the volume
to subscribers in all parts of the country, local agents are
appointed in all the cities and principal towns in the States and
Territories.

Orders may be addressed to us, or to any of our agents, for the above,
or any of our Subscription Works, and will meet prompt attention.

D.

APPLETON & CO., Publishers, 443 &445 Broadway, New York.

* * * * *
ARTHUR'S HOME MAGAZINE FOR 1863!

VOLUMES XXI. and XXII.

Edited by T. S. ARTHUR and VIRGINIA F. TOWNSEND.

Devoted to Social Literature, Arts, Morals, Health, and Domestic
Happiness.

The aim of this work from the beginning, has been to unite in one periodical
the attractions and excellencies of two classes of magazines--The
Ladies', or Fashion Magazines, as they are called, and the literary
monthlies; and so to blend the useful with the entertaining, as to
please and benefit all classes of readers. The true "Home Magazine" must
have its
TOILETTE and WORK-TABLE DEPARTMENT; its MOTHER'S DEPARTMENT; its
HEALTH, CHILDREN'S, and HOUSEKEEPER'S DEPARTMENTS; as well as its
strictly LITERARY DEPARTMENT.

All these are united in our magazine, and in each department
excellence is sought.

Nothing is admitted in any way hurtful to morality, honor, or
religion.

Probably of no periodical in the country has the press everywhere spoken
with unqualified approval. From thousands of similar notices we give
the following:

It is a Home Magazine in every sense of the word, healthy, fresh, and
sweet--beautiful as the meadows of June. It is a welcome necessity in our
home.--_Journal, Delhi, Iowa._
Its cheapness makes it accessible to all families, while its literary
merits are inferior to none of the more expensive magazines.--_Cataract,
Cohoes, N.Y._
Arthur has done as much as any man of his age to diffuse good morals
and religious principles among the young, and his magazine comes forth
from month to month like a sower to sow, and scatters the good
seed everywhere.

--_Philadelphia Inquirer._
Arthur's Home Magazine is undoubtedly the best publication of its
character, for the price, published in the United States or any other
country.--_Independent, Mankato, Minn._
This superb ladies' magazine comes fully up to the best standard of
a literary and fashionable periodical.--_Tellegram, Ottawa, Ohio._
Any person who cannot get two dollars' worth out of it in a year,
will never get it in any magazine.

--_Independent, Warren, Ill._
Bright, beautiful, and home-like as usual. May its genial presence
never fail to cheer our home.--_Chronicle, Rochester, Ind._

We never put down this magazine, but that we feel better for having
taken it up.

--_Union Dem., Deposit, N.Y._
We have said so much in favor of Arthur's Magazine that we hardly know
what else we can say. It is certainly one of the best and one of
the cheapest.--_Republican, New Oregon, Iowa._

ELEGANT ENGRAVINGS APPEAR IN EVERY NUMBER,

Including choice pictures, groups, and characters, prevailing
Fashions, and a great variety of needle-work patterns.

THE LITERARY PORTION
Of the HOME MAGAZINE is of the highest character. The Editors, who write
largely for its pages, are assisted by liberal contributions from
the pens of some of the best writers in the country.

RARE AND ELEGANT PREMIUMS
Are sent to all who make up Clubs.--Our Premiums for 1863 are--
1. A large Photographic copy of that splendid Engraving, "SHAKSPEARE AND
HIS COTEMPORARIES."

This copy is made from a proof print, before lettering, and gives all the
details with an accuracy and effect that is remarkable.

2. A large Photographic copy, from an engraving of Huntington's celebrated
picture, "MERCY'S DREAM," a favorite with every one.

3.

A similar copy of Herring's "GLIMPSE OF AN ENGLISH HOMESTEAD." This premium
was given last year, and was so great a favorite that we continue it
on our list for 1863!

YEARLY TERMS, IN ADVANCE.

1 copy Home Magazine (and one of the premium plates), $2 00 2
copies (and one of the premium plates to getter-up of Club), 8 00 3 "
" " " " " 4 00 4 " " " " " " 5 00 8 " (and an extra copy of Magazine,
and one premium plate to getter-up of Club), 10 00 12 " " " " two
" " " " 15 00 17 " " " " " " " " " 20 00
It will be seen that each single subscriber, who pays $2, is entitled
to one of the premium plates.

In ordering premiums, three red stamps must be sent, in every case,
to pay the cost of mailing each premium.

It is not required that all the Subscribers to a Club be at the same Post
Office.

CLUBBING.

Home Magazine and Godey's Lady's Book, one year, $3 50.

Home Magazine and Harper's Magazine, one year, $8 50.

Home Magazine and Saturday Evening Post, $3 00.

Address T. S. ARTHUR & CO., 323 Walnut St., Philadelphia.

* * * * *
STEINWAY & SONS
GOLD MEDAL
[Illustration: STEINWAY & SON'S FACTORY. OCCUPYING THE ENTIRE BLOCK
ON 4TH AVE., FROM 52D TO 53D ST.]
PATENT OVERSTRUNG GRAND, SQUARE, AND UPRIGHT

PIANO-FORTES,
HAVE BEEN AWARDED THE
First Premium at the Great World's Fair in London, 1862.

FOR
POWER, FULL, CLEAR, BRILLIANT, AND SYMPATHETIC TONE,
Excellent Workmanship shown in Grand and Square Pianos.

There were 290 Piano-Fortes entered for competition from all parts of
the world, and in order to show what sensation these instruments
have created in the Old World, we subjoin a few extracts from leading
European papers.

FROM THE "_London News of the World_."
"These magnificent pianos, manufactured by Messrs. STEINWAY & SONS, of
New York, are, without doubt, the musical gems of the Exhibition of 1862.
They possess a tone that is the most liquid and bell-like we have
ever heard, and combine the qualities of brilliancy and great power,
without the slightest approach to harshness," &c.

Mr. HOCHE, one of the most competent musical critics of France, writes
to the "_Presse Musicale_," Paris: "The firm of STEINWAY & SONS
exhibits two pianos, both of which have attracted the special
attention of the jurors.

The square piano fully possesses the tone of a grand--it sounds really
marvelously; the ample sound, the extension, the even tone, the
sweetness, the power, are combined in these pianos as in no piano
I have ever seen. The grand piano unites in itself all the qualities
which you can demand of a concert piano; in fact, I do not hesitate
to say that this piano is far better than all the English pianos
which I have seen at the Exhibition," &c.

The "_Paris Constitutionel_" says: "In the piano manufacture the
palm don't belong to the European industry this year, but to an American
house, almost unknown until now, Messrs. STEINWAY & SONS, of New York,
who have carried off the first prize for piano-fortes," &c.

WAREROOMS, Nos. 82 & 84 WALKER ST., near Broadway, New York

.

* * * * *
[Illustration]
WITH CONTENTS FOR THE TIMES COMPRISING An Illustrated Poem of Liberty
AND "THE SONG OF THE FREE," WITH ORIGINAL MUSIC, On Spreading Sheet,
convenient for the Piano-Forte or Organ.

_Also, a Record of Events, Family Recipes, Home Miscellany, Calendars
for the whole Country, Memoranda Pages, etc._
IN FINE BINDING, WITH GILT EDGES. PRICE, 25 CENTS.

THE LADIES' ALMANAC--We have seen the advance sheets of this elegant
little annual for 1853, and can assure its patrons that, in point
of interest, it exceeds the best of its predecessors. Its grand feature
is a spirited and timely poem by Geo. Coolidge, Esq., the editor, upon
the absorbing topic, "FREEDOM," which he has treated in a manner that
eloquently and feelingly appeals to the reader. The poem is illustrated
by some fine designs that in themselves convince, and give added power
to the text they embellish. The work of the Almanac is fully up to
its old degree of excellence, and in all respects creditable.

--_Boston Gazette._
ISSUED BY GEO. COOLIDGE, 17 Washington St., Boston. NEW YORK: SOLD BY
HENRY DEXTER.

* * * * *
THE BOSTON ALMANAC FOR 1863, ISSUED IN DECEMBER, WILL CONTAIN The Continued
List of Massachusetts Volunteers, BY REGIMENTS AND COMPANIES, AS MUSTERED
INTO SERVICE, COMPRISING The last two Calls of the President for 600,000
Troops, and giving about 40,000 Massachusetts Names.

PRICE, 25 CENTS
Issued by GEORGE COOLIDGE, 17 Washington St., Boston, And sent by mail,
post-paid, on receipt of price. Sold at all usual places.

MRS. COY'S PHARMAKON.

This Medicine is admitted by all who have tried it to be the best article
for COLDS, COUGHS, ASTHMA, PHTHISIC, and ALL IRRITATIONS OF THE
THROAT.

It is strictly vegetable, and perfectly safe for the most delicate
constitution.

Unlike other preparations, it will not brace up the patient, but will
heal the disease as by magic.

For more than twenty years Mr.

Coy was afflicted with a Cough, with Asthma combined, and at times
was laid up for months, unable to do any thing--given over by his
physician, who said that his lungs were badly effected.

After a perseverance of three months in the use of the PHARMAKON, he
is entirely restored to health. Many references could be given, but the
medicine is its own best evidence, for it only needs to be tried
to be appreciated.

We, the undersigned, residents of Boston, have known Mr. Coy for a number
of years, and can testify that he has had a very severe disease of the
lungs since our acquaintance with him, and have no hesitation in
saying that we believe he has been cured by the PHARMAKON, and we most
cordially recommend the same as an excellent medicine for all diseases
of the Lungs, Throat, and Liver, and all impurities of the blood.

SAMUEL NEWELL, 36 HANOVER ST., JOHN L.

FILLER, 92 CARVER ST., CHAS. W.
LYMAN. 3 RIVER ST., THOS. R. HOLLAND, 12 SCHOOL ST., CHAS. FULLER, 12 SOUTH
CEDAR ST., A. P. SHUTE, 21 HURD ST., Chelsea.

Prepared only by Mrs. E. G. COY, Sole Proprietor. [**arrow hand]
Observe her written signature on the label, without which none is
genuine.
PRICE, ONE DOLLAR PER BOTTLE. Sold at Wholesale and Retail by
GEO. COOLIDGE, Gen. Agent, 17 Washington St., Boston, Office of
"Boston Almanac," "Lady's Almanac," etc.

* * * * *
FRIENDS AND RELATIVES OF THE BRAVE SOLDIERS AND SAILORS.
[Illustration] 
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS AND OINTMENT
All who have friends and relatives in the Army or Navy should take
especial care that they be amply supplied with these Pills and
Ointment; and where the brave Soldiers and Sailors have neglected
to provide themselves with them, no better present can be sent them
by their friends. They have been proved to be the Soldier's
never-failing-friend in the hour of need.
COUGHS AND COLDS AFFECTING TROOPS
will be speedily relieved and effectually cured by using these
admirable medicines, and by paying proper attention to the Directions
which are attached to each Pot or Box.
SICK HEADACHES AND WANT OF APPETITE, INCIDENTAL TO SOLDIERS.
These feelings which so sadden us usually arise from trouble or
annoyances, obstructed perspiration, or eating and drinking whatever
is unwholesome, thus disturbing the healthful action of the liver
and stomach. These organs must be relieved, if you desire to be
well. The Pills, taken according to the printed instructions, will
quickly produce a healthy action in both liver and stomach, and,
as a natural consequence, a clear head and good appetite.
WEAKNESS OR DEBILITY INDUCED BY OVER FATIGUE
will soon disappear by the use of these invaluable Pills, and the
Soldier will quickly acquire additional strength. Never let the
bowels be either confined or unduly acted upon. It may seem strange,
that Holloway's Pills should be recommended for Dysentery and Flux,
many persons supposing that they would increase the relaxation.
This is a great mistake, for these Pills will correct the liver and
stomach, and thus remove all the acrid humors from the system. This
medicine will give tone and vigor to the whole organic system,
however deranged, while health and strength follow, as a matter of
course. Nothing will stop the relaxation of the bowels so sure as
this famous medicine.
VOLUNTEERS, ATTENTION! THE INDISCRETIONS OF YOUTH.
Sores and Ulcers, Blotches and Swellings, can with certainty be
radically cured, if the Pills are taken night and morning, and the
Ointment be freely used as stated in the printed instructions. If
treated in any other manner, they dry up in one part to break out
in another. Whereas, this Ointment will remove the humors from the
system and leave the patient a vigorous and healthy man. It will
require a little perseverance in bad cases to insure a lasting cure.In one room where two girls were dressing the floor gave way and one of
them disappeared.

"Where are you, Mary?" screamed her companion.

"Oh, I'm in the parlor," said Mary calmly, as she wriggled out of the
mass of plaster and mortar below.

At the handsome residence of Rudolph Spreckels, the wealthy financier,
the lawn was riven from end to end in great gashes, while the ornamental
Italian rail leading to the imposing entrance was a battered heap. But
the family, with a philosophy notable for the occasion, calmly set up
housekeeping on the sidewalk, the women seated in armchairs taken from
the mansion and wrapped in rugs and coverlets, the silver breakfast
service was laid out on the stone coping and their morning meal spread
out on the sidewalk. This, scene was repeated at other houses of the
wealthy, the families too fearful of another shock to venture within
doors.

Another story of much interest in this connection is told. On Friday
afternoon, two days and some hours after the scene just narrated, Mrs.
Rudolph Spreckels presented her husband with an heir on the lawn in
front of their mansion, while the family were awaiting the coming of the
dynamite squad to blow up their magnificent residence. An Irish woman
who had been called in to play the part of midwife at a birth elsewhere
on Saturday, made a pertinent comment after the wee one's eyes were
opened to the walls of its tent home.

"God sends earthquakes and babies," she said, "but He might, in His
mercy, cut out sending them both together."

There were many pathetic incidents. Families had been sadly separated
in the confusion of the flight. Husbands had lost their wives--wives
had lost their husbands, and anxious mothers sought some word of their
children--the stories were very much the same. One pretty looking woman
in an expensive tailor-made costume badly torn, had lost her little
girl.

"I don't think anything has happened to her," said she, hopefully. "She
is almost eleven years old, and some one will be sure to take her in and
care for her; I only want to know where she is. That is all I care about
now."

A well-known young lady of good social position, when asked where she
had spent the night, replied: "On a grave."

"I thank God, I thank Uncle Sam and the people of this nation," said a
woman, clad in a red woolen wrapper, seated in front of a tent at the
Presidio nursing one child and feeding three others from a board propped
on two bricks. "We have lost our home and all we had, but we have never
been hungry nor without shelter."

The spirit of '49 was vital in many of the refugees. One man wanted to
know whether the fire had reached his home. He was informed that there
was not a house standing in that section of the city. He shrugged his
shoulders and whistled.

"There's lots of others in the same boat," as he turned away.

"Going to build?" repeated one man, who had lost family and home inside
of two hours. "Of course, I am. They tell me that the money in the banks
is still all right, and I have some insurance. Fifteen years ago I began
with these," showing his hands, "and I guess I'm game to do it over
again. Build again, well I wonder."

Among the many pathetic incidents of the disaster was that of a woman
who sat at the foot of Van Ness Avenue on the hot sands on the hillside
overlooking the bay east of Fort Mason, with four little children,
the youngest a girl of three, the eldest a boy of ten years. They were
destitute of water, food and money.

The woman had fled, with her children, from a home in flames in the
Mission Street district, and tramped to the bay in the hope of sighting
the ship which she said was about due, of which her husband was the
captain.

"He would know me anywhere," she said. And she would not move, although
a young fellow gallantly offered his tent, back on a vacant lot, in
which to shelter her children.


THE GOLDEN GATE CAMP.


In the Golden Gate Park there was the most woefully grotesque camp of
sufferers imaginable. There was no caste, no distinction of rich and
poor, social lines had been obliterated by the common misfortune, and
the late owners of property and wealth were glad to camp by the side of
the day laborer. As for shelter, there were a few army tents and some
others which afforded a fair degree of comfort, but nine out of ten are
the poorest suggestions of tents made out of bedclothes, rugs, raincoats
and in some cases of lace curtains. None of the tents or huts has a
floor, and it is impossible to see how a large number of women and
children can escape the most disastrous physical effects.

The unspeakable chaos that prevailed was apparent in no way more than
in the system, or lack of system, of registration and location. At the
entrance to Golden Gate Park stands a billboard, twenty feet high and
a hundred feet long. Originally it bore the praises of somebody's beer.
Covering this billboard, to a height of ten or twelve feet, were slips
of paper, business cards, letter heads and other notices, addressed
to "Those interested," "Friends and relatives," or to some individual,
telling of the whereabouts of refugees.

One notice read: "Mrs. Rogers will find her husband in Isidora Park,
Oakland. W. H. Rogers." Another style was this: "Sue, Harry and Will
Sollenberger all safe. Call at No. 250 Twenty-seventh Avenue."

There were thousands of these dramatic notices on this billboard, and
one larger than the others read: "Death notices can be left here; get as
many as possible."

Another method of finding friends and relatives was by printing notices
on vehicles. On the side curtains of a buggy being driven to Golden Gate
Park was the following sign: "I am looking for I. E. Hall."

That searchers for lost ones might have the least trouble, all the
tents, here known as camps, were tagged with the names or numbers. For
instance, one tent of bed quilts carried this sign: "No. 40 Bush Street
camp."

Most of the tents were merely named for the family name of the
occupants, the former streets number usually being given. But these tent
tags told a wonderful story of human nature. A small army tent bore the
name, "Camp Thankful," the one next to it was placarded "Camp Glory" and
a few feet farther on an Irishman had posted the sign "Camp Hell."

The cooking was all done on a dozen bricks for a stove, with such
utensils as may usually be picked up in the ordinary residential alley.
But in all of the camps the badge of the eternal feminine was to be
found in the form of small pieces of broken mirrors, or hand mirrors
fastened to trees or tent walls, in some cases the polished bottom of a
tomato can serving the purposes of the feminine toilet.

One woman, in whose improvised tent screeched a parrot, sat ministering
to the wounds of the other family pet, a badly singed cat. The number of
canaries, parrots, dogs and cats was one of the amusing features of the
disaster.

Among the interesting and thrilling incidents of the disaster is that
connected with the telegraph service. For many hours virtually all the
news from San Francisco came over the wires of the Postal Telegraph
Company. The Postal has about fifteen wires running into San Francisco.
They go under the bay in cables from Oakland, and thence run underground
for several blocks down Market Street to the Postal building. About
forty operators are employed to handle the business, but evidently there
was only about one on duty when the earthquake began.

What became of him nobody knows. But he seems to have sent the first
word of the disaster. It came over the Postal wires about nine o'clock,
just when the day's business had started in the East. It will long be
preserved in the records of the company. This was the dispatch:

"There was an earthquake hit us at 5.13 this morning, wrecking several
buildings and wrecking our offices. They are carting dead from the
fallen buildings. Fire all over town. There is no water and we lost our
power. I'm going to get out of office, as we have had a little shake
every few minutes, and it's me for the simple life."

"R., San Francisco, 5.50 A. M."

"Mr. R." evidently got out, for there was nothing doing for a brief
interval after that. The operator in the East pounded and pounded at his
key, but San Francisco was silent. The Postal people were wondering if
it was all the dream of some crazy operator or a calamity, when the wire
woke up again. It was the superintendent of the San Francisco force this
time.

"We're on the job, and are going to try and stick," was the way the
first message came from him.

This was what came over the wire a little later:

"Terrific earthquake occurred here at 5.13 this morning. A number of
people were killed in the city. None of the Postal people were killed.
They are now carting the dead from the fallen buildings. There are many
fires, with no one to fight them. Postal building roof wrecked, but not
entire building."

The fire got nearer and nearer to the Postal building. All of the water
mains had been destroyed around the building, the operators said, and
there was no hope if the fire came on. They also said that they could
hear the sound of dynamite blowing up buildings. All this time the
operators were sticking to their posts and sending and receiving all the
business the wires could stand. At 12.45 the wire began to click again
with a message for the little group of waiting officials.

This message came in jerks: "Fire still coming up Market Street. It's
one block from the Post Office now; back of the Palace Hotel is a
furnace. I am afraid that the Grand Hotel and the Palace Hotel will get
it soon. The Southern Pacific offices on California Street are safe,
so far, but can't tell what will happen. California Street is on fire.
Almost everything east of Montgomery Street and north of Market Street
is on fire now."

There was a pause, then: "We are beginning to pack up our instruments."

"Instruments are all packed up, and we are ready to run," was another
message. It was evident that just one instrument had been left connected
with the world outside. In about ten minutes it began to click. Those
who knew the telegraphers' language caught the word "Good-bye," and then
the ticks stopped.

At the end of an hour the instrument in the office began to click again.
It was from an electrician by the name of Swain.

"I'm back in the building, but they are dynamiting the building next
door, and I've got to get out," was the way his message was translated.
Dynamite ended the story, and the Postal's domicile in San Francisco
ceased to exist.


CHAPTER VI.

Facing Famine and Praying for Relief.


Frightful was the emergency of the vast host of fugitives who fled
in terror from the blazing city of San Francisco to the open gates of
Golden Gate Park and the military reservation of the Presidio. Food was
wanting, scarcely any water was to be had, death by hunger and thirst
threatened more than a quarter million of souls thus driven without
warning from their comfortable and happy homes and left without food
or shelter. Provisions, shelter tents, means of relief of various kinds
were being hurried forward in all haste, but for several days the host
of fugitives had no beds but the bare ground, no shelter but the open
heavens, scarcely a crumb of bread to eat, scarcely a gill of water to
drink. Those first days that followed the disaster were days of horror
and dread. Rich and poor were mingled together, the delicately reared
with the rough sons of toil to whom privation was no new experience.

Those who had food to sell sought to take advantage of the necessities
of the suffering by charging famine prices for their supplies, but the
soldiers put a quick stop to this. When Thursday morning broke, lines
of buyers formed before the stores whose supplies had not been
commandeered. In one of these, the first man was charged 75 cents for a
loaf of bread. The corporal in charge at that point brought his gun down
with a slam.

"Bread is 10 cents a loaf in this shop," he said.

It went. The soldier fixed the schedule of prices a little higher than
in ordinary times, and to make up for that he forced the storekeeper to
give free food to several hungry people in line who had no money to pay.
In several other places the soldiers used the same brand of horse sense.

A man with a loaf of bread in his hand ran up to a policeman on
Washington Street. "Here," he said, "this man is trying to charge me a
dollar for this loaf of bread. Is that fair?"

"Give it to me," said the policeman. He broke off one end of it and
stuck it in his mouth. "I am hungry myself," he said when he had his
mouth clear. "Take the rest of it. It's appropriated."

As an example of the prices charged for food and service by the
unscrupulous, we may quote the experience of a Los Angeles millionaire
named John Singleton, who had been staying a day or two at the Palace
Hotel. On Wednesday he had to pay $25 for an express wagon to carry
himself, his wife and her sister to the Casino, near Golden Gate Park,
and on Thursday was charged a dollar apiece for eggs and a dollar for a
loaf of bread. Others tell of having to pay $50 for a ride to the ferry.

One of the refugees on the shores of Lake Herced Thursday morning spied
a flock of ducks and swans which the city maintained there for the
decoration of the lake. He plunged into the lake, swam out to them and
captured a fat drake. Other men and boys saw the point and followed. The
municipal ducks were all cooking in five minutes.

The soldiers were prompt to take charge of the famine situation, acting
on their own responsibility in clearing out the supplies of the little
grocery stores left standing and distributing them among the people in
need. The principal food of those who remained in the city was composed
of canned goods and crackers. The refugees who succeeded in getting out
of San Francisco were met as soon as they entered the neighboring towns
by representatives of bakers who had made large supplies of bread, and
who immediately dealt them out to the hungry people.


THE FOOD QUESTION URGENT.


But the needs of the three hundred thousand homeless and hungry people
in the city could not be met in this way, and immediate supplies in
large quantities were necessary to prevent a reign of famine from
succeeding the ravages of the fire. Danger from thirst was still more
insistent than that from hunger. There was some food to be had, bakeries
were quickly built within the military reservation there, and General
Funston announced that rations would soon reach the city and the people
would be supplied from the Presidio. But there was scarcely any water to
relieve the thirst of the suffering. Water became the incessant cry
of firemen and people alike, the one wanting it to fight the fire, the
other to drink, but even for the latter the supply was very scant.
There was water in plenty in the reservoirs, but they were distant and
difficult to reach, and all night of the day succeeding the earth shock
wagons mounted with barrels and guarded by soldiers drove through the
park doling out water. There was a steady crush around these wagons, but
only one drink was allowed to a person.

Toward midnight a black, staggering body of men began to weave through
the entrance. They were volunteer fire-fighters, looking for a place
to throw themselves down and sleep. These men dropped out all along the
line, and were rolled out of the driveways by the troops. There was much
splendid unselfishness here. Women gave up their blankets and sat up or
walked about all night to cover the exhausted men who had fought fire
until there was no more fight in them.

The common destitution and suffering had, as we have said, wiped out all
social, financial and racial distinctions. The man who last Tuesday was
a prosperous merchant was obliged to occupy with his family a little
plot of ground that adjoined the open-air home of a laborer. The
white man of California forgot his antipathy to the Asiatic race,
and maintained friendly relations with his new Chinese and Japanese
neighbors. The society belle who Tuesday night was a butterfly of
fashion at the grand opera performance now assisted some factory girl
in the preparation of humble daily meals. Money had little value. The
family that had had foresight to lay in the largest stock of foodstuffs
on the first day of disaster was rated highest in the scale of wealth.

A few of the families that could secure wagons were possessors of cook
stoves, but over 95 per cent. of the refugees did their cooking on
little campfires made of brick or stone. Battered kitchen utensils that
the week before would have been regarded as useless had become articles
of high value. In fact, man had come back to nature and all lines
of caste had been obliterated, while the very thought of luxury had
disappeared. It was, in the exigency of the moment, considered good
fortune to have a scant supply of the barest necessaries of life.

As for clothing, it was in many cases of the scantiest, while numbers of
the people had brought comfortable clothing and bedding. Many others had
fled in their night garbs, and comparatively few of these had had the
self-possession to return and don their daytime clothes. As a result
there had been much improvisation of garments suitable for life in the
open air, and as the days went on many of the women arrayed themselves
in home-made bloomer costumes, a sensible innovation under the
circumstances and in view of the active outdoor work they were obliged
to perform.

The grave question to be faced at this early stage was: How soon would
an adequate supply of food arrive from outside points to avert famine?
Little remained in San Francisco beyond the area swept by the fire, and
the available supply could not last more than a few days. Fresh meat
disappeared early on Wednesday and only canned foods and breadstuffs
were left. All the foodstuffs coming in on the cars were at once seized
by order of the Mayor and added to the scanty supply, the names of the
consignees being taken that this material might eventually be paid for.
The bakers agreed to work their plants to their utmost capacity and to
send all their surplus output to the relief committee. By working night
and day thousands of loaves could be provided daily. A big bakery in
the saved district started its ovens and arranged to bake 50,000 loaves
before night. The provisions were taken charge of by a committee
and sent to the various depots from which the people were being fed.
Instructions were issued by Mayor Schmitz on Thursday to break open
every store containing provisions and to distribute them to the
thousands under police supervision. A policeman reported that two
grocery stores in the neighborhood were closed, although the clerks were
present. "Smash the stores open," ordered the Mayor, "and guard them."
In towns across the bay the master bakers have met and fixed the price
of bread at 5 cents the loaf, with the understanding that they will
refuse to sell to retailers who attempt to charge famine prices. The
committee of citizens in charge of the situation in the stricken city
proposed to use every effort to keep food down to the ordinary price and
check the efforts of speculators, who in one instance charged as much as
$3.50 for two loaves of bread and a can of sardines. Orders were issued
by the War Department to army officers to purchase at Los Angeles
immediately 200,000 rations and at Seattle 300,000 rations and hurry
them to San Francisco. The department was informed that there were
120,000 rations at the Presidio, that thousands of refugees were being
sheltered there and that the army was feeding them. One million rations
already had been started to San Francisco by the department. But in
view of the fact that there were 300,000 fugitives to be fed the supply
available was likely to be soon exhausted.


FOOD FOR THE HUNGRY.


Such was the state of affairs at the end of the second day of the great
disaster. But meanwhile the entire country had been aroused by the
tidings of the awful calamity, the sympathetic instinct of Americans
everywhere was awakened, and it was quickly made evident that the people
of the stricken city would not be allowed to suffer for the necessaries
of life. On all sides money was contributed in large sums, the United
States Government setting the example by an immediate appropriation of
$1,000,000, and in the briefest possible interval relief trains were
speeding toward the stricken city from all quarters, carrying supplies
of food, shelter tents and other necessaries of a kind that could not
await deliberate action.

Shelter was needed almost as badly as food, for a host of the refugees
had nothing but their thin clothing to cover them, and, though the
weather at first was fine and mild, a storm might come at any time.
In fact, a rain did come, a severe one, early in the week after the
disaster, pouring nearly all night long on the shivering campers in
the parks, wetting them to the skin and soaking through the rudely
improvised shelters which many of the refugees had put up. A few days
afterward came a second shower, rendering still more evident the need of
haste in providing suitable shelter.

All this was foreseen by those in charge, and the most strenuous efforts
were made to provide the absolute necessities of life. Huge quantities
of supplies were poured into the city. From all parts of California
trainloads of food were rushed there in all haste. A steamer from the
Orient laden with food reached the city in its hour of need; another was
dispatched in all haste from Tacoma bearing $25,000 worth of food and
medical supplies, ordered by Mayor Weaver, of Philadelphia, as a first
installment of that city's contribution. Money was telegraphed from
all quarters to the Governor of California, to be expended for food and
other supplies, and so prompt was the response to the insistent demand
that by Saturday all danger of famine was at an end; the people were
being fed.


WATER FOR THE THIRSTY.


The broken waterpipes were also repaired with all possible haste, the
Spring Valley Water Company putting about one thousand men at work upon
their shattered mains, and in a very brief time water began to flow
freely in many parts of the residence section and the great difficulty
of obtaining food and water was practically at an end. Never in
the history of the country has there been a more rapid and complete
demonstration of the resourcefulness of Americans than in the way this
frightful disaster was met.

Food, water and shelter were not the only urgent needs. At first there
was absolutely no sanitary provision, and the danger of an epidemic
was great. This was a peril which the Board of Health addressed itself
vigorously to meet, and steps for improving the sanitary conditions were
hastily taken. Quick provision for sheltering the unfortunates was also
made. Eight temporary structures, 150 feet in length by 28 feet wide
and 13 feet high, were erected in Golden Gate Park, and in these
sheds thousands found reasonably comfortable quarters. This was but a
beginning. More of these buildings were rapidly erected, and by their
aid the question of shelter was in part solved. The buildings were
divided into compartments large enough to house a family, each
compartment having an entrance from the outside. This work was done
under the control of the engineering department of the United States
army, which had taken steps to obtain a full supply of lumber and had
put 135 carpenters to work. Those of the refugees who were without tents
were the first to be provided for in these temporary buildings.


THE CAMPS IN THE PARKS.


To those who made an inspection of the situation a few days after
the earthquake, the hills and beaches of San Francisco looked like an
immense tented city. For miles through the park and along the beaches
from Ingleside to the sea wall at North Beach the homeless were camped
in tents--makeshifts rigged up from a few sticks of wood and a blanket
or sheet. Some few of the more fortunate secured vehicles on which they
loaded regulation tents and were, therefore, more comfortably housed
than the great majority. Golden Gate Park and the Panhandle looked like
one vast campaign ground. It is said that fully 100,000 persons, rich
and poor alike, sought refuge in Golden Gate Park alone, and 200,000
more homeless ones located at the other places of refuge.

At the Presidio military reservation, where probably 50,000 persons
were camped, affairs were conducted with military precision. Water was
plentiful and rations were dealt out all day long. The refugees stood
patiently in line and there was not a murmur. This characteristic was
observable all over the city. The people were brave and patient, and the
wonderful order preserved by them proved of great assistance. In Golden
Gate Park a huge supply station had been established and provisions were
dealt out.

Six hundred men from the Ocean Shore Railway arrived on Saturday night
with wagons and implements to work on the sewer system. Inspectors were
kept going from house to house, examining chimneys and issuing permits
to build fires. In fact, activity manifested itself in all quarters in
the attempt to bring order out of confusion, and in an astonishingly
short time the tented city was converted from a scene of wretched
disorder into one of order and system.

At Jefferson Park were camped thousands of people of every class in
life. On the western edge of this park is the old Scott house, where
Mrs. McKinley lay sick for two weeks in 1901. Three times a day the
people all gathered in line before the provision wagons for their little
handouts. "Yesterday," says an observer, "I saw, in order before the
wagons, a Lascar sailor in his turban, about as low a Chinatown bum as I
ever set eyes on, a woman of refined appearance, a barefooted child, two
Chinamen, and a pretty girl. They were squeezed up together by the line,
which extended for a quarter of a mile. It is civilization in the bare
bones.

"The great and rich are on a level with the poor in the struggle for
bare existence, and over them all is the perfect, unbroken discipline
of the soldiery. They came into the city and took charge on an hour's
notice, they saved the city from itself in the three days of hell, and
but for them the city, even with enough provisions to feed them in the
stores and warehouses, must have gone hungry for lack of distributive
organization."


COMEDY AND PATHOS IN THE BREAD LINE.


At one of the parks on Tuesday morning a handsomely dressed woman
with two children at her skirts stood in a line of many hundreds where
supplies were being given out. She took some uncooked bacon, and as she
reached for it jewels sparkled on her fingers. One of the tots took a
can of condensed milk, the other a bag of cakes.

"I have money," she said, "'if I could get it and use it. I have
property, if I could realize on it. I have friends, if I could get to
them. Meantime I am going to cook this piece of bacon on bricks and be
happy."

She was only one of thousands like her.

In a walk through the city this note of cheerfulness of the people in
the face of an almost incredible week of horror was to a correspondent
the mitigating element to the awfulness of disaster.

In the streets of the residential district in the western addition,
which the fire did not reach, women of the houses were cooking meals on
the pavement. In most cases they had moved out the family ranges,
and were preparing the food which they had secured from the Relief
Committee.

Out on Broderick street, near the Panhandle, a piano sounded. It was
nigh ten o'clock and the stars were shining after the rain. Fires
gleamed up and down through the shrubbery and the refugees sat huddled
together about the flames, with their blankets about their heads,
Apache-like, in an effort to dry out after the wetting of the afternoon.
The piano, dripping with moisture, stood on the curb, near the front of
a cottage which had been wrecked by the earthquake.

A youth with a shock of red hair sat on a cracker box and pecked at the
ivories. "Home Ain't Nothing Like This" was thrummed from the rusting
wires with true vaudeville dash and syncopation. "Bill Bailey," "Good
Old Summer Time," "Dixie" and "In Toyland" followed. Three young men
with handkerchiefs wrapped about their throats in lieu of collars stood
near the pianist and with him lifted up their voices in melody. The
harmony was execrable, the time without excuse, but the songs ran
through the trees of the Panhandle, and the crows, forgetting their
misery for a time, joined the strange chorus.

The people had their tales of comedy, one being that on the morning of
the fire a richly dressed woman who lived in one of the aristocratic
Sutter Street apartments came hurrying down the street, faultlessly
gowned as to silks and sables, save that one dainty foot was shod with
a high-heeled French slipper and the other was incased in a laborer's
brogan. They say that as she walked she careened like a bark-rigged ship
before a typhoon.

An hour spent behind the counter of the food supply depot in the park
tennis court yielded rich reward to the seeker after the outlandish. The
tennis court was piled high with the plunder of several grocery stores
and the cargoes of many relief cars. A square cut in the wire screen
permitted of the insertion of a counter, behind which stood members
of the militia acting as food dispensers. Before the improvised window
passed the line of refugees, a line which stretched back fully 300 yards
to Speedway track.

"I want a can of condensed cream, so I can feed my baby and my dog,"
said a large, florid-faced woman in a gaudy kimono, "and I don't care
for crackers, but you can throw in some potted chicken if you have it."

"What's in that bottle over there?" queried the next applicant. "Tomato
ketchup? Well, of all the luck! Say, young man, just give me three."

A little gray-haired woman in an India shawl peered timorously through
the window. "Just a little bit of anything you may have handy, please,"
she whispered, and she cast a careful eye about to see of any of her
neighbors had recognized her standing there in the "bread line."

"Yesterday, at the Western Union office," says one writer, "I saw a
woman drive up in a large motor car and beg that the telegram on which a
boy had asked a delivery fee of twenty-five cents be handed to her. She
said she had not a penny and did not know when she would have any money,
but that as soon as she had any she would pay for the message. It
was given to her, and the manager told me that there were hundreds of
similar cases."

Many weddings resulted from the disaster. Women driven out of their
homes and left destitute, appealed to the men to whom they were engaged,
and immediate marriages took place. After the first day of the disaster
an increase in the marriage licenses issued was noticed by County Clerk
Cook. This increase grew until seven marriage licenses were issued in an
hour.

"I don't live anywhere," was the answer given in many cases when the
applicant for a license was asked the locality of his residence. "I used
to live in San Francisco."

Births seem to have been about as common as marriages, in one night
five children being born in Golden Gate Park. In Buena Vista Park eight
births were recorded and others elsewhere, the population being thus
increased at a rate hardly in accordance with the exigencies of the
situation.


THE EXODUS FROM SAN FRANCISCO.


We have spoken only of the camps of refugees within the municipal
limits of San Francisco. But in addition to these was the multitude of
fugitives who made all haste to escape from that city. This was with the
full consent of the authorities, who felt that every one gone lessened
the immediate weight upon themselves, and who issued a strict edict that
those who went must stay, that there could be no return until a counter
edict should be made public.

From the start this was one of the features of the situation. Down
Market Street, once San Francisco's pride, now leading through piles of
tottering walls, piles of still hot bricks and twisted iron and heaps
of smouldering debris, poured a huge stream of pedestrians. Men bending
under the weight of great bundles pushed baby carriages loaded with
bric-a-brac and children. Women toiled along with their arms full, but
a large proportion were able to ride, for the relief corps had been
thoroughly organized and wagons were being pressed into service from all
sides.

In constant procession they moved toward the ferry, whence the Southern
Pacific was transporting them with baggage free wherever they wished to
go. Automobiles meanwhile shot in all directions, carrying the Red Cross
flag and usually with a soldier carrying a rifle in the front seat. They
had the right of way everywhere, carrying messages and transporting the
ill to temporary hospitals and bearing succor to those in distress.

Oakland, the nearest place of resort, on the bay shore opposite San
Francisco, soon became a great city of refuge, fugitives gathering there
until 50,000 or more were sheltered within its charitable limits. Having
suffered very slightly from the earthquake that had wrecked the great
city across the bay, it was in condition to offer shelter to the
unfortunate. All day Wednesday and Thursday a stream of humanity poured
from the ferries, every one carrying personal baggage and articles saved
from the conflagration. Hundreds of Chinese men, women and children, all
carrying baggage to the limit of their strength, made their way into the
limited Chinatown of Oakland.

Multitudes of persons besieged the telegraph offices, and the crush
became so great that soldiers were stationed at the doors to keep them
in line and allow as many as possible to find standing room at the
counters. Messages were stacked yards high in the offices waiting to
be sent throughout the world. Every boat from San Francisco brought
hundreds of refugees, carrying luggage and bedding in large quantities.
Many women were bareheaded and all showed fatigue as the result of
sleeplessness and exposure to the chill air. Hundreds of these persons
lined the streets of Oakland, waiting for some one to provide them with
shelter, for which the utmost possible provision was quickly made. No
one was allowed to go hungry in Oakland and few lacked shelter. At the
Oakland First Presbyterian Church 1,800 were fed and 1,000 people were
provided with sleeping accommodations. Pews were turned into beds. Cots
stood in the aisles, in the gallery and in the Sunday school room. Every
available inch of space was occupied by some substitute for a bed.

As the days wore on the number of refugees somewhat decreased. Although
they still came in large numbers, many left on every train for different
points. Requests for free transportation were investigated as closely
as possible and all the deserving were sent away. Women and children and
married men who wished to join their families in different parts of the
State were given preference. The transportation bureau was on a street
corner, where a man stood on a box and called the names of those
entitled to passes.

Along the principal streets of Oakland there was a picturesque
pilgrimage of former householders, who dragged or carried the meagre
effects they had been able to save. The refugees who could not be cared
for in Oakland made an exodus to Berkeley and other surrounding cities,
where relief committees were actively at work. Utter despair was
pictured on many faces, which showed the effects of sleepless days and
nights, and the want of proper food.

Oakland was only one of the outside camps of refuge. At Berkeley
over 6,000 refugees sought quarters, the big gymnasium of the State
University being turned into a lodging house, while hundreds were
provided with blankets to sleep in the open air under the University
oaks. The students and professors of the University did all they could
for their relief, and the Citizens' Relief Committee supplied them with
food.

The same benevolent sympathy was manifested at all the places near the
ruined city which had escaped disaster, this aid materially reducing
that needed within San Francisco itself.


WORSHIP IN THE OPEN AIR.


Sunday dawned in San Francisco; Sunday in the camp of the refugees. On a
green knoll in Golden Gate Park, between the conservatory and the tennis
courts, a white-haired minister of the Gospel gathered his flock. It was
the Sabbath day and in the turmoil and confusion the minister did not
forget his duty. Two upright stakes and a cross-piece gave him a rude
pulpit, and beside him stood a young man with a battered brass cornet.
Far over the park stole a melody that drew hundreds of men and women
from their tents. Of all denominations and all creeds, they gathered on
that green knoll, and the men uncovered while the solemn voice repeated
the words of a grand old hymn, known wherever men and women meet to
worship the Lord:


"Other refuge have I none, hangs my helpless soul on Thee; Leave, oh,
leave me not alone, still support and comfort me!"


A moment before there had been shouting and confusion in the
driveway where some red-striped artillerymen were herding a squad of
gesticulating Chinamen as men herd sheep. The shouting died away as the
minister's voice rose and fell and out of the stillness came the sobs of
women. One little woman in blue was making no sound, but the tears were
streaming down her cheeks. Her husband, a sturdy young fellow in his
shirt sleeves, put his arm about her shoulders and tried to comfort her
as the reading went on.


"All my trust on Thee is stayed; all my help from Thee I bring; Cover my
defenseless head with the shadow of Thy wing."


Then the cornet took up the air again and those helpless persons
followed it in quivering tones, the white-haired man of God leading them
with closed eyes. When the last verse was over, the minister raised his
hands.

"Let us pray," said he, and his congregation sank down in the grass
before him. It was a simple prayer, such a prayer as might be offered by
a man without a home or a shelter over his head--and nothing left to him
but an unshaken faith in his Creator.

"Oh, Lord, Thy ways are past finding out, but we still have faith in
Thee. We know not why Thou hast visited these people and left them
homeless. Thou knowest the reason of this desolation and of our utter
helplessness. We call on Thee for help in the hour of our great need.
Bless the people of this city, the sorrowing ones, the bereaved, gather
them under Thy mighty wing and soothe aching hearts this day."

The women were crying again, and one big man dug his knuckles into his
eyes without shame. The man who could have listened to such a prayer
unmoved was not in Golden Gate Park that day.


CHAPTER VII.

The Frightful Loss of Life and Wealth.


While multitudes escaped from toppling buildings and crashing walls in
the dread disaster of that fatal Wednesday morning of April 18th in San
Francisco, hundreds of the less fortunate met their death in the ruins,
and horrifying scenes were witnessed by the survivors. Many of those who
escaped had tales of terror to tell. Mr. J. P. Anthony, as he fled from
the Ramona Hotel, saw a score or more of people crushed to death, and
as he walked the streets at a later hour saw bodies of the dead being
carried in garbage wagons and all kinds of vehicles to the improvised
morgues, while hospitals and storerooms were already filled with the
injured. Mr. G. A. Raymond, of Tomales, Cal., gives evidence to the same
effect. As he rushed into the street, he says that the air was filled
with falling stones and people around him were crushed to death on all
sides.

Others gave testimony to the same effect. Samuel Wolf, of Salt Lake
City, tells us that he saved one woman from death in the hotel. She was
rushing blindly toward an open window, from which she would have fallen
fifty feet to the stone pavement below. "On my way down Market Street,"
he says, "the whole side of a building fell out and came so near me that
I was covered and blinded by the dust. Then I saw the first dead come
by. They were piled up in an automobile like carcasses in a butcher's
wagon, all bloody, with crushed skulls, broken limbs and bloody faces."

These are frightful stories, exaggerated probably from the nervous
excitement of those terrible moments, as are also the following
statements, which form part of the early accounts of the disaster. Thus
we are told that "from a three-story lodging house at Fifth and Minna
Streets, which collapsed Wednesday morning, more than seventy-five
bodies were taken to-day. [Illustration]

II

Tito was a pretty little creature, with woolly body, a puppy-like
expression, and a head that was singularly broad between the ears.

But, as a children's pet, she--for it proved to be a female--was not a
success. She was distant and distrustful. She ate her food and seemed
healthy, but never responded to friendly advances; never [Illustration:

Coyotito, the Captive] even learned to come out of the box when
called.
This probably was due to the fact that the kindness of the small
children was offset by the roughness of the men and boys, who did
not hesitate to drag her out by the chain when they wished to see
her. On these occasions she would suffer in silence, playing possum,
shamming dead, for she seemed to know that that was the best thing
to do.B. Baker was killed while
trying to get a body from the ruins. Other rescuers heard the pitiful
wail of a little child, but were unable to get near the point from which
the cry issued. Soon the onrushing fire ended the cry and the men turned
to other tasks."


ESTIMATES OF THE DEATH LIST.


The questionable point in those statements is that the numbers of dead
spoken of in these few instances exceed the whole number given in the
official records issued two weeks after the disaster. Yet they go to
illustrate the actual horrors of the case, and are of importance for
this reason. As regards the whole number killed, in fact, there is not,
and probably never will be, a full and accurate statement. While about
350 bodies had been recovered at the end of the second week, it was
impossible to estimate how many lay buried under the ruins, to be
discovered only as the work of excavation went on, and how many more
had been utterly consumed by the flames, leaving no trace of their
existence. The estimates of the probable loss of life ran up to 1,500
and more, while the injured were very numerous.

The shock of the earthquake, the pulse of deep horror to which it gave
rise, the first wild impulse to flee for life, gave way in the minds of
many to a feeling of intense sympathy as agonized cries came from those
pinned down to the ruins of buildings or felled by falling bricks or
stones, and as the sight of dead bodies incrimsoned with blood met the
eyes of the survivors in the streets. From wandering aimlessly about,
many of these went earnestly to work to rescue the wounded and recover
the bodies of the slain. In this merciful work the police and the
soldiers lent their aid, and soon there was a large corps of rescuers
actively engaged.


BURYING THE DEAD.


Soon numbers were taken, alive or dead, from the ruins, passing vehicles
were pressed into the service, and the labor of mercy went on rapidly,
several buildings being quickly converted into temporary hospitals,
while the dead were conveyed to the Mechanics' Pavilion and other
available places. Portsmouth Square became for a time a public morgue.
Between twenty and thirty corpses were laid side by side upon the
trodden grass in the absence of more suitable accommodations. It is said
that when the flames threatened to reach the square, the dead, mostly
unknown, were removed to Columbia Square, where they were buried when
danger threatened that quarter. Others were taken to the Presidio, and
here the soldiers pressed into service all men who came near and forced
them to labor at burying the dead, a temporary cemetery being opened
there. So thick were the corpses piled up that they were becoming a
menace, and early in the day the order was issued to bury them at any
cost. The soldiers were needed for other work, so, at the point of
rifles, the citizens were compelled to take to the work of burying. Some
objected at first, but the troops stood no trifling, and every man
who came within reach was forced to work. Rich men, unused to physical
exertion, labored by the side of the workingmen digging trenches in
which to bury the dead. The able-bodied being engaged in fighting the
flames, General Funston ordered that the old men and the weaklings
should take the work in hand. They did it willingly enough, but had they
refused the troops on guard would have forced them. It was ruled that
every man physically capable of handling a spade or a pick should dig
for an hour. When the first shallow graves were ready the men, under the
direction of the troops, lowered the bodies, several in a grave, and
a strange burial began. The women gathered about crying. Many of them
knelt while a Catholic priest read the burial service and pronounced
absolution. All Thursday afternoon this went on.

In this connection the following stories are told:

Dr. George V. Schramm, a young medical graduate, said:

"As I was passing down Market Street with a new-found friend, an
automobile came rushing along with two soldiers in it. My doctor's badge
protected me, but the soldiers invited my companion, a husky six-footer,
to get into the automobile. He said:

"'I don't want to ride, and have plenty of business to attend to.'

"Once more they invited him, and he refused. One of the soldiers pointed
a gun at him and said:

"'We need such men as you to save women and children and to help fight
the fire.'

"The man was on his way to find his sister, but he yielded to the
inevitable. He worked all day with the soldiers, and when released to
get lunch he felt that he could conscientiously desert to go and find
his own loved ones."

"Half a block down the street the soldiers were stopping all pedestrians
without the official pass which showed that they were on relief
business, and putting them to work heaving bricks off the pavement. Two
dapper men with canes, the only clean people I saw, were caught at the
corner by a sergeant, who showed great joy as he said:

"'I give you time to git off those kid gloves, and then hustle, damn
you, hustle!' The soldiers took delight in picking out the best dressed
men and keeping them at the brick piles for long terms. I passed them
in the shelter of a provision wagon, afraid that even my pass would not
save me. Two men are reported shot because they refused to turn in and
help."

Many of the dead, of course, will never be identified, though the names
were taken of all who were known and descriptions written of the others.
A story comes to us of one young girl who had followed for two days the
body of her father, her only relative. It had been taken from a house
on Mission Street to an undertaker's shop just after the quake. The fire
drove her out with her charge, and it was placed in Mechanics' Pavilion.
That went, and the body rested for a day at the Presidio, waiting
burial. With many others, she wept on the border of the burned area,
while the women cared for her.


VICTIMS TAKEN FROM THE RUINS.


On Friday eleven postal clerks, all alive, were taken from the debris of
the Post Office. All at first were thought to be dead, but it was found
that, although they were buried under the stone and timber, every one
was alive. They had been for three days without food or water.

Two theatrical people were in a hotel in Santa Rosa when the shock came.
The room was on the fourth floor. The roof collapsed. One of them was
thrown from the bed and both were caught by the descending timbers and
pinned helplessly beneath the debris. They could speak to each other and
could touch one another's hands, but the weight was so great that they
could do nothing to liberate themselves. FOR GENERAL WRITING.--No.
263, IN EXTRA-FINE POINTS. No. 810, New Bank Pen, No. 262, IN FINE
POINTS, Small Barrel.

No. 840, The Autograph Pen.

FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES.--The celebrated Three-Hole Correspondence
Pen, No. 382. The celebrated Four-Hole Correspondence Pen, No. 202. The
Public Pen, No. 292. The Public Pen, with Bead, No. 404. Small Barrel
Pens, fine and free, Nos. 392, 405, 603.

MANUFACTURERS' WAREHOUSE,
91 JOHN STREET, Cor. of GOLD.

HENRY OWEN, Agent.

* * * * *
NINE ARTICLES
THAT EVERY FAMILY SHOULD HAVE!!

The Agricultural Societies of the State of New York, New Jersey,
and Queens County, L.

I., at their latest Exhibitions awarded the highest premiums (gold
medal, silver medal, and diplomas), for these articles, and the
public generally approve them.

1st.--PYLE'S O. K. SOAP, The most complete labor-saving and economical
soap that has been brought before the public. Good for washing all
kinds of clothing, fine flannels, silks, laces, and for toilet and
bathing purposes.

The best class of families adopt it in preference to all others--Editors
of the TRIBUNE, EVENING POST, INDEPENDENT, EVANGELIST, EXAMINER,
CHRONICLE, METHODIST, ADVOCATE AND JOURNAL, CHURCH JOURNAL, AMERICAN
AGRICULTURIST, and of many other weekly journals, are using it in their
offices and families.

We want those who are disposed to encourage progress and good
articles to give this and the following articles a trial.

2d.

--PYLE'S DIETETIC SALERATUS, a strictly pure and wholesome article;
in the market for several years, and has gained a wide reputation
among families and bakers throughout the New England and Middle States;
is always of a uniform quality, and free from all the objections of
impure saleratus.

3d.--PYLE'S GENUINE CREAM TARTAR, always the same, and never fails to make
light biscuit. Those who want the best will ask their grocer for
this.

4th.--PYLE'S PURIFIED BAKING SODA, suitable for medicinal and culinary
use.

5th.--PYLE'S BLUEING POWDERS, a splendid article for the laundress, to
produce that alabaster whiteness so desirable in fine linens.

6th.

--PYLE'S ENAMEL BLACKING, the best boot polish and leather preservative
in the world (Day and Martin's not excepted).

7th.

--PYLE'S BRILLIANT BLACK INK, a beautiful softly flowing ink,
shows black at once, and is anti-corrosive to steel pens.

8th.--PYLE'S STAR STOVE POLISH, warranted to produce a steel shine on
iron ware.

Prevents rust effectually, without causing any disagreeable smell,
even on a hot stove.

9th.

--PYLE'S CREAM LATHER SHAVING SOAP, a "luxurious" article for gentlemen
who shave themselves. It makes a rich lather that will keep thick
and moist upon the face.

THESE ARTICLES are all put up full weight, and expressly for the best
class trade, and first-class grocers generally have them for sale.
Every article is labelled with the name of
JAMES PYLE, 350 Washington St., cor. Franklin, N. Y.

* * * * *
LAW NOTICE.

ROBERT J. WALKER,
LATE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, AND
FREDERIC P. STANTON,
LATE CHAIRMAN OF THE NAVAL AND JUDICIARY COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS,
PRACTISE LAW
in the SUPREME and CIRCUIT Courts at Washington, COURTS MARTIAL, the COURT
OF CLAIMS, before the DEPARTMENTS and BUREAUS, especially in
LAND, PATENT, CUSTOM HOUSE, AND WAR CLAIMS.

Aided by two other associates, no part of an extensive business
will be neglected.

Address,
WALKER & STANTON,
Office, 295 F STREET, WASHINGTON CITY, D. C.

DUNCAN S. WALKER & ADRIEN DESLONDE will attend to PENSIONS, BOUNTIES,
PRIZE, PAY, and SIMILAR CLAIMS. WALKER & STANTON will aid them, when
needful, as consulting counsel. Address WALKER & DESLONDE, same
office, care of WALKER & STANTON

.

* * * * *
WARD'S TOOL STORE. (LATE WOOD'S,) Established 1831.

47 CHATHAM, cor. North William St., & 513 EIGHTH AV.

a general assortment of
TOOLS, CUTLERY, AND HARDWARE,
ALWAYS ON HAND.

Maker of Planes, Braces & Bits, and Carpenters' & Mechanics' Tools,
IN GREAT VARIETY AND OF THE BEST QUALITY.

N. B.

--PLANES AND TOOLS MADE TO ORDER, AND REPAIRED.

This widely-known Establishment still maintains its reputation for the
unrivalled excellence of its OWN MANUFACTURED, as well as its
FOREIGN ARTICLES, which comprise
Tools for Every Branch of Mechanics and Artizans.

MECHANICS' AND ARTIZANS', AMATEURES' AND BOYS'
TOOL CHESTS IN GREAT VARIETY,
ON HAND, AND FITTED TO ORDER WITH TOOLS READY FOR USE.

The undersigned, himself a practical mechanic, having wrought at the
business for upwards of thirty years, feels confident that he can meet
the wants of those who may favor him with their patronage.

SKATES. I have some of the finest Skates in the city, of my own as well
as other manufactures. Every style and price.

[Illustration] Skates made to Fit the Foot without Straps. WILLIAM
WARD, Proprietor.

* * * * *

ARTIFICIAL LEGS 
[Illustration]
(BY RIGHT, PALMER'S PATENT IMPROVED)
Adapted to every species of mutilated limb, unequaled in mechanism
and utility.

Hands and Arms of superior excellence for mutilations and congenital
defects.

Feet and appurtenances for limbs shortened by hip disease. Dr. HUDSON,
by appointment of the Surgeon General of the U> S>
Army, furnishes limbs to mutilated Soldiers and Marines.
REFERENCES--Valentine Mott, M.D., William Parker, M.D., J. M. Carnechan,
M.D., GORDON BUCK, M.D., Wm.

H. Van Buren, M.D.

Descriptive pamphlets sent gratis. E. D. HUDSON, M.D., ASTOR PLACE (8TH
St.), CLINTON HALL, UP STAIRS.

* * * * *

THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY
EDITORS: HON. ROBERT J. WALKER, CHARLES G. LELAND, HON. FRED. P.
STANTON, EDMUND KIRKE.

The readers of the CONTINENTAL are aware of the important position it has
assumed, of the influence which it exerts, and of the brilliant
array of political and literary talent of the highest order which
supports it.

No publication of the kind has, in this country, so successfully combined
the energy and freedom of the daily newspaper with the higher literary
tone of the first-class monthly; and it is very certain that no magazine
has given wider range to its contributors, or preserved itself so
completely from the narrow influences of party or of faction.

In times like the present, such a journal is either a power in
the land or it is nothing.

That the CONTINENTAL is not the latter is abundantly evidenced _by
what it has done_.--by the reflection of its counsels in many important
public events, and in the character and power of those who are its
staunchest supporters.

By the accession of HON. ROBERT J. WALKER and HON. F. P. STANTON to
its editorial corps, the CONTINENTAL acquires a strength and a political
significance which, to those who are aware of the ability and experience
of these gentlemen, must elevate it to a position far above any
previously occupied by any publication of the kind in America.
Preserving all "the boldness, vigor, and ability" which a thousand
journals have attributed to it, it will at once greatly enlarge its
circle of action, and discuss, fearlessly and frankly, every principle
involved in the great questions of the day.

The first minds of the country, embracing men most familiar with its
diplomacy and most distinguished for ability, are to become its
contributors; and it is no mere "flattering promise of a prospectus"
to say, that this "magazine for the times" will employ the first
intellect in America, under auspices which no publication ever
enjoyed before in this country.

CHARLES GODFREY LELAND, the accomplished scholar and author, who has till
now been the sole Editor of the Magazine, will, beside his editorial
labors, continue his brilliant contributions to its pages; and EDMUND
KIRKE, author of "AMONG THE PINES," will contribute to each issue,
having already begun a work on Southern Life and Society, which
will be found far more widely descriptive, and, in all respects,
superior to the first.

While the CONTINENTAL will express decided opinions on the great
questions of the day, it will not be a mere political journal: much
the larger portion of its columns will be enlivened, as heretofore, by
tales, poetry, and humor. In a word, the CONTINENTAL will be found, under
its new staff of Editors, occupying a position and presenting attractions
never before found in a magazine.

TERMS TO CLUBS.

Two copies for one year, Five dollars.
Three copies for one year, Six dollars.
Six copies for one year, Eleven dollars.

Eleven copies for one year, Twenty dollars.
Twenty copies for one year, Thirty-six dollars.

PAID IN ADVANCE. _Postage, Thirty-six cents a year_, TO BE PAID BY THE
SUBSCRIBER.

SINGLE COPIES. Three Dollars a year, IN ADVANCE.--_Postage paid by the
Publisher._
JOHN F. TROW, 50 Greene St., N. Y. PUBLISHER FOR THE PROPRIETORS.

[Illustration] As an inducement to new subscribers, the Publisher offers
the following very liberal premiums:

[Illustration] Any person remitting $3, in advance, will receive the
Magazine from July, 1862, to January, 1864, thus securing the whole of
Mr. KIMBALL'S and Mr. KIRKE'S new serials, which are alone worth
the price of subscription.

Or, if preferred, a subscriber can take the Magazine for 1863 and a
copy of "AMONG THE PINES," or of "UNDERCURRENTS OF WALL ST.," by R. B.
KIMBALL, bound in cloth (the book to be sent postage paid).

[Illustration]Any person remitting $4.50, will receive the Magazine
from its commencement, January, 1862, to January, 1864, thus securing
Mr.
KIMBALL'S "WAS HE SUCCESSFUL?" and Mr. KIRKE'S "AMONG THE PINES" and
"MERCHANT'S STORY," and nearly 8,000 octavo pages of the best literature
in the world. Premium subscribers to pay their own postage.

* * * * *
[Illustration]
EQUAL TO ANY IN THE WORLD!!! MAY BE PROCURED At FROM $8 to $12 PER ACRE,

Near Markets, Schools, Railroads, Churches, and all the blessings
of Civilization.
1,200,000 Acres, in Farms of 40, 80, 120, 160 Acres and upwards,
in ILLINOIS, the Garden State of America.

The Illinois Central Railroad Company offer, ON LONG CREDIT, the beautiful
and fertile PRAIRIE LANDS lying along the whole line of their
Railroad, 700 MILES IN LENGTH, upon the most Favorable Terms for
enabling Farmers, Manufacturers, Mechanics and Workingmen to make
for themselves and their families a competency, and a HOME they can
call THEIR OWN, as will appear from the following statements:

ILLINOIS.

Is about equal in extent to England, with a population of 1,732,666,
and a soil capable of supporting 20,000,000.

No State in the Valley of the Mississippi offers so great an inducement
to the settler as the State of Illinois. There is no part of the world
where all the conditions of climate and soil so admirably combine
to produce those two great staples, CORN and WHEAT.

CLIMATE.

Nowhere can the industrious farmer secure such immediate results from
his labor as on these deep, rich, loamy soils, cultivated with so much
ease. The climate from the extreme southern part of the State to
the Terre Haute, Alton and St.

Louis Railroad, a distance of nearly 200 miles, is well adapted to
Winter.

WHEAT, CORN, COTTON TOBACCO.

Peaches, Pears, Tomatoes, and every variety of fruit and vegetables is
grown in great abundance, from which Chicago and other Northern markets
are furnished from four to six weeks earlier than their immediate
vicinity. Between the Terre Haute, Alton & St. Louis Railway and the
Kankakee and Illinois Rivers, (a distance of 115 miles on the Branch,
and 136 miles on the Main Trunk,) lies the great Corn and Stock raising
portion of the state.

THE ORDINARY YIELD
of Corn is from 60 to 80 Bushels per-acre. Cattle, Horses, Mules, Sheep
and Hogs are raised here at a small cost, and yield large profits.
It is believed that no section of country presents greater inducements
for Dairy farming than the Prairies of Illinois, a branch of farming
to which but little attention has been paid, and which must yield sure
profitable results.

Between the Kankakee and Illinois Rivers, and Chicago and Dunleith,
(a distance of 56 miles on the Branch and 147 miles by the Main
Trunk,) Timothy Hay, Spring Wheat, Corn, &c., are produced in great
abundance.

AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS.

The Agricultural products of Illinois are greater than those of any
other State.

The Wheat crop of 1861 was estimated at 35,000,000 bushels, while the
Corn crop yields not less than 140,000,000 bushels besides the
crops of Oats, Barley, Rye, Buckwheat, Potatoes, Sweet Potatoes,
Pumpkins, Squashes, Flax, Hemp, Peas, Clover, Cabbage, Beets,
Tobacco, Sorgheim, Grapes, Peaches, Apples, &c., which go to swell
the vast aggregate of production in this fertile region.

Over Four Million tons of produce were sent out the State of Illinois
during the past year.

STOCK RAISING.

In Central and Southern Illinois uncommon advantages are presented
for the extension of Stock raising. All kinds of Cattle, Horses, Mules,
Sheep, Hogs, &c., of the best breeds, yield handsome profits, large
fortunes have already been made, and the field is open for others to
enter with the fairest prospects of like results. DAIRY FARMING also
presents its enducements to many.

CULTIVATION OF COTTON.
_The experiment in Cotton culture are of very great promise.
Commencing in latitude 39 deg. 30 min., (see Mattpon on the Branch,
and Assumption on the Main Line), the Company owns thousands of
acres well adapted to the perfection of this fibre. A settler having
a family of young children, can turn their youthful labor to a most
profitable account in the growth and perfection of this plant._
THE ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD
Traverses the whole length of the State, from the banks of the
Mississippi and Lake Michigan to the Ohio. As its name imports, the
Railroad runs through the centre of the State, and on either side
of the road along its whole length lie the lands offered for
sale.

CITIES, TOWNS, MARKETS, DEPOTS.
There are Ninety-eight Depots on the Company's Railway, giving about
one every seven miles. Cities, Towns and Villages are situated at
convenient distances throughout the whole route, where every desirable
community may be found as readily as in the oldest cities of the
Union, and where buyers are to be met for all kinds of farm
produce.

EDUCATION.
Mechanics and working-men will find the free school system encouraged
by the State, and endowed with a large revenue for the support of
the schools. Children can live in sight of the school, the college,
the church, and grow up with the prosperity of the leading State
in the Great Western Empire.
PRICES AND TERMS OF PAYMENT--ON LONG CREDIT.
80 acres at $10 per acre with interest at 6 per ct. annually on the
following terms:
Cash payment $48 00 Payment in one year 48 00 " in two years 48 00
" in three years 48 00 " in four years 236 00 " in five years 224
00 " in six years 212 00 " in seven years 300 00
40 acres, at $10 00 per acre; Cash payment $24 00 Payment in one
year 24 00 " in two years 24 00 " in three years 24 00 " in four
years 118 00 " in five years 112 00 " in six years 106 00 " in seven
years 150 00"The father of the family laughed."


SOCIETY FOLKS COMPELLED TO CAMP.


"'Yes,' he said, 'that is Charlie's way. He has been with us many years,
and when our home was destroyed he came out here with us in preference
to seeking refuge among his countrymen in Chinatown. Yesterday we were
without food, and Charlie disappeared. I thought he had deserted us,
but toward dark he came back with a bamboo pole over his shoulder and
a Chinese market gardener's basket suspended from either end. In one of
the baskets he had a pile of blankets and a lot of canvas. In the other
was an assortment of pork, flour, Chinese cakes and vegetables, besides
a half-dozen chickens and a couple of bagfuls of rice.'

"'Charlie had been foraging in Chinatown for us before the fire reached
that quarter. He made a tent and improvised beds for us, and he has the
food concealed somewhere in the vicinity, but where he will not tell
us, for fear that we will give some of it to others and reduce our own
supply. Charlie boils rice for himself. He will not touch the other
food. Without him we should have been starving.'"

G. A. Raymond, who was in the Palace Hotel when the earthquake occurred,
says:

"I had $600 in gold under my pillow. I awoke as I was thrown out of
bed. Attempting to walk, the floor shook so that I fell. I grabbed my
clothing and rushed down into the office, where dozens were already
congregated. Suddenly the lights went out, and every one rushed for the
door.

"Outside I witnessed a sight I never want to see again. It was dawn
and light. I looked up. The air was filled with falling stones. People
around me were crushed to death on all sides. All around the huge
buildings were shaking and waving. Every moment there were reports like
100 cannon going off at one time. Then streams of fire would shoot out,
and other reports followed.

"I asked a man standing by me what had happened. Before he could answer
a thousand bricks fell on him and he was killed. A woman threw her arms
around my neck. I pushed her away and fled. All around me buildings were
rocking and flames shooting. As I ran people on all sides were crying,
praying and calling for help. I thought the end of the world had come.

"I met a Catholic priest, and he said: 'We must get to the ferry.' He
knew the way, and we rushed down Market Street. Men, women and children
were crawling from the debris. Hundreds were rushing down the street,
and every minute people were felled by falling debris.

"At places the streets had cracked and opened. Chasms extended in all
directions. I saw a drove of cattle, wild with fright, rushing up Market
Street. I crouched beside a swaying building. As they came nearer they
disappeared, seeming to drop into the earth. When the last had gone I
went nearer and found they had indeed been precipitated into the earth,
a wide fissure having swallowed them. I worked my way around them and
ran out to the ferry. I was crazy with fear and the horrible sights.

"How I reached the ferry I cannot say. It was bedlam, pandemonium and
hell rolled into one. There must have been 10,000 people trying to get
on that boat. Men and women fought like wild cats to push their way
aboard. Clothes were torn from the backs of men and women and children
indiscriminately. Women fainted, and there was no water at hand with
which to revive them. Men lost their reason at those awful moments. One
big, strong man, beat his head against one of the iron pillars on the
dock, and cried out in a loud voice: 'This fire must be put out! The
city must be saved!' It was awful."


TERRIBLE SCENE AT THE FERRY.


"When the gates were opened the mad rush began. All were swept aboard in
an irresistible tide. We were jammed on the deck like sardines in a
box. No one cared. At last the boat pulled out. Men and women were still
jumping for it, only to fall into the water and probably drown."

The members of the Metropolitan Opera Company, of New York, were in San
Francisco at this time, and nearly all of these famous singers, known
all over the world, suffered from the great disaster.

All of the splendid scenery, stage fittings, costumes and musical
instruments were lost in the fire, which destroyed the Grand Opera
House, where the season had just opened to splendid audiences.

Many of the operatic stars have given very interesting accounts of their
experiences. Signor Caruso, the famous tenor and one of the principals
of the company, had one of the most thrilling experiences. He and Signor
Rossi, a favorite basso, and his inseparable companion, had a suite
on the seventh floor and were awakened by the terrific shaking of the
building. The shock nearly threw Caruso out of bed. He said:

"I threw open the window, and I think I let out the grandest notes I
ever hit in all my life. I do not know why I did this. I presume I was
too excited to do anything else."


GREAT SINGERS ESCAPE.


"Looking out of the window, I saw buildings all around rocking like the
devil had hold of them. I wondered what was going on. Then I heard Rossi
come scampering into my room. 'My God, it's an earthquake!' he yelled.
'Get your things and run!' I grabbed what I could lay my hands on and
raced like a madman for the office. On the way down I shouted as loud as
I could so the others would wake up.

"When I got to the office I thought of my costumes and sent my valet,
Martino, back after them. He packed things up and carried the trunks
down on his back. I helped him take them to Union Square."

It is said that ten minutes later he was seen seated on his valise in
the middle of the street. But to continue his story:

"I walked a few feet away to see how to get out, and when I came back
four Chinamen were lugging my trunks away. I grabbed one of them by the
ears, and the others jumped on me. I took out my revolver and pointed
it at them. They spit at me. I was mad, but I hated to kill them, so I
found a soldier, and he made them give up the trunks.

"Ah, that soldier was a fine fellow. He went up to the Chinamen and
slapped them upon the face, once, twice, three times. They all howled
like the devil and ran away. I put my revolver back into my pocket, and
then I thanked the soldier. He said: 'Don't mention it. Them Chinks
would steal the money off a dead man's eyes.'"

They say that Rossi, though almost in tears, was heard trying his voice
at a corner near the Palace Hotel.


TEDDY'S PICTURE PROVES "OPEN SESAME."


"I went to Lafayette Square and slept on the grass. When I tried to get
into the square the soldiers pushed me back. I pleaded with them, but
they would not listen. I had under my arm a large photograph of Theodore
Roosevelt, upon which was written: 'With kindest regards from Theodore
Roosevelt.' I showed them this, and one of them said: 'If you are a
friend of Teddy, come in and make yourself at home.'

"I put my trunks in the cellar of the Hotel St. Francis and thought they
would be safe. The hotel caught fire, and my trunks were all burned up.
To think I took so much trouble to save them!"

In spite of the news of all the woe and suffering which we hear, it is
cheering to learn also of the many thousands of heroic deeds by brave
men during the terrible scenes enacted through the four days passing
since the eventful morning when the earth began to demolish splendid
buildings of business and residence and fire sprang up to complete the
city's destruction. The Mayor and his forces of police, the troops
under command of General Funston, volunteer aids to all these, and the
husbands of terrified wives, and the sons, brothers and other relatives
who toiled for many consecutive hours through smoke and falling walls
and an inferno of flames and explosions and traps of danger of all
kinds, often without food or water--toiling as men never toiled before
to save life and relieve distress of all kinds--all these were examples
of heroism and devotion to duty seldom witnessed in any scenes of terror
in all time. There are brave, unselfish men and heroic women yet in the
world, and all of the best of human nature has been exhibited in large
dimensions in the terrible disaster at San Francisco.


CHAPTER IX.

Disaster Spreads Over the Golden State


The first news that the world received of the earthquake came direct
from San Francisco and was confined largely to descriptions of
the disaster which had overwhelmed that city. It was so sudden, so
appalling, so tragic in its nature, that for the time being it
quite overshadowed the havoc and misery wrought in a number of other
California towns of lesser note.

As the truth, however, became gradually sifted out of the tangle of
rumors, the horror, instead of being diminished, was vastly increased.
It became evident that instead of this being a local catastrophe, the
full force of the seismic waves had travelled from Ukiah in the north
to Monterey in the south, a distance of about 180 miles, and had made
itself felt for a considerable distance from the Pacific westward,
wrecking the larger buildings of every town in its path, rending and
ruining as it went, and doing millions of dollars worth of damage.


THE DESTRUCTION OF SANTA ROSA.


In Santa Rosa, sixty miles to the north of San Francisco, and one of
the most beautiful towns of California, practically every building
was destroyed or badly damaged. The brick and stone business blocks,
together with the public buildings, were thrown down. The Court House,
Hall of Records, the Occidental and Santa Rosa Hotels, the Athenaeum
Theatre, the new Masonic Temple, Odd Fellows' Block, all the banks,
everything went, and in all the city not one brick or stone building was
left standing, except the California Northwestern Depot.

In the residential portion of the city the foundations receded from
under the houses, badly wrecking about twenty of the largest and
damaging every one more or less; and here, as in San Francisco, flames
followed the earthquake, breaking out in a dozen different places at
once and completing the work of devastation. From the ruins of the
fallen houses fifty-eight bodies were taken out and interred during
the first few days, and the total of dead and injured was close to a
hundred. The money loss at this small city is estimated at $3,000,000.

The destruction of Santa Rosa gave rise to general sorrow among the
residents of the interior of the State. It was one of the show towns of
California, and not only one of the most prosperous cities in the
fine county of Sonoma, but one of the most picturesque in the State.
Surrounding it there were miles of orchards, vineyards and corn fields.
The beautiful drives of the city were adorned with bowers of roses,
which everywhere were seen growing about the homes of the people. In
its vicinity are the famous gardens of Luther Burbank, the "California
wizard," but these fortunately escaped injury.

At San Jose, another very beautiful city of over 20,000 population,
not a single brick or stone building of two stories or over was left
standing. Among those wrecked were the Hall of justice, just completed
at a cost of $300,000; the new High School, the Presbyterian Church and
St. Patrick's Cathedral. Numbers of people were caught in the ruins and
maimed or killed. The death list appears to have been small, but the
property damage was not less than $5,000,000. The Agnew State Insane
Asylum, in the vicinity of San Jose, was entirely destroyed, more than
half the inmates being killed or injured.


THE STANFORD UNIVERSITY.


The Leland Stanford, Jr., University, at Palo Alto (about thirty miles
south of San Francisco), felt the full force of the earthquake and was
badly wrecked. Only two lives were lost as a result of the earthquake,
one of a student, the other of a fireman, but eight students were
injured more or less seriously. The damage to the buildings is estimated
by President Jordan to amount to about $4,000,000.

The memorial church, with its twelve marble figures of the apostles,
each weighing two tons, was badly injured by the fall of its Gothic
spire, which crashed through the roof and demolished much of the
interior; the great entrance archway was split in twain and wrecked; so,
too, were the library, the gymnasium and the power house. A number of
other buildings in the outer quadrangle and some of the small workshops
were seriously damaged.

Encina Hall and the inner quadrangle were practically uninjured, and the
bulk of the books, collections and apparatus escaped damage.

Sacramento, together with all the smaller cities and towns that dot the
great Sacramento Valley for a distance fifty miles south and 150 miles
north of the capital, escaped without injury, not a single pane of glass
being broken or a brick displaced in Sacramento and no injury done in
the other places, they lying eastward of the seat of serious earthquake
activity.

Los Angeles and Santa Barbara escaped with a slight trembling; Stockton,
103 miles north of San Francisco, felt a severe shock and the Santa Fe
bridge over the San Joaquin River at this point settled several inches.
The only place in Southern California that suffered was Brawley, a small
town lying 120 miles south of Los Angeles, about 100 buildings in the
town and the surrounding valley being injured, though none of them were
destroyed.


THE EARTHQUAKE AT OTHER CITIES.


At Alameda, on the bay opposite San Francisco, a score of chimneys were
shaken down and other injuries done. Railroad tracks were twisted, and
over 600 feet of track of the Oakland Transit Company's railway sank
four feet. The total damage done amounted to probably $200,000, but no
lives were lost. Tomales, a place of 350 inhabitants, was left a pile of
ruins.

At Los Panos several buildings were wrecked, causing damage to the
extent of $75,000, but no lives were lost.

At Loma Prieta the earthquake caused a mine house to slip down the side
of a mountain, ten men being buried in the ruins.

Fort Bragg, one of the principal lumbering towns in Mendocino County,
was practically wiped out by fire following the earthquake, but out of a
population of 5,000 only one was killed, though scores were injured.

The town of Berkeley, across the bay from San Francisco, suffered
considerable damage from twisted structures, fallen walls and broken
chimneys, the greatest injury being in the collapse of the town hall
and the ruin of the deaf and dumb asylum. The University of California,
situated here, was fortunate in escaping injury, it being reported
that not a building was harmed in the slightest degree. Another public
edifice of importance and interest, in a different section of the State,
the famous Lick Astronomical Observatory, was equally fortunate, no
damage being done to the buildings or the instruments.


AT THE STATE UNIVERSITY.


Salinas, a town down the coast near Monterey, suffered severely, the
place being to a large extent destroyed, with an estimated loss of over
$1,000,000. The Spreckels' sugar factory and a score of other buildings
were reported ruined and a number of lives lost. During the succeeding
week several other shocks of some strength were reported from this town.

Thus the ruinous work of the earthquake stretched over a broad track
of prosperous, peaceful and happy country, embracing one of the best
sections of California, laying waste not only the towns in its path,
but doing much damage to ranch houses and country residences. Strange
manifestations of nature were reported from the interior, where the
ground was opened in many places like a ploughed field. Great rents
in the earth were reported, and for many miles north from Los Angeles
miniature geysers are said to have spouted volcano-like streams of hot
mud.

Railroad tracks in some localities were badly injured, sinking or
lifting, and being put out of service until repaired. In fact, the
ruinous effects of the earthquake immensely exceeded those of any
similar catastrophe ever before known in the United States, and when
the destruction done by the succeeding conflagration in San Francisco is
taken into account the California earthquake of 1906 takes rank with the
most destructive of those recorded in history.


CHAPTER X.

All America and Canada to the Rescue


During the first three days after the terrible news had been flashed
over the world the relief fund from the nation had leaped beyond the
$5,000,000 mark. New York took the lead in the most generous giving that
the world has ever seen. From every town and country village the people
hastened to the Town Halls, the newspaper offices and wherever help was
to be found most quickly, to add their savings and to sacrifice all but
necessities for their stricken fellow-countrymen. Never has there been
such a practical illustration of brotherly love. A perfect shower of
gold and food was poured out to the sufferers to give them immediate
assistance and to help them to a new start in life. All relief records
were broken within two days of the disaster, but still the purses of the
rich and poor alike continued to add to the huge contributions. Though
the relief records were broken, every succeeding dispatch from the West
told too plainly the terrible fact that all records of necessity were
also broken.

Over the entire globe Americans wherever they were hastened to cable or
telegraph their bankers to add their share to the great work. A large
fund was at once started in London, and with contributions of from
$2,000 to $12,000 the sum was soon raised to hundreds of thousands of
dollars.

Individual contributions of $100,000 were common. In addition to John
D. Rockefeller's gift of this sum, his company, the Standard Oil, gave
another $100,000. The Steel Corporation and Andrew Carnegie each
gave $100,000. From London William Waldorf Astor cabled his American
representative, Charles A. Peabody, to place $100,000 at once at
the disposal of Mayor Schmitz, of San Francisco, which was done. The
Dominion Government of Canada made a special appropriation of $100,000
and the Canadian Bank of Commerce, at Toronto, gave $10,000. And two of
the great steamship companies owned in Germany sent $25,000 each.


RIGHT OF WAY FOR FOOD TRAINS.


On nearly a dozen roads, two days before the fire was over, great trains
of freight cars loaded with foodstuffs were hastening at express
speed to San Francisco. They had the right of way on every line. E. H.
Harriman, in addition to giving $200,000 for the Union Pacific, Southern
Pacific and other Harriman roads, issued orders that all relief trains
bound for the desolated city should have Precedence over all other
business of the roads.

Advices from many points indicated that at least 150 freight cars loaded
with the necessaries so eagerly awaited in San Francisco were speeding
there as fast as steam could drive them. In addition, several steamers
from other Pacific coast points, all food-laden, were rushing toward the
stricken city.

The rapidity with which the various relief funds in every city grew was
almost magical.

From corporations, firms, labor unions, religious societies,
individuals, rich and poor, money flowed. Even the children in the
schools gave their pennies. Every grade of society, every branch of
trade and commerce seemed inspired by a spirit of emulation in giving.

The United States Government at once voted a contribution of $1,000,000,
and government supplies were rushed from every post in the West.

The $1,000,000 government gift, which formed the nucleus of the relief
fund, was doubled on Saturday by a resolution appropriating another, and
a vote was taken on Monday to increase this sum to $1,500,000, making a
total government contribution of $2,500,000. This was largely expended
in supplies of absolute necessaries, furnished from the stores of the
War Department, and those first sent being five carloads of army medical
supplies from St. Louis. A cargo of evaporated cream was also sent to
use in the care of little children, while the Red Cross Society shipped
a carload of eggs from Chicago. Dr. Edward Devine, special Red Cross
agent in San Francisco, was appointed to distribute these supplies.


CARGOES OF SUPPLIES.


Trainloads of other supplies were dispatched in all haste from various
points in the West and East, carrying provisions of all kinds, tents,
cots, clothing, bedding and a great variety of other articles. A special
train of twenty-six cars was dispatched from Portland, Oregon, on
Thursday night, conveying ten doctors, twenty trained nurses and 800,000
pounds of provisions. Chicago sent meat. Minneapolis sent flour, and,
in fact, every part of the country moved in the greatest haste for the
relief of the stricken city.

There was urgent need of haste. On Friday, while the flames were still
making their way onward, General Funston telegraphed: "Famine seems
inevitable." The people of the country took a more hopeful view of it,
and by Saturday night the spectre of famine was definitely driven from
the field and food for all the fugitives was within reach.


THE SYMPATHY OF THE PEOPLE AWAKES.


On all sides the people were awake and doing. In all the great
cities agencies to receive contributions were opened, and many of the
newspapers undertook the task of collecting and forwarding supplies. The
smaller towns were equally alert in furnishing their quota to the good
work, and from countryside and village contributions were forwarded
until the fund accumulated to an unprecedented amount. Collections were
made in factories, in stores, in offices, in the public schools; cash
boxes or globes stood in all frequented places and were rapidly filled
with bank notes; theatrical and musical entertainments were given for
the benefit of the earthquake sufferers; never had there been such an
awakening. As an instance of the spirit displayed, one man came running
into a banking house and threw a thousand dollar bill on the counter.

"For San Francisco," he said, as he turned toward the door.

"What name?" asked the teller.

"Put it down to 'cash,'" he answered, as he vanished.

Rapidly the fund accumulated. A few days brought it up to the $5,000,000
mark. Then it grew to $10,000,000. Within ten days' time the relief fund
was estimated at $18,000,000, and the good work was still going on--in
less profusion, it is true, but still the spirit was alive.


FOREIGN OFFERS OF AID.


The generous impulse was not confined to the United States. From all
countries came offers of aid. Canada was promptly in the field, and
the chief nations of Europe were quick to follow, while Japan made a
generous offer, and in far Australia funds were started at the various
cities for the sufferers. No doubt a large sum from foreign lands would
have been available had not President Roosevelt declined to accept
contributions from abroad, as not needed in view of America's abundant
response. To the Hamburg-Line which offered $25,000, the following
letter was sent:

"The President deeply appreciates your message of sympathy, and desires
me to thank you heartily for the kind offer of outside aid. Although
declining, the President earnestly wishes you to understand how much he
appreciates your cordial and generous sympathy."

All other offerings from abroad were in the same thankful spirit
declined, even those from our immediate neighbors, Canada and Mexico.
Some feeling was aroused by this, especially in the relief committee at
San Francisco, which felt that the need of that city was so great and
urgent that no offer of relief should have been declined. In response
the President explained that he only spoke for the government, in his
official capacity, and that San Francisco was in no sense debarred from
accepting any contributions made directly to it.

It may justly be said for the people of this country that their
spontaneous generosity in the presence of a great calamity, either at
home or abroad, is always magnificent. It never waits for solicitation.
It does not delay even until the necessity is demonstrated, but it
assumes that where there is great destruction of property and homes are
swept away there must be distress which calls for immediate relief.

There is one ray of light in the gloom caused by the calamity at San
Francisco. A truly splendid display of brotherly love and sympathy has
been shown by the people of this country, and a similar display was
ready to be shown by the people of the civilized world had it been felt
that the occasion demanded it and that the exigency surpassed the power
of our people to meet it.


ENTERPRISE IN SAN FRANCISCO.


In the face of an appalling and death-dealing disaster, rendering an
entire community dependent for the bare necessities of life and putting
it in imminent danger of greater horrors, the nation has been stirred
as it has rarely been before, and there have been awakened those deeper
feelings of brotherhood which are referred to in the oft-quoted passage
that "one touch of nature makes the whole world akin."

The nature indicated in this instance is human nature in its highest
manifestation, the sympathetic sentiment that stirs deeply in all our
hearts and needs but the occasion to make itself warmly manifested.
There is something incomparably splendid in the spectacle of an entire
nation straining every nerve to send succor to the helpless and the
suffering, and this spectacle has warmed the hearts of our people to the
uttermost and inspired them to make the most strenuous efforts to drive
away the gaunt wolf of famine from the ruined homes of our far Pacific
brethren.

It may be said that San Francisco will be willing to accept this relief
only so long as stern necessity demands it. At this writing only two
weeks have passed since the dread calamity, and already active steps
are being taken to provide for themselves. As an example of their
enterprise, it may be said that their newspapers hardly suspended at
all, the Evening Post alone suspending publication for a time from
being unable to acquire a plant in the vicinity of the city. When the
conflagration made it apparent that all plants would be destroyed, the
Bulletin put at work a force in its composing rooms, a hand-bill was
set and some hundreds of copies run off on the proof-press, giving the
salient features of the day's news.

The morning papers, the Call, Chronicle and Examiner, retired to
Oakland, on the other side of the bay, and there, on Thursday morning,
issued a joint paper from the office of the Oakland Tribune. On Friday
morning they split forces again, the Examiner retaining the use of the
Tribune plant and the Call and Chronicle issuing from the office of
the Oakland Herald. Two days later the Call secured the service of
the Oakland Enquirer plant. Meantime, on Friday, the Bulletin, after a
suspension of one day, made arrangements for the use in the afternoon
of the Oakland Herald equipment, and from these sources and under such
circumstances the San Francisco papers have been issuing.

Offices were hurriedly opened on Fillmore Street, which today is the
main thoroughfare of San Francisco, and from these headquarters the news
of the day as it is gathered is transmitted by means of automobiles and
ferry service to the Oakland shore.

There also were accepted such advertisements as had been offered. The
number of these was, perhaps, the best visual sign of the resurrection
of the new city. It was noted that in a fourteen-page paper printed
within two weeks after the fire by the Examiner there were over nine
pages of advertisements, and in a sixteen-page paper published by the
Chronicle at least fifty per cent. of its space was devoted to the same
end.

Many of the larger factories left unharmed were also quick to start
work. At the Union Iron Works 2,300 men were promptly employed, and the
management expected within a fortnight to have the full complement of
its force, nearly 4,000 men, engaged. No damage was done to the three
new warships being built at these works for the government, the cruisers
California and Milwaukee and the battleship South Dakota. The steamer
City of Puebla, which was sunk in the bay, has been raised and is being
repaired. Workmen are also engaged fixing the steamship Columbia, which
was turned on her side. The hulls of the new Hawaiian-American Steamship
Company's liners were pitched about four feet to the south, but were
uninjured and only need to be replaced in position.

As for the working people at large, those without funds for their own
support, abundant employment will quickly be provided for them in the
necessary work of clearing away the debris, thus opening the way to a
resumption of business and reducing the number requiring relief. The
ukase has already been issued that all able-bodied men needing aid must
go to work or leave the city.

This dictum of Chief of Police Dinan's will be strictly enforced. The
relief work and distribution of food and clothing are attracting a
certain element to the city which does not desire to labor, while some
already here prefer to live on the generosity of others. Chief Dinan has
determined that those who apply for relief and refuse work when it
is offered them shall leave the city or be arrested for vagrancy. The
police judges have suggested establishing a chain gang and putting all
vagrants and petty offenders at work clearing up the ruins.

Perhaps never in the history of the city has there been so little crime
in San Francisco. With the saloons closed, Chinatown, the Barbary Coast,
and other haunts of criminals wiped out, and soldiers and marines on
almost every block in the residence districts, there have been few
crimes of any kind. It is the opinion of the police that most of the
criminal element has left the city. The saloons, in all probability will
remain closed for two more months.


THE PROBLEM OF THE CHINESE.


In conclusion of this chapter it is advisable to refer to the situation
of one of the elements of San Francisco's population, the people of
Chinatown. One of the problems facing the relief committees on both
sides of the bay is the sheltering of the Chinese. Many of them are
destitute. It has long been a question in San Francisco what should be
done with Chinatown, and moving the Chinese in the direction of Colma
has been agitated. Now they are without homes and without prospects of
procuring any. They can get no land. The limits of Oakland's Chinatown
have already been extended, and the strictest police regulations are in
force to prevent further enlargement. On this side of the bay they are
camping in open lots. Unless the government undertakes their relief,
they are in grave danger. Those who have money cannot purchase property,
as no one will sell to them. Few, however, even of the wealthiest
merchants in Chinatown, saved anything of value, for their wealth was
invested in the Oriental village which had sprung up in the heart of the
area burned.

Yet it is the desire of the municipality not to harass this portion of
its foreign population, and the vexatious problem of placing the new
Chinatown will probably be settled to the satisfaction of the Chinese
colony. This colony diverts an important part of the trade of San
Francisco to that city, and if its members are dealt with unjustly there
is danger of losing this trade. The question is one that must be left
for the future to decide, but no doubt care will be taken that a new
Chinatown with the unsavory conditions of the old shall not arise.


CHAPTER XI.

San Francisco of the Past


The story of San Francisco's history and tragedy appeal with
extraordinary force to the imagination of all civilized men. For several
generations the city was looked upon as an Arabian Night's dream--a
place where gold lay in the streets and joy and happiness were
unlimited. Its settlement, or, rather, its real rise as a city, was as
by magic. It was first a city of tents, of shanties, of "shacks," lying
on the rim of a great, spacious bay. Ships of all sizes and rigs brought
gold-seekers and provisions from the East, all the way round Cape Horn,
after voyages of weary months, and at San Francisco their crews deserted
and hundreds of these craft were left at their moorings to rot. Ashore
was a riot of money, prodigious extravagance, mean, shabby appointments,
sudden riches, great disappointment, revelry, improvidence and suicide.

The streets that now lay squares from the water were then at the water's
edge and batteaus brought cargoes ashore. Long wharves--one was for
years called the Long Wharf even after there were others built much
longer--led out over the shallow water. These shallows were later filled
and streets built upon them, and upon them arose warehouses, hotels,
factories, lodging houses and business places.

The city grew rapidly in the direction away from the bay. But in its
early days it was a city with no confidence in its own stability, and
its buildings were accordingly unstable. A few minor earthquakes shook
some of these down years ago and established in the minds of the people
a horror of earthquakes. Frame houses became the rule.

In its ensuing life San Francisco developed the attributes of a city of
gayety tempered by business. The population, for the most part, affected
light-hearted scorn of money, or, rather, of saving money. It made
mirth of life, habituated itself to expect windfalls such as miners
and prospectors dream of, developed a moderate amount of business, and
enjoyed the day while there was sunlight and the night when there was
artificial light. The windfalls grew less frequent, mining became a
costly and scientific process, and agriculture succeeded it. But, though
it was only necessary to tickle the land with a hoe and pour water upon
the tickled spot, to have it laugh with two, three or even four harvests
a year, agriculturists continued scarce. The Chinese truck farms, some
of which lay within the city's lines, supplied the small fruits and
vegetables. Across the bay white men farmed, and grapes, fruits,
vegetables and flowers of prodigious variety and monstrous dimensions
were grown. But Eastern men came to do the farming. The Californian who
himself was an "Argonaut," or whose father was an Argonaut, found no
attractions in the steady labor of farming.

There followed a period of depression, ascribed by many to the influx of
the Chinese and their effect upon the labor market, though the army of
the unemployed were as a rule unwilling to do the work their Celestial
rivals engaged in, that of truck farming, fruit raising, manual
household labor, wood cutting and the like. A heavy weight settled on
the city; business grew slack; the army of the unemployed, of ruined
speculators and moneyless newcomers grew steadily greater, and for an
era San Francisco saw its dark side.

But this was not a long duration. There was fast developing a new and
important business, resulting from the development of the real resources
of the State--the fruits, particularly the citrous fruits that grew
abundantly in the warm valley. Fortunes were made in oranges, lemons,
limes, grapes, almonds and pears. Raisins, whose size defied anything
heretofore known, were made from the huge grapes that grew in the San
Joaquin Valley. Sonoma sent its grapes to be made into wine. Capital
flowed in from every side. Eastern men in search of health, others in
search of wealth, came to the Golden State. No matter who came, where
they came from, or where they were going, they spent a few days, or
many, and some money, or much, in "'Frisco." The enterprise of the
second edition pioneers quickly transformed the State and city.


AGRICULTURE BRINGS NEW WEALTH.


Luxury was startling. San Francisco's mercantile community equaled the
best, the stores and shops were as beautiful as anywhere in the
world and proportionately as well patronized. Theatres, music halls,
restaurants, hotel bars and the like were ablaze with lights at night,
and patronized by a gay throng. Sutro's bath, near the Cliff House, was
a species of entertainment unequaled anywhere. The Presidio, as the army
post is still known, as in the Spanish nomenclature, gave its drills,
regarded as free exhibitions for the people. Golden Gate Park was an
endless daily picnic ground.

The crowds in the streets of San Francisco were noticeably well dressed
and usually gay, without that fixed, drawn, saturnine look noticeable
among the people of the East. It is doubtful whether, upon the whole,
the earnings of the San Francisco man equaled those of his Eastern
brother, but his holidays were frequent and his joys greater. The grind
of life was not yet steady--men had not become mere machines.

The climate of California is peculiar; it is hard to give an impression
of it. In the first place, all the forces of nature work on laws of
their own in that part of California. There is no thunder or lightning;
there is no snow, except a flurry once in five or six years; there are
perhaps half a dozen nights in the winter when the thermometer drops
low enough so that there is a little film of ice on exposed water in the
morning. Neither is there any hot weather. Yet most Easterners remaining
in San Francisco for a few days remember that they were always chilly.


A PECULIAR YET DELIGHTFUL CLIMATE.


For the Gate is a big funnel, drawing in the winds and the mists which
cool off the great, hot interior valley of San Joaquin and Sacramento.
So the west wind blows steadily ten months of the year and almost all
the mornings are foggy. This keeps the temperature steady at about 55
degrees--a little cool for comfort of an unacclimated person, especially
indoors. Californians, used to it, hardly ever think of making fires in
their houses except in the few exceptional days of the winter season,
and then they rely mainly upon fireplaces. This is like the custom of
the Venetians and the Florentines.

But give an Easterner six months of it, and he, too, learns to exist
without a chill in a steady temperature a little lower than that to
which he is accustomed at home. After that one goes about with perfect
indifference to the temperature. Summer and winter San Francisco women
wear light tailor-made clothes, and men wear the same fall-weight suits
all the year around.

Except for the modern buildings, the fruit of the last ten years, the
town presented at first sight to the newcomer a disreputable appearance.
Most of the buildings were low and of wood. In the middle period of the
70's, when a great part of San Francisco was building, there was some
atrocious architecture perpetrated. In that time, too, every one put
bow windows on his house, to catch all of the morning sunlight that was
coming through the fog, and those little houses, with bow windows and
fancy work all down their fronts, were characteristic of the middle
class residence districts.

Then the Italians, who tumbled over Telegraph Hill, had built as they
listed and with little regard for streets, and their houses hung crazily
on a side hill which was little less than a precipice. For the most part
the Chinese, although they occupied an abandoned business district, had
remade the houses Chinese fashion, and the Mexicans and Spaniards had
added to their houses those little balconies without which life is not
life to a Spaniard.

The hills are steep beyond conception. Where Vallejo Street ran up
Russian Hill it progressed for four blocks by regular steps like a
flight of stairs.

With these hills, with the strangeness of the architecture, and with the
green gray tinge over everything, the city fell always into vistas and
pictures, a setting for the romance which hung over everything, which
has always hung over life in San Francisco since the padres came and
gathered the Indians about Mission Dolores.

And it was a city of romance and a gateway to adventure. It opened out
on the mysterious Pacific, the untamed ocean, and most of China, Japan,
the South Sea Islands, Lower California, the west coast of Central
America, Australia that came to this country passed in through the
Golden Gate. There was a sprinkling, too, of Alaska and Siberia.
From his windows on Russian Hill one saw always something strange and
suggestive creeping through the mists of the bay. It would be a South
Sea Island brig, bringing in copra, to take out cottons and idols; a
Chinese junk with fan-like sails, back from an expedition after sharks'
livers; an old whaler, which seemed to drip oil, back from a year of
cruising in the Arctic. Even, the tramp windjammers were deep-chested
craft, capable of rounding the Horn or of circumnavigating the globe;
and they came in streaked and picturesque from their long voyaging.


A MIXTURE OF RACES.


In the orange colored dawn which always comes through the mists of that
bay, the fishing fleet would crawl in under triangular lateen sails, for
the fishermen of San Francisco Bay are all Neapolitans, who have brought
their costumes and sail with lateen rigs shaped like the ear of a horse
when the wind fills them and stained an orange brown.

The "smelting pot of the races" Stevenson called the region along the
water front, for here the people of all these craft met, Italians,
Greeks, Russians, Lascars, Kanakas, Alaska Indians, black Gilbert
Islanders, Spanish-Americans, wanderers and sailors from all the world,
who came in and out from among the queer craft to lose themselves in the
disreputable shanties and saloons. The Barbary Coast was a veritable bit
of Satan's realm. The place was made up of three solid blocks of dance
halls, for the delectation of the sailors of the world. Within those
streets of peril the respectable never set foot; behind the swinging
doors of those saloons anything might be happening, crime was as common
here as drink, and much went on of which the law was blankly ignorant.

Not far removed from this haunt of crime was the world-famous Chinatown,
a district six blocks long and two wide, and housing when at its fullest
some 30,000 Chinese. Old business houses at first, the new inmates added
to them, rebuilt them, ran out their own balconies and entrances, and
gave them that feeling of huddled irregularity which makes all Chinese
built dwellings fall naturally into pictures. Not only this, they
burrowed to a depth equal to three stories under the ground, and through
this ran passages in which the Chinese transacted their dark and devious
affairs--as the smuggling of opium, the traffic in slave girls and the
settlement of their difficulties, by murder if they saw fit. The law was
powerless to prevent or discover and convict the murderers.

Chinatown is gone; the Barbary Coast is gone; the haunts of crime have
been swept by the devouring flames, and if the citizens can prevent
they will never be restored. The old San Francisco is dead. The gayest,
lightest-hearted, most pleasure-loving city of this continent, and
in many ways the most interesting and romantic, is a horde of huddled
refugees living among ruins. It may rebuild; it probably will; but those
who have known that peculiar city by the Golden Gate and have caught its
flavor of the Arabian Nights feel that it can never be the same. When it
rises out of its ashes it will probably doubtless resemble other modern
cities and have lost its old strange flavor.


CHAPTER XII.

Life in the Metropolis of the Pacific


Brought up in a bountiful country, where no one really has to work very
hard to live, nurtured on adventure, scion of a free and merry stock,
the real, native Californian is a distinctive type; as far from the
Easterner in psychology as the extreme Southern is from the Yankee. He
is easy going, witty, hospitable, lovable, inclined to be unmoral rather
than immoral in his personal habits, and above all easy to meet and to
know.

Above all there is an art sense all through the populace which sets it
off from any other part of the country. This sense is almost Latin in
its strength, and the Californian owes it to the leaven of Latin blood.


THE 'FRISCO RESTAURANTS.


With such a people life was always gay. If they did not show it on the
streets, as do the people of Paris, it was because the winds made
open cafes disagreeable at all seasons of the year. The gayety went on
indoors or out on the hundreds of estates that fringed the city. It was
noted for its restaurants. Perhaps people who cared not how they spent
their money could get the best they wished, but for a dollar down to as
low as fifteen cents the restaurants furnished the best fare to be had
anywhere at the price.

The country all about produced everything that a cook needs, and that
in abundance--the bay was an almost untapped fish-pond, the fruit
farms came up to the very edge of the town, and the surrounding country
produced in abundance fine meats, all cereals and all vegetables.

We have a higher object. Few of the admirers of our prototype, merry Master
PUNCH, have looked upon his vagaries but as the practical outpourings
of a rude and boisterous mirth.
We have considered him as a teacher of no mean pretensions, and have,
therefore, adopted him as the sponsor for our weekly sheet of
pleasant instruction. When we have seen him parading in the glories
of his motley, flourishing his baton (like our friend Jullien at Drury-lane)
in time with his own unrivalled discord, by which he seeks to win
the attention and admiration of the crowd, what visions of graver
puppetry have passed before our eyes!

Golden circlets, with their adornments of coloured and lustrous
gems, have bound the brow of infamy as well as that of honour--a
mockery to both; as though virtue required a reward beyond the
fulfilment of its own high purposes, or that infamy could be cheated
into the forgetfulness of its vileness by the weight around its
temples!

Gilded coaches have glided before us, in which sat men who thought the
buzz and shouts of crowds a guerdon for the toils, the anxieties,
and, too often, the peculations of a life. Our ears have rung with the
noisy frothiness of those who have bought their fellow-men as beasts
in the market-place, and found their reward in the sycophancy of a
degraded constituency, or the patronage of a venal ministry--no matter
of what creed, for party _must_ destroy patriotism.

The noble in his robes and coronet--the beadle in his gaudy livery of
scarlet, and purple, and gold--the dignitary in the fulness of his pomp--the
demagogue in the triumph of his hollowness--these and other visual
and oral cheats by which mankind are cajoled, have passed in review
before us, conjured up by the magic wand of PUNCH.

How we envy his philosophy, when SHALLA-BA-LA, that demon with the bell,
besets him at every turn, almost teasing the sap out of him! The
moment that his tormentor quits the scene, PUNCH seems to forget the
existence of his annoyance, and, carolling the mellifluous numbers of
_Jim Crow_, or some other strain of equal beauty, makes the most of the
present, regardless of the past or future; and when SHALLA-BA-LA
renews his persecutions, PUNCH boldly faces his enemy, and ultimately
becomes the victor.

All have a SHALLA-BA-LA in some shape or other; but few, how few, the
philosophy of PUNCH!

We are afraid our prototype is no favourite with the ladies. PUNCH is (and
we reluctantly admit the fact) a Malthusian in principle, and somewhat
of a domestic tyrant; for his conduct is at times harsh and
ungentlemanly to Mrs.

P.

"Eve of a land that still is Paradise, Italian beauty!"
But as we never look for perfection in human nature, it is too much to
expect it in wood. We wish it to be understood that we repudiate such
principles and conduct. We have a Judy of our own, and a little
Punchininny that commits innumerable improprieties; but we fearlessly
aver that we never threw him out of window, nor belaboured the lady
with a stick--even of the size allowed by law.

There is one portion of the drama we wish was omitted, for it always
saddens us--we allude to the prison scene. PUNCH, it is true, sings in
durance, but we hear the ring of the bars mingling with the song. We are
advocates for the _correction_ of offenders; but how many generous and
kindly beings are there pining within the walls of a prison, whose only
crimes are poverty and misfortune!

They, too, sing and laugh, and appear jocund, but the _heart_ can
ever hear the ring of the bars.

We never looked upon a lark in a cage, and heard him trilling out his
music as he sprang upwards to the roof of his prison, but we felt
sickened with the sight and sound, as contrasting, in our thought, the
free minstrel of the morning, bounding as it were into the blue caverns
of the heavens, with the bird to whom the world was circumscribed. May
the time soon arrive, when every prison shall be a palace of the
mind--when we shall seek to instruct and cease to punish. PUNCH has
already advocated education by example. Look at his dog Toby! The instinct
of the brute has almost germinated into reason.

Man _has_ reason, why not give him intelligence?

We now come to the last great lesson of our motley teacher--the
gallows!
that accursed tree which has its _root_ in injuries.

How clearly PUNCH exposes the fallacy of that dreadful law which
authorises the destruction of life! PUNCH sometimes destroys the
hangman: and why not?
Where is the divine injunction against the shedder of man's blood
to rest?

None _can_ answer! To us there is but ONE disposer of life. At other
times PUNCH hangs the devil: this is as it should be. Destroy the
principle of evil by increasing the means of cultivating the good, and
the gallows will then become as much a wonder as it is now a jest.

We shall always play PUNCH, for we consider it best to be merry and wise--

"And laugh at all things, for we wish to know, What, after all, are all
things but a show!"--_Byron._
As on the stage of PUNCH'S theatre, many characters appear to fill up the
interstices of the more important story, so our pages will be
interspersed with trifles that have no other object than the moment's
approbation--an end which will never be sought for at the expense
of others, beyond the evanescent smile of a harmless satire

.

* * * * *

COMMERCIAL INTELLIGENCE.

There is a report of the stoppage of one of the most respectable
_hard-bake_ houses in the metropolis. The firm had been speculating
considerably in "Prince Albert's Rock," and this is said to have been
the rock they have ultimately split upon. The boys will be the
greatest sufferers. One of them had stripped hia jacket of all its
buttons as a deposit on some _tom-trot_, which the house had promised
to supply on the following day; and we regret to say, there are
whispers of other transactions of a similar character.

Money has been abundant all day, and we saw a half-crown piece and
some halfpence lying absolutely idle in the hands of an individual,
who, if he had only chosen to walk with it into the market, might have
produced a very alarming effect on some minor description of
securities.

Cherries were taken very freely at twopence a pound, and Spanish (liquorice)
at a shade lower than yesterday. There has been a most disgusting glut
of tallow all the week, which has had an alarming effect on dips, and
thrown a still further gloom upon rushlights.

The late discussions on the timber duties have brought the match market
into a very unsettled state, and Congreve lights seem destined to undergo
a still further depression.

This state of things was rendered worse towards the close of the
day, by a large holder of the last-named article unexpectedly
throwing an immense quantity into the market, which went off rapidly

.

* * * * *

SOMETHING WARLIKE.

Many of our readers must be aware, that in pantomimic pieces, the usual
mode of making the audience acquainted with anything that cannot
be clearly explained by dumb-show, is to exhibit a linen scroll,
on which is painted, in large letters, the sentence necessary to
be known.

It so happened that a number of these scrolls had Been thrown aside after
one of the grand spectacles at Astley's Amphitheatre, and remained amongst
other lumber in the property-room, until the late destructive fire
which occurred there.

On that night, the wife of one of the stage-assistants--a woman of
portly dimensions--was aroused from her bed by the alarm of fire, and
in her confusion, being unable to find her proper habiliments, laid
hold of one of these scrolls, and wrapping it around her, hastily
rushed into the street, and presented to the astonished spectators
an extensive back view, with the words, "BOMBARD THE CITADEL,"
inscribed in legible characters upon her singular drapery.

HUME'S TERMINOLOGY.

Hume is so annoyed at his late defeat at Leeds, that he vows he will never
make use of the word Tory again as long as he lives. Indeed, he
proposes to expunge the term from the English language, and to
substitute that which is applied to, his own party. In writing to a
friend, that "after the inflammatory character of the oratory of the
Carlton Club, it is quite supererogatory for me to state (it being
notorious) that all conciliatory measures will be rendered nugatory,"
he thus expressed himself:--"After the inflamma_whig_ character of
the ora_whig_ of the nominees of the Carlton Club, it is quite
supereroga_whig_ for me to state (it being no_whig_ous) that all
concilia_whig_ measures will be rendered nuga_whig_."

NATIVE SWALLOWS.

A correspondent to one of the daily papers has remarked, that there
is an almost total absence of swallows this summer in England.

Had the writer been present at some of the election dinners lately, he
must have confessed that a greater number of active swallows has
rarely been observed congregated in any one year.

LORD MELBOURNE TO "PUNCH."
My dear PUNCH,--Seeing in the "Court Circular" of the Morning Herald an
account of a General Goblet as one of the guests of her Majesty,
I beg to state, that till I saw that announcement, I was not aware
of any other _general gobble it_ than myself at the Palace.

Yours, truly, MELBOURN
* * * * *

A RAILROAD NOVEL
DEAR PUNCH,--I was much amused the other day, on taking my seat in the
Birmingham Railway train, to observe a sentimental-looking young
gentleman, who was sitting opposite to me, deliberately draw from his
travelling-bag three volumes of what appeared to me a new novel
of the full regulation size, and with intense interest commence the
first volume at the title-page.

At the same instant the last bell rang, and away started our train,
whizz, bang, like a flash of lightning through a butter-firkin. I
endeavoured to catch a glimpse of some familiar places as we passed,
but the attempt was altogether useless. Harrow-on-the-Hill, as we shot
by it, seemed to be driving pell-mell up to town, followed by Boxmoor,
Tring, and Aylesbury--I missed Wolverton and Weedon while taking a
pinch of snuff--lost Rugby and Coventry before I had done sneezing, and
I had scarcely time to say, "God bless us," till I found we had
reached Birmingham. Whereupon I began to calculate the trifling progress
my reading companion could have made in his book during our rapid
journey, and to devise plans for the gratification of persons similarly
situated as my fellow-traveller. "Why," thought I, "should literature
alone lag in the age of steam? Is there no way by which a man could
be made to swallow Scott or bolt Bulwer, in as short a time as it now
takes him to read an auction bill?" Suddenly a happy thought struck
me: it was to write a novel, in which only the actual spirit of the
narration should be retained, rejecting all expletives, flourishes, and
ornamental figures of speech; to be terse and abrupt in style--use
monosyllables always in preference to polysyllables--and to eschew
all heroes and heroines whose names contain more than four letters.

Full of this idea, on my returning home in the evening, I sat to my
desk, and before I retired to rest, had written a novel of three neat,
portable volumes; which, I assert, any lady or gentlemen, who has had
the advantage of a liberal education, may get through with tolerable
ease, in the time occupied by the railroad train running from London
to Birmingham.

I will not dilate on the many advantages which this description
of writing possesses over all others. Lamplighters, commercial
bagmen, omnibus-cads, tavern-waiters, and general postmen, may "read
as they run." Fiddlers at the theatres, during the rests in a piece
of music, may also benefit by my invention; for which, if the following
specimen meet your approbation, I shall instantly apply for a
patent.

SPECIMEN.

CLARE GREY:

A NOVEL.

"Brief let me be."
LONDON: Printed and Published for the Author.

1841.

VOL. I.

Clare Grey--Sweet girl--Bloom and blushes, roses, lilies, dew-drops,
&c.

--Tom Lee--Young, gay, but poor--Loved Clare madly--Clare loved Tom
ditto--Clare's pa' rich, old, cross, cruel, &c.

--Smelt a rat--D----d Tom, and swore at Clare--Tears, sighs, locks,
bolts, and bars--Love's schemes--_Billet-doux_ from Tom, conveyed to
Clare in a dish of peas, crammed with vows, love, despair, hope--Answer
(pencil and curl-paper), slipped through key-hole--Full of hope, despair,
love, vows--Tom serenades--Bad cold--Rather hoarse--White kerchief from
garret-window--"'Tis Clare! 'tis Clare!"--Garden-wall, six feet
high--Love is rash--Scale the wall--Great house-dog at home--Pins Tom by
the calf--Old Hunk's roused--Fire! thieves! guns, swords, and
rushlights--Tom caught--Murder, burglary--Station-house, gaol,
justice--Fudge!--Pretty mess--Heigho!--'Oh! 'tis love,' &c.--Sweet
Clare Grey!--Seven pages of sentiment--Lame leg, light purse, heavy
heart--Pshaw!--Never mind--

[Illustration: "THINGS MAY TAKE ANOTHER TURN"]

VOL. II.

"Adieu, my native land," &c.--D.I.O.--"We part to meet again"--Death or
glory--Red coat--Laurels and rupees in view--Vows of constancy, eternal
truth, &c--Tom swells the brine with tears--Clare wipes her eyes
in cambric--Alas!

alack! oh! ah!--Fond hearts, doomed to part--Cruel fate!--Ten pages,
poetry, romance, &c. &c.--Tom in battle--Cut, slash, dash--Sabres,
rifles--Round and grape in showers--Hot work--Charge!--Whizz--Bang!--Flat
as a Flounder--Never say die--Peace--Sweet sound--Scars, wounds,
wooden leg, one arm, and one eye--Half-pay--Home--Huzza!--Swift
gales--Post-horses--Love, hope, and Clare Grey--
[Illustration: "I'D BE A BUTTERFLY," &c.]

VOL. III.

"Here we are!"--At home once more--Old friends and old faces--Must be
changed--Nobody knows him--Church bells ringing--Inquire cause--(?)--Wedding--Clare
Grey to Job Snooks, the old pawnbroker--Brain whirls--Eyes start
from sockets--Devils and hell--Clare Grey, the fond, constant, Clare,
a jilt?--Can't be--No go--Stump up to church--Too true--Clare just made
Mrs. Snooks--Madness!! rage!!! death!!!!--Tom's crutch at work--Snooks
floored--Bridesman settled--Parson bolts--Clerk mizzles--Salts and
shrieks--Clare in a swoon--Pa' in a funk--Tragedy speech--Love!
vengeance! and damnation!--Half an ounce of laudanum--Quick
speech--Tom unshackles his wooden pin--Dies like a hero--Clare pines
in secret--Hops the twig, and goes to glory in white muslin--Poor
Tom and Clare! they now lie side by side, beneath
[Illustration: "A WEEPING WILL-OH!"]
* * * * *

LESSONS IN PUNMANSHIP.

We have been favoured with the following announcement from Mr. Hood,
which we recommend to the earnest attention of our subscribers:--

MR. T. HOOD, PROFESSOR OF PUNMANSHIP,
Begs to acquaint the dull and witless, that he has established a
class for the acquirement of an elegant and ready style of punning,
on the pure Joe-millerian principle.

The very worst hands are improved in six short and mirthful lessons. As
a specimen of his capability, he begs to subjoin two conundrums by
Colonel Sibthorpe.

COPY.

"The following is a specimen of my punning _before_ taking six lessons of
Mr. T. Hood:--
"Q. Why is a fresh-plucked carnation like a certain _cold_ with which
children are affected?

"A. Because it's _a new pink off_ (an hooping-cough).

"This is a specimen of my punning _after_ taking six lessons of Mr.
T. Hood:--
"Q. Why is the difference between pardoning and thinking no more of an
injury the same as that between a selfish and a generous man?

"A. Because the one is _for-getting_ and the other _for-giving_."
N.B. Gentlemen who live by their wits, and diners-out in particular,
will find Mr. T. Hood's system of incalculable service.

Mr. H. has just completed a large assortment of jokes, which will be
suitable for all occurrences of the table, whether dinner or tea. He has
also a few second-hand _bon mots_ which he can offer a bargain.

*** A GOOD LAUGHER WANTED.

* * * * *
A SYNOPSIS OF VOTING, ARRANGED ACCORDING TO THE CATEGORIES OF "CANT."

There hath been long wanting a full and perfect Synopsis of Voting,
it being a science which hath become exceedingly complicated. It
is necessary, therefore, to the full development of the art, that
it be brought into such an exposition, as that it may be seen in a
glance what are the modes of bribing and influencing in Elections.
The briber, by this means, will be able to arrange his polling-books
according to the different categories, and the bribed to see in
what class he shall most advantageously place himself.
It is true that there be able and eloquent writers greatly experienced
in this noble science, but none have yet been able so to express
it as to bring it (as we hope to have done) within the range of the
certain sciences. Henceforward, we trust it will form a part of the
public education, and not be subject tot he barbarous modes pursued
by illogical though earnest and zealous disciples; and that the
great and glorious Constitution that has done so much to bring it
to perfection, will, in its turn, be sustained and matured by the
exercise of what is really in itself so ancient and beautiful a
practice.

VOTING MAY BE CONSIDERED AS
1st. He that hath NOT A VOTE AND VOTETH; which may be considered,
1st. As to his CLAIM, which is divisible into 1. He that voteth for
dead men.
2. He that voteth for empty tenements.
3. He that voteth for many men.
4. He that voteth for men in the country, and the like.
2nd. As to his MOTIVE, which is divisible into 1. Because he hath
a bet that he will vote.
2. Because he loveth a lark.
3. Because he LOVETH HIS COUNTRY.
[Here also may be applied all the predicates under the subjects
BRIBING, HUMBUG, and PRINCIPLE.]
2nd. He that hath A VOTE AND VOTETH NOT; which is divisible into
1st. He that is PREVENTED from voting, which is divisible into 1.
He who is upset by a bribed coachman.
2. He who is incited into an assault, that he may be put into the
cage.
3. He who is driven by a drunken coachman many miles the wrong
way.
4. He who is hocussed.
5. He who is sent into the country for a holiday, and the like.
2nd. He that FORFEITETH his vote, which is divisible into 1. He who
is too great a philosopher to care for his country.
2. He who has not been solicited.
3. He who drinketh so that he cannot go to the poll.
4. He who is too drunk to speak at the poll.
5. He who through over-zeal getteth his head broken.
6. He who stayeth to finish the bottle, and is too late, and the
like.
3rd. He that hath A VOTE AND VOTETH; which is divisible into 1st.Yet, in spite of the indomitable courage of the citizens and the
efficient labor of the public officers and the utility companies, an
enormous amount of work remained. Virtually every bank in San Francisco
had to be rebuilt. Only the Market Street National Bank was left nearly
undamaged. An official list of the condition of the school buildings
throughout the city showed that twenty-nine school buildings were
destroyed and that forty-four were partially, at least, spared. Many
of the latter were so damaged that they had to be either pulled down or
thoroughly repaired, and arrangements were made to resume the short
term in tents erected in the parks, where thousands of the homeless had
already found temporary shelter. With these two vital classes of public
institutions prepared to care for the demands about to be made on them,
confidence was not lacking in other parts. Most of the foundries and
factories near the water front and south of Market Street immediately
called in all their employees and began to clear away the wreckage
and make ready for continuing business. Great credit is due to the
newspapers, nearly all of which continued their daily issues without
interruption, although their buildings, with offices and printing
plants, were entirely destroyed by the flames which followed the
earthquake. Those whose premises were early threatened with destruction
betook themselves to Oakland, seven miles distant across the bay, and
published their sheets from the establishments of the Oakland papers. A
thorough inspection shows that comparatively little damage was done in
the vicinity of the Cliff. The Cliff House, which was at first reported
to have been hurled into the sea, not only stood, but the damage
sustained by it from the earthquake was slight. The famous Sutro baths,
located near the Cliff House, with the hundreds of thousands of square
feet of glass roofing, also were practically unharmed. Only a few of
the windows in the Sutro baths and the Cliff House were broken, and
the lofty chimney of the pumping plant of the former establishment
was cracked only a trifle. When the situation was finally summed
up, however, nearly three-fourths of the city had to be rebuilt or
remodeled, and the cost of doing this was enough to appal the strongest
hearts.

Financially the prospect was encouraging. Not a bank lost the contents
of its fireproof vaults and remained practically unharmed, so far as
credit was concerned.

For a number of days it was impossible to open any strong boxes on
account of the great heat which the thick walls retained, and this
naturally caused some embarrassment and lack of ready money. Nearly all
of them, however, had strong connections in Eastern cities and large
balances to their credit in other banks of America and Europe. They
were also favored by the fact that the United States Mint and the
Sub-Treasury held between them some $245,000,000 in ready money. The
Secretary of the Treasury immediately deposited $10,000,000 to the
credit of the local banks, and financiers of the great business centres
of the country added to public confidence by prompt statements that they
would facilitate the reconstruction of the city by a liberal advancement
of funds.

One prominent Eastern capitalist expressed the general conviction in the
following words:

"No great city, unless it dried up entirely from lack of commercial life
blood, was ever annihilated by such a disaster as that of San Francisco.
Pompeii and Herculaneum were not great cities in the first place, and in
the second, they were completely covered, smothered as it were, with the
ashes and molten lava of the adjoining volcano, and nearly all of
their inhabitants perished. If it be admitted that three-fourths of the
superstructures, so to speak, of San Francisco, estimated according to
valuation, is destroyed, we have yet the fact remaining that the lives
of only about one four-hundredth of its population have been lost.

"San Francisco was not merely land and the buildings erected upon
it, but it was people, and one of the most active, most hopeful, most
vivacious human communities on the face of the earth. You cannot long
discourage such a community, unless you wipe out three-fourths of
its members. Will San Francisco rise again? Most certainly it will.
Galveston and Baltimore, not to mention Charleston, Boston and Chicago,
showed the spirit of material resurrection in American communities,
sore-smitten by calamity. After Galveston had been made a desert of sand
and debris, there were predictions that it would never rise again. What
was the outcome? A finer Galveston than before, and finer than many
years of slow improvement in the natural course would have made it.
Baltimore is busier commercially than it was before the great fire.

"San Francisco is exceedingly fortunate in the fact that its moneyed
institutions remain strong, with abundant supplies of funds. It is
true that many of them undoubtedly hold large numbers of real estate
mortgages as securities for loans, and that much of the property thus
represented is now in ashes. But with care and an accommodating spirit
practically all of those mortgaged can be so nursed that they will be
made absolutely good. The banks will be found to be only too eager to
afford new loans which will enable realty owners to rebuild. You will
see San Francisco rise a more splendid city than ever, and better
prepared to resist future earthquake shocks. Because it has had this
dreadful visitation is no reason for apprehension that another like it
will come within the life of the present generation, or two or three
after. The destruction of Lisbon in the middle of the eighteenth
century and its subsequent immunity from seismic damage is a reassuring
example."

The municipality was in excellent financial condition to meet and rise
above the extraordinary needs of the situation. It had a bonded debt
of only $4,245,100, while its realty valuation was $402,127,261 and
its personalty $122,258,406. The question of issuing further amounts
of bonds was therefore one of the first measures considered by Mayor
Schmitz and his co-workers, and an appeal was made to the Federal
Government to guarantee the proposed loans, so that the most urgent work
which lay in the city's province could be undertaken at once and without
an excessive burden of interest.

The vast insurance loss was divided among 107 companies, and, though
only a little more than half the damage was covered by policies, the
total swelled toward the colossal sum of $150,000,000. Several of the
largest companies were seriously crippled by the disaster and some were
forced into liquidation. To the great relief of the entire country,
nevertheless, the financial situation was not severely affected, and
there was every reason to believe that the great bulk of the insurance
would be paid.


CHAPTER XIV.

The Earthquake Wave Felt Round the Earth.


The outbreak of earth forces at San Francisco did not stand alone. There
were others elsewhere at nearly the same time, the whole seeming to
indicate a general disturbance in the interior of the earth's crust.
Some scientists, indeed, declared that no possible connection could
exist between the eruption of Mount Vesuvius and the earthquake at San
Francisco, but others were inclined to view certain facts in regard to
recent seismic and volcanic activity as, to say the least, suggestive.

As to the actual cause of the California earthquake, the wisest
confession we can make is that of ignorance, there being almost as
little known as to the origin, period and coming of earthquakes as when
Pliny wrote 1,800 years ago. The Roman observer knew that the tremor
passed like a wave through the surface of the earth; he knew that it
had a given direction, and he knew that certain regions were rife with
seismic disturbance. More he could not say, and when this is said all
has been said that is known to-day.

Setting aside these general considerations, let us return to the
question of the disaster at San Francisco on that fatal morning of April
18th. The shock did not come unexpectedly. A month previous there had
been a severe earthquake in the Island of Formosa, and many lives were
lost there, while an enormous amount of damage was done. Only a few days
before the event in San Francisco there was another earthquake in the
same island. Still greater havoc was caused by it than by the earthquake
in March, but fewer lives were lost, the reason being that the people
were warned in time. Early in April the eruption of Mount Vesuvius
reached its height and devastated the country around the volcano,
covering an enormous territory with ashes, and caused the loss of
hundreds of lives.

On Tuesday night, April 17th, word was received from Piatigorsk,
Circassia, that there had been two severe earthquake shocks the previous
day in Northern Caucasia. The same night a telegram from Madrid said
that the newspapers there reported that the long-dormant volcano on
Palma, the largest of the Canary Islands, was showing signs of eruption,
columns of smoke issuing from the crater.


WIDESPREAD EARTH TREMORS.


While scientists as a rule doubt that there was any connection between
these volcanic phenomena and the earthquake at San Francisco, yet
reports from the Mount Weather observation station in Virginia, a few
miles from Washington, show that the eruptions of Vesuvius acted on
the magnetic instruments by electro-magnetic waves in such a way as
to disturb the electrical potentials at that place. Be this as it may,
there is one remarkable circumstance in regard to all this activity. All
the places mentioned--Formosa, Southern Italy, Caucasia, and the Canary
Islands--lie within a belt bounded by lines a little north of the
fortieth parallel and a little south of the thirtieth parallel. San
Francisco is just south of the fortieth parallel, while Naples is just
north of it. The latitude of Calabria, where the terrible earthquakes
occurred in 1905, is the same as that of the territory affected by the
recent earthquake in the United States. This may or may not have some
bearing on the question.

Whatever be thought of all this, one thing is certain, the earthquake
which laid San Francisco in ruins was felt the world over, wherever
there were instruments in position to detect and record it. The
seismograph in the government observatory at Washington showed that
the first wave, on April 18th, came at 8.19--equivalent to 5.19 at San
Francisco; that at 8.25 there was a stronger wave motion, and that from
8.32 to 8.35 the recording pen was carried off the paper. The vibrations
did not entirely cease until 12.35 P. M., during this period there
having been nearly half an inch of to and fro motion in the surface of
the earth.


RECORDS OF FOREIGN OBSERVATIONS.


From far away New Zealand, on the same date, the government seismograph
at the capital, Wellington, recorded seismic waves that apparently
passed round the earth five times at intervals of about four hours each.

Across the Atlantic, at Heidelberg, in Germany, the records showed
vibrations lasting one hour. At Sarayevo, in Bosnia, there was a sharp
shock at 11 A. M., undulating from west to east. At Funfkirchen, in
Hungary, at Laibach, in Austria, in the Isle of Wight, off the coast
of England, and all through Italy, from north to south, the shocks were
felt.

At Hancock, Mich., a shock was felt on April 19th a mile below the
surface in the Quincy mine of such severity that one man was killed and
four injured by a fall of rock loosened by the trembling of the earth.
There is no evidence, however, that this had any connection with the
California disaster, the dates not coinciding.

Turning to the Far East, across the Pacific, seismographs in the
Imperial University of Tokio showed that the earthquake was felt there
eleven minutes later than in San Francisco, and similar instruments in
Manila detected the arrival of the seismic waves twenty minutes after
the San Francisco shock. In this there was a slight difference in time
compared with Tokio, but, considering the distance, near enough to prove
that the disturbances came from the same source.

Not until the day following was any noticeable disturbance felt in
Honolulu, but on April 19th shocks were plainly felt for six minutes and
the water in the harbor rose rapidly. Panic seemed imminent just before
the shocks subsided. While earthquakes are by no means infrequent in
these islands, this was more severe than any recorded in recent years,
causing buildings to sway to and fro and partly demolishing some of
frail construction.

If, as the majority of men qualified to discuss earthquakes seem to
think, the San Francisco earthquake had no connection with volcanic
action, but was caused by what is technically known as a "fault" in the
formation of the crust of the earth, it seems easy enough to account
for these wave motions travelling round the earth. How widely this may
really have made itself felt it is not possible to say. Several of the
great earthquakes in Japan have been recorded in the seismographs of
the observatories on every continent and in Australia, showing that in
severe disturbances of this kind the whole surface strata quiver, alike
under the oceans and over the continents and islands. At the time of a
shock, of course, half of the world is in darkness and asleep. This is
taken to account for the fact that so far only a few observatories have
reported catching the San Francisco vibrations.

The instruments invented for the recording of the motions of the
earth's crust are looked upon by scientists as the most delicate of all
machines. So highly sensitive are they, indeed, that the very slightest
vibratory motion is recorded perfectly. Even the tread of feet cannot
escape this instrument if sufficient to cause a vibration.

There are three classes of instruments for the automatic recording
of earth tremors, each with its own particular function. First is the
seismoscope, which will merely detect and record the fact that there
has been such a tremor. Some of these are so equipped as to indicate the
time of the disturbance.

Second, is the seismometer, the function of which is to measure the
maximum force of the shock, either with or without an indication of its
direction. The third instrument is the seismograph, which is so arranged
that it will accurately record the number, succession, direction,
amplitude and period of successive oscillations. This last instrument is
by far the most delicate of the three.

In the construction of this earthquake recording machine the maker must
so suspend a heavy body that when its normal position is disturbed in
the most infinitesimal degree no reactionary force will be developed
tending to restore it to its original position. The inventor has never
been found who could accomplish this suspension of a body to perfection.
The seismograph of to-day, however, has reached a stage of perfection
where close approximations are obtained in the records made.


CHAPTER XV.

Vesuvius Devastates the Region of Naples.


We have in other chapters described the terrible work of Mount Vesuvius
in the past, from the far-off era of the destruction of Pompeii down to
the end of the last century. There comes before us now another frightful
eruption, one of the greatest in its history, that of 1906. For thirty
years before this outbreak the mighty volcano had been comparatively
quiet, rarely ceasing, indeed, to smoke and fume, but giving little
indication of the vast forces buried in its heart. It showed some
sympathy with Mont Pelee in 1902, and continued restless after that
time, but it was not until about the middle of February, 1906, that it
became threatening, lava beginning to overflow from the crater and make
its lurid way down the mountain's side.

It was in the middle of the first week of April that these indications
rose to the danger point, the flow of lava suddenly swelling from a
rivulet to a river, pouring in a gleaming flood over the crater's rim,
and meeting the other streams that came streaming down the volcano's
rugged flank. While this went on the mountain remained comparatively
quiet, there being no explosions, though a huge cloud of volcanic ash
and cinders rose high in the air until it hung over the crater in the
shape of an enormous pine tree, while from it a shower of dust and sand,
soon to become terrible, began to descend upon the surrounding fields
and towns.

Dangerous as is Vesuvius at any time, the people of the vicinity dare
its perils for the allurement of its fertile soil. A ring of populous
villages encircles it, flourishing vineyards and olive groves extend
on all sides, and the hand of industry does not hesitate to attack its
threatening flanks. The intervals between its death-dealing throes are
so long that the peasants are always ready to dare destruction for the
hope of winning the means of life from its soil.


THE RIVERS OF LAVA.


All this locality was now a field of terror and death. Down on the
vineyards and villages poured the smothering ashes in an ever increasing
rain; toward them slowly and threateningly crawled the fiery serpents
of the lava streams; and from their homes fled thousands of the
terror-stricken people, frantic with horror and dismay. A number of
populous villages were threatened by the lurid lava streams, the most
endangered being Bosco Trecase, with its 10,000 inhabitants. Toward this
devoted town poured steadily the irresistible flood of molten rock. The
soldiers who had been hurried to the front sought to divert its flow by
digging a wide ditch across its course and throwing up a high bank of
earth, but they worked in vain. The demon of destruction was not to be
robbed of its prey. The liquid stream advanced like a colossal serpent
of fire, turning its head like a crawling snake to the right and left,
but keeping steadily on toward the fated town. The ditch was filled; the
bank gave way; the first house was reached and burst into flames; the
creeping stream of fire pushed on to the next houses in its way; only
then did the despairing people desert their homes and flee for their
lives, carrying with them the little they could snatch of their
treasured possessions.

F. Marion Crawford, the novelist, who was present at this scene, thus
describes the flight of the terrified people:

"I saw men, women and children and infants, whose mothers carried them
at the breast or in their aprons, fleeing in an endless procession.
Dogs, too, and cats were on the carts, and sometimes even chickens, tied
together by the legs, and piles of mattresses and pillows and shapeless
bundles of clothes. All were white with dust. Under the lurid glare I
saw one old woman lying on her back across a cart, ghastly white and,
if not dead already of fear and heat and suffocation, certainly almost
gone. We ourselves could hardly breathe."

It was on Saturday, the 7th, that Bosco Trecase became the prey of the
river of molten rock. During that night and the following day the crisis
of the eruption came. The observatory on the mountain side was occupied
by Professor Matteucci, his assistant, Professor Perret, of New York,
and two domestics, all others having been sent away. Their description
of the scene in which they found themselves is vividly picturesque. At
midnight the situation in the observatory was terrible. The forces
of the earthquake were let loose and the ground rocked so that it
was almost impossible to stand. The roaring of the main crater was
deafening, while the volcano poured forth its contents like a fountain,
and the electric display was terrifying, constant claps of thunder
following the lurid flashes of lightning, which gave the sky a blood-red
hue.

Shortly after three o'clock in the morning the explosive energy of the
mighty mass culminated. The whole cone burst open with a tremendous
earthquake shock, from the heart of the recently silent mountain came a
deafening roar, and red-hot rocks, like the balls from nature's mighty
artillery, were hurled a half mile into the air, while a dense mass of
ashes and sand was flung to three or four times this height. All the
next day the terrible detonation kept up, and a hail of bullet-like
stones poured downward from the skies. Rarely has a more terrible Sunday
been seen. It was as if the demons of earth and air were let loose and
were seeking to destroy man and his puny works.


THE CRISIS OF THE ERUPTION.


This frightful explosion of the 8th of April was the worst of the
dreadful display of volcanic forces, but the work kept up with
diminishing intensity much of the following week. The ashes and cinders
continued to pour down in suffocating showers, covering the ground to
a depth of four or five feet in the vicinity of the volcano and to a
considerable depth at Naples, ten miles away. The sun disappeared
behind the thick cloud that filled the air, and the scene resembled that
described by Pliny more than eighteen hundred years before.

Of Bosco Trecase nothing was left but the large stone church and a few
houses. Another river of lava reached the outskirts of Torre del Greco,
and a third stopped at the cemetery of Torre Annunziata. Those towns
escaped, but thousands of acres of fertile cultivated land, with farm
houses and stock, were destroyed. The peninsular railway up the mountain
was ruined and the large hotel burned. One writer tells the following
tale of what he saw on that fatal Saturday and Sunday:

"On the road I met hundreds of families in flight, carrying their few
miserable possessions. The spectacle of collapsing carts and fainting
women was frequently seen. When one reached the lava stream a stupefying
spectacle presented itself. From a point on the mountain between the
towns I saw four rivers of molten fire, one of which, 200 feet wide
and over 40 deep, was moving slowly and majestically onward, devouring
vineyards and olive groves. I witnessed the destruction of a farm house
enveloped on three sides by lava. Immediately overhead the great crater
was belching incandescent rock and scoria for an incredible distance.
The whole scene was wreathed with flames, and a perpetual roar was
heard. Ever and anon the cone of the volcano was encircled with vivid
electric phenomena, amid which a downpour of liquid fire on all sides of
the crater was revealed in magnificent awfulness. In the evening there
was a frightful shock of earthquake, which was repeated at two o'clock
on Sunday morning. Simultaneously the lava streams redoubled their
onrush, and men, women and children fled precipitately toward the sea.
The lava had invaded the road behind them."


A REIGN OF TERROR.


The great loss of life was due to the vast fall of ashes, which crushed
in hundreds of roofs and buried the occupants within the ruins of their
homes. In all the neighboring towns buildings were destroyed in great
numbers, an early estimate being that fully 5,000 houses had been partly
crushed or utterly destroyed. On the Ottajano side of the mountain,
where the ashes fell in greatest profusion, all the houses of the
villages were damaged, and Ottajano itself was left a wreck, several
hundred dead bodies being taken from its ruins. In Naples the ash fall
was so incessant that those who could afford it wore automobile coats,
caps and goggles, while the people generally sought to save their
eyes and faces by the aid of paper masks and umbrellas. The drivers of
trolley cars were obliged to wear masks of some transparent material
under the vizors of their caps.


DISASTERS AT SAN GIUSEPPE AND NAPLES.


There were two special disasters attended by serious loss of life. On
the 9th, while a congregation of two hundred or more were attending mass
in the church at San Giuseppe, the roof crushed in from the weight of
ashes upon it and fell upon the worshippers below, few or none of whom
escaped unhurt. Fifty-four dead bodies were taken from the ruins and a
large number were severely injured. The Mayor of the town was dismissed
from his office for leaving his post of duty in the face of danger.

The second disaster, one of the same character, took place at Naples.
This was on Tuesday, April 10th. Just previous to it the people had been
marching in religious processions through the streets, to render thanks
for the apparent cessation of the activity of Vesuvius. Motley but
picturesque processions were these, headed by boys carrying candles,
which burned simply in the full sunshine and bearing aloft images of the
Madonna or saints, clad in gorgeous robes of cheap blue or yellow
satin. Their joy was suddenly changed to grief by tidings of a frightful
disaster. The roof of the Monte Oliveto market, fronting on the Toledo,
the main thoroughfare, had suddenly crushed in, burying more than 200
people beneath its heavy fall.

The market had been crowded with buyers and their children, and it was
the busiest hours of the day in the great roofed courtyard, covering a
space 600 feet square, when, with scarcely a tremor of warning, there
came a frightful crash and a dense cloud of dust covered the scene, from
out of which came heartrending screams of agony. The volcanic ash which,
unnoticed, had gathered thickly on the roof, had broken it in by its
weight.

The news set the people frantic with grief and indignation. They
insisted that the authorities knew that the roof was unsafe and had
neglected their duty. Cursing and screaming in their intense excitement,
they surrounded the market, endeavoring with frantic haste to remove the
heavy beams from beneath which came the appealing calls for help, many
of the rescuers sobbing aloud as they worked. It required a large force
of police and soldiers to keep them back and permit the firemen and
other trained workers to carry on more systematically the work of
relief. Twelve persons proved to have been killed, two fatally injured,
twenty-four seriously hurt and over a hundred badly bruised and cut.
Among these were many children, whose parents had sent them to do the
marketing without a dream of danger, and the grief of the parents was
intense. The Duke of Aosta, Prefect of Naples, directed the work of
rescue, while his wife assisted in the care of the injured. As the
Duchess bent in the hospital to give a cooling drink to a badly bruised
little girl she felt a kiss upon her hand. Looking down, she saw a woman
kneeling at her feet, who gratefully said: "Your Excellency, she is all
I have. I am a widow. May God reward you."

While this scene of horror was taking place in Naples the fate of the
town and villages grouped around the foot of the volcano seemed as
hopeless as ever. Early on the 10th the showers of ashes and streams
of lava diminished and almost ceased, but later the same day they began
again, and the terrified inhabitants feared that a catastrophe like that
which buried Pompeii and Herculaneum was about to visit them. The lava
which reached the cemetery of Torre Annunziata turned in the direction
of Pompeii as if to freshly entomb that exhumed city of the past. A
violent storm of sulphurous rain fell at San Giuseppe, Vesuviana and
Sariano, and on all sides the fall of sand and ashes came on again in
full strength. Even with the sun shining high in the heavens the light
was a dim yellow, in the midst of which the few persons who still
haunted the stricken towns moved about in the awful stillness of
desolation like gray ghosts, their clothing, hair and beards covered
with ashes.


THE ERUPTION RESUMED.


A typical case was that of Torre del Greco. Though for thirty hours
the place had been deserted, a few ghostly figures could be seen
at intervals when the vivid flashes of lightning illuminated the
gloom-covered scene, wandering desolately about, hungry and thirsty,
their throats parched by smoke and dust, yet unable to tear themselves
away from the ruins of their late comfortable homes.

So deep was the ash fall that railway or tramway travel to the inner
circle of towns was impossible, and the great depth of fallen dust
choked the roads so as to render travel by carriage or on foot very
difficult. A party of officials made a tour of inspection by automobile,
visiting a number of the town, but were prevented by the state of the
roads from reaching others. Ottajano was thus cut off from travel, and
a heavy fall of ashes followed the officials in their retreat. At Bosco
Trecase the lava had gathered into a lake, already growing solid on top,
but a mass of liquid rock beneath.

The lava carried vast masses of burnt stone and sulphur on its surface,
like dross on melted lead, and nothing was visible toward Bosco
Trecase but endless acres of dark scoriae, broken here and there by the
greenish, curling smoke of sulphur. At one point a great cone pine tree,
torn up by its roots and turned to black charcoal, stuck out of the mass
at a sharp angle. The air was almost unbearable, the heat intense, and
few could long bear the dangers and discomfort of the situation.


SCENES OF HORROR.


The greatest depth of ashes encountered was in the vicinity of Ottajano.
Here large areas were buried to a depth of several feet. Soldiers had
been sent there with military carts, carrying provisions and surgical
appliances, with orders to lend their aid in the work of relief. They
found it almost impossible to make their way through the deep fine dust,
and the tales of horror and heroism they had to tell resembled those
that must of old have been borne to Rome by the fleeing inhabitants of
Pompeii.

Efforts were made to remove the children and old persons in the carts,
but when these had gone a few hundred feet it was found that, although
there were four horses harnessed to each vehicle, they could not pull
their loads through the ashes. This caused a panic among the children,
who expected to be buried in the incessant fall from the volcano, and
they fled in all directions in the darkness and blinding rain. Searching
parties went after them, but in spite of continuous shouting and calling
no trace was found of the little ones, and numbers of the children were
undoubtedly smothered by the ashes and sand.

Many of the inhabitants had been buried in the ruins of their houses,
and the scenes when the victims were unearthed were often piteous and
terrible. The positions of the bodies showed that the victims had died
while in a state of great terror, the faces being convulsed with fear.
Three bodies were found in a confessional of one of the fallen churches.
One body was that of an old woman who was sitting with her right arm
raised as though to ward off the advancing danger. The second was that
of a child about eight years old. It was found dead in a position, which
would indicate that the child had fallen with a little dog close to it
and had died with one arm raised across its face, to protect itself
and pet from the crumbling ruins. The third body, that of a woman, was
reduced to an unrecognizable mass. These three victims were reverently
laid side by side while a procession of friends and relatives offered up
prayers beside them.

One soldier rode his horse through the ashes reaching up to its flanks,
calling out, "Who wants help?" He was rewarded by hearing a woman's
voice reply in weak tones and, springing from his horse, he floundered
through the ashes to the ruined walls of a house from which the voice
seemed to come. As he made his way through the soft, treacherous
layer of scoriae which surrounded the destroyed habitation, and with
difficulty worked his way toward the building the soldier shouted
words of encouragement and, climbing over a heap of ruins and braving a
toppling wall, entered the building. In the cellar he found the bodies
of three children. Near them was a woman, barely alive, who by almost
superhuman efforts for hours had succeeded in freeing herself from a
mass of debris which had fallen upon her. The soldier picked the woman
up in his arms and carried her to a place of safety. It was found that
both legs were broken and that she had been badly crushed about the
body.

Some extraordinary escapes from death took place. A man and his
four children were rescued after having been lost in the ash-covered
wilderness for fifty-six hours. They were terribly exhausted, and were
reduced almost to skeletons.

Robert Underwood Johnson, one of the editors of the "Century Magazine",
who happened to be in Rome at the time of the eruption, made one of a
party who ventured as near the scene of destruction as they could safely
approach. From his graphic story of his experiences we copy some of the
most interesting details.


AN AMERICAN OBSERVER.


"We caught a train for Torre Annunziata, three miles this side of
Pompeii and two miles from the southern end of the wedge of lava which
destroyed Bosco Trecase. We had a magnificent view of the eruption,
eight miles away. Rising at an angle of fifty degrees, the vast mass of
tumult roundness was beautifully accentuated by the full moon, shifting
momentarily into new forms and drifting south in low, black clouds of
ashes and cinders reaching to Capri. At Torre del Greco we ran under
this terrifying pall, apparently a hundred feet above, the solidity of
which was soon revealed in the moonlight. The torches of the railway
guards added to the effect, but greatly relieved the sulphurous
darkness.

"We reached Torre Annunziata at three in the morning. There was little
suggestion of a disaster as we trudged through the sleeping town to the
lava, two miles away. The brilliant moon gave us a superb view of the
volcano, a gray-brown mass rising, expanding and curling in with a
profile like a monstrous cyclopean face. But nothing in mythology gives
a suggestion of the fascination of this awful force, presenting the
sublime beauty above, but in its descent filled with the mysterious
malignance of God's underworld.

"We reached the lava at a picturesque cypress-planted cemetery on
the northern boundary of Torre Annunziata. It was as if the dead had
effectually cried out to arrest the crushing river of flames which
pitilessly engulfed the statue of St. Anne with which the people of
Bosco Reale tried to stay it, as at Catania the veil of St. Agathe is
said to have stayed a similar stream from Mount Etna.

"We climbed on the lava. It was cool above but still alive with fire
below. We could see dimly the extent of the destruction beyond the
barrier of brown which had enclosed the streets, torn down the houses,
invaded the vineyards and broken Cook's railways. A better idea of the
surroundings was obtained at dawn from the railway. We saw north what
was left of Bosco Trecase--a great, square stone church and a few houses
inland in a sea of dull, brown lava. North and east rose a thousand
patches of blue smoke like swamp miasma. All was dull and desolate slag,
with nowhere the familiar serpentine forms of the old lava streams. In
terrible contrast with the volcanic evidences were strong cypresses and
blooming camelias in a neighboring cemetery.

"We ate a hasty luncheon before sunrise, when the great beauty of the
scene was revealed. The column now seemed higher and more massive,
rising to three times the height of Vesuvius. Each portion had a
concentric motion and new aspects. The south edges floating toward the
sea showed exquisite curved surfaces, due to the upper moving current.
It was like the decoration of the side of a great sarcophagus. As a
yellow dust hangs over Naples and hides the volcano, I count myself
fortunate to have seen all day from leeward this spectacle of changing,
undiminishing beauty.

"The wedge of cultivated land ruined east of the volcano extended at
least ten miles, with a width of twenty or thirty miles. Fancy a rich
and thickly populated country of vineyards lying under three to six
inches of ashes and cinders of the color of chocolate with milk, while
above, to the west, the volcano in full activity is distributing to the
outer edges of the circle the same fate, and you will get an idea of the
desolate impression of the scene, a tragedy colossal and heartrending.
Like that of Calabria, it enlists the sympathy of the civilized world.
It takes time for such a calamity to be realized.

"Two miles below San Giuseppe we struck cinders which the soldiers
were shoveling, making a narrow road for the refugees. Our wagon driver
begged off from completing his contract to take us to San Giuseppe. We
had not the heart to insist, so the rest of the journey to the railway
at Palma, eight miles, was made laboriously on foot for three hours
through sliding cinders.

"In many places temporary shelters had been built by the roadside,
like children's playhouses. Here women were huddled with their bedding,
awaiting the coming of supplies which the army had begun to distribute.
The men were largely occupied with shoveling cinders from the stronger
roofs and floors into heaps three to six feet deep along the roadside.
Many two-wheeled carts loaded with salvage, drawn by donkeys or pushed
by peasants, were making their way along, the women with bundles on
their heads or carrying poultry.

"In the square of San Giuseppe was an encampment of soldiers, with low
tents. Near a destroyed church, in coarse yellow linen shrouds, were the
bodies of thirty-three of the persons who there lost their lives. The
peasants were sad, but uncomplaining; in fact, for so excitable a people
they were wonderfully calm. As evidence of the thrift and self-respect
of these, we were not once asked for alms during the afternoon."


THE KING AT THE FRONT.


The Italian Government did all it could at the moment to alleviate the
horrors of the situation, sending money to be expended in relief
work and dispatching high officials of the government to give aid and
encouragement by their presence. The King, Victor Emmanuel, and Queen
Helene reached the scene of destruction as early as possible and lent
their personal assistance to the work of rescue.

Obliged to leave his automobile, which could not move over the
cinder-choked road, the King went forward with difficulty on horseback,
the animal floundering through four feet of ashes, stumbling into holes,
and half blinded by the fall of dust and cinders.

"How did you escape?" he asked a priest whom he met in his journey.

"I put myself in safety," was the reply.

"What do you mean?" asked the King.

"Realizing the danger, I left Nola."

"What!" cried the King, with a flush of anger. "You, a minister of God,
were not here to share the danger of your people and administer the last
sacraments? You did very wrong and forgot your duty."

Reaching Ottejano, the King did what he could to expedite the work
of rescue at that central point of disaster, more than a hundred dead
bodies being taken from the ruins in his presence. He stood with set
pale face watching the removal of the victims and directing the movement
of the workers. During his visit at the front he inspected the temporary
camp hospitals, in which the soldiers were caring for the injured and
suffering, speaking to the poor victims, giving them what comfort he
could, and asking what he could do to relieve their distress. Every
request or desire was received with sympathy and orders given to have it
fulfilled.

A pitiful scene took place when the King bent over a poor man, whose
right leg had been amputated, and asked what he could do to comfort and
aid him in his affliction.

"Send me my son, who is serving as a soldier," said the maimed peasant.

The King, visibly affected, clasped the old man's hand and exclaimed:

"My poor fellow! I can do much, but to grant your request would mean
breaking the laws, which I must be the first to respect. I would give
anything I have were it possible by so doing to send your son to you,
but I cannot do so."

While the King was thus engaged at the scenes of desolation, Queen
Helene visited the charitable institutions at Naples and inspected the
places where the refugees were housed, doing what she could to improve
conditions and add to the comfort of the sufferers. The Princess of
Schleswig-Holstein, who was in Naples, made an automobile visit to the
afflicted towns, but the motor broke down, and she was forced to return
on foot, walking a distance of twelve miles through the ashes and
displaying a power of endurance that surprised the natives.


THE CANOPY OF DUST.


By Friday, April 13th, the eruption was practically at an end. Vesuvius
had spent itself in the enormous convulsion of the 7th and 8th and
the subsequent minor explosions and had returned to its normal state,
ceasing to give any signs of life, except the cloud of smoke which still
rose from its crater and spread like a thick curtain over and around the
mountain. Looked at from Naples, there was none of the familiar aspects
of the volcano, with its output of smoke and ashes by day and fiery
gleam by night. Now it lay buried in darkness and obscurity, clothed
in a dense pall of smoke. At Rome there was sunshine, but twenty miles
south hung a misty veil, and twenty-five miles above Naples a zone of
semi-obscurity began, blotting out the sun, whose light trickled through
with a sickly glare. Everything was whitened with powdery dust; pretty
white villas were daubed and dripping with mud, and people were busy
shoveling the ashes from their roofs.

The crowds at the stations resembled millers, their clothes flour
covered; the Campania presented the appearance of a Dakota prairie after
a blizzard of snow, though everything was gray instead of white. The
ashes lay in drifts knee deep. As the volcano was approached semi-night
replaced the day, the gloom being so deep that telegraph poles twenty
feet away could not be seen. Breathing was difficult, and the smoke made
the eyes water. At Naples, however, a favorable wind had cleared the air
of smoke, the sun shone brightly, and the versatile people were happy
once more. The goggles and eye-screens had disappeared, but the streets
were anything but comfortable, for some six thousand men were at work
clearing the ashes from the roofs and main streets and piling them in
the middle of the narrow streets, making the passage of vehicles very
difficult and the sidewalks far from comfortable for foot passengers.

But while brightness and joy reigned at Naples, there were gruesome
scenes within the volcanic zone. At Bosco Trecase soldiers carried on
the work of exhumation, being able to work only an hour at a time on
account of the advanced stage of decomposition of the bodies. Many of
these were shapeless, unrecognizable masses of flesh and bones, while
others were little disfigured. To lessen the danger of an epidemic the
bodies were buried as quickly as possible in quicklime.

On Sunday, the 15th, the searchers at Ottejano were surprised at finding
two aged women still alive, after six days' entombment in the ruins.
They were among those who had been buried by the falling walls a week
before. The rafters of the house had protected them, and a few morsels
of food in their pockets aided to keep them alive. At some points there
the ashes were ten feet deep. At San Giuseppe bodies of women were found
in whose hands were coins and jewels, and one woman held a jewelled
rosary. This recalls the results of exploration at Herculaneum and
Pompeii, where were similar instances of death overtaking the victims of
the volcano while fleeing with their jewels in their hands.

It is interesting to learn that two men stood heroically to their post
of duty during the whole scene of the explosion, Professor Matteucci,
Director of the Royal Observatory, and his American assistant, Professor
Frank A. Perret, of New York. Though the building occupied by them
was exposed to the full force of the rain of stones from the burning
mountain, they remained undauntedly at their post through that week of
terror. On the 14th some of that venturesome fraternity, the newspaper
correspondents, reached their eyrie on the highest habitable point on
Vesuvius and heard the story of their experiences.


THE HEROES OF THE OBSERVATORY.


For several days Professors Matteucci and Perret and their two servants
had been cut off from the outside world and bombarded by the volcano,
their rations consisting of bread, cheese and dried onions, until on
Friday a hardy guide was induced to push through to them with
some provisions. During the eruption the Professor had kept at his
instruments, taking observations day and night and making calculations
in the midst of the inferno. Roughly dressed, he looked like a Western
cowboy after a hard ride in a dust storm. The portico where he stood was
knee deep in ashes, and from the observatory terrace narrow paths had
been cut through the ashes, but as far as the eye could reach an ocean
of ashes and twisted rivers were alone visible, with Vesuvius rising
grimly in the midst. The great monster was enveloped in a cloak of
white, as if buried under a snowstorm, its surface being here and there
slit with gulches in which lava ran. At the bottom of one of those
gulches lay the wrecked remnants of the peninsular railway, a portion
of its twisted cable protruding through the ashes. As the correspondents
ascended the mountain they were surprised by the apparition of
natives, men wrinkled with age, who emerged from dugouts just below
the observatory and offered them milk and eggs, just as if they were
ordinary visitors to the volcano. As they descended they heard the
sound of a mandolin from one of these dugouts. Evidently Vesuvius had no
terrors for these case-hardened veterans.

We have already told the story gleaned by the correspondents from the
daring scientists. Matteucci completed his record of boldness on Friday,
the 13th, by climbing to a point far above the observatory, at the
imminent risk of his life, to observe the conditions then existing. From
what he says he believed the end of the disturbance near, though he did
not venture to predict. As for the ashes, which a light wind was then
blowing in a direction away from Naples, he said: "The ill wind is now
blowing good to other places, for ashes are the best fertilizer it is
possible to use. It is merely a question just now of having too much of
a good thing."

This is a fact so far as the volcanic ash is concerned. An examination
of the ashes a few days ago shows that they will prove an active and
valuable fertilizer. The fertile slopes of Vesuvius have ever been an
allurement to the vine-grower, four crops a year being a temptation no
possible danger could drive him from, and as soon as the mountain grows
surely peaceful after this eruption, we shall find its farmers risking
again the chance of its uncertain temper. But this is not the case with
the land covered with lava and cinders. Time for their disintegration
is necessary before they can be brought under cultivation, and this is
a matter of years. After the great eruption of 1871-72 the land covered
with cinders did not bear crops for seven years, and there is no reason
that they will do so sooner on the present occasion. So for years to
come much of the volcanic soil must remain a barren and desert void.


CHAPTER XVI.

The Great Lisbon and Calabrian Earthquakes.


To our account of the great earth convulsions of San Francisco it is in
place to append a description of some similar events of older date. It
is due to the same causes, whatever these causes may be, the imprisoned
forces within the earth acting over great distances during the
earthquake, while they are concentrated within some limited space when
the volcano begins its work. The earthquake is the most terrible to
mankind of all the natural agencies of destruction. While the volcano
usually has a greater permanent effect upon surface conditions, it is,
as a rule, much less destructive to human life, the earthquake often
shaking down cities and burying all their inhabitants in one common
grave. Violent earthquakes are also of far more frequent occurrence than
destructive volcanic eruptions, many hundreds of them having taken place
during the historic period.

While the earthquake is only indirectly connected with the subject of
our work, it seems desirable to make some mention of it here, at least
so far as relates to those terrible convulsions whose destructiveness
has given them special prominence in the history of great disasters.
Ancient notable examples are those which threw down the famous Colossus
of Rhodes and the Pharos of Alexandria. The city of Antioch was a
terrible sufferer from this affliction, it having been devastated some
time before the Christian era, while in the year 859 more than 15,000
of its houses were destroyed. Of countries subject to earthquakes, Japan
has been an especial sufferer, in some cases mountains or islands being
elevated in association with shocks; in others, great tracts of land
being swallowed up by the sea. The number of deaths in some of these
instances was enormous.

Numerous thrilling examples of the destructive work of the earthquake
at various periods are on record. Of these we have given elsewhere a
tabular list of the more important, and shall confine ourselves to a
few striking examples of its destructive action. In the record of great
earthquakes, one of the most famous is that which in 1755 visited the
city of Lisbon, the capital of Portugal, and left that populous, place
in ruin and dire distress. It may be well to recall the details of this
dire event to the memories of our readers.


THE GREAT LISBON EARTHQUAKE


On the night of the 31st of October, 1755, the citizens of the fair city
of Lisbon lay down to sleep, in merciful ignorance of what was awaiting
them on the morrow. The morning of the 1st of November dawned, and gave
no sign of approaching calamity. The sun rose in its brightness, the
warmth was genial, the breezes gentle, the sky serene. It was All
Saints' Day--a high festival of the Church of Rome. The sacred edifices
were thronged with eager crowds, and the ceremonies were in full
progress, when the assembled throngs were suddenly startled from their
devotions. From the ground beneath came fearful sounds that drowned
the peal of the organ and the voices of the choirs. These underground
thunders having rolled away, an awful silence ensued. The panic-stricken
multitudes were paralyzed with terror. Immediately after the ground
began to heave with a long and gentle swell, producing giddiness and
faintness among the people. The tall piles swayed to and fro, like
willows in the wind. Shrieks of horror rose from the terrified assembly.
Again the earth heaved, and this time with a longer and higher wave.
Down came the ponderous arches, the stately columns, the massive walls,
the lofty spires, tumbling upon the heads of priests and people. The
graven images, the deified wafers, and they who had knelt in adoration
before them--the worshipped and the worshippers alike--were in a moment
buried under one undistinguishable mass of horrible ruins. Only a few,
who were near the doors, escaped to tell the tale.

It fared no better with those who had remained in their dwellings. The
terrible earth-wave overthrew the larger number of the private houses in
the city, burying their inhabitants under the crumbling walls. Those who
were in the streets more generally escaped, though some there, too, were
killed by falling walls.

The sudden overthrow of so many buildings raised vast volumes of fine
dust, which filled the atmosphere and obscured the sun, producing a
dense gloom. The air was full of doleful sounds--the groans of agony
from the wounded and the dying, screams of despair from the horrified
survivors, wails of lamentation from the suddenly bereaved, dismal
howlings of dogs, and terrified cries of other animals.

In two or three minutes the clouds of dust fell to the ground, and
disclosed the scene of desolation which a few seconds had wrought. The
ruin, though general, was not universal. A considerable number of houses
were left standing--fortunately tenantless--for a third great earth-wave
traversed the city, and most of the buildings which had withstood the
previous shocks, already severely shaken, were entirely overthrown.


WATER ADDS TO THE DESTRUCTION


The last disaster filled the surviving citizens with the impulse of
flight. The more fortunate of them ran in the direction of the open
country, and succeeded in saving their lives; but a great multitude
rushed down to the harbor, thinking to escape by sea. Here, however,
they were met by a new and unexpected peril. The tide, after first
retreating for a little, came rolling in with an immense wave, about
fifty feet in height, carrying with it ships, barges and boats, and
dashing them in dire confusion upon the crowded shore. Overwhelmed
by this huge wave, great numbers were, on its retreat, swept into the
seething waters and drowned. A vast throng took refuge on a fine new
marble quay, but recently completed, which had cost much labor and
expense. This the sea-wave had spared, sweeping harmless by. But, alas!
it was only for a moment. The vast structure itself, with the whole of
its living burden, sank instantaneously into an awful chasm which opened
underneath. The mole and all who were on it, the boats and barges moored
to its sides, all of them filled with people, were in a moment ingulfed.
Not a single corpse, not a shred of raiment, not a plank nor a splinter
floated to the surface, and a hundred fathoms of water covered the
spot. To the first great sea-wave several others succeeded, and the bay
continued for a long time in a state of tumultuous agitation.

About two hours after the first overthrow of the buildings, a new
element of destruction came into play. The fires in the ruined houses
kindled the timbers, and a mighty conflagration, urged by a violent
wind, soon raged among the ruins, consuming everything combustible, and
completing the wreck of the city. This fire, which lasted four days, was
not altogether a misfortune. It consumed the thousands of corpses which
would otherwise have tainted the air, adding pestilence to the other
misfortunes of the survivors. Yet they were threatened with an enemy not
less appalling, for famine stared them in the face. Almost everything
eatable within the precincts of the city had been consumed. A set
of wretches, morever, who had escaped from the ruins of the prisons,
prowled among the rubbish of the houses in search of plunder, so that
whatever remained in the shape of provisions fell into their hands and
was speedily devoured. They also broke into the houses that remained
standing, and rifled them of their contents. It is said that many of
those who had been only injured by the ruins, and might have escaped by
being extricated, were ruthlessly murdered by those merciless villains.

The total loss of life by this terrible catastrophe is estimated at
60,000 persons, of whom about 40,000 perished at once, and the remainder
died afterwards of the injuries and privations they sustained. Twelve
hundred were buried in the ruins of the general hospital, eight hundred
in those of the civil prison, and several thousands in those of the
convents. The loss of property amounted to many millions sterling.


WIDE-SPREAD DESTRUCTION


Although the earth-wave traversed the whole city, the shock was felt
more severely in some quarters than in others. All the older part of the
town, called the Moorish quarter, was entirely overthrown; and of the
newer part, about seventy of the principal streets were ruined.
Some buildings that withstood the shocks were destroyed by fire. The
cathedral, eighteen parish churches, almost all the convents, the halls
of the inquisition, the royal residence, and several other fine palaces
of the nobility and mansions of the wealthy, the custom-houses, the
warehouses filled with merchandise, the public granaries filled with
corn, and large timber yards, with their stores of lumber, were either
overthrown or burned.

The king and court were not in Lisbon at the time of this great
disaster, but were living in the neighborhood at the castle of Belem,
which escaped injury. The royal family, however, were so alarmed by the
shocks, that they passed the following night in carriages out of
doors. None of the officers of state were with them at the time. On
the following morning the king hastened to the ruined city, to see what
could be done toward restoring order, aiding the wounded, and providing
food for the hungry.

The royal family and the members of the court exerted themselves to the
uttermost, the ladies devoting themselves to the preparation of lint and
bandages, and to nursing the wounded, the sick, and the dying, of whom
the numbers were overwhelming. Among the sufferers were men of quality
and once opulent citizens, who had been reduced in a moment to absolute
penury. The kitchens of the royal palace, which fortunately remained
standing, were used for the purpose of preparing food for the starving
multitudes. It is said that during the first two or three days a pound
of bread was worth an ounce of gold. One of the first measures of the
government was to buy up all the corn that could be obtained in the
neighborhood of Lisbon, and to sell it again at a moderate price, to
those who could afford to buy, distributing it gratis to those who had
nothing to pay.

For about a month afterward earthquake shocks continued, some of them
severe. It was several months before any of the citizens could summon
courage to begin rebuilding the city. But by degrees their confidence
returned. The earth had relapsed into repose, and they set about the
task of rebuilding with so much energy, that in ten years Lisbon again
became one of the most beautiful capitals of Europe.


CHARACTERISTICS OF THE LISBON EARTHQUAKE


The most distinguishing peculiarities of this earthquake were the
swallowing up of the mole, and the vast extent of the earth's surface
over which the shocks were felt. Several of the highest mountains in
Portugal were violently shaken, and rent at their summits; huge masses
falling from them into the neighboring valleys. These great fractures
gave rise to immense volumes of dust, which at a distance were mistaken
for smoke by those who beheld them. Flames were also said to have been
observed: but if there were any such, they were probably electrical
flashes produced by the sudden rupture of the rocks.

The portion of the earth's surface convulsed by this earthquake is
estimated by Humboldt to have been four times greater than the whole
extent of Europe. The shocks were felt not only over the Spanish
peninsula, but in Morocco and Algeria they were nearly as violent. At a
place about twenty-four miles from the city of Morocco, there is said
to have occurred a catastrophe much resembling what took place at the
Lisbon mole. A great fissure opened in the earth, and an entire village,
with all its inhabitants, upwards of 8,000 in number, were precipitated
into the gulf, which immediately closed over its prey.


EARTHQUAKES IN CALABRIA


Of the numerous other examples of destructive earthquakes which might
be chosen from Old World annals, it will not be amiss to append a brief
account of those which took place in Calabria, Italy, in 1783. These,
while less wide-spread in their influence, were much longer in duration
than the Lisbon cataclysm, since they continued, at intervals, from the
5th of February until the end of the year. The shocks were felt all over
Sicily and as far north as Naples, but the area of severe convulsion was
comparatively limited, not exceeding five hundred square miles.

The centre of disturbance seems to have been under the town of Oppido in
the farther Calabria, and it extended in every direction from that
spot to a distance of about twenty-two miles, with such violence as to
overthrow every city, town and village lying within that circle. This
ruin was accomplished by the first shock on the 5th of February. The
second, of equal violence, on the 28th of March, was less destructive,
only because little or nothing had been left for it to overthrow.

At Oppido the motion was in the nature of a vertical upheaval of the
ground, which was accompanied by the opening of numerous large chasms,
into some of which many houses were ingulfed, the chasms closing over
them again almost immediately. The town itself was situated on the
summit of a hill, flanked by five steep and difficult slopes; it was
so completely overthrown by the first shock that scarcely a fragment of
wall was left standing. The hill itself was not thrown down, but a fort
which commanded the approach to the place was hurled into the gorge
below. It was on the flats immediately surrounding the site of the town
and on the rising grounds beyond them that the great fissures and chasms
were opened. On the slope of one of the hills opposite the town there
appeared a vast chasm, in which a large quantity of soil covered with
vines and olive-trees was engulfed. This chasm remained open after the
shock, and was somewhat in the form of an amphitheatre, 500 feet long
and 200 feet in depth.


MOST CALAMITOUS OF THE LANDSLIPS


The most calamitous of the landslips occurred on the sea-coast of the
Straits of Messina, near the celebrated rock of Scilla, where huge
masses fell from the tall cliffs, overwhelming many villas and gardens.
At Gian Greco a continuous line of precipitous rocks, nearly a mile in
length, tumbled down. The aged Prince of Scilla, after the first great
shock on the 5th of February, persuaded many of his vassals to quit
the dangerous shore, and take refuge in the fishing boats--he himself
showing the example. That same night, however, while many of the people
were asleep in the boats, and others on a flat plain a little above the
sea-level, another powerful shock threw down from the neighboring Mount
Jaci a great mass, which fell with a dreadful crash, partly into the
sea, and partly upon the plain beneath. Immediately the sea rose to a
height of twenty feet above the level ground on which the people were
stationed, and rolling over it, swept away the whole multitude. This
immense wave then retired, but returned with still greater violence,
bringing with it the bodies of the men and animals it had previously
swept away, dashing to pieces the whole of the boats, drowning all that
were in them, and wafting the fragments far inland. The prince with
1,430 of his people perished by this disaster.

It was on the north-eastern shore of Sicily, however, that the greatest
amount of damage was done. The first severe shock, on the 5th of
February, overthrew nearly the whole of the beautiful city of Messina,
with great loss of life. The shore for a considerable distance along the
coast was rent, and the ground along the port, which was before quite
level, became afterwards inclined towards the sea, the depth of the
water having, at the same time, increased in several parts, through the
displacement of portions of the bottom. The quay also subsided about
fourteen inches below the level of the sea, and the houses near it
were much rent. But it was in the city itself that the most terrible
desolation was wrought--a complication of disasters having followed
the shock, more especially a fierce conflagration, whose intensity was
augmented by the large stores of oil kept in the place.


IMMENSE DESTRUCTION


According to official reports made soon after the events, the
destruction caused by the earthquakes of the 5th of February and 28th
of March throughout the two Calabrias was immense. About 320 towns
and villages were entirely reduced to ruins, and about fifty others
seriously damaged. The loss of life was appalling--40,000 having
perished by the earthquakes, and 20,000 more having subsequently died
from privation and exposure, or from epidemic diseases bred by the
stagnant pools and the decaying carcases of men and animals. The greater
number were buried amid the ruins of the houses, while others perished
in the fires that were kindled in most of the towns, particularly in
Oppido, where the flames were fed by great magazines of oil. Not a few,
especially among the peasantry dwelling in the country, were suddenly
engulfed in fissures. Many who were only half buried in the ruins, and
who might have been saved had there been help at hand, were left to
die a lingering death from cold and hunger. Four Augustine monks at
Terranuova perished thus miserably. Having taken refuge in a vaulted
sacristy, they were entombed in it alive by the masses of rubbish,
and lingered for four days, during which their cries for help could be
heard, till death put an end to their sufferings.

Of still more thrilling interest was the case of the Marchioness
Spastara. Having fainted at the moment of the first great shock, she was
lifted by her husband, who, bearing her in his arms, hurried with her to
the harbor. Here, on recovering her senses, she observed that her infant
boy had been left behind. Taking advantage of a moment when her husband
was too much occupied to notice her, she darted off and, running back
to the house, which was still standing, she snatched her babe from its
cradle. Rushing with him in her arms towards the staircase, she
found the stair had fallen--cutting off all further progress in that
direction. She fled from room to room, pursued by the falling materials,
and at length reached a balcony as her last refuge. Holding up her
infant, she implored the few passers-by for help; but they all, intent
on securing their own safety, turned a deaf ear to her cries. Meanwhile
the mansion had caught fire, and before long the balcony, with the
devoted lady still grasping her darling, was hurled into the devouring
flames.


CHAPTER XVII.

The Charleston and Other Earthquakes of the United States.


The twin continents of America have rivalled the record of the Old World
in their experience of earthquakes since their discovery in 1492. The
first of these made note of was in Venezuela in 1530, but they have been
numerous and often disastrous since. I returned along the tide sands.
The surf dashed and roared, lifting seaweeds of a blood red, so that
in places the water looked pink.
Seals innumerable watched me from just outside the breakers. As the
waves lifted to a semi-transparence, I could make out others playing,
darting back and forth, up and down like disturbed tadpoles,
clinging to the wave until the very instant of its fall, then
disappearing as though blotted out.

The salt smell of seaweed was in my nostrils: I found the place pleasant--

With these few and scattered impressions we returned to the ship. It had
been warped to a secure anchorage, and snugged down. Dr.
Schermerhorn and Darrow were on deck waiting to go ashore.

I made my report. The two passengers disappeared. They carried lunch and
would not be back until night-fall. We had orders to pitch a large
tent at a suitable spot and to lighten ship of the doctor's personal
and scientific effects. By the time this was accomplished, the two
had returned.

"It's all right," Darrow volunteered to Captain Selover, as he came
over the side. "We've found what we want."
Their clothes were picked by brush and their boots muddy. Next morning
Captain Selover detailed me to especial work.

"You'll take two of the men and go ashore under Darrow's orders," said
he.

Darrow told us to take clothes for a week, an axe apiece, and a block
and tackle. We made up our ditty bags, stepped into one of the surf
boats, and were rowed ashore. There Darrow at once took the lead.

Our way proceeded across the grass flat, through the opening of the
narrow cañon, and so on back into the interior by way of the bed
through which flowed the sulphur stream.

The country was badly eroded.
Most of the time we marched between perpendicular clay banks about forty
feet high. These were occasionally broken by smaller tributary arroyos
of the same sort. It would have been impossible to reach the level
of the upper country. The bed of the main arroyo was flat, and grown
with grasses and herbage of an extraordinary vividness, due, I supposed,
to the sulphur water. The stream itself meandered aimlessly through
the broader bed. It steadily grew warmer and the sulphur smell more
noticeable. Above us we could see the sky and the sharp clay edge of
the arroyo.

I noticed the tracks of Darrow and Dr. Schermerhorn made the day
before.

After a mile of this, the bottom ran up nearly to the level of the sides,
and we stepped out on the floor of a little valley almost surrounded
by more hills.

It was an extraordinary place, and since much happened there, I must
give you an idea of it.

It was round and nearly encircled by naked painted hills.

From its floor came steam and a roaring sound. The steam blew here and
there among the pines on the floor; rose to eddy about the naked
painted hills. At one end we saw intermittently a broad ascending
cañon--deep red and blue-black--ending in the cone of a smoking volcano.
The other seemed quite closed by the sheer hills; in fact the only
exit was the route by which we had come.

For the hills were utterly precipitous. I suppose a man might have
made his way up the various knobs, ledges, and inequalities, but it would
have required long study and a careful head. I, myself, later worked
my way a short distance, merely to examine the texture of their marvellous
colour.

This was at once varied and of great body--not at all like the smooth,
glossed colour of most rock, but soft and rich.

You've seen painters' palettes--it was just like that, pasty and _fat_.
There were reds of all shades, from a veritable scarlet to a red umber;
greens, from sea-green to emerald; several kinds of blue, and an
indeterminate purple-mauve. The whole effect was splendid and
barbaric.

We stopped and gasped as it hit our eyes.

Darrow alone was unmoved.
He led the way forward and in an instant had disappeared behind the veil
of steam. Thrackles and Perdosa hung back murmuring, but at a sharp
word from me gathered their courage in their two hands and proceeded.

We found that the first veil of steam, and a fearful stench of gases,
proceeded from a miniature crater whose edge was heavily encrusted with
a white salt. Beyond, close under the rise of the hill, was another.
Between the two Percy Darrow had stopped and was waiting.

He eyed us with his lazy, half-quizzical glance as we approached.

"Think the place is going to blow up?" he inquired, with a tinge of irony.
"Well, it isn't." He turned to me. "Here's where we shall stay for
a while. You and the men are to cut a number of these pine trees for
a house. Better pick out the little ones, about three or four inches
through: they're easier handled. I'll be back by noon."
We set to work then in the roaring, steaming valley with the vapour
swirling about us, sometimes concealing us, sometimes half revealing us
gigantic, again in the utterness of exposure showing us dwindled pigmies
against the magnitudes about us. The labour was not difficult.
By the time Darrow returned we had a pile of the saplings ready for his
next direction.

He was accompanied by the Nigger, very much terrified, very much
burdened with food and cooking utensils. The assistant was lazily
relating tales of voodoos, a glimmer of mischief in his eyes.

VII
CAPTAIN SELOVER LOSES HIS NERVE

I lived in the place for three weeks. We were afoot shortly after daybreak,
under way by sun-up, and at work before the heats began.

Three of us worked on the buildings, and the rest formed a pack train
carrying all sorts of things from the shore to the valley. The men
grumbled fiercely at this, but Captain Selover drove them with slight
regard for their opinions or feelings.

"You're getting double pay," was his only word, "earn it!"
They certainly earned it during those three weeks.

The things they brought up were astounding. Besides a lot of scientific
apparatus and chests of chemical supplies, everything that could
possibly be required, had been provided by that omniscient young man.
After we had built a long, low structure, windows were forthcoming,
shelves, tables, sinks, faucets, forges, burners, all cut out, fitted
and ready to put together, each with its proper screws, nails, clamps,
or pipes ready to our hands. When we had finished, we had constructed as
complete a laboratory on a small scale as you could find on a college
campus, even to the stone pillar down to bed-rock for delicate microscopic
experiments, and hot and cold water led from the springs.

And we were utterly unskilled. It was all Percy Darrow.

I was toward the last engaged in screwing on a fixture for the generation
of acetelyne gas.

"Darrow," said I, "there's one thing you've overlooked; you forgot
to bring a cupola and a gilt weather-cock for this concern."
After the laboratory was completed, we put up sleeping quarters for
the two men, with wide porches well screened, and a square, heavy
storeroom. By the end of the third week we had quite finished.

Dr. Schermerhorn had turned with enthusiasm to the unpacking of his
chemical apparatus. Almost immediately at the close of the freight-carrying,
he had appeared, lugging his precious chest, this time suffering the
assistance of Darrow, and had camped on the spot.
We could not induce him to leave, so we put up a tent for him.
Darrow remained with him by way of safety against the men, whose
measure, I believe, he had taken.

Now that all the work was finished, the doctor put in a sudden
appearance.

"Percy," said he, "now we will have the defence built."

He dragged us with him to the narrow part of the arroyo, just before
it rose to the level of the valley.

"Here we will build the stockade-defence," he announced.

Darrow and I stared at each other blankly.

"What for, sir?" inquired the assistant.

"I haf come to be undisturbed," announced the doctor, with owl-like,
Teutonic gravity, "and I will not be disturbed."
Darrow nodded to me and drew his principal aside.

They conversed earnestly for several minutes. Then the assistant
returned to me.

"No use," he shrugged in complete return to his indifferent manner.
"Stockade it is. Better make it of fourteen foot logs, slanted out.
Dig a trench across, plant your logs three or four feet, bind them at
the top. That's his specification for it. Go at it."
"But," I expostulated, "what's the _use_ of it? Even if the men
were dangerous, that would just make them think you _did_ have
something to guard."
"I know that.

Orders," replied Percy Darrow.

We built the stockade in a day. When it was finished we marched to the
beach, and never, save in the three instances of which I shall later
tell you, did I see the valley again. The next day we washed our
clothes, and moved ashore with all our belongings.

"I'm not going to have this crew aboard," stated Captain Selover
positively, "I'm going to clean her." He himself stayed, however.

We rowed in, constructed a hasty fireplace of stones, spread our
blankets, and built an unnecessary fire near the beach.

"Clean her!" grumbled Thrackles, "my eye!"
"I'd rather round the Cape," growled Pulz hopelessly.

"Come, now, it can't be as bad as all that," I tried to cheer them.

"It can't be more than a week or ten days' job, even if we careen her."

"You don't know what you're talking about," said Thrackles. "It's
worse than the yellow jack. It's six weeks at least. Mind when we last
'cleaned her'?" he inquired of Handy Solomon.

"You can kiss the Book on it," replied he. "Down by the line in that
little swab of a sand island. My eye, but _don't_ I remember!
I sweated my liver white."
They smoked in silence.

"That's a main queer contrivance of the Perfessor's--that stockade-like,"
ventured Solomon, after a little.

"He doesn't want any intrusion," I said.

"These scientific experiments are very delicate."
"Quite like," he commented non-committally.

We slept on the ground that night, and next morning, under Captain Selover's
directions, we commenced the task of lightening the ship.
He detailed the Nigger and Perdosa for special duty.

"I'll just see to your shore quarters," he squeaked. "You empty her."
All day long we rowed back and forth from the ship to the cove, landing
the contents of the hold. These, by good fortune, we did not have to
carry over the neck of land, for just above the gravel beach was a wide
ledge on which we could pile the stores. We ate aboard, and so had no
opportunity of seeing what Captain Selover and his men were about,
until evening. Then we discovered that they had collected and lowered
to the beach a quantity of stateroom doors from the wreck, and had
trundled the galley stove to the edge where it awaited our assistance.
We hitched a cable to it, and let it down gently.

The Nigger was immensely pleased. After some experiment he got it to draw,
and so cooked us our supper on it. After supper, Captain Selover rowed
himself back to the ship.

"Eagen," he had said, drawing me aside, "I'm going to leave you with
them. It's better that one of us--I think as owner I ought to be
aboard----"

"Of course, sir," said I, "it's the only proper place for you."

"I'm glad you think so," he rejoined, apparently relieved. "And anyway,"
he cried, with a burst of feeling, "I hate the gritty feeling of it under
my feet! Solid oak's the only walking for a man."
He left me hastily, as though a trifle ashamed. I thought he seemed
depressed, even a little furtive, and yet on analysis I could discover
nothing definite on which to base such a conclusion.

It was rather a feeling of difference from the man I had known. In my
fatigue it seemed hardly worth thinking about.

The men had rolled themselves in their blankets, tired with the long
day.

Next morning Captain Selover was ashore early. He had quite recovered his
spirits, and offered me a dram of French brandy, which I refused.
We worked hard again; again the master returned at night to his
vessel, this time without a word to any of us; again the men, drugged
by toil, turned in early and slept like the dead.

We became entangled in a mesh of days like these, during which things
were accomplished, but in which was no space for anything but the tasks
imposed upon us. The men for the most part had little to say.

"Por Dios, eet is too mooch work!" sighed Perdosa once.

"Why don't you kick to the Old Man, then?" sneered Thrackles.

The silence that followed, and the sullenness with which Perdosa readdressed
himself to his work, was significant enough of Captain Selover's past
relations with the men.

And how we did clean her! We stripped her of every stitch and sliver
until she floated high, an empty hull, even her spars and running
rigging ashore. I understood now the crew's grumbling. We literally
went at her with a nail brush.

Captain Selover took charge of us when we had reached this period.
He and the Nigger and Perdosa had long since finished the installation
of the permanent camp.

They had built us huts from the wreck, collecting stateroom doors
for the sides, and hatches for the roofs, huge and solid, with iron
rings in them.

The bronze and iron ventilation gratings to the doors gave us glimpses of
the coast through fretwork; the rich inlaying of woods surrounded us.
We set up on a solid rock the galley stove--with its rails to hold
the cooking pots from upsetting, in a sea way. In it we burned the
débris of the wreck, all sorts of wood, some sweet and aromatic
and spicy as an incensed cathedral.

I have seen the Nigger boiling beans over a blaze of sandal wood fragrant
as an Eastern shop.

First we scrubbed the _Laughing Lass_, then we painted her, and resized
and tarred her standing rigging, resized and rove her running gear,
slushed her masts, finally careened her and scraped and painted her
below.

When we had quite finished, we had the anchor chain dealt out to us in
fathoms, and scraped, pounded and polished that. These were indeed
days full of labour.

Being busy from morning until night we knew but little of what was about
us. We saw the open sea and the waves tumbling over the reef outside. We
saw the headlands, and the bow of the bay and the surf with its
watching seals and the curve of yellow sands.

We saw the sweep of coast and the downs and the strange huts we had built
out of departed magnificence. And that was all; that constituted our
world.

In the evening sometimes we lit a big bonfire, sailor fashion, just
at the edge of the beach. There we sat at ease and smoked our pipes
in silence, too tired to talk. Even Handy Solomon's song was
still.
Outside the circle of light were mysterious things--strange wavings
of white hands, bendings of figures, callings of voices, rustling
of feet. We knew them for the surf and the wind in the grasses: but
they were not the less mysterious for that.
Logically Captain Selover and I should have passed most of our
evenings together. As a matter of fact we so spent very few. Early
in the dusk the captain invariably rowed himself out to his beloved
schooner. What he did there I do not know. We could see his light
now in one part of her, now in the other. The men claimed he was
scrubbing her teeth. "Old Scrubs" they called him to his back: never
Captain Selover.
"He has to clean up after his own feet, he's so dirty," sagely
proffered Handy Solomon. And this was true.
The seaman's prophecy held good. Seven weeks held us at that infernal
job--seven weeks of solid, grinding work. The worst of it was, that
we were kept at it so breathlessly, as though our very existence
were to depend on the headlong rush of our labour. And then we had
fully half the stores to put away again, and the other half to
transport painfully over the neck of land from the cove to the
beach.
So accustomed had I become to the routine in which we were involved,
so habituated to anticipating the coming day as exactly like the
day that had gone, that the completion of our job caught me quite
by surprise. I had thrown myself down by the fire prepared for the
some old half hour of drowsy nicotine, to be followed by the
accustomed heavy sleep, and the usual early rising to toil. The
evening was warm; I half closed my eyes.
Handy Solomon was coming in last. Instead of dropping to his place,
he straddled the fire, stretching his arms over his head. He let
them fall with a sharp exhalation.
"'Lay aloft, lay aloft,' the jolly bos'n cried.
_Blow high, blow low, what care we!_ 'Look ahead, look astern, look
a-windward, look a-lee.' _Down on the coast of the high Barbare-e-e._"

The effect was electrical. We all sprang to our feet and fell to
talking at once.
"By God, we're _through_!" cried Pulz. "I'd clean forgot it!"
The Nigger piled on more wood. We drew closer about the fire. All
the interests in life, so long held in the background, leaped
forward, eager for recognition. We spoke of trivialities almost for
the first time since our landing, fused into a temporary but complete
good fellowship by the relief.
"Wonder how the old doctor is getting on?" ventured Thrackles, after
a while.
"The devil's a preacher! I wonder?" cried Handy Solomon.
"Let's make 'em a call," suggested Pulz.
"Don't believe they'd appreciate the compliment," I laughed. "Better
let them make first call: they're the longer established." This was
lost on them, of course. But we all felt kindly to one another that
evening.
I carried the glow of it with me over until next morning, and was
therefore somewhat dashed to meet Captain Selover, with clouded
brows and an uncertain manner. He quite ignored my greeting.
"By God, Eagen," he squeaked, "can you think of anything more to
be done?" 
I straightened my back and laughed.
"Haven't you worked us hard enough?" I inquired. "Unless you gild
the cabins, I don't see what else there can be to do."
Captain Selover stared me over.
"And you a naval man!" he marvelled. "Don't you see that the only
thing that keeps this crew from gettin' restless is keeping them
busy?
I've sweat a damn sight more with my brain than you have with your
back thinking up things to do. I can't see anything ahead, and then
we'll have hell to pay. Oh, they're a sweet lot!"
I whistled and my crest fell. Here was a new point of view; and
also a new Captain Ezra. Where was the confidence in the might of
his two hands?

He seemed to read my thoughts, and went on.
"I don't feel _sure_ here on this cussed land. It ain't like a deck
where a man has some show. They can scatter. They can hide. It ain't
right to put a man ashore alone with such a crew. I'm doing my best,
but it ain't goin' to be good enough. I wisht we were safe in 'Frisco
harbour----"
He would have maundered on, but I seized his arm and led him out
of possible hearing of the men.
"Here, buck up!" I said to him sternly. "There's nothing to be
scared of. If it comes to a row, there's three of us and we've got
guns. We could even sail the schooner at a pinch, and leave them
here. You've stood them off before."
"Not ashore," protested Captain Selover weakly.
"Well, they don't know that. For God's sake don't let them see
you've lost your nerve this way." He did not even wince at the
accusation.
"Put up a front."
He shook his head. The sand had completely run out of him.At intervals, however, the power beneath the surface raises
the ground in long, billow-like motions, before which, when of violent
character, no edifice or human habitation can for a moment stand. The
earth is frequently rent asunder, great fissures and cavities being
formed. The course of rivers is changed and the waters are swallowed up
by fissures rent in the surface, while ruin impends in a thousand
forms. The cities become death pits and the cultivated fields are buried
beneath floods of liquid mud. Fortunately these convulsions, alike of
the earthquake and volcano, are comparative rarities and are confined
to limited regions of the earth's surface. What do we know of those
deep-lying powers, those vast buried forces dwelling in uneasy isolation
beneath our feet? With all our science we are but a step beyond the
ancients, to whom these were the Titans, great rebel giants whom Jupiter
overthrew and bound under the burning mountains, and whose throes of
agony shook the earth in quaking convulsions. To us the volcanic crater
is the mouth from which comes the fiery breath of demon powers which
dwell far down in the earth's crust. The Titans themselves were dwarfs
beside these mighty agents of destruction whose domain extends for
thousands of miles beneath the earth's surface and which in their
convulsions shake whole continents at once. Such was the case in 1812,
when the eruption of Mont Soufriere on St. Vincent, as told in a later
chapter, formed merely the closing event in a series of earthquakes
which had made themselves felt under thousands of miles of land.


ANCIENT AWE OF VOLCANOES


In olden times volcanoes were regarded with superstitious awe, and it
would have been considered highly impious to make any investigation of
their actions. We are told by Virgil that Mt. Etna marks the spot where
the gods in their anger buried Enceladus, one of the rebellious giants.
To our myth-making ancestors one of the volcanoes of the Mediterranean,
set on a small island of the Lipari group, was the workshop of Vulcan,
the god of fire, within whose depths he forged the thunderbolts of the
gods. From below came sounds as of a mighty hammer on a vast anvil.
Through the mountain vent came the black smoke and lurid glow from
the fires of Vulcan's forge. This old myth is in many respects more
consonant with the facts of nature than myths usually are. In agreement
with the theory of its internal forces, the mountain in question was
given the name of Volcano. To-day it is scarcely known at all, but its
name clings to all the fire-breathing mountains of the earth.

As before said, at the present day we are little in advance of the
ancients in actual knowledge of what is going on so far beneath our
feet. We speak of forces where they spoke of fettered giants, but can
only form theories where they formed myths. Is the earth's centre made
up of liquid fire? Does its rock crust resemble the thick ice crust on
the Arctic Seas, or is the earth, as later scientists believe, solid to
the core? Is it heated so fiercely, miles below our feet, that at every
release of pressure the solid rock bursts into molten lava? Is the steam
from the contact of underground rivers and deep-lying fires the origin
of the terrible rending powers of the volcano's depths? Truly we can
answer none of these questions with assurance, and can only guess
and conjecture from the few facts open to us what lies concealed far
beneath.


RARITY OF ANCIENT ACCOUNTS


In the history of earthquakes nothing is more remarkable than the
extreme fewness of those recorded before the beginning of the Christian
era, in comparison with those that have been registered since that time.
It is to be borne in mind, however, that before the birth of Christ only
a small portion of the globe was inhabited by those likely to make a
record of natural events. The vast apparent increase in the number
of earthquakes in recent times is owing to a greater knowledge of
the earth's surface and to the spread of civilization over lands once
inhabited by savages. The same is to be said of volcanic eruptions,
which also have apparently increased greatly since the beginning of the
Christian era. There may possibly have been a natural increase in these
phenomena, but this is hardly probable, the change being more likely due
to the increase in the number of observers.

The structure of a volcano is very different from that of other
mountains, really consisting of layers of lava and volcanic ashes,
alternating with each other and all sloping away from the center. These
elevations, in fact, are formed in a different manner from ordinary
mountains. The latter have been uplifted by the influence of pressure in
the interior of the earth, but the volcano is an immediate result of the
explosive force of which we have spoken, the mountain being gradually
built up by the lava and other materials which it has flung up from
below. In this way mountains of immense height and remarkable regularity
have been formed. Mount Orizabo, near the City of Mexico, for instance,
is a remarkably regular cone, undoubtedly formed in this way, and the
same may be said of Mount Mayon, on the Island of Luzon.

In many cases the irregularity of the volcano is due to subsequent
action of its forces, which may blow the mountain itself to pieces.
In the case of Krakatoa, in the East Indies, for instance, the whole
mountain was rent into fragments, which were flung as dust miles high
into the air. The main point we wish to indicate is that volcanoes are
never formed by ordinary elevating forces and that they differ in this
way from all other mountains. On the contrary, they have been piled up
like rubbish heaps, resembling the small mountains of coal dust near the
mouths of anthracite mines.

It is to the burning heat of the earth's crust and the influence of
pressure, and more largely to the influx of water to the molten rocks
which lie miles below the surface, that these convulsions of nature are
due. Water, on reaching these overheated strata, explodes into volumes
of steam, and if there is no free vent to the surface, it is apt to rend
the very mountain asunder in its efforts to escape. Such is supposed
to have been the case in the eruption of Krakatoa, and was probably the
case also in the recent case of Mt. Pelee.


GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF ERUPTIONS


If we should seek to give a general description of volcanic eruptions,
it would be in some such words as follows: An eruption is usually
preceded by earthquakes which affect the whole surrounding country,
and associated with which are underground explosions that seem like
the sound of distant artillery. The mountain quivers with internal
convulsions, due to the efforts of its confined forces to find an
opening. The drying up of wells and disappearance of springs are apt to
take place, the water sinking downward through cracks newly made in the
rocks. Finally the fierce unchained energy rends an opening through the
crater and an eruption begins. It comes usually with a terrible burst
that shakes the mountain to its foundation; explosions following rapidly
and with increasing violence, while steam issues and mounts upward in
a lofty column. The steam and escaping gases in their fierce outbreaks
hurl up into the air great quantities of solid rock torn from the sides
of the opening. The huge blocks, meeting each other in their rise and
fall, are gradually broken and ground into minute fragments, forming
dust or so-called ashes, often of extreme fineness, and in such
quantities as frequently to blot out the light of the sun. There is
another way in which a great deal of volcanic dust is made; the lava is
full of steam, which in its expansion tears the molten rock into atoms,
often converting it into the finest dust.

The eruption of Mt. Skaptar, in Iceland, in 1783, sent up such volumes
of dust that the atmosphere was loaded with it for months, and it
was carried to the northern part of Scotland, 600 miles away, in such
quantities as to destroy the crops. During the eruption of Tomboro, in
the East Indies, in 1815, so great was the quantity of dust thrown up
that it caused darkness at midday in Java 300 miles away and covered the
ground to a depth of several inches. Floating pumice formed a layer
on the ocean surface two and a half feet in thickness, through which
vessels had difficulty in forcing their way.

The steam which rises in large volumes into the air may become suddenly
condensed with the chill of the upper atmosphere and fall as rain,
torrents of which often follow an eruption. The rain, falling through
the clouds of volcanic dust, brings it to the earth as liquid mud, which
pours in thick streams down the sides of the mountain. The torrents of
flowing mud are sometimes on such a great scale that large towns, as in
the instance of the great city of Herculaneum, may be completely buried
beneath them. Over this city the mud accumulated to the depth of over 70
feet. In addition to these phenomena, molten lava often flows from the
lip of the crater, occasionally in vast quantities. In the Icelandic
eruption of 1783 the lava streams were so great in quantity as to fill
river gorges 600 ft. deep and 200 ft. wide, and to extend over an open
plain to a distance of 12 to 15 miles, forming lakes of lava 100 feet
deep. The volcanoes of Hawaii often send forth streams of lava which
cover an area of over 100 square miles to a great depth.


GREAT OUTFLOWS OF LAVA


In the course of ages lava outflows of this kind have built up in Hawaii
a volcanic mountain estimated to contain enough material to cover the
whole of the United States with a layer of rock 50 feet deep. These
great outflows of lava are not confined to mountains, but take place now
and then from openings in the ground, or from long cracks in the surface
rocks. Occasionally great eruptions have taken place beneath the
ocean's surface, throwing up material in sufficient quantity to form new
islands.

The formation of mud is not confined to the method given, but great
quantities of this plastic material flow at times from volcanic craters.
In the year 1691 Imbaburu, one of the peaks of the Andes, sent out
floods of mud which contained dead fish in such abundance that their
decay caused a fever in the vicinity. The volcanoes of Java have often
buried large tracts of fertile country under volcanic mud.

An observation of volcanoes shows us that they have three well marked
phases of action. The first of these is the state of permanent eruption,
as in case of the volcano of Stromboli in the Mediterranean. This state
is not a dangerous one, since the steam, escaping continually, acts as
a safety valve. The second stage is one of milder activity with an
occasional somewhat violent eruption; this is apt to be dangerous,
though not often very greatly so. The safety valve is partly out of
order. The third phase is one in which long periods of repose, sometimes
lasting for centuries, are followed by eruptions of intense energy.
These are often of extreme violence and cause widespread destruction. In
this case the safety valve has failed to work and the boiler bursts.


OFTEN REST FOR LONG TERMS OF YEARS


Such are the general features of action in the vast powers which
dwell deep beneath the surface, harmless in most parts of the earth,
frightfully perilous in others. Yet even here they often rest for long
terms of years in seeming apathy, until men gather above their lurking
places in multitudes, heedless or ignorant of the sleeping demons that
bide their time below. Their time is sure to come, after years, perhaps
after centuries. Suddenly the solid earth begins to tremble and quake;
roars as of one of the buried giants of old strike all men with dread;
then, with a fierce convulsion, a mountain is rent in twain and vast
torrents of steam, burning rock, and blinding dust are hurled far upward
into the air, to fall again and bury cities, perhaps, with all their
inhabitants in indiscriminate ruin and death.


CHAPTER XIX.

Theories of Volcanic and Earthquake Action.


Though the first formation of a volcano (Italian, vulcano, from Vulcan,
the Roman god of fire) has seldom been witnessed, it would seem that it
is marked by earthquake movements followed by the opening of a rent or
fissure; but with no such tilting up of the rocks as was once supposed
to take place. From this fissure large volumes of steam issue,
accompanied by hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, hydrochloric
acid, and sulphur dioxide. The hydrogen, apparently derived from the
dissociation of water at a high temperature, flashes explosively into
union with atmospheric oxygen, and, having exerted its explosive force,
the steam condenses into cloud, heavy masses of which overhang the
volcano, pouring down copious rains. This naturally disturbs the
electrical condition of the atmosphere, so that thunder and lightning
are frequent accompaniments of an eruption. The hydrochloric acid
probably points to the agency of sea-water. Besides the gases just
mentioned, sulphuretted hydrogen, ammonia and common salt occur; but
mainly as secondary products, formed by the union of the vapors issuing
from the volcano, and commonly found also in the vapors rising from
cooling lava streams or dormant volcanic districts. It is important to
notice that the vapors issue from the volcano spasmodically, explosions
succeeding each other with great rapidity and noise.

All substances thrown out by the volcano, whether gaseous, liquid or
solid, are conveniently united under the term ejectamenta (Latin, things
thrown out), and all of them are in an intensely heated, if not an
incandescent state. Most of the gases are incombustible, but the
hydrogen and those containing sulphur burn with a true flame, perhaps
rendered more visible by the presence of solid particles. Much of the
so-called flame, however, in popular descriptions of eruptions is
an error of observation due to the red-hot solid particles and the
reflection of the glowing orifice on the over-hanging clouds.


ENORMOUS FORCE DISPLAYED


Solid bodies are thrown into the air with enormous force and to
proportionally great heights, those not projected vertically falling in
consequence at considerable distances from the volcano. A block weighing
200 tons is said to have been thrown nine miles by Cotopaxi; masses
of rock weighing as much as twenty tons to have been ejected by
Mount Ararat in 1840; and stones to have been hurled to a distance
of thirty-six miles in other cases. The solid matter thrown out by
volcanoes consists of lapilli, scoriae, dust and bombs.

Though on the first formation of the volcano, masses of non-volcanic
rock may be torn from the chimney or pipe of the mountain, only slightly
fused externally owing to the bad conducting power of most rocks,
and hurled to a distance; and though at the beginning of a subsequent
eruption the solid plug of rock which has cooled at the bottom of the
crater, or, in fact, any part of the volcano, may be similarly blown up,
the bulk of the solid particles of which the volcano itself is composed
is derived from the lake of lava or molten rock which seethes at the
orifice. Solid pieces rent from this fused mass and cast up by the
explosive force of the steam with which the lava is saturated are known
as lapilli. Cooling rapidly so as to be glassy in texture externally,
these often have time to become perfectly crystalline within.

Gases and steam escaping from other similar masses may leave them
hollow, when they are termed bombs, or may pit their surfaces with
irregular bubble-cavities, when they are called scoriae or scoriaceous.
Such masses whirling through the air in a plastic state often become
more or less oblately spheroidal in form; but, as often, the explosive
force of their contained vapors shatters them into fragments, producing
quantities of the finest volcanic dust or sand. This fine dust darkens
the clouds overhanging the mountain, mixes with the condensed steam to
fall as a black mud-rain, or lava di aqua (Italian, water lava), or
is carried up to enormous heights, and then slowly diffused by upper
currents of the atmosphere. In the eruption of Vesuvius of A.D. 79, the
air was dark as midnight for twelve or fifteen miles round; the city of
Pompeii was buried beneath a deposit of dry scoriae, or ashes and dust,
and Herculaneum beneath a layer of the mud-like lava di aqua, which on
drying sets into a compact rock. Rocks formed from these fragmentary
volcanic materials are known as tuff.


VOLCANIC CONES HAVE SIMILAR CURVATURES


It is entirely of these cindery fragments heaped up with marvellous
rapidity round the orifice that the volcano itself is first formed. It
may, as in the case of Jorullo in Mexico in 1759, form a cone several
hundred feet high in less than a day. Such a cone may have a slope as
steep as 30 or 40 degrees, its incline in all cases depending simply on
the angle of repose of its materials; the inclination, that is, at which
they stop rolling. The great volcanoes of the Andes, which are formed
mainly of ash, are very steep. Owing to a general similarity in their
materials, volcanic cones in all parts of the world have very similar
curvatures; but older volcanic mountains, in which lava-streams have
broken through the cone, secondary cones have arisen, or portions
have been blown up, are more irregular in outline and more gradual in
inclination.

In size, volcanoes vary from mere mounds a few yards in diameter, such
as the salses or mud volcanoes near the Caspian, to Etna, 10,800 feet
high, with a base 30 miles in diameter; Cotopaxi, in the Andes, 18,887
feet high; or Mauna Loa, in the Sandwich Isles, 13,700 feet high; with
a base 70 miles in diameter, and two craters, one of which, Kilauea, the
largest active crater on our earth, is seven miles in circuit. Larger
extinct craters occur in Japan; but all our terrestrial volcanic
mountains are dwarfed by those observed on the surface of the moon,
which, owing to its smaller size, has cooled more rapidly than our
earth. It is, of course, the explosive force from below which keeps
the crater clear, as a cup-shaped hollow, truncating the cone; and all
stones falling into it would be only thrown out again. It may at the
close of an eruption cool down so completely that a lake can form within
it, such as Lake Averno, near Naples; or it may long remain a seething
sea of lava, such as Kilauea; or the lava may find one or more outlets
from it, either by welling over its rim, which it will then generally
break down, as in many of the small extinct volcanoes ("puys") of
Auvergne, or more usually by bursting through the sides of the cone.


LAVA VARIES VERY MUCH IN LIQUIDITY


It is not generally until the volcano has exhausted its first explosive
force that lava begins to issue. Several streams may issue in different
directions. Their dimensions are sometimes enormous. Lava varies very
much in liquidity and in the rate at which it flows. This much depends,
however, upon the slope it has to traverse. A lava stream at Vesuvius
ran three miles in four minutes, but took three hours to flow the next
three miles, while a stream from Mauna Loa ran eighteen miles in two
hours. Glowing at first as a white-hot liquid, the lava soon cools at
the surface to red and then to black; cinder-like scoriaceous masses
form on its surface and in front of the slowly-advancing mass; clouds of
steam and other vapor rise from it, and little cones are thrown up
from its surface; but many years may elapse before the mass is cooled
through. Thus, while the surface is glassy, the interior becomes
crystalline.

As to what are the causes of the great convulsions of nature known as
the volcano and the earthquake we know very little. Various theories
have been advanced, but nothing by any means sure has been discovered,
and considerable difference of opinion exists. In truth we know so
little concerning the conditions existing in the earth's interior
that any views concerning the forces at work there must necessarily be
largely conjectural.

Sir Robert S. Ball says, in this connection: "Let us take, for instance,
that primary question in terrestrial physics, as to whether the interior
of the earth is liquid or solid. If we were to judge merely from the
temperatures reasonably believed to exist at a depth of some twenty
miles, and if we might overlook the question of pressure, we should
certainly say that the earth's interior must be in a fluid state. It
seems at least certain that the temperatures to be found at depths of
two score miles, and still more at greater depths, must be so high that
the most refractory solids, whether metals or minerals, would at once
yield if we could subject them to such temperatures in our laboratories.
But none of our laboratory experiments can tell us whether, under the
pressure of thousands of tons on the square inch, the application of
any heat whatever would be adequate to transform solids into liquids.
It may, indeed, be reasonably doubted whether the terms solid and
liquid are applicable, in the sense in which we understand them, to the
materials forming the interior of the earth.

"A principle, already well known in the arts, is that many, if not all,
solids may be made to flow like liquids if only adequate pressure be
applied. The making of lead tubes is a well-known practical illustration
of this principle, for these tubes are formed simply by forcing solid
lead by the hydraulic press through a mould which imparts the desired
shape.

"If then a solid can be made to behave like a liquid, even with such
pressures as are within our control, how are we to suppose that the
solids would behave with such pressures as those to which they are
subjected in the interior of the earth? The fact is that the terms solid
and liquid, at least as we understand them, appear to have no physical
meaning with regard to bodies subjected to these stupendous pressures,
and this must be carefully borne in mind when we are discussing the
nature of the interior of the earth."


THE VOLCANO A SAFETY VALVE


Whatever be the state of affairs in the depths of the earth's crust, we
may look upon the volcano as a sort of safety-valve, opening a passage
for the pent-up forces to the surface, and thus relieving the earth from
the terrible effects of the earthquake, through which these imprisoned
powers so often make themselves felt. Without the volcanic vent there
might be no safety for man on the earth's unquiet face.

Professor J. C. Russell, of Michigan University, presents the following
views concerning the status and action of volcanoes:--

"When reduced to its simplest terms, a volcano may be defined as a
tube, or conduit, in the earth's crust, through which the molten rock is
forced to the surface. The conduit penetrates the cool and rigid rocks
forming the superficial portion of the earth, and reaches its highly
heated interior.

"The length of volcanic conduits can only be conjectured, but, judging
from the approximately known rate of increase of heat with depth (on an
average one degree Fahrenheit for each sixty feet), and the temperature
at which volcanic rocks melt (from 2,300 to 2,700 degrees Fahrenheit,
when not under pressure), they must seemingly have a depth of at least
twenty miles. There are other factors to be considered, but in general
terms it is safe to assume that the conduits of volcanoes are irregular
openings, many miles in depth, which furnish passageways for molten
rock (lava) from the highly-heated sub-crust portion of the earth to its
surface. . . ."


ERUPTIONS OF QUIET TYPE


"During eruptions of the quiet type, the lava comes to the surface in a
highly liquid condition--that is, it is thoroughly fused, and flows with
almost the freedom of water. It spreads widely, even on a nearly level
plain, and may form a comparatively thin sheet several hundred square
miles in area, as has been observed in Iceland and Hawaii. On the Snake
River plains, in Southern Idaho, there are sheets of once molten rock
which were poured out in the manner just stated, some four hundred
square miles in area and not over seventy-five feet in average
thickness. When an eruption of highly liquid lava occurs in a
mountainous region, the molten rock may cascade down deep slopes and
flow through narrow valleys for fifty miles or more before becoming
chilled sufficiently to arrest its progress. Instances are abundant
where quiet eruptions have occurred in the midst of a plain, and
built up 'lava cones,' or low mounds, with immensely expanded bases.
Illustrations are furnished in Southern Idaho, in which the cones formed
are only three hundred or four hundred feet high, but have a breadth at
the base of eight or ten miles. In the class of eruption illustrated
by these examples, there is an absence of fragmental material, such as
explosive volcanoes hurl into the air, and a person may stand within
a few yards of a rushing stream of molten rock, or examine closely the
opening from which it is being poured out, without danger or serious
inconvenience.

"The quiet volcanic eruptions are attended by the escape of steam or
gases from the molten rock, but the lava being in a highly liquid
state, the steam and gases dissolved in it escape quietly and without
explosions. If, however, the molten rock is less completely fluid, or
in a viscous condition, the vapors and gases contained in it find
difficulty in escaping, and may be retained until, becoming concentrated
in large volume, they break their way to the surface, producing violent
explosions. Volcanoes in which the lava extruded is viscous, and the
escape of steam and gases is retarded until the pent-up energy bursts
all bounds, are of the explosive, type. One characteristic example is
Vesuvius.

"When steam escapes from the summit of a volcanic conduit--which, in
plain terms, is a tall vessel filled with intensely hot and more or less
viscous liquid--masses of the liquid rock are blown into the air, and on
falling build up a rim or crater about the place of discharge. Commonly
the lava in the summit portion of a conduit becomes chilled and perhaps
hardened, and when a steam explosion occurs this crust is shattered and
the fragments hurled into the air and contributed to the building of the
walls of the inclosing crater.

"The solid rock blown out by volcanoes consists usually of highly
vesicular material which hardened on the surface of the column of lava
within a conduit and was shattered by explosions beneath it. These
fragments vary in size from dust particles up to masses several feet in
diameter, and during violent eruptions are hurled miles high. The larger
fragments commonly fall near their place of origin, and usually furnish
the principal part of the material of which craters are built, but the
gravel-like kernels, lapilli, may be carried laterally several miles
if a wind is blowing, while the dust is frequently showered down on
thousands of square miles of land and sea. The solid and usually angular
fragments manufactured in this manner vary in temperature, and may still
be red hot on falling.

"Volcanoes of the explosive type not uncommonly discharge streams of
lava, which may flow many miles. In certain instances these outwellings
of liquid rock occur after severe earthquakes and violent explosions,
and may have all the characteristics of quiet eruptions. There is
thus no fundamental difference between the two types into which it is
convenient to divide volcanoes."


MOUNTAINS BLOW THEIR HEADS OFF


"In extreme examples of explosive volcanoes, the summit portion of a
crater, perhaps several miles in circumference and several thousand feet
high, is blown away. Such an occurrence is recorded in the case of
the volcano Coseguina, Nicaragua, in 1835. Or, an entire mountain may
disappear, being reduced to lapilli and dust and blown into the air, as
in the case of Krakatoa, in the Straits of Sunda, in 1883.

"The essential feature of a volcano, as stated above, is a tube or
conduit, leading from the highly heated sub-crust portion of the earth
to the crater and through which molten rock is forced upward to the
surface. The most marked variations in the process depend on the
quantity of molten rock extruded, and on the freedom of escape of the
steam and gases contained in the lava.

"The cause of the rise of the molten rock in a volcano is still a matter
for discussion. Certain geologists contend that steam is the sole motive
power; while others consider that the lava is forced to the surface
owing to pressure on the reservoir from which it comes. The view perhaps
most favorably entertained at present, in reference to the general
nature of volcanic eruptions, is that the rigid outer portion of the
earth becomes fractured, owing principally to movements resulting from
the shrinking of the cooling inner mass, and that the intensely hot
material reached by the fissures, previously solid owing to pressure,
becomes liquid when pressure is relieved, and is forced to the surface.
As the molten material rises it invades the water-charged rocks near
the surface and acquires steam, or the gases resulting from the
decomposition of water, and a new force is added which produces the
most conspicuous and at times the most terrible phenomena accompanying
eruptions."

The active agency of water is strongly maintained by many geologists,
and certainly gains support from the vast clouds of steam given off by
volcanoes in eruption and the steady and quiet emission of steam from
many in a state of rest. The quantities of water in the liquid state,
to which is due the frequent enormous outflows of mud, leads to the
same conclusion. Many scientists, indeed, while admitting the agency of
water, look upon this as the aqueous material originally pent up
within the rocks. For instance Professor Shaler, dean of the Lawrence
Scientific School, says:

"Volcanic outbreaks are merely the explosion of steam under high
pressure, steam which is bound in rocks buried underneath the surface
of the earth and there subjected to such tremendous heat that when the
conditions are right its pent-up energy breaks forth and it shatters
its stone prison walls into dust. The process by which the water becomes
buried in this manner is a long one. Some contend that it leaks down
from the surface of the earth through fissures in the outer crust, but
this theory is not generally accepted. The common belief is that water
enters the rocks during the crystalization period, and that these rocks
through the natural action of rivers and streams become deposited in the
bottom of the ocean. Here they lie for many ages, becoming buried deeper
and deeper under masses of like sediment, which are constantly being
washed down upon them from above. This process is called the blanketing
process.

"Each additional layer of sediment, while not raising the level of the
sea bottom, buries the first layers just so much the deeper and adds to
their temperature just as does the laying of extra blankets on a bed.
When the first layer has reached a depth of a few thousand feet the
rocks which contain the water of crystalization are subjected to a
terrific heat. This heat generates steam, which is held in a state of
frightful tension in its rocky prison. Wrinklings in the outer crust of
the earth's surface occur, caused by the constant shrinking of the earth
itself and by the contraction of the outer surface as it settles on the
plastic centers underneath. Fissures are caused by these foldings, and
as these fissures reach down into the earth the pressure is removed from
the rocks and the compressed steam in them, being released, explodes
with tremendous force."

This view is, very probably, applicable to many cases, and the
exceedingly fine dust which so often rises from volcanoes has,
doubtless, for one of its causes the sudden and explosive conversion of
water into steam in the interior of ejected lava, thus rending it into
innumerable fragments. But that this is the sole mode of action of water
in volcanic eruptions is very questionable. It certainly does not agree
with the immense volumes at times thrown out, while explosions of
such extreme intensity as that of Krakatoa very strongly lead to the
conclusion that a great mass of water has made its way through newly
opened fissures to the level of molten rock, and exploded into steam
with a suddenness which gave it the rending force of dynamite or the
other powerful chemical explosives.

As the earthquake is so intimately associated with the volcano the
causes of the latter are in great measure the causes of the former, and
the forces at work frequently produce a more or less violent quaking of
the earth's surface before they succeed in opening a channel of escape
through the mountain's heart. One agency of great potency, and one whose
work never ceases, has doubtless much to do with earthquake action.
In the description of this we cannot do better than to quote from "The
Earth's Beginning" of Sir Robert S. Ball.


CAUSE OF EARTHQUAKES


"As to the immediate cause of earthquakes there is no doubt considerable
difference of opinion. But I think it will not be doubted that an
earthquake is one of the consequences, though perhaps a remote one, of
the gradual loss of internal heat from the earth. As this terrestrial
heat is gradually declining, it follows from the law that we have
already so often had occasion to use that the bulk of the earth must be
shrinking. No doubt the diminution in the earth's diameter due to the
loss of heat must be exceedingly small, even in a long period of time.
The cause, however, is continually in operation, and, accordingly, the
crust of the earth has from time to time to be accommodated to the fact
that the whole globe is lessening. The circumference of our earth at
the equator must be gradually declining; a certain length in that
circumference is lost each year. We may admit that loss to be a quantity
far too small to be measured by any observations as yet obtainable, but,
nevertheless, it is productive of phenomena so important that it cannot
be overlooked.

"It follows from these considerations that the rocks which form the
earth's crust over the surface of the continents and the islands, or
beneath the bed of the ocean, must have a lessening acreage year
by year. These rocks must therefore submit to compression, either
continuously or from time to time, and the necessary yielding of the
rocks will in general take place in those regions where the materials
of the earth's crust happen to have comparatively small powers of
resistance. The acts of compression will often, and perhaps generally,
not proceed with uniformity, but rather with small successive shifts,
and even though the displacements of the rocks in these shifts be
actually very small, yet the pressures to which the rocks are subjected
are so vast that a very small shift may correspond to a very great
terrestrial disturbance.

"Suppose, for instance, that there is a slight shift in the rocks on
each side of a crack, or fault, at a depth of ten miles. It must be
remembered that the pressure ten miles down would be about thirty-five
tons to the square inch. Even a slight displacement of one extensive
surface over another, the sides being pressed together with a force of
thirty-five tons on the square inch, would be an operation necessarily
accompanied by violence greatly exceeding that which we might expect
from so small a displacement if the forces concerned had been of more
ordinary magnitude. On account of this great multiplication of the
intensity of the phenomenon, merely a small rearrangement of the
rocks in the crust of the earth, in pursuance of the necessary work of
accommodating its volume to the perpetual shrinkage, might produce an
excessively violent shock, extending far and wide. The effect of such a
shock would be propagated in the form of waves through the globe, just
as a violent blow given at one end of a bar of iron by a hammer is
propagated through the bar in the form of waves. When the effect of this
internal adjustment reaches the earth's surface it will sometimes be
great enough to be perceptible in the shaking it gives that surface. The
shaking may be so violent that buildings may not be able to withstand
it. Such is the phenomenon of an earthquake.

"When the earth is shaken by one of those occasional adjustments of the
crust which I have described, the wave that spreads like a pulsation
from the centre of agitation extends all over our globe and is
transmitted right through it. At the surface lying immediately over the
centre of disturbance there will be a violent shock. In the surrounding
country, and often over great distances, the earthquake may also be
powerful enough to produce destructive effects. The convulsion may also
be manifested over a far larger area of country in a way which makes the
shock to be felt, though the damage wrought may not be appreciable.
But beyond a limited distance from the centre of the agitation the
earthquake will produce no destructive effects upon buildings, and
will not even cause vibrations that would be appreciable to ordinary
observation."


THE RADIUS OF DISTURBANCE.


"In each locality in which earthquakes are chronic it would seem as if
there must be a particularly weak spot in the earth some miles below
the surface. A shrinkage of the earth, in the course of the incessant
adjustment between the interior and the exterior, will take place by
occasional little jumps at this particular centre. The fact that there
is this weak spot at which small adjustments are possible may provide,
as it were, a safety-valve for other places in the same part of
the world. Instead of a general shrinking, the materials would be
sufficiently elastic and flexible to allow the shrinking for a very
large area to be done at this particular locality. In this way we may
explain the fact that immense tracts on the earth are practically free
from earthquakes of a serious character, while in the less fortunate
regions the earthquakes are more or less perennial.

"Now, suppose an earthquake takes place in Japan, it originates a series
of vibrations through our globe. We must here distinguish between the
rocks--I might almost say the comparatively pliant rocks--which form
the earth's crust, and those which form the intensely rigid core of the
interior of our globe. The vibrations which carry the tidings of the
earthquake spread through the rocks on the surface, from the centre of
the disturbance, in gradually enlarging circles. We may liken the spread
of these vibrations to the ripples in a pool of water which diverge from
the spot where a raindrop has fallen. The vibrations transmitted by
the rocks on the surface, or on the floor of the ocean, will carry the
message all over the earth. As these rocks are flexible, at all
events by comparison with the earth's interior, the vibrations will be
correspondingly large, and will travel with vigor over land and under
sea. In due time they reach, say the Isle of Wight, where they set the
pencil of the seismometer at work. But there are different ways round
the earth from Japan to the Isle of Wight, the most direct route being
across Asia and Europe; the other route across the Pacific, America, and
the Atlantic. The vibrations will travel by both routes, and the former
is the shorter of the two."


TRANSMISSIONS OF VIBRATIONS


Some brief repetition may not here be amiss as to the products of
volcanic action, of which so much has been said in the preceding
pages, especially as many of the terms are to some extent technical in
character. The most abundant of these substances is steam or water-gas,
which, as we have seen, issues in prodigious quantities during every
eruption. But with the steam a great number of other volatile materials
frequently make their appearance. Though we have named a number of these
at the beginning of this chapter, it will not be out of order to
repeat them here. The chief among these are the acid gases known as
hydrochloric acid, sulphurous acid, sulphuretted hydrogen, carbonic
acid, and boracic acid; and with these acid gases there issue hydrogen,
nitrogen ammonia, the volatile metals arsenic, antimony, and mercury,
and some other substances. These volatile substances react upon one
another, and many new compounds are thus formed. By the action of
sulphurous acid and sulphuretted hydrogen on each other, the sulphur
so common in volcanic districts is separated and deposited. The
hydrochloric acid acts very energetically on the rocks around the vents,
uniting with the iron in them to form the yellow ferric-chloride, which
often coats the rocks round the vent and is usually mistaken by casual
observers for sulphur.

Some of the substances emitted by volcanic vents, such as hydrogen and
sulphuretted hydrogen, are inflammable, and when they issue at a high
temperature these gases burst into flame the moment that they come
into contact with the air. Hence, when volcanic fissures are watched at
night, faint lambent flames are frequently seen playing over them, and
sometimes these flames are brilliantly colored, through the presence
of small quantities of certain metallic oxides. Such volcanic flames,
however, are scarcely ever strongly luminous, and the red, glowing light
which is observed over volcanic mountains in eruption is due to quite
another cause. What is usually taken for flame during a volcanic
eruption is simply, as we have before stated, the glowing light of the
surface of a mass of red-hot lava reflected from the cloud of vapor and
dust in the air, much as the lights of a city are reflected from the
water vapor of the atmosphere during a night of fog.

Besides the volatile substances which issue from volcanic vents,
mingling with the atmosphere or condensing upon their sides, there
are many solid materials ejected, and these may accumulate around the
orifice's till they build up mountains of vast dimensions, like Etna,
Teneriffe, and Chimborazo. Some of these solid materials are evidently
fragments of the rock-masses, through which the volcanic fissure has
been rent; these fragments have been carried upwards by the force of
the steam-blast and scattered over the sides of the volcano. But the
principal portion of the solid materials ejected from volcanic orifices
consists of matter which has been extruded from sources far beneath the
surface, in highly-heated and fluid or semi-fluid condition.

It is to these materials that the name of "lavas" is properly applied.
Lavas present a general resemblance to the slags and clinkers which
are formed in our furnaces and brick-kilns, and consist, like them, of
various stony substances which have been more or less perfectly fused.
When we come to study the chemical composition and the microscopical
structure of lavas, however, we shall find that there are many respects
in which they differ entirely from these artificial products, they
consisting chiefly of felspar, or of this substance in association with
augite or hornblende. In texture they may be stony, glassy, resin-like,
vesicular or cellular and light in weight, as in the case of pumice or
scoria.


FLOATING PUMICE


The steam and other gases rising through liquid lava are apt to produce
bubbles, yielding a surface froth or foam. This froth varies greatly
in character according to the nature of the material from which it is
formed. In the majority of cases the lavas consist of a mass of crystals
floating in a liquid magma, and the distension of such a mass by the
escape of steam from its midst gives rise to the formation of the rough
cindery-looking material to which the name of "scoria" is applied. But
when the lava contains no ready-formed crystals, but consists entirely
of a glassy substance in a more or less perfect state of fusion,
the liberation of steam gives rise to the formation of the beautiful
material known as "pumice." Pumice consists of a mass of minute glass
bubbles; these bubbles do not usually, however, retain their globular
form, but are elongated in one direction through the movement of
the mass while it is still in a plastic state. The quantity of this
substance ejected is often enormous. We have seen to what a vast extent
it was thrown out from the crater of Krakatoa. During the year 1878,
masses of floating pumice were reported as existing in the vicinity of
the Solomon Isles, and covering the surface of the sea to such extent
that it took ships three days to force their way through them. Sometimes
this substance accumulates in such quantities along coasts that it is
difficult to determine the position of the shore within a mile or two,
as we may land and walk about on the great floating raft of pumice.
Recent deep-sea soundings, carried on in the Challenger and other
vessels, have shown that the bottom of the deepest portion of the ocean,
far away from the land, is covered with volcanic materials which have
been carried through the air or have floated on the surface of the
ocean.

Fragments of scoria or pumice may be thrown hundreds or thousands of
feet into the atmosphere, those that fall into the crater and are flung
up again being gradually reduced in size by friction. Thus it is related
by Mr. Poulett Scrope, who watched the Vesuvian eruption of 1822,
which lasted for nearly a month, that during the earlier stages of the
outburst fragments of enormous size were thrown out of the crater, but
by constant re-ejection these were gradually reduced in size, till
at last only the most impalpable dust issued from the vent. This dust
filled the atmosphere, producing in the city of Naples "a darkness that
might be felt." So excessively finely divided was it, that it penetrated
into all drawers, boxes, and the most closely fastened receptacles,
filling them completely. The fragmentary materials ejected from
volcanoes are often given the name of cinders or ashes. These, however,
are terms of convenience only, and do not properly describe the volcanic
material.

Sometimes the passages of steam through a mass of molten glass produces
large quantities of a material resembling spun glass. Small particles of
this glass are carried into the air and leave behind them thin, glassy
filaments like a tail. At the volcano of Kilauea in Hawaii, this
substance, as previously stated, is abundantly produced, and is known
as 'Pele's Hair'--Pele being the name of the goddess of the mountain.
Birds' nests are sometimes found composed of this beautiful material.
In recent years an artificial substance similar to this Pele's hair
has been extensively manufactured by passing jets of steam through the
molten slag of iron-furnaces; it resembles cotton-wool, but is made up
of fine threads of glass, and is employed for the packing of boilers and
other purposes.

The lava itself, as left in huge deposits upon the surface, assumes
various forms, some crystalline, others glassy. The latter is usually
found in the condition known as obsidian, ordinarily black in color,
and containing few or no crystals. It is brittle, and splits into
sharp-edged or pointed fragments, which were used by primitive peoples
for arrow-heads, knives and other cutting implements. The ancient
Mexicans used bits of it for shaving purposes, it having an edge of
razor-like sharpness. They also used it as the cutting part of their
weapons of war.


CHAPTER XX.

The Active Volcanoes of the Earth.


It is not by any means an easy task to frame an estimate of the number
of volcanoes in the world. Volcanoes vary greatly in their dimensions,
from vast mountain masses, rising to a height of nearly 25,000 feet
above sea-level, to mere molehills. They likewise exhibit every possible
stage of development and decay: while some are in a state of chronic
active eruption, others are reduced to the condition of solfataras, or
vents emitting acid vapors, and others again have fallen into a more or
less complete state of ruin through the action of denuding forces.


NUMBER OF ACTIVE VOLCANOES


Even if we confine our attention to the larger volcanoes, which merit
the name of mountains, and such of these as we have reason to believe to
be in a still active condition, our difficulties will be diminished, but
not by any means removed. Why, you can git a dozen of 'em any day in
'Frisco.'
With much feigned reluctance Barnum yielded his pigeon up to the
California show, and all went well--for a time.

Perhaps two weeks had elapsed, when Old Adams burst into the office,
excited.

'Barnum!' he cried, 'you infarnal old humbug--that California
golden pigin is a darned swindle! It's painted!'
'Why, how you talk!' replied Barnum. 'Humbug, indeed! Haven't you seen
golden pigeons, three and four hundred in a flock, in California?'
'It's painted and gilded, I tell you!' cried Adams. 'The color is all
coming off the edges of the wings, and its tail is 'most rubbed
white!'

'The idea!' replied Barnum, mildly, but with a droll, merry light
in his eyes. 'You know you can send out to the San Francisco market
any day and get a dozen!'
That is the legend of Ye Golden Pigeon. No--hold on; it is told in
the Museum that one day a lady charged Mr. Barnum with having had his
Angel Fish artificially colored.

'Indigo,' she remarked.

But the golden pigeon captivated her, and she implored Mr. B. for one
of its eggs. He evaded the request on the ground that the 'sect' to
which the pigeon belonged was not of the egg-laying kind.

So we should think.

Apropos of the Angel Fish, the CONTINENTAL heard a lady remark lately
that they were well named, and lovely enough to have been caught
in the ponds of paradise. 'They certainly must be the kind,' she added,
'which they fish for with golden hooks

.'
* * * * *
And ah! the merry summer-tide!' as a Minnisinger and many another
singer have sung. As we write, summer is losing its last traces in the
peach-time of September. Bartlett pears are dead ripe--like the
engagements formed at Newport and Saratoga--and china-asters and
tuberoses tell of coming frosts.

Well, 'tis over--the second season of the year is with the snows of
year before last.

'Mais ou sont les neiges d'antan!'
and we may continue the service by singing a
LAMENT FOR SUMMER
BY J. W. LEEDS.

Like an argosy deep laden With the wealth of Indian sands, Sailing
down a summer ocean To far-off Northern lands,--
Like a golden-visioned story-- Like the hectic's bright decay, Dying
in the painted glory Of the autumn sere and hoary, Fade the summer days
away.

* * * * *
Persons who insist that 'after all, the Rebels are slandered as to waging
warfare in a barbarous manner,' will do well to cast their eyes over the
following from the Richmond _Dispatch_ of September 24:

"The Yankees are about to send their army captured at Harper's Ferry
against the Indians. Has the Government no means of retaliating for
such a breach of faith?'

'A breach of faith!' So, then, we are to understand that the latest
uprising of the Indians, as well as that led by that brutal
Falstaff, ALBERT PIKE, the Southwest, are all in the service of the
Confederacy?

For where is there a breach of faith unless the Indians in question
are the allies of our Southern foes? This is, we presume, a part of 'the
defensive policy of exhausting in detail the superior numbers of the
invading North,' which has been proposed as forming a portion of the
Confederate policy--other items of which consist of killing prisoners
by neglect, and having torpedoes and mines in abandoned villages.
We commend this admission of alliance with savages to the special
consideration of the London _Times_.

* * * * *
We observe that a new planet has been discovered at Bilk, in
Germany.
Well, we have no doubt of the fact, but we don't like the name of
the place where they found it. A Bilk planet is extremely suggestive
of a Moon hoax. And, talking of hoaxes, has anybody with a sharp
stick been as yet deputed by the government to look after the man
who gets up proposals of peace for the Philadelphia _Inquirer_?
Ancient friend of ours, such yarns (unintentionally) do harm. They
are reprinted in Dixie, and the Dixians say that we are frightened,
while Northern doughfaces grasp at them, and get to thinking.
Excellent _Inquirer_! this is not a good time to set people to
thinking over peace proposals and compromises.
Does our friend know, by the way, what sort of fowl are hatched
from mares' nests'? They are _canards_. Don't let there be too many
of them hatched in serious times like these.All of these are of volcanic origin, and among them are
numerous active volcanoes. The Island of Jan Mayen contains an active
volcano, and Iceland contains thirteen, and not improbably more; the
Azores have six active volcanoes, the Canaries three; while about eight
volcanoes lie off the west coast of Africa. In the West Indies there are
six active volcanoes; and three submarine volcanoes have been recorded
within the limits of the Atlantic Ocean. Altogether, no less than forty
active volcanoes are situated upon the great submarine ridges which
traverse the Atlantic longitudinally.

But along the same line the number of extinct volcanoes is far greater,
and there are not wanting proofs that the volcanoes which are still
active are approaching the condition of extinction.


VOLCANOES OF THE PACIFIC


If the great medial chain of the Atlantic presents us with an example of
a chain of volcanic mountains verging on extinction, we have in the
line of islands separating the Pacific and Indian Oceans an example of a
similar range of volcanic vents which are in a condition of the
greatest activity. In the peninsula of Kamchatka there are twelve active
volcanoes, in the Aleutian Islands thirty-one, and in the peninsula
of Alaska three. The chain of the Kuriles contains at least ten active
volcanoes; the Japanese Islands and the islands to the south of Japan
twenty-five. The great group of islands lying to the south-east of the
Asiatic continent is at the present time the grandest focus of volcanic
activity upon the globe. No less than fifty active volcanoes occur here.

Farther south, the same chain is probably continued by the four active
volcanoes of New Guinea, one or more submarine volcanoes, and several
vents in New Britain, the Solomon Isles, and the New Hebrides, the three
active volcanoes of New Zealand, and possibly by Mount Erebus and Mount
Terror in the Antarctic region. Altogether, no less than 150 active
volcanoes exist in the chain of islands which stretch from Behring's
Straits down to the Antarctic circle; and if we include the volcanoes
on Indian and Pacific Islands which appear to be situated on lines
branching from this particular band, we shall not be wrong in the
assertion that this great system of volcanic mountains includes at least
one half of the habitually active vents of the globe. In addition to
the active vents, there are here several hundred very perfect volcanic
cones, many of which appear to have recently become extinct, though some
of them may be merely dormant, biding their time.

A third series of volcanoes starts from the neighborhood of Behring's
Straits, and stretches along the whole western coast of the American
continent. This is much less continuous, but nevertheless very
important, and contains, with its branches, nearly a hundred active
volcanoes. On the north this great band is almost united with the one
we have already described by the chain of the Aleutian and Alaska
volcanoes. In British Columbia about the parallel of 60 degrees N. there
exist a number of volcanic mountains, one of which, Mount St. Elias, is
believed to be 18,000 feet in height. Farther south, in the territory of
the United States, a number of grand volcanic mountains exist, some of
which are probably still active, for geysers and other manifestations of
volcanic activity abound. From the southern extremity of the peninsula
of California an almost continuous chain of volcanoes stretches through
Mexico and Guatemala, and from this part of the volcanic band a branch
is given off which passes through the West Indies, and contains the
volcanoes which have so recently given evidence of their vital activity.

In South America the line is continued by the active volcanoes of
Ecuador, Bolivia and Chile, but at many intermediate points in the chain
of the Andes extinct volcanoes occur, which to a great extent fill up
the gaps in the series. A small offshoot to the westward passes through
the Galapagos Islands. The great band of volcanoes which stretches
through the American continent is second only in importance, and in the
activity of its vents, to the band which divides the Pacific from the
Indian Ocean.

The third volcanic band of the globe is that, already spoken of,
which traverses the Atlantic Ocean from north to south. This series of
volcanic mountains is much more broken and interrupted than the other
two, and a greater proportion of its vents are extinct. It attained its
condition of maximum activity during the distant period of the Miocene,
and now appears to be passing into a state of gradual extinction.

Beginning in the north with the volcanic rocks of Greenland and Bear
Island, we pass southwards, by way of Jan Mayen, Iceland and the Faroe
Islands, to the Hebrides and the north of Ireland. Thence, by way of
the Azores, the Canaries and the Cape de Verde Islands, with some active
vents, we pass to the ruined volcanoes of St. Paul, Fernando de Noronha,
Ascension, St. Helena, Trinidad and Tristan da Cunha. From this great
Atlantic band two branches proceed to the eastward, one through Central
Europe, where all the vents are now extinct, and the other through the
Mediterranean to Asia Minor, the great majority of the volcanoes along
the latter line being now extinct, though a few are still active. The
volcanoes on the eastern coast of Africa may be regarded as situated on
another branch from this Atlantic volcanic band. The number of active
volcanoes on this Atlantic band and its branches, exclusive of those in
the West Indies, does not exceed fifty.


THIAN SHAN AND HAWAIIAN VOLCANOES


From what has been said, it will be seen that the volcanoes of the globe
not only usually assume a linear arrangement, but nearly the whole of
them can be shown to be thrown up along three well-marked bands and the
branches proceeding from them. The first and most important of these
bands is nearly 10,000 miles in length, and with its branches contains
more than 150 active volcanoes; the second is 8,000 miles in length, and
includes about 100 active volcanoes; the third is much more broken and
interrupted, extends to a length of nearly 1,000 miles, and contains
about 50 active vents. The volcanoes of the eastern coast of Africa,
with Mauritius, Bourbon, Rodriguez, and the vents along the line of the
Red Sea, may be regarded as forming a fourth and subordinate band.

Thus we see that the surface of the globe is covered by a network of
volcanic bands, all of which traverse it in sinuous lines with a general
north-and-south direction, giving off branches which often run for
hundreds of miles, and sometimes appear to form a connection between the
great bands.

To this rule of the linear arrangement of the volcanic vents of the
globe, and their accumulation along certain well-marked bands, there are
two very striking exceptions, which we must now proceed to notice.

In the very centre of the continent formed by Europe and Asia, the
largest unbroken land-mass of the globe, there rises from the great
central plateau the remarkable volcanoes of the Thian Shan Range. The
existence of these volcanoes, of which only obscure traditional accounts
had reached Europe before the year 1858, appears to be completely
established by the researches of recent Russian and Swedish travelers.
Three volcanic vents appear to exist in this region, and other volcanic
phenomena have been stated to occur in the great plateau of Central
Asia, but the existence of the latter appears to rest on very doubtful
evidence. The only accounts which we have of the eruptions of these
Thian Shan volcanoes are contained in Chinese histories and treatises on
geography.

The second exceptionally situated volcanic group is that of the Hawaiian
Islands. While the Thian Shan volcanoes rise in the centre of the
largest unbroken land-mass, and stand on the edge of the loftiest and
greatest plateau in the world, the volcanoes of the Hawaiian Islands
rise in the northern centre of the largest ocean and from almost the
greatest depths in that ocean. All round the Hawaiian Islands the
sea has a depth of from 2,000 to 3,000 fathoms, and the island-group
culminates in several volcanic cones, which rise to the height of nearly
14,000 feet above the sea-level. The volcanoes of the Hawaiian Islands
are unsurpassed in height and bulk by those of any other part of the
globe.

With the exception of the two isolated groups of the Thian Shan and
the Hawaiian Islands, nearly all the active volcanoes of the globe are
situated near the limits which separate the great land-and-water-masses
of the globe--that is to say, they occur either on the parts of
continents not far removed from their coast-lines, or on islands in
the ocean not very far distant from the shores. The fact of the general
proximity of volcanoes to the sea is one which has frequently been
pointed out by geographers, and may now be regarded as being thoroughly
established.


VOLCANOES PARALLEL TO MOUNTAIN CHAINS


Many of the grandest mountain-chains have bands of volcanoes
lying parallel to them. This is strikingly exhibited by the great
mountain-masses which lie on the western side of the American continent.
The Rocky Mountains and the Andes consist of folded and crumpled masses
of altered strata which, by the action of denuding forces, have been
carved into series of ridges and summits. At many points, however, along
the sides of these great chains we find that fissures have been opened
and lines of volcanoes formed, from which enormous quantities of lava
have flowed and covered great tracts of country.

This is especially marked in the Snake River plain of Idaho, in the
western United States. In this, and the adjoining regions of Oregon and
Washington, an enormous tract of country has been overflowed by lava in
a late geological period, the surface covered being estimated to have a
larger area than France and Great Britain combined. The Snake River cuts
through it in a series of picturesque gorges and rapids, enabling us to
estimate its thickness, which is considered to average 4000 feet. Looked
at from any point on its surface, one of these lava-plains appears as a
vast level surface, like that of a lake bottom. This uniformity has been
produced either by the lava rolling over a plain or lake bottom, or by
the complete effacement of an original, undulating contour of the ground
under hundreds or thousands of feet of lava in successive sheets.
The lava, rolling up to the base of the mountains, has followed
the sinuosities of their margin, as the waters of a lake follow its
promontories and bays. Similar conditions exist along the Sierra Nevada
range of California, and to some extent placer mining has gone on under
immense beds of lava, by a process of tunneling beneath the volcanic
rock.

In some localities the volcanoes are of such height and dimensions as
to overlook and dwarf the mountain-ranges by the side of which they lie.
Some of the volcanoes lying parallel to the great American axis appear
to be quite extinct, while others are in full activity. In the Eastern
continent we find still more striking examples of parallelism between
great mountain-chains and the lands along which volcanic activity is
exhibited--volcanoes, active or extinct, following the line of the great
east and west chains which extend through southern Europe and Asia.
There are some other volcanic bands which exhibit a similar parallelism
with mountain chains; but, on the other hand, there are volcanoes
between which and the nearest mountain-axis no such connection can be
traced.


AREAS OF UPHEAVAL AND SUBSIDENCE


There is one other fact concerning the mode of distribution of volcanoes
upon the surface of the globe, to which we must allude. By a study
of the evidences presented by coral-reefs, raised beaches, submerged
forests, and other phenomena of a similar kind, it can be shown that
certain wide areas of the land and of the ocean-floor are at the present
time in a state of subsidence, while other equally large areas are
being upheaved. I gifs him to you for 'pout den or sieben thaler.'
'H'm--no--don't want it,' replied Barnum.

'Den I goes down mit mine brice to five thaler and dere I stops.'
'No--got birds enough,' said Barnum. 'They don't pay. Now, if it was the
great Japanese earthworm, a yard long--'
'Goot py. I sorry you no pys it. I dinks I colored her foost rate.'
'Ha!--_what!_--HOW!' cried Barnum, deeply interested; 'artificially
colored! Good! _I must have_ that!'
The German smiled a heavy, beery, winky, Limburgy smile, with both
eyes shut tightly.

'Yas, I golors de bichin yellows unt creen and plue unt all sorts golors.
Only five thalers der piece.'
'Do you think,' said Mr. Barnum, 'that you could prepare a great
Patriotic National Lusus Naturæ, recently found perching on Independence
Hall, Philadelphia--or hold--that's better--Mount Vernon? Could you
color an eagle, with red stars on his breast, and blue and white stripes
running down big tail?'
The Dutchman thought he could, if the eagle's bill were tied, and his
claws each stuck into a cork.

'Well, try your hand at it. But hold--go up stairs and put the pigeon
into the Happy Family.'
The Dutchman stumped away. In about ten minutes Mr. Feathers, the
ornithologist of the Museum, came rushing down, in a wild state of
fluttering excitement.
'Good GOD, Mr. Barnum, you're not going to put _that_ bird into the
Happy Family!' 
'Why not?' inquired Mr. Barnum, serenely.
'Why--it is the greatest curiosity you own. Heavens! a YELLOW pigeon!Along these immense
fissures in the earth's rock-crust there appear, in place of small
scoriae cones, great volcanoes, built up through the ages by a series of
powerful eruptions, and only ceasing to spout fire themselves when the
portion of the great crack upon which they lie is closed. The greatest
of these fissures is that along the vast sinuous band of volcanoes
extending from near the Arctic circle at Behring's Straits to the
Antarctic circle at South Victoria Land, not far from half round the
earth. It doubtless marks the line of mighty forces which have been
active for millions of years.


CHAPTER XXI.

The Famous Vesuvius and the Destruction of Pompeii.


The famous volcano of southern Italy named Vesuvius, which is now so
constantly in eruption, was described by the ancients as a cone-shaped
mountain with a flat top, on which was a deep circular valley filled
with vines and grass, and surrounded by high precipices. A large
population lived on the sides of the mountain, which was covered with
beautiful woods, and there were fine flourishing cities at its foot. So
little was the terrible nature of the valley on the top understood, that
in A. D. 72, Spartacus, a rebellious Roman gladiator, encamped there
with some thousands of fighting men, and the Roman soldiers were let
down the precipices in order to surprise and capture them.

There had been earthquakes around the mountain, and one of the cities
had been nearly destroyed; but no one was prepared for what occurred
seven years after the defeat of Spartacus. Suddenly, in the year 79
A. D., a terrific rush of smoke, steam, and fire belched from the
mountain's summit; one side of the valley in which Spartacus had
encamped was blown off, and its rocks, with vast quantities of ashes,
burning stones, and sand, were ejected far into the sky. They then
spread out like a vast pall, and fell far and wide. For eight days
and nights this went on, and the enormous quantity of steam sent up,
together with the deluge of rain that fell, produced torrents on the
mountain-side, which, carrying onward the fallen ashes, overwhelmed
everything in their way. Sulphurous vapors filled the air and violent
tremblings of the earth were constant.

A city six miles off was speedily rendered uninhabitable, and was
destroyed by the falling stones; but two others--Herculaneum and
Pompeii--which already had suffered from the down-pour of ashes, were
gradually filled with a flood of water, sand, and ashes, which came down
the side of the volcano, and covering them entirely.


BURIED CITIES EXCAVATED.


The difference in ease of excavation is due to the following
circumstance. Herculaneum being several miles nearer the crater,
was buried in a far more consistent substance, seemingly composed of
volcanic ashes cemented by mud; Pompeii, on the contrary, was
buried only in ashes and loose stones. The casts of statues found in
Herculaneum show the plastic character of the material that fell there,
which time has hardened to rock-like consistency.

These statues represented Hercules and Cleopatra, and the theatre proved
to be that of the long-lost city of Herculaneum. The site of Pompeii was
not discovered until forty years afterward, but work there proved far
easier than at Herculaneum, and more progress was made in bringing it
back to the light of day.

The less solid covering of Pompeii has greatly facilitated the work of
excavation, and a great part of the city has been laid bare. Many of its
public buildings and private residences are now visible, and some whole
streets have been cleared, while a multitude of interesting relics have
been found. Among those are casts of many of the inhabitants, obtained
by pouring liquid plaster into the ash moulds that remained of them.
We see them to-day in the attitude and with the expression of agony and
horror with which death met them more than eighteen centuries ago.

In succeeding eruptions much lava was poured out; and in A. D. 472,
ashes were cast over a great part of Europe, so that much fear was
caused at Constantinople. The buried cities were more and more covered
up, and it was not until about A. D. 1700 that, as above stated, the
city of Herculaneum was discovered, the peasants of the vicinity being
in the habit of extracting marble from its ruins. They had also, in the
course of years, found many statues. In consequence, an excavation was
ordered by Charles III, the earliest result being the discovery of the
theatre, with the statues above named. The work of excavation,
however, has not progressed far in this city, on account of its extreme
difficulty, though various excellent specimens of art-work have been
discovered, including the finest examples of mural painting extant from
antiquity. The library was also discovered, 1803 papyri being found.
Though these had been charred to cinder, and were very difficult to
unroll and decipher, over 300 of them have been read.


PLINY'S CELEBRATED DESCRIPTION


Pliny the Younger, to whom we are indebted for the only contemporary
account of the great eruption under consideration, was at the time of
its occurrence resident with his mother at Misenum, where the Roman
fleet lay, under the command of his uncle, the great author of the
"Historia Naturalis". His account, contained in two letters to Tacitus
(lib. vi. 16, 20), is not so much a narrative of the eruption, as a
record of his uncle's singular death, yet it is of great interest as
yielding the impressions of an observer. The translation which follows
is adopted from the very free version of Melmoth, except in one or two
places, where it differs much from the ordinary text. The letters are
given entire, though some parts are rather specimens of style than good
examples of description.

"Your request that I should send an account of my uncle's death, in
order to transmit a more exact relation of it to posterity, deserves my
acknowledgments; for if this accident shall be celebrated by your pen,
the glory of it, I am assured, will be rendered forever illustrious.
And, notwithstanding he perished by a misfortune which, as it involved
at the same time a most beautiful country in ruins, and destroyed so
many populous cities, seems to promise him an everlasting remembrance;
notwithstanding he has himself composed many and lasting works; yet I
am persuaded the mention of him in your immortal works will greatly
contribute to eternize his name. Happy I esteem those to be, whom
Providence has distinguished with the abilities either of doing such
actions as are worthy of being related, or of relating them in a manner
worthy of being read; but doubly happy are they who are blessed with
both these talents; in the number of which my uncle, as his own writings
and your history will prove, may justly be ranked. It is with extreme
willingness, therefore, that I execute your commands; and should,
indeed, have claimed the task if you had not enjoined it.

"He was at that time with the fleet under his command at Misenum. On
the 24th of August, about one in the afternoon, my mother desired him to
observe a cloud which appeared of a very unusual size and shape. He had
just returned from taking the benefit of the sun, and, after bathing
himself in cold water, and taking a slight repast, had retired to his
study. He immediately arose, and went out upon an eminence, from whence
he might more distinctly view this very uncommon appearance. It was not
at that distance discernible from what mountain the cloud issued, but it
was found afterward to ascend from Mount Vesuvius. I cannot give a more
exact description of its figure than by comparing it to that of a pine
tree, for it shot up to a great height in the form of a trunk, which
extended itself at the top into a sort of branches; occasioned, I
imagine, either by a sudden gust of air that impelled it, the force
of which decreased as it advanced upwards, or the cloud itself being
pressed back again by its own weight, and expanding in this manner: it
appeared sometimes bright, and sometimes dark and spotted, as it was
more or less impregnated with earth and cinders.

"This extraordinary phenomenon excited my uncle's philosophical
curiosity to take a nearer view of it. He ordered a light vessel to be
got ready, and gave me the liberty, if I thought proper, to attend him.
I rather chose to continue my studies, for, as it happened, he had given
me an employment of that kind. As he was passing out of the house he
received dispatches: the marines at Retina, terrified at the imminent
peril (for the place lay beneath the mountain, and there was no retreat
but by ships), entreated his aid in this extremity. He accordingly
changed his first design, and what he began with a philosophical he
pursued with an heroical turn of mind."


THE VOYAGE TO STABIAE


"He ordered the galleys to put to sea, and went himself on board with
an intention of assisting not only Retina but many other places, for the
population is thick on that beautiful coast. When hastening to the place
from whence others fled with the utmost terror, he steered a direct
course to the point of danger, and with so much calmness and presence of
mind, as to be able to make and dictate his observations upon the motion
and figure of that dreadful scene. He was now so nigh the mountain that
the cinders, which grew thicker and hotter the nearer he approached,
fell into the ships, together with pumice-stones, and black pieces of
burning rock; they were in danger of not only being left aground by the
sudden retreat of the sea, but also from the vast fragments which rolled
down from the mountain, and obstructed all the shore.

"Here he stopped to consider whether he should return back again; to
which the pilot advised him. 'Fortune,' said he, 'favors the brave;
carry me to Pomponianus.' Pomponianus was then at Stabiae, separated by
a gulf, which the sea, after several insensible windings, forms upon
the shore. He (Pomponianus) had already sent his baggage on board; for
though he was not at that time in actual danger, yet being within view
of it, and indeed extremely near, if it should in the least increase, he
was determined to put to sea as soon as the wind should change. It was
favorable, however, for carrying my uncle to Pomponianus, whom he
found in the greatest consternation. He embraced him with tenderness,
encouraging and exhorting him to keep up his spirits; and the more to
dissipate his fears he ordered, with an air of unconcern, the baths
to be got ready; when, after having bathed, he sat down to supper with
great cheerfulness, or at least (what is equally heroic) with all the
appearance of it.

"In the meantime, the eruption from Mount Vesuvius flamed out in several
places with much violence, which the darkness of the night contributed
to render still more visible and dreadful. But my uncle, in order to
soothe the apprehensions of his friend, assured him it was only the
burning of the villages, which the country people had abandoned to the
flames; after this he retired to rest, and it was most certain he was so
little discomposed as to fall into a deep sleep; for, being pretty fat,
and breathing hard, those who attended without actually heard him snore.
The court which led to his apartment being now almost filled with stones
and ashes, if he had continued there any longer it would have been
impossible for him to have made his way out; it was thought proper,
therefore, to awaken him. He got up and went to Pomponianus and the rest
of his company, who were not unconcerned enough to think of going to
bed. They consulted together whether it would be most prudent to trust
to the houses, which now shook from side to side with frequent and
violent concussions; or to fly to the open fields, where the calcined
stone and cinders, though light indeed, yet fell in large showers and
threatened destruction. In this distress they resolved for the fields as
the less dangerous situation of the two--a resolution which, while
the rest of the company were hurried into it by their fears, my uncle
embraced upon cool and deliberate consideration.


DEATH OF PLINY THE ELDER


"They went out, then, having pillows tied upon their heads with napkins;
and this was their whole defence against the storm of stones that fell
around them. It was now day everywhere else, but there a deeper darkness
prevailed than in the most obscure night; which, however, was in some
degree dissipated by torches and other lights of various kinds. They
thought proper to go down further upon the shore, to observe if they
might safely put out to sea; but they found that the waves still ran
extremely high and boisterous. There my uncle, having drunk a draught or
two of cold water, threw himself down upon a cloth which was spread for
him, when immediately the flames, and a strong smell of sulphur which
was the forerunner of them, dispersed the rest of the company, and
obliged him to rise. He raised himself up with the assistance of two of
his servants, and instantly fell down dead, suffocated, as I conjecture,
by some gross and noxious vapor, having always had weak lungs, and being
frequently subject to a difficulty of breathing.

"As soon as it was light again, which was not till the third day after
this melancholy accident, his body was found entire, and without any
marks of violence upon it, exactly in the same posture as that in which
he fell, and looking more like a man asleep than dead. During all this
time my mother and I were at Misenum. But this has no connection with
your history, as your inquiry went no farther than concerning my uncle's
death; with that, therefore, I will put an end to my letter. Suffer me
only to add, that I have faithfully related to you what I was either
an eye-witness of myself, or received immediately after the accident
happened, and before there was any time to vary the truth. You will
choose out of this narrative such circumstances as shall be most
suitable to your purpose; for there is a great difference between what
is proper for a letter and a history: between writing to a friend and
writing to the public. Farewell."

In this account, which was drawn up some years after the event, from
the recollections of a student eighteen years old, we recognize the
continual earthquakes; the agitated sea with its uplifted bed; the
flames and vapors of an ordinary eruption, probably attended by lava as
well as ashes. But it seems likely that the author's memory, or rather
the information communicated to him regarding the closing scene of
Pliny's life, was defective. Flames and sulphurous vapors could hardly
be actually present at Stabiae, ten miles from the centre of the
eruption.

That lava flowed at all from Vesuvius on this occasion has been usually
denied; chiefly because at Pompeii and Herculaneum the causes of
destruction were different--ashes overwhelmed the former, mud concreted
over the latter. We observe, indeed, phenomena on the shore near Torre
del Greco which seem to require the belief that currents of lava had
been solidified there at some period before the construction of certain
walls and floors, and other works of Roman date. In the Oxford Museum,
among the specimens of lava to which the dates are assigned, is one
referred to A. D. 79, but there is no mode of proving it to have
belonged to the eruption of that date.


PLINY'S SECOND LETTER


A second letter from Pliny to Tacitus (Epist. 20) was required to
satisfy the curiosity of that historian; especially as regards the
events which happened under the eyes of his friend. Here it is according
to Melmoth:

"The letter which, in compliance with your request, I wrote to you
concerning the death of my uncle, has raised, it seems, your curiosity
to know what terrors and danger attended me while I continued at
Misenum: for there, I think, the account in my former letter broke off.

'Though my shocked soul recoils, my tongue shall tell.'

"My uncle having left us, I pursued the studies which prevented my going
with him till it was time to bathe. After which I went to supper, and
from thence to bed, where my sleep was greatly broken and disturbed.
There had been, for many days before, some shocks of an earthquake,
which the less surprised us as they are extremely frequent in Campania;
but they were so particularly violent that night, that they not only
shook everything about us, but seemed, indeed, to threaten total
destruction. My mother flew to my chamber, where she found me rising
in order to awaken her. We went out into a small court belonging to the
house, which separated the sea from the buildings. As I was at that time
but eighteen years of age, I know not whether I should call my behavior,
in this dangerous juncture, courage or rashness; but I took up Livy, and
amused myself with turning over that author, and even making extracts
from him, as if all about me had been in full security. While we were
in this posture, a friend of my uncle's, who was just come from Spain to
pay him a visit, joined us; and observing me sitting with my mother with
a book in my hand, greatly condemned her calmness at the same time that
he reproved me for my careless security. Nevertheless, I still went on
with my author.

"Though it was now morning, the light was exceedingly faint and languid;
the buildings all around us tottered; and, though we stood upon open
ground, yet as the place was narrow and confined, there was no remaining
there without certain and great danger: we therefore resolved to quit
the town. The people followed us in the utmost consternation, and, as to
a mind distracted with terror every suggestion seems more prudent than
its own, pressed in great crowds about us in our way out.

"Being got to a convenient distance from the houses, we stood still, in
the midst of a most dangerous and dreadful scene. The chariots which
we had ordered to be drawn out were so agitated backwards and forwards,
though upon the most level ground, that we could not keep them steady,
even by supporting them with large stones. The sea seemed to roll back
upon itself, and to be driven from its banks by the convulsive motion
of the earth; it is certain at least that the shore was considerably
enlarged, and many sea animals were left upon it. On the other side a
black and dreadful cloud, bursting with an igneous serpentine vapor,
darted out a long train of fire, resembling flashes of lightning, but
much larger.


FEAR VERSUS COMPOSURE


"Upon this the Spanish friend whom I have mentioned, addressed himself
to my mother and me with great warmth and earnestness; 'If your brother
and your uncle,' said he, 'is safe, he certainly wishes you to be so
too; but if he has perished, it was his desire, no doubt, that you might
both survive him: why therefore do you delay your escape a moment?' We
could never think of our own safety, we said, while we were uncertain
of his. Hereupon our friend left us, and withdrew with the utmost
precipitation. Soon afterward, the cloud seemed to descend, and cover
the whole ocean; as it certainly did the island of Capreae, and the
promontory of Misenum. My mother strongly conjured me to make my escape
at any rate, which, as I was young, I might easily do; as for herself,
she said, her age and corpulency rendered all attempts of that sort
impossible. However, she would willingly meet death, if she could have
the satisfaction of seeing that she was not the occasion of mine. But I
absolutely refused to leave her, and taking her by the hand, I led her
on; she complied with great reluctance, and not without many reproaches
to herself for retarding my flight.

"The ashes now began to fall upon us, though in no great quantity. I
turned my head and observed behind us a thick smoke, which came rolling
after us like a torrent. I proposed, while we yet had any light, to turn
out of the high road lest she should be pressed to death in the dark by
the crowd that followed us. We had scarce stepped out of the path when
darkness overspread us, not like that of a cloudy night, or when there
is no moon, but of a room when it is all shut up and all the lights
are extinct. Nothing then was to be heard but the shrieks of women,
the screams of children and the cries of men; some calling for their
children, others for their parents, others for their husbands, and only
distinguishing each other by their voices; one lamenting his own fate,
another that of his family; some wishing to die from the very fear
of dying; some lifting their hands to the gods; but the greater part
imagining that the last and eternal night was come, which was to destroy
the gods and the world together. Among them were some who augmented the
real terrors by imaginary ones, and made the frighted multitude believe
that Misenum was actually in flames.

"At length a glimmering light appeared, which we imagined to be rather
the forerunner of an approaching burst of flames, as in truth it was,
than the return of day. However, the fire fell at distance from us; then
again we were immersed in thick darkness, and a heavy shower of ashes
rained upon us, which we were obliged every now and then to shake off,
otherwise we should have been crushed and buried in the heap.

"I might boast that, during all this scene of horror, not a sigh or
expression of fear escaped me, had not my support been founded in that
miserable, though strong, consolation that all mankind were involved in
the same calamity, and that I imagined I was perishing with the world
itself! At last this dreadful darkness was dissipated by degrees, like a
cloud of smoke; the real day returned, and soon the sun appeared, though
very faintly, and as when an eclipse is coming on. Every object that
presented itself to our eyes (which were extremely weakened) seemed
changed, being covered over with white ashes, as with a deep snow. We
returned to Misenum, where we refreshed ourselves as well as we could,
and passed an anxious night between hope and fear, for the earthquake
still continued, while several greatly excited people ran up and
down, heightening their own and their friends' calamities by terrible
predictions. However, my mother and I, notwithstanding the danger we had
passed and that which still threatened us, had no thoughts of leaving
the place till we should receive some account from my uncle.

"And now you will read this narrative without any view of inserting it
in your history, of which it is by no means worthy; and, indeed, you
must impute it to your own request if it shall not even deserve the
trouble of a letter. Farewell!"


DION CASSIUS ON THE ERUPTION


The story told by Pliny is the only one upon which we can rely. Dion
Cassius, the historian, who wrote more than a century later, does not
hesitate to use his imagination, telling us that Pompeii was buried
under showers of ashes "while all the people were sitting in the
theatre." This statement has been effectively made use of by Bulwer, in
his "Last Days of Pompeii." In this he pictures for us a gladiatorial
combat in the arena, with thousands of deeply interested spectators
occupying the surrounding seats. The novelist works his story up to a
thrilling climax in which the volcano plays a leading part.

This is all very well as a vivid piece of fiction, but it does not
accord with fact, since Dion Cassius was undoubtedly incorrect in his
statement. We now know from the evidence furnished by the excavations
that none of the people were destroyed in the theatres, and, indeed,
that there were very few who did not escape from both cities. It is
very likely that many of them returned and dug down for the most valued
treasures in their buried habitations. Dion Cassius may have obtained
the material for his accounts from the traditions of the descendants of
survivors, and if so he shows how terrible must have been the impression
made upon their minds. He assures us that during the eruption a
multitude of men of superhuman nature appeared, sometimes on the
mountain and sometimes in the environs, that stones and smoke were
thrown out, the sun was hidden, and then the giants seemed to rise
again, while the sounds of trumpets were heard.


LAKE AVERNUS


Not far from Vesuvius lay the famous Lake Avernus, whose name was long
a popular synonym for the infernal regions. The lake is harmless to-day,
but its reputation indicates that it was not always so. There is every
reason to believe that it hides the outlet of an extinct volcano, and
that long after the volcano ceased to be active it emitted gases as
fatal to animal life as those suffocating vapors which annihilated all
the cattle on the Island of Lancerote, in the Canaries, in the year
1730. Its name signifies "birdless," indicating that its ascending
vapors were fatal to all birds that attempted to fly above its surface.

In the superstition of the Middle Ages Vesuvius assumed the character
which had before been given to Avernus, and was regarded as the mouth of
hell. Cardinal Damiano, in a letter to Pope Nicholas II., written about
the year 1060 tells the story of how a priest, who had left his mother
ill at Beneventum, went on his homeward way to Naples past the crater of
Vesuvius, and heard issuing therefrom the voice of his mother in great
agony. He afterward found that her death coincided exactly with the time
at which he had heard her voice.

A trip to the summit of Vesuvius is one of the principal attractions
for strangers who are visiting Naples. There is a fascination about that
awful slayer of cities which few can resist, and no less attractive
is the city of Pompeii, now largely laid bare after being buried for
eighteen centuries. We are indebted to Henry Haynie for the following
interesting description: "Once seen, it will never be forgotten. It is
full of suggestions. It kindles emotions that are worth the kindling,
and brings on dreams that are worth the dreaming. Of the three places
overwhelmed, Herculaneum, Pompeii and Stabiae, the last scarcely repays
excavation in one sense, and the first in another; but to watch the
diggers at Pompeii is fascinating, even when there is no reasonable
expectation of a find. Herculaneum was buried with lava, or rather with
tufa, and it is so very hard that the expense of uncovering of only a
small part of that city has been very great.


HOW POMPEII IMPRESSES ITS VISITORS


"Pompeii was smothered in ashes, however, and most of it is uncovered
now. But while there is much that is fascinating, and all of it is
instructive, there is nothing grand or awe-inspiring in the ruins of
Pompeii. No visitor stands breathless as in the great hall of Karnak or
in the once dreadful Coliseum at Rome, or dreams with sensuous delight
as before the Jasmine Court at Agra.

"The weirdness of the scene possesses us as a haunted chamber might. We
have before us the narrow lanes, paved with tufa, in which Roman wagon
wheels have worn deep ruts. We cross streets on stepping-stones which
sandaled feet ages ago polished. We see the wine shops with empty jars,
counters stained with liquor, stone mills where the wheat was ground,
and the very ovens in which bread was baked more than eighteen centuries
ago. 'Welcome' is offered us at one silent, broken doorway; at another
we are warned to 'Beware of the dog!' The painted figures,--some of
them so artistic and rich in colors that pictures of them are
disbelieved,--the mosaic pavements, the empty fountains, the altars and
household gods, the marble pillars and the small gardens are there just
as the owners left them. Some of the walls are scribbled over by the
small boys of Pompeii in strange characters which mock modern erudition.
In places we read the advertisements of gladiatorial shows, never to
come off, the names of candidates for legislative office who were never
to sit. There is nothing like this elsewhere.

"The value of Pompeii to those classic students who would understand,
not the speech only, but the life and the every-day habits, of the
ancient world, is too high for reckoning. Its inestimable evidence may
be seen in the fact that any high-school boy can draw the plan of a
Roman house, while ripest scholars hesitate on the very threshold of
a Greek dwelling. This is because no Hellenic Pompeii has yet been
discovered, but thanks to the silent city close to the beautiful Bay of
Naples, the Latin house is known from ostium to porticus, from the front
door to the back garden wall.


STREETS AND HOUSES OF POMPEII


"The streets of Pompeii must have had a charm unapproached by those
of any city now in existence. The stores, indeed, were wretched little
dens. Two or three of them commonly occupied the front of a house on
either side of the entrance, the ostium; but when the door lay open, as
was usually the case, a passerby could look into the atrium, prettily
decorated and hung with rich stuffs. The sunshine entered through an
aperture in the roof, and shone on the waters of the impluvium, the
mosaic floor, the altar of the household gods and the flowers around the
fountain.

"As the life of the Pompeiians was all outdoors, their pretty homes
stood open always. There was indeed a curtain betwixt the atrium and the
peristyle, but it was drawn only when the master gave a banquet. Thus a
wayfarer in the street could see, beyond the hall described and its
busy servants, the white columns of the peristyle, with creepers trained
about them, flowers all around, and jets of water playing through pipes
which are still in place. In many cases the garden itself could be
observed between the pillars of the further gallery, and rich paintings
on the wall beyond that.

"But how far removed those little palaces of Pompeii were from our
notion of well-being is scarcely to be understood by one who has not
seen them. It is a question strange in all points of view where the
family slept in the houses, nearly all of which had no second story. In
the most graceful villas the three to five sleeping chambers round the
atrium and four round the peristyle were rather ornamental cupboards
than aught else. One did not differ from another, and if these were
devoted to the household the slaves, male and female, must have slept
on the floor outside. The master, his family and his guest used these
small, dark rooms, which were apparently without such common luxuries
as we expect in the humblest home. All their furniture could hardly have
been more than a bed and a footstool; but it should be remembered
that the public bath was a daily amusement. The kitchen of each villa
certainly was not furnished with such ingenuity, expense or thought as
the stories of Roman gormandising would have led us to expect. In the
house of the Aedile--so called from the fact that 'Pansam Aed.' is
inscribed in red characters by the doorway--the cook seems to have been
employed in frying eggs at the moment when increasing danger put him to
flight. His range, four partitions of brick, was very small; a knife,
a strainer, a pan lay by the fire just as they fell from the slave's
hand."


VALUE OF THE DISCOVERY OF POMPEII


This description strongly presents to us the principal value of the
discovery of Pompeii. Interesting as are the numerous works of art found
in its habitations, and important as is their bearing upon some branches
of the art of the ancient world, this cannot compare in interest with
the flood of light which is here thrown on ancient life in all its
details, enabling us to picture to ourselves the manners and habits of
life of a cultivated and flourishing population at the beginning of the
Christian era, to an extent which no amount of study of ancient history
could yield.

Looking upon the work of the volcano as essentially destructive, as
we naturally do, we have here a valuable example of its power as a
preservative agent; and it is certainly singular that it is to a
volcano we owe much of what we know concerning the cities, dwellings and
domestic life of the people of the Roman Empire.

It would be very fortunate for students of antiquity if similar
disasters had happened to cities in other ancient civilized lands,
however unfortunate it might have been to their inhabitants. But
doubtless we are better off without knowledge gained from ruins thus
produced.


CHAPTER XXII.

Eruptions of Vesuvius, Etna and Stromboli.


Mount Vesuvius is of especial interest as being the only active volcano
on the continent of Europe--all others of that region being on the
islands of the Mediterranean--and for the famous ancient eruption
described in the last chapter. Before this it had borne the reputation
of being extinct, but since then it has frequently shown that its fires
have not burned out, and has on several occasions given a vigorous
display of its powers.

During the fifteen hundred years succeeding the destructive event
described eruptions were of occasional occurrence, though of no great
magnitude. But throughout the long intervals when Vesuvius was at rest
it was noted that Etna and Ischia were more or less disturbed.


THE BIRTH OF MONTE NUOVO


In 1538 a startling evidence was given that there was no decline of
energy in the volcanic system of Southern Italy. This was the sudden
birth of the mountain still known as Monte Nuovo, or New Mountain,
which was thrown up in the Campania near Avernus, on the spot formerly
occupied by the Lucrine Lake.

For about two years prior to this event the district had been disturbed
by earthquakes, which on September 27 and 28, 1538, became almost
continuous. The low shore was slightly elevated, so that the sea
retreated, leaving bare a strip about two hundred feet in width. The
surface cracked, steam escaped, and at last, early on the morning of the
29th, a greater rent was made, from which were vomited furiously "smoke,
fire, stones and mud composed of ashes, making at the time of its
opening a noise like the loudest thunder."

The ejected material in less than twelve hours built the hill which has
lasted substantially in the same form to our day. It is a noteworthy
fact that since the formation of Monte Nuovo there has been no volcanic
disturbance in any part of the Neapolitan district except in Vesuvius,
which for five centuries previous had remained largely at rest.


LAVA FROM VESUVIUS


The first recognised appearance of lava in the eruptions of Vesuvius was
in the violent eruption of 1036. This was succeeded at intervals by five
other outbreaks, none of them of great energy. After 1500 the crater
became completely quiet, the whole mountain in time being grown over
with luxuriant vegetation, while by the next century the interior of the
crater became green with shrubbery, indicating that no injurious gases
were escaping.

This was sleep, not death. In 1631 the awakening came in an eruption of
terrible violence. Almost in a moment the green mantle of woodland and
shrubbery was torn away and death and destruction left where peace and
safety had seemed assured.

Seven streams of lava poured from the crater and swept rapidly down the
mountain side, leaving ruin along their paths. Resina, Granasello and
Torre del Greco, three villages that had grown up during the period
of quiescence, were more or less overwhelmed by the molten lava. Great
torrents of hot water also poured out, adding to the work of desolation.
It was estimated that eighteen thousand of the inhabitants were killed.

What made the horror all the greater was a frightful error of judgment,
similar to that of the Governor of Martinique at St. Pierre. The
Governor of Torre del Greco had refused to be warned in time, and
prevented the people from making their escape until it was too late.
Not until the lava had actually reached the walls was the order for
departure given. Before the order could be acted upon the molten streams
burst through the walls into the crowded streets, and overwhelmed the
vast majority of the inhabitants.

In this violent paroxysm the whole top of the mountain is said to have
been swept away, the new crater which took the place of the old one
being greatly lowered. From that date Vesuvius has never been at rest
for any long interval, and eruptions of some degree of violence
have been rarely more than a few years apart. Of its various later
manifestations of energy we select for description that of 1767, of
which an interesting account by a careful observer is extant.


GREAT ERUPTION OF 1767


From the 10th of December, 1766, to March, 1767, Vesuvius was quiet;
then it began to throw up stones from time to time. In April the throws
were more frequent, and at night the red glare grew stronger on the
cloudy columns which hung over the crater. These repeated throws of
cinders, ashes and pumice-stones so much increased the small cone of
eruption which had been left in the centre of the flat crateral space
that its top became visible at a distance.

On the 7th of August there issued a small stream of lava from a breach
in the side of a small cone; the lava gradually filled the space between
the cone and the crateral edge; on the 12th of September it overflowed
the crater, and ran down the mountain. Stones were ejected which took
ten seconds in their fall, from which it may be computed that the height
which the stones reached was 1,600 feet. Padre Torre, a great observer
of Vesuvius, says they went up above a thousand feet. The lava ceased
on the 18th of October, but at 8 A. M. on the 19th it rushed out at a
different place, after volleys of stones had been thrown to an immense
height, and the huge traditional pine-tree of smoke reappeared. On this
occasion that vast phantom extended its menacing shadow over Capri, at a
distance of twenty-eight miles from Vesuvius.

The lava at first came out of a mouth about one hundred yards below the
crater, on the side toward Monte Somma. While occupied in viewing this
current, the observer heard a violent noise within the mountain; saw it
split open at the distance of a quarter of a mile, and saw from the new
mouth a mountain of liquid fire shoot up many feet, and then, like a
torrent, roll on toward him. The earth shook; stones fell thick around
him; dense clouds of ashes darkened the air; loud thunders came from the
mountain top, and he took to precipitate flight. The Padre's account is
too lively and instructive for his own words to be omitted.


PADRE TORRE'S NARRATIVE


"I was making my observations upon the lava, which had already, from the
spot where it first broke out, reached the valley, when, on a sudden,
about noon, I heard a violent noise within the mountain, and at a spot
about a quarter of a mile off the place where I stood the mountain
split; and with much noise, from this new mouth, a fountain of liquid
fire shot up many feet high, and then like a torrent rolled on directly
towards us. The earth shook at the same time that a volley of stones
fell thick upon us; in an instant clouds of black smoke and ashes caused
almost a total darkness; the explosions from the top of the mountain
were much louder than any thunder I ever heard, and the smell of the
sulphur was very offensive. My guide, alarmed, took to his heels; and
I must confess that I was not at my ease. I followed close, and we ran
near three miles without stopping; as the earth continued to shake under
our feet, I was apprehensive of the opening of a fresh mouth which might
have cut off our retreat.

"I also feared that the violent explosions would detach some of the
rocks off the mountain of Somma, under which we were obliged to pass;
besides, the pumice-stones, falling upon us like hail, were of such a
size as to cause a disagreeable sensation in the part upon which they
fell. After having taken breath, as the earth trembled greatly I thought
it most prudent to leave the mountain and return to my villa, where I
found my family in great alarm at the continual and violent explosions
of the volcano, which shook our house to its very foundation, the doors
and windows swinging upon their hinges.

"About two of the clock in the afternoon (19th) another lava stream
forced its way out of the same place from whence came the lava of last
year, so that the conflagration was soon as great on this side of the
mountain as on the other which I had just left. I observed on my way to
Naples, which was in less than two hours after I had left the mountain,
that the lava had actually covered three miles of the very road through
which we had retreated. This river of lava in the Atrio del Cavallo was
sixty or seventy feet deep, and in some places nearly two miles broad.
Besides the explosions, which were frequent, there was a continued
subterranean and violent rumbling noise, which lasted five hours in
the night,--supposed to arise from contact of the lava with rain-water
lodged in cavities within. The whole neighborhood was shaken violently;
Portici and Naples were in the extremity of alarm; the churches were
filled; the streets were thronged with processions of saints, and
various ceremonies were performed to quell the fury of the mountain.

"In the night of the 20th, the occasion being critical, the prisoners in
the public jail attempted to escape, and the mob set fire to the gates
of the residence of the Cardinal Archbishop because he refused to bring
out the relics of St. Januarius. The 21st was a quieter day, but the
whole violence of the eruption returned on the 22d, at 10 A. M., with
the same thundering noise, but more violent and alarming. Ashes fell in
abundance in the streets of Naples, covering the housetops and balconies
an inch deep. Ships at sea, twenty leagues from Naples, were covered
with them.

"In the midst of these horrors, the mob, growing tumultuous and
impatient, obliged the Cardinal to bring out the head of St. Januarius,
at the extremity of Naples, toward Vesuvius; and it is well attested
here that the eruption ceased the moment the saint came in sight of
the mountain. It is true the noise ceased about that time after having
lasted five hours, as it had done the preceding days.

"On the 23d the lava still ran, but on the 24th it ceased; but smoke
continued. On the 25th there rose a vast column of black smoke, giving
out much forked lightning with thunder, in a sky quite clear except for
the smoke of the volcano. On the 26th smoke continued, but on the 27th
the eruption came to an end."

This eruption was also described by Sir William Hamilton, who continued
to keep a close watch on the movements of the volcano for many years.
The next outbreak of especial violence took place in 1779, when what
seemed to the eye a column of fire ascended two miles high, while cinder
fragments fell far and wide, destroying the hopes of harvest throughout
a wide district. They fell in abundance thirty miles distant, and the
dust of the explosion was carried a hundred miles away.

In 1793 the crater became active again, and in 1794 after a period of
short tranquillity or comparative inaction, the mountain again became
agitated, and one of the most formidable eruptions known in the history
of Vesuvius began. It was in some respects unlike many others, being
somewhat peculiar as to the place of its outburst, the temperature of
the lava, and the course of the current. Breislak, an Italian geologist,
observed the characteristic phenomena with the eye of science, and his
account supplies many interesting facts.


BREISLAK ON THE ERUPTION OF 1794


Breislak remarked certain changes in the character of the earth's
motions during this six hours' eruption, which led him to some
particular conjecture of the cause. At the beginning the trembling was
continual, and accompanied by a hollow noise, similar to that occasioned
by a river falling into a subterranean cavern. The lava, at the time
of its being disgorged, from the impetuous and uninterrupted manner in
which it was ejected, causing it to strike violently against the walls
of the vent, occasioned a continual oscillation of the mountain. Toward
the middle of the night this vibratory motion ceased, and was succeeded
by distant shocks. The fluid mass, diminished in quantity, now pressed
less violently against the walls of the aperture, and no longer issued
in a continual and gushing stream, but only at intervals, when the
interior fermentation elevated the boiling matter above the mouth. About
4 A. M. the shocks began to be less numerous, and the intervals between
them rendered their force and duration more perceptible.

During this tremendous eruption at the base of the Vesuvian cone, and
the fearful earthquakes which accompanied it, the summit was tranquil.
The sky was serene, the stars were brilliant, and only over Vesuvius
hung a thick, dark smoke-cloud, lighted up into an auroral arch by the
glare of a stream of fire more than two miles long, and more than a
quarter of a mile broad. The sea was calm, and reflected the red glare;
while from the source of the lava came continual jets of uprushing
incandescent stones. Nearer to view, Torre del Greco in flames, and
clouds of black smoke, with falling houses, presented a dark and
tragical foreground, heightened by the subterranean thunder of the
mountain, and the groans and lamentations of fifteen thousand ruined
men, women and children.

The heavy clouds of ashes which were thrown out on this occasion
gathered in the early morning into a mighty shadow over Naples and the
neighborhood; the sun rose pale and obscure, and a long, dim twilight
reigned afterward.

Such were the phenomena on the western side of Vesuvius. They were
matched by others on the eastern aspect, not visible at Naples, except
by reflection of their light in the atmosphere. The lava on this side
flowed eastward, along a route often traversed by lava, by the broken
crest of the Cognolo and the valley of Sorienta. The extreme length to
which this current reached was not less than an Italian mile. The cubic
content was estimated to be half that already assigned to the western
currents. Taken together they amounted to 20,744,445 cubic metres, or
2,804,440 cubic fathoms; the constitution of the lava being the same in
each, both springing from one deep-seated reservoir of fluid rock.

The eruption of lava ceased on the 16th, and then followed heavy
discharges of ashes, violent shocks of earthquakes, thunder and
lightning in the columns of vapors and ashes, and finally heavy rains,
lasting till the 3d of July. The barometer during all the eruption was
steady.

Breislak made an approximate calculation of the quantity of ashes which
fell on Vesuvius during this great eruption, and states the result as
equal to what would cover a circular area 6 kilometres (about 3 1/2
English miles) in radius, and 39 centimetres (about 15 inches) in depth.


STRANGE EFFECTS


Among the notable things which attended this eruption, it is recorded
that in Torre del Greco metallic and other substances exposed to
the current were variously affected. Silver was melted, glass became
porcelain, iron swelled to four times its volume and lost its texture.
Brass was decomposed, and its constituent copper crystallized in
cubic and octahedral forms aggregated in beautiful branches. Zinc was
sometimes turned to blende. During the eruption, the lip of the crater
toward Bosco Tre Case on the south east, fell in, or was thrown off, and
the height of that part was reduced 426 feet.

On the 17th, the sea was found in a boiling state 100 yards off the new
promontory made by the lava of Torre del Greco, and no boat could remain
near it on account of the melting of the pitch in her bottom. For nearly
a month after the eruption vast quantities of fine white ashes, mixed
with volumes of steam, were thrown out from the crater; the clouds
thus generated were condensed into heavy rain, and large tracts of the
Vesuvian slopes were deluged with volcanic mud. It filled ravines, such
as Fosso Grande, and concreted and hardened there into pumiceous tufa--a
very instructive phenomenon.

Immense injury was done to the rich territory of Somma, Ottajano and
Bosco by heavy rains, which swept along cinders, broke up the road and
bridges, and overturned trees and houses for the space of fifteen days.

There were few years during the nineteenth century in which Vesuvius did
not show symptoms of its internal fires, and at intervals it manifested
much activity, though not equaling the terrible eruptions of its past
history. The severest eruptions in that century were those of 1871 and
1876. In the first a sudden emission of lava killed twenty spectators at
the mouth of the crater, and only spent its fury after San Sebastian and
Massa had been well nigh annihilated. Fragments of rock were thrown up
to the height of 4,000 feet, and the explosions were so violent that
the whole countryside fled panic stricken to Naples. The activity of
the volcano, accompanied by distinct shocks of earthquake, lasted for a
week.

In 1876, for three weeks together, lava streamed down the side of
Vesuvius, sweeping away the village of Cercolo and running nearly to the
sea at Ponte Maddaloni. There were then formed ten small craters within
the greater one. But these were united by a later eruption in 1888, and
pressure from beneath formed a vast cone where they had been.


HARDIHOOD OF THE PEOPLE


It may seem strange that so dangerous a neighborhood should be
inhabited. But so it is. Though Pompeii, Herculaneum and Stabiae lie
buried beneath the mud and ashes belched out of the mouth of Vesuvius,
the villages of Portici and Revina, Torre del Greco and Torre del
Annunziata have taken their place, and a large population, cheerful
and prosperous, flourishes around the disturbed mountain and over the
district of which it is the somewhat untrustworthy safety-valve.

"She seems to be in good shape, too, Dr. Trendon!"
"Yes, sir." The surgeon went to the captain, and the others could hear his
deep, abrupt utterance in reply to some question too low for their
ears.

"Might be, sir. Beri-beri, maybe. More likely smallpox if anything of
that kind. But _some_ of 'em would be on deck."
"Whew! A plague ship!" said Billy Edwards. "Just my luck to be ordered
to board her." He shivered slightly.

"Scared, Billy?"

said Ives. Edwards had a record for daring which made this joke
obvious enough to be safe.

"I wouldn't want to have my peculiar style of beauty spoiled by
smallpox marks," said the ensign, with a smile on his homely, winning
face. "And I've a hunch that that ship is not a lucky find for
this ship."
"Then I've a hunch that your hunch is a wrong one," said Ives. "How
long would you guess that craft to be?"
[Illustration: A schooner comporting herself in a manner uncommon
on the Pacific]
They were now within a mile of the schooner. Edwards scrutinised her
calculatingly.

"Eighty to ninety feet."
"Say 150 tons. And she's a two-masted schooner, isn't she?" continued Ives,
insinuatingly.

"She certainly is."
"Well, I've a hunch that that ship is a lucky find for any ship,
but particularly for this ship."
"Great Caesar!" cried the ensign excitedly. "Do you think it's _her_?"
A buzz of electric interest went around the group.

Every glass was raised; every eye strained toward her stern to read
the name as she veered into the wind again. About she came. A sharp
sigh of excited disappointment exhaled from the spectators. The
name had been painted out.

"No go," breathed Edwards. "But I'll bet another dinner----"
"Mr. Edwards," called the captain. "You will take the second cutter, board
that schooner, and make a full investigation."
"Yes, sir."
"Take your time.

Don't come alongside until she is in the wind.

Leave enough men aboard to handle her."
"Yes, sir."
The cruiser steamed to within half a mile of the aimless traveller, and
the small boat put out. Not one of his fellows but envied the young
ensign as he left the ship, steered by Timmins, a veteran bo's'n's
mate, wise in all the ins and outs of sea ways. They saw him board,
neatly running the small boat under the schooner's counter; they
saw the foresheet eased off and the ship run up into the wind; then
the foresail dropped and the wheel lashed so that she would stand so.

They awaited the reappearance of Edwards and the bo's'n's mate when
they had vanished below decks, and with an intensity of eagerness
they followed the return of the small boat.

Billy Edwards's face as he came on deck was a study. It was alight with
excitement; yet between the eyes two deep wrinkles of puzzlement
quivered. Such a face the mathematician bends above his paper when some
obstructive factor arises between him and his solution.

"Well, sir?" There was a hint of effort at restraint in the captain's
voice.

"She's the _Laughing Lass_, sir.

Everything ship-shape, but not a soul aboard."
"Come below, Mr. Edwards," said the captain. And they went, leaving behind
them a boiling cauldron of theory and conjecture.

III
THE DEATH SHIP

Billy Edwards came on deck with a line of irritation right-angling the
furrows between his eyes.

"Go ahead," the quarter-deck bade him, seeing him aflush with information.

"The captain won't believe me," blurted out Edwards.

"Is it as bad as that?" asked Barnett, smiling.

"It certainly is," replied the younger man seriously. "I don't know
that I blame him. I'd hardly believe it myself if I hadn't----"
"Oh, go on. Out with it.

Give us the facts. Never mind your credibility."
"The facts are that there lies the _Laughing Lass_, a little weather-worn,
but sound as a dollar, and not a living being aboard of her. Her boats
are all there.

Everything's in good condition, though none too orderly. Pitcher half
full of fresh water in the rack. Sails all O.
K. Ashes of the galley fire still warm. I tell you, gentlemen, that
ship hasn't been deserted more than a couple of days at the outside."

"Are you sure all the boats are there?" asked Ives.

"Dory, dingy, and two surf boats. Isn't that enough?"
"Plenty."
"Been over her, inside and out. No sign of collision. No leak. No
anything, except that the starboard side is blistered a bit. No
evidence of fire anywhere else. I tell you," said Billy Edwards
pathetically, "it's given me a headache."
"Perhaps it's one of those cases of panic that Forsythe spoke of the
other night," said Ives. "The crew got frightened at something and ran
away, with the devil after them."

"But crews don't just step out and run around the corner and hide,
when they're scared," objected Barnett.

"That's true, too," assented Ives. "Well, perhaps that volcanic eruption
jarred them so that they jumped for it."
"Pretty wild theory, that," said Edwards.

"No wilder than the facts, as you give them," was the retort.

"That's so," admitted the ensign gloomily.

"But how about pestilence?" suggested Barnett.

"Maybe they died fast and the last survivor, after the bodies of the rest
were overboard, got delirious and jumped after them."
"Not if the galley fire was hot," said Dr. Trendon, briefly. "No;
pestilence doesn't work that way."

"Did you look at the wheel, Billy?" asked Ives.

"Did I! There's another thing. Wheel's all right, but compass is
no good at all. It's regularly bewitched."
"What about the log, then?"
"Couldn't find it anywhere. Hunted high, low, jack, and the game;
everywhere except in the big, brass-bound chest I found in the captain's
cabin. Couldn't break into that."
"Dr. Schermerhorn's chest!" exclaimed Barnett. "Then he was aboard."

"Well, he isn't aboard now," said the ensign grimly.

"Not in the flesh.
And that's all," he added suddenly.

"No; it isn't all," said Barnett gently. "There's something else.
Captain's orders?"
"Oh, no. Captain Parkinson doesn't take enough stock in my report to
tell me to withhold anything," said Edwards, with a trace of bitterness
in his voice. "It's nothing that I believe myself, anyhow."
"Give _us_ a chance to believe it," said Ives.

"Well," said the ensign hesitantly, "there's a sort of atmosphere
about that schooner that's almost uncanny."

"Oh, you had the shudders before you were ordered to board," bantered
Ives.

"I know it. I'd have thought it was one of those fool presentiments
if I were the only one to feel it. But the men were affected, too.
They kept together like frightened sheep. And I heard one say to
another: 'Hey, Boney, d'you feel like someone was a-buzzin' your nerves
like a fiddle-string?' Now," demanded Edwards plaintively, "what right
has a jackie to have nerves?"
"That's strange enough about the compass," said Barnett slowly. "Ours
is all right again.

The schooner must have been so near the electric disturbance that
her instruments were permanently deranged."
"That would lend weight to the volcanic theory," said Carter.

"So the captain didn't take kindly to your go-look-see?" questioned
Ives of Edwards.

"As good as told me I'd missed the point of the thing," said the
ensign, flushing. "Perhaps he can make more of it himself. At any rate,
he's going to try. Here he is now."
"Dr. Trendon," said the captain, appearing. "You will please to go
with me to the schooner."
"Yes, sir," said the surgeon, rising from his chair with such
alacrity as to draw from Ives the sardonic comment:
"Why, I actually believe old Trendon is excited."

For two hours after the departure of the captain and Trendon there were
dull times on the quarter-deck of the _Wolverine_. Then the surgeon came
back to them.

"Billy was right," he said.

"But he didn't tell us anything," cried Ives. "He didn't clear up the
mystery."
"That's what," said Trendon. "One thing Billy said," he added, waxing
unusually prolix for him, "was truer than maybe he knew."
"Thanks," murmured the ensign.

"What was that?"
"You said 'Not a living being aboard.' Exact words, hey?"
"Well, what of it?" exclaimed the ensign excitedly. "You don't mean
you found dead----?"
"Keep your temperature down, my boy. No. You were exactly right. Not a
living being aboard."

"Thanks for nothing," retorted the ensign.

"Neither human nor other," pursued Trendon.

"What!"
"Food scattered around the galley. Crumbs on the mess table. Ever see a
wooden ship without cockroaches?"
"Never particularly investigated the matter."
"Don't believe such a thing exists," said Ives.

"Not a cockroach on the _Laughing Lass_. Ever know of an old hooker that
wasn't overrun with rats?"
"No; nor anyone else. Not above water."
"Found a dozen dead rats. No sound or sign of a live one on the _Laughing
Lass_. No rats, no mice. No bugs.

Gentlemen, the _Laughing Lass_ is a charnel ship."
"No wonder Billy's tender nerves went wrong." said Ives, with irrepressible
flippancy. "She's probably haunted by cockroach wraiths."
"He'll have a chance to see," said Trendon. "Captain's going to put
him in charge."
"By way of apology, then," said Barnett. "That's pretty square."
"Captain Parkinson wishes to see you in his cabin, Mr. Edwards," said an
orderly, coming in.

"A pleasant voyage, Captain Billy," said Ives.

"Sing out if the goblins git yer."
Fifteen minutes later Ensign Edwards, with a quartermaster, Timmins,
the bo's'n's mate, and a crew, was heading a straight course toward his
first command, with instructions to "keep company and watch for signals";
and intention to break into the brass-bound chest and ferret out what
clue lay there, if it took dynamite. As he boarded, Barnett and Trendon,
with both of whom the lad was a favourite, came to a sinister
conclusion.

"It's poison, I suppose," said the first officer.

"And a mighty subtle sort," agreed Trendon. "Don't like the looks of it."
He shook a solemn head. "Don't like it for a damn."

IV

THE SECOND PRIZE CREW
In semi-tropic Pacific weather the unexpected so seldom happens as
to be a negligible quantity.

The _Wolverine_ met with it on June 5th. From some unaccountable
source in that realm of the heaven-scouring trades came a heavy mist.
Possibly volcanic action, deranging by its electric and gaseous outpourings
the normal course of the winds, had given birth to it. Be that as
it may, it swept down upon the cruiser, thickening as it approached,
until presently it had spread a curtain between the warship and its
charge. The wind died. Until after fall of night the _Wolverine_ moved
slowly, bellowing for the schooner, but got no reply.

Once they thought they heard a distant shout of response, but there was
no repetition.

"Probably doesn't carry any fog horn," said Carter bitterly, voicing a
general uneasiness.

"No log; compass crazy; without fog signal; I don't like that craft.
Barnett ought to have been ordered to blow the damned thing up, as a
peril to the high seas."
"We'll pick her up in the morning, surely," said Forsythe. "This can't
last for ever."
Nor did it last long. An hour before midnight a pounding shower fell,
lashing the sea into phosphorescent whiteness. It ceased, and with
the growl of a leaping animal a squall furiously beset the ship.

Soon the great steel body was plunging and heaving in the billows.
It was a gloomy company about the wardroom table. Upon each and all
hung an oppression of spirit. Captain Parkinson came from his cabin and
went on deck.
Constitutionally he was a nervous and pessimistic man with a fixed
belief in the conspiracy of events, banded for the undoing of him
and his.

Blind or dubious conditions racked his soul, but real danger found
him not only prepared, but even eager.

Now his face was a picture of foreboding.

"Parky looks as if Davy Jones was pulling on his string," observed the
flippant Ives to his neighbour.

"Worrying about the schooner. Hope Billy Edwards saw or heard or felt
that squall coming," replied Forsythe, giving expression to the
anxiety that all felt.

"He's a good sailor man," said Ives, "and that's a staunch little schooner,
by the way she handled herself."
"Oh, it will be all right," said Carter confidently. "The wind's moderating
now."
"But there's no telling how far out of the course this may have blown
him."
Barnett came down, dripping.

"Anything new?" asked Dr. Trendon.

The navigating officer shook his head.

"Nothing. But the captain's in a state of mind," he said.

"What's wrong with him?"

"The schooner.

Seems possessed with the notion that there's something wrong with her."

"Aren't you feeling a little that way yourself?"

said Forsythe. "I am.
I'll take a look around before I turn in."
He left behind him a silent crowd. His return was prompt and swift.

"Come on deck," he said.

Every man leaped as to an order. There was that in Forsythe's voice
which stung. The weather had cleared somewhat, though scudding wrack
still blew across them to the westward. The ship rolled heavily.
Of the sea naught was visible except the arching waves, but in the sky
they beheld again, with a sickening sense of disaster, that pale and
lovely glow which had so bewildered them two nights before.

"The aurora!" cried McGuire, the paymaster.

"Oh, certainly," replied Ives, with sarcasm. "Dead in the west. Common
spot for the aurora. Particularly on the edge of the South Seas, where
they are thick!"
"Then what is it?"
Nobody had an answer. Carter hastened forward and returned to
report.

"It's electrical anyway," said Carter.

"The compass is queer again."

"Edwards ought to be close to the solution of it," ventured Ives. "This
gale should have blown him just about to the centre of interest."
"If only he isn't involved in it," said Carter anxiously.

"What could there be to involve him?" asked McGuire.

"I don't know," said Carter slowly.

"Somehow I feel as if the desertion of the schooner was in some
formidable manner connected with that light."
For perhaps fifteen minutes the glow continued. It seemed to be nearer
at hand than on the former sighting; but it took no comprehensible
form.
Then it died away and all was blackness again. But the officers of the
_Wolverine_ had long been in troubled slumber before the sensitive
compass regained its exact balance, and with the shifting wind to
mislead her, the cruiser had wandered, by morning, no man might
know how far from her course.

All day long of June 6th the _Wolverine_, baffled by patches of
mist and moving rain-squalls, patrolled the empty seas without
sighting the lost schooner.

The evening brought an envelope of fog again, and presently a light
breeze came up from the north. An hour of it had failed to disperse
the mist, when there was borne down to the warship a flapping sound as
of great wings. The flapping grew louder--waned--ceased--and from the
lookout came a hail.

"Ship's lights three points on the starboard quarter."
"What do you make it out to be?" came the query from below.

"Green light's all I can see, sir." There was a pause.

"There's her port light, now. Looks to be turning and bearing down on us,
sir. Coming dead for us"--the man's voice rose--"close aboard;
less'n two ship's lengths away!"

As for a prearranged scene, the fog-curtain parted.

There loomed silently and swiftly the _Laughing Lass_. Down she bore upon
the greater vessel until it seemed as if she must ram; but all the time
she was veering to windward, and now she ran into the wind with a
castanet rattle of sails. So close aboard was she that the eager
eyes of Uncle Sam's men peered down upon her empty decks--for she was
void of life.
Behind the cruiser's blanketing she paid off very slowly, but
presently caught the breeze full and again whitened the water at
her prow.
Forgetting regulations, Ives hailed loudly:
"Ahoy, _Laughing Lass_! Ahoy, Billy Edwards!"
No sound, no animate motion came from aboard that apparition, as
she fell astern. A shudder of horror ran across the _Wolverine_'s
quarter-deck. A wraith ship, peopled with skeletons, would have
been less dreadful to their sight than the brisk and active desolation
of the heeling schooner.
"Been deserted since early last night," said Trendon hoarsely.
"How can you tell that?" asked Barnett.
"Both sails reefed down. Ready for that squall. Been no weather
since to call for reefs. Must have quit her during the squall."

"Then they jumped," cried Carter, "for I saw her boats. It isn't
believable." 
"Neither was the other," said Trendon grimly.
A hurried succession of orders stopped further discussion for the
time.
Ives was sent aboard the schooner to lower sail and report. He came
back with a staggering dearth of information. The boats were all
there; the ship was intact--as intact as when Billy Edwards had
taken charge--but the cheery, lovable ensign and his men had vanished
without trace or clue. As to the how or the wherefore they might
rack their brains without guessing. There was the beginning of a
log in the ensign's handwriting, which Ives had found with high
excitement and read with bitter disappointment.
"Had squall from northeast," it ran. "Double reefed her and she
took it nicely. Seems a seaworthy, quick ship. Further search for
log. No result.
Have ordered one of crew who is a bit of a mechanic to work at the
brass-bound chest till he gets it open. He reports marks on the
lock as if somebody had been trying to pick it before him."
There was no further entry.
"Dr. Trendon is right," said Barnett. "Whatever happened--and God
only knows what it could have been--it happened just after the
squall." 
"Just about the time of the strange glow," cried Ives.
It was decided that two men and a petty officer should be sent
aboard the _Laughing Lass_ to make her fast with a cable, and remain
on board over night. But when the order was given the men hung back.
One of them protested brokenly that he was sick. Trendon, after
examination, reported to the captain.
"Case of blue funk, sir. Might as well be sick. Good for nothing.
Others aren't much better." 
"Who was to be in charge?"
"Congdon," replied the doctor, naming one of the petty officers.
"He's my coxswain," said Captain Parkinson. "A first-class man. I
can hardly believe that he is afraid. We'll see."
[Illustration: A man who was a bit of a mechanic was set to work
to open the chest] 
Congdon was sent for.
"You're ordered aboard the schooner for the night, Congdon," said
the captain.

"Yes, sir."
"Is there any reason why you do not wish to go?"
The man hesitated, looking miserable. Finally he blurted out, not
without a certain dignity:

"I obey orders, sir."
"Speak out, my man," urged the captain kindly.
"Well, sir: it's Mr. Edwards, then. You couldn't scare him off a
ship, sir, unless it was something--something----"
He stopped, failing of the word.
"You know what Mr. Edwards was, sir, for pluck," he concluded.
"_Was_!" cried the captain sharply. "What do you mean?
"The schooner got him, sir. You don't make no doubt of that, do
you, sir?" The man spoke in a hushed voice, with a shrinking glance
back of him.

"Will you go aboard under Mr. Ives?"
"Anywhere my officer goes I'll go, and gladly, sir."
Ives was sent aboard in charge. For that night, in a light breeze,
the two ships lay close together, the schooner riding jauntily
astern. But not until morning illumined the world of waters did the
_Wolverine_'s people feel confident that the _Laughing Lass_ would
not vanish away from their ken like a shape of the mist.

V
THE DISAPPEARANCE
When Barnett come on deck very early in the morning of June 7th,
he found Dr. Trendon already up and staring moodily out at the
_Laughing Lass_. As the night was calm the tow had made fair time
toward their port in the Hawaiian group. The surgeon was muttering
something which seemed to Barnett to be in a foreign tongue.
"Thought out any clue, doctor?" asked the first officer.
"_Petit Chel_--Pshaw! _Jolie Celimene!_ No," muttered
Trendon.
"_Marie--Marie_--I've got it! The _Marie Celeste_."
"Got what? What about her?"
"Parallel case," said Trendon. "Sailed from New York back in the
seventies. Seven weeks out was found derelict. Everything in perfect
order. Captain's wife's hem on the machine. Boats all accounted
for. No sign of struggle. Log written to within forty-eight hours."
"What became of the crew?"
"Wish I could tell you. Might help to unravel our tangle." He shook
his head in sudden, unwonted passion.
"Evidently there's something criminal in her record," said Barnett,
frowning at the fusty schooner astern. "Otherwise the name wouldn't
be painted out."
"Painted out long ago. See how rusty it is. Schermerhorn's work
maybe," replied Trendon. "Secret expedition, remember."
"In the name of wonders, why should he do it?"
"Secret expedition, wasn't it?"
"Um-ah; that's true," said the other thoughtfully. "It's quite
possible."
"Captain wishes to see both of you gentlemen in the ward room, if
you please," came a message.
Below they found all the officers gathered. Captain Parkinson was
pacing up and down in ill-controlled agitation.
"Gentlemen," he said, "we are facing a problem which, so far as I
know, is without parallel. It is my intention to bring the schooner
which we have in tow to port at Honolulu. In the present unsettled
weather we cannot continue to tow her. I wish two officers to take
charge. Under the circumstances I shall issue no orders. The duty
must be voluntary."
Instantly every man, from the veteran Trendon to the youthful
paymaster, volunteered.
"That is what I expected," said Captain Parkinson quietly. "But I
have still a word to say. I make no doubt in my own mind that the
schooner has twice been beset by the gravest of perils. Nothing
less would have driven Mr. Edwards from his post. All of us who
know him will appreciate that.
Nor can I free myself from the darkest forebodings as to his fate
and that of his companions. But as to the nature of the peril I am
unable to make any conjecture worthy of consideration. Has anyone
a theory to offer?" 
There was a dead silence.
"Mr. Barnett? Dr. Trendon? Mr. Ives?"Deluges of water rushed from the
heights, bearing along whole fields of ice and rocky fragments of every
size, some vomited from the volcano, but in great part torn from the
flanks of the mountain itself and carried to the sea, there to add
considerably to the coastline after devastating the intervening country.
The fountain of volcanic bombs consisted of masses of lava, containing
gases which exploded and produced a loud sound, which was said to have
been heard at a distance of 100 miles. The size of the bombs, and the
height to which they must have reached, were very great. But the most
remarkable of the historical eruptions in Iceland were those of Skaptar
Jokull in 1783, and of Hecla in 1845. Of these an extended description
is worthy of being given.

Of these two memorable eruptions, that of Skaptar Jokull began on the
11th of June, 1783. It was preceded by a long series of earthquakes,
which had become exceedingly violent immediately before the eruption. On
the 8th, volcanic vapors were emitted from the summit of the mountain,
and on the 11th immense torrents of lava began to be poured forth from
numerous mouths. These torrents united to form a large stream, which,
flowing down into the river Skapta, not only dried it up, but completely
filled the vast gorge through which the river had held its course. This
gorge, 200 feet in breadth, and from 400 to 600 feet in depth, the lava
filled so entirely as to overflow to a considerable extent the fields
on either side. On issuing from this ravine, the lava flowed into a deep
lake which lay in the course of the river. Here it was arrested for a
while; but it ultimately filled the bed of the lake altogether--either
drying up its waters, or chasing them before it into the lower part of
the river's course. Still forced onward by the accumulation of molten
lava from behind, the stream resumed its advance, till it reached
some ancient volcanic rocks which were full of caverns. Into these it
entered, and where it could not eat its way by melting the old rock,
it forced a passage by shivering the solid mass and throwing its broken
fragments into the air to a height of 150 feet.


A TORRENT OF LAVA


On the 18th of June there opened above the first mouth a second of large
dimensions, whence poured another immense torrent of lava, which flowed
with great rapidity over the solidified surface of the first stream, and
ultimately combined with it to form a more formidable main current. When
this fresh stream reached the fiery lake, which had filled the lower
portion of the valley of the Skapta, a portion of it was forced up the
channel of that river towards the foot of the hill whence it takes its
rise. After pursuing its course for several days, the main body of this
stream reached the edge of a great waterfall called Stapafoss, which
plunged into a deep abyss. Displacing the water, the lava here leaped
over the precipice, and formed a great cataract of fire. After this, it
filled the channel of the river, though extending itself in breadth far
beyond it, and followed it until it reached the sea.


ENORMOUS QUANTITY OF LAVA


The 3rd of August brought fresh accessions to the flood of lava still
pouring from the mountain. There being no room in the channel, now
filled by the former lurid stream, which had pursued a northwesterly
course, the fresh lava was forced to take a new direction towards the
southeast, where it entered the bed of another river with a barbaric
name. Here it pursued a course similar to that which flowed through the
channel of the Skapta, filling up the deep gorges, and then spreading
itself out into great fiery lakes over the plains.

The eruptions of lava from the mountain continued, with some short
intervals, for two years, and so enormous was the quantity poured forth
during this period that, according to a careful estimate which has been
made, the whole together would form a mass equal to that of Mont Blanc.
Of the two streams, the greater was fifty, the less forty, miles in
length. The Skapta branch attained on the plains a breadth varying from
twelve to fifteen miles--that of the other was only about half as much.
Each of the currents had an average depth of 100 feet, but in the
deep gorges it was no less than 600 feet. Even as late as 1794 vapors
continued to rise from these great streams, and the water contained in
the numerous fissures formed in their crust was hot.

The devastation directly wrought by the lava currents themselves was
not the whole of the evils they brought upon unfortunate Iceland and
its inhabitants. Partly owing to the sudden melting of the snows and
glaciers of the mountain, partly owing to the stoppage of the
river courses, immense floods of water deluged the country in
the neighborhood, destroying many villages and a large amount of
agricultural and other property. Twenty villages were overwhelmed by the
lava currents, while the ashes thrown out during the eruption covered
the whole island and the surface of the sea for miles around its
shores. On several occasions the ashes were drifted by the winds over
considerable parts of the European continent, obscuring the sun and
giving the sky a gray and gloomy aspect. In certain respects they
reproduced the phenomena of the explosion of Mount Krakatoa, which,
singularly, occurred just a century later, in 1883. The strange red
sunset phenomena of the latter were reproduced by this Icelandic event
of the eighteenth century.

Out of the 50,000 persons who then inhabited Iceland, 9,336 perished,
together with 11,460 head of cattle, 190,480 sheep and 28,000 horses.
This dreadful destruction of life was caused partly by the direct action
of the lava currents, partly by the noxious vapors they emitted, partly
by the floods of water, partly by the destruction of the herbage by the
falling ashes, and lastly in consequence of the desertion of the coasts
by the fish, which formed a large portion of the food of the people.


ERUPTION OF MOUNT HECLA


After this frightful eruption, no serious volcanic disturbance took
place in Iceland until 1845, when Mount Hecla again became disastrously
active. Mount Hecla has been the most frequent in its eruptions of any
of the Icelandic volcanoes. Previous to 1845 there had been twenty-two
recorded eruptions of this mountain, since the discovery of Iceland
in the ninth century; while from all the other volcanoes in the island
there had been only twenty during the same period. Hecla has more than
once remained in activity for six years at a time--a circumstance that
has rendered it the best known of the volcanoes of this region.


LATER OUTBREAKS


After enjoying a long rest of seventy-nine years, this volcano burst
again into violent activity in the beginning of September, 1845. The
first inkling of this eruption was conveyed to the British Islands by
a fall of volcanic ashes in the Orkneys, which occurred on the night
of September 2nd during a violent storm. This palpable hint was
soon confirmed by direct intelligence from Copenhagen. On the 1st
of September a severe earthquake, followed the same night by fearful
subterranean noises, alarmed the inhabitants and gave warning of what
was to come. About noon the next day, with a dreadful crash, there
opened in the sides of the volcano two new mouths, whence two great
streams of glowing lava poured forth. They fortunately flowed down the
northern and northwestern sides of the mountain, where the low grounds
are mere barren heaths, affording a scanty pasture for a few sheep.
These were driven before the fiery stream, but several of them were
burnt before they could escape. The whole mountain was enveloped in
clouds of volcanic ashes and vapors. The rivers near the lava currents
became so hot as to kill the fish, and to be impassable even on
horseback.

About a fortnight later there was a fresh eruption, of greater violence,
which lasted twenty-two hours, and was accompanied by detonations so
loud as to be heard over the whole island. Two new craters were formed,
one on the southern, the other on the eastern slope of the cone. The
lava issuing from these craters flowed to a distance of more than
twenty-two miles. At about two miles from its source the fiery stream
was a mile wide, and from 40 to 50 feet deep. It destroyed a large
extent of fine pasture and many cattle. Nearly a month later, on the
15th of October, a fresh flood of lava burst from the southern crater,
and soon heaped up a mass at the foot of the mountain from 40 to 60 feet
in height, three great columns of vapor, dust and ashes rising at
the same time from the three new craters of the volcano. The mountain
continued in a state of greater or less activity during most of the
next year; and even as late as the month of October, 1846, after a brief
pause, it began again with renewed vehemence. The volumes of dust, ashes
and vapor, thrown up from the craters, and brightly illuminated by the
glowing lava beneath, assumed the appearance of flames, and ascended to
an immense height.


ELECTRIC PHENOMENA


Among the stones tossed out of the craters was one large mass of pumice
weighing nearly half a ton, which was carried to a distance of between
four and five miles. The rivers were flooded by the melting of ice
and snow which had accumulated on the mountain. The greatest mischief
wrought by these successive eruptions was the destruction of the
pasturages, which were for the most part covered with volcanic ashes.
Even where left exposed, the herbage acquired a poisonous taint which
proved fatal to the cattle, inducing among them a peculiar murrain.
Fortunately, owing to the nature of the district through which the lava
passed, there was on this occasion no loss of human life.

The Icelandic volcanoes are remarkable for the electric phenomena which
they produce in the atmosphere. Violent thunder-storms, with showers
of rain and hail, are frequent accompaniments of volcanic eruptions
everywhere; but owing to the coldness and dryness of the air into which
the vapors from the Icelandic volcanoes ascend, their condensation is so
sudden and violent that great quantities of electricity are developed.
Thunder-storms accompanied by the most vivid lightnings are the result.
Humboldt mentions in his "Cosmos" that, during an eruption of Kotlugja,
one of the southern Icelandic volcanoes, the lightning from the cloud of
volcanic vapor killed eleven horses and two men (Cosmos i. 223). Great
displays of the aurora borealis usually accompany the volcanic eruptions
of this island--doubtless resulting from the quantity of electricity
imparted to the higher atmosphere by the condensation of the ascending
vapors. On the 18th of August, 1783, while the great eruption of Skaptar
Jokull was in progress, an immense fire-ball passed over England and the
European continent as far as Rome. This ball which was estimated to
have had a diameter exceeding half a mile, is supposed to have been of
electrical origin, and due to the high state of electric tension in the
atmosphere over Iceland at that time.


CHAPTER XXIV.

Volcanoes of the Philippines and Other Pacific Islands.


We cannot do better than open this chapter with an account of the work
of volcanoes in the mountain-girdled East Indian island of Java. This
large and fertile tropical island has a large native population, and
many European settlers are employed in cultivating spices, coffee and
woods. The island is rather more than 600 miles long, and it is not 150
miles broad in any part; and this narrow shape is produced by a chain of
volcanoes which runs along it. There is scarcely any other region in
the world where volcanoes are so numerous, even in the East, where the
volcano is a very common product of nature. Some of the volcanoes of
Java are constantly in eruption, while others are inactive.

One of their number, Galung Gung, was previous to 1822 covered from top
to bottom with a dense forest; around it were populous villages. The
mountain was high; there was a slight hollow on its top--a basin-like
valley, carpeted with the softest sward; brooks rippled down the
hillside through the forests, and, joining their silvery streams, flowed
on through beautiful valleys into the distant sea. In the month of July,
1822, there were signs of an approaching disturbance; this tranquil
peacefulness was at an end; one of the rivers became muddy, and its
waters grew hot.

In October, without any warning, a most terrific eruption occurred. A
loud explosion was heard; the earth shook, and immense columns of hot
water, boiling mud mixed with burning brimstone, ashes and stones, were
hurled upwards from the mountain top like a waterspout, and with such
wonderful force that large quantities fell at a distance of forty miles.
Every valley near the mountain became filled with burning torrents;
the rivers, swollen with hot water and mud, overflowed their banks,
and swept away the escaping villagers; and the bodies of cattle, wild
beasts, and birds were carried down the flooded stream.


ERUPTION OF GALUNG GUNG


A space of twenty-four miles between the mountain and a river forty
miles distant was covered to such a depth with blue mud, that people
were buried in their houses, and not a trace of the numerous villages
and plantations was visible. The boiling mud and cinders were cast forth
with such violence from the crater, that while many distant villages
were utterly destroyed and buried, others much nearer the volcano were
scarcely injured; and all this was done in five short hours.

Four days afterwards a second eruption occurred more violent than the
first, and hot water and mud were cast forth with masses of slag like
the rock called basalt some of which fell seven miles off. A violent
earthquake shook the whole district, and the top of the mountain fell
in, and so did one of its sides, leaving a gaping chasm. Hills appeared
where there had been level land before, and the rivers changed their
courses, drowning in one night 2,000 people. At some distance from the
mountain a river runs through a large town, and the first intimation the
inhabitants had of all this horrible destruction was the news that the
bodies of men and the carcases of stags, rhinoceroses, tigers, and other
animals, were rushing along to the sea. No less than 114 villages
were destroyed, and above 4,000 persons were killed by this terrible
catastrophe.

Fifty years before this eruption, Mount Papandayang, one of the highest
burning mountains of Java, was constantly throwing out steam and smoke,
but as no harm was done, the natives continued to live on its sides.
Suddenly this enormous mountain fell in, and left a gap fifteen miles
long and six broad. Forty villages were destroyed, some being carried
down and others overwhelmed by mud and burning lava. No less than 2,957
people perished, with vast numbers of cattle; moreover, most of the
coffee plantations in the neighboring districts were destroyed.

Even more terrible was the eruption of Mount Salek, another of the
volcanoes of Java. The burning of the mountain was seen 100 miles away,
while the thunders of its convulsions and the tremblings of the
earth reached the same distance. Seven hills, at whose base ran
a river--crowded with dead buffaloes, deer, apes, tigers, and
crocodiles--slipped down and became a level plain. River-courses were
changed, forests were burnt up, and the whole face of the country was
completely altered.

Later volcanic eruptions in Java include that of 1843, when Mount Guntur
flung out sand and ashes estimated at the vast total of thirty million
tons, and those of 1849 and 1872 when Mount Merapi, a very active
volcano, covered a great extent of country with stones and ashes, and
ruined the coffee plantations of the neighboring districts.

We have said nothing concerning the most terrible explosion of all, that
of the volcanic island of Krakatoa, off the Javan coast. This event was
so phenomenal as to deserve a chapter of its own, for which we reserve
it.

The United States, as one result of its recent acquisition of island
dominions, has added largely to its wealth in volcanic mountains. The
famous Hawaiian craters, far the greatest in the world, now belong to
our national estate, and the Philippine Islands contain various others,
of less importance, yet some of which have proved very destructive. A
description of those of the Island of Luzon, which are the most active
in the archipelago, is here sub-joined.


THE LUZON VOLCANOES.


Volcanoes have played an important part in the formation of the
Philippine Islands and have left traces of their former activity in all
directions. Most of them, however, have long been dead and silent, only
a few of the once numerous group being now active. Of these there are
three of importance in the southern region of Luzon--Taal, Bulusan and
Mayon or Albay.

The last named of these is the largest and most active of the existing
volcanoes. In form it is of marvellous grace and beauty, forming a
perfect cone, about fifty miles in circuit at base and rising to a
height of 8,900 feet. It is one of the most prominent landmarks to
navigators in the island. From its crater streams upward a constant
smoke, accompanied at times by flame, while from its depths issue
subterranean sounds, often heard at a distance of many leagues. The
whole surrounding country is marked by evidences of old eruptions.

This mountain, in 1767, sent up a cone of flame of forty feet in
diameter at base, for ten days, and for two months a wide stream of lava
poured from its crater. A month later there gushed forth great floods of
water, which filled the rivers to overflow, doing widespread damage
to the neighboring plantations. But its greatest and most destructive
eruption took place in 1812, the year of the great eruption of the St.
Vincent volcano. On this fatal occasion several towns were destroyed and
no less than 12,000 people lost their lives. The debris flung forth
from the crater were so abundant that deposits deep enough to bury the
tallest trees were formed near the mountain. In 1867 another disastrous
explosion took place, and still another in 1888. A disaster different
in kind and cause occurred in 1876, when a terrible tropical storm burst
upon the mountain. The floods of rain swept from its sides the loose
volcanic material, and brought destruction to the neighboring country,
more than six thousand houses being ruined by the rushing flood.


BULUSAN AND TAAL


Bulusan, a volcano on the southern extremity of the island, resembles
Vesuvius in shape. For many years it remained dormant, but in 1852 smoke
began to issue from its crater. In some respects the most interesting
of these three volcanoes is that of Taal, which lies almost due south
of Manila and about forty-five miles distant, on a small island in
the middle of a large lake, known as Bombom or Bongbong. A remarkable
feature of this volcanic mountain is that it is probably the lowest in
the world, its height being only 850 feet above sea level. There are
doubtful traditions that Lake Bombom, a hundred square miles in extent,
was formed by a terrible eruption in 1700, by which a lofty mountain
8000 or 9000 feet high, was destroyed. The vast deposits of porous
tufa in the surrounding country are certainly evidences of former great
eruptions from Mount Taal.

The crater of this volcano is an immense, cup-shaped depression, a mile
or more in diameter and about 800 feet deep. When recently visited by
Professor Worcester, during his travels in these islands, he found it to
contain three boiling lakelets of strangely-colored water, one being of
a dirty brown hue, a second intensely yellow in tint, and the third of a
brilliant emerald green. The mountain still steams and fumes, as if too
actively at work below to be at rest above. In past times it has shown
the forces at play in its depths by breaking at times into frightful
activity. Of the various explosions on record, the three most violent
were those of 1716, 1749, and 1754. In the last-named year the earth for
miles round quaked with the convulsive throes of the deeply disturbed
mountain, and vast quantities of volcanic dust were hurled high into the
air, sufficient to make it dark at midday for many leagues around.
The roofs of distant Manila were covered with volcanic dust and ashes.
Molten lava also poured from the crater and flowed into the lake, which
boiled with the intense heat, while great showers of stones and ashes
fell into its waters.


VOLCANOES IN THE SOUTHERN ISLANDS


Extinct volcanoes are numerous in Luzon, and there are smoking cones
in the north, and also in the Babuyanes Islands still farther north.
Volcanoes also exist in several of the other islands. On Negros is the
active peak of Malaspina, and on Camiguin, an island about ninety miles
to the southeast, a new volcano broke out in 1876. The large island of
Mindanao has three volcanoes, of which Cottabato was in eruption in
1856 and is still active at intervals. Apo, the largest of the three,
estimated to be 10,312 feet high, has three summits, within which lies
the great crater, now extinct and filled with water.

In evidence of former volcanic activity are the abundant deposits of
sulphur on the island of Leyte, the hot springs in various localities,
and the earthquakes which occasionally bring death and destruction. Of
the many of these on record, the most destructive was in 1863, when 400
people were killed and 2,000 injured, while many buildings were wrecked.
Another in 1880 wrought great destruction in Manila and elsewhere,
though without loss of life. An earthquake in Mindanao in 1675 opened a
passage to the sea, and a vast plain emerged. These convulsions of the
earth affect the form and elevation of buildings, which are rarely more
than two stories high and lightly built, while translucent sea-shells
replace glass in their windows.

While Java is the most prolific in volcanoes of the islands of the
Malayan Archipelago, other islands of the group possess active cones,
including Sumatra, Bali, Amboyna, Banda and others. In Sanguir, an
island north of Celebes, is a volcanic mountain from which there was
a destructive eruption in 1856. The country was devastated with lava,
stones and volcanic ashes, ruining a wide district and killing nearly
3,000 of the inhabitants. Mount Madrian in one of the Spice Islands, was
rent in twain by a fierce eruption in 1646, and since then has remained
two distinct mountains. It became active again in 1862, after two
centuries of repose, and caused great loss of life and property.
Sorea, a small island of the same group, forming but a single volcanic
mountain, had an eruption in 1693, the cone crumbling gradually till
a vast crater was formed, filled with liquid lava and occupying nearly
half the island. This lake of fire increased in size by the same process
till in the end it took possession of the island and forced all the
inhabitants to flee to more hospitable shores.


THE GREAT ERUPTION OF TOMBORO


But of the East Indian Islands Sumbawa, lying east of Java, contains
the most formidable volcano--one indeed scarcely without a rival in the
world. This is named Tomboro. Of its various eruptions the most furious
on record was that of 1815. This, as we are told by Sir Stamford
Raffles, far exceeded in force and duration any of the known outbreaks
of Etna or Vesuvius. The ground trembled and the echoes of its roar
were heard through an area of 1,000 miles around the volcano, and to a
distance of 300 miles its effects were astounding.

In Java, 300 miles away, ashes filled the air so thickly that the solar
rays could not penetrate them, and fell to the depth of several inches.
The detonations were so similar to the reports of artillery as to be
mistaken for them. The Rajah of Sang'ir, who was an eye-witness of the
eruption, thus described it to Sir Stamford:

"About 7 P. M. on the 10th of April, three distinct columns of flame
burst forth near the top of the Tomboro mountain (all of them apparently
within the verge of the crater), and, after ascending separately to a
very great height, their tops united in the air in a troubled, confused
manner. In short time the whole mountain next Sang'ir appeared like a
body of liquid fire, extending itself in every direction. The fire
and columns of flame continued to rage with unabated fury, until the
darkness caused by the quantity of falling matter obscured them, at
about 8 P. M. Stones at this time fell very thick at Sang'ir--some
of them as large as two fists, but generally not larger than walnuts.
Between 9 and 10 P. M. ashes began to fall, and soon after a violent
whirlwind ensued, which blew down nearly every house in the village of
Sang'ir--carrying the roofs and light parts away with it. In the port of
Sang'ir, adjoining Tomboro, its effects were much more violent--tearing
up by the roots the largest trees, and carrying them into the air,
together with men, horses, cattle, and whatever else came within its
influence. This will account for the immense number of floating trees
seen at sea. The sea rose nearly twelve feet higher than it had ever
been known to do before, and completely spoiled the only spots of
rice-land in Sang'ir--sweeping away houses and everything within its
reach. The whirlwind lasted about an hour. No explosions were heard
till the whirlwind had ceased, at about 11 P.M. From midnight till the
evening of the 11th, they continued without intermission. After that
time their violence moderated, and they were heard only at intervals;
but the explosions did not cease entirely until the 15th of July. Of all
the villages of Tomboro, Tempo, containing about forty inhabitants,
is the only one remaining. In Pekate no vestige of a house is left;
twenty-six of the people, who were at Sumbawa at the time, are the whole
of the population who have escaped. From the most particular inquiries
I have been able to make, there were certainly no fewer than 12,000
individuals in Tomboro and Pekate at the time of the eruption, of whom
only five or six survive. The trees and herbage of every description,
along the whole of the north and west sides of the peninsula, have been
completely destroyed, with the exception of those on a high point of
land, near the spot where the village of Tomboro stood."

Tomboro village was not only invaded by the sea on this occasion, but
its site permanently subsided; so that there is now eighteen feet of
water where there was formerly dry land.


THE VOLCANOES OF JAPAN


The Japanese archipelago, as stated in an earlier chapter, is abundantly
supplied with volcanoes, a number of them being active. Of these the
best known to travelers is Asamayama, a mountain 8,500 feet high, of
which there are several recorded eruptions. The first of these was in
1650; after which the volcano remained feebly active till 1783, when it
broke out in a very severe eruption. In 1870 there was another of some
severity, accompanied by violent shocks of earthquake felt at Yokohama.
The crater is very deep, with irregular rocky walls of a sulphurous
character.

Far the most famous of all the Japanese mountains, however, is that
named Fuji-san, but commonly termed in English Fujiyama or Fusiyama. It
is in the vicinity of the capital, and is the most prominent object in
the landscape for many miles around. The apex is shaped somewhat like an
eight-petaled lotus flower, and offers to view from different directions
from three to five peaks.

Though now apparently extinct, it was formerly an active volcano, and is
credited in history with several very disastrous eruptions. The last
of these was in 1707, at which time the whole summit burst into flames.
Rocks were split and shattered by the heat, and stones fell to the depth
of several inches in Yeddo (now Tokyo), sixty miles away. At present
there are in its crater, which has a depth of 700 or 800 feet, neither
sulphurous exhalations nor steam. According to Japanese tradition this
great peak was upheaved in a single night from the bottom of the sea,
more than twenty-one hundred years ago.

Nothing can be more majestic than this volcano, extinct though it be,
rising in an immense cone from the plain to the height of over twelve
thousand feet, truncated at the top, and with its peak almost always
snow-covered. Its ascent is not difficult to an expert climber, and has
frequently been made. From its summit is unfolded a panorama beyond
the power of words to describe, and probably the most remarkable on the
globe. Mountains, valleys, lakes, forests and the villages of thirteen
counties may be seen. As we gaze upon its beautifully shaped and lofty
mass, visible even from Yokohama and a hundred miles at sea, one does
not wonder that it should be regarded as a holy mountain, and that it
should form a conspicuous object in every Japanese work of art. It is
to the natives of Japan as Mont Blanc is to Europeans, the "monarch of
mountains."

In summer pilgrimages are made around the base of the summit elevation,
and there are on the upward path a number of Buddhist temples and
shrines, made of blocks of stone, for devotion, shelter and the storage
of food for pilgrims. Hakone Lake is three thousand feet above the sea,
and probably lies in the crater of an extinct volcano. Its waters are
very deep; it is several miles long and wide, and is surrounded by high
hills which abound in fine scenery, solfataras and mineral springs.


HOT SPRINGS NEAR HAKONE LAKE


At this place the mountain seems to be smouldering, as sulphur fumes
and steam issue at many points, and the ground is covered with a friable
white alkaline substance. In many a hollow the water bubbles with clouds
of vapor and sulphuretted hydrogen; here the soil is hot and evidently
underlaid by active fires. It is not safe to go very near, as the crust
is thin and crumbling. The water running down the hills has a refreshing
sound and a tempting clearness, but the thirsty tongue at once detects
it to be a very strong solution of alum. The whole aspect of the place
is infernal, and naturally suggests the name given its principal geyser,
O-gigoko (Big Hell).

Fujiyama is almost a perfect cone, with, as above said, a truncated top,
in which is the crater. It is, however, less steep than Mayon. Its upper
part is comparatively steep, even to thirty-five degrees, but below this
portion the inclination gradually lessens, till its elegant outlines are
lost in the plain from which it rises. The curves of the sides depend
partly on the nature, size and shape of the ejected material, the fine
uniform pieces remaining on comparatively steep slopes, while the larger
and rounder ones roll farther down, resting on the inclination that
afterward becomes curved from the subsidence of the central mass.

The most recent and one of the most destructive of volcanic eruptions
recorded in Japan was that of Bandaisan or Baldaisan. For ages this
mountain had been peaceful, and there was scarcely an indication of
its volcanic character or of the terrific forces which lay dormant deep
within its heart. On its flanks lay some small deposits of scoriae,
indications of far-past eruptions, and there were some hot springs at
its base, while steam arose from a fissure. Yet there was nothing to
warn the people of the vicinity that deadly peril lay under their feet.


BANDAISAN'S WORK OF TERROR


This sense of security was fatally dissipated on a day in July, 1888,
when the mountain suddenly broke into eruption and flung 1,600 million
cubic yards of its summit material so high into the air that many of the
falling fragments, in their fall, struck the ground with such velocity
as to be buried far out of sight. The steam and dust were driven to a
height of 13,000 feet, where they spread into a canopy of much greater
elevation, causing pitchy darkness beneath. There were from fifteen to
twenty violent explosions, and a great landslide devastated about thirty
square miles and buried many villages in the Nagase Valley.

Mr. Norman, a traveler who visited the spot shortly afterward, thus
describes the scene of ruin. After a journey through the forests which
clothed the slopes of the volcanic mountain and prevented any distant
view, the travelers at last found themselves "standing upon the ragged
edge of what was left of the mountain of Bandaisan, after two-thirds of
it, including, of course, the summit, had been literally blown away and
spread over the face of the country.

"The original cone of the mountain," he continues, "had been truncated
at an acute angle to its axis. From our very feet a precipitous mud
slope falls away for half a mile or more till it reaches the level. At
our right, still below us, rises a mud wall a mile long, also sloping
down to the level, and behind it is evidently the crater; but before us,
for five miles in a straight line, and on each side nearly as far, is
a sea of congealed mud, broken up into ripples and waves and great
billows, and bearing upon its bosom a thousand huge boulders, weighing
hundreds of tons apiece."

On reaching the crater he found it to resemble a gigantic cauldron,
fully a mile in width, and enclosed with precipitous walls of indurated
mud. From several orifices volumes of steam rose into the air, and when
the vapor cleared away for a moment glimpses of a mass of boiling mud
were obtained. Before the eruption the mountain top had terminated in
three peaks. Of these the highest had an elevation of about 5,800 feet.
The peak destroyed was the middle one, which was rather smaller than the
other two.

"The explosion was caused by steam; there was neither fire nor lava of
any kind. It was, in fact, nothing more nor less than a gigantic boiler
explosion. The whole top and one side of Sho-Bandai-san had been blown
into the air in a lateral direction, and the earth of the mountain was
converted by the escaping steam, at the moment of the explosion, into
boiling mud, part of which was projected into the air to fall at a long
distance, and then take the form of an overflowing river, which rushed
with vast rapidity and covered the country to a depth of from 20 to 150
feet. Thirty square miles of country were thus devastated."

In the devastated lowlands and buried villages below and on the slopes
of the mountain many lives were lost. From the survivors Mr. Norman
gathered some information, enabling him to describe the main features of
the catastrophe. We append a brief outline of his narrative:


MR. NORMAN'S NARRATIVE


"At a few minutes past 8 o'clock in the morning a frightful noise was
heard by the inhabitants of a village ten miles distant from the crater.
Some of them instinctively took to flight, but before they could run
much more than a hundred yards the light of day was suddenly changed
into a darkness more intense than that of midnight; a shower of blinding
hot ashes and sand poured down upon them; the ground was shaken with
earthquakes, and explosion followed explosion, the last being the most
violent of all. While I am waiting for the Père Etienne, a Franciscan
of wide learning, whose acquaintance had already brought me both pleasure
and profit, I sit in the cloisters watching another Father counting the
week's washing, which has just been brought in, and neatly folding up
handkerchiefs and undergarments. He has placed a board across a wheelbarrow,
and the heap of linen is upon this. Seated upon a stool, he leisurely
takes each great coarse handkerchief with blue border, which, like the
rest of the linen, has not been ironed, folds it into four, lays it
upon another board, smooths it with his large, thin yellow hand, and
so goes on with his task without saying a word or raising his eyes.

He is a gaunt, angular, sallow man of about fifty, with hollow cheeks and
long black beard. He has a melancholy air, and does his work as though
he were thinking all the while that it is a part of the sum of labour
he has to get through before reaching that perfect state of felicity
in which there is no more washing to be done or counted. If there were
only monks in the priory, this one would have very little to do
in looking after the linen; but there are many boys who, although
they are being educated with a view to the religious life, have not
yet put off such worldly things as shirts.

Very different from the sombre-looking Franciscan, bent over the
wheelbarrow, is the Père Etienne. He is as cheerful and sprightly
as if he were now convinced that a convent is the pleasantest place on
earth to live in, and that outside of it all is vanity and vexation.
He teaches the boys Latin, Greek, English, and the physical sciences.
Although he has never been out of France and Italy, he can speak English,
and actually make himself understood. He is a botanist, and he and I
have already spent some hours together in his cell before a table
strewn with floras and plants, both dry and fresh. This time we
are joined by a young monk who has been gathering flowers on the banks
of the Tarn, and has placed them between the leaves of a great
Latin Bible.

These meetings, and the library of the priory, with its valuable
works by local historians, strengthened the spell by which Ambialet
held me.

The monks whom one occasionally meets in Languedoc are generally men of
better culture than the ordinary rural clergy, most of whom show plainly
enough by their ideas and the vigorous expressions which they rarely
hesitate to use in any company that they are sons of the soil.
As priests, situated as they are, this coarseness of manners and circumscribed
range of ideas, so far from being a disadvantage, forms a bond of
union between them and the people.

A man to be deeply pitied is he who, having a really superior and
cultivated mind, is charged with the cure of souls in some forlorn
parish where nobody has the time or the taste to read. Such a priest must
either bring his ideas down to those of the people around him, or be
content to live in absolute intellectual isolation. He may turn to the
companionship of books, it is true, but his library is very small;
and if, as is probable, his income is not more than £40 a year, he is
too poor to add to it. Such a revenue, when the bare needs of the
body have been met, does not leave much for satisfying a literary
appetite.

The priory of Nôtre Dame de l'Oder was founded in the twelfth or
thirteenth century by the Benedictines, but a church already existed
on the spot as early, it is supposed, as the eighth century. The one
now standing, and which became incorporated with the priory, probably
dates from the eleventh. If the interior is cold by the severity of the
lines scarcely broken by ornament, the artistic sense is warmed by the
beauty of the proportions and general disposition. The apse, with
its three little windows, has the perfect charm of grace and
simplicity.

A structural peculiarity, to be especially noted as one of the tentative
efforts of Romanesque art, is the use of half-arches for the vaulting
of the two narrow aisles. Unfortunately, the plastering mania, which
has robbed the interior of so many French churches of their venerable
air, has not spared this one.

A singularly broad flight of steps, partly cut in the rock and
covered with tiles, leads up to the portal; but as the building has
been closed to the public since the application of the law dispersing
religious communities, these steps look as if they belonged to the
Castle of Indolence, so overgrown with grass are they and abandoned
to the wandering wild-flowers.

Great mulleins have been allowed to spring up from the gaps between the
lichen-spotted tiles.

When there was a regular community of monks here, the ancient pilgrimage
to Nôtre Dame de l'Oder was kept up, and near the top of the _via
crucis_, which forms a long succession of zigzags upon the bare rock,
a dark shrub or small tree allied to box may be seen railed off with
an image of the Virgin against it.

According to the legend, a Crusader returning from the Holy Land made
a pilgrimage to the sanctuary upon these rocks at Ambialet, and planted
on the hill the staff he had brought with him. This grew to a tree,
to which the people of the country gave the name of _oder_. In course
of time it came to be so venerated that Nôtre Dame d'Ambialet was
changed to Nôtre Dame de l'Oder. The existing tree is said to be a
descendant of the original one.

The monks at the priory told me that nearly all the old historical
documents relating to Ambialet had been taken away by the English
and placed in the Tower of London.

In various parts of the Quercy, I had also been told exactly the same with
regard to the documents connected with the early history of the locality.
There are people who still speak of this as a proof of the intention
of the English to return.
How the belief became so widespread that the English placed the
documents which they carried away in the Tower of London, I am unable
to explain.

Memory takes me back again to the farmhouse by the Tarn. It is well
that there is plenty of space, for the household is numerous. There are
the farmer, his wife and children, an aged mother whose voice has
become a mere thread of sound, and who thinks over the past in the
chimney-corner, sometimes with a distaff in her hand; two old uncles,
a youth of all work, who has been brought up as one of the family, and
a little bright-eyed, bare-legged servant girl, whose brown feet I still
hear pattering upon the floors.

One of the old men is a white-bearded priest of eighty-five, who
has spent most of his life in Algeria, and has himself come to look
like the patriarchal Arab in all but the costume.

He has no longer any sacerdotal work, but he has other occupation.
His special duty is to look after a great flesh-coloured pig, and
many a time have I seen him under the orchard trees following close
at the heels of the grunting beast while reading his office. His
old breviary, like his _soutane_, is very much the worse for wear, the
leaves having been thumbed nearly to the colour of chocolate; but if he
had a new one now, he would find it hard to believe that it had the same
virtue as the other. Notwithstanding his years, he can do harder work
than watching a pig. I have seen him haymaking and reaping, and always
the merriest of the party. Before taking the fork or the sickle in
hand, he would hitch up his _soutane_, and reveal a pair of still active
sacerdotal legs in white linen drawers. The sight of the old man bending
his back while reaping, his white beard brushing the golden corn, was
pathetic or comic as the humour might seize the beholder. As gay as
any of the cicadas that keep the summer's jubilee in the sunny
tree-tops, he sings songs that have nothing in common with psalms,
and he needs little provocation to dance.

French has become an awkward language to him, but his tongue is
nimble enough both in Languedocian and Latin.
When he hears that the evening soup is ready, he hurries the pig home,
flourishes his stick above his head in imitation of the Arabs, and
shouts in his cheeriest voice, 'Oportet manducare!'
The other uncle's chief business is to look after a couple of cows, and
as the farm has no pasturage but the orchard, he is away with them the
greater part of the day along the banks of the Tarn.

One evening I met him by the river, and he stopped me to quote a
passage from the Georgics which he had recalled to mind.

His face beamed with satisfaction. I knew that he had not been
brought up to cow-tending, but was, nevertheless, taken aback when
the unfortunate old bachelor wished me to share the pleasure he felt
in having brought to mind a long-forgotten passage of Virgil. The
surprises of real life never cease to be startling. Speaking to me
afterwards of the growing extravagance of all classes, he said:

'When I was young there were only two _cafés_ in Albi, and none but the
rich ever entered them. Now every man goes to his _café_. I remember
when, in middle-class families in easy circumstances, coffee was
only drunk two or three times a year, on festive occasions.'

Very different is the state of things now in France.

The figure of the old man bending upon his stick glides away by the
dark willow-fringe of the Tarn, and I am standing alone in the
solemn splendour of the luminous dusk--the clear-obscure of the
quickly passing twilight, beside the bearded corn, whose gold is
blended with the faint rosiness that spreads through the air of the
valley, and lets free the fragrance of those flowers which keep all
their sweetness for the evening.

There is still a gleam of the lost sun upon the priory walls, and over
the dark rocks and wooded hollows floats a purple haze. The dusk gathers
apace, and the poplars that rise far above the willows along the river,
their outlines shaded away into the black forest behind them, stand
motionless like phantom trees, for not a leaf stirs; but the corn
seems to grow more luminous, as if it had drunk something of the fire as
well as the colour of the sun, while the horns of the sinking moon gleam
silver-bright just over the topmost trees, painted in sepia
upon a cobalt sky. How weird, phantasmal, enigmatic the forms of those
trees now appear!

Some like hell-hags, with wild hair flying, are rushing through the
air; others, majestic, solitary, wrapped about with dark horror,
are the trees of Fate; some have their arms raised in the frenzy
of a torturing passion; others look like emblems of Care when hope
and passion are alike dead: each touches the spring of a sombre
thought or a fantastic fancy.

On the road to Villefranche, about half a mile from Ambialet, is a mine
which has been abandoned from time immemorial, and which the inhabitants
say was worked by the English for gold. I have noticed, however,
throughout this part of France, that nearly everything that was done in
a remote age, whether good or evil, is attributed by the people to the
English, and that they not infrequently make a curious confusion between
Britons and Romans. As for the Visigoths, Ostrogoths, and Arabs, all
traditions respecting them appear to have passed out of the popular mind.
In the side of a stony hill on which scarcely a plant grows, a narrow
passage, a few feet wide, has been quarried, and air shafts have been
cut down into it through the solid rock with prodigious labour.

I followed this passage until a falling in of the roof prevented me
from going any farther. I could perceive no trace of a metallic vein,
so thoroughly had it been worked out, but scattered over the hillside
with schist, talcose slate, and fragments of quartz, was a great
deal of scoriae, showing that metal of some kind had been excavated,
and that the smelting had been done on the spot. That the mine was
worked for gold seems quite probable, inasmuch as a lump of mineral
containing a considerable quantity of the precious metal was picked
up near the entrance some years ago.

Besides the scoriae, I found upon the hillside much broken pottery,
and from the shape of several fragments it was easy to restore the
form of earthenware pots which were probably used for smelting
purposes.

There is no record to show who the people were who were so busy
upon these rocks glittering with mica and talc. They may have belonged
to any one of the races who passed over the land from the time of the
Romans.

One morning, still in the month of July, I broke away from the charms of
Ambialet, and shouldering again my old knapsack--which, by travelling
hundreds of miles in all weathers, had become disgracefully shabby, but
which was a friend too well stitched together to be thrown aside
on account of ill-looks--I continued my journey up the valley of
the Tarn.

I had agreed to walk with the parish priest as far as the village of
Villeneuve, and having found him at the presbytery, we passed through
the churchyard on the edge of the rock. Here there is a remarkable
cross, with the figure of Christ on one side and that of the Virgin on
the other, not carved in relief, but in that early mediaeval style
which consisted of hollowing out the stone around the image. The cure
frankly declared that, if anyone offered him a large new cross in the
place of this little one, he would be glad to make the exchange. It
is unfortunate that so many rural priests place but little value
upon religious antiquities other than images and relics which have a
legend. Their appreciation of ecclesiastical art is too often regulated
by the practical and utilitarian order of ideas. To dazzle the eye of
the peasant may, and does, become the single aim of church ornamentation.
Hence the brassy, vulgar altars, and those coloured plaster images of
modern manufacture that one sees with regret in so many of the country
churches of France.

I soon took my last look at Ambialet, its rocks and ruins on which
the wild pinks nodded, and its stone-covered roofs overgrown with
white sedum.

I was struck by the number of prickly plants on the sandy banks of the
Tarn. Those which now made the best show of bloom were the star-thistle
centaurea and _ononis repens_. The appearance of this last was very
curious, for in addition to its pink pea-blossoms it seemed to be
sprinkled over with little flowers the colour of forget-me-nots. These,
however, were not flowers at all, but small flying beetles painted the
brilliant blue of myosotis. Another plant that showed a strong liking
for these banks was the horned poppy (_glaucium luteum_), which I had
only found elsewhere near the sea-coast. Brown stalks of broomrape
were still standing, and I lighted upon a lingering bee-ophrys, a
plant which by its amazing mimicry makes one look at it with awe
as if it were something supernatural.

It was an invitation to lunch at a presbytery that was the reason for
my companion taking a walk of about eight miles. Passing through a small
village on the way he called for the _curé_ there, who was also an expected
guest. This priest had obtained a reputation throughout the district for
his humour, his eccentricity, and contempt for appearances. He had
passed most of his life alone, cooking his food, making his bed,
and probably mending his clothes, without the help of any woman.

Being now over eighty years of age, he had realized the necessity
of changing his ways, and a woman not much younger than himself had
succeeded in obtaining a firm footing in his paved kitchen, which
was also the dining-room and _salon_.

His presbytery in the steep and rocky village street was no better built
or more luxuriously furnished than the dwellings of his peasant
parishioners.

Here we found the old white-haired man, gay and hospitable, anxious
to offer everything he had in the house to the visitor, but only able
to think of two things which might be acceptable--snuff and sausage.
'_Un peu de saucisson?_' he said to me, with a winning smile after handing
me his snuff-box. I assured him I could eat nothing then. '_Tè!_ and
so you are really English, monsieur?--_Un peu de saucisson?_'
The _curé_ had been shut up in this village so many years, speaking
nothing but Languedocian to his parishioners, even when preaching to
them, that his French had become rather difficult to understand. I
was keenly alive to the exceptional study of human nature presented
by this fine specimen of an old rustic priest, who was not the less
to be respected because he took a great deal of snuff, hated shaving,
wore hob-nailed shoes of the roughest make, and a threadbare,
soup-spotted _soutane_ with frayed edges. He was not a bit ascetic, and
although he had lived so many years by himself, his good-humour and
gaiety continually overflowed.

It may be that a housekeeper tends to sour a priest's temper more
than anything else, and this one knew it. The sacerdotal domestic
help must be fifty years old when she enters the presbytery. Spinster
or widow, she has that inherent purpose of every woman to be, if she
can, the mistress of the house in which she lives.
If she encounters no other woman in the field, against whom if she
tried conclusions she would be broken like the earthen pot in the
fable, she generally succeeds in achieving her ambition, although
she may be in name a servant.

There are such phenomena as hen-pecked priests, and those who peck them
have no right whatever to do it. It is a state of things brought about
by too much submission, for the sake of peace, to a mind determined
to be uppermost while pretending to be humble.

When we left again for Villeneuve, we were three in number, and the old
_curé_ trudged along over the rocky or sandy paths as nimbly as either
of his companions. He pointed out to me a spot in the Tarn where he
said was a gulf the bottom of which had never been sounded.
There are many such holes in the bed of this river, which receives much
of its water from underground tributaries.

I was looking at the mournful vine-terraces, now mostly abandoned
and grass-grown.

'Ah!' said the octogenarian, shaking his head, and for once wearing a
melancholy expression, 'the best wine of the South used to be grown
there.' Near a village a very tall pole, probably a young poplar that
had been barked, had been raised in a garden, and painted with stripes
of red, white, and blue. It was described to me as a 'tree of liberty,'
and I was told that the garden in which it was placed belonged to the
mayor for the current year. Every fresh mayor had a fresh tree.

At the village of Villeneuve I parted from my companions, who went
to lunch with the _curé_, together with several other ecclesiastics.
These occasional meetings and junketings at one another's houses are the
chief mundane consolation of the rural priests, who are as weak as other
mortals in the presence of a savoury dish, and, when they can
afford to do so, they enter into the pleasures of hospitality with
Horatian zest.

Poor as they often are, they generally know the faggot that conceals
a drop of old wine to place before the guest. The people in the South
believe that the bounty of the Creator was intended to be made the
most of, and the type of priest that one meets most frequently there in
the richer parishes thinks that the next good thing to a clear conscience
is a good table.

I lunched at the auberge, and I had for my companion a ruby-faced
cattle-dealer of about fifty. He spent his life chiefly in a trap,
followed by an old cattle-dog of formidable build and determined
expression of mouth. This animal was now lying down near the table, so
tired and footsore from almost perpetual running that he thought
it too much trouble to get up and eat. I read in his eye that he was
in the habit of breathing every day of his life a canine curse on the
business of cattle-dealing. His master seemed a good-natured man, but
he had a fixed idea that was unfortunate for the dog. He considered
that the beast ought to be able to run from thirty-five to forty miles a
day, and that if he got sore paws it was his own fault.

'And do you never give him a lift?'
'Never!' roared the cattle-dealer, laughing like an ogre.

The dog being now ten years old, I was not surprised to hear that he
sometimes tried to lose himself just before his master was starting
upon a long round.
Fifty-one conical
islands, of varied form and size, containing as many craters, rose
either round the edge or from the surface of the burning lake;
twenty-two constantly emitted columns of gray smoke or pyramids of
brilliant flame, and several of these at the same time vomited from
their ignited mouths streams of lava, which rolled in blazing torrents
down their black indented sides into the boiling mass below.

"The existence of these conical craters led us to conclude that the
boiling cauldron of lava before us did not form the focus of the
volcano; that this mass of melted lava was comparatively shallow, and
that the basin in which it was contained was separated by a stratum of
solid matter from the great volcanic abyss, which constantly poured
out its melted contents through these numerous craters into this
upper reservoir. The sides of the gulf before us, although composed of
different strata of ancient lava, were perpendicular for about 400 feet,
and rose from a wide horizontal ledge of solid black lava of irregular
breadth, but extending completely round. Beneath this ledge the sides
sloped gradually towards the burning lake, which was, as nearly as we
could judge, 300 or 400 feet lower.

"It was evident that the large crater had been recently filled with
liquid lava up to this black ledge, and had, by some subterraneous
canal, emptied itself into the sea or spread under the low land on the
shore. The gray and in some places apparently calcined sides of the
great crater before us, the fissures which intersected the surface of
the plain on which we were standing, the long banks of sulphur on the
opposite side of the abyss, the vigorous action of the numerous small
craters on its borders, the dense columns of vapor and smoke that rose
at the north and west end of the plain, together with the ridge of steep
rocks by which it was surrounded, rising probably in some places 300
or 400 feet in perpendicular height, presented an immense volcanic
panorama, the effect of which was greatly augmented by the constant
roaring of the vast furnaces below."


MAUNA LOA IN ERUPTION


Of the two great craters of Mauna Loa, the summit one has frequently
in modern times overflowed its crest and poured its molten streams in
glowing rivers over the land. This has rarely been the case with the
lower and incessantly active crater of Kilauea, whose lava, when in
excess, appears to escape by subterranean channels to the sea. We append
descriptions of some of the more recent examples of Mauna Loa's eruptive
energy. The lava from this crater does not alone flow over the crater's
lip, but at times makes its way through fissures far below, the immense
pressure causing it to spout in great flashing fountains high into the
air. In 1852 the fiery fountains reached a height of 500 feet. In some
later eruptions they have leaped 1,000 feet high. The lava is white hot
as it ascends, but it assumes a blood-red tint in its fall, and strikes
the ground with a frightful noise.

The quantities of lava ejected in some of the recent eruptions have been
enormous. The river-like flow of 1855 was remarkable for its extent,
being from two to eight miles wide, with a depth of from three to three
hundred feet, and extending in a winding course for a distance of sixty
miles. The Apostle of Hawaiian volcanoes, the Rev. Titus Coan, who
ventured to the source of this flow while it was in supreme action, thus
describes it:--

"We ascended our rugged pathway amidst steam and smoke and heat which
almost blinded and scathed us. We came to open orifices down which we
looked into the fiery river which rushed madly under our feet. These
fiery vents were frequent, some of them measuring ten, twenty, fifty
or one hundred feet in diameter. In one place we saw the river of lava
uncovered for thirty rods and rushing down a declivity of from ten to
twenty-five degrees. The scene was awful, the momentum incredible, the
fusion perfect (white heat), and the velocity forty miles an hour. The
banks on each side of the stream were red-hot, jagged and overhanging.
As we viewed it rushing out from under its ebon counterpane, and in the
twinkling of an eye diving again into its fiery den, it seemed to say,
'Stand off! Scan me not! I am God's messenger. A work to do. Away!'"

Later he wrote again:--"The great summit fountain is still playing with
fearful energy, and the devouring stream rushes madly down toward us. It
is now about ten miles distant, and heading directly for our bay. In
a few days we may be called to announce the painful fact that our
beauteous Hilo is no more,--that our lovely, our inimitable landscape,
our emerald bowers, our crescent strand and our silver bay are blotted
out. A fiery sword hangs over us. A flood of burning ruin approaches us.
Devouring fires are near us. With sure and solemn progress the glowing
fusion advances through the dark forest and the dense jungle in our
rear, cutting down ancient trees of enormous growth and sweeping away
all vegetable life. For months the great summit furnace on Mauna Loa has
been in awful blast. Floods of burning destruction have swept wildly
and widely over the top and down the sides of the mountain. The wrathful
stream has overcome every obstacle, winding its fiery way from its high
source to the bases of the everlasting hills, spreading in a molten sea
over the plains, penetrating the ancient forests, driving the bellowing
herds, the wild goats and the affrighted birds before its lurid glare,
leaving nothing but ebon blackness and smoldering ruin in its track."

His anticipation of the burial of Hilo under the mighty flow was happily
not realized. It came to an abrupt halt while seven miles distant, the
checked stream standing in a threatening and rugged ridge, with rigid,
beetling front.


THE ERUPTIONS OF 1859 AND 1865


In January, 1859, Mauna Loa was again at its fire-play, throwing up
lava fountains from 800 to 1,000 feet in height. From this great fiery
fountain the lava flowed down in numerous streams, spreading over a
width of five or six miles. One stream, probably formed by the junction
of several smaller, attained a height of from twenty to twenty-five
feet, and a breadth of about an eighth of a mile. Great stones were
thrown up along with the jet of lava, and the volume of seeming smoke,
composed probably of fine volcanic dust, is said to have risen to the
height of 10,000 feet.

An eruption of still greater violence took place in 1865, characterized
by similar phenomena, particularly the throwing up of jets of lava. This
fiery fountain continued to play without intermission for twenty days
and nights, varying only as respects the height to which the jet arose,
which is said to have ranged between 100 and 1,000 feet, the mean
diameter of the jet being about 100 feet. This eruption was accompanied
by explosions so loud as to have been heard at a distance of forty
miles.

A cone of about 300 feet in height, and about a mile in circumference,
was accumulated round the orifice whence the jet ascended. It was
composed of solid matters ejected with the lava, and it continued
to glow like a furnace, notwithstanding its exposure to the air. The
current of lava on this occasion flowed to a distance of thirty-five
miles, burning its way through the forests, and filling the air with
smoke and flames from the ignited timber. The glare from the glowing
lava and the burning trees together was discernible by night at a
distance of 200 miles from the island.


THE LAVA FLOW OF 1880


A succeeding great lava flow was that which began on November 6, 1880.
Mr. David Hitchcock, who was camping on Mauna Kea at the time of this
outbreak, saw a spectacle that few human eyes have ever beheld. "We
stood," writes he, "on the very edge of that flowing river of rock. Oh,
what a sight it was! Not twenty feet from us was this immense bed of
rock slowly moving forward with irresistible force, bearing on its
surface huge rocks and immense boulders of tons' weight as water would
carry a toy-boat. The whole front edge was one bright red mass of solid
rock incessantly breaking off from the towering mass and rolling down
to the foot of it, to be again covered by another avalanche of white-hot
rocks and sand. The whole mass at its front edge was from twelve to
thirty feet in height. Along the entire line of its advance it was
one crash of rolling, sliding, tumbling red-hot rock. We could hear no
explosions while we were near the flow, only a tremendous roaring like
ten thousand blast furnaces all at work at once."

This was the most extensive flow of recent years, and its progress from
the interior plain through the dense forests above Hilo and out on to
the open levels close to the town was startling and menacing enough.
Through the woods especially it was a turbulent, seething mass that
hurled down mammoth trees, and licked up streams of water, and day and
night kept up an unintermitting cannonade of explosions. The steam
and imprisoned gases would burst the congealing surface with loud
detonations that could be heard for many miles. It was not an infrequent
thing for parties to camp out close to the flow over night. Ordinarily a
lava-flow moves sluggishly and congeals rapidly, so that what seems
like hardihood in the narrating is in reality calm judgment, for it is
perfectly safe to be in the close vicinity of a lava-stream, and even to
walk on its surface as soon as one would be inclined to walk on cooling
iron in a foundry. This notable flow finally ceased within half a mile
of Hilo, where its black form is a perpetual reminder of a marvellous
deliverance from destruction.


KILAUEA IN 1840


Kilauea seems never, in historic times, to have filled and overflowed
its vast crater. To do so would need an almost inconceivable volume of
liquid rock material. But it approached this culmination in 1840, when
it became, through its whole extent, a raging sea of fire. The boiling
lava rose in the mighty mountain-cup to a height of from 500 to
600 feet. Then it forced a passage through a subterranean cavity
twenty-seven miles long, and reached the sea forty miles distant, in two
days. The stream where it fell into the sea was half a mile wide, and
the flow kept up for three weeks, heating the ocean twenty miles from
land. An eye-witness of this extraordinary flow thus describes it:

"When the torrent of fire precipitated itself into the ocean, the
scene assumed a character of terrific and indescribable grandeur. The
magnificence of destruction was never more perceptibly displayed than
when these antagonistic elements met in deadly strife. The mightiest of
earth's magazines of fire poured forth its burning billows to meet the
mightiest of oceans. For two score miles it came rolling, tumbling,
swelling forward, an awful agent of death. Rocks melted like wax in its
path; forests crackled and blazed before its fervent heat; the works of
man were to it but as a scroll in the flames. Imagine Niagara's stream,
above the brink of the Falls, with its dashing, whirling, madly-raging
waters hurrying on to their plunge, instantaneously converted into fire;
a gory-hued river of fused minerals; volumes of hissing steam arising;
some curling upward from ten thousand vents, which give utterance to
as many deep-toned mutterings, and sullen, confined clamorings; gases
detonating and shrieking as they burst from their hot prison-house;
the heavens lurid with flame; the atmosphere dark and oppressive; the
horizon murky with vapors and gleaming with the reflected contest!

"Such was the scene as the fiery cataract, leaping a precipice of fifty
feet, poured its flood upon the ocean. The old line of coast, a mass
of compact, indurated lava, whitened, cracked and fell. The waters
recoiled, and sent forth a tempest of spray; they foamed and dashed
around and over the melted rock, they boiled with the heat, and the roar
of the conflicting agencies grew fiercer and louder. The reports of the
exploding gases were distinctly heard twenty-five miles distant, and
were likened to a whole broadside of heavy artillery. Streaks of the
intensest light glanced like lightning in all directions; the outskirts
of the burning lava as it fell, cooled by the shock, were shivered into
millions of fragments, and scattered by the strong wind in sparkling
showers far into the country. For three successive weeks the volcano
disgorged an uninterrupted burning tide, with scarcely any diminution,
into the ocean. On either side, for twenty miles, the sea became heated,
with such rapidity that, on the second day of the junction of the lava
with the ocean, fishes came ashore dead in great numbers, at a point
fifteen miles distant. Six weeks later, at the base of the hills, the
water continued scalding hot, and sent forth steam at every wash of the
waves."


THE SINKING OF KILAUEA'S FIRE-LAKE


In 1866 the great crater of Kilauea presented a new and unlooked-for
spectacle in the sinking and vanishing of its great lava lake. In March
of that year the fires in the ancient cauldron totally disappeared, and
the surrounding lava rock sank to a depth of nearly 600 feet. Mr. Thrum,
in a pamphlet on "The Suspended Activity of Kilauea," says of it:

"Distant rumbling noises were heard, accompanied by a series of
earthquakes, forty-three in number. With the fourth shock the brilliancy
of New Lake disappeared, and towards 3 A. M. the fires in Halemaumau
disappeared also, leaving the whole crater in darkness.

"With the dawn the shocks and noises ceased, and revealed the
changes which Kilauea had undergone in the night. All the high cliffs
surrounding Halemaumau and New Lake, which had become a prominent
feature in the crater, had vanished entirely, and the molten lava of
both lakes had disappeared by some subterranean passage from the bottom
of Halemaumau. There was no material change in the sunken portion of the
crater except a continual falling in of rocks and debris from its
banks as the contraction from its former intense heat loosened their
compactness and sent them hurling some 200 or 300 feet below, giving
forth at times a boom as of distant thunder, followed by clouds
of cinders and ashes shooting up into the air 100 to 300 feet,
proportionate, doubtless, to the size of the newly fallen mass.

"This remarkable recession of the liquid lava in Halemaumau was probably
due to the opening of some deep subterranean passage through which the
lake of lava made its way unseen to the ocean's depths. The Rev. Mr.
Baker, probably the most adventuresome explorer of Hawaiian volcanoes,
actually descended into that crumbling pit to a point within what he
judged to be fifty feet of the bottom. But Halemaumau had only taken
an intermission, for in two short months signs of returning life became
frequent and unmistakable, and, in June, culminated in the sudden
outbreak of a lake that has since then steadily increased in activity."


THE GODDESS PELE


We cannot close this chapter without some reference to the Goddess Pele,
to whom the Hawaiians long imputed the wonder-work of their volcanic
mountains. When there is unusual commotion in Kilauea myriads of
thread-like filaments float in the air and fall upon the cliffs, making
deposits much resembling matted hair. A single filament over fifteen
inches long was picked up on a Hilo veranda, having sailed in the air
a distance of fifty miles. This is the famous Pele's Hair, being the
glass-like product of volcanic fires. It resembles Prince Rupert's
Drops, and the tradition is that whenever the volcano becomes active
it is because Pele, the Goddess of the crater, emerges from her fiery
furnace and shakes her vitreous locks in anger.

This fabled being, according to Emerson, in a paper on "The Lesser
Hawaiian Gods," "could at times assume the appearance of a handsome
young woman, as when Kamapauaa, to his cost, was smitten with her charms
when first he saw her with her sisters at Kilauea." Kamapauaa was a
gigantic hog, who "could appear as a handsome young man, a hog, a fish
or a tree." "At other times the innate character of the fury showed
itself, and Pele appeared in her usual form as an ugly and hateful old
hag, with tattered and fire-burnt garments, scarcely concealing the
filth and nakedness of her person. Her bloodshot eyes and fiendish
countenance paralyzed the beholder, and her touch turned him to stone.
She was a jealous and vindictive monster, delighting in cruelty, and at
the slightest provocation overwhelming the unoffending victims of her
rage in widespread ruin."

The superstition regarding the Goddess Pele was thought to have received
a death blow in 1825, when Kapiolani, an Hawaiian princess and a
Christian convert, ascended, with numerous attendants, to the crater of
Kilauea, where she publicly defied the power and wrath of the goddess.
No response came to her defiance, she descended in safety, and faith in
Pele's power was widely shaken.

Yet as late as 1887 the old superstition revived and claimed an exalted
victim, for in that year the Princess Like Like, the youngest sister of
the king, starved herself to death to appease the anger of the Goddess
Pele, supposed to be manifested in Mauna Loa's eruption of that year,
and to be quieted only by the sacrifice of a victim of royal blood. Thus
slowly do the old superstitions die away.


CHAPTER XXVI.

Popocatapetl and Other Volcanoes of Mexico and Central America.


Mexico is very largely a vast table-land, rising through much of its
extent to an elevation of from 7,000 to 8,000 feet above sea-level, and
bounded east and west by wide strips of torrid lowlands adjoining the
oceans. It is crossed at about 19 degrees north latitude by a range of
volcanic mountains, running in almost a straight line east and west,
upon which are several extinct volcanic cones, and five active or
quiescent volcanoes. The highest of these is Popocatapetl, south of the
city of Mexico and nearly midway between the Atlantic and Pacific.

East of this mountain lies Orizabo, little below it in height, and San
Martin or Tuxtla, 9,700 feet high, on the coast south of Vera Cruz.
West of it is Jorullo, 4,000 feet, and Colima, 12,800, near the Pacific
coast. The volcanic energy continues southward toward the Isthmus,
but decreases north of this volcanic range. These mountains have shown
little signs of activity in recent times. Popocatapetl emits smoke, but
there is no record of an eruption since 1540. Orizabo has been quiet
since 1566. Tuxtla had a violent eruption in 1793, but since then has
remained quiescent. Colima is the only one now active. For ten years
past it has been emitting ashes and smoke. The most remarkable of these
volcanoes is Jorullo, which closely resembled Monte Nuovo, described in
Chapter XIII., in its mode of origin.

Popocatapetl, the hill that smokes, in the Mexican language, the huge
mountain clothed in eternal snows, and regarded by the idolaters of old
as a god, towers up nearly 18,000 feet above the level of the sea, and
in the days of the conquest of Mexico was a volcano in a state of fierce
activity. It was looked upon by the natives with a strange dread, and
they told the white strangers with awe that no man could attempt to
ascend its slopes and yet live; but, from a feeling of vanity, or the
love of adventure, the Spaniards laughed at these fears, and accordingly
a party of ten of the followers of Cortes commenced the ascent,
accompanied by a few Indians. But these latter, after ascending about
13,000 feet to where the last remains of stunted vegetation existed,
became alarmed at the subterranean bellowings of the volcano, and
returned, while the Spaniards still painfully toiled on through
the rarefied atmosphere, their feet crushing over the scoriae and
black-glazed volcanic sand, until they stood in the region of perpetual
snow, amidst the glittering, treacherous glaciers and crevasses, with
vast slippery-pathed precipices yawning round.

Still they toiled on in this wild and wondrous region. A few hours
before they were in a land of perpetual summer; here all was snow. They
suffered the usual distress awarded to those who dare to ascend to these
solitudes of nature but it was not given to them to achieve the summit,
for suddenly, at a higher elevation, after listening to various ominous
threatenings from the interior of the volcano, they encountered so
fierce a storm of smoke, cinders, and sparks, that they were driven back
half suffocated to the lower portions of the mountain.

Some time after another attempt was made; and upon this occasion with
a definite object. The invaders had nearly exhausted their stock of
gunpowder, and Cortes organized a party to ascend to the crater of the
volcano, to seek and bring down sulphur for the manufacture of this
necessary of warfare. This time the party numbered but five, led by
one Francisco Montano; and they experienced no very great difficulty in
winning their way upwards. The region of verdure gave place to the wild,
lava-strewn slope, which was succeeded in its turn by the treacherous
glaciers; and at last the gallant little band stood at the very edge
of the crater, a vast depression of over a league in circumference, and
1,000 feet in depth.


SULPHUR FROM THE CRATER


Flame was issuing from the hideous abysses, and the stoutest man's heart
must have quailed as he peered down into the dim, mysterious cavity to
where the sloping sides were crusted with bright yellow sulphur, and
listened to the mutterings which warned him of the pent-up wrath and
power of the mighty volcano. They knew that at any moment flame and
stifling sulphurous vapor might be belched forth, but now no cowardice
was shown. They had come provided with ropes and baskets, and it only
remained to see who should descend. Lots were therefore drawn, and
it fell to Montano, who was accordingly lowered by his followers in a
basket 400 feet into the treacherous region of eternal fires.

The basket swayed and the rope quivered and vibrated, but the brave
cavalier sturdily held to his task, disdaining to show fear before his
humble companions. The lurid light from beneath flashed upon his tanned
features, and a sulphurous steam rose slowly and condensed upon the
sides; but, whatever were his thoughts, the Spaniard collected as
much sulphur as he could take up with him, breaking off the bright
incrustations, and even dallying with his task as if in contempt of
the danger, till he had leisurely filed his basket, when the signal was
given and he was drawn up. The basket was emptied, and then he once more
descended into the lurid crater, collected another store and was again
drawn up; but far from shrinking from his task, he descended again
several times, till a sufficiency had been obtained, with which the
party descended to the plain.


THE VOLCANO JORULLO


No further back than the middle of the eighteenth century the site of
Jorullo was a level plain, including several highly-cultivated fields,
which formed the farm of Don Pedro di Jorullo. The plain was watered
by two small rivers, called Cuitimba and San Pedro, and was bounded by
mountains composed of basalt--the only indications of former volcanic
action. These fields were well irrigated, and among the most fertile in
the country, producing abundant crops of sugar-cane and indigo.

In the month of June, 1759, the cultivators of the farm began to
be disturbed by strange subterranean noises of an alarming kind,
accompanied by frequent shocks of earthquake, which continued for nearly
a couple of months; but they afterward entirely ceased, so that the
inhabitants of the place were lulled into security. On the night between
the 28th and 29th of September, however, the subterranean noises
were renewed with greater loudness than before, and the ground shook
severely. The Indian servants living on the place started from their
beds in terror, and fled to the neighboring mountains. Thence gazing
upon their master's farm they beheld it, along with a tract of ground
measuring between three and four square miles, in the midst of which it
stood, rise up bodily, as if it had been inflated from beneath like a
bladder. At the edges this tract was uplifted only about 39 feet above
the original surface, but so great was its convexity that toward the
middle it attained a height of no less than 524 feet.

The Indians who beheld this strange phenomenon declared that they saw
flames issuing from several parts of this elevated tract, that the
entire surface became agitated like a stormy sea, that great clouds
of ashes, illuminated by volcanic fires glowing beneath them, rose at
several points, and that white-hot stones were thrown to an immense
height. Vast chasms were at the same time opened in the ground, and
into these the two small rivers above mentioned plunged. Their waters,
instead of extinguishing the subterranean conflagration, seemed only
to add to its intensity. Quantities of mud, enveloping balls of basalt,
were then thrown up, and the surface of the elevated ground became
studded with small cones, from which volumes of dense vapor, chiefly
steam, were emitted, some of the jets rising from 20 to 30 feet in
height.

These cones the Indians called ovens, and in many of them was long heard
a subterranean noise resembling that of water briskly boiling. Out of a
great chasm in the midst of those ovens there were thrown up six larger
elevations, the highest being 1,640 feet above the level of the plain,
4,315 above sea level, and now constituting the principal volcano of
Jorullo. The smallest of the six was 300 feet in height; the others of
intermediate elevation. The highest of these hills had on its summit
a regular volcanic crater, whence there have been thrown up great
quantities of dross and lava, containing fragments of older rocks. The
ashes were transported to immense distances, some of them having fallen
on the houses at Queretaro, more than forty-eight leagues from Jorullo.
The volcano continued in this energetic state of activity for about four
months; in the following years its eruptions became less frequent, but
it still continues to emit volumes of vapor from the principal crater,
as well as from many of the ovens in the upheaved ground.


EFFECT ON THE RIVERS


The two rivers, which disappeared on the first night of this great
eruption, now pursue an underground course for about a mile and a
quarter, and then reappear as hot springs, with a temperature of 126
degrees F.

This wonderful volcanic upheaval is all the more remarkable, from the
inland situation of the plain on which it occurred, it being no less
than 120 miles distant from the nearest ocean, while there is no other
volcano nearer to it than 80 miles. The activity of the ovens has now
ceased, and portions of the upheaved plain on which they are situated
have again been brought under cultivation, and the volcano is in a state
of quiescence.

The crater of Popocatapetl, which towers to a height of 17,000 feet, is
a vast circular basin, whose nearly vertical walls are in some parts
of a pale rose tint, in others quite black. The bottom contains several
small fuming cones, whence arise vapors of changeable color, being
successively red, yellow and white. All round them are large deposits of
sulphur, which are worked for mercantile purposes.

Orizaba has a little less lofty snow-clad peak. This mountain was in
brisk volcanic activity from 1545 to 1560, but has since then relapsed
into a prolonged repose. It was climbed, in 1856, by Baron Muller, to
whose mind the crater appeared like the entrance to a lower world of
horrible darkness. He was struck with astonishment on contemplating the
tremendous forces required to elevate and rend such enormous masses--to
melt them, and then pile them up like towers, until by cooling they
became consolidated into their present forms. The internal walls of the
crater are in many places coated with sulphur, and at the bottom are
several small volcanic craters. At the time of his visit the summit
was wholly covered with snow, but the Indians affirmed that hot vapors
occasionally ascend from fissures in the rocks. Since then others have
reached its summit, among them Angelo Heilprin, the first to gaze into
the crater of Mont Pelee after its eruption.


ERUPTIONS IN NICARAGUA


On the 14th of November, 1867, there commenced an eruption from a
mountain about eight leagues to the eastward of the city of Leon,
in Nicaragua. This mountain does not appear to have been previously
recognized as an active volcano, but it is situated in a very volcanic
country. The outburst had probably some connection with the earthquake
at St. Thomas, which took place on the 18th of November following. The
mountain continued in a state of activity for about sixteen days. There
was thrown out an immense quantity of black sand, which was carried as
far as to the coast of the Pacific, fifty miles distant. Glowing stones
were projected from the crater to an estimated height of three thousand
feet.

Central America is more prolific of volcanoes than Mexico, and the
State of Guatemala in particular. One authority credits this State with
fifteen or sixteen and another with more than thirty volcanic cones.
Of these at least five are decidedly active. Tajumalco, which was in
eruption at the time of the great earthquake of 1863, yields great
quantities of sulphur, as also does Quesaltenango. The most famous is
the Volcan de Agua (Water Volcano), so called from its overwhelming the
old city of Guatemala with a torrent of water in 1541.

Nicaragua is also rich in volcanoes, being traversed its entire length
by a remarkable chain of isolated volcanic cones, several of which are
to some extent active. We have already told the story of the tremendous
eruption of Coseguina in 1835, one of the most violent of modern times.
The latest important eruption here was that of Ometepec, a volcanic
mount on an island of the same name in Lake Nicaragua. This broke a long
period of repose on June 19, 1883, with a severe eruption, in which
the lava, pouring from a new crater, in seven days overflowed the whole
island and drove off its population. Incessant rumblings and earthquake
shocks accompanied the eruption, and mud, ashes, stones and lava covered
the mountain slopes, which had been cultivated for many centuries.
These were the most recent strong displays of volcanic energy in Central
America, though former great outflows of lava are indicated by great
fields of barren rock, which extend for miles.


CHAPTER XXVII.

The Terrible Eruption of Krakatoa.


The most destructive volcanic explosion of recent times, one perhaps
unequalled in violence in all times, was that of the small mountain
island of Krakatoa, in the East Indian Archipelago, in 1883. This made
its effects felt round the entire globe, and excited such wide attention
that we feel called upon to give it a chapter of its own.

The island of Krakatoa lies in the Straits of Sunda, between Java and
Sumatra. In size it is insignificant, and had been silent so long that
its volcanic character was almost lost sight of. Of its early history we
know nothing. At some remote time in the past it may have appeared as a
large cone, of some twenty-five miles in circumference at base and not
less than 10,000 feet high. Then, still in unknown times, its cone was
blown away by internal forces, leaving only a shattered and irregular
crater ring. This crater was two or three miles in diameter, while the
highest part of its walls rose only a few hundred feet above the sea.
Later volcanic work built up a number of small cones within the crater,
and still later a new cone, called Rakata, rose on the edge of the old
one to a height of 2,623 feet.

The first known event in the history of the island volcano was an
eruption in the year 1680. After that it lay in repose, forming a group
of islands, one much larger than the others. Some of the smaller islands
indicated the rim of the old crater, much of which was buried under the
sea. Its state of quiescence continued for two centuries, a tropical
vegetation richly mantled the island, and to all appearance it had sunk
permanently to rest.

Indications of a coming change appeared in 1880, in the form of
earthquakes, which shook all the region around. These continued at
intervals for more that two years. Then, on May 20, 1883, there were
heard at Batavia, a hundred miles away, "booming sounds like the firing
of artillery." Next day the captain of a vessel passing through the
Straits saw that Krakatoa was in eruption, sending up clouds of smoke
and showers of dust and pumice. The smoke was estimated to reach a
height of seven miles, while the volcanic dust drifted to localities 300
miles away.


AWFUL PREMONITIONS


The mountain continued to play for about fourteen weeks with varying
activity, several parties meanwhile visiting it and making observations.
Such an eruption, in ordinary cases, would have ultimately died away,
with no marked change other than perhaps the ejection of a stream of
lava. But such was not now the case. The sequel was at once unexpected
and terrible. As the island was uninhabited, no one actually saw what
took place, those nearest to the scene of the eruption having enough
to do to save their own lives, while the dense clouds of vapor and dust
baffled observation.

The phase of greatest violence set in on Sunday, August 26th. Soon after
midday sailors on passing ships saw that the island had vanished behind
a dense cloud of black vapor, the height of which was estimated at not
less than seventeen miles. At intervals frightful detonations resounded,
and after a time a rain of pumice began to fall at places ten miles
distant. For miles round fierce flashes of lightning rent the vapor,
and at a distance of fully forty miles ghostly corposants gleamed on the
rigging of a vessel.

These phenomena grew more and more alarming until August 27th, when four
explosions of fearful intensity shook earth and sea and air, the third
being "far the most violent and productive of the most widespread
results." It was, in fact, perhaps the most tremendous volcanic
outburst, in its intensity, known in human history. It seemed to
overcome the obstruction to the energy of the internal forces, for the
eruption now declined, and in a day or two practically died away, though
one or two comparatively insignificant outbursts took place later.


FAR-REACHING DESTRUCTION


The eruption spread ruin and death over many surrounding leagues. At
Krakotoa itself, when men once more reached its shores, everything was
found to be changed. About two-thirds of the main island were blown
completely away. The marginal cone was cut nearly in half vertically,
the new cliff falling precipitously toward the centre of the crater.
Where land had been before now sea existed, in some places more than
one hundred feet deep. But the part of the island that remained had been
somewhat increased in size by ejected materials.

Of the other islands and islets some had disappeared; some were
partially destroyed; some were enlarged by fallen debris, while many
changes had taken place in the depth of the neighboring sea-bed. Two
new islands, Steers and Calmeyer, were formed. The ejected pumice, so
cavernous in structure as to float upon the water, at places formed
great floating islands which covered the sea for miles, and sometimes
rose from four to seven feet above it, proving a serious obstacle
to navigation. On vessels near by dust fell to the depth of eighteen
inches. The enormous clouds of volcanic dust which had been flung high
into the air darkened the sky for a great area around. At Batavia, about
a hundred miles from the volcano, it produced an effect not unlike that
of a London fog. This began about seven in the morning of August 27th.
Soon after ten the light had become lurid and yellow, and lamps were
required in the houses; then came a downfall of rain, mingled with dust,
and by about half-past eleven the town was in complete darkness. It
soon after began to lighten, and the rain to diminish, and about three
o'clock it had ceased.

At Buitenzorg, twenty miles further away, the conditions were similar,
but lasted for a shorter time. In places much farther away the upper sky
presented a strangely murky aspect, and the sun assumed a green color.
Phenomena of this kind were traced over a broad area of the globe, even
as far as the Hawaiian Islands, while over a yet wider area the sky
after sunset was lit up by after-glows of extraordinary beauty. The
height to which the dust was projected has been calculated from various
data, with the result that 121,500 feet, or nearly 25 miles, is thought
to be a probable maximum estimate, though it may be that occasional
fragments of larger size were shot up to a still greater height.


A GRAPHIC DESCRIPTION OF THE ERUPTION


Another effect, of a distressing character, followed the eruption. A
succession of enormous waves, emanating from Krakatoa, traversed the
sea, and swept the coast bordering the Straits of Sunda with such force
as to destroy many villages on the low-lying shores in Java, Sumatra and
other islands. Some buildings at a height of fifty feet above sea-level
were washed away, and in some places the water rose higher, in one place
reaching the height of 115 feet. At Telok Betong, in Sumatra, a ship was
carried inland a distance of nearly two miles, and left stranded at a
height of thirty feet above the sea.

The eruption of Krakatoa seems to have been due to some deep-lying
causes of extraordinary violence, this appearing not only in the
terrible explosion which tore the island to fragments and sent its
remnants as floating dust many miles high into the air, but also from an
internal convulsion that affected many of the volcanoes of Java, which
almost simultaneously broke into violent eruption. We extract from
Dr. Robert Bonney's "Our Earth and its Story" a description of these
closely-related events.

"The disturbances originated on the island of Krakatoa, with eruptions
of red hot stones and ashes, and by noon next day Semeru, the largest of
the Javanese volcanoes, was reported to be belching forth flames at
an alarming rate. The eruption soon spread to Gunung Guntur and other
mountains, until more than a third of the forty-five craters of Java
were either in activity or seriously threatening it.

"Just before dusk a great cloud hung over Gunung Guntur, and the crater
of the volcano began to emit enormous streams of white sulphurous
mud and lava, which were rapidly succeeded by explosions, followed by
tremendous showers of cinders and enormous fragments of rock, which were
hurled high into the air and scattered in all directions, carrying death
and destruction with them. The overhanging clouds were, moreover, so
charged with electricity that water-spouts added to the horror of the
scene. The eruption continued all Saturday night, and next day a dense
cloud, shot with lurid red, gathered over the Kedang range, intimating
that an eruption had broken out there.

"This proved to be the case, for soon after streams of lava poured down
the mountain sides into the valleys, sweeping everything before them.
About two o'clock on Monday morning--we are drawing on the account of
an eye-witness--the great cloud suddenly broke into small sections and
vanished. When light came it was seen that an enormous tract of land,
extending from Point Capucin on the south, and Negery Passoerang on the
north and west, to the lowest point, covering about fifty square miles,
had been temporarily submerged by the 'tidal wave.' Here were situated
the villages of Negery and Negery Babawang. Few of the inhabitants of
these places escaped death. This section of the island was less
densely populated than the other portions, and the loss of life was
comparatively small, although it must have aggregated several thousands.
The waters of Welcome Bay in the Sunda Straits, Pepper Bay on the east,
and the Indian Ocean on the south, had rushed in and formed a sea of
turbulent waves.


DETONATIONS HEARD FOR MANY MILES AWAY


"On Monday night the volcano of Papandayang was in an active state of
paroxysmal eruption, accompanied by detonations which are said to have
been heard for many miles away. In Sumatra three distinct columns of
flame were seen to rise from a mountain to a vast height, and its whole
surface was soon covered with fiery lava streams, which spread to
great distances on all sides. Stones fell for miles around, and black
fragmentary matter carried into the air caused total darkness. A
whirlwind accompanied the eruption, by which house-roofs, trees, men,
and horses were swept into the air. The quantity of matter ejected was
such as to cover the ground and the roofs of the houses at Denamo to
the depth of several inches. Suddenly the scene changed. At first it was
reported that Papandayang had been split into seven distinct peaks. This
proved untrue; but in the open seams formed could be seen great balls of
molten matter. From the fissures poured forth clouds of steam and black
lava, which, flowing in steady streams, ran slowly down the mountain
sides, forming beds 200 or 300 feet in extent. At the entrance to
Batavia was a large group of houses extending along the shore, and
occupied by Chinamen. This portion of the city was entirely destroyed,
and not many of the Chinese who lived on the swampy plains managed to
save their lives. They stuck to their homes till the waves came and
washed them away, fearing torrents of flame and lava more than torrents
of water.

"Of the 3,500 Europeans and Americans in Batavia--which for several
hours was in darkness, owing to the fall of ashes--800 perished at
Anjer. The European and American quarter was first overwhelmed by rocks,
mud and lava from the crater, and then the waters came up and swallowed
the ruins, leaving nothing to mark the site, and causing the loss of
about 200 lives of the inhabitants and those who sought refuge there."

The loss of life above mentioned was but a small fraction of the total
loss. All along the coasts of the adjoining large islands towns and
villages were swept away and their inhabitants drowned, till the total
loss was, as nearly as could be estimated, 36,000 souls. Krakatoa thus
surpassed Mont Pelee in its tale of destruction. These two, indeed, have
been the most destructive to life of known volcanic explosions, since
the volcano usually falls far short of the earthquake in its murderous
results.

The distant effects of this explosion were as remarkable as the near
ones. The concussion of the air reached to an unprecedented distance
and the clouds of floating dust encircled the earth, producing striking
phenomena of which an account is given at the end of this chapter.

The rapidity with which the effects of the Krakatoa eruption made
themselves evident in all parts of the earth is perhaps the most
remarkable outcome of this extraordinary event. The floating pumice
reached the harbor of St. Paul on the 22nd of March, 1884, after having
made a voyage of some two hundred and sixty days at a rate of
six-tenths of a mile an hour. Immense quantities of pumice of a similar
description, and believed to have been derived from the same source,
reached Tamatave in Madagascar five months later, and no doubt much of
it long continued to float round the world.


SERIES OF ATMOSPHERIC WAVES


Another result of the eruption was the series of atmospheric waves,
caused by the disturbance in the atmosphere, which affected the
barometer over the entire world. The velocity with which these waves
traveled has been variously estimated at from 912.09 feet to 1066.29
feet per second. This speed is, of course, very much inferior to that at
which sound travels through the air. Yet, in three distinct cases, the
noise of the Krakatoa explosions was plainly heard at a distance of at
least 2,200 miles, and in one instance--that recorded from Rodriguez--of
nearly 3,000. The sound travelled to Ceylon, Burmah, Manila, New Guinea
and Western Australia, places, however, within a radius of about 2,000
miles; out Diego Garcia lies outside that area, and Rodriguez a thousand
miles beyond it. Six days subsequent to the explosion, after the
atmospheric waves had traveled four times round the globe, the barometer
was still affected by them.

Another result, similar in kind, was the extraordinary dissemination of
the great ocean wave, which in a like manner seems to have encircled the
earth, since high waves, without evident cause, appeared not only in
the Pacific, but at many places on the Atlantic coast within a few days
after the event. They were observed alike in England and at New York.
The writer happened to be at Atlantic City, on the New Jersey coast,
at this time. It was a period of calm, the winds being at rest, but,
unheralded, there came in an ocean wave of such height as to sweep away
the ocean-front boardwalk and do much other damage. He ascribed this
strange wave at the time to the Krakatoa explosion, and is of the same
opinion still.

In addition to the account given of this extraordinary volcanic event,
it seems desirable to give Sir Robert S. Ball's description of it in his
recent work, "The Earth's Beginnings." While repeating to some
extent what we have already said, it is worthy, from its freshness of
description and general readability, of a place here.


SIR ROBERT S. BALL'S DESCRIPTION


"Until the year 1883 few had ever heard of Krakatoa. It was unknown
to fame, as are hundreds of other gems of glorious vegetation set
in tropical waters. It was not inhabited, but the natives from the
surrounding shores of Sumatra and Java used occasionally to draw their
canoes up on its beach, while they roamed through the jungle in search
of the wild fruits that there abounded. It was known to the mariner who
navigated the Straits of Sunda, for it was marked on his charts as one
of the perils of the intricate navigation in those waters. It was no
doubt recorded that the locality had been once, or more than once,
the seat of an active volcano. In fact, the island seemed to owe its
existence to some frightful eruption of by-gone days; but for a couple
of centuries there had been no fresh outbreak. It almost seemed as if
Krakatoa might be regarded as a volcano that had become extinct. In this
respect it would only be like many other similar objects all over the
globe, or like the countless extinct volcanoes all over the moon.

"As the summer of 1883 advanced the vigor of Krakatoa, which had sprung
into notoriety at the beginning of the year, steadily increased and the
noises became more and more vehement; these were presently audible on
shores ten miles distant, and then twenty miles distant; and still those
noises waxed louder and louder, until the great thunders of the volcano,
now so rapidly developing, astonished the inhabitants that dwelt over an
area at least as large as Great Britain. And there were other symptoms
of the approaching catastrophe. With each successive convulsion a
quantity of fine dust was projected aloft into the clouds. The wind
could not carry this dust away as rapidly as it was hurled upward by
Krakatoa, and accordingly the atmosphere became heavily charged with
suspended particles.

"A pall of darkness thus hung over the adjoining seas and islands. Such
was the thickness and density of these atmospheric volumes of Krakatoa
dust that, for a hundred miles around, the darkness of midnight
prevailed at midday. Then the awful tragedy of Krakatoa took place.
Many thousands of the unfortunate inhabitants of the adjacent shores of
Sumatra and Java were destined never to behold the sun again. They were
presently swept away to destruction in an invasion of the shore by the
tremendous waves with which the seas surrounding Krakatoa were agitated.

"As the days of August passed by the spasms of Krakatoa waxed more and
more vehement. By the middle of that month the panic was widespread, for
the supreme catastrophe was at hand. On the night of Sunday, August 26,
1883, the blackness of the dust-clouds, now much thicker than ever in
the Straits of Sunda and adjacent parts of Sumatra and Java, was only
occasionally illumined by lurid flashes from the volcano.

"At the town of Batavia, a hundred miles distant, there was no quiet
that night. The houses trembled with subterranean violence, and the
windows rattled as if heavy artillery were being discharged in the
streets. And still these efforts seemed to be only rehearsing for the
supreme display. By ten o'clock on the morning of Monday, August 27,
1883, the rehearsals were over, and the performance began. An overture,
consisting of two or three introductory explosions, was succeeded by
a frightful convulsion which tore away a large part of the island of
Krakatoa and scattered it to the winds of heaven. In that final outburst
all records of previous explosions on this earth were completely broken.


AN EXTRAORDINARY NOISE


"This supreme effort it was which produced the mightiest noise that, so
far as we can ascertain, has ever been heard on this globe. It must have
been indeed a loud noise which could travel from Krakatoa to Batavia and
preserve its vehemence over so great a distance; but we should form a
very inadequate conception of the energy of the eruption of Krakatoa if
we thought that its sounds were heard by those merely a hundred miles
off. This would be little indeed compared with what is recorded on
testimony which it is impossible to doubt.

"Westward from Krakatoa stretches the wide expanse of the Indian Ocean.
On the opposite side from the Straits of Sunda lies the island of
Rodriguez, the distance from Krakatoa being almost three thousand miles.
It has been proved by evidence which cannot be doubted that the
thunders of the great volcano attracted the attention of an intelligent
coast-guard on Rodriguez, who carefully noted the character of the
sounds and the time of their occurrence. He had heard them just four
hours after the actual explosion, for this is the time the sound
occupied on its journey.


A CONSTANT WIND


"This mighty incident at Krakatoa has taught us other lessons on the
constitution of our atmosphere. We previously knew little, or I might
say almost nothing, as to the conditions prevailing above the height
of ten miles overhead. It was Krakatoa which first gave us a little
information which was greatly wanted. How could we learn what winds were
blowing at a height four times as great as the loftiest mountain on the
earth, and twice as great as the loftiest altitude to which a balloon
has ever soared? No doubt a straw will show which way the wind blows,
but there are no straws up there. There was nothing to render the winds
perceptible until Krakatoa came to our aid. Krakatoa drove into those
winds prodigious quantities of dust. Hundreds of cubic miles of air were
thus deprived of that invisibility which they had hitherto maintained.

"With eyes full of astonishment men watched those vast volumes of
Krakatoa dust on a tremendous journey. Of course, every one knows the
so-called trade-winds on our earth's surface, which blow steadily in
fixed directions, and which are of such service to the mariner. But
there is yet another constant wind. It was first disclosed by Krakatoa.
Before the occurrence of that eruption, no one had the slightest
suspicion that far up aloft, twenty miles over our heads, a mighty
tempest is incessantly hurrying, with a speed much greater than that of
the awful hurricane which once laid so large a part of Calcutta on the
ground and slew so many of its inhabitants. Fortunately for humanity,
this new trade-wind does not come within less than twenty miles of the
earth's surface. We are thus preserved from the fearful destruction that
its unintermittent blasts would produce, blasts against which no tree
could stand and which would, in ten minutes, do as much damage to a city
as would the most violent earthquake. When this great wind had become
charged with the dust of Krakatoa, then, for the first, and, I may add,
for the only time, it stood revealed to human vision. Then it was seen
that this wind circled round the earth in the vicinity of the equator,
and completed its circuit in about thirteen days.


A VAST CLOUD Of DUST


"The dust manufactured by the supreme convulsion was whirled round
the earth in the mighty atmospheric current into which the volcano
discharged it. As the dust-cloud was swept along by this incomparable
hurricane it showed its presence in the most glorious manner by decking
the sun and the moon in hues of unaccustomed splendor and beauty. The
blue color in the sky under ordinary circumstances is due to particles
in the air, and when the ordinary motes of the sunbeam were reinforced
by the introduction of the myriads of motes produced by Krakatoa even
the sun itself sometimes showed a blue tint. Thus the progress of the
great dust-cloud was traced out by the extraordinary sky effects it
produced, and from the progress of the dust-cloud we inferred the
movements of the invisible air current which carried it along. Nor need
it be thought that the quantity of material projected from Krakatoa
should have been inadequate to produce effects of this world-wide
description. Imagine that the material which was blown to the winds of
heaven by the supreme convulsion of Krakatoa could be all recovered and
swept into one vast heap. Imagine that the heap were to have its bulk
measured by a vessel consisting of a cube one mile long, one mile broad
and one mile deep; it has been estimated that even this prodigious
vessel would have to be filled to the brim at least ten times before all
the products of Krakatoa had been measured."

It is not specially to the quantity of material ejected from Krakatoa
that it owes its reputation. Great as it was, it has been much
surpassed. Professor Judd says that the great eruptions of
Papapandayang, in Java, in 1772, of Skaptur Jokull, in Iceland, in 1783,
and of Tamboro, in Sumbawa, in 1815, were marked by the extrusion of
much larger quantities of material. The special feature of the Krakatoa
eruption was its extreme violence, which flung volcanic dust to a height
probably never before attained, and produced sea and air waves of an
intensity unparalleled in the records of volcanic action. Judd thinks
this was due to the situation of the crater, and the possible inflow
through fissures of a great volume of sea water to the interior lava,
the result being the sudden production of an enormous volume of steam.


EXTRAORDINARY RED SUNSETS


The red sunsets spoken of above were so extraordinary in character
that a fuller description of them seems advisable. A remarkable fact
concerning them is the great rapidity with which they were disseminated
to distant regions of the earth. They appeared around the entire
equatorial zone in a few days after the eruption, this doubtless being
due to the great rapidity with which the volcanic dust was carried by
the upper air current. They were seen at Rodriguez, 3,000 miles away, on
August 28, and within a week in every part of the torrid zone. From
this zone they spread north and south with less rapidity. Their first
appearance in Australia was on September 15th, and at the Cape of Good
Hope on the 20th. On the latter day they were observed in California and
the Southern United States. They were first seen in England on November
9th. Elsewhere in Europe and the United States they appeared from
November 20th to 30th.

The effect lasted in some instances as long as an hour and
three-quarters after sunset. In India the sun and skies assumed a
greenish hue, and there was much curiosity regarding the cause of the
"green sun." Another remarkable phenomenon of this period was the great
prevalence of rain during the succeeding winter. This probably was due
to the same cause; that is, to the fact of the air being so filled with
dust; the prevailing theory in regard to rain being that the existence
of dust in the air is necessary to its fall. The vapor of the air
concentrates into drops around such minute particles, the result being
that where dust is absent rain cannot fall.

As regards the sunsets spoken of, there are three similar instances on
record. The first of these was in the year 526, when a dry fog covered
the Roman Empire with a red haze. Nothing further is known concerning
it. The other instances were in the years 1783 and 1831. The former of
these has been traced to the great eruption of Skaptur Jokull in that
year. It lasted for several months as a pale blue haze, and occasioned
so much obscurity that the sun was only visible when twelve degrees
above the horizon, and then it had a blood-red appearance. Violent
thunderstorms were associated with it, thus assimilating it with that of
1883. Alike in 1783 and 1831 there was a pearly, phosphorescent gleam in
the atmosphere, by which small print could be read at midnight. We know
nothing regarding the meteorological conditions of 1831.

The red sunsets of 1883 were remarkable for their long persistence.
They were observed in the autumn of 1884 with almost their original
brilliancy, and they were still visible in 1885, being seen at
intervals, as if the dust was then distributed in patches, and driven
about by the winds. In fact, similar sunsets were occasionally visible
for several years afterwards. These may well have been due to the same
cause, when we consider with what extreme slowness very fine dust makes
its way through the air, and how much it may be affected by the winds.


THE RED SUNSETS DESCRIBED


One writer describes the appearance of these sunsets in the following
terms: "Immediately after sunset a patch of white light appeared ten
or fifteen degrees above the horizon, and shone for ten minutes with a
pearly lustre. Beneath it a layer of bright red rested on the horizon,
melting upward into orange, and this passed into yellow light, which
spread around the lucid spot. Next the white light grew of a rosy tint,
and soon became an intense rose hue. A vivid golden oriole yellow strip
divided it from the red fringe below and the rose red above." This
description, although exaggerated, represents the general conditions of
the phenomenon.

On October 20th, 1884, the author observed the sunset effect as follows:
"Immediately after the sun had set, a broad cone of silvery lustre
rested upon a horizon of smoky pink. After fifteen minutes the white
became rose color above and yellowish below, deepening to lemon color,
and finally into reddish tint, while the rose faded out. The whole cone
gradually sank and died away in the brownish red flush on the horizon,
more than an hour after sunset." The time of duration varied, since,
on the succeeding evening, it lasted only a half-hour. These sunset
effects, if we can justly attribute them all to the Krakatoa eruption,
were extraordinary not alone for their intensity and beauty but for
their extended duration, the influence of this remarkable volcanic
outbreak being visible for several years after the event.

Though no doubt is entertained concerning the cause of the red sunset
effects of 1783 and 1883, that of 1831 is not so readily explained,
there having been no known volcanic explosion of great intensity in that
year. But in view of the fact that volcanoes exist in unvisited parts
of the earth, some of which may have been at work unknown to scientific
man, this difficulty is not insuperable. Possibly Mounts Erebus or
Terror, the burning mountains of the Antarctic zone, may, unseen by
man, have prepared for civilized lands this grand spectacular effect of
Nature's doings.


CHAPTER XXVIII.

Mount Pelee and its Harvest of Death.


St. Pierre, the principal city of the French island of Martinique, in
the West Indies, lies for the length of about a mile along the island
coast, with high cliffs hemming it in, its houses climbing the slope,
tier upon tier. At one place where a river breaks through the cliffs,
the city creeps further up towards the mountains. As seen from the bay,
its appearance is picturesque and charming, with the soft tints of its
tiles, the grey of its walls, the clumps of verdure in its midst,
and the wall of green in the rear. Seen from its streets this beauty
disappears, and the chief attraction of the town is gone.

Back from the three miles of hills which sweep in an arc round the town,
is the noble Montagne Pelee lying several miles to the north of the
city, a mass of dark rock some four thousand feet high, with jagged
outline, and cleft with gorges and ravines, down which flow numerous
streams, gushing from the crater lake of the great volcano.

Though known to be a volcano, it was looked upon as practically extinct,
though as late as August, 1856, it had been in eruption. No lava at that
time came from its crater, but it hurled out great quantities of ashes
and mud, with strong sulphurous odor. Then it went to rest again, and
slept till 1902.

The people had long ceased to fear it. No one expected that grand old
Mount Pelee, the slumbering (so it was thought) tranquil old hill, would
ever spurt forth fire and death. This was entirely unlooked for. Mont
Pelee was regarded by the natives as a sort of protector; they had an
almost superstitious affection for it. From the outskirts of the city it
rose gradually, its sides grown thick with rich grass, and dotted here
and there with spreading shrubbery and drooping trees. There was
no pleasanter outing for an afternoon than a journey up the green,
velvet-like sides of the towering mountain and a view of the quaint,
picturesque city slumbering at its base.


A PEACEFUL SCENE


There were no rocky cliffs, no crags, no protruding boulders. The
mountain was peace itself. It seemed to promise perpetual protection.
The poetic natives relied upon it to keep back storms from the land and
frighten, with its stern brow, the tempests from the sea. They pointed
to it with profoundest pride as one of the most beautiful mountains in
the world.

Children played in its bowers and arbors; families picnicked there day
after day during the balmy weather; hundreds of tourists ascended to
the summit and looked with pleasure at the beautiful crystal lake
which sparkled and glinted in the sunshine. Mont Pelee was the place
of enjoyment of the people of St. Pierre. I can hear the placid natives
say: "Old Father Pelee is our protector--not our destroyer."

Not until two weeks before the eruption did the slumbering mountain
show signs of waking to death and disaster. On the 23d of April it first
displayed symptoms of internal disquiet. A great column of smoke began
to rise from it, and was accompanied from time to time by showers of
ashes and cinders.

Despite these signals, there was nothing until Monday, May 5th, to
indicate actual danger. On that day a stream of smoking mud and lava
burst through the top of the crater and plunged into the valley of
the River Blanche, overwhelming the Guerin sugar works and killing
twenty-three workmen and the son of the proprietor. Mr. Guerin's was
one of the largest sugar works on the island; its destruction entailed
a heavy loss. The mud which overwhelmed it followed the beds of streams
towards the north of the island.

The alarm in the city was great, but it was somewhat allayed by the
report of an expert commission appointed by the Governor, which decided
that the eruption was normal and that the city was in no peril. To
further allay the excitement, the Governor, with several scientists,
took up his residence in St. Pierre. He could not restrain the people
by force, but the moral effect of his presence and the decision of the
scientists had a similar disastrous result.


A GRAPHIC DESCRIPTION BY A SUFFERER.


The existing state of affairs during these few waiting days is so
graphically given in a letter from Mrs. Thomas T. Prentis, wife of the
United States Consul at St. Pierre, to her sister in Melrose, a suburban
city of Boston, that we quote it here:

"My Dear Sister: This morning the whole population of the city is on the
alert and every eye is directed toward Mont Pelee, an extinct volcano.
Everybody is afraid that the volcano has taken into its heart to burst
forth and destroy the whole island.

"Fifty years ago Mont Pelee burst forth with terrific force and
destroyed everything within a radius of several miles. For several days
the mountain has been bursting forth in flame and immense quantities of
lava are flowing down its sides.

"All the inhabitants are going up to see it. There is not a horse to
be had on the island, those belonging to the natives being kept in
readiness to leave at a moment's notice.

"Last Wednesday, which was April 23d, I was in my room with little
Christine, and we heard three distinct shocks. They were so great that
we supposed at first that there was some one at the door, and Christine
went and found no one there. The first report was very loud, and the
second and third were so great that dishes were thrown from the shelves
and the house was rocked.

"We can see Mont Pelee from the rear windows of our house, and although
it is fully four miles away, we can hear the roar of the fire and lava
issuing from it.

"The city is covered with ashes and clouds of smoke have been over our
heads for the last five days. The smell of sulphur is so strong that
horses on the streets stop and snort, and some of them are obliged to
give up, drop in their harness and die from suffocation. Many of the
people are obliged to wear wet handkerchiefs over their faces to protect
them from the fumes of sulphur.

"My husband assures me that there is no immediate danger, and when there
is the least particle of danger we will leave the place. There is an
American schooner, the R. F. Morse, in the harbor, and she will remain
here for at least two weeks. If the volcano becomes very bad we shall
embark at once and go out to sea. The papers in this city are asking
if we are going to experience another earthquake similar to that which
struck here some fifty years ago."


THE FATEFUL EIGHTH OF MAY


The writer of this letter and her husband, Consul Prentis, trusted Mont
Pelee too long. They perished, with all the inhabitants of the city, in
a deadly flood of fire and ashes that descended on the devoted place
on the fateful morning of Thursday, May 8th. Only for the few who were
rescued from the ships in the harbor there would be scarcely a living
soul to tell that dread story of ruin and death. The most graphic
accounts are those given by rescued officers of the Roraima, one of the
fleet of the Quebec Steamship Co., trading with the West Indies. This
vessel had left the Island of Dominica for Martinique at midnight of
Wednesday, and reached St. Pierre about 7 o'clock Thursday morning. The
greatest difficulty was experienced in getting into port, the air being
thick with falling ashes and the darkness intense. The ship had to
grope its way to the anchorage. Appalling sounds were issuing from the
mountain behind the town, which was shrouded in darkness. The ashes were
falling thickly on the steamer's deck, where the passengers and others
were gazing at the town, some being engaged in photographing the scene.

The best way in which we can describe a scene of which few lived to tell
the story, is to give the narratives of a number of the survivors.
From their several stories a coherent idea of the terrible scene can
be formed. From the various accounts given of the terrible explosion
by officers of the Roraima, we select as a first example the following
description by Assistant Purser Thompson:


A TALE OF SUDDEN RUIN


"I saw St. Pierre destroyed. It was blotted out by one great flash of
fire. Nearly 40,000 persons were all killed at once. Out of eighteen
vessels lying in the roads only one, the British steamship Roddam,
escaped, and she, I hear, lost more than half on board. It was a dying
crew that took her out.

"Our boat, the Roraima, of the Quebec Line, arrived at St. Pierre early
Thursday morning. For hours before we entered the roadstead we could see
flames and smoke rising from Mont Pelee. No one on board had any idea
of danger. Captain G. T. Muggah was on the bridge, and all hands got on
deck to see the show.

"The spectacle was magnificent. As we approached St. Pierre we could
distinguish the rolling and leaping of the red flames that belched from
the mountain in huge volumes and gushed high in to the sky. Enormous
clouds of black smoke hung over the volcano.

"When we anchored at St. Pierre I noticed the cable steamship Grappler,
the Roddam, three or four American schooners and a number of Italian and
Norwegian barks. The flames were then spurting straight up in the air,
now and then waving to one side or the other for a moment and again
leaping suddenly higher up.

"There was a constant muffled roar. It was like the biggest oil refinery
in the world burning up on the mountain top. There was a tremendous
explosion about 7.45 o'clock, soon after we got in. The mountain was
blown to pieces. There was no warning. The side of the volcano was
ripped out, and there was hurled straight toward us a solid wall of
flame. It sounded like thousands of cannon.

"The wave of fire was on us and over us like a lightning flash. It was
like a hurricane of fire. I saw it strike the cable steamship Grappler
broadside on and capsize her. From end to end she burst into flames and
then sank. The fire rolled in mass straight down upon St. Pierre and the
shipping. The town vanished before our eyes and the air grew stifling
hot, and we were in the thick of it.

"Wherever the mass of fire struck the sea the water boiled and sent
up vast clouds of steam. The sea was torn into huge whirlpools that
careened toward the open sea.

"One of these horrible hot whirlpools swung under the Roraima and pulled
her down on her beam ends with the suction. She careened way over to
port, and then the fire hurricane from the volcano smashed her, and over
she went on the opposite side. The fire wave swept off the masts and
smokestack as if they were cut with a knife.


HEAT CAUSED EXPLOSIONS


"Captain Muggah was the only one on deck not killed outright. He was
caught by the fire wave and terribly burned. He yelled to get up the
anchor, but, before two fathoms were heaved in the Roraima was almost
upset by the boiling whirlpool, and the fire wave had thrown her down on
her beam ends to starboard. Captain Muggah was overcome by the flames.
He fell unconscious from the bridge and toppled overboard.

"The blast of fire from the volcano lasted only a few minutes. It
shriveled and set fire to everything it touched. Thousands of casks of
rum were stored in St. Pierre, and these were exploded by the terrific
heat. The burning rum ran in streams down every street and out to the
sea. This blazing rum set fire to the Roraima several times. Before the
volcano burst the landings of St. Pierre were crowded with people. After
the explosion not one living being was seen on land. Only twenty-five of
those on the Roraima out of sixty-eight were left after the first flash.

"The French cruiser Suchet came in and took us off at 2 P. M. She
remained nearby, helping all she could, until 5 o'clock, then went to
Fort de France with all the people she had rescued. At that time it
looked as if the entire north end of the island was on fire."

C. C. Evans, of Montreal, and John G. Morris, of New York, who were
among those rescued, say the vessel arrived at 6 o'clock. As eight bells
were struck a frightful explosion was heard up the mountain. A cloud of
fire, toppling and roaring, swept with lightning speed down the mountain
side and over the town and bay. The Roraima was nearly sunk, and caught
fire at once.

"I can never forget the horrid, fiery, choking whirlwind which enveloped
me," said Mr. Evans. "Mr. Morris and I rushed below. We are not very
badly burned, not so bad as most of them. When the fire came we were
going to our posts (we are engineers) to weigh anchor and get out. When
we came up we found the ship afire aft, and fought it forward until 3
o'clock, when the Suchet came to our rescue. We were then building a
raft."

"Ben" Benson, the carpenter of the Roraima, said: "I was on deck,
amidships, when I heard an explosion. The captain ordered me to up
anchor. I got to the windlass, but when the fire came I went into the
forecastle and got my 'duds.' When I came out I talked with Captain
Muggah, Mr. Scott, the first officer and others. They had been on the
bridge. The captain was horribly burned. He had inhaled flames and
wanted to jump into the sea. I tried to make him take a life-preserver.
The captain, who was undressed, jumped overboard and hung on to a line
for a while. Then he disappeared."


THE COOPER'S STORY.


James Taylor, a cooper employed on the Roraima, gives the following
account of his experience of the disaster:

"Hearing a tremendous report and seeing the ashes falling thicker, I
dived into a room, dragging with me Samuel Thomas, a gangway man and
fellow countryman, shutting the door tightly. Shortly after I heard a
voice, which I recognized as that of the chief mate, Mr. Scott. Opening
the door with great caution, I drew him in. The nose of Thomas was
burned by the intense heat.

"We three and Thompson, the assistant purser, out of sixty-eight souls
on board, were the only persons who escaped practically uninjured. The
heat being unbearable, I emerged in a few moments, and the scene that
presented itself to my eyes baffles description. All around on the deck
were the dead and dying covered with boiling mud. There they lay, men,
women and little children, and the appeals of the latter for water were
heart-rending. When water was given them they could not swallow it,
owing to their throats being filled with ashes or burnt with the heated
air.

"The ship was burning aft, and I jumped overboard, the sea being
intensely hot. I was at once swept seaward by a tidal wave, but, the sea
receding a considerable distance, the return wave washed me against an
upturned sloop to which I clung. I was joined by a man so dreadfully
burned and disfigured as to be unrecognizable. Afterwards I found he was
the captain of the Roraima, Captain Muggah. He was in dreadful agony,
begging piteously to be put on board his ship.

"Picking up some wreckage which contained bedding and a tool chest, I,
with the help of five others who had joined me on the wreck, constructed
a rude raft, on which we placed the captain. Then, seeing an upturned
boat, I asked one of the five, a native of Martinique, to swim and fetch
it. Instead of returning to us, he picked up two of his countrymen and
went away in the direction of Fort de France. Seeing the Roddam, which
arrived in port shortly after we anchored, making for the Roraima, I
said good-bye to the captain and swam back to the Roraima.

"The Roddam, however, burst into flames and put to sea. I reached the
Roraima at about half-past 2, and was afterwards taken off by a boat
from the French warship Suchet. Twenty-four others with myself were
taken on to Fort de France. Three of these died before reaching port. A
number of others have since died."

Samuel Thomas, the gangway man, whose life was saved by the forethought
of Taylor, says that the scene on the burning ship was awful. The groans
and cries of the dying, for whom nothing could be done, were horrible.
He describes a woman as being burned to death with a living babe in her
arms. He says that it seemed as if the whole world was afire.


CONSUL AYME'S STATEMENT


The inflammable material in the forepart of the ship that would have
ignited that part of the vessel was thrown overboard by him and the
other two uninjured men. The Grappler, the telegraph company's ship,
was seen opposite the Usine Guerin, and disappeared as if blown up by a
submarine explosion. The captain's body was subsequently found by a boat
from the Suchet.

Consul Ayme, of Guadeloupe, who, as already stated, had hastened to
Fort de France on hearing of the terrible event, tells the story of the
disaster in the following words:

"Thursday morning the inhabitants of the city awoke to find heavy clouds
shrouding Mont Pelee crater. All day Wednesday horrid detonations had
been heard. These were echoed from St. Thomas on the north to Barbados
on the south. The cannonading ceased on Wednesday night, and fine ashes
fell like rain on St. Pierre. The inhabitants were alarmed, but
Governor Mouttet, who had arrived at St. Pierre the evening before, did
everything possible to allay the panic.

"The British steamer Roraima reached St. Pierre on Thursday with ten
passengers, among whom were Mrs. Stokes and her three children, and Mrs.
H. J. Ince. They were watching the rain of ashes, when, with a frightful
roar and terrific electric discharges, a cyclone of fire, mud and steam
swept down from the crater over the town and bay, sweeping all before it
and destroying the fleet of vessels at anchor off the shore. There the
accounts of the catastrophe so far obtainable cease. Thirty thousand
corpses are strewn about, buried in the ruins of St. Pierre, or else
floating, gnawed by sharks, in the surrounding seas. Twenty-eight
charred, half-dead human beings were brought here. Sixteen of them
are already dead, and only four of the whole number are expected to
recover."


A WOMAN'S EXPERIENCE ON THE "RORAIMA"


Margaret Stokes, the 9 year old daughter of the late Clement Stokes,
of New York, who, with her mother, a brother aged 4 and a sister aged 3
years, was on the ill-fated steamer Roraima, was saved from that vessel,
but is not expected to live. Her nurse, Clara King, tells the following
story of her experience:

She says she was in her stateroom, when the steward of the Roraima
called out to her:

"Look at Mont Pelee."

She went on deck and saw a vast mass of black cloud coming down from the
volcano. The steward ordered her to return to the saloon, saying, "It is
coming."

Miss King then rushed to the saloon. She says she experienced a feeling
of suffocation, which was followed by intense heat. The afterpart of the
Roraima broke out in flames. Ben Benson, the carpenter of the Roraima,
severely burned, assisted Miss King and Margaret Stokes to escape. With
the help of Mr. Scott, the first mate of the Roraima, he constructed
a raft, with life preservers. Upon this Miss King and Margaret were
placed.

While this was being done Margaret's little brother died. Mate Scott
brought the child water at great personal danger, but it was unavailing.
Shortly after the death of the little boy Mrs. Stokes succumbed.
Margaret and Miss King eventually got away on the raft, and were picked
up by the steamer Korona. Mate Scott also escaped. Miss King did not
sustain serious injuries. She covered the face of Margaret with her
dress, but still the child was probably fatally burned.

The only woman known at that time to have survived the disaster at St.
Pierre was a negress named Fillotte. She was found in a cellar Saturday
afternoon, where she had been for three days. She was still alive, but
fearfully burned from head to toes. She died afterward in the hospital.


CAPTAIN FREEMAN'S THRILLING ACCOUNT


Of the vessels in the harbor of St. Pierre on the fateful morning, only
one, the British steamer Roddam, escaped, and that with a crew of whom
few reached the open sea alive. Those who did escape were terribly
injured. Captain Freeman, of this vessel, tells what he experienced in
the following thrilling language:

"St. Lucia, British West Indies, May 11.--The steamer Roddam, of which I
am captain, left St. Lucia at midnight of May 7, and was off St. Pierre,
Martinique, at 6 o'clock on the morning of the 8th. I noticed that the
volcano, Mont Pelee, was smoking, and crept slowly in toward the bay,
finding there among others the steamer Roraima, the telegraph repairing
steamer Grappler and four sailing vessels. I went to anchorage between 7
and 8 and had hardly moored when the side of the volcano opened out with
a terrible explosion. A wall of fire swept over the town and the bay.
The Roddam was struck broadside by the burning mass. The shock to the
ship was terrible, nearly capsizing her.


AWFUL RESULTS


"Hearing the awful report of the explosion and seeing the great wall of
flames approaching the steamer, those on deck sought shelter wherever it
was possible, jumping into the cabin, the forecastle and even into the
hold. I was in the chart room, but the burning embers were borne by so
swift a movement of the air that they were swept in through the door and
port holes, suffocating and scorching me badly. I was terribly burned
by these embers about the face and hands, but managed to reach the
deck. Then, as soon as it was possible, I mustered the few survivors
who seemed able to move, ordered them to slip the anchor, leaped for
the bridge and ran the engine for full speed astern. The second and the
third engineer and a fireman were on watch below and so escaped injury.
They did their part in the attempt to escape, but the men on deck could
not work the steering gear because it was jammed by the debris from the
volcano. We accordingly went ahead and astern until the gear was free,
but in this running backward and forward it was two hours after the
first shock before we were clear of the bay.

"One of the most terrifying conditions was that, the atmosphere
being charged with ashes, it was totally dark. The sun was completely
obscured, and the air was only illuminated by the flames from the
volcano and those of the burning town and shipping. It seems small to
say that the scene was terrifying in the extreme. As we backed out we
passed close to the Roraima, which was one mass of blaze. The steam was
rushing from the engine room, and the screams of those on board were
terrible to hear. The cries for help were all in vain, for I could
do nothing but save my own ship. When I last saw the Roraima she was
settling down by the stern. That was about 10 o'clock in the morning.

"When the Roddam was safely out of the harbor of St. Pierre, with its
desolations and horrors, I made for St. Lucia. Arriving there, and when
the ship was safe, I mustered the survivors as well as I was able and
searched for the dead and injured. Some I found in the saloon where they
had vainly sought for safety, but the cabins were full of burning embers
that had blown in through the port holes. Through these the fire swept
as through funnels and burned the victims where they lay or stood,
leaving a circular imprint of scorched and burned flesh. I brought
ten on deck who were thus burned; two of them were dead, the others
survived, although in a dreadful state of torture from their burns.
Their screams of agony were heartrending. Out of a total of twenty-three
on board the Roddam, which includes the captain and the crew, ten are
dead and several are in the hospital. My first and second mates, my
chief engineer and my supercargo, Campbell by name, were killed. The
ship was covered from stem to stern with tons of powdered lava, which
retained its heat for hours after it had fallen. In many cases it was
practically incandescent, and to move about the deck in this burning
mass was not only difficult but absolutely perilous. I am only now able
to begin thoroughly to clear and search the ship for any damage done
by this volcanic rain, and to see if there are any corpses in
out-of-the-way places. For instance, this morning, I found one body in
the peak of the forecastle. The body was horribly burned and the sailor
had evidently crept in there in his agony to die.

"On the arrival of the Roddam at St. Lucia the ship presented an
appalling appearance. Dead and calcined bodies lay about the deck, which
was also crowded with injured helpless and suffering people. Prompt
assistance was rendered to the injured by the authorities here and my
poor, tortured men were taken to the hospital. The dead were buried.
I have omitted to mention that out of twenty-one black laborers that I
brought from Grenada to help in stevedoring, only six survived. Most
of the others threw themselves overboard to escape a dreadful fate, but
they met a worse one, for it is an actual fact that the water around
the ship was literally at a boiling heat. The escape of my vessel
was miraculous. The woodwork of the cabins and bridge and everything
inflammable on deck were constantly igniting, and it was with great
difficulty that we few survivors managed to keep the flames down. My
ropes, awnings, tarpaulins were completely burned up.

"I witnessed the entire destruction of St. Pierre. The flames enveloped
the town in every quarter with such rapidity that it was impossible that
any person could be saved. As I have said, the day was suddenly turned
to night, but I could distinguish by the light of the burning town
people distractedly running about on the beach. The burning buildings
stood out from the surrounding darkness like black shadows. All this
time the mountain was roaring and shaking, and in the intervals between
these terrifying sounds I could hear the cries of despair and agony from
the thousands who were perishing. These cries added to the terror of
the scene, but it is impossible to describe its horror or the dreadful
sensations it produced. It was like witnessing the end of the world.

"Let me add that, after the first shock was over, the survivors of
the crew rendered willing help to navigate the ship to this port. Mr.
Plissoneau, our agent in Martinique, happening to be on board, was
saved, and I really believe that he is the only survivor of St. Pierre.
As it is, he is seriously burned on the hands and face.

"FREEMAN,

"Master British Steamship Roddam."


THE "ETONA" PASSES ST. PIERRE


The British steamer Etona, of the Norton Line, stopped at St. Lucia to
coal on May 10th. Captain Cantell there visited the Roddam and had an
interview with Captain Freeman. On the 11th the Elona put to sea again,
passing St. Pierre in the afternoon. We subjoin her captain's story:

"The weather was clear and we had a fine view, but the old outlines of
St. Pierre were not recognizable. Everything was a mass of blue lava,
and the formation of the land itself seemed to have changed. When we
were about eight miles off the northern end of the island Mount Pelee
began to belch a second time. Clouds of smoke and lava shot into the
air and spread over all the sea, darkening the sun. Our decks in a
few minutes were covered with a substance that looked like sand dyed a
bluish tint, and which smelled like phosphorus. For all that the day was
clear, there was little to be seen satisfactorily. Over the island there
hung a blue haze. It seemed to me that the formation, the topography, of
the island was altered.

"Everything seemed to be covered with a blue dust, such as had fallen
aboard us every day since we had been within the affected region. It
was blue lava dust. For more than an hour we scanned the coast with our
glasses, now and then discovering something that looked like a ruined
hamlet or collection of buildings. There was no life visible. Suddenly
we realized that we might have to fight for our lives as the Roddam's
people had done.

"We were about four miles off the northern end of the island when
suddenly there shot up in the air to a tremendous height a column of
smoke. The sky darkened and the smoke seemed to swirl down upon us. In
fact, it spread all around, darkening the atmosphere as far as we could
see. I called Chief Engineer Farrish to the deck.

"'Do you see that over there?' I asked, pointing to the eruption, for
it was the second eruption of Mont Pelee. He saw it all right. Captain
Freeman's story was fresh in my mind.

"'Well, Farrish, rush your engines as they have never been rushed
before,' I said to him. He went below, and soon we began to burn coal
and pile up the feathers in our forefoot.

"I was on watch with Second Officer Gibbs. At once we began to furl
awnings and make secure against fire. The crew were all showing an
anxious spirit, and everybody on board, including the four passengers,
were serious and apprehensive.

"We began to cut through the water at almost twelve knots. Ordinarily we
make ten knots. We could see no more of the land contour, but everything
seemed to be enveloped in a great cloud. There was no fire visible, but
the lava dust rained down upon us steadily. In less than an hour there
were two inches of it upon our deck.

"The air smelled like phosphorus. No one dared to look up to try to
locate the sun, because one's eyes would fill with lava dust. Some of
the blue lava dust is sticking to our mast yet, although we have swabbed
decks and rigging again and again to be clear of it.

"After a little more than an hour's fast running we saw daylight ahead
and began to breathe easier. If I had not talked with Captain Freeman
and heard from him just how the black swirl of wind and fire rolled down
upon him, I would not have been so apprehensive, but would have thought
that the darkness and cloud that came down upon us meant just an
unusually heavy squall."


CHIEF ENGINEER FARRISH'S STORY


"The Etona's run from Montevideo was a fast one--I think a record
breaker. We were 22 days and 21 hours from port to port. Off Martinique
I stared at the coast for about an hour, and then went below. The blue
lava that covered everything faded into the haze that hung over the
island so that nothing was distinctly visible. Through my glass I
discovered a stream of lava, though. It stretched down the mountain
side, and seemed to be flowing into the sea. It was not clearly and
distinctly visible, however.

"About 3 o'clock I went below to take forty winks. I had been in my
berth only a few minutes when the steward told me the captain wanted me
on the bridge.

"'Do you see that, Farrish?' he asked, pointing at the land. An outburst
of smoke seemed to be sweeping down upon us. It made me think of the
Roddam's experience. Smoke and dust closed in about us, shutting out the
sunlight, and precipitating a fall of lava on our decks.

"'Go below and drive her,' said the captain, and I didn't lose any time,
I can tell you. We burned coal as though it didn't cost a cent. The
safety valve was jumping every second, even though we were making twelve
knots an hour. For two hours we kept up the pace, and then, running into
clear daylight, let the engines slow down and we all cheered up a bit."


CAPTAIN CANTELL VISITS THE "RODDAM"


Captain Cantell went on board the Roddam, whose frightful condition he
thus describes:

"At St. Lucia, on May 11th, I went on board the British steamship
Roddam, which had escaped from the terrible volcanic eruption at
Martinique two days before. The state of the ship was enough to show
that those on board must have undergone an awful experience.

"The Roddam was covered with a mass of fine bluish gray dust or ashes of
cement-like appearance. In some parts it lay two feet deep on the decks.
This matter had fallen in a red-hot state all over the steamer, setting
fire to everything it struck that was burnable, and, when it fell on
the men on board, burning off limbs and large pieces of flesh. This was
shown by finding portions of human flesh when the decks were cleared of
the debris. The rigging, ropes, tarpaulins, sails, awnings, etc., were
charred or burned, and most of the upper stanchions and spars were swept
overboard or destroyed by fire. Skylights were smashed and cabins were
filled with volcanic dust. The scene of ruin was deplorable.

"The captain, though suffering the greatest agony, succeeded in
navigating his vessel safely to the port of Castries, St. Lucia, with
eighteen dead bodies on the deck and human limbs scattered about. A
sailor stood by constantly wiping the captain's injured eyes.

"I think the performance of the Roddam's captain was most wonderful, and
the more so when I saw his pitiful condition. I do not understand how
he kept up, yet when the steamer arrived at St. Lucia and medical
assistance was procured, this brave man asked the doctors to attend to
the others first and refused to be treated until this was done.

"My interview with the captain brought out this account. I left him in
good spirits and receiving every comfort. The sight of his face would
frighten anyone not prepared to see it."


THE VIVID ACCOUNT OF M. ALBERT


To the accounts given by the survivors of the Roraima and the officers
of the Etona, it will be well to add the following graphic story told by
M. Albert, a planter of the island, the owner of an estate situated only
a mile to the northeast of the burning crater of Mont Pelee. His escape
from death had in it something of the marvellous. He says:

"Mont Pelee had given warning of the destruction that was to come, but
we, who had looked upon the volcano as harmless, did not believe that
it would do more than spout fire and steam, as it had done on other
occasions. It was a little before eight o'clock on the morning of May
8 that the end came. I was in one of the fields of my estate when the
ground trembled under my feet, not as it does when the earth quakes, but
as though a terrible struggle was going on within the mountain. A terror
came upon me, but I could not explain my fear.

"As I stood still Mont Pelee seemed to shudder, and a moaning sound
issued from its crater. It was quite dark, the sun being obscured by
ashes and fine volcanic dust. The air was dead about me, so dead that
the floating dust seemingly was not disturbed. Then there was a rending,
crashing, grinding noise, which I can only describe as sounding as
though every bit of machinery in the world had suddenly broken down. It
was deafening, and the flash of light that accompanied it was blinding,
more so than any lightning I have ever seen.

"It was like a terrible hurricane, and where a fraction of a second
before there had been a perfect calm, I felt myself drawn into a vortex
and I had to brace myself firmly. It was like a great express train
rushing by, and I was drawn by its force. The mysterious force levelled
a row of strong trees, tearing them up by the roots and leaving bare a
space of ground fifteen yards wide and more than one hundred yards long.
Transfixed I stood, not knowing in what direction to flee. I looked
toward Mont Pelee, and above its apex there appeared a great black cloud
which reached high in the air. It literally fell upon the city of St.
Pierre. It moved with a rapidity that made it impossible for anything to
escape it. From the cloud came explosions that sounded as though all of
the navies of the world were in titanic combat. Lightning played in and
out in broad forks, the result being that intense darkness was followed
by light that seemed to be of magnifying power.

"That St. Pierre was doomed I knew, but I was prevented from seeing the
destruction by a spur of the hill that shut off the view of the city. It
is impossible for me to tell how long I stood there inert. Probably it
was only a few seconds, but so vivid were my impressions that it
now seems as though I stood as a spectator for many minutes. When I
recovered possession of my senses I ran to my house and collected the
members of the family, all of whom were panic stricken. I hurried them
to the seashore, where we boarded a small steamship, in which we made
the trip in safety to Fort de France.

"I know that there was no flame in the first wave that was sent down
upon St. Pierre. It was a heavy gas, like firedamp, and it must have
asphyxiated the inhabitants before they were touched by the fire, which
quickly followed. As we drew out to sea in the small steamship, Mont
Pelee was in the throes of a terrible convulsion. New craters seemed to
be opening all about the summit and lava was flowing in broad streams
in every direction. My estate was ruined while we were still in sight
of it. Many women who lived in St. Pierre escaped only to know that they
were left widowed and childless. This is because many of the wealthier
men sent their wives away, while they remained in St. Pierre to attend
to their business affairs."


WHAT HAPPENED ON THE "HORACE"


The British steamer Horace experienced the effect of the explosion when
farther from land. After touching at Barbados, she reached the vicinity
of Martinique on May 9th, her decks being covered with several inches
of dust when she was a hundred and twenty-five miles distant. We quote
engineer Anderson's story:

"On the afternoon of May 8 (Thursday) we noticed a peculiar haze in
the direction of Martinique. The air seemed heavy and oppressive. The
weather conditions were not at all unlike those which precede the great
West Indian hurricanes, but, knowing it was not the season of the year
for them, we all remarked in the engine room that there must be a heavy
storm approaching.

"Several of the sailors, experienced deep water seamen, laughed at our
prognostications, and informed us there would be no storm within
the next sixty hours, and insisted that, according to all fo'cas'le
indications, a dead calm was in sight.

"Slade is the solution," said the captain. "We must ask him."
They put back to the ship. Barnett was anxiously awaiting them.

"Your patient has been in a bad way, Dr. Trendon," he said.

"What's wrong?"

asked Trendon, frowning.

"He came up on deck, wild-eyed and staggering. There was a sheet of paper
in his hand which seemed to have some bearing on his trouble.

When he found you had gone to the island without him he began to rage
like a maniac. I had to have him carried down by force. In the rumpus
the paper disappeared. I assumed the responsibility of giving him an
opiate."
"Quite right," approved Trendon.

"I'll go down. Will you come with me, sir?" he said to the captain.

They found Slade in profound slumber.

"Won't do to wake him now," growled Trendon. "Hello, what's here?"
Lying in the hollow of the sick man's right hand, where it had been
crushed to a ball, was a crumpled mass of tracing paper. Trendon smoothed
it out, peered at it and passed it to the captain.

"It's a sketch of an Indian arrow-head," he exclaimed in surprise,
at the first glance. "What are all these marks?"
"Map of the island," barked Trendon. "Look here."
The drawing was a fairly careful one, showing such geographical
points as had been of concern to the two-year inhabitants.

There was the large cavern, indicated as they had found it, and at a
point between it and the headland the legend, "Seal Cave."
"But it's wrong," cried Captain Parkinson, setting finger to the spot.
"We passed there twice. There's no opening."
"No guarantee that there may not have been," returned the other. "This
island has been considerably shaken up lately. Entrance may have been
closed by a landslide down the cliff. Noticed signs myself, but didn't
think of it in connection with the cave."
"That's work for Barnett, then," said the captain, brightening.

"We'll blow up the whole face of the cliff, if necessary, but we'll
get at that cave."

He hurried out. Order followed order, and soon the gig, with the captain,
Trendon, and the torpedo expert, was driving for the point marked "Seal
Cave" on the map over which they were bent.

VI

MR. DARROW RECEIVES

"You say the last entry is June 7th?" asked Barnett, as the boat entered
the light surf.

Trendon nodded.

"That was the night we saw the last glow, and the big burst from
the volcano, wasn't it?"

"Right."
"The island would have been badly shaken up."
"Not so violently but that the flag-pole stood," said the captain.

"That's true, sir. But there's been a good deal of volcanic gas going.
The man's been penned up for four days."
"Give the fellow a chance," growled Trendon. "Air may be all right
in the cave. Good water there, too. Says so himself. By Slade's
account he's a pretty capable citizen when it comes to looking after
himself. Wouldn't wonder if we'd find him fit as a fiddle."

"There was no clue to Ives and McGuire?"

asked Barnett presently.

"None." It was the captain who answered.

The gig grated, and the tide being high, they waded to the base of the
cliff, Barnett carrying his precious explosives aloft in his arms.

"Here's the spot," said the captain. "See where the water goes in
through those crevices."
"Opening at the top, too," said Trendon.

He let out his bellow, roaring Darrow's name.

"I doubt if you could project your voice far into a cave thus blocked,"
said Captain Parkinson. "We'll try this."
He drew his revolver and fired. The men listened at the crevices of
the rock. No sound came from within.

"Your enterprise, Mr. Barnett," said the commander, with a gesture
which turned over the conduct of the affair to the torpedo expert.

Barnett examined the rocks with enthusiasm.

"Looks like moderately easy stuff," he observed. "See how the veins
run.
You could almost blow a design to order in that."

"Yes; but how about bringing down the whole cave?"
"Oh, of course there's always an element of uncertainty when you're dealing
with high explosives," admitted the expert. "But unless I'm mistaken, we
can chop this out as neat as with an axe."
Dropping his load of cartridges carelessly upon a flat rock which
projected from the water, he busied himself in a search along the
face of the cliff.

Presently, with an "Ah," of satisfaction, he climbed toward a hand's
breadth of platform where grew a patch of purple flowers.

"Throw me up a knife, somebody," he called.

"Take notice," said Trendon, good-naturedly, "that I'm the botanist
of this expedition."

"Oh, you can have the flowers. All I want is what they grow in."
Loosening a handful of the dry soil, he brought it down and laid it
with the explosives. Next he called one of the sailors to "boost"
him, and was soon perched on the flat slant of a huge rock which
formed, as it were, the keystone to the blockade.

"Let's see," he ruminated. "We want a slow charge for this. One that will
exert a widespread pressure without much shattering force.

The No. 3, I think."
"How is that, Mr. Barnett?" asked the captain, with lively interest.

"You see, sir," returned the demonstrator, perched high, like a sculptor
at work on some heroic masterpiece, "what we want is to split off this
rock." He patted the flank of the huge slab. "There's a lovely vein
running at an angle inward from where I sit. Split that through, and the
rock should roll, of its own weight, away from the entrance. It's held
only by the upper projection that runs under the arch here."
"Neat programme," commented Trendon, with a tinge of sardonic
scepticism.

"Wait and see," retorted Barnett blithely, for he was in his element
now.
"I'll appoint you my assistant. Just toss me up that cartridge: the third
one on the left."

The surgeon recoiled.

"Supposing you don't catch it?"
"Well, supposing I don't."
"It's dynamite, isn't it?"
"Something of the same nature.

Joveite, it's called."
Still the surgeon stared at him. Barnett laughed.

"Oh, you've got the high explosives superstition," he said lightly.
"Dynamite don't go off as easy as people think. You could drop that stuff
from the cliffhead without danger.

Have I got to come down for it?"
With a wry face Trendon tossed up the package. It was deftly caught.

"Now wet that dirt well. Put it in the canvas bag yonder, and send one
of the men up with it. I'm going to make a mud pie."
Breaking the package open, he spread the yellow powder in a slightly
curving line along the rock. With the mud he capped this over, forming
a little arched roof.

"To keep it from blowing away," surmised Trendon.

"No; to make it blow down instead of blowing up."
"Oh, rot!" returned the downright surgeon. "That pound of dirt won't
make the shadow of a feather's difference."
"Won't it!" retorted the other.

"Curious thing about high explosives. A mud-cap will hold down the force
as well as a ton of rock. Wait and see what happens to the rock
beneath."
He slid off his perch into the ankle-deep water and waded out to the
boat.
Here he burrowed for a moment, presently emerging with a box. This he
carried gingerly to a convenient rock and opened. First he lifted
out some soft padding. A small tin box honey-combed inside came to
light. With infinite precaution Barnett picked out an object that
looked like a 22- calibre short cartridge, wadded some cotton batten
in his hand, set the thing in the wadding, laid it on the rock, carefully
returned the small box to the large box and the large box to the boat,
took up the cartridge again and waded back to the cliff. They watched
him in silence.

"This is the little devil," he said, indicating his delicate
burden.
"Fulminate of mercury. This is the stuff that'll remove your hand with
neatness and despatch. It's the quickest tempered little article in
the business.

Just give it one hard look and it's off."
"Here," said Trendon, "I resign. From now on I'm a spectator."
Barnett swung the fulminate in his handkerchief and gave it to a sailor
to hold. The man dandled it like a new-born infant. Back to his rock
went Barnett.

Producing some cord, he let down an end.

"Tie the handkerchief on, and get out of the way," he directed.

With painful slowness the man carried out the first part of the order;
the latter half he obeyed with sprightly alacrity. Very slowly, very
delicately, the expert drew in his dangerous burden.

Once a current of air puffed it against the face of the rock, and
the operator's head was hastily withdrawn. Nothing happened. Another
minute and he had the tiny shell in hand. A fuse was fixed in it and it
was shoved under the mud-cap.
Barnett stood up.

"Will you kindly order the boat ready, Captain Parkinson?" he called.

The order was given.

"As soon as I light the fuse I will come down and we'll pull out fifty
yards. Leave the rest of the Joveite where it is. All ready? Here goes."

He touched a match to the fuse. It caught. For a moment he watched
it.

"Going all right," he reported, as he struck the water. "Plenty of time."

Some seventy yards out they rested on their oars. They waited. And
waited.

And waited.

"It's out," grunted Trendon.

From the face of the cliff puffed a cloud of dust. A thudding report
boomed over the water. Just a wisp of whitish-grey smoke arose, and
beneath it the great rock, with a gapping seam across its top, rolled
majestically outward, sending a shower of spray on all sides, and opening
to their eager view a black chasm into the heart of the headland. The
experiment had worked out with the accuracy of a geometric
problem.

"That's all, sir," Barnett reported officially.

"Magic! Modern magic!" said the captain. He stared at the open door. For
the moment the object of the undertaking was forgotten in the wonder of
its exact accomplishment.

"Darrow'll think an earthquake's come after him," remarked Trendon.

"Give way," ordered the captain.

The boat grated on the sand. Captain Parkinson would have entered,
but Barnett restrained him.

"It's best to wait a minute or two," he advised. "Occasionally
slides follow an explosion tardily, and the gases don't always dissipate
quickly."
Where they stood they could see but a short way into the cave.

Trendon squatted and funnelled his hands to one eye.

[Illustration: "Sorry not to have met you at the door," he said
courteously.]
"There's fire inside," he said.

In a moment they all saw it, a single, pin-point glow, far back in the
blackness, a Cyclopean eye, that swayed as it approached. Alternately
it waned and brightened. Suddenly it illuminated the dim lineaments of
a face. The face neared them. It joined itself to reality by a very solid
pair of shoulders, and a man sauntered into the twilit mouth of
the cavern, removed a cigarette from his lips, and gave them
greeting.

"Sorry not to have met you at the door," he said, courteously. "It was
you that knocked, was it not? Yes? It roused me from my siesta."
They stared at him in silence. He blinked in the light, with unaccustomed
eyes.

"You will pardon me for not asking you in at once. Past circumstances
have rendered me--well--perhaps suspicious is not too strong a word."

They noticed that he held a revolver in his hand.

Captain Parkinson came forward a step. The host half raised his weapon.

Then he dropped it abruptly.

"Navy men!" he said, in an altered voice. "I beg your pardon. I could not
see at first. My name is Percy Darrow."

"I am Captain Parkinson of the United States cruiser _Wolverine_," said
the commander. "This is Mr. Barnett, Mr. Darrow. Dr. Trendon, Mr.
Darrow."
They shook hands all around.

"Like some damned silly afternoon tea," Trendon said later, in retailing
it to the mess. A pause followed.

"Won't you step in, gentlemen?"

said Darrow, "May I offer you the makings of a cigarette?"
"Wouldn't you be robbing yourself?" inquired the captain, with a
twinkle.

"Oh, you found the diary, then," said Darrow easily. "Rather silly of
me to complain so.

But really, in conditions like these, tobacco becomes a serious problem."

"So one might imagine," said Trendon drily. He looked closely at Darrow.

The man's eyes were light and dancing. From the nostrils two livid lines
ran diagonally. Such lines one might make with a hard blue pencil pressed
strongly into the flesh. The surgeon moved a little nearer.

"Can you give me any news of my friend Thrackles?" asked Darrow
lightly.
"Or the esteemed Pulz? Or the scholarly and urbane Robinson of Ethiopian
extraction?"
"Dead," said the captain.

"Ah, a pity," said the other. He put his hand to his forehead. "I
had thought it probable." His face twitched. "Dead?

Very good. In fact ...
really ... er ... amusing."
He began to laugh, quite to himself. It was not a pleasant laugh to
hear.
Trendon caught and shook him by the shoulder.

"Drop it," he said.

Darrow seemed not to hear him. "Dead, all dead!" he repeated. "And
I've outlasted 'em! God damn 'em, I've outlasted 'em!" And his mirth
broke forth in a strangely shocking spasm.

Trendon lifted a hand and struck him so powerfully between the
shoulder blades that he all but plunged forward on his face.

"Quit it!" he ordered again. "Get hold of yourself!"
Darrow turned and gripped him. The surgeon winced with the pain of his
grasp. "I can't," gasped the maroon, between paroxysms. "I've been
living in hell. A black, shaking, shivering hell, for God knows how
long.... What do you know? Have you ever been buried alive?" And
again the agony of laughter shook him.

"This, then," muttered the doctor, and the hypodermic needle
shot home.

During the return Darrow lay like a log in the bottom of the gig. The
opiate had done its work. Consciousness was mercifully dead within
him.

VII
THE SURVIVORS

Rest and good food quickly brought Percy Darrow back to his normal
poise.
One inspection satisfied Dr. Trendon that all was well with him.
He asked to see the captain, and that gentleman came to Ives's room,
which had been assigned to the rescued man.
"I hope you've been able to make yourself comfortable," said the
commander, courteously.
"It would be strange indeed if I could not," returned Darrow,
smiling.
"You forget that you have set a savage down in the midst of luxury."

"Make yourself free of Ives's things," invited Captain Parkinson.
"Poor fellow; he will not use them again, I fear."
"One of your men lost?" asked Darrow. "Ah, the young officer whose
body I found on the beach, perhaps?"
"No; but we have to thank you for that burial," said the captain.
Darrow made a swift gesture. "Oh, if thanks are going," he cried,
and paused in hopelessness of adequate expression.
"This has been a bitter cruise for us," continued the captain. He
sighed and was silent for a moment. "There is much to tell and to
be told," he resumed.

"Much," agreed the other, gravely.
"You will want to see Slade first, I presume," said the captain.
"One of your officers whom I have not yet had the pleasure of
meeting?"
The captain stared. "Slade," he said. "Ralph Slade."
"Apparently there's a missing link. Or--I fear I was not wholly
myself yesterday for a time. Possibly something occurred that I did
not quite take in."
"Perhaps we'd better wait," said Captain Parkinson, with obvious
misgiving. "You're not quite rested. You will feel more like--"

"If you don't mind," said Darrow composedly, "I'd like to get at
this thing now. I'm in excellent understanding, I assure you."

"Very well. I am speaking of the man who acted as mate in the
_Laughing Lass_. The journalist who--good heavens! What arrant
stupidity! I have to beg your pardon, Mr. Darrow. It has just
occurred to me. He called himself Eagen with you."
"Eagen! What is this? Is Eagen alive?"
"And on this ship. We picked him up in an open boat."
"And you say he calls himself Slade?"
"He is Ralph Slade, adventurer and journalist. Mr. Barnett knows
him and vouches for him."
"And he was on our island under an assumed name," said Darrow in
tones that had the smoothness and the rasp of silk. "Rather annoying.
Not good form, quite, even for a pirate."
"Yet, I believe he saved your life," suggested the captain.
Darrow looked up sharply. "Why, yes," he admitted. "So he did. I
had hoped--" He checked himself. "I had thought that all of the
crew went the same way. You didn't find any of the others?"
"None."
Darrow got to his feet. "I think I'd like to see Eagen--Slade--whatever
he calls himself."
"I don't know," began the captain. "It might not be--" He hesitated
and stopped.
Darrow drew back a little, misinterpreting the other's attitude.
"Do I understand that I am under restraint?" he asked stiffly.
"Certainly not. Why should you be?"
"Well," returned the other contemplatively, "it really might be
regarded as a subject for investigation. Of course I know only a
small part of it.
But there have certainly been suspicious circumstances. Piracy there
has been: no doubt of that. Murder, too, if my intuitions are not
at fault. Or at least, a disappearance to be accounted for. Robbery
can't be denied.
And there's a dead body or two to be properly accredited." He looked
the captain in the eye.

"Well?"
"You'll find my story highly unsatisfactory in detail, I fancy. I
merely want to know whether I'm to present it as a defence, or only
an explanation."
"We shall be glad to hear your story when you are ready to tell
it--after you have seen Mr. Slade."
"Thank you," said Darrow simply. "You have heard his?"
"Yes. It needs filling in." 
"When may I see him?"
"That's for Dr. Trendon to say. He came to us almost dead. I'll
find out."
The surgeon reported Slade much better, but all a-quiver with
excitement.
"Hate to put the strain on him," said he. "But he'll be in a fever
till he gets this thing off his mind. Send Mr. Darrow to him."

After a moment's consideration Darrow said: "I should like to have
you and Dr. Trendon present, Captain Parkinson, while I ask Eagen
one or two questions."
"Understand one thing, Mr. Darrow," said Trendon briefly. "This is
not to be an inquisition."
"Ah," said Darrow, unmoved. "I'm to be neither defendant nor
prosecutor."
"You are to respect the condition of Dr. Trendon's patient, sir,"
said Captain Parkinson, with emphasis. "Outside of that, your
attitude toward a man who has twice thought of your life before his
own is for you to determine."
No little cynicism lurked in Darrow's tones as he said:
"You have confidence in Mr. Slade, alias Eagen."
"Yes," replied Captain Parkinson, in a tone that closed that
topic.
"Still, I should be glad to have you gentlemen present, if only for
a moment," insisted Darrow, presently.
"Perhaps it would be as well--on account of the patient," said the
surgeon significantly.

"Very well," assented the captain.
The three went to Slade's cabin. He was lying propped up in his
bunk.
Trendon entered first, followed by the captain, then Darrow.
"Here's your prize, Slade," said the surgeon.
Darrow halted, just inside the door. With an eager light in his
face Slade leaned forward and stretched out his hand.
"I couldn't believe it until I saw you, old man," he cried.
Darrow's eyebrows went up. Before Slade had time to note that there
was no response to his outstretched hand, the surgeon had jumped
in and pushed him roughly back upon his pillow.
"What did you promise?" he growled. "You were to lie still, weren't
you?
And you'll do it, or out we go."
"How are you, Eagen?" drawled Darrow.
"Not Eagen. I'm done with that. They've told you, haven't they?"
Darrow nodded. "Are you the only survivor?" he inquired.
"Except yourself."
"The Nigger? Pulz? Thrackles? The captain? All drowned?"
"Not the captain. They murdered him."
"Ah," said Darrow softly. "And you--I beg your pardon--your--er--friends
disposed of the doctor in the same way?"
"Handy Solomon," replied Slade with shaking lips. "Hell's got that
fiend, if there's a hell for human fiends. They threw the doctor's
body in the surf."
"You didn't notice whether there were any papers?"
"If there were they must have been destroyed with the body when the
lava poured down the valley into the sea."Cattle lowed in
the night. Dogs howled and sought the company of their masters, and when
driven forth they gave every evidence of fear.

Wild animals disappeared from the vicinity of Mont Pelee. Even the
snakes, which at ordinary times are found in great numbers near the
volcano, crawled away. Birds ceased singing and left the trees that
shaded the sides of Pelee. A great fear seemed to be upon the island,
and though it was shared by the human inhabitants, they alone neglected
to protect themselves.

Of the villages in the vicinity of St. Pierre only one escaped, the
others suffering the fate of the city. The fortunate one was Le Carbet,
on the south, which escaped uninjured, the flood of lava stopping when
within two hundred feet of the town. Morne Rouge, a beautiful summer
resort, frequented by the people of the island during the hot season as
a place of recreation, also escaped. In the height of the season several
thousand people gathered there, though at the time of the explosion
there were but a few hundred. Though located on an elevation between the
city and the crater, it was by great good fortune saved.

The Governor of Martinique, Mr. Mouttet, whose precautions to prevent
the people fleeing from the city aided to make the work of death
complete, was himself among the victims of the burning mountain. With
him in this fate was Colonel Dain, commander of the troops who formed a
cordon round the doomed city.


CHAPTER XXIX.

St. Vincent Island and Mont Soufriere in 1812.


Among all the islands of the Caribbees St. Vincent is unique in natural
wonders and beauties. Situated about ninety-five miles west of Barbados,
it has a length of eighteen and a width of eleven miles, the whole mass
being largely composed of a single peak which rises from the ocean's
bed. From north to south volcanic hills traverse its length, their
ridges intersected by fertile and beautiful valleys.

A ridge of mountains crosses the island, dividing it into eastern and
western parts. Kingstown, the capital, a town of 8,000 inhabitants, is
on the southward side and extends along the shores of a beautiful
bay, with mountains gradually rising behind it in the form of a vast
amphitheatre. Three streets, broad and lined with good houses, run
parallel to the water-front. There are many other intersecting highways,
some of which lead back to the foothills, from which good roads ascend
the mountains.

The majority of the houses have red tile roofing and a goodly number of
them are of stone, one story high, with thick walls after the Spanish
style--the same types of houses that were in St. Pierre and which
are not unlike the old Roman houses which in all stages of ruin and
semi-preservation are found in Pompeii to this day.

Behind the general group of the houses of the town loom the Governor's
residence and the buildings of the botanical gardens which overlook the
town.

Kingstown is the trading centre and the town of importance in the
island. It contains the churches and chapels of five Protestant
denominations and a number of excellent schools. Away from Kingstown,
and the smaller settlement of Georgetown, the population is almost
wholly rural, occupying scattered villages which consist of negro huts
clustering around a few substantial buildings or of cabins grouped about
old plantation buildings somewhat after the ante-bellum fashion in our
own Southern States.

One of the tragedies of the West Indies was the sinking of old Port
Royal, the resort of buccaneers, in 1692. The harbor of Kingstown is
commonly supposed to cover the site of the old settlement. There is
a tradition that a buoy for many years was attached to the spire of a
sunken church in order to warn mariners. Three thousand persons perished
in the disaster.


DESCENDANTS OF ORIGINAL INDIAN POPULATION


The northern portion of the island, that desolated by the recent
volcanic eruption, was inhabited by people living in the manner
just described, the great majority of them being negroes. The total
population of the island is about 45,000, of whom 30,000 are Africans
and about 3,000 Europeans, the remainder being nearly all Asiatics.
There are, or rather were, a number of Caribs, the descendants of the
original warlike Indian population of these islands. Many of these live
in St. Vincent, though there are others in Dominico. As their residence
was in the northern section of the island, the volcano seems to have
completed the work for the Caribs of this island which the Spaniard long
ago began. These Caribs were really half-breds, having amalgamated with
the negroes. Many of the blacks own land of their own, raising arrow
root, which, since the decay of the sugar industry, is the chief export.

In an island only eighteen miles long by eleven broad there is not room
for any distinctly marked mountain range. The whole of St. Vincent, in
fact, is a fantastic tumble of hills, culminating in the volcanic ridge
which runs lengthwise of the oval-shaped island. The culminating peak of
the great volcanic mass, for St. Vincent is nothing more, is Mont Garou,
of which La Soufriere is a sort of lofty excrescence in the northwest,
4,048 feet high, and flanking the main peak at some distance away.

It may be said that all the volcanic mountains in this part of the West
Indies have what the people call a "soufriere"--a "sulphur pit," or
"sulphur crater"--the name coming, as in the case of past disturbances
of Mont Pelee, from the strong stench of sulphuretted hydrogen which
issues from them when the volcano becomes agitated.

In 1812 it was La Soufriere adjacent to Mont Garou which broke loose on
the island of St. Vincent, and it is the same Soufriere which again has
devastated the island and has bombarded Kingstown with rocks, lava and
ashes.

The old crater of Mont Garou has long been extinct, and, like the old
crater of Mont Pelee, near St. Pierre, it had far down in its depths,
surrounded by sheer cliffs from 500 to 800 feet high, a lake. Glimpses
of the lake of Mont Garou are difficult to get, owing to the thick
verdure growing about the dangerous edges of the precipices, but those
who have seen it describe it as a beautiful sheet of deep blue water.


THE APPEARANCE OF THE SOUFRIERE


Previous to the eruption of 1812 the appearance of the Soufriere was
most interesting. The crater was half a mile in diameter and five
hundred feet in depth. In its centre was a conical hill, fringed with
shrubs and vines; at whose base were two small lakes, one sulphurous,
the other pure and tasteless. This lovely and beautiful spot was
rendered more interesting by the singularly melodious notes of a bird,
an inhabitant of these upper solitudes, and altogether unknown to the
other parts of the island--hence called, or supposed to be, "invisible,"
as it had never been seen. (It is of interest to state that Frederick
A. Ober, in a visit to the island some twenty years ago, succeeded in
obtaining specimens of this previously unknown bird.) From the fissures
of the cone a thin white smoke exuded, occasionally tinged with a light
blue flame. Evergreens, flowers and aromatic shrubs clothed the steep
sides of the crater, which made, as the first indication of the eruption
on April 27, 1812, a tremulous noise in the air. A severe concussion of
the earth followed, and then a column of thick black smoke burst from
the crater.


THE ERUPTION OF 1812


The eruption which followed these premonitory symptoms was one of the
most terrific which had occurred in the West Indies up to that time. It
was the culminating event which seemed to relieve a pressure within the
earth's crust which extended from the Mississippi Valley to Caracas,
Venezuela, producing terrible effects in the latter place. Here,
thirty-five days before the volcanic explosion, the ground was rent and
shaken by a frightful earthquake which hurled the city in ruins to the
ground and killed ten thousand of its inhabitants in a moment of time.

La Soufriere made the first historic display of its hidden powers in
1718, when lava poured from its crater. A far more violent demonstration
of its destructive forces was that above mentioned. On this occasion the
eruption lasted for three days, ruining a number of the estates in the
vicinity and destroying many lives. Myriads of tons of ashes, cinders,
pumice and scoriae, hurled from the crater, fell in every section of
the island. Volumes of sand darkened the air, and woods, ridges and cane
fields were covered with light gray ashes, which speedily destroyed all
vegetation. The sun for three days seemed to be in a total eclipse,
the sea was discolored and the ground bore a wintry appearance from the
white crust of fallen ashes.

Carib natives who lived at Morne Rond fled from their houses to
Kingstown. As the third day drew to a close flames sprang pyramidically
from the crater, accompanied by loud thunder and electric flashes,
which rent the column of smoke hanging over the volcano. Eruptive matter
pouring from the northwest side plunged over the cliff, carrying down
rocks and woods in its course. "We played. With the greatest secret of
science resting at our elbows, we played. The doctor won; my mind was
not strictly on the game.

In the morning the doctor sang once more....

I shall never hear its like again.
Was it a week, or a month, after that?... I cannot remember. I fancy I was
excited. Then, too, there was something in the atmosphere about the
laboratory ... I don't know; imagination, possibly. Once we had a
little manifestation: the night that the Nigger and Slade were terrified
by the rock fires.

Days of excitement and pleasant work, with the little volcano grumbling
more sulkily all the time ... I have spent worse days.

"Such indifference as the doctor displayed toward the volcano I have
never known.The
same earthquake made itself felt along the whole line of the Northern
Cordilleras, working terrible destruction, and shook the earth as far
as Santa Fe de Bogota and Honda, 180 leagues from Caracas. This was a
preliminary symptom of the internal disorder of the earth.

While the wretched inhabitants of Caracas who had escaped the earthquake
were dying of fever and starvation, and seeking among villages and
farms places of safety from the renewed earthquake shocks, the almost
forgotten volcano of St. Vincent was muttering in suppressed wrath. For
twelve months it had given warning, by frequent shocks of the earth,
that it was making ready to play its part in the great subterranean
battle. On the 27th of April its deep-hidden powers broke their bonds,
and the conflict between rock and fire began.


THE MOUNTAIN STONES A HERD-BOY


The first intimation of the outbreak was rather amusing than alarming.
A negro boy was herding cattle on the mountain side. A stone fell near
him. Another followed. He fancied that some other boys were pelting him
from the cliff above, and began throwing stones upward at his fancied
concealed tormentors. But the stones fell thicker, among them some too
large to be thrown by any human hand. Only then did the little fellow
awake to the fact that it was not a boy like himself, but the mighty
mountain, that was flinging these stones at him. He looked up and saw
that the black column which was rising from the crater's mouth was no
longer harmless vapor, but dust, ashes and stones. Leaving the cattle to
their fate, he fled for his life, while the mighty cannon of the Titans
roared behind him as he ran. For three days and nights this continued;
then, on the 30th, a stream of lava poured over the crater's rim and
rushed downward, reaching the sea in four hours, and the great eruption
was at an end.

On the same day, says Humboldt, at a distance of more than 200 leagues,
"the inhabitants not only of Caracas, but of Calabozo, situated in
the midst of the Lianos, over a space of 4,000 square leagues, were
terrified by a subterranean noise which resembled frequent discharges of
the heaviest cannon. It was accompanied by no shock, and, what is very
remarkable, was as loud on the coast as at eighty leagues' distance
inland, and at Caracas, as well as at Calabozo, preparations were made
to put the place in defence against an enemy who seemed to be advancing
with heavy artillery."

It was no enemy that man could deal with. Fortunately, it confined its
assault to deep noises, and desisted from earthquake shocks. Similar
noises were heard in Martinique and Guadeloupe, and here also without
shocks. The internal thunder was the signal of what was taking place on
St. Vincent. With this last warning sound the trouble, which had lasted
so long, was at an end. The earthquakes which for two years had shaken
a sheet of the earth's surface larger than half Europe, were stilled by
the eruption of St. Vincent's volcanic peak.


BARBADOS COVERED WITH ASHES


Northeast of the original crater of the Soufriere a new one was formed
which was a half mile in diameter and five hundred feet deep. The old
crater was in time transformed into a beautiful blue lake, as above
stated, walled in by ragged cliffs to a height of eight hundred feet.

It was looked upon as a remarkable circumstance that although the air
was perfectly calm during the eruption, Barbados, which is ninety-five
miles to the windward, was covered inches deep with ashes. The
inhabitants there and on other neighboring islands were terrified by the
darkness, which continued for four hours and a half. Troops were called
under arms, the supposition from the continued noise being that hostile
fleets were in an engagement.

The movement of the ashes to windward, as just stated, was viewed as a
remarkable phenomenon, and is cited by Elise Reclus, in "The Ocean," to
show the force of different aerial currents; "On the first day of May,
1812, when the northeast trade-wind was in all its force, enormous
quantities of ashes obscured the atmosphere above the Island of
Barbados, and covered the ground with a thick layer. One would have
supposed that they came from the volcanoes of the Azores, which were
to the northeast; nevertheless they were cast up by the crater in St.
Vincent, one hundred miles to the west. It is therefore certain that the
debris had been hurled, by the force of the eruption, above the moving
sheet of the trade-winds into an aerial river proceeding in a contrary
direction." For this it must have been hurled miles high into the air,
till caught by the current of the anti-trade winds.


KINGSLEY'S VISIT TO SAINT VINCENT


From Charles Kingsley's "At Last" we extract, from the account of the
visit of the author to St. Vincent, some interesting matter concerning
the 1812 eruption and its effect on the mountain; also its influence
upon distant Barbados, as just stated.

"The strangest fact about this eruption was, that the mountain did not
make use of its old crater. The original vent must have become so jammed
and consolidated, in the few years between 1785 and 1812, that it could
not be reopened, even by a steam force the vastness of which may be
guessed at from the vastness of the area which it had shaken for
two years. So, when the eruption was over, it was found that the old
crater-lake, incredible as it may seem, remained undisturbed, so far
as has been ascertained; but close to it, and separated only by a
knife-edge of rock some 700 feet in height, and so narrow that, as I
was assured by one who had seen it, it is dangerous to crawl along it,
a second crater, nearly as large as the first, had been blasted out, the
bottom of which, in like manner, was afterward filled with water.

"I regretted much that I could not visit it. Three points I longed
to ascertain carefully--the relative heights of the water in the two
craters; the height and nature of the spot where the lava stream issued;
and, lastly, if possible, the actual causes of the locally famous
Rabacca, or 'Dry River,' one of the largest streams in the island,
which was swallowed up during the eruption, at a short distance from its
source, leaving its bed an arid gully to this day. But it could not be,
and I owe what little I know of the summit of the soufriere principally
to a most intelligent and gentleman-like young Wesleyan minister, whose
name has escaped me. He described vividly, as we stood together on the
deck, looking up at the volcano, the awful beauty of the twin lakes, and
of the clouds which, for months together, whirl in and out of the cups
in fantastic shapes before the eddies of the trade wind.


BLACK SUNDAY AT BARBADOS


"The day after the explosion, 'Black Sunday,' gave a proof of, though no
measure of, the enormous force which had been exerted. Eighty miles to
windward lies Barbados. All Saturday a heavy cannonading had been heard
to the eastward. The English and French fleets were surely engaged. The
soldiers were called out; the batteries manned; but the cannonade died
away, and all went to bed in wonder. On the 1st of May the clocks struck
six, but the sun did not, as usual in the tropics, answer to the call.
The darkness was still intense, and grew more intense as the morning
wore on. A slow and silent rain of impalpable dust was falling over the
whole island. The negroes rushed shrieking into the streets. Surely the
last day was come. The white folk caught (and little blame to them) the
panic, and some began to pray who had not prayed for years. The pious
and the educated (and there were plenty of both in Barbados) were not
proof against the infection. Old letters describe the scene in the
churches that morning as hideous--prayers, sobs, and cries, in Stygian
darkness, from trembling crowds. And still the darkness continued and
the dust fell.


INCIDENTS AT BARBADOS


"I have a letter written by one long since dead, who had at least powers
of description of no common order, telling how, when he tried to go out
of his house upon the east coast, he could not find the trees on his own
lawn save by feeling for their stems. He stood amazed not only in utter
darkness, but in utter silence; for the trade-wind had fallen dead,
the everlasting roar of the surf was gone, and the only noise was the
crashing of branches, snapped by the weight of the clammy dust. He went
in again, and waited. About one o'clock the veil began to lift; a
lurid sunlight stared in from the horizon, but all was black overhead.
Gradually the dust drifted away; the island saw the sun once more, and
saw itself inches deep in black, and in this case fertilizing, dust. The
trade-wind blew suddenly once more out of the clear east, and the surf
roared again along the shore.

"Meanwhile a heavy earthquake-wave had struck part at least of the
shores of Barbados. The gentleman on the east coast, going out, found
traces of the sea, and boats and logs washed up some ten to twenty feet
above high-tide mark; a convulsion which seemed to have gone unmarked
during the general dismay.

"One man at least, an old friend of John Hunter, Sir Joseph Banks and
others their compeers, was above the dismay, and the superstitious panic
which accompanied it. Finding it still dark when he rose to dress, he
opened (so the story used to run) his window; found it stick, and felt
upon the sill a coat of soft powder. 'The volcano in St. Vincent has
broken out at last,' said the wise man, 'and this is the dust of it.' So
he quieted his household and his negroes, lighted his candles, and went
to his scientific books, in that delight, mingled with an awe not the
less deep, because it is rational and self-possessed, with which he,
like the other men of science, looked at the wonders of this wondrous
world."


CHAPTER XXX.

Submarine Volcanoes and their Work of Island Building.


In November, 1867, a volcano suddenly began to show signs of activity
beneath the deep sea of the Pacific Ocean. There are some islands nearly
two thousands miles to the east of Australia called the Navigator's
Group, in which there had been no history of an eruption, nor had such
an event been handed down by tradition. Most of the islands in the
Pacific Ocean are old volcanoes, or are made up of rocks cast forth from
extinct burning mountains. They rise up like peaks through the
great depths of the ocean, and the top, which just appears above the
sea-level, is generally encircled by a growth of coral. Hence they are
termed coral islands. These islands every now and then rise higher than
the sea-level, owing to some deep upheaving force, and then the coral is
lifted up above the water, and become a solid rock. But occasionally the
reverse of this takes place, and the islands begin to sink into the
sea, owing to a force which causes the base of the submarine mountain
to become depressed. Sometimes they disappear. All this shows that some
great disturbing forces are in action at the bottom of the sea, and just
within the earth's crust, and that they are of a volcanic nature.

For some time before the eruption in question, earthquakes shook the
surrounding islands of the Navigator's Group, and caused great alarm,
and when the trembling of the earth was very great, the sea began to be
agitated near one of the islands, and vast circles of disturbed water
were formed. Soon the water began to be forced upwards, and dead fish
were seen floating about. After a while, steam rushed forth, and jets of
mud and volcanic sand. Moreover, when the steam began to rush up out of
the water, the violence of the general agitation of the land and of the
surface of the sea increased.


AN ERUPTION DESCRIBED


When the eruption was at its height vast columns of mud and masses of
stone rushed into the air to a height of 2,000 feet, and the fearful
crash of masses of rock hurled upwards and coming in collision with
others which were falling attested the great volume of ejected matter
which accumulated in the bed of the ocean, although no trace of a
volcano could be seen above the surface of the sea. Similar submarine
volcanic action has been observed in the Atlantic Ocean, and crews of
ships have reported that they have seen in different places sulphurous
smoke, flame, jets of water, and steam, rising up from the sea, or they
have observed the waters greatly discolored and in a state of violent
agitation, as if boiling in large circles.

New shoals have also been encountered, or a reef of rocks just emerging
above the surface, where previously there was always supposed to have
been deep water. On some few occasions, the gradual building up of an
island by submarine volcanoes has been observed, as that of Sabrina in
1181, off St. Michael's, in the Azores. The throwing up of ashes in this
case, and the formation of a conical hill 300 feet high, with a crater
out of which spouted lava and steam, took place very rapidly. But the
waves had the best of it, and finally washed Sabrina into the depths of
the ocean. Previous eruptions in the same part of the sea were recorded
as having happened in 1691 and 1720.

In 1831, a submarine volcanic eruption occurred in the Mediterranean
Sea, between Sicily and that part of the African coast where Carthage
formerly stood. I don't know when it may be ready, for it has to
be illustrated, but I hope in the meantime you may like the idea of
what is to be; and when the time comes, I shall try to make the dedication
as pretty as I can make it. Of course, this is only a flourish, like
taking off one's hat; but still, a person who has taken the trouble
to write things does not dedicate them to any one without meaning it; and
you must just try to take this dedication in place of a great many
things that I might have said, and that I ought to have done, to
prove that I am not altogether unconscious of the great debt of
gratitude I owe you.

This little book, which is all about my childhood, should indeed
go to no other person but you, who did so much to make that childhood
happy.

Do you know, we came very near sending for you this winter. If we had
not had news that you were ill too, I almost believe we should have done
so, we were so much in trouble.

I am now very well; but my wife has had a very, very bad spell, through
overwork and anxiety, when I was LOST! I suppose you heard of that.
She sends you her love, and hopes you will write to her, though she
no more than I deserves it. She would add a word herself, but she is
too played out. - I am, ever your old boy,
R. L. S.

Letter: TO W. E. HENLEY

[NICE, MARCH 1883.]
MY DEAR LAD, - This is to announce to you the MS. of Nursery Verses, now
numbering XLVIII. pieces or 599 verses, which, of course, one might
augment AD INFINITUM.

But here is my notion to make all clear.

I do not want a big ugly quarto; my soul sickens at the look of a quarto.
I want a refined octavo, not large - not LARGER than the DONKEY
BOOK, at any price.

I think the full page might hold four verses of four lines, that is to
say, counting their blanks at two, of twenty-two lines in height. The
first page of each number would only hold two verses or ten lines,
the title being low down. At this rate, we should have seventy-eight
or eighty pages of letterpress.

The designs should not be in the text, but facing the poem; so that if
the artist liked, he might give two pages of design to every poem that
turned the leaf, I.E. longer than eight lines, I.E. to twenty-eight
out of the forty-six.

I should say he would not use this privilege (?)

above five times, and some he might scorn to illustrate at all,
so we may say fifty drawings. I shall come to the drawings next.

But now you see my book of the thickness, since the drawings count two
pages, of 180 pages; and since the paper will perhaps be thicker, of
near two hundred by bulk. It is bound in a quiet green with the words
in thin gilt. Its shape is a slender, tall octavo. And it sells for the
publisher's fancy, and it will be a darling to look at; in short, it
would be like one of the original Heine books in type and spacing.

Now for the pictures.

I take another sheet and begin to jot notes for them when my imagination
serves: I will run through the book, writing when I have an idea. There,
I have jotted enough to give the artist a notion. Of course, I don't do
more than contribute ideas, but I will be happy to help in any and every
way. I may as well add another idea; when the artist finds nothing
much to illustrate, a good drawing of any OBJECT mentioned in the text,
were it only a loaf of bread or a candlestick, is a most delightful
thing to a young child. I remember this keenly.

Of course, if the artist insists on a larger form, I must I suppose, bow
my head. But my idea I am convinced is the best, and would make the book
truly, not fashionably pretty.

I forgot to mention that I shall have a dedication; I am going to dedicate
'em to Cummy; it will please her, and lighten a little my burthen
of ingratitude. A low affair is the Muse business.

I will add no more to this lest you should want to communicate with the
artist; try another sheet. I wonder how many I'll keep wandering
to.
O I forgot. As for the title, I think 'Nursery Verses' the best.
Poetry is not the strong point of the text, and I shrink from any
title that might seem to claim that quality; otherwise we might
have 'Nursery Muses' or 'New Songs of Innocence' (but that were a
blasphemy), or 'Rimes of Innocence': the last not bad, or - an idea
- 'The Jews' Harp,' or - now I have it - 'The Penny Whistle.'
THE PENNY WHISTLE:
NURSERY VERSES BY ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.
ILLUSTRATED BY - - -
And here we have an excellent frontispiece, of a party playing on
a P. W. to a little ring of dancing children.
THE PENNY WHISTLE is the name for me.
Fool! this is all wrong, here is the true name:-
PENNY WHISTLES FOR SMALL WHISTLERS.The people of Santorin named it "George," in honor of the King of
Greece. In another week it joined and became continuous with the Little
Cammeni. The detonations increased in loudness, and large quantities of
incandescent stones were thrown up from the crater.

About the same time, at the distance of nearly 150 feet from the coast,
to the westward of a point called Cape Phlego, there rose from the sea
another island, to which was given the name of Aphroessa. It sank and
reappeared several times before it established itself above water. The
detonations and ejection of incandescent lava and stones continued at
intervals during three weeks. From the crater of the islet George, which
attained a height of 150 feet, some stones several cubic yards in bulk
were projected to a great distance. One of them falling on board of a
merchant vessel, killed the captain and set fire to the ship.

By the 10th of March the eruptions had partially subsided, but were then
renewed, and a third island, which was named Reka, rose alongside of
Aphroessa. They were at first separated by a channel sixty feet deep;
but in three days this was filled up, and the two islets became united.

Reference may properly be made here to Monte Nuovo and Jorullo, not that
they appertain to the present subject, but that they form examples of
the action of similar forces, in the one instance exerted on a lake
bottom, in the other on dry land, each yielding permanent volcanic
elevations in every respect analogous to those which rise as islands
from the bottom of the sea.


IN THE ICELANDIC SEAS


Off the coast of Iceland islands have appeared during several of
the volcanic eruptions which that remote dependency of Denmark has
manifested, and at various periods in Iceland's history the sea has been
covered with pumice and other debris, which tell their own tale of what
has been going on, without being in sufficient quantity to reach the
surface in the form of an island mass. The sea off Reykjanes--Smoky
Cape, as the name means--has been a frequent scene of these submarine
eruptions. In 1240, during what the Icelandic historians describe as
the eighth outburst, a number of islets were formed, though most of them
subsequently disappeared, only to have their places occupied by others
born at a later date. In 1422 high rocks of considerable circumference
appeared. In 1783, about a month before the eruption of Skaptar Jokull,
a volcanic island named Nyoe, from which fire and smoke issued, was
built up. But in time it vanished under the waves, all that remains
of it to-day being a reef from five to thirty-five fathoms below the
sea-level. In 1830, after several long-continued eruptions of the usual
character, another isle arose; while at the same time the skerries known
as the Geirfuglaska disappeared, and with them vanished the great auks,
or gare-fowls--birds now extinct--which up to that time had bred on
them. At all events, though the auks could not well have been drowned,
no traces of them were seen after the date mentioned. 'Old Adams' he liked
to be called, though he wasn't very aged. He was 'one of 'em.'
'See here, Barnum,' quoth he one day, in his rough voice; 'you've
got a bird in your show which I've got to have.

It's the Californy golden pigin.

The coast of Alaska is a region of intense volcanic action. In
1795, during a period of volcanic activity in the craters of Makushina,
on Unalaska, and in others on Umnak Island, a volume of smoke was seen
to rise out of the sea about 42 miles to the north of Unalaska, and
the next year it was followed by a heap of cindery material, from which
arose flame and volcanic matter, the glow being visible over a radius
of ten miles. In four years the island grew into a large cone, 3000 feet
above the sea-level, and two or three miles in circumference. Two years
later it was still so hot that when some hunters landed on it they found
the soil too warm for walking. It was named Ionna Bogoslova (St. John
the Theologian), by the Russians, Agashagok by the Aleuts, and is now
known to the whites of that region as Bogosloff. Mr. Dall believes
that it occupies the site of some rocks that existed there as long as
tradition extends.

There were additions to the cone up to the year 1823, when it became so
quiescent as to be the favorite haunt of seals and sea-fowls, and,
when the weather was favorable, was visited by native egg-hunters
from Unalaska. During the summer of 1883 Bogosloff was again seen
in eruption, as it was thought. However, on closely examining the
neighborhood, it was found that the old island was undisturbed, but that
there had been a fresh eruption, which had resulted in the extension of
Bogosloff by the appearance of a cone and crater (Hague Volcano), 357
feet high, connected with the parent island by a low sand-spit, and
situated in a spot where, the year before, the lead showed 800 fathoms
of water. At the same time Augustin and two other previously quiet
islands on the peninsula of Alaska began simultaneously to emit smoke,
dust and ashes, while a reef running westward and formerly submerged
became elevated to the sea surface. Other islands, of origin exactly
similar to Bogosloff and those mentioned, are to be found in this
region, notably Koniugi and Kasatochi, in the western Aleutians,
and Pinnacle Island, near St. Matthew Island. Indeed, the volcano of
Kliutchevsk, which rises to a height of over 15,000 feet, is really a
volcanic island.

A permanent addition was made to the Aleutian group of Islands by the
action of a submarine volcano in 1806. This new island has the form of
a volcanic peak, with several subsidiary cones. It is four geographical
miles in circumference. In 1814 another arose out of the sea in the same
archipelago, the cone of which attained a height of 3,000 feet; but at
the end of a year it lost a portion of this elevation.

In 1856, in the sea in the same neighborhood, Captain Newell, of the
whaling bark Alice Fraser, witnessed a submarine eruption, which was
also seen by the crews of several other vessels. There was no island
formed on this occasion, but large jets of water were thrown up, and the
sea was greatly agitated all around. Then followed volcanic smoke, and
quantities of stones, ashes, and pumice; the two latter being scattered
over the surface of the sea to a great distance. Loud thundering reports
accompanied this eruption, and all the ships in the neighborhood felt
concussions like those produced by an earthquake. These phenomena seem
to have ended in the formation of some great submarine chasm, into which
the waters rushed with extreme violence and a terrific roar.

Occurrences similar to this last have been several times observed in
a tract of open sea in the Atlantic, about half a degree south of the
equator, and between 20 and 22 degrees of west longitude. Although
quantities of volcanic dross have been from time to time thrown up to
the surface in this region, no island has yet made its appearance above
water.

The events here described repeat on a far smaller scale similar ones
which have occurred in remote ages in many parts of the ocean and left
great island masses as the permanent effects of their work. We may
instance the Hawaiian group, which is wholly of volcanic origin, with
the exception of its minor coral additions, and represents a stupendous
activity of underground agencies beneath the domain of Father Neptune.

In part, as we have said elsewhere in this work, all oceanic islands,
remote from those in the shoal bordering waters of the continents, have
been of volcanic or coral formation, or more often a combination of the
two. He remembered that he had killed a man: and now he knew not why.
He began to go over the whole battle from the very beginning; but now
he saw it in a very different light. He could not understand how
he had got mixed up in it. He went back over every incident of
the day from the moment when he had left the house with Olivier:
he saw the two of them walking through Paris until the moment when
he had been caught up by the whirlwind. There he lost the thread:
the chain of his thoughts was snapped: how could he have shouted
and struck out and moved with those men with whose beliefs he disagreed?
It was not he, it was not he!... It was a total eclipse of his will!...
He was dazed by it and ashamed. He was not his own master then? Who
was his master?... He was being carried by the express through the
night: and the inward night through which he was being carried was
no less dark, nor was the unknown force less swift and dizzy....

He tried hard to shake off his unease: but one anxiety was followed
by another.

The nearer he came to his destination, the more he thought of
Olivier; and he was oppressed by an unreasoning fear.

As he arrived he looked through the window across the platform for the
familiar face of his friend.... There was no one. He got out and still
went on looking about him. Once or twice he thought he saw.... No, it
was not "he." He went to the appointed hotel. Olivier was not
there.
There was no reason for Christophe to be surprised: how could Olivier
have preceded him?... But from that moment on he was in an agony of
suspense.

It was morning. Christophe went up to his room. Then he came down again,
had breakfast, sauntered through the streets. He pretended to be free
of anxiety and looked at the lake and the shop-windows, chaffed the girl
in the restaurant, and turned over the illustrated papers....

Nothing interested him. The day dragged through, slowly and
heavily. About seven o'clock in the evening, Christophe having, for want
of anything else to do, dined early and eaten nothing, went up to
his room, and asked that as soon as the friend he was expecting
arrived, he should be brought up to him.

He sat down at the desk with his back turned to the door. He had nothing
to busy himself with, no baggage, no books: only a paper that he
had just bought: he forced himself to read it: but his mind was
wandering: he was listening for footsteps in the corridor. All his
nerves were on edge with the exhaustion of a day's anxious waiting and
a sleepless night.

Suddenly he heard some one open the door. Some indefinable feeling made
him not turn around at once. He felt a hand on his shoulder.

Then he turned and saw Olivier smiling at him. He was not surprised,
and said:

"Ah, here you are at last!"
The illusion vanished.

Christophe got up suddenly, knocking over chair and table.

His hair stood on end. He stood still for a moment, livid, with his
teeth chattering.

At the end of that moment--(in vain did he shut his eyes to it and tell
himself: "I know nothing")--he knew everything: he was sure of
what he was going to hear.

He could not stay in his room. He went down into the street and walked
about for an hour. When he returned the porter met him in the hall
of the hotel and gave him a letter. _The_ letter. He was quite sure
it would be there. His hand trembled as he took it. He opened it,
saw that Olivier was dead, and fainted.
The letter was from Manousse. It said that in concealing the disaster
from him the day before, and hurrying him off, they had only been
obeying Olivier's wishes, who had desired to insure his friend's
escape,--that it was useless for Christophe to stay, as it would
mean the end of him also,--that it was his duty to seek safety for
the sake of his friend's memory, and for his other friends, and for
the sake of his own fame, etc., etc....In 1777 there was ejected an immense column, consisting of mud strongly
impregnated with sulphur and mixed with naphtha and stones, accompanied
also by quantities of sulphurous vapors. This mud-volcano is known to
have been in action for fifteen centuries.

Very recently a small mud-volcano has been formed on the flanks of Mount
Etna. It began with the throwing up of jets of boiling water, mixed with
petroleum and mud, great quantities of gas bubbling up at the same time.
In several of the valleys of Iceland there are similar phenomena, the
boiling water and mud being thrown up in jets to the height of fifteen
feet and upwards, the mud accumulating around the orifices whence the
jets arise.

A mud-volcano named Korabetoff, in the Crimea, presents phenomena more
akin to those of the igneous volcanoes of South America. There was an
eruption from this mountain on the 6th of August, 1853. It began by
throwing up from the summit a column of fire and smoke, which ascended
to a great height. This continued for five or six minutes, and was
followed at short intervals by two similar eruptions. There was then
ejected with a hissing noise a quantity of black fetid mud, which was so
hot as to scorch the grass on the edges of the stream. The mud continued
to pour out for three hours, covering a wide space at the mountain's
base. The mud-volcanoes on the coast of Beloochistan are very numerous,
and extend over an area of nearly a thousand square miles. Their action
resembles that at Macaluba.


THE MUD VOLCANO OF JAVA


There is a mud volcano in Java which is of interest as somewhat
resembling the geyser in its mode of operation and apparently due to
similar agencies. It is thus described by Dr. Horsfield:--

"On approaching it from a distance, it is first discovered by a large
volume of smoke, rising and disappearing at intervals of a few seconds,
resembling the vapors rising from a violent surf. A loud noise is heard,
like that of distant thunder. Having advanced so near that the vision
was no longer impeded by the smoke, a large hemispherical mass was
observed, consisting of black earth mixed with water, about sixteen
feet in diameter, rising to the height of twenty or thirty feet in
a perfectly regular manner, and as if it were pushed up by a force
beneath, which suddenly exploded with a loud noise, and scattered about
a volume of black mud in every direction. After an interval of two or
three, or sometimes four or five seconds, the hemispherical body of mud
rose and exploded again. In the manner stated this volcanic ebullition
goes on without interruption, throwing up a globular body of mud, and
dispersing it with violence through the neighboring plain. The spot
where the ebullition occurs is nearly circular, and perfectly level. It
is covered only with the earthy particles, impregnated with salt water,
which are thrown up from below. The circumference may be estimated at
about half an English mile. In order to conduct the salt water to the
circumference, small passages or gutters are made in the loose muddy
earth, which lead to the borders, where it is collected in holes dug in
the ground for the purpose of evaporation."

The mud has a strong, pungent, sulphurous smell, resembling that of
mineral oil, and is hotter than the surrounding atmosphere. During the
rainy season the explosions increase in violence.

There are submarine mud volcanoes as well as those of igneous kind. In
1814 one of this character broke out in the Sea of Azof, beginning with
flame and black smoke, accompanied by earth and stones, which were flung
to a great height. Ten of these explosions occurred, and, after a period
of rest, others were heard during the night. The next morning there
was visible above the water an island of mud some ten feet high. A very
similar occurrence took place in 1827, near Baku, in the Caspian sea.
This began with a flaming display and the ejection of great fragments of
rock. An eruption of mud succeeded. A set of small volcanoes discovered
by Humboldt in Turbaco, in South America, confined their emissions
almost wholly to gases, chiefly nitrogen.

There is a close connection in character between mud volcanoes and
those intermittent boiling springs named geysers. A good many of the mud
volcanoes throw out jets of boiling water along with the mud; but in
the case of the geysers, the boiling water is ejected alone, without
any visible impregnation, though some mineral in solution, as silica,
carbonate of lime, or sulphur, is usually present.


THE GEYSER IS A WATER VOLCANO


The phenomenon of the geyser serves in a measure to support the theory
that steam is an important agent in volcanic action. A geyser, in fact,
may be designated as a water volcano, since it throws up water only. It
comprises a cone or mound, usually only a few feet high. In the middle
of this is a crater-like opening with a passage leading down into the
earth. As in the case of the volcano, the geyser cone is built up by its
own action. In the boiling water which is ejected there is dissolved a
certain amount of silica. As the water falls and cools this mineral is
deposited, gradually building up a cup-like elevation. The basin of the
geyser is generally full of clear water, with a little steam rising
from its surface; but at intervals an eruption takes place, sometimes at
regular periods, but more often at irregular intervals.

Among the largest and best known geysers in the world are those of
Iceland, chief among them being the Great Geyser. Silica is the
mineral with which the waters of this fountain are impregnated, and
the substance which they deposit, as they slowly evaporate, is named
siliceous sinter. Of this material is composed the mound, six or seven
feet high, on which the spring is situated. On the top of the mound is
a large oval basin, about three feet in depth, measuring in its larger
diameter about fifty-six, and in its shorter about forty-six feet. The
centre of this basin is occupied by a circular well about ten feet in
diameter, and between seventy and eighty feet deep.

Out of the central well springs a jet of boiling water, at intervals of
six or seven hours. When the fountain is at rest, both the basin and the
well appear quite empty, and no steam is seen. But on the approach of
the moment for action, the water rises in the well, till it flows over
into the basin. Then loud subterranean explosions are heard, and the
ground all round is violently shaken.

Instantly, and with immense force, a steaming jet of boiling water, of
the full width of the well, springs up and ascends to a great height
in the air. The top of this large column of water is enveloped in vast
clouds of steam, which diffuse themselves through the air, rendering it
misty. These jets succeed each other with great rapidity to the number
of sixteen or eighteen, the period of action of the fountain being about
five minutes. The last of the jets generally ascends to the greatest
height, usually to about 100, but sometimes to 150 feet; on one occasion
it rose to the great height of 212 feet. Having ejected this great
column of water, the action ceases, and the water that had filled the
basin sinks down into the well. There it remains till the time for the
next eruption, when the same phenomena are repeated. It has been found
that, by throwing large stones into the well, the period of the eruption
may be hastened, while the loudness of the explosions and the violence
of the fountain effect are increased, the stones being at the same time
ejected with great force.


ERUPTION CAN BE INDUCED BY ARTIFICIAL MEANS


Geysers are found all over the island, presenting various peculiarities.
In the case of one of the smaller ones, which is called Strokr, or the
Churn, an eruption can be induced by artificial means. A barrow-load of
sods is thrown into the crater of the geyser, with the effect of causing
an eruption. The sensitiveness of Strokr is due to its peculiar form.
An observer states that, "The bore is eight feet in diameter at the
top, and forty-four feet deep. Below twenty-seven feet it contracts to
nineteen inches, so that the turf thrown in completely chokes it. Steam
collects below; a foaming scum covers the surface of the water, and in
a quarter of an hour it surges up the pipe. The fountain then begins
playing, sending its bundles of jets rather higher than those of
the Great Geyser, flinging up the clods of turf which have been its
obstruction like a number of rockets. This magnificent display continues
for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. The erupted water flows
back into the pipe from the curved sides of the bowl. This occasions a
succession of bursts, the last expiring effort, very generally, being
the most magnificent. Strokr gives no warning thumps, like the Great
Geyser, and there is not the same roaring of steam accompanying the
outbreak of the water."

So he got out his big .45 navy revolver, and notwithstanding his shaky
condition, he managed somehow to get a sight on the mother as she was
caressing one of the little ones that had finished its breakfast, and
shot her dead on the spot.

The terrified cubs fled into the den, and Jake, failing to kill
another with his revolver, came forward, blocked up the hole with
stones, and leaving the seven little prisoners quaking at the far end,
set off on foot for the nearest ranch, cursing his faithless Horse as
he went.

In the afternoon he returned with his pard and tools for digging. The
little ones had cowered all day in the darkened hole, wondering why their
mother did not come to feed them, wondering at the darkness and the
change. But late that day they heard sounds at the door. Then light was
again let in. Some of the less cautious young ones ran forward to meet
their mother, but their mother was not there--only two great rough brutes
that began tearing open their home.

[Illustration]
After an hour or more the diggers came to the end of the den, and here
were the woolly, bright-eyed, little ones, all huddled in a pile at
the farthest corner. Their innocent puppy faces and ways were not
noticed by the huge enemy.

One by one they were seized. A sharp blow, and each quivering, limp form
was thrown into a sack to be carried to the nearest magistrate who was
empowered to pay the bounties.
Even at this stage there was a certain individuality of character
among the puppies. Some of them squealed and some of them growled
when dragged out to die. One or two tried to bite. The one that had
been slowest to comprehend the danger, had been the last to retreat,
and so was on top of the pile, and therefore the first killed.In the volcanic region of New Zealand geysers and their associated hot
springs are abundant. It was to their action that we owed the famous
white and pink terraces and the warm lake of Rotomahana which were
ruined by the destructive eruption of Mount Tarawera, already described.


GEYSERS OF THE UNITED STATES


The United States is abundantly supplied with hot springs, but geysers,
outside of the Yellowstone region, are found only in California and
Nevada. Those of California exist chiefly in Napa Valley, north of San
Francisco, in a canon or defile. Their waters are impregnated not with
silica, but with sulphur, and they thus approach more nearly in their
character to mud-volcanoes, whose ejections are, in like manner, much
impregnated with that substance. They are also, like them, collected in
groups, there being no less than one hundred openings within a space of
flat ground a mile square. Owing to their number and proximity, their
individual energy is nothing like so violent as that of the geysers of
Iceland. Their jets seldom rise higher than 20 or 30 feet; but so great
a number playing within so confined a space produces an imposing effect.
The jets of boiling water issue with a loud noise from little conical
mounds, around which the ground is merely a crust of sulphur. When this
crust is penetrated, the boiling water may be seen underneath. The rocks
in the neighborhood of these fountains are all corroded by the action of
the sulphurous vapors. Nevertheless, within a distance of not more than
50 feet from them, trees grow without injury to their health.

Few of these fountains, however, are regular geysers, most of them
discharging only steam. From the Steamboat Geyser this ascends to a
height of from 50 to 100 feet, with a roar like that of the escape
from a steamboat boiler. Associated with the geysers are numerous hot
springs, some clear, some turbid, and variously impregnated with
iron, sulphur or alum. In Nevada the Steamboat Springs, as they are
designated, exist in Washoe Valley, east of the Virginian range. They
come nearer in character to the Yellowstone geysers, their waters
depositing true geyserite, or silicious concretions. The Volcano
Springs, in Lauder County, are also true geysers, though of small
importance. The ground here is so thickly perforated by holes from which
steam escapes that it looks like a cullender.


THE YELLOWSTONE GEYSERS


The most remarkable geyser country in the world, alike for the size and
the number of its spouting fountains, is the Yellowstone region in the
northwest part of the Territory of Wyoming, in the United States, which,
by a special act of Congress, has been reserved as the Yellowstone
National Park, exempt from settlement, purchase or preemption. Here
nearly every form of geyser and unintermittent hot spring occurs,
with deposits of various kinds, silicious, calcareous, etc. Of the
hot springs, Dr. Peale enumerates 2,195, and considers that within the
limits of the park--which is about 54 miles by 62 miles, and includes
3,312 square miles--as many as 3,000 actually exist. The same geologist
notes the existence of 71 geysers in the area mentioned, though some
of the number are only inferred to be spouting springs from the form of
their basins and the character of the surrounding deposits. Of this
vast collection of still and eruptive springs, between which there seems
every gradation, those which do not send water into the air are, owing
to the magnificent cascades which they form, often quite as remarkable
as those which take the shape of geysers. The more striking of the
latter may, however, be briefly mentioned.

In the Gibbon Basin is a geyser of late origin. In 1878 this consisted
of two steam holes, roaring on the side of a hill, that looked as if
they had recently burst through the surface; and the gully leading
towards the ravine was at that date filled with sand, which appeared to
have been poured out during an eruption. Dead trees stood on the line of
this sand floor, and others, with their bark still remaining, and
even with their foliage not lost, were uprooted hard by, everything
indicating that the "steamboat vent," as it was called, was of recent
formation. In 1875 it had no existence, but in 1879 the spouting
spring--which first opened, it is believed, on the 11th of August in the
preceding year--had "settled down to business as a very powerful flowing
geyser," with a double period; one eruption occurring every half
hour, and projecting water to the height of 30 feet; the main eruption
occurring every six or seven days, with long continued action, and a
column of nearly 100 feet.

The New Geyser in the same basin is also of quite recent origin.
It consists of two fissures in the rock, in which the water boils
vigorously. This celebration was called the Banderium, and was to celebrate
the thousandth year of Hungary's existence as a kingdom.

The nobles of Hungary met together in Buda-Pesth, the capital city
of the country, and went in procession to the Houses of Parliament,
and swore allegiance to the battered golden crown which Pope Sylvester
II.
had given to the first King of Hungary, one thousand years before.

It was said to have been a most wonderful and stirring sight to see these
nobles "dressed in the clothes their ancestors had worn, carrying
the banners under which their grandfathers had fought, weeping with
emotion around a battered golden crown," a relic of the days when their
fatherland was great and powerful.

The description given by Mr. Richard Harding Davis in _Scribner's
Magazine_ for March, and from which we quote the above statement, gives
a living picture of this grand festival. There can be little doubt
that such an occasion must have roused the patriotism of these people
to fever heat.

Whether this be true or not, it is certain that the Hungarians
have been harder to manage, and that their dislike of the Austrians
has been steadily gaining strength.
We spoke of a second cause of disagreement. It arises from a measure
that was intended to conciliate the Hungarians.
This measure was an imperial edict, ordering that every official,
in the districts where Hungarian is spoken, must be able to speak
both the German and Hungarian language within five years.Since 1888 this great geyser has been inactive.

The Castle Geyser is so named on account of the fancied resemblance
which its mound of white and grey deposit presents to the ruins of a
feudal keep, the crater itself being placed on a cone or turret, which
has a somewhat imposing appearance compared with the other geysers in
the neighborhood. It throws a column usually about fifty or sixty feet
high, at intervals of two or three hours, but sometimes the discharge
shoots up much higher.

The Giant, in the Upper Geyser Basin, has a peculiar crater, which
has been likened to the stump of a hollow sycamore tree of gigantic
proportions, whose top has been wrenched off by a storm. This curious
cup is broken down at one side, as though it had been torn away during
an eruption of more than ordinary violence, and on this side the visitor
is able to look into the crater, if he can contrive to avoid the jets
which are constantly spouted from it. The periods of rest which it takes
are varied, an eruption often not occurring for several days at a time;
yet when it breaks out it continues playing for more than three hours,
with a volume of water reaching a height of from 130 to 140 feet. In the
interval little spouts are constantly in progress. Mr. Stanley saw one
eruption which he calculated to have shot a column of water to the
height of more than 200 feet. At first it seemed as though the geyser
was only making a feint, the discharge which preceded the great one
being merely repeated several times, followed by a cessation both of
the rumbling noises and of the ejection of water. But soon, after a
premonitory cloud of steam, the geyser began to work in earnest,
the column discharged rising higher and higher, until it reached the
altitude mentioned.

"At first it appeared to labor in raising the immense volume, which
seemed loath to start on its heavenward tour; but it was with perfect
ease that the stupendous column was held to its place, the water
breaking into jets and returning in glittering showers to the basin.
The steam ascended in dense volumes for thousands of feet, when it
was freighted on the wings of the winds and borne away in clouds. The
fearful rumble and confusion attending it were as the sound of distant
artillery, the rushing of many horses to battle, or the roar of a
fearful tornado. It commenced to act at 2 P. M., and continued for an
hour and a half, the latter part of which it emitted little else than
steam, rushing upward from its chambers below, of which, if controlled,
there was enough to run an engine of wonderful power. The waving to and
fro of such a gigantic fountain, when the column is at its height,

'Tinselled o'er in robes of varying hues,'

and glistening in the bright sunlight, which adorns it with the glowing
colors of many a gorgeous rainbow, affords a spectacle so wonderful
and grandly magnificent, so overwhelming to the mind, that the ablest
attempt at description gives the reader who has never witnessed such a
display but a feeble idea of its glory."


A DESCRIPTION OF THE GEYSER AT WORK


The only other geysers in this remarkable geyserland which we can spare
room to notice are those known as the Giantess, the Beehive, and the
Grand. The Giantess sends a column of water to the height of 250 feet.
An eruption is usually divided into three periods--two preliminary
efforts and a final one, divided from each other by intervals of between
one and two hours, while the intervals of discharge are very long.
Sometimes it does not play for several weeks. The Beehive, which is 400
feet from the Giantess, gets its name from the peculiar beehive-like
cone which it has formed. The eruption is also almost unique. It is
heralded by a slight escape of steam, which is followed by a column of
steam and water, shooting to the height of over 200 feet. Although it
was not yet ten o'clock, there was the quietude of midnight around me.
The village was asleep, and I should have thought Nature asleep had I not
heard the harsh scream of an owl as I entered my bedroom and threw
open the window.The duration of the discharge is between four
and five minutes, and the interval between two eruptions from twenty-one
to twenty-five hours.

The Grand is one of the most important in the Upper Geyser basin. Yet,
unlike the Grotto, the Giant, or the Old Faithful,--so called from its
frequent and regular eruptions--it has no raised cone or crater, and a
much less cavernous bowl than the Giantess and other geysers. The column
discharged ascends to the height of from eighty to two hundred feet, and
the eruptions last from fifteen minutes to three-quarters of an hour,
with intervals on an average of from seven to twenty hours. This
fountain is apparently very irregular in its action, though it is just
possible that when the Yellowstone geysers have been more consecutively
studied, it will be found that these seeming irregularities depend on
the varying supplies of water at different times of the year.


XXVIII

HASTENED the hardy one, henchmen with him, sandy strand of the sea
to tread and widespread ways. The world's great candle, sun shone
from south. They strode along with sturdy steps to the spot they knew
where the battle-king young, his burg within, slayer of Ongentheow,
shared the rings, shelter-of-heroes. To Hygelac Beowulf's coming was
quickly told, -- that there in the court the clansmen's refuge,
the shield-companion sound and alive, hale from the hero-play
homeward strode.

Their terraced bowls, adorned with
delicate fret-work, are among the finest specimens of Nature's handiwork
in the world, and the colored waters themselves are startling in their
brilliancy. Red, pink, black, canary, green, saffron, blue, chocolate,
and all their intermediate gradations are found here in exquisite
harmony. The springs rise in terraces of various heights and widths,
having intermingled with their delicate shades chalk-like cliffs, soft
and crumbly, these latter being the remains of springs from which the
life and beauty have departed. The great spring is the largest in the
country, the water flowing through three openings into a basin forty
feet long by twenty-five feet wide. From this the hot mineral waters
drip over into lower basins, of gracefully curved and scalloped outline,
the minerals deposited on the lips of the basin forming stalagmites of
variegated hue, yielding a brilliant and beautiful effect. The terraced
basins bear a close resemblance to the former New Zealand pink and white
terraces, and since the annihilation of the latter are the most charming
examples in existence of this rare form of Nature's artistic handiwork.