"Go on," commanded Ben, "or I won't hold it at all," and Polly
bobbed her head at him as she drummed away. "Hurry up," she
seemed to say. So Joel sprang off from the lower branch of the
apple tree and went zip-tear-bang, at the paper ring. But
instead of going through, he knocked it out of Ben's hand, and
went with it, rolling over and over on the ground. When he got
up to his feet, the big paper ring was all in tags, and the hair
on the monkey's head was all over his eyes, and covering his red
face.

"Never mind, Joe," said Polly, running away from her piano, to
pull him out straight and fix him nice again, "you'll do it fine
next time, I guess."

"Ben jiggled it," announced Joel, stoutly, and with a rueful
face as he saw the broken ring.

"No, I didn't," declared Ben; "I kept it as steady as could be.
But you sprawled your legs and knocked it out of my hand. We do
so, because some people, even those who ought to know better, are
in the habit of describing any wall-painting as a fresco; whereas
so many of the wall-paintings, especially in Italy, are not frescoes
at all, but distemper paintings on a dry surface.

The real fresco consists of painting upon plaster, while it
is wet. The piece of plaster which is to be painted upon must
be only sufficient for a single day's work--any that is left over
must be cut away, and a fresh piece added for the next day's work.

Pepper's lap and gave a squeal of
delight.

"Hoh! that's nothing!" declared Joel, and before Ben could say
anything he ran and jumped up on the lower limb of the apple
tree, and winding his sturdy legs around the trunk, and then
springing from one branch to another, there he was, before any
one knew it, on the topmost bough!

"O mercy me--he'll be killed!" screamed Grandma, who saw it
first. Mother Pepper turned swiftly. "Joel!" she was going to
exclaim. But in a minute she knew it would be the worst thing
in the world to do. So she tried to smile and to say, "Come down,
Joey, and be careful."

But Joel was swinging and slashing the long rope tail, and
having a delightful time up there in the branches, and roaring
and screaming so, that Mother Pepper's quiet tones couldn't
possibly be heard.

Polly's face turned very white. "Oh, Ben, he'll be killed!" she
exclaimed. "He won't look at us, and we can't make him hear,"
for by that time everybody was shouting at him to come down, and
Phronsie was crying as if her heart would break.

"I'm goin' to hang by my tail," screamed Joel at them, and
before any of them could realize what he was doing, he had swung
the long rope over a branch and twisted it up in a knot, then he
swung himself out, and let his feet free from the bough.

Mrs. Pepper seized Ben's arm and said hoarsely, "Go up after
him." Ben was halfway up the trunk as fast as he could go, which
wasn't very good speed, as he was always slower at such things
than the other little Peppers. When Joel, head downward, saw him
coming up, he screamed, "Ha! I'm a monkey, and you can't catch
me," and he swung farther out than ever. The knot he had thought
so safe untwisted, and down, down, he went, the long rope curling
through the air to wind around his legs.

It was all done in one dreadful moment, and when they ran to
pick him up, everything seemed to turn black around Polly's eyes.
She never knew how it happened, but there was Mother Pepper
sitting on the grass with Joel's head in her lap, and Mrs. Beebe
hurrying into the kitchen for water and cloths to wash the blood
away, and Grandma waddling down the lane to get things from the
cottage. And Ben sliding down the tree, the rest of the little
Peppers crouching up in misery around Mamsie and her boy.

Polly's white lips only formed the words, "Dr. Fisher--I'll go--you
stay here and help Mamsie," and she was off in a flash. For
Polly could run the swiftest of any of them, her feet hardly
touching the ground.

Somebody called her name as she spun along the dusty ground, but
she didn't stop--only sped on. But by laying the whip smartly
over the back of his horse, the man in the wagon came up by her
side and yelled at her, and then she saw that it was Mr. Tisbett.

"Oh, I can't stop, sir!" she wailed, clasping her hands, "for
Joel's dead, I guess."

"Now you just git in here," commanded Mr. Tisbett, getting down
to the ground; and without waiting for Polly to obey, he picked
her up and set her on the seat. "I take it you're goin' after
th' doctor. Now he ain't to home, for this is his day for
Hillsbury, ye know. But I tell you," he added briskly, as he saw
Polly's face, "I'm a master hand at doctorin', an' I'm goin' to
take a look at Joel." All this time he was getting over the
wheel and into his seat, and turning down the road toward the
little brown house.

"What's th' matter with Joel?" he asked at length, after
slapping Black Bill smartly, who now ran at his liveliest pace.

"He fell from the apple tree," said Polly, in a low voice. "Oh,
Mr. Tisbett, could you go a little bit faster, please?" she
implored.

"Yes, yes," said Mr. Tisbett, obligingly, and applying the whip
again to the horse's flanks. "Now it's lucky enough my stage-coach
got a mite broke this morning, an' I had to wait over a trip, and
so I've met you. We'll soon be there, Polly, don't you worry a
mossel. I fell out o' apple trees time after time when I was a boy,
and it hain't hurt me none. Git ap, Bill! An' at any rate, I'll fix
Joel up. I used to be a doctor 'fore I was a stage-driver. Ye hain't
never known that, hev ye, Polly?" and he smiled down on her.

"No," said Polly, with a thrill of hope at her heart. "Oh, if
Black Bill only would go a little faster!"

"Fact," said Mr. Tisbett, rolling the tobacco quid into his
other cheek. "I was what ye might call a nat'ral doctor,
bone-setter, and all that; never took a diplomy--but land sakes alive,
I donno's it's necessary, when ye got to make a bone into shape,
to set an' pint to a piece o' paper to tell where ye was
eddicated. Git up an' set th' bone, I say, an' if ye can do it
all right, I guess it's a good enough job to the feller what
owns the bone. Git ap, Bill!" and they drew up in front of the
little brown house.

Mr. Tisbett never waited to ask questions, although Mrs. Pepper
looked at him inquiringly, but just took hold of the job he had
come to do, and Polly explained to Mamsie. And presently
everybody was obeying the stage-driver just as soon as he spoke
a word. And his big hands were just as gentle and light, and his
fingers, that always seemed so clumsy holding the old leather
reins, were a great deal softer in their touch than Mother Pepper's
own, as they wandered all over Joel's body.

"That boy's all right, and bound to scare ye a great many times,
Marm," at last he said. "Don't you worry a mite, Mrs. Pepper,
he'll come out o' it, when he gits ready."

But Mother Pepper shook her head as she hung over her boy.

"Mammy," said Polly, crawling up to her like a hurt little thing,
"I do believe Mr. Tisbett knows," she whispered. "I do, Mammy."

But Mrs. Pepper only shook her head worse than ever.

"What shall we do, Ben?" cried Polly, rushing up to him; "just
look at her, Ben. Oh, what can we do for Mamsie! She's never
been like that."

"Nothing," said Ben, gloomily; "we can't any of us do anything
till Joel comes to himself. There won't anything else help her."

But Mrs. Pepper suddenly raised her head and looked at them
keenly. "Come here, Polly," and at the same instant it seemed,
so quickly she obeyed, Polly was at her side.

"Mother feels that her boy will be all right," said Mrs. Pepper.
And she even smiled.


XXII

THE MINISTER'S CHICKENS


Mr. Tisbett was right. And before he left, Joel was sitting on
his knee, and hearing various accounts of Black Bill; how he ran
away once when he was a colt, and Mr. Tisbett never caught him
till he'd chased him over into Hillsbury; and how once, when the
pole broke going down a hill, Black Bill had held Jerry from
kicking and plunging loose, and brought 'em all down in safety
to the bottom.

"I tell you, sir," declared Mr. Tisbett, bringing his big fist
down on his knee, "that's a horse for you, ef ever there was one.
And you shall go along of me sometime, Joe, and have a ride in
th' stage-coach again, if your Ma'll let you."

"Hooray!" cried Joel, hugely pleased. "When I'm a man, Mr.
Tisbett, I'm goin' to have a stage just like yours, and two
horses just exactly like Black Bill."

"Take my advice," said the stage-driver, "an don't try to get
two horses exactly alike, 'cause you're bound to be disappointed.
Now there's Jerry; ain't a mite like Black Bill, but he's awful good
to run along with him."

"Then I shall have one like Jerry, instead," decided Joel,
folding his hands in great satisfaction, since Mr. Tisbett
advised it so. "Now I'm going to finish my circus, and be
monkey." And he began to get down from the stage-driver's knee.

"You hold on there," said Mr. Tisbett, firmly; "you've been
monkey long enough, and scart your Ma and all on us nigh almost
to death. Don't you go up that tree again, Joel Pepper! If you
do, I won't take you on no more stage rides with me. The bigger
children waved their handkerchiefs and shouted "Air balloon!"

Some of the little ones joined in the cry, and so forgot their
sorrows, but others resumed their sobbing, and would not care
for balloons or anything else, but only wanted to go home
to their mothers.

The balloon came sailing onwards, seeming to grow larger and
larger the nearer it approached. Within its car sat the fairy
Corianda.

It slowly descended in front of the palace, and whilst it
rested on the ground the fairy stepped out; then it
re-ascended and floated about in the air.

"Well, now! what is the matter with you all?" said the fairy,
going among the children and soothing the afflicted ones.
"Why are you all so sad and unhappy? Are you tired of being
in this pretty island? and do you really want to go back to
Noviland?"

"Yes, yes; please take us home again," they all cried. "We have
been very happy here, but now we want to go home to our dear mammas
and papas.

Please do take us home!"
"Very well," said the fairy; "as you wish it you shall all be
back in your own old homes to-morrow morning. So bid good-bye
to Child Island, and don't cry any more."
Then the fairy waved her hand, and immediately a silvery mist
surrounded them; the palace and the pretty houses became less and
less distinct, until there was only a faint and shadowy outline of
them; then the mist grew thicker, and each child became alarmed at
finding itself separated from all its companions, and on striving
to call out it could not.

Thicker and thicker grew the mist until it was quite dark, and
the children, parted from each other, were bewildered and
knew not where they were.

Presently the mist gradually cleared away, and then, instead of
Child Island and the pretty houses, each child found itself in its
own bed at Noviland.

"Tisn't a cake--it's an animal," corrected Joel, irritably.

"Yes, yes--so 'tis a cake," repeated Grandma Bascom, taking the
animal.

"'Tisn't," said Joel. "Mamsie, make her stop saying things that
aren't so, over and over."

"Joel," said Polly, quickly, "Mrs. Beebe hasn't any animal. Why
don't you give her a--let me see," and she considered deeply.
"I'd give her a bird, Joel, here's a lovely one," and she
pounced on a most remarkable specimen in the bird line one would
wish to see. "Mrs. Beebe, wouldn't you like that?" she asked.

"Oh, I should so," replied Mrs. Beebe, smiling all over her face
to see how well Joel was, and putting out her hand. "Bless your
heart, Joel, I'd rather have the bird than any other."

"Had you?" asked Joel, greatly pleased.

"Yes, indeed I had. I always set dreadfully by birds," said Mrs.
Beebe. So Joel gave her the bird, then he leaned over and picked
out a horse, very much baked on one side, and with one leg shorter
than the other "That's for you, Mr. Tisbett," he said.

"That suits me," said Mr. Tisbett, heartily. "Well, now I never!
Seems to me I can't eat it, 'twould be almost like chewing up a
critter, but I'll keep it to remember you by," and he slipped it
into his big pocket. Then he got up and shook himself. "And now
I must be a-goin'. Don't you be a mite worried, Mrs. Pepper,
take my advice; that boy'll scare you more times than you can
count. So you might as well get used to it. Now look sharp, Joe,
and remember what you promised."

"Phronsie must have the--"

"Oh, Joey, I want the piggie, I do," cried Phronsie, whose eyes
had been fastened on the cooky animals ever since Polly had
brought them up on the beautiful green leaves. "May I, Joel?"
she begged.

"Hoh, that isn't good!" said Joel, disdainfully. "He's a horrid
old pig."

"Hush, Joey," said Polly, and her face turned rosy red,
remembering Mrs. Beebe. But old Mrs. Beebe only laughed, and
said she knew the pig wasn't baked good, he would whirl over
on one side in the pan. And sometime she would bake Joel a
good nice one. But Phronsie kept on pleading for this particular
pig. "Do, Joel, please," she begged, "give me the dear, sweet
piggie." So Joel put it in her hand, when she cuddled it lovingly
up against her fat little neck, not thinking of such a thing as
eating it.

And then David must pick out the one he wanted, and then Ben.
And then all over again, around and around, till there wasn't
another cooky animal left. And when he saw that, Joel hopped
down from Mamsie's lap and marched up to Mrs. Beebe. "Your
animals were better'n mine," he said.

"They don't tumble out of trees," said Mrs. Beebe, laughing. And
then everybody got very merry, and Polly said, Could they play a
game? and Mrs. Pepper looked at Joel hopping about, and she said,
Yes, with a glad thrill that her boy was safe. "It will help him
to forget his accident," she said to Polly. So after all, the
circus wound up with a fine ending.

And in the midst of it Mrs. Brown came panting over, having
run nearly every step of the way. When she saw Joel spinning
around in The Barberry Bush, she leaned against the side of the
little brown house, and said, "O my!"

Mrs. Pepper hurried over to her. "Sally ran home and said Joel
had tumbled from a tree, so I brought these over as soon's I
could," panted Mrs. Brown, opening her apron, and there were
ever so many bottles of medicine.

"O dear me!" exclaimed Mrs. Pepper, with a thankful throb to
think they were not wanted, and, "You are so good, Mrs. Brown."

"So we go round the barberry bush," sang Joel, piping out the
loudest of any one, and kicking up his heels as he danced.

"Dear me!" said Mrs. Brown, "I never did, in all my life! Just
hear that boy!"

And she hadn't been gone but a moment or two, carrying her apron
full of medicines with her, before Mrs. Henderson came hurrying
along down the dusty road. Her face was flushed, and she looked
anxious enough. Mrs. Pepper said, "Run, Polly, and meet her, and
tell her Joel is all right. Bless her! She is a parson's wife!"

So Polly ran with all her might, and stood before Mrs. Henderson,
flushed and almost breathless.

"Joey's all well," she managed to say.

"Thank you, Polly," said Mrs. Henderson, smiling down into the
flushed face. "And I am so glad to know it, for Peletiah came
home very frightened. Well, take your mother this. Stay, I
better go and see her, I guess." So she went up to the little
group back in the orchard, and heard all about Joel's accident
from himself, as he wanted to tell it all, up to the time when
they picked him up.

Mrs. Henderson wiped her eyes many times during the recital,
then she drew Joel to her. "You must come over to see my new
chickens some day."

"I'll go to-morrow," said Joel, sociably, "if Mamsie'll let me."

"Oh, Joey!" reproved Mrs. Pepper. "Please excuse him," to Mrs.
Henderson, "he doesn't think what he is saying."

"So you shall, Joey," said the parson's wife, with a pleasant
smile, "and bring the others with you. "Besides, we have not
got a slipper," said the queen, "and I'm sure none of you shall
take your shoes off, or you will catch cold."

"I wish we had a slipper," whimpered a little voice.

At that moment there popped down amongst them, as if it had
been thrown from some high tree, a high-heeled silver slipper,
studded with rubies and emeralds.

"Oh!" screamed all of them, starting back and forming a circle
around it, "where did that come from?"

"Isn't it a beauty!" said one.

"How it sparkles!" said another.

"Why don't you pick it up?" said Edmund, nudging the little
Teresa, who stood next to him.

"I'm afraid," said she.

"It's alive, isn't it?"
"No; it won't hurt you," replied he. "Pick it up."
Half afraid, Teresa crept cautiously forward, and, stooping down,
reached out her hand to take up the treasure; but before she could
touch it, it bounded up with such a spring as caused her to scream
and run hastily back.

Then it jumped over Amanda's head, just tapped her on the shoulder,
as much as to say, "Come, catch me," and was lying some dozen yards
off on the other side of the group before any of them could have
said "Peter Piper."

"I know what it is," cried Alphonse; "it's a fairy slipper.
The fairy has sent it for us to play with."
"It's a fairy slipper! It's a fairy slipper!" they all cried.
"Let's hunt the fairy slipper!"

Off they started, the king and queen joining in the chase this time,
and enjoying it, being without their crowns and trains.

Master Edmund was foremost, but he overbalanced himself and
lay sprawling on the ground, whilst the slipper jumped up into
a tree. Philip and Alphonse, being the biggest boys, began
immediately to climb up after it.

But no sooner had Alphonse reached the bough where it was
perched than it sprang off, rapped him on the nose, and
slid down the opposite side of the tree, giving the king's leg
a sharp kick as it passed by.

"Where has it gone?" cried the two, rapidly descending the
tree.

"I don't know," was the general rejoinder, uttered in chorus.

"There it is!" cried Ernest, "hopping across the meadow."
[Illustration: LUGANO. (_See page 90._)]
The whole troop raised a loud shout, and scampered off after it,
the biggest first, and the little ones running in the rear as fast
as their short legs would carry them, and hallooing with the loudest.Presently Joel broke the silence. "I'm going to take out one,"
he said.

"Oh, no, Joe!" cried Davie, in alarm, and tumbling backward from
the coop.

"Yes, I am," said Joel, obstinately, who never could brook
interference. "It won't hurt it a bit, and I'll put it right
back."

Phronsie didn't hear him, her whole attention being absorbed by
the wonderful chickens. So Joel cautiously pulled up one slat of
the coop a very little way. "There, you see," he cried in
exultation, "I can do it just as easy as not;" when a bee,
humming its way along, stung him smartly on the arm, and Joel
twitched so suddenly that up went the slat quite high, and
before he could stop them, out walked the old mother hen, and
two of her children.

"Oh, Joe, Joe! they're out!" screamed David. Phronsie rolled
over on the grass in a little ball, as Joel knocked against her,
and nobody thought for a moment of shutting the bar down. So
three more chickens stepped out and hopped away over the grass.

"Oh, Joe, Joe, they're all coming out!" cried David, quite
beside himself with horror.

"Shut the bar! shut the bar!" screamed Joel, running hither and
thither, and only making the mother frantic, in her efforts to
get away from him, and to protect her brood.

"I can't," mourned Davie, tugging bravely at it. So Joel stopped
chasing the hen and the chickens, and rushed up to slam down the
bar, and two more chickens having hopped out in the meantime,
there they were--seven downy little balls, hurrying about in a
great state of excitement to reach mother, who was clucking
noisily for them to hurry and come under her wing.

"Oh, Joe! see what you've done," cried Davie, in distress,
trying to help in every direction, but only succeeding in
getting in the way. "O dear me! You can't ever get 'em back in
the coop, in all this world." Phronsie, meanwhile, picked
herself up, and eagerly entered into the chase, gurgling in
delight as she pattered first after one little fluffy ball, and
then another.

"Yes, I can," said Joel, confidently, rushing here and there.
"You stand still, Dave, and don't let 'em get by you. Then
I'll drive 'em up."

But after about five minutes of this sort of work, Joel found
that he couldn't do it very well, for as fast as he got one
chicken headed for David, the others all scattered in every
direction, while Mistress Biddy scampered and waddled and
clacked to her children, till the parsonage garden seemed full
of hens and chickens. At last Joel stopped and wiped his hot
face, David looking at him from a distance in despair.

"You stay there, Dave, I'm going to tell 'em," and Joel marched
off with an awful feeling at his heart. But he didn't dare to
stop to think about it, but mounted the steps of the parsonage
and went down the wide hall. There was nobody to be seen, and
Joel was just going to run out to the kitchen, if, perhaps, Mrs.
Henderson could be found there. Suddenly the study door opened,
and there stood the minister himself in the doorway.

"Well, Joel," said Parson Henderson, kindly, "I'm glad to see
you. Do you want anything, my boy?"

Joel's knees knocked together, but he answered, "I've let all
the hens and chickens out."

"You've let all the hens and chickens out?" repeated the
minister, but he only half understood, and stood staring down
into Joel's black eyes.

"Yes, sir," said Joel, twisting his brown hands together tightly.
If he should cry now, before his story was told, maybe the
minister would never get those chickens into the coop. He must
make him understand. "They're all running everywhere in the
grass," he added miserably.

"Do you mean Mrs. Henderson's new chickens?" asked the minister,
starting a bit. Then he added composedly, "Oh, no, Joel, they're
quite safe. She is very particular about looking after the coop
herself."

"But they are," gasped Joel. Then he forgot that it was the
minister, and seized his hand. "Please--they're running awfully,
and they'll die, maybe."

Parson Henderson bestowed on him a long searching gaze. "How did
they get out?" he asked.

"I let 'em out," blurted Joel, "and they're all running. Do come,
sir." And he fairly tugged at the minister's hand as if it had
been David's.

The parson went swiftly down the long hall, Joel hanging to his
hand. Just then a voice called down the winding stairs,
_"Jotham! Jotham!"_

It was Miss Jerusha. Joel gave one glance up the stairs, and
held tighter than ever to the minister's hand. "Do come," he
cried, in an agony. "Oh, please! sir."

"Mehitable's chickens are out!" screamed Miss Jerusha, now
appearing at the top of the stairs. She was in a short gown and
petticoat, and had been doing up her hair, having just taken the
ends of the side wisps out of her mouth, where she had conveyed
them for the easier combing of the back locks.

"I know it," said Parson Henderson, quietly; "Joel has just told
me." With that he pressed the little brown hand that was in his
own.

"Go back to your room, Jerusha," he said. "I'll see to the
chickens."

