Produced by Kevin Handy, Suzanne Lybarger, Martin Pettit
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net


SUCCESSFUL METHODS OF PUBLIC SPEAKING


_By Grenville Kleiser_


Inspiration and Ideals
How to Build Mental Power
How to Develop Self-Confidence in Speech and Manner
How to Read and Declaim
How to Speak in Public
How to Develop Power and Personality in Speaking
Great Speeches and How to Make Them
How to Argue and Win
Humorous Hits and How to Hold an Audience
Complete Guide to Public Speaking
Talks on Talking
Fifteen Thousand Useful Phrases
The World's Great Sermons
Mail Course in Public Speaking
Mail Course in Practical English
How to Speak Without Notes
Something to Say: How to Say It
Successful Methods of Public Speaking
Model Speeches for Practise
The Training of a Public Speaker
How to Sell Through Speech
Impromptu Speeches: How to Make Them
Word-Power: How to Develop It
Christ: The Master Speaker
Vital English for Speakers and Writers


Successful Methods of Public Speaking

BY GRENVILLE KLEISER

_Formerly Instructor in Public Speaking at Yale Divinity School, Yale
University. Author of "How to Speak in Public," "Great Speeches and How
to Make Them," "Complete Guide to Public Speaking," "How to Build Mental
Power," "Talks on Talking," etc., etc._

[Illustration: Publisher's logo]

FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY

NEW YORK AND LONDON

1919

COPYRIGHT, 1920, BY

GRENVILLE KLEISER

[_Printed in the United States of America_]

Published, February, 1920

Copyright Under the Articles of the Copyright Convention of the
Pan-American Republics and the United States, August 11, 1910


PREFACE


As you carefully study the successful methods of public speakers, as
briefly set forth in this book, you will observe that there is nothing
that can be substituted for personal sincerity. Unless you thoroughly
believe in the message you wish to convey to others, you are not likely
to impress them favorably.

It was said of an eminent British orator, that when one heard him speak
in public, one instinctively felt that there was something finer in the
man than in anything he said.

Therein lies the key to successful oratory. When the truth of your
message is deeply engraved on your own mind; when your own heart has
been touched as by a living flame; when your own character and
personality testify to the innate sincerity and nobility of your life,
then your speech will be truly eloquent, and men will respond to your
fervent appeal.

                                                  GRENVILLE KLEISER.

New York City,
August, 1919.


CONTENTS

                                         PAGE

PREFACE                                     v

SUCCESSFUL METHODS OF PUBLIC SPEAKING      11

STUDY OF MODEL SPEECHES                    55

HISTORY OF PUBLIC SPEAKING                 91

EXTRACTS FOR STUDY, WITH LESSON TALK      117

HOW TO SPEAK IN PUBLIC                    145


SUCCESSFUL METHODS OF PUBLIC SPEAKING


You can acquire valuable knowledge for use in your own public speaking
by studying the successful methods of other men. This does not mean,
however, that you are to imitate others, but simply to profit by their
experience and suggestions in so far as they fit in naturally with your
personality.

All successful speakers do not speak alike. Each man has found certain
things to be effective in his particular case, but which would not
necessarily be suited to a different type of speaker.

When, therefore, you read the following methods of various men, ask
yourself in each case whether you can apply the ideas to advantage in
your own speaking. Put the method to a practical test, and decide for
yourself whether it is advisable for you to adopt it or not.


Requirements of Effective Speaking

There are certain requirements in public speaking which you and every
other speaker must observe. You must be grammatical, intelligent, lucid,
and sincere. These are essential. You must know your subject thoroughly,
and have the ability to put it into pleasing and persuasive form.

But beyond these considerations there are many things which must be left
to your temperament, taste, and individuality. C, September 12, 1862.

HON.

ALEXANDER HENRY, Philadelphia:

Yours of to-day received. General Halleck has made the best provision he
can for generals in Pennsylvania. Please do not be offended when I
assure you that in my confident belief Philadelphia is in no danger.

Governor Curtin has just telegraphed me:
"I have advices that Jackson is crossing the Potomac at Williamsport, and
probably the whole rebel army will be drawn from Maryland." At all
events, Philadelphia is more than 150 miles from Hagerstown, and
could not be reached by the rebel army in ten days, if no hindrance
was interposed.

A. LINCOLN.

TELEGRAM TO GENERAL G. B. McCLELLAN.

WASHINGTON CITY, D.C., September 12, 1862. 5.45 PM
MAJOR-GENERAL McCLELLAN:

Governor Curtin telegraphs me:
"I have advices that Jackson is crossing the Potomac at Williamsport,
and probably the whole rebel army will be down from Maryland."

Receiving nothing from Harper's Ferry or Martinsburg to-day, and
positive information from Wheeling that the line is cut, corroborates
the idea that the enemy is crossing the Potomac.

Please do not let him get off without being hurt.

A. LINCOLN.

[But he did!

D.W.]

REPLY TO A COMMITTEE FROM THE RELIGIOUS DENOMINATIONS OF CHICAGO, ASKING
THAT THE PRESIDENT ISSUE A PROCLAMATION OF EMANCIPATION.

September 13,1862.

The subject presented in the memorial is one upon which I have
thought much for weeks past, and I may even say for months. I am
approached with the most opposite opinions and advice, and that by religious
men, who are equally certain that they represent the Divine will.
I am sure that either the one or the other class is mistaken in
that belief, and perhaps in some respects both.

I hope it will not be irreverent for me to say that if it is probable
that God would reveal his will to others, on a point so connected
with my duty, it might be supposed he would reveal it directly
to me; for, unless I am more deceived in myself than I often am, it is
my earnest desire to know the will of Providence in this matter.

And if I can learn what it is I will do it!

These are not, however, the days of miracles, and I suppose it will be
granted that I am not to expect a direct revelation. I must study
the plain physical facts of the case, ascertain what is possible, and
learn what appears to be wise and right.
The subject is difficult, and good men do not agree.Bear in mind, however, that this does not mean you are always to confine
yourself to a conversational level. There are themes which demand large
treatment, wherein vocal power and impassioned feeling are appropriate
and essential. But what Lord Brougham meant, and it is equally true
to-day, was that good public speaking is fundamentally good talking.


_Edmund Burke_

Edmund Burke recommended debate as one of the best means for developing
facility and power in public speaking. Himself a master of debate, he
said, "He that wrestles with us strengthens our nerves and sharpens our
skill. Our antagonist is our helper. This amiable conflict with
difficulty obliges us to have an intimate acquaintance with our subject,
and compels us to consider it in all its relations. It will not suffer
us to be superficial."

Burke, like all great orators, believed in premeditation, and always
wrote and corrected his speeches with fastidious care. While such men
knew that inspiration might come at the moment of speaking, they
preferred to base their chances of success upon painstaking preparation.


_Massillon_

Massillon, the great French divine, spoke in a commanding voice and in a
style so direct that at times he almost overwhelmed his hearers. His
pointed and personal questions could not be evaded. He sent truth like
fiery darts to the hearts of his hearers.

I ask you to note very carefully the following eloquent passage from a
sermon in which he explained how men justified themselves because they
were no worse than the multitude:

"On this account it is, my brethren, that I confine myself to you who at
present are assembled here; I include not the rest of men, but consider
you as alone existing on the earth. The idea which occupies and
frightens me is this: I figure to myself the present as your last hour
and the end of the world; that the heavens are going to open above your
heads; our Savior, in all His glory, to appear in the midst of the
temple; and that you are only assembled here to wait His coming; like
trembling criminals on whom the sentence is to be pronounced, either of
life eternal or of everlasting death; for it is vain to flatter
yourselves that you shall die more innocent than you are at this hour.
All those desires of change with which you are amused will continue to
amuse you till death arrives, the experience of all ages proves it; the
only difference you have to expect will most likely be a larger balance
against you than what you would have to answer for at present; and from
what would be your destiny were you to be judged this moment, you may
almost decide upon what will take place at your departure from life.
Now, I ask you (and connecting my own lot with yours I ask with dread),
were Jesus Christ to appear in this temple, in the midst of this
assembly, to judge us, to make the dreadful separation betwixt the goats
and sheep, do you believe that the greatest number of us would be placed
at His right hand? Do you believe that the number would at least be
equal? Do you believe there would even be found ten upright and
faithful servants of the Lord, when formerly five cities could not
furnish so many? I ask you. You know not, and I know it not. Thou alone,
O my God, knowest who belong to Thee. But if we know not who belong to
Him, at least we know that sinners do not. Now, who are the just and
faithful assembled here at present? Titles and dignities avail nothing,
you are stript of all these in the presence of your Savior. Petronius
had for him a certain weakness bordering on attachment, for Marcus was
beautiful and athletic, a young man who knew how to preserve a certain
aesthetic measure in his profligacy; this, Petronius prized above
everything.

"A greeting to Petronius," said the young man, entering the tepidarium
with a springy step. "May all the gods grant thee success, but especially
Asklepios and Kypris, for under their double protection nothing
evil can meet one."

"I greet thee in Rome, and may thy rest be sweet after war," replied
Petronius, extending his hand from between the folds of soft karbas
stuff in which he was wrapped.

"What's to be heard in Armenia; or since thou wert in Asia, didst
thou not stumble into Bithynia?"
Petronius on a time had been proconsul in Bithynia, and, what is more, he
had governed with energy and justice.

This was a marvellous contrast in the character of a man noted for
effeminacy and love of luxury; hence he was fond of mentioning those
times, as they were a proof of what he had been, and of what he might
have become had it pleased him.

"I happened to visit Heraklea," answered Vinicius.

"Corbulo sent me there with an order to assemble reinforcements."
"Ah, Heraklea! I knew at Heraklea a certain maiden from Colchis, for
whom I would have given all the divorced women of this city, not excluding
Poppæa. But these are old stories. Tell me now, rather, what is
to be heard from the Parthian boundary.

It is true that they weary me every Vologeses of them, and Tiridates
and Tigranes,--those barbarians who, as young Arulenus insists,
walk on all fours at home, and pretend to be human only when in our
presence.

But now people in Rome speak much of them, if only for the reason that
it is dangerous to speak of aught else."
"The war is going badly, and but for Corbulo might be turned to defeat."

"Corbulo! by Bacchus!

a real god of war, a genuine Mars, a great leader, at the same time
quick-tempered, honest, and dull. I love him, even for this,--that
Nero is afraid of him."
"Corbulo is not a dull man."
"Perhaps thou art right, but for that matter it is all one.

Dulness, as Pyrrho says, is in no way worse than wisdom, and differs
from it in nothing."

Vinicius began to talk of the war; but when Petronius closed his eyes
again, the young man, seeing his uncle's tired and somewhat
emaciated face, changed the conversation, and inquired with a
certain interest about his health.

Petronius opened his eyes again.
Health!--No. He did not feel well.This practise duly
produced a most flexible instrument, which served him throughout his
brilliant career. He said:

"I had from childhood impediments of speech arising from a large palate,
so that when a boy I used to be laughed at for talking as if I had a
pudding in my mouth. When I went to Amherst, I was fortunate in passing
into the hands of John Lovell, a teacher of elocution, and a better
teacher for my purpose I can not conceive of. His system consisted in
drill, or the thorough practise of inflections by the voice, of gesture,
posture and articulation. Sometimes I was a whole hour practising my
voice on a word--like justice. I would have to take a posture,
frequently at a mark chalked on the floor. Then we would go through all
the gestures, exercising each movement of the arm and throwing open the
hand. All gestures except those of precision go in curves, the arm
rising from the side, coming to the front, turning to the left or
right. I was drilled as to how far the arm should come forward, where it
should start from, how far go back, and under what circumstances these
movements should be made. It was drill, drill, drill, until the motions
almost became a second nature. Now, I never know what movements I shall
make. My gestures are natural, because this drill made them natural to
me. The only method of acquiring effective elocution is by practise, of
not less than an hour a day, until the student has his voice and himself
thoroughly subdued and trained to get right expression."


_Lord Bolingbroke_

Lord Bolingbroke made it a rule always to speak well in daily
conversation, however unimportant the occasion. His taste and accuracy
at last gave him a style in ordinary speech worthy to have been put
into print as it fell from his lips.


_Lord Chatham_

Lord Chatham, despite his great natural endowments for speaking, devoted
a regular time each day to developing a varied and copious vocabulary.
He twice examined each word in the dictionary, from beginning to end, in
his ardent desire to master the English language.


_John Philpot Curran_

The well-known case of John Philpot Curran should give encouragement to
every aspiring student of public speaking. He was generally known as
"Orator Mum," because of his failure in his first attempt at public
speaking. But he resolved to develop his oratorical powers, and devoted
every morning to intense reading. In addition, he regularly carried in
his pocket a small copy of a classic for convenient reading at odd
moments.

It is said that he daily practised declamation before a looking-glass,
closely scrutinizing his gesture, posture, and manner. He was an earnest
student of public speaking, and eventually became one of the most
eloquent of world orators.


_Balfour_

Among present-day speakers in England Mr. Balfour occupies a leading
place. He possesses the gift of never saying a word too much, a habit
which might be copied to advantage by many public speakers. His habit
during a debate is to scribble a few words on an envelop, and then to
speak with rare facility of English style.


_Bonar Law_

Bonar Law does not use any notes in the preparation of a speech, but
carefully thinks out the various parts, and then by means of a series of
"mental rehearsals" fixes them indelibly in his mind. The result of this
conscientious practise has made him a formidable debater and extempore
speaker.


_ --BEATRICE M.

BARRY, in the _Banquet Table_.

We can't to-night! We're overworked and busy; We've got a lot of
paragraphs to write; Although your invitation drives us dizzy, We can't
to-night!

But, Trixie, we admit we're greatly smit with The heart you
picture--incandescent, white.
We must confess that you have made a hit with Us here to-night.

O Beatrice!

O Tempora! O Heaven!
List to our lyre the while the strings we smite; Where shall you be
at--well, say half-past seven To-morrow night?

Those Two Boys

When Bill was a lad he was terribly bad.
He worried his parents a lot; He'd lie and he'd swear and pull little
girls' hair; His boyhood was naught but a blot.

At play and in school he would fracture each rule-- In mischief
from autumn to spring; And the villagers knew when to manhood he
grew He would never amount to a thing.

When Jim was a child he was not very wild; He was known as a good
little boy; He was honest and bright and the teacher's delight-- To
his mother and father a joy.

All the neighbours were sure that his virtue'd endure, That his
life would be free of a spot; They were certain that Jim had a great
head on him And that Jim would amount to a lot.

And Jim grew to manhood and honour and fame And bears a good name;
While Bill is shut up in a dark prison cell-- You never can tell.

Help

The Passionate Householder to his Love

Come, live with us and be our cook, And we will all the whimsies brook
That German, Irish, Swede, and Slav And all the dear domestics
have.

And you shall sit upon the stoop What time we go and cook the soup,
And you shall hear, both night and day, Melodious pianolas play.

And we will make the beds, of course, You'll have two autos and a
horse, A lady to Marcel your tresses, And all the madame's half-worn
dresses.

Your gowns shall be of lace and silk, Your laving shall be done in
milk.
Two trained physicians when you cough, And Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays
off.

When you are mashing Irish spuds You'll wear the very finest duds.
If good to you these prospects look, Come, live with us and be our
cook.
On callers we have put no stops, We love the iceman and the cops,
And no alarm clock with its ticks And bell to ring at half-past
six.
O Gretchen, Bridget, Hulda, Mary, Come, be our genius culinary.
If good to you these prospects look, Come, live with us and be our
cook.

The Servants
With genuflexions to Kipling's _"The Ladies"_
We've taken our cooks where we've found 'em; We've answered many
an ad; We've had our pickin' o' servants, And most of the lot was
bad.
Some was Norahs an' Bridgets; Tillie she came last fall; Claras and
Fannies and Lenas and Annies, And now we've got none at all.
Now, we don't know much about servants, For, takin' 'em all along,
You never can tell till you've tried 'em, And then you are like to
be wrong.There are speakers who have successfully used the plan of committing to
memory significant sentences, statements, or sayings, and skilfully
embodying them in their speeches. You might test this method for
yourself, tho it is attended with danger.

If possible, join a local debating society, where you will have
excellent opportunity for practise in thinking and speaking on your
feet. Many distinguished public speakers have owed their fluency of
speech and self-confidence to early practise in debate.


THE VALUE OF REPETITION

Persuasion is a task of skill. You must bring to your aid in speaking
every available resource. An effective weapon at times is a "remorseless
iteration." Have the courage to repeat yourself as often as may be
necessary to impress your leading ideas upon the minds of your hearers.
Note the forensic maxim, "tell a judge twice whatever you want him to
hear; tell a special jury thrice, and a common jury half a dozen times,
the view of a case you wish them to entertain."


THE NEED OF SELF-CONFIDENCE

Whatever methods of premeditation you adopt in the preparation of a
speech, having planned everything to the best of your ability, dismiss
from your mind all anxiety and all thought about yourself.

Right preparation and earnest practise should give you a full degree of
confidence in your ability to perform the task before you. When you
stand at last before the audience, it should be with the assurance that
you are thoroughly equipped to say something of real interest and
importance.


THE POWER OF PERSONALITY

Personality plays a vital part in a speaker's success. Gladstone
described Cardinal Newman's manner in the pulpit as unsatisfactory if
considered in its separate parts. "There was not much change in the
inflection of his voice; action there was none; his sermons were read,
and his eyes were always on his book; and all that, you will say, is
against efficiency in preaching. Yes; but you take the man as a whole,
and there was a stamp and a seal upon him, there was solemn music and
sweetness in his tone, there was a completeness in the figure, taken
together with the tone and with the manner, which made even his delivery
such as I have described it, and tho exclusively with written sermons,
singularly attractive."


THE DANGER OF IMITATION

It is a fatal mistake, as I have said, to set out deliberately to
imitate some favorite speaker, and to mold your style after his. You
will observe certain things and methods in other speakers which will fit
in naturally with your style and temperament. To this extent you may
advantageously adopt them, but always be on your guard against anything
which might in the slightest degree impair your own individuality.


Speech for Study, with Lesson Talk

FEATURES OF AN ELOQUENT ADDRESS


You will find useful material for study and practise in the speech which
follows, delivered by Lord Rosebery at the Unveiling of the Statue of
Gladstone at Glasgow, Scotland, October 11th, 1902.

The English style is noteworthy for its uniform charm and naturalness.
There is an unmistakable personal note which contributes greatly to the
effect of the speaker's words.

This eloquent address is a model for such an occasion, and a good
illustration of the work of a speaker thoroughly familiar with his
theme. It has sufficient variety to sustain interest, dignity in keeping
with the subject, and a note of inspiration which would profoundly
impress an audience of thinking men. It is a scholarly address.

Note the concise introductory sentences. Repeat them aloud and observe
how easily they flow from the lips. Notice the balance and variety of
successive sentences, the stately diction, and the underlying tone of
deep sincerity.

Examine every phrase and sentence of this eloquent speech. Study the
conclusion and particularly the closing paragraph. When you have
thoroughly analyzed the speech, stand up and render it aloud in
clear-cut tones and appropriately dignified style.


SPEECH FOR STUDY

AT THE UNVEILING OF THE STATUE OF GLADSTONE

(_Address of Lord Rosebery_)

I am here to-day to unveil the image of one of the great figures of our
country. It is right and fitting that it should stand here. A statue of
Mr. Gladstone is congenial in any part of Scotland. But in this Scottish
city, teeming with eager workers, endowed with a great University, a
center of industry, commerce, and thought, a statue of William Ewart
Gladstone is at home.

But you in Glasgow have more personal claims to a share in the
inheritance of Mr. Gladstone's fame. I, at any rate, can recall one
memory--the record of that marvelous day in December, 1879, nearly
twenty-three years ago, when the indomitable old man delivered his
rectorial address to the students at noon, a long political speech in
St. Andrew's Hall in the evening, and a substantial discourse on
receiving an address from the Corporation at ten o'clock at night. Some
of you may have been present at all these gatherings, some only at the
political meeting. If they were, they may remember the little incidents
of the meeting--the glasses which were hopelessly lost and then, of
course, found on the orator's person--the desperate candle brought in,
stuck in a water-bottle, to attempt sufficient light to read an extract.
And what a meeting it was--teeming, delirious, absorbed! Do you have
such meetings now? They seem to me pretty good; but the meetings of that
time stand out before all others in my mind.

This statue is erected, not out of the national subscription, but by the
contributions from men of all creeds in Glasgow and in the West. I must
then, in what I have to say, leave out altogether the political aspect
of Mr. Gladstone. In some cases such a rule would omit all that was
interesting in a man. There are characters, from which if you
subtracted politics, there would be nothing left. It was not so with
Mr. Gladstone.

To the great mass of his fellow-countrymen he was of course a statesman,
wildly worshipped by some, wildly detested by others. But, to those who
were privileged to know him, his politics seemed but the least part of
him. The predominant part, to which all else was subordinated, was his
religion; the life which seemed to attract him most was the life of the
library; the subject which engrossed him most was the subject of the
moment, whatever it might be, and that, when he was out of office, was
very rarely politics. Indeed, I sometimes doubt whether his natural bent
was toward politics at all. Had his course taken him that way, as it
very nearly did, he would have been a great churchman, greater perhaps
than any that this island has known; he would have been a great
professor, if you could have found a university big enough to hold him;
he would have been a great historian, a great bookman, he would have
grappled with whole libraries and wrestled with academies, had the fates
placed him in a cloister; indeed it is difficult to conceive the career,
except perhaps the military, in which his energy and intellect and
application would not have placed him on a summit. Politics, however,
took him and claimed his life service, but, jealous mistress as she is,
could never thoroughly absorb him.

Such powers as I have indicated seem to belong to a giant and a prodigy,
and I can understand many turning away from the contemplation of such a
character, feeling that it is too far removed from them to interest
them, and that it is too unapproachable to help them--that it is like
reading of Hercules or Hector, mythical heroes whose achievements the
actual living mortal can not hope to rival. Well, that is true enough;
we have not received intellectual faculties equal to Mr. Gladstone's,
and can not hope to vie with him in their exercise. But apart from them,
his great force was character, and amid the vast multitude that I am
addressing, there is none who may not be helped by him.

The three signal qualities which made him what he was, were courage,
industry, and faith; dauntless courage, unflagging industry, a faith
which was part of his fiber; these were the levers with which he moved
the world.

I do not speak of his religious faith, that demands a worthier speaker
and another occasion. But no one who knew Mr. Gladstone could fail to
see that it was the essence, the savor, the motive power of his life.
Strange as it may seem, I can not doubt that while this attracted many
to him, it alienated others, others not themselves irreligious, but who
suspected the sincerity of so manifest a devotion, and who, reared in
the moderate atmosphere of the time, disliked the intrusion of religious
considerations into politics. These, however, though numerous enough,
were the exceptions, and it can not, I think, be questioned that Mr.
Gladstone not merely raised the tone of public discussion, but quickened
and renewed the religious feeling of the society in which he moved.

But this is not the faith of which I am thinking to-day. What is present
to me is the faith with which he espoused and pursued great causes.
There also he had faith sufficient to move mountains, and did sometimes
move mountains. He did not lightly resolve, he came to no hasty
conclusion, but when he had convinced himself that a cause was right,
it engrossed him, it inspired him, with a certainty as deep-seated and
as imperious as ever moved mortal man. To him, then, obstacles,
objections, the counsels of doubters and critics were as nought, he
pressed on with the passion of a whirlwind, but also with the steady
persistence of some puissant machine.

He had, of course, like every statesman, often to traffic with
expediency, he had always, I suppose, to accept something less than his
ideal, but his unquenchable faith, not in himself--tho that with
experience must have waxed strong--not in himself but in his cause,
sustained him among the necessary shifts and transactions of the moment,
and kept his head high in the heavens.

Such faith, such moral conviction, is not given to all men, for the
treasures of his nature were in ingots, and not in dust. But there is,
perhaps, no man without some faith in some cause or some person; if so,
let him take heart, in however small a minority he may be, by
remembering how mighty a strength was Gladstone's power of faith.

His next great force lay in his industry. I do not know if the
aspersions of "ca' canny" be founded, but at any rate there was no "ca'
canny" about him. From his earliest school-days, if tradition be true,
to the bed of death, he gave his full time and energy to work. No doubt
his capacity for labor was unusual. He would sit up all night writing a
pamphlet, and work next day as usual. An eight-hours' day would have
been a holiday to him, for he preached and practised the gospel of work
to its fullest extent. He did not, indeed, disdain pleasure; no one
enjoyed physical exercise, or a good play, or a pleasant dinner, more
than he; he drank in deep draughts of the highest and the best that life
had to offer; but even in pastime he was never idle. He did not know
what it was to saunter, he debited himself with every minute of his
time; he combined with the highest intellectual powers the faculty of
utilizing them to the fullest extent by intense application. Moreover,
his industry was prodigious in result, for he was an extraordinarily
rapid worker. Dumont says of Mirabeau, that till he met that marvelous
man he had no idea of how much could be achieved in a day. "Had I not
lived with him," he says, "I should not know what can be accomplished in
a day, all that can be comprest into an interval of twelve hours. A day
was worth more to him than a week or a month to others." Many men can be
busy for hours with a mighty small product, but with Mr. Gladstone
every minute was fruitful. That, no doubt, was largely due to his
marvelous powers of concentration. When he was staying at Dalmeny in
1879 he kindly consented to sit for his bust. The only difficulty was
that there was no time for sittings. So the sculptor with his clay model
was placed opposite Mr. Gladstone as he worked, and they spent the
mornings together, Mr. Gladstone writing away, and the clay figure of
himself less than a yard off gradually assuming shape and form. Anything
more distracting I can not conceive, but it had no effect on the busy
patient. And now let me make a short digression. I saw recently in your
newspapers that there was some complaint of the manners of the rising
generation in Glasgow. If that be so, they are heedless of Mr.
Gladstone's example. It might be thought that so impetuous a temper as
his might be occasionally rough or abrupt. That was not so. His
exquisite urbanity was one of his most conspicuous graces. I do not now
only allude to that grave, old-world courtesy, which gave so much
distinction to his private life; for his sweetness of manner went far
beyond demeanor. His spoken words, his letters, even when one differed
from him most acutely, were all marked by this special note. He did not
like people to disagree with him, few people do; but, so far as manner
went, it was more pleasant to disagree with Mr. Gladstone than to be in
agreement with some others.

Lastly, I come to his courage--that perhaps was his greatest quality,
for when he gave his heart and reason to a cause, he never counted the
cost. Most men are physically brave, and this nation is reputed to be
especially brave, but Mr. Gladstone was brave among the brave. He had
to the end the vitality of physical courage. When well on in his ninth
decade, well on to ninety, he was knocked over by a cab, and before the
bystanders could rally to his assistance, he had pursued the cab with a
view to taking its number. He had, too, notoriously, political courage
in a not less degree than Sir Robert Walpole. We read that George II,
who was little given to enthusiasm, would often cry out, with color
flushing into his cheeks, and tears sometimes in his eyes, and with a
vehement oath:--"He (Walpole) is a brave fellow; he has more spirit than
any man I ever knew."

ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

By the President:
WILLIAM H. SEWARD

TELEGRAM TO GENERAL J. HOOKER.

WASHINGTON, D. C. May 8, 1863. 4 P.M.

MAJOR-GENERAL HOOKER:

The news is here of the capture by our forces of Grand Gulf--a large
and very important thing. General Willich, an exchanged prisoner just
from Richmond, has talked with me this morning. He was there when our
cavalry cut the roads in that vicinity. He says there was not a sound
pair of legs in Richmond, and that our men, had they known it, could
have safely gone in and burned everything and brought in Jeff Davis. We
captured and paroled 300 or 400 men. He says as he came to City Point
there was an army three miles long (Longstreet's, he thought) moving
toward Richmond.

Muroy has captured a despatch of General Lee, in which he says his
loss was fearful in his last battle with you.

A. LINCOLN.

TELEGRAM TO GENERAL J. A. DIX.

WAR DEPARTMENT, May 9,1863.

MAJOR-GENERAL DIX:

It is very important for Hooker to know exactly what damage is done to
the railroads at all points between Fredericksburg and Richmond.

As yet we have no word as to whether the crossings of the North and South
Anna, or any of them, have been touched. There are four of these
Crossings; that is, one on each road on each stream. You readily
perceive why this information is desired. I suppose Kilpatrick or Davis
can tell. Please ascertain fully what was done, and what is the present
condition, as near as you can, and advise me at once.

A. LINCOLN.

TO SECRETARY SEWARD.

WASHINGTON, May 9, 1863
I believe Mr. L. is a good man, but two things need to be remembered.

1st. Mr. R.'

s rival was a relative of Mr. L.

2d. I hear of nobody calling Mr. R. a "Copperhead," but Mr.

L.
However, let us watch.

A. L.

TO SECRETARY STANTON.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, MAY 11, 1863
HON. SECRETARY OF WAR.

DEAR SIR:--I have again concluded to relieve General Curtis. I see no
other way to avoid the worst consequences there.

I think of General Schofield as his successor, but I do not wish to take
the matter of a successor out of the hands of yourself and General
Halleck.

Yours truly,
A. LINCOLN.

TELEGRAM TO GENERAL DIX.

WAR DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON CITY, May 11, 1863.

MAJOR-GENERAL DIX:

Do the Richmond papers have anything about Grand Gulf or Vicksburg?

A. LINCOLN.

TELEGRAM TO GENERAL BUTTERFIELD.
[Cipher.] WAR DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON CITY, May 11, 1863.

MAJOR-GENERAL BUTTERFIELD:

About what distance is it from the observatory we stopped at last Thursday
to the line of enemies' works you ranged the glass upon for
me?

A. LINCOLN.

TELEGRAM TO GOVERNOR SEYMOUR
EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, May 12, 1863.

GOVERNOR SEYMOUR, Albany, N.Y.:

Dr. Swinburne and Mr. Gillett are here, having been refused, as they say,
by the War Department, permission to go to the Army of the Potomac.
They now appeal to me, saying you wish them to go. I suppose they have
been excluded by a rule which experience has induced the department
to deem proper; still they shall have leave to go, if you say
you desire it. Please answer.

A. LINCOLN

TELEGRAM TO A. G. HENRY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON May 13,1863.

Dr. A. G. HENRY, Metropolitan Hotel, New York:

Governor Chase's feelings were hurt by my action in his absence.
Smith is removed, but Governor Chase wishes to name his successor, and
asks a day or two to make the designation.

A. LINCOLN.

TO GENERAL J. HOOKER.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, D.C.
May 14, 1863.

MAJOR-GENERAL HOOKER, Commanding.

MY DEAR SIR:--When I wrote on the 7th, I had an impression that
possibly by an early movement you could get some advantage from the
supposed facts that the enemy's communications were disturbed and
that he was somewhat deranged in position.

That idea has now passed away, the enemy having re-established his
communications, regained his positions, and actually received
reinforcements.

It does not now appear probable to me that you can gain anything by an
early renewal of the attempt to cross the Rappahannock. I therefore shall
not complain if you do no more for a time than to keep the enemy
at bay and out of other mischief by menaces and occasional cavalry
raids, if practicable, and to put your own army in good condition
again.

Still, if in your own clear judgment you can renew the attack successfully,
I do not mean to restrain you. Bearing upon this last point, I must
tell you that I have some painful intimations that some of your
corps and division commanders are not giving you their entire
confidence.

This would be ruinous, if true, and you should therefore, first of all,
ascertain the real facts beyond all possibility of doubt.

Yours truly,
A. LINCOLN.

FACTIONAL QUARRELS
TELEGRAM TO H. T. BLOW AND OTHERS.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, May 15, 1863.

HON. H. T. BLOW, C. D. DRAKE, AND OTHERS, St. Louis, Mo.:

Your despatch of to-day is just received. It is very painful to
me that you in Missouri cannot or will not settle your factional quarrel
among yourselves. I have been tormented with it beyond endurance for
months by both sides. Neither side pays the least respect to my
appeals to your reason. I am now compelled to take hold of the case.

A. LINCOLN.

TELEGRAM TO JAMES GUTHRIE.

WAR DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON CITY, May 16, 1863.

HON. JAMES GUTHRIE, Louisville, Ky.:

Your despatch of to-day is received.

I personally know nothing of Colonel Churchill, but months ago and
more than once he has been represented to me as exerting a mischievous
influence at Saint Louis, for which reason I am unwilling to force his
continuance there against the judgment of our friends on the ground; but
if it will oblige you, he may come to and remain at Louisville upon
taking the oath of allegiance, and your pledge for his good
behavior.

A. LINCOLN.

TO SECRETARY OF WAR.

WAR DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON CITY, May 16, 1863.

HON. SECRETARY OF WAR.

MY DEAR SIR:--The commander of the Department at St. Louis has ordered
several persons south of our military lines, which order is not disapproved
by me. Yet at the special request of the HON. James Guthrie I have consented
to one of the number, Samuel Churchill, remaining at Louisville,
Ky., upon condition of his taking the oath of allegiance and Mr.

Gutlirie's word of honor for his good behavior.

Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

ORDERS SENDING C. L. VALLANDIGHAM BEYOND MILITARY LINES.
[Cipher.]
UNITED STATES MILITARY TELEGRAPH, May 10, 1863.

By telegraph from Washington, 9.40 PM, 1863
TO MAJOR-GENERAL BURNSIDE, Commanding Department of Ohio.

SIR:--The President directs that without delay you send C. L.
Vallandigham under secure guard to the Headquarters of General Rosecrans,
to be put by him beyond our military lines; and in case of his
return within our lines, he be arrested and kept in close custody
for the term specified in his sentence.

By order of the President:
E. R. S. CANBY, Assistant Adjutant-General.

WAR DEPARTMENT, May 20, 1863.

MAJOR-GENERAL A. B. BURNSIDE, Commanding Department of Ohio, Cincinnati,
O.

Your despatch of three o'clock this afternoon to the Secretary of War
has been received and shown to the President. He thinks the best disposition
to be made of Vallandigham is to put him beyond the lines, as directed
in the order transmitted to you last evening, and directs that you
execute that order by sending him forward under secure guard without
delay to General Rosecrans.

By order of the President:
ED. R. S. CANBY, Brigadier-General

TELEGRAM TO GENERAL W.

S. ROSECRANS.

WASHINGTON, May 20, 1863.

MAJOR-GENERAL ROSECRANS:

Yours of yesterday in regard to Colonel Haggard is received. I am
anxious that you shall not misunderstand me. In no case have I
intended to censure you or to question your ability. In Colonel
Haggard's case I meant no more than to suggest that possibly you
might have been mistaken in a point that could [be] corrected. I
frequently make mistakes myself in the many things I am compelled
to do hastily.

A. LINCOLN.
TELEGRAM TO GENERAL W. S. ROSECRANS.
WASHINGTON, May 21, 1863. 4.40 PM.

MAJOR-GENERAL ROSECRANS:
For certain reasons it is thought best for Rev. Dr. Jaquess not to
come here.
Present my respects to him, and ask him to write me fully on the
subject he has in contemplation.

A. LINCOLN.
TELEGRAM TO GENERAL S. A. HURLBUT.
WASHINGTON, May 22, 1863.

MAJOR-GENERAL HURLBUT, Memphis, Tenn.:
We have news here in the Richmond newspapers of 20th and 21st,
including a despatch from General Joe Johnston himself, that on the
15th or 16th--a little confusion as to the day--Grant beat Pemberton
and [W. W.] Loring near Edwards Station, at the end of a nine hours'
fight, driving Pemberton over the Big Black and cutting Loring off
and driving him south to Crystal Springs, twenty-five miles below
Jackson. Joe Johnston telegraphed all this, except about Loring,
from his camp between Brownsville and Lexington, on the 18th.
Another despatch indicates that Grant was moving against Johnston
on the 18th.

A. LINCOLN.

TELEGRAM TO ANSON STAGER.
WAR DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON, D. C., May 24, 1863.10.40
ANSON STAGER, Cleveland, O.:
Late last night Fuller telegraphed you, as you say, that "the Stars
and Stripes float over Vicksburg and the victory is complete." Did
he know what he said, or did he say it without knowing it? Your
despatch of this afternoon throws doubt upon it.

A. LINCOLN.
TELEGRAM TO COLONEL HAGGARD.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON. May 25, 1863.
COLONEL HAGGARD, Nashville, Tenn.:
Your despatch to Green Adams has just been shown me. General Rosecrans
knows better than we can know here who should be in charge of the
Fifth Cavalry.

A. LINCOLN 

TELEGRAM TO GENERAL BURNSIDE.
WAR DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON, D. C., May 26, 1863.
MAJOR-GENERAL BURNSIDE, Cincinnati, O.:
Your despatch about Campbell, Lyle, and others received and
postponement ordered by you approved. I will consider and telegraph
you again in a few days.

A. LINCOLN.
TELEGRAM TO GENERAL SCHENCK.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, May 27, 1863.
MAJOR-GENERAL SCHENCK, Baltimore, Md.:
Let the execution of William B. Compton be respited or suspended
till further order from me, holding him in safe custody meanwhile.
On receiving this notify me.

A. LINCOLN.
TELEGRAM TO GOVERNOR BUCKINGHAM.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, May 27,1863.
GOVERNOR BUCKINGHAM, Hartford, Conn.:
The execution of Warren Whitemarch is hereby respited or suspended
until further order from me, he to be held in safe custody meanwhile.
On receiving this notify me.

A. LINCOLN.
TELEGRAM TO GENERAL W. S. ROSECRANS.
WAR DEPARTMENT, May 27,1863.
MAJOR-GENERAL ROSECRANS, Murfreesborough, Tenn.:
Have you anything from Grant? Where is Forrest's headquarters?
A. LINCOLN.

TO GENERAL SCHOFIELD.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON May 27, 1863.
GENERAL JOHN M. SCHOFIELD.
MY DEAR SIR:--Having relieved General Curtis and assigned you to
the command of the Department of the Missouri, I think it may be
of some advantage for me to state why I did it. I did not relieve
General Curtis because of any full conviction that he had done wrong
by commission or omission. I did it because of a conviction in my
mind that the Union men of Missouri, constituting, when united, a
vast majority of the whole people, have entered into a pestilent
factional quarrel among themselves--General Curtis, perhaps not of
choice, being the head of one faction and Governor Gamble that of
the other.
After months of labor to reconcile the difficulty, it seemed to
grow worse and worse, until I felt it my duty to break it up somehow;
and as I could not remove Governor Gamble, I had to remove General
Curtis. Now that you are in the position, I wish you to undo nothing
merely because General Curtis or Governor Gamble did it, but to
exercise your own judgment, and do right for the public interest.
Let your military measures be strong enough to repel the invader
and keep the peace, and not so strong as to unnecessarily harass
and persecute the people. It is a difficult role, and so much greater
will be the honor if you perform it well. If both factions, or
neither, shall abuse you, you will probably be about right. Beware
of being assailed by one and praised by the other.
Yours truly, 
A. LINCOLN.

TELEGRAM TO GENERAL HOOKER.
WASHINGTON, May 27, 1863.11 P.M.

MAJOR-GENERAL HOOKER:
Have you Richmond papers of this morning? If so, what news?
A. LINCOLN.

TO ERASTUS CORNING.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, May 28, 1863.
HON. ERASTUS CORNING, Albany, N.Y.:
The letter of yourself and others dated the 19th and inclosing the
resolutions of a public meeting held at Albany on the 16th, was
received night before last. I shall give the resolutions the
consideration you ask, and shall try to find time and make a
respectful response.

Your obedient servant, 
A. LINCOLN.
TELEGRAM TO GENERAL W. S. ROSECRANS.
WASHINGTON, May 28, 1863.
MAJOR-GENERAL ROSECRANS, Murfreesborough, Tenn..
I would not push you to any rashness, but I am very anxious that
you do your utmost, short of rashness, to keep Bragg from getting
off to help Johnston against Grant.

A. LINCOLN
TELEGRAM TO GOVERNOR JOHNSON.

WASHINGTON, May 29, 1863.
GOVERNOR ANDREW JOHNSON, Louisville, Ky.:
General Burnside has been frequently informed lately that the
division under General Getty cannot be spared. I am sorry to have
to tell you this, but it is true, and cannot be helped.
A. LINCOLN.

TO J. K. DUBOIS AND OTHERS.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, May 29, 1863.
MESSRS. JESSE K. DUBOIS, O. M. HATCH, JOHN WILLIAMS, JACOB BUNN,
JOHN BUNN, GEORGE R. WEBER, WILLIAM YATES, S. M. CULLOM, CHARLES
W.
MATHENY, WILLIAM F. ELKIN, FRANCIS SPRINGER, B. A. WATSON, ELIPHALET
HAWLEY, AND JAMES CAMPBELL.
GENTLEMEN:--Agree among yourselves upon any two of your own number
--one of whom to be quartermaster and the other to be commissary
to serve at Springfield, Illinois, and send me their names, and I
will appoint them.

Yours truly, 
A. LINCOLN.
TELEGRAM TO GENERAL A. E. BURNSIDE.
WASHINGTON, May 29, 1863
MAJOR-GENERAL BURNSIDE, Cincinnati, O.:
Your despatch of to-day received. When I shall wish to supersede
you I will let you know. All the Cabinet regretted the necessity
of arresting, for instance, Vallandigham, some perhaps doubting
there was a real necessity for it; but, being done, all were for
seeing you through with it.

A. LINCOLN.
TELEGRAM TO COLONEL LUDLOW.
[Cipher.] EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, June 1, 1863.
COLONEL LUDLOW, Fort Monroe:
Richardson and Brown, correspondents of the Tribune captured at
Vicksburg, are detained at Richmond. Please ascertain why they are
detained, and get them off if you can.

A. LINCOLN.
TELEGRAM TO GENERAL HOOKER.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, June 2, 1863.

MAJOR-GENERAL HOOKER:
It is said that Philip Margraf, in your army, is under sentence to
be shot on Friday the 5th instant as a deserter. If so please send
me up the record of his case at once.

A. LINCOLN.
TELEGRAM TO GENERAL U.S. GRANT.

WAR DEPARTMENT, June 2, 1863.There rose the social spirit to soften and refine her chosen
race, and shelter as in a nest her gentleness from the rushing storm of
barbarism; there liberty first built her mountain throne, first called
the waves her own, and shouted across them a proud defiance to
despotism's banded myriads, there the arts and graces danced around
humanity, and stored man's home with comforts, and strewed his path
with roses, and bound his brows with myrtle, and fashioned for him the
breathing statue, and summoned him to temples of snowy marble, and
charmed his senses with all forms of eloquence, and threw over his final
sleep their veil of loveliness; there sprung poetry, like their own
fabled goddess, mature at once from the teeming intellect, gilt with
arts and armour that defy the assaults of time and subdue the heart of
man; there matchless orators gave the world a model of perfect
eloquence, the soul the instrument on which they played, and every
passion of our nature but a tone which the master's touch called forth
at will; there lived and taught the philosophers of bower and porch, of
pride and pleasure, of deep speculation, and of useful action, who
developed all the acuteness and refinement, and excursiveness, and
energy of mind, and were the glory of their country when their country
was the glory of the earth."


_William McKinley_

An eloquent speech, worthy of close study, is that of William McKinley
on "The Characteristics of Washington." As you read it aloud, note the
short, clear-cut sentences used in the introduction. Observe how the
long sentence at the third paragraph gives the needed variation.
Carefully study the compact English style, and the use of forceful
expressions of the speaker, as "He blazed the path to liberty."

"Fellow Citizens:--There is a peculiar and tender sentiment connected
with this memorial. It expresses not only the gratitude and reverence of
the living, but is a testimonial of affection and homage from the dead.

"The comrades of Washington projected this monument. Their love inspired
it. Their contributions helped to build it. Past and present share in
its completion, and future generations will profit by its lessons. To
participate in the dedication of such a monument is a rare and precious
privilege. Every monument to Washington is a tribute to patriotism.
Every shaft and statue to his memory helps to inculcate love of country,
encourage loyalty, and establish a better citizenship. God bless every
undertaking which revives patriotism and rebukes the indifferent and
lawless! A critical study of Washington's career only enhances our
estimation of his vast and varied abilities.

"As Commander-in-chief of the Colonial armies from the beginning of the
war to the proclamation of peace, as president of the convention which
framed the Constitution of the United States, and as the first President
of the United States under that Constitution, Washington has a
distinction differing from that of all other illustrious Americans. No
other name bears or can bear such a relation to the Government. Not only
by his military genius--his patience, his sagacity, his courage, and his
skill--was our national independence won, but he helped in largest
measure to draft the chart by which the Nation was guided; and he was
the first chosen of the people to put in motion the new Government. His
was not the boldness of martial display or the charm of captivating
oratory, but his calm and steady judgment won men's support and
commanded their confidence by appealing to their best and noblest
aspirations. And withal Washington was ever so modest that at no time
in his career did his personality seem in the least intrusive. He was
above the temptation of power. He spurned the suggested crown. He would
have no honor which the people did not bestow.

"An interesting fact--and one which I love to recall--is that the only
time Washington formally addrest the Constitutional Convention during
all its sessions over which he presided in this city, he appealed for a
larger representation of the people in the National House of
Representatives, and his appeal was instantly heeded. Thus was he ever
keenly watchful of the rights of the people in whose hands was the
destiny of our Government then as now.

"Masterful as were his military campaigns, his civil administration
commands equal admiration. His foresight was marvelous; his conception
of the philosophy of government, his insistence upon the necessity of
education, morality, and enlightened citizenship to the progress and
permanence of the Republic can not be contemplated even at this period
without filling us with astonishment at the breadth of his comprehension
and the sweep of his vision. His was no narrow view of government. The
immediate present was not the sole concern, but our future good his
constant theme of study. He blazed the path of liberty. He laid the
foundation upon which we have grown from weak and scattered Colonial
governments to a united Republic whose domains and power as well as
whose liberty and freedom have become the admiration of the world.
Distance and time have not detracted from the fame and force of his
achievements or diminished the grandeur of his life and work. Great
deeds do not stop in their growth, and those of Washington will expand
in influence in all the centuries to follow.

"The bequest Washington has made to civilization is rich beyond
computation. The obligations under which he has placed mankind are
sacred and commanding. The responsibility he has left, for the American
people to preserve and perfect what he accomplished, is exacting and
solemn. Let us rejoice in every new evidence that the people realize
what they enjoy, and cherish with affection the illustrious heroes of
Revolutionary story whose valor and sacrifices made us a nation. They
live in us, and their memory will help us keep the covenant entered into
for the maintenance of the freest Government of earth.

"The nation and the name Washington are inseparable. One is linked
indissolubly with the other. Both are glorious, both triumphant.
Washington lives and will live because of what he did for the exaltation
of man, the enthronement of conscience, and the establishment of a
Government which recognizes all the governed. And so, too, will the
Nation live victorious over all obstacles, adhering to the immortal
principles which Washington taught and Lincoln sustained."


_Edward Everett_

The following extract from "The Foundation of National Character," by
Edward Everett, is a fine example of patriotic appeal. Read it aloud,
and note how the orator speaks with deep feeling and stirs the same
feeling in you. This impression is largely due to the simple, sincere,
right-onward style of the speaker,--qualities of his own well-known
character.

It will amply repay you to read this extract aloud at least once a day
for a week or more, so that its superior elements of thought and style
may be deeply imprest on your mind.

"How is the spirit of a free people to be formed, and animated, and
cheered, but out of the storehouse of its historic recollections? Are we
to be eternally ringing the changes upon Marathon and Thermopylæ; and
going back to read in obscure texts of Greek and Latin, of the exemplars
of patriotic virtue?

"I thank God that we can find them nearer home, in our own soil; that
strains of the noblest sentiment that ever swelled in the breast of man,
are breathing to us out of every page of our country's history, in the
native eloquence of our mother-tongue,--that the colonial and
provincial councils of America exhibit to us models of the spirits and
character which gave Greece and Rome their name and their praise among
nations.

"Here we ought to go for our instruction;--the lesson is plain, it is
clear, it is applicable. When we go to ancient history, we are
bewildered with the difference of manners and institutions. We are
willing to pay our tribute of applause to the memory of Leonidas, who
fell nobly for his country in the face of his foe.

"But when we trace him to his home, we are confounded at the reflection,
that the same Spartan heroism, to which he sacrificed himself at
Thermopylæ, would have led him to tear his own child, if it had happened
to be a sickly babe,--the very object for which all that is kind and
good in man rises up to plead,--from the bosom of his mother, and carry
it out to be eaten by the wolves of Taygetus.

"We feel a glow of admiration at the heroism displayed at Marathon by
the ten thousand champions of invaded Greece; but we can not forget that
the tenth part of the number were slaves, unchained from the workshops
and doorposts of their masters, to go and fight the battles of freedom.

"I do not mean that these examples are to destroy the interest with
which we read the history of ancient times; they possibly increase that
interest by the very contrast they exhibit. But they warn us, if we need
the warning, to seek our great practical lessons of patriotism at home;
out of the exploits and sacrifices of which our own country is the
theater; out of the characters of our own fathers.

"Them we know,--the high-souled, natural, unaffected, the citizen
heroes. We know what happy firesides they left for the cheerless camp.
We know with what pacific habits they dared the perils of the field.
There is no mystery, no romance, no madness, under the name of chivalry
about them. It is all resolute, manly resistance for conscience and
liberty's sake not merely of an overwhelming power, but of all the force
of long-rooted habits and native love of order and peace.

"Above all, their blood calls to us from the soil which we tread; it
beats in our veins; it cries to us not merely in the thrilling words of
one of the first victims in this cause--'My sons, scorn to be
slaves!'--but it cries with a still more moving eloquence--'My sons,
forget not your fathers!'"


_John Quincy Adams_

John Quincy Adams, in his speech on "The Life and Character of
Lafayette," gives us a fine example of elevated and serious-minded
utterance. The following extract from this speech can be studied with
profit. Particularly note the use of sustained sentences, and the happy
collocation of words. The concluding paragraph should be closely
examined as a study in impressive climax.

"Pronounce him one of the first men of his age, and you have yet not
done him justice. Try him by that test to which he sought in vain to
stimulate the vulgar and selfish spirit of Napoleon; class him among the
men who, to compare and seat themselves, must take in the compass of all
ages; turn back your eyes upon the records of time; summon, from the
creation of the world to this day, the mighty dead of every age and
every clime,--and where, among the race of merely mortal men, shall one
be found who, as the benefactor of his kind, shall claim to take
precedence of Lafayette?

"There have doubtless been in all ages men whose discoveries or
inventions in the world of matter, or of mind, have opened new avenues
to the dominion of man over the material creation; have increased his
means or his faculties of enjoyment; have raised him in nearer
approximation to that higher and happier condition, the object of his
hopes and aspirations in his present state of existence.

"Lafayette discovered no new principle of politics or of morals. He
invented nothing in science. He disclosed no new phenomenon in the laws
of nature. Born and educated in the highest order of feudal nobility,
under the most absolute monarchy of Europe; in possession of an
affluent fortune, and master of himself and of all his capabilities, at
the moment of attaining manhood the principle of republican justice and
of social equality took possession of his heart and mind, as if by
inspiration from above.

"He devoted himself, his life, his fortune, his hereditary honors, his
towering ambition, his splendid hopes, all to the cause of Liberty. He
came to another hemisphere to defend her. He became one of the most
effective champions of our independence; but, that once achieved, he
returned to his own country, and thenceforward took no part in the
controversies which have divided us.

"In the events of our Revolution, and in the forms of policy which we
have adopted for the establishment and perpetuation of our freedom,
Lafayette found the most perfect form of government. He wished to add
nothing to it. He would gladly have abstracted nothing from it. Instead
of the imaginary Republic of Plato, or the Utopia of Sir Thomas More, he
took a practical existing model in actual operation here, and never
attempted or wished more than to apply it faithfully to his own country.

"It was not given to Moses to enter the promised land; but he saw it
from the summit of Pisgah. It was not given to Lafayette to witness the
consummation of his wishes in the establishment of a Republic and the
extinction of all hereditary rule in France. His principles were in
advance of the age and hemisphere in which he lived.... The prejudices
and passions of the people of France rejected the principle of inherited
power in every station of public trust, excepting the first and highest
of them all; but there they clung to it, as did the Israelites of old
to the savory deities of Egypt.

"When the principle of hereditary dominion shall be extinguished in all
the institutions of France; when government shall no longer be
considered as property transmissible from sire to son, but as a trust
committed for a limited time, and then to return to the people whence it
came; as a burdensome duty to be discharged, and not as a reward to be
abused;--then will be the time for contemplating the character of
Lafayette, not merely in the events of his life, but in the full
development of his intellectual conceptions, of his fervent aspirations,
of the labors, and perils, and sacrifices of his long and eventful
career upon earth; and thenceforward till the hour when the trumpet of
the Archangel shall sound to announce that time shall be no more, the
name of Lafayette shall stand enrolled upon the annals of our race high
on the list of pure and disinterested benefactors of mankind."

I have selected these extracts for your convenient use, as embodying
both thought and style worthy of your careful study. Read them aloud at
every opportunity, and you will be gratified at the steady improvement
such practise will make in your own speaking power.


HISTORY OF PUBLIC SPEAKING

MEN WHO HAVE MADE HISTORY IN PUBLIC SPEAKING--AND THEIR METHODS


The great orators of the world did not regard eloquence as simply an
endowment of nature, but applied themselves diligently to cultivating
their powers of expression. In many cases there was unusual natural
ability, but such men knew that regular study and practise were
essential to success in this coveted art.

The oration can be traced back to Hebrew literature. In the first
chapter of Deuteronomy we find Moses' speech in the end of the fortieth
year, briefly rehearsing the story of God's promise, and of God's anger
for their incredulity and disobedience.

The four orations in Deuteronomy, by Moses, are highly commended for
their tenderness, sublimity and passionate appeal. You can
advantageously read them aloud.

The oration of Pericles over the graves of those who fell in the
Peloponnesian War, is said to have been the first Athenian oration
designed for the public.

The agitated political times and the people's intense desire for
learning combined to favor the development of oratory in ancient Greece.
Questions of great moment had to be discust and serious problems solved.
As the orator gradually became the most powerful influence in the State,
the art of oratory was more and more recognized as the supreme
accomplishment of the educated man.


_Demosthenes_

Demosthenes stands preeminent among Greek orators. His well-known
oration "On the Crown," the preparation of which occupied a large part
of seven years, is regarded as the oratorical masterpiece of all
history.

It is encouraging to the student of public speaking to recall that this
distinguished orator at first had serious natural defects to overcome.
His voice was weak, he stammered in his speech, and was painfully
diffident. These faults were remedied, as is well-known, by earnest
daily practise in declaiming on the sea-shore, with pebbles in the
mouth, walking up and down hill while reciting, and deliberately seeking
occasions for conversing with groups of people.

The chief lesson for you to draw from Demosthenes is that he was
indefatigable in his study of the art of oratory. He left nothing to
chance. His speeches were characterized by deliberate forethought. He
excelled other men not because of great natural ability but because of
intelligent and continuous industry. He stands for all time as the most
inspiring example of oratorical achievement, despite almost insuperable
difficulties.


_Cicero_

The fame of Roman oratory rests upon Cicero, whose eloquence was second
only to that of Demosthenes. He was a close student of the art of
speaking. He was so intense and vehement by nature that he was obliged
in his early career to spend two years in Greece, exercising in the
gymnasium in order to restore his shattered constitution.

His nervous temperament clung to him, however, since he made this
significant confession after long years of practise in public speaking.
"I declare that when I think of the moment when I shall have to rise and
speak in defense of a client, I am not only disturbed in mind, but
tremble in every limb of my body."

It is well to note here that a nervous temperament may be a help rather
than a hindrance to a speaker. Indeed, it is the highly sensitive nature
that often produces the most persuasive orator, but only when he has
learned to conserve and properly use this valuable power.

Cicero was a living embodiment of the comprehensive requirements laid
down by the ancients as essential to the orator. He had a knowledge of
logic, ethics, astronomy, philosophy, geometry, music, and rhetoric.
Little wonder, therefore, that his amazing eloquence was described as a
resistless torrent.


_Luther_

Martin Luther was the dominating orator of the Reformation. He combined
a strong physique with great intellectual power. "If I wish to compose,
or write, or pray, or preach well," said he, "I must be angry. Then all
the blood in my veins is stirred, my understanding is sharpened, and all
dismal thoughts and temptations are dissipated." What the great Reformer
called "anger," we would call indignation or earnestness.


_John Knox_

John Knox, the Scotch reformer, was a preeminent preacher. His pulpit
style was characterized by a fiery eloquence which stirred his hearers
to great enthusiasm and sometimes to violence.


_Bossuet_

Bossuet, regarded as the greatest orator France has produced, was a
fearless and inspired speaker. His style was dignified and deliberate,
but as he warmed with his theme his thought took fire and he carried his
hearers along upon a swiftly moving tide of impassioned eloquence. When
he spoke from the text, "Be wise, therefore, O ye Kings! be instructed,
ye judges of the earth!" Yet one, whilst imitation bears the sway,
Aspires to nobler heights, and points the way.

Be rous'd, my friends! his bold example view; Let your own Bards be proud
to copy you!
Should rigid critics reprobate our play, At least the patriotic heart
will say, "Glorious our fall, since in a noble cause.

"The bold attempt alone demands applause."

Still may the wisdom of the Comic Muse Exalt your merits, or your
faults accuse.
But think not, tis her aim to be severe;-- We all are mortals, and
as mortals err.His high
personal character, simplicity of life, and clear and logical utterance
combined to make him an accomplished orator.


_Massillon_

Massillon preached directly to the hearts of his hearers. He was of a
deeply affectionate nature, hence his style was that of tender
persuasiveness rather than of declamation. He had remarkable spiritual
insight and knowledge of the human heart, and was himself deeply moved
by the truths which he proclaimed to other men.


_Lord Chatham_

Lord Chatham's oratorical style was formed on the classic model. His
intellect, at once comprehensive and vigorous, combined with deep and
intense feeling, fitted him to become one of the highest types of
orators. He was dignified and graceful, sometimes vehement, always
commanding. He ruled the British parliament by sheer force of eloquence.

His voice was a wonderful instrument, so completely under control that
his lowest whisper was distinctly heard, and his full tones completely
filled the House. He had supreme self-confidence, and a sense of
superiority over those around him which acted as an inspiration to his
own mind.


_Burke_

Burke was a great master of English prose as well as a great orator. He
took large means to deal with large subjects. He was a man of immense
power, and his stride was the stride of a giant. He has been credited
with passion, intensity, imagination, nobility, and amplitude. His style
was sonorous and majestic.


_Sheridan_

Sheridan became a foremost parliamentary speaker and debater, despite
early discouragements. His well-known answer to a friend, who adversely
criticized his speaking, "It is in me, and it shall come out of me!" has
for years given new encouragement to many a student of public speaking.
He applied himself with untiring industry to the development of all his
powers, and so became one of the most distinguished speakers of his
day.


_Charles James Fox_

Charles James Fox was a plain, practical, forceful orator of the
thoroughly English type. His qualities of sincerity, vehemence,
simplicity, ruggedness, directness and dexterity, combined with a manly
fearlessness, made him a formidable antagonist in any debate. Facts,
analogies, illustrations, intermingled with wit, feeling, and ridicule,
gave charm and versatility to his speaking unsurpassed in his time.


_Lord Brougham_

Lord Brougham excelled in cogent, effective argument. His impassioned
reasoning often made ordinary things interesting. He ingratiated himself
by his wise and generous sentiments, and his uncompromising solicitude
for his country.

He always succeeded in getting through his protracted and parenthetical
sentences without confusion to his hearers or to himself. He could see
from the beginning of a sentence precisely what the end would be.


_John Quincy Adams_

John Quincy Adams won a high place as a debater and orator in his speech
in Congress upon the right of petition, delivered in 1837. A formidable
antagonist, pugnacious by temperament, uniformly dignified, a profound
scholar,--his is "a name recorded on the brightest page of American
history, as statesman, diplomatist, philosopher, orator, author, and,
above all a Christian."


_Patrick Henry_

Patrick Henry was a man of extraordinary eloquence. In his day he was
regarded as the greatest orator in America. In his early efforts as a
speaker he hesitated much and throughout his career often gave an
impression of natural timidity. He has been favorably compared with Lord
Chatham for fire, force, and personal energy. His power was largely due
to a rare gift of lucid and concise statement.


_Henry Clay_

The eloquence of Henry Clay was magisterial, persuasive, and
irresistible. So great was his personal magnetism that multitudes came
great distances to hear him. He was a man of brilliant intellect,
fertile fancy, chivalrous nature, and patriotic fervor. He had a clear,
rotund, melodious voice, under complete command. He held, it is said,
the keys to the hearts of his countrymen.


_Calhoun_

The eloquence of John Caldwell Calhoun has been described by Daniel
Webster as "plain, strong, terse, condensed, concise; sometimes
impassioned, still always severe. Rejecting ornament, not often seeking
far for illustrations, his power consisted in the plainness of his
propositions, in the closeness of his logic, and in the earnestness and
energy of his manner."

He exerted unusual influence over the opinions of great masses of men.
He had remarkable power of analysis and logical skill. Originality,
self-reliance, impatience, aggressiveness, persistence, sincerity,
honesty, ardor,--these were some of the personal qualities which gave
him dominating influence over his generation.


_Daniel Webster_

Daniel Webster was a massive orator. He combined logical and
argumentative skill with a personality of extraordinary power and
attractiveness. He had a supreme scorn for tricks of oratory, and a
horror of epithets and personalities. His best known speeches are those
delivered on the anniversary at Plymouth, the laying of the corner-stone
of Bunker Hill monument, and the deaths of Jefferson and Adams.


_Edward Everett_

Edward Everett was a man of scholastic tastes and habits. His speaking
style was remarkable for its literary finish and polished precision. His
sense of fitness saved him from serious faults of speech or manner. He
blended many graces in one, and his speeches are worthy of study as
models of oratorical style.


_Rufus Choate_

Rufus Choate was a brilliant and persuasive extempore speaker. He
possest in high degree faculties essential to great oratory--a capacious
mind, retentive memory, logical acumen, vivid imagination, deep
concentration, and wealth of language. He had an extraordinary personal
fascination, largely due to his broad sympathy and geniality.


_Charles Sumner_

Charles Sumner was a gifted orator. His delivery was highly impressive,
due fundamentally to his innate integrity and elevated personal
character. He was a wide reader and profound student. His style was
energetic, logical, and versatile. His intense patriotism and
argumentative power, won large favor with his hearers.


_William E. Channing_

William Ellery Channing was a preacher of unusual eloquence and
intellectual power. He was small in stature, but of surpassing grace.
His voice was soft and musical, and wonderfully responsive to every
change of emotion that arose in his mind. His eloquence was not forceful
nor forensic, but gentle and persuasive.

His monument bears this high tribute: "In memory of William Ellery
Channing, honored throughout Christendom for his eloquence and courage
in maintaining and advancing the great cause of truth, religion, and
human freedom."


_Wendell Phillips_

Wendell Phillips was one of the most graceful and polished orators. To
his conversational style he added an exceptional vocabulary, a clear and
flexible voice, and a most fascinating personality.

He produced his greatest effects by the simplest means. He combined
humor, pathos, sarcasm and invective with rare skill, yet his style was
so simple that a child could have understood him.


_George William Curtis_

George William Curtis has been described in his private capacity as
natural, gentle, manly, refined, simple, and unpretending. He was the
last of the great school of Everett, Sumner, and Phillips.

His art of speaking had an enduring charm, and he completely satisfied
the taste for pure and dignified speech. His voice was of silvery
clearness, which carried to the furthermost part of the largest hall.


_Gladstone_

Gladstone was an orator of preeminent power. In fertility of thought,
spontaneity of expression, modulation of voice, and grace of gesture, he
has had few equals. He always spoke from a deep sense of duty. When he
began a sentence you could not always foresee how he would end it, but
he always succeeded. He had an extraordinary wealth of words and command
of the English language.

Gladstone has been described as having eagerness, self-control, mastery
of words, gentle persuasiveness, prodigious activity, capacity for work,
extreme seriousness, range of experience, constructive power, mastery of
detail, and deep concentration. "So vast and so well ordered was the
arsenal of his mind, that he could both instruct and persuade, stimulate
his friends and demolish his opponents, and do all these things at an
hour's notice."

He was essentially a devout man, and unquestionably his spiritual
character was the fundamental secret of his transcendent power. A keen
observer thus describes him:

"While this great and famous figure was in the House of Commons, the
House had eyes for no other person. His movements on the bench, restless
and eager, his demeanor when on his legs, whether engaged in answering a
simple question, expounding an intricate Bill, or thundering in vehement
declamation, his dramatic gestures, his deep and rolling voice with its
wide compass and marked northern accent, his flashing eye, his almost
incredible command of ideas and words, made a combination of
irresistible fascination and power."


_John Bright_

John Bright won a foremost place among British orators largely because
of his power of clear statement and vivid description. His manner was at
once ingratiating and commanding.

His way of putting things was so lucid and convincing that it was
difficult to express the same ideas in any other words with equal force.
One of the secrets of his success, it is said, was his command of
colloquial simile, apposite stories, and ready wit.

Mr. Bright always had himself well in hand, yet his style at times was
volcanic in its force and impetuosity. He would shut himself up for days
preparatory to delivering a great speech, and tho he committed many
passages to memory, his manner in speaking was entirely free from
artifice.


_Lincoln_

Lincoln's power as a speaker was due to a combination of rugged gifts.
Self-reliance, sympathy, honesty, penetration, broad-mindedness,
modesty, and independence,--these were keynotes to his great character.

The Gettysburg speech of less than 300 words is regarded as the greatest
short speech in history.

Lincoln's aim was always to say the most sensible thing in the clearest
terms, and in the fewest possible words. His supreme respect for his
hearers won their like respect for him.

There is a valuable suggestion for the student of public speaking in
this description of Lincoln's boyhood: "Abe read diligently. He read
every book he could lay his hands on, and when he came across a passage
that struck him, he would write it down on boards if he had no paper,
and keep it there until he did get paper. Then he would rewrite it, look
at it, repeat it. He had a copy book, a kind of scrap-book, in which he
put down all things, and thus preserved them."


_Daniel O'Connell_

Daniel O'Connell was one of the most popular orators of his day. He had
a deep, sonorous, flexible voice, which he used to great advantage. He
had a wonderful gift of touching the human heart, now melting his
hearers by his pathos, then convulsing them with his quaint humor. He
was attractive in manner, generous in feeling, spontaneous in
expression, and free from rhetorical trickery.

As you read this brief sketch of some of the world's great orators, it
should be inspiring to you as a student of public speaking to know
something of their trials, difficulties, methods and triumphs. They have
left great examples to be emulated, and to read about them and to study
their methods is to follow somewhat in their footsteps.

Great speeches, like great pictures, are inspired by great subjects and
great occasions. When a speaker is moved to vindicate the national
honor, to speak in defense of human rights, or in some other great
cause, his thought and expression assume new and wonderful power. All
the resources of his mind--will, imagination, memory, and emotion,--are
stimulated into unusual activity. His theme takes complete possession of
him and he carries conviction to his hearers by the force, sincerity,
and earnestness of his delivery. It is to this exalted type of oratory I
would have you aspire.


EXTRACTS FOR STUDY, WITH LESSON TALK

EXAMPLES OF ORATORY AND HOW TO STUDY THEM


It will be beneficial to you in this connection to study examples of
speeches by the world's great orators. I furnish you here with a few
short specimens which will serve this purpose. Carefully note the
suggestions and the numbered extract to which they refer.

1. Practise this example for climax. As you read it aloud, gradually
increase the intensity of your voice but do not unduly elevate the key.

2. Study this particularly for its suggestive value to you as a public
speaker.

3. Practise this for fervent appeal. Articulate distinctly. Pause after
each question. Do not rant or declaim, but speak it.

4. Study this for its sustained sentences and dignity of style.

5. Analyze this for its strength of thought and diction. Note the
effective repetition of "I care not." Commit the passage to memory.

6. Read this for elevated and patriotic feeling. Render it aloud in
deliberate and thoughtful style.

7. Particularly observe the judicial clearness of this example. Note the
felicitous use of language.

8. Read this aloud for oratorical style. Fit the words to your lips.
Engrave the passage on your mind by frequent repetition.

9. Study this passage for its profound and prophetic thought. Render it
aloud in slow and dignified style.

10. Practise this for its sustained power. The words "let him" should be
intensified at each repetition, and the phrase "and show me the man"
brought out prominently.

11. Study this for its beauty and variety of language. Meditate upon it
as a model of what a speaker should be.

12. Note the strength in the repeated phrase "I will never say." Observe
the power, nobility and courage manifest throughout. The closing
sentence should be read in a deeply earnest tone and at a gradually
slower rate.

13. Read this for its purity and strength of style. Note the effective
use of question and answer.

14. Study this passage for its common sense and exalted thought. Note
how each sentence is rounded out into fulness, until it is imprest upon
your memory.


Extracts for Study

SPECIMENS OF ELOQUENCE

_A Study in Climax_


1. My lords, these are the securities which we have in all the
constituent parts of the body of this House. We know them, we reckon
them, rest upon them, and commit safely the interests of India and of
humanity into your hands. Therefore it is with confidence that, ordered
by the Commons,

I impeach him in the name of all the Commons of Great Britain in
Parliament assembled, whose parliamentary trust he has betrayed.

I impeach him in the name of the Commons of Great Britain, whose
national character he has dishonored.

I impeach him in the name of the people of India, whose laws, rights,
and liberties he has subverted, whose properties he has destroyed,
whose country he has laid waste and desolate.

I impeach him in the name and by virtue of those eternal laws of justice
which he has violated.

I impeach him in the name of human nature itself, which he has cruelly
outraged, injured, and opprest in both sexes, in every age, rank,
situation, and condition of life.--_Impeachment of Warren Hastings:_
EDMUND BURKE.


_Suggestions to the Public Speaker_

2. I am now requiring not merely great preparation while the speaker is
learning his art but after he has accomplished his education. The most
splendid effort of the most mature orator will be always finer for being
previously elaborated with much care. There is, no doubt, a charm in
extemporaneous elocution, derived from the appearance of artless,
unpremeditated effusion, called forth by the occasion, and so adapting
itself to its exigencies, which may compensate the manifold defects
incident to this kind of composition: that which is inspired by the
unforeseen circumstances of the moment, will be of necessity suited to
those circumstances in the choice of the topics, and pitched in the tone
of the execution, to the feelings upon which it is to operate. These are
great virtues: it is another to avoid the besetting vice of modern
oratory--the overdoing everything--the exhaustive method--which an
off-hand speaker has no time to fall into, and he accordingly will take
only the grand and effective view; nevertheless, in oratorical merit,
such effusions must needs be very inferior; much of the pleasure they
produce depends upon the hearer's surprize that in such circumstances
anything can be delivered at all, rather than upon his deliberate
judgment, that he has heard anything very excellent in itself. We may
rest assured that the highest reaches of the art, and without any
necessary sacrifice of natural effect, can only be attained by him who
well considers, and maturely prepares, and oftentimes sedulously
corrects and refines his oration. Such preparation is quite consistent
with the introduction of passages prompted by the occasion, nor will the
transition from one to the other be perceptible in the execution of the
practised master.--_Inaugural Discourse:_ LORD BROUGHAM.


_A Study in Fervent Appeal_

3. It is in vain, sir, to extenuate the matter. Gentlemen may cry,
peace, peace--but there is no peace. The war is actually begun! The next
gale that sweeps from the north will bring to our ears the clash of
resounding arms! Our brethren are already in the field! Why stand we
here idle? What is it that gentlemen wish? What would they have? Is life
so dear or peace so sweet, as to be purchased at the price of chains and
slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God! I know not what course others may
take, but as for me, give me liberty, or give me death!--_The War
Inevitable:_ PATRICK HENRY.


_A Study in Dignity and Style_

4. In retiring as I am about to do, forever, from the Senate, suffer me
to express my heartfelt wishes that all the great and patriotic objects
of the wise framers of our Constitution may be fulfilled; that the high
destiny designed for it may be fully answered; and that its
deliberations, now and hereafter, may eventuate in securing the
prosperity of our beloved country, in maintaining its rights and honor
abroad, and upholding its interests at home. I retire, I know, at a
period of infinite distress and embarrassment. I wish I could take my
leave of you under more favorable auspices; but without meaning at this
time to say whether on any or on whom reproaches for the sad condition
of the country should fall, I appeal to the Senate and to the world to
bear testimony to my earnest and continued exertions to avert it, and to
the truth that no blame can justly attach to me.--_Farewell Address:_
HENRY CLAY.


_A Study in Strength and Diction_

5. For myself, I believe there is no limit fit to be assigned to it by
the human mind, because I find at work everywhere, on both sides of the
Atlantic, under various forms and degrees of restriction on the one
hand, and under various degrees of motive and stimulus on the other, in
these branches of the common race, the great principle of the freedom of
human thought, and the respectability of individual character. I find
everywhere an elevation of the character of man as man, an elevation of
the individual as a component part of society. I find everywhere a
rebuke of the idea that the many are made for the few, or that
government is anything but an agency for mankind. And I care not beneath
what zone, frozen, temperate, or torrid; I care not of what complexion,
white, or brown; I care not under what circumstances of climate or
cultivation--if I can find a race of men on an inhabited spot of earth
whose general sentiment it is, and whose general feeling it is, that
government is made for man--man, as a religious, moral, and social
being--and not man for government, there I know that I shall find
prosperity and happiness.--_The Landing at Plymouth:_ DANIEL WEBSTER.


_A Study in Patriotic Feeling_

6. Friends, fellow citizens, free, prosperous, happy Americans! The men
who did so much to make you are no more. The men who gave nothing to
pleasure in youth, nothing to repose in age, but all to that country
whose beloved name filled their hearts, as it does ours, with joy, can
now do no more for us; nor we for them. But their memory remains, we
will cherish it; their bright example remains, we will strive to imitate
it; the fruit of their wise counsels and noble acts remains, we will
gratefully enjoy it.

They have gone to the companions of their cares, of their dangers, and
their toils. It is well with them. The treasures of America are now in
heaven. How long the list of our good, and wise, and brave, assembled
there! How few remain with us! There is our Washington; and those who
followed him in their country's confidence are now met together with him
and all that illustrious company.--_Adams and Jefferson:_ EDWARD EVERETT.


_A Study in Clearness of Expression_

7. I can not leave this life and character without selecting and
dwelling a moment on one or two of his traits, or virtues, or
felicities, a little longer. There is a collective impression made by
the whole of an eminent person's life, beyond, and other than, and apart
from, that which the mere general biographer would afford the means of
explaining. There is an influence of a great man derived from things
indescribable, almost, or incapable of enumeration, or singly
insufficient to account for it, but through which his spirit transpires,
and his individuality goes forth on the contemporary generation. And
thus, I should say, one grand tendency of his life and character was to
elevate the whole tone of the public mind. He did this, indeed, not
merely by example. He did it by dealing, as he thought, truly and in
manly fashion with that public mind. He evinced his love of the people
not so much by honeyed phrases as by good counsels and useful service,
_vera pro gratis_. He showed how he appreciated them by submitting sound
arguments to their understandings, and right motives to their free will.
He came before them, less with flattery than with instruction; less with
a vocabulary larded with the words humanity and philanthropy, and
progress and brotherhood, than with a scheme of politics, an
educational, social and governmental system, which would have made them
prosperous, happy and great.--_On the Death of Daniel Webster:_
RUFUS CHOATE.


_A Study of Oratorical Style_

8. And yet this small people--so obscure and outcast in condition--so
slender in numbers and in means--so entirely unknown to the proud and
great--so absolutely without name in contemporary records--whose
departure from the Old World took little more than the breath of their
bodies--are now illustrious beyond the lot of men; and the Mayflower is
immortal beyond the Grecian Argo or the stately ship of any victorious
admiral. Tho this was little foreseen in their day, it is plain now how
it has come to pass. The highest greatness surviving time and storm is
that which proceeds from the soul of man. Monarchs and cabinets,
generals and admirals, with the pomp of courts and the circumstance of
war, in the gradual lapse of time disappear from sight; but the pioneers
of truth, the poor and lowly, especially those whose example elevates
human nature and teaches the rights of man, so that government of the
people, by the people, and for the people shall not perish from the
earth, such harbingers can never be forgotten, and their renown spreads
coextensive with the cause they served.A. LINCOLN.

TELEGRAM TO GENERAL HOOKER.
[Cipher.] EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, JUNE 12, 1863.

MAJOR-GENERAL HOOKER:

If you can show me a trial of the incendiary shells on Saturday night,
I will try to join you at 5 P.M. that day Answer.

A. LINCOLN.

TO ERASTUS CORNING AND OTHERS.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, June 12, 1863.

HON. ERASTUS CORNING AND OTHERS.

GENTLEMEN:--Your letter of May 19, inclosing the resolutions of
a public meeting held at Albany, New York, on the 16th of the same
month, was received several days ago.

The resolutions, as I understand them, are resolvable into two
propositions--first, the expression of a purpose to sustain the
cause of the Union, to secure peace through victory, and to support
the administration in every constitutional and lawful measure to
suppress the rebellion; and, secondly, a declaration of censure
upon the administration for supposed unconstitutional action, such
as the making of military arrests.

And from the two propositions a third is deduced, which is that the
gentlemen composing the meeting are resolved on doing their part to
maintain our common government and country, despite the folly or
wickedness, as they may conceive, of any administration. This
position is eminently patriotic, and as such I thank the meeting, and
congratulate the nation for it. My own purpose is the same; so that the
meeting and myself have a common object, and can have no difference,
except in the choice of means or measures for effecting that object.

And here I ought to close this paper, and would close it, if there
were no apprehension that more injurious consequences than any merely
personal to myself might follow the censures systematically cast
upon me for doing what, in my view of duty, I could not forbear. The
resolutions promise to support me in every constitutional
and lawful measure to suppress the rebellion; and I have not
knowingly employed, nor shall knowingly employ, any other.

But the meeting, by their resolutions, assert and argue that certain
military arrests, and proceedings following them, for which I am
ultimately responsible, are unconstitutional.

I think they are not. The resolutions quote from the Constitution the
definition of treason, and also the limiting safeguards and guarantees
therein provided for the citizen on trial for treason, and on his
being held to answer for capital or otherwise infamous crimes, and in
criminal prosecutions his right to a speedy and public trial by an
impartial jury.

They proceed to resolve "that these safeguards of the rights of the
citizen against the pretensions of arbitrary power were intended more
especially for his protection in times of civil commotion." And,
apparently to demonstrate the proposition, the resolutions
proceed: "They were secured substantially to the English people after
years of protracted civil war, and were adopted into our Constitution
at the close of the Revolution." Would not the demonstration have been
better if it could have been truly said that these safeguards had been
adopted and applied during the civil wars and during our Revolution,
instead of after the one and at the close of the other? I too am
devotedly for them after civil war, and before Civil war, and at
all times, "except when, in cases of rebellion or invasion, the
public safety may require" their suspension.

     The resolutions proceed
     to tell us that these safeguards "have stood
     the test of seventy-six years of trial under our republican system,
under circumstances which show that, while they constitute the
foundation of all free government, they are the elements of the
enduring stability of the republic."

No one denies that they have so stood the test up to the beginning of the
present rebellion, if we except a certain occurrence at New Orleans
hereafter to be mentioned; nor does any one question that they will stand
the same test much longer after the rebellion closes. But these
provisions of the Constitution have no application to the case
we have in hand, because the arrests complained of were not made
for treason--that is, not for the treason defined in the Constitution,
and upon the conviction of which the punishment is death--nor yet
were they made to hold persons to answer for any capital or otherwise
infamous crimes; nor were the proceedings following, in any
constitutional or legal sense, "criminal prosecutions."

The arrests were made on totally different grounds, and the proceedings
following accorded with the grounds of the arrests.

Let us consider the real case with which we are dealing, and apply to it
the parts of the Constitution plainly made for such cases.

Prior to my installation here it had been inculcated that any State had
a lawful right to secede from the national Union, and that it would
be expedient to exercise the right whenever the devotees of the
doctrine should fail to elect a president to their own liking. I was
elected contrary to their liking; and accordingly, so far as it was
legally possible, they had taken seven States out of the Union,
had seized many of the United States forts, and had fired upon the United
States flag, all before I was inaugurated, and, of course, before
I had done any official act whatever. The rebellion thus begun soon
ran into the present civil war; and, in certain respects, it began on
very unequal terms between the parties. The insurgents had been
preparing for it more than thirty years, while the government had taken
no steps to resist them. The former had carefully considered
all the means which could be turned to their account. It undoubtedly was
a well-pondered reliance with them that in their own unrestricted effort
to destroy Union, Constitution and law, all together, the government
would, in great degree, be restrained by the same Constitution
and law from arresting their progress.

Their sympathizers invaded all departments of the government and
nearly all communities of the people.

From this material, under cover of "liberty of speech," "liberty
of the press," and "habeas corpus," they hoped to keep on foot
amongst us a most efficient corps of spies, informers, suppliers, and
aiders and abettors of their cause in a thousand ways. They knew that in
times such as they were inaugurating, by the Constitution itself the
"habeas corpus" might be suspended; but they also knew they had
friends who would make a question as to who was to suspend it; meanwhile
their spies and others might remain at large to help on their cause.
Or if, as has happened, the Executive should suspend the writ
without ruinous waste of time, instances of arresting innocent persons
might occur, as are always likely to occur in such cases; and then a
clamor could be raised in regard to this, which might be at least of
some service to the insurgent cause. It needed no very keen perception
to discover this part of the enemies program, so soon as by open hostilities
their machinery was fairly put in motion.

Yet, thoroughly imbued with a reverence for the guaranteed rights
of individuals, I was slow to adopt the strong measures which by
degrees I have been forced to regard as being within the exceptions
of the Constitution, and as indispensable to the public safety.

Nothing is better known to history than that courts of justice are
utterly incompetent to such cases. Civil courts are organized chiefly
for trials of individuals --or, at most, a few individuals acting in
concert, and this in quiet times, and on charges of crimes well defined
in the law. Even in times of peace bands of horse-thieves and robbers
frequently grow too numerous and powerful for the ordinary courts of
justice. But what comparison, in numbers have such bands ever borne to
the insurgent sympathizers even in many of the loyal States? Again,
a jury too frequently has at least one member more ready to hang
the panel than to hang the traitor. And yet again, he who dissuades
one man from volunteering, or induces one soldier to desert, weakens
the Union cause as much as he who kills a Union soldier in battle. Yet
this dissuasion or inducement may be so conducted as to be no
defined crime of which any civil court would take cognizance.

Ours is a case of rebellion--so called by the resolutions before me --in
fact, a clear, flagrant, and gigantic case of rebellion; and the
provision of the Constitution that "the privilege of the writ of
habeas corpus shall not be suspended unless when, in cases of
rebellion or invasion, the public safety may require it," is the
provision which specially applies to our present case.

This provision plainly attests the understanding of those who made
the Constitution that ordinary courts of justice are inadequate to
"cases of rebellion"--attests their purpose that, in such cases,
men may be held in custody whom the courts, acting on ordinary
rules, would discharge.

Habeas corpus does not discharge men who are proved to be guilty
of defined crime, and its suspension is allowed by the Constitution
on purpose that men may be arrested and held who can not be proved
to be guilty of defined crime, "when, in cases of rebellion or
invasion, the public safety may require it."

This is precisely our present case--a case of rebellion wherein the
public safety does require the suspension--Indeed, arrests by process
of courts and arrests in cases of rebellion do not proceed altogether
upon the same basis.

The former is directed at the small percentage of ordinary and continuous
perpetration of crime, while the latter is directed at sudden and extensive
uprisings against the government, which, at most, will succeed or
fail in no great length of time.

In the latter case arrests are made not so much for what has been done as
for what probably would be done. The latter is more for the preventive
and less for the vindictive than the former. In such cases the
purposes of men are much more easily understood than in cases of
ordinary crime. The man who stands by and says nothing when the peril
of his government is discussed, cannot be misunderstood.
If not hindered, he is sure to help the enemy; much more if he talks
ambiguously--talks for his country with "buts," and "ifs," and
"ands."

Of how little value the constitutional provision I have quoted
will be rendered if arrests shall never be made until defined
crimes shall have been committed, may be illustrated by a few notable
examples: General John C. Breckinridge, General Robert E. Lee, General
Joseph E. Johnston, General John B. Magruder, General William B.

Preston, General Simon B.

Buckner, and Commodore Franklin Buchanan, now occupying the very highest
places in the rebel war service, were all within the power of the
government since the rebellion began, and were nearly as well known
to be traitors then as now. Unquestionably if we had seized and had
them the insurgent cause would be much weaker.

But no one of them had then committed any crime defined in the law.
Every one of them, if arrested, would have been discharged on
habeas corpus were the writ allowed to operate. In view of these and
similar cases, I think the time not unlikely to come when I shall
be blamed for having made too few arrests rather than too many.

By the third resolution the meeting indicate their opinion that military
arrests may be constitutional in localities where rebellion actually
exists, but that such arrests are unconstitutional in localities
where rebellion or insurrection does not actually exist.

They insist that such arrests shall not be made "outside of the lines
of necessary military occupation and the scenes of insurrection."
Inasmuch, however, as the Constitution itself makes no such distinction,
I am unable to believe that there is any such constitutional
distinction.

I concede that the class of arrests complained of can be constitutional
only when, in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may
require them; and I insist that in such cases--they are constitutional
wherever the public safety does require them, as well in places
to which they may prevent the rebellion extending, as in those where
it may be already prevailing; as well where they may restrain
mischievous interference with the raising and supplying of armies
to suppress the rebellion as where the rebellion may actually be;
as well where they may restrain the enticing men out of the army
as where they would prevent mutiny in the army; equally constitutional
at all places where they will conduce to the public safety as against
the dangers of rebellion or invasion.

Take the particular case mentioned by the meeting. It is asserted in
substance that Mr. Vallandigham was, by a military commander, seized and
tried "for no other reason than words addressed to a public meeting
in criticism of the course of the administration, and in condemnation
of the military orders of the general."

Now, if there be no mistake about this, if this assertion is the truth,
and the whole truth, if there were no other reason for the arrest, then
I concede that the arrest was wrong.

But the arrest, as I understand, was made for a very different reason.
Mr. Vallandigham avows his hostility to the war on the part of the
Union; and his arrest was made because he was laboring, with some effect,
to prevent the raising of troops, to encourage desertions from the
army, and to leave the rebellion without an adequate military force
to suppress it.

He was not arrested because he was damaging the political prospects
of the administration or the personal interests of the commanding
general, but because he was damaging the army, upon the existence
and vigor of which the life of the nation depends.

He was warring upon the military, and thus gave the military
constitutional jurisdiction to lay hands upon him.

If Mr. Vallandigham was not damaging the military power of the country,
then his arrest was made on mistake of fact, which I would be glad to
correct on reasonably satisfactory evidence.

I understand the meeting whose resolutions I am considering to be
in favor of suppressing the rebellion by military force--by armies.

Long experience has shown that armies cannot be maintained unless desertion
shall be punished by the severe penalty of death. The case requires,
and the law and the Constitution sanction, this punishment.
Must I shoot a simple-minded soldier boy who deserts while I must
not touch a hair of a wily agitator who induced him to desert.

This is none the less injurious when effected by getting a father, or
brother, or friend into a public meeting, and there working upon his
feelings till he is persuaded to write the soldier boy that he is fighting
in a bad cause, for a wicked administration of a contemptible
government, too weak to arrest and punish him if he shall desert.

I think that, in such a case, to silence the agitator and save the boy
is not only constitutional, but withal a great mercy.

If I be wrong on this question of constitutional power, my error
lies in believing that certain proceedings are constitutional when,
in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety requires them,
which would not be constitutional when, in absence of rebellion or
invasion, the public safety does not require them: in other words,
that the Constitution is not in its application in all respects the
same in cases of rebellion or invasion involving the public safety
as it is in times of profound peace and public security.

The Constitution itself makes the distinction, and I can no more be
persuaded that the government can constitutionally take no strong
measures in time of rebellion, because it can be shown that the same
could not be lawfully taken in times of peace, than I can be persuaded
that a particular drug is not good medicine for a sick man because
it can be shown to not be good food for a well one.

Nor am I able to appreciate the danger apprehended by the meeting,
that the American people will by means of military arrests during the
rebellion lose the right of public discussion, the liberty of speech and
the press, the law of evidence, trial by jury, and habeas corpus
throughout the indefinite peaceful future which I trust lies before
them, any more than I am able to believe that a man could contract
so strong an appetite for emetics during temporary illness as to
persist in feeding upon them during the remainder of his healthful
life.

In giving the resolutions that earnest consideration which you request
of me, I cannot overlook the fact that the meeting speak as "Democrats."
Nor can I, with full respect for their known intelligence, and the
fairly presumed deliberation with which they prepared their resolutions,
be permitted to suppose that this occurred by accident, or in any way
other than that they preferred to designate themselves "Democrats"
rather than "American citizens."

In this time of national peril I would have preferred to meet you
upon a level one step higher than any party platform, because I am
sure that from such more elevated position we could do better battle
for the country we all love than we possibly can from those lower
ones where, from the force of habit, the prejudices of the past,
and selfish hopes of the future, we are sure to expend much of our
ingenuity and strength in finding fault with and aiming blows at
each other.

LEARNING TO THINK ON YOUR FEET

One of the best exercises for learning to think and speak on the feet is
to practise daily giving one minute impromptu talks upon chosen
subjects. A good plan is to write subjects of a general character, on
say fifty or more cards, and then to speak on each subject as it is
chosen.

This simple exercise will rapidly develop facility of thought and
expression and give greatly increased self-confidence.

It is a good plan to prepare more material than one intends to use--at
least twice as much. It gives a comfortable feeling of security when one
stands before an audience, to know that if some of the prepared matter
evades his memory, he still has ample material at his ready service.

There is no more interesting and valuable study than that of speaking in
public. It confers distinct advantages by way of improved health,
through special exercise in deep breathing and voice culture; by way of
stimulated thought and expression; and by an increase of self-confidence
and personal power.

Men and women in constantly increasing numbers are realizing the
importance of public speaking, and as questions multiply for debate and
solution the need for this training will be still more widely
appreciated, so that a practical knowledge of public speaking will in
time be considered indispensable to a well-rounded education.


Speech for Study, with Lesson Talk

THE STYLE OF THEODORE ROOSEVELT

The speeches of Mr. Roosevelt commend themselves to the student of
public speaking for their fearlessness, frankness, and robustness of
thought. His aim was deliberate and effective.

His style was generally exuberant, and the note of personal assertion
prominent. He was direct in diction, often vehement in feeling, and one
of his characteristics was a visible satisfaction when he drove home a
special thought to his hearers.

It is hoped that the extract reprinted here, from Mr. Roosevelt's famous
address, "The Strenuous Life," will lead the student to study the speech
in its entirety. The speech will be found in "Essays and Addresses,"
published by The Century Company.


THE STRENUOUS LIFE[2]

BY THEODORE ROOSEVELT

[Footnote 2: Extract from speech before the Hamilton Club, Chicago,
April 10, 1899. From the "Strenuous Life. Essays and Addresses" by
Theodore Roosevelt. The Century Co., 1900.]


In speaking to you, men of the greatest city of the West, men of the
State which gave to the country Lincoln and Grant, men who preeminently
and distinctly embody all that is most American in the American
character, I wish to preach, not the doctrine of ignoble ease, but the
doctrine of the strenuous life, the life of toil and effort, of labor
and strife; to preach that highest form of success which comes, not to
the man who desires mere easy peace, but to the man who does not shrink
from danger, from hardship, or from bitter toil, and who out of these
wins the splendid ultimate triumph.

A life of slothful ease, a life of that peace which springs merely from
lack either of desire or of power to strive after great things, is as
little worthy of a nation as of an individual. I ask only that what
every self-respecting American demands from himself and his sons shall
be demanded of the American nation as a whole. Who among you would teach
the boys that ease, that peace, is to be the first consideration in
their eyes--to be the ultimate goal after which they strive? You men of
Chicago have made this city great, you men of Illinois have done your
share, and more than your share, in making America great, because you
neither preach nor practise such a doctrine. You work, yourselves, and
you bring up your sons to work. If you are rich and are worth your salt
you will teach your sons that tho they may have leisure, it is not to be
spent in idleness; for wisely used leisure merely means that those who
possess it, being free from the necessity of working for their
livelihood, are all the more bound to carry on some kind of
non-remunerative work in science, in letters, in art, in exploration, in
historical research--work of the type we most need in this country, the
successful carrying out of which reflects most honor upon the nation. We
do not admire the man of timid peace. We admire the man who embodies
victorious effort; the man who never wrongs his neighbor, who is prompt
to help a friend, but who has those virile qualities necessary to win in
the stern strife of actual life. It is hard to fail, but it is worse
never to have tried to succeed. In this life we get nothing save by
effort. Freedom from effort in the present merely means that there has
been stored up effort in the past. A man can be freed from the necessity
of work only by the fact that he or his fathers before him have worked
to good purpose. If the freedom thus purchased is used aright and the
man still does actual work tho of a different kind, whether as a writer
or a general, whether in the field of politics or in the field of
exploration and adventure, he shows he deserves his good fortune. But if
he treats this period of freedom from the need of actual labor as a
period, not of preparation, but of more enjoyment, he shows that he is
simply a cumberer on the earth's surface, and he surely unfits himself
to hold his own with his fellows if the need to do so should again
arise. A mere life of ease is not in the end a very satisfactory life,
and, above all, it is a life which ultimately unfits those who follow
it for serious work in the world.

In the last analysis a healthy State can exist only when the men and
women who make it up lead clean, vigorous, healthy lives; when the
children are so trained that they shall endeavor, not to shirk
difficulties, but to overcome them; not to seek ease, but to know how to
wrest triumph from toil and risk. The man must be glad to do a man's
work, to dare and endure and to labor; to keep himself, and to keep
those dependent upon him. The woman must be the housewife, the helpmeet
of the homemaker, the wise and fearless mother of many healthy children.
In one of Daudet's powerful and melancholy books he speaks of "the fear
of maternity, the haunting terror of the young wife of the present day."
When such words can be truthfully written of a nation, that nation is
rotten to the heart's core. When men fear work or fear righteous war,
when women fear motherhood, they tremble on the brink of doom; and well
it is that they should vanish from the earth, where they are fit
subjects for the scorn of all men and women who are themselves strong
and brave and high-minded.

As it is with the individual, so it is with the nation. It is a base
untruth to say that happy is the nation that has no history. Thrice
happy is the nation that has a glorious history. Far better it is to
dare mighty things, to win glorious triumphs, even tho checkered by
failure, than to take rank with those poor spirits who neither enjoy
much nor suffer much, because they live in the gray twilight that knows
not victory nor defeat. If in 1861 the men who loved the Union had
believed that peace was the end of all things, and war and strife the
worst of all things, and had acted up to their belief, we would have
saved hundreds of lives, we would have saved hundreds of millions of
dollars. Moreover, besides saving all the blood and treasure we then
lavished, we would have prevented the heartbreak of many women, the
dissolution of many homes, and we would have spared the country those
months of gloom and shame when it seemed as if our armies marched only
to defeat. We could have avoided all this suffering simply by shrinking
from strife. And if we had thus avoided it, we would have shown that we
were weaklings, and that we were unfit to stand among the great nations
of the earth. Thank God for the iron in the blood of our fathers, the
men who upheld the wisdom of Lincoln, and bore sword or rifle in the
armies of Grant! Let us, the children of the men who proved themselves
equal to the mighty days, let us the children of the men who carried the
great Civil War to a triumphant conclusion, praise the God of our
fathers that the ignoble counsels of peace were rejected; that the
suffering and loss, the blackness of sorrow and despair were
unflinchingly faced, and the years of strife endured; for in the end the
slave was freed, the Union restored, and the mighty American republic
placed once more as a helmeted queen among nations....

The Army and Navy are the sword and shield which this nation must carry
if she is to do her duty among the nations of the earth--if she is not
to stand merely as the China of the western hemisphere. Our proper
conduct toward the tropic islands we have wrested from Spain is merely
the form which our duty has taken at the moment. Of course, we are bound
to handle the affairs of our own household well. We must see that there
is civic good sense in our home administration of city, State and
nation. We must strive for honesty in office, for honesty toward the
creditors of the nation and of the individual, for the widest freedom of
individual initiative where possible, and for the wisest control of
individual initiative where it is hostile to the welfare of the many.
But because we set our own household in order we are not thereby excused
from playing our part in the great affairs of the world. Gad! how my
little heart thrilled to hear the confused raptures of--"Demme, Jack,
what a delicate foot!" "Ha! General, what a well-turned--"

LETITIA
Fie! fie! Charlotte [stopping her mouth], I protest you are quite a
libertine.
CHARLOTTE
Why, my dear little prude, are we not all such libertines? Do you
think, when I sat tortured two hours under the hands of my friseur,
and an hour more at my toilet, that I had any thoughts of my aunt
Susan, or my cousin Betsey?I preach to you, then, my countrymen, that our country calls not for the
life of ease, but for the life of strenuous endeavor. The twentieth
century looms before us big with the fate of many nations. If we stand
idly by, if we seek merely swollen, slothful ease and ignoble peace, if
we shrink from the hard contests where men must win at hazard of their
lives and at the risk of all they hold dear, then the bolder and
stronger peoples will pass us by, and will win for themselves the
domination of the world. Let us, therefore, boldly face the life of
strife, resolute to do our duty well and manfully; resolute to uphold
righteousness by deed and by word; resolute to be both honest and brave,
to serve high ideals, yet to use practical methods. Above all, let us
shrink from no strife, moral or physical, within or without the nation,
provided we are certain that the strife is justified, for it is only
through strife, through hard and dangerous endeavor, that we shall
ultimately win the goal of true national greatness.


I would be very glad to talk with you, but you cannot leave your
camp, and I cannot well leave here.

       A. LINCOLN, President

TELEGRAM TO GENERAL N.

P. BANKS.

WAR DEPARTMENT, June 22, 1862
MAJOR-GENERAL BANKS, Middletown:

I am very glad you are looking well to the west for a movement of
the enemy in that direction. You know my anxiety on that point.
All was quiet at General McClellan's headquarters at two o'clock
to-day.

A. LINCOLN.

TREATY WITH MEXICO 
MESSAGE TO THE SENATE.The work deals with methods of correction for self-consciousness, with
manners as a power in the making of men, with the value of a cultivated
and agreeable voice, with confidence in society and business. A series
of suggestions is given for an every-day cultivation of these qualities.

     "Embodies in a most encouraging and practical way all that is
     needed to make one who is naturally timid or fearful in speech and
     manner, self-poised, calm, dignified and confident of himself. It
     must be said that the method proposed is one of sober self-estimate
     and persistent effort along well considered lines of thought and
     action, designed to eradicate this uneasiness."--_Times Dispatch_,
     Richmond, Va.

_12mo, Cloth. $1.50, Net; by mail, $1.65_


FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers
NEW YORK AND LONDON


       *       *       *       *       *

_ELSIE JANIS, the wonderful protean actress, says:--"I can not speak in
too high praise of the opening remarks. for whom we dress, walk, dance,
talk, lisp, languish, and smile. Does not the grave Spectator assure
us that even our much bepraised diffidence, modesty, and blushes
are all directed to make ourselves good wives and mothers as fast
as we can?

"_


This is a choice, new collection of effective recitations, sketches,
stories, poems, monologues; the favorite numbers of world-famed
humorists such as James Whitcomb Riley, Eugene Field, Mark Twain, Finley
Peter Dunne, W. But he, Petronius, did not believe in Asklepios. It was
not known even whose son that Asklepios was, the son of Arsinoe or Koronis;
and if the mother was doubtful, what was to be said of the father? Who,
in that time, could be sure who his own father was?In this book, Mr. Kleiser also gives practical suggestions on how to
deliver humorous or other selections so that they will make the
strongest possible impression on the audience.

_Cloth 12mo, 316 pages. Price, $1.25, Net; Post-paid, $1.37_


FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers
NEW YORK AND LONDON