But it's quite different with men. They give in to us about everything
if we only insist--and it's our own fault if we don't insist; for, of
course, if they find us complying and ready to oblige, why, there's no
end to their audacity. "Give 'em an inch, and they take an ell."
However, they do try to keep us down as much as they can. Now there's
that very exercise of riding that they are so proud of. They get us a
side-saddle, as they call it, of enormous weight and inconvenience, on
which they plant pommels enough to impale three women; they place us
in an attitude from which it is next to impossible to control a horse
should he be violent, and in a dress which ensures a horrible accident
should he fall; added to which, they constantly give us the worst
quadruped in the stable; and yet, with all these drawbacks, such is
our own innate talent and capacity, we ride many an impetuous steed in
safety and comfort that a man would find a dangerous and
incontrollable "mount." For my part, I only wish I had been born a
man--that's to say, if I could keep my own ideas and feelings. To be
sure, I should lose a good many personal adornments; not that I'm vain
enough to consider myself a beauty, but still one cannot help being
anxious about one's own appearance, particularly if one has a
full-length glass in one's bedroom. I need not be ashamed to own that
I know I've got bright eyes, and good teeth, and a fresh colour, and
loads of soft brown hair, and not a bad figure--so my dressmaker tells
me; though I think myself I look best in a riding-habit. Altogether
you can't call _that_ a perfect fright; but, nevertheless, I think if
I might I would change places with Cousin John. _He_ has no Aunt
Deborah to be continually preaching _propriety_ to _him_. He can go
out when he likes without being questioned, and come in without being
scolded. He can swagger about wherever he chooses without that most
odious of encumbrances called a chaperon; and though I shouldn't care
to smoke as many cigars as he does (much as I like the smell of them
in the open air), yet I confess it must be delightfully independent to
have a latchkey.

I often wonder whether other people think Cousin John good-looking. I
have known him so long that I believe I can hardly be a fair judge. He
is fresh-coloured, to be sure, and square and rather fat, and when he
smiles and shows all his white teeth, he has a very pleasant
appearance; but I think I admire a man who looks rather more of a
_roué_--not like Colonel Bingham exactly, whose face is all wrinkles
and whiskers, but a little care-worn and jaded, as if he was
accustomed to difficulties, and had other things to occupy his
thoughts besides his horses and his dinner. I don't like a man that
stares at you; and I don't like a man that can't look you in the face.
He provokes me if he is all smiles, and I've no patience with him if
he's cross. I'm not sure I know exactly what does please me best, but
I _do_ know that I like Cousin John's constant good-humour, and the
pains he takes to give me a day's amusement whenever he can, or what
he calls "have Cousin Kate out for a lark." And this brings me back to
Aunt Deborah and the expedition to Ascot, a thing of all others I
fancied was so perfectly delightful.

"My dear," said Aunt Deborah as she folded her lavender-gloved hands,
"if it wasn't for the weather and my rheumatism, I'd accompany you
myself; but I do consider that Ascot is hardly a place for _my_ niece
to be seen at without a chaperon, and with no other protector than
John Jones--John Jones," repeated the old lady reflectively--"an
excellent young man, doubtless (I heard him his Catechism when he was
_so_ high), but still hardly equal to so responsible a charge as that
of Miss Coventry."

I knew this was what John calls a "back-hander" at me, but I can be
_so_ good-tempered when I've anything to gain; therefore I only
said,--

"Well, aunt, of course you're the best judge, and I don't care the
least about going; only when John calls this afternoon, you must
explain it all to him, for he's ordered the carriage and the luncheon
and everything, and he'll be so disappointed."

I've long ago found out that if you want to do anything you should
never seem too anxious about it.

Aunt Deborah is fonder of John than she likes to confess. I know why,
because I overheard my old nurse tell the housekeeper when I was quite
a little thing; and what I hear, especially if I'm not intended to
hear it, I never forget. There were three Miss Horsinghams, all with
white hands--poor mamma, Aunt Deborah, and Aunt Dorcas. Now Aunt
Deborah wanted to marry old David Jones (John's papa). I can just
remember him--a snuffy little man with a brown wig, but perhaps he
wasn't always so; and David Jones, who was frightened at Aunt
Deborah's black eyes, thought he would rather marry Aunt Dorcas. Why
the two sisters didn't toss up for him I can't think; but he _did_
marry Aunt Dorcas, and Aunt Deborah has been an old maid ever since.
Sometimes even now she fixes her eyes on Cousin John, and then takes
them off with a great sigh. It seems ridiculous in an old lady, but I
don't know that it is so. That's the reason my cousin can do what he
likes with Aunt Deborah; and that's the reason why, when he called on
that rainy afternoon, he persuaded her to let me go down to Ascot with
him all alone by our two selves the following day.

How pleasant it is to wake on the morning of a gala day, to hear the
carts and cabs rumbling and clattering in the streets, and to know
that you must get up early, and be off directly after breakfast, and
will have the whole livelong day to amuse yourself in. What a bright
sunshiny morning it was, and what fun I had going with John in a
hansom cab to Paddington--I like a hansom cab, it goes so fast--and
then down to Windsor by the train in a carriage full of such smart
people, some of whom I knew quite well by name, though not to speak
to. The slang aristocracy, as they are called, muster in great force
at Ascot. Nor could anything be more delightful than the drive through
Windsor Forest up to the Course--such a neat phaeton and pair, and
John and I like a regular Darby and Joan sitting side by side. Somehow
that drive through Windsor Forest made me think of a great many things
I never think of at other times. Though I was going to the races, and
fully prepared for a day of gaiety and amusement, a half-melancholy
feeling stole over me as we rolled along amongst those stately old
trees, and that lovely scenery, and those picturesque little places
set down in that abode of beauty. I thought how charming it would be
to saunter about here in the early summer mornings or the still summer
nights, and listen to the thrush and the blackbird and the nightingale
in the copse; and then I thought I would not care to wander here
_quite_ alone, and that a whisper might steal on my ear, sweeter than
the note of the thrush and the nightingale; and that there might be a
somebody without whom all that sylvan beauty would be a blank, but
with whom any place would become a fairyland. And then I fell to
wondering who that somebody would be; and I looked at Cousin John, and
felt a little cross--which was very ungrateful; and a little
disappointed--which was very unjust.

"Here we are, Kate: that's the Grand Stand, and we'll have the
carriage right opposite; and the Queen's not come, and we're in heaps
of time; and there's Frank Lovell," exclaimed the unconscious John as
we drove on to the Course, and my daydreams were effectually dispelled
by the gay scene which spread itself before my eyes.

As I took John's arm and walked into the enclosure in front of the
stand, I must confess that the first impression on my mind was
this--"Never in my life have I seen so many well-dressed people
collected together before;" and when the Queen drove up the Course
with her brilliant suite of carriages and outriders, and the mob of
gentlemen and ladies cheered her to the echo, I was such a goose that
I felt as if I could have cried. After a time I got a little more
composed, and looked about at the different toilettes that surrounded
me. I own I saw nothing much neater than my own; and I was pleased to
find it so, as nothing gives one greater confidence in a crowd than
the consciousness of being well dressed. But what I delighted in more
than all the bonnets and gowns in the universe were those dear horses,
with their little darlings of jockeys. If there is one thing I like
better than another, it is a thoroughbred horse. What a gentleman he
looks amongst the rest of his kind! How he walks down the Course, as
if he knew his own value--self-confident, but not vain--and goes
swinging along in his breathing-gallop as easily and as smoothly as if
I was riding him myself, and he was proud of his burthen! When
Colonist won the Cup, I felt again as if I could have cried. It was a
near race, and closely contested the whole way from the distance in. I
felt my blood creeping quite chill, and I could perfectly understand
then the infatuation men cherish about racing, and why they ruin their
wives and children at that pursuit. What a relief it was when the
number was up, and I could be quite satisfied that the dear bay horse
had won. As for the little jockey that rode him, I could and _would_
have kissed him! Just then Cousin John came back to me, with his
sunny, laughing face, and I naturally asked him, "Had he won his
money?" John never bets; but he replied, "I'm just as pleased as if
I'd won a fortune; only think, Frank Lovell has landed twelve
hundred!" "Well," I replied, "I am glad of it--which is very good of
me, seeing that I don't know Mr. Lovell." "Don't know Frank Lovell!"
exclaimed John. "The greatest friend I have in the world." (Men's
friends always are the greatest in the world.) "I'll introduce him to
you; there he is--no he isn't. I saw him a moment ago." And forthwith
John launched into a long biography of his friend Frank Lovell--how
that gentleman was the nicest fellow and the finest rider and the best
shot in the universe; how he knew more about racing than any man of
his age, and had been in more difficulties, and got out of them
better, and robbed the public generally with a more plausible air; how
he sang a capital song, and was the pleasantest company, and had more
brains than the world gave him credit for (as indeed might easily be
the case); how he was very good-looking, and very agreeable, and met
with great success (whatever that means) in society; how Lady
Scapegrace was avowedly in love with him; and he had thrown over
pretty Miss Pinnifer because he wouldn't leave the army, and six
months afterwards was obliged to sell his commission, when Outsider
won the "Two Thousand;" together with various other details, which
lasted till it was time to have luncheon, and go back to Windsor to
catch the four o'clock train. Though evidently such a hero of John's,
I confess I didn't like what I heard of Frank Lovell at all.


CHAPTER II.


We've got such a sweet little house in Lowndes Street--to my mind the
very best situation in London. When I say _we_, of course I mean Aunt
Deborah and myself. We live together, as I hope we always shall do, as
Aunt Deborah says, till "one of us is married." And notwithstanding
the difference of our ages we get on as comfortably as any two forlorn
maidens can. Though a perfect fairy palace within, our stronghold is
guarded by no giant, griffin, dragon, or dwarf; nothing more frightful
than a policeman, whose measured tread may be heard at the midnight
hour pacing up and down beneath our windows. "It's a great comfort,"
says Aunt Deborah, "to know that assistance is close at hand. I am a
lone woman, Kate, and I confess to feeling nervous when I lie awake."
I quite agree with my aunt, though I'm not nervous, but I must say I
like the idea of being watched over during the hours of sleep; and
there is something romantic in hearing the regular tramp of the
sentinel whilst one is curled up snug in bed. I don't much think it
always is the policeman--at least I know that one night when I got up
to peep if it was a constable, he was wrapped in a very loose cloak,
such as is by no means the uniform of the force, and was besides,
unquestionably, smoking a cigar, which I am given to understand is not
permitted by the regulations when on duty. I watched the glowing light
for at least ten minutes, and when I went to bed again, I could not
get to sleep for wondering who the amateur policeman could be.

But the house is a perfect jewel of its kind. _Such_ a pretty
dining-room, _such_ a lovely drawing-room, opening into a
conservatory, with a fountain and gold-fish, to say nothing of flowers
(I am passionately fond of flowers), and _such_ a boudoir of my own,
where nobody ever intrudes except my special favourites--Cousin John,
for instance, when he is not in disgrace--and which I have fitted up
and furnished quite to my own taste. There's the "Amazon" in gilt
bronze, and a bas-relief from the Elgin marbles--not coloured like
those flaxen-haired abominations at Sydenham, but pure and simple as
the taste that created it; and an etching Landseer did for me himself
of my little Scotch terrier growling; and a veritable original sketch
of Horace Vernet--in which nothing is distinguishable save a phantom
charger rearing straight up amongst clouds of smoke. Then I've put up
a stand for my riding-whips, and a picture of my own thoroughbred
favourite horse over the chimney-piece; altogether, Aunt Deborah
describes the apartment exactly when she says to me, as she does about
once a week, "My dear, if you were a _man_, I should say your room was
fitted up in the most perfect taste; but as you happen to be a young
lady, I won't say what I think, because I know you won't agree with
me;" and I certainly do not agree with Aunt Deborah upon a great many
subjects.

However, there's no situation like Lowndes Street. I'm not going to
tell the number, nor at which end of the street we live; for it's very
disagreeable to have people riding by and stopping to alter their
stirrup-leathers, and squinting up at one's drawing-room windows where
one sits working in peace, and then cantering off and trotting by
again, as if something had been forgotten. No; if curiosity is so very
anxious to know where I live, let it look in the _Court Guide_; for my
part, I say nothing, except that there are always flowers in the
balcony, and there's no great singularity about that. But there are
two great advantages connected with a "residence in Belgravia," which
I wonder are not inserted in the advertisements of all houses to let
in that locality. In the first place, a lady may walk about all the
forenoon quite alone, without being hampered by a maid or hunted by a
footman; and in the second, she is most conveniently situated for a
morning ride or walk in the Park; and those are about the two
pleasantest things one does in London.

Well, the same conversation takes place nearly every morning at
breakfast between Aunt Deborah and myself (we breakfast early, never
after half-past nine, however late we may have been the night before).
Aunt Deborah begins,--

"My dear, I hope we shall have a quiet morning together; I've directed
the servants to deny me to all visitors; and if you'll get your work,
I will proceed with my readings from excellent Mrs. Hannah More."

Kate.--"Thank you, aunt; Hannah More amuses me very much"--(I confess
that prim moralist does make me laugh).

_Aunt Deborah_ (reprovingly).--"Instructive, Kate, not amusing;
certainly not ludicrous. If you'll shut the door we'll begin."

_Kate_.--"Can't we put it off for an hour? I must get my ride, you
know, aunt. What's the use of horses if one don't ride?"

_Aunt Deborah_.--"Kate, you ride too much; I don't object to the
afternoons with John Jones, but these morning scampers are really
quite uncalled for; they're spoiling your figure and complexion; it's
improper--more, it's unfeminine; but as you seem determined upon it,
go and get your ride, and come back a little sobered;" and
Kate--that's me--disappears into the boudoir, from which she emerges
in about five minutes with the neatest habit and the nicest hat, and
her hair done in two such killing plaits--John Jones says I never look
so well as when I've got my hair dressed for riding.

I always go out for these morning excursions quite alone. Aunt Deborah
fought for a long time, and insisted on my taking the coachman; but he
is an old family servant, and I soon knocked him up completely. In the
first place, the ride is always soft, and I hate going _slow_, so he
used to get a dreadful stitch in his side trying to keep up with me on
one of the high-actioned coach-horses; then he didn't see the fun of
having two horses to clean when he got home instead of one; so when he
found he couldn't get another helper, we begged him off between us,
and I go out now unencumbered by that excellent and pursy old man.
After all, I ought to be able to take care of myself. I have ridden
ever since I was five years old; and if habit is second nature, as
Aunt Deborah says, I'm sure my habit ought to be natural enough to me.
I recollect as well as if it was yesterday, when poor papa put me on a
shaggy Shetland pony, and telling me not to be frightened, gave it a
thump, and started me off by myself. I wasn't the least bit afraid, I
know that. It was a new sensation, and delightful; round and round the
field we went, I shaking my reins with one hand, and holding on a
great flapping straw hat with the other; the pony grunting and
squeaking, with his mane and tail floating on the breeze, and papa
standing in the middle, waving his hat and applauding with all his
might. After that I was qualified to ride anything; and by the time I
was twelve, there wasn't a hunter in the stables that I wouldn't get
on at a moment's notice. I am ashamed to confess that I have even
caught the loose cart-horses in a field, and ridden them without
saddle or bridle. I never was beat but once, and that was at Uncle
Horsingham's when I was about fifteen. He had bought a mare at
Tattersall's for his daughter to ride, and brought her down to
Dangerfield, thinking she would conduct herself like the rest of her
species. How well I remember my governess's face when she gave me
leave to go to the stable with Sir Harry and look over the new
purchase. I was a great pet of Uncle Horsingham; and as Cousin Amelia
was not much of an equestrian, he proposed that I should get upon the
chestnut mare first, and try her paces and temper before his daughter
mounted her. As we neared the stables out came one of the grooms with
a sidesaddle on his head, and the longest face I ever beheld.

"O Sir 'Arry," said he--I quote his exact words--"that new mare's a
wicious warmint; afore I was well into the stable, she ups and lets
out at me just above the knee: I do believe as my thigh's broke."

"Nonsense, man," said my uncle; "put the saddle on and bring her out."
Presently the chestnut mare appeared; and I saw at once that she was
not in the best of humours. But I was young, full of spirits, and
fresh from lessons; so, fearing if one of the men should venture to
mount her she might show temper, and I should lose my ride, I made a
sign to the head-groom to give me a hand; and before my uncle had time
to exclaim, "For goodness sake, Kate!" I was seated, muslin dress and
all, on the back of the chestnut mare. What she did I never could
quite make out; it seemed to me that she crouched as if she was going
to lie down, and then bounded into the air, with all four legs off the
ground. I was as near gone as possible; but for the only time in my
life I caught hold of the pommel with my right hand, and that saved
me. In another instant she had broke from the groom's hold, and was
careering along the approach like a mad thing. If I had pulled at her
the least she would have run away with me.

Luckily, the park was roomy, and the old trees far apart; so when we
got upon the grass I knew who would be mistress. I gave her a rousing
good gallop, shook my reins and patted her, to show her how confident
I was, and brought her back to my uncle as quiet as a lamb.
Unfortunately, however, the mare had taken a dislike to certain stone
pillars which supported the stable gates, and nothing would induce her
to pass them. Flushed with success, I borrowed my uncle's riding-whip
to punish her; and now began a battle in good earnest. She reared and
plunged, and wheeled round and round, and did all she knew to get rid
of me; whilst I flogged and jerked, and screamed at her (I didn't
swear, because I didn't know how), and vowed in my wicked little heart
I would be killed rather than give in. During the tussle we got nearer
and nearer to a certain large pond about a hundred yards from the
stable gates, at which the cattle used to water in the quiet summer
afternoons. I knew it wasn't very deep, for I had seen them standing
in it often. By the time we were close on the brink the whole
household had turned out to see "Miss Kate killed;" and just as I hit
the mare a finishing cut over the ears, I caught a glimpse of my
governess in an attitude of combined shame, horror, and disgust that I
shall never forget. The next moment we were overhead in the pond, the
mare having dashed blindly in, caught her fore-feet in the bridle, and
rolled completely over. What a ducking I got to be sure! But it was
nothing to the scolding I had to endure afterwards from all the
females of the family, including my governess; only Uncle Horsingham
stuck up for me, and from that time till the day of his death vowed he
had "never known but one plucky fellow in the world, and that was his
little niece Kate."

No wonder I feel at home on Brilliant, who never did wrong in his
life, who will eat out of my hand, put his foot in my apron-pocket,
follow me about like a dog, and is, I am firmly persuaded, the very
best horse in England. He is quite thoroughbred, though he has never
been in training--and is as beautiful as he is good. Bright bay, with
such black legs, and such a silky mane and tail! I know lots of ladies
whose hair is coarser than Brilliant's. Fifteen hands three inches,
and Cousin John says well up to his weight--an honest fourteen stone.
With the smallest nose, and the leanest head, and the fullest dark
eye, and the widest, reddest nostril--his expression of countenance,
when a little blown, is the most beautiful I ever beheld; and not a
white mark about him except a tiny star in the very middle of his
forehead; I know it well, for I have kissed it often and often. The
picture over my chimney-piece does not half do him justice; but then,
to be sure, its _pendant_, painted by the same artist, and
representing my other horse, White Stockings, flatters that very plain
and excellent animal most unblushingly.

Of all delights in the world give me my morning canter up the park on
Brilliant. Away we go, understanding each other perfectly; and I am
quite sure that he enjoys as much as I do the bright sunshine and the
morning breeze and the gleaming Serpentine, with its solitary swan,
and its hungry ducks, and its amphibious dogs continually swimming for
the inciting stick, only rescued to produce fresh exertions; and the
rosy children taking their morning walk; and, above all, the _liberty_
of London before two o'clock in the day, when the real London begins.
I pat Brilliant's smooth, hard neck, and he shakes his head, and
strikes an imaginary butterfly with one black fore-leg, and I draw my
rein a thought tighter, and away we go, much to the admiration of that
good-looking man with moustachios who is leaning on his umbrella close
to the rails, and smoking the cigar of meditation as if the park was
his own.

I often wondered who that man was. Morning after morning have I seen
him at the same place, always with an umbrella, and always with a
cigar. I quite missed him on the Derby day, when of course he was gone
to Epsom (by-the-bye, why don't we go to the Derby just as much as to
Ascot?); and yet it was rather a relief, too, for I had got almost shy
about passing him. It seemed so absurd to see the man every day and
never to speak; besides, I fancied, though of course it could only be
fancy, that he looked as if he was expecting me. At last I couldn't
help blushing, and I thought he saw it; for I'm sure he smiled, and
then I was so provoked with myself that I sent Brilliant up the ride
at a pace nothing short of a racehorse could have caught.


CHAPTER III.


I wonder whether any lady in England has a maid who, to use that
domestic's own expression, is capable of "giving satisfaction." If any
lady does rejoice in such an Abigail, I shall be too happy to "swap"
with her, and give anything else I possess except Brilliant into the
bargain. Mine is the greatest goose that ever stood upon two legs, and
how she can chatter as she does with her mouth full of pins is to me a
perfect miracle. Once or twice in the week I have to endure a certain
ordeal which, although a positive pleasure to some women, is to my
disposition intense martyrdom, termed dressing to go out; and I think
I never hated it more than the night of Lady Horsingham's ball. Lady
Horsingham is my poor uncle's widow; and as Aunt Deborah is extremely
punctilious on all matters relating to family connections, we
invariably attend these solemnities with a gravity befitting the
occasion.

Now, I may be singular in my ideas; but I confess that it does appear
to me a strange way of enjoying oneself in the dog-days, to make one's
toilette at eleven p.m., for the purpose of sitting in a carriage till
twelve, and struggling on a staircase amongst a mob of one's
fellow-creatures till half-past. After fighting one's way literally
step by step, and gaining a landing by assault, one looks round and
takes breath, and what does one see? Panting girls looking in vain for
the right partner, who is probably not ten yards from them, but wedged
in between substantial dowagers, whom he is cursing in his heart, but
from whom there is no escape; or perhaps philosophically and
perfidiously making the best of his unavoidable situation, and
flirting shamefully with the one he likes _next_ best to the
imprisoned maiden on the staircase; or, the tables turned, young
fledglings pining madly for their respective enslavers, and picturing
to themselves how she may be even now whirling round to that pealing
waltz in the arms of some former adorer or delightfully new
acquaintance, little heeding him who is languishing in his white
neckcloth, actually within speaking distance, but separated as
effectually as if he were in another country. By-the-bye, it's fatal
when people begin to think of each other as hes and shes; the softest
proper name that ever was whispered is not half so dangerous as those
demonstrative pronouns. In one corner is a stout old gentleman, wedged
against the wall, wiping the drops from his bald head, and wondering
what Jane and Julia can see in these gatherings to make them wild
about going to every ball for which they can get an invitation.
Deluded father! both Jane and Julia have the best of reasons in this
very house. You grudge not to spend a broiling September day in the
pursuit of _your_ game; each of your fair daughters, sir, flatters
herself that she, too, has winged her bird.

Swaying backwards and forwards in the mass, like some goodly
merchantman at anchor, pitching and rolling to a ground-swell, behold
the chaperon fulfilling her destiny, and skilfully playing that game
which to her is the business of life. Flushed and hot in person, she
is cool and composed in mind. Practice makes perfect; and the chaperon
is as much at home here as the stockbroker on 'Change, or the
betting-man in the ring, or the fisherman amidst the roar and turmoil
of the waves. With lynx eyes she notes how Lady Carmine's eldest girl
is "carrying on" with young Thriftless, and how Lord Looby's eyeglass
is fixed on her own youngest daughter; yet for all this she is not
absent or preoccupied, but can whisper to stupid Lady Dulwich the very
latest intelligence of a marriage, or listen, all attention, to the
freshest bit of scandal from Mrs. General Gabbler. But perhaps by this
time you have floated with the tide into the doorway, and received
from your hostess the cordial shake of the hand or formal bow which
makes you free of the place. So, with patience and perseverance you
work your way at last into the dancing-room, and you now see what
people come here for--dancing, of course. Each performer has about
eighteen inches of standing room, and on that space must be enacted in
hopeless pantomime the intricate evolutions of the quadrille, or the
rotatory struggles of the waltz. Sliding and smiling, and edging and
crushing, the conscientious dancers try to fulfil their duties, and
much confusion and begging of pardons are the natural results.

However, it's a rare place for love-making. What with the music and
the crowd and the confusion, the difficulty is more to make out what
one's partner _does_ say than to prevent his being overheard by other
people; but, I must confess, if anybody had anything very particular
to say to _me_, I had rather hear it in the quiet country by
moonlight, or even coming home from Greenwich by water--or anywhere,
in short, rather than in the turmoil of a London ball. But that's all
nonsense; and I hope I have too much pride to allow any man to address
me in such a strain. Trust me for setting him down!

It's no wonder, then, that I was cross when I was dressing for Lady
Horsingham's ball; and that silly Gertrude (that's my maid's name, and
what a name it is for a person in that class of life!) put me more and
more out of patience with her idiotic conversation, which she tries to
adapt to my tastes, and of which the following is a specimen:----

"Master John will be at her ladyship's ball, miss, I make no doubt;"
brushing away the while at my back hair, and pulling it unnecessarily
hard; no maid ever yet had a "light hand."

No answer. What business is it of hers, and why should she call him
_Master John?_ Gertrude tries again: "You look pale to-night, miss;
you that generally has such a colour. I'm afraid you're tired with
your ride."

"Not a bit of it--only sleepy. Why, it's time one was in bed."

"Lor, miss, I shouldn't want to go to bed, not if I was going to a
ball. But I think you like 'orse exercise best; and to be sure, your
'orse is a real beauty, Miss Kate."

The very name of Brilliant always puts me in good humour, so, of
course, I can but answer, "_That_ he is, Gertrude, and as good as he's
handsome;" on which my voluble handmaid goes off again at score.

