The first bell on the old church was presented by Governor John Hancock,
in 1783, then a resident here, and bore the inscription, "Thomas Lester,
of London, made me, 1742." We can readily appreciate the happiness of the
people when first called to their house of worship by the voice of this
bell, and can weave threads of joy and of sadness around its echoes, In
1852 this old church was dismantled of its spire and removed to the site
of the present Eliot Hall. It was subsequently destroyed by fire. While
the stone edifice was being erected the congregation occupied the Baptist
Church one half of the Sabbath.

We find Dr. William Gordon a very interesting character of the strict
Puritan type. In a word-picture drawn by a friend, we see him
commissioned by Congress to secure Governor Hutchinson's Letter-books,
"as he ambled on his gentle bay horse, in his short breeches and buckled
shoes, his reverend wig and three-cornered hat, worthy the spirit of a
native-born patriot." It may not be amiss to add that will all Dr.
Gordon's admirable characteristics, his faithful work as a minister, his
active interest in the cause of American liberty, his unwavering
adherence to his convictions as an opponent to the slave trade, and a
champion of the Negro, he frequently lacked prudence and good judgment in
speech and action. It was because of his severe and public criticism of
John Hancock that the governor gave up his summer residence here; it was
because of his attack upon the proposed Constitution of Massachusetts, in
1778, that he was summarily dismissed from his office if chaplain in both
houses of the Legislature. There is a tradition that the Doctor was
somewhat strict and severe in his requirements of the young catechists,
and on occasions he resorted to the birch to enforce his teachings.
"After punishing several of them one winter day, his feet slipped as he
stepped from the icy threshold of the school, and he fell at full length,
his hat and wig rolling off his head. There-upon the boys shouted in high
glee, and gave three cheers." The rod gave place to persuasion after that
experience.

The little cemetery in the rear of the church was consecrated in 1785. A
quiet walk through this "garden of the dead" is full of interest,
awakening memories as association of the past. There are twenty-four
tombs and many graves upon whose ancient, moss-covered headstones we
trace familiar names and some unusual epitaphs. The tombs of Dr. Thomas
Gray and the Greenough family, side by side, are particularly noticeable,
as, unlike the others, they have a large bull's-eye of ground glass
inserted in the doors, evidently to admit light into "the chamber of
death." Very few interments gave been made there since the consecration
of Forest Hills Cemetery in 1848. Upon the small triangular lot at the
junction of Centre and South streets the first schoolhouse in our village
was erected in 1676. The land was the gift of John Ruggles, and John
Eliot and Hugh Thomas were the principal benefactors of the school. In
the early days this spot was the municipal center of our town; and here,
in 1871, was dedicated our beautiful Soldiers' Monument, in affectionate,
grateful remembrance of our heroic dead, who gave their lives in the
service of their country during the Rebellion (1861-65). Eliot Street was
opened to Pond Street in 1800, and at the corner still stands an old
milestone, inscribed: "Five miles to Boston Town House, 1735. P. Dudley."

The Eliot School was incorporated in 1804, and later, January 17,1832,
the brick building was dedicated which now stands on Eliot Street in the
center of ample grounds.

"His Majesty admires and greatly extols your wisdom, which he judges necessary
for the preservation of our State; deeming you one of the rare and
sage counsellors of the age." It is true that this admiration was in
part attributed to the singular coincidence of Barneveld's views of
policy with the King's own. Sully, on his part, was a severe critic of
that policy. He believed that better terms might have been exacted
from Spain in the late negotiations, and strongly objected to the
cavilling and equivocal language of the treaty.He paid for it seven or eight shares in Long Wharf
property, amounting them in all to about $400, but at the time of Dr.
Hayward's decease, in 1821, valued at $100,000, -- a striking evidence of
growth and financial prosperity in less then fifty years. We learn that
the house was, like many of that period, one story and a half in height,
covering much space on the ground, and shaded by fine linden-trees. We
love to tarry here and do grateful honor to this first governor of our
new State, who, during our country's struggles for freedom, was one of
the most fearless opposers of British tyranny, one of the most active
patriots, and the first signer of the declaration of Independence. He was
of fine, dignified presence, six feet in height, with a very handsome
face and gracious manners. In public speaking he was eloquent, graceful
and accomplished, and plainly formed by nature to act a brilliant part in
the affairs of his time. According to the customs of that period with men
of fortune, his apparel was very elaborate and costly, of velvet and
satin, embroidered with gold and silver lace. "His equipage was splendid,
and public occasions he rode with six beautiful bay horses and attended
by servants in livery." Mach of his large fortune was spent for
benevolent and useful purposes, Harvard College coming in for a share. In
the year 1800, Thomas Hancock, nephew of the Governor, built the house
which has recently been destroyed, and resided here until 1819, when the
estate was purchased by Mr. Nathaniel Curtis, fifth in descent from the
first William Curtis. He was a merchant of Boston, highly esteemed, and
filled various positions of trust on our town. He resided here during the
remainder if his life, a period of thirty-eight years, and died in 1857.
He married for his second wife the widow Leeds, who at the time was
living in the old Stephen Brewer house, still standing at the end of
Thomas Street, and which was afterwards for several years the home of Mr.
William D. Ticknor, of the publishing house of Ticknor & Fields. Mrs.
Curtis lived in the old house for many years after he husband's death,
until we missed the gentle, sweet face, and the kindly, cordial greetings
-- and the home was desolate.

More that two hundred and fifty years have passed since the first John
May, master of a vessel, came from Mayfield, in Sussex, England, and
became a resident of Jamaica Plain, and the ancestor of the many who bear
the name of May in this country. In 1650 the old house on May's Lane was
built by Mr. Bridge, and since 1771 it has been owned and occupied by the
direct descendents of John May. It has always been a typical New England
fruit farm, noted for the fine quality of its cherries, peaches, pears,
apples, and berries of various kinds. In the early days it covered many
acres, including the beautiful hill now occupied by the fine estates of
the Bowditch family and others, and the lowlands, extending north and
east to Pond and Eliot streets. During the siege of Boston, the house was
given up to soldiers for barracks. Captain Lemuel May was one of the
minute-men who responded to the reveille at the break of day on the 19th
of April, 1775, and fought valiantly for his country at Lexington and
concord. This house, of the seventeenth-century pattern, has maintained
its original features until very recently, carefully preserved from any
sign of neglect or decay. Possibly a hasty view of the interior of tee
old homestead will interest us. He implored the Ambassador in most pathetic
terms to devise some means of sending back the Princess, saying
that he who should find such expedient would do the greatest good that
was ever done to Christianity, and that otherwise there was no guarantee
against a universal war. The first design of the King had been merely to
send a moderate succour to the Princes of Brandenburg and Neuburg, which
could have given no umbrage to the Archdukes, but now the bitterness
growing out of the affairs of the Prince and Princess had caused him
to set on foot a powerful army to do worse. He again implored Pecquius to
invent some means of sending back the Princess, and the Ambassador besought
him ardently to divert the King from his designs.[interior fireplace of May house]

And now a glance at the old square barn east of the house and more
pretentious in size than the dwelling, with wide doors opening at both
ends, and lofts stacked with fragrant hay. This is the comfortable home
of faithful horses and gentle kine, who looked from their stalls and
stanchions on the youths and maidens who often made the walls resound
with their merriment and they were borne quickly past in the old swing
hanging from the creaking rafters.

The well-curb, with its long sweep and old oaken bucket, brings memories,
to some of us, of refreshing droughts of pure water, and of delicious
cream and butter rolls, which the moss-covered stone shelves far down the
well held securely from possible taint. Back of the house ran the
babbling brook and emptied into "the ditch," which was often broad and
deep enough to merit a more comely name, and was the favorite resort of
the young in winter for skating and sledding. But this ancestral home,
with all its charms, had passed from view, like man others, leaving but
cherished memories.

Captain Charles Brewer, whose fine estate on Pond Street was originally a
part of the May form, was a lineal descendant of Captain John May, on his
mother's side. He was born in Boston in 1804, and received his education
there, but early developed baa fondness for the sea, and for several
years was a successful ship-master in the Pacific and East India trade.
In 1836 he established a shipping business in Honolulu, and in 1846
returned with his family to this country, and became a resident of
Jamaica Plain.  Soon after he erected the commodious mansion in the midst
of highly cultivated grounds, which was his home during the remainder of
his life.

Mr. Edward Bridge was one of the earliest settlers of the town, and it is
believed that he built the house, which has recently been taken down by
the Park Commission, near the corner of Centre and May Streets. The date
1710 was found cut into one of the old timbers, which is still preserved.

Mr. Abijah Seaverns, grandfather of our townsman, resided here with his
family for many years. The original Seaverns homestead, owned by Mr. Joel
Seaverns, the ancestor of the family, was upon a farm of some fifty-five
acres, now included in Forest Hills cemetery. In this old house, during
the later years of Mrs. Abijah Seaverns' life, a small band of the
Baptist faith met frequently for religious meetings, and in 1840 took
steps to form a church. Soon after they began to worship in the Village
Hall, and in 1842 the public services of their recognition were held in
the Unitarian Church, in which Rev. Mr. Gray then ministered. On October
4, 1843, the new house of worship was dedicated, and on the same day Dr.
John O. Choules, an Englishman, was installed as pastor. The little
church stood on elevated ground on the east side of Centre Street near
Star Lane. On September 26, 1856, the church was destroyed by fire, with
its furniture, library, and records. For two years the congregation used
the Unitarian house of worship one half of the Sabbath, and the Mather
(now Central) Church for evening meetings, accepting the very king
invitations which came from both societies while the fire was still
burning. In August 1859, the present house of worship on the corner of
Centre and Myrtle streets was dedicated.

Following May Street to Pond Street, we come to the beautiful estate now
owned by Mr. Edward Rice, and formerly by Mr. John J. Low, and here ready
fancy rears again the vanished walls of a stately mansion, three stories
in height, first occupied by another of the Tory gentry, Sir Francis
Barnard, the royal governor of Massachusetts from 1760 to 1769, -- the
period of our greatest historic interest. The beautiful sloping lawn,
shaded with lofty English elms, gave a charming setting to the house,
while broad acres highly cultivated, filled with choice fruit trees,
plants, and shrubs, including orange, lemon, fig, cork, and cinnamon
trees, and other rare exotics, added grandeur and beauty to the
landscape. One can easily call back the old-time scenes within this
mansion, of stately official pomp, of social gayety, of dinners and
balls, where the brocade and stain and lace, in towering head-gear, and
ample panniers; and where the cavaliers rivaled the ladies in their
powered wigs, gorgeous velvet coats and stain waistcoats, ruffled
shirt-fronts, small breeches and silken hose. We catch a glimpse of them
as they troop through the broad hall (fifty-four feet long and twenty
feet wide), and the wainscoted tapestried rooms, on the stately minuet or
the livelier contra-dances, and possibly recognize the forms and faces of
Adams, Hancock, Otis, Warren, and Quincy. Governor Barnard was an
Englishman, a graduate of Oxford, a man of erudition and large wealth. He
had remarkable conversational powers, and so tenacious a memory that he
boasted he could repeat all of Shakespeare's plays. He was a zealous
advocate of the claims of the Crown, and through professing to sympathize
with the men associated with him in their resistance to unjust taxation,
and other coercive measures to the royal government, he secretly worked
against them, and used his influence to have the British regiments sent
to Boston, and thus initiated the war. After holding his high office for
nearly ten years, he was recalled to England, in response to a petition
from the House of Representatives that "he might be forever removed from
the Government of the Province." As he departed from Boston the bells
were rung, cannon fired from the wharves, and the Liberty Tree hung gaily
with flags; so great was to joy of the people to be rid of him. Lady
Bernard did not leave Jamaica Plain until a year later -- in 1770. Sir
William Pepperell was the next resident of this house for about three
years. He was a graduate of Harvard, and, in 1776, became a member of the
Council, and was avowedly in sympathy with the royal cause. During the
siege this house was also occupied by the patriotic troops, and later
used as a hospital. The soldiers who died here were buried on the hill in
the rear of the house. This property was confiscated in 1779 by the
State, and purchased by Mr. Martin Brimmer, a Boston merchant, who died
here in 1804. Captain John Prince next owned it, and took down the old
house, a part of which had stood one hundred and forty years, and erected
a very attractive mansion which has recently given place to the one now
occupied by Mr. Rice. Mr. Prince opened the street, which bears his name
through his estate to Perkins Street, and it has since been the seat of
several beautiful residences.

The summer home of Francis Parkman, LL.D., on Prince Street, deserves
more than passing notice, no only because of his great prominence as an
historian and writer an scientific horticulture, but for the remarkable
beauty of the grounds lying along the chores of the lake and covered with
luxuriant and rare shrubs, trees, and plants, many of them models of
symmetry and loveliness. One cannot but regret that this homestead had
not been preserved in its completeness, as a memorial of this
distinguished man.

Thus much valuable time will be wasted in sending backwards and forwards."

The King also expressed great anxiety to consult with Count Lewis
William in regard to military details, but his chief sorrow was
in regard to the Advocate.Pinebank, the home of the Perkins family for nearly a century, with its
broad, winding avenue, beneath noble pine and larches, its stately
mansion its many rich landscape features, claims admiration for its
grandeur and nobility.

Returning to South Street, we find that in early days different branches
of the Weld family owned and lived upon estates in this portion of our
village. The largest and most important of these was the estate which was
given to Captain Joseph Weld by the province, about the year 1660, in
consideration of services rendered. It was bequeathed by him to his son,
John, and was the home of seven generations of that family, until about
the beginning of this century (1806), when it became the property of Mr.
Benjamin Bussey. During the Revolutionary War, Weld's Hill was selected
by Washington as a rallying point for the patriot army to fall back upon
in case of disaster, as it protected the road to Dedham, the depot of
army supplies. Mr. Bussey, after a few years, erected the fine mansion,
still standing, and resided here until his death, in 1842. The late Mr.
Thomas Motley, brother of the historian, was the husband of one of Mr.
Bussey's granddaughters, and occupied the house with his family until his
decease. This magnificent estate of three hundred acres was bequeathed to
Harvard University for the establishment of a seminary "for instruction
in practical agriculture, useful and ornamental gardening, botany, and
such other branches of natural science as may tend to promote a knowledge
of practical agriculture and the various arts subservient thereto and
connected therewith." The Bussey Institute was built in 1871, and the
beautiful Arboretum, embracing one hundred and sixty acres, has been in
the process of development since that time. During Mr. Bussey's; life,
and for years after, the public enjoyed the freedom of these charming
grounds. There were lovely wood paths, carefully kept, in all directions.
Here was a rustic bridge spanning the jocund brook; there a
willow-bordered pond, the home of gold and silver fish. He was hardly
such a schoolboy in politics as to listen to the proposal except to
laugh at it.

Meantime arrived from Julich, without much parade, a quiet but somewhat
pompous gentleman named Teynagel. He had formerly belonged to the
Reformed religion, but finding it more to his taste or advantage
to become privy councillor of the Emperor, he had returned to the
ancient church. He was one of the five who had accompanied the
Archduke Leopold to Julich."Up springs, at every step, to claim a tear,
Some little friendship formed in childhood here;
And not the lightest leaf but trembling teems,
With golden visions and romantic dreams."

Mr. Bussey's life is a remarkable illustration of the success, which
results from natural ability and persevering industry. With very small
pecuniary means in early life, he made the most of every condition and
advantage, and ultimately acquired large wealth and influence. Possibly
some here may remember the family coach, with its yellow body and
trimmings, drawn by four fine horses, in which Mr. Bussey and his family
rode to church each Sabbath. There is a pleasing tradition that the old
gentleman had the unusual but very gracious habit of bowing to people
near him on all sides in the church before taking his seat in the square
pew. On the occasion of President Andrew Jackson's visit to Boston,
accompanied by Vice-President Van Buren, in June 1833, Mr. Bussey joined
the grand procession in his yellow coach, drawn by six horses, richly
caparisoned, and attended by liveried servants.

