At the same time some anxiety remained to Helene. On several occasions
she had seen a shadow come over Jeanne's face--a shadow of sudden
distrust and sourness. Why was her laughter thus abruptly turned to
sulkiness? Was she suffering? was she hiding some quickening of the
old pain?

"Tell me, darling, what is the matter? You were laughing just a moment
ago, and now you are nearly crying! Speak to me: do you feel a pain
anywhere?"

But Jeanne abruptly turned away her head and buried her face in the
pillow.

"There's nothing wrong with me," she answered curtly. "I want to be
left alone."

And she would lie brooding the whole afternoon, with her eyes fixed on
the wall, showing no sign of affectionate repentance, but plunged in a
sadness which baffled her forlorn mother. The doctor knew not what to
say; these fits of gloom would always break out when he was there, and
he attributed them to the sufferer's nervousness. He impressed on
Helene the necessity of crossing her in nothing.

One afternoon Jeanne had fallen asleep. Henri, who was pleased with
her progress, had lingered in the room, and was carrying on a
whispered conversation with Helene, who was once more busy with her
everlasting needlework at her seat beside the window. Since the
terrible night when she had confessed she loved him both had lived on
peacefully in the consciousness of their mutual passions, careless of
the morrow, and without a thought of the world. Around Jeanne's bed,
in this room that still reverberated with her agony, there was an
atmosphere of purity which shielded them from any outburst. The
child's innocent breath fell on them with a quieting influence. But as
the little invalid slowly grew well again, their love in very sympathy
took new strength, and they would sit side by side with beating
hearts, speaking little, and then only in whispers, lest the little
one might be awakened. Their words were without significance, but
struck re-echoing chords within the breast of each. That afternoon
their love revealed itself in a thousand ways.

"I assure you she is much better," said the doctor. "In a fortnight
she will be able to go down to the garden."

Helene went on stitching quickly.

"Yesterday she was again very sad," she murmured, "but this morning
she was laughing and happy. She has given me her promise to be good."

A long silence followed. The child was still plunged in sleep, and
their souls were enveloped in a profound peace. When she slumbered
thus, their relief was intense; they seemed to share each other's
hearts the more.

"Have you not seen the garden yet?" asked Henri. "Just now it's full
of flowers."

"The asters are out, aren't they?" she questioned.

"Yes; the flower-bed looks magnificent. The clematises have wound
their way up into the elms. It is quite a nest of foliage."

There was another silence. Helene ceased sewing, and gave him a smile.
To their fancy it seemed as though they were strolling together along
high-banked paths, dim with shadows, amidst which fell a shower of
roses. As he hung over her he drank in the faint perfume of vervain
that arose from her dressing-gown. However, all at once a rustling of
the sheets disturbed them.

"She is wakening!" exclaimed Helene, as she started up.

Henri drew himself away, and simultaneously threw a glance towards the
bed. Jeanne had but a moment before gripped the pillow with her arms,
and, with her chin buried in it, had turned her face towards them. But
her eyelids were still shut, and judging by her slow and regular
breathing, she had again fallen asleep.

"Are you always sewing like this?" asked Henri, as he came nearer to
Helene.

"I cannot remain with idle hands," she answered. "It is mechanical
enough, but it regulates my thoughts. For hours I can think of the
same thing without wearying."

He said no more, but his eye dwelt on the needle as the stitching went
on almost in a melodious cadence; and it seemed to him as if the
thread were carrying off and binding something of their lives
together. For hours she could have sewn on, and for hours he could
have sat there, listening to the music of the needle, in which, like a
lulling refrain, re-echoed one word that never wearied them. It was
their wish to live their days like this in that quiet nook, to sit
side by side while the child was asleep, never stirring from their
places lest they might awaken her. How sweet was that quiescent
silence, in which they could listen to the pulsing of hearts, and bask
in the delight of a dream of everlasting love!

"How good you are!" were the words which came several times from his
lips, the joy her presence gave him only finding expression in that
one phrase.

Again she raised her head, never for a moment deeming it strange that
she should be so passionately worshipped. Henri's face was near her
own, and for a second they gazed at one another.

"Let me get on with my work," she said in a whisper. "I shall never
have it finished."

But just then an instinctive dread prompted her to turn round, and
indeed there lay Jeanne, lowering upon them with deadly pale face and
great inky-black eyes. The child had not made the least movement; her
chin was still buried in the downy pillow, which she clasped with her
little arms. She had only opened her eyes a moment before and was
contemplating them.

"Jeanne, what's the matter?" asked Helene. "Are you ill? do you want
anything?"

The little one made no reply, never stirred, did not even lower the
lids of her great flashing eyes. A sullen gloom was on her brow, and
in her pallid cheeks were deep hollows. She seemed about to throw back
her hands as though a convulsion was imminent. Helene started up,
begging her to speak; but she remained obstinately stiff, darting such
black looks on her mother that the latter's face became purple with
blushes, and she murmured:

"Doctor, see; what is the matter with her?"

Henri had drawn his chair away from Helene's. He ventured near the
bed, and was desirous of taking hold of one of the little hands which
so fiercely gripped the pillow. But as he touched Jeanne she trembled
in every limb, turned with a start towards the wall, and exclaimed:

"Leave me alone; you, I mean! You are hurting me!"

She pulled the coverlet over her face, and for a quarter of an hour
they attempted, without success, to soothe her with gentle words. At
last, as they still persevered, she sat up with her hands clasped in
supplication: "Oh, please leave me alone; you are tormenting me! Leave
me alone!"

Helene, in her bewilderment, once more sat down at the window, but
Henri did not resume his place beside her. They now understood: Jeanne
was devoured by jealousy. They were unable to speak another word. For
a minute or two the doctor paced up and down in silence, and then
slowly quitted the room, well understanding the meaning of the anxious
glances which the mother was darting towards the bed. As soon as he
had gone, she ran to her daughter's side and pressed her passionately
to her breast, with a wild outburst of words.

"Hear me, my pet, I am alone now; look at me, speak to me. Are you in
pain? Have I vexed you then? Tell me everything! Is it I whom you are
angry with? What are you troubled about?"

But it was useless to pray for an answer, useless to plead with all
sorts of questions; Jeanne declared that she was quite well. Then she
started up with a frenzied cry: "You don't love me any more, mamma!
you don't love me any more!"

She burst into grievous sobbing, and wound her arms convulsively round
her mother's neck, raining greedy kisses on her face. Helene's heart
was rent within her, she felt overwhelmed with unspeakable sadness,
and strained her child to her bosom, mingling her tears with her own,
and vowing to her that she would never love anybody save herself.

From that day onward a mere word or glance would suffice to awaken
Jeanne's jealousy. While she was in the perilous grip of death some
instinct had led her to put her trust in the loving tenderness with
which they had shielded and saved her. But now strength was returning
to her, and she would allow none to participate in her mother's love.
She conceived a kind of spite against the doctor, a spite which
stealthily grew into hate as her health improved. It was hidden deep
within her self-willed brain, in the innermost recesses of her
suspicious and silent nature. She would never consent to explain
things; she herself knew not what was the matter with her; but she
felt ill whenever the doctor drew too near to her mother; and would
press her hands violently to her bosom. Her torment seemed to sear her
very heart, and furious passion choked her and made her cheeks turn
pale. Nor could she place any restraint on herself; she imagined every
one unjust, grew stiff and haughty, and deigned no reply when she was
charged with being very ill-tempered. Helene, trembling with dismay,
dared not press her to explain the source of her trouble; indeed, her
eyes turned away whenever this eleven-year-old child darted at her a
glance in which was concentrated the premature passion of a woman.

"Oh, Jeanne, you are making me very wretched!" she would sometimes say
to her, the tears standing in her eyes as she observed her stifling in
her efforts to restrain a sudden bubbling up of mad anger.

But these words, once so potent for good, which had so often drawn the
child weeping to Helene's arms, were now wholly without influence.
There was a change taking place in her character. Her humors varied
ten times a day. Generally she spoke abruptly and imperiously,
addressing her mother as though she were Rosalie, and constantly
plaguing her with the pettiest demands, ever impatient and loud in
complaint.

"Give me a drink. What a time you take! I am left here dying of
thirst!" And when Helene handed the glass to her she would exclaim:
"There's no sugar in it; I won't have it!"

Then she would throw herself back on her pillow, and a second time
push away the glass, with the complaint that the drink was too sweet.
They no longer cared to attend to her, she would say; they were doing
it purposely. Helene, dreading lest she might infuriate her to a yet
greater extent, made no reply, but gazed on her with tears trembling
on her cheeks.

However, Jeanne's anger was particularly visible when the doctor made
his appearance. The moment he entered the sick-room she would lay
herself flat in bed, or sullenly hang her head in the manner of savage
brutes who will not suffer a stranger to come near. Sometimes she
refused to say a word, allowing him to feel her pulse or examine her
while she remained motionless with her eyes fixed on the ceiling. On
other days she would not even look at him, but clasp her hands over
her eyes with such a gust of passion that to remove them would have
necessitated the violent twisting of her arms. One night, as her
mother was about to give her a spoonful of medicine, she burst out
with the cruel remark: "I won't have it; it will poison me."

Helene's heart, pierced to the quick, sank within her, and she dreaded
to elicit what the remark might mean.

"What are you saying, my child?" she asked. "Do you understand what
you are talking about? Medicine is never nice to take. You must drink
this."

But Jeanne lay there in obstinate silence, and averted her head in
order to get rid of the draught. From that day onward she was full of
caprices, swallowing or rejecting her medicines according to the humor
of the moment. She would sniff at the phials and examine them
suspiciously as they stood on the night-table. Should she have refused
to drink the contents of one of them she never forgot its identity,
and would have died rather than allow a drop from it to pass her lips.
Honest Monsieur Rambaud alone could persuade her at times. It was he
whom she now overwhelmed with the most lavish caresses, especially if
the doctor were looking on; and her gleaming eyes were turned towards
her mother to note if she were vexed by this display of affection
towards another.

"Oh, it's you, old friend!" she exclaimed the moment he entered. "Come
and sit down near me. Have you brought me any oranges?"

She sat up and laughingly fumbled in his pockets, where goodies were
always secreted. Then she embraced him, playing quite a love comedy,
while her revenge found satisfaction in the anguish which she imagined
she could read on her mother's pallid face. Monsieur Rambaud beamed
with joy over his restoration to his little sweetheart's good graces.
But Helene, on meeting him in the ante-room, was usually able to
acquaint him with the state of affairs, and all at once he would look
at the draught standing on the table and exclaim: "What! are you
having syrup?"

Jeanne's face clouded over, and, in a low voice, she replied: "No, no,
it's nasty, it's nauseous; I can't take it."

"What! you can't drink this?" questioned Monsieur Rambaud gaily. "I
can wager it's very good. May I take a little of it?"

Then without awaiting her permission he poured out a large spoonful,
and swallowed it with a grimace that seemed to betoken immeasurable
satisfaction.

"How delicious!" he murmured. "You are quite wrong; see, just take a
little to try."

Jeanne, amused, then made no further resistance. She would drink
whatever Monsieur Rambaud happened to taste. She watched his every
motion greedily, and appeared to study his features with a view to
observing the effects of the medicine. The good man for a month gorged
himself in this way with drugs, and, on Helene gratefully thanking
him, merely shrugged his shoulders.

"Oh! it's very good stuff!" he declared, with perfect conviction,
making it his pleasure to share the little one's medicines.

He passed his evenings at her bedside. The Abbe, on the other hand,
came regularly every second day. Jeanne retained them with her as long
as possible, and displayed vexation when she saw them take up their
hats. Her immediate dread lay in being left alone with her mother and
the doctor, and she would fain have always had company in the room to
keep these two apart. Frequently, without reason, she called Rosalie
to her. When they were alone with her, her eyes never quitted them,
but pursued them into every corner of the bedroom. Whenever their
hands came together, her face grew ashy white. If a whispered word was
exchanged between them, she started up in anger, demanding to know
what had been said. It was a grievance to her that her mother's gown
should sweep against the doctor's foot. They could not approach or
look at one another without the child falling immediately into violent
trembling. The extreme sensitiveness of her innocent little being
induced in her an exasperation which would suddenly prompt her to turn
round, should she guess that they were smiling at one another behind
her. She could divine the times when their love was at its height by
the atmosphere wafted around her. It was then that her gloom became
deeper, and her agonies were those of nervous women at the approach of
a terrible storm.

Every one about Helene now looked on Jeanne as saved, and she herself
had slowly come to recognize this as a certainty. Thus it happened
that Jeanne's fits were at last regarded by her as the bad humors of a
spoilt child, and as of little or no consequence. A craving to live
sprang up within her after the six weeks of anguish which she had just
spent. Her daughter was now well able to dispense with her care for
hours; and for her, who had so long become unconscious of life, these
hours opened up a vista of delight, of peace, and pleasure. She
rummaged in her drawers, and made joyous discoveries of forgotten
things; she plunged into all sorts of petty tasks, in the endeavor to
resume the happy course of her daily existence. And in this upwelling
of life her love expanded, and the society of Henri was the reward she
allowed herself for the intensity of her past sufferings. In the
shelter of that room they deemed themselves beyond the world's ken,
and every hindrance in their path was forgotten. The child, to whom
their love had proved a terror, alone remained a bar between them.

Jeanne became, indeed, a veritable scourge to their affections. An
ever-present barrier, with her eyes constantly upon them, she
compelled them to maintain a continued restraint, an affectation of
indifference, with the result that their hearts were stirred with even
greater motion than before. For days they could not exchange a word;
they knew intuitively that she was listening even when she was
seemingly wrapped in slumber. One evening, when Helene had quitted the
room with Henri, to escort him to the front door, Jeanne burst out
with the cry, "Mamma! mamma!" in a voice shrill with rage. Helene was
forced to return, for she heard the child leap from her bed; and she
met her running towards her, shivering with cold and passion. Jeanne
would no longer let her remain away from her. From that day forward
they could merely exchange a clasp of the hand on meeting and parting.
Madame Deberle was now spending a month at the seaside, and the
doctor, though he had all his time at his own command, dared not pass
more than ten minutes in Helene's company. Their long chats at the
window had come to an end.

What particularly tortured their hearts was the fickleness of Jeanne's
humor. One night, as the doctor hung over her, she gave way to tears.
For a whole day her hate changed to feverish tenderness, and Helene
felt happy once more; but on the morrow, when the doctor entered the
room, the child received him with such a display of sourness that the
mother besought him with a look to leave them. Jeanne had fretted the
whole night in angry regret over her own good-humor. Not a day passed
but what a like scene was enacted. And after the blissful hours the
child brought them in her moods of impassioned tenderness these hours
of misery fell on them with the torture of the lash.

A feeling of revulsion at last awoke within Helene. To all seeming her
daughter would be her death. Why, when her illness had been put to
flight, did the ill-natured child work her utmost to torment her? If
one of those intoxicating dreams took possession of her imagination--a
mystic dream in which she found herself traversing a country alike
unknown and entrancing with Henri by her side Jeanne's face, harsh and
sullen, would suddenly start up before her and thus her heart was ever
being rent in twain. The struggle between her maternal affection and
her passion became fraught with the greatest suffering.

One evening, despite Helene's formal edict of banishment, the doctor
called. For eight days they had been unable to exchange a word
together. She would fain that he had not entered; but he did so on
learning that Jeanne was in a deep sleep. They sat down as of old,
near the window, far from the glare of the lamp, with the peaceful
shadows around them. For two hours their conversation went on in such
low whispers that scarcely a sound disturbed the silence of the large
room. At times they turned their heads and glanced at the delicate
profile of Jeanne, whose little hands, clasped together, were reposing
on the coverlet. But in the end they grew forgetful of their
surroundings, and their talk incautiously became louder. Then, all at
once, Jeanne's voice rang out.