He ran rapidly from the spot, leaving Frank to pursue his way alone, and
ponder upon this remarkable encounter.

Leaving the Park, and turning to the left, Frank proceeded up Chatham
street towards the Bowery. As he was passing a house of humble but
respectable exterior, he observed the street door to open, and a female
voice said, in a low tone--'Young gentleman I wish to speak to you.'

Frank was not much surprised at being thus accosted, for his long
residence in New York had made him aware of the fact that courtezans
often resorted to that mode of procuring 'patronage' from such midnight
pedestrians as might happen to be passing their doors. His first impulse
was to walk on without noticing the invitation--but then the thought
suggested itself to his mind: 'Might I not possibly be of some use or
benefit to that frail one? I will see what she has to say.'

Reasoning thus, he stepped up to the door, when the female who had
accosted him took him gently by the hand, and drawing him into the
entry, closed the door. A lamp was burning upon a table which stood in
the passage, and by its light Frank perceived that the lady was both
young and pretty; she was wrapped in a large shawl, so that the outlines
of her form were not plainly visible, yet it was easy to be seen that
she was of good figure and graceful carriage.

'Madame, or Miss,' said Frank, 'be good enough to tell me why--'

'We cannot converse here in the cold,' interrupted the lady, smiling
archly. 'Pray, sir, accompany me up-stairs to my room, and your
curiosity shall be satisfied.'

Frank (who had his own reasons) motioned her to lead the way; she took
the lamp from the table, and ascended the staircase, followed by the
young gentleman. The lady entered a room upon the second floor, in which
stood a bed and other conveniences denoting it to be a sleeping chamber;
a cheerful fire was glowing in the grate. The apartment was neatly and
plainly furnished, containing nothing of a character to indicate that
its occupant was other than a perfectly virtuous female. No obscene
pictures or immodest images were to be seen--all was unexceptionable in
point of propriety.

The lady closed and locked the chamber door; then placing two chairs
before the fire, she seated herself in one, and requested Frank to
occupy the other. Throwing off her shawl, she displayed a fine form and
voluptuous bust--the latter very liberally displayed, as she was arrayed
in nothing but a loose dressing gown, which concealed neither her plump
shoulders, nor the two fair and ample globes, whiter than alabaster,
that gave her form a luxurious fullness.

'You probably have sufficient discrimination, sir, to divine my motive
in inviting you into this house and chamber,' began the young lady, not
without some embarrassment. 'You will readily infer, from my conduct,
that I belong to the unfortunate class--'

'Say no more,' said Frank, interrupting her, 'I can readily guess why
you accosted me, and as readily comprehend your true position and
character. Madame, I regret to meet you in this situation.'

The lady cast down her eyes, and made no immediate reply, but for some
minutes continued to trace imaginary figures upon the carpet, with the
point of her delicate slipper. Meanwhile, Frank had ample leisure to
examine her narrowly. His eyes wandered over the graceful, undulating
outlines of her fine form, and lingered admiringly upon the exposed
beauties of her swelling bosom; he glanced at her regular and delicate
features which were exceedingly girlish and pretty, for she certainly
was not much over sixteen years of age. When it is remembered that Frank
was a young man of an ardent and impulsive temperament, the reader will
not be surprised that the loveliness of this young creature began to
excite within his breast those feelings and desires which are inherent
in human nature. In fact, he found himself being gradually overcome by
the most tumultuous sensations: his heart palpitated violently, his
breath grew hurried and irregular, and he could scarcely restrain
himself from clasping her to his breast with licentious violence. His
passions were still further excited, when she raised her eyes to his
face, and glanced at him with a soft smile, full of tenderness and
invitation. Frank Sydney was one of the best fellows in the world, and
possessed a heart that beat in unison with every noble, generous and
kindly feeling; but he was not an angel. No, he was _human_, and subject
to all the frailties and passions of humanity. When, therefore, that
enticing young woman raised her eyes, swimming with languishing desire,
to his face, and smiled so irresistibly, he did precisely what
ninety-nine out of every one hundred young men in existence would have
done, in the same circumstances--he encircled her slender waist with his
arm, drew her to his throbbing breast, and tasted the nectar of her ripe
lips, which so plainly invited the salute. Ah Frank, Frank! thou hast
gone too far to retract now! Thy hand plays with those ivory globes--thy
lips kiss those rounded shoulders, and that beauteous neck--thy brain
becomes dizzy, thy senses reel, and thy amorous soul bathes in a sea of
rapturous delight!

       *     *     *     *     *

Truly, Frank Sydney, thou art a pretty fellow to prate about sallying
forth at midnight to do good to thy fellow creatures!--Here we find
thee, within an hour after thy departure from thy home, on an 'errand of
mercy,' embraced in the soft arms of a pretty wanton, and revelling in
the delights of voluptuousness. We might have portrayed thee as a
paragon of virtue and chastity; we might have described thee as
rejecting with holy horror the advances of that frail but exceedingly
fair young lady--we might have made a saint of thee, Frank. But we
prefer to depict human nature _as it is_ not _as it should
be_;--therefore we represent thee to be no better than thou art in
reality. Many will pardon thee for thy folly, Frank, and admit that it
was natural--very natural. Our hero did not return to his hotel until an
hour after daybreak. The interval was passed with the young lady of
frailty and beauty. He shared her couch; but neither of them slumbered,
for at Frank's request, his fair friend occupied the time in narrating
the particulars of her history, which we repeat in the succeeding
chapter.


CHAPTER II

_The Courtezan's story, showing some of the Sins of Religious
Professors--A carnal Preacher, a frail Mother, and a lustful Father--a
plan of revenge._


'My parents are persons of respectable standing in society;--they are
both members of the Methodist Episcopal church, and remarkably rigid in
their observance of the external forms and ceremonies of religion.
Family worship was always adhered to by them, as well as grace before
and after meals. They have ever been regarded as most exemplary and
pious people. I was their only child; and the first ten years of my life
were passed in much the same manner as those of other children of my sex
and condition. I attended school, and received a good education; and my
parents endeavored to instill the most pious precepts into my mind, to
the end, they said, that I might become a vessel of holiness to the
Lord. When I reached my twelfth year, a circumstance occurred which
materially diminished my belief in the sanctity and godliness of one of
my parents, and caused me to regard with suspicion and distrust, both
religion and its professors.

'It was the custom of the pastor of the church to which my parents
belonged, to make a weekly round of visits among the members of his
congregation. These visits were generally made in the middle of the
forenoon or afternoon, during the absence of the male members of the
various families. I observed that 'our minister' invariably paid his
visits to our house when my father was absent at his place of business.
Upon these occasions, he would hold long and private conferences with my
mother, who used to declare that these interviews with that holy man did
her more substantial _good_ than all his preaching. 'It is so refreshing
to my soul,' she would say, 'to pray in secret with that good man--he is
_so_ full of Christian love--so tender in his exhortations--so fervent
in his prayers! O that I could meet him every day, in the sanctity of my
closet, to strengthen my faith by the outpourings of his inexhaustible
fount of piety and Christian love!'

'The _wrestlings with the Lord_ of my maternal parent and her holy
pastor, must have been both prolonged and severe, judging from the fact
that at the termination of these pious interviews, my mother sometimes
made her appearance with disordered apparel and disarranged hair; while
the violence of her efforts to strengthen her faith was further manifest
from the flushed condition of her countenance, and general peculiarity
of aspect.

'One afternoon the Reverend Mr. Flanders--for that was the name of our
minister--called to see my mother, and as usual they retired together to
a private room, for 'holy communion.' Young as I was, my suspicions had
long been excited in regard to the nature of these interviews; I began
to think that their true object partook more largely of an earthly and
carnal character, than either the pastor or my mother would care to have
known. Upon the afternoon in question, I determined to satisfy myself on
this point;--and accordingly, as soon as they entered the room and
closed the door, (which they always locked,) I stole noiselessly
up-stairs, and stationed myself in the passage, on the outside of the
room, and listened intently. I had scarcely taken up my position, when
my ear caught the sound of _kissing_; and applying my eye to the
key-hole, I beheld the Rev. Mr. Flanders bestowing the most fervent
embraces upon my mother, which she returned with compound interest. The
pious gentleman, clasping her around the waist with one arm, proceeded
to take liberties which astonished and disgusted me: and my mother not
only permitted the revered scoundrel to do this, but actually seemed to
encourage him. Soon they placed themselves upon a sofa, in full view of
my gaze; and I was both mortified and enraged to observe the wantonness
of my mother, and the lasciviousness of her _pious_ friend. After
indulging in the most obscene and lecherous preliminaries, the full
measure of their iniquity was consummated, I being a witness to the
whole disgraceful scene. Horrified, and sick at heart, I left the spot
and repaired to my own room, where I shed many bitter tears, for the
dishonor of my mother and the hypocrisy of the minister filled me with
shame and grief. From that moment, I ceased to love and respect my
mother, as formerly; but she failed to perceive any alteration in my
conduct towards her, and at that time was far from suspecting that I had
witnessed the act of her dishonor and disgrace.

