No lack of witnesses were there to prove deeds that had been done in the
open face of day, in utter fearlessness of earthly justice, and defiance
of Heaven.  The defence that the prisoner seemed to have been prepared to
us?--that those who sat to judge him had shared in his offences, and his
daring power of brow-beating them, as he had so often done before, as son
of the man who sat in the King's seat--had utterly failed him now.  He
was mute; and the forms of the trial were gone through as of one whose
doom was already sealed, but who must receive his sentence according to
the strictest form of law, lest the just reward of his deeds should
partake of their own violence.  By the end of the day the jurors had
found Walter Stewart guilty; and the doomster, a black-robed clerk,
rising up, pronounced the sentence that condemned Walter Stewart of
Albany to suffer death by beheading.

Even then no one believed that the doom would be inflicted.  Royal blood
had never flowed beneath the headsman's axe; and it would have been
infinitely more congenial to Scottish feelings if the King had sent a
party of men-at-arms to fall on the Master in the high road, and cut him
off, or had burnt him alive in his castle.  The verdict 'served him
right' would have been universally returned, and rejoiced in; but a
regular trial of a man of such birth was unheard of, and shocking to the
feelings even of those whom that irresistible force of the King's had
compelled to sit in judgment upon him.  No one could avow it face to face
with the King; but every one felt it an outrage to find that no rank was
exempt from law.

Duke Murdoch, his son Alexander, and his father-in-law Lennox, were tried
the next day, and many a deed of dark treason was laid to their charge.
The Earl of Lennox had been the scourge of Scotland for more than half
the eighty years of his life, but his extreme age might have excited some
pity; Murdoch had erred rather negatively than positively; and Alexander,
ruffian as he was, had been bred to nothing better.  Each had deserved
the utmost penalty of the law again and again, and yet there did seem
more scope for mercy in their case than in that of Walter.

But the King was inexorable.  He set Malcolm aside as he had set others.

'I know what you would say, lad.  Lennox is old, and Alexander is young,
and Albany is a fool; and Walter has injured you, so you are bound to
speak for him.  Take it all as said.  But these are the men who have been
foremost in making our country a desert!  Did I pardon them, with what
face could I ever make any man suffer for crime?  And, in the state of
this land, ruth to the guilty high would be treason to the sackless low.'

So Stirling saw the unprecedented sight of three generations suffering
for their crimes upon the same scaffold--the white-haired Lennox, the
Duke of Albany in the prime of life, Walter in the flush and strength of
early manhood, Alexander in the bloom of youth.  They all met their fate
undauntedly; for if Murdoch's heart in any measure failed him, he was
afraid to give way in presence of the proud bold Walter, who maintained
an iron rigidity of demeanour with the wild fortitude of a Red Indian at
the stake, and in like manner could by no means comprehend that King
James acted from any motive save malice, for having been so long kept out
of his kingdom.  'It was his turn now,' said poor Murdoch, even when most
desirous of bringing himself to die in a state of Christian forgiveness;
nor could any power on earth show any of the criminals that the King
acted in the eternal interests of right and justice.

Thus it was with the whole country; and when the four majestic-looking
men stood bare-headed on the scaffold, in view even of their own fair
towers of Doune, and one by one bowed their heads on the block, perverse
Scottish nature broke out into pity for their fate, and wrath against the
King, who could thus turn against his own blood, and disgrace the royal
lineage.

On that same day Malcolm received Esclairmonde's token, there being at
present full peace with England, and set forth on her summons.  He met
her at Pontefract, where she was residing with the Dowager Queen Joan of
Navarre, Alice of Salisbury having been summoned to return to her husband
in France.

There then it was that Malcolm and Esclairmonde, in presence of the
chaplain, gave each other back the rings, and therewith their troth to
wed none other, and were once more declared free.

Esclairmonde held out her hand to Malcolm, saying, 'The thanks I owe you,
Sir, are beyond what tongue can tell.  May He to Whom my first vows were
due requite it to you.'

And Malcolm, with his knee to the ground, pressing for the last time that
fair hand, said, 'The thanks, lady, are mine.  Had you been one whit
lower in aims or in constancy, what had I been?  You were my light of the
world, but to light me to seek that higher Light that shone forth in you,
and which may I show truly to the darkened spirits of my countrymen!
Lady, you will permit me to take to myself the ring you have worn so
long.  It will be my token of my betrothal to that true Light.'

Such was their parting, when the one went forth to her tasks of charity
among the poor in London, the other to divest himself of land and
lordship on behalf of his sister and her husband, and then to begin his
task in the priesthood, of trying to hold up the true Light to hearts
darkened by many an age of crime and ignorance.

Lived very happy ever after!  Yes, we would fain always leave the
creatures with whom our thoughts have been busy in such felicity; but
when we have linked them with real events, the sense of the veritable
course of history reminds us that we cannot even suppose beings possible
in real life without endowing them with the common lot of humanity; and
the personages of our tale lived in a time of more than ordinary reverse
and trouble.

Yet Sir Patrick Drummond and Lilias his wife, the Lord and Lady of
Glenuskie, nearly did fulfil these conditions.  They had not feelings
beyond their age, but they were good specimens of that age, and they did
their duty in it; he as a trustworthy noble, ready to aid in council or
war, and she as the beneficent dame, bringing piety and charity to heal
the sufferings of her vassals and serfs.  His hand was strong enough to
repel the attacks of his foes; her intelligence, backed by Malcolm's
counsel, introduced improvements; and the little ravine of Glenuskie was
a happy valley of peace and prosperity for many years among the
convulsions of Scotland.

Nor was Esclairmonde de Luxemburg's life in the Hospital of St. Katharine
otherwise than the holy and beneficent career that she had always longed
for--worshipping in the fair church, and going forth from thence 'into
the streets and lanes of the city,' to fulfil Queen Philippa's pious
behest, to seek out the suffering and the ignorant, and to tend and
instruct them.  The tall form and beautiful countenance of Sister Clare
were loved and reverenced as those of an angel messenger among the high
houses and courts that closed in on the banks of the Thames; and while
Luxemburgs in France and Flanders intrigued and fought, plotted and fell,
their kinswoman's days passed by in busy alms-deeds and ever loftier
devotion, till those who watched her steps felt that she was verily a
light of the world, manifesting forth the true Light in many a dark
place.

And her light of sympathy shone upon many an old friend both in joy and
in grief.  When the dissensions of Gloucester and Beaufort had summoned
Bedford to England to endeavour to appease their strife, his Burgundian
Duchess sought out her early friend, and Esclairmonde saw her gentle
companion, the Lady Anne, fulfilling her daily task of mediation, and
living a life, not indeed very sunshiny, but full of all that esteem and
respect could give her, and of calm gratitude and affection, although
Anne, like all others, believed that John of Bedford's heart had been
buried in his brother's grave, and that of youthful love he had none to
give.  His whole soul was absorbed in his care for the welfare of the
pale, gentle, dreamy, inanimate boy, who, from his very meekness and
docility, gave so little promise of representing the father whose name he
bore.

The loving Alice of Montagu, though the mother of many a bold boy and
girl, and busy with all the cares of the great Nevil household, regarded
as the chief delight in a journey to court the sight of her dear Sister
Clare.  It was to Sister Clare that Alice turned for comfort when her
brave old father died at the siege of Orleans; and it was while daily
soothing and ministering to her sorrow that Esclairmonde heard the
strange wild tales of the terrible witch maiden who had appeared on
behalf of the French, and turned whole English armies to flight, by power
that the French declared to come from the saints, but which the English
never doubted to be infernal.  Maimed and wounded soldiers, whom
Esclairmonde relieved and tended as they returned from lost battles, gave
her fearful accounts of the panic that La Pucelle inspired.  Even the
hardy veteran, Sir John Fastolfe, had not been able to withstand her
spells, but had fled from the field of Jergeau, where gallant Sir Ralf
Percy had died, in a vain attempt to gather the men to resist the
irresistible maiden.  His groom, who had succumbed for a time to wounds
and weakness on his way home to Alnwick, was touched by the warmth and
emotion with which the kind bedeswoman listened to his lamentation over
the good and loyal knight, whom she pictured to herself resisting the
enchantress's dread power as dauntlessly as he had defied the phantoms of
the Dance of Death.

No whisper ever reached Esclairmonde that the terrible Pucelle was a
maiden as pure and high-souled as herself.  All that she heard more was
that this terror of the English and Burgundians was taken, imprisoned for
a time by her own Luxemburg kindred, and then carried to Rouen, where the
kind Duchess Anne of Bedford did her best to persuade her to overcome the
superstition that kept her in male garments, thus greatly tending to
increase the belief in her connection with the powers of evil.  French
and Burgundian bishops, and even the University of Paris, were the judges
of the maiden; and the dastard prince she had crowned never stirred a
finger nor uttered a protest in her behalf.  Bedford, always disposed to
belief in witchcraft, acquiesced in the decision of Churchmen, which was
therefore called the judgment of the Church; but when he removed himself
and his duchess from Rouen, and left the conduct of the matter to the
sterner and harder Beauchamp, Earl of Warwick, it was with little thought
that after-generations would load his memory with the fate of Jeanne
d'Arc, as though her sufferings had proceeded from his individual malice.

Esclairmonde never saw Bedford again, and only heard through Alice, now
Countess of Salisbury, how when good Duchess Anne was dead, and her
gentle influence removed, Burgundy's disinclination to the English cause
was no longer balanced; and how Bedford, perplexed, disheartened, broken
in health, but still earnest to propitiate friends for his helpless
nephew, had listened to the wily whisper of the Bishop of Therouenne,
that his niece, Jaquette, would secure the devotion of the Count de St.
Pol, and that she was moreover like unto another Demoiselle de Luxemburg.

