From the universal testimony of citizens, I learned that General Banks
and the officers and men of the 19th corps, Eastern troops, exerted
themselves to prevent these outrages, and that the perpetrators were the
men of General A.J. Smith's command from Sherman's army. Educated at
West Point, this General Smith had long served in the regular army of
the United States, and his men were from the West, whose brave sons
might well afford kindness to women and babes. A key to their conduct
can be found in the "Memoirs" of General W.T. Sherman, the commander who
formed them, and whose views are best expressed in his own words.

The city of Atlanta, from which the Confederates had withdrawn, was
occupied by Slocum's corps of Sherman's army on the 2d of September,
1864. In vol. ii. of his "Memoirs," page 111, General Sherman says: "I
was resolved to make Atlanta a pure military garrison or depot, with no
civil population to influence military measures. I gave notice of this
purpose as early as the 4th of September, to General Halleck, in a
letter concluding with these words: 'If the people raise a howl against
my barbarity and cruelty, I will answer that war is war, and not
popularity-seeking. If they want peace, they and their relations must
stop the war.'" On pages 124-6 appears the correspondence of General
Sherman with the mayor and councilmen of Atlanta concerning the removal
of citizens, in which the latter write: "We petition you to reconsider
the order requiring them to leave Atlanta. It will involve in the
aggregate consequences appalling and heartrending. Many poor women are
in an advanced state of pregnancy, others now having young children, and
whose husbands for the greater part are either in the army, prisoners,
or dead. Some say, 'I have such a one sick at my house; who will wait on
them when I am gone?' Others say, 'What are we to do? we have no house
to go to, and no means to buy, build, or rent any; no parents,
relatives, or friends to go to.' This being so, how is it possible for
the people still here, mostly women and children, to find shelter? And
how can they live through the winter in the woods?" To this General
Sherman replies: "I have your letter of the 11th, in the nature of a
petition to revoke my orders removing all the inhabitants from Atlanta.
CHAPTER X.

_The Prince and the Remora_.

If he had been too warm before, the prince was too cold now. The hill of
the Remora was one solid mass of frozen steel, and the cold rushed out
of it like the breath of some icy beast, which indeed it _was_. All
around were things like marble statues of men in armour: they were the
dead bodies of the knights, horses and all, who had gone out of old
to fight the Remora, and who had been frosted up by him. The prince
felt his blood stand still, and he grew faint; but he took heart, for
there was no time to waste.

Yet he could nowhere see the Remora.

"Hi!" shouted the prince.

Then, from a narrow chink at the bottom of the smooth, black hill,--a
chink no deeper than that under a door, but a mile wide,--stole out a
hideous head!

It was as flat as the head of a skate-fish, it was deathly pale, and two
chill-blue eyes, dead-coloured like stones, looked out of it.

Then there came a whisper, like the breath of the bitter east wind on
a winter day:

"Where are you, and how can I come to you?"
"Here I am!" said the prince from the top of the hill.

Then the flat, white head set itself against the edge of the chink
from which it had peeped, and slowly, like the movement of a sheet of
ice, it slipped upwards and curled upwards, and up, and up! There
seemed no end to it at all; and it moved horribly, without feet,
holding on by its own frost to the slippery side of the frozen hill.

Now all the lower part of the black hill was covered with the horrid white
thing coiled about it in smooth, flat, shiny coils; and still the head
was higher than the rest; and still the icy cold came nearer and
nearer, like Death.

The prince almost fainted: everything seemed to swim; and in one moment
more he would have fallen stiff on the mountain-top, and the white
head would have crawled over him, and the cold coils would have slipped
over him and turned him to stone. And still the thing slipped up, from
the chink under the mountain.

But the prince made a great effort; he moved, and in two steps he
was far away, down in the valley where it was not so very cold.
"Hi!" he shouted, as soon as his tongue could move within his
chattering teeth.
There came a clear, hissing answer, like frozen words dropping round
him:

"Wait till I come down. What do you want?"
Then the white folds began to slide, like melting ice, from the
black hill.
Prince Prigio felt the air getting warmer behind him, and colder
in front of him.
He looked round, and there were the trees beginning to blacken in
the heat, and the grass looking like a sea of fire along the plains;
for the Firedrake was coming!
The prince just took time to shout, "The Firedrake is going to pay
you a visit!" and then he soared to the top of a neighbouring hill,
and looked on at what followed.

CHAPTER XI.

_The Battle_.
It was an awul sight to behold! When the Remora heard the name of
the Firedrake, his hated enemy, he slipped with wonderful speed
from the cleft of the mountain into the valley.Upon what foundations the civil authorities of the Confederacy rested
their hopes of success, after the campaign of 1864 fully opened, I am
unable to say; but their commanders in the field, whose rank and
position enabled them to estimate the situation, fought simply to afford
statesmanship an opportunity to mitigate the sorrows of inevitable
defeat.

A grand old oak, on the east bank of the Black River, the lower Washita,
protected my couch; and in the morning, with two guides, the faithful
Tom following, I threaded my way through swamp and jungle to the
Mississippi, which was reached at sunset. A light canoe was concealed
some distance from the river bank, and after the short twilight faded
into night this was borne on the shoulders of the guides, and launched.
One of the guides embarked to paddle, and Tom and I followed, each
leading a horse. A gunboat was lying in the river a short distance
below, and even the horses seemed to understand the importance of
silence, swimming quietly alongside of our frail craft. I thought it
might be a new mine or irrigation scheme, and I was surprised to
find that it was a country house.

"I don't think I shall go back to England," he said, kicking a
sputtering log into place. "I don't see why I should. For business
purposes I am far more useful to the firm in South Africa than in
Throgmorton Street. I have no relation left except a third cousin,
and I have never cared a rush for living in town. That beastly house
of mine in Hill Street will fetch what I gave for it,--Isaacson cabled
about it the other day, offering for furniture and all. I don't
want to go into Parliament, and I hate shooting little birds and tame
deer.
I am one of those fellows who are born Colonial at heart, and I don't
see why I shouldn't arrange my life as I please. Besides, for ten
years I have been falling in love with this country, and now I am
up to the neck."
He flung himself back in the camp-chair till the canvas creaked, and
looked at me below his eyelids. I remember glancing at the lines
of him, and thinking what a fine make of a man he was. In his untanned
field-boots, breeches, and grey shirt, he looked the born wilderness
hunter, though less than two months before he had been driving
down to the City every morning in the sombre regimentals of his
class. Being a fair man, he was gloriously tanned, and there was a
clear line at his shirt-collar to mark the limits of his sunburn.
I had first known him years ago, when he was a broker's clerk working
on half-commission.The open
pine forests of southern Mississippi obstruct the breeze, while
affording no protection from the sun, whose rays are intensified by
reflection from the white, sandy soil. Jackson reached, I stopped for an
hour to see the Governor of Mississippi, Clarke, an old acquaintance,
and give instructions to Brigadier Wirt Adams, the local commander; then
took rail to Meridian, eighty miles, where I found the records of the
department left by General Polk, as well as several officers of the
general staff. These gentlemen had nothing especial to do, and appeared
to be discharging that duty conscientiously; but they were zealous and
intelligent, and speedily enabled me to judge of the situation.
Major-General Maury, in immediate command at Mobile, and the senior
officer in the department before my arrival, had ordered General Forrest
with his cavalry to Mobile in anticipation of an attack. Forrest himself
was expected to pass through Meridian that evening, _en route_ for
Mobile.

Just from the Mississippi river, where facilities for obtaining
information from New Orleans were greater than at Mobile, I was
confident that the enemy contemplated no immediate attack on the latter
place. Accordingly, General Maury was informed by telegraph of my
presence, that I assumed command of the department, and would arrest
Forrest's movement. An hour later a train from the north, bringing
Forrest in advance of his troops, reached Meridian, and was stopped; and
the General, whom I had never seen, came to report. He was a tall,
stalwart man, with grayish hair, mild countenance, and slow and homely
of speech. In few words he was informed that I considered Mobile safe
for the present, and that all our energies must be directed to the
relief of Hood's army, then west of Atlanta. The only way to accomplish
this was to worry Sherman's communications north of the Tennessee river,
and he must move his cavalry in that direction at the earliest moment.

To my surprise, Forrest suggested many difficulties and asked numerous
questions: how he was to get over the Tennessee; how he was to get back
if pressed by the enemy; how he was to be supplied; what should be his
line of retreat in certain contingencies; what he was to do with
prisoners if any were taken, etc. Another moment and I expected a torrent
of tears. But they did not come. With a great effort she regained
her composure.

"Well, the gentlemen must have an answer. You will tell them that the
Count, my father--nay--give him his true title if you care--is vastly
obliged to them for the honour they have done him, but would decline
on account of his age and infirmities. You know how to phrase a decent
refusal."
"Pardon me," said I, "but I might give them that answer till doomsday
and never content them. They have not travelled many thousand miles
to be put off by hearsay evidence. Nothing will satisfy them but an
interview with your father himself.

"It is impossible," she said sharply.

"Then we must expect the renewed attentions of our American friends.

They will wait till they see him."
She rose and paced the room.

"They must go," she repeated many times. "If they see him sober he will
accept with joy, and we shall be the laughing-stock of the world.
I tell you it cannot be. I alone know how immense is the impossibility.
He cannot afford to lose the last rags of his dignity, the last
dregs of his ease. They must not see him. I will speak with them
myself."
"They will be honoured, madame, but I do not think they will be
convinced. They are what we call in my land 'men of business.' They
will not be content till they get the Count's reply from his own
lips."
A new Duchess seemed to have arisen, a woman of quick action and
sharp words.

"So be it. They shall see him.In the
last weeks of the war he was much with me, and told me the story of his
life. His father, a poor trader in negroes and mules, died when he was
fifteen years of age, leaving a widow and several younger children
dependent on him for support. To add to his burden, a posthumous infant
was born some weeks after the father's death. Continuing the paternal
occupations in a small way, he continued to maintain the family and give
some education to the younger children. His character for truth,
honesty, and energy was recognized, and he gradually achieved
independence and aided his brethren to start in life. Such was his short
story up to the war.

Some months before the time of our first meeting, with two thousand men
he defeated the Federal General Sturgis, who had five times his force,
at Tishimingo; and he repeated his success at Okalona, where his
opponent, General Smith, had even greater odds against him. The battle
of Okalona was fought on an open plain, and Forrest had no advantage of
position to compensate for great inferiority of numbers; but it is
remarkable that he employed the tactics of Frederick at Leuthen and
Zorndorf, though he had never heard these names. Indeed, his tactics
deserve the closest study of military men. Off they went, the horses'
hoofs clattering, banners flying, sunshine glittering on the spear-points.
Off they rode to Falkenstein; and when the king saw them come galloping
in, I can tell you he had no more notion of hanging Prigio.

{Riding off to Falkenstein: p136.jpg}

CHAPTER XVIII.

_The Very Last_.

The princes returned to Gluckstein on the carpet, and went to the
best inn, where they dined together and slept. Next morning they, and
the ambassador, who had been told all the story, and Lady Rosalind,
floated comfortably on the carpet back to Falkenstein, where the
king wept like anything on the shoulders of Alphonso and Enrico. They
could not make out why he cried so, nor why Lady Molinda and Lady
Kathleena cried; but soon they were all laughing and happy again.

But then--would you believe he could be so mean?--he refused to keep his
royal promise, and restore Prigio to his crown-princeship! Kings are like
that.

But Prigio, very quietly asking for the head of the Firedrake, said
he'd pour the magic water on _that_, and bring the Firedrake back to
life again, unless his majesty behaved rightly. This threat properly
frightened King Grognio, and he apologised. Then the king shook
hands with Prigio in public, and thanked him, and said he was proud
of him. As to Lady Rosalind, the old gentleman quite fell in love
with her, and he sent at once to the Chaplain Royal to get into his
surplice, and marry all the young people off at once, without waiting
for wedding-cakes, and milliners, and all the rest of it.
Now, just as they were forming a procession to march into church,
who should appear but the queen! Her majesty had been travelling
by post all the time, and, luckily, had heard of none of the doings
since Prigio, Benson, and the king left Gluckstein.Two or three of Buchanan's vessels
had escaped, and were in charge of Commodore Farrand near Mobile. The
shallow waters of the bay were thickly planted with torpedoes, and many
heavy guns were mounted near the town, making it safe in front. Mobile
had excellent communications with the interior. The Alabama, Tombigby,
and Black Warrior Rivers afforded steam navigation to central Alabama
and eastern Mississippi, while the Mobile and Ohio Railway reached the
northern limit of the latter State. Supplies from the fertile
"cane-brake" region of Alabama and the prairies of eastern Mississippi
were abundant. Before they abandoned Pensacola, the Confederates had
taken up fifty miles of rails from the Pensacola and Montgomery line,
and used them to make a connection between the latter place and
Blakeley, at the eastern head of the bay, opposite Mobile. From the
known dispositions of the Federal forces, I did not think it probable
that any serious attempt on Mobile would be made until spring. Already
in possession of Fort Morgan and Pensacola, thirty miles east of the
first, and the best harbor on the Gulf, the enemy, when he attacked,
would doubtless make these places his base. It was important, then, to
look to defensive works on the east side of the bay, and such works were
vigorously pushed at Blakeley, above mentioned, and at Spanish Fort,
several miles south. I had no intention of standing a siege in Mobile,
but desired to hold the place with a small force, so as to compel the
employment of an army to reduce it; and for this its situation was
admirably adapted. The Mobile River, forty miles long, and formed by the
Alabama and Tombigby, is but the estuary at the head of Mobile Bay,
silted up with detritus by the entering streams. "'And so we left him. I
will not describe how I spent last night mysel', but I have something
to say about this remarkable phenomenon.
I could enlarge on the triumph of mind over matter. ....

"Mackay did not enlarge. He stopped, cocked his ears, and looked
down the road, from which came the strains of 'Annie Laurie,' played
with much spirit but grievously out of tune. Followed 'The British
Grenadiers,' and then an attempt at 'The March of the Priests.'
Mackay rose in excitement and began to crane his disreputable neck,
while the band--a fine scratch collection of instruments--took up their
stand at the end of the street, flanked by a piper in khaki who performed
when their breath failed. Mackay chuckled with satisfaction. 'The
deevils have entered into the spirit of my instructions,' he
said. 'In a wee bit the place will be like Falkirk Tryst for din.

"Punctually at twelve there came a great hullabaloo up the road,
the beating of drums and the yelling of natives, and presently the
procession hove in sight.

There was Tommy on his horse, and on each side of him six savages
with feather head-dress, and shields and war-paint complete. After him
trooped about thirty of the great chiefs, walking two by two, for
all the world like an Aldershot parade.
They carried no arms, but the bodyguard shook their spears, and let
yells out of them that would have scared Julius Caesar. Then the
band started in, and the piper blew up, and the mines people commenced
to cheer, and I thought the heavens would fall.The army of
Lee, starving in the trenches before Richmond and Petersburg, could have
been liberally supplied from this district but for lack of
transportation.

Here it may be asserted that we suffered less from inferiority of
numbers than from want of mechanical resources. Most of the mechanics
employed in the South were Northern men, and returned to their section
at the outbreak of war. The loss of New Orleans, our only large city,
aggravated this trouble, and we had no means of repairing the long lines
of railway, nor the plant. Even when unbroken by raids, wear and tear
rendered them inefficient at an early period of the struggle. This had a
more direct influence on the sudden downfall of the Confederacy than is
generally supposed.

