The news that Amphipolis was in the hands of the enemy caused
great alarm at Athens.  Not only was the town valuable for the timber
it afforded for shipbuilding, and the money that it brought in; but
also, although the escort of the Thessalians gave the Lacedaemonians a
means of reaching the allies of Athens as far as the Strymon, yet as
long as they were not masters of the bridge but were watched on the
side of Eion by the Athenian galleys, and on the land side impeded
by a large and extensive lake formed by the waters of the river, it
was impossible for them to go any further.  Now, on the contrary, the
path seemed open.  There was also the fear of the allies revolting,
owing to the moderation displayed by Brasidas in all his conduct,
and to the declarations which he was everywhere making that he sent
out to free Hellas.  The towns subject to the Athenians, hearing of the
capture of Amphipolis and of the terms accorded to it, and of the
gentleness of Brasidas, felt most strongly encouraged to change
their condition, and sent secret messages to him, begging him to
come on to them; each wishing to be the first to revolt.  Indeed
there seemed to be no danger in so doing; their mistake in their
estimate of the Athenian power was as great as that power afterwards
turned out to be, and their judgment was based more upon blind wishing
than upon any sound prevision; for it is a habit of mankind to entrust
to careless hope what they long for, and to use sovereign reason to
thrust aside what they do not fancy.  Besides the late severe blow
which the Athenians had met with in Boeotia, joined to the
seductive, though untrue, statements of Brasidas, about the
Athenians not having ventured to engage his single army at Nisaea,
made the allies confident, and caused them to believe that no Athenian
force would be sent against them.  Above all the wish to do what was
agreeable at the moment, and the likelihood that they should find
the Lacedaemonians full of zeal at starting, made them eager to
venture.  Observing this, the Athenians sent garrisons to the different
towns, as far as was possible at such short notice and in winter;
while Brasidas sent dispatches to Lacedaemon asking for
reinforcements, and himself made preparations for building galleys
in the Strymon.  The Lacedaemonians however did not send him any,
partly through envy on the part of their chief men, partly because
they were more bent on recovering the prisoners of the island and
ending the war.

The same winter the Megarians took and razed to the foundations
the long walls which had been occupied by the Athenians; and
Brasidas after the capture of Amphipolis marched with his allies
against Acte, a promontory running out from the King's dike with an
inward curve, and ending in Athos, a lofty mountain looking towards
the Aegean Sea.  In it are various towns, Sane, an Andrian colony,
close to the canal, and facing the sea in the direction of Euboea; the
others being Thyssus, Cleone, Acrothoi, Olophyxus, and Dium, inhabited
by mixed barbarian races speaking the two languages.  There is also a
small Chalcidian element; but the greater number are
Tyrrheno-Pelasgians once settled in Lemnos and Athens, and Bisaltians,
Crestonians, and Edonians; the towns being all small ones.  Most of
these came over to Brasidas; but Sane and Dium held out and saw
their land ravaged by him and his army.

Upon their not submitting, he at once marched against Torone in
Chalcidice, which was held by an Athenian garrison, having been
invited by a few persons who were prepared to hand over the town.
Arriving in the dark a little before daybreak, he sat down with his
army near the temple of the Dioscuri, rather more than a quarter of
a mile from the city.  The rest of the town of Torone and the Athenians
in garrison did not perceive his approach; but his partisans knowing
that he was coming (a few of them had secretly gone out to meet him)
were on the watch for his arrival, and were no sooner aware of it than
they took it to them seven light-armed men with daggers, who alone
of twenty men ordered on this service dared to enter, commanded by
Lysistratus an Olynthian.  These passed through the sea wall, and
without being seen went up and put to the sword the garrison of the
highest post in the town, which stands on a hill, and broke open the
postern on the side of Canastraeum.

Brasidas meanwhile came a little nearer and then halted with his
main body, sending on one hundred targeteers to be ready to rush in
first, the moment that a gate should be thrown open and the beacon
lighted as agreed.  After some time passed in waiting and wondering
at the delay, the targeteers by degrees got up close to the town.
The Toronaeans inside at work with the party that had entered had by
this time broken down the postern and opened the gates leading to
the market-place by cutting through the bar, and first brought some
men round and let them in by the postern, in order to strike a panic
into the surprised townsmen by suddenly attacking them from behind and
on both sides at once; after which they raised the fire-signal as
had been agreed, and took in by the market gates the rest of the
targeteers.

Brasidas seeing the signal told the troops to rise, and dashed
forward amid the loud hurrahs of his men, which carried dismay among
the astonished townspeople.  Some burst in straight by the gate, others
over some square pieces of timber placed against the wall (which has
fallen down and was being rebuilt) to draw up stones; Brasidas and the
greater number making straight uphill for the higher part of the town,
in order to take it from top to bottom, and once for all, while the
rest of the multitude spread in all directions.

The capture of the town was effected before the great body of the
Toronaeans had recovered from their surprise and confusion; but the
conspirators and the citizens of their party at once joined the
invaders.  About fifty of the Athenian heavy infantry happened to be
sleeping in the market-place when the alarm reached them.  A few of
these were killed fighting; the rest escaped, some by land, others
to the two ships on the station, and took refuge in Lecythus, a fort
garrisoned by their own men in the corner of the town running out into
the sea and cut off by a narrow isthmus; where they were joined by the
Toronaeans of their party.

Day now arrived, and the town being secured, Brasidas made a
proclamation to the Toronaeans who had taken refuge with the
Athenians, to come out, as many as chose, to their homes without
fearing for their rights or persons, and sent a herald to invite the
Athenians to accept a truce, and to evacuate Lecythus with their
property, as being Chalcidian ground.  The Athenians refused this
offer, but asked for a truce for a day to take up their dead.  Brasidas
granted it for two days, which he employed in fortifying the houses
near, and the Athenians in doing the same to their positions.
Meanwhile he called a meeting of the Toronaeans, and said very much
what he had said at Acanthus, namely, that they must not look upon
those who had negotiated with him for the capture of the town as bad
men or as traitors, as they had not acted as they had done from
corrupt motives or in order to enslave the city, but for the good
and freedom of Torone; nor again must those who had not shared in
the enterprise fancy that they would not equally reap its fruits, as
he had not come to destroy either city or individual.  The Redskins!"
We snatched up our rifles and hastened to the top of the little
rising ground on which our houses were built, and thence we saw,
not Injuns, but fourteen or fifteen Creoles, galloping towards our
clearing, halloing and huzzaing like mad.
Meanwhile he warned all of them to prepare to be
staunch allies, and for being held responsible for all faults in
future: for the past, they had not wronged the Lacedaemonians but
had been wronged by others who were too strong for them, and any
opposition that they might have offered him could be excused.

Having encouraged them with this address, as soon as the truce
expired he made his attack upon Lecythus; the Athenians defending
themselves from a poor wall and from some houses with parapets.  One
day they beat him off; the next the enemy were preparing to bring up
an engine against them from which they meant to throw fire upon the
wooden defences, and the troops were already coming up to the point
where they fancied they could best bring up the engine, and where
place was most assailable; meanwhile the Athenians put a wooden
tower upon a house opposite, and carried up a quantity of jars and
casks of water and big stones, and a large number of men also
climbed up.  The house thus laden too heavily suddenly broke down
with a loud crash; at which the men who were near and saw it were more
vexed than frightened; but those not so near, and still more those
furthest off, thought that the place was already taken at that
point, and fled in haste to the sea and the ships.

Brasidas, perceiving that they were deserting the parapet, and
seeing what was going on, dashed forward with his troops, and
immediately took the fort, and put to the sword all whom he found in
it.  In this way the place was evacuated by the Athenians, who went
across in their boats and ships to Pallene.  Now there is a temple of
Athene in Lecythus, and Brasidas had proclaimed in the moment of
making the assault that he would give thirty silver minae to the man
first on the wall.  Being now of opinion that the capture was
scarcely due to human means, he gave the thirty minae to the goddess
for her temple, and razed and cleared Lecythus, and made the whole
of it consecrated ground.  The rest of the winter he spent in
settling the places in his hands, and in making designs upon the rest;
and with the expiration of the winter the eighth year of this war
ended.

In the spring of the summer following, the Lacedaemonians and
Athenians made an armistice for a year; the Athenians thinking that
they would thus have full leisure to take their precautions before
Brasidas could procure the revolt of any more of their towns, and
might also, if it suited them, conclude a general peace; the
Lacedaemonians divining the actual fears of the Athenians, and
thinking that after once tasting a respite from trouble and misery
they would be more disposed to consent to a reconciliation, and to
give back the prisoners, and make a treaty for the longer period.
"Ha!" cried Asa in an altered voice, "I have it." And the hams and
bucket came tumbling down the chimney, and Asa after them all
covered with blood.

"In God's name, man, are you hurt?" cried Rachel.
"Hush! wife," replied Asa; "keep quiet.An
armistice was accordingly concluded by Lacedaemon and her allies
upon the terms following:

1.  As to the temple and oracle of the Pythian Apollo, we are
agreed that whosoever will shall have access to it, without fraud or
fear, according to the usages of his forefathers.  The Lacedaemonians
and the allies present agree to this, and promise to send heralds to
the Boeotians and Phocians, and to do their best to persuade them to
agree likewise.

2.  As to the treasure of the god, we agree to exert ourselves to
detect all malversators, truly and honestly following the customs of
our forefathers, we and you and all others willing to do so, all
following the customs of our forefathers.  As to these points the
Lacedaemonians and the other allies are agreed as has been said.

3.  As to what follows, the Lacedaemonians and the other allies
agree, if the Athenians conclude a treaty, to remain, each of us in
our own territory, retaining our respective acquisitions: the garrison
in Coryphasium keeping within Buphras and Tomeus: that in Cythera
attempting no communication with the Peloponnesian confederacy,
neither we with them, nor they with us: that in Nisaea and Minoa not
crossing the road leading from the gates of the temple of Nisus to
that of Poseidon and from thence straight to the bridge at Minoa:
the Megarians and the allies being equally bound not to cross this
road, and the Athenians retaining the island they have taken,
without any communication on either side: as to Troezen, each side
retaining what it has, and as was arranged with the Athenians.

4.  As to the use of the sea, so far as refers to their own coast
and to that of their confederacy, that the Lacedaemonians and their
allies may voyage upon it in any vessel rowed by oars and of not
more than five hundred talents tonnage, not a vessel of war.

5.  That all heralds and embassies, with as many attendants as they
please, for concluding the war and adjusting claims, shall have free
passage, going and coming, to Peloponnese or Athens by land and by
sea.

6.  That during the truce, deserters whether bond or free shall
be received neither by you, nor by us.

7.  Further, that satisfaction shall be given by you to us and by
us to you according to the public law of our several countries, all
disputes being settled by law without recourse to hostilities.

The Lacedaemonians and allies agree to these articles; but if
you have anything fairer or juster to suggest, come to Lacedaemon
and let us know: whatever shall be just will meet with no objection
either from the Lacedaemonians or from the allies.  Only let those
who come come with full powers, as you desire us.  The truce shall be
for one year.

Approved by the people.

The tribe of Acamantis had the prytany, Phoenippus was
secretary, Niciades chairman.  Laches moved, in the name of the good
luck of the Athenians, that they should conclude the armistice upon
the terms agreed upon by the Lacedaemonians and the allies.  It was
agreed accordingly in the popular assembly that the armistice should
be for one year, beginning that very day, the fourteenth of the
month of Elaphebolion; during which time ambassadors and heralds
should go and come between the two countries to discuss the bases of a
pacification.  That the generals and prytanes should call an assembly
of the people, in which the Athenians should first consult on the
peace, and on the mode in which the embassy for putting an end to
the war should be admitted.  That the embassy now present should at
once take the engagement before the people to keep well and truly this
truce for one year.

On these terms the Lacedaemonians concluded with the Athenians and
their allies on the twelfth day of the Spartan month Gerastius; the
allies also taking the oaths.  Those who concluded and poured the
libation were Taurus, son of Echetimides, Athenaeus, son of
Pericleidas, and Philocharidas, son of Eryxidaidas, Lacedaemonians;
Aeneas, son of Ocytus, and Euphamidas, son of Aristonymus,
Corinthians; Damotimus, son of Naucrates, and Onasimus, son of
Megacles, Sicyonians; Nicasus, son of Cecalus, and Menecrates, son
of Amphidorus, Megarians; and Amphias, son of Eupaidas, an Epidaurian;
and the Athenian generals Nicostratus, son of Diitrephes, Nicias,
son of Niceratus, and Autocles, son of Tolmaeus.  Such was the
armistice, and during the whole of it conferences went on on the
subject of a pacification.

