I have listened in my time with more or less pleasure to very
rollicking songs about the sea, the flashing brine, the spray and the
tempest's roar, the wet sheet and the flowing sea, a life on the
ocean wave, and all the rest of it.  To paraphrase a land proverb,
let me write the songs of the sea, and I care not who goes to sea and
sings 'em.  A square yard of solid ground is worth miles of the
pitching, turbulent stuff.  Its inability to stand still for one
second is the plague of it.  To lie on deck when the sun shines, and
swing up and down, while the waves run hither and thither and toss
their white caps, is all well enough to lie in your narrow berth and
roll from side to side all night long; to walk uphill to your
state-room door, and, when you get there, find you have got to the
bottom of the hill, and opening the door is like lifting up a
trap-door in the floor; to deliberately start for some object, and,
before you know it, to be flung against it like a bag of sand; to
attempt to sit down on your sofa, and find you are sitting up; to
slip and slide and grasp at everything within reach, and to meet
everybody leaning and walking on a slant, as if a heavy wind were
blowing, and the laws of gravitation were reversed; to lie in your
berth, and hear all the dishes on the cabin-table go sousing off
against the wall in a general smash; to sit at table holding your
soup-plate with one hand, and watching for a chance to put your spoon
in when it comes high tide on your side of the dish; to vigilantly
watch, the lurch of the heavy dishes while holding your glass and
your plate and your knife and fork, and not to notice it when Brown,
who sits next you, gets the whole swash of the gravy from the
roast-beef dish on his light-colored pantaloons, and see the look of
dismay that only Brown can assume on such an occasion; to see Mrs.
said he, as I took his hand and told him how I was already looking
forward to the time.

"But of course we will!" I cried, concealing the resentment at leaving
him which his tone and his appearance renewed in my breast.

"I'm not so sure of it," he said, gloomily. "I'm in somebody's
clutches, and I've got to get out of them first."
"I'll sit tight until you do."
"Well," he said, "if you don't see me in ten days you never will."

"Only ten days?" I echoed. "That's nothing at all."
"A lot may happen in ten days," replied Raffles, in the same depressing
tone, so very depressing in him; and with that he held out his hand
a second time, and dropped mine suddenly after as sudden a pressure
for farewell.

I left the flat in considerable dejection after all, unable to
decide whether Raffles was really ill, or only worried as I knew
him to be.

And at the foot of the stairs the author of my dismissal, that
confounded Theobald, flung open his door and waylaid me.

"Are you going?" he demanded.
The traps in my hands proclaimed that I was, but I dropped them at
his feet to have it out with him then and there.
"Yes," I answered fiercely, "thanks to you!"
"Well, my good fellow," he said, his full-blooded face lightening
and softening at the same time, as though a load were off his mind,
"it's no pleasure to me to deprive any man of his billet, but you
never were a nurse, and you know that as well as I do."
I began to wonder what he meant, and how much he did know, and my
speculations kept me silent.It used to be that the leader
sang, in ever-varying lines of nonsense, and the chorus struck in
with fine effect, like this:


"I wish I was in Liverpool town.
     Handy-pan, handy O!

O captain!  where 'd you ship your crew
     Handy-pan, handy O!

Oh!  pull away, my bully crew,
     Handy-pan, handy O!"


There are verses enough of this sort to reach across the Atlantic;
and they are not the worst thing about it either, or the most
tedious.  One learns to respect this ocean, but not to love it; and
he leaves it with mingled feelings about Columbus.

And now, having crossed it,--a fact that cannot be concealed,--let us
not be under the misapprehension that we are set to any task other
than that of sauntering where it pleases us.


PARIS AND LONDON


SURFACE CONTRASTS OF PARIS AND LONDON

I wonder if it is the Channel?  Almost everything is laid to the
Channel: it has no friends.  The sailors call it the nastiest bit of
water in the world.  All travelers anathematize it.  I have now
crossed it three times in different places, by long routes and short
ones, and have always found it as comfortable as any sailing
anywhere, sailing being one of the most tedious and disagreeable
inventions of a fallen race.  But such is not the usual experience:
most people would make great sacrifices to avoid the hour and three
quarters in one of those loathsome little Channel boats,--they always
call them loathsome, though I did n't see but they are as good as any
boats.  I have never found any boat that hasn't a detestable habit of
bobbing round.  The Channel is hated: and no one who has much to do
with it is surprised at the projects for bridging it and for boring a
hole under it; though I have scarcely ever met an Englishman who
wants either done,--he does not desire any more facile communication
with the French than now exists.  The traditional hatred may not be
so strong as it was, but it is hard to say on which side is the most
ignorance and contempt of the other.

It must be the Channel: that is enough to produce a physical
disagreement even between the two coasts; and there cannot be a
greater contrast in the cultivated world than between the two lands
lying so close to each other; and the contrast of their capitals is
even more decided,--I was about to say rival capitals, but they have
not enough in common to make them rivals.  I have lately been over to
London for a week, going by the Dieppe and New Haven route at night,
and returning by another; and the contrasts I speak of were impressed
upon me anew.  Everything here in and about Paris was in the green
and bloom of spring, and seemed to me very lovely; but my first
glance at an English landscape made it all seem pale and flat.  We
went up from New Haven to London in the morning, and feasted our eyes
all the way.  The French foliage is thin, spindling, sparse; the
grass is thin and light in color--in contrast.  The English trees are
massive, solid in substance and color; the grass is thick, and green
as emerald; the turf is like the heaviest Wilton carpet.  The whole
effect is that of vegetable luxuriance and solidity, as it were a
tropical luxuriance, condensed and hardened by northern influences.
"I thought they might take too much stock of me at the G.P.O.
if I addressed it to the Sovereign her-self. Yes, I drove over to
St.
Martin's-le-Grand with it, and I registered the box into the bargain.

Do a thing properly if you do it at all."
"But why on earth," I groaned, "do such a thing at all?"
"My dear Bunny, we have been reigned over for sixty years by
infinitely the finest monarch the world has ever seen. The world is
taking the present opportunity of signifying the fact for all it is
worth. Every nation is laying of its best at her royal feet; every
class in the community is doing its little level--except ours.

All I have done is to remove one reproach from our fraternity."
At this I came round, was infected with his spirit, called him
the sportsman he always was and would be, and shook his daredevil
hand in mine; but, at the same time, I still had my qualms.

"Supposing they trace it to us?" said I.

"There's not much to catch hold of in a biscuit-box by Huntley &
Palmer," replied Raffles; "that was why I sent you for one. And I
didn't write a word upon a sheet of paper which could possibly be
traced. I simply printed two or three on a virginal post-card--another
half-penny to the bad--which might have been bought at any post-office
in the kingdom. No, old chap, the G.P.O. was the one real danger;
there was one detective I spotted for myself; and the sight of him
has left me with a thirst. Whisky and Sullivans for two, Bunny, if you
please."
Raffles was soon clinking his glass against mine.

"The Queen," said he. "God bless her!"

THE FATE OF FAUSTINA
"Mar--ga--ri, e perzo a Salvatore! Mar--ga--ri, Ma l'ommo e
cacciatore! Mar--ga--ri, Nun ce aje corpa tu!
Chello ch' e fatto, e fatto, un ne parlammo cchieu!"
A piano-organ was pouring the metallic music through our open windows,
while a voice of brass brayed the words, which I have since
obtained, and print above for identification by such as know their
Italy better than I. They will not thank me for reminding them of a
tune so lately epidemic in that land of aloes and blue skies; but at
least it is unlikely to run in their heads as the ribald accompaniment
to a tragedy; and it does in mine.

It was in the early heat of August, and the hour that of the lawful
and necessary siesta for such as turn night into day. I was
therefore shutting my window in a rage, and wondering whether I
should not do the same for Raffles, when he appeared in the silk
pajamas to which the chronic solicitude of Dr.

Theobald confined him from morning to night.

"Don't do that, Bunny," said he. "I rather like that thing, and
want to listen. What sort of fellows are they to look at, by the
way?"
I put my head out to see, it being a primary rule of our quaint
establishment that Raffles must never show himself at any of the
windows. I remember now how hot the sill was to my elbows, as I
leant upon it and looked down, in order to satisfy a curiosity in
which I could see no point.
"Dirty-looking beggars," said I over my shoulder: "dark as dark;
blue chins, oleaginous curls, and ear-rings; ragged as they make
them, but nothing picturesque in their rags."Paris is brilliant with
cafes: all the world frequents them to sip coffee (and too often
absinthe), read the papers, and gossip over the news; take them away,
as all travelers know, and Paris would not know itself.  There is not
a cafe in London: instead of cafes, there are gin-mills; instead of
light wine, there is heavy beer.  The restaurants and restaurant life
are as different as can be.  You can get anything you wish in Paris:
you can live very cheaply or very dearly, as you like.  The range is
more limited in London.  I do not fancy the usual run of Paris
restaurants.  You get a great deal for your money, in variety and
quantity; but you don't exactly know what it is: and in time you tire
of odds and ends, which destroy your hunger without exactly
satisfying you.  For myself, after a pretty good run of French
cookery (and it beats the world for making the most out of little),
when I sat down again to what the eminently respectable waiter in
white and black calls "a dinner off the Joint, sir," with what
belongs to it, and ended up with an attack on a section of a cheese
as big as a bass-drum, not to forget a pewter mug of amber liquid, I
felt as if I had touched bottom again,--got something substantial,
had what you call a square meal.  The English give you the
substantials, and better, I believe, than any other people.
Thackeray used to come over to Paris to get a good dinner now and
then.  I have tried his favorite restaurant here, the cuisine of
which is famous far beyond the banks of the Seine; but I think if he,
hearty trencher-man that he was, had lived in Paris, he would have
gone to London for a dinner oftener than he came here.

And as for a lunch,--this eating is a fascinating theme,--commend me
to a quiet inn of England.  We happened to be out at Kew Gardens the
other afternoon.  You ought to go to Kew, even if the Duchess of
Cambridge is not at home.  There is not such a park out of England,
considering how beautiful the Thames is there.  What splendid trees
it has!  the horse-chestnut, now a mass of pink-and-white blossoms,
from its broad base, which rests on the ground, to its high rounded
dome; the hawthorns, white and red, in full flower; the sweeps and
glades of living green,--turf on which you walk with a grateful sense
of drawing life directly from the yielding, bountiful earth,--a green
set out and heightened by flowers in masses of color (a great variety
of rhododendrons, for one thing), to say nothing of magnificent
greenhouses and outlying flower-gardens.  Just beyond are Richmond
Hill and Hampton Court, and five or six centuries of tradition and
history and romance.  Before you enter the garden, you pass the
green.  On one side of it are cottages, and on the other the old
village church and its quiet churchyard.  Some boys were playing
cricket on the sward, and children were getting as intimate with the
turf and the sweet earth as their nurses would let them.  We turned
into a little cottage, which gave notice of hospitality for a
consideration; and were shown, by a pretty maid in calico, into an
upper room,--a neat, cheerful, common room, with bright flowers in
the open windows, and white muslin curtains for contrast.  We looked
out on the green and over to the beautiful churchyard, where one of
England's greatest painters, Gainsborough, lies in rural repose.  It
is nothing to you, who always dine off the best at home, and never
encounter dirty restaurants and snuffy inns, or run the gauntlet of
Continental hotels, every meal being an experiment of great interest,
if not of danger, to say that this brisk little waitress spread a
snowy cloth, and set thereon meat and bread and butter and a salad:
that conveys no idea to your mind.  Because you cannot see that the
loaf of wheaten bread was white and delicate, and full of the
goodness of the grain; or that the butter, yellow as a guinea, tasted
of grass and cows, and all the rich juices of the verdant year, and
was not mere flavorless grease; or that the cuts of roast beef, fat
and lean, had qualities that indicate to me some moral elevation in
the cattle,--high-toned, rich meat; or that the salad was crisp and
delicious, and rather seemed to enjoy being eaten, at least, did n't
disconsolately wilt down at the prospect, as most salad does.  "You
did lay it on," said I.

"It was necessary, and that had its effect. She let me go. But at
the last moment she said she didn't believe I was so black as I
painted myself, and then there was the balcony scene you missed."
So that was all.PARIS IN MAY--FRENCH GIRLS--THE EMPEROR AT LONGCHAMPS

It was the first of May when we came up from Italy.  The spring grew
on us as we advanced north; vegetation seemed further along than it
was south of the Alps.  Paris was bathed in sunshine, wrapped in
delicious weather, adorned with all the delicate colors of blushing
spring.  Now the horse-chestnuts are all in bloom) and so is the
hawthorn; and in parks and gardens there are rows and alleys of
trees, with blossoms of pink and of white; patches of flowers set in
the light green grass; solid masses of gorgeous color, which fill all
the air with perfume; fountains that dance in the sunlight as if just
released from prison; and everywhere the soft suffusion of May.
But I'll be back in an hour--there!"
"You swear?"
"By all my gods."
I gave in. How could I help giving in? He did not look the man
that he had been, but you never knew with Raffles, and I could not
have him lay a hand on me.Hallo!
Magazine empty. How goes the Sullivan, Bunny? Rum to be smoking one
on the veldt with a hole in your leg!"
"It's doing me good," I said, and I believe it was. But Raffles lay
looking at me as he lightened his bandolier.I met a charming Paris
lady last winter in Italy, recently married, who said she had never
been in the Louvre in her life; never had seen any of the magnificent
pictures or world-famous statuary there, because girls were not
allowed to go there, lest they should see something that they ought
not to see.  I suppose they look with wonder at the young American
girls who march up to anything that ever was created, with undismayed
front.

Another Frenchwoman, a lady of talent and the best breeding, recently
said to a friend, in entire unconsciousness that she was saying
anything remarkable, that, when she was seventeen, her great desire
was to marry one of her uncles (a thing not very unusual with the
papal dispensation), in order to keep all the money in the family!
That was the ambition of a girl of seventeen.

I like, on these sunny days, to look into the Luxembourg Garden:
nowhere else is the eye more delighted with life and color.  I have
no phrase for my amazement. I literally could not believe my eyes. Yet
their evidence was more and more conclusive: a very epistle could
not have been more characteristic of its sender. Meanly elliptical,
ludicrously precise, saving half-pence at the expense of sense, yet
paying like a man for "Mr." Maturin, that was my distinguished
relative from his bald patch to his corns. Nor was all the rest
unlike him, upon second thoughts. He had a reputation for charity;
he was going to live up to it after all.One baby differs from
another in glory, I suppose; but I think on such days that they are
all lovely, taken in the mass, and all in sweet harmony with the
delicious atmosphere, the tender green, and the other flowers of
spring.  A baby can't do better than to spend its spring days in the
Luxembourg Garden.

There are several ways of seeing Paris besides roaming up and down
before the blazing shop-windows, and lounging by daylight or gaslight
along the crowded and gay boulevards; and one of the best is to go to
the Bois de Boulogne on a fete-day, or when the races are in
progress.  This famous wood is very disappointing at first to one who
has seen the English parks, or who remembers the noble trees and
glades and avenues of that at Munich.  To be sure, there is a lovely
little lake and a pretty artificial cascade, and the roads and walks
are good; but the trees are all saplings, and nearly all the "wood"
is a thicket of small stuff.  The woman scorned him, and he stood
unmoved, a framed photograph still in his hand. Then, with a quick,
determined movement she turned, not to the door or to the bell,
but to the open window by which Raffles had entered; and this with
that accursed policeman still in view.All the principal avenues are lined
with chairs, and there people sit to watch the streams of carriages.

