
When New York recovered from its first astonishment over the
extraordinary posters, it indulged in a loud laugh. Everybody knew who
Cosmo Versál was. His eccentricities had filled many readable columns in
the newspapers. Yet there was a certain respect for him, too. This was
due to his extraordinary intellectual ability and unquestionable
scientific knowledge. But his imagination was as free as the winds, and
it often led him upon excursions in which nobody could follow him, and
which caused the more steady-going scientific brethren to shake their
heads. They called him able but flighty. The public considered him
brilliant and amusing.

His father, who had sprung from some unknown source in southeastern
Europe, and, beginning as a newsboy in New York, had made his way to the
front in the financial world, had left his entire fortune to Cosmo. The
latter had no taste for finance or business, but a devouring appetite
for science, to which, in his own way, he devoted all his powers, all
his time, and all his money. Each star is like a silkworm eingepuppte,
from the thoughts you like silk threads abspinnt. "" You see, Mr.
Kutsuma, "said the old lady," You always say that my hair was as white
as the snow on the evening Hirayama at Lake Biwa in your native
Japan. And so true my hair never gets dark, so true, I think that Ilse
for her heart no better man could find a Okuro.

But that is not to say that in Japan Okuro not a better woman than finding
and without Ilse Ilse could be very happy. "Kutsuma had a map on his
lap, looked up and said:" I always admire how great the Europeans the
world can divide the countries into flat pieces, the earth in latitudes
and longitudes; Terrestrial bring everything in the Europeans and
order numbers.

But they invent a system for their feelings, do not want a system to
recognize the small, short human life, but nothing from other than just
youth, maturity and old age, so has its limitations and not as something
Unlimited, untidy can be. "" But, sir, "broke in the impatient weißhaarige
Dame Kutsuma," feelings can not get into systems. But the feelings are
alive Unlimited! Feeling of love and order and disorder can also
enter: Love is a feeling Hasardnummer, it focuses on Rouge = = =
or =. Noir But there is no secure system, where you at love feeling
okay with yourself, for example. Who loves, wants to make happy,
but life has to prove if he has a profit or has drawn a blank. "" Where
love is eternal happiness, "said the Asiate.

"Where a change occurs, the love was not complete. Your Europeans hopes
that the man his life and serves the woman they believe is higher than
Asians themselves, we require the woman that the man they serve
and are subordinate to him. And we find this will sort out the love between
husband and wife. "" Very or spoken, "said the old lady. "But now let
the snow on the evening Hirayama speak to you, which means: do you
trust the idea that underneath my white hair emerged.
_The Owl,_ which was the only paper that put the news in half a
column of ordinary type, took a judicial attitude, called upon the city
authorities to tear down the posters, and hinted that "this absurd
person, Cosmo Versál, who disgraces a once honored name with his
childish attempt to create a sensation that may cause untold harm among
the ignorant masses," had laid himself open to criminal prosecution.

In their latest editions, several of the papers printed an interview
with Cosmo Versál, in which he gave figures and calculations that, on
their face, seemed to offer mathematical proof of the correctness of his
forecast. In impassioned language, he implored the public to believe
that he would not mislead them, spoke of the instant necessity of
constructing arks of safety, and averred that the presence of the
terrible nebula that was so soon to drown the world was already manifest
in the heavens.

Some readers of these confident statements began to waver, especially
when confronted with mathematics which they could not understand. But
still, in general, the laugh went on. It broke into boisterousness in
one of the largest theaters where a bright-witted "artist," who always
made a point of hitting off the very latest sensation, got himself up in
a lifelike imitation of the well-known figure of Cosmo Versál, topped
with a bald head as big as a bushel, and sailed away into the flies with
a pretty member of the ballet, whom he had gallantly snatched from a
tumbling ocean of green baize, singing at the top of his voice until
they disappeared behind the proscenium arch:

  "Oh, th' Nebula is coming
    To drown the wicked earth,
  With all his spirals humming
    'S he waltzes in his mirth.

  _Chorus_
  "Don't hesitate a second,
    Get ready to embark,
  And skip away to safety
    With Cosmo and his ark.

  "Th' Nebula is a direful bird
    'S he skims the ether blue!
  He's angry over what he's heard,
    'N's got his eye on you.

  _Chorus_
  "Don't hesitate a second, etc.

  "When Nebulas begin to pipe
    The bloomin' O.H.[subscript]2
  Y'bet yer life the time is ripe
    To think what you will do.

  _Chorus_
  "Don't hesitate a second, etc.

  "He'll tip th' Atlantic o'er its brim,
    And swamp the mountains tall;
  He'll let the broad Pacific in,
    And leave no land at all.

  _Chorus_
  "Don't hesitate a second, etc.

  "He's got an option on the spheres;
    He's leased the Milky Way;
  He's caught the planets in arrears,
    'N's bound to make 'em pay.

  _Chorus_
  "Don't hesitate a second, etc."

The former Marseilles, north of the magnificent harbor, is
distinguished by its narrow streets, irregular, divided into tiny
portions, extremely dirty, and ugly blackened houses and a population
in incessant movement across groups of sailors, many mobs of workers
and roads, washerwomen with extravagant costumes, women lost a
thousand beggars and all kinds of less affluent Marseilles.

This part of the city form what is called the neighborhood of _Joliette_,
and is limited by the new ports and magnificent docks and warehouses
established for the vapors, and the vast area of ancient Lazaretto
destroyed and razed several hills which have traced a brand new plan
that will contain 150,000 inhabitants Marseilles in beautiful
streets.

After playing with the cemetery and the railway station, south, and
then extend towards the Rhone valley populated areas of the impressive
variety of plants, beautiful fifths, orchards, gardens and plantations
of olive trees, almond trees, vines, mulberry , wheat and vegetables.
marseilles The new, large, regular and magnificent, extends south
to play with the charming avenues of _Prado_, precious shores by
fifth-style palaces _villas_ of Italian marble and where the flowers
reveal all the graces of art, and then east to climb over the hills
and also finish at the foot of the seat that serves as the beautiful
botanical garden, zoo acclimation, which is one of the treasures
of Marseilles.

In this second part of the city squares are funny, wide and straight
streets and houses are very high: the magnificent groves make a game
with severe picturesque towers of churches and statues and fountains
that adorn the best places or squares. This is where the cult is
agglomerated in the city, and where are the opulent stores, fine
jewelry and fashion stores, large hotels, sumptuous cafés, elegant ladies,
rich saloons and the whole funny and varied a large southern city,
French and business. After the city resting on masonry piers
vastísimos, completes the picture with the maritime scene.

Leaders of finance rushed to the exchanges
trying by arguments and expostulations to arrest the downfall, but in
vain.

In the afternoon, however, reason partially resumed its sway; then a
quick recovery was felt, and many who had rushed to sell all they had,
found cause to regret their precipitancy. The next day all was on the
mend, as far as the stock market was concerned, but among the people at
large the poison of awakened credulity continued to spread, nourished by
fresh announcements from the fountain head.

Cosmo issued another statement to the effect that he had perfected plans
for an ark of safety, which he would begin at once to construct in the
neighborhood of New York, and he not only offered freely to give his
plans to any who wished to commence construction on their own account,
but he urged them, in the name of Heaven, to lose no time. This produced
a prodigious effect, and multitudes began to be infected with a nameless
fear.

Meanwhile an extraordinary scene occurred, behind closed doors, at the
headquarters of the Carnegie Institution in Washington. Joseph Smith,
acting under Cosmo Versál's direction, had forwarded an elaborate
_précis_ of the latter's argument, accompanied with full
mathematical details, to the head of the institution. The character of
this document was such that it could not be ignored. Moreover, the
savants composing the council of the most important scientific
association in the world were aware of the state of the public mind, and
felt that it was incumbent upon them to do something to allay the alarm.
Of late years a sort of supervisory control over scientific news of all
kinds had been accorded to them, and they appreciated the fact that a
duty now rested upon their shoulders.

Accordingly, a special meeting was called to consider the communication
from Cosmo Versál. It was the general belief that a little critical
examination would result in complete proof of the fallacy of all his
work, proof which could be put in a form that the most uninstructed
would understand.

But the papers, diagrams, and mathematical formulae had no sooner been
spread upon the table under the knowing eyes of the learned members of
the council, than a chill of conscious impuissance ran through them.
They saw that Cosmo's mathematics were unimpeachable. His formulae were
accurately deduced, and his operations absolutely correct.

They could do nothing but attack his fundamental data, based on the
alleged revelations of his new form of spectroscope, and on telescopic
observations which were described in so much detail that the only way to
combat them was by the general assertion that they were illusory. The
two Japanese were Euro dressed only their yellow faces, and their small
figures fell below the long, Englishmen on rosahäutigen. Ilse, Okuros
young and beautiful woman who had hair of gold luster, goldrot, as the
red metal sheen of the goldfish.Then, Cosmo had on his side the whole force of that curious tendency of
the human mind which habitually gravitates toward whatever is
extraordinary, revolutionary, and mysterious.

But a yet greater difficulty arose. Mention has been made of the strange
bulletin from the Mount McKinley observatory. That had been incautiously
sent out to the public by a thoughtless observer, who was more intent
upon describing a singular phenomenon than upon considering its possible
effect on the popular imagination. He had immediately received an
expostulatory dispatch from headquarters which henceforth shut his
mouth--but he had told the simple truth, and how embarrassing that was
became evident when, on the very table around which the savants were now
assembled, three dispatches were laid in quick succession from the great
observatories of Mount Hekla, Iceland, the North Cape, and Kamchatka,
all corroborating the statement of the Mount McKinley observer, that an
inexplicable veiling of faint stars had manifested itself in the boreal
quarter of the sky.

When the president read these dispatches--which the senders had taken
the precaution to mark "confidential"--the members of the council looked
at one another with no little dismay. Here was the most unprejudiced
corroboration of Cosmo Versál's assertion that the great nebula was
already within the range of observation. How could they dispute such
testimony, and what were they to make of it?

The building of the Stock Exchange and the _Hôtel of Ville_, which
are nearing completion, will be beautiful monuments.

The public walks are very beautiful, especially the _Prado_ and overlooking
the sea at the southern side and there are at the heart of beautiful
city squares shaded, well suited to a country where the earth seems
burned by the sun.

As industrial or manufacturing, Marseilles deserves much interest, even
without his valuable production in vessels, cordage, velámenes and
everything related to the Navy.

It has abundant salt in their vicinity, and has a large cigar factory in
the State.

Its main factories in particular, production of huge standing, are:
soaps, ointments, water smells, candles and many other chemicals, in a
big scale distillation of oils and all kinds of liquors and fine spirits,
and preparation pastries and fruit food, for very large values, five sugar
refineries, which produce 58,000 kilograms each day to meet without
orders; large factories surgery instruments, optics, etc.., machines
and devices, and distillation of oils liquors and domestic work and
agriculture, paper mills and continued hand of all kinds, and large
tanneries that produce excellent tafiletes and all kind of leather
tanning.

As you see, Marseilles has a vast and very interesting production.

It is compounded by the export of fine wines of the region of Toulon
and the regular Languedoc, as well as indigenous oil and fruit, not
counting the major exports from the interior of France. The vast
trade of Marseilles, fueled by the entire world, embracing all
items outside the industry can produce, but there are some that
deserve special mention because it is of its nature and its enormous
value as the primary basis of traffic fed by so many thousands of
frigates, Bergantiños, boats and vapors that all points of the globe
will deliver your cargo on the docks of Marseilles.

Several of the astronomers present shook their heads at this, and
Professor Pludder irritably declared that it was absurd.

"The attraction would be noticeable when it was a thousand millions of
miles away," he continued.

"Yes, 'noticeable' I admit," replied Professor Moses, "but all the same
you wouldn't notice it, because you wouldn't be looking for it unless
the nebula were visible first, and even then it would require months of
observation to detect the effects. And how are you going to get around
those bulletins? The thing is beginning to be visible now, and I'll bet
that if, from this time on, you study carefully the planetary motions,
you will find evidence of the disturbance becoming stronger and
stronger. Versál has pointed out that very thing, and calculated the
perturbations. This thing has come like a thief in the night."

"You'd better hurry up and secure a place in the ark," said Professor
Pludder sarcastically.

"I don't know but I shall, if I can get one," returned Professor Moses.
"You may not think this is such a laughing matter a few months hence."

"I'm surprised," pursued the president, "that a man of your scientific
standing should stultify himself by taking seriously such balderdash as
this. This was the first to the bark of the ancient, mysterious tree on
Lake Biwa decipher learned that until then had remained illegible.

And he read to his astonishment the tree bark of the sentence: "_O
knows, people, and hear me, I will be old like the earth crust!
Professor Pludder, who was a very big man, reared up his rotund form,
and, bringing his fist down upon the table with a resounding whack,
exclaimed:

"I'll do nothing so ridiculous! These bulletins have undoubtedly been
influenced by the popular excitement. There has possibly been a little
obscurity in the atmosphere--cirrus clouds, or something--and the
observers have imagined the rest. Esther told of the plant collections
of her father, and Todor moved past the lip into the habit Betelkauens.
The Betelkauen had the gardener lad abgewöhnen have Esther as the red
juice, he is ausspuckte, could not suffer. From the gray evening
light suddenly pierced langausgestoßene now the howls of wild animals
like Call of huge shell horns in the arbor.

"How about," said Esther, "if we now have the keys to the houses
of the tigers and snakes to acquire?" "Still waiting , "said Todor and
walked on his tiptoes on the outcome of the arbor. The air of the garden
began after angry animal animal skin and sweat to smell. Esther gruselte
it pleasant odor in the wild. Todor went to the porch corner.
The next
morning it appeared in all the newspapers as follows:

    _Official Statement from the Carnegie Institution_

    In consequence of the popular excitement caused by the
    sensational utterance of a notorious pretender to scientific
    knowledge in New York, the council of this institution
    authorizes the statement that it has examined the alleged
    grounds on which the prediction of a great flood, to be caused
    by a nebula encountering the earth, is based, and finds, as all
    real men of science knew beforehand, that the entire matter is
    simply a canard.

    The nebulae are not composed of water; if they were composed of
    water they could not cause a flood on the earth; the report that
    some strange, misty object is visible in the starry heavens is
    based on a misapprehension; and finally, the so-called
    calculations of the author of this inexcusable hoax are baseless
    and totally devoid of validity.

    It neighed like ponies, meckerten as Geißböcke and prusteten
    like walruses. At the same time pursued my car giant three
    Tibetan women, their small jewelry chains from blue turquoise,
    rock crystal chunks and pieces of untreated silver bronze, with
reddish Carneol processed by the neck and the Armgelenken and tore
me to sell my face felt.

Always gesticulating jumped the Tibet women beside my wagon wheel back
and forth, surrounded by a horde of wild barking dogs Himalayas. One
of the women took off during the jumping turquoise earrings from
another shot of her hand holding a heavy silver ring with red
Carneolstein, withdrew the third bronze arrows from her hair
unkempt, feral and wet from the rain topknots.
