Produced by David Widger


THE KING OF BEAVER AND BEAVER LIGHTS

From "Mackinac And Lake Stories", 1899

By Mary Hartwell Catherwood


THE KING OF BEAVER


Success was the word most used by the King of Beaver. Though he stood
before his people as a prophet assuming to speak revelations, executive
power breathed from him. He was a tall, golden-tinted man with a head
like a dome, hair curling over his ears, and soft beard and mustache
which did not conceal a mouth cut thin and straight. He had student
hands, long and well kept. It was not his dress, though that was careful
as a girl's, which set him apart from farmers listening on the benches
around him, but the keen light of his blue eyes, wherein shone the
master.

Emeline thought she had never before seen such a man. He had an
attraction which she felt loathsome, and the more so because it drew
some part of her irresistibly to him. Her spirit was kin to his, and she
resented that kinship, trying to lose herself among farmers' wives and
daughters, who listened to their Prophet stolidly, and were in no danger
of being naturally selected by him. This moral terror Emeline could not
have expressed in words, and she hid it like a shame. She also resented
the subservience of her kinspeople to one no greater than herself. Her
stock had been masters of men.

As the King of Beaver slowly turned about the circle he encountered this
rebel defying his assumption, and paused in his speaking a full minute,
the drowsy farmers seeing merely that notes were being shifted and
rearranged on the table. Then he began again, the dictatorial key
transposed into melody. His covert message was to the new maid in the
congregation. She might struggle like a fly in a web. He wrapped her
around and around with beautiful sentences. As Speaker of the State
Legislature he had learned well how to handle men in the mass, but
nature had doubly endowed him for entrancing women. The spiritual part
of James Strang, King and Prophet of a peculiar sect, appealed to
the one best calculated to appreciate him during the remainder of his
exhortation.

The Tabernacle, to which Beaver Island Mormons gathered every Saturday
instead of every Sunday, was yet unfinished. Its circular shape and
vaulted ceiling, panelled in the hard woods of the island, had been
planned by the man who stood in the centre. Many openings under the
eaves gaped windowless; but the congregation, sheltered from a July sun,
enjoyed freely the lake air, bringing fragrance from their own fields
and gardens. They seemed a bovine, honest people, in homespun and
hickory; and youth, bright-eyed and fresh-cheeked, was not lacking. They
sat on benches arranged in circles around a central platform which held
the Prophet's chair and table. This was his simple plan for making his
world revolve around him.

Roxy Cheeseman, Emeline's cousin, was stirred to restlessness by the
Prophet's unusual manner, and shifted uneasily on the bench. Her short,
scarlet-cheeked face made her a favorite among the young men. She had
besides this attraction a small waist and foot, and a father who was
very well off indeed for a Beaver Island farmer. Roxy's black eyes, with
the round and unwinking stare of a bird's, were fixed on King Strang, as
if she instinctively warded off a gaze which by swerving a little could
smite her.


[68] (1) As for false ideas concerned with essences, or even with
actions, such perceptions are necessarily always confused, being
compounded of different confused perceptions of things existing
in nature, as, for instance, when men are persuaded that deities
are present in woods, in statues, in brute beasts, and the like;
that there are bodies which, by their composition alone, give rise
to intellect; that corpses reason, walk about, and speak; that God
is deceived, and so on. (68:2) But ideas which are clear and distinct
can never be false: for ideas of things clearly and distinctly
conceived are either very simple themselves, or are compounded from
very simple ideas, that is, are deduced therefrom. (3) The impossibility
of a very simple idea being false is evident to everyone who
understands the nature of truth or understanding and of falsehood

.
[69] (1) As regards that which constitutes the reality of truth, it
is certain that a true idea is distinguished from a false one, not so
much by its extrinsic object as by its intrinsic nature.
(2) If an architect conceives a building properly constructed, though such
a building may never have existed, and amy never exist, nevertheless the
idea is true; and the idea remains the same, whether it be put into
execution or not. (69:3) On the other hand, if anyone asserts, for
instance, that Peter exists, without knowing whether Peter really
exists or not, the assertion, as far as its asserter is concerned, is
false, or not true, even though Peter actually does exist. (4) The
assertion that Peter exists is true only with regard to him who
knows for certain that Peter does exist

.
[70] (1) Whence it follows that there is in ideas something real, whereby
the true are distinguished from the false. (2) This reality must
be inquired into, if we are to find the best standard of truth (we
have said that we ought to determine our thoughts by the given
standard of a true idea, and that method is reflective knowledge),
and to know the properties of our understanding. (70:3) Neither
must we say that the difference between true and false arises from
the fact, that true knowledge consists in knowing things through
their primary causes, wherein it is totally different from false
knowledge, as I have just explained it: for thought is said to be
true, if it involves subjectively the essence of any principle which
has no cause, and is known through itself and in itself

.
[71] (1) Wherefore the reality (forma) of true thought must exist
in the thought itself, without reference to other thoughts; it
does not acknowledge the object as its cause, but must depend on
the actual power and nature of the understanding. (2) For, if we
suppose that the understanding has perceived some new entity which
has never existed, as some conceive the understanding of God before
He created thing (a perception which certainly could not arise any
object), and has legitimately deduced other thoughts from said
perception, all such thoughts would be true, without being determined
by any external object; they would depend solely on the power and
nature of the understanding. (71:3) Thus, that which constitutes
the reality of a true thought must be sought in the thought itself,
and deduced from the nature of the understanding

.

[72] (1) In order to pursue our investigation, let us confront
ourselves with some true idea, whose object we know for certain to
be dependent on our power of thinking, and to have nothing corresponding
to it in nature. (2) With an idea of this kind before us, we shall,
as appears from what has just been said, be more easily able to
carry on the research we have in view.
(72:3) For instance, in order to form the conception of a sphere,
I invent a cause at my pleasure - namely, a semicircle revolving
round its center, and thus producing a sphere. (4) This is indisputably
a true idea; and, although we know that no sphere in nature has
ever actually been so formed, the perception remains true, and is
the easiest manner of conceiving a sphere.
(72:5) We must observe that this perception asserts the rotation
of a semicircle - which assertion would be false, if it were not
associated with the conception of a sphere, or of a cause determining
a motion of the kind, or absolutely, if the assertion were isolated.
(6) The mind would then only tend to the affirmation of the sole
motion of a semicircle, which is not contained in the conception
of a semicircle, and does not arise from the conception of any cause
capable of producing such motion.
(72:7) Thus falsity consists only in this, that something is affirmed
of a thing, which is not contained in the conception we have formed
of that thing, as motion or rest of a semicircle.
(8) Whence it follows that simple ideas cannot be other than true
- e.g., the simple idea of a semicircle, of motion, of rest, of
quantity, &c.
(72:9) Whatsoever affirmation such ideas contain is equal to the
concept formed, and does not extend further. (10) Wherefore we form
as many simple ideas as we please, without any fear of error

.

[73] (1) It only remains for us to inquire by what power our mind can
form true ideas, and how far such power extends. (2) It is certain
that such power cannot extend itself infinitely. (3) For when we
affirm somewhat of a thing, which is not contained in the concept
we have formed of that thing, such an affirmation shows a defect
of our perception, or that we have formed fragmentary or mutilated
ideas. (4) Thus we have seen that the notion of a semicircle is
false when it is isolated in the mind, but true when it is associated
with the concept of a sphere, or of some cause determining such a
motion. (73:5) But if it be the nature of a thinking being, as
seems, prima facie, to be the case, to form true or adequate thoughts,
it is plain that inadequate ideas arise in us only because we are
parts of a thinking being, whose thoughts - some in their entirety,
others in fragments only - constitute our mind

.

[74] (1) But there is another point to be considered, which was not
worth raising in the case of fiction, but which give rise to complete
deception - namely, that certain things presented to the imagination
also exist in the understanding - in other words, are conceived
clearly and distinctly. (2) Hence, so long as we do not separate
that which is distinct from that which is confused, certainty, or
the true idea, becomes mixed with indistinct ideas. (3) For instance,
certain Stoics heard, perhaps, the term "soul," and also that the
soul is immortal, yet imagined it only confusedly; they imaged,
also, and understood that very subtle bodies penetrate all others,
and are penetrated by none. (74:4) By combining these ideas, and
being at the same time certain of the truth of the axiom, they
forthwith became convinced that the mind consists of very subtle
bodies; that these very subtle bodies cannot be divided &c

.

[75] (1) But we are freed from mistakes of this kind, so long as
we endeavor to examine all our perceptions by the standard of the
given true idea. (2) We must take care, as has been said, to separate
such perceptions from all those which arise from hearsay or
unclassified experience. (3) Moreover, such mistakes arise from
things being conceived too much in the abstract; for it is sufficiently
self-evident that what I conceive as in its true object I cannot
apply to anything else. (75:4) Lastly, they arise from a want of
understanding of the primary elements of nature as a whole; whence
we proceed without due order, and confound nature with abstract
rules, which, although they be true enough in their sphere, yet,
when misapplied, confound themselves, and pervert the order of
nature. (5) However, if we proceed with as little abstraction as
possible, and begin from primary elements - that is, from the source
and origin of nature, as far back as we can reach, - we need not
fear any deceptions of this kind

.

[76] (1) As far as the knowledge of the origin of nature is concerned,
there is no danger of our confounding it with abstractions. (2)
For when a thing is conceived in the abstract, as are all universal
notions, the said universal notions are always more extensive in
the mind than the number of individuals forming their contents
really existing in nature. (3) Again, there are many things in
nature, the difference between which is so slight as to be hardly
perceptible to the understanding; so that it may readily happen
that such things are confounded together, if they be conceived
abstractedly. (4) But since the first principle of nature cannot
(as we shall see hereafter) be conceived abstractedly or universally,
and cannot extend further in the understanding than it does in
reality, and has no likeness to mutable things, no confusion need
be feared in respect to the idea of it, provided (as before shown)
that we possess a standard of truth.
(5) This is, in fact, a being single and infinite [76z] ; in other
words, it is the sum total of being, beyond which there is no being
found. [76a] 
[77] (1) Thus far we have treated of the false idea.

We have now to investigate the doubtful idea - that is, to inquire what
can cause us to doubt, and how doubt may be removed. (2) I speak
of real doubt existing in the mind, not of such doubt as we see
exemplified when a man says that he doubts, though his mind does
not really hesitate. (77:3) The cure of the latter does not fall
within the province of method, it belongs rather to inquiries
concerning obstinacy and its cure

.

[78] (1) Real doubt is never produced in the mind by the thing doubted
of. (2) In other words, if there were only one idea in the mind, whether
that idea were true or false, there would be no doubt or certainty present,
only a certain sensation. (3) For an idea is in itself nothing
else than a certain sensation. (4) But doubt will arise through
another idea, not clear and distinct enough for us to be able to
draw any certain conclusions with regard to the matter under
consideration; that is, the idea which causes us to doubt is not
clear and distinct. (5) To take an example.
(78:6) Supposing that a man has never reflected, taught by experience
or by any other means, that our senses sometimes deceive us, he
will never doubt whether the sun be greater or less than it
appears.
(7) Thus rustics are generally astonished when they hear that the
sun is much larger than the earth. (8) But from reflection on the
deceitfulness of the senses [78a] doubt arises, and if, after
doubting, we acquire a true knowledge of the senses, and how things
at a distance are represented through their instrumentality, doubt
is again removed

.
[79] (1) Hence we cannot cast doubt on true ideas by the supposition
that there is a deceitful Deity, who leads us astray even in what
is most certain. (2) We can only hold such an hypothesis so long
as we have no clear and distinct idea - in other words, until we
reflect the knowledge which we have of the first principle of all
things, and find that which teaches us that God is not a deceiver,
and until we know this with the same certainty as we know from
reflecting on the are equal to two right angles. (3) But if we have
a knowledge of God equal to that which we have of a triangle, all
doubt is removed.
(79:4) In the same way as we can arrive at the said knowledge of a
triangle, though not absolutely sure that there is not some
arch-deceiver leading us astray, so can we come to a like knowledge
of God under the like condition, and when we have attained to it,
it is sufficient, as I said before, to remove every doubt which we
can possess concerning clear and distinct ideas

.
[80] (1) Thus, if a man proceeded with our investigations in due order,
inquiring first into those things which should first be inquired into,
never passing over a link in the chain of association, and with knowledge
how to define his questions before seeking to answer them, he will
never have any ideas save such as are very certain, or, in other
words, clear and distinct; for doubt is only a suspension of the
spirit concerning some affirmation or negation which it would
pronounce upon unhesitatingly if it were not in ignorance of
something, without which the knowledge of the matter in hand must
needs be imperfect. (2) We may, therefore, conclude that doubt
always proceeds from want of due order in investigation

.

[81] (1) These are the points I promised to discuss in the first part
of my treatise on method. (2) However, in order not to omit anything which
can conduce to the knowledge of the understanding and its faculties,
I will add a few words on the subject of memory and forgetfulness.
(81:3) The point most worthy of attention is, that memory is
strengthened both with and without the aid of the understanding.
(4) For the more intelligible a thing is, the more easily is it
remembered, and the less intelligible it is, the more easily do we
forget it. (5) For instance, a number of unconnected words is much
more difficult to remember than the same number in the form of a
narration

.

[82] (1) The memory is also strengthened without the aid of the
understanding by means of the power wherewith the imagination or the
sense called common, is affected by some particular physical object.
(2) I say particular, for the imagination is only affected by particular
objects. (3) If we read, for instance, a single romantic comedy, we
shall remember it very well, so long as we do not read many others of
the same kind, for it will reign alone in the memory (4) If, however,
we read several others of the same kind, we shall think of them
altogether, and easily confuse one with another.
(82:5) I say also, physical. (6) For the imagination is only affected
by physical objects. (7) As, then, the memory is strengthened both
with and without the aid of the understanding, we may conclude that
it is different from the understanding, and that in the latter
considered in itself there is neither memory nor forgetfulness

.
[83] (1) What, then, is memory? (2) It is nothing else than the
actual sensation of impressions on the brain, accompanied with the thought
of a definite duration, [83d] of the sensation. (3) This is also
shown by reminiscence. (4) For then we think of the sensation, but
without the notion of continuous duration; thus the idea of that
sensation is not the actual duration of the sensation or actual
memory. (83:5) Whether ideas are or are not subject to corruption
will be seen in philosophy. (6) If this seems too absurd to anyone,
it will be sufficient for our purpose, if he reflect on the fact
that a thing is more easily remembered in proportion to its
singularity, as appears from the example of the comedy just cited.
(83:7) Further, a thing is remembered more easily in proportion to
its intelligibility; therefore we cannot help remember that which
is extremely singular and sufficiently intelligible

.

[84] (1) Thus, then, we have distinguished between a true idea and other
perceptions, and shown that ideas fictitious, false, and the rest,
originate in the imagination - that is, in certain sensations
fortuitous (so to speak) and disconnected, arising not from the
power of the mind, but from external causes, according as the body,
sleeping or waking, receives various motions.
(2) But one may take any view one likes of the imagination so long
as one acknowledges that it is different from the understanding,
and that the soul is passive with regard to i

t
She leaned out of a gable window, courting the moist
chill of the starless night. While the hidden landscape seemed strangely
dear to her, she was full of unspeakable homesickness and longing for
she knew not what--a life she had not known and could not imagine, some
perfect friend who called her silently through space and was able to
lift her out of the entanglements of existence.

The regular throbbing of a horse's feet approaching along the road at
a brisk walk became quite distinct. Emeline's sensations were suspended
while she listened. From the direction of St. James she saw a figure
on horseback coming between the dusky parallel fence rows. The sound of
walking ceased in front of the house, and presently another sound crept
barely as high as the attic window. It was the cry of a violin, sweet
and piercing, like some celestial voice. It took her unawares. She
fled from it to her place beside Roxy and covered her ears with the
bedclothes.

Roxy turned with a yawn and aroused from sleep. She rose to her elbow
and drew in her breath, giggling. The violin courted like an angel,
finding secret approaches to the girl who lay rigid with her ears
stopped.

"Cousin Emeline!" whispered Roxy, "do you hear that?"

"What is it?" inquired Emeline, revealing no emotion.

[Illustration: Brother Strang serenading 134]

"It's Brother Strang serenading."

"How do you know?"

"Because he is the only man on Beaver who can play the fiddle like
that." Roxy gave herself over to unrestrained giggling. "A man fifty
years old!"

"I don't believe it," responded Emeline, sharply.

"Don't believe he is nearly fifty? He told his age to the elders."

"I haven't a word of praise for him, but he isn't an old man. He doesn't
look more than thirty-five."

"To hear that fiddle you'd think he wasn't twenty," chuckled Roxy. "It's
the first time Brother Strang ever came serenading down this road."

He did not stay long, but went, trailing music deliciously into the
distance. Emeline knew how he rode, with the bridle looped over his bow
arm. She was quieted and lay in peace, sinking to sleep almost before
the faint, far notes could no longer be heard.

From that night her uncle Cheeseman's family changed their attitude
towards her. She felt it as a withdrawal of intimacy, though it
expressed reverential awe. Especially did her Mormon aunt Mahala take
little tasks out of her hands and wait upon her, while her legal aunt
looked at her curiously. It was natural for Roxy to talk to Billy
Wentworth across the fence, but it was not natural for them to share
so much furtive laughter, which ceased when Emeline approached. Uncle
Cheese-man himself paid more attention to his niece and spent much time
at the table explaining to her the Mormon situation on Beaver Island,
tracing the colony back to its secession from Brigham Young's party in
Illinois.

"Brother Strang was too large for them," said her uncle. "He can do
anything he undertakes to do."

The next Saturday Emeline refused to go to the Tabernacle. She gave no
reason and the family asked for none. Her caprices were as the gambols
of the paschal lamb, to be indulged and overlooked. Roxy offered to stay
with her, but she rejected companionship, promising her uncle and aunts
to lock herself within the cabin and hide if she saw men approaching
from any direction. The day was sultry for that climate, and of a vivid
clearness, and the sky dazzled. Emeline had never met any terrifying
Gentiles during her stay on the island, and she felt quite secure in
crossing the pasture and taking to the farm woods beyond. Her uncle's
cows had worn a path which descended to a run with partially grass-lined
channel. Beaver Island was full of brooks and springs. The children had
placed stepping-stones across this one. She was vaguely happy, seeing
the water swirl below her feet, hearing the cattle breathe at their
grazing; though in the path or on the log which she found at the edge
of the woods her face kept turning towards the town of St. James, as the
faces of the faithful turn towards Mecca. It was childish to think
of escaping the King of Beaver by merely staying away from his
exhortations. Emeline knew she was only parleying.

The green silence should have helped her to think, but she found herself
waiting--and doing nothing but waiting--for what might happen next. She
likened herself to a hunted rabbit palpitating in cover, unable to reach
any place of safety yet grateful for a moment's breathing. Wheels rolled
southward along the Galilee road. Meeting was out. She had the caprice
to remain where she was when the family wagon arrived, for it had been
too warm to walk to the Tabernacle. Roxy's voice called her, and as she
answered, Roxy skipped across the brook and ran to her.

"Cousin Emeline," the breathless girl announced, "here comes Mary French
to see you!"

Emeline stiffened upon the log.

"Where?"

Roxy glanced behind at a figure following her across the meadow.

"What does she want of me?" inquired Emeline. "If she came home with the
family, it was not necessary to call me."

"She drove by herself. She says Brother Strang sent her to you."

Emeline stood up as the Prophet's youngest wife entered that leafy
silence. Roxy, forgetting that these two had never met before, slipped
away and left them. They looked at each other.

"How do you do, Mrs. Strang?" spoke Emeline.

"How do you do, Miss Cheeseman?" spoke Mary French.

"Will you sit down on this log?"

"Thank you."

Mary French had more flesh and blood than Emeline. She was larger and
of a warmer and browner tint--that type of brunette with startling black
hair which breaks into a floss of little curls, and with unexpected
blue eyes. Her full lips made a bud, and it only half bloomed when she
smiled. From crown to slipper she was a ripe and supple woman. Though
clad, like Emeline, in black, her garment was a transparent texture over
white, and she held a parasol with crimson lining behind her head. She
had left her bonnet in her conveyance.

"My husband," said Mary French, quiet and smiling, "sent me to tell you
that you will be welcomed into our family."

Emeline looked her in the eyes. The Prophet's wife had the most
unblenching smiling gaze she had ever encountered.

"I do not wish to enter your family. I am not a Mormon."

"He will make you wish it. I was not a Mormon."

They sat silent, the trees stirring around them.

"I do not understand it," said Emeline. "How can you come to me with
such a message?"

"I can do it as you can do it when your turn comes."

Emeline looked at Mary French as if she had been stabbed.

"It hurts, doesn't it?" said Mary French. "But wait till he seems to
you a great strong archangel--an archangel with only the weakness of
dabbling his wings in the dirt--and you will withhold from him nothing,
no one, that may be of use to him. If he wants to put me by for a while,
it is his will. You cannot take my place. I cannot fill yours."

"Oh, don't!" gasped Emeline. "I am not that sort of woman--I should
kill!"

"That is because you have not lived with him. I would rather have him
make me suffer than not have him at all."

"Oh, don't! I can't bear it! Help me!" prayed Emeline, stretching her
hands to the wife.

Mary French met her with one hand and the unflinching smile. Her flesh
was firm and warm, while Emeline's was cold and quivering.

"You have never loved anybody, have you?"

"No."

"But you have thought you did?"

"I was engaged before I came here."

"And the engagement is broken?"

"We quarrelled."

Mary French breathed deeply.

"You will forget it here. He can draw the very soul out of your body."

"He cannot!" flashed Emeline.

"Some one will kill him yet. He is not understood at his best, and he
cannot endure defeat of any kind. When you come into the family you must
guard him from his enemies as I have constantly guarded him. If you ever
let a hair of his head be harmed--then I shall hate you!"

"Mrs. Strang, do you come here to push me too! My uncle's family,
everything, all are closing around me! Why don't you help me? I
loathe--I loathe; your husband!"

Mary French rose, her smile changing only to express deep tenderness.

"You are a good girl dear. I can myself feel your charm. I was not so
self-denying. In my fierce young girlhood I would have removed a rival.
But since you ask me, I will do all I can for you in the way you desire.
My errand is done. Good-by."

"Good-by," said Emeline, restraining herself.

She sat watching the elastic shape under the parasol move with its
shadow across the field. She had not a doubt until Mary French was gone;
then the deep skill of the Prophet's wife with rivals sprung out like a
distortion of nature.

Emeline had nearly three weeks in which to intrench herself with doubts
and defences. She felt at first surprised and relieved. When her second
absence from the Tabernacle was passed over in silence she found in
her nature an unaccountable pique, which steadily grew to unrest. She
ventured and turned back on the woods path leading to St. James many
times, each time daring farther. The impulse to go to St. James came on
her at waking, and she resisted through busy hours of the day. But the
family often had tasks from which Emeline was free, and when the desire
grew unendurable she knelt at her secluded bedside in the loft, trying
to bring order out of her confused thoughts. She reviewed her quarrel
with her lover, and took blame for his desertion. The grievance which
had seemed so great to her before she came to Beaver Island dwindled,
and his personality with it. In self-defence she coaxed her fancy,
pretending that James Arnold was too good for her. It was well he had
found it out. But because he was too good for her she ought to go on
being fond of him at a safe distance, undetected by him, and discreetly
cherishing his large blond image as her ideal of manhood. If she had not
been bred in horror of Catholics, the cloister at this time would have
occurred to her as her only safe refuge.

These secret rites in her bedroom being ended, and Roxy diverted from
her movements, she slipped off into the woods path, sometimes running
breathlessly towards St. James.

The impetus which carried Emeline increased with each journey. At first
she was able to check it in the woods depths, but it finally drove her
until the village houses were in sight.

When this at last happened, and she stood gazing, fascinated, down the
tunnel of forest path, the King of Beaver spoke behind her.

Emeline screamed in terror and took hold of a bush, to make it a support
and a veil.

"Have I been a patient man?" he inquired, standing between her and her
uncle's house. "I waited for you to come to me."

"I am obliged to go somewhere," said Emeline, plucking the leaves and
unsteadily shifting her eyes about his feet. "I cannot stay on the
farm all the time." Through numbness she felt the pricking of a sharp
rapture.

The King of Beaver smiled, seeing betrayed in her face the very vertigo
of joy.

[Illustration: You will give yourself to me now 142]

"You will give yourself to me now?" he winningly begged, venturing
out-stretched hands. "You have felt the need as I have? Do you think
the days have been easy to me? When you were on your knees I was on
my knees too. Every day you came in this direction I came as far as I
dared, to meet you. Are the obstacles all passed?"

"No," said Emeline.

He was making her ask herself that most insidious question, "Why could
not the other have been like this?"

"Tell me--can you say, 'I hate you,' now?"

"No," said Emeline.

"I have grown to be a better man since you said you hated me. The
miracle cannot be forced. Next time?" He spoke wistfully.

"No," Emeline answered, holding to the bush. She kept her eyes on the
ground while he talked, and glanced up when she replied. He stood with
his hat off. The flakes of sun touched his head and the fair skin of his
forehead.

He moved towards Emeline, and she retreated around the bush. Without
hesitating he passed, making a salutation, and went on by himself to
St. James. She watched his rapid military walk furtively, her eyebrows
crouching, her lips rippling with passionate tremors. Then she took to
flight homeward, her skirts swishing through the woods with a rush like
the wind. The rebound was as violent as the tension had been.

There were few festivities on Beaver Island, the Mormon families living
a pastoral life, many of them yet taxed by the struggle for existence.
Crops shot up rank and strong in the short Northern summer. She could
not read the notes, she said, but she could copy anything he played
if she heard it two or three times.
Emile found her astonishingly intelligent as well as amiable, and
though the music lessons were not conducted on scientific principles,
they produced good results.

He would give her plenty of music with which to occupy herself till the
time came when she would be fully occupied in serving the Cause. As he
had said, there were no other female conspirators in their circle.
About nightfall the west wind rose and blew it back,
revealing a land mantled with condensed drops.

Emeline put on her hat and shawl to walk around in the twilight. The
other young creatures of the house were glad to be out also, and Roxy
and Roxy's lover talked across the fence. Emeline felt fortified
against the path through the woods at night; yet her feet turned in that
direction, and as certainly as water seeks its level she found herself
on the moist elastic track. Cow-bells on the farm sounded fainter and
farther. A gloom of trees massed around her, and the forest gave up all
its perfume to the dampness.

At every step she meant to turn back, though a recklessness of night
and of meeting the King of Beaver grew upon her. Thus, without any
reasonable excuse for her presence there, she met Mary French.

"Is that you, Miss Cheeseman?" panted the Prophet's youngest wife.

Emeline confessed her identity.

"I was coming for you, but it is fortunate you are so far on the way.
There is a steamboat at the dock, and it will go out in half an hour.
I could not get away sooner to tell you." Mary French breathed heavily
from running. "When the steamboat came in the captain sent for my
husband, as the captains always do. I went with him: he knows how I
dread to have him go alone upon a boat since an attempt was made last
year to kidnap him. But this time there was another reason, for I
have been watching. Would he not have the trouble and expense of getting
another artiste to fill her place? There must be an _equestrienne_ in the
programme. If she found herself taken back again to finish her time
after this illness or whatever it was, then she should be more
than grateful, but as for paying salaries to _employés_ who did not
work, why, did people consider him an imbecile?

Emile shrugged and sneered at intervals throughout this tirade.

He had wisely begun by asking more than he knew he was at all likely
to get, and was now obliged to be satisfied with the compromise.

Disappointment followed his search for the whereabouts of Count
Vladimir.

The owner of "_The Witch_" was expected back in Barcelona in a month
or so, no one knew exactly when.

Letters might be addressed Poste Restante, Corfu, for he was cruising
in his phantom craft through those sapphire seas that lie round
about the Ionian Islands.

There was nothing to do but to write and wait.

One piece of ill-luck was following close upon another, and Emile
felt that he needed all the consolations that his cynical philosophy
could afford.

His anxiety on Arithelli's behalf was fast becoming an obsession.

When she had first come into his life he had wondered sometimes how
she would stand the late hours and all the hardships of a circus
training, but after her one outburst she had never complained
again.

He thought the sea-trip had done her good.

Of course she always looked pale, but then that was her type.

He had also been impressed with the unwonted seriousness of Michael,
knowing that in spite of his erratic ways the doctor understood his
craft.

Emile's instinct prompted him vigorously to go back now and see how
she was getting on, but he dared not neglect the work of his Society.

There were letters to be written, arrangements to be made, all the
usual paraphernalia of intrigue to be kept going.

He returned to his own rooms and began to write savagely, using all
his will to expel from his brain the vision of the girl as he had
seen her last, semi-conscious, and yet with his name on her lips.

Michael had promised to see her again at six o'clock. It would be
time enough if he also went then.

Besides, the Cause came first always, and there were many women in the
world. His pen tore fiercely over the paper as something whispered:
"Women? Yes. But another Arithelli--?"

CHAPTER XII
"I have something more to think of than Love.

All the women in the world would not make me waste an hour."

SAYING OF NAPOLEON.

The stolid niece blundered heavily about the room, doing things that
were entirely unnecessary, and raising much dust.

She was a conscientious person in her own way, and felt that she
must get through a certain amount of work in return for the anticipated
reward.

She banged chairs and table about, folded up scattered clothes,
investigated them with much interest, and fingered and re-arranged
the row of boots with muttered ejaculations and covetous eyes.

She had previously contrived to get Arithelli into a night dress, had
brushed her hair back and plaited it, and pulled the green shutters
together to keep out the midday glare.

As she looked at the livid face patched with scarlet against the coarse
linen, Maria began to feel a little perturbed.

Something in the atmosphere of the room had penetrated even the
brick wall of her stolidity.

She hoped the two Señors would soon return and relieve her of the
responsibility of her charge.

The stillness oppressed her, for Arithelli had ceased her moaning and
muttering for a merciful stupor.

As the hours went on the fever increased, and the horrible fungus
in her throat spread with an appalling rapidity.

As Michael Furness had prophesied, the crisis would soon be reached, and
she had everything save youth against her in the fight for life.

Maria crossed herself perfunctorily and mumbled a few prayers.
Doubtless the Señora was like all the English, a heretic, and
therefore, according to the comfortable tenets of the Roman faith,
eternally damned, but a little prayer would do no harm, and would
be counted to herself as an act of charity.

That ceremony over, more mundane considerations engrossed her
mind.
She could smell the pungent odour of the _olla podrida_, or national
stew, insinuating itself through the half-open door, and she knew
that if she were not present at the meal, there would be more than one
hungry mouth ready to devour her share.

All the
details of the affair, even the track of the bullets which crashed into
that golden head, were mercilessly printed. The reader, surprised by a
sob, dropped his paper.

"What! Are you crying, Mrs. Arnold?"

"It was so cruel!" sobbed Emeline. "And Billy Wentworth, like a savage,
helped to do it!"

"He had provocation, no doubt, though it is a horrid deed. Perhaps I owe
the King of Beaver the tribute of a tear. He befogged me considerably
the only time I ever met him."

"You see only his evil. But I see what he was to Mary French and the
others." "His bereaved widows?" "The ones who believed in his best."


*****


BEAVER LIGHTS

A magnificent fountain of flame, visible far out on the starlit lake,
spurted from the north end of Beaver Island. It was the temple, in which
the Mormon people had worshipped for the last time, sending sparks and
illumined vapor to the zenith. The village of St. James was partly in
ashes, and a blue pallor of smoke hung dimly over nearly every hill
and hollow, for Gentile fishermen crazed with drink and power and long
arrears of grievances had carried torch and axe from farm to farm. Until
noon of that day all householding families had been driven to huddle
with their cattle around the harbor dock and forced to make pens for
the cattle of lumber which had been piled there for transportation.
Unresisting as sheep they let themselves be shipped on four small armed
steamers sent by their enemies to carry them into exile. Not one of the
twelve elders who had received the last instructions of their murdered
king rose up to organize any defence. Scarcely a month had passed since
his wounding unto death, and his withdrawal, like Arthur, in the arms
of weeping women to that spot in Wisconsin where he had found his sacred
Voree plates or tables of the law. Scarcely two weeks had passed since
news came back of his burial there. And already the Mormon settlement
was swept off Beaver Island.

Used to border warfare and to following their dominating prophet to
victory, they yet seemed unable to strike a blow without him. Such
non-resistance procured them nothing but contempt. They even submitted
to being compelled to destroy a cairn raised over the grave of one
considered a malefactor, carrying the heap stone by stone to throw into
the lake, Gentiles standing over them like Egyptian masters.

Little waves ran in rows of light, washing against the point on
the north side of the landlocked harbor. A primrose star was there
struggling aloft at the top of a rough rock tower. It was the fish-oil
flame of Beaver lamp, and the keeper sat on his doorsill at the bottom
of the light-house with his wife beside him.

The lowing of cattle missing their usual evening tendance came across
from the dock, a mournful accompaniment to the distant roaring of fire
and falling of timbers.

"Do you realize, Ludlow," the young woman inquired, slipping her hand
into her husband's, "that I am now the only Mormon on Beaver Island?"

"You never were a very good Mormon, Cecilia. You didn't like the breed
any better than I did, though there were good people among them."

"Will they lose all their cattle, Ludlow?"

"The cattle are safe enough," he laughed. "The men that are doing this
transporting will take the cattle. None of our Mormon friends will ever
see a hoof from Beaver Island again."

"But it seems robbery to drive them off and seize their property."

"That's the way King Strang took Beaver from the Gentiles in the first
place. Mormons and Gentiles can't live together."

"We can."

"I told you that you were a poor Mormon, Cecilia. And from first to last
I opposed my family's entering the community. Tithes and meddling sent
my father out of it a poor man. But I'm glad he went before this; and
your people, too."

She drew a deep breath. "Oh yes! They're safe in Green Bay. I couldn't
endure to have them on those steamers going down the lake to-night. What
will become of the community, Ludlow?"

"God knows. They'll be landed at Chicago and turned adrift on the world.
I'm glad they're away from here. I've no cause to love them, but I was
afraid they would be butchered like sheep. The diligence of Niebuhr,
though often impeded by illness, was immense. Languages, philosophy,
history, natural science, all took their turn. His number of languages
was not short of twenty at this time, and in some he was profoundly
versed--in most, very respectably.

But the most remarkable thing through life was his memory, and its wonderful
combination of retentiveness and readiness.

This, rather than the imaginative power, it was that made his descriptions
so graphic. Seeing and retaining everything, he painted as if all history
was before him.

When he spoke of a striking event, the coast, the mountain-line, or the
plain, all the accompaniments rose up and were grouped before him.
You felt carried away with him, as if he had lived there, and was
taking you up by the way.

His return to Denmark took place late in 1799.

A double appointment awaited him at Copenhagen--two government offices,
neither bringing in a large salary, but sufficient to allow of his
marrying; and accordingly Amelia Behrens became his wife in May 1800.

The five following years found him engaged in the civil service at
Copenhagen--sometimes in very onerous and uncongenial duties, sometimes
in a position of peril, for the bombardment of the city under Nelson took
place in 1801, and he keenly entered into every political incident.
During this period of five years, his official service was more
than once changed, but it seems always to have been connected with
finance.

He still found time for study, straining every power of his mind, he says,
at one time in investigating Roman history, sure 'that the
representations of all the moderns, without exception, are but
mistaken, imperfect glimpses of the truth.'

This Copenhagen life allowed him time but for one visit to his parents;
and a disappointment which annoyed him considerably, in what, he
thought, a just expectation of preferment, disposed him, in 1806, to
accept an offer from the Prussian government of a post at Berlin
not unlike that he had occupied in Copenhagen, but promising many
advantages in society and literary opportunities.

Never was there a more disastrous commencement of a new career. The
Niebuhrs reached Berlin in October 5, 1806, and on the 14th came
the dreadful battles of Jena and Auerstadt, while Napoleon, with
his conquering army, marched rapidly upon the city, and seven of
the Prussian ministers gave in their allegiance to the French without
even the ceremony of communicating with their king.

"No telling what these fellows may do. If they
go to meddling with me in my little Government office, they'll find me
as stubborn as the Mormons did."

"Oh, Ludlow, look at the tabernacle, like a big red-hot cheese-box on
the high ground! Think of the coronation there on the first King's Day!"

The light-house keeper's wife was again in imagination a long-limbed
girl of fifteen, crowding into the temple to witness such a ceremony as
was celebrated on no other spot of the New World. The King of Beaver,
in a crimson robe, walked the temple aisle, followed by his council, his
twelve elders, and seventy ministers of the minor order. In the presence
of a hushed multitude he was anointed, and a crown with a cluster of
projecting stars was set on his golden head. Hails and shouts, music of
marching singers and the strewing of flowers went before him into the
leafy July woods. Thus King's Day was established and annually observed
on the 8th of July. It began with burnt-offerings. The head of each
family was required to bring a chicken. A heifer was killed and
carefully cut up without breaking a bone; and, while the smoke of
sacrifice arose, feasting and dancing began, and lasted until sunset.
Firstlings of flocks and the first-fruits of orchard and field were
ordained the King's; and he also claimed one-tenth of each man's
possessions. The Mosaic law was set up in Beaver Island, even to the
stoning of rebellious children.

The smoke of a sacrificed people was now reeking on Beaver. This
singular man's French ancestry--for he was descended from Henri de
L'Estrange, who came to the New World with the Duke of York--doubtless
gave him the passion for picturesqueness and the spiritual grasp on
his isolated kingdom which keeps him still a notable and unforgotten
figure.

"It makes me feel bad to see so much destruction," the young man said to
his wife; "though I offered to go with Billy Wentworth to shoot Strang
if nobody else was willing. I knew I was marked, and sooner or later I
would disappear if he continued to govern this island. But with all
his faults he was a man. He could fight; and whip. He'd have sunk every
steamer in the harbor to-day."

"It's heavy on my heart, Ludlow--it's dreadful! Neighbors and friends
that we shall never see again!"

The young man caught his wife by the arm. They both heard the swift beat
of footsteps flying down the peninsula. Cecilia drew in her breath and
crowded against her husband. A figure came into view and identified
itself, leaping in bisected draperies across an open space to the
light-house door.

"Why, Rosanne!" exclaimed the keeper's wife. She continued to say "Why,
Rosanne! That greatest of all absurdities, a Pronouncing Dictionary, may
be of some service to you in this matter; it will certainly be of
none in any other.

When you mark the elaborate and yet ineffectual artifices by which it
toils after the finer distinctions of articulation, seeks to reproduce
in letters what exists, and can only exist, as the spoken tradition of
pronunciation, acquired from lip to lip by the organ of the ear, capable
of being learned, but incapable of being taught; or when you compare two
of these dictionaries with one another, and mark the entirely different
schemes and combinations of letters which they employ for representing
the same sound to the eye; you will then perceive how idle the attempt
to make the written in language commensurate with the sounded; you
will own that not merely out of human caprice, ignorance, or indolence,
the former falls short of and differs from the later; but that
this lies in the necessity of things, in the fact that man's _voice_
can effect so much more than ever his _letter_ can{232}.

You will then perceive that there would be as much, or nearly as
much, of the arbitrary in spelling which calls itself phonetic as
in our present, that spelling would have to be learned just as
really then as now.

We should be unable to dismiss the spelling card even after the arrival
of that great day, when, for example, those lines of Pope which
hitherto we have thus spelt and read,
"But errs not nature from this gracious end, From burning suns when
livid deaths descend, When earthquakes swallow, or when tempests
sweep Towns to one grave, whole nations to the deep"?

"How could you leave your
father and run the risk of never seeing him again?"

"I don't care if I never see him again. He said he was so discouraged he
didn't care what became of any of us."

Cecilia was going to plead the cause of domestic affection further,
but she saw that four step-mothers could easily be given up. She turned
helplessly to her husband who stood in the door.

"Poor thing! Ludlow, what in the world shall we do?"

"Put her to bed."

"Of course, Ludlow. But will anybody hurt you to-morrow?"

"There are two good guns on the rack over the chimney. I don't think
anybody will hurt me or her either, to-morrow."

"Rosanne, my dear," said Cecilia, trying to lift the relaxed soft body
and to open the stairway door behind her. "Come up with me right off. I
think you better be where people cannot look in at us."

Rosanne yielded and stumbled to her feet, clinging to her friend. When
they disappeared the young man heard her through the stairway enclosure
sobbing with convulsive gasps:

"I hate Elizabeth Aiken! I wish they would kill Elizabeth Aiken! I hate
her--I hate her!"

The lighthouse-keeper sat down again on his doorstep and faced the
prospect of taking care of a homeless Mormon. She found changes too.
Her friend the toothless lion had succumbed to old age, several of the
helpers had been changed, and Vardri was no longer near at hand to lift
her on to her horse and wait to help her dismount. Whenever he could
get away from Vladimir and the newspaper office, he was among the
spectators, and their thoughts and glances met across the wide arena's
space. Emile did not come regularly now though he took care there
was always someone sent to bring her home.

Since the night of the alarms in the Calle de Pescadores, the Brotherhood
had decided in council that they must change their place of meeting,
at any rate for a time, and that no part of the city itself could
be considered safe for the purposes of a meeting place."Is Ludlow here?" inquired a voice which he knew.

"I'm here, Jim! Are all the Mormons coming back?"

"Is Rosanne in your house?"

"Rosanne is here; up-stairs with Cecilia. Come inside, Jim. Have you
Elizabeth with you?"

"Yes, I have Elizabeth with me."

The three entered together. Ludlow shut the door and dropped an iron bar
across it. The young men standing opposite were of nearly the same
age; but one was fearless and free and the other harassed and haggard.
{Sidenote: _Pronunciation Alters_}
At present it is the written word which is in all languages their
conservative element. In it is the abiding witness against the
mutilations or other capricious changes in their shape which
affectation, folly, ignorance, and half-knowledge would introduce.

It is not indeed always able to hinder the final adoption of these
corrupter forms, but does not fail to oppose to them a constant,
and very often a successful, resistance.

With the adoption of phonetic spelling, this witness would exist
no longer; whatever was spoken would have also to be written, let
it be never so barbarous, never so great a departure from the true
form of the word.

James's Bay until sunset."

"She's been hiding in the lumber on the dock all day."

"Did any one hurt her?"

"Evidently not."

The Mormon husband's face cleared with a convulsion which in woman would
have been a relieving burst of tears.

"Sit down, Elizabeth," said the lighthouse-keeper. "You look fit to
fall."

"Yes, sit down, Elizabeth," James Baker repeated, turning to her with
secondary interest. But she remained standing, a tall Greek figure in
bloomers, so sure of pose that drapery or its lack was an accident
of which the eye took no account. She had pushed her soft brown hair,
dampened by the lake, behind her ears. They showed delicately against
the two shining masses. Her forehead and chin were of noble and
courageous shape. If there was fault, it was in the breadth and height
of brows masterful rather than feminine. She had not one delicious
sensuous charm to lure man. Her large eyes were blotted with a hopeless
blankness. She waited to see what would be done next.

"Now I'll tell you," said Baker to his friend, with decision, "I'm not
going to bring the howling Gentiles around you."

"I don't care whether they come or not."

"I know you don't. It isn't necessary in such a time as this for you and
me to look back."

"I told you at the time I wouldn't forget it, Jim. You stood by me when
I married Cecilia in the teeth of the Mormons, and I'll stand by you
through any mob of Gentiles. My sail-boat's out yonder, and it's yours
as long as you want it; and we'll provision it."

"That's what I was going to ask, Ludlow."

"If I were you I'd put for Green Bay. She was six years older than Niebuhr;
but to him, unused to female society, and admitted at once into
domestic familiarity with a sensible and engaging woman, this
disparity was nothing--perhaps, indeed, it added to the charm.

From other sources, we learn that he at first became attached to
Mme Hensler herself; but being discouraged as a lover, allowed her
to introduce him to her younger sister, Amelia Behrens, a beautiful
and intellectual woman; and although the attachment he then formed
was not sudden or violent, it became very profound.

After his engagement with this lady in 1797, and before his
marriage, he visited England; and in Scotland--chiefly in Edinburgh--he
spent nearly a year.

The account given in his letters of his sojourn in our capital, would
interest and amuse many of its present inhabitants. The Edinburgh of
1797 was more different perhaps from its present self in outward things,
than in mental characteristics. His remarks on the want of a more open
manifestation of feeling and affection among his friends there are
striking. 'It is quite a national trait,' he says, 'not to dwell on
what concerns us personally, upon what fills our heart; and it is as
unnatural to them to hear me speak of the topics upon which I am feeling
strongly, as it would be to do the same themselves.... I am far from
attributing it to coldness in these good people. It is altogether
national, and it is the same with every one I have known here,
whatever their rank, calling, learning, or sex.

It has quite surprised me, for example, that if you meet a person in whose
family some one has been ill, he will hardly allude to it, beyond
a short answer to your inquiries, or speak of it with any feeling.

In this way, it must be allowed, people may easily be independent of
each other.

I believe firmly that the Scots love their children--that Playfair is
a good father; and yet the former only speak of them because they
have them with them in the evenings, and the boys make their presence
known: the latter behaves exactly as if his boy were not in the room.

So far from inviting me to speak of my relations, so far from Mr
Scott making any inquiries as to my father's position--though he
is, nevertheless, as much attached to him as possible--they have
met every attempt on my part to talk to them on these subjects with
a silence which admits of no other explanation, than that it is not
in good taste to say much about these things.

They have never once asked after my mother and sister.' We have copied
the above, because there is no trace in any part of Niebuhr's writings,
former or latter, of narrow national judgments; and he repeatedly
bears testimony to the fatherly kindness with which he was welcomed,
especially in the two houses mentioned in the above extract.

It is simply the sense of a difference, and a difference we should
be inclined to regret as well as he, between the German and the
English or Scotch habit.

"Get off of the flower-bed," said Ludlow, dropping the muzzle of his gun
on the sill. "You're tramping down my wife's flowers."

"It's your nosegays of Mormons we're after having, Ludlow. We seen them
shlipping in here!"

"It's shame to you, Ludlow, and your own da-cent wife that hard to come
at, by raison of King Strang!"

"Augh! thim bloomers!--they do be makin' me sthummick sick!"

"What hurts you worst," said Ludlow, "is the price you had to pay the
Mormons for fish barrels."

The mob groaned and hooted. "Wull ye give us out the divil forninst
there, or wull ye take a broadside through the windy?"

"I haven't any devil in the house."

"It's Jim Baker, be the powers. He wor seen, and his women."

"Jim Baker is here. But he's leaving the island at once with the women."

"He'll not lave it alive."

"You, Pat Corrigan," said Ludlow, pointing his finger at the
torch-bearer, "do you remember the morning you and your mate rowed in to
the lighthouse half-frozen and starved and I fed and warmed you?"

"Do I moind it? I do!"

"Did I let the Mormons take you then?"

"No, bedad."

"When King Strang's constables came galloping down here to arrest you,
didn't I run in water to my waist to push you off in your boat?"

"You did, bedad!"

"I didn't give you up to them, and I won't give this family up to you.
They're not doing you any harm. Let them peaceably leave Beaver."

"But the two wives of him," argued Pat Corrigan.

"How many wives and children have you?"

"Is it 'how many wives,' says the hay then! Wan wife, by the powers; and
tin childer."

"Haven't you about as large a family as you can take care of?"

"Begobs, I have."

"Do you want to take in Jim Baker's Mormon wife and provide for her?
Somebody has to. If you won't let him do it, perhaps you'll do it
yourself."

"No, bedad!"

"Well, then, you'd better go about your business and let him alone. I
don't see that we have to meddle with these things. Do you?"

The crowd moved uneasily and laughed, good-naturedly owning to being
plucked of its cause and arrested in the very act of returning evil for
good.

"I tould you Ludlow was the foine man," said the torch-bearer to his
confederates.

"There's no harm in you boys," pursued the fine man. "You're not making
a war on women."

"We're not. Thrue for you."

"If you feel like having a wake over the Mormons, why don't you get more
torches and make a procession down the Galilee road? You've done about
all you can on Mount Pisgah."

As they began to trail away at this suggestion and to hail him with
parting shouts, Ludlow shut the window and laughed in the dark room.

"I'd like to start them chasing the fox around all the five lakes
on Beaver. But they may change their minds before they reach the
sand-hills. We'd better load the boat right off, Jim."

In the hurrying Rosanne came down-stairs and found Elizabeth waiting at
the foot. They could see each other only by starlight. They were alone,
for the others had gone out to the boat.

"Are you willing for me to go, Rosanne?" spoke Elizabeth. Her sweet
voice was of a low pitch, unhurried and steady. "James says he'll build
me a little house in your yard."

"She looks in Purgatory already, with those strange eyes!"

CHAPTER X
"The nights that were days, and the days that were nights, Griefs and
glories and vain delights, With Fame before us in fancy flights,
We mocked each other and cried 'All's well'!"

LOVE IN BOHEMIA.

Of her first act Arithelli had no fear. She knew that she was safe in
trusting to the skill and training of her horse to accomplish successfully
all the stereotyped movements of the _haute école_. She had only to sit
still and look graceful, and guide him through his paces as he waltzed,
turned or knelt. She carried a whip for show, but she had never used it.
A word, a caress had always been enough, and she would have been beaten
herself rather than touch the beautiful creature that carried her.

In the next act it would be all different. Everything depended on
her own balance and accuracy.

It would be all trick work then, not riding.
As she slid out of her habit and into the ugly ballet-skirts she
loathed, her courage vanished and she trembled as she faced the
audience for the second time, transformed in white satin and pale
blue, the thinness of her neck and arms painfully apparent.

The flying rush through the air as she jumped the hurdles and gates
made her feel horribly dazed and giddy, and unable to collect her
senses in time for the next leap.

As she descended lightly in her heelless silk slippers upon Don
Juan's back after the fourth hurdle had been passed, she swayed
and only by a violent effort recovered herself.

Her heart seemed to be beating right up in her throat and choking her.
She put up one hand and pulled at her turquoise collar till the
clasp gave way and thrust the blue stones into the low-cut bodice.

I don't think there'll be
any chase. The Irish have freed their minds."

"I'll send your fishing-boat back as soon as I can, Ludlow."

"Turn it over to father; he'll see to it. Give him news of us and
our love to all the folks. He will be anxious to know the truth about
Beaver."

"Good-bye, Elizabeth and Rosanne!"

"Good-bye, Cecilia!"

A grinding on pebbles, then the thump of adjusted oars and the rush of
water on each side of a boat's course, marked the fugitives' progress
towards the anchored smack.

"Shall I play to you, _mon ange_? I suppose the piano hasn't been tuned
yet." He struck a few notes, and made a rueful grimace. "It's worse than
ever."
"I'm afraid it never will be tuned now that I've been ill and caused
so much expense.The uninstructed girl from the little kingdom
of Beaver divined a worldful of souls waiting and loving in hopeless
silence and marching resistlessly as the stars to their reward. For
there is a development like the unfolding of a god for those who suffer
in strength and overcome.