It seems that Cervantes knew well the defects of these parts, as is
clear from the tone with a little pretentious to speak of them in the
prologue, very opposed, without doubt, the pride evident in the
past, but as trying to compete with Lope and school, thought, perhaps,
that the best way to achieve victory was to mimic the outside of
his works, accumulating wonders, adventures and theatrical coups. Should
have known that the fame of Lope, until the populace depended on many
different causes. Besides the defect of being written in a style strange
and false to the most, have another, which did not contribute to its
damage, which is the lightness with which they were composed deplorable.
Neither the speed of composition Cervantes wanted to be overcome by the
celebrated master of the Spanish drama, lacking the gift of improvisation
to it and its easy to produce, such as playing, perennial and
inexhaustible flow of inventions, literary and even first order.

Cervantes, apparently had a very different kind of genius: to work
with benefit needed to concentrate its activity, and when it was
still different course degenerate into superficial and frivolous.

It is understood by this that their comedies to be discarded
altogether; On the contrary, we believe that the bears the name of
Cervantes is worthy of appreciation, and as well as translations
of _Persiles_ until the _Galatea_ have aroused our interest, as had
happened with his own comedies.

All of them, although more or less suffer from the faults mentioned, also
contain many partial beauty and moral and aesthetic, and sometimes in
many remarkable scenes, which can provide dramatic evidence of the talent
of the author of the _Numancia_, and do not deserve to pass undetected.
To _The dichoso_ ruffian, for his license and that bad taste is
the worst of all _Comedias of santos_ we know the offers.

  This piece, whose characters, various allegorical
   figures [20], we found two pimps, a baker,
  an inquisitor, Lucifer, an angel
  and three souls in Purgatory, offers
  in addition a swordsman knave of Seville,
   who finally dies in Mexico as a
   saint, doing miracles. Other pieces
   are uneven merit and distinct
  character.

In all, however little that excites interest of the principal action,
like the grace and wit of the comic roles, while the serious scenes
generally do not meet. Comedy entitled _The House of the celos_ a question
taken from the Spanish tradition of Charlemagne, and is very close to
their post outside the contours of Lope and Calderon planned to celebrate
certain holidays and celebrations, though devoid of that lovely poetry
that both enhances the other pieces of entertainment. _The Spanish
gallant and great Sultana_ The two tables are filled with various
events and the most animated description, although sometimes we
rejoice fully, do not forget that we need order and concert in the
provision and arrangement of its parts.

In _Los baths Argel_ repeats the same argument used earlier in treatment
of _The Argel_ in _Pedro of Urdemalas_ see a kind of picaresque
novel in dramatic form, a series of comic situations and well thought
out well in poetry, which only lack the unity of its design and
development to be a true comedy [21].

In the first scene is the cunning of Peter Urdemalas in habit boy tillage,
after having exercised all possible professions. A friend of his asked
him to help you get the hand of his beloved Clemencia, his father denies.
This called Martín Crespo, then left to be mayor, and exercises for the
last time his duties as judge. On the advice of Pedro disguise of
shepherds and lovers are brought before the mayor, accusing the stubborn
old man, who was opposed to her marriage and that there are traces of
his order approving the marriage. The following describes the scenes
and dances, processions, they celebrated the feast of San Juan. The
superstitious believe that the young people who bathe their feet that
night in a basin of water, and let her hair to float at the whim
of the winds, signals detected by some who should be her husband.

Peter manages so many farmers, who make this experiment, known by certain
signs to look for those who love and listen with kindness.
Cut the posts to
length, chamfering both top and bottoms somewhat so that they shall not
splinter or cause injury to the hands. Next lay out and cut the mortises
as shown on the drawing. With the posts finished, lay out the end rails,
cutting the tenons and the mortises into which the ends of the slats are
to be fitted.

It should be noted that the drawing calls for the "setting in" of the
whole of the ends of the slats, there being no shoulders. This is much
easier and gives just as satisfactory a result, provided the sides of
the mortises are carefully cut.

Thoroughly scrape and sandpaper all these parts and then put the ends
together. In addition to the glue it will be well to through pin each of
the tenons and mortises. These pins may be put in flush and permanent on
the ends of the settee. On the side rails, however, the pins are to be
allowed to project so that they can be removed, and no glue is used in
the joint.

While the glue of the ends is hardening, prepare the rails of front and
back. Scrape and sandpaper these and when the clamps can be removed from
the ends put the whole frame together. The ends of all projecting tenons
are chamfered.

The illustration shows a loose leather cushion. There is quite a variety
of materials out of which such a cushion can be made. The best, of
course, is leather. In the highest class of furniture where loose
cushions are used, the seat base is formed by solidly mortising a frame
together on which is woven a heavy cane seating. This in turn is
fastened to the inside of the piece of furniture, and the cushions
when placed upon it make a very comfortable seat. The stock bill for
this settee calls for such a frame. Wood slats may be substituted if
desired.

[Illustration: Detail of the Oak Settee]

This piece of furniture will look well if finished in weathered oak. See
that all glue is removed from the surface, and that the wood is clean
and smooth, and apply a coat of weathered oak oil stain. Sandpaper this
lightly with No. 00 paper when the stain has thoroughly dried, and put
on a coat of lackluster or an equivalent.


A SCREEN


In selecting or making up mission furniture for the home, a screen is
necessary sometimes to add to the appearance of a room. The screen shown
in the accompanying illustration consists of a few parts which are
easily put together. The stock can be bought of any planing mill planed,
sanded and cut to the proper lengths. The cloth, which should be of dark
color, can be purchased at a dry goods store. The following list of
material will be needed.

  6 posts, 1 in. square by 65 in.
  6 rails, 3/4 in. square by 18 in.
  6 rails, 1/2 in. square by 18 in.
  3 panels, 1/4 by 3 by 18 in.
  6 yd. of cloth.
  4 double-acting hinges.
  2 doz. 2-1/2-in. slender screws.

Cut or plow a groove 1/4 in. wide and 1/4 in. deep in the center of one
surface on each of the 3/4-in. rails. Cut out the ends with a compass
saw. The five holes are bored with a 1-in. bit. The edges of these
panels are inserted in the grooves of the 3/4-in. rails, using plenty of
good glue.

When the glue has dried for at least 24 hours the screen frame can be
put together. Holes for the screws should be bored through the posts
where the 3/4-in. rails are joined and a screw turned into the end grain
of each rail.

Scrape off all the surplus glue and sandpaper all the parts well. When
this is done the finish can be applied. Any one of the mission stains
can be used and finished with wax and polished.

[Illustration: Detail of One Section]

The cloth is cut to length, a hem sewed on each end and one 1/2-in. rail
put through each hem. Place the top rail in position and screw it fast.
Stretch the cloth tight and fasten the lower 1/2-in. rail with screws at
the bottom. Each section of the screen is finished in the same way.

The hinges are attached about 4 in. from each end of the posts in the
same manner as hanging a door.

The sections can be made up in various ways to suit the builder. Instead
of using cloth, heavy paste-board, or board made up to take the place
of plaster on walls of dwellings, may be substituted, thus forming a
ground that will take paint and bronze decorations. A piece of this
material can be easily cut to fit the opening in each section.

[Illustration: Screen of Three Sections]


A MISSION BOOKRACK


The accompanying sketch shows a bookrack designed strictly along mission
lines. Enough stock may be found among the scrap, as no piece is over 1
in, in width or thickness. If stock is not on hand, secure the
following, cut to exact lengths:

  2 stretchers, 1 by 1 by 20 in., S-4-S.
  4 posts, 1 by 1 by 7-1/2 in., S-4-S.
  4 rails, 1 by 1 by 7 in., S-4-S.
  8 slats, 1/2 by 1/2 by 3-1/2 in., S-4-S.

Arrange the pieces as they are to be in the finished rack and number
both parts of each joint. There will be twelve lap joints, and great
care must be taken to mark them accurately and to cut to exactly half
the depth of each piece.

First fit the posts and rails of the ends. To mark the width of each
notch, lay the piece which is to fit into the notch upon it and thus get
the exact size. Knife lines must be used for the width and light gauge
lines for the depth of each notch.

[Illustration: Detail of the Bookrack]

Next lay out and cut joints between the stretchers and ends.

In each end there are four slats which should be mortised into the
rails 1/4 in. Glue the pieces in place and clamp them with handscrews.

A rubber-headed tack in the bottom of each post will prevent the marring
of the surface upon which the rack is to rest.

[Illustration: The Complete Bookrack]

Mission, weathered or fumed-oak stain will look well. A waxed finish
should be used. Before applying the wax, it is well to use a very thin
coat of shellac as a foundation. Let this coat stand for a few hours and
allow an interval of at least an hour between applying the coats of wax.

Should the rack wind a little, it may be remedied by cutting off part of
two diagonally opposite racks.


A ROUND EXTENSION DINING TABLE


[Illustration: Detail of the Table]

This extension table should be made of some hard wood, preferably white
oak. It will be a difficult matter to secure legs of the sizes indicated
in solid pieces of clear stock. It will be possible, however, to
secure them veneered upon white-pine cores. If the veneering is properly
done these will serve the purpose very well, the lighter weight, due to
the white-pine core, being an advantage. The circular facing is best
made by first sawing a segment of the circle of the size wanted and then
veneering the outer surface of this. Order the following stock:

  4 legs, 3 by 3 by 30-1/2 in., S-4-S.
  1 leg, 5 by 5 by 30-1/2 in., S-4-S.
  4 rails, 1-1/8 by 5 by 23 in., S-2-S.
  4 facing segments, 1-1/8 by 3-1/4 in. on a 24-in. radius.
  1 top, 1-1/8 in. thick on a 27-in. radius, S-2-S;
  3 extra boards, 1-1/8 by 12 by 55 in., S-2-S.
  4 slides, 1-1/8 by 2-3/4 by 36-1/2 in., S-4-S, maple.
  2 slides, 1-1/4 by 2-3/4 by 36-1/2 in., S-4-S, maple.
  4 frame pieces, 7/8 by 3 by 9 in., S-4-S, maple.
  2 frame pieces, 7/8 by 6 by 28 in., S-4-S, maple.
  2 frame pieces, 7/8 by 4 by 23-1/2 in., S-4-S, maple.

[Illustration: Table for the Dining-Room Set]

There are various ways of arranging the slides to work one with the
other. Several patented devices are on the market that permit a ready
adjustment with but little effort and are used extensively by commercial
manufacturers. The amateur will do well to secure a set before he
undertakes to work these slides to shape.

Prepare the legs by cutting them to length. Lay out and work the
mortises. The ends of the facings are to be tenoned and housed into the
posts. Prepare the rails by cutting the tenons and shaping the lower
edges as shown in the drawing. Prepare the top. After this, assemble
this much of the frame, using plenty of clamps and good hot glue.

Next get the under frame and the slides ready and attach them as shown.
Beatrice also said nothing to corroborate this praise. He arrived in
this Count, and the San Teodulo successively presented to Beatrice,
her sister and Don Braulio.

It was the Count of recent school and last breeding, which boasts of
spending miramientos with few women or if he was, knew and sometimes
distinguished persons, and knowing that would not win with bold and
sharply lower on its prey, was cut up and timid in the first moments.
Merely say a few words to each of the two sisters, not too close
to them, and above all, without incurring the insolent ordinariez,
which now occur frequently men, extending his hand to the ladies
only known, requires that snub or we would come to amicable terms
of confidence. then sought more natural way to engage conversation
with Don Braulio, as if a man so formal and weight as him, he
entertained more than half hours on important issues.

She further. Did something that seemed impossible given the chatterbox
was: did shut up, listen carefully and don Braulio bind to speak,
which left Don Braulio delighted. Finally, with general conversation,
unbraided Count rein to his humor, chistosos unreasonable thousand
strung, always within the limits not only of decency but of the
most delicate civility and fun and joy to the reunion, making nice
to everyone. preparations and the moods, when to just once, suggested
leaving the Countess and all the gardens and go to his house to tea.

Don Braulio, though he had laughed through the county and was glad
that he had listened quietly, it scales of both gift and I felt no
little shock to see how it was getting into the great world of
trotes but unable to resist.

The Countess was going to take up her home in his car.

Then, from the house of the Countess of Don Braulio had to walk a few
steps. Thus paving the difficulties would have been rude not to accept
the invitation. Don Braulio accepted it, and in the company of his
wife and Inesita, the four opened in the lando, was that night to chat
daily and intimate of the Countess San Teodulo. X usually no fun
reunion or gathering where there is dancing or playing cards. Without
sitting for old and polkas and waltzes for the young, all are usually
bored.

  It is admirable, therefore, a talking shop like
  our Condesa, where it was fun chatting with people.
  The woman who manages to have a chat and can
  boast of having put a pike in Flanders.
  Know how many of these businesses will be
  recognized in worldly woman to chair the gathering
  that no common understanding skills. Other unique virtues
  resplendent in Rosita. He was so good to bad
  for the enemy as friend. To her husband
  wanted, and you looked after him as
  consort mimaba most faithful and loving.
  Had not prevented it estimated it had sought after and other and
with other shades and hues of honey.

A HALL BENCH


All the stock for this bench should be of 7/8-in. oak, excepting the
slats, which may be of a cheaper wood. The following list of lumber will
be required to build it:

  4 slats, 7/8 by 4 by 17 in., cheap wood.
  2 cleats, 7/8 by 1 by 26 in., cheap wood.
  4 end rails, 7/8 by 2 by 16-1/4 in., oak, S-2-S.
  2 ends, 7/8 by 16 by 16-1/4 in., oak, S-2-S.
  2 sides, 7/8 by 4 by 25 in., oak, S-2-S.
  2 pieces, 7/8 by 5-1/2 by 25 in., oak, S-2-S.

[Illustration: Detail of the Hall Bench]

Start the work by first cutting the two pieces of 7/8 by 5-1/2 by 25-in.
material diagonally 1 in. from each corner, thus making the legs. The
edges are planed square and the ends should be rounded a little so that
there will be no splinters projecting. The legs are mortised 1 in. deep
for the side rails. The tenon ends are cut on the rails, care being
taken to get the right angle and a good fit. These can now be fastened
together, using hot glue on the entire surface of the joint.

[Illustration: Bench Made of Plain Oak]

While these are drying the ends can be made as shown in the plan. The 3
by 4-in. holes are cut at equal distances apart. Be sure that each end
is perfectly square, then glue and dowel the 2-in. strips at each end.
The ends are then glued and nailed to the sides, using finishing nails,
which are set and the holes filled with colored putty.

The cleats are now fastened, extra care being taken when fastening them
over the joints where the legs receive the side rails, as this will help
to strengthen the joints. The slats rest on these cleats and are placed
at equal distances apart.

The bench is now finished, but before applying the stain, see that all
parts are free from glue and are well sandpapered.

The leather cushion should be the loose kind and of a shade to harmonize
with the finish.


A SEWING TABLE


This convenient and useful table will be much appreciated by any woman.
It has two drawers for sewing material, and two drop leaves to spread
the work upon.

The following list of material will be needed for its construction. There
is a servant of a man who, having to eat, started serving. There is a
dancer who has run out are dancing dry.

  Below is a historian who became insane
  feeling of having lost three decades of
  Livy. Below is a collegiate fencing
  Mitra, proving there is more to it,
  because to say that he was to be bishop. Then,
  in esotro aposentillo, is a lawyer who
  vanished in wanting plaza clothes [223], and
  gave counsel to Taylor, and is always cutting and
  sewing garnacha. In esotra cell, on a chest
  full of doubloons, locked with three keys,
  one is sitting avariento rich, who have no son or relative who
will inherit, it is very bad life, being slaves to their money
rather than by eating a pie [224] than four nor more than a dinner
salad of cucumber, and serves the same trap of wealth.

One who sings in a cage esotra mockingbird musician who mimic other
birds, and back of each ticket as a paradise. Is a prisoner in this
prison of delicto trial, because he always sang, and begged him
to sing when no longer sing. - Impertinence is that almost all the
stress profession. - On the curb of that hole that is in the middle
the patio is looking a very beautiful lady, as you'll see if she
stands head and humble daughter of poor parents, we want to marry
her many rich men and gentlemen, none of the content, and all found
a lot of mistakes and and there is tied to a string because, like
Narcissus, in love with its beauty, not in the flood water that
serves as a mirror, not taking what steps [225] to the sun or the
stars.

At that poor aposentillo front, painted by defuera flashover married
is a demon, which went crazy on the condition of his wife.

Cleophas Then Don told the colleague who taught him all this retable
Duels: - Come here, we are not seized [226] for some crazy what we ignore,
because the world we are all crazy about each other [227].
The drawer slides, two on each side, should next be put in. A
nail through them and into each leg will hold them, as there is only the
weight of the drawers resting on them. Fasten the top with screws
through the rails from the under side. The leaves are attached with two
2-in. butt hinges which must be set in flush with the under surface to
prevent a crack showing between the table top and leaf when the latter
is raised. The small bracket hinged to the panel supports the open leaf.

[Illustration: Construction of the Drawer]

The drawers are now made. Allow the side to lap over the front 1/2 in.
as shown in sketch and fasten it with nails. The bottom should be let
into the sides and front 1/4 in., but must not be nailed to them,
because this would cause the drawer to stick, when the bottom expands.

Metal rings or wooden knobs will do well for the drawer pulls.

Stain to any desired shade and finish with a wax if a dull gloss is
wanted, or with one coat of shellac and two coats of varnish for a
highly polished surface.


A SIDE CHAIR


A companion piece to the chair with arms and the sideboard is the side
chair illustrated herewith. It should be made of the same kind of wood
and finished to correspond with the armchair. Order the following stock
list:

  2 front posts, 1-1/2 by 1-1/2 by 18-1/2 in., S-4-S.
  1 piece for back posts, 1-1/2 by 5-1/2 by 38-1/2 in., S-2-S.
  4 seat rails, 1 by 2 by 17 in., S-4-S.
  4 lower side rails, 5/8 by 1-1/4 by 17 in., S-4-S.
  2 lower front and back rails, 5/8 by 2-1/2 by 17 in., S-4-S.
  1 back rail, 3/4 by 2-1/4 by 17 in., S-4-S.
  1 back rail, 3/4 by 2 by 17 in., S-4-S.
  1 slat, 3/8 by 3 by 13-1/2 in., S-4-S.
  2 slats, 3/8 by 1-1/2 by 13-1/2 in., S-4-S.

Square up the front posts to length. From the single piece specified cut
out the back posts, giving them the amount of slant indicated in the
drawing. Set these four posts upright in the positions they are to
occupy relative to one another in the finished piece, and mark off, as
with penciled circles, the approximate locations of mortises. After
this, lay them on the bench side by side, even the lower ends and locate
accurately the ends of the mortises. Gauge their sides.

Saw the rails to length and lay out the shoulder lines and the cheeks of
the tenons and cut them. Plan to house the ends of the slats in the back
rails.

[Illustration: Side Chair of Dining-Room Set]

While the drawing shows a chair in which the front and back are of equal
width, the amateur may make the back narrower if he so desires. A
measurement of a common chair will give the proportions.

That he could barely throw the speech, because he had gotten a nun.

They killed him with laughter and full of mercy all, saying: - Mr
Bachelor, back and look at it if you want to drink or eat anything
for this relentlessly.Wood
finish will not "take hold" where any glue has been allowed to remain.

The seat may be given the same treatment as suggested for the armchair.
This should not be done, however, until the finish has been applied.

