Satan was seeking by this means to oppose and destroy the work of God. The
people had been greatly stirred by the Advent Movement, thousands of
sinners had been converted, and faithful men were giving themselves to the
work of proclaiming the truth, even in the tarrying time. The prince of
evil was losing his subjects; and in order to bring reproach upon the
cause of God, he sought to deceive some who professed the faith, and to
drive them to extremes. Then his agents stood ready to seize upon every
error, every failure, every unbecoming act, and hold it up before the
people in the most exaggerated light, to render Adventists and their faith
odious. Thus the greater the number whom he could crowd in to make a
profession of faith in the second advent while his power controlled their
hearts, the greater advantage would he gain by calling attention to them
as representatives of the whole body of believers.

Satan is "the accuser of the brethren," and it is his spirit that inspires
men to watch for the errors and defects of the Lord's people, and to hold
them up to notice, while their good deeds are passed by without a mention.
He is always active when God is at work for the salvation of souls. When
the sons of God come to present themselves before the Lord, Satan comes
also among them. In every revival he is ready to bring in those who are
unsanctified in heart and unbalanced in mind. When these have accepted
some points of truth, and gained a place with believers, he works through
them to introduce theories that will deceive the unwary. No man is proved
to be a true Christian because he is found in company with the children of
God, even in the house of worship and around the table of the Lord. Satan
is frequently there upon the most solemn occasions, in the form of those
whom he can use as his agents.

The prince of evil contests every inch of ground over which God's people
advance in their journey toward the heavenly city. In all the history of
the church, no reformation has been carried forward without encountering
serious obstacles. Thus it was in Paul's day. Wherever the apostle raised
up a church, there were some who professed to receive the faith, but who
brought in heresies, that, if received, would eventually crowd out the
love of the truth. Luther also suffered great perplexity and distress from
the course of fanatical persons who claimed that God had spoken directly
through them, and who therefore set their own ideas and opinions above the
testimony of the Scriptures. Many who were lacking in faith and
experience, but who had considerable self-sufficiency, and who loved to
hear and tell some new thing, were beguiled by the pretensions of the new
teachers, and they joined the agents of Satan in their work of tearing
down what God had moved Luther to build up. And the Wesleys, and others
who blessed the world by their influence and their faith, encountered at
every step the wiles of Satan in pushing overzealous, unbalanced, and
unsanctified ones into fanaticism of every grade.

William Miller had no sympathy with those influences that led to
fanaticism. He declared, with Luther, that every spirit should be tested
by the word of God. "The devil," said Miller, "has great power over the
minds of some at the present day. And how shall we know what manner of
spirit they are of? The Bible answers: 'By their fruits ye shall know
them.'... There are many spirits gone out into the world; and we are
commanded to try the spirits. The spirit that does not cause us to live
soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present world, is not the Spirit
of Christ. I am more and more convinced that Satan has much to do in these
wild movements.... Many among us, who pretend to be wholly sanctified, are
following the traditions of men, and apparently are as ignorant of truth
as others who make no such pretensions."(646) "The spirit of error will
lead us from the truth; and the Spirit of God will lead us into truth.
But, say you, a man may be in an error, and think he has the truth. What
then? We answer, The Spirit and word agree. If a man judges himself by the
word of God, and finds a perfect harmony through the whole word, then he
must believe he has the truth; but if he finds the spirit by which he is
led does not harmonize with the whole tenor of God's law or book, then let
him walk carefully, lest he be caught in the snare of the devil."(647) "I
have often obtained more evidence of inward piety from a kindling eye, a
wet cheek, and a choked utterance, than from all the noise in
Christendom."(648)

In the days of the Reformation its enemies charged all the evils of
fanaticism upon the very ones who were laboring most earnestly against it.
A similar course was pursued by the opposers of the Advent Movement. And
not content with misrepresenting and exaggerating the errors of extremists
and fanatics, they circulated unfavorable reports that had not the
slightest semblance of truth. These persons were actuated by prejudice and
hatred. Their peace was disturbed by the proclamation of Christ at the
door. They feared it might be true, yet hoped it was not, and this was the
secret of their warfare against Adventists and their faith.

The fact that a few fanatics worked their way into the ranks of Adventists
is no more a reason to decide that the movement was not of God, than was
the presence of fanatics and deceivers in the church in Paul's or Luther's
day a sufficient excuse for condemning their work. The fate of the economy
depends upon the maintenance of domestic peace and the continued
receipt of substantial aid from abroad, which is essential to offset the
severe trade imbalance and to supplement government revenues.
With all possible
deception he will manifest his power, calling to his aid all the fallen
angels of his realm.

It was not the proclamation of the second advent that created fanaticism
and division. These appeared in the summer of 1844, when Adventists were
in a state of doubt and perplexity concerning their real position. The
preaching of the first angel's message and of the "midnight cry" tended
directly to repress fanaticism and dissension. Those who participated in
these solemn movements were in harmony; their hearts were filled with love
for one another, and for Jesus, whom they expected soon to see. The one
faith, the one blessed hope, lifted them above the control of any human
influence, and proved a shield against the assaults of Satan.

"While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept. And at
midnight there was a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom cometh; go ye out to
meet him. Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps."(649) In
the summer of 1844, midway between the time when it had been first thought
that the 2300 days would end, and the autumn of the same year, to which it
was afterward found that they extended, the message was proclaimed in the
very words of Scripture, "Behold, the Bridegroom cometh!"

That which led to this movement was the discovery that the decree of
Artaxerxes for the restoration of Jerusalem, which formed the
starting-point for the period of the 2300 days, went into effect in the
autumn of the year B.C. 457, and not at the beginning of the year, as had
been formerly believed. Reckoning from the autumn of 457, the 2300 years
terminate in the autumn of 1844.(650)

Arguments drawn from the Old Testament types also pointed to the autumn as
the time when the event represented by the "cleansing of the sanctuary"
must take place. This was made very clear as attention was given to the
manner in which the types relating to the first advent of Christ had been
fulfilled.

The slaying of the Passover lamb was a shadow of the death of Christ. Says
Paul, "Christ our passover is sacrificed for us."(651) The sheaf of
first-fruits, which at the time of the Passover was waved before the Lord,
was typical of the resurrection of Christ. Paul says, in speaking of the
resurrection of the Lord, and of all His people, "Christ the first-fruits;
afterward they that are Christ's at His coming."(652) Like the wave-sheaf,
which was the first ripe grain gathered before the harvest, Christ is the
first-fruits of that immortal harvest of redeemed ones that at the future
resurrection shall be gathered into the garner of God.

These types were fulfilled, not only as to the event, but as to the time.
On the fourteenth day of the first Jewish month, the very day and month on
which, for fifteen long centuries, the Passover lamb had been slain,
Christ, having eaten the Passover with His disciples, instituted that
feast which was to commemorate His own death as "the Lamb of God, which
taketh away the sin of the world." That same night He was taken by wicked
hands, to be crucified and slain. And as the antitype of the wave-sheaf,
our Lord was raised from the dead on the third day, "the first-fruits of
them that slept,"(653) a sample of all the resurrected just, whose "vile
body" shall be changed, and "fashioned like unto His glorious body."(654)

In like manner, the types which relate to the second advent must be
fulfilled at the time pointed out in the symbolic service. Under the
Mosaic system, the cleansing of the sanctuary, or the great day of
atonement, occurred on the tenth day of the seventh Jewish month,(655)
when the high priest, having made an atonement for all Israel, and thus
removed their sins from the sanctuary, came forth and blessed the people.
So it was believed that Christ, our great High Priest, would appear to
purify the earth by the destruction of sin and sinners, and to bless His
waiting people with immortality. The tenth day of the seventh month, the
great day of atonement, the time of the cleansing of the sanctuary, which
in the year 1844 fell upon the twenty-second of October, was regarded as
the time of the Lord's coming. This was in harmony with the proofs already
presented, that the 2300 days would terminate in the autumn, and the
conclusion seemed irresistible.

In the parable of Matthew 25 the time of waiting and slumber is followed
by the coming of the bridegroom. This was in accordance with the arguments
just presented, both from prophecy and from the types. They carried strong
conviction of their truthfulness; and the "midnight cry" was heralded by
thousands of believers.

Like a tidal wave the movement swept over the land. From city to city,
from village to village, and into remote country places it went, until the
waiting people of God were fully aroused. Fanaticism disappeared before
this proclamation, like early frost before the rising sun. Believers saw
their doubt and perplexity removed, and hope and courage animated their
hearts. The work was free from those extremes which are ever manifested
when there is human excitement without the controlling influence of the
word and Spirit of God. It was similar in character to those seasons of
humiliation and returning unto the Lord which among ancient Israel
followed messages of reproof from His servants. It bore the
characteristics that mark the work of God in every age. There was little
ecstatic joy, but rather deep searching of heart, confession of sin, and
forsaking of the world. A preparation to meet the Lord was the burden of
agonizing spirits. There was persevering prayer, and unreserved
consecration to God.

Said Miller, in describing that work: "There is no great expression of
joy: that is, as it were, suppressed for a future occasion, when all
heaven and earth will rejoice together with joy unspeakable and full of
glory. There is no shouting: that, too, is reserved for the shout from
heaven. The singers are silent: they are waiting to join the angelic
hosts, the choir from heaven.... There is no clashing of sentiments: all
are of one heart and of one mind."(656)

Another who participated in the movement testified: "It produced
everywhere the most deep searching of heart and humiliation of soul before
the God of high heaven. It caused a weaning of affections from the things
of this world, a healing of controversies and animosities, a confession of
wrongs, a breaking down before God, and penitent, broken-hearted
supplications to Him for pardon and acceptance. It caused self-abasement
and prostration of soul, such as we never before witnessed. As God by Joel
commanded, when the great day of God should be at hand, it produced a
rending of hearts and not of garments, and a turning unto the Lord with
fasting, and weeping, and mourning. As God said by Zechariah, a spirit of
grace and supplication was poured out upon His children; they looked to
Him whom they had pierced, there was a great mourning in the land, ... and
those who were looking for the Lord afflicted their souls before
Him."(657)

Of all the great religious movements since the days of the apostles, none
have been more free from human imperfection and the wiles of Satan than
was that of the autumn of 1844. Even now, after the lapse of many years,
all who shared in that movement and who have stood firm upon the platform
of truth, still feel the holy influence of that blessed work, and bear
witness that it was of God.

At the call, "The Bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet Him," the waiting
ones "arose and trimmed their lamps;" they studied the word of God with an
intensity of interest before unknown. Angels were sent from heaven to
arouse those who had become discouraged, and prepare them to receive the
message. The work did not stand in the wisdom and learning of men, but in
the power of God. It was not the most talented, but the most humble and
devoted, who were the first to hear and obey the call. Farmers left their
crops standing in the fields, mechanics laid down their tools, and with
tears and rejoicing went out to give the warning. Those who had formerly
led in the cause were among the last to join in this movement. The
churches in general closed their doors against this message, and a large
company of those who received it withdrew from their connection. In the
providence of God, this proclamation united with the second angel's
message, and gave power to that work.

The message, "Behold, the Bridegroom cometh!" was not so much a matter of
argument, though the Scripture proof was clear and conclusive. There went
with it an impelling power that moved the soul. There was no doubt, no
questioning. Upon the occasion of Christ's triumphal entry into Jerusalem,
the people who were assembled from all parts of the land to keep the
feast, flocked to the Mount of Olives, and as they joined the throng that
were escorting Jesus, they caught the inspiration of the hour, and helped
to swell the shout, "Blessed is He that cometh in the name of the
Lord!"Primary foreign exchange earners are coffee and tea. The 1994
genocide decimated Rwanda's fragile economic base, severely impoverished the
population, particularly women, and eroded the country's ability
to attract private and external investment.

However, Rwanda has made substantial progress in stabilizing and rehabilitating
its economy to pre-1994 levels, although poverty levels are higher now.
GDP has rebounded, and inflation has been curbed. Export earnings,
however, have been hindered by low beverage prices, depriving the country
of much needed hard currency. Attempts to diversify into non-traditional
agriculture exports such as flowers and vegetables have been stymied by a
lack of adequate transportation infrastructure.

Every morning they felt that it was
their first duty to secure the evidence of their acceptance with God.
Their hearts were closely united, and they prayed much with and for one
another. They often met together in secluded places to commune with God,
and the voice of intercession ascended to heaven from the fields and
groves. The assurance of the Saviour's approval was more necessary to them
than their daily food; and if a cloud darkened their minds, they did not
rest until it was swept away. As they felt the witness of pardoning grace,
they longed to behold Him whom their souls loved.

But again they were destined to disappointment. The time of expectation
passed, and their Saviour did not appear. With unwavering confidence they
had looked forward to His coming, and now they felt as did Mary, when,
coming to the Saviour's tomb and finding it empty, she exclaimed with
weeping, "They have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have
laid Him."(659)

A feeling of awe, a fear that the message might be true, had for a time
served as a restraint upon the unbelieving world. After the passing of the
time, this did not at once disappear; at first they dared not triumph over
the disappointed ones; but as no tokens of God's wrath were seen, they
recovered from their fears, and resumed their reproach and ridicule. A
large class who had professed to believe in the Lord's soon coming,
renounced their faith. Some who had been very confident were so deeply
wounded in their pride that they felt like fleeing from the world. Like
Jonah, they complained of God, and chose death rather than life.

Those who had based their faith upon the opinions of others, and not upon
the word of God, were now as ready again to change their views. The
scoffers won the weak and cowardly to their ranks, and all these united in
declaring that there could be no more fears or expectations now. The time
had passed, the Lord had not come, and the world might remain the same for
thousands of years.

The earnest, sincere believers had given up all for Christ, and had shared
His presence as never before. They had, as they believed, given their last
warning to the world; and expecting soon to be received into the society
of their divine Master and the heavenly angels, they had, to a great
extent, withdrawn from the society of those who did not receive the
message. With intense desire they had prayed, "Come, Lord Jesus, and come
quickly." But He had not come. And now to take up again the heavy burden
of life's cares and perplexities, and to endure the taunts and sneers of a
scoffing world, was a terrible trial of faith and patience.

Yet this disappointment was not so great as was that experienced by the
disciples at the time of Christ's first advent. When Jesus rode
triumphantly into Jerusalem, His followers believed that He was about to
ascend the throne of David, and deliver Israel from her oppressors. With
high hopes and joyful anticipations they vied with one another in showing
honor to their King. Many spread their outer garments as a carpet in His
path, or strewed before Him the leafy branches of the palm. In their
enthusiastic joy they united in the glad acclaim, "Hosanna to the Son of
David!" When the Pharisees, disturbed and angered by this outburst of
rejoicing, wished Jesus to rebuke His disciples, He replied, "If these
should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out."(660)
Prophecy must be fulfilled. The disciples were accomplishing the purpose
of God; yet they were doomed to a bitter disappointment. But a few days
had passed ere they witnessed the Saviour's agonizing death, and laid Him
in the tomb. Their expectations had not been realized in a single
particular, and their hopes died with Jesus. Not till their Lord had come
forth triumphant from the grave could they perceive that all had been
foretold by prophecy, and "that Christ must needs have suffered, and risen
again from the dead."(661)

Five hundred years before, the Lord had declared by the prophet Zechariah,
"Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion; shout, O daughter of Jerusalem:
behold, thy King cometh unto thee: He is just, and having salvation;
lowly, and riding upon an ass, and upon a colt the foal of an ass."(662)
Had the disciples realized that Christ was going to judgment and to death,
they could not have fulfilled this prophecy.

In like manner, Miller and his associates fulfilled prophecy, and gave a
message which Inspiration had foretold should be given to the world, but
which they could not have given had they fully understood the prophecies
pointing out their disappointment, and presenting another message to be
preached to all nations before the Lord should come. The first and second
angels' messages were given at the right time, and accomplished the work
which God designed to accomplish by them.

The world had been looking on, expecting that if the time passed and
Christ did not appear, the whole system of Adventism would be given up.
But while many, under strong temptation, yielded their faith, there were
some who stood firm. The fruits of the Advent Movement, the spirit of
humility and heart-searching, of renouncing of the world and reformation
of life, which had attended the work, testified that it was of God. They
dared not deny that the power of the Holy Spirit had witnessed to the
preaching of the second advent, and they could detect no error in their
reckoning of the prophetic periods. The ablest of their opponents had not
succeeded in overthrowing their system of prophetic interpretation. They
could not consent, without Bible evidence, to renounce positions which had
been reached through earnest, prayerful study of the Scriptures, by minds
enlightened by the Spirit of God, and hearts burning with its living
power; positions which had withstood the most searching criticisms and the
most bitter opposition of popular religious teachers and worldly-wise men,
and which had stood firm against the combined forces of learning and
eloquence, and the taunts and revilings alike of the honorable and the
base.

True, there had been a failure as to the expected event, but even this
could not shake their faith in the word of God. When Jonah proclaimed in
the streets of Nineveh that within forty days the city would be
overthrown, the Lord accepted the humiliation of the Ninevites, and
extended their period of probation; yet the message of Jonah was sent of
God, and Nineveh was tested according to His will. Adventists believed
that in like manner God had led them to give the warning of the judgment.
"It has," they declared, "tested the hearts of all who heard it, and
awakened a love for the Lord's appearing; or it has called forth a hatred,
more or less perceivable, but known to God, of His coming. It has drawn a
line, ... so that those who will examine their own hearts, may know on
which side of it they would have been found, had the Lord then
come--whether they would have exclaimed, 'Lo! this is our God, we have
waited for Him, and He will save us;' or whether they would have called to
the rocks and mountains to fall on them to hide them from the face of Him
that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb. God thus, as
we believe, has tested His people, has tried their faith, has proved them,
and seen whether they would shrink, in the hour of trial, from the
position in which He might see fit to place them; and whether they would
relinquish this world and rely with implicit confidence in the word of
God."(663)

The feelings of those who still believed that God had led them in their
past experience, are expressed in the words of William Miller: "Were I to
live my life over again, with the same evidence that I then had, to be
honest with God and man I should have to do as I have done." "I hope that
I have cleansed my garments from the blood of souls. I feel that, as far
as it was in my power, I have freed myself from all guilt in their
condemnation." "Although I have been twice disappointed," wrote this man
of God, "I am not yet cast down or discouraged.... My hope in the coming
of Christ is as strong as ever. I have done only what, after years of
solemn consideration, I felt it my solemn duty to do. If I have erred, it
has been on the side of charity, love to my fellow-men, and conviction of
duty to God." "One thing I do know, I have preached nothing but what I
believed; and God has been with me; His power has been manifested in the
work, and much good has been effected." "Many thousands, to all human
appearance, have been made to study the Scriptures by the preaching of the
time; and by that means, through faith and the sprinkling of the blood of
Christ, have been reconciled to God."(664) "I have never courted the
smiles of the proud, nor quailed when the world frowned. I shall not now
purchase their favor, nor shall I go beyond duty to tempt their hate. I
shall never seek my life at their hands, nor shrink, I hope, from losing
it, if God in His good providence so orders."(665)

God did not forsake His people; His Spirit still abode with those who did
not rashly deny the light which they had received, and denounce the Advent
Movement. In the Epistle to the Hebrews are words of encouragement and
warning for the tried, waiting ones at this crisis: "Cast not away
therefore your confidence, which hath great recompense of reward. For ye
have need of patience, that, after ye have done the will of God, ye might
receive the promise. For yet a little while, and He that shall come will
come, and will not tarry. Now the just shall live by faith: but if any man
draw back, My soul shall have no pleasure in him. But we are not of them
who draw back unto perdition; but of them that believe to the saving of
the soul."(666)

That this admonition is addressed to the church in the last days is
evident from the words pointing to the nearness of the Lord's coming: "For
yet a little while, and He that shall come will come, and will not tarry."
And it is plainly implied that there would be a seeming delay, and that
the Lord would appear to tarry. The instruction here given is especially
adapted to the experience of Adventists at this time. The people here
addressed were in danger of making shipwreck of faith. They had done the
will of God in following the guidance of His Spirit and His word; yet they
could not understand His purpose in their past experience, nor could they
discern the pathway before them, and they were tempted to doubt whether
God had indeed been leading them. At this time the words were applicable,
"Now the just shall live by faith." As the bright light of the "midnight
cry" had shone upon their pathway, and they had seen the prophecies
unsealed, and the rapidly fulfilling signs telling that the coming of
Christ was near, they had walked, as it were, by sight. But now, bowed
down by disappointed hopes, they could stand only by faith in God and in
His word. The scoffing world were saying: "You have been deceived. Give up
your faith, and say that the Advent Movement was of Satan." But God's word
declared, "If any man draw back, My soul shall have no pleasure in him."
To renounce their faith now, and deny the power of the Holy Spirit which
had attended the message, would be drawing back toward perdition. They
were encouraged to steadfastness by the words of Paul, "Cast not away
therefore your confidence;" "ye have need of patience," "for yet a little
while, and He that shall come will come, and will not tarry." Their only
safe course was to cherish the light which they had already received of
God, hold fast to His promises, and continue to search the Scriptures, and
patiently wait and watch to receive further light.


23. WHAT IS THE SANCTUARY?


                     [Illustration: Chapter header.]

The scripture which above all others had been both the foundation and the
central pillar of the advent faith, was the declaration, "Unto two
thousand and three hundred days; then shall the sanctuary be
cleansed."(667) These had been familiar words to all believers in the
Lord's soon coming. By the lips of thousands was this prophecy repeated as
the watchword of their faith. All felt that upon the events therein
foretold depended their brightest expectations and most cherished hopes.
These prophetic days had been shown to terminate in the autumn of 1844. In
common with the rest of the Christian world, Adventists then held that the
earth, or some portion of it, was the sanctuary. They understood that the
cleansing of the sanctuary was the purification of the earth by the fires
of the last great day, and that this would take place at the second
advent. Hence the conclusion that Christ would return to the earth in
1844.

But the appointed time had passed, and the Lord had not appeared. 
However, the economic and social infrastructure is not well developed, and
serious social disorders continue to hamper economic development, following
a 11-year civil war. About two-thirds of the working-age population engages
in subsistence agriculture. Manufacturing consists mainly of the processing
of raw materials and of light manufacturing for the domestic market.
Plans continue to reopen bauxite and rutile mines shut down
during the conflict.
To accept this conclusion was to renounce the former reckoning of the
prophetic periods. The 2300 days had been found to begin when the
commandment of Artaxerxes for the restoration and building of Jerusalem,
went into effect, in the autumn of B.C. 457. Taking this as the
starting-point, there was perfect harmony in the application of all the
events foretold in the explanation of that period in Dan. 9:25-27.
Sixty-nine weeks, the first 483 of the 2300 years, were to reach to the
Messiah, the Anointed One; and Christ's baptism and anointing by the Holy
Spirit, A.D. 27, exactly fulfilled the specification. In the midst of the
seventieth week, Messiah was to be cut off. Three and a half years after
His baptism, Christ was crucified, in the spring of A.D. 31. The seventy
weeks, or 490 years, were to pertain especially to the Jews. At the
expiration of this period, the nation sealed its rejection of Christ by
the persecution of His disciples, and the apostles turned to the Gentiles,
A.D. 34. The first 490 years of the 2300 having then ended, 1810 years
would remain. From A.D. 34, 1810 years extend to 1844. "Then," said the
angel, "shall the sanctuary be cleansed." All the preceding specifications
of the prophecy had been unquestionably fulfilled at the time appointed.

With this reckoning, all was clear and harmonious, except that it was not
seen that any event answering to the cleansing of the sanctuary had taken
place in 1844. To deny that the days ended at that time was to involve the
whole question in confusion, and to renounce positions which had been
established by unmistakable fulfilments of prophecy.

But God had led His people in the great Advent Movement; His power and
glory had attended the work, and He would not permit it to end in darkness
and disappointment, to be reproached as a false and fanatical excitement.
He would not leave His word involved in doubt and uncertainty. Though many
abandoned their former reckoning of the prophetic periods, and denied the
correctness of the movement based thereon, others were unwilling to
renounce points of faith and experience that were sustained by the
Scriptures and by the witness of the Spirit of God. They believed that
they had adopted sound principles of interpretation in their study of the
prophecies, and that it was their duty to hold fast the truths already
gained, and to continue the same course of biblical research. With earnest
prayer they reviewed their position, and studied the Scriptures to
discover their mistake. As they could see no error in their reckoning of
the prophetic periods, they were led to examine more closely the subject
of the sanctuary.

In their investigation they learned that there is no Scripture evidence
sustaining the popular view that the earth is the sanctuary; but they
found in the Bible a full explanation of the subject of the sanctuary, its
nature, location, and services; the testimony of the sacred writers being
so clear and ample as to place the matter beyond all question. The apostle
Paul, in the Epistle to the Hebrews, says: "Then verily the first covenant
had also ordinances of divine service, and a worldly sanctuary. For there
was a tabernacle made; the first, wherein was the candlestick, and the
table, and the showbread; which is called the sanctuary. And after the
second veil, the tabernacle which is called the holiest of all; which had
the golden censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with
gold, wherein was the golden pot that had manna, and Aaron's rod that
budded, and the tables of the covenant; and over it the cherubim of glory
shadowing the mercy-seat."(668)

The sanctuary to which Paul here refers was the tabernacle built by Moses
at the command of God, as the earthly dwelling-place of the Most High.
"Let them make Me a sanctuary; that I may dwell among them,"(669) was the
direction given to Moses while in the mount with God. The Israelites were
journeying through the wilderness, and the tabernacle was so constructed
that it could be removed from place to place; yet it was a structure of
great magnificence. Its walls consisted of upright boards heavily plated
with gold, and set in sockets of silver, while the roof was formed of a
series of curtains, or coverings, the outer of skins, the innermost of
fine linen beautifully wrought with figures of cherubim. Besides the outer
court, which contained the altar of burnt-offering, the tabernacle itself
consisted of two apartments called the holy and the most holy place,
separated by a rich and beautiful curtain, or veil; a similar veil closed
the entrance to the first apartment.

In the holy place was the candlestick, on the south, with its seven lamps
giving light to the sanctuary both by day and by night; on the north stood
the table of showbread; and before the veil separating the holy from the
most holy was the golden altar of incense, from which the cloud of
fragrance, with the prayers of Israel, was daily ascending before God.

In the most holy place stood the ark, a chest of precious wood overlaid
with gold, the depository of the two tables of stone upon which God had
inscribed the law of ten commandments. Above the ark, and forming the
cover to the sacred chest, was the mercy-seat, a magnificent piece of
workmanship, surmounted by two cherubim, one at each end, and all wrought
of solid gold. In this apartment the divine presence was manifested in the
cloud of glory between the cherubim.

After the settlement of the Hebrews in Canaan, the tabernacle was replaced
by the temple of Solomon, which, though a permanent structure and upon a
larger scale, observed the same proportions, and was similarly furnished.
In this form the sanctuary existed--except while it lay in ruins in
Daniel's time--until its destruction by the Romans, in A.D. 70.

This is the only sanctuary that ever existed on the earth, of which the
Bible gives any information. This was declared by Paul to be the sanctuary
of the first covenant. But has the new covenant no sanctuary?

