Michael gathered up the remnants of the leather; rolled them up,
took the soft slippers he had made, slapped them together, wiped
them down with his apron, and handed them and the roll of leather to
the servant, who took them and said: "Good-bye, masters, and good
day to you!"


VIII

Another year passed, and another, and Michael was now living his
sixth year with Simon.  He lived as before.  He went nowhere, only
spoke when necessary, and had only smiled twice in all those years--
once when Matryona gave him food, and a second time when the
gentleman was in their hut.  Simon was more than pleased with his
workman.  He never now asked him where he came from, and only feared
lest Michael should go away.

They were all at home one day.  Matryona was putting iron pots in
the oven; the children were running along the benches and looking
out of the window; Simon was sewing at one window, and Michael was
fastening on a heel at the other.

One of the boys ran along the bench to Michael, leant on his
shoulder, and looked out of the window.

"Look, Uncle Michael! There is a lady with little girls! She seems
to be coming here.  And one of the girls is lame."

When the boy said that, Michael dropped his work, turned to the
window, and looked out into the street.

Simon was surprised.  Michael never used to look out into the
street, but now he pressed against the window, staring at something.
Simon also looked out, and saw that a well-dressed woman was really
coming to his hut, leading by the hand two little girls in fur coats
and woolen shawls.  The girls could hardly be told one from the
other, except that one of them was crippled in her left leg and
walked with a limp.

The woman stepped into the porch and entered the passage.  Feeling
about for the entrance she found the latch, which she lifted, and
opened the door.  She let the two girls go in first, and followed
them into the hut.

"Good day, good folk!"

"Pray come in," said Simon.  "What can we do for you?"

The woman sat down by the table.  The two little girls pressed close
to her knees, afraid of the people in the hut.

"I want leather shoes made for these two little girls for spring."

"We can do that.  We never have made such small shoes, but we can
make them; either welted or turnover shoes, linen lined.  My man,
Michael, is a master at the work."

Simon glanced at Michael and saw that he had left his work and was
sitting with his eyes fixed on the little girls.  Simon was
surprised.  It was true the girls were pretty, with black eyes,
plump, and rosy-cheeked, and they wore nice kerchiefs and fur coats,
but still Simon could not understand why Michael should look at them
like that--just as if he had known them before.  He was puzzled,
but went on talking with the woman, and arranging the price.  Having
fixed it, he prepared the measure.  The woman lifted the lame girl
on to her lap and said: "Take two measures from this little girl.
Make one shoe for the lame foot and three for the sound one.  They
both have the same size feet.  They are twins."

Simon took the measure and, speaking of the lame girl, said: "How
did it happen to her? She is such a pretty girl.  Was she born so?"

"No, her mother crushed her leg."

Then Matryona joined in.  She wondered who this woman was, and whose
the children were, so she said: "Are not you their mother then?"

"No, my good woman; I am neither their mother nor any relation to
them.  They were quite strangers to me, but I adopted them."

"They are not your children and yet you are so fond of them?"

"How can I help being fond of them? I fed them both at my own
breasts.  I had a child of my own, but God took him.  I was not so
fond of him as I now am of them."

"Then whose children are they?"


IX

The woman, having begun talking, told them the whole story.

