Mary chanced upon this piece of information and brought it straight to
Paula. "Tell them to go ahead with _Pagliacci_, then," Paula said. "I'll
sing 'Nedda' myself. Get LaChaise on the phone and let me talk to him."

She did sing it without any rehearsal at all. And she gave a performance
which for most of the persons who saw it, made her the, and the only,
"Nedda"; though--or perhaps, because--she didn't give the part quite its
traditional characterization; adapted it with the unscrupulousness of the
artist to her own purpose.

Paula's "Nedda" was a sulky slattern, indifferent, lazy, smoldering with
passion,--dangerous. The sensuous quality of her beauty had never been
more apparent than it was in the soiled cheap mountebank fineries which
she had worn for so many performances of the part in Europe. And this
beauty, of course, did a lot of the work for her. Explained the tragedy
all by itself. And, indeed, tragedy hung visibly over her from the moment
of her first entrance upon the stage in the donkey cart. She was the sort
of woman men kill and are killed for.

She played the part with an extreme economy of movement, with a kind of
feline stillness which made her occasional explosions into action, as
when she attacked Tonio with the whip, literally terrifying. She sang it
carelessly and therefore in a manner absolutely gorgeous. She swept them
all, critics as well as the immense audience, clean off their feet.

Also, by way of a foot-note, the managerial announcement that Madame
Carresford had volunteered for the part at six o'clock, to rescue them
from the necessity of closing the park and was to sing it absolutely
without rehearsal, exploded for all time the notion that there was
anything of the amateur about her.

"You can do anything," LaChaise told her as she came out into the wings.
And he kissed her on both cheeks rather solemnly, in the manner of one
conferring a decoration. In full measure pressed down and running over,
that was how Paula's success came to her.


CHAPTER XVII

THE WAYFARER


By the time Paula had got back to her dressing-room after the long series
of tumultuous curtain calls was over, the rush of her friends to express
their congratulations in person had begun. After the _Tosca_, performance
she had been adamant about seeing anybody but to-night with a laugh she
said, "I don't care. For a few minutes. If they're people I really know."

So Mary took her station beside the Rhadamanthus at the stockade gate--in
a proper opera-house, he would have been the stage door-keeper--to pick
out the sheep from the goat-like herd of the merely curious who, but for
firm measures, would have stormed the place. Those who came down again,
pushed out by the weight of new arrivals, lingered about the gate talking
things over with Mary. It amused her to see how radically their attitude
had changed. Such people as the Averys, the Cravens and the Byrnes, who
in a social way had known Paula well, seemed to regard her now as a
personage utterly remote, translated into another world altogether. And
when they asked about John Wollaston, as most of them did, there was an
undertone almost of commiseration about their inquiries, though on the
surface this didn't go beyond an expressed regret that he hadn't been
here to witness the triumph.

Mary drove them all away at last, even the lingerers in Paula's
dressing-room, left her safely in the hands of her dresser and went out
into the automobile park to get her car. Coming up softly across the
grass and reaching in to turn on the lights, she was startled to discover
that there was a man in it. But before she had time more than to gasp,
she recognized him as her father.

"I didn't want to push my way in with the mob," he explained, after
apologizing for having frightened her. "The car, when I spotted it,
seemed a safe place to wait. And the privacy of it," he added, "will be
grateful, too, since I'm not perfectly sure that Paula won't refuse
outright to see me."

Mary smiled at this and said she hoped he hadn't missed the performance.

"No," he told her somberly, "I didn't miss--any of it." Then on a
different note, "Now we'll see whether those dogs of critics won't change
their tune."

"Paula herself changed the tune," Mary observed. Then, "She's longing to
see you, of course. And there's no reason why you should wait. No one's
with her now except her dresser."

She led the way, without giving him a chance to demur, to the gate to the
stockade and turned him over to the gatekeeper.

"Please take Doctor Wollaston up to his wife's dressing-room," she said.
And with a momentary pleasure in having evaded introducing him as Madame
Carresford's husband, she turned away and went back to the car.

For the moment the spectacle of her father in the rôle of a young lover
touched her no more acutely than with a mild half-humorous melancholy.
She even paid the tribute of a passing smile to the queer reversal of
their rôles, her own and his. She was more like a mother brooding over
the first love-affair of an adolescent son. It was so young of him,
younger, she believed, than any act she herself could be capable of, to
have come to Paula's performance without letting her know and waited
shyly alone in the dark while the herd of her acquaintances crowded in
and monopolized her. Pathetically young, almost intolerably pathetic in
a man in his middle fifties. She wondered if he had come up for _Tosca_
the night before and gone away without a word.

She had spoken quite without authority in assuring him of Paula's
welcome. Paula had not, she thought, spoken of him once either in
connection with her disappointment the night before or with her triumph
to-night. Yet that he would get a lover's welcome she had very little
doubt. It was his moment certainly. Paula left alone up there at last,
sated with an overwhelming success, tired, relaxed...

With an effort of will Mary settled herself a little more deeply in the
seat behind the wheel and lighted a cigarette. She hated having to wait,
having to be found waiting when they came down together. She wished she
could just--disappear. It wasn't possible, of course.

It was not very long before they came down. "She says I may stay two
days," John told Mary as they squeezed into their seats in the little
roadster. "Then, relentlessly, she's going to turn me out." But his voice
was beyond disguise that of a lover who has prospered.

Mary drove them in almost unbroken silence all the way, down the ravine
road and up through the woods to the house in the village. Then she went
on with the car to their garage which stood in a yard of a neighbor, two
or three doors away. She rejected with curt good-humor her father's offer
to help her with this job. It was what she always did by herself, she
said, and took a momentary perverse pleasure, which she despised herself
for, in the obvious fact that this troubled him.

Back in the cottage living-room, ten minutes later perhaps, she found him
alone and heard then, the explanation of his having come. They had got
the Sunday papers out at Hickory Hill as usual in the middle of the
morning but had found no reference to the performance of _Tosca_ the
night before. John had spent a good part of the day fretting over the
absence of any news as to how Paula's venture had succeeded and puzzling
over the lack of it in the papers. Then the obvious explanation had
struck one of the boys, that the papers that came out to Hickory Hill on
Sunday were an early edition.

