Produced by An Anonymous Volunteer


THE CRYSTAL STOPPER

by Maurice LeBlanc


CHAPTER I. THE ARRESTS

The two boats fastened to the little pier that jutted out from the
garden lay rocking in its shadow. Here and there lighted windows showed
through the thick mist on the margins of the lake. The Enghien Casino
opposite blazed with light, though it was late in the season, the end
of September. A few stars appeared through the clouds. A light breeze
ruffled the surface of the water.

Arsene Lupin left the summer-house where he was smoking a cigar and,
bending forward at the end of the pier:

"Growler?" he asked. "Masher?... Are you there?"

A man rose from each of the boats, and one of them answered:

"Yes, governor."

"Get ready. I hear the car coming with Gilbert and Vaucheray."

He crossed the garden, walked round a house in process of construction,
the scaffolding of which loomed overhead, and cautiously opened the door
on the Avenue de Ceinture. He was not mistaken: a bright light flashed
round the bend and a large, open motor-car drew up, whence sprang two
men in great-coats, with the collars turned up, and caps.

It was Gilbert and Vaucheray: Gilbert, a young fellow of twenty or
twenty-two, with an attractive cast of features and a supple and sinewy
frame; Vaucheray, older, shorter, with grizzled hair and a pale, sickly
face.

"Well," asked Lupin, "did you see him, the deputy?"

"Yes, governor," said Gilbert, "we saw him take the 7.40 tram for Paris,
as we knew he would."

"Then we are free to act?"

"Absolutely. The Villa Marie-Therese is ours to do as we please with."

The chauffeur had kept his seat. Lupin gave him his orders:

"Don't wait here. It might attract attention. Be back at half-past
nine exactly, in time to load the car unless the whole business falls
through."

"Why should it fall through?" observed Gilbert.

The motor drove away; and Lupin, taking the road to the lake with his
two companions, replied:

"Why? Because I didn't prepare the plan; and, when I don't do a thing
myself, I am only half-confident."

"Nonsense, governor! I've been working with you for three years now...
I'm beginning to know the ropes!"

"Yes, my lad, you're beginning," said Lupin, "and that's just why I'm
afraid of blunders... Here, get in with me... And you, Vaucheray, take
the other boat... That's it... And now push off, boys... and make as
little noise as you can."

The whole gang is generally divided into two or three bodies.
One of these, besides the ordinary labour of the day, is kept in
turn at the mills, that are constantly going, during the whole of
the night.

This is a dreadful encroachment upon their time of rest, which was
before too short to permit them perfectly to refresh their wearied limbs,
and actually reduces their sleep, as long as this season lasts,
to about three hours and an half a night, upon a moderate
computation[062].

Those who can keep their eyes open during their nightly labour, and
are willing to resist the drowsiness that is continually coming
upon them, are presently worn out; while some of those, who are
overcome, and who feed the mill between asleep and awake, suffer,
for thus obeying the calls of nature, by the loss of a limb[063].

In this manner they go on, with little or no respite from their work,
till the crop season is over, when the year (from the time of our
first description) is completed.

To support[064] a life of such unparalleled drudgery, we should at least
expect: to find, that they were comfortably clothed, and plentifully
fed.

But sad reverse! they have scarcely a covering to defend themselves against
the inclemency of the night.

Their provisions are frequently bad, and are always dealt out to
them with such a sparing hand, that the means of a bare livelihood
are not placed within the reach of four out of five of these unhappy
people.

It is a fact, that many of the disorders of slaves are contracted from
eating the vegetables, which their little spots produce, before
they are sufficiently ripe: a clear indication, that the calls of
hunger are frequently so pressing, as not to suffer them to wait,
till they can really enjoy them.

This, situation, of a want of the common necessaries of life, added
to that of hard and continual labour, must be sufficiently painful
of itself.

How then must the pain be sharpened, if it be accompanied with
severity!

if an unfortunate slave does not come into the field exactly at the
appointed time, if, drooping with sickness or fatigue, he appears
to work unwillingly, or if the bundle of grass that he has been
collecting, appears too small in the eye of the overseer, he is
equally sure of experiencing the whip.

This instrument erases the skin, and cuts out small portions of the
flesh at almost every stroke; and is so frequently applied, that
the smack of it is all day long in the ears of those, who are in
the vicinity of the plantations.

This severity of masters, or managers, to their slaves, which is
considered only as common discipline, is attended with bad effects.

It enables them to behold instances of cruelty without commiseration,
and to be guilty of them without remorse.

Hence those many acts of deliberate mutilation, that have taken
place on the slightest occasions: hence those many acts of inferiour,
though shocking, barbarity, that have taken place without any
occasion at all: the very slitting[065] of ears has been considered
as an operation, so perfectly devoid of pain, as to have been
performed for no other reason than that for which a brand is set
upon cattle, _as a mark of property_.

But this is not the only effect, which this severity produces: for
while it hardens their hearts, and makes them insensible of the
misery of their fellow-creatures, it begets a turn for wanton
cruelty.

As a proof of this, we shall mention one, among the many instances
that occur, where ingenuity has been exerted in contriving modes of
torture.

"An iron coffin, with holes in it, was kept by a certain colonist,
as an auxiliary to the lash.

shouted the man.

And he rushed back into the room.

"It's Leonard, the valet!" cried Gilbert.

"If he makes a fuss, I'll out him," growled Vaucheray.

"You'll jolly well do nothing of the sort, do you hear, Vaucheray?" said
Lupin, peremptorily. And he darted off in pursuit of the servant. He
first went through a dining-room, where he saw a lamp still lit, with
plates and a bottle around it, and he found Leonard at the further end
of a pantry, making vain efforts to open the window:

"Don't move, sportie! No kid! Ah, the brute!"

He had thrown himself flat on the floor, on seeing Leonard raise his arm
at him. Three shots were fired in the dusk of the pantry; and then the
valet came tumbling to the ground, seized by the legs by Lupin, who
snatched his weapon from him and gripped him by the throat:

"Get out, you dirty brute!" he growled. "He very nearly did for me...
Here, Vaucheray, secure this gentleman!"

He threw the light of his pocket-lantern on the servant's face and
chuckled:

"He's not a pretty gentleman either... You can't have a very clear
conscience, Leonard; besides, to play flunkey to Daubrecq the deputy...!
Have you finished, Vaucheray? I don't want to hang about here for ever!"

"There's no danger, governor," said Gilbert.

"Oh, really?... So you think that shots can't be heard?..."

"Quite impossible."

"No matter, we must look sharp. Vaucheray, take the lamp and let's go
upstairs."

He took Gilbert by the arm and, as he dragged him to the first floor:

"You ass," he said, "is that the way you make inquiries? Wasn't I right
to have my doubts?"

"Look here, governor, I couldn't know that he would change his mind and
come back to dinner."

"One's got to know everything when one has the honour of breaking into
people's houses. You numskull! I'll remember you and Vaucheray... a nice
pair of gossoons!..."

The sight of the furniture on the first floor pacified Lupin and he
started on his inventory with the satisfied air of a collector who has
looked in to treat himself to a few works of art:

"By Jingo! There's not much of it, but what there is is pucka! There's
nothing the matter with this representative of the people in
the question of taste. Four Aubusson chairs... A bureau signed
'Percier-Fontaine,' for a wager... Two inlays by Gouttieres... A genuine
Fragonard and a sham Nattier which any American millionaire will swallow
for the asking: in short, a fortune... And there are curmudgeons who
pretend that there's nothing but faked stuff left. Dash it all, why
don't they do as I do? They should look about!"

Gilbert and Vaucheray, following Lupin's orders and instructions, at
once proceeded methodically to remove the bulkier pieces. The first boat
was filled in half an hour; and it was decided that the Growler and the
Masher should go on ahead and begin to load the motor-car.

Lupin went to see them start. On returning to the house, it struck him,
as he passed through the hall, that he heard a voice in the pantry. He
went there and found Leonard lying flat on his stomach, quite alone,
with his hands tied behind his back:

"So it's you growling, my confidential flunkey? Don't get excited: it's
almost finished. Only, if you make too much noise, you'll oblige us to
take severer measures... Do you like pears? We might give you one, you
know: a choke-pear!..."

As he went upstairs, he again heard the same sound and, stopping to
listen, he caught these words, uttered in a hoarse, groaning voice,
which came, beyond a doubt, from the pantry:

"Help!... Murder!... Help!... I shall be killed!... Inform the
commissary!"

"The fellow's clean off his chump!" muttered Lupin. "By Jove!... To
disturb the police at nine o'clock in the evening: there's a notion for
you!"

He set to work again. It took longer than he expected, for they
discovered in the cupboards all sorts of valuable knick-knacks which it
would have been very wrong to disdain and, on the other hand, Vaucheray
and Gilbert were going about their investigations with signs of laboured
concentration that nonplussed him.

At long last, he lost his patience:

"That will do!" he said. "We're not going to spoil the whole job and
keep the motor waiting for the sake of the few odd bits that remain. I'm
taking the boat."

They were now by the waterside and Lupin went down the steps. Gilbert
held him back:

"I say, governor, we want one more look round five minutes, no longer."

"But what for, dash it all?"

"Well, it's like this: we were told of an old reliquary, something
stunning..."

"Well?"

"We can't lay our hands on it. And I was thinking... There's a cupboard
with a big lock to it in the pantry... You see, we can't very well..."
He was already on his way to the villa. Vaucheray ran back too.

"I'll give you ten minutes, not a second longer!" cried Lupin. "In ten
minutes, I'm off."

But the ten minutes passed and he was still waiting.

He looked at his watch:

"A quarter-past nine," he said to himself. "This is madness."

And he also remembered that Gilbert and Vaucheray had behaved rather
queerly throughout the removal of the things, keeping close together and
apparently watching each other. What could be happening?

Lupin mechanically returned to the house, urged by a feeling of anxiety
which he was unable to explain; and, at the same time, he listened to
a dull sound which rose in the distance, from the direction of Enghien,
and which seemed to be coming nearer... People strolling about, no
doubt...

He gave a sharp whistle and then went to the main gate, to take a glance
down the avenue. But, suddenly, as he was opening the gate, a shot rang
out, followed by a yell of pain. He returned at a run, went round the
house, leapt up the steps and rushed to the dining-room:

"Blast it all, what are you doing there, you two?"

Gilbert and Vaucheray, locked in a furious embrace, were rolling on the
floor, uttering cries of rage. Their clothes were dripping with blood.
Lupin flew at them to separate them. But already Gilbert had got his
adversary down and was wrenching out of his hand something which Lupin
had no time to see. And Vaucheray, who was losing blood through a wound
in the shoulder, fainted.

"Who hurt him? You, Gilbert?" asked Lupin, furiously.

"No, Leonard."

"Leonard? Why, he was tied up!"

"He undid his fastenings and got hold of his revolver."

"The scoundrel! Where is he?"

Lupin took the lamp and went into the pantry.

The man-servant was lying on his back, with his arms outstretched, a
dagger stuck in his throat and a livid face. A red stream trickled from
his mouth.

"Ah," gasped Lupin, after examining him, "he's dead!"

"Do you think so?... Do you think so?" stammered Gilbert, in a trembling
voice.

"He's dead, I tell you."

"It was Vaucheray... it was Vaucheray who did it..."

Pale with anger, Lupin caught hold of him:

"It was Vaucheray, was it?... And you too, you blackguard, since you
were there and didn't stop him! Blood! Blood! You know I won't have
it... Well, it's a bad lookout for you, my fine fellows... You'll have
to pay the damage! And you won't get off cheaply either... Mind the
guillotine!" And, shaking him violently, "What was it? Why did he kill
him?"

"He wanted to go through his pockets and take the key of the cupboard
from him. When he stooped over him, he saw that the man unloosed his
arms. He got frightened... and he stabbed him..."

"But the revolver-shot?"

"It was Leonard... he had his revolver in his hand... he just had
strength to take aim before he died..."

"And the key of the cupboard?"

"Vaucheray took it...."

"Did he open it?"

"And did he find what he was after?"

"Yes."

"And you wanted to take the thing from him. What sort of thing was
it? The reliquary? No, it was too small for that.... Then what was it?
Answer me, will you?..."

Lupin gathered from Gilbert's silence and the determined expression on
his face that he would not obtain a reply. With a threatening gesture,
"I'll make you talk, my man. Sure as my name's Lupin, you shall come out
with it. But, for the moment, we must see about decamping. Here, help
me. We must get Vaucheray into the boat..."

They had returned to the dining-room and Gilbert was bending over the
wounded man, when Lupin stopped him:

"Listen."

They exchanged one look of alarm... Some one was speaking in the pantry
... a very low, strange, very distant voice... Nevertheless, as they at
once made certain, there was no one in the room, no one except the dead
man, whose dark outline lay stretched upon the floor.

And the voice spake anew, by turns shrill, stifled, bleating,
stammering, yelling, fearsome. It uttered indistinct words, broken
syllables.

Lupin felt the top of his head covering with perspiration. What was this
incoherent voice, mysterious as a voice from beyond the grave?

He had knelt down by the man-servant's side. The voice was silent and
then began again:

"Give us a better light," he said to Gilbert.

He was trembling a little, shaken with a nervous dread which he was
unable to master, for there was no doubt possible: when Gilbert had
removed the shade from the lamp, Lupin realized that the voice issued
from the corpse itself, without a movement of the lifeless mass, without
a quiver of the bleeding mouth.

"Governor, I've got the shivers," stammered Gilbert.

Again the same voice, the same snuffling whisper.

Suddenly, Lupin burst out laughing, seized the corpse and pulled it
aside:

"Exactly!" he said, catching sight of an object made of polished metal.
"Exactly! That's it!... Well, upon my word, it took me long enough!"

On the spot on the floor which he had uncovered lay the receiver of a
telephone, the cord of which ran up to the apparatus fixed on the wall,
at the usual height.

Lupin put the receiver to his ear. The noise began again at once, but
it was a mixed noise, made up of different calls, exclamations, confused
cries, the noise produced by a number of persons questioning one another
at the same time.

"Are you there?... He won't answer. It's awful... They must have killed
him. What is it?... Keep up your courage. There's help on the way...
police... soldiers..."

"Dash it!" said Lupin, dropping the receiver.

The truth appeared to him in a terrifying vision. Quite at the
beginning, while the things upstairs were being moved, Leonard, whose
bonds were not securely fastened, had contrived to scramble to his
feet, to unhook the receiver, probably with his teeth, to drop it and to
appeal for assistance to the Enghien telephone-exchange.

And those were the words which Lupin had overheard, after the first boat
started:

"Help!... Murder!... I shall be killed!"

And this was the reply of the exchange. The police were hurrying to
the spot. And Lupin remembered the sounds which he had heard from the
garden, four or five minutes earlier, at most:

"The police! Take to your heels!" he shouted, darting across the dining
room.

"What about Vaucheray?" asked Gilbert.

"Sorry, can't be helped!"

But Vaucheray, waking from his torpor, entreated him as he passed:

"Governor, you wouldn't leave me like this!"

Lupin stopped, in spite of the danger, and was lifting the wounded man,
with Gilbert's assistance, when a loud din arose outside:

"Too late!" he said.

At that moment, blows shook the hall-door at the back of the house. He
ran to the front steps: a number of men had already turned the corner of
the house at a rush. He might have managed to keep ahead of them, with
Gilbert, and reach the waterside. But what chance was there of embarking
and escaping under the enemy's fire?

He locked and bolted the door.

"We are surrounded... and done for," spluttered Gilbert.

"Hold your tongue," said Lupin.

"But they've seen us, governor. There, they're knocking."

"Hold your tongue," Lupin repeated. "Not a word. Not a movement."

He himself remained unperturbed, with an utterly calm face and the
pensive attitude of one who has all the time that he needs to examine a
delicate situation from every point of view. He had reached one of those
minutes which he called the "superior moments of existence," those
which alone give a value and a price to life. On such occasions,
however threatening the danger, he always began by counting to himself,
slowly--"One... Two... Three... Four.... Five... Six"--until the beating
of his heart became normal and regular. Then and not till then, he
reflected, but with what intensity, with what perspicacity, with what a
profound intuition of possibilities! All the factors of the problem were
present in his mind. He foresaw everything. He admitted everything. And
he took his resolution in all logic and in all certainty.

After thirty or forty seconds, while the men outside were banging at the
doors and picking the locks, he said to his companion:

"Follow me."

Returning to the dining-room, he softly opened the sash and drew the
Venetian blinds of a window in the side-wall. People were coming and
going, rendering flight out of the question.

Thereupon he began to shout with all his might, in a breathless voice:

"This way!... Help!... I've got them!... This way!"

He pointed his revolver and fired two shots into the tree-tops. Then
he went back to Vaucheray, bent over him and smeared his face and hands
with the wounded man's blood. Lastly, turning upon Gilbert, he took him
violently by the shoulders and threw him to the floor.

"What do you want, governor? There's a nice thing to do!"

"Let me do as I please," said Lupin, laying an imperative stress on
every syllable. "I'll answer for everything... I'll answer for the
two of you... Let me do as I like with you... I'll get you both out of
prison ... But I can only do that if I'm free."

Excited cries rose through the open window.

"This way!" he shouted. "I've got them! Help!"

And, quietly, in a whisper:

"Just think for a moment... Have you anything to say to me?... Something
that can be of use to us?"

Gilbert was too much taken aback to understand Lupin's plan and he
struggled furiously. Vaucheray showed more intelligence; moreover, he
had given up all hope of escape, because of his wound; and he snarled:

"Let the governor have his way, you ass!... As long as he gets off,
isn't that the great thing?"

Suddenly, Lupin remembered the article which Gilbert had put in his
pocket, after capturing it from Vaucheray. He now tried to take it in
his turn.

"No, not that! Not if I know it!" growled Gilbert, managing to release
himself.

Lupin floored him once more. But two men suddenly appeared at the
window; and Gilbert yielded and, handing the thing to Lupin, who
pocketed it without looking at it, whispered:

"Here you are, governor... I'll explain. You can be sure that..."

He did not have time to finish... Two policemen and others after them
and soldiers who entered through every door and window came to Lupin's
assistance.

Gilbert was at once seized and firmly bound. Lupin withdrew:

"I'm glad you've come," he said. "The beggar's given me a lot of
trouble. I wounded the other; but this one..."

The commissary of police asked him, hurriedly:

"Have you seen the man-servant? Have they killed him?"

"I don't know," he answered.

"You don't know?..."

"Why, I came with you from Enghien, on hearing of the murder! Only,
while you were going round the left of the house, I went round the
right. There was a window open. I climbed up just as these two ruffians
were about to jump down. I fired at this one," pointing to Vaucheray,
"and seized hold of his pal."

How could he have been suspected? He was covered with blood. He had
handed over the valet's murderers. Half a score of people had witnessed
the end of the heroic combat which he had delivered. Besides, the uproar
was too great for any one to take the trouble to argue or to waste time
in entertaining doubts. In the height of the first confusion, the people
of the neighbourhood invaded the villa. One and all lost their heads.
They ran to every side, upstairs, downstairs, to the very cellar. They
asked one another questions, yelled and shouted; and no one dreamt of
checking Lupin's statements, which sounded so plausible.

However, the discovery of the body in the pantry restored the commissary
to a sense of his responsibility. He issued orders, had the house
cleared and placed policemen at the gate to prevent any one from passing
in or out. Then, without further delay, he examined the spot and began
his inquiry. Vaucheray gave his name; Gilbert refused to give his, on
the plea that he would only speak in the presence of a lawyer. But,
when he was accused of the murder, he informed against Vaucheray,
who defended himself by denouncing the other; and the two of them
vociferated at the same time, with the evident wish to monopolize the
commissary's attention. When the commissary turned to Lupin, to request
his evidence, he perceived that the stranger was no longer there.

Without the least suspicion, he said to one of the policemen:

"Go and tell that gentleman that I should like to ask him a few
questions."

They looked about for the gentleman. Some one had seen him standing on
the steps, lighting a cigarette. The next news was that he had given
cigarettes to a group of soldiers and strolled toward the lake, saying
that they were to call him if he was wanted.

They called him. No one replied.

But a soldier came running up. The gentleman had just got into a boat
and was rowing away for all he was worth. The commissary looked at
Gilbert and realized that he had been tricked:

"Stop him!" he shouted. "Fire on him! He's an accomplice!..."

He himself rushed out, followed by two policemen, while the others
remained with the prisoners. On reaching the bank, he saw the gentleman,
a hundred yards away, taking off his hat to him in the dusk.

One of the policemen discharged his revolver, without thinking.

The wind carried the sound of words across the water. The gentleman was
singing as he rowed:

  "Go, little bark,
   Float in the dark..."

But the commissary saw a skiff fastened to the landing-stage of the
adjoining property. He scrambled over the hedge separating the two
gardens and, after ordering the soldiers to watch the banks of the lake
and to seize the fugitive if he tried to put ashore, the commissary and
two of his men pulled off in pursuit of Lupin.

It was not a difficult matter, for they were able to follow his
movements by the intermittent light of the moon and to see that he was
trying to cross the lakes while bearing toward the right--that is to
say, toward the village of Saint-Gratien. Moreover, the commissary
soon perceived that, with the aid of his men and thanks perhaps to the
comparative lightness of his craft, he was rapidly gaining on the other.
In ten minutes he had decreased the interval between them by one half.

"That's it!" he cried. "We shan't even need the soldiers to keep him
from landing. --WALPOLE.]
I think these accounts, upon which you may depend, must raise your
spirits, and figure in Mr.

Chute's loyal journal.--But you don't get my letters: I have sent you
eleven since I came to town; how many of these have you received?
Adieu!

_BATTLE OF CULLODEN._

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, _April_ 25, 1746.

You have bid me for some time to send you good news--well!

I think I will. How good would you have it?

must it be a total victory over the rebels; with not only the Boy, that
is here, killed, but the other, that is not here, too; their whole
army put to the sword, besides an infinite number of prisoners; all
the Jacobite estates in England confiscated, and all those in
Scotland--what would you have done with them?

--or could you be content with something much under this?

how much will you abate?

will you compound for Lord John Drummond, taken by accident? or for
three Presbyterian parsons, who have very poor livings, stoutly
refusing to pay a large contribution to the rebels?

Come, I will deal as well with you as I can, and for once, but not
to make a practice of it, will let you have a victory!

My friend, Lord Bury, arrived this morning from the Duke, though
the news was got here before him; for, with all our victory, it was
not thought safe to send him through the heart of Scotland; so he
was shipped at Inverness, within an hour after the Duke entered the
town, kept beating at sea five days, and then put on shore at North
Berwick, from whence he came post in less than three days to London;
but with a fever upon him, for which he had been twice blooded but
the day before the battle; but he is young, and high in spirits,
and I flatter myself will not suffer from this kindness of the Duke:
the King has immediately ordered him a thousand pound, and I hear
will make him his own aide-de-camp.

My dear Mr. Chute, I beg your pardon; I have forgot you have the gout,
and consequently not the same patience to wait for the battle,
with which I, knowing the particulars, postpone it.

On the 16th, the Duke, by forced marches, came up with the rebels, a
little on this side Inverness--by the way, the battle is not christened
yet; I only know that neither Prestonpans nor Falkirk are to be
godfathers.

The rebels, who fled from him after their victory, and durst not attack
him, when so much exposed to them at his passage of the Spey, now
stood him, they seven thousand, he ten.

They broke through Barril's regiment, and killed Lord Robert Kerr,
a handsome young gentleman, who was cut to pieces with above thirty
wounds; but they were soon repulsed, and fled; the whole engagement
not lasting above a quarter of an hour.

The young Pretender escaped; Mr. Conway says, he hears, wounded: he
certainly was in the rear. They have lost above a thousand men in
the engagement and pursuit; and six hundred were already taken; among
which latter are their French ambassador and Earl Kilmarnock. The Duke
of Perth and Lord Ogilvie are said to be slain; Lord Elcho was in a
salivation, and not there. Except Lord Robert Kerr, we lost nobody of
note: Sir Robert Rich's eldest son has lost his hand, and about a hundred
and thirty private men fell.

The defeat is reckoned total, and the dispersion general; and all their
artillery is taken. It is a brave young Duke! The town is all blazing
round me, as I write, with fireworks and illuminations: I have some
inclination to wrap up half a dozen sky-rockets, to make you drink the
Duke's health. Mr. Dodington, on the first report, came out with a very
pretty illumination; so pretty, that I believe he had it by him,
ready for _any_ occasion....

_TRIAL OF THE REBEL LORDS BALMERINO AND KILMARNOCK._
TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, _Aug._ 1, 1746.

I am this moment come from the conclusion of the greatest and most
melancholy scene I ever yet saw! You will easily guess it was the
Trials of the rebel Lords. As it was the most interesting sight, it
was the most solemn and fine: a coronation is a puppet-show, and all
the splendour of it idle; but this sight at once feasted one's
eyes and engaged all one's passions. It began last Monday; three
parts of Westminster Hall were inclosed with galleries, and hung with
scarlet; and the whole ceremony was conducted with the most awful solemnity
and decency, except in the one point of leaving the prisoners at
the bar, amidst the idle curiosity of some crowd, and even with
the witnesses who had sworn against them, while the Lords adjourned
to their own House to consult. No part of the royal family was there,
which was a proper regard to the unhappy men, who were become their
victims.

One hundred and thirty-nine Lords were present, and made a noble sight
on their benches _frequent and full_! The Chancellor [Hardwicke] was
Lord High Steward; but though a most comely personage with a fine voice,
his behaviour was mean, curiously searching for occasion to bow to the
minister [Mr. Pelham] that is no peer, and consequently applying to the
other ministers, in a manner, for their orders; and not even ready
at the ceremonial.

To the prisoners he was peevish; and instead of keeping up to the humane
dignity of the law of England, whose character it is to point out
favour to the criminal, he crossed them, and almost scolded at any
offer they made towards defence.

I had armed myself with all the resolution I could, with the thought
of their crimes and of the danger past, and was assisted by the sight
of the Marquis of Lothian in weepers for his son who fell at
Culloden--but the first appearance of the prisoners shocked me!

their behaviour melted me! Lord Kilmarnock and Lord Cromartie are both
past forty, but look younger. Lord Kilmarnock is tall and slender, with
an extreme fine person: his behaviour a most just mixture between
dignity and submission; if in anything to be reprehended, a little
affected, and his hair too exactly dressed for a man in his situation;
but when I say it is not to find fault with him, but to show how
little fault there was to be found.

Lord Cromartie is an indifferent figure, appeared much dejected,
and rather sullen: he dropped a few tears the first day, and swooned
as soon as he got back to his cell.

For Lord Balmerino, he is the most natural brave old fellow I ever saw:
the highest intrepidity, even to indifference. At the bar he behaved like
a soldier and a man; at the intervals of form, with carelessness and
humour. He pressed extremely to have his wife, his pretty Peggy,
with him in the Tower.

Lady Cromartie only sees her husband through the grate, not
choosing to be shut up with him, as she thinks she can serve him better
by her intercession without: she is big with child and very handsome:
so are their daughters. When they were to be brought from the Tower in
separate coaches, there was some dispute in which the axe must go--old
Balmerino cried, "Come, come, put it with me."

At the bar, he plays with his fingers upon the axe, while he talks with
the gentleman-gaoler; and one day somebody coming up to listen,
he took the blade and held it like a fan between their faces.

During the trial, a little boy was near him, but not tall enough
to see; he made room for the child and placed him near himself.

When the trial began, the two Earls pleaded guilty; Balmerino not guilty,
saying he could prove his not being at the taking of the castle of Carlisle,
as was laid in the indictment. Then the King's counsel opened, and
Serjeant Skinner pronounced the most absurd speech imaginable; and
mentioned the Duke of Perth, "who," said he, "I see by the papers
is dead."

Then some witnesses were examined, whom afterwards the old hero shook
cordially by the hand. The Lords withdrew to their House, and returning,
demanded of the judges, whether one point not being proved, though
all the rest were, the indictment was false? to which they unanimously
answered in the negative. Then the Lord High Steward asked the Peers
severally, whether Lord Balmerino was guilty!
All said, "guilty upon honour," and then adjourned, the prisoner
having begged pardon for giving them so much trouble.

While the Lords were withdrawn, the Solicitor-General Murray (brother of
the Pretender's minister) officiously and insolently went up to Lord
Balmerino, and asked him, how he could give the Lords so much trouble,
when his solicitor had informed him that his plea could be of no use
to him?
Balmerino asked the bystanders who this person was? and being told
he said, "Oh, Mr. Murray! I am extremely glad to see you; I have been
with several of your relations; the good lady, your mother, was of
great use to us at Perth." Are not you charmed with this speech?

how just it was!
As he went away, he said, "They call me Jacobite; I am no more a Jacobite
than any that tried me: but if the Great Mogul had set up his standard,
I should have followed it, for I could not starve." The worst of his case
is, that after the battle of Dumblain, having a company in the Duke
of Argyll's regiment, he deserted with it to the rebels, and has since
been pardoned. Lord Kilmarnock is a Presbyterian, with four earldoms in
him, but so poor since Lord Wilmington's stopping a pension that
my father had given him, that he often wanted a dinner.

Lord Cromartie was receiver of the rents of the King's second son
in Scotland, which, it was understood, he should not account for;
and by that means had six-hundred a-year from the Government: Lord
Elibank, a very prating, impertinent Jacobite, was bound for him
in nine thousand pounds, for which the Duke is determined to sue
him.

When the Peers were going to vote, Lord Foley withdrew, as too well a
wisher; Lord Moray, as nephew of Lord Balmerino--and Lord Stair,--as,
I believe, uncle to his great-grandfather. Lord Windsor, very affectedly,
said, "I am sorry I must say, _guilty upon my honour_." Lord Stamford
would not answer to the name of _Henry_, having been christened
_Harry_--what a great way of thinking on such an occasion!

I was diverted too with old Norsa, the father of my brother's concubine,
an old Jew that kept a tavern; my brother [Orford], as Auditor of the
Exchequer, has a gallery along one whole side of the court; I said, "I
really feel for the prisoners!" old Issachar replied, "Feel for them!

pray, if they had succeeded, what would have become of _all us_?" When
my Lady Townsend heard her husband vote, she said, "I always knew _my_
Lord was _guilty_, but I never thought he would own it _upon his
honour_."

Lord Balmerino said, that one of his reasons for pleading _not
guilty_, was that so many ladies might not be disappointed of their
show.

On Wednesday they were again brought to Westminster Hall, to receive
sentence; and being asked what they had to say, Lord Kilmarnock, with a
very fine voice, read a very fine speech, confessing the extent of his
crime, but offering his principles as some alleviation, having his
eldest son (his second unluckily with him), in the Duke's army, _fighting
for the liberties of his country at Culloden, where his unhappy father
was in arms to destroy them_.

He insisted much on his tenderness to the English prisoners, which
some deny, and say that he was the man who proposed their being put
to death, when General Stapleton urged that _he_ was come to fight,
but not to butcher; and that if they acted any such barbarity, he
would leave them with all his men.

He very artfully mentioned Van Hoey's letter, and said how much he would
scorn to owe his life to such intercession.[1] Lord Cromartie spoke much
shorter, and so low, that he was not heard but by those who sat very
near him; but they prefer his speech to the other. He mentioned his
misfortune in having drawn in his eldest son, who is prisoner with him;
and concluded with saying, "If no part of this bitter cup must pass
from me, not mine, O God, but thy will be done!"

If he had pleaded _not guilty_, there was ready to be produced against
him a paper signed with his own hand, for putting the English prisoners
to death.

[Footnote 1: In a subsequent letter Walpole attributes Lord Kilmarnock's
complicity in the rebellion partly to the influence of his mother,
the Countess of Errol, and partly to his extreme poverty. He says:
"I don't know whether I told you that the man at the tennis-court
protests that he has known him dine with the man that sells pamphlets
at Storey's Gate; 'and,' says he, 'he would often have been glad
if I would have taken him home to dinner.'

He was certainly so poor, that in one of his wife's intercepted letters
she tells him she has plagued their steward for a fortnight for money,
and can get but three shillings." One cannot help remembering, _Ibit
eo quo vis qui zonam perdidit_. And afterwards, in relating his execution,
he mentions a report that the Duke of Cumberland charging him
(certainly on misinformation) with having promoted the adoption of
"a resolution taken the day before the battle of Culloden" to put
the English prisoners to death, "decided this unhappy man's fate"
by preventing his obtaining a pardon.]

Lord Leicester went up to the Duke of Newcastle, and said, "I never heard
so great an orator as Lord Kilmarnock?

if I was your grace I would pardon him, and make him _paymaster_."[1]

[Footnote 1: "_I would make him paymaster._" The paymaster at this
time was Mr. Pitt.]
That morning a paper had been sent to the lieutenant of the Tower
for the prisoners; he gave it to Lord Cornwallis, the governor, who
carried it to the House of Lords.

It was a plea for the prisoners, objecting that the late act for regulating
the trials of rebels did not take place till after their crime was
committed. The Lords very tenderly and rightly sent this plea to them,
of which, as you have seen, the two Earls did not make use; but old
Balmerino did, and demanded council on it.

     The High Steward, almost in a passion, told him, that
     when he had been offered council, he did not accept it.

Do but think on the ridicule of sending them the plea, and then
denying them council on it!

The Duke of Newcastle, who never let slip an opportunity of being absurd,
took it up as a ministerial point, in defence of his creature the
Chancellor [Hardwicke]; but Lord Granville moved, according to
order, to adjourn to debate in the chamber of Parliament, where the
Duke of Bedford and many others spoke warmly for their having
council; and it was granted.

I said _their_, because the plea would have saved them all, and affected
nine rebels who had been hanged that very morning; particularly
one Morgan, a poetical lawyer.

Lord Balmerino asked for Forester and Wilbraham; the latter a very able
lawyer in the House of Commons, who, the Chancellor said privately,
he was sure would as soon be hanged as plead such a cause. But he
came as council to-day (the third day), when Lord Balmerino gave up
his plea as invalid, and submitted, without any speech. The High Steward
[Hardwicke] then made his, very long and very poor, with only one
or two good passages; and then pronounced sentence!

Great intercession is made for the two Earls: Duke Hamilton, who has never
been at Court, designs to kiss the King's hand, and ask Lord Kilmarnock's
life. The King is much inclined to some mercy; but the Duke, who has
not so much of Caesar after a victory, as in gaining it, is for
the utmost severity.

It was lately proposed in the city to present him with the freedom of some
company; one of the aldermen said aloud, "Then let it be of the
_Butchers_!"[1] The Scotch and his Royal Highness are not at all guarded
in their expressions of each other. When he went to Edinburgh, in his
pursuit of the rebels, they would not admit his guards, alleging that
it was contrary to their privileges; but they rode in, sword in hand;
and the Duke, very justly incensed, refused to see any of the magistrates.
He came with the utmost expedition to town, in order for Flanders;
but found that the Court of Vienna had already sent Prince Charles
thither, without the least notification, at which both King and
Duke are greatly offended.

When the latter waited on his brother, the Prince carried him into
a room that hangs over the wall of St.

James's Park, and stood there with his arm about his neck, to charm the
gazing mob.

[Footnote 1: "The Duke," says Sir Walter Scott, "was received with
all the honours due to conquest; and all the incorporated bodies of
the capital, from the Guild brethren to the Butchers, desired the
acceptance of the freedom of their craft, or corporation." Billy
the Butcher was one of his by-names.]
Murray, the Pretender's secretary, has made ample confessions: the Earl
of Traquair, and Mr.

Barry, a physician, are apprehended, and more warrants are out; so much
for rebels! Your friend, Lord Sandwich, is instantly going ambassador
to Holland, to pray the Dutch to build more ships. I have received yours
of July 19th, but you see have no more room left, only to say, that I
conceive a good idea of my eagle, though the seal is a bad one.

Adieu!

P.S.

--I have not room to say anything to the Tesi till next post; but, unless
she will sing gratis, would advise her to drop this thought.

_THE BATTLE OF RANCOUX._ 
TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, _Oct._ 14, 1746.

You will have been alarmed with the news of another battle lost
in Flanders, where we have no Kings of Sardinia.

We make light of it; do not allow it to be a battle, but call
it "the action near Liege." Then we have whittled down our loss
extremely, and will not allow a man more than three hundred and
fifty English slain out of the four thousand.

The whole of it, as it appears to me, is, that we gave up eight battalions
to avoid fighting; as at Newmarket people pay their forfeit when
they foresee they should lose the race; though, if the whole army had
fought, and we had lost the day, one might have hoped to have come
off for eight battalions.

Then they tell you that the French had four-and-twenty-pounders,
and that they must beat us by the superiority of their cannon; so
that to me it is grown a paradox, to war with a nation who have a
mathematical certainty of beating you; or else it is still a stranger
paradox, why you cannot have as large cannon as the French.[1] This
loss was balanced by a pompous account of the triumphs of our
invasion of Bretagne; which, in plain terms, I think, is reduced
to burning two or three villages and reimbarking: at least, two or
three of the transports are returned with this history, and know
not what is become of Lestock and the rest of the invasion.

The young Pretender is landed in France, with thirty Scotch, but
in such a wretched condition that his Highland Highness had no
breeches.

[Footnote 1: Marshal Saxe had inspired his army with confidence that a
day of battle was sure to be a day of victory, as was shown by the
theatrical company which accompanied the camp. After the performance on
the evening of October 10th the leading actress announced that there
would be no performance on the morrow, because there was to be a battle,
but on the 12th the company would have the honour of presenting
"The Village Clock."

(See the Editor's "France under the Bourbons," iii.
26.)]
I have received yours of the 27th of last month, with the capitulation
of Genoa, and the kind conduct of the Austrians to us their allies,
so extremely like their behaviour whenever they are fortunate.

Pray, by the way, has there been any talk of my cousin, the Commodore,
being blameable in letting slip some Spanish ships?

--don't mention it as from me, but there are whispers of court-martial
on him.

They are all the fashion now; if you miss a post to me, I will have
you tried by a court-martial.

Cope is come off most gloriously, his courage ascertained, and even his
conduct, which everybody had given up, justified. Folkes and Lascelles,
two of his generals, are come off too; but not so happily in the
opinion of the world.

Oglethorpe's sentence is not yet public, but it is believed not to be
favourable. He was always a bully, and is now tried for cowardice.

Some little dash of the same sort is likely to mingle with the
judgment on _il furibondo_ Matthews; though his party rises again
a little, and Lestock's acquittal begins to pass for a party affair.

In short, we are a wretched people, and have seen our best days!

"Yes."

"The same men as in the spring?"

"Yes, all five of them... with another one, who ordered them about."

"A tall, dark man?"

"Yes."

Lupin saw Daubrecq's mouth hardening; and Daubrecq continued:

"Is that all?"

"There was one more, who came after they did and joined them... and
then, just now, two more, the pair who usually keep watch outside the
house."

"Did they remain in the study?"

"Yes, sir."

"And they went away when I came back? A few minutes before, perhaps?"

"Yes, sir."

"That will do."

The woman left the room. Daubrecq returned to his letter-writing. Then,
stretching out his arm, he made some marks on a white writing-tablet, at
the end of his desk, and rested it against the desk, as though he wished
to keep it in sight. The marks were figures; and Lupin was able to read
the following subtraction-sum:

   "9 - 8 = 1"

And Daubrecq, speaking between his teeth, thoughtfully uttered the
syllables:

"Eight from nine leaves one... There's not a doubt about that," he
added, aloud. He wrote one more letter, a very short one, and addressed
the envelope with an inscription which Lupin was able to decipher when
the letter was placed beside the writing-tablet:

"To Monsieur Prasville, Secretary-general of the Prefecture of Police."

Then he rang the bell again:

"Clemence," he said, to the portress, "did you go to school as a child?"

"Yes, sir, of course I did."

"And were you taught arithmetic?"

"Why, sir..."

"Well, you're not very good at subtraction."

"What makes you say that?"

"Because you don't know that nine minus eight equals one. And that, you
see, is a fact of the highest importance. Life becomes impossible if you
are ignorant of that fundamental truth."

He rose, as he spoke, and walked round the room, with his hands behind
his back, swaying upon his hips. He did so once more. Then, stopping at
the dining-room, he opened the door:

"For that matter, there's another way of putting the problem. Take
eight from nine; and one remains. And the one who remains is here, eh?
Correct! And monsieur supplies us with a striking proof, does he not?"

He patted the velvet curtain in which Lupin had hurriedly wrapped
himself:

"Upon my word, sir, you must be stifling under this! Not to say that
I might have amused myself by sticking a dagger through the curtain.
Remember Hamlet's madness and Polonius' death: 'How now! A rat? Dead,
for a ducat, dead!' Come along, Mr. Polonius, come out of your hole."

It was one of those positions to which Lupin was not accustomed and
which he loathed. To catch others in a trap and pull their leg was all
very well; but it was a very different thing to have people teasing him
and roaring with laughter at his expense. Yet what could he answer back?

"You look a little pale, Mr. Polonius... Hullo! Why, it's the
respectable old gentleman who has been hanging about the square for some
days! So you belong to the police too, Mr. Polonius? There, there, pull
yourself together, I sha'n't hurt you!... But you see, Clemence, how
right my calculation was. You told me that nine spies had been to the
house. I counted a troop of eight, as I came along, eight of them in the
distance, down the avenue. Take eight from nine and one remains: the one
who evidently remained behind to see what he could see. Ecce homo!"

"Well? And then?" said Lupin, who felt a mad craving to fly at the
fellow and reduce him to silence.

"And then? Nothing at all, my good man... What more do you want? The
farce is over. I will only ask you to take this little note to Master
Prasville, your employer. Clemence, please show Mr. Polonius out. And,
if ever he calls again, fling open the doors wide to him. Pray look upon
this as your home, Mr. Polonius. Your servant, sir!..."

Lupin hesitated. He would have liked to talk big and to come out with
a farewell phrase, a parting speech, like an actor making a showy exit
from the stage, and at least to disappear with the honours of war. But
his defeat was so pitiable that he could think of nothing better than to
bang his hat on his head and stamp his feet as he followed the portress
down the hall. It was a poor revenge.

"You rascally beggar!" he shouted, once he was outside the door, shaking
his fist at Daubrecq's windows. "Wretch, scum of the earth, deputy, you
shall pay for this!... Oh, he allows himself...! Oh, he has the cheek
to...! Well, I swear to you, my fine fellow, that, one of these days..."

He was foaming with rage, all the more as, in his innermost heart, he
recognized the strength of his new enemy and could not deny the masterly
fashion in which he had managed this business. Daubrecq's coolness, the
assurance with which he hoaxed the police-officials, the contempt with
which he lent himself to their visits at his house and, above all, his
wonderful self-possession, his easy bearing and the impertinence of his
conduct in the presence of the ninth person who was spying on him: all
this denoted a man of character, a strong man, with a well-balanced
mind, lucid, bold, sure of himself and of the cards in his hand.

But what were those cards? What game was he playing? Who held the
stakes? And how did the players stand on either side? Lupin could not
tell. Knowing nothing, he flung himself headlong into the thick of the
fray, between adversaries desperately involved, though he himself was in
total ignorance of their positions, their weapons, their resources and
their secret plans. For, when all was said, he could not admit that
the object of all those efforts was to obtain possession of a crystal
stopper!

One thing alone pleased him: Daubrecq had not penetrated his disguise.
Daubrecq believed him to be in the employ of the police. Neither
Daubrecq nor the police, therefore, suspected the intrusion of a third
thief in the business. This was his one and only trump, a trump
that gave him a liberty of action to which he attached the greatest
importance.

Without further delay, he opened the letter which Daubrecq had handed
him for the secretary-general of police. It contained these few lines:

 "Within reach of your hand, my dear Prasville, within reach of your
 hand!  You touched it!  A little more and the trick was done... But
 you're too big a fool.  And to think that they couldn't hit upon
 any one better than you to make me bite the dust.  Poor old France!

 "Good-bye, Prasville.  But, if I catch you in the act, it will be a
 bad lookout for you: my maxim is to shoot at sight.

         "DAUBRECQ"

"Within reach of your hand," repeated Lupin, after reading the note.
"And to think that the rogue may be writing the truth! The most
elementary hiding-places are the safest. We must look into this, all
the same. And, also, we must find out why Daubrecq is the object of
such strict supervision and obtain a few particulars about the fellow
generally."

The information supplied to Lupin by a private inquiry-office consisted
of the following details:

      "ALEXIS DAUBRECQ, deputy of the Bouches-du-Rhone for the past two
 years; sits among the independent members.  Political opinions not
 very clearly defined, but electoral position exceedingly strong,
 because of the enormous sums which he spends in nursing his
 constituency.  No private income.  Nevertheless, has a house in
 Paris, a villa at Enghien and another at Nice and loses heavily at
 play, though no one knows where the money comes from.  Has great
 influence and obtains all he wants without making up to ministers
 or, apparently, having either friends or connections in political
 circles."

"That's a trade docket," said Lupin to himself. "What I want is
a domestic docket, a police docket, which will tell me about the
gentleman's private life and enable me to work more easily in this
darkness and to know if I'm not getting myself into a tangle by
bothering about the Daubrecq bird. And time's getting short, hang it!"

One of the residences which Lupin occupied at that period and which he
used oftener than any of the others was in the Rue Chateaubriand, near
the Arc de l'Etoile. He was known there by the name of Michel Beaumont.
He had a snug flat here and was looked after by a manservant, Achille,
who was utterly devoted to his interests and whose chief duty was to
receive and repeat the telephone-messages addressed to Lupin by his
followers.

Lupin, on returning home, learnt, with great astonishment, that a woman
had been waiting to see him for over an hour:

"What! Why, no one ever comes to see me here! Is she young?"

"No... I don't think so."

"You don't think so!"

"She's wearing a lace shawl over her head, instead of a hat, and you
can't see her face... She's more like a clerk... or a woman employed in
a shop. She's not well-dressed..."

"Whom did she ask for?"

"M. Michel Beaumont," replied the servant.

"Queer. And why has she called?"

"All she said was that it was about the Enghien business... So I thought
that..."

"What! The Enghien business! Then she knows that I am mixed up in that
business... She knows that, by applying here..."

"I could not get anything out of her, but I thought, all the same, that
I had better let her in."

"Quite right. Where is she?"

"In the drawing-room. I've put on the lights."

Lupin walked briskly across the hall and opened the door of the
drawing-room:

"What are you talking about?" he said, to his man. "There's no one
here."

"No one here?" said Achille, running up.

And the room, in fact, was empty.

"Well, on my word, this takes the cake!" cried the servant. "It wasn't
twenty minutes ago that I came and had a look, to make sure. She was
sitting over there. And there's nothing wrong with my eyesight, you
know."

"Look here, look here," said Lupin, irritably. "Where were you while the
woman was waiting?"

"In the hall, governor! I never left the hall for a second! I should
have seen her go out, blow it!"

"Still, she's not here now..."

"So I see," moaned the man, quite flabbergasted.

"She must have got tired of waiting and gone away. But, dash it all, I
should like to know how she got out!"

"How she got out?" said Lupin. "It doesn't take a wizard to tell that."

"What do you mean?"

"She got out through the window. Look, it's still ajar. We are on the
ground-floor... The street is almost always deserted, in the evenings.
There's no doubt about it."

He had looked around him and satisfied himself that nothing had been
taken away or moved. The room, for that matter, contained no knick-knack
of any value, no important paper that might have explained the
woman's visit, followed by her sudden disappearance. And yet why that
inexplicable flight?

"Has any one telephoned?" he asked.

"No."

"Any letters?"

"Yes, one letter by the last post."

"Where is it?"

"I put it on your mantel-piece, governor, as usual."

Lupin's bedroom was next to the drawing-room, but Lupin had permanently
bolted the door between the two. He, therefore, had to go through the
hall again.

Lupin switched on the electric light and, the next moment, said:

"I don't see it..."

"Yes... I put it next to the flower-bowl."

"There's nothing here at all."

"You must be looking in the wrong place, governor."

But Achille moved the bowl, lifted the clock, bent down to the grate, in
vain: the letter was not there.

"Oh blast it, blast it!" he muttered. "She's done it... she's taken
it... And then, when she had the letter, she cleared out... Oh, the
slut!..."

Lupin said:

"You're mad! There's no way through between the two rooms."

"Then who did take it, governor?"

They were both of them silent. Lupin strove to control his anger and
collect his ideas. He asked:

"Did you look at the envelope?"

"Yes."

"Anything particular about it?"

"Yes, it looked as if it had been written in a hurry, or scribbled,
rather."

"How was the address worded?... Do you remember?" asked Lupin, in a
voice strained with anxiety.

"Yes, I remembered it, because it struck me as funny..."

"But speak, will you? Speak!"

"It said, 'Monsieur de Beaumont, Michel.'"

Lupin took his servant by the shoulders and shook him:

"It said 'de' Beaumont? Are you sure? And 'Michel' after 'Beaumont'?"

"Quite certain."

"Ah!" muttered Lupin, with a choking throat. "It was a letter from
Gilbert!"

He stood motionless, a little pale, with drawn features. There was no
doubt about it: the letter was from Gilbert. It was the form of address
which, by Lupin's orders, Gilbert had used for years in corresponding
with him. Gilbert had at last--after long waiting and by dint of endless
artifices--found a means of getting a letter posted from his prison and
had hastily written to him. And now the letter was intercepted! What did
it say? What instructions had the unhappy prisoner given? What help was
he praying for? What stratagem did he suggest?

Lupin looked round the room, which, contrary to the drawing-room,
contained important papers. But none of the locks had been forced; and
he was compelled to admit that the woman had no other object than to get
hold of Gilbert's letter.

Constraining himself to keep his temper, he asked:

"Did the letter come while the woman was here?"

"At the same time. The porter rang at the same moment."

"Could she see the envelope?"

"Yes."

The conclusion was evident. It remained to discover how the visitor had
been able to effect her theft. By slipping from one window to the other,
outside the flat? Impossible: Lupin found the window of his room shut.
By opening the communicating door? Impossible: Lupin found it locked and
barred with its two inner bolts.

Nevertheless, a person cannot pass through a wall by a mere operation of
will. To go in or out of a room requires a passage; and, as the act was
accomplished in the space of a few minutes, it was necessary, in the
circumstances, that the passage should be previously in existence, that
it should already have been contrived in the wall and, of course, known
to the woman. This hypothesis simplified the search by concentrating
it upon the door; for the wall was quite bare, without a cupboard,
chimney-piece or hangings of any kind, and unable to conceal the least
outlet.

Lupin went back to the drawing-room and prepared to make a study of the
door. But he at once gave a start. He perceived, at the first glance,
that the left lower panel of the six small panels contained within the
cross-bars of the door no longer occupied its normal position and that
the light did not fall straight upon it. On leaning forward, he saw two
little tin tacks sticking out on either side and holding the panel in
place, similar to a wooden board behind a picture-frame. He had only to
shift these. The panel at once came out.

Achille gave a cry of amazement. But Lupin objected:

"Well? And what then? We are no better off than before. Here is an empty
oblong, eight or nine inches wide by sixteen inches high. You're not
going to pretend that a woman can slip through an opening which would
not admit the thinnest child of ten years old!"

"No, but she can have put her arm through and drawn the bolts."

"The bottom bolt, yes," said Lupin. "But the top bolt, no: the distance
is far too great. Try for yourself and see."

Achille tried and had to give up the attempt.

Lupin did not reply. He stood thinking for a long time. Then, suddenly,
he said:

"Give me my hat... my coat..."

He hurried off, urged by an imperative idea. And, the moment he reached
the street, he sprang into a taxi:

"Rue Matignon, quick!..."

As soon as they came to the house where he had been robbed of the
crystal stopper, he jumped out of the cab, opened his private entrance,
went upstairs, ran to the drawing-room, turned on the light and crouched
at the foot of the door leading to his bedroom.

He had guessed right. One of the little panels was loosened in the same
manner.

And, just as in his other flat in the Rue Chateaubriand, the opening was
large enough to admit a man's arm and shoulder, but not to allow him to
draw the upper bolt.

"Hang!" he shouted, unable any longer to master the rage that had been
seething within him for the last two hours. "Blast! Shall I never have
finished with this confounded business?"

In fact, an incredible ill-luck seemed to dog his footsteps, compelling
him to grope about at random, without permitting him to use the elements
of success which his own persistency or the very force of things placed
within his grasp. Gilbert gave him the crystal stopper. Gilbert sent him
a letter. And both had disappeared at that very moment.

And it was not, as he had until then believed, a series of fortuitous
and independent circumstances. No, it was manifestly the effect of an
adverse will pursuing a definite object with prodigious ability and
incredible boldness, attacking him, Lupin, in the recesses of his safest
retreats and baffling him with blows so severe and so unexpected that he
did not even know against whom he had to defend himself. Never, in the
course of his adventures, had he encountered such obstacles as now.

And, little by little, deep down within himself, there grew a haunting
dread of the future. A date loomed before his eyes, the terrible date
which he unconsciously assigned to the law to perform its work of
vengeance, the date upon which, in the light of a wan April morning, two
men would mount the scaffold, two men who had stood by him, two comrades
whom he had been unable to save from paying the awful penalty...


CHAPTER III. THE HOME LIFE OF ALEXIS DAUBRECQ

When Daubrecq the deputy came in from lunch on the day after the police
had searched his house he was stopped by Clemence, his portress, who
told him that she had found a cook who could be thoroughly relied on.

The cook arrived a few minutes later and produced first-rate characters,
signed by people with whom it was easy to take up her references. She
was a very active woman, although of a certain age, and agreed to do the
work of the house by herself, without the help of a man-servant, this
being a condition upon which Daubrecq insisted.

Her last place was with a member of the Chamber of Deputies, Comte
Saulevat, to whom Daubrecq at once telephoned. The count's steward gave
her a perfect character, and she was engaged.

As soon as she had fetched her trunk, she set to work and cleaned and
scrubbed until it was time to cook the dinner.

Daubrecq dined and went out.

At eleven o'clock, after the portress had gone to bed, the cook
cautiously opened the garden-gate. A man came up.

"Is that you?" she asked.

"Yes, it's I, Lupin."

She took him to her bedroom on the third floor, overlooking the garden,
and at once burst into lamentations:

"More of your tricks and nothing but tricks! Why can't you leave me
alone, instead of sending me to do your dirty work?"

"How can I help it, you dear old Victoire? [*] When I want a person of
respectable appearance and incorruptible morals, I think of you. You
ought to be flattered."


     * See The Hollow Needle by Maurice Leblanc, translated by
     Alexander Teixeira de Mattos, and later volumes of the Lupin
     series.

"That's all you care about me!" she cried. "You run me into danger once
more; and you think it's funny!"

"What are you risking?"

"How do you mean, what am I risking? All my characters are false."

"Characters are always false."

"And suppose M. Daubrecq finds out? Suppose he makes inquiries?"

"He has made inquiries."

"Eh? What's that?"

"He has telephoned to the steward of Comte Saulevat, in whose service
you say that you have had the honour of being."

"There, you see, I'm done for!"

"The count's steward could not say enough in your praise."

"He does not know me."

"But I know him. I got him his situation with Comte Saulevat. So you
understand..."

Victoire seemed to calm down a little:

"Well," she said, "God's will be done... or rather yours. And what do
you expect me to do in all this?"

"First, to put me up. You were my wet-nurse once. You can very well give
me half your room now. I'll sleep in the armchair."

"And next?"

"Next? To supply me with such food as I want."

"And next?"

"Next? To undertake, with me and under my direction, a regular series of
searches with a view..."

"To what?"

"To discovering the precious object of which I spoke to you."

"What's that?"

"A crystal stopper."

"A crystal stopper... Saints above! A nice business! And, if we don't
find your confounded stopper, what then?"

Lupin took her gently by the arm and, in a serious voice:

"If we don't find it, Gilbert, young Gilbert whom you know and love,
will stand every chance of losing his head; and so will Vaucheray."

"Vaucheray I don't mind... a dirty rascal like him! But Gilbert..."

"Have you seen the papers this evening? Things are looking worse than
ever. Vaucheray, as might be expected, accuses Gilbert of stabbing the
valet; and it so happens that the knife which Vaucheray used belonged
to Gilbert. That came out this morning. Whereupon Gilbert, who is
intelligent in his way, but easily frightened, blithered and launched
forth into stories and lies which will end in his undoing. That's how
the matter stands. Will you help me?"

Thenceforth, for several days, Lupin moulded his existence upon
Daubrecq's, beginning his investigations the moment the deputy left the
house. He pursued them methodically, dividing each room into sections
which he did not abandon until he had been through the tiniest nooks and
corners and, so to speak, exhausted every possible device.

Victoire searched also. And nothing was forgotten. Table-legs,
chair-rungs, floor-boards, mouldings, mirror- and picture-frames,
clocks, plinths, curtain-borders, telephone-holders and electric
fittings: everything that an ingenious imagination could have selected
as a hiding-place was overhauled.

And they also watched the deputy's least actions, his most unconscious
movements, the expression of his face, the books which he read and the
letters which he wrote.

It was easy enough. He seemed to live his life in the light of day. No
door was ever shut. He received no visits. And his existence worked with
mechanical regularity. He went to the Chamber in the afternoon, to the
club in the evening.

"Still," said Lupin, "there must be something that's not orthodox behind
all this."

"There's nothing of the sort," moaned Victoire. "You're wasting your
time and we shall be bowled out."

The presence of the detectives and their habit of walking up and down
outside the windows drove her mad. She refused to admit that they were
there for any other purpose than to trap her, Victoire. And, each time
that she went shopping, she was quite surprised that one of those men
did not lay his hand upon her shoulder.

One day she returned all upset. Her basket of provisions was shaking on
her arm.

"What's the matter, my dear Victoire?" said Lupin. "You're looking
green."

"Green? I dare say I do. So would you look green..."

She had to sit down and it was only after making repeated efforts that
she succeeded in stuttering:

"A man... a man spoke to me... at the fruiterer's."

"By jingo! Did he want you to run away with him?"

"No, he gave me a letter..."

"Then what are you complaining about? It was a love-letter, of course!"

"No. 'It's for your governor,' said he. 'My governor?' I said. 'Yes,' he
said, 'for the gentleman who's staying in your room.'"

"What's that?"

This time, Lupin had started:

"Give it here," he said, snatching the letter from her. The envelope
bore no address. But there was another, inside it, on which he read:

   "Monsieur Arsene Lupin,
     c/o Victoire."

"The devil!" he said. "This is a bit thick!" He tore open the second
envelope. It contained a sheet of paper with the following words,
written in large capitals:

     "Everything you are doing is useless and dangerous... Give it up."

Victoire uttered one moan and fainted. As for Lupin, he felt himself
blush up to his eyes, as though he had been grossly insulted. He
experienced all the humiliation which a duellist would undergo if he
heard the most secret advice which he had received from his seconds
repeated aloud by a mocking adversary.

However, he held his tongue. Victoire went back to her work. As for him,
he remained in his room all day, thinking.

That night he did not sleep.

And he kept saying to himself:

"What is the good of thinking? I am up against one of those problems
which are not solved by any amount of thought. It is certain that I am
not alone in the matter and that, between Daubrecq and the police, there
is, in addition to the third thief that I am, a fourth thief who is
working on his own account, who knows me and who reads my game clearly.
But who is this fourth thief? And am I mistaken, by any chance? And...
oh, rot!... Let's get to sleep!..."

"It was cramped."

"And you didn't move it?"
They beat it and kneaded it gaily together, until the fingers were full
of the rushing blood and able again to close warmly over her own
little hand.

"Now go, and let me get ready. I won't be long."
He went below to the library, and in the dim grey light picked up a book,
"The Delights of Delicate Eating."

He tried another, "101 Sandwiches." The next was "Famous Epicures of the
17th Century." On the floor was her diary. He placed it on the table. He
heard her call him from the stairs:

"Bring me up that ring from the table, please!"

He went up and handed it to her through the narrowly opened door.

As he went down the stairs he heard the bell ring somewhere below,
and went to the door.

"Baggage!"
The two trunks were down and out. "They're to go on this car, attached
to the Chicago Express." He wrote the directions on one of his cards
and paid the man.

At seven-thirty the bell rang again. The cabman was there.

"Seven-thirty, gent!"
"Avice!"
"I'm coming. And there are two bags I wish you'd get from my room."
He let her pass him and went up for them.

She went into the library and, taking up the diary, tore out a
sheet, marked heavily upon it with a pencil around the passage she
had read the evening before, and sealed it in an envelope.

She addressed it to her father, and laid it, with a paper-weight on it,
upon "The Delights of Delicate Eating," where he would be sure to find
it.

The book itself she placed on the wood laid ready in the grate to light,
touched a match to the crumpled paper underneath and put up the blower.
She stood waiting to see that the fire would burn.

Over the mantel from its yellow canvas looked above her head the humourously
benignant eyes of old Annekje Van Schoule, who had once removed
from Maspeth Kill on Long Island to New Haarlem on the Island of
Manhattan, and carried there, against her father's will, the
yellow-haired girl he had loved.

His face now seemed to be pretending unconsciousness of the rashly acted
scenes he had witnessed--lest, if he betrayed his consciousness,
he should be forced, in spite of himself, to disclose his approval--a
thing not fitting for an elderly, dignified Dutch burgher to
do.

"Avice!" 
"Coming!"
She took up a little package she had brought with her and went out
to meet him.
"There's one errand to do," she said, as they entered the carriage,
"but it's on our way. Have him go up Madison Avenue and deliver
this." 
She showed him the package addressed: "Mr.And he began to talk again, with sharp taps on the
table, as though he were dictating terms.

She no longer stirred. She sat haughtily in her chair and towered
over him, absent-minded, with roaming eyes. Lupin, captivated by that
powerful and sorrowful countenance, continued to watch her; and he was
vainly seeking to remember of what or of whom she reminded him, when
he noticed that she had turned her head slightly and that she was
imperceptibly moving her arm.

And her arm strayed farther and farther and her hand crept along
the table and Lupin saw that, at the end of the table, there stood
a water-bottle with a gold-topped stopper. The hand reached the
water-bottle, felt it, rose gently and seized the stopper. A quick
movement of the head, a glance, and the stopper was put back in its
place. Obviously, it was not what the woman hoped to find.

"Dash it!" said Lupin. "She's after the crystal stopper too! The matter
is becoming more complicated daily; there's no doubt about it."

But, on renewing his observation of the visitor, he was astounded
to note the sudden and unexpected expression of her countenance, a
terrible, implacable, ferocious expression. And he saw that her hand
was continuing its stealthy progress round the table and that, with an
uninterrupted and crafty sliding movement, it was pushing back books
and, slowly and surely, approaching a dagger whose blade gleamed among
the scattered papers.

It gripped the handle.

Daubrecq went on talking. Behind his back, the hand rose steadily,
little by little; and Lupin saw the woman's desperate and furious eyes
fixed upon the spot in the neck where she intended to plant the knife:

"You're doing a very silly thing, fair lady," thought Lupin.

And he already began to turn over in his mind the best means of escaping
and of taking Victoire with him.

She hesitated, however, with uplifted arm. But it was only a momentary
weakness. She clenched her teeth. Her whole face, contracted with
hatred, became yet further convulsed. And she made the dread movement.

At the same instant Daubrecq crouched and, springing from his seat,
turned and seized the woman's frail wrist in mid-air.

Oddly enough, he addressed no reproach to her, as though the deed which
she had attempted surprised him no more than any ordinary, very natural
and simple act. He shrugged his shoulders, like a man accustomed to that
sort of danger, and strode up and down in silence.

She had dropped the weapon and was now crying, holding her head between
her hands, with sobs that shook her whole frame.

He next came up to her and said a few words, once more tapping the table
as he spoke.

She made a sign in the negative and, when he insisted, she, in her turn,
stamped her foot on the floor and exclaimed, loud enough for Lupin to
hear:

"Never!... Never!..."

Thereupon, without another word, Daubrecq fetched the fur cloak which
she had brought with her and hung it over the woman's shoulders, while
she shrouded her face in a lace wrap.

And he showed her out.

Two minutes later, the garden-gate was locked again. "Pity I can't run
after that strange person," thought Lupin, "and have a chat with her
about the Daubrecq bird. Seems to me that we two could do a good stroke
of business together."

In any case, there was one point to be cleared up: Daubrecq the deputy,
whose life was so orderly, so apparently respectable, was in the habit
of receiving visits at night, when his house was no longer watched by
the police.

He sent Victoire to arrange with two members of his gang to keep watch
for several days. And he himself remained awake next night.

As on the previous morning, he heard a noise at four o'clock. As on the
previous morning, the deputy let some one in.

Lupin ran down his ladder and, when he came to the free space above the
shutters, saw a man crawling at Daubrecq's feet, flinging his arms round
Daubrecq's knees in frenzied despair and weeping, weeping convulsively.

she's tractable I find--And is it possible that you can love him?
Miraculous! (__Miran._ Nods._) Pardon the bluntness of my Questions,
for my Time is short; may I not hope to supplant him in your Esteem?
(__Miran._ Sighs._) Good! she answers me as I could wish--You'll not
consent to marry him then? (__Miran._ Sighs._) How, doubtful in that--Undone
again--Humph! but that may proceed from his Power to keep her out
of her Estate till Twenty Five; I'll try that--Come, Madam, I cannot
think you hesitate in this Affair out of any Motive, but your
Fortune--Let him keep it till those few Years are expir'd; make me
Happy with your Person, let him enjoy your Wealth--(__Miran._ holds
up her Hands._) Why, what Sign is that now?

Nay, nay, Madam, except you observe my Lesson, I can't understand your
meaning--
Sir _Fran._ What a Vengeance, are they talking by Signs, 'ad I may
be fool'd here; what do you mean, Sir _George?

_
Sir _Geo._ To Cut your Throat if you dare Mutter another Syllable.

Sir _Fran._ Od! I wish he were fairly out of my House.

Sir _Geo._ Pray, Madam, will you answer me to the Purpose? (__Miran._
shakes her Head, and points to Sir _Francis_._) What! does she mean she
won't answer me to the purpose, or is she afraid yon' old Cuff
should understand her Signs?

--Aye, it must be that, I perceive, Madam, you are too apprehensive
of the Promise you have made to follow my Rules; therefore I'll
suppose your Mind and answer for you--First, for my self, Madam,
that I am in Love with you is an infallible Truth.

Now for you:

(_Turns on her side._) Indeed, Sir, and may I believe it--As certainly,
Madam, as that 'tis Day light, or that I Die if you persist in
Silence--Bless me with the Musick of your Voice, and raise my Spirits
to their proper Heaven: Thus low let me intreat; e'er I'm oblig'd
to quit this Place, grant me some Token of a favourable Reception
to keep my Hopes alive.

(_Arises hastily turns of her side._) Rise, Sir, and since my Guardian's
Presence will not allow me Privilege of Tongue, Read that and rest
assured you are not indifferent to me. (_Offers her a Letter._) Ha!
right Woman! But no (_She strikes it down._) matter I'll go on.

Sir _Fran._ Ha! what's that a Letter--Ha, ha, ha, thou art baulk'd.

_Miran._ The best Assurance I ever saw-- (_Aside._ 
Sir _Geo._ Ha?

a Letter, Oh! let me Kiss it with the same Raptures that I would
do the dear Hand that touch'd it.

(_Opens it._) Now for a quick Fancy and a long _Extempore_--What's
here?

(_Reads._) "Dear, Sir _George_, this Virgin Muse I consecrate to you,
which when it has receiv'd the Addition of your Voice, 'twill Charm
me into Desire of Liberty to Love, which you, and only you can fix."

My Angel! Oh you transport me! (_Kisses the Letter._) And see
the Power of your Command; the God of Love has set the Verse already;
the flowing Numbers Dance into a Tune, and I'm inspir'd with a
Voice to sing it.

_Miran._ I'm sure thou art inspir'd with Impudence enough.

Sir _Geo._ (_Sings._) _Great Love inspire him; Say I admire him.

Give me the Lover That can discover Secret Devotion from silent Motion;
Then don't betray me, But hence convey me._
Sir _Geo._ (_Taking hold of _Miranda_._) With all my Heart, this
Moment let's Retire.

(_Sir _Francis_ coming up hastily._)
Sir _Fran._ The Hour is expir'd, Sir, and you must take your leave.
There, my Girl, there's the Hundred Pound which thou hast won, go,
I'll be with you presently, Ha, ha, ha, ha.

(_Exit _Miranda_._
Sir _Geo._ Ads Heart, Madam, you won't leave me just in the Nick, will
you?

Sir _Fran._ Ha, ha, ha, she has nick'd you, Sir _George_, I think, Ha,
ha, ha: Have you any more Hundred Pounds to throw away upon Courtship,
Ha, ha, ha.

Sir _Geo._ He, he, he, he, a Curse of your fleering Jests--Yet,
however ill I succeeded, I'll venture the same Wager, she does not
value thee a spoonful of Snuff--Nay more, though you enjoyn'd her
Silence to me, you'll never make her speak to the Purpose with your
self.

Sir _Fran._ Ha, ha, ha, did not I tell thee thou would'st repent
thy Money? Did not I say she hated young Fellow's, Ha, ha,
ha.

Sir _Geo._ And I'm positive she's not in Love with Age.

Sir _Fran._ Ha, ha, no matter for that, Ha, ha, she's not taken with
your Youth, nor your Rhetorick to boot, ha, ha.

And he added, with a laugh, "I hope that I shall not
have the burglars in during that time."

There was not a doubt in Lupin's mind. Daubrecq was about to spend his
evening in the same manner in which he had spent the evening six weeks
ago, while they were breaking into his villa at Enghien. To know the
person whom he was to meet and perhaps thus to discover how Gilbert and
Vaucheray had learnt that Daubrecq would be away from eight o'clock in
the evening until one o'clock in the morning: these were matters of the
utmost importance.

Lupin left the house in the afternoon, with Victoire's assistance. He
knew through her that Daubrecq was coming home for dinner earlier than
usual.

He went to his flat in the Rue Chateaubriand, telephoned for three of
his friends, dressed and made himself up in his favourite character of a
Russian prince, with fair hair and moustache and short-cut whiskers.

The accomplices arrived in a motor-car.

At that moment, Achille, his man, brought him a telegram, addressed to
M. Michel Beaumont, Rue Chateaubriand, which ran:

 "Do not come to theatre this evening.  Danger of your
  intervention spoiling everything."

There was a flower-vase on the chimney-piece beside him. Lupin took it
and smashed it to pieces.

"That's it, that's it," he snarled. "They are playing with me as I
usually play with others. Same behaviour. Same tricks. Only there's this
difference..."

What difference? He hardly knew. The truth was that he too was baffled
and disconcerted to the inmost recesses of his being and that he was
continuing to act only from obstinacy, from a sense of duty, so to
speak, and without putting his ordinary good humour and high spirits
into the work.

"Come along," he said to his accomplices.

By his instructions, the chauffeur set them down near the Square
Lamartine, but kept the motor going. Lupin foresaw that Daubrecq, in
order to escape the detectives watching the house, would jump into the
first taxi; and he did not intend to be outdistanced.

He had not allowed for Daubrecq's cleverness.

At half-past seven both leaves of the garden-gate were flung open, a
bright light flashed and a motor-cycle darted across the road, skirted
the square, turned in front of the motor-car and shot away toward the
Bois at a speed so great that they would have been mad to go in pursuit
of it.

"Good-bye, Daisy!" said Lupin, trying to jest, but really overcome with
rage.

He eyed his accomplices in the hope that one of them would venture to
give a mocking smile. How pleased he would have been to vent his nerves
on them!

"Let's go home," he said to his companions.

He gave them some dinner; then he smoked a cigar and they set off again
in the car and went the round of the theatres, beginning with those
which were giving light operas and musical comedies, for which he
presumed that Daubrecq and his lady would have a preference. He took a
stall, inspected the lower-tier boxes and went away again.

He next drove to the more serious theatres: the Renaissance, the
Gymnase.

At last, at ten o'clock in the evening, he saw a pit-tier box at the
Vaudeville almost entirely protected from inspection by its two screens;
and, on tipping the boxkeeper, was told that it contained a short,
stout, elderly gentleman and a lady who was wearing a thick lace veil.

The next box was free. He took it, went back to his friends to give them
their instructions and sat down near the couple.

During the entr'acte, when the lights went up, he perceived Daubrecq's
profile. The lady remained at the back of the box, invisible. The two
were speaking in a low voice; and, when the curtain rose again, they
went on speaking, but in such a way that Lupin could not distinguish a
word.

Ten minutes passed. Some one tapped at their door. It was one of the men
from the box-office.

"Are you M. le Depute Daubrecq, sir?" he asked.

"Yes," said Daubrecq, in a voice of surprise. "But how do you know my
name?"

"There's a gentleman asking for you on the telephone. He told me to go
to Box 22."

"But who is it?"

"M. le Marquis d'Albufex."

"Eh?"

"What am I to say, sir?"

"I'm coming... I'm coming..."

Daubrecq rose hurriedly from his seat and followed the clerk to the
box-office.

He was not yet out of sight when Lupin sprang from his box, worked the
lock of the next door and sat down beside the lady.

She gave a stifled cry.

"Hush!" he said. "I have to speak to you. It is most important."

"Ah!" she said, between her teeth. "Arsene Lupin!" He was dumbfounded.
For a moment he sat quiet, open-mouthed. The woman knew him! And not
only did she know him, but she had recognized him through his disguise!
Accustomed though he was to the most extraordinary and unusual events,
this disconcerted him.

He did not even dream of protesting and stammered:

"So you know?... So you know?..."

He snatched at the lady's veil and pulled it aside before she had time
to defend herself:

"What!" he muttered, with increased amazement. "Is it possible?"

It was the woman whom he had seen at Daubrecq's a few days earlier, the
woman who had raised her dagger against Daubrecq and who had intended to
stab him with all the strength of her hatred.

It was her turn to be taken aback:

"What! Have you seen me before?..."

"Yes, the other night, at his house... I saw what you tried to do..."

She made a movement to escape. He held her back and, speaking with great
eagerness:

"I must know who you are," he said. "That was why I had Daubrecq
telephoned for."

She looked aghast:

"Do you mean to say it was not the Marquis d'Albufex?"

"No, it was one of my assistants."

"Then Daubrecq will come back?..."

"Yes, but we have time... Listen to me... We must meet again... He is
your enemy... I will save you from him..."

"Why should you? What is your object?"

"Do not distrust me... it is quite certain that our interests are
identical... Where can I see you? To-morrow, surely? At what time? And
where?"

"Well..."

She looked at him with obvious hesitation, not knowing what to do, on
the point of speaking and yet full of uneasiness and doubt.

He pressed her:

"Oh, I entreat you... answer me just one word... and at once... It would
be a pity for him to find me here... I entreat you..."

She answered sharply:

"My name doesn't matter... We will see each other first and you shall
explain to me... Yes, we will meet... Listen, to-morrow, at three
o'clock, at the corner of the Boulevard..."

At that exact moment, the door of the box opened, so to speak, with a
bang, and Daubrecq appeared.

"Rats!" Lupin mumbled, under his breath, furious at being caught before
obtaining what he wanted.

Daubrecq gave a chuckle:

"So that's it... I thought something was up... Ah, the telephone-trick:
a little out of date, sir! I had not gone half-way when I turned back."

He pushed Lupin to the front of the box and, sitting down beside the
lady, said:

"And, now my lord, who are we? A servant at the police-office, probably?
There's a professional look about that mug of yours."

He stared hard at Lupin, who did not move a muscle, and tried to put
a name to the face, but failed to recognize the man whom he had called
Polonius.

Lupin, without taking his eyes from Daubrecq either, reflected. He would
not for anything in the world have thrown up the game at that point or
neglected this favourable opportunity of coming to an understanding with
his mortal enemy.

The woman sat in her corner, motionless, and watched them both.

Lupin said:

"Let us go outside, sir. That will make our interview easier."

"No, my lord, here," grinned the deputy. "It will take place here,
presently, during the entr'acte. Then we shall not be disturbing
anybody."

"But..."

"Save your breath, my man; you sha'n't budge."

And he took Lupin by the coat-collar, with the obvious intention of not
letting go of him before the interval.

A rash move! Was it likely that Lupin would consent to remain in such an
attitude, especially before a woman, a woman to whom he had offered his
alliance, a woman--and he now thought of it for the first time--who was
distinctly good-looking and whose grave beauty attracted him. His whole
pride as a man rose at the thought.

However, he said nothing. He accepted the heavy weight of the hand on
his shoulder and even sat bent in two, as though beaten, powerless,
almost frightened.

"Eh, clever!" said the deputy, scoffingly. "We don't seem to be
swaggering quite so much."

The stage was full of actors who were arguing and making a noise.

Daubrecq had loosened his grasp slightly and Lupin felt that the moment
had come. With the edge of his hand, he gave him a violent blow in the
hollow of the arm, as he might have done with a hatchet.

The pain took Daubrecq off his guard. Lupin now released himself
entirely and sprang at the other to clutch him by the throat. But
Daubrecq had at once put himself on the defensive and stepped back and
their four hands seized one another.

They gripped with superhuman energy, the whole force of the two
adversaries concentrating in those hands. Daubrecq's were of monstrous
size; and Lupin, caught in that iron vise, felt as though he were
fighting not with a man, but with some terrible beast, a huge gorilla.

They held each other against the door, bending low, like a pair of
wrestlers groping and trying to lay hold of each other. Their bones
creaked. Whichever gave way first was bound to be caught by the throat
and strangled. And all this happened amid a sudden silence, for the
actors on the stage were now listening to one of their number, who was
speaking in a low voice.

The woman stood back flat against the partition, looking at them in
terror. Had she taken sides with either of them, with a single movement,
the victory would at once have been decided in that one's favour. But
which of them should she assist? What could Lupin represent in her eyes?
A friend? An enemy?

She briskly made for the front of the box, forced back the screen and,
leaning forward, seemed to give a signal. Then she returned and tried to
slip to the door.

Lupin, as though wishing to help her, said:

"Why don't you move the chair?"

He was speaking of a heavy chair which had fallen down between him and
Daubrecq and across which they were struggling.

The woman stooped and pulled away the chair. That was what Lupin was
waiting for. Once rid of the obstacle, he caught Daubrecq a smart kick
on the shin with the tip of his patent-leather boot. The result was the
same as with the blow which he had given him on the arm. The pain
caused a second's apprehension and distraction, of which he at once took
advantage to beat down Daubrecq's outstretched hands and to dig his ten
fingers into his adversary's throat and neck.

Daubrecq struggled. Daubrecq tried to pull away the hands that were
throttling him; but he was beginning to choke and felt his strength
decreasing.

"Aha, you old monkey!" growled Lupin, forcing him to the floor. "Why
don't you shout for help? How frightened you must be of a scandal!"

At the sound of the fall there came a knocking at the partition, on the
other side.

"Knock away, knock away," said Lupin, under his breath. "The play is on
the stage. This is my business and, until I've mastered this gorilla..."

It did not take him long. The deputy was choking. Lupin stunned him with
a blow on the jaw; and all that remained for him to do was to take the
woman away and make his escape with her before the alarm was given.

But, when he turned round, he saw that the woman was gone.

She could not be far. Darting from the box, he set off at a run,
regardless of the programme-sellers and check-takers.

On reaching the entrance-lobby, he saw her through an open door,
crossing the pavement of the Chaussee d'Antin.

She was stepping into a motor-car when he came up with her.

The door closed behind her.

He seized the handle and tried to pull at it.

But a man jumped up inside and sent his fist flying into Lupin's
face, with less skill but no less force than Lupin had sent his into
Daubrecq's face.

Stunned though he was by the blow, he nevertheless had ample time to
recognize the man, in a sudden, startled vision, and also to recognize,
under his chauffeur's disguise, the man who was driving the car. It was
the Growler and the Masher, the two men in charge of the boats on the
Enghien night, two friends of Gilbert and Vaucheray: in short, two of
Lupin's own accomplices.

When he reached his rooms in the Rue Chateaubriand, Lupin, after washing
the blood from his face, sat for over an hour in a chair, as though
overwhelmed. For the first time in his life he was experiencing the pain
of treachery. For the first time his comrades in the fight were turning
against their chief.

Mechanically, to divert his thoughts, he turned to his correspondence
and tore the wrapper from an evening paper. Among the late news he found
the following paragraphs:

   "THE VILLA MARIE-THERESE CASE"

      "The real identity of Vaucheray, one of the alleged
 murderers of Leonard the valet, has at last been ascertained.
 He is a miscreant of the worst type, a hardened criminal who
 has already twice been sentenced for murder, in default, under
 another name.

 "No doubt, the police will end by also discovering the real name
 of his accomplice, Gilbert.  In any event, the examining-magistrate
 is determined to commit the prisoners for trial as soon as possible.

 "The public will have no reason to complain of the delays of the law."

In between other newspapers and prospectuses lay a letter.

Lupin jumped when he saw it. It was addressed:

   "Monsieur de Beaumont, Michel."

"Oh," he gasped, "a letter from Gilbert!"

It contained these few words:

 "Help, governor!... I am frightened. I am frightened..."

Once again, Lupin spent a night alternating between sleeplessness and
nightmares. Once again, he was tormented by atrocious and terrifying
visions.


CHAPTER IV. THE CHIEF OF THE ENEMIES

"Poor boy!" murmured Lupin, when his eyes fell on Gilbert's letter next
morning. "How he must feel it!"

On the very first day when he saw him, he had taken a liking to that
well-set-up youngster, so careless, gay and fond of life. Gilbert was
devoted to him, would have accepted death at a sign from his master.
And Lupin also loved his frankness, his good humour, his simplicity, his
bright, open face.

"Gilbert," he often used to say, "you are an honest man. Do you know,
if I were you, I should chuck the business and become an honest man for
good."

"After you, governor," Gilbert would reply, with a laugh.

"Won't you, though?"

"No, governor. An honest man is a chap who works and grinds. It's a
taste which I may have had as a nipper; but they've made me lose it
since."

"Who's they?"

Gilbert was silent. He was always silent when questioned about his
early life; and all that Lupin knew was that he had been an orphan since
childhood and that he had lived all over the place, changing his name
and taking up the queerest jobs. The whole thing was a mystery which no
one had been able to fathom; and it did not look as though the police
would make much of it either.

Nor, on the other hand, did it look as though the police would consider
that mystery a reason for delaying proceedings. They would send
Vaucheray's accomplice for trial--under his name of Gilbert or any other
name--and visit him with the same inevitable punishment.

"Poor boy!" repeated Lupin. "They're persecuting him like this only
because of me. They are afraid of his escaping and they are in a hurry
to finish the business: the verdict first and then... the execution.

"Oh, the butchers!... A lad of twenty, who has committed no murder, who
is not even an accomplice in the murder..."

Alas, Lupin well knew that this was a thing impossible to prove and that
he must concentrate his efforts upon another point. But upon which? Was
he to abandon the trail of the crystal stopper?

He could not make up his mind to that. His one and only diversion from
the search was to go to Enghien, where the Growler and the Masher lived,
and make sure that nothing had been seen of them since the murder at the
Villa Marie-Therese. Apart from this, he applied himself to the question
of Daubrecq and nothing else.

He refused even to trouble his head about the problems set before him:
the treachery of the Growler and the Masher; their connection with the
gray-haired lady; the spying of which he himself was the object.

"Steady, Lupin," he said. "One only argues falsely in a fever. So hold
your tongue. No inferences, above all things! Nothing is more
foolish than to infer one fact from another before finding a certain
starting-point. That's where you get up a tree. Listen to your instinct.
Act according to your instinct. And as you are persuaded, outside all
argument, outside all logic, one might say, that this business turns
upon that confounded stopper, go for it boldly. Have at Daubrecq and his
bit of crystal!"

Lupin did not wait to arrive at these conclusions before settling his
actions accordingly. At the moment when he was stating them in his mind,
three days after the scene at the Vaudeville, he was sitting, dressed
like a retired tradesman, in an old overcoat, with a muffler round his
neck, on a bench in the Avenue Victor-Hugo, at some distance from the
Square Lamartine. Victoire had his instructions to pass by that bench at
the same hour every morning.

"Yes," he repeated to himself, "the crystal stopper: everything turns on
that... Once I get hold of it..."

Victoire arrived, with her shopping-basket on her arm. He at once
noticed her extraordinary agitation and pallor:

"What's the matter?" asked Lupin, walking beside his old nurse.

She went into a big grocer's, which was crowded with people, and,
turning to him:

"Here," she said, in a voice torn with excitement. "Here's what you've
been hunting for."

And, taking something from her basket, she gave it to him.

Lupin stood astounded: in his hand lay the crystal stopper.

"Can it be true? Can it be true?" he muttered, as though the ease of the
solution had thrown him off his balance.

But the fact remained, visible and palpable. He recognized by its shape,
by its size, by the worn gilding of its facets, recognized beyond any
possible doubt the crystal stopper which he had seen before. He even
remarked a tiny, hardly noticeable little scratch on the stem which he
remembered perfectly.

However, while the thing presented all the same characteristics, it
possessed no other that seemed out of the way. It was a crystal stopper,
that was all. There was no really special mark to distinguish it from
other stoppers. There was no sign upon it, no stamp; and, being cut from
a single piece, it contained no foreign object.

"What then?"

And Lupin received a quick insight into the depth of his mistake. What
good could the possession of that crystal stopper do him so long as he
was ignorant of its value? That bit of glass had no existence in itself;
it counted only through the meaning that attached to it. Before taking
it, the thing was to be certain. And how could he tell that, in taking
it, in robbing Daubrecq of it, he was not committing an act of folly?

It was a question which was impossible of solution, but which forced
itself upon him with singular directness.

"No blunders!" he said to himself, as he pocketed the stopper. "In this
confounded business, blunders are fatal."

He had not taken his eyes off Victoire. Accompanied by a shopman, she
went from counter to counter, among the throng of customers. She next
stood for some little while at the pay-desk and passed in front of
Lupin.

He whispered her instructions:

"Meet me behind the Lycee Janson."

She joined him in an unfrequented street:

"And suppose I'm followed?" she said.

"No," he declared. "I looked carefully. Listen to me. Where did you find
the stopper?"

"In the drawer of the table by his bed."

"But we had felt there already."

"Yes; and I did so again this morning. I expect he put it there last
night."

"And I expect he'll want to take it from there again," said Lupin.

"Very likely."

"And suppose he finds it gone?"

Victoire looked frightened.

"Answer me," said Lupin. "If he finds it gone, he'll accuse you of
taking it, won't he?"

"Certainly."

"Then go and put it back, as fast as you can."

"Oh dear, oh dear!" she moaned. "I hope he won't have had time to find
out. Give it to me, quick."

"Here you are," said Lupin.

He felt in the pocket of his overcoat.

"Well?" said Victoire, holding out her hand.

"Well," he said, after a moment, "it's gone."

"What!"

"Yes, upon my word, it's gone... somebody's taken it from me."

He burst into a peal of laughter, a laughter which, this time, was free
from all bitterness.

Victoire flew out at him:

"Laugh away!... Putting me in such a predicament!..."

"How can I help laughing? You must confess that it's funny. It's
no longer a tragedy that we're acting, but a fairy-tale, as much a
fairy-tale as Puss in Boots or Jack and the Beanstalk. I must write it
when I get a few weeks to myself: The Magic Stopper; or, The Mishaps of
Poor Arsene."

"Well... who has taken it from you?"

"What are you talking about?... It has flown away... vanished from my
pocket: hey presto, begone!"

He gave the old servant a gentle push and, in a more serious tone:

"Go home, Victoire, and don't upset yourself. Of course, some one saw
you give me the stopper and took advantage of the crowd in the shop to
pick my pocket of it. That only shows that we are watched more closely
than I thought and by adversaries of the first rank. But, once more, be
easy. Honest men always come by their own... Have you anything else to
tell me?"

"Yes. Some one came yesterday evening, while M. Daubrecq was out. I saw
lights reflected upon the trees in the garden."

"The portress' bedroom?"

"The portress was up."

"Then it was some of those detective-fellows; they are still hunting.
I'll see you later, Victoire. You must let me in again."

"What! You want to..."

"What do I risk? Your room is on the third floor. Daubrecq suspects
nothing."

"But the others!"

"The others? If it was to their interest to play me a trick, they'd have
tried before now. I'm in their way, that's all. They're not afraid of
me. So till later, Victoire, at five o'clock exactly."

One further surprise awaited Lupin. In the evening his old nurse told
him that, having opened the drawer of the bedside table from curiosity,
she had found the crystal stopper there again.

Lupin was no longer to be excited by these miraculous incidents. He
simply said to himself:

"So it's been brought back. And the person who brought it back and who
enters this house by some unexplained means considered, as I did, that
the stopper ought not to disappear. And yet Daubrecq, who knows that he
is being spied upon to his very bedroom, has once more left the stopper
in a drawer, as though he attached no importance to it at all! Now what
is one to make of that?"

Though Lupin did not make anything of it, nevertheless he could not
escape certain arguments, certain associations of ideas that gave him
the same vague foretaste of light which one receives on approaching the
outlet of a tunnel.

"It is inevitable, as the case stands," he thought, "that there must
soon be an encounter between myself and the others. An' then 'e climbs
up on the balkiney; An' there they smooge a treat, wiv pretty words
Like two love-birds.

I nudge Doreen. She whispers, "Ain't it grand!" 'Er eyes is shinin';
an' I squeeze 'er 'and.

"Wot's in a name?" she sez. 'Struth, I dunno.
Billo is just as good as Romeo.

She may be Juli-er or Juli-et-- 'E loves 'er yet.
If she's the tart 'e wants, then she's 'is queen, Names never count...But
ar, I like "Doreen!"
A sweeter, dearer sound I never 'eard; Ther's music 'angs around that
little word, Doreen!...But wot was this I starts to say About the
play?

I'm off me beat. But when a bloke's in love 'Is thorts turns 'er
way, like a 'omin' dove.

This Romeo 'e's lurkin' wiv a crew-- A dead tough crowd o' crooks--called
Montague.
'Is cliner's push--wot's nicknamed Capulet-- They 'as 'em set.

Fair narks they are, jist like them back-street clicks, Ixcep' they
fights wiv skewers 'stid o' bricks.

Wot's in a name? Wot's in a string o' words?
They scraps in ole Verona with the'r swords, An' never give a bloke
a stray dog's chance, An' that's Romance.

But when they deals it out wiv bricks an' boots In Little Lon., they're
low, degraded broots.

Wot's jist plain stoush wiv us, right 'ere to-day, Is "valler" if yer
fur enough away.
Some time, some writer bloke will do the trick Wiv Ginger Mick, Of
Spadger's Lane. 'E'LL be a Romeo, When 'e's bin dead five 'undred years
or so.

Fair Juli-et, she gives 'er boy the tip.

Sez she: "Don't sling that crowd o' mine no lip; An' if you run agin a
Capulet, Jist do a get." 'E swears 'e's done wiv lash; 'e'll chuck it
clean.
(Same as I done when I first met Doreen.)
They smooge some more at that. Ar, strike me blue!
It gimme Joes to sit an' watch them two!

'E'd break away an' start to say good-bye, An' then she'd sigh "Ow, Ro-me-o!"
an' git a strangle-holt, An' 'ang around 'im like she feared 'e'd
bolt.

Nex' day 'e words a gorspil cove about A secret wedding; 'an they plan
it out.
'E spouts a piece about 'ow 'e's bewitched:
Then they git 'itched.
Now, 'ere's the place where I fair git the pip!

She's 'is ofr keeps, an' yet 'e lets 'er slip!

Ar! but'e makes me sick! A fair gazob!
'E's jist the glarsey on the soulful sob, 'E'll sigh and spruik, an'
'owl a love-sick vow-- (The silly cow!) But when 'e's got 'er, spliced
an' on the straight 'E crools the pitch, an' tries to kid it's Fate.

Aw! Fate me foot! Instid of slopin' soon As 'e was wed, off on 'is
'oneymoon, 'Im an' 'is cobber, called Mick Curio, They 'ave to go
An' mix it wiv that push o' Capulets.

They look fer trouble; an' it's wot they gets.

A tug named Tyball (cousin to the skirt) Sprags 'em an' makes a start
to sling off dirt.
Nex' minnit there's a reel ole ding-dong go-- 'Arf round or so.
Mick Curio, 'e gets it in the neck, "Ar rats!" 'e sez, an' passes in 'is
check.

Quite natchril, Romeo gits wet as 'ell.
"It's me or you!" 'e 'owls, an' wiv a yell, Plunks Tyball through the
gizzard wiv 'is sword, 'Ow I ongcored!
"Put in the boot!" I sez. "Put in the boot!" "'Ush!" sez Doreen..."Shame!"
sez some silly coot.

Then Romeo, 'e dunno wot to do.
The cops gits busy, like they allwiz do, An' nose around until 'e gits
blue funk An' does a bunk.

They wants 'is tart to wed some other guy.
"Ah, strike!" she sez. "I wish that I could die!"
Now, this 'ere gorspil bloke's a fair shrewd 'ead.

Sez 'e "I'll dope yeh, so they'll THINK yer dead." (I tips 'e was a
cunnin' sort, wot knoo A thing or two.) She takes 'is knock-out drops,
up in 'er room:
They think she's snuffed, an' plant 'er in 'er tomb.

Then things gits mixed a treat an' starts to whirl.
'Ere's Romeo comes back an' finds 'is girl Tucked in 'er little coffing,
cold an' stiff, An' in a jiff, 'E swallows lysol, throws a fancy
fit, 'Ead over turkey, an' 'is soul 'as flit.

Then Juli-et wakes up an' sees 'im there, Turns on the water-works
an' tears 'er 'air, "Dear love," she sez, "I cannot live alone!"
An' wiv a moan, She grabs 'is pockit knife, an' ends 'er cares...
_"Peanuts or lollies!_" sez a boy upstairs.

VI. The Stror 'at Coot

Ar, wimmin! Wot a blinded fool I've been!
I arsts meself, wot else could I ixpeck?
I done me block complete on this Doreen, An' now me 'eart is broke, me
life's a wreck!
The dreams I dreamed, the dilly thorts I thunk Is up the pole, an'
joy 'as done a bunk.

Wimmin!

O strike! I orter known the game!
Their tricks is crook, their arts is all dead snide.
The 'ole world over tarts is all the same; All soft an' smilin' wiv no
'eart inside.
But she fair doped me wiv 'er winnin' ways, Then crooled me pitch fer all
me mortal days.

They're all the same! A man 'as got to be Stric' master if 'e wants
to snare 'em sure.
'E 'as to take a stand an' let 'em see That triflin' is a thing'e
won't indure.
'E wants to show 'em that 'e 'olds command, So they will smooge an' feed
out of 'is 'and.

'E needs to make 'em feel 'e is the boss, An' kid 'e's careless uv
the joys they give.

'E 'as to make 'em think 'e'll feel no loss To part wiv any tart 'e's
trackin' wiv.
That all their pretty ways is crook pretence Is plain to any bloke wiv
common-sense.

But when the birds is nestin' in the spring, An' when the soft green
leaves is in the bud, 'E drops 'is bundle to some fluffy thing.

'E pays 'er 'omage--an' 'is name is Mud.
She plays wiv'im an' kids 'im on a treat, Until she 'as 'im crawlin'
at 'er feet.

An' then, when 'e's fair orf 'is top wiv love, When she 'as got 'im
good an' 'ad 'er fun, She slings 'im over like a carst-orf glove,
To let the other tarts see wot she's done.

All vanity, deceit an' 'eartless kid!
I orter known; an', spare me days, I did!

I knoo. But when I looked into 'er eyes-- Them shinin' eyes o' blue all
soft wiv love Wiv MIMIC love--they seemed to 'ipnertize.
I wus content to place 'er 'igh above.

I wus content to make of 'er a queen; An' so she seemed them days...O,
'struth!...Doreen!

I knoo. But when I stroked 'er glossy 'air Wiv rev'rint 'ands, 'er cheek
pressed close to mine, Me lonely life seemed robbed of all its care; I
dreams me dreams, an' 'ope begun to shine.
An' when she 'eld 'er lips fer me to kiss...

Ar, wot's the use? I'm done wiv all o' this!

Wimmin!...Oh, I ain't jealous! Spare me days!
Me? Jealous uv a knock-kneed coot like that!

'Im! Wiv 'is cute stror 'at an' pretty ways!

I'd be a mug to squeal or whip the cat.
I'm glad, I am--glad 'cos I know I'm free!
There ain't no call to tork o' jealousy.

I tells meself I'm well out o' the game; Fer look, I mighter married 'er-an'
then....
Ar strike!

'Er voice wus music when my name Wus on 'er lips on them glad
ev'nin's when We useter meet.

An' then to think she'd go...

No, I ain't jealous--but--Ar, I dunno!

I took a derry on this stror 'at coot First time I seen 'im dodgin'
round Doreen.

'Im, wiv 'is giddy tie an' Yankee soot, Ferever yappin' like a
tork-machine About "The Hoffis" where 'e 'ad a grip....
The way 'e smiled at 'er give me the pip!

She sez I stoushed 'im, when I promised fair To chuck it, even to
a friendly spar.
Stoushed 'im! I never roughed 'is pretty 'air!

I only spanked 'im gentle, fer 'is mar.
If I'd 'a' jabbed 'im once, there would 'a' been An inquest; an' I
sez so to Doreen.

I mighter took an' cracked 'im in the street, When she was wiv 'im there
lars' Fridee night.
But don't I keep me temper when we met?

An' don't I raise me lid an' act perlite?
I only jerks me elbow in 'is ribs, To give the gentle office to 'is
nibs.

Stoushed 'im! I owns I met 'im on the quiet, An' worded 'im about
a small affair; An' when 'e won't put up 'is 'ands to fight-- ('E sez,
"Fer public brawls 'e didn't care")-- I lays 'im 'cross me knee, the
mother's joy, An' smacks 'im 'earty, like a naughty boy.

An' now Doreen she sez I've broke me vow, An' mags about this coot's
pore, "wounded pride."

An' then, o' course, we 'as a ding-dong row, Wiv 'ot an' stormy
words on either side.

She sez I done it outer jealousy, An' so, we parts fer ever--'er an'
me.

Me jealous?

Jealous of that cross-eyed cow!
I set 'im 'cos I couldn't sight 'is face.

'Is yappin' fair got on me nerves, some'ow.
I couldn't stand 'im 'angin' round 'er place.
A coot like that!...But it don't matter much, She's welkim to 'im if she
fancies such.

I swear I'll never track wiv 'er no more; I'll never look on 'er
side o' the street-- Unless she comes an' begs me pardin for Them
things she said to me in angry 'eat.

She can't ixpeck fer me to smooge an' crawl.
I ain't at ANY woman's beck an' call.

Wimmin! I've took a tumble to their game.
I've got the 'ole bang tribe o' cliners set!

The 'ole world over they are all the same:

Crook to the core the bunch of 'em--an' yet We could 'a' been that 'appy,
'er an' me...
But, wot's it matter? Ain't I glad I'm free?

A bloke wiv commin-sense 'as got to own There's little 'appiness in
married life.
The smoogin' game is better left alone, Fer tarts is few that makes the
ideel wife.

An' them's the sort that loves wivout disguise, An' thinks the sun
shines in their 'usban's' eyes.

But when the birds is matin' in the spring, An' when the tender leaves
begin to bud, A feelin' comes--a dilly sorter thing That seems to
sorter swamp 'im like a flood.

An' when the fever 'ere inside 'im burns, Then freedom ain't the
thing fer wot 'e yearns.

But I 'ave chucked it all.

An' yet--I own I dreams me dreams when soft Spring breezes stirs;
An' often, when I'm moonin' 'ere alone, A lispin' maid, wiv 'air
an' eyes like 'ers, 'Oo calls me "dad," she climbs upon me knee,
An' yaps 'er pretty baby tork to me.

I sorter see a little 'ouse, it seems, Wiv someone waitin' for me
at the gate...

Ar, where's the sense in dreamin' barmy dreams, I've dreamed before, and
nearly woke too late.

Sich 'appiness could never last fer long, We're strangers--'less she owns
that she was wrong.

To call 'er back I'll never lift a 'and; She'll never 'ear frum me
by word or sign.

Per'aps, some day, she'll come to understand The mess she's made o'
this 'ere life o' mine.
Oh, I ain't much to look at, I admit.
But'im! The knock-kneed, swivel-eyed misfit?...

VII. The Siren

She sung a song; an' I sat silent there, Wiv bofe 'ands grippin' 'ard on
me chair; Me 'eart, that yesterdee I thort wus broke Wiv 'umpin
sich a 'eavy load o' care, Come swelling in me throat like I would
choke.

I felt 'ot blushes climbin' to me 'air.

'Twas like that feelin' when the Spring wind breaves Sad music in the
sof'ly rustlin' leaves.
An' when a bloke sits down an' starts to chew Crook thorts, wivout
quite knowin' why 'e grieves Fer things 'e's done 'e didn't ort to
do-- Fair winded wiv the 'eavy sighs 'e 'eaves.

She sung a song; an' orl at once I seen The kind o' crool an'
'eartless broot I been.

In ev'ry word I read it like a book-- The slanter game I'd played wiv
my Doreen-- I 'eard it in 'er song; an' in 'er look I seen wot made me
feel fair rotten mean.

Poor, 'urt Doreen! My tender bit o' fluff!
Ar, men don't understand; they're fur too rough; Their ways is fur too
coarse wiv lovin' tarts; They never gives 'em symperthy enough.
They treats 'em 'arsh; they tramples on their 'earts, Becos their
own crool 'earts is leather-tough.

She sung a song; an' orl them bitter things That chewin' over lovers'
quarrils brings Guv place to thorts of sorrer an' remorse.
Like when some dilly punter goes an' slings 'Is larst, lone deener
on some stiffened 'orse, An' learns them vain regrets wot 'urts
an' stings.

'Twas at a beano where I lobs along To drown them memories o' fancied
wrong.

I swears I never knoo that she'd be there.
But when I met 'er eye--O, 'struth, 'twas strong!
'Twas bitter strong, that jolt o' dull despair!

'Er look o' scorn!...An' then, she sung a song.

The choon was one o' them sad, mournful things That ketch yeh in
the bellers 'ere, and brings Tears to yer eyes.

The words was uv a tart 'Oo's trackin' wiv a silly coot 'oo slings 'Er
love aside, an' breaks 'er tender 'eart....

But 'twasn't that; it was the way she sings.

To 'ear 'er voice!...A bloke 'ud be a log 'Oo kep' 'is block. Me mind
wus in a fog Of sorrer for to think 'ow I wus wrong; Ar, I 'ave been a
fair ungrateful 'og!
The feelin' that she put into that song 'Ud melt the 'eart-strings of
a chiner dog.

I listens wiv me 'eart up in me throat; I drunk in ev'ry word an' ev'ry
note.
Tears trembles in 'er voice when she tells 'ow That tart snuffed out becos
'e never wrote.
An' then I seen 'ow I wus like that cow.
Wiv suddin shame me guilty soul wus smote.

Doreen she never looked my way; but stood 'Arf turned away, an'
beefed it out reel good, Until she sang that bit about the grave;
"Too late 'e learned 'e 'ad misunderstood!"

An' then--Gorstrooth!

The pleadin' look she gave Fair in me face 'ud melt a'eart o' wood.

I dunno 'ow I seen that evenin' thro'.
They muster thort I was 'arf shick, I knoo.

But I 'ad 'urt Doreen wivout no call; I seen me dooty, wot I 'ad to do.

O, strike! I could 'a' blubbed before 'em all!
But I sat tight, an' never cracked a boo.

An' when at larst the tarts they makes a rise, A lop-eared coot wiv
'air down to 'is eyes 'E 'ooks on to Doreen, an' starts to roam Fer
'ome an' muvver. I lines up an' cries, "'An's orf!

I'm seein' this 'ere cliner 'ome!"

An' there we left 'im, gapin' wiv surprise.

She never spoke; she never said no word; But walked beside me like
she never 'eard.

I swallers 'ard, an' starts to coax an' plead, I sez I'm dead ashamed
o' wot's occurred.

She don't reply; she never takes no 'eed; Jist stares before 'er like a
startled bird.

I tells 'er, never can no uvver tart Be 'arf wot she is, if we 'ave
to part.

I tells 'er that me life will be a wreck.
It ain't no go. But when I makes a start To walk away, 'er arms is roun'
me neck.

"Ah, Kid!" she sobs. "Yeh nearly broke me 'eart!"
I dunno wot I done or wot I said.

But 'struth! I'll not forgit it till I'm dead-- That night when 'ope
back in me brisket lobs:
'Ow my Doreen she lays 'er little 'ead Down on me shoulder 'ere,
an' sobs an' sobs; An' orl the lights goes sorter blurred an' red.

Say, square an' all--It don't seem right, some'ow, To say such things;
but wot I'm feelin' now 'As come at times, I s'pose, to uvver men When
you 'ave 'ad a reel ole ding-dong row, Say, ain't it bonzer makin'
up agen?

Straight wire, it's almost worth...Ar, I'm a cow!

To think I'd ever seek to 'arm a 'air Of 'er dear 'ead agen!

My oath, I swear No more I'll roust on 'er in angry 'eat!

But still, she never seemed to me so fair; She never wus so tender
or so sweet As when she smooged beneath the lamplight there.

She's never been so lovin' wiv 'er gaze; So gentle wiv 'er pretty
wimmin's ways.

I tells 'er she's me queen, me angel, too.
"Ah, no, I ain't no angel, Kid," she says.
"I'm jist a woman, an' I loves yeh true!
An' so I'll love yeh all me mortal days!"
She sung a song....'Ere, in me barmy style, I sets orl tarts; for
in me hour o' trile Me soul was withered be a woman's frown, An'
broodin' care come roostin' on me dile.
She sung a song....Me 'eart, wiv woe carst down, Wus raised to
'Eaven be a woman's smile.

VIII. Mar
"'Er pore dear par," she sez, "'e kept a store"; An' then she weeps
an' stares 'ard at the floor.
"'Twas thro' 'is death," she sez, "we wus rejuiced To this," she
sez...An' then she weeps some more.
"'Er Par," she sez, "me poor late 'usband, kept An 'ay an' corn
store. 'E'd no faults ixcept 'Im fallin' 'eavy orf a load o' charf
W'ich--killed 'im--on the---" 'Struth! But 'ow she wept.
She blows 'er nose an' sniffs. "'E would 'a' made" She sez "a lot
of money in the trade.
But, 'im took orf so sudden-like, we found 'E 'adn't kept 'is life
insurince paid.
"To think," she sez, "a child o' mine should be Rejuiced to workin'
in a factory!
If 'er pore Par 'e 'adn't died," she sobs...
I sez, "It wus a bit o' luck for me."
Then I gits red as 'ell, "That is--I mean," I sez, "I mighter never
met Doreen If 'e 'ad not"--an' 'ere I lose me block--"I 'ope," I
sez, "'e snuffed it quick and clean."
An' that wus 'ow I made me first deboo.
I'd dodged it cunnin' fer a month or two.
Doreen she sez, "You'll 'ave to meet my Mar, SOME day," she sez.
An' so I seen it thro'.
I'd pictered some stern female in a cap Wot puts the fear o' Gawd
into a chap.
An' 'ere she wus, aweepin' in 'er tea An' drippin' moistcher like
a leaky tap.
Two dilly sorter dawgs made outer delf Stares 'ard at me frum orf
the mantelshelf.
I seemed to symperthise wiv them there pups; I felt so stiff an'
brittle-like meself.
Clobber? Me trosso, 'ead to foot, wus noo-- Got up regardless, fer
this interview.
Stiff shirt, a Yankee soot split up the back, A tie wiv yeller spots
an' stripes o' blue.
Me cuffs kep' playin' wiv me nervis fears Me patent leathers nearly
brought the tears An' there I sits wiv, "Yes, mum. Thanks. Indeed?"
Me stand-up collar sorin' orf me ears.
"Life's 'ard," she sez, an' then she brightens up.
"Still, we 'ave alwus 'ad our bite and sup.
Doreen's been SICH a help; she 'as indeed.
Some more tea, Willy? 'Ave another cup."
Willy! O 'ell! 'Ere wus a flamin' pill!
A moniker that alwus makes me ill.
"If it's the same to you, mum," I replies "I answer quicker to the
name of Bill."
Up goes 'er 'ands an' eyes, "That vulgar name!" No, Willy, but it
isn't all the same, My fucher son must be respectable." "Orright,"
I sez, "I s'pose it's in the game."
"Me fucher son," she sez, "right on frum this Must not take anythink
I say amiss.
I know me jooty be me son-in-lor; So, Willy, come an' give yer Mar
a kiss." 
I done it. Tho' l dunno 'ow I did.
"Dear boy," she sez, "to do as you are bid.
Be kind to 'er," she sobs, "my little girl!" An' then I kiss Doreen.
Sez she "Ah Kid!" 
Doreen! Ar 'ow 'er pretty eyes did shine.
No sight on earth or 'Eaving's 'arf so fine, An' as they looked at
me she seemed to say "I'm proud of 'im, I am, an' 'e is mine.""Yes, from Gilbert, who has no hope left but in me; from Gilbert, who
knows that only one man in the world can save him and who, a few days
ago, sent me a despairing appeal from prison. Here is his letter."

She snatched the paper greedily and read in stammering accents:

"Help, governor!... I am frightened!... I am frightened!..."

She dropped the letter. Her hands fluttered in space. It was as though
her staring eyes beheld the sinister vision which had already so often
terrified Lupin. She gave a scream of horror, tried to rise and fainted.


CHAPTER V. THE TWENTY-SEVEN

The child was sleeping peacefully on the bed. The mother did not move
from the sofa on which Lupin had laid her; but her easier breathing and
the blood which was now returning to her face announced her impending
recovery from her swoon.

He observed that she wore a wedding-ring. Seeing a locket hanging from
her bodice, he stooped and, turning it, found a miniature photograph
representing a man of about forty and a lad--a stripling rather--in a
schoolboy's uniform. He studied the fresh, young face set in curly hair:

"It's as I thought," he said. "Ah, poor woman!"

The hand which he took between his grew warmer by degrees. The eyes
opened, then closed again. She murmured:

"Jacques..."

"Do not distress yourself... it's all right he's asleep."

She recovered consciousness entirely. But, as she did not speak, Lupin
put questions to her, to make her feel a gradual need of unbosoming
herself. And he said, pointing to the locket:

"The schoolboy is Gilbert, isn't he?"

"Yes," she said.

"And Gilbert is your son?"

She gave a shiver and whispered:

"Yes, Gilbert is my son, my eldest son."

So she was the mother of Gilbert, of Gilbert the prisoner at the Sante,
relentlessly pursued by the authorities and now awaiting his trial for
murder!

Lupin continued:

"And the other portrait?"

"My husband."

"Your husband?"

"Yes, he died three years ago."

She was now sitting up. Life quivered in her veins once more, together
with the horror of living and the horror of all the ghastly things that
threatened her. Lupin went on to ask:

"What was your husband's name?"

She hesitated a moment and answered:

"Mergy."

He exclaimed:

"Victorien Mergy the deputy?"

"Yes."

There was a long pause. Lupin remembered the incident and the stir
which it had caused. Three years ago, Mergy the deputy had blown out
his brains in the lobby of the Chamber, without leaving a word of
explanation behind him; and no one had ever discovered the slightest
reason for that suicide.

"Do you know the reason?" asked Lupin, completing his thought aloud.

"Yes, I know it."

"Gilbert, perhaps?"

"No, Gilbert had disappeared for some years, turned out of doors and
cursed by my husband. It was a very great sorrow, but there was another
motive."

"What was that?" asked Lupin.

But it was not necessary for Lupin to put further questions. Madame
Mergy could keep silent no longer and, slowly at first, with all the
anguish of that past which had to be called up, she told her story:

"Twenty-five years ago, when my name was Clarisse Darcel and my parents
living, I knew three young men at Nice. Their names will at once give
you an insight into the present tragedy: they were Alexis Daubrecq,
Victorien Mergy and Louis Prasville. The three were old acquaintances,
had gone to college in the same year and served in the same regiment.
Prasville, at that time, was in love with a singer at the opera-house at
Nice. The two others, Mergy and Daubrecq, were in love with me. I shall
be brief as regards all this and, for the rest, as regards the whole
story, for the facts tell their own tale. I fell in love with Victorien
Mergy from the first. Perhaps I was wrong not to declare myself at
once. But true love is always timid, hesitating and shy; and I did
not announce my choice until I felt quite certain and quite free.
Unfortunately, that period of waiting, so delightful for those who
cherish a secret passion, had permitted Daubrecq to hope. His anger was
something horrible."

Clarisse Mergy stopped for a few seconds and resumed, in a stifled
voice:

"I shall never forget it... The three of us were in the drawing-room.
Oh, I can hear even now the terrible words of threat and hatred which
he uttered! Victorien was absolutely astounded. He had never seen his
friend like this, with that repugnant face, that bestial expression:
yes, the expression of a wild beast... Daubrecq ground his teeth. He
stamped his feet. His bloodshot eyes--he did not wear spectacles in
those days--rolled in their sockets; and he kept on saying, 'I shall be
revenged ... I shall be revenged... Oh, you don't know what I am capable
of!... I shall wait ten years, twenty years, if necessary... But it will
come like a thunderbolt... Ah, you don't know!... To be revenged... To
do harm... for harm's sake... what joy! I was born to do harm... And you
will both beseech my mercy on your knees, on your knees, yes, on your
knees...' At that moment, my father entered the room; and, with his
assistance and the footman's, Victorien Mergy flung the loathsome
creature out of doors. Six weeks later, I married Victorien."

"And Daubrecq?" asked Lupin, interrupting her. "Did he not try..."

"No, but on our wedding-day, Louis Prasville, who acted as my husband's
best man in defiance of Danbrecq's opposition, went home to find the
girl he loved, the opera-singer, dead, strangled..."

"What!" said Lupin, with a start. "Had Daubrecq..."

"It was known that Daubrecq had been persecuting her with his attentions
for some days; but nothing more was known. It was impossible to discover
who had gone in or out during Prasville's absence. There was not a trace
found of any kind: nothing, absolutely nothing."

"But Prasville..."

"There was no doubt of the truth in Prasville's mind or ours. Daubrecq
had tried to run away with the girl, perhaps tried to force her, to
hustle her and, in the course of the struggle, maddened, losing his
head, caught her by the throat and killed her, perhaps without knowing
what he was doing. But there was no evidence of all this; and Daubrecq
was not even molested."

"And what became of him next?"

"For some years we heard nothing of him. We knew only that he had lost
all his money gambling and that he was travelling in America. And, in
spite of myself, I forgot his anger and his threats and was only too
ready to believe that he had ceased to love me and no longer harboured
his schemes of revenge. Besides, I was so happy that I did not care
to think of anything but my happiness, my love, my husband's political
career, the health of my son Antoine."

"Antoine?"

"Yes, Antoine is Gilbert's real name. The unhappy boy has at least
succeeded in concealing his identity."

Lupin asked, with some hesitation:

"At what period did... Gilbert... begin?"

"I cannot tell you exactly. Gilbert--I prefer to call him that and not
to pronounce his real name--Gilbert, as a child, was what he is to-day:
lovable, liked by everybody, charming, but lazy and unruly. When he was
fifteen, we put him to a boarding-school in one of the suburbs, with the
deliberate object of not having him too much at home. After two years'
time he was expelled from school and sent back to us."

"Why?"

"Because of his conduct. The masters had discovered that he used to slip
out at night and also that he would disappear for weeks at a time, while
pretending to be at home with us."

"What used he to do?"

"Amuse himself backing horses, spending his time in cafes and public
dancing-rooms."

"Then he had money?"

"Yes."

"Who gave it him?"

"His evil genius, the man who, secretly, unknown to his parents, enticed
him away from school, the man who led him astray, who corrupted him, who
took him from us, who taught him to lie, to waste his substance and to
steal."

"Daubrecq?"

"Daubrecq."

Clarisse Mergy put her hands together to hide the blushes on her
forehead. She continued, in her tired voice:

"Daubrecq had taken his revenge. On the day after my husband turned our
unhappy child out of the house, Daubrecq sent us a most cynical letter
in which he revealed the odious part which he had played and the
machinations by which he had succeeded in depraving our son. And he
went on to say, 'The reformatory, one of these days... Later on, the
assize-court ... And then, let us hope and trust, the scaffold!'"

Lupin exclaimed:

"What! Did Daubrecq plot the present business?"

"No, no, that is only an accident. The hateful prophecy was just a wish
which he expressed. But oh, how it terrified me! I was ailing at the
time; my other son, my little Jacques, had just been born. And every
day we heard of some fresh misdeed of Gilbert's--forgeries, swindles--so
much so that we spread the news, in our immediate surroundings, of his
departure for abroad, followed by his death. Life was a misery; and it
became still more so when the political storm burst in which my husband
was to meet his death."

"What do you mean?"

"A word will be enough: my husband's name was on the list of the
Twenty-seven."

"Ah!"

The veil was suddenly lifted from Lupin's eyes and he saw, as in a
flash of lightning, a whole legion of things which, until then, had been
hidden in the darkness.

Clarisse Mergy continued, in a firmer voice:

"Yes, his name was on it, but by mistake, by a piece of incredible
ill-luck of which he was the victim. It is true that Victorien Mergy
was a member of the committee appointed to consider the question of the
Two-Seas Canal. It is true that he voted with the members who were in
favour of the company's scheme. He was even paid--yes, I tell you so
plainly and I will mention the sum--he was paid fifteen thousand francs.
But he was paid on behalf of another, of one of his political friends,
a man in whom he had absolute confidence and of whom he was the blind,
unconscious tool. He thought he was showing his friend a kindness; and
it proved his own undoing. It was not until the day after the suicide of
the chairman of the company and the disappearance of the secretary, the
day on which the affair of the canal was published in the papers, with
its whole series of swindles and abominations, that my husband knew
that a number of his fellow-members had been bribed and learnt that the
mysterious list, of which people suddenly began to speak, mentioned
his name with theirs and with the names of other deputies, leaders of
parties and influential politicians. Oh, what awful days those were!
Would the list be published? Would his name come out? The torture of it!
You remember the mad excitement in the Chamber, the atmosphere of terror
and denunciation that prevailed. Who owned the list? Nobody could
say. It was known to be in existence and that was all. Two names were
sacrificed to public odium. Two men were swept away by the storm. And it
remained unknown where the denunciation came from and in whose hands the
incriminating documents were."

"Daubrecq," suggested Lupin.

"No, no!" cried Madame Mergy. "Daubrecq was nothing at that time: he had
not yet appeared upon the scene. No, don't you remember, the truth came
out suddenly through the very man who was keeping it back: Germineaux,
the ex-minister of justice, a cousin of the chairman of the Canal
Company. As he lay dying of consumption, he wrote from his sick-bed to
the prefect of police, bequeathing him that list of names, which, he
said, would be found, after his death, in an iron chest in the corner of
his room. The house was surrounded by police and the prefect took up
his quarters by the sick man's bedside. Germineaux died. The chest was
opened and found to be empty."

"Daubrecq, this time," Lupin declared.

"Yes, Daubrecq," said Madame Mergy, whose excitement was momentarily
increasing. "Alexis Daubrecq, who, for six months, disguised beyond
recognition, had acted as Germineaux's secretary. It does not matter
how he discovered that Germineaux was the possessor of the paper in
question. The fact remains that he broke open the chest on the night
before the death. So much was proved at the inquiry; and Daubrecq's
identity was established."

"But he was not arrested?"

"What would have been the use? They knew well enough that he must have
deposited the list in a place of safety. His arrest would have involved
a scandal, the reopening of the whole case..."

"So..."

"So they made terms."

Lupin laughed:

"That's funny, making terms with Daubrecq!"

"Yes, very funny," said Madame Mergy, bitterly. "During this time he
acted and without delay, shamelessly, making straight for the goal. A
week after the theft, he went to the Chamber of Deputies, asked for my
husband and bluntly demanded thirty thousand francs of him, to be paid
within twenty-four hours. If not, he threatened him with exposure and
disgrace. My husband knew the man he was dealing with, knew him to be
implacable and filled with relentless hatred. He lost his head and shot
himself."

"How absurd!" Lupin could not help saying. "How absurd! Daubrecq
possesses a list of twenty-seven names. To give up any one of those
names he is obliged, if he would have his accusation believed, to
publish the list itself--that is to say, to part with the document, or
at least a photograph of it. Well, in so doing, he creates a scandal, it
is true, but he deprives himself, at the same time, of all further means
of levying blackmail."

"Yes and no," she said.

"How do you know?"

"Through Daubrecq himself. The villain came to see me and cynically
told me of his interview with my husband and the words that had passed
between them. Well, there is more than that list, more than that famous
bit of paper on which the secretary put down the names and the amounts
paid and to which, you will remember, the chairman of the company,
before dying, affixed his signature in letters of blood. There is more
than that. There are certain less positive proofs, which the people
interested do not know of: the correspondence between the chairman
and the secretary, between the chairman and his counsel, and so on. Of
course, the list scribbled on the bit of paper is the only evidence
that counts; it is the one incontestable proof which it would be no good
copying or even photographing, for its genuineness can be tested most
absolutely. But, all the same, the other proofs are dangerous. They
have already been enough to do away with two deputies. And Daubrecq
is marvelously clever at turning this fact to account. He selects
his victim, frightens him out of his senses, points out to him the
inevitable scandal; and the victim pays the required sum. Or else he
kills himself, as my husband did. Do you understand now?"

"Yes," said Lupin.

And, in the silence that followed, he drew a mental picture of
Daubrecq's life. He saw him the owner of that list, using his power,
gradually emerging from the shadow, lavishly squandering the money
which he extorted from his victims, securing his election as a
district-councillor and deputy, holding sway by dint of threats
and terror, unpunished, invulnerable, unattackable, feared by the
government, which would rather submit to his orders than declare war
upon him, respected by the judicial authorities: so powerful, in a word,
that Prasville had been appointed secretary-general of police, over the
heads of all who had prior claims, for the sole reason that he hated
Daubrecq with a personal hatred.

"And you saw him again?" he asked.

"I saw him again. I had to. My husband was dead, but his honour remained
untouched. Nobody suspected the truth. In order at least to defend the
name which he left me, I accepted my first interview with Daubrecq."

"Your first, yes, for there have been others."

"Many others," she said, in a strained voice, "yes, many others... at
the theatre... or in the evening, at Enghien... or else in Paris, at
night ... for I was ashamed to meet that man and I did not want people
to know it... But it was necessary... A duty more imperative than any
other commanded it: the duty of avenging my husband..."

She bent over Lupin and, eagerly:

"Yes, revenge has been the motive of my conduct and the sole
preoccupation of my life. To avenge my husband, to avenge my ruined son,
to avenge myself for all the harm that he has done me: I had no other
dream, no other object in life. That is what I wanted: to see that man
crushed, reduced to poverty, to tears--as though he still knew how to
cry!--sobbing in the throes of despair..."

"You wanted his death," said Lupin, remembering the scene between them
in Daubrecq's study.

"No, not his death. I have often thought of it, I have even raised my
arm to strike him, but what would have been the good? He must have taken
his precautions. The paper would remain. And then there is no revenge
in killing a man... My hatred went further than that... It demanded his
ruin, his downfall; and, to achieve that, there was but one way: to cut
his claws. Daubrecq, deprived of the document that gives him his immense
power, ceases to exist. It means immediate bankruptcy and disaster...
under the most wretched conditions. That is what I have sought."

"But Daubrecq must have been aware of your intentions?"

"Certainly. And, I assure you, those were strange meetings of ours: I
watching him closely, trying to guess his secret behind his actions and
his words, and he... he..."

"And he," said Lupin, finishing Clarisse's thought, "lying in wait for
the prey which he desires... for the woman whom he has never ceased to
love... whom he loves... and whom he covets with all his might and with
all his furious passion..."

She lowered her head and said, simply:

"Yes."

A strange duel indeed was that which brought face to face those two
beings separated by so many implacable things! How unbridled must
Daubrecq's passion be for him to risk that perpetual threat of death and
to introduce to the privacy of his house this woman whose life he had
shattered! But also how absolutely safe he must feel himself!

"And your search ended... how?" asked Lupin.

"My search," she replied, "long remained without fruit. You know the
methods of investigation which you have followed and which the police
have followed on their side. Well, I myself employed them, years before
either of you did, and in vain. I was beginning to despair. Then, one
day, when I had gone to see Daubrecq in his villa at Enghien, I picked
up under his writing-table a letter which he had begun to write,
crumpled up and thrown into the waste-paper-basket. It consisted of
a few lines in bad English; and I was able to read this: 'Empty
the crystal within, so as to leave a void which it is impossible to
suspect.' Perhaps I should not have attached to this sentence all the
importance which it deserved, if Daubrecq, who was out in the garden,
had not come running in and begun to turn out the waste-paper-basket,
with an eagerness which was very significant. He gave me a suspicious
look: 'There was a letter there,' he said. I pretended not to
understand. He did not insist, but his agitation did not escape me; and
I continued my quest in this direction. A month later, I discovered,
among the ashes in the drawing-room fireplace, the torn half of an
English invoice. I gathered that a Stourbridge glass-blower, of the name
of John Howard, had supplied Daubrecq with a crystal bottle made after a
model. The word 'crystal' struck me at once. I went to Stourbridge, got
round the foreman of the glass-works and learnt that the stopper of this
bottle had been hollowed out inside, in accordance with the instruction
in the order, so as to leave a cavity, the existence of which would
escape observation."

Lupin nodded his head:

"The thing tallies beyond a doubt. Nevertheless, it did not seem to me,
that, even under the gilt layer... And then the hiding-place would be
very tiny!"

"Tiny, but large enough," she said. "On my return from England, I went
to the police-office to see Prasville, whose friendship for me had
remained unchanged. I did not hesitate to tell him, first, the reasons
which had driven my husband to suicide and, secondly, the object of
revenge which I was pursuing. When I informed him of my discoveries, he
jumped for joy; and I felt that his hatred for Daubrecq was as strong
as ever. I learnt from him that the list was written on a slip of
exceedingly thin foreign-post-paper, which, when rolled up into a sort
of pellet, would easily fit into an exceedingly limited space. Neither
he nor I had the least hesitation. We knew the hiding-place. We agreed
to act independently of each other, while continuing to correspond in
secret. I put him in touch with Clemence, the portress in the Square
Lamartine, who was entirely devoted to me..."

"But less so to Prasville," said Lupin, "for I can prove that she
betrays him."

"Now perhaps, but not at the start; and the police searches were
numerous. It was at that time, ten months ago, that Gilbert came into my
life again. A mother never loses her love for her son, whatever he may
do, whatever he may have done. And then Gilbert has such a way with
him... well, you know him. He cried, kissed my little Jacques, his
brother and I forgave him."

She stopped and, weary-voiced, with her eyes fixed on the floor,
continued:

"Would to Heaven that I had not forgiven him! Ah, if that hour could but
return, how readily I should find the horrible courage to turn him away!
My poor child... it was I who ruined him!..." And, pensively, "I should
have had that or any sort of courage, if he had been as I pictured him
to myself and as he himself told me that he had long been: bearing the
marks of vice and dissipation, coarse, deteriorated.

"But, though he was utterly changed in appearance, so much so that I
could hardly recognize him, there was, from the point of view of--how
shall I put it?--from the moral point of view, an undoubted improvement.
You had helped him, lifted him; and, though his mode of life was hateful
to me, nevertheless he retained a certain self-respect... a sort of
underlying decency that showed itself on the surface once more... He was
gay, careless, happy... And he used to talk of you with such affection!"

She picked her words, betraying her embarrassment, not daring, in
Lupin's presence, to condemn the line of life which Gilbert had selected
and yet unable to speak in favour of it.

"What happened next?" asked Lupin.

"I saw him very often. He would come to me by stealth, or else I went
to him and we would go for walks in the country. In this way, I was
gradually induced to tell him our story, of his father's suicide and
the object which I was pursuing. He at once took fire. He too wanted
to avenge his father and, by stealing the crystal stopper, to avenge
himself on Daubrecq for the harm which he had done him. His first
idea--from which, I am bound to tell you, he never swerved--was to
arrange with you."

"Well, then," cried Lupin, "he ought to have...!"

"Yes, I know... and I was of the same opinion. Unfortunately, my poor
Gilbert--you know how weak he is!--was under the influence of one of his
comrades."

"Vaucheray?"

"Yes, Vaucheray, a saturnine spirit, full of bitterness and envy, an
ambitious, unscrupulous, gloomy, crafty man, who had acquired a great
empire over my son. Gilbert made the mistake of confiding in him and
asking his advice. That was the origin of all the mischief. Vaucheray
convinced him and convinced me as well that it would be better if we
acted by ourselves. He studied the business, took the lead and finally
organized the Enghien expedition and, under your direction, the burglary
at the Villa Marie-Therese, which Prasville and his detectives had been
unable to search thoroughly, because of the active watch maintained by
Leonard the valet. It was a mad scheme. We ought either to have trusted
in your experience entirely, or else to have left you out altogether,
taking the risk of fatal mistakes and dangerous hesitations. But we
could not help ourselves. Vaucheray ruled us. I agreed to meet Daubrecq
at the theatre. During this time the thing took place. When I came
home, at twelve o'clock at night, I heard the terrible result: Leonard
murdered, my son arrested. I at once received an intuition of the
future. Daubrecq's appalling prophecy was being realized: it meant trial
and sentence. And this through my fault, through the fault of me, the
mother, who had driven my son toward the abyss from which nothing could
extricate him now."

Clarisse wrung her hands and shivered from head to foot. What suffering
can compare with that of a mother trembling for the head of her son?
Stirred with pity, Lupin said:

"We shall save him. Of that there is not the shadow of a doubt. But,
it is necessary that I should know all the details. Finish your story,
please. How did you know, on the same night, what had happened at
Enghien?"

She mastered herself and, with a face wrung with fevered anguish,
replied:

"Through two of your accomplices, or rather two accomplices of
Vaucheray, to whom they were wholly devoted and who had chosen them to
row the boats."

"The two men outside: the Growler and the Masher?"

"Yes. On your return from the villa, when you landed after being pursued
on the lake by the commissary of police, you said a few words to them,
by way of explanation, as you went to your car. Mad with fright, they
rushed to my place, where they had been before, and told me the hideous
news. Gilbert was in prison! Oh, what an awful night! What was I to do?
Look for you? Certainly; and implore your assistance. But where was I to
find you?... It was then that the two whom you call the Growler and the
Masher, driven into a corner by circumstances, decided to tell me of the
part played by Vaucheray, his ambitions, his plan, which had long been
ripening..."

"To get rid of me, I suppose?" said Lupin, with a grin.

"Yes. As Gilbert possessed your complete confidence, Vaucheray watched
him and, in this way, got to know all the places which you live at. A
few days more and, owning the crystal stopper, holding the list of the
Twenty-seven, inheriting all Daubrecq's power, he would have delivered
you to the police, without compromising a single member of your gang,
which he looked upon as thenceforth his."

"The ass!" muttered Lupin. "A muddler like that!" And he added, "So the
panels of the doors..."

"Were cut out by his instructions, in anticipation of the contest on
which he was embarking against you and against Daubrecq, at whose house
he did the same thing. He had under his orders a sort of acrobat,
an extraordinarily thin dwarf, who was able to wriggle through those
apertures and who thus detected all your correspondence and all
your secrets. That is what his two friends revealed to me. I at once
conceived the idea of saving my elder son by making use of his brother,
my little Jacques, who is himself so slight and so intelligent,
so plucky, as you have seen. We set out that night. Acting on the
information of my companions, I went to Gilbert's rooms and found the
keys of your flat in the Rue Matignon, where it appeared that you were
to sleep. Unfortunately, I changed my mind on the way and thought much
less of asking for your help than of recovering the crystal stopper,
which, if it had been discovered at Enghien, must obviously be at
your flat. I was right in my calculations. In a few minutes, my little
Jacques, who had slipped into your bedroom, brought it to me. I went
away quivering with hope. Mistress in my turn of the talisman, keeping
it to myself, without telling Prasville, I had absolute power over
Daubrecq. I could make him do all that I wanted; he would become
the slave of my will and, instructed by me, would take every step in
Gilbert's favour and obtain that he should be given the means of escape
or else that he should not be sentenced. It meant my boy's safety."

"Well?"

Clarisse rose from her seat, with a passionate movement of her whole
being, leant over Lupin and said, in a hollow voice:

"There was nothing in that piece of crystal, nothing, do you understand?
No paper, no hiding-place! The whole expedition to Enghien was futile!
The murder of Leonard was useless! The arrest of my son was useless! All
my efforts were useless!"

"But why? Why?"

"Why? Because what you stole from Daubrecq was not the stopper made by
his instructions, but the stopper which was sent to John Howard, the
Stourbridge glassworker, to serve as a model."

If Lupin had not been in the presence of so deep a grief, he could not
have refrained from one of those satirical outbursts with which the
mischievous tricks of fate are wont to inspire him. As it was, he
muttered between his teeth:

"How stupid! And still more stupid as Daubrecq had been given the
warning."

"No," she said. "I went to Enghien on the same day. In all that business
Daubrecq saw and sees nothing but an ordinary burglary, an annexation of
his treasures. The fact that you took part in it put him off the scent."

"Still, the disappearance of the stopper..."

"To begin with, the thing can have had but a secondary importance for
him, as it is only the model."

"How do you know?"

"There is a scratch at the bottom of the stem; and I have made inquiries
in England since."

"Very well; but why did the key of the cupboard from which it was stolen
never leave the man-servant's possession? And why, in the second place,
was it found afterward in the drawer of a table in Daubrecq's house in
Paris?"

"Of course, Daubrecq takes care of it and clings to it in the way in
which one clings to the model of any valuable thing. And that is why I
replaced the stopper in the cupboard before its absence was noticed. And
that also is why, on the second occasion, I made my little Jacques take
the stopper from your overcoat-pocket and told the portress to put it
back in the drawer."

"Then he suspects nothing?"

"Nothing. He knows that the list is being looked for, but he does not
know that Prasville and I are aware of the thing in which he hides it."

Lupin had risen from his seat and was walking up and down the room,
thinking. Then he stood still beside Clarisse and asked:

"When all is said, since the Enghien incident, you have not advanced a
single step?"

"Not one. I have acted from day to day, led by those two men or leading
them, without any definite plan."

"Or, at least," he said, "without any other plan than that of getting
the list of the Twenty-seven from Daubrecq."

"Yes, but how? Besides, your tactics made things more difficult for
me. It did not take us long to recognize your old servant Victoire in
Daubrecq's new cook and to discover, from what the portress told us,
that Victoire was putting you up in her room; and I was afraid of your
schemes."

"It was you, was it not, who wrote to me to retire from the contest?"

"Yes."

"You also asked me not to go to the theatre on the Vaudeville night?"

"Yes, the portress caught Victoire listening to Daubrecq's conversation
with me on the telephone; and the Masher, who was watching the house,
saw you go out. I suspected, therefore, that you would follow Daubrecq
that evening."

"And the woman who came here, late one afternoon..."

"Was myself. I felt disheartened and wanted to see you."

"And you intercepted Gilbert's letter?"

"Yes, I recognized his writing on the envelope."

"But your little Jacques was not with you?"

"No, he was outside, in a motor-car, with the Masher, who lifted him up
to me through the drawing-room window; and he slipped into your bedroom
through the opening in the panel."

"What was in the letter?"

"As ill-luck would have it, reproaches. Gilbert accused you of forsaking
him, of taking over the business on your own account. In short, it
confirmed me in my distrust; and I ran away."

Lupin shrugged his shoulders with irritation:

"What a shocking waste of time! And what a fatality that we were not
able to come to an understanding earlier! You and I have been playing at
hide-and-seek, laying absurd traps for each other, while the days were
passing, precious days beyond repair."

"You see, you see," she said, shivering, "you too are afraid of the
future!"

"No, I am not afraid," cried Lupin. "But I am thinking of all the useful
work that we could have done by this time, if we had united our efforts.
I am thinking of all the mistakes and all the acts of imprudence
which we should have been saved, if we had been working together. I am
thinking that your attempt to-night to search the clothes which Daubrecq
was wearing was as vain as the others and that, at this moment, thanks
to our foolish duel, thanks to the din which we raised in his house,
Daubrecq is warned and will be more on his guard than ever."

Clarisse Mergy shook her head:

"No, no, I don't think that; the noise will not have roused him, for we
postponed the attempt for twenty-four hours so that the portress might
put a narcotic in his wine." And she added, slowly, "And then, you see,
nothing can make Daubrecq be more on his guard than he is already. His
life is nothing but one mass of precautions against danger. He leaves
nothing to chance... Besides, has he not all the trumps in his hand?"

Lupin went up to her and asked:

"What do you mean to convey? According to you, is there nothing to hope
for on that side? Is there not a single means of attaining our end?"

"Yes," she murmured, "there is one, one only..."

He noticed her pallor before she had time to hide her face between her
hands again. And again a feverish shiver shook her frame.

He seemed to understand the reason of her dismay; and, bending toward
her, touched by her grief:

"Please," he said, "please answer me openly and frankly. It's for
Gilbert's sake, is it not? Though the police, fortunately, have not
been able to solve the riddle of his past, though the real name of
Vaucheray's accomplice has not leaked out, there is one man, at least,
who knows it: isn't that so? Daubrecq has recognized your son Antoine,
through the alias of Gilbert, has he not?"

"Yes, yes..."

"And he promises to save him, doesn't he? He offers you his freedom, his
release, his escape, his life: that was what he offered you, was it not,
on the night in his study, when you tried to stab him?"

"Yes... yes... that was it..."

"And he makes one condition, does he not? An abominable condition, such
as would suggest itself to a wretch like that? I am right, am I not?"

Clarisse did not reply. She seemed exhausted by her protracted struggle
with a man who was gaining ground daily and against whom it was
impossible for her to fight. Lupin saw in her the prey conquered in
advance, delivered to the victor's whim. Clarisse Mergy, the loving wife
of that Mergy whom Daubrecq had really murdered, the terrified mother of
that Gilbert whom Daubrecq had led astray, Clarisse Mergy, to save her
son from the scaffold, must, come what may and however ignominious the
position, yield to Daubrecq's wishes. She would be the mistress,
the wife, the obedient slave of Daubrecq, of that monster with the
appearance and the ways of a wild beast, that unspeakable person of whom
Lupin could not think without revulsion and disgust.

Sitting down beside her, gently, with gestures of pity, he made her lift
her head and, with his eyes on hers, said:

"Listen to me. I swear that I will save your son: I swear it... Your son
shall not die, do you understand?... There is not a power on earth that
can allow your son's head to be touched as long as I am alive."

"I believe you... I trust your word."

"Do. It is the word of a man who does not know defeat. I shall succeed.
Only, I entreat you to make me an irrevocable promise."

"What is that?"

"You must not see Daubrecq again."

"I swear it."

"You must put from your mind any idea, any fear, however obscure, of an
understanding between yourself and him... of any sort of bargain..."

"I swear it."

She looked at him with an expression of absolute security and reliance;
and he, under her gaze, felt the joy of devotion and an ardent longing
to restore that woman's happiness, or, at least, to give her the peace
and oblivion that heal the worst wounds:

"Come," he said, in a cheerful tone, rising from his chair, "all will
yet be well. We have two months, three months before us. It is more than
I need... on condition, of course, that I am unhampered in my movements.
And, for that, you will have to withdraw from the contest, you know."

"How do you mean?"

"Yes, you must disappear for a time; go and live in the country. Have
you no pity for your little Jacques? This sort of thing would end by
shattering the poor little man's nerves... And he has certainly earned
his rest, haven't you, Hercules?"

The next day Clarisse Mergy, who was nearly breaking down under the
strain of events and who herself needed repose, lest she should fall
seriously ill, went, with her son, to board with a friend who had a
house on the skirt of the Forest of Saint-Germain. Sir _Geo._ Ha, ha,
ha,
_Cha._ Ha, ha, ha, ha, fase was the Word, so you walk'd off, I
suppose.

_Marp._ Yes, for I avoid fighting, purely to be serviceable to my
Friends you know--
Sir _Geo._ Your Friends are much oblig'd to you, Sir, I hope you'll rank
me in that Number.

_Marpl._ Sir _George_, a Bow from the side Box, or to be seen in your
Chariot, binds me ever yours.

Sir _Geo._ Trifles, you may command 'em when you please.

_Cha._ Provided he may command you-- 
_Marpl._ Me!

why I live for no other purpose--Sir _George_, I have the Honour
to be carest by most of the reigning Toasts of the Town, I'll tell
'em you are the finest Gentleman--
Sir _Geo._ No, no, prithee let me alone to tell the Ladies--my
Parts--can you convey a Letter upon Occasion, or deliver a Message
with an Air of Business, Ha!

_Marpl._ With the Assurance of a Page and the Gravity of a
Statesman.

Sir _Geo._ You know _Miranda!_

_Marpl._ What, my Sister _Ward?_ Why, her Guardian is mine, we are
Fellow Sufferers: Ah!

he is a covetous, cheating, sanctify'd Curmudgeon; that Sir _Francis
Gripe_ is a damn'd old--

_Char._ I suppose, Friend, you forget that he is my Father--

_Marpl._ I ask your Pardon, _Charles_, but it is for your sake I
hate him.

Well, I say, the World is mistaken in him, his Out-side Piety, makes
him every Man's Executor, and his Inside Cunning, makes him every
Heir's Jaylor.

Egad, _Charles_, I'm half persuaded that thou'rt some _Ward_ too,
and never of his getting: For thou art as honest a Debauchee as
ever Cuckolded Man of Quality.

Sir _Geo._ A pleasant Fellow.

_Cha._ The Dog is Diverting sometimes, or there wou'd be no enduring
his Impertinence: He is pressing to be employ'd and willing to
execute, but some ill Fate generally attends all he undertakes, and
he oftner spoils an Intreague than helps it--

_Marpl._ If I miscarry 'tis none of my Fault, I follow my
Instructions.

_Cha._ Yes, witness the Merchant's Wife.

_Marpl._ Pish, Pox, that was an Accident.

Sir _Geo._ What was it, prithee?

_Ch._ Why, you must know, I had lent a certain Merchant my hunting
Horses, and was to have met his Wife in his Absence: Sending him
along with my Groom to make the Complement, and to deliver a Letter
to the Lady at the same time; what does he do, but gives the Husband
the Letter, and offers her the Horses.

_Marpl._ I remember you was even with me, for you deny'd the Letter to be
yours, and swore I had a design upon her, which my Bones paid for.

_Cha._ Come, Sir _George_, let's walk round, if you are not ingag'd,
for I have sent my Man upon a little earnest Business, and have
order'd him to bring me the Answer into the Park.

_Marpl._ Business, and I not know it, Egad I'll watch him.

Sir _Geo._ I must beg your Pardon, _Charles_, I am to meet your Father
here.

_Ch._ My Father!

Sir _Geo._ Aye!

and about the oddest Bargain perhaps you ever heard off; but I'll
not impart till I know the Success.

_Marpl._ What can his Business be with Sir _Francis?

_ Now wou'd I give all the World to know it; why the Devil should
not one know every Man's Concern.

(_Aside_.

_Cha._ Prosperity to't whate'er it be, I have private Affairs too;
over a Bottle we'll compare Notes.

_Marpl._ _Charles_ knows I love a Glass as well as any Man, I'll make
one; shall it be to Night?

Ad I long to know their Secrets.

(_Aside._

_Enter _Whisper_._
_Whis._ Sir, Sir, Mis _Patch_ says, _Isabinda_'s Spanish Father
has quite spoil'd the Plot, and she can't meet you in the Park,
but he infallibly will go out this Afternoon, she says; but
I must step again to know the Hour.

_Marpl._ What did _Whisper_ say now?

I shall go stark Mad, if I'm not let into this Secret.
(_Aside._
_Cha._ Curst Misfortune, come along with me, my Heart feels Pleasure
at her Name.

Sir _George_, yours; we'll meet at the old place the usual Hour.

Sir _Geo._ Agreed; I think I see Sir _Francis_ yonder.

(_Exit._

_Cha._ _Marplot_, you must excuse me, I am engag'd.

(_Exit._

_Marpl._ Engag'd, Egad I'll engage my Life, I'll know what your
Engagement is.

(_Exit._

_Miran._ (_Coming out of a Chair._) Let the Chair wait: My Servant,
That dog'd Sir _George_ said he was in the Park.

_Enter _Patch_._
Ha!

Mis _Patch_ alone, did not you tell me you had contriv'd a way to
bring _Isabinda_ to the Park?

_Patch._ Oh, Madam, your Ladiship can't imagine what a wretched
Disappointment we have met with: Just as I had fetch'd a Suit of
my Cloaths for a Disguise: comes my old Master into his Closet,
which is right against her Chamber Door; this struck us into a
terrible Fright--At length I put on a Grave Face, and ask'd him if
he was at leisure for his Chocolate, in hopes to draw him out of
his Hole; but he snap'd my Nose off, No, I shall be busie here this
two Hours; at which my poor Mistress seeing no way of Escape, order'd
me to wait on your Ladiship with the sad Relation.

_Miran._ Unhappy _Isabinda!_ Was ever any thing so unaccountable
as the Humour of Sir _Jealousie Traffick_.

_Patch._ Oh, Madam, it's his living so long in _Spain_, he vows
he'll spend half his Estate, but he'll be a Parliament-Man, on
purpose to bring in a Bill for Women to wear Veils, and the other
odious _Spanish_ Customs--He swears it is the height of Impudence
to have a Woman seen Bare-fac'd even at Church, and scarce believes
there's a true begotten Child in the City.

_Miran._ Ha, ha, ha, how the old Fool torments himself! Suppose he
could introduce his rigid Rules--does he think we cou'd not match
them in Contrivance?

No, no; Let the Tyrant Man make what Laws he will, if there's a
Woman under the Government, I warrant she finds a way to break 'em:
Is his Mind set upon the _Spaniard_ for his Son-in-law still?

_Patch._ Ay, and he expects him by the next Fleet, which drives his
Daughter to Melancholy and Despair: But, Madam, I find you retain
the same gay, cheerful Spirit you had, when I waited on your Ladiship.

--My Lady is mighty good-humour'd too, and I have found a way to
make Sir _Jealousie_ believe I am wholly in his Interest, when my
real Design is to serve her; he makes me her Jaylor, and I set her
at Liberty.

_Miran._ I know thy Prolifick Brain wou'd be of singular Service
to her, or I had not parted with thee to her Father.

_Patch._ But, Madam, the Report is that you are going to marry your
Guardian.

_Miran._ It is necessary such a Report shou'd be, _Patch_.

 _Patch._ But is it true, Madam?
  

_Miran._ That's not absolutely necessary.

_Patch._ I thought it was only the old Strain, coaxing him still for
your own, and railing at all the young Fellows about Town; in my
Mind now, you are as ill plagu'd with your Guardian, Madam, as my
Lady is with her Father.

_Miran._ No, I have Liberty, Wench, that she wants; what would she
give now to be in this _dissabilee_ in the--open Air, nay more,
in pursuit of the young Fellow she likes; for that's my Case, I
assure thee.

_Patch._ As for that, Madam, she's even with you; for tho' she can't
come abroad, we have a way to bring him home in spight of old
_Argus_.

_Miran._ Now _Patch_, your Opinion of my Choice, for here he comes--Ha!
my Guardian with him; what can be the meaning of this?

I'm sure Sir _Francis_ can't know me in this Dress--Let's observe
'em.

(_They withdraw._

_Enter Sir _Francis Gripe_ and Sir _George Airy_._
Sir _Fran._ Verily, Sir _George_, thou wilt repent throwing away
thy Money so, for I tell thee sincerely, _Miranda_, my Charge do's
not love a young Fellow, they are all vicious, and seldom make good
Husbands; in sober Sadness she cannot abide 'em.

_Miran._ (_Peeping._) In sober Sadness you are mistaken--what can
this mean?

Sir _Geo._ Look ye, Sir _Francis_, whether she can or cannot abide
young Fellows is not the Business; will you take the fifty Guineas?

Sir _Fran._ In good truth--I will not, for I knew thy Father, he
was a hearty wary Man, and I cannot consent that his Son should
squander away what he sav'd, to no purpose.

_Mirand._ (_Peeping._) Now, in the Name of Wonder, what Bargain can
he be driving about me for fifty Guineas?

_Patch._ I wish it ben't for the first Night's Lodging, Madam.

Sir _Geo._ Well, Sir _Francis_, since you are so conscientious for
my Father's sake, then permit me the Favour, _Gratis_.

_Miran._ (_Peeping._) The Favour!

Oh my Life!

I believe 'tis as you said, _Patch_.

Sir _Fran._ No verily, if thou dost not buy thy Experience, thou
wou'd never be wise; therefore give me a Hundred and try Fortune.

Sir _Geo._ The Scruples arose, I find, from the scanty Sum--Let me
see--a Hundred Guineas-- (_Takes 'em out of a Purse and chinks
'em._) Ha!

they have a very pretty Sound, and a very pleasing Look--But then,
_Miranda_--But if she should be cruel--
_Miran._ (_Peeping._) As Ten to One I shall--
Sir _Fran._ Ay, do consider on't, He, he, he, he.

Sir _Geo._ No, I'll do't.

_Patch._ Do't, what, whether you will or no, Madam?

Sir _Geo._ Come to the Point, here's the Gold, sum up the Conditions--
Sir _Fran._ (_Pulling out a Paper_.)

_Miran._ (_Peeping_.)

Ay for Heaven's sake do, for my Expectation is on the Rack.

Sir _Fran._ Well at your own Peril be it.

Sir _Geo._ Aye, aye, go on.

Sir _Fran._ _Imprimis_, you are to be admitted into my House in order
to move your Suit to _Miranda_, for the space of Ten Minutes, without
Lett or Molestation, provided I remain in the same Room.

Sir _Geo._ But out of Ear shot--
Sir _Fran._ Well, well, I don't desire to hear what you say, Ha, ha,
ha, in consideration I am to have that Purse and a hundred
Guineas.

Sir _Geo._ Take it-- (_Gives him the Purse_.

_Miran._ (_Peeping_.)

So, 'tis well it's no worse, I'll fit you both--
Sir _Geo._ And this Agreement is to be perform'd to Day.

Sir _Fran._ Aye, aye, the sooner the better, poor Fool, how _Miranda_ and
I shall laugh at him--Well, Sir _George_, Ha, ha, ha, take the last
sound of your Guineas, Ha, ha, ha.

(_Chinks 'em_.)

(Exit.

_Miran._ (_Peeping_.) Sure he does not know I am _Miranda_.

Sir _Geo._ A very extraordinary Bargain I have made truly, if she
should be really in Love with this old Cuff now--Psha, that's morally
impossible--but then what hopes have I to succeed, I never spoke
to her-- 
_Miran._ (_Peeping_.)

Say you so? Then I am safe.

Sir _Geo._ What tho' my Tongue never spoke, my Eyes said a thousand
Things, and my Hopes flatter'd me hers answer'd 'em.

If I'm lucky--if not, 'tis but a hundred Guineas thrown away.

(__Miranda_ and _Patch_ come forwards._
_Miran._ Upon what Sir _George?

_

Sir _Geo._ Ha!

my _Incognito_--upon a Woman, Madam.

_Miran._ They are the worst Things you can deal in, and damage the
soonest; your very Breath destroys 'em, and I fear you'll never see
your Return, Sir _George_, Ha, ha!

Sir _Geo._ Were they more brittle than _China_, and drop'd to pieces
with a Touch, every Atom of her I have ventur'd at, if she is but
Mistress of thy Wit, ballances Ten times the Sum--Prithee let me
see thy Face.

_Miran._ By no means, that may spoil your Opinion of my Sense--
Sir _Geo._ Rather confirm it, Madam.

_Patch._ So rob the Lady of your Gallantry, Sir.

Sir _Geo._ No Child, a Dish of Chocolate in the Morning never spoils
my Dinner; the other Lady, I design a set Meal; so there's no
danger-- 
_Miran._ Matrimony!

Ha, ha, ha; what Crimes have you committed against the God of Love, that
he should revenge 'em so severely to stamp Husband upon your Forehead--

Sir _Geo._ For my Folly in having so often met you here, without
pursuing the Laws of Nature, and exercising her command--But I
resolve e'er we part now, to know who you are, where you live, and
what kind of Flesh and Blood your Face is; therefore unmask and
don't put me to the trouble of doing it for you.

_Miran._ My Face is the same Flesh and Blood with my Hand, Sir
_George_, which if you'll be so rude to provoke.

Sir _Geo._ You'll apply it to my Cheek--The Ladies Favours are always
Welcome; but I must have that Cloud withdrawn. (_Taking hold of her_.)
Remember you are in the _Park_, Child, and what a terrible thing would
it be to lose this pretty white Hand.

_Miran._ And how will it sound in a _Chocolate-House_, that Sir _George
Airy_ rudely pull'd off a Ladies Mask, when he had given her his Honour,
that he never would, directly or indirectly endeavour to know her till
she gave him Leave.

_Patch._ I wish we were safe out.
(_Aside._
Sir _Geo._ But if that Lady thinks fit to pursue and meet me at every
turn like some troubl'd Spirit, shall I be blam'd if I inquire into
the Reality? I would have nothing dissatisfy'd in a Female Shape.

_Miran._ What shall I do?
(_Pause._
Sir _Geo._ Ay, prithee consider, for thou shalt find me very much
at thy Service.

_Patch._ Suppose, Sir, the Lady shou'd be in Love with you.

Sir _Geo._ Oh! I'll return the Obligation in a Moment.

_Patch._ And marry her?

Sir _Geo._ Ha, ha, ha, that's not the way to Love her Child.

_Miran._ If he discovers me, I shall die--Which way shall I escape?--Let
me see.
(_Pauses._
Sir _Geo._ Well, Madam--
_Miran._ I have it--Sir _George_, 'tis fit you should allow something;
if you'll excuse my Face, and turn your Back (if you look upon me I
shall sink, even mask'd as I am) I will confess why I have engag'd
you so often, who I am, and where I live?

Sir _Geo._ Well, to show you I'm a Man of Honour I accept the Conditions.
Let me but once know those, and the Face won't be long a Secret to
me.
(_Aside._
_Patch._ What mean you, Madam?

_Miran._ To get off.

Sir _Geo._ 'Tis something indecent to turn ones Back upon a Lady; but
you command and I obey.

(_Turns his Back._) Come, Madam, begin--
_Miran._ First then it was my unhappy Lot to see you at _Paris_ (_Draws
back a little while and speaks_) at a Ball upon a Birth-Day; your
Shape and Air charm'd my Eyes; your Wit and Complaisance my Soul, and
from that fatal Night I lov'd you. (_Drawing back._) And when you
left the Place, Grief seiz'd me so--No Rest my Heart, no Sleep my Eyes
cou'd know.--
_Last I resolv'd a hazardous Point to try,_ _And quit the Place in search
of Liberty._ (Exit.

Sir _Geo._ Excellent--I hope she's Handsome--Well, Now, Madam, to the
other two Things: Your Name, and where you live?--I am a Gentleman,
and this Confession will not be lost upon me.

--Nay, prithee don't weep, but go on--for I find my Heart melts in thy
Behalf--speak quickly or I shall turn about--Not yet.--Poor Lady, she
expects I shou'd comfort her; and to do her Justice, she has said
enough to encourage me. (_Turns about._) Ha? gone! The Devil, jilted?
Why, what a Tale has she invented--of _Paris_, Balls, and Birth-Days.--Egad
I'd give Ten Guineas to know who this Gipsie is.--A Curse of my Folly--I
deserve to lose her; what Woman can forgive a Man that turns his Back.

_The Bold and Resolute, in Love and War, To Conquer take the Right, and
swiftest way; The boldest Lover soonest gains the Fair, As Courage
makes the rudest Force obey, Take no denial, and the Dames adore
ye, Closely pursue them and they fall before ye._
The End of the First ACT.

ACT the Second.

_Enter Sir _Francis Gripe_, _Miranda_._

Sir _Fran._ Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.

_Miran._ Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha; Oh, I shall die with Laughing.--The
most Romantick Adventure: Ha, ha! what does the odious young Fop mean?
A Hundred Pieces to talk an Hour with me; Ho, ha.

Sir _Fran._ And I'm to be by too; there's the Jest; Adod, if it had
been in Private, I shou'd not have car'd to trust the young Dog.

_Mirand._ Indeed and Indeed, but you might _Gardy_.--Now methinks
there's no Body Handsomer than you; So Neat, so Clean, so Good-Humour'd,
and so Loving.--
Sir _Fran._ Pritty Rogue, Pritty Rogue, and so thou shalt find me, if
thou do'st prefer thy _Gardy_ before these Caperers of the Age,
thou shalt out-shine the Queen's Box on an _Opera_ Night; thou shalt
be the Envy of the Ring (for I will Carry thee to _Hide-Park_) and thy
Equipage shall Surpass, the what--d'ye call 'em Ambassadors.

_Miran._ Nay, I'm sure the Discreet Part of my Sex will Envy
me more for the Inside Furniture, when you are in it, than my Outside
Equipage.

Sir _Fran._ A Cunning Bagage, a faith thou art, and a wise one too; and
to show thee thou hast not chose amiss, I'll this moment Disinherit
my Son, and Settle my whole Estate upon thee.

_Miran._ There's an old Rogue now: (_Aside._) No, _Gardy_, I would not
have your Name be so Black in the World--You know my Father's Will runs,
that I am not to possess my Estate, without your Consent, till I'm
Five and Twenty; you shall only abate the odd Seven Years, and make me
Mistress of my Estate to Day, and I'll make you Master of my Person to
Morrow.

Sir _Fran._ Humph? that may not be safe--No _Chargy_, I'll Settle it
upon thee for _Pin-mony_; and that will be every bit as well, thou
know'st.

_Miran._ Unconscionable old Wretch, Bribe me with my own Money--Which way
shall I get out of his Hands?
(_Aside._
Sir _Fran._ Well, what art thou thinking on, my Girl, ha? How to Banter
Sir _George?_
_Miran._ I must not pretend to Banter: He knows my Tongue too well:
(_Aside._) No, _Gardy_, I have thought of a way will Confound him more
than all I cou'd say, if I shou'd talk to him Seven Years.

Sir _Fran._ How's that? Oh! I'm Transported, I'm Ravish'd, I'm Mad--
_Miran._ It wou'd make you Mad, if you knew All, (_Aside._) I'll not
Answer him one Word, but be Dumb to all he says--
Sir _Fran._ Dumb, good; Ha, ha, ha. Excellent, ha, ha, I think I have you
now, Sir _George_: Dumb! he'll go Distracted--Well, she's the wittiest
Rogue--Ha, ha, Dumb! I can but Laugh, ha, ha, to think how damn'd Mad
he'll be when he finds he has given his Money away for a a Dumb
Show.

Ha, ha, ha.

_Miran._ Nay, _Gardy_, if he did but know my Thoughts of him, it
wou'd make him ten times Madder: Ha, ha, ha.

Sir _Fran._ Ay, so it wou'd _Chargy_, to hold him in such Derision,
to scorn to Answer him, to be Dumb: Ha, ha, ha, ha.

_Enter _Charles_._
Sir _Fran._ How now, Sirrah, Who let you in?

_Char._ My Necessity, Sir.

Sir _Fran._ Sir, your Necessities are very Impertinent, and ought to have
sent before they Entred.

_Char._ Sir, I knew 'twas a Word wou'd gain Admittance no where.

Sir _Fran._ Then, Sirrah, how durst you Rudely thrust that upon
your Father, which no Body else wou'd admit?

_Char._ Sure the Name of a Son is a sufficient Plea.

I ask this Lady's Pardon if I have intruded.

Sir _Fran._ Ay, Ay, ask her Pardon and her Blessing too, if you
expect any thing from me.

_Miran._ I believe yours, Sir _Francis_, in a Purse of Guinea's
wou'd be more material.

Your Son may have Business with you, I'll retire.

Sir _Fran._ I guess his Business, but I'll dispatch him, I expect
the Knight every Minute: You'll be in Readiness.

_Miran._ Certainly!

my Expectation is more upon the wing than yours, old Gentleman.

[_Exit._ 
Sir _Fran._ Well, Sir!

_Char._ Nay, it is very Ill, Sir; my Circumstances are, I'm sure.

Sir _Fran,_ And what's that to me, Sir: Your Management shou'd have made
them better.

_Char._ If you please to intrust me with the Management of my Estate,
I shall endeavour it, Sir.

Sir _Fran._ What to set upon a Card, and buy a Lady's Favour at the Price
of a Thousand Pieces, to Rig out an Equipage for a Wench, or by
your Carelessness enrich your Steward to fine for Sheriff, or put
up for Parliament-Man.

_Char._ I hope I shou'd not spend it this way: However, I ask only
for what my Uncle left me; Your's you may dispose of as you please,
Sir.

Sir _Fran._ That I shall, out of your Reach, I assure you, Sir. Adod these
young Fellows think old Men get Estates for nothing but them to
squander away, in Dicing, Wenching, Drinking, Dressing, and so
forth.

_Char._ I think I was born a Gentleman, Sir; I'm sure my Uncle bred me
like one.

Sir _Fran._ From which you wou'd infer, Sir, that Gaming, Whoring, and
the Pox, are Requisits to a Gentleman.

_Char._ Monstrous! when I wou'd ask him only for a Support, he falls
into these unmannerly Reproaches; I must, tho' against my Will,
employ Invention, and by Stratagem relieve my self.

(_Aside._

Sir _Fran._ Sirrah, what is it you mutter, Sirrah, ha?

(_Holds up his Cane._) I say, you sha'n't have a Groat out of my Hands
till I Please--and may be I'll never Please, and what's that to
you?

_Char._ Nay, to be Robb'd, or have one's Throat Cut is not much--
Sir _Fran._ What's that, Sirrah?

wou'd ye Rob me, or Cut my Throat, ye Rogue?

_Char._ Heaven forbid, Sir,--I said no such thing.

It takes your breath away, what, to think that a
shark like me can waste his time playing the Don Quixote? And you wonder
what dirty motive I can have? Don't try to find out: it's beyond your
powers of perception. Answer me, instead: do you accept?"

"So you're serious?" asked Daubrecq, who seemed but little disturbed by
Lupin's contemptuous tone.

"Absolutely. The forty-five pieces are in a shed, of which I will give
you the address, and they will be handed over to you, if you call there,
at nine o'clock this evening, with the child."

There was no doubt about Daubrecq's reply. To him, the kidnapping of
little Jacques had represented only a means of working upon Clarisse
Mergy's feelings and perhaps also a warning for her to cease the contest
upon which she had engaged. But the threat of a suicide must needs show
Daubrecq that he was on the wrong track. That being so, why refuse the
favourable bargain which Arsene Lupin was now offering him?

"I accept," he said.

"Here's the address of my shed: 99, Rue Charles-Lafitte, Neuilly. You
have only to ring the bell."

"And suppose I send Prasville, the secretary-general, instead?"

"If you send Prasville," Lupin declared, "the place is so arranged
that I shall see him coming and that I shall have time to escape, after
setting fire to the trusses of hay and straw which surround and conceal
your credence-tables, clocks and Gothic virgins."

"But your shed will be burnt down..."

"I don't mind that: the police have their eye on it already. I am
leaving it in any case."

"And how am I to know that this is not a trap?"

"Begin by receiving the goods and don't give up the child till
afterward. I trust you, you see."

"Good," said Daubrecq; "you've foreseen everything. Very well, you shall
have the nipper; the fair Clarisse shall live; and we will all be happy.
And now, if I may give you a word of advice, it is to pack off as fast
as you can."

"Not yet."

"Eh?"

"I said, not yet."

"But you're mad! Prasville's on his way!"

"He can wait. I've not done."

"Why, what more do you want? Clarisse shall have her brat. Isn't that
enough for you?"

"No."

"Why not?"

"There is another son."

"Gilbert."

"Yes."

"Well?"

"I want you to save Gilbert."

"What are you saying? I save Gilbert!"

"You can, if you like; it only means taking a little trouble." Until
that moment Daubrecq had remained quite calm. He now suddenly blazed out
and, striking the table with his fist:

"No," he cried, "not that! Never! Don't reckon on me!... No, that would
be too idiotic!"

He walked up and down, in a state of intense excitement, with that queer
step of his, which swayed him from right to left on each of his legs,
like a wild beast, a heavy, clumsy bear. And, with a hoarse voice and
distorted features, he shouted:

"Let her come here! Let her come and beg for her son's pardon! But let
her come unarmed, not with criminal intentions, like last time! Let
her come as a supplicant, as a tamed woman, as a submissive woman, who
understands and accepts the situation... Gilbert? Gilbert's sentence?
The scaffold? Why, that is where my strength lies! What! For more than
twenty years have I awaited my hour; and, when that hour strikes, when
fortune brings me this unhoped-for chance, when I am at last about to
know the joy of a full revenge--and such a revenge!--you think that I
will give it up, give up the thing which I have been pursuing for twenty
years? I save Gilbert? I? For nothing? For love? I, Daubrecq?... No, no,
you can't have studied my features!"

He laughed, with a fierce and hateful laugh. Visibly, he saw before him,
within reach of his hand, the prey which he had been hunting down so
long. And Lupin also summoned up the vision of Clarisse, as he had seen
her several days before, fainting, already beaten, fatally conquered,
because all the hostile powers were in league against her.

He contained himself and said:

"Listen to me."

And, when Daubrecq moved away impatiently, he took him by the two
shoulders, with that superhuman strength which Daubrecq knew, from
having felt it in the box at the Vaudeville, and, holding him motionless
in his grip, he said:

"One last word."

"You're wasting your breath," growled the deputy.

"One last word. Listen, Daubrecq: forget Mme. Mergy, give up all the
nonsensical and imprudent acts which your pride and your passions are
making you commit; put all that on one side and think only of your
interest..."

"My interest," said Daubrecq, jestingly, "always coincides with my pride
and with what you call my passions."

"Up to the present, perhaps. But not now, not now that I have taken a
hand in the business. That constitutes a new factor, which you choose
to ignore. You are wrong. Gilbert is my pal. Gilbert is my chum. Gilbert
has to be saved from the scaffold. Use your influence to that end, and
I swear to you, do you hear, I swear that we will leave you in peace.
Gilbert's safety, that's all I ask. You will have no more battles to
wage with Mme. Mergy, with me; there will be no more traps laid for you.
You will be the master, free to act as you please. Gilbert's safety,
Daubrecq! If you refuse..."

"What then?"

"If you refuse, it will be war, relentless war; in other words, a
certain defeat for you."

"Meaning thereby..."

"Meaning thereby that I shall take the list of the Twenty-seven from
you."

"Rot! You think so, do you?"

"I swear it."

"What Prasville and all his men, what Clarisse Mergy, what nobody has
been able to do, you think that you will do!"

"I shall!"

"And why? By favour of what saint will you succeed where everybody else
has failed? There must be a reason?"

"There is."

"What is it?"

"My name is Arsene Lupin."

He had let go of Daubrecq, but held him for a time under the dominion
of his authoritative glance and will. At last, Daubrecq drew himself up,
gave him a couple of sharp taps on the shoulder and, with the same calm,
the same intense obstinacy, said:

"And my name's Daubrecq. My whole life has been one desperate battle,
one long series of catastrophes and routs in which I spent all my
energies until victory came: complete, decisive, crushing, irrevocable
victory. I have against me the police, the government, France, the
world. What difference do you expect it to make to me if I have M.
Arsene Lupin against me into the bargain? I will go further: the more
numerous and skilful my enemies, the more cautiously I am obliged to
play. And that is why, my dear sir, instead of having you arrested, as
I might have done--yes, as I might have done and very easily--I let you
remain at large and beg charitably to remind you that you must quit in
less than three minutes."

"Then the answer is no?"

"The answer is no."

"You won't do anything for Gilbert?"

"Yes, I shall continue to do what I have been doing since his
arrest--that is to say, to exercise indirect influence with the minister
of justice, so that the trial may be hurried on and end in the way in
which I want to see it end."

"What!" cried Lupin, beside himself with indignation. "It's because of
you, it's for you..."

"Yes, it's for me, Daubrecq; yes, by Jove! I have a trump card, the
son's head, and I am playing it. When I have procured a nice little
death-sentence for Gilbert, when the days go by and Gilbert's petition
for a reprieve is rejected by my good offices, you shall see, M. Lupin,
that his mummy will drop all her objections to calling herself
Mme. Alexis Daubrecq and giving me an unexceptionable pledge of her
good-will. That fortunate issue is inevitable, whether you like it or
not. It is foredoomed. All I can do for you is to invite you to the
wedding and the breakfast. Does that suit you? No? You persist in your
sinister designs? Well, good luck, lay your traps, spread your nets,
rub up your weapons and grind away at the Complete Foreign-post-paper
Burglar's Handbook. You'll need it. And now, good-night. The rules of
open-handed and disinterested hospitality demand that I should turn you
out of doors. Hop it!"

Lupin remained silent for some time. With his eyes fixed on Daubrecq, he
seemed to be taking his adversary's size, gauging his weight, estimating
his physical strength, discussing, in fine, in which exact part to
attack him. Daubrecq clenched his fists and worked out his plan of
defence to meet the attack when it came.

Half a minute passed. Lupin put his hand to his hip-pocket. Daubrecq did
the same and grasped the handle of his revolver.

A few seconds more. Coolly, Lupin produced a little gold box of the kind
that ladies use for holding sweets, opened it and handed it to Daubrecq:

"A lozenge?"

"What's that?" asked the other, in surprise.

"Cough-drops."

"What for?"

"For the draught you're going to feel!"

And, taking advantage of the momentary fluster into which Daubrecq was
thrown by his sally, he quickly took his hat and slipped away.

"Of course," he said, as he crossed the hall, "I am knocked into fits.
But all the same, that bit of commercial-traveller's waggery was rather
novel, in the circumstances. To expect a pill and receive a cough-drop
is by way of being a sort of disappointment. It left the old chimpanzee
quite flummoxed."

As he closed the gate, a motor-car drove up and a man sprang out
briskly, followed by several others.

Lupin recognized Prasville:

"Monsieur le secretaire-general," he muttered, "your humble servant. I
have an idea that, some day, fate will bring us face to face: and I
am sorry, for your sake; for you do not inspire me with any particular
esteem and you have a bad time before you, on that day. Meanwhile, if
I were not in such a hurry, I should wait till you leave and I should
follow Daubrecq to find out in whose charge he has placed the child whom
he is going to hand back to me. But I am in a hurry. Besides, I can't
tell that Daubrecq won't act by telephone. So let us not waste ourselves
in vain efforts, but rather join Victoire, Achille and our precious
bag."

Two hours later, Lupin, after taking all his measures, was on the
lookout in his shed at Neuilly and saw Daubrecq turn out of an adjoining
street and walk along with a distrustful air.

Lupin himself opened the double doors:

"Your things are in here, monsieur le depute," he said. "You can go
round and look. There is a job-master's yard next door: you have only to
ask for a van and a few men. Where is the child?"

Daubrecq first inspected the articles and then took Lupin to the Avenue
de Neuilly, where two closely veiled old ladies stood waiting with
little Jacques.

Lupin carried the child to his car, where Victoire was waiting for him.

All this was done swiftly, without useless words and as though the parts
had been got by heart and the various movements settled in advance, like
so many stage entrances and exits.

At ten o'clock in the evening Lupin kept his promise and handed little
Jacques to his mother. But the doctor had to be hurriedly called in,
for the child, upset by all those happenings, showed great signs of
excitement and terror. It was more than a fortnight before he was
sufficiently recovered to bear the strain of the removal which Lupin
considered necessary. Mme. Mergy herself was only just fit to travel
when the time came. The journey took place at night, with every possible
precaution and under Lupin's escort.

He took the mother and son to a little seaside place in Brittany and
entrusted them to Victoire's care and vigilance.

"At last," he reflected, when he had seen them settled, "there is no one
between the Daubrecq bird and me. He can do nothing more to Mme. Mergy
and the kid; and she no longer runs the risk of diverting the struggle
through her intervention. By Jingo, we have made blunders enough! First,
I have had to disclose myself to Daubrecq. Secondly, I have had to
surrender my share of the Enghien movables. True, I shall get those
back, sooner or later; of that there is not the least doubt. But, all
the same, we are not getting on; and, in a week from now, Gilbert and
Vaucheray will be up for trial."

What Lupin felt most in the whole business was Daubrecq's revelation of
the whereabouts of the flat. The police had entered his place in the
Rue Chateaubriand. The identity of Lupin and Michel Beaumont had been
recognized and certain papers discovered; and Lupin, while pursuing his
aim, while, at the same time, managing various enterprises on which
he had embarked, while avoiding the searches of the police, which were
becoming more zealous and persistent than ever, had to set to work and
reorganize his affairs throughout on a fresh basis.

His rage with Daubrecq, therefore, increased in proportion to the worry
which the deputy caused him. He had but one longing, to pocket him, as
he put it, to have him at his bidding by fair means or foul, to extract
his secret from him. He dreamt of tortures fit to unloose the tongue
of the most silent of men. The boot, the rack, red-hot pincers, nailed
planks: no form of suffering, he thought, was more than the enemy
deserved; and the end to be attained justified every means.

"Oh," he said to himself, "oh, for a decent bench of inquisitors and a
couple of bold executioners!... What a time we should have!"

Every afternoon the Growler and the Masher watched the road which
Daubrecq took between the Square Lamartine, the Chamber of Deputies and
his club. Their instructions were to choose the most deserted street
and the most favourable moment and, one evening, to hustle him into a
motor-car.

Lupin, on his side, got ready an old building, standing in the middle
of a large garden, not far from Paris, which presented all the necessary
conditions of safety and isolation and which he called the Monkey's
Cage.

Unfortunately, Daubrecq must have suspected something, for every time,
so to speak, he changed his route, or took the underground or a tram;
and the cage remained unoccupied.

Lupin devised another plan. He sent to Marseilles for one of his
associates, an elderly retired grocer called Brindebois, who happened
to live in Daubrecq's electoral district and interested himself in
politics. Old Brindebois wrote to Daubrecq from Marseilles, announcing
his visit. Daubrecq gave this important constituent a hearty welcome,
and a dinner was arranged for the following week.

The elector suggested a little restaurant on the left bank of the Seine,
where the food, he said, was something wonderful. Daubrecq accepted.

This was what Lupin wanted. The proprietor of the restaurant was one
of his friends. The attempt, which was to take place on the following
Thursday, was this time bound to succeed.

Meanwhile, on the Monday of the same week, the trial of Gilbert and
Vaucheray opened.

The reader will remember--and the case took place too recently for me to
recapitulate its details--the really incomprehensible partiality which
the presiding judge showed in his cross-examination of Gilbert. The
thing was noticed and severely criticised at the time. Lupin recognized
Daubrecq's hateful influence.

The attitude observed by the two prisoners differed greatly. Vaucheray
was gloomy, silent, hard-faced. He cynically, in curt, sneering, almost
defiant phrases, admitted the crimes of which he had formerly been
guilty. But, with an inconsistency which puzzled everybody except Lupin,
he denied any participation in the murder of Leonard the valet and
violently accused Gilbert. His object, in thus linking his fate with
Gilbert's, was to force Lupin to take identical measures for the rescue
of both his accomplices.

Gilbert, on the other hand, whose frank countenance and dreamy,
melancholy eyes won every sympathy, was unable to protect himself
against the traps laid for him by the judge or to counteract Vaucheray's
lies. He burst into tears, talked too much, or else did not talk when
he should have talked. Moreover, his counsel, one of the Leaders of the
bar, was taken ill at the last moment--and here again Lupin saw the hand
of Daubrecq--and he was replaced by a junior who spoke badly, muddied
the whole case, set the jury against him and failed to wipe out the
impression produced by the speeches of the advocate-general and of
Vaucheray's counsel.

Lupin, who had the inconceivable audacity to be present on the last day
of the trial, the Thursday, had no doubt as to the result. A verdict of
guilty was certain in both cases.

It was certain because all the efforts of the prosecution, thus
supporting Vaucheray's tactics, had tended to link the two prisoners
closely together. It was certain, also and above all, because it
concerned two of Lupin's accomplices. From the opening of the inquiry
before the magistrate until the delivery of the verdict, all the
proceedings had been directed against Lupin; and this in spite of the
fact that the prosecution, for want of sufficient evidence and also in
order not to scatter its efforts over too wide an area, had decided not
to include Lupin in the indictment. He was the adversary aimed at, the
leader who must be punished in the person of his friends, the famous
and popular scoundrel whose fascination in the eyes of the crowd must be
destroyed for good and all. With Gilbert and Vaucheray executed, Lupin's
halo would fade away and the legend would be exploded.

Lupin... Lupin... Arsene Lupin: it was the one name heard throughout
the four days. The advocate-general, the presiding judge, the jury, the
counsel, the witnesses had no other words on their lips. Every moment,
Lupin was mentioned and cursed at, scoffed at, insulted and held
responsible for all the crimes committed. It was as though Gilbert
and Vaucheray figured only as supernumeraries, while the real criminal
undergoing trial was he, Lupin, Master Lupin, Lupin the burglar, the
leader of a gang of thieves, the forger, the incendiary, the hardened
offender, the ex-convict, Lupin the murderer, Lupin stained with the
blood of his victim, Lupin lurking in the shade, like a coward, after
sending his friends to the foot of the scaffold.

"Oh, the rascals know what they're about!" he muttered. "It's my debt
which they are making my poor old Gilbert pay."

And the terrible tragedy went on.

At seven o'clock in the evening, after a long deliberation, the jury
returned to court and the foreman read out the answers to the questions
put from the bench. The answer was "Yes" to every count of the
indictment, a verdict of guilty without extenuating circumstances.

The prisoners were brought in. Standing up, but staggering and
white-faced, they received their sentence of death.

And, amid the great, solemn silence, in which the anxiety of the
onlookers was mingled with pity, the assize-president asked:

"Have you anything more to say, Vaucheray?"

"Nothing, monsieur le president. Now that my mate is sentenced as well
as myself, I am easy... We are both on the same footing... The governor
must find a way to save the two of us."

"The governor?"

"Yes, Arsene Lupin."

There was a laugh among the crowd.

The president asked:

"And you, Gilbert?"

Tears streamed down the poor lad's cheeks and he stammered a few
inarticulate sentences. But, when the judge repeated his question, he
succeeded in mastering himself and replied, in a trembling voice:

"I wish to say, monsieur le president, that I am guilty of many things,
that's true... I have done a lot of harm... But, all the same, not this.
No, I have not committed murder... I have never committed murder... And
I don't want to die... it would be too horrible..."

He swayed from side to side, supported by the warders, and he was heard
to cry, like a child calling for help:

"Governor... save me!... Save me!... I don't want to die!"

Then, in the crowd, amid the general excitement, a voice rose above the
surrounding clamour:

"Don't be afraid, little 'un!... The governor's here!"

A tumult and hustling followed. The municipal guards and the policemen
rushed into court and laid hold of a big, red-faced man, who was stated
by his neighbours to be the author of that outburst and who struggled
hand and foot.

Questioned without delay, he gave his name, Philippe Bonel, an
undertaker's man, and declared that some one sitting beside him had
offered him a hundred-franc note if he would consent, at the proper
moment, to shout a few words which his neighbour scribbled on a bit of
paper. How could he refuse?

In proof of his statements, he produced the hundred-franc note and the
scrap of paper.

Philippe Bonel was let go.

Meanwhile, Lupin, who of course had assisted energetically in the
individual's arrest and handed him over to the guards, left the
law-courts, his heart heavy with anguish. His car was waiting for him on
the quay. He flung himself into it, in despair, seized with so great a
sorrow that he had to make an effort to restrain his tears. Gilbert's
cry, his voice wrung with affliction, his distorted features, his
tottering frame: all this haunted his brain; and he felt as if he would
never, for a single second, forget those impressions.

He drove home to the new place which he had selected among his different
residences and which occupied a corner of the Place de Clichy. He
expected to find the Growler and the Masher, with whom he was to kidnap
Daubrecq that evening. But he had hardly opened the door of his flat,
when a cry escaped him: Clarisse stood before him; Clarisse, who had
returned from Brittany at the moment of the verdict.

He at once gathered from her attitude and her pallor that she knew. And,
at once, recovering his courage in her presence, without giving her time
to speak, he exclaimed:

"Yes, yes, yes... but it doesn't matter. We foresaw that. We couldn't
prevent it. What we have to do is to stop the mischief. And to-night,
you understand, to-night, the thing will be done."

Motionless and tragic in her sorrow, she stammered:

"To-night?"

"Yes. I have prepared everything. In two hours, Daubrecq will be in my
hands. To-night, whatever means I have to employ, he shall speak."

"Do you mean that?" she asked, faintly, while a ray of hope began to
light up her face.

"He shall speak. I shall have his secret. I shall tear the list of the
Twenty-seven from him. And that list will set your son free."

"Too late," Clarisse murmured.

"Too late? Why? Do you think that, in exchange for such a document, I
shall not obtain Gilbert's pretended escape?... Why, Gilbert will be at
liberty in three days! In three days..."

He was interrupted by a ring at the bell:

"Listen, here are our friends. Trust me. Remember that I keep my
promises. I gave you back your little Jacques. I shall give you back
Gilbert."

He went to let the Growler and the Masher in and said:

"Is everything ready? Is old Brindebois at the restaurant? Quick, let us
be off!"

"It's no use, governor," replied the Masher.

"No use? What do you mean?"

"There's news."

"What news? Speak, man!"

"Daubrecq has disappeared."

"Eh? What's that? Daubrecq disappeared?"

"Yes, carried off from his house, in broad daylight."

"The devil! It could not have been; it would have been drowned amid the roar
of the flames, and the crackling of the hollow culms, whose pent-up
gases, set free by the fire, sounded like the continuous rolling
of musketry.

No death-cry fell upon our ears; but, for all that, we were satisfied
that the drama had reached its _denouement_: the unfortunate trapper
had been roasted alive!

Already the flames had passed over the spot where we had last seen him--
far beyond--leaving the ground charred and black behind them.

Though the smoke hindered our _view_ of the plain, we knew that the
climax had passed: the hapless victim had succumbed; and it remained
only to look for his bones among the smouldering ashes.

Up to this moment Garey had stood in a fixed attitude, silent and
rigid as a statue.

It was not hope that had held him thus spell-bound; he had entertained
no such feeling from the first: it was rather a paralysis produced
by despair.

Now that the crisis was over, and he felt certain that his comrade
had perished, his muscles, so long held in tension, suddenly relaxed--his
arms fell loosely to his sides--the tears chased each other over
his cheeks--his head reclined forward, and in a hoarse husky voice
he exclaimed:

"O God!

he's rubbed out, rubbed out!

We've seed the last o' poor Old Rube!"

My sorrow, though perhaps not so keen as that of my companion, was
nevertheless sufficiently painful.

I knew the earless trapper well--had been his associate under strange
circumstances--amid scenes of danger that draw men's hearts more closely
together than any phrases of flattery or compliment. More than once
had I seen him tried in the hour of peril; and I knew that, notwithstanding
the wildness and eccentricity of his character--of his crimes, I
might add--his heart, ill directed by early education, ill guided
by after-association, was still rife with many virtues.

Many proofs of this could I recall; and I confess that a feeling akin
to friendship had sprung up between myself and this singular man.

Between him and Garey the ties were still stronger. Long and
inseparable companionship--years of participation in a life of
hardships and perils--like thoughts and habitudes--though perhaps
dispositions, age, and characters a good deal unlike--all had
combined to unite the two in a firm bond of friendship.

To use their own expressive phrase, they "_froze_" to each other. No wonder
then that the look, with which the young trapper regarded that black
plain, was one of indescribable anguish.

To his mournful speech I made no reply.

What could I have said? I could not offer consolation. I was grieving
as well as he: my silence was but an assent to his sad soliloquy.

After a moment he continued, his voice still tremulous with sorrow--
"Come, commarade! It are no use our cryin like a kupple o' squaws."
With his large finger he dashed the tears aside, as if ashamed of having
shed them.

"It are all over now," he continued. "Let's look arter his bones--that
is, if thar's anythin left o' 'em--and gie 'em Christyun burial. Come!"

We caught our horses, and mounting, rode off over the burnt ground.

The hoofs of the animals tossed up the smouldering ashes as we advanced,
the hot red cinders causing them to prance. The smoke pained our eyes,
and prevented us from seeing far ahead; but we guided ourselves
as well as we could towards the point where we had last seen the
trapper, and where we expected to find his remains.

On nearing the spot, our eyes fell upon a dark mass that lay upon
the plain: but it appeared much larger than the body of a man.

We could not make out what it was, until within a few feet of it,
and even then it was difficult to recognise it as the carcass of a
buffalo--though truly in reality it was.

It was no doubt the game which the hunter had killed.

It rested as it had fallen--as these animals usually fall--upon the breast,
with legs widely spread, and humped shoulders upward.

We could perceive that the unfortunate man had nearly finished skinning
it--for the hide, parted along the spine, had been removed from the back
and sides, and with the fleshy side turned outward, was hanging
to the ground, so as to conceal the lower half of the carcass.

Nicole, with his eyes obstinately lowered, had not budged from his chair
and sat fumbling at the rim of his hat, as though he had not yet found a
proper place for it.

Prasville gave a smile. It was evident that he did not look upon
Clarisse's adviser as a man of first-rate intelligence:

"The case is somewhat puzzling, monsieur," he said, "is it not?"

"Yes... yes," M. Nicole confessed, "most puzzling."

"Then you have no little theory of your own upon the matter?"

"Well, monsieur le secretaire-general, I'm thinking that Daubrecq has
many enemies."

"Ah, capital!"

"And that several of those enemies, who are interested in his
disappearance, must have banded themselves against him."

"Capital, capital!" said Prasville, with satirical approval. "Capital!
Everything is becoming clear as daylight. It only remains for you to
furnish us with a little suggestion that will enable us to turn our
search in the right direction."

"Don't you think, monsieur le secretaire-general, that this broken bit
of ivory which was picked up on the ground..."

"No, M. Nicole, no. That bit of ivory belongs to something which we
do not know and which its owner will at once make it his business to
conceal. In order to trace the owner, we should at least be able to
define the nature of the thing itself."

M. Nicole reflected and then began:

"Monsieur le secretaire-general, when Napoleon I fell from power..."

"Oh, M. Nicole, oh, a lesson in French history!"

"Only a sentence, monsieur le secretaire-general, just one sentence
which I will ask your leave to complete. When Napoleon I fell from
power, the Restoration placed a certain number of officers on half-pay.
These officers were suspected by the authorities and kept under
observation by the police. They remained faithful to the emperor's
memory; and they contrived to reproduce the features of their idol on
all sorts of objects of everyday use; snuff-boxes, rings, breast-pins,
pen-knives and so on."

"Well?"

"Well, this bit comes from a walking-stick, or rather a sort of loaded
cane, or life-preserver, the knob of which is formed of a piece of
carved ivory. When you look at the knob in a certain way, you end by
seeing that the outline represents the profile of the Little Corporal.
What you have in your hand, monsieur le secretaire-general, is a bit of
the ivory knob at the top of a half-pay officer's life-preserver."

"Yes," said Prasville, examining the exhibit, "yes, I can make out a
profile... but I don't see the inference..."

"The inference is very simple. Among Daubrecq's victims, among those
whose names are inscribed on the famous list, is the descendant of a
Corsican family in Napoleon's service, which derived its wealth and
title from the emperor and was afterward ruined under the Restoration.
It is ten to one that this descendant, who was the leader of the
Bonapartist party a few years ago, was the fifth person hiding in the
motor-car. Need I state his name?"

"The Marquis d'Albufex?" said Prasville.

"The Marquis d'Albufex," said M. Nicole.

M. Nicole, who no longer seemed in the least worried with his hat, his
glove and his umbrella, rose and said to Prasville:

"Monsieur le secretaire-general, I might have kept my discovery to
myself, and not told you of it until after the final victory, that is,
after bringing you the list of the Twenty-seven. But matters are urgent.
Daubrecq's disappearance, contrary to what his kidnappers expect, may
hasten on the catastrophe which you wish to avert. We must therefore act
with all speed. Monsieur le secretaire-general, I ask for your immediate
and practical assistance."

"In what way can I help you?" asked Prasville, who was beginning to be
impressed by his quaint visitor.

"By giving me, to-morrow, those particulars about the Marquis d'Albufex
which it would take me personally several days to collect."

Prasville seemed to hesitate and turned his head toward Mme. Mergy.
Clarisse said:

"I beg of you to accept M. Nicole's services. He is an invaluable and
devoted ally. I will answer for him as I would for myself."

"What particulars do you require, monsieur?" asked Prasville.

"Everything that concerns the Marquis d'Albufex: the position of his
family, the way in which he spends his time, his family connections, the
properties which he owns in Paris and in the country."

Prasville objected:

"After all, whether it's the marquis or another, Daubrecq's kidnapper
is working on our behalf, seeing that, by capturing the list, he disarms
Daubrecq."

"And who says, monsieur le secretaire-general, that he is not working on
his own behalf?"

"That is not possible, as his name is on the list."

"And suppose he erases it? Suppose you then find yourself dealing with a
second blackmailer, even more grasping and more powerful than the first
and one who, as a political adversary, is in a better position than
Daubrecq to maintain the contest?"

The secretary-general was struck by the argument. After a moment's
thought, he said:

"Come and see me in my office at four o'clock tomorrow. I will give you
the particulars. What is your address, in case I should want you?"

"M. Nicole, 25, Place de Clichy. I am staying at a friend's flat, which
he has lent me during his absence."

The interview was at an end. M. Nicole thanked the secretary-general,
with a very low bow, and walked out, accompanied by Mme. Mergy:

"That's an excellent piece of work," he said, outside, rubbing his
hands. "I can march into the police-office whenever I like, and set the
whole lot to work."

Mme. Mergy, who was less hopefully inclined, said:

"Alas, will you be in time? What terrifies me is the thought that the
list may be destroyed."

"Goodness gracious me, by whom? By Daubrecq?"

"No, but by the marquis, when he gets hold of it."

"He hasn't got it yet! Daubrecq will resist long enough, at any rate,
for us to reach him. Just think! Prasville is at my orders!"

"Suppose he discovers who you are? The least inquiry will prove that
there is no such person as M. Nicole."

"But it will not prove that M. Nicole is the same person as Arsene
Lupin. Besides, make yourself easy. Prasville is not only beneath
contempt as a detective: he has but one aim in life, which is to destroy
his old enemy, Daubrecq. To achieve that aim, all means are equally
good; and he will not waste time in verifying the identity of a M.
Nicole who promises him Daubrecq. Not to mention that I was brought by
you and that, when all is said, my little gifts did dazzle him to some
extent. So let us go ahead boldly."

Clarisse always recovered confidence in Lupin's presence. The future
seemed less appalling to her; and she admitted, she forced herself to
admit, that the chances of saving Gilbert were not lessened by that
hideous death-sentence. But he could not prevail upon her to return to
Brittany. She wanted to fight by his side. She wanted to be there and
share all his hopes and all his disappointments.

The next day the inquiries of the police confirmed what Prasville and
Lupin already knew. The Marquis d'Albufex had been very deeply involved
in the business of the canal, so deeply that Prince Napoleon was obliged
to remove him from the management of his political campaign in France;
and he kept up his very extravagant style of living only by dint of
constant loans and makeshifts. On the other hand, in so far as concerned
the kidnapping of Daubrecq, it was ascertained that, contrary to his
usual custom, the marquis had not appeared in his club between six and
seven that evening and had not dined at home. He did not come back until
midnight; and then he came on foot.

M. Nicole's accusation, therefore, was receiving an early proof.
Unfortunately--and Lupin was no more successful in his own attempts--it
was impossible to obtain the least clue as to the motor-car, the
chauffeur and the four people who had entered Daubrecq's house. Were
they associates of the marquis, compromised in the canal affair like
himself? Were they men in his pay? Nobody knew.

The whole search, consequently, had to be concentrated upon the marquis
and the country-seats and houses which he might possess at a certain
distance from Paris, a distance which, allowing for the average speed
of a motor-car and the inevitable stoppages, could be put at sixty to
ninety miles.

Now d'Albufex, having sold everything that he ever had, possessed
neither country-houses nor landed estates.

They turned their attention to the marquis' relations and intimate
friends. Was he able on this side to dispose of some safe retreat in
which to imprison Daubrecq?

The result was equally fruitless.

And the days passed. And what days for Clarisse Mergy! Each of them
brought Gilbert nearer to the terrible day of reckoning. Each of
them meant twenty-four hours less from the date which Clarisse had
instinctively fixed in her mind. And she said to Lupin, who was racked
with the same anxiety:

"Fifty-five days more... Fifty days more... What can one do in so few
days?... Oh, I beg of you... I beg of you..."

What could they do indeed? Lupin, who would not leave the task of
watching the marquis to any one but himself, practically lived without
sleeping. But the marquis had resumed his regular life; and, doubtless
suspecting something, did not risk going away.

Once alone, he went down to the Duc de Montmaur's, in the daytime. The
duke kept a pack of boar-hounds, with which he hunted the Forest of
Durlaine. D'Albufex maintained no relations with him outside the hunt.

"It is hardly likely," said Prasville, "that the Duc de Montmaur, an
exceedingly wealthy man, who is interested only in his estates and
his hunting and takes no part in politics, should lend himself to the
illegal detention of Daubrecq the deputy in his chateau."

Lupin agreed; but, as he did not wish to leave anything to chance,
the next week, seeing d'Albufex go out one morning in riding-dress, he
followed him to the Gare du Nord and took the same train.

He got out at Aumale, where d'Albufex found a carriage at the station
which took him to the Chateau de Montmaur.

Lupin lunched quietly, hired a bicycle and came in view of the house at
the moment when the guests were going into the park, in motor-cars or
mounted. The Marquis d'Albufex was one of the horsemen.

Thrice, in the course of the day, Lupin saw him cantering along. And
he found him, in the evening, at the station, where d'Albufex rode up,
followed by a huntsman.

The proof, therefore, was conclusive; and there was nothing suspicious
on that side. Why did Lupin, nevertheless, resolve not to be satisfied
with appearances? And why, next day, did he send the Masher to find
out things in the neighbourhood of Montmaur? It was an additional
precaution, based upon no logical reason, but agreeing with his
methodical and careful manner of acting.

Two days later he received from the Masher, among other information of
less importance, a list of the house-party at Montmaur and of all the
servants and keepers.

One name struck him, among those of the huntsmen. He at once wired:

"Inquire about huntsman Sebastiani."

The Masher's answer was received the next day:

"Sebastiani, a Corsican, was recommended to the Duc de Montmaur by the
Marquis d'Albufex. He lives at two or three miles from the house, in a
hunting-lodge built among the ruins of the feudal stronghold which was
the cradle of the Montmaur family."

"That's it," said Lupin to Clarisse Mergy, showing her the Masher's
letter. "That name, Sebastiani, at once reminded me that d'Albufex is of
Corsican descent. There was a connection..."

"Then what do you intend to do?"

"If Daubrecq is imprisoned in those ruins, I intend to enter into
communication with him."

"He will distrust you."

"No. Lately, acting on the information of the police, I ended by
discovering the two old ladies who carried off your little Jacques at
Saint-Germain and who brought him, the same evening, to Neuilly. They
are two old maids, cousins of Daubrecq, who makes them a small monthly
allowance. I have been to call on those Demoiselles Rousselot; remember
the name and the address: 134 bis, Rue du Bac. I inspired them with
confidence, promised them to find their cousin and benefactor; and the
elder sister, Euphrasie Rousselot, gave me a letter in which she begs
Daubrecq to trust M. Nicole entirely. So you see, I have taken every
precaution. I shall leave to-night."

"We, you mean," said Clarisse.

"You!"

"Can I go on living like this, in feverish inaction?" And she whispered,
"I am no longer counting the days, the thirty-eight or forty days that
remain to us: I am counting the hours."

Lupin felt that her resolution was too strong for him to try to combat
it. They both started at five o'clock in the morning, by motor-car. The
Growler went with them.

So as not to arouse suspicion, Lupin chose a large town as his
headquarters. At Amiens, where he installed Clarisse, he was only
eighteen miles from Montmaur.

At eight o'clock he met the Masher not far from the old fortress,
which was known in the neighbourhood by the name of Mortepierre, and he
examined the locality under his guidance.

On the confines of the forest, the little river Ligier, which has dug
itself a deep valley at this spot, forms a loop which is overhung by the
enormous cliff of Mortepierre.

"Nothing to be done on this side," said Lupin. "The cliff is steep, over
two hundred feet high, and the river hugs it all round."

Not far away they found a bridge that led to the foot of a path which
wound, through the oaks and pines, up to a little esplanade, where stood
a massive, iron-bound gate, studded with nails and flanked on either
side by a large tower.

"Is this where Sebastiani the huntsman lives?" asked Lupin.

"Yes," said the Masher, "with his wife, in a lodge standing in the midst
of the ruins. I also learnt that he has three tall sons and that all the
four were supposed to be away for a holiday on the day when Daubrecq was
carried off."

"Oho!" said Lupin. "The coincidence is worth remembering. It seems
likely enough that the business was done by those chaps and their
father."

Toward the end of the afternoon Lupin availed himself of a breach to the
right of the towers to scale the curtain. From there he was able to see
the huntsman's lodge and the few remains of the old fortress: here,
a bit of wall, suggesting the mantel of a chimney; further away, a
water-tank; on this side, the arches of a chapel; on the other, a heap
of fallen stones.

A patrol-path edged the cliff in front; and, at one of the ends of this
patrol-path, there were the remains of a formidable donjon-keep razed
almost level with the ground.

Lupin returned to Clarisse Mergy in the evening. And from that time he
went backward and forward between Amiens and Mortepierre, leaving the
Growler and the Masher permanently on the watch.

And six days passed. Sebastiani's habits seemed to be subject solely
to the duties of his post. He used to go up to the Chateau de Montmaur,
walk about in the forest, note the tracks of the game and go his rounds
at night.

But, on the seventh day, learning that there was to be a meet and that
a carriage had been sent to Aumale Station in the morning, Lupin took
up his post in a cluster of box and laurels which surrounded the little
esplanade in front of the gate.

At two o'clock he heard the pack give tongue. They approached,
accompanied by hunting-cries, and then drew farther away. He heard them
again, about the middle of the afternoon, not quite so distinctly; and
that was all. But suddenly, amid the silence, the sound of galloping
horses reached his ears; and, a few minutes later, he saw two riders
climbing the river-path.

He recognized the Marquis d'Albufex and Sebastiani. On reaching the
esplanade, they both alighted; and a woman--the huntsman's wife, no
doubt--opened the gate. Sebastiani fastened the horses' bridles to rings
fixed on a post at a few yards from Lupin and ran to join the marquis.
The gate closed behind them.

Lupin did not hesitate; and, though it was still broad daylight, relying
upon the solitude of the place, he hoisted himself to the hollow of
the breach. Passing his head through cautiously, he saw the two men and
Sebastiani's wife hurrying toward the ruins of the keep.

The huntsman drew aside a hanging screen of ivy and revealed the
entrance to a stairway, which he went down, as did d'Albufex, leaving
his wife on guard on the terrace.

There was no question of going in after them; and Lupin returned to his
hiding-place. He did not wait long before the gate opened again.

The Marquis d'Albufex seemed in a great rage. He was striking the leg of
his boot with his whip and mumbling angry words which Lupin was able to
distinguish when the distance became less great:

"Ah, the hound!... I'll make him speak... I'll come back to-night...
to-night, at ten o'clock, do you hear, Sebastiani?... And we shall do
what's necessary... Oh, the brute!"

Sebastiani unfastened the horses. D'Albufex turned to the woman:

"See that your sons keep a good watch... If any one attempts to deliver
him, so much the worse for him. The trapdoor is there. Can I rely upon
them?"

"As thoroughly as on myself, monsieur le marquis," declared the
huntsman. "They know what monsieur le marquis has done for me and what
he means to do for them. They will shrink at nothing."

"Let us mount and get back to the hounds," said d'Albufex.

So things were going as Lupin had supposed. During these runs,
d'Albufex, taking a line of his own, would push off to Mortepierre,
without anybody's suspecting his trick. Sebastiani, who was devoted to
him body and soul, for reasons connected with the past into which it was
not worth while to inquire, accompanied him; and together they went to
see the captive, who was closely watched by the huntsman's wife and his
three sons.

"That's where we stand," said Lupin to Clarisse Mergy, when he joined
her at a neighbouring inn. "This evening the marquis will put Daubrecq
to the question--a little brutally, but indispensably--as I intended to
do myself."

"And Daubrecq will give up his secret," said Clarisse, already quite
upset.

"I'm afraid so."

"Then..."

"I am hesitating between two plans," said Lupin, who seemed very calm.
"Either to prevent the interview..."

"How?"

"By forestalling d'Albufex. At nine o'clock, the Growler, the Masher and
I climb the ramparts, burst into the fortress, attack the keep, disarm
the garrison... and the thing's done: Daubrecq is ours."

"Unless Sebastiani's sons fling him through the trapdoor to which the
marquis alluded..."

"For that reason," said Lupin, "I intend to risk that violent
measure only as a last resort and in case my other plan should not be
practicable."

"What is the other plan?"

"To witness the interview. If Daubrecq does not speak, it will give us
the time to prepare to carry him off under more favourable conditions.
If he speaks, if they compel him to reveal the place where the list of
the Twenty-seven is hidden, I shall know the truth at the same time as
d'Albufex, and I swear to God that I shall turn it to account before he
does."

"Yes, yes," said Clarisse. "But how do you propose to be present?"

"I don't know yet," Lupin confessed. "It depends on certain particulars
which the Masher is to bring me and on some which I shall find out for
myself."

He left the inn and did not return until an hour later as night was
falling. The Masher joined him.

"Have you the little book?" asked Lupin.

"Yes, governor. It was what I saw at the Aumale newspaper-shop. I got it
for ten sous."

"Give it me."

The Masher handed him an old, soiled, torn pamphlet, entitled, on the
cover, A Visit to Mortepierre, 1824, with plans and illustrations.

Lupin at once looked for the plan of the donjon-keep.

"That's it," he said. "Above the ground were three stories, which have
been razed, and below the ground, dug out of the rock, two stories, one
of which was blocked up by the rubbish, while the other... There,
that's where our friend Daubrecq lies. The name is significant: the
torture-chamber... Poor, dear friend!... Between the staircase and the
torture-chamber, two doors. Between those two doors, a recess in which
the three brothers obviously sit, gun in hand."

"So it is impossible for you to get in that way without being seen."

"Impossible... unless I come from above, by the story that has fallen
in, and look for a means of entrance through the ceiling... But that is
very risky..."

He continued to turn the pages of the book. Clarisse asked:

"Is there no window to the room?"

"Yes," he said. "From below, from the river--I have just been there--you
can see a little opening, which is also marked on the plan. But it is
fifty yards up, sheer; and even then the rock overhangs the water. So
that again is out of the question."

He glanced through a few pages of the book. The title of one chapter
struck him: The Lovers' Towers. He read the opening lines:

 "In the old days, the donjon was known to the people of the
 neighbourhood as the Lovers' Tower, in memory of a fatal tragedy
 that marked it in the Middle Ages.  The Comte de Mortepierre,
 having received proofs of his wife's faithlessness, imprisoned
 her in the torture-chamber, where she spent twenty years.  One
 night, her lover, the Sire de Tancarville, with reckless courage,
 set up a ladder in the river and then clambered up the face of
 the cliff till he came to the window of the room.  After filing
 the bars, he succeeded in releasing the woman he loved and
 bringing her down with him by means of a rope.  They both reached
 the top of the ladder, which was watched by his friends, when a
 shot was fired from the patrol-path and hit the man in the
 shoulder.  The two lovers were hurled into space...."

There was a pause, after he had read this, a long pause during which
each of them drew a mental picture of the tragic escape. So, three or
four centuries earlier, a man, risking his life, had attempted that
surprising feat and would have succeeded but for the vigilance of some
sentry who heard the noise. A man had ventured! A man had dared! A man
done it!

Lupin raised his eyes to Clarisse. She was looking at him... with such a
desperate, such a beseeching look! The look of a mother who demanded the
impossible and who would have sacrificed anything to save her son.

"Masher," he said, "get a strong rope, but very slender, so that I
can roll it round my waist, and very long: fifty or sixty yards. You,
Growler, go and look for three or four ladders and fasten them end to
end."

"Why, what are you thinking of, governor?" cried the two accomplices.
"What, you mean to... But it's madness!"

"Madness? Why? What another has done I can do."

"But it's a hundred chances to one that you break your neck."

"Well, you see, Masher, there's one chance that I don't."

"But, governor..."

"That's enough, my friends. Meet me in an hour on the river-bank."

The preparations took long in the making. It was difficult to find the
material for a fifty-foot ladder that would reach the first ledge of the
cliff; and it required an endless effort and care to join the different
sections.

At last, a little after nine o'clock, it was set up in the middle of
the river and held in position by a boat, the bows of which were wedged
between two of the rungs, while the stern was rammed into the bank.

The road through the river-valley was little used, and nobody came to
interrupt the work. The night was dark, the sky heavy with moveless
clouds.

Lupin gave the Masher and the Growler their final instructions and said,
with a laugh:

"I can't tell you how amused I am at the thought of seeing Daubrecq's
face when they proceed to take his scalp or slice his skin into ribbons.
Upon my word, it's worth the journey."

Clarisse also had taken a seat in the boat. He said to her:

"Until we meet again. And, above all, don't stir. Whatever happens, not
a movement, not a cry."

"Can anything happen?" she asked.

"Why, remember the Sire de Tancarville! It was at the very moment when
he was achieving his object, with his true love in his arms, that an
accident betrayed him. But be easy: I shall be all right."

She made no reply. She seized his hand and grasped it warmly between her
own.

He put his foot on the ladder and made sure that it did not sway too
much. Then he went up.

He soon reached the top rung.

This was where the dangerous ascent began, a difficult ascent at the
start, because of the excessive steepness, and developing, mid-way, into
an absolute escalade.

Fortunately, here and there were little hollows, in which his feet found
a resting-place, and projecting stones, to which his hands clung. But
twice those stones gave way and he slipped; and twice he firmly believed
that all was lost. Finding a deeper hollow, he took a rest. He was worn
out, felt quite ready to throw up the enterprise, asked himself if it
was really worth while for him to expose himself to such danger:

"I say!" he thought. "Seems to me you're showing the white feather,
Lupin, old boy. Throw up the enterprise? Then Daubrecq will babble his
secret, the marquis will possess himself of the list, Lupin will return
empty-handed, and Gilbert..."

The long rope which he had fastened round his waist caused him needless
inconvenience and fatigue. He fixed one of the ends to the strap of his
trousers and let the rope uncoil all the way down the ascent, so that he
could use it, on returning, as a hand-rail.

Then he once more clutched at the rough surface of the cliff and
continued the climb, with bruised nails and bleeding fingers. At every
moment he expected the inevitable fall. And what discouraged him
most was to hear the murmur of voices rising from the boat, murmur so
distinct that it seemed as though he were not increasing the distance
between his companions and himself.

And he remembered the Sire de Tancarville, alone, he too, amid the
darkness, who must have shivered at the noise of the stones which
he loosened and sent bounding down the cliff. How the least sound
reverberated through the silence! If one of Daubrecq's guards was
peering into the gloom from the Lovers' Tower, it meant a shot... and
death.

And he climbed... he climbed... He had climbed so long that he ended
by imagining that the goal was passed. Beyond a doubt, he had slanted
unawares to the right or left and he would finish at the patrol-path.
What a stupid upshot! And what other upshot could there be to an
attempt which the swift force of events had not allowed him to study and
prepare?

Madly, he redoubled his efforts, raised himself by a number of yards,
slipped, recovered the lost ground, clutched a bunch of roots that came
loose in his hand, slipped once more and was abandoning the game in
despair when, suddenly, stiffening himself and contracting his whole
frame, his muscles and his will, he stopped still: a sound of voices
seemed to issue from the very rock which he was grasping.

He listened. It came from the right. Turning his head, he thought that
he saw a ray of light penetrating the darkness of space. By what effort
of energy, by what imperceptible movements he succeeded in dragging
himself to the spot he was never able exactly to realize. But suddenly
he found himself on the ledge of a fairly wide opening, at least three
yards deep, which dug into the wall of the cliff like a passage, while
its other end, much narrower, was closed by three bars.

Lupin crawled along. His head reached the bars. And he saw...


CHAPTER VIII. THE LOVERS' TOWER

The torture-chamber showed beneath him. It was a large, irregular room,
divided into unequal portions by the four wide, massive pillars that
supported its arched roof. A smell of damp and mildew came from its
walls and from its flags moistened by the water that trickled from
without. Its appearance at any time must have been gruesome. But, at
that moment, with the tall figures of Sebastiani and his sons, with the
slanting gleams of light that fell between the pillars, with the vision
of the captive chained down upon the truckle-bed, it assumed a sinister
and barbarous aspect.

Daubrecq was in the front part of the room, four or five yards down from
the window at which Lupin lurked. In addition to the ancient chains that
had been used to fasten him to his bed and to fasten the bed to an iron
hook in the wall, his wrists and ankles were girt with leather thongs;
and an ingenious arrangement caused his least movement to set in motion
a bell hung to the nearest pillar.

A lamp placed on a stool lit him full in the face.

The Marquis d'Albufex was standing beside him. Lupin could see his pale
features, his grizzled moustache, his long, lean form as he looked at
his prisoner with an expression of content and of gratified hatred.

A few minutes passed in profound silence. Then the marquis gave an
order:

"Light those three candles, Sebastiani, so that I can see him better."

And, when the three candles were lit and he had taken a long look at
Daubrecq, he stooped over him and said, almost gently:

"I can't say what will be the end of you and me. But at any rate I shall
have had some deuced happy moments in this room. You have done me so
much harm, Daubrecq! The tears you have made me shed! Yes, real tears,
real sobs of despair... The money you have robbed me of! A fortune!...
And my terror at the thought that you might give me away! You had but
to utter my name to complete my ruin and bring about my disgrace!... Oh,
you villain!..."

Daubrecq did not budge. He had been deprived of his black glasses, but
still kept his spectacles, which reflected the light from the candles.
He had lost a good deal of flesh; and the bones stood out above his
sunken cheeks.

"Come along," said d'Albufex. "The time has come to act. It seems that
there are rogues prowling about the neighbourhood. Heaven forbid that
they are here on your account and try to release you; for that would
mean your immediate death, as you know... Is the trapdoor still in
working order, Sebastiani?"

Sebastiani came nearer, knelt on one knee and lifted and turned a
ring, at the foot of the bed, which Lupin had not noticed. One of the
flagstones moved on a pivot, disclosing a black hole.

"You see," the marquis continued, "everything is provided for; and I
have all that I want at hand, including dungeons: bottomless dungeons,
says the legend of the castle. So there is nothing to hope for, no help
of any kind. Will you speak?"

Daubrecq did not reply; and he went on:

"This is the fourth time that I am questioning you, Daubrecq. It is the
fourth time that I have troubled to ask you for the document which you
possess, in order that I may escape your blackmailing proceedings. It is
the fourth time and the last. Will you speak?"

The same silence as before. D'Albufex made a sign to Sebastiani. The
huntsman stepped forward, followed by two of his sons. One of them held
a stick in his hand.

"Go ahead," said d'Albufex, after waiting a few seconds.

Sebastiani slackened the thongs that bound Daubrecq's wrists and
inserted and fixed the stick between the thongs.

"Shall I turn, monsieur le marquis?"

A further silence. The marquis waited. Seeing that Daubrecq did not
flinch, he whispered:

"Can't you speak? Why expose yourself to physical suffering?"

No reply.

"Turn away, Sebastiani."

Sebastiani made the stick turn a complete circle. The thongs stretched
and tightened. Daubrecq gave a groan.

"You won't speak? Still, you know that I won't give way, that I can't
give way, that I hold you and that, if necessary, I shall torture you
till you die of it. You won't speak? You won't?... Sebastiani, once
more."

The huntsman obeyed. Daubrecq gave a violent start of pain and fell back
on his bed with a rattle in his throat.

"You fool!" cried the marquis, shaking with rage. "Why don't you speak?
What, haven't you had enough of that list? Surely it's somebody else's
turn! Come, speak... Where is it? One word. One word only... and we will
leave you in peace... And, to-morrow, when I have the list, you shall be
free. Free, do you understand? But, in Heaven's name, speak!... Oh, the
brute! Sebastiani, one more turn."

Sebastiani made a fresh effort. The bones cracked.

"Help! Help!" cried Daubrecq, in a hoarse voice, vainly struggling to
release himself. And, in a spluttering whisper, "Mercy... mercy."

It was a dreadful sight... The faces of the three sons were
horror-struck. Our ever kindly mother, Nature, only makes us dread
death when she desires us to preserve life. When she summons us
hence she tenderly provides that we shall willingly obey the call.

More than for anything else, we wanted to live now to triumph over the
Rebels. To simply die would be of little importance, but to die unrevenged
would be fearful.

If we, the despised, the contemned, the insulted, the starved and
maltreated; could live to come back to our oppressors as the armed
ministers of retribution, terrible in the remembrance of the wrongs
of ourselves and comrade's, irresistible as the agents of heavenly
justice, and mete out to them that Biblical return of seven-fold
of what they had measured out to us, then we would be content to
go to death afterwards.

Had the thrice-accursed Confederacy and our malignant gaolers
millions of lives, our great revenge would have stomach for them
all.

The December morning was gray and leaden; dull, somber, snow-laden
clouds swept across the sky before the soughing wind.

The ground, frozen hard and stiff, cut and hurt our bare feet at
every step; an icy breeze drove in through the holes in our rags,
and smote our bodies like blows from sticks.

The trees and shrubbery around were as naked and forlorn as in
the North in the days of early Winter before the snow comes.

Over and around us hung like a cold miasma the sickening odor
peculiar to Southern forests in Winter time.

Out of the naked, repelling, unlovely earth rose the Stockade, in
hideous ugliness.

At the gate the two men continued at their monotonous labor of
tossing the dead of the previous day into the wagon-heaving into
that rude hearse the inanimate remains that had once tempted gallant,
manly hearts, glowing with patriotism and devotion to country--piling
up listlessly and wearily, in a mass of nameless, emaciated corpses,
fluttering with rags, and swarming with vermin, the pride, the joy
of a hundred fair Northern homes, whose light had now gone out
forever.

Around the prison walls shambled the guards, blanketed like Indians,
and with faces and hearts of wolves. Other Rebels--also clad in dingy
butternut--slouched around lazily, crouched over diminutive fires,
and talked idle gossip in the broadest of "nigger" dialect.

Officers swelled and strutted hither and thither, and negro servants
loitered around, striving to spread the least amount of work over
the greatest amount of time.

While I stood gazing in gloomy silence at the depressing surroundings
Andrews, less speculative and more practical, saw a good-sized pine
stump near by, which had so much of the earth washed away from it that
it looked as if it could be readily pulled up.

We had had bitter experience in other prisons as to the value of
wood, and Andrews reasoned that as we would be likely to have a
repetition of this in the Stockade we were about to enter, we should
make an effort to secure the stump.

We both attacked it, and after a great deal of hard work, succeeded in
uprooting it. It was very lucky that we did, since it was the greatest
help in preserving our lives through the three long months that
we remained at Florence.

While we were arranging our stump so as to carry it to the best advantage,
a vulgar-faced man, with fiery red hair, and wearing on his collar
the yellow bars of a Lieutenant, approached.

This was Lieutenant Barrett, commandant of the interior of the prison,
and a more inhuman wretch even than Captain Wirz, because he had a little
more brains than the commandant at Andersonville, and this extra
intellect was wholly devoted to cruelty.

As he came near he commanded, in loud, brutal tones:

"Attention, Prisoners!"
We all stood up and fell in in two ranks.

Said he:

"By companies, right wheel, march!"

This was simply preposterous. As every soldier knows, wheeling by companies
is one of the most difficult of manuvers, and requires some
preparation of a battalion before attempting to execute it.

Our thousand was made up of infantry, cavalry and artillery,
representing, perhaps, one hundred different regiments. We had not
been divided off into companies, and were encumbered with blankets,
tents, cooking utensils, wood, etc., which prevented our moving
with such freedom as to make a company wheel, even had we been
divided up into companies and drilled for the maneuver.

The attempt to obey the command was, of course, a ludicrous failure.

The Rebel officers standing near Barrett laughed openly at his stupidity
in giving such an order, but he was furious. He hurled at us a torrent
of the vilest abuse the corrupt imagination of man can conceive,
and swore until he was fairly black in the face.

He fired his revolver off over our heads, and shrieked and shouted until
he had to stop from sheer exhaustion. Another officer took command
then, and marched us into prison.

We found this a small copy of Andersonville. There was a stream running
north and south, on either side of which was a swamp. A Stockade of
rough logs, with the bark still on, inclosed several acres. The front
of the prison was toward the West. A piece of artillery stood before the
gate, and a platform at each corner bore a gun, elevated high enough to
rake the whole inside of the prison. A man stood behind each of these
guns continually, so as to open with them at any moment.

The earth was thrown up against the outside of the palisades in a
high embankment, along the top of which the guards on duty walked, it
being high enough to elevate their head, shoulders and breasts above
the tops of the logs.

Inside the inevitable dead-line was traced by running a furrow
around the prison-twenty feet from the Stockade--with a plow.

In one respect it was an improvement on Andersonville: regular
streets were laid off, so that motion about the camp was possible, and
cleanliness was promoted. Also, the crowd inside was not so dense as
at Camp Sumter.

The prisoners were divided into hundreds and thousands, with Sergeants
at the heads of the divisions.

A very good police force-organized and officered by the
prisoners--maintained order and prevented crime.

Thefts and other offenses were punished, as at Andersonville, by
the Chief of Police sentencing the offenders to be spanked or tied
up.

We found very many of our Andersonville acquaintances inside, and for
several days comparisons of experience were in order. They had left
Andersonville a few days after us, but were taken to Charleston instead
of Savannah.

The same story of exchange was dinned into their ears until they
arrived at Charleston, when the truth was told them, that no exchange
was contemplated, and that they had been deceived for the purpose
of getting them safely out of reach of Sherman.

Still they were treated well in Charleston--better than they had
been anywhere else. Intelligent physicians had visited the sick,
prescribed for them, furnished them with proper medicines, and admitted
the worst cases to the hospital, where they were given something of the
care that one would expect in such an institution. Wheat bread, molasses
and rice were issued to them, and also a few spoonfuls of vinegar,
daily, which were very grateful to them in their scorbutic condition.

The citizens sent in clothing, food and vegetables.

The Sisters of Charity were indefatigable in ministering to the
sick and dying.

Altogether, their recollections of the place were quite pleasant.

Despite the disagreeable prominence which the City had in the
Secession movement, there was a very strong Union element there,
and many men found opportunity to do favors to the prisoners and
reveal to them how much they abhorred Secession.

After they had been in Charleston a fortnight or more, the yellow
fever broke out in the City, and soon extended its ravages to the
prisoners, quite a number dying from it.

Early in October they had been sent away from the City to their
present location, which was then a piece of forest land.

There was no stockade or other enclosure about them, and one night they
forced the guard-line, about fifteen hundred escaping, under a
pretty sharp fire from the guards.

After getting out they scattered, each group taking a different route,
some seeking Beaufort, and other places along the seaboard, and
the rest trying to gain the mountains. The whole State was thrown
into the greatest perturbation by the occurrence. The papers magnified
the proportion of the outbreak, and lauded fulsomely the gallantry
of the guards in endeavoring to withstand the desperate assaults
of the frenzied Yankees.

The people were wrought up into the highest alarm as to outrages
and excesses that these flying desperados might be expected to
commit.

One would think that another Grecian horse, introduced into the heart
of the Confederate Troy, had let out its fatal band of armed men.
All good citizens were enjoined to turn out and assist in arresting
the runaways. The vigilance of all patrolling was redoubled, and
such was the effectiveness of the measures taken that before a
month nearly every one of the fugitives had been retaken and sent
back to Florence.

Few of these complained of any special ill-treatment by their
captors, while many reported frequent acts of kindness, especially
when their captors belonged to the middle and upper classes.

The low-down class--the clay-eaters--on the other hand, almost
always abused their prisoners, and sometimes, it is pretty certain,
murdered them in cold blood.

About this time Winder came on from Andersonville, and then everything
changed immediately to the complexion of that place.

He began the erection of the Stockade, and made it very strong. The Dead
Line was established, but instead of being a strip of plank upon
the top of low posts, as at Andersonville, it was simply a shallow
trench, which was sometimes plainly visible, and sometimes not.
The guards always resolved matters of doubt against the prisoners,
and fired on them when they supposed them too near where the Dead
Line ought to be.

Fifteen acres of ground were enclosed by the palisades, of which five
were taken up by the creek and swamp, and three or four more by
the Dead Line; main streets, etc., leaving about seven or eight for
the actual use of the prisoners, whose number swelled to fifteen
thousand by the arrivals from Andersonville.

This made the crowding together nearly as bad as at the latter place,
and for awhile the same fatal results followed.

The mortality, and the sending away of several thousand on the sick
exchange, reduced the aggregate number at the time of our arrival to
about eleven thousand, which gave more room to all, but was still not
one-twentieth of the space which that number of men should have had.

No shelter, nor material for constructing any, was furnished. The ground
was rather thickly wooded, and covered with undergrowth, when the Stockade
was built, and certainly no bit of soil was ever so thoroughly
cleared as this was.

The trees and brush were cut down and worked up into hut building materials
by the same slow and laborious process that I have described as employed
in building our huts at Millen.

Then the stumps were attacked for fuel, and with such persistent thoroughness
that after some weeks there was certainly not enough woody material
left in that whole fifteen acres of ground to kindle a small kitchen
fire.

The men would begin work on the stump of a good sized tree, and chip
and split it off painfully and slowly until they had followed it to the
extremity of the tap root ten or fifteen feet below the surface.
The lateral roots would be followed with equal determination, and
trenches thirty feet long, and two or three feet deep were dug with
case-knives and half-canteens, to get a root as thick as one's wrist. The
roots of shrubs and vines were followed up and gathered with similar
industry. The cold weather and the scanty issues of wood forced men
to do this.

The huts constructed were as various as the materials and the tastes
of the builders. Those who were fortunate enough to get plenty of
timber built such cabins as I have described at Millen.

Those who had less eked out their materials in various ways. Most
frequently all that a squad of three or four could get would be a few
slender poles and some brush.

They would dig a hole in the ground two feet deep and large enough for
them all to lie in. Then putting up a stick at each end and laying a
ridge pole across, they, would adjust the rest of their material so as
to form sloping sides capable of supporting earth enough to make a
water-tight roof. The great majority were not so well off as these, and
had absolutely, nothing of which to build. They had recourse to the
clay of the swamp, from which they fashioned rude sun-dried bricks,
and made adobe houses, shaped like a bee hive, which lasted very
well until a hard rain came, when they dissolved into red mire about
the bodies of their miserable inmates.

Remember that all these makeshifts were practiced within a half-a-mile
of an almost boundless forest, from which in a day's time the camp could
have been supplied with material enough to give every man a
comfortable hut.

CHAPTER LXIX.

BARRETT'S INSANE CRUELTY--HOW HE PUNISHED THOSE ALLEGED TO BE ENGAGED
IN TUNNELING--THE MISERY IN THE STOCKADE--MEN'S LIMBS ROTTING OFF
WITH DRY GANGRENE.

Winder had found in Barrett even a better tool for his cruel purposes
than Wirz. The two resembled each other in many respects.

Both were absolutely destitute of any talent for commanding men, and could
no more handle even one thousand men properly than a cabin boy could
navigate a great ocean steamer. Both were given to the same senseless
fits of insane rage, coming and going without apparent cause,
during which they fired revolvers and guns or threw clubs into
crowds of prisoners, or knocked down such as were within reach of
their fists.

These exhibitions were such as an overgrown child might be expected to
make.

They did not secure any result except to increase the prisoners'
wonder that such ill-tempered fools could be given any position of
responsibility.

A short time previous to our entry Barrett thought he had reason
to suspect a tunnel.

He immediately announced that no more rations should be issued until
its whereabouts was revealed and the ringleaders in the attempt
to escape delivered up to him.

The rations at that time were very scanty, so that the first day
they were cut off the sufferings were fearful.

The boys thought he would surely relent the next day, but they did
not know their man.

He was not suffering any, why should he relax his severity? He strolled
leisurely out from his dinner table, picking his teeth with his penknife
in the comfortable, self-satisfied way of a coarse man who has just
filled his stomach to his entire content--an attitude and an air
that was simply maddening to the famishing wretches, of whom he
inquired tantalizingly:
"Air ye're hungry enough to give up them G-d d d s--s of b----s
yet?"

That night thirteen thousand men, crazy, fainting with hunger, walked
hither and thither, until exhaustion forced them to become quiet, sat
on the ground and pressed their bowels in by leaning against sticks of
wood laid across their thighs; trooped to the Creek and drank water until
their gorges rose and they could swallow no more--did everything
in fact that imagination could suggest--to assuage the pangs of the
deadly gnawing that was consuming their vitals.

All the cruelties of the terrible Spanish Inquisition, if heaped together,
would not sum up a greater aggregate of anguish than was endured by
them. The third day came, and still no signs of yielding by Barrett.
The Sergeants counseled together. Something must be done. The fellow
would starve the whole camp to death with as little compunction
as one drowns blind puppies.

It was necessary to get up a tunnel to show Barrett, and to get boys
who would confess to being leaders in the work. A number of gallant
fellows volunteered to brave his wrath, and save the rest of their
comrades.

It required high courage to do this, as there was no question but that
the punishment meted out would be as fearful as the cruel mind of the
fellow could conceive. The Sergeants decided that four would be sufficient
to answer the purpose; they selected these by lot, marched them
to the gate and delivered them over to Barrett, who thereupon ordered
the rations to be sent in.

He was considerate enough, too, to feed the men he was going to
torture.

The starving men in the Stockade could not wait after the rations were
issued to cook them, but in many instances mixed the meal up with
water, and swallowed it raw. Frequently their stomachs, irritated
by the long fast, rejected the mess; any very many had reached the stage
where they loathed food; a burning fever was consuming them, and seething
their brains with delirium. Hundreds died within a few days, and hundreds
more were so debilitated by the terrible strain that they did not
linger long afterward.

The boys who had offered themselves as a sacrifice for the rest
were put into a guard house, and kept over night that Barrett might
make a day of the amusement of torturing them.

After he had laid in a hearty breakfast, and doubtless fortified
himself with some of the villainous sorgum whisky, which the Rebels
were now reduced to drinking, he set about his entertainment.

 The devoted four were brought out--one by one--and their hands
 tied together behind their backs. Then a noose of a slender,
 strong hemp rope was slipped over the first one's thumbs and drawn
 tight, after which the rope was thrown over a log projecting from
the roof of the guard house, and two or three Rebels hauled upon
it until the miserable Yankee was lifted from the ground, and hung
suspended by the thumbs, while his weight seemed tearing his limbs
from his shoulder blades.

       The other three were treated in the same manner.

The agony was simply excruciating. The boys were brave, and had
resolved to stand their punishment without a groan, but this was
too much for human endurance.

Their will was strong, but Nature could not be denied, and they
shrieked aloud so pitifully that a young Reserve standing near
fainted.

Each one screamed:

"For God's sake, kill me! kill me! Shoot me if--you want to, but let me
down from here!"

The only effect of this upon Barrett was to light up his brutal
face with a leer of fiendish satisfaction.

He said to the guards with a gleeful wink:
"By God, I'll learn these Yanks to be more afeard of me than of the
old devil himself.

They'll soon understand that I'm not the man to fool with.

I'm old pizen, I am, when I git started.

Jest hear 'em squeal, won't yer?"
Then walking from one prisoner to another, he said:

"D---n yer skins, ye'll dig tunnels, will ye? Ye'll try to git out, and
run through the country stealin' and carryin' off niggers, and
makin' more trouble than yer d----d necks are worth.

I'll learn ye all about that.

If I ketch ye at this sort of work again, d----d ef I don't kill
ye ez soon ez I ketch ye."

And so on, ad infinitum. How long the boys were kept up there undergoing
this torture can not be said. Perhaps it was an hour or more.

To the locker-on it seemed long hours, to the poor fellows themselves
it was ages.

When they were let down at last, all fainted, and were carried away
to the hospital, where they were weeks in recovering from the effects.
Some of them were crippled for life.

When we came into the prison there were about eleven thousand there.
More uniformly wretched creatures I had never before seen. Up to the time
of our departure from Andersonville the constant influx of new prisoners
had prevented the misery and wasting away of life from becoming fully
realized. Though thousands were continually dying, thousands
more of healthy, clean, well-clothed men were as continually coming
in from the front, so that a large portion of those inside looked in
fairly good condition.

     Put now no new prisoners had come in for months; the money
     which made such a show about the sutler shops of Andersonville
     had been spent; and there was in every face the same look of ghastly
emaciation, the same shrunken muscles and feeble limbs, the same
lack-luster eyes and hopeless countenances.

One of the commonest of sights was to see men whose hands and feet
were simply rotting off.

The nights were frequently so cold that ice a quarter of an inch thick
formed on the water. The naked frames of starving men were poorly
calculated to withstand this frosty rigor, and thousands had their
extremities so badly frozen as to destroy the life in those parts, and
induce a rotting of the tissues by a dry gangrene.
The rotted flesh frequently remained in its place for a long time --a
loathsome but painless mass, that gradually sloughed off, leaving the
sinews that passed through it to stand out like shining, white
cords.

While this was in some respects less terrible than the hospital gangrene
at Andersonville, it was more generally diffused, and dreadful to
the last degree.

The Rebel Surgeons at Florence did not follow the habit of those at
Andersonville, and try to check the disease by wholesale amputation,
but simply let it run its course, and thousands finally carried
their putrefied limbs through our lines, when the Confederacy broke
up in the Spring, to be treated by our Surgeons.

I had been in prison but a little while when a voice called out
from a hole in the ground, as I was passing:

"S-a-y, Sergeant!

Won't you please take these shears and cut my toes off?"

"What?" said I, in amazement, stopping in front of the dugout.

"Just take these shears, won't you, and cut my toes off?" answered
the inmate, an Indiana infantryman--holding up a pair of dull shears in
his hand, and elevating a foot for me to look at.

I examined the latter carefully. All the flesh of the toes, except
little pads at the ends, had rotted off, leaving the bones as clean
as if scraped.

The little tendons still remained, and held the bones to their places, but
this seemed to hurt the rest of the feet and annoy the man.

"You'd better let one of the Rebel doctors see this," I said, after
finishing my survey, "before you conclude to have them off. May be they
can be saved."
"No; d----d if I'm going to have any of them Rebel butchers fooling
around me. I'd die first, and then I wouldn't," was the reply.

"You can do it better than they can.

It's just a little snip. Just try it."
"I don't like to," I replied.

"I might lame you for life, and make you lots of trouble."

"O, bother!

what business is that of yours? They're my toes, and I want 'em off.

They hurt me so I can't sleep. Come, now, take the shears and cut 'em
off."
I yielded, and taking the shears, snipped one tendon after another, close
to the feet, and in a few seconds had the whole ten toes lying in a
heap at the bottom of the dug-out. I picked them up and handed them to
their owner, who gazed at them, complacently, and remarked:

"Well, I'm darned glad they're off.

I won't be bothered with corns any more, I flatter myself."

CHAPTER LXX.

HOUSE AND CLOTHES--EFFORTS TO ERECT A SUITABLE RESIDENCE--DIFFICULTIES
ATTENDING THIS--VARIETIES OF FLORENTINE ARCHITECTURE--WAITING FOR
DEAD MEN'S CLOTHES--CRAVING FOR TOBACCO.

We were put into the old squads to fill the places of those who had
recently died, being assigned to these vacancies according to the
initials of our surnames, the same rolls being used that we had
signed as paroles.

This separated Andrews and me, for the "A's" were taken to fill up
the first hundreds of the First Thousand, while the "M's," to which
I belonged, went into the next Thousand.

I was put into the Second Hundred of the Second Thousand, and its Sergeant
dying shortly after, I was given his place, and commanded the
hundred, drew its rations, made out its rolls, and looked out for
its sick during the rest of our stay there.

Andrews and I got together again, and began fixing up what little
we could to protect ourselves against the weather.

Cold as this was we decided that it was safer to endure it and risk
frost-biting every night than to build one of the mud-walled and
mud-covered holes that so many, lived in.

These were much warmer than lying out on the frozen ground, but we
believed that they were very unhealthy, and that no one lived long
who inhabited them.

So we set about repairing our faithful old blanket--now full of
great holes.

We watched the dead men to get pieces of cloth from their garments
to make patches, which we sewed on with yarn raveled from other
fragments of woolen cloth.

But he was not able to coordinate his ideas, to follow a line
of argument nor to instruct or forbid his friends to adopt this or that
line of conduct.

Often, when he emerged from his torpor, he found his hand in Clarisse's
and, in that half-slumbering condition in which a fever keeps you, he
would address strange words to her, words of love and passion, imploring
her and thanking her and blessing her for all the light and joy which
she had brought into his darkness.

Then, growing calmer and not fully understanding what he had said, he
tried to jest:

"I have been delirious, have I not? What a heap of nonsense I must have
talked!"

But Lupin felt by Clarisse's silence that he could safely talk as much
nonsense as ever his fever suggested to him. She did not hear. The
care and attention which she lavished on the patient, her devotion, her
vigilance, her alarm at the least relapse: all this was meant not for
him, but for the possible saviour of Gilbert. She anxiously watched the
progress of his convalescence. How soon would he be fit to resume the
campaign? Was it not madness to linger by his side, when every day
carried away a little hope?

Lupin never ceased repeating to himself, with the inward belief that, by
so doing, he could influence the course of his illness:

"I will get well... I will get well..."

And he lay for days on end without moving, so as not to disturb the
dressing of his wound nor increase the excitement of his nerves in the
smallest degree.

He also strove not to think of Daubrecq. But the image of his dire
adversary haunted him; and he reconstituted the various phases of the
escape, the descent of the cliff.... One day, struck by a terrible
memory, he exclaimed:

"The list! The list of the Twenty-seven! Daubrecq must have it by now...
or else d'Albufex. It was on the table!"

Clarisse reassured him:

"No one can have taken it," she declared. "The Growler was in Paris that
same day, with a note from me for Prasville, entreating him to redouble
his watch in the Square Lamartine, so that no one should enter,
especially d'Albufex..."

"But Daubrecq?"

"He is wounded. He cannot have gone home."

"Ah, well," he said, "that's all right!... But you too were wounded..."

"A mere scratch on the shoulder."

Lupin was easier in his mind after these revelations. Nevertheless, he
was pursued by stubborn notions which he was unable either to drive from
his brain or to put into words. Above all, he thought incessantly of
that name of "Marie" which Daubrecq's sufferings had drawn from him.
What did the name refer to? Was it the title of one of the books on the
shelves, or a part of the title? Would the book in question supply the
key to the mystery? Or was it the combination word of a safe? Was it a
series of letters written somewhere: on a wall, on a paper, on a wooden
panel, on the mount of a drawing, on an invoice?

These questions, to which he was unable to find a reply, obsessed and
exhausted him.

One morning Arsene Lupin woke feeling a great deal better. The wound was
closed, the temperature almost normal. The doctor, a personal friend,
who came every day from Paris, promised that he might get up two days
later. And, on that day, in the absence of his accomplices and of
Mme. Mergy, all three of whom had left two days before, in quest of
information, he had himself moved to the open window.

He felt life return to him with the sunlight, with the balmy air that
announced the approach of spring. He recovered the concatenation of
his ideas; and facts once more took their place in his brain in their
logical sequence and in accordance with their relations one to the
other.

In the evening he received a telegram from Clarisse to say that things
were going badly and that she, the Growler and the Masher were all
staying in Paris. He was much disturbed by this wire and had a less
quiet night. What could the news be that had given rise to Clarisse's
telegram?

But, the next day, she arrived in his room looking very pale, her eyes
red with weeping, and, utterly worn out, dropped into a chair:

"The appeal has been rejected," she stammered.

He mastered his emotion and asked, in a voice of surprise:

"Were you relying on that?"

"No, no," she said, "but, all the same... one hopes in spite of one's
self."

"Was it rejected yesterday?"

"A week ago. The Masher kept it from me; and I have not dared to read
the papers lately."

"There is always the commutation of sentence," he suggested.

"The commutation? Do you imagine that they will commute the sentence of
Arsene Lupin's accomplices?"

She ejaculated the words with a violence and a bitterness which he
pretended not to notice; and he said:

"Vaucheray perhaps not... But they will take pity on Gilbert, on his
youth..."

"They will do nothing of the sort."

"How do you know?"

"I have seen his counsel."

"You have seen his counsel! And you told him..."

"I told him that I was Gilbert's mother and I asked him whether, by
proclaiming my son's identity, we could not influence the result... or
at least delay it."

"You would do that?" he whispered. "You would admit..."

"Gilbert's life comes before everything. What do I care about my name!
What do I care about my husband's name!"

"And your little Jacques?" he objected. "Have you the right to ruin
Jacques, to make him the brother of a man condemned to death?"

She hung her head. And he resumed:

"What did the counsel say?"

"He said that an act of that sort would not help Gilbert in the remotest
degree. And, in spite of all his protests, I could see that, as far
as he was concerned, he had no illusions left and that the pardoning
commission are bound to find in favour of the execution."

"The commission, I grant you; but what of the president of the
Republic?"

"The president always goes by the advice of the commission."

"He will not do so this time."

"And why not?"

"Because we shall bring influence to bear upon him."

"How?"

"By the conditional surrender of the list of the Twenty-seven!"

"Have you it?"

"No, but I shall have it."

His certainty had not wavered. He made the statement with equal calmness
and faith in the infinite power of his will.

She had lost some part of her confidence in him and she shrugged her
shoulders lightly:

"If d'Albufex has not purloined the list, one man alone can exercise any
influence; one man alone: Daubrecq."

She spoke these words in a low and absent voice that made him shudder.
Was she still thinking, as he had often seemed to feel, of going back to
Daubrecq and paying him for Gilbert's life?

"You have sworn an oath to me," he said. "I'm reminding you of it. It
was agreed that the struggle with Daubrecq should be directed by me and
that there would never be a possibility of any arrangement between you
and him."

She retorted:

"I don't even know where he is. If I knew, wouldn't you know?"

It was an evasive answer. But he did not insist, resolving to watch her
at the opportune time; and he asked her, for he had not yet been told
all the details:

"Then it's not known what became of Daubrecq?"

"No. Of course, one of the Growler's bullets struck him. For, next day,
we picked up, in a coppice, a handkerchief covered with blood. Also,
it seems that a man was seen at Aumale Station, looking very tired and
walking with great difficulty. He took a ticket for Paris, stepped into
the first train and that is all..."

"He must be seriously wounded," said Lupin, "and he is nursing himself
in some safe retreat. Perhaps, also, he considers it wise to lie low for
a few weeks and avoid any traps on the part of the police, d'Albufex,
you, myself and all his other enemies."

He stopped to think and continued:

"What has happened at Mortepierre since Daubrecq's escape? Has there
been no talk in the neighbourhood?"

"No, the rope was removed before daybreak, which proves that Sebastiani
or his sons discovered Daubrecq's flight on the same night. Sebastiani
was away the whole of the next day."

"Yes, he will have informed the marquis. And where is the marquis
himself?"

"At home. And, from what the Growler has heard, there is nothing
suspicious there either."

"Are they certain that he has not been inside Daubrecq's house?"

"As certain as they can be."

"Nor Daubrecq?"

"Nor Daubrecq."

"Have you seen Prasville?"

"Prasville is away on leave. But Chief-inspector Blanchon, who has
charge of the case, and the detectives who are guarding the house
declare that, in accordance with Prasville's instructions, their watch
is not relaxed for a moment, even at night; that one of them, turn and
turn about, is always on duty in the study; and that no one, therefore,
can have gone in."

"So, on principle," Arsene Lupin concluded, "the crystal stopper must
still be in Daubrecq's study?"

"If it was there before Daubrecq's disappearance, it should be there
now."

"And on the study-table."

"On the study-table? Why do you say that?"

"Because I know," said Lupin, who had not forgotten Sebastiani's words.

"But you don't know the article in which the stopper is hidden?"

"No. But a study-table, a writing-desk, is a limited space. One can
explore it in twenty minutes. One can demolish it, if necessary, in
ten."

The conversation had tired Arsene Lupin a little. As he did not wish to
commit the least imprudence, he said to Clarisse:

"Listen. I will ask you to give me two or three days more. This is
Monday, the 4th of March. On Wednesday or Thursday, at latest, I shall
be up and about. And you can be sure that we shall succeed."

"And, in the meantime..."

"In the meantime, go back to Paris. Take rooms, with the Growler and the
Masher, in the Hotel Franklin, near the Trocadero, and keep a watch on
Daubrecq's house. You are free to go in and out as you please. Stimulate
the zeal of the detectives on duty."

"Suppose Daubrecq returns?"

"If he returns, that will be so much the better: we shall have him."

"And, if he only passes?"

"In that case, the Growler and the Masher must follow him."

"And if they lose sight of him?"

Lupin did not reply. No one felt more than he how fatal it was to remain
inactive in a hotel bedroom and how useful his presence would have been
on the battlefield! Perhaps even this vague idea had already prolonged
his illness beyond the ordinary limits.

He murmured:

"Go now, please."

There was a constraint between them which increased as the awful day
drew nigh. In her injustice, forgetting or wishing to forget that it was
she who had forced her son into the Enghien enterprise, Mme. Mergy did
not forget that the law was pursuing Gilbert with such rigour not so
much because he was a criminal as because he was an accomplice of Arsene
Lupin's. And then, notwithstanding all his efforts, notwithstanding his
prodigious expenditure of energy, what result had Lupin achieved, when
all was said? How far had his intervention benefited Gilbert?

After a pause, she rose and left him alone.

The next day he was feeling rather low. But on the day after, the
Wednesday, when his doctor wanted him to keep quiet until the end of the
week, he said:

"If not, what have I to fear?"

"A return of the fever."

"Nothing worse?"

"No. The wound is pretty well healed."

"Then I don't care. I'll go back with you in your car. We shall be in
Paris by mid-day."

What decided Lupin to start at once was, first, a letter in which
Clarisse told him that she had found Daubrecq's traces, and, also, a
telegram, published in the Amiens papers, which stated that the Marquis
d'Albufex had been arrested for his complicity in the affair of the
canal.

Daubrecq was taking his revenge.

Now the fact that Daubrecq was taking his revenge proved that the
marquis had not been able to prevent that revenge by seizing the
document which was on the writing-desk in the study. It proved that
Chief-inspector Blanchon and the detectives had kept a good watch. It
proved that the crystal stopper was still in the Square Lamartine.

It was still there; and this showed either that Daubrecq had not
ventured to go home, or else that his state of health hindered him
from doing so, or else again that he had sufficient confidence in the
hiding-place not to trouble to put himself out.

In any case, there was no doubt as to the course to be pursued: Lupin
must act and he must act smartly. He must forestall Daubrecq and get
hold of the crystal stopper.

When they had crossed the Bois de Boulogne and were nearing the Square
Lamartine, Lupin took leave of the doctor and stopped the car. The
Growler and the Masher, to whom he had wired, met him.

"Where's Mme. Mergy?" he asked.

"She has not been back since yesterday; she sent us an express message
to say that she saw Daubrecq leaving his cousins' place and getting into
a cab. She knows the number of the cab and will keep us informed."

"Nothing further?"

"Nothing further."

"No other news?"

"Yes, the Paris-Midi says that d'Albufex opened his veins last night,
with a piece of broken glass, in his cell at the Sante. He seems to
have left a long letter behind him, confessing his fault, but accusing
Daubrecq of his death and exposing the part played by Daubrecq in the
canal affair."

"Is that all?"

"No. The same paper stated that it has reason to believe that the
pardoning commission, after examining the record, has rejected Vaucheray
and Gilbert's petition and that their counsel will probably be received
in audience by the president on Friday."

Lupin gave a shudder.

"They're losing no time," he said. "I can see that Daubrecq, on the very
first day, put the screw on the old judicial machine. One short week
more... and the knife falls. My poor Gilbert! If, on Friday next, the
papers which your counsel submits to the president of the Republic do
not contain the conditional offer of the list of the Twenty-seven, then,
my poor Gilbert, you are done for!"

"Come, come, governor, are you losing courage?"

"I? Rot! I shall have the crystal stopper in an hour. In two hours, I
shall see Gilbert's counsel. And the nightmare will be over."

"Well done, governor! That's like your old self. Shall we wait for you
here?"

"No, go back to your hotel. I'll join you later."

They parted. Lupin walked straight to the house and rang the bell.

A detective opened the door and recognized him:

"M. Nicole, I believe?"

"Yes," he said. "Is Chief-inspector Blanchon here?"

"He is."

"Can I speak to him?"

The man took him to the study, where Chief-inspector Blanchon welcomed
him with obvious pleasure.

"Well, chief-inspector, one would say there was something new?"

"M. Nicole, my orders are to place myself entirely at your disposal; and
I may say that I am very glad to see you to-day."

"Why so?"

"Because there is something new."

"Something serious?"

"Something very serious."

"Quick, speak."

"Daubrecq has returned."

"Eh, what!" exclaimed Lupin, with a start. "Daubrecq returned? Is he
here?"

"No, he has gone."

"And did he come in here, in the study?"

"Yes."

"This morning."

"And you did not prevent him?"

"What right had I?"

"And you left him alone?"

"By his positive orders, yes, we left him alone."

Lupin felt himself turn pale. Daubrecq had come back to fetch the
crystal stopper!

He was silent for some time and repeated to himself:

"He came back to fetch it... He was afraid that it would be found and he
has taken it... Of course, it was inevitable... with d'Albufex arrested,
with d'Albufex accused and accusing him, Daubrecq was bound to defend
himself. It's a difficult game for him. After months and months of
mystery, the public is at last learning that the infernal being who
contrived the whole tragedy of the Twenty-Seven and who ruins and kills
his adversaries is he, Daubrecq. What would become of him if, by a
miracle, his talisman did not protect him? He has taken it back."

And, trying to make his voice sound firm, he asked:

"Did he stay long?"

"Twenty seconds, perhaps."

"What! Twenty seconds? No longer?"

"No longer."

"What time was it?"

"Ten o'clock."

"Could he have known of the Marquis d'Albufex' suicide by then?"

"Yes. I saw the special edition of the Paris-Midi in his pocket."

"That's it, that's it," said Lupin. And he asked, "Did M. Prasville give
you no special instructions in case Daubrecq should return?"

"No. So, in M. Prasville's absence, I telephoned to the police-office
and I am waiting. The disappearance of Daubrecq the deputy caused a
great stir, as you know, and our presence here has a reason, in the eyes
of the public, as long as that disappearance continues. But, now that
Daubrecq has returned, now that we have proofs that he is neither under
restraint nor dead, how can we stay in the house?"

"It doesn't matter," said Lupin, absently. "It doesn't matter whether
the house is guarded or not. Daubrecq has been; therefore the crystal
stopper is no longer here."

He had not finished the sentence, when a question quite naturally forced
itself upon his mind. If the crystal stopper was no longer there, would
this not be obvious from some material sign? Had the removal of that
object, doubtless contained within another object, left no trace, no
void?

It was easy to ascertain. Lupin had simply to examine the writing-desk,
for he knew, from Sebastiani's chaff, that this was the spot of the
hiding-place. And the hiding-place could not be a complicated one,
seeing that Daubrecq had not remained in the study for more than twenty
seconds, just long enough, so to speak, to walk in and walk out again.

Lupin looked. And the result was immediate. His memory had so faithfully
recorded the picture of the desk, with all the articles lying on it,
that the absence of one of them struck him instantaneously, as
though that article and that alone were the characteristic sign which
distinguished this particular writing-table from every other table in
the world.

"Oh," he thought, quivering with delight, "everything fits in!
Everything! ... Down to that half-word which the torture drew from
Daubrecq in the tower at Mortepierre! The riddle is solved. There
need be no more hesitation, no more groping in the dark. The end is in
sight."

And, without answering the inspector's questions, he thought of
the simplicity of the hiding-place and remembered Edgar Allan Poe's
wonderful story in which the stolen letter, so eagerly sought for, is,
in a manner of speaking, displayed to all eyes. People do not suspect
what does not appear to be hidden.

"Well, well," said Lupin, as he went out, greatly excited by his
discovery, "I seem doomed, in this confounded adventure, to knock up
against disappointments to the finish. Everything that I build crumbles
to pieces at once. Every victory ends in disaster."

Nevertheless, he did not allow himself to be cast down. On the one hand,
he now knew where Daubrecq the deputy hid the crystal stopper. On the
other hand, he would soon learn from Clarisse Mergy where Daubrecq
himself was lurking. The rest, to him, would be child's play.

The Growler and the Masher were waiting for him in the drawing-room of
the Hotel Franklin, a small family-hotel near the Trocadero. Mme. Mergy
had not yet written to him.

"Oh," he said, "I can trust her! She will hang on to Daubrecq until she
is certain."

However, toward the end of the afternoon, he began to grow impatient and
anxious. He was fighting one of those battles--the last, he hoped--in
which the least delay might jeopardize everything. If Daubrecq threw
Mme. Mergy off the scent, how was he to be caught again? They no longer
had weeks or days, but only a few hours, a terribly limited number of
hours, in which to repair any mistakes that they might commit.

He saw the proprietor of the hotel and asked him:

"Are you sure that there is no express letter for my two friends?"

"Quite sure, sir."

"Nor for me, M. Nicole?"

"No, sir."

"That's curious," said Lupin. "We were certain that we should hear from
Mme. Audran."

Audran was the name under which Clarisse was staying at the hotel.

"But the lady has been," said the proprietor.

"What's that?"

"She came some time ago and, as the gentlemen were not there, left a
letter in her room. Didn't the porter tell you?"

Lupin and his friends hurried upstairs. There was a letter on the table.

"Hullo!" said Lupin. "It's been opened! How is that? And why has it been
cut about with scissors?"

The letter contained the following lines:

 "Daubrecq has spent the week at the Hotel Central.  This morning
 he had his luggage taken to the Gare de ---  and telephoned to
 reserve a berth in the sleeping-car --- for ---

 "I do not know when the train starts.  But I shall be at the
 station all the afternoon.  Come as soon as you can, all three
 of you.  We will arrange to kidnap him."

"What next?" said the Masher. "At which station? And where's the
sleeping-car for? She has cut out just the words we wanted!"

"Yes," said the Growler. "Two snips with the scissors in each place; and
the words which we most want are gone. Who ever saw such a thing? Has
Mme. Mergy lost her head?"

Lupin did not move. A rush of blood was beating at his temples with such
violence that he glued his fists to them and pressed with all his might.
His fever returned, burning and riotous, and his will, incensed to the
verge of physical suffering, concentrated itself upon that stealthy
enemy, which must be controlled then and there, if he himself did not
wish to be irretrievably beaten.

He muttered, very calmly:

"Daubrecq has been here."

"Daubrecq!"

"We can't suppose that Mme. Mergy has been amusing herself by cutting
out those two words. Daubrecq has been here. Mme. Mergy thought that she
was watching him. He was watching her instead."

"How?"

"Doubtless through that hall-porter who did not tell us that Mme. Mergy
had been to the hotel, but who must have told Daubrecq. He came. He
read the letter. And, by way of getting at us, he contented himself with
cutting out the essential words."

"We can find out... we can ask..."

"What's the good? What's the use of finding out how he came, when we
know that he did come?"

He examined the letter for some time, turned it over and over, then
stood up and said:

"Come along."

"Where to?"

"Gare de Lyon."

"Are you sure?"

"I am sure of nothing with Daubrecq. But, as we have to choose,
according to the contents of the letter, between the Gare de l'Est and
the Gare de Lyon, [*] I am presuming that his business, his pleasure
and his health are more likely to take Daubrecq in the direction of
Marseilles and the Riviera than to the Gare de l'Est."

     * These are the only two main-line stations in Paris with the
     word de in their name.  The others have du, as the Gare du
     Nord or the Gare du Luxembourg, d' as the Gare d'Orleans, or
     no participle at all, as the Gare Saint-Lazare or the Gare
     Montparnasse.--Translator's Note.

It was past seven when Lupin and his companions left the Hotel Franklin.
A motor-car took them across Paris at full speed, but they soon saw that
Clarisse Mergy was not outside the station, nor in the waiting-rooms,
nor on any of the platforms.

"Still," muttered Lupin, whose agitation grew as the obstacles
increased, "still, if Daubrecq booked a berth in a sleeping-car, it can
only have been in an evening train. And it is barely half-past seven!"

A train was starting, the night express. They had time to rush along the
corridor. Nobody... neither Mme. Mergy nor Daubrecq...

But, as they were all three going, a porter accosted them near the
refreshment-room:

"Is one of you gentlemen looking for a lady?"

"Yes, yes,... I am," said Lupin. "Quick, what is it?"

"Oh, it's you, sir! The lady told me there might be three of you or two
of you.... And I didn't know..."

"But, in heaven's name, speak, man! What lady?"

"The lady who spent the whole day on the pavement, with the luggage,
waiting."

"Well, out with it! Has she taken a train?"

"Yes, the train-de-luxe, at six-thirty: she made up her mind at the last
moment, she told me to say. And I was also to say that the gentleman was
in the same train and that they were going to Monte Carlo."

"Damn it!" muttered Lupin. "We ought to have taken the express just now!
There's nothing left but the evening trains, and they crawl! We've lost
over three hours."

The wait seemed interminable. They booked their seats. They telephoned
to the proprietor of the Hotel Franklin to send on their letters to
Monte Carlo. They dined. They read the papers. At last, at half-past
nine, the train started.

And so, by a really tragic series of circumstances, at the most critical
moment of the contest, Lupin was turning his back on the battlefield and
going away, at haphazard, to seek, he knew not where, and beat, he knew
not how, the most formidable and elusive enemy that he had ever fought.

And this was happening four days, five days at most, before the
inevitable execution of Gilbert and Vaucheray.

It was a bad and painful night for Lupin. The more he studied the
situation the more terrible it appeared to him. On every side he was
faced with uncertainty, darkness, confusion, helplessness.

True, he knew the secret of the crystal stopper. But how was he to know
that Daubrecq would not change or had not already changed his tactics?
How was he to know that the list of the Twenty-seven was still inside
that crystal stopper or that the crystal stopper was still inside the
object where Daubrecq had first hidden it?

And there was a further serious reason for alarm in the fact that
Clarisse Mergy thought that she was shadowing and watching Daubrecq at
a time when, on the contrary, Daubrecq was watching her, having her
shadowed and dragging her, with diabolical cleverness, toward the places
selected by himself, far from all help or hope of help.

Oh, Daubrecq's game was clear as daylight! Did not Lupin know the
unhappy woman's hesitations? Did he not know--and the Growler and the
Masher confirmed it most positively--that Clarisse looked upon the
infamous bargain planned by Daubrecq in the light of a possible, an
acceptable thing? In that case, how could he, Lupin, succeed? The logic
of events, so powerfully moulded by Daubrecq, led to a fatal result: the
mother must sacrifice herself and, to save her son, throw her scruples,
her repugnance, her very honour, to the winds!

"Oh, you scoundrel!" snarled Lupin, in a fit of rage. "If I get hold of
you, I'll make you dance to a pretty tune! I wouldn't be in your shoes
for a great deal, when that happens."

They reached Monte Carlo at three o'clock in the afternoon. Lupin was at
once disappointed not to see Clarisse on the platform at the station.

He waited. No messenger came up to him.

He asked the porters and ticket-collectors if they had noticed, among
the crowd, two travellers answering to the description of Daubrecq and
Clarisse. They had not.

He had, therefore, to set to work and hunt through all the hotels and
lodging-houses in the principality. Oh, the time wasted!

By the following evening, Lupin knew, beyond a doubt, that Daubrecq and
Clarisse were not at Monte Carlo, nor at Monaco, nor at the Cap d'Ail,
nor at La Turbie, nor at Cap Martin.

"Where can they be then?" he wondered, trembling with rage.

At last, on the Saturday, he received, at the poste restante, a telegram
which had been readdressed from the Hotel Franklin and which said:

 "He got out at Cannes and is going on to San Remo, Hotel Palace
 des Ambassadeurs.

         "CLARISSE."

The telegram was dated the day before.

"Hang it!" exclaimed Lupin. "They passed through Monte Carlo. One of us
ought to have remained at the station. I did think of it; but, in the
midst of all that bustle..."

Lupin and his friends took the first train for Italy.

They crossed the frontier at twelve o'clock. The train entered the
station at San Remo at twelve-forty.

They at once saw an hotel-porter, with "Ambassadeurs-Palace" on his
braided cap, who seemed to be looking for some one among the arrivals.

Lupin went up to him:

"Are you looking for M. Nicole?"

"Yes, M. Nicole and two gentlemen."

"From a lady?"

"Yes, Mme. Mergy."

"Is she staying at your hotel?"

"No. She did not get out. She beckoned to me, described you three
gentlemen and told me to say that she was going on to Genoa, to the
Hotel Continental."

"Was she by herself?"

"Yes."

Lupin tipped the man, dismissed him and turned to his friends:

"This is Saturday. If the execution takes place on Monday, there's
nothing to be done. But Monday is not a likely day... What I have to do
is to lay hands on Daubrecq to-night and to be in Paris on Monday, with
the document. It's our last chance. Let's take it."

The Growler went to the booking-office and returned with three tickets
for Genoa.

The engine whistled.

Lupin had a last hesitation:

"No, really, it's too childish! What are we doing? We ought to be in
Paris, not here!... Just think!..."

He was on the point of opening the door and jumping out on the permanent
way. But his companions held him back. The train started. He sat down
again.

And they continued their mad pursuit, travelling at random, toward the
unknown...

And this happened two days before the inevitable execution of Gilbert
and Vaucheray.


CHAPTER X. EXTRA-DRY?

On one of the hills that girdle Nice with the finest scenery in the
world, between the Vallon de Saint-Silvestre and the Vallon de La
Mantega, stands a huge hotel which overlooks the town and the wonderful
Baie des Anges. A crowd flocks to it from all parts, forming a medley of
every class and nation.

On the evening of the same Saturday when Lupin, the Growler and the
Masher were plunging into Italy, Clarisse Mergy entered this hotel,
asked for a bedroom facing south and selected No. 130, on the second
floor, a room which had been vacant since that morning.

The room was separated from No. 129 by two partition-doors. As soon as
she was alone, Clarisse pulled back the curtain that concealed the first
door, noiselessly drew the bolt and put her ear to the second door:

"He is here," she thought. "He is dressing to go to the club... as he
did yesterday."

When her neighbour had gone, she went into the passage and, availing
herself of a moment when there was no one in sight, walked up to the
door of No. 129. The door was locked.

She waited all the evening for her neighbour's return and did not go to
bed until two o'clock. On Sunday morning, she resumed her watch.

The neighbour went out at eleven. This time he left the key in the door.

Hurriedly turning the key, Clarisse entered boldly, went to the
partition-door, raised the curtain, drew the bolt and found herself in
her own room.

In a few minutes, she heard two chambermaids doing the room in No. 129.

She waited until they were gone. Then, feeling sure that she would not
be disturbed, she once more slipped into the other room.

Her excitement made her lean against a chair. After days and nights of
stubborn pursuit, after alternate hopes and disappointments, she had at
last succeeded in entering a room occupied by Daubrecq. She could look
about at her ease; and, if she did not discover the crystal stopper, she
could at least hide in the space between the partition-doors, behind the
hanging, see Daubrecq, spy upon his movements and surprise his secret.

She looked around her. A travelling-bag at once caught her attention.
She managed to open it; but her search was useless.

She ransacked the trays of a trunk and the compartments of a
portmanteau. She searched the wardrobe, the writing-table, the chest
of drawers, the bathroom, all the tables, all the furniture. She found
nothing.

She gave a start when she saw a scrap of paper on the balcony, lying as
though flung there by accident:

"Can it be a trick of Daubrecq's?" she thought, out loud. "Can that
scrap of paper contain..."

"No," said a voice behind her, as she put her hand on the latch.

She turned and saw Daubrecq.

She felt neither astonishment nor alarm, nor even any embarrassment at
finding herself face to face with him. She had suffered too deeply for
months to trouble about what Daubrecq could think of her or say, at
catching her in the act of spying.

She sat down wearily.

He grinned:

"No, you're out of it, dear friend. As the children say, you're not
'burning' at all. Oh, not a bit of it! And it's so easy! Shall I help
you? It's next to you, dear friend, on that little table... And yet,
by Jove, there's not much on that little table! Something to read,
something to write with, something to smoke, something to eat... and
that's all... Will you have one of these candied fruits?... Or perhaps
you would rather wait for the more substantial meal which I have
ordered?"

Clarisse made no reply. She did not even seem to listen to what he was
saying, as though she expected other words, more serious words, which he
could not fail to utter.

He cleared the table of all the things that lay upon it and put them on
the mantel-piece. Then he rang the bell.

A head-waiter appeared. Daubrecq asked:

"Is the lunch which I ordered ready?"

"Yes, sir."

"It's for two, isn't it?"

"Yes, sir."

"And the champagne?"

"Yes, sir."

"Extra-dry?"

"Yes, sir."

Another waiter brought a tray and laid two covers on the table: a cold
lunch, some fruit and a bottle of champagne in an ice-pail.

Then the two waiters withdrew.

"Sit down, dear lady. As you see, I was thinking of you and your cover
is laid."

And, without seeming to observe that Clarisse was not at all prepared to
do honour to his invitation, he sat down, began to eat and continued:

"Yes, upon my word, I hoped that you would end by consenting to this
little private meeting. During the past week, while you were keeping so
assiduous a watch upon me, I did nothing but say to myself, 'I wonder
which she prefers: sweet champagne, dry champagne, or extra-dry?' I was
really puzzled. Especially after our departure from Paris. I had
lost your tracks, that is to say, I feared that you had lost mine and
abandoned the pursuit which was so gratifying to me. When I went for a
walk, I missed your beautiful dark eyes, gleaming with hatred under your
hair just touched with gray. But, this morning, I understood: the room
next to mine was empty at last; and my friend Clarisse was able to take
up her quarters, so to speak, by my bedside. From that moment I was
reassured. I felt certain that, on coming back--instead of lunching in
the restaurant as usual--I should find you arranging my things to your
convenience and suiting your own taste. That was why I ordered two
covers: one for your humble servant, the other for his fair friend."

She was listening to him now and in the greatest terror. So Daubrecq
knew that he was spied upon! For a whole week he had seen through her
and all her schemes!

In a low voice, anxious-eyed, she asked:

"You did it on purpose, did you not? You only went away to drag me with
you?"

"Yes," he said.

"But why? Why?"

"Do you mean to say that you don't know?" retorted Daubrecq, laughing
with a little cluck of delight.

She half-rose from her chair and, bending toward him, thought, as she
thought each time, of the murder which she could commit, of the murder
which she would commit. One revolver-shot and the odious brute was done
for.

Slowly her hand glided to the weapon concealed in her bodice.

Daubrecq said:

"One second, dear friend... You can shoot presently; but I beg you first
to read this wire which I have just received."

She hesitated, not knowing what trap he was laying for her; but he went
on, as he produced a telegram:

"It's about your son."

"Gilbert?" she asked, greatly concerned.

"Yes, Gilbert... Here, read it."

She gave a yell of dismay. She had read:

 "Execution on Tuesday morning."

And she at once flung herself on Daubrecq, crying:

"It's not true!... It's a lie... to madden me... Oh, I know you: you are
capable of anything! Confess! It won't be on Tuesday, will it? In two
days! No, no... I tell you, we have four days yet, five days, in which
to save him... Confess it, confess it!"

She had no strength left, exhausted by this fit of rebellion; and her
voice uttered none but inarticulate sounds.

He looked at her for a moment, then poured himself out a glass of
champagne and drank it down at a gulp. He took a few steps up and down
the room, came back to her and said:

"Listen to me, darling..."

The insult made her quiver with an unexpected energy. She drew herself
up and, panting with indignation, said:

"I forbid you... I forbid you to speak to me like that. I will not
accept such an outrage. You wretch!..."

He shrugged his shoulders and resumed:

"Pah, I see you're not quite alive to the position. That comes,
of course, because you still hope for assistance in some quarter.
Prasville, perhaps? The excellent Prasville, whose right hand you are...
My dear friend, a forlorn hope... You must know that Prasville is mixed
up in the Canal affair! Not directly: that is to say, his name is not on
the list of the Twenty-seven; but it is there under the name of one of
his friends, an ex-deputy called Vorenglade, Stanislas Vorenglade, his
man of straw, apparently: a penniless individual whom I left alone and
rightly. I knew nothing of all that until this morning, when, lo and
behold, I received a letter informing me of the existence of a bundle of
documents which prove the complicity of our one and only Prasville!
And who is my informant? Vorenglade himself! Vorenglade, who, tired of
living in poverty, wants to extort money from Prasville, at the risk of
being arrested, and who will be delighted to come to terms with me. And
Prasville will get the sack. Oh, what a lark! I swear to you that
he will get the sack, the villain! By Jove, but he's annoyed me long
enough! Prasville, old boy, you've deserved it..."

He rubbed his hands together, revelling in his coming revenge. And he
continued:

"You see, my dear Clarisse... there's nothing to be done in that
direction. What then? What straw will you cling to? Why, I was
forgetting: M. Arsene Lupin! Mr. Growler! Mr. Masher!... Pah, you'll
admit that those gentlemen have not shone and that all their feats of
prowess have not prevented me from going my own little way. It was bound
to be. Those fellows imagine that there's no one to equal them. When
they meet an adversary like myself, one who is not to be bounced, it
upsets them and they make blunder after blunder, while still believing
that they are hoodwinking him like mad. Schoolboys, that's what
they are! However, as you seem to have some illusions left about the
aforesaid Lupin, as you are counting on that poor devil to crush me and
to work a miracle in favour of your innocent Gilbert, come, let's dispel
that illusion. Oh! Lupin! Lord above, she believes in Lupin! She
places her last hopes in Lupin! Lupin! Just wait till I prick you, my
illustrious windbag!"

He took up the receiver of the telephone which communicated with the
hall of the hotel and said:

"I'm No. 129, mademoiselle. Would you kindly ask the person sitting
opposite your office to come up to me?... Huh!... Yes, mademoiselle, the
gentleman in a gray felt hat. He knows. Thank you, mademoiselle."

Hanging up the receiver, he turned to Clarisse:

"Don't be afraid. The man is discretion itself. Besides, it's the motto
of his trade: 'Discretion and dispatch.' As a retired detective, he has
done me a number of services, including that of following you while you
were following me. Since our arrival in the south, he has been less
busy with you; but that was because he was more busy elsewhere. Come in,
Jacob."

He himself opened the door, and a short, thin man, with a red moustache,
entered the room.

"Please tell this lady, Jacob, in a few brief words, what you have
done since Wednesday evening, when, after letting her get into the
train-de-luxe which was taking me from the Gare de Lyon to the south,
you yourself remained on the platform at the station. Of course, I am
not asking how you spent your time, except in so far as concerns the
lady and the business with which I entrusted you."

Jacob dived into the inside-pocket of his jacket and produced a little
note-book of which he turned over the pages and read them aloud in the
voice of a man reading a report:

"Wednesday evening, 8.15. Gare de Lyon. Wait for two gents, Growler and
Masher. They come with another whom I don't know yet, but who can only
be M. Nicole. Give a porter ten francs for the loan of his cap and
blouse. Accost the gents and tell them, from a lady, 'that they were
gone to Monte Carlo.' Next, telephone to the porter at the Hotel
Franklin. All telegrams sent to his boss and dispatched by said boss
will be read by said hotel-porter and, if necessary, intercepted.

"Thursday. Monte Carlo. The three gents search the hotels.

"Friday. Flying visits to La Turbie, the Cap d'Ail, Cap Martin. M.
Daubrecq rings me up. Thinks it wiser to send the gents to Italy. Make
the porter of the Hotel Franklin send them a telegram appointing a
meeting at San Remo.

"Saturday. San Remo. Station platform. Give the porter of the
Ambassadeurs-Palace ten francs for the loan of his cap. The three gents
arrive. They speak to me. Explain to them that a lady traveller,
Mme. Mergy, is going on to Genoa, to the Hotel Continental. The gents
hesitate. M. Nicole wants to get out. The others hold him back. The
train starts. Good luck, gents! An hour later, I take the train for
France and get out at Nice, to await fresh orders."

Jacob closed his note-book and concluded:

"That's all. To-day's doings will be entered this evening."

"You can enter them now, M. Jacob. '12 noon. M. Daubrecq sends me to the
Wagon-Lits Co. I book two berths in the Paris sleeping-car, by the 2.48
train, and send them to M. Daubrecq by express messenger. Then I take
the 12.58 train for Vintimille, the frontier-station, where I spend
the day on the platform watching all the travellers who come to France.
Should Messrs. Nicole, Growler and Masher take it into their heads to
leave Italy and return to Paris by way of Nice, my instructions are to
telegraph to the headquarters of police that Master Arsene Lupin and two
of his accomplices are in train number so-and-so."

While speaking, Daubrecq led Jacob to the door. He closed it after him,
turned the key, pushed the bolt and, going up to Clarisse, said:

"And now, darling, listen to me."

This time, she uttered no protest. What could she do against such an
enemy, so powerful, so resourceful, who provided for everything, down to
the minutest details, and who toyed with his adversaries in such an airy
fashion? Even if she had hoped till then for Lupin's interference, how
could she do so now, when he was wandering through Italy in pursuit of a
shadow?

She understood at last why three telegrams which she had sent to the
Hotel Franklin had remained unanswered. Daubrecq was there, lurking in
the dark, watching, establishing a void around her, separating her from
her comrades in the fight, bringing her gradually, a beaten prisoner,
within the four walls of that room.

She felt her weakness. She was at the monster's mercy. She must be
silent and resigned.

He repeated, with an evil delight:

"Listen to me, darling. Listen to the irrevocable words which I am about
to speak. Listen to them well. It is now 12 o'clock. The last train
starts at 2.48: you understand, the last train that can bring me to
Paris to-morrow, Monday, in time to save your son. The evening-trains
would arrive too late. The trains-de-luxe are full up. Therefore I shall
have to start at 2.48. Am I to start?"

"Yes."

"Our berths are booked. Will you come with me?"

"Yes."

"You know my conditions for interfering?"

"Yes."

"Do you accept them?"

"Yes."

"You will marry me?"

"Yes."

Oh, those horrible answers! The unhappy woman gave them in a sort of
awful torpor, refusing even to understand what she was promising. Let
him start first, let him snatch Gilbert from the engine of death whose
vision haunted her day and night... And then... and then... let what
must come come...

He burst out laughing:

"Oh, you rogue, it's easily said!... You're ready to pledge yourself to
anything, eh? The great thing is to save Gilbert, isn't it? Afterward,
when that noodle of a Daubrecq comes with his engagement-ring, not a
bit of it! Nothing doing! We'll laugh in his face!... No, no, enough
of empty words. I don't want promises that won't be kept: I want facts,
immediate facts."

He came and sat close beside her and stated, plainly:

"This is what I propose... what must be... what shall be... I will ask,
or rather I will demand, not Gilbert's pardon, to begin with, but a
reprieve, a postponement of the execution, a postponement of three
or four weeks. They will invent a pretext of some sort: that's not my
affair. And, when Mme. Mergy has become Mme. Daubrecq, then and not till
then will I ask for his pardon, that is to say, the commutation of his
sentence. And make yourself quite easy: they'll grant it."

"I accept... I accept," she stammered.

He laughed once more:

"Yes, you accept, because that will happen in a month's time... and
meanwhile you reckon on finding some trick, an assistance of some kind
or another... M. Arsene Lupin..."

"I swear it on the head of my son."

"The head of your son!... Why, my poor pet, you would sell yourself to
the devil to save it from falling!..."

"Oh, yes," she whispered, shuddering. "I would gladly sell my soul!"

He sidled up against her and, in a low voice:

"Clarisse, it's not your soul I ask for... It's something else... For
more than twenty years my life has spun around that longing. You are the
only woman I have ever loved... Loathe me, hate me--I don't care--but do
not spurn me... Am I to wait? To wait another month?... No, Clarisse, I
have waited too many years already..."

He ventured to touch her hand. Clarisse shrank back with such disgust
that he was seized with fury and cried:

"Oh, I swear to heaven, my beauty, the executioner won't stand on such
ceremony when he catches hold of your son!... And you give yourself
airs! Why, think, it'll happen in forty hours! Forty hours, no more, and
you hesitate... and you have scruples, when your son's life is at stake!
Come, come, no whimpering, no silly sentimentality... Look things in
the face. By your own oath, you are my wife, you are my bride from this
moment... Clarisse, Clarisse, give me your lips..."

Half-fainting, she had hardly the strength to put out her arm and push
him away; and, with a cynicism in which all his abominable nature stood
revealed, Daubrecq, mingling words of cruelty and words of passion,
continued:

"Save your son!... Think of the last morning: the preparations for the
scaffold, when they snip away his shirt and cut his hair... Clarisse,
Clarisse, I will save him... Be sure of it... All my life shall be yours
... Clarisse..."

She no longer resisted. It was over. The loathsome brute's lips were
about to touch hers; and it had to be, and nothing could prevent it.
It was her duty to obey the decree of fate. She had long known it. She
understood it; and, closing her eyes, so as not to see the foul face
that was slowly raised to hers, she repeated to herself:

"My son... my poor son."

A few seconds passed: ten, twenty perhaps. Daubrecq did not move.
Daubrecq did not speak. And she was astounded at that great silence and
that sudden quiet. Did the monster, at the last moment, feel a scruple
of remorse?

She raised her eyelids.

The sight which she beheld struck her with stupefaction. Instead of
the grinning features which she expected to see, she saw a motionless,
unrecognizable face, contorted by an expression of unspeakable terror:
and the eyes, invisible under the double impediment of the spectacles,
seemed to be staring above her head, above the chair in which she lay
prostrate.

It was, therefore, necessary that we should be hurried away with all
possible speed. As we had had no news from Sherman since the end of the
Atlanta campaign, and were ignorant of his having begun his great raid,
we were at an utter loss to account for the commotion among our
keepers.

About 3 o'clock in the morning the Rebel Sergeants, who called the roll,
came in and ordered us to turn out immediately and get ready to move.

The morning was one of the most cheerless I ever knew.

A cold rain poured relentlessly down upon us half-naked, shivering
wretches, as we groped around in the darkness for our pitiful
little belongings of rags and cooking utensils, and huddled together
in groups, urged on continually by the curses and abuse of the Rebel
officers sent in to get us ready to move.

Though roused at 3 o'clock, the cars were not ready to receive us till
nearly noon. In the meantime we stood in ranks--numb, trembling, and
heart-sick.

The guards around us crouched over fires, and shielded themselves as best
they could with blankets and bits of tent cloth.

We had nothing to build fires with, and were not allowed to approach
those of the guards.

Around us everywhere was the dull, cold, gray, hopeless desolation of
the approach of minter. The hard, wiry grass that thinly covered the
once and sand, the occasional stunted weeds, and the sparse foliage of
the gnarled and dwarfish undergrowth, all were parched brown and
sere by the fiery heat of the long Summer, and now rattled drearily
under the pitiless, cold rain, streaming from lowering clouds that
seemed to have floated down to us from the cheerless summit of some
great iceberg; the tall, naked pines moaned and shivered; dead,
sapless leaves fell wearily to the sodden earth, like withered hopes
drifting down to deepen some Slough of Despond.

Scores of our crowd found this the culmination of their misery. They
laid down upon the ground and yielded to death as s welcome relief,
and we left them lying there unburied when we moved to the cars.

As we passed through the Rebel camp at dawn, on our way to the cars,
Andrews and I noticed a nest of four large, bright, new tin pans--a
rare thing in the Confederacy at that time.

We managed to snatch them without the guard's attention being
attracted, and in an instant had them wrapped up in our blanket. But
the blanket was full of holes, and in spite of all our efforts, it would
slip at the most inconvenient times, so as to show a broad glare
of the bright metal, just when it seemed it could not help attracting
the attention of the guards or their officers.

A dozen times at least we were on the imminent brink of detection,
but we finally got our treasures safely to the cars, and sat down upon
them.

The cars were open flats.

The rain still beat down unrelentingly.
Andrews and I huddled ourselves together so as to make our bodies afford
as much heat as possible, pulled our faithful old overcoat around
us as far as it would go, and endured the inclemency as best we
could.

Our train headed back to Savannah, and again our hearts warmed up
with hopes of exchange. It seemed as if there could be no other purpose
of taking us out of a prison so recently established and at such
cost as Millen.

As we approached the coast the rain ceased, but a piercing cold
wind set in, that threatened to convert our soaked rags into
icicles.

Very many died on the way. When we arrived at Savannah almost, if not
quite, every car had upon it one whom hunger no longer gnawed or disease
wasted; whom cold had pinched for the last time, and for whom the
golden portals of the Beyond had opened for an exchange that neither
Davis nor his despicable tool, Winder, could control.

We did not sentimentalize over these. We could not mourn; the thousands
that we had seen pass away made that emotion hackneyed and wearisome;
with the death of some friend and comrade as regularly an event
of each day as roll call and drawing rations, the sentiment of grief
had become nearly obsolete.

We were not hardened; we had simply come to look upon death as
commonplace and ordinary.

To have had no one dead or dying around us would have been regarded
as singular.

Besides, why should we feel any regret at the passing away of those
whose condition would probably be bettered thereby!

It was difficult to see where we who still lived were any better off than
they who were gone before and now "forever at peace, each in his
windowless palace of rest." If imprisonment was to continue only
another month, we would rather be with them.

Arriving at Savannah, we were ordered off the cars. A squad from each
car carried the dead to a designated spot, and land them in a row,
composing their limbs as well as possible, but giving no other
funeral rites, not even making a record of their names and regiments.

Negro laborers came along afterwards, with carts, took the bodies
to some vacant ground, and sunk them out of sight in the sand.

We were given a few crackers each--the same rude imitation of "hard
tack" that had been served out to us when we arrived at Savannah the
first time, and then were marched over and put upon a train on the Atlantic
& Gulf Railroad, running from Savannah along the sea coast towards
Florida.

What this meant we had little conception, but hope, which sprang
eternal in the prisoner's breast, whispered that perhaps it was
exchange; that there was some difficulty about our vessels coming
to Savannah, and we were being taken to some other more convenient
sea port; probably to Florida, to deliver us to our folks there.

We satisfied ourselves that we were running along the sea coast by
tasting the water in the streams we crossed, whenever we could get
an opportunity to dip up some. As long as the water tasted salty we
knew we were near the sea, and hope burned brightly.

The truth was--as we afterwards learned--the Rebels were terribly puzzled
what to do with us. We were brought to Savannah, but that did not solve
the problem; and we were sent down the Atlantic & Gulf road as a temporary
expedient.

The railroad was the worst of the many bad ones which it was my
fortune to ride upon in my excursions while a guest of the Southern
Confederacy.

It had run down until it had nearly reached the worn-out condition
of that Western road, of which an employee of a rival route once
said, "that all there was left of it now was two streaks of rust
and the right of way."

As it was one of the non-essential roads to the Southern Confederacy,
it was stripped of the best of its rolling-stock and machinery to
supply the other more important lines.

I have before mentioned the scarcity of grease in the South, and the
difficulty of supplying the railroads with lubricants. Apparently
there had been no oil on the Atlantic & Gulf since the beginning
of the war, and the screeches of the dry axles revolving in the worn-out
boxes were agonizing.

Some thing would break on the cars or blow out on the engine every few
miles, necessitating a long stop for repairs.

Then there was no supply of fuel along the line. When the engine ran
out of wood it would halt, and a couple of negros riding on the
tender would assail a panel of fence or a fallen tree with their
axes, and after an hour or such matter of hard chopping, would pile
sufficient wood upon the tender to enable us to renew our journey.

Frequently the engine stopped as if from sheer fatigue or inanition.
The Rebel officers tried to get us to assist it up the grade by
dismounting and pushing behind.

We respectfully, but firmly, declined.

We were gentlemen of leisure, we said, and decidedly averse to
manual labor; we had been invited on this excursion by Mr.

Jeff. Davis and his friends, who set themselves up as our entertainers,
and it would be a gross breach of hospitality to reflect upon our hosts
by working our passage.

If this was insisted upon, we should certainly not visit them again.
Besides, it made no difference to us whether the train got along
or not.

We were not losing anything by the delay; we were not anxious to
go anywhere.

One part of the Southern Confederacy was just as good as another to
us.

So not a finger could they persuade any of us to raise to help along the
journey.

The country we were traversing was sterile and poor--worse even
than that in the neighborhood of Andersonville.

Farms and farmhouses were scarce, and of towns there were none. Not even
a collection of houses big enough to justify a blacksmith shop or
a store appeared along the whole route.

But few fields of any kind were seen, and nowhere was there a farm
which gave evidence of a determined effort on the part of its
occupants to till the soil and to improve their condition.

When the train stopped for wood, or for repairs, or from exhaustion,
we were allowed to descend from the cars and stretch our numbed
limbs.

It did us good in other ways, too. It seemed almost happiness to be outside
of those cursed Stockades, to rest our eyes by looking away through the
woods, and seeing birds and animals that were free.

They must be happy, because to us to be free once more was the
summit of earthly happiness.

There was a chance, too, to pick up something green to eat, and we
were famishing for this. The scurvy still lingered in our systems,
and we were hungry for an antidote. A plant grew rather plentifully
along the track that looked very much as I imagine a palm leaf fan does
in its green state. The leaf was not so large as an ordinary
palm leaf fan, and came directly out of the ground. The natives called
it "bull-grass," but anything more unlike grass I never saw, so we
rejected that nomenclature, and dubbed them "green fans."

They were very hard to pull up, it being usually as much as the strongest
of us could do to draw them out of the ground. When pulled up there was
found the smallest bit of a stock--not as much as a joint of one's little
finger--that was eatable.
It had no particular taste, and probably little nutriment, still it
was fresh and green, and we strained our weak muscles and enfeebled
sinews at every opportunity, endeavoring to pull up a "green fan."

At one place where we stopped there was a makeshift of a garden, one of
those sorry "truck patches," which do poor duty about Southern cabins
for the kitchen gardens of the Northern, farmers, and produce a few coarse
cow peas, a scanty lot of collards (a coarse kind of cabbage, with
a stalk about a yard long) and some onions to vary the usual side-meat
and corn pone, diet of the Georgia "cracker."

Scanning the patch's ruins of vine and stalk, Andrews espied a
handful of onions, which had; remained ungathered.

They tempted him as the apple did Eve. Without stopping to communicate
his intention to me, he sprang from the car, snatched the onions from
their bed, pulled up, half a dozen collard stalks and was on his
way back before the guard could make up his mind to fire upon him.

The swiftness of his motions saved his life, for had he been more
deliberate the guard would have concluded he was trying to, escape,
and shot him down.

As it was he was returning back before the guard could get his gun up.
The onions he had, secured were to us more delicious than wine
upon the lees.

They seemed to find their way into every fiber of our bodies, and
invigorate every organ.

The collard stalks he had snatched up, in the expectation of finding in
them something resembling the nutritious "heart" that we remembered as
children, seeking and, finding in the stalks of cabbage.

But we were disappointed. The stalks were as dry and rotten as the bones
of Southern, society. Even hunger could find no meat in them.

After some days of this leisurely journeying toward the South, we
halted permanently about eighty-six miles from Savannah.

There was no reason why we should stop there more than any place
else where we had been or were likely to go.

It seemed as if the Rebels had simply tired of hauling us, and
dumped us, off.

We had another lot of dead, accumulated since we left Savannah, and
the scenes at that place were repeated.

The train returned for another load of prisoners.

CHAPTER LXV.

BLACKSHEAR AND PIERCE COUNTRY--WE TAKE UP NEW QUARTERS, BUT ARE CALLED
OUT FOR EXCHANGE--EXCITEMENT OVER SIGNING THE PAROLE--A HAPPY JOURNEY TO
SAVANNAH--GRIEVOUS DISAPPOINTMENT
We were informed that the place we were at was Blackshear, and that it
was the Court House, i. e., the County seat of Pierce County.

Where they kept the Court House, or County seat, is beyond conjecture
to me, since I could not see a half dozen houses in the whole clearing,
and not one of them was a respectable dwelling, taking even so low a
standard for respectable dwellings as that afforded by the majority
of Georgia houses.

Pierce County, as I have since learned by the census report, is one
of the poorest Counties of a poor section of a very poor State.

A population of less than two thousand is thinly scattered over its
five hundred square miles of territory, and gain a meager subsistence
by a weak simulation of cultivating patches of its sandy dunes and
plains in "nubbin" corn and dropsical sweet potatos.

A few "razor-back" hogs --a species so gaunt and thin that I heard a
man once declare that he had stopped a lot belonging to a neighbor from
crawling through the cracks of a tight board fence by simply tying
a knot in their tails--roam the woods, and supply all the meat used.

Andrews used to insist that some of the hogs which we saw were so thin
that the connection between their fore and hindquarters was only
a single thickness of skin, with hair on both sides--but then Andrews
sometimes seemed to me to have a tendency to exaggerate.

The swine certainly did have proportions that strongly resembled
those of the animals which children cut out of cardboard.

They were like the geometrical definition of a superfice--all length
and breadth, and no thickness.

A ham from them would look like a palm-leaf fan.

I never ceased to marvel at the delicate adjustment of the development
of animal life to the soil in these lean sections of Georgia.

The poor land would not maintain anything but lank, lazy men, with few
wants, and none but lank, lazy men, with few wants, sought a
maintenance from it. I may have tangled up cause and effect, in this
proposition, but if so, the reader can disentangle them at his leisure.

I was not astonished to learn that it took five hundred square miles
of Pierce County land to maintain two thousand "crackers," even
as poorly as they lived.

I should want fully that much of it to support one fair-sized
Northern family as it should be.

After leaving the cars we were marched off into the pine woods, by the
side of a considerable stream, and told that this was to be our camp.
A heavy guard was placed around us, and a number of pieces of
artillery mounted where they would command the camp.

We started in to make ourselves comfortable, as at Millen, by building
shanties.

The prisoners we left behind followed us, and we soon had our
old crowd of five or six thousand, who had been our companions at
Savannah and Millers, again with us.

The place looked very favorable for escape.

We knew we were still near the sea coast--really not more than forty
miles away--and we felt that if we could once get there we should
be safe.

Andrews and I meditated plans of escape, and toiled away at our
cabin.

About a week after our arrival we were startled by an order for the
one thousand of us who had first arrived to get ready to move out. In
a few minutes we were taken outside the guard line, massed close
together, and informed in a few words by a Rebel officer that we were
about to be taken back to Savannah for exchange.

The announcement took away our breath.

For an instant the rush of emotion made us speechless, and when utterance
returned, the first use we made of it was to join in one simultaneous
outburst of acclamation.

 Those inside the guard line, understanding what our cheer meant,
answered us with a loud shout of congratulation--the first real,
genuine, hearty cheering that had been done since receiving the
announcement of the exchange at Andersonville, three months before.

 As soon as the excitement had subsided somewhat, the
 Rebel proceeded to explain that we would all be required to sign
a parole.

        This set us to thinking.

After our scornful rejection of the proposition to enlist in the
Rebel army, the Rebels had felt around among us considerably as to
how we were disposed toward taking what was called the "Non-Combatant's
Oath;" that is, the swearing not to take up arms against the Southern
Confederacy again during the war.

To the most of us this seemed only a little less dishonorable than
joining the Rebel army.

We held that our oaths to our own Government placed us at its
disposal until it chose to discharge us, and we could not make any
engagements with its enemies that might come in contravention of
that duty.

In short, it looked very much like desertion, and this we did not
feel at liberty to consider.

There were still many among us, who, feeling certain that they could
not survive imprisonment much longer, were disposed to look favorably
upon the Non-Combatant's Oath, thinking that the circumstances of
the case would justify their apparent dereliction from duty.

Whether it would or not I must leave to more skilled casuists than
myself to decide.

It was a matter I believed every man must settle with his own conscience.
The opinion that I then held and expressed was, that if a boy, felt that
he was hopelessly sick, and that he could not live if he remained in
prison, he was justified in taking the Oath. In the absence of our own
Surgeons he would have to decide for himself whether he was sick
enough to be warranted in resorting to this means of saving his life.

If he was in as good health as the majority of us were, with a reasonable
prospect of surviving some weeks longer, there was no excuse for taking
the Oath, for in that few weeks we might be exchanged, be recaptured,
or make our escape.

I think this was the general opinion of the prisoners.

While the Rebel was talking about our signing the parole, there
flashed upon all of us at the same moment, a suspicion that this was
a trap to delude us into signing the Non-Combatant's Oath. Instantly
there went up a general shout:

"Read the parole to us."
The Rebel was handed a blank parole by a companion, and he read over
the printed condition at the top, which was that those signing agreed
not to bear arms against the Confederates in the field, or in garrison,
not to man any works, assist in any expedition, do any sort of guard
duty, serve in any military constabulary, or perform any kind of
military service until properly exchanged.

For a minute this was satisfactory; then their ingrained distrust of any
thing a Rebel said or did returned, and they shouted:

"No, no; let some of us read it; let Ilinoy' read it--"
The Rebel looked around in a puzzled manner.

"Who the h--l is 'Illinoy!' Where is he?" said he.

I saluted and said:

"That's a nickname they give me."
"Very well," said he, "get up on this stump and read this parole to
these d---d fools that won't believe me."
I mounted the stump, took the blank from his hand and read it over
slowly, giving as much emphasis as possible to the all-important clause
at the end--"until properly exchanged." I then said:

"Boys, this seems all right to me," and they answered, with almost one
voice:

"Yes, that's all right.

We'll sign that."
I was never so proud of the American soldier-boy as at that moment.
They all felt that signing that paper was to give them freedom and
life. They knew too well from sad experience what the alternative
was.

Many felt that unless released another week would see them in their
graves.

All knew that every day's stay in Rebel hands greatly lessened their
chances of life.

Yet in all that thousand there was not one voice in favor of yielding
a tittle of honor to save life.

They would secure their freedom honorably, or die faithfully. Remember
that this was a miscellaneous crowd of boys, gathered from all sections
of the country, and from many of whom no exalted conceptions of duty
and honor were expected. I wish some one would point out to me, on the
brightest pages of knightly record, some deed of fealty and truth that
equals the simple fidelity of these unknown heros.

I do not think that one of them felt that he was doing anything
especially meritorious.

He only obeyed the natural promptings of his loyal heart.

The business of signing the paroles was then begun in earnest. We were
separated into squads according to the first letters of our names,
all those whose name began with A being placed in one squad, those
beginning with B, in another, and so on. Blank paroles for each letter
were spread out on boxes and planks at different places, and the signing
went on under the superintendence of a Rebel Sergeant and one of the
prisoners.
The squad of M's selected me to superintend the signing for us, and I
stood by to direct the boys, and sign for the very few who could
not write. After this was done we fell into ranks again, called the
roll of the signers, and carefully compared the number of men with the
number of signatures so that nobody should pass unparoled. The oath
was then administered to us, and two day's rations of corn meal
and fresh beef were issued.

This formality removed the last lingering doubt that we had of the exchange
being a reality, and we gave way to the happiest emotions.
We cheered ourselves hoarse, and the fellows still inside followed our
example, as they expected that they would share our good fortune in a
day or two.

Our next performance was to set to work, cook our two days' rations
at once and eat them. This was not very difficult, as the whole supply
for two days would hardly make one square meal. That done, many of the
boys went to the guard line and threw their blankets, clothing, cooking
utensils, etc., to their comrades who were still inside. No one thought
they would have any further use for such things.

"To-morrow, at this time, thank Heaven," said a boy near me, as he tossed
his blanket and overcoat back to some one inside, "we'll be in God's
country, and then I wouldn't touch them d---d lousy old rags with a
ten-foot pole."
One of the boys in the M squad was a Maine infantryman, who had
been with me in the Pemberton building, in Richmond, and had fashioned
himself a little square pan out of a tin plate of a tobacco press,
such as I have described in an earlier chapter.

     He had carried it with him ever since, and it was his
     sole vessel for all purposes--for cooking, carrying water,
     drawing rations, etc.

He had cherished it as if it were a farm or a good situation.

But now, as he turned away from signing his name to the parole, he
looked at his faithful servant for a minute in undisguised contempt;
on the eve of restoration to happier, better things, it was a
reminder of all the petty, inglorious contemptible trials and sorrows
he had endured; he actually loathed it for its remembrances, and
flinging it upon the ground he crushed it out of all shape and
usefulness with his feet, trampling upon it as he would everything
connected with his prison life.

Months afterward I had to lend this man my little can to cook his
rations in.

Andrews and I flung the bright new tin pans we had stolen at Millen inside
the line, to be scrambled for.

It was hard to tell who were the most surprised at their appearance--the
Rebels or our own boys--for few had any idea that there were such
things in the whole Confederacy, and certainly none looked for them
in the possession of two such poverty-stricken specimens as we were.

We thought it best to retain possession of our little can, spoon,
chess-board, blanket, and overcoat.

As we marched down and boarded the train, the Rebels confirmed their
previous action by taking all the guards from around us.

Only some eight or ten were sent to the train, and these quartered
themselves in the caboose, and paid us no further attention.

The train rolled away amid cheering by ourselves and those we left
behind. One thousand happier boys than we never started on a journey.

We were going home. That was enough to wreathe the skies with glory, and
fill the world with sweetness and light. The wintry sun had something
of geniality and warmth, the landscape lost some of its repulsiveness,
the dreary palmettos had less of that hideousness which made us regard
them as very fitting emblems of treason. We even began to feel a little
good-humored contempt for our hateful little Brats of guards, and to
reflect how much vicious education and surroundings were to be held
responsible for their misdeeds.

We laughed and sang as we rolled along toward Savannah--going back much
faster than the came.

--the value of my share in it. That value, which has no limits,
must, I repeat, be exchanged for an unlimited value."

"Agreed," said Prasville, querulously.

"I presume, therefore, that it is unnecessary for me to trace the whole
story of the business or to enumerate, on the one hand, the disasters
which the possession of that paper would have allowed you to avert and,
on the other hand, the incalculable advantages which you will be able to
derive from its possession?"

Prasville had to make an effort to contain himself and to answer in a
tone that was civil, or nearly so:

"I admit everything. Is that enough?"

"I beg your pardon, but we cannot explain ourselves too plainly. And
there is one point that remains to be cleared up. Are you in a position
to treat, personally?"

"How do you mean?"

"I want to know not, of course, if you are empowered to settle this
business here and now, but if, in dealing with me, you represent the
views of those who know the business and who are qualified to settle
it."

"Yes," declared Prasville, forcibly.

"So that I can have your answer within an hour after I have told you my
conditions?"

"Yes."

"Will the answer be that of the government?"

"Yes."

Clarisse bent forward and, sinking her voice:

"Will the answer be that of the Elysee?"

Prasville appeared surprised. He reflected for a moment and then said:

"Yes."

"It only remains for me to ask you to give me your word of honour that,
however incomprehensible my conditions may appear to you, you will not
insist on my revealing the reason. They are what they are. Your answer
must be yes or no."

"I give you my word of honour," said Prasville, formally.

Clarisse underwent a momentary agitation that made her turn paler still.
Then, mastering herself, with her eyes fixed on Prasville's eyes, she
said:

"You shall have the list of the Twenty-seven in exchange for the pardon
of Gilbert and Vaucheray."

"Eh? What?"

Prasville leapt from his chair, looking absolutely dumbfounded:

"The pardon of Gilbert and Vaucheray? Of Arsene Lupin's accomplices?"

"Yes," she said.

"The murderers of the Villa Marie-Therese? The two who are due to die
to-morrow?"

"Yes, those two," she said, in a loud voice. "I ask? I demand their
pardon."

"But this is madness! Why? Why should you?"

"I must remind you, Prasville, that you gave me your word..."

"Yes... yes... I know... But the thing is so unexpected..."

"Why?"

"Why? For all sorts of reasons!"

"What reasons?"

"Well... well, but... think! Gilbert and Vaucheray have been sentenced
to death!"

"Send them to penal servitude: that's all you have to do."

"Impossible! The case has created an enormous sensation. They are Arsene
Lupin's accomplices. The whole world knows about the verdict."

"Well?"

"Well, we cannot, no, we cannot go against the decrees of justice."

"You are not asked to do that. You are asked for a commutation of
punishment as an act of mercy. Mercy is a legal thing."

"The pardoning-commission has given its finding..."

"True, but there remains the president of the Republic."

"He has refused."

"He can reconsider his refusal."

"Impossible!"

"Why?"

"There's no excuse for it."

"He needs no excuse. The right of mercy is absolute. It is exercised
without control, without reason, without excuse or explanation. It is a
royal prerogative; the president of the Republic can wield it according
to his good pleasure, or rather according to his conscience, in the best
interests of the State."

"But it is too late! Everything is ready. The execution is to take place
in a few hours."

"One hour is long enough to obtain your answer; you have just told us
so."

"But this is confounded madness! There are insuperable obstacles to your
conditions. I tell you again, it's impossible, physically impossible."

"Then the answer is no?"

"No! No! A thousand times no!"

"In that case, there is nothing left for us to do but to go."

She moved toward the door. M. Nicole followed her. Prasville bounded
across the room and barred their way:

"Where are you going?"

"Well, my friend, it seems to me that our conversation is at an end. As
you appear to think, as, in fact, you are certain that the president of
the Republic will not consider the famous list of the Twenty-seven to be
worth..."

"Stay where you are," said Prasville.

He turned the key in the door and began to pace the room, with his hands
behind his back and his eyes fixed on the floor.

And Lupin, who had not breathed a word during the whole of this scene
and who had prudently contented himself with playing a colourless part,
said to himself:

"What a fuss! What a lot of affectation to arrive at the inevitable
result! As though Prasville, who is not a genius, but not an absolute
blockhead either, would be likely to lose the chance of revenging
himself on his mortal enemy! There, what did I say? The idea of hurling
Daubrecq into the bottomless pit appeals to him. Come, we've won the
rubber."

Prasville was opening a small inner door which led to the office of his
private secretary.

He gave an order aloud:

"M. Lartigue, telephone to the Elysee and say that I request the favour
of an audience for a communication of the utmost importance."

He closed the door, came back to Clarisse and said:

"In any case, my intervention is limited to submitting your proposal."

"Once you submit it, it will be accepted."

A long silence followed. Clarisse's features expressed so profound a
delight that Prasville was struck by it and looked at her with attentive
curiosity. For what mysterious reason did Clarisse wish to save Gilbert
and Vaucheray? What was the incomprehensible link that bound her to
those two men? What tragedy connected those three lives and, no doubt,
Daubrecq's in addition?

"Go ahead, old boy," thought Lupin, "cudgel your brains: you'll never
spot it! Ah, if we had asked for Gilbert's pardon only, as Clarisse
wished, you might have twigged the secret! But Vaucheray, that brute of
a Vaucheray, there really could not be the least bond between Mme. Mergy
and him.... Aha, by Jingo, it's my turn now!... He's watching me ... The
inward soliloquy is turning upon myself... 'I wonder who that M. Nicole
can be? Why has that little provincial usher devoted himself body and
soul to Clarisse Mergy? Who is that old bore, if the truth were known? I
made a mistake in not inquiring... I must look into this.... I must
rip off the beggar's mask. For, after all, it's not natural that a man
should take so much trouble about a matter in which he is not directly
interested. Why should he also wish to save Gilbert and Vaucheray?
Why? Why should he?..." Lupin turned his head away. "Look out!... Look
out!... There's a notion passing through that red-tape-merchant's skull:
a confused notion which he can't put into words. Hang it all, he mustn't
suspect M. Lupin under M. Nicole! The thing's complicated enough as it
is, in all conscience!..."

But there was a welcome interruption. Prasville's secretary came to say
that the audience would take place in an hour's time.

"Very well. Thank you," said Prasville. "That will do."

And, resuming the interview, with no further circumlocution, speaking
like a man who means to put a thing through, he declared:

"I think that we shall be able to manage it. But, first of all, so that
I may do what I have undertaken to do, I want more precise information,
fuller details. Where was the paper?"

"In the crystal stopper, as we thought," said Mme. Mergy.

"And where was the crystal stopper?"

"In an object which Daubrecq came and fetched, a few days ago, from the
writing-desk in his study in the Square Lamartine, an object which I
took from him yesterday."

"What sort of object?"

"Simply a packet of tobacco, Maryland tobacco, which used to lie about
on the desk."

Prasville was petrified. He muttered, guilelessly:

"Oh, if I had only known! I've had my hand on that packet of Maryland a
dozen times! How stupid of me!"

"What does it matter?" said Clarisse. "The great thing is that the
discovery is made."

Prasville pulled a face which implied that the discovery would have been
much pleasanter if he himself had made it. Then he asked:

"So you have the list?"

"Yes."

"Show it to me."

And, when Clarisse hesitated, he added:

"Oh, please, don't be afraid! The list belongs to you, and I will give
it back to you. But you must understand that I cannot take the step in
question without making certain."

Clarisse consulted M. Nicole with a glance which did not escape
Prasville. Then she said:

"Here it is."

He seized the scrap of paper with a certain excitement, examined it and
almost immediately said:

"Yes, yes... the secretary's writing: I recognize it.... And the
signature of the chairman of the company: the signature in red....
Besides, I have other proofs.... For instance, the torn piece which
completes the left-hand top corner of this sheet..."

He opened his safe and, from a special cash-box, produced a tiny piece
of paper which he put against the top left corner:

"That's right. The torn edges fit exactly. The proof is undeniable. All
that remains is to verify the make of this foreign-post-paper."

Clarisse was radiant with delight. No one would have believed that the
most terrible torture had racked her for weeks and weeks and that she
was still bleeding and quivering from its effects.

While Prasville was holding the paper against a window-pane, she said to
Lupin:

"I insist upon having Gilbert informed this evening. He must be so
awfully unhappy!"

"Yes," said Lupin. "Besides, you can go to his lawyer and tell him."

She continued:

"And then I must see Gilbert to-morrow. Prasville can think what he
likes."

"Of course. But he must first gain his cause at the Elysee."

"There can't be any difficulty, can there?"

"No. You saw that he gave way at once."

Prasville continued his examination with the aid of a magnifying-glass
and compared the sheet with the scrap of torn paper. Next, he took from
the cash-box some other sheets of letter-paper and examined one of these
by holding it up to the light:

"That's done," he said. "My mind is made up. Forgive me, dear friend: it
was a very difficult piece of work.... I passed through various stages.
When all is said, I had my suspicions... and not without cause..."

"What do you mean?" asked Clarisse.

"One second.... I must give an order first."

He called his secretary:

"Please telephone at once to the Elysee, make my apologies and say
that I shall not require the audience, for reasons which I will explain
later."

He closed the door and returned to his desk. Clarisse and Lupin stood
choking, looking at him in stupefaction, failing to understand this
sudden change. Was he mad? Was it a trick on his part? A breach of
faith? And was he refusing to keep his promise, now that he possessed
the list?

He held it out to Clarisse:

"You can have it back."

"Have it back?"

"And return it to Daubrecq."

"To Daubrecq?"

"Unless you prefer to burn it."

"What do you say?"

"I say that, if I were in your place, I would burn it."

"Why do you say that? It's ridiculous!"

"On the contrary, it is very sensible."

"But why? Why?"

"Why? I will tell you. The list of the Twenty-seven, as we know for
absolutely certain, was written on a sheet of letter-paper belonging to
the chairman of the Canal Company, of which there are a few samples in
this cash-box. Now all these samples have as a water-mark a little cross
of Lorraine which is almost invisible, but which can just be seen in the
thickness of the paper when you hold it up to the light. The sheet which
you have brought me does not contain that little cross of Lorraine." [*]

     * The Cross of Lorraine is a cross with two horizontal lines
     or bars across the upper half of the perpendicular beam.
     --Translator's Note.

Lupin felt a nervous trembling shake him from head to foot and he dared
not turn his eyes on Clarisse, realizing what a terrible blow this was
to her. He heard her stammer:

"Then are we to suppose... that Daubrecq was taken in?"

"Not a bit of it!" exclaimed Prasville. "It is you who have been taken
in, my poor friend. Daubrecq has the real list, the list which he stole
from the dying man's safe."

"But this one..."

"This one is a forgery."

"A forgery?"

"An undoubted forgery. It was an admirable piece of cunning on
Daubrecq's part. Dazzled by the crystal stopper which he flashed before
your eyes, you did nothing but look for that stopper in which he had
stowed away no matter what, the first bit of paper that came to hand,
while he quietly kept..."

Prasville interrupted himself. Clarisse was walking up to him with
short, stiff steps, like an automaton. She said:

"Then..."

"Then what, dear friend?"

"You refuse?"

"Certainly, I am obliged to; I have no choice."

"You refuse to take that step?"

"Look here, how can I do what you ask? It's not possible, on the
strength of a valueless document..."

"You won't do it?... You won't do it?... And, to-morrow morning... in a
few hours... Gilbert..."

She was frightfully pale, her face sunk, like the face of one dying. Her
eyes opened wider and wider and her teeth chattered...

Lupin, fearing the useless and dangerous words which she was about to
utter, seized her by the shoulders and tried to drag her away. But she
thrust him back with indomitable strength, took two or three more steps,
staggered, as though on the point of falling, and, suddenly, in a burst
of energy and despair, laid hold of Prasville and screamed:

"You shall go to the Elysee!... You shall go at once!... You must!...
You must save Gilbert!"

"Please, please, my dear friend, calm yourself..."

She gave a strident laugh:

"Calm myself!... When, to-morrow morning, Gilbert... Ah, no, no, I am
terrified... it's appalling.... Oh, run, you wretch, run! Obtain his
pardon!... Don't you understand? Gilbert... Gilbert is my son! My son!
My son!"

Prasville gave a cry. The blade of a knife flashed in Clarisse's hand
and she raised her arm to strike herself. But the movement was not
completed. M. Nicole caught her arm in its descent and, taking the knife
from Clarisse, reducing her to helplessness, he said, in a voice that
rang through the room like steel:

"What you are doing is madness!... When I gave you my oath that I would
save him! You must... live for him... Gilbert shall not die.... How can
he die, when... I gave you my oath?..."

"Gilbert... my son..." moaned Clarisse.

He clasped her fiercely, drew her against himself and put his hand over
her mouth:

"Enough! Be quiet!... I entreat you to be quiet.... Gilbert shall not
die..."

With irresistible authority, he dragged her away like a subdued child
that suddenly becomes obedient; but, at the moment of opening the door,
he turned to Prasville:

"Wait for me here, monsieur," he commanded, in an imperative tone. "If
you care about that list of the Twenty-seven, the real list, wait for
me. I shall be back in an hour, in two hours, at most; and then we will
talk business."

And abruptly, to Clarisse:

"And you, madame, a little courage yet. I command you to show courage,
in Gilbert's name."

He went away, through the passages, down the stairs, with a jerky step,
holding Clarisse under the arm, as he might have held a lay-figure,
supporting her, carrying her almost. A court-yard, another court-yard,
then the street.

Meanwhile, Prasville, surprised at first, bewildered by the course of
events, was gradually recovering his composure and thinking. He thought
of that M. Nicole, a mere supernumerary at first, who played beside
Clarisse the part of one of those advisers to whom we cling in the
serious crises of our lives and who suddenly, shaking off his torpor,
appeared in the full light of day, resolute, masterful, mettlesome,
brimming over with daring, ready to overthrow all the obstacles that
fate placed on his path.

Who was there that was capable of acting thus?

Prasville started. The question had no sooner occurred to his mind than
the answer flashed on him, with absolute certainty. All the proofs rose
up, each more exact, each more convincing than the last.

Hurriedly he rang. Hurriedly he sent for the chief detective-inspector
on duty. And, feverishly:

"Were you in the waiting-room, chief-inspector?"

"Yes, monsieur le secretaire-general."

"Did you see a gentleman and a lady go out?"

"Yes."

"Would you know the man again?"

"Yes."

"Then don't lose a moment, chief-inspector. Take six inspectors with
you. Go to the Place de Clichy. Make inquiries about a man called Nicole
and watch the house. The Nicole man is on his way back there."

"And if he comes out, monsieur le secretaire-general?"

"Arrest him. Here's a warrant."

He sat down to his desk and wrote a name on a form:

"Here you are, chief-inspector. I will let the chief-detective know."

The chief-inspector seemed staggered:

"But you spoke to me of a man called Nicole, monsieur le
secretaire-general."

"Well?"

"The warrant is in the name of Arsene Lupin."

"Arsene Lupin and the Nicole man are one and the same individual."


CHAPTER XII. THE SCAFFOLD

"I will save him, I will save him," Lupin repeated, without ceasing, in
the taxicab in which he and Clarisse drove away. "I swear that I will
save him."

Clarisse did not listen, sat as though numbed, as though possessed by
some great nightmare of death, which left her ignorant of all that was
happening outside her. And Lupin set forth his plans, perhaps more to
reassure himself than to convince Clarisse. "No, no, the game is not
lost yet. There is one trump left, a huge trump, in the shape of the
letters and documents which Vorenglade, the ex-deputy, is offering to
sell to Daubrecq and of which Daubrecq spoke to you yesterday at Nice.
I shall buy those letters and documents of Stanislas Vorenglade
at whatever price he chooses to name. Then we shall go back to the
police-office and I shall say to Prasville, 'Go to the Elysee at once
... Use the list as though it were genuine, save Gilbert from death and
be content to acknowledge to-morrow, when Gilbert is saved, that the
list is forged.

"'Be off, quickly!... If you refuse, well, if you refuse, the Vorenglade
letters and documents shall be reproduced to-morrow, Tuesday, morning
in one of the leading newspapers.' Vorenglade will be arrested. And M.
Prasville will find himself in prison before night."

Lupin rubbed his hands:

"He'll do as he's told!... He'll do as he's told!... I felt that at
once, when I was with him. The thing appeared to me as a dead certainty.
And I found Vorenglade's address in Daubrecq's pocket-books, so...
driver, Boulevard Raspail!"

They went to the address given. Lupin sprang from the cab, ran up three
flights of stairs.

The servant said that M. Vorenglade was away and would not be back until
dinner-time next evening.

"And don't you know where he is?"

"M. Vorenglade is in London, sir."

Lupin did not utter a word on returning to the cab. Clarisse, on her
side, did not even ask him any questions, so indifferent had she become
to everything, so absolutely did she look upon her son's death as an
accomplished fact.

They drove to the Place de Cichy. As Lupin entered the house he
passed two men who were just leaving the porter's box. He was too much
engrossed to notice them. They were Prasville's inspectors.

"No telegram?" he asked his servant.

"No, governor," replied Achille.

"No news of the Masher and the Growler?"

"No, governor, none."

"That's all right," he said to Clarisse, in a casual tone. "It's only
seven o'clock and we mustn't reckon on seeing them before eight or nine.
Prasville will have to wait, that's all. I will telephone to him to
wait."

He did so and was hanging up the receiver, when he heard a moan behind
him. Clarisse was standing by the table, reading an evening-paper. She
put her hand to her heart, staggered and fell.

"Achille, Achille!" cried Lupin, calling his man. "Help me put her on my
bed... And then go to the cupboard and get me the medicine-bottle marked
number four, the bottle with the sleeping-draught."

He forced open her teeth with the point of a knife and compelled her to
swallow half the bottle:

"Good," he said. "Now the poor thing won't wake till to-morrow...
after."

He glanced through the paper, which was still clutched in Clarisse'
hand, and read the following lines:

 "The strictest measures have been taken to keep order at the
 execution of Gilbert and Vaucheray, lest Arsene Lupin should make
 an attempt to rescue his accomplices from the last penalty. At
 twelve o'clock to-night a cordon of troops will be drawn across
 all the approaches to the Sante Prison.  As already stated, the
 execution will take place outside the prison-walls, in the square
 formed by the Boulevard Arago and the Rue de la Sante.

 "We have succeeded in obtaining some details of the attitude of
 the two condemned men.  Vaucheray observes a stolid sullenness and
 is awaiting the fatal event with no little courage:

 "'Crikey,' he says, 'I can't say I'm delighted; but I've got to
 go through it and I shall keep my end up.'  And he adds, 'Death
 I don't care a hang about!  What worries me is the thought that
 they're going to cut my head off.  Ah, if the governor could only
 hit on some trick to send me straight off to the next world before
 I had time to say knife! A drop of Prussic acid, governor, if you
 please!'

 "Gilbert's calmness is even more impressive, especially when we
 remember how he broke down at the trial.  He retains an unshaken
 confidence in the omnipotence of Arsene Lupin:

 "'The governor shouted to me before everybody not to be afraid,
 that he was there, that he answered for everything.  Well, I'm not
 afraid.  I shall rely on him until the last day, until the last
 minute, at the very foot of the scaffold.  I know the governor!
 There's no danger with him.  He has promised and he will keep his
 word.  If my head were off, he'd come and clap it on my shoulders
 and firmly!  Arsene Lupin allow his chum Gilbert to die?  Not he!
 Excuse my humour!'

 "There is a certain touching frankness in all this enthusiasm
 which is not without a dignity of its own.  We shall see if Arsene
 Lupin deserves the confidence so blindly placed in him."

Lupin was hardly able to finish reading the article for the tears that
dimmed his eyes: tears of affection, tears of pity, tears of distress.

No, he did not deserve the confidence of his chum Gilbert. Certainly, he
had performed impossibilities; but there are circumstances in which we
must perform more than impossibilities, in which we must show ourselves
stronger than fate; and, this time, fate had been stronger than he. Ever
since the first day and throughout this lamentable adventure, events had
gone contrary to his anticipations, contrary to logic itself. Clarisse
and he, though pursuing an identical aim, had wasted weeks in fighting
each other. Then, at the moment when they were uniting their efforts, a
series of ghastly disasters had come one after the other: the kidnapping
of little Jacques, Daubrecq's disappearance, his imprisonment in the
Lovers' Tower, Lupin's wound, his enforced inactivity, followed by the
cunning manoeuvres that dragged Clarisse--and Lupin after her--to
the south, to Italy. And then, as a crowning catastrophe, when, after
prodigies of will-power, after miracles of perseverance, they were
entitled to think that the Golden Fleece was won, it all came to
nothing. The list of the Twenty-seven had no more value than the most
insignificant scrap of paper.

"The game's up!" said Lupin. "It's an absolute defeat. What if I do
revenge myself on Daubrecq, ruin him and destroy him? He is the real
victor, once Gilbert is going to die."

He wept anew, not with spite or rage, but with despair. Gilbert was
going to die! The lad whom he called his chum, the best of his pals
would be gone for ever, in a few hours. He could not save him. He was at
the end of his tether. He did not even look round for a last expedient.
What was the use?

And his persuasion of his own helplessness was so deep, so definite that
he felt no shock of any kind on receiving a telegram from the Masher
that said:

 "Motor accident.  Essential part broken.  Long repair.
  Arrive to-morrow morning."

It was a last proof to show that fate had uttered its decree. He no
longer thought of rebelling against the decision.

He looked at Clarisse. She was peacefully sleeping; and this total
oblivion, this absence of all consciousness, seemed to him so enviable
that, suddenly yielding to a fit of cowardice, he seized the bottle,
still half-filled with the sleeping-draught, and drank it down.

Then he stretched himself on a couch and rang for his man:

"Go to bed, Achille, and don't wake me on any pretence whatever."

"Then there's nothing to be done for Gilbert and Vaucheray, governor?"
said Achille.

"Nothing."

"Are they going through it?"

"They are going through it."

Twenty minutes later Lupin fell into a heavy sleep. It was ten o'clock
in the evening.

The night was full of incident and noise around the prison. At one
o'clock in the morning the Rue de la Sante, the Boulevard Arago and all
the streets abutting on the gaol were guarded by police, who allowed no
one to pass without a regular cross-examination.

For that matter, it was raining in torrents; and it seemed as though
the lovers of this sort of show would not be very numerous. The
public-houses were all closed by special order. At four o'clock three
companies of infantry came and took up their positions along the
pavements, while a battalion occupied the Boulevard Arago in case of
a surprise. Municipal guards cantered up and down between the lines; a
whole staff of police-magistrates, officers and functionaries, brought
together for the occasion, moved about among the troops.

The guillotine was set up in silence, in the middle of the square formed
by the boulevard and the street; and the sinister sound of hammering was
heard.

But, at five o'clock, the crowd gathered, notwithstanding the rain, and
people began to sing. They shouted for the footlights, called for the
curtain to rise, were exasperated to see that, at the distance at which
the barriers had been fixed, they could hardly distinguish the uprights
of the guillotine.

Several carriages drove up, bringing official persons dressed in black.
There were cheers and hoots, whereupon a troop of mounted municipal
guards scattered the groups and cleared the space to a distance of three
hundred yards from the square. Two fresh companies of soldiers lined up.

And suddenly there was a great silence. A vague white light fell from
the dark sky. The rain ceased abruptly.

Inside the prison, at the end of the passage containing the condemned
cells, the men in black were conversing in low voices. Prasville was
talking to the public prosecutor, who expressed his fears:

"No, no," declared Prasville, "I assure you, it will pass without an
incident of any kind."

"Do your reports mention nothing at all suspicious, monsieur le
secretaire-general?"

"Nothing. And they can't mention anything, for the simple reason that we
have Lupin."

"Do you mean that?"

"Yes, we know his hiding-place. The house where he lives, on the Place
de Clichy, and where he went at seven o'clock last night, is surrounded.
Moreover, I know the scheme which he had contrived to save his two
accomplices. The scheme miscarried at the last moment. We have nothing
to fear, therefore. The law will take its course."

Meanwhile, the hour had struck.

They took Vaucheray first; and the governor of the prison ordered the
door of his cell to be opened. Vaucheray leapt out of bed and cast eyes
dilated with terror upon the men who entered.

"Vaucheray, we have come to tell you..."

"Stow that, stow that," he muttered. "No words. I know all about it. Get
on with the business."

One would have thought that he was in a hurry for it to be over as fast
as possible, so readily did he submit to the usual preparations. But he
would not allow any of them to speak to him:

"No words," he repeated. "What? Confess to the priest? Not worth while.
I have shed blood. The law sheds my blood. It's the good old rule. We're
quits."

Nevertheless, he stopped short for a moment:

"I say, is my mate going through it too?"

And, when he heard that Gilbert would go to the scaffold at the same
time as himself, he had two or three seconds of hesitation, glanced
at the bystanders, seemed about to speak, was silent and, at last,
muttered:

"It's better so.... They'll pull us through together... we'll clink
glasses together."

Gilbert was not asleep either, when the men entered his cell.

Sitting on his bed, he listened to the terrible words, tried to stand
up, began to tremble frightfully, from head to foot, like a skeleton
when shaken, and then fell back, sobbing:

"Oh, my poor mummy, poor mummy!" he stammered.

They tried to question him about that mother, of whom he had never
spoken; but his tears were interrupted by a sudden fit of rebellion and
he cried:

"I have done no murder... I won't die. I have done no murder..."

"Gilbert," they said, "show yourself a man."

"Yes, yes... but I have done no murder... Why should I die?"

His teeth chattered so loudly that words which he uttered became
unintelligible. He let the men do their work, made his confession, heard
mass and then, growing calmer and almost docile, with the voice of a
little child resigning itself, murmured:

"Tell my mother that I beg her forgiveness."

"Your mother?"

"Yes... Put what I say in the papers... She will understand... And
then..."

"What, Gilbert?"

"Well, I want the governor to know that I have not lost confidence."

He gazed at the bystanders, one after the other, as though he
entertained the mad hope that "the governor" was one of them, disguised
beyond recognition and ready to carry him off in his arms:

"Yes," he said, gently and with a sort of religious piety, "yes, I still
have confidence, even at this moment... Be sure and let him know, won't
you?... I am positive that he will not let me die. I am certain of
it..."

They guessed, from the fixed look in his eyes, that he saw Lupin, that
he felt Lupin's shadow prowling around and seeking an inlet through
which to get to him. And never was anything more touching than the sight
of that stripling--clad in the strait-jacket, with his arms and legs
bound, guarded by thousands of men--whom the executioner already held in
his inexorable hand and who, nevertheless, hoped on.

Anguish wrung the hearts of all the beholders. Their eyes were dimmed
with tears:

"Poor little chap!" stammered some one.

Prasville, touched like the rest and thinking of Clarisse, repeated, in
a whisper:

"Poor little chap!"

But the hour struck, the preparations were finished. They set out.

The two processions met in the passage. Vaurheray, on seeing Gilbert,
snapped out:

"I say, kiddie, the governor's chucked us!"

And he added a sentence which nobody, save Prasville, was able to
understand:

"Expect he prefers to pocket the proceeds of the crystal stopper."

They went down the staircases. They crossed the prison-yards. An
endless, horrible distance.

And, suddenly, in the frame of the great doorway, the wan light of day,
the rain, the street, the outlines of houses, while far-off sounds came
through the awful silence.

They walked along the wall, to the corner of the boulevard.

A few steps farther Vaucheray started back: he had seen!

Gilbert crept along, with lowered head, supported by an executioner's
assistant and by the chaplain, who made him kiss the crucifix as he
went.

There stood the guillotine.

"No, no," shouted Gilbert, "I won't... I won't... Help! Help!"

A last appeal, lost in space.

The executioner gave a signal. Vaucheray was laid hold of, lifted,
dragged along, almost at a run.

And then came this staggering thing: a shot, a shot fired from the other
side, from one of the houses opposite.

The assistants stopped short.

The burden which they were dragging had collapsed in their arms.

"What is it? What's happened?" asked everybody.

"He's wounded..."

Blood spurted from Vaucheray's forehead and covered his face.

He spluttered:

"That's done it... one in a thousand! Thank you, governor, thank you."

"Finish him off! Carry him there!" said a voice, amid the general
confusion.

"But he's dead!"

"Get on with it... finish him off!"

Tumult was at its height, in the little group of magistrates, officials
and policemen. Every one was giving orders:

"Execute him!... The law must take its course!... We have no right to
delay! It would be cowardice!... Execute him!"

"But the man's dead!"

"That makes no difference!... The law must be obeyed!... Execute him!"

The chaplain protested, while two warders and Prasville kept their eyes
on Gilbert. In the meantime, the assistants had taken up the corpse
again and were carrying it to the guillotine.

"Hurry up!" cried the executioner, scared and hoarse-voiced. "Hurry up!
... And the other one to follow... Waste no time..."

He had not finished speaking, when a second report rang out. He spun
round on his heels and fell, groaning:

"It's nothing... a wound in the shoulder... Go on... The next one's
turn!"

But his assistants were running away, yelling with terror. The space
around the guillotine was cleared. And the prefect of police, rallying
his men, drove everybody back to the prison, helter-skelter, like a
disordered rabble: the magistrates, the officials, the condemned man,
the chaplain, all who had passed through the archway two or three
minutes before.

In the meanwhile, a squad of policemen, detectives and soldiers were
rushing upon the house, a little old-fashioned, three-storied house,
with a ground-floor occupied by two shops which happened to be empty.
Immediately after the first shot, they had seen, vaguely, at one of
the windows on the second floor, a man holding a rifle in his hand and
surrounded with a cloud of smoke.

Revolver-shots were fired at him, but missed him. He, standing calmly on
a table, took aim a second time, fired from the shoulder; and the crack
of the second report was heard. Then he withdrew into the room.

Down below, as nobody answered the peal at the bell, the assailants
demolished the door, which gave way almost immediately. They made for
the staircase, but their onrush was at once stopped, on the first
floor, by an accumulation of beds, chairs and other furniture, forming
a regular barricade and so close-entangled that it took the aggressors
four or five minutes to clear themselves a passage.

Those four or five minutes lost were enough to render all pursuit
hopeless. When they reached the second floor they heard a voice shouting
from above:

"This way, friends! Eighteen stairs more. A thousand apologies for
giving you so much trouble!"

They ran up those eighteen stairs and nimbly at that! But, at the top,
above the third story, was the garret, which was reached by a ladder and
a trapdoor. And the fugitive had taken away the ladder and bolted the
trapdoor.

The reader will not have forgotten the sensation created by this amazing
action, the editions of the papers issued in quick succession, the
newsboys tearing and shouting through the streets, the whole metropolis
on edge with indignation and, we may say, with anxious curiosity.

But it was at the headquarters of police that the excitement developed
into a paroxysm. Men flung themselves about on every side. Messages,
telegrams, telephone calls followed one upon the other.

At last, at eleven o'clock in the morning, there was a meeting in
the office of the prefect of police, and Prasville was there. The
chief-detective read a report of his inquiry, the results of which
amounted to this: shortly before midnight yesterday some one had rung
at the house on the Boulevard Arago. The portress, who slept in a small
room on the ground-floor, behind one of the shops pulled the rope. A man
came and tapped at her door. He said that he had come from the police on
an urgent matter concerning to-morrow's execution. The portress opened
the door and was at once attacked, gagged and bound.

Ten minutes later a lady and gentleman who lived on the first floor and
who had just come home were also reduced to helplessness by the same
individual and locked up, each in one of the two empty shops. The
third-floor tenant underwent a similar fate, but in his own flat and his
own bedroom, which the man was able to enter without being heard. The
second floor was unoccupied, and the man took up his quarters there. He
was now master of the house.

"And there we are!" said the prefect of police, beginning to laugh, with
a certain bitterness. "There we are! It's as simple as shelling peas.
Only, what surprises me is that he was able to get away so easily."

"I will ask you to observe, monsieur le prefet, that, being absolute
master of the house from one o'clock in the morning, he had until five
o'clock to prepare his flight."

"And that flight took place...?"

"Over the roofs. At that spot the houses in the next street, the Rue de
la Glaciere, are quite near and there is only one break in the roofs,
about three yards wide, with a drop of one yard in height."

"Well?"

"Well, our man had taken away the ladder leading to the garret and used
it as a foot-bridge. After crossing to the next block of buildings, all
he had to do was to look through the windows until he found an empty
attic, enter one of the houses in the Rue de la Glaciere and walk out
quietly with his hands in his pockets. In this way his flight, duly
prepared beforehand, was effected very simply and without the least
obstacle."

"But you had taken the necessary measures."

"Those which you ordered, monsieur le prefet. My men spent three hours
last evening visiting all the houses, so as to make sure that there was
no stranger hiding there. At the moment when they were leaving the last
house I had the street barred. Our man must have slipped through during
that few minutes' interval."

"Capital! Capital! And there is no doubt in your minds, of course: it's
Arsene Lupin?"

"Not a doubt. In the first place, it was all a question of his
accomplices. And then... and then... no one but Arsene Lupin was
capable of contriving such a master-stroke and carrying it out with that
inconceivable boldness."

This was a more serious matter; they would have to go to the solemn
doctors in Valencia, who knew more than he. _Caldera's_ wife saw
her husband harness the cart and compel Pascualet to get into
it. The boy, relieved of his pain, smiled assent, saying that now he felt
nothing more than a slight twinge.

When they returned to the cabin the father seemed to be more at ease.

A doctor from the city had pricked Pascualet's sore.

He was a very serious gentleman, who gave Pascualet courage with
his kind words, looking intently at him all the while, and expressing
regret that he had waited so long before coming to him.

For a week the two men made a daily trip to Valencia, but one morning
the boy was unable to move.

That crisis which made the poor mother groan with fear had returned
with greater intensity than before. The boy's teeth knocked together,
and he uttered a wail that stained the corners of his mouth with
froth; his eyes seemed to swell, becoming yellow and protruding
like huge grape seeds; he tried to pull himself together, writhing
from the internal torture, and his mother hung upon his neck,
shrieking with terror; meanwhile _Caldera_, grimly silent, seized
his son's arms with tranquil strength, struggling to prevent his
violent convulsions.

"My son! My son!"

cried the mother. Ah, her son! Scarcely could she recognize him as she
saw him in this condition.

He seemed like another, as if only his former exterior had remained,--as
if an infernal monster had lodged within and was martyrizing this
flesh that had come out of her own womb, appearing at his eyes with
livid flashes.

Afterwards came calm stupor, and all the women of the district gathered
in the kitchen and deliberated upon the lot of the sick youth,
cursing the city doctor and his diabolical incisions.

It was his fault that the boy now lay thus; before the boy had
submitted to the cure he had felt much better.

The bandit! And the government never punished these wicked souls!...

There were no other remedies than the old, true and tried ones,--the
product of the experience of people who had lived years ago and
thus knew much more.

One of the neighbors went off to hunt up a certain witch, a miraculous
doctor for dog-bites, serpent bites and scorpion-stings.

Another brought a blind old goatherd, who could cure by the virtue of
his mouth, simply by making some crosses of saliva over the ailing
flesh.

The drinks made of mountain herbs and the moist signs of the goatherd
were looked upon as tokens of immediate cure, especially when they
beheld the sick youth lie silent and motionless for several hours,
looking at the ground with a certain amazement, as if he could feel
within him the progress of something strange that grew and grew,
gradually overpowering him.

Then, when the crisis reoccurred, the doubt of the women began to
rise, and new remedies were discussed.

The youth's sweetheart came, with her large black eyes moistened
by tears, and she advanced timidly until she came near to the sick
boy.

For the first time she dared to take his hand, blushing beneath her
cinammon-colored complexion at this audacious act.

"How do you feel?"... And he, so loving in other days, recoiled from her
tender touch, turning his eyes away so that he should not see her,
as if ashamed of his plight.

His mother wept. Queen of heaven!

He was very low; he was going to die.

If only they could find out what dog it was that had bitten him, and cut
out its tongue, using it for a miraculous plaster, as experienced persons
advised!...

Throughout the _huerta_ it seemed that God's own wrath had burst
forth.

Some dogs had bitten others; now nobody knew which were the dangerous
ones and which the safe.

All mad!

     The children were secluded in the cabins, spying with terrified
glances upon the vast fields, through the half-open doors; mothers
journeyed over the winding paths in close groups, uneasy, trembling,
hastening their step whenever a bark sounded from behind the sluices
of the canals; men eyed the domestic dogs with fear, intently
watching their slavering mouths as they gasped or their sad eyes;
the agile greyhound, their hunting companion,--the barking cur,
guardian of the home,--the ugly mastiff who walked along tied to
the cart, which he watched over during the master's, absence,--all
were placed under their owners' observation or coldly sacrificed
behind the walls of the corral, without any display of emotion
whatever.

      "Here they come! Here they come!"

was the shout passed along from cabin to cabin, announcing the
patter of a pack of dogs, howling, ravenous, their bodies covered
with mud, running about without finding rest, driven on day and
night, with the madness of persecution in their eyes.

The _huerta_ seemed to shudder, closing the doors of all the houses
and suddenly bristling with guns. Shots rang out from the sluices,
from the high corn-fields, from cabin windows, and when the
wanderers, repelled and persecuted on every side, in their mad
gallop dashed toward the sea, as if they were attracted by the
moist, invigorating air that was washed by the waves, the revenue-guards
camped on the wide strip of beach brought their mausers to their
cheek and received them with a volley.

The dogs retreated, escaping among the men who were approaching them
musket in hand, and one or another of them would be stretched out at
the edge of a canal. At night, the noisy gloom of the plain was broken
by the sight of distant flashes and the sound of discharges. Every
shape that moved in the darkness was the target for a bullet; the
muffled howls that sounded in the vicinity of the cabins were
answered by shots.

The men were afraid of this common terror, and avoided meeting.

No sooner did night fall than the _huerta_ was left without a light,
without a person upon the roads, as if death had taken possession of the
dismal plain, so green and smiling under the sun. A single red spot, a
tear of light, trembled in this obscurity. It was _Caldera's_ cabin,
where the women, squatting upon the floor, around the kitchen lamp, sighed
with fright, anticipating the strident shriek of the sick youth,--the
chattering of his teeth, the violent contortions of his body
whenever he was seized with convulsions, struggling to repel the
arms that tried to quiet him.

The mother hung upon the neck of that raving patient who struck
terror to men.

She scarcely knew him; he was somebody else, with those eyes that popped
out of their sockets, his livid or blackish countenance, his
writhings, like that of a tortured animal, showing his tongue as
he gasped through bubbles of froth in the agonies of an insatiable
thirst.

He begged for death in heart-rending shrieks; he struck his head against
the wall; he tried to bite; but even so, he was her child and she did
not feel the fear experienced by the others.

His menacing mouth withdrew before the wan face that was moistened with
tears. "Mother! Mother!" He recognized her in his lucid moments.
She need not fear him; he would never bite her. And as if he must sink
his teeth into something or other to glut his rage, he bit into his
arms until the blood came.

"My son! My son!"

moaned the mother and she wiped the deadly froth from his lips,
afterwards carrying the handkerchief to her eyes, without fear of
contagion.

_Caldera_, in his solemn gravity, paid no heed to the sufferer's
threatening eyes, which were fixed upon him with an impulse of
attack.

The boy had lost his awe of his father.

That powerful man, however, facing the peril of his son's mouth, thrust
him back into bed whenever the madman tried to flee, as if he must
spread everywhere the horrible affliction that was devouring his
entrails.

No longer were the crises followed by extended intervals of calm.
They became almost continuous, and the victim writhed about, clawed
and bleeding from his own bites, his face almost black, his eyes
tremulous and yellow, looking like some monstrous beast set apart
from all the human species.

The old doctor had stopped asking about the youth.

What was the use? It was all over. The women wept hopelessly.

Death was certain. They only bewailed the long hours, perhaps days,
of horrible torture that poor Pascualet would have to undergo.

_Caldera_ was unable to find among his relatives or friends any men
brave enough to help him restrain the sufferer in his violent
moments.

They all looked with terror at the door to the _estudi_, as if
behind it were concealed the greatest of dangers.

To go shooting through roads and canals was man's work. A stab could
be returned; one bullet could answer another; but ah! that frothing
mouth which killed with a bite!...

that incurable disease which made men writhe in endless agony, like
a lizard sliced by a hoe!

He no longer knew his mother. In his final moments of lucidity he had
thrust her away with loving brusqueness. She must go!... Let him not see
her again!... He feared to do her harm! The poor woman's friends dragged
her out of the room, forcing her to remain motionless, like her son,
in a corner of the kitchen.

_Caldera_, with a supreme effort of his dying will, tied the agonizing
youth to the bed.

His beetling brows trembled and the tears made him blink as he tied
the coarse knots of the rope, fastening the youth to the bed upon
which he had been born.

He felt as if he were preparing his son for burial and had begun
to dig his grave.

The victim twisted in wild contortions under the father's strong
arms; the parent had to make a powerful effort to subdue him under
the rope that sank into his flesh....

To have lived so many years only to behold himself at last obliged
to perform such a task!

To give life to a creature, only to pray that it might be extinguished
as soon as possible, horrified by so much useless pain!... Good God
in heaven! Why not put an end to the poor boy at once, since his
death was now inevitable?...

He closed the door of the sick room, fleeing from the rasping shriek
that set everybody's hair on end; but the madman's panting continued to
sound in the silence of the cabin, accompanied by the lamentations of
the mother and the weeping of the other women grouped around the lamp,
that had just been lighted.

_Caldera_ stamped upon the floor. Let the women be silent!

But for the first time he beheld himself disobeyed, and he left the
cabin, fleeing from this chorus of grief.

Night descended.

His gaze wandered toward the thin yellow band that was visible on
the horizon, marking the flight of day.

Above his head shone the stars.

From the other homes, which were scarcely visible, resounded the
neighing of horses, barking and the clucking of fowl,--the last
signs of animal life before it sank to rest.

That primitive man felt an impression of emptiness amid the Nature
which was insensible and blind to the sufferings of its creatures.

Of what concern to the points of light that looked down upon him
from above could be that which he was now going through?...

All creatures were equal; the beasts that disturbed the silence of dusk
before falling asleep, and that poor youth similar to him, who now
lay fettered, writhing in the worst of agony.

How many illusions his life had contained!... And with a mere bite, a
wretched animal kicked about by all men could finish them all. And no
remedy existed in heaven or upon earth!...

Once again the distant shriek of the sufferer came to his ears from
the open window of the _estudi_.

The tenderness of his early days of paternity emerged from the
depths of his soul.

He recalled the nights he had spent awake in that room, walking
up and down, holding in his arms the little child that was crying from
the pains of infancy's illness.
Now he lay crying, too, but without hope, in the agonies of a hell
that had come before its time, and at last... death.

His countenance grew frightened, and he raised his hands to his
forehead as if trying to drive away a troublesome thought.

Then he appeared to deliberate.... Why not?...

"To end his suffering... to end his suffering!"

He went back to the cabin, only to come out at once with his old
double-barrelled musket, and he hastened to the little window of the
sick room as if he feared to lose his determination; he thrust the gun
through the opening.

Again he heard the agonizing panting, the chattering of teeth, the
horrible shriek, now very near, as if he were at the victim's
bedside.

His eyes, accustomed to the darkness saw the bed at the back of the
gloomy room, and the form that lay writhing in it,--the pale spot
of the face, appearing and disappearing as the sick man twisted
about desperately.

The father was frightened at the trembling of his hands and the
agitation of his pulse; he, the son of the _huerta_, without any
other diversion than the hunt, accustomed to shoot down birds almost
without aiming at them.

The wailing of the poor mother brought back to his memory other groans
of long long ago,--twenty-two years before--when she was giving birth
to her only son upon that same bed.

To come to such an end!... His eyes, gazing heavenward, saw a black sky,
intensely black, with not a star in sight, and obscured by his
tears....

"Lord! To end his sufferings! To end his sufferings!"
And repeating these words he pressed the musket against his shoulder,
seeking the lock with a tremulous finger....

Bang!

Bang!

END

THE WINDFALL

"I SIR," said _Magdalena_, the bugler of the prison, "am no saint; I've
been jailed many times for robberies; some of them that really took
place and others that I was simply suspected of. Compared to you, who
are a gentleman, and are in prison for having written things in the
papers, I'm a mere wretch....

But take my word for it, this time I'm here for good."
And raising one hand to his breast as he straightened his head with a
certain pride, he added, "Petty thefts, that's all I'm not brave;
I haven't shed a drop of blood."

At break of day, _Magdalena's_ bugle resounded through the spacious
yard, embroidering its reveille with scales and trills.

During the day, with the martial instrument hanging from his neck,
or caressing it with a corner of his smock so as to wipe off the
vapor with which the dampness of the prison covered it, he would
go through the entire edifice,--an ancient convent in whose
refectories, granaries and garrets there were crowded, in perspiring
confusion, almost a thousand men.

He was the clock that governed the life and the activities of this
mass of male flesh perpetually seething with hatred.

He made the round of the cells to announce, with sonorous blasts,
the arrival of the worthy director, or a visit from the authorities;
from the progress of the sun along the white walls of the prison-yard
he could tell the approach of the visiting hours,--the best part
of the day,--and with his tongue stuck between his lips he would
await orders impatiently, ready to burst into the joyous signal
that sent the flock of prisoners scampering over the stairways in
an anxious run toward the locutories, where a wretched crowd of
women and children buzzed in conversation; his insatiable hunger
kept him pacing back and forth in the vicinity of the old kitchen,
in which the enormous stews filled the atmosphere with a nauseating
odor, and he bemoaned the indifference of the chef, who was always
late in giving the order for the mess-call.

Those imprisoned for crimes of blood, heroes of the dagger who had
killed their man in a fierce brawl or in a dispute over a woman and
who formed an aristocracy that disdained the petty thieves, looked
upon the bugler as the butt for pranks with which to while away
their boredom.

"Blow!"

would come the command from some formidable fellow, proud of his
crimes and his courage.

And _Magdalena_ would draw himself up with military rigidity, close
his mouth and inflate his cheeks, momentarily expecting two blows,
delivered simultaneously by both hands, to expel the air from the ruddy
globe of his face. At other times these redoubtable personages tested the
strength of their arms upon _Magdalena's_ pate, which was bare with the
baldness of repugnant diseases, and they would howl with laughter
at the damage done to their fists by the protuberances of the hard
skull.

The bugler lent himself to these tortures with the humility of a whipped
dog, and found a certain revenge in repeating, afterwards, those
words that were a solace to him:

"I'm good; I'm not a brave fellow.

Petty thefts, that's all....

But as to blood, not a single drop."

Visiting time brought his wife, the notorious _Peluchona_, a valiant
creature who inspired him with great fear.

She was the mistress of one of the most dangerous bandits in the jail.
Daily she brought that fellow food, procuring these dainties at the cost
of all manner of vile labors.
The bugler, upon beholding her, would leave the lucutory, fearing the
arrogance of her bandit mate, who would take advantage of the occasion
to humiliate him before his former companion. Many times a certain
feeling of curiosity and tenderness got the better of his fear, and he
would advance timidly, looking beyond the thick bars for the head
of a child that came with _la Peluchona_.

"That's my son, sir," he said, humbly. "My Tonico, who no longer knows me
or remembers me. They say that he doesn't resemble me at all. Perhaps
he's not mine.... You can imagine, with the life his mother has always
led, living near the garrisons, washing the soldiers' clothes!... But
he was born in my home; I held him in my arms when he was ill, and that's
a bond as close as ties of blood."
Then he would resume his timid lurking about the locutory, as if
preparing one of his robberies, to see his Tonico; and when he could
see him for a moment, the sight was enough to extinguish his helpless
rage before the full basket of lunch that the evil woman brought to her
lover.

_Magdalena's_ whole existence was summed up in two facts; he had robbed
and he had travelled much. The robberies were insignificant; clothes
or money snatched in the street, because he lacked courage for greater
deeds. His travels had been compulsory,--always on foot, over the
roads of Spain, marching in a chain gang of convicts, between the polished
or white three-cornered hats that guarded the prisoners.

After having been a "pupil" among the buglers of a regiment, he had
launched upon this life of continuous imprisonment, punctuated by brief
periods of freedom, in which he lost his bearings, not knowing what to
do with himself and wishing to return as soon as possible to jail. It was
the perpetual chain, but finished link by link, as he used to say.

The police never organized a round-up of dangerous persons but what
_Magdalena_ was found among them,--a timorous rat whose name the
papers mentioned like that of a terrible criminal.

He was always included in the trail of vagrant suspects who, without being
charged with any specific crime, were sent from province to province by
the authorities, in the hope that they would die of hunger along the
roads, and thus he had covered the whole peninsula on foot, from Cadiz
to Santander, from Valencia to La Coruña.

"Is that all?"

"That's all. I have come to the conclusion that, as things stand, after
this last scandal, it is impossible to try to do anything in Gilbert's
favour. Besides, an attempt in this direction at the Elysee, under
present conditions, would constitute a regular case of blackmail, to
which I absolutely decline to lend myself."

"You are free to do as you please, monsieur. Your scruples do you
honour, though they come rather late, for they did not trouble you
yesterday. But, in that case, monsieur le secretaire-general, as
the compact between us is destroyed, give me back the list of the
Twenty-seven."

"What for?"

"So that I may apply to another spokesman."

"What's the good? Gilbert is lost."

"Not at all, not at all. On the contrary, I consider that, now that his
accomplice is dead, it will be much easier to grant him a pardon which
everybody will look upon as fair and humane. Give me back the list."

"Upon my word, monsieur, you have a short memory and none too nice a
conscience. Have you forgotten your promise of yesterday?"

"Yesterday, I made a promise to a M. Nicole."

"Well?"

"You are not M. Nicole."

"Indeed! Then, pray, who am I?"

"Need I tell you?"

M. Nicole made no reply, but began to laugh softly, as though pleased at
the curious turn which the conversation was taking; and Prasville felt
a vague misgiving at observing that fit of merriment. He grasped the
butt-end of his revolver and wondered whether he ought not to ring for
help.

M. Nicole drew his chair close to the desk, put his two elbows on the
table, looked Prasville straight in the face and jeered:

"So, M. Prasville, you know who I am and you have the assurance to play
this game with me?"

"I have that assurance," said Prasville, accepting the sneer without
flinching.

"Which proves that you consider me, Arsene Lupin--we may as well use the
name: yes, Arsene Lupin--which proves that you consider me fool enough,
dolt enough to deliver myself like this, bound hand and foot into your
hands."

"Upon my word," said Prasville, airily, patting the waistcoat-pocket in
which he had secreted the crystal ball, "I don't quite see what you can
do, M. Nicole, now that Daubrecq's eye is here, with the list of the
Twenty-seven inside it."

"What I can do?" echoed M. Nicole, ironically.

"Yes! The talisman no longer protects you; and you are now no better
off than any other man who might venture into the very heart of the
police-office, among some dozens of stalwart fellows posted behind each
of those doors and some hundreds of others who will hasten up at the
first signal."

M. Nicole shrugged his shoulders and gave Prasville a look of great
commiseration:

"Shall I tell you what is happening, monsieur le secretaire-general?
Well, you too are having your head turned by all this business. Now that
you possess the list, your state of mind has suddenly sunk to that of
a Daubrecq or a d'Albufex. There is no longer even a question, in
your thoughts, of taking it to your superiors, so that this ferment
of disgrace and discord may be ended. No, no; a sodden temptation has
seized upon you and intoxicated you; and, losing your head, you say to
yourself, 'It is here, in my pocket. With its aid, I am omnipotent. It
means wealth, absolute, unbounded power. Why not benefit by it? Why
not let Gilbert and Clarisse Mergy die? Why not lock up that idiot of
a Lupin? Why not seize this unparalleled piece of fortune by the
forelock?'"

He bent toward Prasville and, very softly, in a friendly and
confidential tone, said:

"Don't do that, my dear sir, don't do it."

"And why not?"

"It is not to your interest, believe me."

"Really!"

"No. Or, if you absolutely insist on doing it, have the kindness first
to consult the twenty-seven names on the list of which you have just
robbed me and reflect, for a moment, on the name of the third person on
it."

"Oh? And what is the name of that third person?"

"It is the name of a friend of yours."

"What friend?"

"Stanislas Vorenglade, the ex-deputy."

"And then?" said Prasville, who seemed to be losing some of his
self-confidence.

"Then? Ask yourself if an inquiry, however summary, would not end by
discovering, behind that Stanislas Vorenglade, the name of one who
shared certain little profits with him."

"And whose name is?"

"Louis Prasville."

M. Nicole banged the table with his fist.

"Enough of this humbug, monsieur! For twenty minutes, you and I have
been beating about the bush. That will do. Let us understand each other.
And, to begin with, drop your pistols. You can't imagine that I am
frightened of those playthings! Stand up, sir, stand up, as I am doing,
and finish the business: I am in a hurry."

He put his hand on Prasville's shoulder and, speaking with great
deliberation, said:

"If, within an hour from now, you are not back from the Elysee, bringing
with you a line to say that the decree of pardon has been signed; if,
within one hour and ten minutes, I, Arsene Lupin, do not walk out of
this building safe and sound and absolutely free, this evening
four Paris newspapers will receive four letters selected from the
correspondence exchanged between Stanislas Vorenglade and yourself, the
correspondence which Stanislas Vorenglade sold me this morning. Here's
your hat, here's your overcoat, here's your stick. Be off. I will wait
for you."

Then happened this extraordinary and yet easily understood thing, that
Prasville did not raise the slightest protest nor make the least show
of fight. He received the sudden, far-reaching, utter conviction of
what the personality known as Arsene Lupin meant, in all its breadth and
fulness. He did not so much as think of carping, of pretending--as
he had until then believed--that the letters had been destroyed by
Vorenglade the deputy or, at any rate, that Vorenglade would not dare
to hand them over, because, in so doing, Vorenglade was also working
his own destruction. No, Prasville did not speak a word. He felt
himself caught in a vise of which no human strength could force the jaws
asunder. There was nothing to do but yield. He yielded.

"Here, in an hour," repeated M. Nicole.

"In an hour," said Prasville, tamely. Nevertheless, in order to know
exactly where he stood, he added, "The letters, of course, will be
restored to me against Gilbert's pardon?"

"No."

"How do you mean, no? In that case, there is no object in..."

"They will be restored to you, intact, two months after the day when my
friends and I have brought about Gilbert's escape... thanks to the
very slack watch which will be kept upon him, in accordance with your
orders."

"Is that all?"

"No, there are two further conditions: first, the immediate payment of a
cheque for forty thousand francs."

"Forty thousand francs?"

"The sum for which Stanislas Vorenglade sold me the letters. It is only
fair..."

"And next?"

"Secondly, your resignation, within six months, of your present
position."

"My resignation? But why?"

M. Nicole made a very dignified gesture:

"Because it is against public morals that one of the highest positions
in the police-service should be occupied by a man whose hands are not
absolutely clean. Make them send you to parliament or appoint you a
minister, a councillor of State, an ambassador, in short, any post
which your success in the Daubrecq case entitles you to demand. But not
secretary-general of police; anything but that! The very thought of it
disgusts me."

Prasville reflected for a moment. He would have rejoiced in the sudden
destruction of his adversary and he racked his brain for the means to
effect it. But he was helpless.

He went to the door and called:

"M. Lartigue." And, sinking his voice, but not very low, for he wished
M. Nicole to hear, "M. Lartigue, dismiss your men. It's a mistake. And
let no one come into my office while I am gone. This gentleman will wait
for me here."

He came back, took the hat, stick and overcoat which M. Nicole handed
him and went out.

"Well done, sir," said Lupin, between his teeth, when the door was
closed. "You have behaved like a sportsman and a gentleman... So did I,
for that matter... perhaps with too obvious a touch of contempt... and
a little too bluntly. But, tush, this sort of business has to be carried
through with a high hand! The enemy's got to be staggered! Besides, when
one's own conscience is clear, one can't take up too bullying a tone
with that sort of individual. Lift your head, Lupin. You have been the
champion of outraged morality. Be proud of your work. And now take a
chair, stretch out your legs and have a rest. You've deserved it."

When Prasville returned, he found Lupin sound asleep and had to tap him
on the shoulder to wake him.

"Is it done?" asked Lupin.

"It's done. The pardon will be signed presently. Here is the written
promise."

"The forty thousand francs?"

"Here's your cheque."

"Good. It but remains for me to thank you, monsieur."

"So the correspondence..."

"The Stanislas Vorenglade correspondence will be handed to you on the
conditions stated. However, I am glad to be able to give you, here and
now, as a sign of my gratitude, the four letters which I meant to send
to the papers this evening."

"Oh, so you had them on you?" said Prasville.

"I felt so certain, monsieur le secretaire-general, that we should end
by coming to an understanding."

He took from his hat a fat envelope, sealed with five red seals, which
was pinned inside the lining, and handed it to Prasville, who thrust it
into his pocket. Then he said:

"Monsieur le secretaire-general, I don't know when I shall have the
pleasure of seeing you again. If you have the least communication
to make to me, one line in the agony column of the Journal will be
sufficient. Just head it, 'M. Nicole.' Good-day to you."

And he withdrew.

Prasville, when he was alone, felt as if he were waking from a nightmare
during which he had performed incoherent actions over which his
conscious mind had no control. He was almost thinking of ringing and
causing a stir in the passages; but, just then, there was a tap at the
door and one of the office-messengers came hurrying in.

"What's the matter?" asked Prasville.

"Monsieur le secretaire-general, it's Monsieur le Depute Daubrecq asking
to see you... on a matter of the highest importance."

"Daubrecq!" exclaimed Prasville, in bewilderment. "Daubrecq here! Show
him in."

Daubrecq had not waited for the order. He ran up to Prasville, out of
breath, with his clothes in disorder, a bandage over his left eye, no
tie, no collar, looking like an escaped lunatic; and the door was not
closed before he caught hold of Prasville with his two enormous hands:

"Have you the list?"

"Yes."

"Have you bought it?"

"Yes."

"At the price of Gilbert's pardon?"

"Yes."

"Is it signed?"

"Yes."

Daubrecq made a furious gesture:

"You fool! You fool! You've been trapped! For hatred of me, I expect?
And now you're going to take your revenge?"

"With a certain satisfaction, Daubrecq. Remember my little friend, the
opera-dancer, at Nice... It's your turn now to dance."

"So it means prison?"

"I should think so," said Prasville. "Besides, it doesn't matter. You're
done for, anyhow. Deprived of the list, without defence of any kind,
you're bound to fall to pieces of your own weight. And I shall be
present at the break-up. That's my revenge."

"And you believe that!" yelled Daubrecq, furiously. "You believe that
they will wring my neck like a chicken's and that I shall not know how
to defend myself and that I have no claws left and no teeth to bite
with! Well, my boy, if I do come to grief, there's always one who will
fall with me and that is Master Prasville, the partner of Stanislas
Vorenglade, who is going to hand me every proof in existence against
him, so that I may get him sent to gaol without delay. Aha, I've got you
fixed, old chap! With those letters, you'll go as I please, hang it all,
and there will be fine days yet for Daubrecq the deputy! What! You're
laughing, are you? Perhaps those letters don't exist?"

Prasville shrugged his shoulders:

"Yes, they exist. But Vorenglade no longer has them in his possession."

"Since when?"

"Since this morning. Vorenglade sold them, two hours ago, for the sum of
forty thousand francs; and I have bought them back at the same price."

Daubrecq burst into a great roar of laughter:

"Lord, how funny! Forty thousand francs! You've paid forty thousand
francs! To M. Nicole, I suppose, who sold you the list of the
Twenty-seven? Well, would you like me to tell you the real name of M.
Nicole? It's Arsene Lupin!"

"I know that."

"Very likely. But what you don't know, you silly ass, is that I have
come straight from Stanislas Vorenglade's and that Stanislas Vorenglade
left Paris four days ago! Oh, what a joke! They've sold you waste paper!
And your forty thousand francs! What an ass! What an ass!"

He walked out of the room, screaming with laughter and leaving Prasville
absolutely dumbfounded.

So Arsene Lupin possessed no proof at all; and, when he was threatening
and commanding and treating Prasville with that airy insolence, it was
all a farce, all bluff!

"No, no, it's impossible," thought the secretary-general. "I have the
sealed envelope.... It's here.... I have only to open it."

He dared not open it. He handled it, weighed it, examined it... And
doubt made its way so swiftly into his mind that he was not in the least
surprised, when he did open it, to find that it contained four blank
sheets of note-paper.

"Well, well," he said, "I am no match for those rascals. But all is not
over yet."

And, in point of fact, all was not over. If Lupin had acted so daringly,
it showed that the letters existed and that he relied upon buying them
from Stanislas Vorenglade. But, as, on the other hand, Vorenglade was
not in Paris, Prasville's business was simply to forestall Lupin's steps
with regard to Vorenglade and obtain the restitution of those dangerous
letters from Vorenglade at all costs. The first to arrive would be the
victor.

Prasville once more took his hat, coat and stick, went downstairs,
stepped into a taxi and drove to Vorenglade's flat.

Here he was told that the ex-deputy was expected home from London at six
o'clock that evening.

It was two o'clock in the afternoon. Prasville therefore had plenty of
time to prepare his plan.

He arrived at the Gare du Nord at five o'clock and posted all around,
in the waiting-rooms and in the railway-offices, the three or four dozen
detectives whom he had brought with him.

This made him feel easy. If M. Nicole tried to speak to Vorenglade,
they would arrest Lupin. And, to make assurance doubly sure, they would
arrest whosoever could be suspected of being either Lupin or one of
Lupin's emissaries.

Moreover, Prasville made a close inspection of the whole station.
He discovered nothing suspicious. But, at ten minutes to six,
Chief-inspector Blanchon, who was with him, said:

"Look, there's Daubrecq."

Daubrecq it was; and the sight of his enemy exasperated the
secretary-general to such a pitch that he was on the verge of having him
arrested. But he reflected that he had no excuse, no right, no warrant
for the arrest.

Besides, Daubrecq's presence proved, with still greater force, that
everything now depended on Stanislas Vorenglade. Vorenglade possessed
the letters: who would end by having them? Daubrecq? Lupin? Or he,
Prasville?

Lupin was not there and could not be there. Daubrecq was not in a
position to fight. There could be no doubt, therefore, about the result:
Prasville would reenter into possession of his letters and, through
this very fact, would escape Daubrecq's threats and Lupin's threats and
recover all his freedom of action against them.

The train arrived.

In accordance with orders, the stationmaster had issued instructions
that no one was to be admitted to the platform. Prasville, therefore,
walked on alone, in front of a number of his men, with Chief-inspector
Blanchon at their head.

The train drew up.

Prasville almost at once saw Stanislas Vorenglade at the window of a
first-class compartment, in the middle of the train.

The ex-deputy alighted and then held out his hand to assist an old
gentleman who was travelling with him.

Prasville ran up to him and said, eagerly:

"Vorenglade... I want to speak to you..."

At the same moment, Daubrecq, who had managed to pass the barrier,
appeared and exclaimed:

"M. Vorenglade, I have had your letter. I am at your disposal."

Vorenglade looked at the two men, recognized Prasville, recognized
Daubrecq, and smiled:

"Oho, it seems that my return was awaited with some impatience! What's
it all about? Certain letters, I expect?"

"Yes... yes..." replied the two men, fussing around him.

"You're too late," he declared.

"Eh? What? What do you mean?"

"I mean that the letters are sold."

"Sold! To whom?"

"To this gentleman," said Vorenglade, pointing to his
travelling-companion, "to this gentleman, who thought that the business
was worth going out of his way for and who came to Amiens to meet me."

The old gentleman, a very old man wrapped in furs and leaning on his
stick, took off his hat and bowed.

"It's Lupin," thought Prasville, "it's Lupin, beyond a doubt."

And he glanced toward the detectives, was nearly calling them, but the
old gentleman explained:

"Yes, I thought the letters were good enough to warrant a few hours'
railway journey and the cost of two return tickets."

"Two tickets?"

"One for me and the other for one of my friends."

"One of your friends?"

"Yes, he left us a few minutes ago and reached the front part of the
train through the corridor. He was in a great hurry."

Prasville understood: Lupin had taken the precaution to bring an
accomplice, and the accomplice was carrying off the letters. An hour
before I would have scrambled back as quickly as possible, knowing that
an instant's hesitation would be followed by a bullet.

Now, I looked him in the face, and said as irritatingly as possible:

"O, you go to ----, you Rebel. I'm going into Uncle Sam's lines with
as little Rebel filth on me as possible."

He passed me without replying.

His day of shooting was past.

Descending from the cars, we passed through the guards into our
lines, a Rebel and a Union clerk checking us off as we passed.

By the time it was dark we were all under our flag again.

The place where we came through was several miles west of Wilmington, where
the railroad crossed a branch of the Cape Fear River. The point was
held by a brigade of Schofield's army--the Twenty-Third Army Corps.

The boys lavished unstinted kindness upon us. All of the brigade off
duty crowded around, offering us blankets, shirts shoes, pantaloons and
other articles of clothing and similar things that we were obviously in
the greatest need of. The sick were carried, by hundreds of willing
hands, to a sheltered spot, and laid upon good, comfortable beds
improvised with leaves and blankets.

A great line of huge, generous fires was built, that every one of us
could have plenty of place around them.

By and by a line of wagons came over from Wilmington laden with rations,
and they were dispensed to us with what seemed reckless prodigality.

The lid of a box of hard tack would be knocked off, and the contents
handed to us as we filed past, with absolute disregard as to quantity.

If a prisoner looked wistful after receiving one handful of crackers,
another was handed to him; if his long-famished eyes still lingered
as if enchained by the rare display of food, the men who were issuing
said:
"Here, old fellow, there's plenty of it: take just as much as you
can carry in your arms."

So it was also with the pickled pork, the coffee, the sugar, etc.

We had been stinted and starved so long that we could not comprehend
that there was anywhere actually enough of anything.

The kind-hearted boys who were acting as our hosts began preparing
food for the sick, but the Surgeons, who had arrived in the meanwhile,
were compelled to repress them, as it was plain that while it was
a dangerous experiment to give any of us all we could or would eat,
it would never do to give the sick such a temptation to kill
themselves, and only a limited amount of food was allowed to be
given those who were unable to walk.

Andrews and I hungered for coffee, the delightful fumes of which
filled the air and intoxicated our senses.

We procured enough to make our half-gallon bucket full and very strong.

We drank so much of this that Andrews became positively drunk, and
fell helplessly into some brush.

I pulled him out and dragged him away to a place where we had made
our rude bed.

I was dazed. I could not comprehend that the long-looked for,
often-despaired-of event had actually happened.
"And Gilbert?" I asked. "What became of him?"

"He is farming his own land, way down in Algeria, under his real name,
his only name of Antoine Mergy. He is married to an Englishwoman, and
they have a son whom he insisted on calling Arsene. I often receive a
bright, chatty, warm-hearted letter from him."

"And Mme. Mergy?"

"She and her little Jacques are living with them."

"Did you see her again?"

"I did not."

"Really!"

Lupin hesitated for a few moments and then said with a smile:

"My dear fellow, I will let you into a secret that will make me seem
ridiculous in your eyes. But you know that I have always been as
sentimental as a schoolboy and as silly as a goose. Well, on the
evening when I went back to Clarisse Mergy and told her the news of the
day--part of which, for that matter, she already knew--I felt two
things very thoroughly. One was that I entertained for her a much deeper
feeling than I thought; the other that she, on the contrary, entertained
for me a feeling which was not without contempt, not without a rankling
grudge nor even a certain aversion."

"Nonsense! Why?"

"Why? Because Clarisse Mergy is an exceedingly honest woman and because
I am... just Arsene Lupin."

"Oh!"

"Dear me, yes, an attractive bandit, a romantic and chivalrous
cracksman, anything you please. For all that, in the eyes of a really
honest woman, with an upright nature and a well-balanced mind, I am only
the merest riff-raff."

I had this morning a subscription-book brought me for our parish; Lord
Granville had refused to subscribe.

This is in the style of his friend Lord Bath, who has absented
himself whenever any act of authority was to be executed against
the rebels.

What
a rebuff!... It produced a coolness between us... Since then..."

"You have forgotten her?"

"Oh, certainly! But it required the consolations of one Italian, two
Americans, three Russians, a German grand-duchess and a Chinawoman to do
it!"

"And, after that...?"

"After that, so as to place an insuperable barrier between myself and
her, I got married."

"Nonsense! You got married, you, Arsene Lupin?"

"Married, wedded, spliced, in the most lawful fashion. One of the
greatest names in France. An only daughter. A colossal fortune... What!
You don't know the story? Well, it's worth hearing."

Yours ever.

_HIS MODE OF LIFE--PLANTING--PROPHECIES OF NEW METHODS AND NEW
DISCOVERIES IN A FUTURE GENERATION._ 
TO THE HON.

     H.S. CONWAY.
     

STRAWBERRY HILL, _Aug._ 29, 1748.

Dear Harry,--Whatever you may think, a campaign at Twickenham
furnishes as little matter for a letter as an abortive one in
Flanders. I can't say indeed that my generals wear black wigs, but
they have long full-bottomed hoods which cover as little entertainment
to the full.

[Illustration: STRAWBERRY HILL, FROM THE SOUTH EAST.]"What's the matter, Lupin?"

"The matter? Nothing."

"Yes, yes... There... now you're smiling... Is it Daubrecq's secret
receptacle, his glass eye, that's making you laugh?"

--I unseal my letter to tell you what a vast and, probably, final
victory we have gained to-day.

They moved, that the Lords flinging out the Bill of Indemnity was
an obstruction of justice, and might prove fatal to the liberties
of this country.

We were alone, the two of us, in the stern of the boat... And
I remember ... I talked... I spoke words and more words... I said all
that I had on my heart... And then... then came silence, a perturbing
and disarming silence."

"Well?"

"Well, I swear to you that the woman whom I took in my arms that night
and kissed on the lips--oh, not for long: a few seconds only, but
no matter!But that is and must be the case of distant correspondences:
Kings and Empresses that we never saw, are the only persons we can
be acquainted with in common. We can have no more familiarity than
the _Daily Advertiser_ would have if it wrote to the _Florentine
Gazette_.And he continued, with a bitter laugh, "Who ran away next
day, never to see me again."

He was silent once more. Then he whispered:

"Clarisse... Clarisse... On the day when I am tired and disappointed and
weary of life, I will come to you down there, in your little Arab house
... in that little white house, Clarisse, where you are waiting for
me..."