O God of love, and not of hate,
 Look down where'er we be,
And snatch us, ere 'tis yet too late,
 From hate's black, raging sea.

From rolling tides of vengeful thought,
 Oh, lift us far above,
And may we thank Thee as we ought,
 From pleasant seas of love.

       *       *       *       *       *

DISPLAY.

Deep planted in the heart of man,
 Wherever you may go,
Display hath fertile seeds, which sprout,
 And daily larger grow.

As oftentimes, in happy soil,
 A lofty tree may rise,
And 'neath its gloomy, blighting shade,
 A sprout, fair, tender, dies.

One lovely sprout, yes, more than one
 Droops, dies beneath the shade,
And, where might be a garden plot,
 A tangl'd waste is made.

Ill favor'd weeds, and poison'd fruit,
  In rank luxuriance reign,
And virtuous plants may strive to grow,
  But strive to grow in vain.

Oh, man, why in thy foolish heart
  Should one seed grow so well,
That naught but chaos there should reign,
  'Mid poison plants of hell.

Oh, man, immortal in thy soul,
  Thou dost possess a will,
Then why not prune these noxious sprouts,
  With firm and steady skill.

If thou would'st make thy heart a plot,
  Trimm'd, bright, and pure, and clean,
Oh, let no tree o'erpow'r the rest,
  Or rank o'ergrowth be seen.

       *       *       *       *       *

THOUGHT.

The blight of life, the demon, Thought--BYRON.


With demon's shriek or angel's voice,
'Mid hellish gloom, or heav'nly light,
Thought haunts our path o'er land and sea,
And dwells with us, by day and night.

In roomy hall, or narrow hut,
It withers, blasts and kills with gloom,
Or gently onward smooths the path
Of him, who gives the tyrant room.

With siren voice it soothes our woe;
It dwells with us in blissful dreams;
But when we wake, it tells us then,
That it is far from what it seems.

Rebellious o'er its prostrate slave,
Its iron chain of bondage swings,
Or, govern'd by a master hand,
In numbers loud and strong, it sings.

And, with its keys of rarest mould,
Its stores of hoarded wealth unlocks,
It dives for man beneath the sea,
And cleaves for him the hardest rocks.

Forever thus it lives and acts,
With angel host, or demon throng,--
To sing with voice of heav'nly love,
Or shout, with dismal, hellish song.

Thus shall it live, thus shall it act,
While ages shall their cycles roll;
It leaves us when we reach the grave
But oh? it rises with the soul.

And still it lives in that beyond,
As here it lives in this our sphere,
To light our road and cheer our path,
Or torture us with nameless fear.

       *       *       *       *       *

PURITY.

Keep pure the thoughts within thy mind,
  For they to actions turn,
Which succor want, or pity woe,
  Or all but self they spurn.

Keep pure thy thoughts, for outward looks
  Will then in beauty shine;
Although thy face be plain, 'twill be
  A human face divine.

Keep pure thy thoughts by trust in God,
  And, when in trouble's sea,
Look thou for strength to brave the storm,
  Upon thy bended knee.

Then lift thy head with fearless front,
  For come whatever may,
Thou'lt gather strength to brave it well,
  Thro' ev'ry passing day.

Keep pure thy heart, oh, keep it pure,
  And thou wilt bless the hour,
When thou withstood temptation's siege,
  And bridl'd passion's pow'r.

       *       *       *       *       *

FAREWELL.

Farewell! and know, where'er I roam,
  My heart still turns to thee,
From spacious halls, or trackless woods,
  Or on the foaming sea.

Farewell, my friend! oh, could I say,
  My love, my own, to you,
My outlook on this dreary world
  Would have a brighter hue.

But duty calls, and I must go,
  E'en now, with outstretch'd hand,
I take a sad, sad leave of thee,
  To dwell in distant land.

For thy sweet sake I'll onward toil,
 In earnest, patient strife.
Content, if thou shalt know I live
 An earnest, useful life.

And if, in future years thou'rt free,
 And none has gain'd thy heart,
Oh, darling, wilt thou come to me,
 And we shall never part.

My shatter'd life will then be sweet,
 My spirit shall rejoice,
And weariness forsake my frame,
 At thy dear, loving voice.

Farewell! farewell! and oh, the words
 Dwell on my falt'ring tongue;
Oh, sad, despairing accents now,
 That from my lips are wrung.

O, God, look down in gracious love,
 And, for my pray'rs and tears,
Oh! guide and bless that gentle maid,
 Through all the coming years.

And, if on earth we meet no more,
 Grant, in thy boundless love,
That I till death may faithful be,
 And meet with her above.

       *       *       *       *       *

IRELAND.

Thou green isle of sorrows, I think of thee daily,
 And sad are the thoughts that come into my brain,
When here, to my home, o'er the wide, rolling ocean,
 Is wafted the news of thy trouble and pain.

Oh, Erin! I love thee in spite of thine errors,
 And now for thee, Erin, my heart is forlorn,
Disturb'd as thou art by such various terrors,
 Thou beautiful isle, where my kindred were born.

E'en now, in my thoughts, I can climb thy steep
mountains,
 Or roam through thy valleys, where green shamrocks
grow,
Or over thy meadows, where hedges of hawthorn
 Stand gracefully clipp'd, an impassable row.

And I see the thatch'd cottage, where often, the
stranger,
 With kind word of welcome, is met at the door;
The castle or tow'r, a shelter from danger,
 When foemen invaded thy sea-beaten shore.

Oh, Erin, I roam, in my thoughts, by thy rivers,
 I stand by thy lakes, in delight at the view,
And ever I pray for the time, that delivers
 This nation from strife, and from misery, too.
From Shannon's green banks unto Erne's limpid waters,
 I've travell'd in thought, while this was my pray'r:
That sons of Fermanagh, and Limerick's daughters.
 Should join in a union of loyalty, there.

For what loyal maid, from the banks of the Shannon,
 Or what Irish lad, from the slopes of the Bann,
Would not dread the day, when the boom of the cannon
 Should speak of destruction and death, from the van?
And what loyal son of old Ireland's glory,
 From Cork's cove of beauty, to Foyle's distant shore,
Would not mourn the day, when, cold, lifeless and gory,
 Brave forms downfallen, should rise never more?

And who would not hail, throughout Erin's dominion,
 The time when Religion's bright form should arise,
And sail o'er the land; with her blest, healing pinion,
 And bring to all hearts the truth in one guise?

And then, in his home, afar o'er the ocean,
 Or by the turf fire, upon Erin's old sod,
Each Irishman, kneeling in humble devotion,
 Would love all his brothers, while praying to God.

Oh Erin, mavourneen! Let Love's joyous fingers
 Strike out from your harps, one glad, resonant strain,
And, if one discordant, harsh, jarring note lingers,
 Oh, strike for your country, together again!
And then, when your hands and your hearts are united,
 When you kneel at one shrine, when you bow to one law.
With a sea of glad brightness, your isle shall be
lighted,
 While thunders the chorus, of Erin-go-bragh.

       *       *       *       *       *

BY THE LAKE.

The waves are dashing on the shore,
 With wild, glad joy, I stand and view them;
And, as they break with sullen roar,
 My heart responds with gladness, to them.

They've pow'r to thrill the human soul,
 As on the shore they break so madly,
The spirit, bounding, hears their roll,
 And speaks responsive, wildly, gladly.

The heart, with proud, defiant beats,
 Re-echoes the triumphant roar,
And, as each wave its course retreats,
 The pulse retires to beat once more.

The gull screams wildly o'er the waves,
 Defiant in its stormy glee;
It screams, perchance, o'er wat'ry graves
 And recks not, heeds not, nor do we.

But comes a time, when waves and wind,
 In restful quietude remain,
A change then comes upon the mind,
 And stormy passion's recent reign.

The gull sails softly thro' the air,
 For all is calm and still below;
Peace, blessed peace is ev'rywhere,
 And all regret the recent throe.

The man, remorseful, thinks of how
 Defiant thoughts reign'd wild and high,
The waves are mourning, sobbing now,
 In peace, but yet in agony.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOUIS RIEL.

Misguided man, thy turbid life
 This day in shameful death shall close,
And thou shalt ne'er behold the sun,
 That in thy sight, this morn, arose.

The moon, which yestere'en so clear,
 Shone thro' thy cell's small window pane--
No more shalt thou behold its light,
 Or see its chasten'd rays, again.

No more thy voice, 'mong savage hordes,
 Shall sound, with baneful, potent spell,
To make them rise with savage force,
 And 'gainst their country's laws, rebel.

And thou art calm in trustful hope,
 And conscience gives thee little pain,
'Tis strange, but man's a myst'ry deep,
 Unsolv'd in finite thought's domain.

The scaffold's there, and thou art firm;
 Thou walkest forth upon it now;
The thoughts within thy breast are hid,
 But calm and peaceful is thy brow.

The man of God, thy faithful friend
 Of brighter days, and happier years,
Upon thy cheek, with holy lips,
 A kiss imprints, 'mid blinding tears.

The priest and thou art praying now,
 For thy poor soul, before 'tis gone,
When suddenly, with crashing force,
 The door descends--the bolt is drawn.

And what can be the pray'r of those,
 Who learn'd with awe thy dreadful death?
It is that thou God's mercy found,
 Before thou yielded up thy breath.

It is that thou that mercy found,
 Which thou to others never gave;
That thy rebellious, restless soul,
 A pardon found, beyond the grave.

Man's justice had to take its course,
 And tie the fatal hempen knot,
For vengeance cried from out the ground,
 Where lay the blood of murder'd Scott.

But who shall say e'en such a cry
 Did drown the voice of pard'ning love,
Which comes to sins of deepest dye,
 From Him who died, but reigns above?

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES ON THE NORTH-WEST REBELLION.

The war is o'er, and vict'ry crowns
 Our youthful soldiers brave,
And back their homeward steps have turn'd,
 Save those who found their grave;
Save those whom rebel bullets fell'd,
 Whose martial souls have gone,
Whose bodies rest beneath the plains
 Of wide Saskatchewan.

Sleep on, brave hearts! Nor bugle sound,
 Nor beat of martial drum
Shall make you spring to arms again,
 And to your comrades come.
Sleep on, brave hearts! Nor western storm,
 Nor rebel balls you'll feel;
You fought the last campaign of life,
 And fought it well, with Riel.

And others wounded in the strife,
 Their valor still will burn,
And to the bloody field again,
 Their spirits brave return;
Tho' maim'd, and bruis'd, and battle worn,
 Their names are honor'd here,
Next to the names of those who fought,
 And found a bloody bier.

Oh, British troops are brave,
 To charge the foreign guns,
And British spirit shows itself
 In our young country's sons.
Long, long may truth and valor strong,
 Inspire Canadian hearts,
To meet with steady bravery,
All rebel balls and darts;

To meet all foreign foes, or quell
 The sinful rebel's pride,
And teach that right must yet prevail,
 That justice must preside;
That law must ne'er be set at naught,
 By selfish cliques or elans,
That right must ne'er give way to might,
 That liberty is man's.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TEACHER.

Say, sadden'd mortal, thou who goest along
With look so weary, and with step so slow,
Why trillest thou no blithe and cheerful song,
Why whistlest thou that tune, so sad and low?

What trouble weighs thee down, what sorrow sore
Lies heavy on thy yet so youthful breast?
Sure fortune yet holds wide for thee her door;
Sure fame and joy yet wait thy earnest quest.

Why, know'st thou not the birds for thee do sing,
The flow'rs for thee with perfum'd beauty grow,
With melody for thee the wild birds sing,
With rippling laugh, the cheerful streamlets flow?

Then why, my friend, once more I ask of thee,
Why shows thy face so much unrest and pain?
What painful phase of life dost thou still see?
What sad, sad woe, doth in thy heart remain?

Bright flash'd the teacher's languid eye,
Flushed his pale cheek, with bright, tho' fleeting
flame;
Leap'd forth his voice with energetic cry,
And thus, to me express'd, his thoughts they came.

"Inquirer, cease, thy words stir up the fire,
That erst did fill my live and vig'rous brain;
Thy words stir up the seeds of healthy ire,
That still, with latent pow'r and force, remain.

"'Tis strange, thou think'st, that darkly on my brow
The shadow of a careworn spirit stays;
My youth, with springless step, doth make thee bow
Thy head, in kindly wonder, and amaze.

"Thou would'st not look with such a puzzl'd air,
Upon my weary pace, and heavy eye,
If thou didst know the cause of my despair,
The stem, substantial, solid reason why.

"Didst ever know, my friend, what I endure,
In slavish, plodding work, from day to day,
Which work should be in its own nature pure,
And lifted high, from gross and heavy clay.

"Examinations, cram and pressure high,
Are daily kept before my anxious mind;
What tho' for higher aims I daily sigh,
This is my work, and this my daily grind.

"I work, you say, on minds, and hearts, and souls,
Alas, 'tis true, but what can e'er atone
For dry, mechanic thought, and lifeless coals,
Which light not up, but turn the intellect to stone?

"Work on! ye faithful, grinding and hair-splitting band,
Work on, in slavish fear, and penitential pain,
But daily pray, that thro' this young and prosp'rous
land,
A system, higher, purer, freer, yet shall reign.

"Yours shall not be the blame, the people must it bear,
For, while they look for quick results, for hot-bed
flow'rs,
Amongst them, they the various ills must surely share,
Of hasty fev'rish work, compell'd by outside pow'rs."

Thus spoke the man, and closed his lips became,
The fire forsook his lately flashing eye,
His nerves relax'd, and o'er his brow, the same
Dark cloud of bitter woe, could I descry.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INDIAN.

When wooded hill, and grassy plain,
 With nature's beauties, gaily dress'd,
Lay calm beneath the red man's reign,
 And smiling, in unconscious rest,

Then roam'd the forest's dusky son,
 In nature's wildness, proudly free,
From where Missouri's waters run,
 Far north, to Hudson's icy sea.

From Labrador, bleak, lonely, wild,
 Where seal, 'mid icebergs, sportive play,
Far westward wander'd nature's child,
 And wigwam built, near Georgia's Bay.

With bow of elm, or hick'ry strong,
 And arrow arm'd with flinty head,
He drew with practis'd hand the thong,
 And quick and straight, the shaft it sped.

Full many a bounding deer or doe,
 Lay victims of his hand and eye,
And many a shaggy buffalo,
 In lifeless bulk did lowly lie.

The forest did his wants supply,
 Content he was with nature's scheme;
For, fail'd the woods to satisfy,
 There came response from lake or stream.

His simple shell of birchen rind,
 Propell'd by skilful hands, and strong,
Down cataracts and rivers pass'd,
 And over lakes, it went along.

With spears, from stone or iv'ry, wrought,
 Or hooks, ingenious made of bone,
He stores from out the waters brought,
 Nor look'd for forest gifts, alone.

Contentment dwelt within his heart,
 And, from his dark and piercing eye
His freedom showed, unbred of art,
 His honor look'd unconsciously.

Untaught by books, untrain'd by men,
 Vers'd in the thoughts of bard or sage,
He yet had read from nature's hand,
 A book unwrit, yet wise its page.

One would have thought a man so bless'd
 And richly, too, with manly pow'rs,
Had surely some far higher quest,
 Than living thus, in nature's bow'rs.

One would have thought, that when he knew
 The laws of God, and cultur'd men,
His mind would take a nobler view,
 And light pursue, with eager ken.

But such is not his happy state,
 Since light of knowledge round him shone;
He still stands sadly at the gate,
 And few still go, where few have gone.

And whose the fault, and whose the blame,
 That thus his mind is still so dim,
That wisdom's lamp, with shining flame.
 Still gives so pale a light, for him.

Oh, thinking white man, look around,
And, when you have discern'd the cause,
Express yourself with certain sound,
Concerning this poor forest child,
Who left his father's hunting ground.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO NOVA SCOTIA.

OH brothers, friends, down by the sea,
 We can thy voices hear,
And painful is their tone, and free,
 Upon each brother's ear.

We hear each voice, pitch'd strong and high,
 And, could we see you now,
Our hearts would heave another sigh,
 At each beclouded brow.

We hear thy voice, from day to day,
 In one long, doleful strain,
Oh tell us why, oh brethren say
 Why sounds that voice of pain.

Are we not one, in race and creed,
 Rul'd by one gracious queen?
And we have all receiv'd our meed
 Of praise and pelf, I ween.

Why vex her now, who's rul'd so long
 Upon her virtuous throne?
Why sing her such a doleful song,
 And send her such a groan?

And why annoy that whiten'd head,
 Our land's adopted son,
Who wisely drew love's slender thread,
 And wedded us in one.

And firmer yet he wish'd to bind
 Us to our country's weal,
And see, plann'd by his master mind,
 One band of glitt'ring steel,

One shining track, which stretches far,
 From wild Columbia's shore,
To where those doleful voices are,
 And the Atlantic's roar.

Oh brethren, friends down by the sea,
 With us your voices raise,
Instead of groans, oh, shout with glee,
 With us, one shout of praise.

And trust him, brethren, trust us, too,
 Seek not from us to go;
Our country's good is weal for you,
 And common, all our woe.

       *       *       *       *       *

A SNOW STORM.

I hear the wintry wind again,
 I see the blinding snow,
Pil'd high, by eddying winds, in heaps,
 No matter where I go.

The storm is raging hard, without;
 But let us not complain,
For fiercely tho' it rages now,
 A calm will come again.

And, though the wildly raging storm
 Makes all things bleak and bare,
Beside the fire we brave it well,
 And closer draw our chair.

In social fellowship, our hearts
 With kindly thoughts grow warm;
Then is there not a pleasant side,
 E'en to a raging storm?

And when the angry storm has calm'd,
 As ev'ry storm must do,
Then, sure, the tempest's handiwork,
 Has pleasant features, too.

An artist's eye would look around,
 Upon these calmer days,
And view the pure white heaps of snow,
 With pleas'd and puzzl'd gaze.

Like purest marble, deftly carv'd,
 They stretch o'er vale and hill,
Fair monuments, not made by man,
 But rear'd by nature's skill.

The sweeping curve, the graceful arch,
 The line so firm and free;
A skilful sculptor well might say:
 "Can this teach aught to me?"

The trees are rob'd in purest white,
 And gleaming atoms shine
From out the snow, beneath the sun,
 Like stones from Ophir's mine.

The merry shouts of busy men
 Sound, as they dig the snow;
And, when the way is clear, the bells
 With joyful jingle, go.

Then who shall say the tempest's work
 Brings more of pain than joy;
Or that the evil things, to us
 Are pain, without alloy?

       *       *       *       *       *

CATCHING SPECKLED TROUT.

In early days, when streams ran pure,
 Untainted from their spring,
Unchok'd by sawmill dust, or logs,
 Or any other thing,

Each river, creek and rill ran on,
 So pure, and free, and bright,
That through the gloomy shades, they shed
 A cheerful, happy light.

