In England, the arts that have escaped best are the arts in which
the public take no interest.  Poetry is an instance of what I mean.
We have been able to have fine poetry in England because the public
do not read it, and consequently do not influence it.  The public
like to insult poets because they are individual, but once they
have insulted them, they leave them alone.  In the case of the
novel and the drama, arts in which the public do take an interest,
the result of the exercise of popular authority has been absolutely
ridiculous.  No country produces such badly-written fiction, such
tedious, common work in the novel form, such silly, vulgar plays as
England.  It must necessarily be so.  The popular standard is of
such a character that no artist can get to it.  It is at once too
easy and too difficult to be a popular novelist.  It is too easy,
because the requirements of the public as far as plot, style,
psychology, treatment of life, and treatment of literature are
concerned are within the reach of the very meanest capacity and the
most uncultivated mind.  It is too difficult, because to meet such
requirements the artist would have to do violence to his
temperament, would have to write not for the artistic joy of
writing, but for the amusement of half-educated people, and so
would have to suppress his individualism, forget his culture,
annihilate his style, and surrender everything that is valuable in
him.  In the case of the drama, things are a little better:  the
theatre-going public like the obvious, it is true, but they do not
like the tedious; and burlesque and farcical comedy, the two most
popular forms, are distinct forms of art.  Delightful work may be
produced under burlesque and farcical conditions, and in work of
this kind the artist in England is allowed very great freedom.  It
is when one comes to the higher forms of the drama that the result
of popular control is seen.  The one thing that the public dislike
is novelty.  Any attempt to extend the subject-matter of art is
extremely distasteful to the public; and yet the vitality and
progress of art depend in a large measure on the continual
extension of subject-matter.  The public dislike novelty because
they are afraid of it.  It represents to them a mode of
Individualism, an assertion on the part of the artist that he
selects his own subject, and treats it as he chooses.  The public
are quite right in their attitude.  Art is Individualism, and
Individualism is a disturbing and disintegrating force.  Therein
lies its immense value.  For what it seeks to disturb is monotony
of type, slavery of custom, tyranny of habit, and the reduction of
man to the level of a machine.  In Art, the public accept what has
been, because they cannot alter it, not because they appreciate it.
They swallow their classics whole, and never taste them.  They
endure them as the inevitable, and as they cannot mar them, they
mouth about them.  Strangely enough, or not strangely, according to
one's own views, this acceptance of the classics does a great deal
of harm.  The uncritical admiration of the Bible and Shakespeare in
England is an instance of what I mean.  With regard to the Bible,
considerations of ecclesiastical authority enter into the matter,
so that I need not dwell upon the point.  But in the case of
Shakespeare it is quite obvious that the public really see neither
the beauties nor the defects of his plays.  If they saw the
beauties, they would not object to the development of the drama;
and if they saw the defects, they would not object to the
development of the drama either.  The fact is, the public make use
of the classics of a country as a means of checking the progress of
Art.  They degrade the classics into authorities.  They use them as
bludgeons for preventing the free expression of Beauty in new
forms.  They are always asking a writer why he does not write like
somebody else, or a painter why he does not paint like somebody
else, quite oblivious of the fact that if either of them did
anything of the kind he would cease to be an artist.  A fresh mode
of Beauty is absolutely distasteful to them, and whenever it
appears they get so angry, and bewildered that they always use two
stupid expressions--one is that the work of art is grossly
unintelligible; the other, that the work of art is grossly immoral.
What they mean by these words seems to me to be this.  When they
say a work is grossly unintelligible, they mean that the artist has
said or made a beautiful thing that is new; when they describe a
work as grossly immoral, they mean that the artist has said or made
a beautiful thing that is true.  The former expression has
reference to style; the latter to subject-matter.  But they
probably use the words very vaguely, as an ordinary mob will use
ready-made paving-stones.  There is not a single real poet or
prose-writer of this century, for instance, on whom the British
public have not solemnly conferred diplomas of immorality, and
these diplomas practically take the place, with us, of what in
France, is the formal recognition of an Academy of Letters, and
fortunately make the establishment of such an institution quite
unnecessary in England.  Of course, the public are very reckless in
their use of the word.  That they should have called Wordsworth an
immoral poet, was only to be expected.  Wordsworth was a poet.  But
that they should have called Charles Kingsley an immoral novelist
is extraordinary.  Kingsley's prose was not of a very fine quality.
Still, there is the word, and they use it as best they can.  An
artist is, of course, not disturbed by it.  The true artist is a
man who believes absolutely in himself, because he is absolutely
himself.  But I can fancy that if an artist produced a work of art
in England that immediately on its appearance was recognised by the
public, through their medium, which is the public press, as a work
that was quite intelligible and highly moral, he would begin to
seriously question whether in its creation he had really been
himself at all, and consequently whether the work was not quite
unworthy of him, and either of a thoroughly second-rate order, or
of no artistic value whatsoever.

Perhaps, however, I have wronged the public in limiting them to
such words as 'immoral,' 'unintelligible,' 'exotic,' and
'unhealthy.'  There is one other word that they use.  That word is
'morbid.'  They do not use it often.  The meaning of the word is so
simple that they are afraid of using it.  Still, they use it
sometimes, and, now and then, one comes across it in popular
newspapers.  It is, of course, a ridiculous word to apply to a work
of art.  For what is morbidity but a mood of emotion or a mode of
thought that one cannot express?  The public are all morbid,
because the public can never find expression for anything.  The
artist is never morbid.  He expresses everything.  He stands
outside his subject, and through its medium produces incomparable
and artistic effects.  To call an artist morbid because he deals
with morbidity as his subject-matter is as silly as if one called
Shakespeare mad because he wrote 'King Lear.'

