
016:021 They are Jews, and are teaching customs which we, as Romans,
        are not permitted to adopt or practise."
016:022 The crowd, too, joined in the outcry against them, till at length
        the praetors ordered them to be stripped and beaten with rods;
016:023 and, after severely flogging them, they threw them into jail
        and bade the jailer keep them safely.
016:024 He, having received an order like that, lodged them in the
        inner prison, and secured their feet in the stocks.
016:025 About midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns
        to God, and the prisoners were listening to them,
016:026 when suddenly there was such a violent shock of earthquake
        that the prison shook to its foundations.  Instantly the doors
        all flew open, and the chains fell off from every prisoner.
016:027 Starting up from sleep and seeing the doors of the jail wide open,
        the jailer drew his sword and was on the point of killing himself,
        supposing that the prisoners had escaped.
016:028 But Paul shouted loudly to him, saying, "Do yourself no injury:
        we are all here.
016:029 Then, calling for lights, he sprang in and fell trembling
        at the feet of Paul and Silas;
016:030 and, bringing them out of the prison, he exclaimed, "O sirs,
        what must I do to be saved?"
LXXXIV.
        
THE DISCOVERY OF AMERICA.
        
After years of fruitless and heart-sick solicitation, after offering, in
        effect, to this monarchy and to that monarch, the gift
of a hemisphere. the great discoverer touches upon a partial success.
        He succeeds, not in enlisting the sympathy of his countrymen at
        Genoa and Venice, for a
brave brother-sailor,--not in giving a new direction to the spirit of
        maritime adventure,
which had so long prevailed in Portugal,--not in stimulating the commercial
        thrift of Henry the Seventh, or the pious ambition of the Catholic
king. His sorrowful perseverance touches the heart of a noble
princess, worthy the throne which she adorned.Now therefore you can go,
        and proceed on your way in peace."
016:037 But Paul said to them, "After cruelly beating us in public,
        without trial, Roman citizens though we are, they have thrown us
        into prison, and are they now going to send us away privately?
        No, indeed!  Let them come in person and fetch us out."
016:038 This answer the lictors took back to the praetors, who were alarmed
        when they were told that Paul and Silas were Roman citizens.
016:039 Accordingly they came and apologized to them; and, bringing them out,
        asked them to leave the city.
016:040 Then Paul and Silas, having come out of the prison, went to
        Lydia's house; and, after seeing the brethren and encouraging them,
        they left Philippi.
017:001 Then, passing through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they went
        to Thessalonica.  But what business had rushes there, or I
among them? I knew that there was not a solitary spot of shoal
        in the deep channel where I supposed myself swimming,
        and it was plain in
an instant that I had somehow missed my course, and must be getting
        among the marshes. I felt confident, to be sure, that I could not
        have widely erred, but was guiding my course for the
        proper side of
the river. But whether I had drifted above or below the causeway
        I had not the slightest clue to tell.
        
I pushed steadily forward, with some increasing sense of lassitude,
        passing one marshy islet after another, all seeming strangely
        out of place, and sometimes just reaching with my foot a soft
tremulous shoal which gave scarce the shadow of a support, though
even that shadow rested my feet.They then attacked the house of Jason and searched for Paul
        and Silas, to bring them out before the assembly of people.
017:006 But, failing to find them, they dragged Jason and some of the other
        brethren before the magistrates of the city, loudly accusing them.
        "These men," they said, "who have raised a tumult throughout
        the Empire, have come here also.
017:007 Jason has received them into his house; and they all set Caesar's
        authority at defiance, declaring that there is another Emperor--
        one called Jesus."
017:008 Great was the excitement among the crowd, and among the magistrates
        of the city, when they heard these charges.
017:009 They required Jason and the rest to find substantial bail,
        and after that they let them go.
017:010 The brethren at once sent Paul and Silas away by night to Beroea,
        and they, on their arrival, went to the synagogue of the Jews.
017:011 The Jews at Beroea were of a nobler disposition than those
        in Thessalonica, for they very readily received the Message,
        and day after day searched the Scriptures to see whether it
        was as Paul stated.
017:012 As the result many of them became believers, and so did not
        a few of the Greeks--gentlewomen of good position, and men.
017:013 As soon, however, as the Jews of Thessalonica learnt
        that God's Message had been proclaimed by Paul at Beroea,
        they came there also, and incited the mob to a riot.
017:014 Then the brethren promptly sent Paul down to the sea-coast,
        but Silas and Timothy remained behind.
017:015 Those who were caring for Paul's safety went with him as far
        as Athens, and then left him, taking a message from him to Silas
        and Timothy, asking them to join him as speedily as possible.
017:016 While Paul was waiting for them in Athens, his spirit was stirred
        within him when he noticed that the city was full of idols.
017:017 So he had discussions in the synagogue with the Jews and
        the other worshippers, and in the market place, day after day,
        with those whom he happened to meet.
017:018 A few of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers also encountered him.
        Some of them asked, "What has this beggarly babbler to say?"
        "His business," said others, "seems to be to cry up
        some foreign gods."  This was because he had been telling
        the Good News of Jesus and the Resurrection.
017:019 Then they took him and brought him up to the Areopagus, asking him,
        "May we be told what this new teaching of yours is?
017:020 For the things you are saying sound strange to us.
        We should therefore like to be told exactly what they mean."
017:021 (For all the Athenians and their foreign visitors used to devote
        their whole leisure to telling or hearing about something new.)
017:022 So Paul, taking his stand in the centre of the Areopagus,
        spoke as follows:  "Men of Athens, I perceive that you are
        in every respect remarkably religious.
017:023 For as I passed along and observed the things you worship, I found
        also an altar bearing the inscription, `TO AN UNKNOWN GOD.'
        "The Being, therefore, whom you, without knowing Him, revere,
        Him I now proclaim to you.
017:024 GOD who made the universe and everything in it--He, being Lord
        of Heaven and earth, does not dwell in sanctuaries built by men.
017:025 Nor is He ministered to by human hands, as though He needed anything--
        but He Himself gives to all men life and breath and all things.
017:026 He caused to spring from one forefather people of every race,
        for them to live on the whole surface of the earth, and marked
        out for them an appointed span of life and the boundaries
        of their homes;
017:027 that they might seek God, if perhaps they could grope for Him
        and find Him.  We have assembled, not to respond to shouts of
triumph from the West, but to answer to the cry of want and suffering
        which comes from the East. The Old World stretches out her
        arms to the New. The starving parent supplicates the young
and vigorous child for bread. There lies, upon the other side of
        the wide Atlantic, a beautiful island famous in history and in
        song. Its area is not so great as that of the State
of Louisiana, while its population is almost half that of the Union.But now He commands all men everywhere to repent,
017:031 seeing that He has appointed a day on which, before long,
        He will judge the world in righteousness, through the
        instrumentality of a man whom He has pre-destined to this work,
        and has made the fact certain to every one by raising Him
        from the dead."
017:032 When they heard Paul speak of a resurrection of dead men,
        some began to scoff.  But others said, "We will hear you
        again on that subject."
017:033 So Paul went away from them.
017:034 A few, however, attached themselves to him and believed,
        among them being Dionysius a member of the Council,
        a gentlewoman named Damaris, and some others.
018:001 After this he left Athens and came to Corinth.
018:002 Here he found a Jew, a native of Pontus, of the name of Aquila.
        He and his wife Priscilla had recently come from Italy
        because of Claudius's edict expelling all the Jews from Rome.
        So Paul paid them a visit;
018:003 and because he was of the same trade--that of tent-maker--
        he lodged with them and worked with them.
018:004 But, Sabbath after Sabbath, he preached in the synagogue
        and tried to win over both Jews and Greeks.
018:005 Now at the time when Silas and Timothy came down from
        Macedonia, Paul was preaching fervently and was solemnly
        telling the Jews that Jesus is the Christ.
018:006 But upon their opposing him with abusive language,
        he shook his clothes by way of protest, and said to them,
        "Your ruin will be upon your own heads.  I am not responsible:
        in future I will go among the Gentiles."
018:007 So he left the place and went to the house of a person
        called Titius Justus, a worshipper of the true God.
        His house was next door to the synagogue.
018:008 And Crispus, the Warden of the synagogue, believed in the Lord,
        and so did all his household; and from time to time many of
        the Corinthians who heard Paul believed and received baptism.
018:009 And, in a vision by night, the Lord said to Paul, "Dismiss
        your fears:  go on speaking, and do not give up.
018:010 I am with you, and no one shall attack you to injure you;
        for I have very many people in this city."
018:011 So Paul remained in Corinth for a year and six months,
        teaching among them the Message of God.
018:012 But when Gallio became Proconsul of Greece, the Jews with one accord
        made a dead set at Paul, and brought him before the court.
018:013 "This man," they said, "is inducing people to offer unlawful
        worship to God."
018:014 But, when Paul was about to begin his defence, Gallio said
        to the Jews, "If it had been some wrongful act or piece of
        cunning knavery I might reasonably have listened to you Jews.
018:015 But since these are questions about words and names and your Law,
        you yourselves must see to them.  I knew, that, although
        water baffled their
scent, they yet could recognize in some
manner the approach of any person across water as readily as
        by land; and of the vigilance of all dogs by night every traveller
among Southern plantations has ample demonstration.Gallio did not concern himself in the least about this.
018:018 After remaining a considerable time longer in Corinth, Paul took
        leave of the brethren and set sail for Syria; and Priscilla
        and Aquila were with him.