Produced by K Nordquist, Daniel Watkins and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


    Sonnets
    of
    Shakespeare's
    Ghost

    The Words procured by GREGORY THORNTON
    The Ornaments made by WILLEM BLAEU

    ---

    Never before Imprinted

    ---

    At Sydney

    By _Angus & Robertson_, and are to be solde
    by all booksellers

    1920


    TO THE ONLIE BEGETTER

    OF THESE INSUING SONNETS

    F.M.

    ALL HAPPINESSE


    The Spirit of William Shakespeare,
    sore vexed of them who say that in his
    Sonnets he writ not from the truth of
    his heart but from the toyings of his
    brain, and that he devised but a feigned
    object to fit a feigned affection, herein
    maketh answer, renewing as best a
    shadow may that rhyme wherein he
    was more excellent in the
    living body


    I

    The wise world saith I not unlock'd my heart
    When I of thee and thy dear love did write,
    And would each word of mine to false convert,
    Doing my simple sense a double spite.
    asked Charlie. "This looks as if it was deserted."
    
    "Oh, a caravan of camels and horses comes down about
    once a year from the lakes up north, toward the Abyssinian border.
We only follow it over the plateau with the wagons."But wherefore say they so, and do dear wrong
    To thee, whose worth was my sole argument,
    To me, whose verse 'twas truth alone made strong
    By that the breast must feel, not brain invent?
      They who this doubt never such beauty knew,
      Nor what to poet love alone can do.


    II

    They say a man ne'er bore such love to man,
    Or, if he did, 'twere but a cause for shame;
    But, speaking so, they their own measure scan,
    And blot their censure with self-blaming blame.
    For, thou being Beauty's best, the best of me
    Worshipp'd but Beauty's self and Beauty's worth;
    My fire and air, my spirit, adorèd thee
    Unmix'd with gross compounding of my earth.
    And thou wert best of Truth, the first in grace
    Of all rich gems in Virtue's carcanet;
    Then should I not love thee and give thee place
    Above all love of sense on woman set?
      In love of Beauty, whate'er shape 'tis in,
      There's nought of Truth, if it must think of sin.


    III

    Look, when the rose to deep vermilion hue
    Adds that sweet odour gracious Nature gives,
    When his proud glory gladdens every view,
    And no base worm within his beauties lives,
    We nothing question of what sex it be,
    Nor ask more of it than that it should lend
    His lovely gaze for ravish'd eye to see,
    And on the blessed air his fragrance spend.
    We ask not that the star which lights the heaven
    Should be or male or female to our sense,
    Suffic'd in this, that it empearls the even,
    And happies all our under reverence.
      "Aren't you? I thought that stuff would be worth heaps
      o' coin, but according to the General's figures it doesn't come
to more'n five thousand iron men."

    "What're you looking for?"

    retorted Jack wearily. "Four or five million?
    S'pose we split up on that, it means a thousand
    each, easy. Why, I never saw a thousand
    dollars in my life. It looks mighty good to
    me, Chuck."
    "Oh, it looks good," admitted Charlie
    hastily. "But when you talk about treasure
    you reckon in big figures. I'm not kicking,
    though,--not on your life! Good thing you came in
    when you did with that splitting proposition.
    How'd you happen to think of it?"
    "Who wouldn't?" returned Jack. "Made me tired
      to hear 'em sit there and argue back and
      forth, making threats and so on. No sense in it."

    Nothing occurred that night to disturb the camp, although the Masai
kept up until late a dance and chant in triumph at having, as they
supposed, put the Arabs to flight.

    But in the morning Schoverling made an announcement
    that roused everyone.
    
    "About eleven last night," he said at breakfast,
    "I heard a big crashing north of us, farther
    toward the head of the lake. Then came snorts,
    and a single trumpet. Sounded as if the rogue
    elephant was out on a stroll and had run
    into a buffalo or something."
    "Then I feel very sorry for that buffalo," smiled
    von Hofe. "We shall all go out this morning, no?"
    
      "You don't have to go, Doctor," said the explorer
      earnestly. "At best you could only take one of the rifles, for
we'll have to carry the big guns."VI

    Why, thou being changeless, changeful did I write,
    Trusting thy truth, yet doubting thy defect,
    Now all-triumphant, now confounded quite,
    Sad-suited all, or proud in purple deck'd?
    Did I not write of thy rare constancy,
    Wherein was none like thee, thou like to none;
    Swear that thy heart within my heart did lie
    Past all removal till the world were done?
    E'en so; but though, when clouds the region hold,
    Masking with envious murk the sun's bright face,
    Our o'ergloom'd spirits shudder 'neath the cold,
    He merits not the blame of that disgrace:
      Himself is still the same, still warm, still bright,
      Though clouds between hide both the warmth and light.


    VII

    Yet, being so chill'd, do we not chide the sun,
    And say he wilful hides his face away,
    Say 'tis his will makes the world drear and dun,
    And takes the golden glory from the day?
    The envious rack we rather should reproach,
    That comes betwixt us in despite of him,
    Rebellious powers, that on his reign encroach,
    And, black themselves, his brightness joy to dim.
    So when the troubling mischiefs of the time,
    Or baser minds, bent upon marring thee,
    Stole moments of thy favour, then my rhyme
    Slander'd thy love and slurr'd thy constancy.
      Yet the sun's self unstain'd and bright remains,
      And my heart knew thy stains were not thy stains.


    VIII

    If wrongfully I moan'd thy 'pretty wrongs',
    When I was 'sometime absent from thy heart',
    O none so trusting but to him belongs
    Some moody moment of his mortal part!
    No man doth Nature make whose trust doth ever
    Unveering with all winds point still the same;
    None is so whole in health he knows no fever
    To shake the firm composure of his frame.
    My love so wholly thine, thy worth so dear,
    Made each thine absence so distract my breast,
    That in his turmoil faith sometime to fear
    Converted, doubting most when most 'twas blest.
      Because mine own heart lone without thee seem'd,
      Me absent from thy heart I falsely deem'd.


    IX

    I writ how once I wander'd from thy side,
    Serving the strong suggestions of my blood,
    Only to prove from worse things vainly tried
    How far more precious grew thy sum of good.
    If I so lov'd thee, what is my defence,
    That thy dear love fail'd then my steps to stay,
    That idle hours were idly given to sense,
    And soul forsaken at the call of clay?
    O let love grant excuse; my sensual part
    Dwelt ever far from pure untainted thee;
    It held no conversation with my heart,
    Nor, us'd or check'd, could be thine injury.
      If once it triumph'd, carrying me away,
      It stole but earth; my soul did with thee stay.


    X

    If that my sensual deed had stol'n from thee
    Aught that were part of thy most precious love,
    Or made to swerve the loving soul of me,
    That to thy service it should duller prove;
    Had't made to me thy grace less gracious seem,
    Thy worth less worth, thy love a smaller prize,
    Or bated aught of thy most rich esteem,
    Which still grew richer in thy servant's eyes;
    Then were it fault too foul to find excuse,
    And all I writ of thee were vows untrue;
    My verse were nought but idle poet's use,
    Conceit's worn weeds lac'd o'er with wording new.
      But 'twas not so; though true my love before,
      'Twas thenceforth purg'd, and priz'd thee all the more.


    XI

    Wherefore should I mine own heart not unfold,
    And his true workings to the world disclose?
    Why self-unlocking for unseemly hold,
    Which me, as I show'd others, human shows?
    If I to Nature held her truthful glass,
    And on the stage life's self did strive to set,
    Creating thousand shadows that should pass
    For very substance when men's eyes they met;
    If there I imag'd love, hate, doubt, and trust,
    If all the pageant of the mortal heart,
    Might not one say: 'This man within him must
    Have learn'd from Nature what he shap'd in art'?
      All passions' depths he only can reveal
      Who doth them all within him living feel.


    XII

    Whence came it that I knew in others' case
    How bitter-sweet and tyrant-slave is love,
    How quick to jealous doubt it yieldeth place,
    If mine own self did ne'er his power prove?
    Whence knew I the deep sense that in the soul
    Is thrill'd and thrall'd by perfect beauty's sight,
    If never beauty did myself control
    With all the mastery of sovran might?
    Since so my heart laid bare what it contain'd
    Of understanding of love's mysteries,
    And nought of thine or mine our loving stain'd,
    That I should hide it from misprising eyes,
      No shame or scruple might my judgement see
      To tell of that true love I bore to thee.


    Imprinted at Adelaide by _G. Hassell & Sonne_ for
    _Angus & Robertson_, Sydney