In the "Zëphir," La Queue had to get in a passion in order to hold
Tupain and Brisemotte from the cask. The boat-hook, in smashing a hoop,
had made a leaking for the red liquid, which the two men tasted from the
ends of their fingers and which they found exquisite. One might easily
drink a glass without its producing much effect. But La Queue would not
have it. He caulked the cask and declared that the first who sucked it
should have a talk with him. On land, they would see.

"Then," asked Tupain, sullenly, "are we going to draw out the jambins?"

"Yes, right away; there is no hurry!" replied La Queue.

He also gazed lovingly at the barrel. He felt his limbs melt with
longing to go in at once and taste it. The fish bored him.

"Bah!" said he at the end of a silence. "Let's go back, for it's late.
We will return to-morrow." And he was relaxing his fishing when he
noticed another cask at his right, this one very small, and which stood
on end, turning on itself like a top. That was the last straw for the
nets and the jambins. No one even spoke of them any longer. The "Zéphir"
gave chase to the little barrel, which was caught very easily.

During this time a similar adventure overtook the "Baleine." After
Rouget had already visited five jambins completely empty, Delphin,
always on the watch, cried out that he saw something. But it did not
have the appearance of a cask, it was too long.

"It's a beam," said Fouasse.

Rouget let fall his sixth jambin without drawing it out of the water.
"Let's go and see, all the same," said he.

As they advanced, they thought they recognized at first a beam, a chest,
the trunk of a tree. Then they gave a cry of joy.

It was a real cask, but a very queer cask, such as they had never seen
before. One would have said a tube, bulging in the middle and closed at
the two ends by a layer of plaster.

"Ah, that's comical!" cried Rouget, in rapture. "This one I want the
Emperor to taste. Come, children, let's go in."

They all agreed not to touch it, and the "Baleine" returned to
Coqueville at the same moment as the "Zéphir," in its turn, anchored in
the little harbor. Not one inquisitive had left the beach. Cries of joy
greeted that unexpected catch of three casks. The _gamins_ hurled their
caps into the air, while the women had at once gone on the run to
look for glasses. It was decided to taste the liquid on the spot. The
wreckage belonged to the village. Not one protest arose. Only they
formed into two groups, the Mahés surrounded Rouget, the Floches would
not let go of La Queue.

"Emperor, the first glass for you!" cried Rouget. "Tell us what it is."

The liquor was of a beautiful golden yellow. The _garde champêtre_
raised his glass, looked at it, smelt it, then decided to drink.

"That comes from Holland," said he, after a long silence.

He did not give any other information. All the Mahés drank with
deference. It was rather thick, and they stood surprised, for it tasted
of flowers. The women found it very good. As for the men, they would
have preferred less sugar. Nevertheless, at the bottom it ended by being
strong at the third or fourth glass. The more they drank, the better
they liked it. The men became jolly, the women grew funny.

But the Emperor, in spite of his recent quarrels with the Mayor, had
gone to hang about the group of Floches.

The biggest cask gave out a dark-red liquor, while they drew from the
smallest a liquid white as water from the rock; and it was this latter
that was the stiff est, a regular pepper, something that skinned the
tongue.

Not one of the Floches recognized it, neither the red nor the white.

There were, however, some wags there. It annoyed them to be regaling
themselves without knowing over what.

"I say, Emperor, taste that for me!" said La Queue, thus taking the
first step.

The Emperor, who had been waiting for the invitation, posed once more as
connoisseur.

"As for the red," he said, "there is orange in that! And for the white,"
he declared, "that--that is excellent!"

They had to content themselves with these replies, for he shook his
head with a knowing air, with the happy look of a man who has given
satisfaction to the world.

The Abbé Radiguet, alone, did not seem convinced. As for him, he had the
names on the tip of his tongue; and to thoroughly reassure himself, he
drank small glasses, one after the other, repeating: "Wait, wait, I know
what it is. In a moment I will tell you."

In the mean while, little by little, merriment grew in the group of the
Mahés and the group of the Floches. The latter, particularly, laughed
very loud because they had mixed the liquors, a thing that excited them
the more. For the rest, the one and the other of the groups kept
apart. They did not offer each other of their casks, they simply cast
sympathetic glances, seized with the unavowed desire to taste their
neighbor's liquor, which might possibly be better. The inimical
brothers, Tupain and Fouasse, were in close proximity all the evening
without showing their fists. It was remarked, also, that Rouget and
his wife drank from the same glass. As for Margot, she distributed the
liquor among the Floches, and as she filled the glasses too full, and
the liquor ran over her fingers, she kept sucking them continually,
so well that, though obeying her father who forbade her to drink, she
became as fuddled as a girl in vintage time. It was not unbecoming to
her; on the contrary, she got rosy all over, her eyes were like candles.

The sun set, the evening was like the softness of springtime. Coqueville
had finished the casks and did not dream of going home to dine. They
found themselves too comfortable on the beach. When it was pitch
night, Margot, sitting apart, felt some one blowing on her neck. It was
Del-phin, very gay, walking on all fours, prowling behind her like a
wolf. She repressed a cry so as not to awaken her father, who would have
sent Delphin a kick in the back.

"Go away, imbecile!" she murmured, half angry, half laughing; "you will
get yourself caught!"


IV

The following day Coqueville, in rising, found the sun already high
above the horizon. The air was softer still, a drowsy sea under a clear
sky, one of those times of laziness when it is so good to do nothing. It
was a Wednesday. Until breakfast time, Coqueville rested from the fête
of the previous evening. Then they went down to the beach to see.

That Wednesday the fish, the Widow Dufeu, M. Mouchel, all were
forgotten. La Queue and Rouget did not even speak of visiting their
jam-bins. Toward three o'clock they sighted some casks. Four of them
were dancing before the village. The "Zéphir" and the "Baleine" went in
chase; but as there was enough for all, they disputed no longer. Each
boat had its share. At six o'clock, after having swept all over the
little gulf, Rouget and La Queue came in, each with three casks. And
the fête began again. The women had brought down tables for convenience.
They had brought benches as well; they set up two cafés in the open air,
such as they had at Grandport. The Mahés were on the left; the Floches
on the right, still separated by a bar of sand. Nevertheless, that
evening the Emperor, who went from one group to the other, carried his
glasses full, so at to give every one a taste of the six casks. At about
nine o'clock they were much gayer than the night before.

The next day Coqueville could never remember how it had gone to bed.

Thursday the "Zéphir" and the "Baleine" caught but four casks, two each,
but they were enormous. How many, _nyabur?_ Here, _kingga_. There,
_nyua_.

_Numerals_.

One, _kaiapmin_. Two, _buletya_.

Initiation Ceremonies and Marriage Laws.

The initiation ceremonies of the Burreba-burreba are the same in all
essential respects as those of the Wiradyuri tribes, which I have described
in detail elsewhere.[10] The social organisation is also similar to the
Wiradyuri, comprising two phratries, each of which is subdivided
into two sections, as exemplified in the following synopsis:--
Phratry. A man. Marries Sons and Daughters.
A _Murri_ _Ippatha_ _Umbi_ and _Butha_.

_Kubbi_ _Butha_ _Ippai_ and _Ippatha_.
B _Ippai_ _Matha_ _Kubbi_ and _Kubbitha_.
_Umbi_ _Kubbitha_ _Murri_ and _Matha_.

Although marriages generally follow the above rules, yet in certain cases
Murri can marry Butha, and Kubbi may take Ippatha as his spouse-- a
similar liberty being allowed the men of phratry B. Again, where there
is no objection arising from nearness of kin, a Murri man may marry
a Matha woman, but her totem must be different from his, and she must
belong to a distant family. This applies to the men of every section.
By the strict letters of the foregoing table, it would appear that the
child of a brother can marry the child of a sister, but this is
rigorously forbidden--the table being construed to mean that a
brother's child's child marries a sister's child's child.

Each phratry has attached to it a group of _totems_, consisting of animals
and inanimate objects. Every man, woman, and child in the community has
his particular totem, which is inherited from birth.

For further information on this subject the reader is referred to numerous
papers contributed by me to different scientific societies.

The Ngunawal Language.

The native tribes speaking the Ngunawal tongue occupy the country
from Goulburn to Yass and Burrowa, extending southerly to Lake George
and Goodradigbee.

In a contribution to the Anthropological Society at Washington in 1896,
described the Bunan ceremony,[11] an elaborate type of initiation
practised by the Ngunawal in common with other communities.
In 1900 I published an account of the Kudsha[12] or Kuddya, an
abridged form of inaugural ceremony which is likewise in force among
the same people.

The social organisation regulating marriage and descent, which I
described in the last mentioned article,[13] also applies to the
Ngunawal.

The Ngunawal is one of an aggregate of tribes whose sacred songs I
have learnt and published, with the accompanying music, in an
article I communicated to the Royal Geographical Society of
Queensland in 1901.[14] These are the first sacred songs of the Australian
Aborigines which have ever been set to music.

_Nouns_.

_Number_.--Nouns have three numbers. _Mirri_, a dog; _mirribula_, a
couple of dogs; _mirridyimma_, several dogs.

_Gender_.--_Baual_, a man; _bullan_, a woman. Words for "male" and "female"
distinguish the gender of animals, as, _gurabun muddun_, a bear, male;
_gurabun dhuruk_, a bear, female.

_Case_.--The principal cases are the nominative, causative, instrumental,
genitive, accusative, dative and ablative.

The nominative is the name of the sbuject at rest, and is without
flexion.

The causative, or nominative-agent, represents the subject in action,
as, _bullanga gudha ngubumuiñ_, a woman a child beat.
_Instrumental_.--_Baualga burraingu nguburiñ dyuiñga_, a man a
wallaby killed with a spear. Here the instrument, a spear, takes
the same suffix as the causative. The wallaby, _burrai_, takes the
genitive affix, as being the possessor or recipient of the
killing.
_Accusative_.--Except in such instances as the wallaby in the last
example, the accusative is the same as the nominative.
The genitive case is represented by an affix to the name of the
property as well as to that of the owner, a peculiarity which I was
the first to report[15] in Australian languages. _Baualngu mirriwung_,
a man's dog.
Every object over which ownership may be exercised can be declined
for number and person, as under:-- Singular 1st Person My dog (dog
my) _Mirridya_.
2nd " Thy dog _Mirridyi_.
3rd " His dog _MIrriwung_.
and so on through all the persons of the dual and plural.
If a couple or more articles be claimed, an infix is inserted between
the noun root and the possessive affix, thus: _Mirribuladya_, dogs
both mine; _mirridyimmadya_, dogs several mine.
_Dative_.--_Ngurani munnagai_, to the camp come.It was on Friday that the Mahés and the Floches fraternized. They were
very jolly that evening. Already, the evening before, distances had
drawn nearer, the most intoxicated had trodden down the bar of sand
which separated the two groups. There remained but one step to take. On
the side of the Floches the four casks were emptying, while the Mahés
were equally finishing their three little barrels; just three liqueurs
which made the French flag; one blue, one white, and one red. The blue
filled the Floches with jealousy, because a blue liqueur seemed to them
something really supernatural. La Queue, grown good-natured since he had
been drunk, advanced, a glass in his hand, feeling that he ought to take
the first step as magistrate.

"See here, Rouget," he stuttered, "will you drink with me?"

"Willingly," replied Rouget, who was staggering under a feeling of
tenderness.

And they fell upon each other's necks. Then they all wept, so great was
their emotion. The Mahés and the Floches embraced, they who had been
devouring one another for three centuries. The Abbé Radiguet, greatly
touched, again spoke of the finger of God. They drank to each other in
the three liqueurs, the blue, the white, and the red.

"_Vive la France!_" cried the Emperor.

The blue was worthless, the white of not much account, but the red was
really a success. Then they tapped the casks of the Floches. Then they
danced. As there was no band, some good-natured boys clapped their
hands, whistling, which excited the girls. The fête became superb. The
seven casks were placed in a row; each could choose that which he liked
best. Those who had had enough stretched themselves out on the sands,
where they slept for a while; and when they awoke they began again.
Little by little the others spread the fun until they took up the whole
beach. Right up to midnight they skipped in the open air. The sea had a
soft sound, the stars shone in a deep sky, a sky of vast peace. It
was the serenity of the infant ages enveloping the joy of a tribe of
savages, intoxicated by their first cask of eau-de-vie.

Nevertheless, Coqueville went home to bed again. When there was nothing
more left to drink, the Floches and the Mahés helped one another,
carried one another, and ended by finding their beds again one way or
another. On Saturday the fête lasted until nearly two o'clock in the
morning. They had caught six casks, two of them enormous. Fouasse and
Tupain almost fought. Tupain, who was wicked when drunk, talked of
finishing his brother. But that quarrel disgusted every one, the Floches
as well as the Mahés. Was it reasonable to keep on quarreling when the
whole village was embracing? They forced the two brothers to drink
together. They were sulky. The Emperor promised to watch them. Neither
did the Rouget household get on well. When Marie had taken anisette she
was prodigal in her attentions to Brisemotte, which Rouget could not
behold with a calm eye, especially since having become sensitive, he
also wished to be loved. The Abbé Radiguet, full of forbearance, did
well in preaching forgiveness; they feared an accident. "Bah!" said La
Queue; "all will arrange itself. If the fishing is good to-morrow, you
will see--Your health!"

However, La Queue himself was not yet perfect. He still kept his eye on
Delphin and leveled kicks at him whenever he saw him approach Margot.
The Emperor was indignant, for there was no common sense in preventing
two young people from laughing. But La Queue always swore to kill his
daughter sooner than give her to "the little one." Moreover, Margot
would not be willing.

"Isn't it so? You are too proud," he cried. "Never would you marry a
ragamuffin!"

"Never, papa!" answered Margot.

Saturday, Margot drank a great deal of sugary liqueur. No one had any
idea of such sugar. As she was no longer on her guard, she soon found
herself sitting close to the cask. She laughed, happy, in paradise; she
saw stars, and it seemed to her that there was music within her, playing
dance tunes. Then it was that Delphin slipped into the shadow of the
casks. He took her hand; he asked: "Say, Margot, will you?"

She kept on smiling. Then she replied: "It is papa who will not."

"Oh! that's nothing," said the little one; "you know the old ones never
will--provided you are willing, you." And he grew bold, he planted a
kiss on her neck. She bridled; shivers ran along her shoulders. "Stop!
You tickle me."

But she talked no more of giving him a slap. In the first place, she was
not able to, for her hands were too weak. Then it seemed nice to her,
those little kisses on the neck. It was like the liqueur that enervated
her so deliciously. She ended by turning her head and extending her
chin, just like a cat.

"There!" she stammered, "there under the ear--that tickles me. Oh! that
is nice!"

They had both forgotten La Queue. Fortunately the Emperor was on guard.
He pointed them out to the Abbé.

"Look there, Curé--it would be better to marry them."

"Morals would gain thereby," declared the priest sententiously.

And he charged himself with the matter for the morrow. 'Twas he himself
that would speak to La Queue. Meanwhile La Queue had drunk so much that
the Emperor and the Curé were forced to carry him home. On the way they
tried to reason with him on the subject of his daughter; but they could
draw from him nothing but growls. Behind them, in the untroubled night,
Delphin led Margot home.

The next day by four o'clock the "Zéphir" and the "Baleine" had already
caught seven casks. At six o'clock the "Zéphir" caught two more. That
made nine.

Then Coqueville feted Sunday. It was the seventh day that it had been
drunk. And the fête was complete--a fête such as no one had ever seen,
and which no one will ever see again. Speak of it in Lower Normandy, and
they will tell you with laughter, "Ah! yes, the fête at Coqueville!"


V

In the mean while, since the Tuesday, M. Mouchel had been surprised at
not seeing either Rouget or La Queue arrive at Grandport. What the devil
could those fellows be doing? The sea was fine, the fishing ought to be
splendid. Very possibly they wished to bring a whole load of soles and
lobsters in all at once. And he was patient until the Wednesday.

