Produced by Al Haines


[Frontispiece: They stopped and had a drink of the cool water]


THE EARLY BIRD

_A Business Man's Love Story_


BY

GEORGE RANDOLPH CHESTER


Author of

THE MAKING OF BOBBY BURNIT


WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY

ARTHUR WILLIAM BROWN


INDIANAPOLIS

THE BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY

PUBLISHERS


COPYRIGHT 1910

THE BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY


CONTENTS


CHAPTER

     I  A VERY BUSY YOUNG MAN
    II  MR. TURNER PLUNGES
   III  A MATTER OF DELICACY
    IV  GREEK MEETS GREEK
     V  MISS JOSEPHINE'S FATHER
    VI  MARASCHINO CHOCOLATES
   VII  A DANCE NUMBER
  VIII  NOT SAM'S FAULT THIS TIME
    IX  A VIOLENT FLIRT
     X  A PIANOLA TRAINING
    XI  THE WESTLAKES INVEST
   XII  ANOTHER MISSED APPOINTMENT
  XIII  A RIDE WITH MISS STEVENS
   XIV  MATRIMONIAL ELIGIBILITY
    XV  THE HERO OF THE HOUR
   XVI  AN INTERRUPTED PROPOSAL
  XVII  SHE CALLS HIM SAM!
 XVIII  A BUSINESS PARTNER


ILLUSTRATIONS

They stopped and had a drink of the cool water . . . _Frontispiece_

They waylaid him on the porch

Hepseba studied him from head to foot

Sam played again the plaintive little air

"I don't like to worry you, Sam"

"Excuse me!" stammered Mr. Stevens


THE EARLY BIRD


CHAPTER I

WHEREIN A VERY BUSY YOUNG MAN STARTS ON AN ABSOLUTE REST

The youngish-looking man who so vigorously swung off the train at
Restview, wore a pair of intensely dark blue eyes which immediately
photographed everything within their range of vision--flat green
country, shaded farm-houses, encircling wooded hills and all--weighed
it and sorted it and filed it away for future reference; and his
clothes clung on him with almost that enviable fit found only in
advertisements.  Immediately he threw his luggage into the tonneau of
the dingy automobile drawn up at the side of the lonely platform, and
promptly climbed in after it.  Spurred into purely mechanical action by
this silent decisiveness, the driver, a grizzled graduate from a hay
wagon, and a born grump, as promptly and as silently started his
machine.  The crisp and perfect start, however, was given check by a
peremptory voice from the platform.

"Hey, you!" rasped the voice.  "Come back here!"

As there were positively no other "Hey yous" in the landscape, the
driver and the alert young man each acknowledged to the name, and
turned to see an elderly gentleman, with a most aggressive beard and
solid corpulency, gesticulating at them with much vigor and
earnestness.  Standing beside him was a slender sort of girl in a green
outfit, with very large brown eyes and a smile of amusement which was
just a shade mischievous.  The driver turned upon his passenger a long
and solemn accusation.

"Hollis Creek Inn?" he asked sternly.

"Meadow Brook," returned the passenger, not at all abashed, and he
smiled with all the cheeriness imaginable.

"Oh," said the driver, and there was a world of disapprobation in his
tone, as well as a subtle intonation of contempt.  "You are not Mr.
Stevens of Boston."

"No," confessed the passenger; "Mr. Turner of New York.  I judge that
to be Mr. Stevens on the platform," and he grinned.

The driver, still declining to see any humor whatsoever in the
situation, sourly ran back to the platform.  Jumping from his seat he
opened the door of the tonneau, and waited with entirely artificial
deference for Mr. Turner of New York to alight.  Mr. Turner, however,
did nothing of the sort.  He merely stood up in the tonneau and bowed
gravely.

"I seem to be a usurper," he said pleasantly to Mr. Stevens of Boston.
"I was expected at Meadow Brook, and they were to send a conveyance for
me.  As this was the only conveyance in sight I naturally supposed it
to be mine.  I very much regret having discommoded you."

He was looking straight at Mr. Stevens of Boston as he spoke, but,
nevertheless, he was perfectly aware of the presence of the girl; also
of her eyes and of her smile of amusement with its trace of
mischievousness.  Becoming conscious of his consciousness of her, he
cast her deliberately out of his mind and concentrated upon Mr.
Stevens.  The two men gazed quite steadily at each other, not to the
point of impertinence at all, but nevertheless rather absorbedly.
Really it was only for a fleeting moment, but in that moment they had
each penetrated the husk of the other, had cleaved straight down to the
soul, had estimated and judged for ever and ever, after the ways of men.

"I passed your carryall on the road.  It was broke down.  It'll be here
in about a half hour, I suppose," insisted the driver, opening the door
of the tonneau still wider, and waving the descending pathway with his
right hand.

Both Mr. Stevens of Boston and Mr. Turner of New York were very glad of
this interruption, for it gave the older gentleman an object upon which
to vent his annoyance.

"Is Meadow Brook on the way to Hollis Creek?" he demanded in a tone
full of reproof for the driver's presumption.

The driver reluctantly admitted that it was.

"I couldn't think of leaving you in this dismal spot to wait for a
dubious carryall," offered Mr. Stevens, but with frigid politeness.
"You are quite welcome to ride with us, if you will."

"Thank you," said Mr. Turner, now climbing out of the machine with
alacrity and making way for the others.  "I had intended," he laughed,
as he took his place beside the driver, "to secure just such an
invitation, by hook or by crook."

For this assurance he received a glance from the big eyes; not at all a
flirtatious glance, but one of amusement, with a trace of mischief.
The remark, however, had well-nigh stopped all conversation on the part
of Mr. Stevens, who suddenly remembered that he had a daughter to
protect, and must discourage forwardness.  His musings along these
lines were interrupted by an enthusiastic outburst from Mr. Turner.

"By George!" exclaimed the latter gentleman, "what a fine clump of
walnut trees; an even half-dozen, and every solitary one of them would
trim sixteen inches."

"Yes," agreed the older man with keenly awakened interest, "they are
fine specimens.  They would scale six hundred feet apiece, if they'd
scale an inch."

"You're in the lumber business, I take it," guessed the young man
immediately, already reaching for his card-case.  "My name is Turner,
known a little better as Sam Turner, of Turner and Turner."

"Sam Turner," repeated the older man thoughtfully.  "The name seems
distinctly familiar to me, but I do not seem, either, to remember of
any such firm in the trade."

"Oh, we're not in the lumber line," replied Mr. Turner.  "Not at all.
We're in most anything that offers a profit.  We--that is my kid
brother and myself--have engineered a deal or two in lumber lands,
however.  It was only last month that I turned a good trade--a very
good trade--on a tract of the finest trees in Wisconsin."

"The dickens!" exclaimed the older gentleman explosively.  "So you're
the Turner who sold us our own lumber!  Now I know you.  I'm Stevens,
of the Maine and Wisconsin Lumber Company."

Sam Turner laughed aloud, in both surprise and glee.  Mr. Stevens had
now reached for his own card-case.  The two gentlemen exchanged cards,
which, with barely more than a glance, they poked in the other flaps of
their cases; then they took a new and more interested inspection of
each other.  Both were now entirely oblivious to the girl, who,
however, was by no means oblivious to them.  She found them, in this
new meeting, a most interesting study.

"You gouged us on that land, young man," resumed Mr. Stevens with a wry
little smile.

"Worth every cent you paid us for it, wasn't it?" demanded the other.

"Y-e-s; but if you hadn't stepped into the deal at the last minute, we
could have secured it for five or six thousand dollars less money."

"You used to go after these things yourself," explained Mr. Turner with
an easy laugh.  "Now you send out people empowered only to look and not
to purchase."

"But what I don't yet understand," protested Mr. Stevens, "is how you
came to be in the deal at all.  When we sent out our men to inspect the
trees they belonged to a chap in Detroit.  When we came to buy them
they belonged to you."

"Certainly," agreed the younger man.  "I was up that way on other
business, when I heard about your man looking over this valuable
acreage; so I just slipped down to Detroit and hunted up the owner and
bought it.  Then I sold it to you.  That's all."

He smiled frankly and cheerfully upon Mr. Stevens, and the frown of
discomfiture which had slightly clouded the latter gentleman's brow,
faded away under the guilelessness of it all; so much so that he
thought to introduce his daughter.

Miss Josephine having been brought into the conversation, Mr. Turner,
for the first time, bent his gaze fully upon her, giving her the same
swift scrutiny and appraisement that he had the father.  He was
evidently highly satisfied with what he saw, for he kept looking at it
as much as he dared.  He became aware after a moment or so that Mr.
Stevens was saying something to him.  He never did get all of it, but
he got this much:

"--so you'd be rather a good man to watch, wherever you go."

"I hope so," agreed the other briskly.  "If I want anything, I go
prepared to grab it the minute I find that it suits me."

"Do you always get everything you want?" asked the young lady.

"Always," he answered her very earnestly, and looked her in the eyes so
speculatively, albeit unconsciously so, that she found herself battling
with a tendency to grow pink.

Her father nodded in approval.

"That's the way to get things," he said.  "What are you after now?
More lumber?"

"Rest," declared Mr. Turner with vigorous emphasis.  "I've worked like
a nailer ever since I turned out of high school.  I had to make the
living for the family, and I sent my kid brother through college.  He's
just been out a year and it's a wonder the way he takes hold.  But do
you know that in all those times since I left school I never took a
lay-off until just this minute?  It feels glorious already.  It's fine
to look around this good stretch of green country and breathe this
fresh air and look at those hills over yonder, and to realize that I
don't have to think of business for two solid weeks.  Just absolute
rest, for me!  I don't intend to talk one syllable of shop while I'm
here.  Hello! there's another clump of walnut trees.  It's a pity
they're scattered so that it isn't worth while to buy them up."

The girl laughed, a little silvery laugh which made any memory of grand
opera seem harsh and jangling.  Both men turned to her in surprise.
Neither of them could see any cause for mirth in all the fields or sky.

"I beg your pardon for being so silly," she said; "but I just thought
of something funny."

"Tell it to us," urged Mr. Turner.  "I've never taken the time I ought
to enjoy funny things, and I might as well begin right now."

But she shook her head, and in some way he acquired an impression that
she was amused at him.  His brows gathered a trifle.  If the young lady
intended to make sport of him he would take her down a peg or two.  He
would find her point of susceptibility to ridicule, and hammer upon it
until she cried enough.  That was his way to make men respectful, and
it ought to work with women.

When they let him out at Meadow Brook, Mr. Stevens was kind enough to
ask him to drop over to Hollis Creek.  Mr. Turner, with impulsive
alacrity, promised that he would.


CHAPTER II

WHEREIN MR. TURNER PLUNGES INTO THE BUSINESS OF RESTING

At Meadow Brook Sam Turner found W. W. Westlake, of the Westlake
Electric Company, a big, placid man with a mild gray eye and an
appearance of well-fed and kindly laziness; a man also who had the
record of having ruthlessly smashed more business competitors than any
two other pirates in his line.  Westlake, unclasping his fat hands from
his comfortable rotundity, was glad to see young Turner, also glad to
introduce the new eligible to his daughter, a girl of twenty-two,
working might and main to reduce a threatened inheritance of
embonpoint.  Mr. Turner was charmed to meet Miss Westlake, and even
more pleased to meet the gentleman who was with her, young Princeman, a
brisk paper manufacturer variously quoted at from one to two million.
He knew all about young Princeman; in fact, had him upon his mental
list as a man presently to meet and cultivate for a specific purpose,
and already Mr. Turner's busy mind offset the expenses of this trip
with an equal credit, much in the form of "By introduction to H. L.
Princeman, Jr. (Princeman and Son Paper Mills, AA 1), whatever it
costs."  He liked young Princeman at sight, too, and, proceeding
directly to the matter uppermost in his thoughts, immediately asked him
how the new tariff had affected his business.

"It's inconvenient," said Princeman with a shake of his head.  "Of
course, in the end the consumers must pay, but they protest so much
about it that they disarrange the steady course of our operations."

"It's queer that the ultimate consumer never will be quite reconciled
to his fate," laughed Mr. Turner; "but in this particular case, I think
I hold the solution.  You'll be interested, I know.  You see--"

"I beg your pardon, Mr. Turner," interrupted Miss Westlake gaily; "I
know you'll want to meet all the young folks, and you'll particularly
want to meet my very dearest friend.  Miss Hastings, Mr. Turner."

Mr. Turner had turned to find an extraordinarily thin young woman, with
extraordinarily piercing black eyes, at Miss Westlake's side.

"Indeed, I do want to meet all the young people," he cordially
asserted, taking Miss Hastings' claw-like hand in his own and wondering
what to do with it.  He could not clasp it and he could not shake it.
She relieved him of his dilemma, after a moment, by twining that arm
about the plump waist of her dearest friend.

"Is this your first stay at Meadow Brook?" she asked by way of starting
conversation.  She was very carefully vivacious, was Miss Hastings, and
had a bird-like habit, meant to be very fetching, of cocking her head
to one side as she spoke, and peering up to men--oh, away up--with the
beady expression of a pet canary.

"My very first visit," confessed Mr. Turner, not yet realizing the
disgrace it was to be "new people" at Meadow Brook, where there was
always an aristocracy of the grandchildren of original Meadow Brookers.
"However, I hope it won't be the last time," he continued.

"We shall all hope that, I am certain," Miss Westlake assured him,
smiling engagingly into the depths of his eyes.  "It will be our fault
if you don't like it here;" and he might take such tentative promise as
he would from that and her smile.

"Thank you," he said promptly enough.  "I can see right now that I'm
going to make Meadow Brook my future summer home.  It's such a restful
place, for one thing.  I'm beginning to rest right now, and to put
business so far into the background that--" he suddenly stopped and
listened to a phrase which his trained ear had caught.

"And that is the trouble with the whole paper business," Mr. Princeman
was saying to Mr. Westlake.  "It is not the tariff, but the future
scarcity of wood-pulp material."

"That's just what I was starting to explain to you," said Mr. Turner,
wheeling eagerly to Mr. Princeman, entirely unaware, in his intensity
of interest, of his utter rudeness to both groups.  "My kid brother and
myself are working on a scheme which, if we are on the right track,
ought to bring about a revolution in the paper business.  I can not
give you the exact details of it now, because we're waiting for letters
patent on it, but the fundamental point is this: that the wood-pulp
manufacturers within a few years will have to grow their raw material,
since wood is becoming so scarce and so high priced.  Well, there is
any quantity of swamp land available, and we have experimented like mad
with reeds and rushes.  We've found one particular variety which grows
very rapidly, has a strong, woody fiber, and makes the finest pulp in
the world.  I turned the kid loose with the company's bank roll this
spring, and he secured options on two thousand acres of swamp land,
near to transportation and particularly adapted to this culture, and
dirt cheap because it is useless for any other purpose.  As soon as the
patents are granted on our process we're going to organize a million
dollar stock company to take up more land and handle the business."

"Come over here and sit down," invited Princeman, somewhat more than
courteously.

"Wait a minute until I send for McComas.  Here, boy, hunt Mr. McComas
and ask him to come out on the porch."

The new guest was reaching for pencil and paper as they gathered their
chairs together.  The two girls had already started hesitantly to
efface themselves.  Half-way across the lawn they looked sadly toward
the porch again.  That handsome young Mr. Turner, his back toward them,
was deep in formulated but thrilling facts, while three other heads,
one gray and one black and one auburn, were bent interestedly over the
envelope upon which he was figuring.

Later on, as he was dressing for dinner, Mr. Turner decided that he
liked Meadow Brook very much.  It was set upon the edge of a pleasant,
rolling valley, faced and backed by some rather high hills, upon the
sloping side of one of which the hotel was built, with broad verandas
looking out upon exquisitely kept flowers and shrubbery and upon the
shallow little brook which gave the place its name.  A little more
water would have suited Sam better, but the management had made the
most of its opportunities, especially in the matter of arranging dozens
of pretty little lovers' lanes leading in all directions among the
trees and along the sides of the shimmering stream, and the whole
prospect was very good to look at, indeed.  Taken in conjunction with
the fact that one had no business whatever on hand, it gave one a sense
of delightful freedom to look out on the green lawn and the gay
gardens, on the brook and the tennis and croquet courts, and on the
purple-hazed, wooded hills beyond; it was good to fill one's lungs with
country air and to realize for a little while what a delightful world
this is; to see young people wandering about out there by twos and by
threes, and to meet with so many other people of affairs enjoying
leisure similar to one's own.

Of course, this wasn't a really fashionable place, being supported
entirely by men who had made their own money; but there was Princeman,
for instance, a fine chap and very keen; a well-set-up fellow,
black-haired and black-eyed, and of a quick, nervous disposition; one
of precisely the kind of energy which Turner liked to see.  McComas,
too, with his deep red hair and his tendency to freckles, and his frank
smile with all the white teeth behind it, was a corking good fellow;
and alive.  McComas was in the furniture line, a maker of cheap stuff
which was shipped in solid trains of carload lots from a factory that
covered several acres.  The other men he noticed around the place
seemed to be of about the same stamp.  He had never been anywhere that
the men averaged so well.

As he went down-stairs, McComas introduced his wife, already gowned for
the evening.  She was a handsome woman, of the sort who would wear a
different stunning gown every night for two weeks and then go on to the
next place.  Well, she had a right to this extravagance.  Besides it is
good for a man's business to have his wife dressed prosperously.  A man
who is getting on in the world ought to have a handsome wife.  If she
is the right kind, of Miss Stevens' type, say, she is a distinct asset.

After dinner, Miss Westlake and Miss Hastings waylaid him on the porch.

[Illustration: They waylaid him on the porch]

"I suppose, of course, you are going to take part in the bowling
tournament to-night," suggested Miss Westlake with the engaging
directness allowable to family friendship.

"I suppose so, although I didn't know there was one.  Where is it to be
held?"

"Oh, just down the other side of the brook, beyond the croquet grounds.
Roosevelt's accession to the Presidential chair has been a great thing
for good sportsmanship in this country.

Measures pertaining to game and forest protection, and matters of
sport generally, always have had, and always will have, his cordial
approval and co-operation.

He is heartily in favor of the forest reserves, and of the project
for establishing, within these reserves, game refuges, where no hunting
whatever shall be permitted.

Aside from his love for nature, and his wish to have certain limited
areas remain in their natural condition, absolutely untouched by the
ax of the lumberman, and unimproved by the work of the forester, is
that broader sentiment in behalf of humanity in the United States,
which has led him to declare that such refuges should be established
for the benefit of the man of moderate means and the poor man, whose
opportunities to hunt and to see game are few and far between.

In a public speech he has said, in substance, that the rich and the
well-to-do could take care of themselves, buying land, fencing it,
and establishing parks and preserves of their own, where they might
look upon and take pleasure in their own game, but that such a course
was not within the power of the poor man, and that therefore the
Government might fitly intervene and establish refuges, such as indicated,
for the benefit and the pleasure of the whole people.

In April, 1903, the President made a trip to the Yellowstone Park, and
there had an opportunity to see wild game in such a forest refuge, living
free and without fear of molestation.

Long before this Mr. Roosevelt had expressed his approval of the plan,
but his own eyes had never before seen precisely the results
accomplished by such a refuge. In 1903 he was able to contrast
conditions in the Yellowstone Park with those of former years when
he had passed through it and had hunted on its borders, and what
he saw then more than ever confirmed his previous conclusions.

Although politics have taken up a large share of Mr.

Roosevelt's life, they represent only one of his many sides. He has
won fame as a historical writer by such books as "The Winning of the
West," "Life of Gouverneur Morris," "Life of Thomas Hart Benton,"
"The Naval War of 1812," "History of New York," "American Ideals
and Other Essays," and "Life of Cromwell."

Besides these, he has written "The Strenuous Life," and in somewhat lighter
vein, his "Wilderness Hunter," "Hunting Trips of a Ranchman,"
"Ranch Life and the Hunting Trail," and "The Rough Riders" deal
with sport, phases of nature and life in the wild country.

For many years he was on the editorial committee of the Boone and
Crockett Club, and edited its publications, "American Big Game Hunting,"
"Hunting in Many Lands," and "Trail and Camp Fire."

Mr. Roosevelt was the first president of the Boone and Crockett Club, and
continues actively interested in its work. He was succeeded in the
presidency of the Club by the late Gen. B.H. Bristow.

[Illustration: Tourists and Bears]

Wilderness Reserves

The practical common sense of the American people has been in no
way made more evident during the last few years than by the creation
and use of a series of large land reserves--situated for the most
part on the great plains and among the mountains of the West--intended
to keep the forests from destruction, and therefore to conserve the
water supply.

These reserves are created purely for economic purposes.

The semi-arid regions can only support a reasonable population under
conditions of the strictest economy and wisdom in the use of the
water supply, and in addition to their other economic uses the
forests are indispensably necessary for the preservation of the
water supply and for rendering possible its useful distribution
throughout the proper seasons.

In addition, however, to the economic use of the wilderness by preserving
it for such purposes where it is unsuited for agricultural uses,
it is wise here and there to keep selected portions of it--of course
only those portions unfit for settlement--in a state of nature, not
merely for the sake of preserving the forests and the water, but
for the sake of preserving all its beauties and wonders unspoiled
by greedy and shortsighted vandalism.

These beauties and wonders include animate as well as inanimate objects.
The wild creatures of the wilderness add to it by their presence a
charm which it can acquire in no other way. On every ground it is
well for our nation to preserve, not only for the sake of this generation,
but above all for the sake of those who come after us, representatives
of the stately and beautiful haunters of the wilds which were once
found throughout our great forests, over the vast lonely plains,
and on the high mountain ranges, but which are now on the point of
vanishing save where they are protected in natural breeding grounds and
nurseries. The work of preservation must be carried on in such a way as
to make it evident that we are working in the interest of the people
as a whole, not in the interest of any particular class; and that
the people benefited beyond all others are those who dwell nearest
to the regions in which the reserves are placed.

The movement for the preservation by the nation of sections of the
wilderness as national playgrounds is essentially a democratic movement
in the interest of all our people.

[Illustration: "OOM JOHN."]

On April 8, 1903, John Burroughs and I reached the Yellowstone Park and
were met by Major John Pitcher of the Regular Army, the Superintendent
of the Park.

The Major and I forthwith took horses; he telling me that he could
show me a good deal of game while riding up to his house at the Mammoth
Hot Springs.

Hardly had we left the little town of Gardiner and gotten within
the limits of the Park before we saw prong-buck.

There was a band of at least a hundred feeding some distance from the
road. We rode leisurely toward them. They were tame compared to their
kindred in unprotected places; that is, it was easy to ride within fair
rifle range of them; but they were not familiar in the sense that
we afterwords found the bighorn and the deer to be familiar.

During the two hours following my entry into the Park we rode around
the plains and lower slopes of the foothills in the neighborhood of
the mouth of the Gardiner and we saw several hundred--probably a thousand
all told--of these antelope. Major Pitcher informed me that all the
prong-horns in the Park wintered in this neighborhood.

Toward the end of April or the first of May they migrate back to their
summering homes in the open valleys along the Yellowstone and in
the plains south of the Golden Gate.

While migrating they go over the mountains and through forests if
occasion demands.

Although there are plenty of coyotes in the Park there are no big
wolves, and save for very infrequent poachers the only enemy of the
antelope, as indeed the only enemy of all the game, is the cougar.

Cougars, known in the Park as elsewhere through the West as "mountain
lions," are plentiful, having increased in numbers of recent years.
Except in the neighborhood of the Gardiner River, that is within a
few miles of Mammoth Hot Springs, I found them feeding on elk, which
in the Park far outnumber all other game put together, being so
numerous that the ravages of the cougars are of no real damage to
the herds.

But in the neighborhood of the Mammoth Hot Springs the cougars are
noxious because of the antelope, mountain sheep and deer which they
kill; and the Superintendent has imported some hounds with which
to hunt them.

These hounds are managed by Buffalo Jones, a famous old plainsman,
who is now in the Park taking care of the buffalo.

On this first day of my visit to the Park I came across the carcasses
of a deer and of an antelope which the cougars had killed. On the great
plains cougars rarely get antelope, but here the country is broken so
that the big cats can make their stalks under favorable circumstances.
To deer and mountain sheep the cougar is a most dangerous enemy--much
more so than the wolf.

[Illustration: Prongbucks]
The antelope we saw were usually in bands of from twenty to one hundred
and fifty, and they traveled strung out almost in single file, though
those in the rear would sometimes bunch up.

I did not try to stalk them, but got as near them as I could on
horseback.

The closest approach I was able to make was to within about eighty yards
on two which were by themselves--I think a doe and a last year's
fawn.

As I was riding up to them, although they looked suspiciously at
me, one actually lay down.

When I was passing them at about eighty yards distance the big one became
nervous, gave a sudden jump, and away the two went at full speed.

Why the prone bucks were so comparatively shy I do not know, for
right on the ground with them we came upon deer, and, in the immediate
neighborhood, mountain sheep, which were absurdly tame.

The mountain sheep were nineteen in number, for the most part does and
yearlings with a couple of three-year-old rams, but not a single
big fellow--for the big fellows at this season are off by themselves,
singly or in little bunches, high up in the mountains.

The band I saw was tame to a degree matched by but few domestic
animals.

They were feeding on the brink of a steep washout at the upper edge of
one of the benches on the mountain side just below where the abrupt
slope began. They were alongside a little gully with sheer walls. I
rode my horse to within forty yards of them, one of them occasionally
looking up and at once continuing to feed.

Then they moved slowly off and leisurely crossed the gully to the other
side.

I dismounted, walked around the head of the gully, and moving cautiously,
but in plain sight, came closer and closer until I was within twenty
yards, where I sat down on a stone and spent certainly twenty minutes
looking at them. They paid hardly any attention whatever to my
presence--certainly no more than well-treated domestic creatures
would pay. One of the rams rose on his hind legs, leaning his fore-hoofs
against a little pine tree, and browsed the ends of the budding
branches.

The others grazed on the short grass and herbage or lay down and
rested--two of the yearlings several times playfully butting at one
another.

Now and then one would glance in my direction without the slightest
sign of fear--barely even of curiosity.

I have no question whatever but that with a little patience this
particular band could be made to feed out of a man's hand. Major
Pitcher intends during the coming winter to feed them alfalfa--for game
animals of several kinds have become so plentiful in the neighborhood
of the Hot Springs, and the Major has grown so interested in them, that
he wishes to do something toward feeding them during the severe
winter.
After I had looked at the sheep to my heart's content, I walked back
to my horse, my departure arousing as little interest as my advent.

[Illustration: MOUNTAIN SHEEP.]

Soon after leaving them we began to come across black-tail deer,
singly, in twos and threes, and in small bunches of a dozen or so.
They were almost as tame as the mountain sheep, but not quite. That is,
they always looked alertly at me, and though if I stayed still
they would graze, they kept a watch over my movements and usually
moved slowly off when I got within less than forty yards of them. Up
to that distance, whether on foot or on horseback, they paid but little
heed to me, and on several occasions they allowed me to come much
closer. Like the bighorn, the black-tails at this time were grazing,
not browsing; but I occasionally saw them nibble some willow buds.
During the winter they had been browsing.

As we got close to the Hot Springs we came across several white-tail in
an open, marshy meadow.

They were not quite as tame as the black-tail, although without any
difficulty I walked up to within fifty yards of them. Handsome
though the black-tail is, the white-tail is the most beautiful of
all deer when in motion, because of the springy, bounding grace of
its trot and canter, and the way it carries its head and white flag
aloft.

Before reaching the Mammoth Hot Springs we also saw a number of ducks
in the little pools and on the Gardiner. Some of them were rather
shy.

Others--probably those which, as Major Pitcher informed me, had spent
the winter there--were as tame as barnyard fowls.

[Illustration: DEER ON THE PARADE GROUND.]
Just before reaching the post the Major took me into the big field
where Buffalo Jones had some Texas and Flat Head Lake buffalo--bulls
and cows--which he was tending with solicitous care.

The original stock of buffalo in the Park have now been reduced to
fifteen or twenty individuals, and the intention is to try to mix
them with the score of buffalo which have been purchased out of the
Flat Head Lake and Texas Panhandle herds.

The buffalo were put within a wire fence, which, when it was built,
was found to have included both black-tail and white-tail deer. A bull
elk was also put in with them at one time--he having met with some
accident which made the Major and Buffalo Jones bring him in to
doctor him.

When he recovered his health he became very cross.

Not only would he attack men, but also buffalo, even the old and surly
master bull, thumping them savagely with his antlers if they did anything
to which he objected.

When I reached the post and dismounted at the Major's house, I supposed
my experiences with wild beasts for the day were ended; but this
was an error.

The quarters of the officers and men and the various hotel buildings,
stables, residences of the civilian officials, etc., almost
completely surround the big parade ground at the post, near the
middle of which stands the flag-pole, while the gun used for morning
and evening salutes is well off to one side.

There are large gaps between some of the buildings, and Major Pitcher
informed me that throughout the winter he had been leaving alfalfa on
the parade grounds, and that numbers of black-tail deer had been in
the habit of visiting it every day, sometimes as many as seventy being
on the parade ground at once. As springtime came on the numbers
diminished.

However, in mid-afternoon, while I was writing in my room in Major
Pitcher's house, on looking out of the window I saw five deer on
the parade ground. They were as tame as so many Alderney cows, and
when I walked out I got up to within twenty yards of them without any
difficulty. It was most amusing to see them as the time approached for
the sunset gun to be fired.

The notes of the trumpeter attracted their attention at once.

They all looked at him eagerly.

One then resumed feeding, and paid no attention whatever either to the
bugle, the gun or the flag. The other four, however, watched the
preparations for firing the gun with an intent gaze, and at the sound
of the report gave two or three jumps; then instantly wheeling, looked
up at the flag as it came down.

This they seemed to regard as something rather more suspicious than
the gun, and they remained very much on the alert until the ceremony
was over. Once it was finished, they resumed feeding as if nothing had
happened.

Before it was dark they trotted away from the parade ground back to
the mountains.

The next day we rode off to the Yellowstone River, camping some miles
below Cottonwood Creek.

It was a very pleasant camp. Major Pitcher, an old friend, had
a first-class pack train, so that we were as comfortable as possible,
and on such a trip there could be no pleasanter or more interesting
companion than John Burroughs--"Oom John," as we soon grew to call
him.

Where our tents were pitched the bottom of the valley was narrow,
the mountains rising steep and cliff-broken on either side.

There were quite a number of black-tail in the valley, which were tame
and unsuspicious, although not nearly as much so as those in the
immediate neighborhood of the Mammoth Hot Springs. One mid-afternoon
three of them swam across the river a hundred yards above our camp.

You might take us around Bald Hill," she
suggested to the chauffeur.  "It is a very pretty drive," she
explained, turning to Sam as the machine wheeled, and at the same time
waving her hand gaily to the disconsolate Hollis, who was "hard hit"
with a different girl every season.  "It's just about a two-hour trip.
What a fine morning to be out!" and she settled back comfortably as the
machine gathered speed.  "I do love a machine, but father is rather
backward about them.  He will consent to ride in them under necessity,
but he won't buy one.  Every time he sees a handsome pair of horses,
however, he has to have them."

"I admire a good horse myself," returned Sam.

"Do you ride?" she asked him.

"Oh, I have suffered a few times on horseback," he confessed; "but you
ought to see my kid brother ride.  He looks as if he were part of the
horse.  He's a handsome brat."

"Except for calling him names, which is a purely masculine way of
showing affection, you speak of him almost as if you were his mother,"
she observed.

"Well, I am, almost," replied Sam, studying the matter gravely.  "I
have been his mother, and his father, and his brother, too, for a great
many years; and I will say that he's a credit to his family."

"Meaning just you?" she ventured.

"Yes, we're all we have; just yet, at least." This quite soberly.

"He must talk of getting married," she guessed, with a quick intuition
that when this happened it would be a blow to Sam.

"Oh, no," he immediately corrected her.  "He isn't quite old enough to
think of it seriously as yet.  I expect to be married long before he
is."

Miss Stevens felt a rigid aloofness creeping over her, and, having a
very wholesome sense of humor, smiled as she recognized the feeling in
herself.

"I should think you'd spend your vacation where the girl is," she
observed.  "Men usually do, don't they?"

He laughed gaily.

"I surely would if I knew the girl," he asserted.

"That's a refreshing suggestion," she said, echoing his laugh, though
from a different impulse.  "I presume, then, that you entertain
thoughts of matrimony merely because you think you are quite old
enough."

"No, it isn't just that," he returned, still thoughtfully.  "Somehow or
other I feel that way about it; that's all.  I have never had time to
think of it before, but this past year I have had a sort of sense of
lonesomeness; and I guess that must be it."

In spite of herself Miss Josephine giggled and repressed it, and
giggled again and repressed it, and giggled again, and then she let
herself go and laughed as heartily as she pleased.  She had heard men
say before, but always with more or less of a languishing air,
inevitably ridiculous in a man, that they thought it about time they
were getting married; but she could not remember anything to compare
with Sam Turner's naïveté in the statement.

He paid no attention to the laughter, for he had suddenly leaned
forward to the chauffeur.

"There is another clump of walnut trees," he said, eagerly pointing
them out.  "Are there many of them in this locality?"

"A good many scattered here and there," replied the boy; "but old man
Gifford has a twenty-acre grove down in the bottoms that's mostly all
walnut trees, and I heard him say just the other day that walnut
lumber's got so high he had a notion to clear his land."

"Where do you suppose we could find old man Gifford?" inquired Mr.
Turner.

"Oh, about six miles off to the right, at the next turning."

"Suppose we whizz right down there," said Sam promptly, and he turned
to Miss Stevens with enthusiasm shining in his eyes.  "It does seem as
if everything happens lucky for me," he observed.  "I haven't any
particular liking for the lumber business, but fate keeps handing
lumber to me all the time; just fairly forcing it on me."

"Do you think fate is as much responsible for that as yourself?" she
questioned, smiling as they passed at a good clip the turn which was to
have taken them over the pretty Bald Hill drive.  Sam had not even
thought to apologize for the abrupt change in their program, because
she could certainly see the opportunity which had offered itself, and
how imperative it was to embrace it.  Creatures that live forever in the dark have no eyes; and would not
any one of our senses perish and be shed, as it were, in a world
where it could not be used?

II
It is well to let down our metropolitan pride a little.

Man thinks himself at the top, and that the immense display and
prodigality of Nature are for him. But they are no more for him than
they are for the birds and beasts, and he is no more at the top
than they are.

He appeared upon the stage when the play had advanced to a certain
point, and he will disappear from the stage when the play has reached
another point, and the great drama will go on without him.

The geological ages, the convulsions and parturition throes of the
globe, were to bring him forth no more than the beetles.

His 'seeing about it
to-morrow' cost him between five and six thousand dollars the last time
I had anything to do with him."

She laughed.  She was enjoying Sam's company very much.  Even if a bit
startling, he was at least refreshing after the type of young men she
was in the habit of meeting.

"He was talking about that last night," she said.  "I think father
rather stands in both admiration and awe of you."

"I'm glad to hear that," he returned quite seriously.  "It's a good
attitude in which to have the man with whom you expect to do business."

"I think I shall have to tell him that," she observed, highly amused.
"He will enjoy it, and it may put him on his guard."

"I don't mind," he concluded after due reflection.  "It won't hurt a
particle.  If anything, if he likes me so far, that will only increase
it.  I like your father.  In fact I like his whole family."

"Thank you," she said demurely, wondering if there was no end to his
bluntness, and wondering, too, whether it were not about time that she
should find it wearisome.  On closer analysis, however, she decided
that the time was not yet come.  "But you have not met all of them,"
she reminded him.  "There are mother and a younger sister and an older
brother."

"Don't matter if there were six more, I like all of them," Sam promptly
informed her.  Then, "Stop a minute," he suddenly directed the
chauffeur.

That functionary abruptly brought his machine to a halt just a little
way past a tree glowing with bright green leaves and red berries.

There was nothing in the world less romantic than my position in
the midst of a circle of sneering footmen; and, as if to put romance
for ever out of the question, I was relieved from my plumed and mantled
encumbrance only by the assistance of Townshend, then the prince
of Bow Street officers; who, knowing every thing and every body,
informed me that the lady was a person of prodigious rank, and that
he should 'feel it his duty,' before he parted with me, to ascertain
whether her ladyship's purse had not suffered defalcation by my
volunteering.

I was indignant, as might be supposed; and my indignation was not
at all decreased by the coming up of half a dozen Bow Street
officers, every one of whom either "believed," or "suspected," or
"knew," me to be "an old offender."

But I was relieved from the laughter of the liveried mob round me,
and probably from figuring in the police histories of the morning,
by the extreme terrors of the lady for the fate of her daughter.

The carriage had by this time been raised up, but its other inmate was
not to be found.
She now produced the purse, which had been so impudently the cause
of impeaching my honour; "and offered its contents to all who should
bring any tidings of her daughter, her lost child, her Clotilde!"
The name thrilled on my ear. I flew off to renew the search, followed
by the crowd--was unsuccessful, and returned, only to see my _protégé_
in strong hysterics. My situation now became embarrassing; when a way
was made through the crowd by a highly-powdered personage, the chamberlain
of the mansion, who announced himself as sent by "her Grace," to say
that the Countess de Tourville was safe, having been taken into the
house; and, further, conveying "her Grace's compliments to Madame
la Maréchal de Tourville, to entreat that she would do her the
honour to join her daughter."

This message, delivered with all the pomp of a "gentleman of the
bedchamber," produced its immediate effect upon the circle of
cocked hats and worsted epaulettes.

They grew grave at once; and guided by Townshend, who moved on, hat in
hand, and bowing with the obsequiousness of one escorting a prince
of the blood, we reached the door of the mansion.

But here a new difficulty arose. The duchess was known to La Maréchal,
for to whom in misfortune was not that most generous and kind-hearted
duchess known?

But _I_ was still a stranger. However, with my old Frenchwoman,
ceremony was not then the prevailing point.

_I_ had been her "preserver," as she was pleased to term me. _I_ had
been "introduced," which was quite sufficient for knowledge; above
all other merits, "I spoke French like a Parisian;" in short, it
was wholly impossible for her to ascend the crowded staircase, with
her numberless dislocations, by the help of any other arm on earth.

The slightest hope of seeing Clotilde would have made me confront all
the etiquette of Spain; and I bore the contrast of my undress
costume with the feathered and silken multitude which filled the
stairs, in the spirit of a philosopher, until, by "many a step and
slow," we reached the private wing of the mansion.

There, in an apartment fitted up with all the luxury of a boudoir,
yet looking melancholy from the dim lights and the silent attendants,
lay Clotilde on a sofa.

But how changed from the being whom I had just seen at the theatre! She
had been in imminent danger, and was literally dragged from under the
horses' feet.

A slight wound in her temple was still bleeding, and her livid lips
and half-closed eyes gave me the image of death.

As for Madame, she was in distraction; the volubility of her sorrows made
the well-trained domestics shrink, as from a display at which they ought
not to be present; and at length the only recipients of her woes
were myself and the physician, who, with ominous visage, and drops
in hand, was administering his aid to the passive patient.

As Madame's despair rendered her wholly useless, the doctor called
on me to assist him in raising her from the floor, on which she
had flung herself like a heroine in a tragedy.

While I was engaged in this most reluctant performance, the accents of
a sweet voice, and the rustling of silk, made me raise my eyes, and a
vision floated across the apartment; it was the duchess herself,
glittering in gold and jewels, turbaned and embroidered, as a Semiramis
or a queen of Sheba; she was brilliant enough for either. She had just
left the fancy ball behind, and was come "to make her personal enquiries
for the health of her young friend."

My office was rather startling, even to the habitual presence of
mind of the leader of fashion.

I might have figured in her eyes, as the husband, or the lover, or the
doctor's apprentice; she almost uttered a scream. But the sound, slight
as it was, recalled the Maréchal to her senses.

The explanation was given with promptitude, and received with politeness.
My family, in all its branches, came into her Grace's quick recollection;
and I was thus indebted to my adventure, not only for an introduction
to one of the most elegant women of her time--to the goddess of
fashion in her temple, the Circe of high life, at the "witching
hour," but of being most "graciously" received; and even hearing a
panegyric on my chivalry, from the Maréchal, smilingly echoed by
lips which seemed made only for smiles.

A summons from the ball-room soon withdrew the captivating mistress of
the mansion, who retired with the step and glance of the very queen of
courtesy; and I was about to take my leave, when a ceremonial of still
higher interest awaited me. Clotilde, feebly rising from her sofa,
and sustaining herself on the neck of her kneeling mother, murmured
her thanks to me "for the preservation of her dear parent."

The sound of her voice, feeble as it was, fell on my ear like music.
I advanced towards her. The Maréchal stood with her handkerchief to her
eyes, and venting her sensibilities in sobs. The fairer object
before me shed no tears, but, with her eyes half-closed, and looking
the marble model of paleness and beauty, she held out her hand. She was,
perhaps, unconscious of offering more than a simple testimony of
her gratitude for the services which her mother had described with
such needless eloquence.

But in that delicious, yet unaccountable feeling--that superstition
of the heart, which makes every thing eventful--even that simple
pressure of her hand created a long and living future in my mind.

Yet let me do myself justice; whether wise or weak in the presence of
the only being who had ever mastered my mind, I was determined not
"to point a moral and adorn a tale."

I had other duties and other purposes before me than to degenerate
into a slave of sighs. I was to be no Romeo, bathing my soul in the
luxuries of Italian palace-chambers, moonlight speeches, and the
song of nightingales.

I felt that I was an Englishman, and had the rugged steep of fortune to
climb, and climb alone. The time, too, in which I was to begin my
struggle for distinction, aroused me to shake off the spirit of dreams
which threatened to steal over my nature. The spot in which I lived
was the metropolis of mankind.

I was in the centre of the machinery which moved the living world.

The wheels of the globe were rushing, rolling, and resounding in my ears.
Every interest, necessity, stimulant, and passion of mankind, came
in an incessant current to London, as to the universal heart, and
flowed back, refreshed and invigorated, to the extremities of
civilization.

I saw the hourly operations of that mighty furnace in which the fortunes
of all nations were mingled, and poured forth remolded.

And London itself was never more alive.

Every journal which I took up was filled with the signs of this extraordinary
energy; the projects and meetings, the harangues and political
experiments, of bold men, some rising from the mire into notoriety,
if not into fame; some plunging from the highest rank of public
life into the mire, in the hope of rising, if with darkened, yet a
freshened wing.

The debates in parliament, never more vivid than at this crisis, with
the two great parties in full force, and throwing out flashes in
every movement, like the collision of two vast thunder clouds,
were a perpetual summons to action in every breast which felt itself
above the dust it trod.

But the French journals were the true excitements to political
ardour.

They were more than lamps, guiding mankind along the dusky paths of
public regeneration--they were torches, dazzling the multitude who
attempted to profit by their light; and, while they threw a glare
round the head of the march, blinding all who followed.

To one born, like myself, in the most aristocratic system of society
on earth, yet excluded from its advantages by the mere chance of
birth, it was new, and undoubtedly not displeasing, to see the pride
of nobility tamed by the new rush of talent and ambition which had
started up from obscurity in France; village attorneys and physicians,
clerks in offices, journalists, men from the plough and the pen,
supplying the places of the noblesse of Clovis and Capet, possessing
themselves of the highest power while their predecessors were flying
through Europe; conducting negotiations, commanding armies, ruling
assemblies, holding the helm of government in the storm which had
scattered the great names of France upon the waters.

I anticipated all the triumph of the "younger sons."

Even the brief interval of my Brighton visit had curiously changed
the aspect of the metropolis.

The emigration was in full force, and every spot was crowded with foreign
visages. Sallow cheeks and starting eyes, scowling brows and fierce
mustaches, were the order of the day; the monks and the military had
run off together.

The English language was almost overwhelmed by the perpetual jargon of
all the loud-tongued provincialities of France. But the most singular
portion was the ecclesiastical. The streets and parks were filled
with the unlucky sheep of the Gallican church, scattered before the
teeth and howl of the republican wolf; and England saw, for the first
time, the secrets of the monastery poured out before the light of
day.

The appearance of some among this sable multitude, though venerable and
dignified, could not prevent the infinite grotesque of the others
from having its effect on the spectator. The monks and priesthood of
France amounted to little less than a hundred and fifty thousand. All
were now thrown up from the darkness of centuries before a wondering
world.

I had Milton's vision of Limbo before my eyes.

"Embryos and idiots, eremites and friars, A violent cross wind from
either coast Blew them transverse.

Then might ye see Cowls, hoods, and habits, with their wearers, tost,
And flutter'd into rags; their reliques, beads, Indulgences, dispenses,
pardons, bulls, The sport of winds."
The mire was fully stirred up in which the hierarchy had enjoyed its
sleep and sunshine for a thousand years. The weeds and worms had been
fairly scraped off, which for a thousand years had grown upon the
keel of the national vessel, and of which the true wonder was,
that the vessel had been able to make sail with them clinging to her
so long. In fact, I was thus present at one of the most remarkable
phenomena of the whole Revolution. The flight of a noblesse was nothing
to this change. The glittering peerage of France, created by a court,
and living in perpetual connexion with the court, as naturally
followed its fate as a lapdog follows the fortunes of its mistress; but
here was a digging up of the moles, an extermination of the bats,
a general extrusion of the subversive principle, to a race of
existence which, whether above or below ground, seemed almost to
form a part of the soil.

Monkery was broken up, like a ship dashed against the shores of the
bay of Biscay. The ship was not only wrecked, but all its fragments
continued to be tossed on the ceaseless surge. The Gallican church was
flung loose over Europe, at a time when all Europe itself was
in commotion. I own, to the discredit of my political foresight,
that I thought its forms and follies extinguished for ever. The snake
was more tenacious of life than I had dreamed.

But if I erred, I did not err alone.

Mordecai, whom I found immersed deeper and deeper in continental politics,
and who scarcely denied his being the accredited agent of the emigrant
princes, gave his opinion of this strange portion of French society
with much more promptitude than he probably would of the probable
fall or rise of stocks.

"Of all the gamblers at the great gambling-table of France," said he,
"the clergy have played their game the worst.

By leaving their defence to the throne, they have only dragged down the
throne. By relying on the good sense of the National Assembly,
they have left themselves without a syllable to say. Like men pleading
by counsel, they have been at the mercy of their counsel, and been
ruined at once by their weakness and their treachery."

On my observing to him that the church of France was necessarily
feebler than either the throne or the nobles, and that, therefore,
its natural course was to depend on both--
"Rely upon it," said the keen Jew "that any one great institution
of the state which suffers itself, in the day of danger, to depend
on any other for existence, will be ruined.

When all are pressed, each will be glad to get rid of the pressure,
by sacrificing the most dependent.

The church should have stood on its own defence. The Gallican hierarchy
was, beyond all question, the most powerful in Europe. Rome and her
cardinals were tinsel and toys to the solid strength of the great
provincial clergy of France.

They had numbers, wealth, and station.

Those things could give influence among a population of Hottentots.

Let other hierarchies take example.

They threw them all away, at the first move of a bloody handkerchief on
the top of a Parisian pike.

They had vast power with the throne; but what had once been energy
they turned into encumbrance, and if the throne is pulled down, it
will be by their weight.

They had a third of the land in actual possession, and they allowed
themselves to be stripped of it by a midnight vote of a drunken
assembly.

If they were caricatured in Paris, they had three-fourths of the
population as fast bound to them as bigotry and their daily bread could
bind. Three months ago, they might have marched to Paris with their
crucifixes in front, and three millions of stout peasantry in their
rear, have captured the capital, and fricaseed the foolish legislature.
And now, they have archbishops learning to live on a shilling
a-day."

From the Horse guards I had yet obtained nothing, but promises of
"being remembered on the first vacancy;" Clotilde was still a sufferer,
and my time, like that of every man without an object, began to
be a deplorable encumbrance. In short, my vision of high life and its
happiness was fairly vanishing hour by hour.

I occasionally met Lafontaine; but, congenial as our tempers might
be, our natures had all the national difference, and I sometimes
envied, and as often disdained, his buoyancy.

Even he, too, had his fluctuations; and a letter from Mariamne, a
little more or less petulant, raised and sank him like the spirits
in a thermometer.

But one day he rushed into my apartment with a look of that despair
which only foreigners can assume, and which actually gave me the
idea that he was about to commit suicide.

Flinging himself into a chair, and plunging his hand deep into
his bosom, from which I almost expected to see him draw the fatal
weapon, he extracted a paper, and held it forth to me. "Read!" he
exclaimed, with the most pathetic tones of Talma in tragedy--"read
my ruin!" I read, and found that it was a letter from his domineering
little Jewess, commanding him to throw up his commission on the
spot, and especially not to go to France, on penalty of her eternal
displeasure.

My looks asked an explanation. "There!" cried the hero of the romance,
"there!--see the caprice, the cruelty, the intolerable tyranny of that
most uncertain, intractable, and imperious of all human beings!"

I had neither consolation nor contradiction to offer.

He then let me into his own secret, with an occasional episode of
the secrets of others--the substance of the whole being, that a
counter revolution was preparing in France; that, after conducting
the correspondence in London for some time, he had been ordered to
carry a despatch, of the highest importance, to the secret agency
in Paris; and that the question was now between love and honour--Mariamne
having, by some unlucky hint dropped from her father, received
intimation of the design, and putting her _veto_ on his bearing any
part in it in the most peremptory manner.

What was to be done? The unfortunate youth was fairly on the horns
of the dilemma, and he obviously saw no ray of extrication but the
usual Parisian expedient of the pistol.

While he alternately raved and wept, the thought struck me--"Why
might I not go in his place?" I was growing weary of the world, however
little I knew of it.

I had no Mariamne either to prohibit or to weep for me.

The only being for whom I wished to live was lost to me already.

I offered myself as the carrier of the despatch without delay.

I never saw ecstasy so visible in a human being; his eloquence exhausted
the whole vocabulary of national rapture. "I was his friend, his
brother, his preserver. I was the best, the ablest, the noblest of
men."

But when I attempted to escape from this overflow of gratitude, by
observing on the very simple nature of the service, his recollection
returned, and he generously endeavoured, with equal zeal, to
dissuade me from an enterprise of which the perils were certainly
neither few nor trifling.

He was now in despair at my obstinacy. The emigration of the French
princes had not merely weakened their cause in France, but had sharpened
the malice of their enemies.

Their agents had been arrested in all quarters, and any man who ventured
to carry on a correspondence with them, was now alike in danger
of assassination and of the law.

After debating the matter long, without producing conviction on either
side, it was at length agreed to refer the question to Mordecai,
whom Lafontaine now formally acknowledged to be master of the secret
on both sides of the Channel

.

* * * * *

A VISION OF THE WORLD.

BY DELTA.

A blossom on a laurel tree--a cloudlet on the sky Borne by the breeze--a
panorama shifting on the eye; A zig-zag lightning-flash amid the
elemental strife-- Yea! each and all are emblems of man's transitory
life!

Brightness dawns on us at our birth--the dear small world of home, A tiny
paradise from which our wishes never roam, Till boyhood's widening
circle brings its myriad hopes and fears, The guileless faith that
never doubts--the friendship that endears.

Each house and tree--each form and face, upon the ready mind Their
impress leave; and, in old age, that impress fresh we find, Even though
long intermediate years, by joy and sorrow sway'd, Should there no
mirror find, and in oblivion have decay'd.

How fearful first the shock of death! to think that even one Whose step
we knew, whose voice we heard, should see no more the sun; That though
a thousand years were ours, that form should never more Revisit, with
its welcome smiles, earth's once-deserted shore!

Look round the dwellings of the street--and tell, where now are
they Whose tongues made glad each separate hearth, in childhood's
early day; Now strangers, or another generation, there abide, And
the churchyard owns their lowly graves, green-mouldering side by
side!

Spring! Summer! Autumn! Winter! then how vividly each came!
The moonlight pure, the starlight soft, and the noontide sheath'd in
flame; The dewy morning with her birds, and evening's gorgeous
dyes, As if the mantles of the blest were floating through the
skies.

I laid me down, but not in sleep--and Memory flew away To mingle
with the sounds and scenes the world had shown by day; Now listening
to the lark, she stray'd across the flowery hill, Where trickles
down from bowering groves the brook that turns the mill; And now
she roam'd the city lanes, where human tongues are loud, And mix
the lofty and the low amid the motley crowd, Where subtle-eyed
philosophy oft heaves a sigh, to scan The aspiring grasp, and paltry
insignificance of man!

'Mid floods of light in festal halls, with jewels rare bedight, To
music's soft and syren sounds, paced damosel with knight; It seem'd
as if the fiend of grief from earthly bounds was driven, For there
were smiles on every cheek that spake of nought but heaven; But,
from that gilded scene, I traced the revellers one by one, With sad
and sunken features each, unto their chambers lone; And of that gay
and smiling crowd whose bosoms leapt to joy, How many might there
be, I ween'd, whom care did not annoy?

Some folded up their wearied eyes to dark unhallow'd dreams-- The
soldier to his scenes of blood, the merchant to his schemes:
Pride, jealousy, and slighted love, robb'd woman of her rest;
Revenge, deceit, and selfishness, sway'd man's unquiet breast.

Some, turning to the days of youth, sigh'd o'er the sinless time Ere
passion led the heart astray to folly, care, and crime; And of
that dizzy multitude, from found or fancied woes, Was scarcely one
whose slumbers fell like dew upon the rose!

Then turn'd I to the lowly hearth, where scarcely labour brought The
simplest and the coarsest meal that craving nature sought; Above,
outspread a slender roof, to shield them from the rain, And their
carpet was the verdure with which nature clothes the plain; Yet
there the grateful housewife sat, her infant on her knee, Its small
palms clasp'd within her own, as if likewise pray'd he; For ere
their fingers brake the bread, from toil incessant riven, Son, sire,
and matron bow'd their heads, and pour'd their thanks to Heaven.

What, then, I thought, is human life, if all that thus we see Of pageantry
and of parade devoid of pleasure be!

If only in the conscious heart true happiness abide, How oft, alas! has
wretchedness but grandeur's cloak to hide?

However, Princeman and Billy Westlake and young Hollis with the curly
hair were impatiently waiting for Miss Josephine at the tennis court,
as they informed her in a jointly signed note sent up to her by a boy,
and hastily removing the dust of the road she ran down to join them.
As she went across the lawn, tennis bat in hand, Sam Turner, discussing
lumber with Mr. Stevens, saw her and stopped talking abruptly to admire
the trim, graceful figure.

"Does your daughter play tennis much?" he inquired.

"A great deal," returned Mr. Stevens, expanding with pride.  "Jo's a
very expert player.  She's better at it than any of these girls, and
she really doesn't care to play except with experts.  Princeman, Hollis
and Billy Westlake are easily the champions here."

"I see," said Sam thoughtfully.

"I suppose you're a crack player yourself," his host resumed, glancing
at Sam's bat.

"Me?  No, worse than a dub.  I never had time; that is, until now.
I'll tell you, though, this being away from the business grind is a
great thing.  You don't know how I enjoy the fresh air and the being
out in the country this way, and the absolute freedom from business
cares and worries."

"But where are you going?" asked Stevens, for Sam was getting up.
"You'll stay to lunch with us, won't you?"

"No, thanks," replied Sam, looking at his watch.  "I expect some word
from my kid brother.  I have wired him to send some samples of marsh
pulp, and the paper we've had made from it."

"Marsh pulp," repeated Mr. Stevens.  "That's a new one on me.  What's
it like?"

"Greatest stunt on earth," replied Sam confidently.  "It is our scheme
to meet the deforestation danger on the way--coming."

Already he was reaching in his pocket for paper and pencil, and sat
down again at the side of Mr. Stevens, who immediately began stroking
his aggressive beard.  Fifteen minutes later Sam briskly got up again
and Mr. Stevens shook hands with him.

"That's a great scheme," he said, and he gazed after Sam's broad
shoulders admiringly as that young man strode down the steps.

On his way Sam passed the tennis court where the one girl and three
young men were engaged in a most dextrous game, a game which all the
other amateurs of Hollis Creek Inn had stopped their own sets to watch.
In the pause of changing sides Miss Josephine saw him and waved her
hand and wafted a gay word to him.  A second later she was in the air,
a lithe, graceful figure, meeting a high "serve," and Sam walked on
quite thoughtfully.

When he arrived at Meadow Brook his first care was for his telegram.
It was there, and bore the assurance that the samples would arrive on
the following morning.  His next step was to hunt Miss Westlake.  That
plump young person forgot her pique of the morning in an instant when
he came up to her with that smiling "been-looking-for-you-everywhere,
mighty-glad-to-see-you" cordiality.

"I want you to teach me tennis," he said immediately.

"I'm afraid I can't teach you much," she replied with becoming
diffidence, "because I'm not a good enough player myself; but I'll do
my best.  We'll have a set right after luncheon; shall we?"

"Fine!" said he.

After luncheon Mr. Westlake and Mr. Cuthbert waylaid him, but he merely
thrust his telegram into Mr. Westlake's hands, and hurried off to the
tennis grounds with Miss Westlake and Miss Hastings and lanky Bob
Tilloughby, who stuttered horribly and blushed when he spoke, and was
in deadly seriousness about everything.  Never did a man work so hard
at anything as Sam Turner worked at tennis.  He had a keen eye and a
dextrous wrist, and he kept the game up to top-notch speed.  Of course
he made blunders and became confused in his count and overlooked
opportunities, but he covered acres of ground, as Vivian Hastings
expressed it, and when, at the end of an hour, they sat down, panting,
to rest, young Tilloughby, with painful earnestness, assured him that
he had "the mum-mum-makings of a fine tennis player."

Sam considered that compliment very thoughtfully, but he was a trifle
dubious.  Already he perceived that tennis playing was not only an
occupation but a calling.

"Thanks," said he.  "It's mighty nice of you to say so, Tilloughby.
What's the next game?"

"The nun-nun-next game is a stroll," Tilloughby soberly advised him.
"It always stus-stus-starts out as a foursome, and ends up in
tut-tut-two doubles."

So they strolled.  They wound along the brookside among some of the
pretty paths, and in the rugged places Miss Westlake threw her weight
upon Sam's helping arm as much as possible; in the concealed places she
languished, which she did very prettily, she thought, considering her
one hundred and sixty-three pounds.  They took him through a detour of
shady paths which occupied a full hour to traverse, but this particular
game did not wind up in "two doubles."  In spite of all the excellent
tête-à-tête opportunities which should have risen for both couples,
Miss Westlake was annoyed to find Miss Hastings right close behind, and
holding even the conversation to a foursome.

In the meantime, Sam Turner took careful lessons in the art of talking
twaddle, and they never knew that he was bored.  Having entered into
the game he played it with spirit, and before they had returned to the
house Mr. Tilloughby was calling him Sus-Sus-Sam.

The girls disappeared for their beauty sleep, and Sam found McComas and
Billy Westlake hunting for him.

"Do you play base-ball?" inquired McComas.

"A little.  I used to catch, to help out my kid brother, who is an
expert pitcher."

"Good!" said McComas, writing down Sam's name.  "Princeman will pitch,
but we needed a catcher.  The rivalry between Meadow Brook and Hollis
Creek is intense this year.  They've captured nearly all the early
trophies, but we're going over there next week for a match game and
we're about crazy to win."

"I'll do the best I can," promised Sam.  "Got a base-ball?  We'll go
out and practise."

They slammed hot ones into each other for a half hour, and when they
had enough of it, McComas, wiping his brow, exclaimed approvingly:

"You'll do great with a little more warming up.  We have a couple of
corking players, but we need them.  Hollis always pitches for Hollis
Creek, and he usually wins his game.  On baseball day he's the idol of
all the girls."

Sam Turner placed his hand meditatively upon the back of his neck as he
walked in to dress for dinner.  Making a good impression upon the girls
was a separate business, it seemed, and one which required much
preparation.  Well, he was in for the entire circus, but he realized
that he was a little late in starting.  In consequence he could not
afford to overlook any of the points; so, before dressing for dinner,
he paid a quiet visit to the greenhouses.

That evening, while he was bowling with all the earnestness that in him
lay, Josephine Stevens, resisting the importunities of young Hollis for
some music, sat by her father.

"Father," she asked after long and sober thought, "was it right for
you, knowing Mr. Turner to be after that walnut lumber, to try to get
it away from him by telephoning?"

"It certainly was!" he replied emphatically.  "Turner went down there
with a deliberate intention of buying that lumber before I could get
it, so that he could sell it to me at as big a gain as possible.  I
paid him one thousand dollars profit for his contract.  I had struggled
my best to beat him to it; only I was too late.  Both of us were
playing the game according to the rules, but he is a younger player."

"I see."  Another long pause.  "Here's another thing.  Mr. Turner
happened to know of this increase in the price of lumber, and he
hurried down there to a man who didn't know about that, and bought it.
If Mr. Gifford had known of the new rates, Mr. Turner could not have
bought those trees at the price he did, could he?"

"Certainly not," agreed her father.  "He would have had to pay nearly a
thousand dollars more for them."

"Then that wasn't right of Mr. Turner," she asserted.

"My child," said Mr. Stevens wearily, "all business is conducted for a
profit, and the only way to get it is by keeping alive and knowing
things that other people will find out to-morrow.  Sam Turner is the
shrewdest and the livest young man I've met in many a day, and he's
square as a die.  I'd take his word on any proposition; wouldn't you?"

"Yes, I think I'd take his word," she admitted, and very positively,
after mature deliberation.  "But truly, father, don't you think he's
too much concentrated on business?  He hasn't a thought in his mind for
anything else.  For instance, this morning he came over to take me an
automobile ride around Bald Hill, and when he found out about this
walnut grove, without either apology or explanation to me he ordered
the chauffeur to drive right down there."

"Fine," laughed her father.  "I'd like to hire him for my manager, if I
could only offer him enough money.  But I don't see your point of
criticism.  It seems to me that he's a mighty presentable and likable
young fellow, good looking, and a gentleman in the sense in which I
like to use that word."

"Yes, he is all of those things," she admitted again; "but it is a flaw
in a young man, isn't it," she persisted, betraying an unusually
anxious interest, "for him never to think of a solitary thing but just
business?"

They were sitting in one of the alcoves of the assembly room, and at
that moment a bell-boy, wandering around the place with apparent
aimlessness, spied them and brought to Miss Josephine a big box.  She
opened it and an exclamation of pleasure escaped her.  In the box was a
huge bouquet of exquisite roses, soft and glowing, delicious in their
fragrance.

Impulsively she buried her face in them.

"Oh, how delightful!" she cried, and she drew out the white card which
peeped forth from amidst the stems.  "They are from Mr. Turner!" she
gasped.

"You're quite right about him," commented her father dryly.  "He's all
business."


CHAPTER VI

IN WHICH THE SUMMER LOAFER ORDERS SOME MARASCHINO CHOCOLATES

Before Sam had his breakfast the next morning, he sat in his room with
some figures with which Blackrock and Cuthbert had provided him the
evening before.  He cast them up and down and crosswise and diagonally,
balanced them and juggled them and sorted them and shifted them, until
at last he found the rat hole, and smiling grimly, placed those pages
of neat figures in a small letter file which he took from his trunk.
One thing was certain: the Meadow Brook capitalists were highly
interested in his plan, or they would never go to the trouble to
devise, so early in the game, a scheme for gaining control of the marsh
pulp corporation.  Well, they were the exact people he wanted.

Immediately after breakfast Miss Stevens telephoned over to thank him
for his beautiful roses, and he had the pleasure of letting her know,
quite incidentally, that he had gone down to the rose-beds and picked
out each individual blossom himself, which, of course, accounted for
their excellence.  Also he suggested coming over that morning for a
brief walk.

No, she was very sorry, but she was just making ready to go out
horseback riding with Mr. Hollis, who, by the way, was an excellent
rider; but they would be back from their canter about ten-thirty, and
if Mr. Turner cared to come over for a game of tennis before luncheon,
why--

"Sorry I can't do it," returned Mr. Turner with the deepest of genuine
regret in his tone.  "My kid brother is sending me some samples of pulp
and paper which will arrive at about eleven o'clock, and I have called
a meeting of some interested parties here to examine them at about
eleven."

"Business again," she protested.  "I thought you were on a vacation."

"I am," he assured her in surprise.  "I never lazied around so or
frittered up so much time in my life; and I'm enjoying every second of
my freedom, too.  I tell you, it's fine.  But say, this meeting won't
take over an hour.  Why can't I come over right after lunch?"

She was very sorry, this time a little less regretfully, that after
luncheon she had an engagement with Mr. Princeman to play a match game
of croquet.  But, and here she relented a trifle, they were getting up
a hasty, informal dance over at Hollis Creek for that evening.  Would
he come over?

He certainly would, and he already spoke for as many dances as she
would give him.

"I'll give you what I can," she told him; "but I've already promised
three of them to Billy Westlake, who is a divine dancer."

Sam Turner was deeply thoughtful as he turned away from the telephone.
Hollis was a superb horseback rider.  Billy Westlake was a divine
dancer.  Princeman, he had learned from Miss Stevens, who had spoken
with vast enthusiasm, was a base-ball hero.  Hollis and Princeman and
Westlake were crack bowlers, also crack tennis players, and no doubt
all three were even expert croquet players.  It was easy to see the
sort of men she admired.  Sam Turner only knew one recipe to get
things, and he had made up his mind to have Miss Stevens.  He promptly
sought Miss Westlake.

"Do you ride?" he wanted to know.

"Not as often as I'd like," she said.

Really, she had half promised to go driving with Tilloughby, but it was
not an actual promise, and if it were she was quite willing to get out
of it, if Mr. Turner wanted her to go along, although she did not say
so.  Young Tilloughby was notoriously an impossible match.  But
possibly Mr. Tilloughby and Miss Hastings might care to join the party.
She suggested it.

"Why, certainly," said Sam heartily.  "The more the merrier," which was
not the thing she wanted him to say.

Tilloughby, a trifle disappointed yet very gracious, consented to ride
in place of drive, and Miss Hastings was only too delighted; entirely
too much so, Miss Westlake thought.  Accordingly they rode, and Sam
insisted on lagging behind with Miss Westlake, which she took to be of
considerable significance, and exhibited a very obvious fluttering
about it.  Sam's motive, however, was to watch Tilloughby in the
saddle, for in their conversation it had developed that Tilloughby was
a very fair rider; and everything that he saw Tilloughby do, Sam did.
En route they met Hollis and Miss Stevens, cantering just where the
Bald Hill road branched off, and the cavalcade was increased to six.
Once, in taking a narrow cross-cut down through the woods, Sam had the
felicity of riding beside Miss Stevens for a moment, and she put her
hand on his horse and patted its glossy neck and admired it, while Sam
admired the hand.  He felt, in some way or other, that riding for that
ten yards by her side was a sort of triumph over Hollis, until he saw
her dash up presently by the side of Hollis again and chat brightly
with that young gentleman.

Thereafter Sam quit watching Tilloughby and watched Hollis.  Curly-head
was an accomplished rider, and Sam felt that he himself cut but an
awkward figure.  In reality he was too conscious of his defects.  By
strict attention he was proving himself a fair ordinary rider, but when
Hollis, out of sheer showiness, turned aside from the path to jump his
horse over a fallen tree, and Miss Stevens out of bravado followed him,
Sam Turner well-nigh ground his teeth, and, acting upon the impulse, he
too attempted the jump.  The horse got over safely, but Sam went a
cropper over his head, and not being a particle hurt had to endure the
good-natured laughter of the balance of them.  Miss Stevens seemed as
much amused as any one!  He had not caught her look of fright as he
fell nor of concern as he rose, nor could he estimate that her laugh
was a mild form of hysteria, encouraged because it would deceive.  What
an ass he was, he savagely thought, to exhibit himself before her in an
attempt like that, without sufficient preparation!  He must ride every
morning, by himself.

Miss Josephine and Mr. Hollis were bound for the Bald Hill circle, and
they insisted, the insistence being largely on the part of Miss
Stevens, on the others accompanying them; but Mr. Turner's engagement
at eleven o'clock would not admit of this, and reluctantly he took Miss
Hastings back with him, leaving Miss Westlake and young Tilloughby to
go on.  The arrangement suited him very well, for at least Hollis' ride
with Miss Stevens would not be a tête-à-tête.  Miss Westlake strove to
let him understand as plainly as she could that she was only going with
Mr. Tilloughby because of her previous semi-engagement with him--and
there seemed a coolness between Miss Westlake and Miss Hastings as they
separated.  Miss Hastings did her best on the way back to console Mr.
Turner for the absence of Miss Westlake.  Vivacious as she always was,
she never was more so than now, and before Sam knew it he had engaged
himself with her to gather ferns in the afternoon.

Upon his arrival at Meadow Brook, he found his express package and also
a couple of important letters awaiting him, and immediately held on the
porch a full meeting of the tentative Marsh Pulp Company.  In that
meeting he decided on four things: first, that these hard-headed men of
business were highly favorable to his scheme; second, that Princeman
and Cuthbert, who knew most about paper and pulp, were so profoundly
impressed with his samples that they tried to conceal it from him;
third, that Princeman, at first his warmest adherent, was now most
stubbornly opposed to him, not that he wished to prevent forming the
company, but that he wished to prevent Sam's having his own way;
fourth, that the crowd had talked it over and had firmly determined
that Sam should not control their money.  Princeman was especially
severe.

"There is no question but that these samples are convincing of their
own excellence," he admitted; "but properly to estimate the value of
both pulp and paper, it would be necessary to know, by rigid
experiment, the precise difficulties of manufacture, to say nothing of
the manner in which these particular specimens were produced."

Mr. Princeman's words had undoubted weight, casting, as they did, a
clammy suspicion upon Sam's samples.

"I had thought of that," confessed Mr. Turner, "and had I not been
prepared to meet such a natural doubt, to say nothing of such a natural
insinuation, I should never have submitted these samples.  Mr.
Princeman, do you know G. W. Creamer of the Eureka Paper Mills?"

Mr. Princeman, with a wince, did, for G. W. Creamer and the Eureka
Paper Mills were his most successful competitors in the manufacture of
special-priced high-grade papers.  Mr. Cuthbert also knew Mr. Creamer
intimately.

"Good," said Sam; "then Mr. Creamer's letter will have some weight,"
and he turned it over to Mr. Blackrock.  That gentleman, setting his
spectacles astride his nose and assuming his most profoundly
professional air, read aloud the letter in which Mr. Creamer thanked
Turner and Turner for reposing confidence enough in him to reveal their
process and permit him to make experiments, and stated, with many
convincing facts and figures, that he had made several separate samples
of the pulp in his experimental shop, and from the pulp had made paper,
samples of which he enclosed under separate cover, stating further that
the pulp could be manufactured far cheaper than wood pulp, and that the
quality of the paper, in his estimation, was even superior; and when
the company was formed, he wished to be set down for a good, fat block
of stock.

Having submitted exhibit A in the form of his brother's samples of pulp
and paper, exhibit B in the form of Mr. Creamer's letter, and exhibit C
in the form of Mr. Creamer's own samples of pulp and paper, Mr. Turner
rested quite comfortably in his chair, thank you.

"This seems to make the thing positive," admitted Mr. Princeman.  "Mr.
Turner, would you mind sending some samples of your material to my
factory with the necessary instructions?"

"Not at all," replied Sam suavely.  "We would be pleased indeed to do
so, just as soon as our patents are allowed."

"Pending that," suggested Mr. Westlake placidly, looking out over the
brook, "why couldn't we organize a sort of tentative company?  Why
couldn't we at least canvass ourselves and see how much of Mr. Turner's
stock we would take up among us?"

"That is," put in Mr. Cuthbert, screwing the remark out of himself
sidewise, "provided the terms of incorporation and promotion were
satisfactory to us."

"I have already drawn up a sort of preliminary proposition, after
consultation with our friends here," Mr. Blackrock now stated, "and
purely as a tentative matter it might be read."

"Go right ahead," directed Sam.  "I'm a good listener."

Mr. Blackrock slowly and ponderously read the proposed plan of
incorporation.  Sam rose and looked at his watch.

"It won't do," he announced sharply.  "That whole thing, in accordance
with the figures you submitted me last night, is framed up for the sole
purpose of preventing my ever securing control, and if I do not have a
chance, at least, at control, I won't play."

"You seem to be very sure of that," said Mr. Princeman, surveying him
coldly; "but there is another thing equally sure, and that is that you
can not engage capital in as big an enterprise as this on any basis
which will separate the control and the money."

"I'm going to try it, though," retorted Sam.  "If I can't separate the
control and the money I suppose I'll have to put up with the best terms
I can get.  If you will let me have that prospectus of yours, Mr.
Blackrock, I'll take it up to my room and study it, and draw up a
counter prospectus of my own."

"With pleasure," said Mr. Blackrock, handing it over courteously, and
Mr. Turner rose.

"I'll say this much, Sam," stated Mr. Westlake, who seemed to have
grown more friendly as Mr. Princeman grew cooler; "if you can get a
proposition upon which we are all agreed, I'll take fifty thousand of
that stock myself, at fifty."

"As a matter of fact, Mr. Turner," added Mr. Cuthbert, "including your
friend Creamer, who insists upon being in, I imagine that we can
finance your entire company right in this crowd--if the terms are
right."

"Nothing would give me greater pleasure, I'm sure," said Mr. Turner,
and bowed himself away.

In place of going to his room, however, he went to the telegraph
office, and wired his brother in New York:

"How are you coming on with pulp company stock subscription?"


The telegraph office was in one corner of the post-office, which was
also a souvenir room, with candy and cigar counters, and as he turned
away from the telegraph desk he saw Princeman at the candy counter.

"No, I don't care for any of these," Princeman was saying.  "If you
haven't maraschino chocolates I don't want any."

Sam immediately stepped back to the telegraph desk and sent another
wire to his brother:

"Express fresh box maraschino chocolates to Miss Josephine Stevens
Hollis Creek Inn enclose my card personal cards in upper right-hand
pigeonhole my desk."


Then he went up-stairs to get ready for lunch.  Immediately after
luncheon he received the following wire from his brother:

"Stock subscription rotten everybody likes scheme but object to our
control but no hurry why don't you rest maraschinos shipped
congratulate you."


CHAPTER VII

WHICH EXHIBITS THE IMPORTANCE OF REMEMBERING A DANCE NUMBER

And so the kid was finding the same trouble which he had met.  They had
been too frank in stating that they intended to obtain control of the
company without any larger investments than their patents and their
scheme.  Sam wandered through the hall, revolving this matter in his
mind, and out at the rear door, which framed an inviting vista of
green.  He strolled back past the barn toward the upper reaches of the
brook path, and sitting amid the comfortably gnarled roots of a big
tree he lit a cigar and began with violence to snap little pebbles into
the brook.  If he were promoting a crooked scheme, he reflected
savagely, he would have no difficulty whatever in floating it upon
almost any terms he wanted.  Well, there was one thing certain; at the
finish, control would be in his own hands!  But how to secure it and
still float the company promptly and advantageously?  There was the
problem.  He liked this crowd.  They were good, keen, vigorous,
enterprising men, fine men with whom to do business, men who would
snatch control away from him if they could, and throw him out in the
cold in a minute if they deemed it necessary or expedient.  Of course
that was to be expected.  It was a part of the game.  He would rather
deal with these progressive people, knowing their tendencies, than with
a lot of sapheads.

How to get control?  He lingered long and thoughtfully over that
question, perhaps an hour, until presently he became aware that a
slight young girl, with a fetching sun-hat and a basket, was walking
pensively along the path on the opposite side of the brook, for the
third time.  Her passing and repassing before his abstracted and
unseeing vision had become slightly monotonous, and for the first time
he focused his eyes back from their distant view of pulp marshes and
stock certificates and inspected the girl directly.  Why, he knew that
girl!  It was Miss Hastings.

As if in obedience to his steady gaze she looked across at him and
waved her basket.

"Where are you going?" he asked with the heartiness of enforced
courtesy.

"After ferns," she responded, and laughed.

"By George, that's so!" he said, and ran up the stream to a narrow
place where he made a magnificent jump and only got one shoe wet.

He was profuse, not in his apologies, but in his intention to make them.

"Jinks!" he said.  "I'm ashamed to say I forgot all about that.  I
found myself suddenly confronted with a business proposition that had
to be worked out, and I thought of nothing else."

"I hope you succeeded," she said pleasantly.

There wasn't a particle of vengefulness about Miss Hastings.  She was
not one to hold this against him; he could see that at once!  She
understood men.  She knew that grave problems frequently confronted
them, and that such minor things as fern gathering expeditions would
necessarily have to step aside and be forgotten.  She was one of the
bright, cheerful, always smiling kind; one who would make a sunshiny
helpmate for any man, and never object to anything he did--before
marriage.

All this she conveyed in lively but appealing chatter; all, that is,
except the last part of it, a deduction which Sam supplied for himself.
For the first time in his life he had paused to judge a girl as he
would "size up" a man, and he was a little bit sorry that he had done
so, for while Miss Hastings was very agreeable, there was a certain
acidulous sharpness about her nose and uncompromising thinness about
her lips which no amount of laughing vivacity could quite conceal.

Dutifully, however, he gathered ferns for the rockery of her aunt in
Albany, and Miss Hastings, in return, did her best to amuse and
delight, and delicately to convey the thought of what an agreeable
thing it would be for a man always to have this cheerful companionship.
She even, on the way back, went so far as inadvertently to call him
Sam, and apologized immediately in the most charming confusion.

"Really," she added in explanation, "I have heard Mr. Westlake and the
others call you Sam so often that the name just seems to slip out."

"That's right," he said cordially.  "Sam's my name.  When people call
me Mr. Turner I know they are strangers."

"Then I think I shall call you Sam," she said, laughing most
engagingly.  "It's so much easier," and sure enough she did as soon as
they were well within the hearing of Miss Westlake, at the hotel.

"Oh, Sam," she called, turning in the doorway, "you have my gloves in
your pocket."

Miss Westlake stiffened like an icicle, and a stern resolve came upon
her.  Whatever happened, she saw her duty plainly before her.  She had
introduced Mr. Turner to Miss Hastings, and she was responsible.  It
was her moral obligation to rescue him from the clutches of that
designing young person, and she immediately reminded him that she had
an engagement to give him a tennis lesson every day.  There was still
time for a set before dinner.  Also, far be it from her to be so
forward as to call him Sam, or to annoy him with silly chattering.  She
was serious-minded, was Miss Westlake, and sweet and helpful; any man
could see that; and she fairly adored business.  It was so interesting.

When they came back from their tennis game, hurrying because it was
high time to dress for dinner and the dance, she met Miss Hastings in
the hall, but the two bosom friends barely nodded.  There had sprung up
an unaccountable coolness between them, a coolness which Sam by no
means noticed, however, for at the far end of the porch sat Princeman,
already back from Hollis Creek to dress, and with him were Westlake and
McComas and Blackrock and Cuthbert, and they were in very close
conference.  When Sam approached them they stopped talking abruptly for
just one little moment, then resumed the conversation quite naturally,
even more than quite naturally in fact, and the experienced Sam smiled
grimly as he excused himself to dress.

Billy Westlake met him as he was going up-stairs.  To Billy had been
entrusted the office of rounding up all the young people who were going
over to Hollis Creek, and by previous instruction, though wondering at
his sister's choice, he assigned Sam to that young lady, a fate which
Sam accepted with becoming gratitude.

He had plenty of food for thought as he donned his costume of dead
black and staring white, and somehow or other he was distrait that
evening all the way over to Hollis Creek.  Only when he met Miss
Stevens did he brighten, as he might well do, for Miss Stevens,
charming in every guise, was a revelation in evening costume; a
ravishing revelation; one to make a man pause and wonder and stand in
awe, and regard himself as a clumsy creature not worthy to touch the
hem of the garment which embellished such a divine being.  Nevertheless
he conquered that wave of diffidence in a jiffy, or something like half
that space of time, and shook hands with her most eagerly, and looked
into her eyes and was grateful; for he found them smiling up at him in
most friendly fashion, and with rather an electric thrill in them, too,
though whether the thrill emanated from the eyes or was merely within
himself he was not sure.

"How many dances do I get?" he abruptly demanded.

"Just two," she told him, and showed him her card and gave him one on
which a list of names had already been marked by the young ladies of
Hollis Creek.

He saw on the card two dances with Miss Stevens, one each with Miss
Westlake and Miss Hastings, and one each with a number of other young
ladies whom he had met but vaguely, and one each with some whom he had
not met at all.  He dutifully went through the first dance with a young
lady of excellent connections who would make a prime companion for any
advancing young man with social aspirations; he went dutifully through
the next dance with a young lady who was keen on intellectual pursuits,
and who would make an excellent helpmate for any young man who wished
to advance in culture as he progressed in business, and danced the next
one with a young lady who believed that home-making should be the
highest aim of womankind; and then came his first dance with Miss
Stevens!  They did not talk very much, but it was very, very comforting
to be with her, just to know that she was there, and to know that
somehow she understood.  He was sorry, though, that he stepped upon her
gown.

The promenade, which had seemed quite long enough with the other young
ladies, seemed all too short for Sam up to the point when Billy
Westlake came to take Miss Josephine away.  He was feeling rather
lonely when Tilloughby came up to him, with a charming young lady who
was in quite a flutter.  It seemed that there had been a dreadful
mistake in the making out of the dance cards, which the young ladies of
Hollis Creek had endeavored to do with strict equity, though hastily,
and all was now inextricable confusion.  The charming young lady was on
the cards for this dance with both Mr. Tilloughby and Mr. Turner, and
Mr. Tilloughby had claimed her first.  Would Mr. Turner kindly excuse
her?  Just behind her came another young lady whom Mr. Tilloughby
introduced.  This young lady was on Sam's card for the next dance
following this one, but it should be for the eighth dance, and would
Mr. Turner please change his card accordingly, which Mr. Turner
obligingly did, wondering what he should do when it came to the eighth
dance and he should find himself obligated to two young ladies.  Oh,
well, he reflected, no doubt the other young lady was down for the
eighth dance with some one else, if they had things so mixed.  Of one
thing he was sure.  He had that tenth dance with Miss Stevens.  He had
inspected both cards to make certain of that, and had seen with
carefully concealed joy that she had compared them as minutely as he
had.  He saw confusion going on all about him, laughing young people
attempting to straighten out the tangle, and the dance was slow in
starting.

Almost the first two on the floor were Miss Stevens and Billy Westlake,
and as he saw them, from his vantage point outside one of the broad
windows, gliding gracefully up the far side of the room, he realized
with a twinge of impatience what a remarkably unskilled dancer he
himself was.  Billy and Miss Stevens were talking, too, with the
greatest animation, and she was looking up at Billy as brightly, even
more brightly he thought, than she had at himself.  There was a
delicate flush on her cheeks.  Her lips, full and red and deliciously
curved, were parted in a smile.  Confound it anyhow!  What could she
find to talk about with Billy Westlake?

He was turning away in more or less impatience, when Mr. Stevens,
looking, in some way, with his aggressive, white, outstanding beard, as
if he ought to have a red ribbon diagonally across his white shirt
front, ranged beside him.

"Fine sight, isn't it?" observed Mr. Stevens.

"Yes," admitted Mr. Turner, almost shortly, and forced himself to turn
away from the following of that dazzling vision, which was almost
painful under the circumstances.

By mutual impulse they walked down the length of the side porch and
across the front porch.  Sam drew himself away from dancing and certain
correlated ideas with a jerk.

"I've been wanting to talk with you, Mr. Stevens," he observed.  "I
think I'll drop over to-morrow for a little while."

"Glad to have you any time, Sam," responded Mr. Stevens heartily, "but
there is no time like the present, you know.  What's on your mind?"

"This Marsh Pulp Company," said Sam; "do you know anything about pulp
and paper?"

"A little bit.  You know I have some stock in Princeman's company."

"Oh," returned Sam thoughtfully.

"Not enough to hurt, however," Stevens went on.  "Twenty shares, I
believe.  When I went in I had several times as much, but not enough to
make me a dominant factor by any means, and Princeman, as he made more
money, wanted some of it, so I let him buy up quite a number of shares.
At one time I was very much interested, however, and visited the mills
quite frequently."

"You're rather close to Princeman in a business way, aren't you?" Sam
asked after duly cautious reflection.

"Not at all, although we get along very nicely indeed.  I made money on
my paper stock, both in dividends and in a very comfortable advance
when I sold it.  Our relations have always been friendly, but very
little more.  Why?"

"Oh, nothing.  Only Princeman is much interested in my Pulp Company,
and all the people who are going in are his friends.  The crowd over at
Meadow Brook talks of taking up approximately the entire stock of my
company.  I thought possibly you might be interested."

"I am right now, from what I have already heard of it," returned
Stevens, who had almost at first sight succumbed to that indefinable
personal appeal which caused Sam Turner to be trusted of all men.  "I
shall be very glad to hear more about it.  It struck me when you spoke
of it yesterday as a very good proposition."

They had reached the dark corner at the far end of the porch, illumined
only by the subdued light which came from a half-hidden window, and now
they sat down.  Sam fished in the little armpit pocket of his dress
coat and dragged forth two tiny samples of pulp and two tiny samples of
paper.

"These two," he stated, "were samples sent me to-day by my kid brother."

Mr. Stevens took the samples and examined them with interest.  He felt
their texture.  He twisted them and crumpled them and bent them
backward and forward and tore them.  Then, the light at this window
being too weak, he went to one of the broad windows where a stronger
stream of light came out, and examined them anew.  But the successful
resistance of the Greeks to the whole strength of the Ottoman empire
for two years, induced Russia to communicate a memoir to the
European cabinets in 1824, proposing that the Greek population then
in arms should receive a separate, though independent, political
existence.

This indiscreet proposition awakened the jealousy of England, as
indicating the immense importance attached by Russia to securing
the good-will of the Greeks.

England immediately outbid the Czar for their favour, by recognising
the validity of their blockades of the Turkish fortresses, thus virtually
acknowledging the existence of the Greek state.

The other European powers were compelled most unwillingly to follow
the example of Great Britain. Mr Canning, however, in order to
place the question on some public footing, laid down the principles
on which the British cabinet was determined to act, in a communication
to the Greek government, dated in the month of December 1824.

This document declares that the British government will observe the
strictest neutrality with reference to the war; while with regard
to the intermediate state of independence and subjection proposed
in the Russian memorial, it adds that, as it has been rejected by
both parties, it is needless to discuss its advantages or defects.

It also assured the Greeks that Great Britain would take no part
in any attempt to compel them by force to adopt a plan of pacification
contrary to their wishes.

France now thought fit to enter on the field. According to the
invariable principle of modern French diplomacy, she made no definite
proposition either to the Greeks or the European powers; but she
sent semi-official agents into the country, who made great promises to
the Greeks if they would choose the Duke de Nemours, the second
son of the Duke d'Orleans, now King Louis Philippe, to be sovereign
of Greece.

The Greeks had seen something too substantial on the part of Russia
and England to follow this Gallic will-o'-the-wisp.

But England and Russia, in order to brush all the cobwebs of French
intrigue from a question which appeared to them too important
to be dealt with any longer by unauthorized agents, signed a protocol
at St Petersburg on the 4th April 1826, engaging to use their good
offices with the Sultan to put an end to the war.

The Duke of Wellington himself negotiated the signature of this protocol,
and it is one of the numerous services he has rendered to his
country and to Europe, as the Greek question threatened to disturb
the peace of the East.

France, as well as Austria, refused to join, until it became evident
that the two powers were taking active measures to carry their
decisions into effect, when France gave in her adhesion, and the
treaty of the 6th of July 1827, was signed at London by France,
Great Britain, and Russia.

Events soon ran away with calculations. The Turkish fleet was destroyed
at Navarino on the 20th October 1827, the anniversary (if we
may trust Mitford's _History of Greece_) of the battle of Salamis.

He did not see her again until all of the Meadow Brook
folk, including himself, were seated in the carryalls, at which time
the Hollis Creek folk were at the edge of the porte-cochère and both
parties were exchanging a gabbling pandemonium of good-bys.  He saw her
then, standing back among the crowd, and shouting her adieus as
vociferously as any of them.  He caught her eye and she nodded to him
as pleasantly as to anybody, which was really worse than if she had
refused to acknowledge him at all!


CHAPTER VIII

NOT SAM'S FAULT THIS TIME

No, Miss Stevens was sorry that she could not go walking with him that
morning, which was the morning after the dance.  She was very polite
about it, too; almost too polite.  Her voice over the telephone was as
suave and as limpid as could possibly be, but there was a sort of
metallic glitter behind it, as it were.

No, she could not see him that afternoon either.  She had made a series
of engagements, in fact, covering the entire day.  Also, she regretted
to say, upon further solicitation, that she had made engagements
covering the entire following day.

No, she was not piqued about his last night's forgetfulness; by no
means; certainly not; how absurd!

She quite understood.  He had been talking business with her father,
and naturally such a trifling detail as a dance with frivolous young
people would not occur to him.

Frivolous young people!  This was the exact point of the conversation
at which Sam, with his ear glued to the receiver of the telephone and
no necessity for concealing the concerned expression on his
countenance, thought, in more or less of a panic, that he must really
be getting old, which was a good joke, inasmuch as nobody ever took him
to be over twenty-five.  Heretofore his boyish appearance had worried
him because it rather stood in the way of business, but now he began to
fear that he was losing it; for he was nearing thirty!

Well, pleading was of no avail.  He had to give it up.  Reluctantly he
went out and took a solitary walk, then came in and religiously played
his two hours of tennis with Miss Westlake and Miss Hastings and
Tilloughby.  Was he not on vacation, and must he not enjoy himself?
Just before he went in to luncheon, however, there was a telephone call
for him.

Miss Stevens was perplexed to know what divine intuition had told him
her obsession for maraschino chocolates.  She had one in her fingers at
the very moment she was telephoning, and she was going to pop it into
her mouth while he talked.  It is for these and kindred reasons that
Walt Whitman is more read abroad than in his own country.

It is on the rank, human, and emotional side-- sex, magnetism, health,
physique,--that he is so full. Then his receptivity and assimilative
powers are enormous, and he demands these in his reader. In fact, his
poems are physiological as much as they are intellectual. They radiate
from his entire being, and are charged to repletion with that
blended quality of mind and body--psychic and physiologic--which
the living form and presence send forth.

Never before in poetry has the body received such ennoblement. The
great theme is IDENTITY, and identity comes through the body; and
all that pertains to the body, the poet teaches, is entailed upon
the spirit.

In his rapt gaze, the body and the soul are one, and what debases the one
debases the other. Hence he glorifies the body. Not more ardently and
purely did the great sculptors of antiquity carve it in the enduring
marble than this poet has celebrated it in his masculine and flowing
lines.

The bearing of his work in this direction is invaluable. Well has it
been said that the man or the woman who has "Leaves of Grass" for
a daily companion will be under the constant, invisible influence
of sanity, cleanliness, strength, and a gradual severance from all
that corrupts and makes morbid and mean.

In regard to the unity and construction of the poems, the reader sooner
or later discovers the true solution to be, that the dependence,
cohesion, and final reconciliation of the whole are in the Personality
of the poet himself.

As in Shakespeare everything is strung upon the plot, the play, and loses
when separated from it, so in this poet every line and sentence refers
to and necessitates the Personality behind it, and derives its
chief significance therefrom.

"Wait a minute," he called desperately into the telephone, but it was
dead, and there is nothing in this world so dead as the telephone from
which connection has been suddenly shut off.

Sam strode into the dining-room and went straight over to Blackrock's
table.

"I find I have some pressing business right after luncheon," he said,
bending over that gentleman's chair.  "I can't possibly meet you at two
o'clock.  Will four do you?"

"Why, certainly," Mr. Blackrock was kind enough to say, and he
furthermore agreed, with equal graciousness, to inform the others.

Sam ate his luncheon in worried silence, replying only in monosyllables
to the remarks of McComas, who sat at his table, and of Mrs. McComas,
who had taken quite a young-motherly fancy to him; and the amount that
he ate was so much at variance with his usual hearty appetite that even
the maid who waited on his table, a tall, gangling girl with a vinegar
face and a kind heart, worried for fear he might be sick, and added
unordered delicacies to his American plan meal.  He went over to Hollis
Creek in the swiftest conveyance he could obtain, which was naturally
an auto, but he did not have 'Ennery for his chauffeur, of which he was
heartily glad, for 'Ennery might have wanted to talk.

On the porch of Hollis Creek Inn he found Princeman and Mr. Stevens in
earnest conversation.  He knew what that meant.  Princeman was already
discussing with Mr. Stevens the matter of control of the Marsh Pulp
Company.  Princeman rose when Sam stepped up on the porch, and strolled
away from Mr. Stevens.  He nodded pleasantly to Turner, and the latter,
returning the nod fully as pleasantly, was about to hurry on in search
of Miss Josephine, when Mr. Stevens checked him.

"Hello, Sam," he called.  "I've just been waiting to see you."

"All right," said Sam.  "I'll be around presently."

"No, but come here," insisted Mr. Stevens.

Sam cast a nervous glance about the grounds and along the side porch;
Miss Josephine most certainly was not among those present.  Fox sees,
as all men see, that great changes, for either good or ill, are
coming on the world.

Next to that of a great king, perhaps the most tempting rank to ambition
would be that of a great demagogue."

The glitter of Sheridan's eye, and the glow which passed across his
cheek, as he looked at the speaker, showed how fully he agreed with
the sentiment; and I expected some bold burst of eloquence.

But, with that sudden change of tone and temper which was among the
most curious characteristics of the man, he laughingly said, "At
all events, whatever the Revolution may do to our neighbours, it
will do a vast deal of good to ourselves.

The clubs were growing so dull, that I began to think of withdrawing
my name from them all.

"I am, in so far as the investment goes, Sam.  I've promised you that
I'd take a good block of stock, and you've promised to make room for me
in the company.  I expect to go through with that, but I want to know
about this other phase of the matter before I get into any
entanglements with opposing factions.  Now you sit right down there and
tell me about it."

Despairingly Sam sat down and proceeded briefly and concisely to
explain to him the various plans of incorporation which had been
proposed.  Ten minutes later he almost groaned, as a trap, drawn by a
pair of handsome buckskin horses, driven by Princeman and containing
Miss Josephine, crunched upon the gravel driveway in front of the
porch.  Miss Stevens greeted Mr. Turner very heartily indeed, Princeman
stopping for that purpose.  Sam ran down and shook hands with her.  Oh,
she was most cordial; just as cordial and polite as anybody he knew!

"I did not expect you at all," she said, "but I knew you were here, for
I saw you from the window as you came up the drive.  Pleasant weather,
isn't it?  Oh, papa!"

"Yes," answered Mr. Stevens ponderously from his place on the porch.

"Up on my dresser you will find a box of candy which Mr. Turner was
kind enough to have sent me, and he confesses that he has never tasted
maraschino chocolates.  Won't you please run up and get them and let
Mr. Turner sample them?"

"Huh!" grunted Mr. Stevens.  "If Sam Turner insists upon running me up
two flights of stairs on an errand of that sort, I suppose I'll have to
go.  But he won't."

"You're lazy," she said to her father in affectionate banter, then,
with a wave of her hand and a bright nod to Mr. Turner, she was gone!

Sam trudged slowly up on the porch with the heart gone entirely out of
him for business; and yet, as he approached Mr. Stevens he pulled
himself together with a jerk.  After all, she was gone, and he could
not bring her back, and in his talk with Stevens he had just approached
a grave and serious situation.

"The fact of the matter is, Mr. Stevens," said he as he sat down again,
"these people are the very people I want to get into my concern, but
they are old hands at the stock incorporation game, and even before
I've organized the company they are planning to get it out of my hands.
Now it is my scheme, mine and the kid brother's, and I don't propose to
allow that."

"Well, Sam," said Mr. Stevens slowly, "you know capital of late has had
a lot of experience with corporate business, and it isn't the
fashionable thing this year for the control and the capital to be in
separate hands--right at the very beginning."

This was the signal for the struggle, and Sam plunged earnestly into
the conflict.  At three-fifteen he suddenly rose and made his adieus.
He would have liked to stay until Miss Josephine came back, so that he
could make one more desperate attempt to set himself right with her,
but there was that deferred engagement with Blackrock, and reluctantly
he whirled back to Meadow Brook.


CHAPTER IX

WHEREIN SAM TURNER PROVES HIMSELF TO BE A VIOLENT FLIRT

The rest of that week was a worried and an anxious one for Sam.  He
sent daily advices to his brother, and he received daily advices in
return.  The people upon whom he had originally counted to form the
Marsh Pulp Company had set themselves coldly against the matter of
control, and on comparing the apparent situation in New York with the
situation at Meadow Brook, he made sure that he could secure more
advantageous terms with the Princeman crowd.  He spent his time in
wrestling with his prospective investors both singly and in groups, but
they were obdurate.  They liked his company, they saw in it tremendous
possibilities, but they did not intend to invest their money where they
could not vote it.  That was flat!

This was on the business side.  About the really important matter of
Miss Stevens, since his most recent bad performance, the time when he
had made the special trip to see her and had spent his time in talking
business with her father, he had not been able to come near her.  She
was always engaged.  He saw her riding with Hollis; he saw her driving
with Princeman; he saw her playing tennis with Billy Westlake, but the
greatest boon he ever received was a nod and a pleasant word.  He
industriously sent her flowers.  She as industriously sent him nice,
polite little notes of thanks.

In the meantime, alternating with his marsh pulp wrangles, he worked
like a Trojan at the athletic graces he should have cultivated in his
younger days.  He rode every morning; he practised every day at tennis
and croquet; every evening he bowled; and every time some one sat at
the piano and played dance music and the young people fell into
impromptu waltzes and two-steps on the porch, he joined them and danced
religiously with whomsoever he found to hand; usually Miss Hastings or
Miss Westlake.

The latter ingenious young lady, during this while, continued to adore
business, and with increasing fervor every day, and regretted, quite
aloud, that she had never paid sufficient attention to this absorbing
amusement, out of which all the men, that is, those who were really
strong and purposeful, seem to derive so much satisfaction!  On the
following Monday at Bald Hill, when Hollis Creek and Meadow Brook
fraternized together, in the annual union picnic, she found occasion
for the most direct tête-à-tête of all anent commercial matters.

Under Bald Hill were any number of charming natural retreats, jumbles
of Titanically toy-strewn, clean, bare rocks, screened here and there
by tangles of young scrub oak and pine which grew apparently on bare
stone surfaces and out of infinitesimal chinks and crannies, in utter
defiance of all natural law.  Go where you would on that day, there
were couples in each of the rock shelters; young couples, engaged in
that fascinating pastime of finding out all they could about each
other, and wondering about each other, and revealing themselves to each
other as much as they cared to do, and flirting; oh, in a perfectly
respectable sort of a way, you know; legitimate and commendable
flirting; the sort of flirting which is only experimental and
necessary, and which may cease at any moment to become mere airy
trifling, and turn into something intensely and desperately serious,
having a vital bearing upon the entire future lives of people; and
there were deeply solemn moments, in spite of all the surface hilarity
and gaiety, in many of these little out of way nooks kindly provided by
beneficent nature for this identical purpose.

That is the true faculty for public life; the true test of commanding
capacity. There are thousands who have ability, for one who knows how
to make use of it; as we are told that there are monsters in the depths
of the ocean which never come up to the light.

But I prefer your leviathan, which, whether he slumbers in the calm or
rushes through the storm, shows all his magnitude to the eye."
"And gets himself harpooned for his pains," observed W----.

"Well, then, at least he dies the death of a hero," was the reply--"tempesting
the brine, and perhaps even sinking the harpooner." He uttered this
sentiment with such sudden ardour, that all listened while he declaimed--"I
can imagine no worse fate for a man of true talent than to linger
down into the grave; to find the world disappearing from him while
he remains in it; his political vision growing indistinct, his
political ear losing the voice of man, his passions growing stagnant,
all his sensibilities palpably paralyzing, while the world is as
loud, busy, and brilliant round him as ever--with but one sense
remaining, the unhappy consciousness that, though not _yet_ dead,
he is buried; a figure, if not of scorn, of pity, entombed under
the compassionate gaze of mankind, and forgotten before he has
mouldered.

Who that could die in the vigour of his life, would wish to drag on
existence like _Somers_, coming to the Council day after day without
comprehending a word?

or Marlborough, babbling out his own imbecility? If I am to die, let me
die in hot blood, let me die like the lion biting the spear that has
entered his heart, or springing upon the hunter who has struck
him--not like the crushed snake, miserable and mutilated, hiding
itself in its hole, and torpid before it is turned into clay!"

"Will Mirabeau redeem France?"

asked the prince; "or will he overwhelm the throne?"
"I never heard of any one but Saint Christopher," said Sheridan,
sportively, "who could walk through the ocean, and yet keep his head
above water. Mirabeau is out of soundings already."
"Burke," said F----, "predicts that he must perish; that the
Revolution will go on, increasing in terrors; and that it would be
as easy to stop a planet launched through space, as the progress
of France to ruin."

"So be it," said Sheridan with sudden animation.

"There have been revolutions in every age of the world, but the
world has outlived them all. Like tempests, they may wreck a royal
fleet now and then, but they prevent the ocean from being a
pond, and the air from being a pestilence.
I am content if the world is the better for all this, though France
may be the worse.

I am a political optimist, in spite of Voltaire; or, I agree with
a better man and a greater poet--'All's well that ends well.'"
The prince looked grave; and significantly asked, "Whether too high a
present price might not be paid for prospective good?"
Sheridan turned off the question with a smile. "The man who has as
little to pay as I have," said he, "seldom thinks of price one way or
the other.
Possibly, if I were his Grace of Bedford, or my Lord Fitzwilliam, I might
begin to balance my rent-roll against my raptures. Or, if I were
higher still, I might be only more prudent. But," said he, with a bow,
"if what was fit for Parmenio was not fit for Alexander, neither
would what was fit for Alexander be fit for Parmenio."

The prince soon after rose from table, and led the way into the library,
where we spent some time in looking over an exquisite collection
of drawings of Greece and Albania, a present from the French king
to his royal highness.

The windows were thrown open, and the fresh scents of the flower garden
were delicious; the night was calm, and the moon gleamed far over the
quiet ocean.

At this moment a soft sound of music arose at a distance. I looked in
vain for the musicians--none were visible. The strain, incomparably
managed, now approached, now receded, now seemed to ascend from the sea,
now to stoop from the sky.

All crowded to the casement--to me, a stranger and unexpecting, all was
surprise and spell.

I, almost unconsciously, repeated the fine lines in the Tempest:--
"Where should this music be? I' the air, or the earth?
It sounds no more: and sure, it waits upon Some god of the island--
This music crept by me upon the waters, Allaying both their
fury and my passion With its sweet air--But 'tis gone!
No, it begins again."
The prince returned my quotation with a gracious smile, and the words
of the great poet,
"This is no mortal business, nor no sound This the earth owns."

The private band, stationed in one of the thickets, had been the magicians.
Supper was laid in this handsome apartment, not precisely
"The spare Sabine feast, A radish and an egg,"
but perfectly simple, and perfectly elegant.

Luncheon is nearly ready,
all but that, and they're waiting for you over at the glade.  My, what
a dear little place this is!  How did you ever find it?"  Miss Hastings
was now quite conspicuously panting and fanning herself.  "I'm so tired
climbing those rocks," she went on.  "I shall simply have to sit down
and rest a bit.  Billy will take you over, Hallie, and Mr. Turner will
bring me by and by, I am sure."

Mr. Turner stated that he would do so with pleasure.  Miss Westlake
surveyed her dearest friend more in anger than in sorrow.  It was such
a brazen trick, and she gazed from her brother to Mr. Turner in sheer
wonder that they were not startled into betrayal of how shocked they
were.  Whatever strong emotions they might have had upon that subject
were utterly without reflection upon the outside, however, for Billy
Westlake and Sam Turner were eying each other solely with a vacuous
mutual wish of saying something decently polite and human.  Mr. Turner
made a desperate stab.

"I hope you're in good form for the bowling tournament to-night," he
observed with self-urged anxiety.  "Hollis Creek mustn't win, you know."

"I'm as near fit as usual," said Billy; "but Princeman is the chap
who's going to carry off the honors for Meadow Brook.  Bowled an
average last night of two forty-five.  I'm sorry you couldn't make the
team."

"I should have started fifteen years ago to do that," said Sam with a
wry smile.  "I think I would get along all right, though, if they
didn't have those grooves at the side of the alleys."

Billy Westlake looked at him gravely.  Since Sam did not smile, this
could not be a joke.

"But they are absolutely necessary, you know," he protested, as he took
his sister's arm and helped her down the slope.

Miss Westlake went away entirely out of patience with the two men, and
very much to Billy's surprise gave him her revised estimate of that
Hastings girl.  Miss Hastings, however, was in a far different frame of
mind.  R." in double cypher, surrounded by buds and flowers; and
have myself a cloth with a view of London, and inscribed "Der Konig
Georg II.," which was purchased at Brentford, no doubt having come from
Kew adjoining.

H. W. D.

_Straw Necklaces_ (Vol. ii., p. 511.).--Having only lately read the
"NOTES AND QUERIES" (in fact, this being the first number subscribed
for), I do not know the previous allusion. It makes me mention a curious
custom at Carlisle, of the {230} servants who wish to be hired going
into the marketplace of Carlisle, or as they call it "Carel,"
with a straw in their mouths. It is fast passing away, and _now_,
instead of keeping the straw constantly in the mouth, they merely
put it in a few seconds if they see any one looking at them. Anderson,
in his _Cumberland Ballads_, alludes to the custom:--
"At Carel I stuid wi' a strae i' my mouth, The weyves com roun me in
clusters:
'What weage dus te ax, canny lad?' says yen."
H. W. D.

_Library of the Church of Westminster_ (Vol. iii., p. 152.).--The
statement here quoted from the _Délices de la Grande Bretagne_ is
scarcely likely to be correct. We all know how prone foreigners are
to misapprehension, and therefore, how unsafe it is to trust to their
observations. In this case, may not the description of the
_Bibliothèque Publique_, which was open night and morning, during
the sittings of the courts of justice, have originated merely from
the rows of booksellers' stalls in Westminster-hall?

J. G. N.
_The Ten Commandments_ (Vol. iii., p. 166.).--Waterland (vol. vi.
p. 242., 2nd edition, Oxford, 1843) gives a copy of the Decalogue
taken from an old MS. In this the first two commandments are embodied
in one.The sharp and instantly suppressed laugh of Princeman came floating up
to them, but Miss Stevens turned squarely about in the direction of the
glade, and being instantly joined by Princeman, they walked quietly
away.

Mr. Turner suddenly found himself perspiring profusely, and was
compelled to mop his brow, but Miss Hastings disdained to give any sign
that anything unusual whatsoever had happened, except by walking with a
limp, albeit a very slight one, as she returned to the glade.  That
limp comforted Mr. Turner somewhat, and, spying Miss Stevens in a
little group near the tables, he was very careful to parade Miss
Hastings straight over there and place her limp on display.  Miss
Stevens, however, walked away; no mere limp could deceive her!

Well, if she wanted to be miffed at a little accident like that, and
read things falsely, and think the worst of people, she might; that was
all Sam had to say about it! but what he had to say about it did not
comfort him.  He rather savagely "shook" Miss Hastings at his first
opportunity, and Vivian's dearest friend, who had been hovering in the
offing, saw him do it, which was a great satisfaction to her.  Later
she seized upon him, although he had savagely sworn to stick to the
men, and by some incomprehensible process Sam found himself once more
tête-à-tête with Miss Westlake, just over at the edge of the glade
where the sumac grew.  She made him gather a lot of the leaves for her,
and showed him how they used to weave clover wreaths when she was a
little girl, and wove one for him of sumac, and gaily crowned him with
it; and just as she was putting the fool thing on his head he glanced
up, and there Princeman, laughing, was just passing them a little ways
off, in company with Miss Josephine Stevens!


CHAPTER X

THE VALUE OF A PIANOLA TRAINING

On that very same evening Hollis Creek came over to the bowling
tournament, and Miss Stevens, arriving with young Hollis, promptly lost
that perfervid young man, who had become somewhat of a nuisance in his
sentimental insistence.  Mr. Turner, watching her from afar, saw her
desert the calfly smitten one, and immediately dashed for the breach.
He had watched from too great a distance, however, for Billy Westlake
gobbled up Miss Josephine before Sam could get there, and started with
her for that inevitable stroll among the brookside paths which always
preceded a bowling tournament.  While he stood nonplussed, looking
after them, Miss Hastings glided to his side in a matter of course way.

"Isn't it a perfectly charming evening?" she wanted to know.

"It is a regular dear of an evening," admitted Sam savagely.

In his single thoughtedness he was scrambling wildly about within the
interior of his skull for a pretext to get rid of Miss Hastings, but it
suddenly occurred to him that now he had a legitimate excuse for
following the receding couple, and promptly upon the birth of this
idea, he pulled in that direction and Miss Hastings came right along,
though a trifle silently.  With all her vivacious chattering, she was
not without shrewdness, and with no trouble whatever she divined
precisely why Sam chose the path he did, and why he seemed in such
almost blundering haste.  They _were_ a little late, it was true, for
just as they started, Billy and Miss Stevens turned aside and out of
sight into the shadiest and narrowest and most involved of the
shrubbery-lined paths, the one which circled about the little concealed
summer-house with a dove-cote on top, which was commonly dubbed "the
cooing place."  Following down this path the rear couple suddenly came
upon a tableau which made them pause abruptly.  Billy Westlake, upon
the steps of the summer-house, was upon his knees, there in the swiftly
blackening dusk, before the appalled Miss Stevens; actually upon his
knees!  Silently the two watchers stole away, but when they were out of
earshot Miss Hastings tittered.  Sam, though the moment was a serious
one for him, was also compelled to grin.

"I didn't know they did it that way any more," he confessed.

"They don't," Miss Hastings informed him; "that is, unless they are
very, very young, or very, very old."

"Apparently you've had experience," observed Sam.

"Yes," she admitted a little bitterly.  "I think I've had rather more
than my share; but all with ineligibles."

Sam felt a trace of pity for Miss Hastings, who was of polite family,
but poor, and a guest of the Westlakes, but he scarcely knew how to
express it, and felt that it was not quite safe anyhow, so he remained
discreetly silent.

By mutual, though unspoken impulse, they stopped under the shade of a
big tree up on the lawn, and waited for the couple who had been found
in the delicate situation either to reappear on the way back to the
house, or to emerge at the other end of the path on the way to the
bowling shed.  It was scarcely three minutes when they reappeared on
the way back to the house, and both watchers felt an instant thrill of
relief, for the two were by no means lover-like in their attitudes.
Billy had hold of Miss Josephine's arm and was helping her up the
slope, but their shoulders were not touching in the process, nor were
arms clasped closely against sides.  They passed by the big tree
unseeing, then, as they neared the house, without a word, they parted.
Miss Stevens proceeded toward the porch, and stopped to take a
handkerchief from her sleeve and pass it carefully and lightly over her
face.  Billy Westlake strode off a little way toward the bowling shed,
stopped and lit a cigarette, took two or three puffs, started on,
stopped again, then threw the cigarette to the ground with quite
unnecessary vigor, and stamped on it.  Miss Hastings, without adieus of
any sort, glided swiftly away in the direction of Billy, and then a dim
glimmer of understanding came to Sam Turner that only Miss Stevens had
stood in the way of Miss Hastings' capture of Billy Westlake.  He
wasted no time over this thought, however, but strode very swiftly and
determinedly up to Miss Josephine.

"I'm glad to find you alone," he said; "I want to make an explanation."

"Don't bother about it," she told him frigidly.  "You owe me no
explanations whatsoever, Mr. Turner."

"I'm going to make them anyhow," he declared.  "You saw me twice this
afternoon in utterly asinine situations."

"I remember of no such situations," she stated still frigidly, and
started to move on toward the house.

"But wait a minute," said Sam, catching her by the arm and detaining
her.  "You did see me in silly situations, and I want you to know the
facts about them."

"I'm not at all interested," she informed him, now with absolute north
pole iciness, and started to move away again.

He held her more tightly.

"The first time," he went on, "was when Miss Hastings slipped on the
rocks and I had to catch her to keep her from falling."

"Will you kindly let me go, Mr. Turner?" demanded Miss Josephine.

"No, I will not!" he replied, and pulled her about a trifle so that she
was compelled to face him.  "I don't choose to have anybody, least of
all you, think wrongly of me."

"Mr. Turner, I do not choose to be detained against my will," declared
Miss Josephine.

"Mr. Turner," boomed a deep-timbered voice right behind them, "the lady
has requested you to let her go.  I should advise you to do so."

Mr. Turner was attempting to frame up a reasonable answer to this
demand when Miss Josephine prevented him from doing so.

"Mr. Princeman," said she to the interrupting gallant, "I thank you for
your interference on my behalf, but I am quite capable of protecting
myself," and leaving the two stunned gentlemen together, she once more
took her handkerchief from her sleeve and walked swiftly up to the
porch, brushing the handkerchief lightly over her face again.

"Well, I'll be damned!" said Princeman, looking after her in more or
less bewilderment.

"So will I," said Sam.  "Have you a cigarette about you?"

Princeman gave him one and they took a light from the same match, then,
neither one of them caring to discuss any subject whatever at that
particular moment, they separated, and Sam hunted a lonely corner.  He
wanted to be alone and gloom.  Confound bowling, anyhow!  It was a dull
and uninteresting game.  He cared less for it as time went on, he
found; less to-night than ever.  He crept away into the dim and
deserted parlor and sat down at the piano, the only friend in which he
cared to confide just then.  He played, with a queer lingering touch
which had something of hesitation in it, and which reduced all music to
a succession of soft chords, _The Maid of Dundee_ and _Annie Laurie_,
_The Banks of Banna_ and _The Last Rose of Summer_, then one of the
simpler nocturnes of Chopin, and, following these, a quaint, slow
melody which was like all of the others and yet like none.

"Bravo!" exclaimed a gentle voice in the doorway, and he turned,
startled, to see Miss Stevens standing there.  She did not explain why
she had relented, but came directly into the room and stood at the end
of the piano.  He reached up and shook hands with her quite naturally,
and just as naturally and simply she let her hand lie in his for an
instant.  How soft and warm her palm was, and how grateful the touch of
it!

"What a pleasant surprise!" she said.  "I didn't know you played."

"I don't," he confessed, smiling.  "If you had stopped to listen you
would have known.  You ought to hear my kid brother play though.  He's
a corker."

"But I did listen," she insisted, ignoring the reference to his "kid
brother."  "I stood there a long time and I thought it beautiful.  What
was that last selection?"

He flushed guiltily.

"It was--oh, just a little thing I sort of put together myself," he
told her.

"How delightful!  And so you compose, too?"

"Not at all," he hastily assured her.  "This is the only thing, and it
seemed to come just sort of naturally to me from time to time.  I don't
suppose it's finished yet, because I never play it exactly as I did
before.  I always seem to add a little bit to it.  I do wish that I had
had time to know more of music.  What little I play I learned from a
pianola."

"A what?" she gasped.

He laughed in a half-embarrassed way.

"A pianola," he repeated.  "You see I've always been hungry for music,
and while my kid brother was still in college I began to be able to
afford things, and one of the first luxuries was a pianola.  You know
the machine has a little lever which throws the keys in or out of
engagement, so that you can play it as a regular piano if you wish, and
if you leave the keys engaged while you are playing the rolls, they
work up and down; so by watching these I gradually learned to pick out
my favorite tunes by hand.  I couldn't play them so well by myself as
the rolls played them, but somehow or other they gave me more
satisfaction."

Miss Stevens did not laugh.  In some indefinable way all this made a
difference in Sam Turner--a considerable difference--and she felt quite
justified in having deliberately come to the conclusion that she had
been "mean" to him; in having deliberately slipped away from the others
as they were all going over to the bowling alleys; in having come back
deliberately to find him.

"Your favorite tunes," she repeated musingly.  "What was the first one,
I wonder?  One of those that you have just been playing?"

"The first one?" he returned with a smile.  "No, it was a sort of
rag-time jingle.  I thought it very pretty then, but I played it over
the other day, the first time in years, and I didn't seem to like it at
all.  In fact, I wonder how I ever did like it."

Rag-time!  And now, left entirely to his own devices and for his own
pleasure, he was playing Chopin!  Yes, it made quite a difference in
Sam Turner.  She was glad that she had decided to wear his roses, glad
even that he recognized them.  At her solicitation Sam played again the
plaintive little air of his own composition--and played it much better
than ever he had played it before.  Then they walked out on the porch
and strolled down toward the bowling shed.  Half way there was a little
side path, leading off through an arbor into a shady way which crossed
the brook on a little rustic bridge, which wound about between
flowerbeds and shrubbery and back by another little bridge, and which
lengthened the way to the bowling shed by about four times the normal
distance--and they took that path; and when they reached the bowling
alley they were not quite ready to go in.

_"Spring o' the year! spring o' the year!"

_ it says, with a long-drawn breath, a little plaintive, but not complaining
or melancholy. At times it indulges in something much more intricate
and lark-like while hovering on the wing in midair, but a song
is beyond the compass of its instrument, and the attempt usually ends
in a breakdown. A clear, sweet, strong, high-keyed note, uttered
from some knoll or rock, or stake in the fence, is its proper vocal
performance. It has the build and walk and flight of the quail and
the grouse. It gets up before you in much the same manner, and
falls an easy prey to the crack shot. Its yellow breast, surmounted
by a black crescent, it need not be ashamed to turn to the morning
sun, while its coat of mottled gray is in perfect keeping with the
stubble amid which it walks. The two lateral white quills in its tail
seem strictly in character. These quills spring from a dash of scorn and
defiance in the bird's make-up. By the aid of these, it can almost emit
a flash as it struts about the fields and jerks out its sharp notes.
They give a rayed, a definite and piquant expression to its
movements.

This bird is not properly a lark, but a starling, say the ornithologists,
though it is lark-like in its habits, being a walker and entirely a
ground-bird. Its color also allies it to the true lark. I believe
there is no bird in the English or European fields that answers to
this hardy pedestrian of our meadows. He is a true American, and his
note one of our characteristic April sounds.

Another marked April note, proceeding sometimes from the meadows, but
more frequently from the rough pastures and borders of the woods,
is the call of the high-hole, or golden-shafted woodpecker.

It is quite as strong as that of the meadowlark, but not so long-
drawn and piercing.

It is a succession of short notes rapidly uttered, as if the bird
said _"if-if-if-if-if-if-if

."_ The notes of the ordinary downy and hairy woodpeckers suggest,
in some way.
the sound of a steel punch; but that of the high-hole is much softer,
and strikes on the ear with real springtime melody. The high-hole is
not so much a wood-pecker as he is a ground-pecker. He subsists
largely on ants and crickets, and does not appear till they are to be
found.

In Solomon's description of spring, the voice of the turtle is
prominent, but our turtle, or mourning dove, though it arrives in
April, can hardly be said to contribute noticeably to the open-air
sounds.

Its call is so vague, and soft, and mournful,--in fact, so remote and
diffused,--that few persons ever hear it at all.

Such songsters as the cow blackbird are noticeable at this season, though
they take a back seat a little later. It utters a peculiarly
liquid April sound. Indeed, one would think its crop was full of
water, its notes so bubble up and regurgitate, and are delivered
with such an apparent stomachic contraction.

This bird is the only feathered polygamist we have. The females are
greatly in excess of the males, and the latter are usually attended
by three or four of the former.

As soon as the other birds begin to build, they are on the _qui
vive,_ prowling about like gypsies, not to steal the young of others,
but to steal their eggs into other birds' nests, and so shirk the
labor and responsibility of hatching and rearing their own young.

As these birds do not mate, and as therefore there can be little
or no rivalry or competition between the males, one wonders--in
view of Darwin's teaching--why one sex should have brighter and
richer plumage than the other, which is the fact.

The males are easily distinguished from the dull and faded females
by their deep glossy-black coats.

The April of English literature corresponds nearly to our May.

In Great Britain, the swallow and the cuckoo usually arrive by the
middle of April; with us, their appearance is a week or two later.

Our April, at its best, is a bright, laughing face under a hood of
snow, like the English March, but presenting sharper contrasts, a
greater mixture of smiles and tears and icy looks than are known
to our ancestral climate.

Indeed, Winter sometimes retraces his steps in this month, and
unburdens himself of the snows that the previous cold has kept back;
but we are always sure of a number of radiant, equable days,--days
that go before the bud, when the sun embraces the earth with fervor
and determination.

How his beams pour into the woods till the mould under the leaves is
warm and emits an odor!

The waters glint and sparkle, the birds gather in groups, and even
those unused to singing find a voice.

On the streets of the cities, what a flutter, what bright looks and gay
colors! I recall one preeminent day of this kind last April.

I made a note of it in my note-book. The earth seemed suddenly
to emerge from a wilderness of clouds and chilliness into one of
these blue sunlit spaces.

How the voyagers rejoiced! Invalids came forth, old men sauntered
down the street, stocks went up, and the political outlook brightened.

Such days bring out the last of the hibernating animals. The woodchuck
unrolls and creeps out of his den to see if his clover has started yet.
The torpidity leaves the snakes and the turtles, and they come
forth and bask in the sun.

There is nothing so small, nothing so great, that it does not respond
to these celestial spring days, and give the pendulum of life a
fresh start.

April is also the month of the new furrow. As soon as the frost
is gone and the ground settled, the plow is started upon the hill,
and at each bout I see its brightened mould-board flash in the sun.

Where the last remnants of the snowdrift lingered yesterday the plow
breaks the sod to-day.

Where the drift was deepest the grass is pressed flat, and there is a
deposit of sand and earth blown from the fields to windward. Line upon
line the turf is reversed, until there stands out of the neutral
landscape a ruddy square visible for miles, or until the breasts
of the broad hills glow like the breasts of the robins.

Then who would not have a garden in April? to rake together the rubbish
and burn it up, to turn over the renewed soil, to scatter the rich
compost, to plant the first seed, or bury the first tuber!
It is not the seed that is planted, any more than it is I that is
planted; it is not the dry stalks and weeds that are burned up,
any more than it is my gloom and regrets that are consumed. An April
smoke makes a clean harvest.

I think April is the best month to be born in.

One is just in time, so to speak, to catch the first train, which is
made up in this month. My April chickens always turn out best.

They get an early start; they have rugged constitutions. Late chickens
cannot stand the heavy dews, or withstand the predaceous hawks. In
April all nature starts with you. You have not come out of your
hibernaculum too early or too late; the time is ripe, and, if you
do not keep pace with the rest, why, the fault is not in the
season.

V SPRING POEMS

There is no month oftener on the tongues of the poets than April.
It is the initiative month; it opens the door of the seasons; the
interest and expectations of the untried, the untasted, lurk in it,
"From you have I been absent in the spring,"

says Shakespeare in one of his sonnets,--

"When proud-pied April, dressed in all his trim, Hath put a spirit
of youth in everything, That heavy Saturn laughed and leaped with
him."

The following poem, from Tennyson's "In Memoriam," might be headed "April,"
and serve as descriptive of parts of our season:--
"Now fades the last long streak of snow, Now bourgeons every maze
of quick About the flowering squares, and thick By ashen roots the
violets blow.

"Now rings the woodland loud and long, The distance takes a lovelier
hue, And drowned in yonder living blue The lark becomes a sightless
song.

"Now dance the lights on lawn and lea, The flocks are whiter down the
vale, And milkier every milky sail On winding stream or distant sea;

"Where now the sea-mew pipes, or dives In yonder greening gleam, and
fly The happy birds, that change their sky To build and brood; that live
their lives
"From land to land; and in my breast Spring wakens too; and my
regret Becomes an April violet, And buds and blossoms like the
rest."

In the same poem the poet asks:--
"Can trouble live with April days?"

Yet they are not all jubilant chords that this season awakens.

Occasionally there is an undertone of vague longing and sadness,
akin to that which one experiences in autumn.

Hope for a moment assumes the attitude of memory and stands with
reverted look.

The haze, that in spring as well as in fall sometimes descends and
envelops all things, has in it in some way the sentiment of music,
of melody, and awakens pensive thoughts.

Elizabeth Akers, in her "April," has recognized and fully expressed
this feeling.

I give the first and last stanzas:--

"The strange, sweet days are here again, The happy-mournful days; The
songs which trembled on our lips Are half complaint, half praise.

"Swing, robin, on the budded sprays, And sing your blithest tune;-- Help
us across these homesick days Into the joy of June!"
This poet has also given a touch of spring in her "March," which,
however, should be written "April" in the New England climate:--

"The brown buds thicken on the trees, Unbound, the free streams
sing, As March leads forth across the leas The wild and windy
spring.

"Where in the fields the melted snow Leaves hollows warm and wet,
Ere many days will sweetly blow The first blue violet."

But on the whole the poets have not been eminently successful in
depicting spring.

The humid season, with its tender, melting blue sky, its fresh,
earthy smells, its new furrow, its few simple signs and awakenings
here and there, and its strange feeling of unrest,-- how difficult
to put its charms into words!

None of the so-called pastoral poets have succeeded in doing it. That
is the best part of spring which escapes a direct and matter-of-fact
description of her.

There is more of spring in a line or two of Chaucer and Spenser
than in the elaborate portraits of her by Thomson or Pope, because
the former had spring in their hearts, and the latter only in their
inkhorns.

Nearly all Shakespeare's songs are spring songs,--full of the banter,
the frolic, and the love-making of the early season.

What an unloosed current, too, of joy and fresh new life and appetite
in Burns!

In spring everything has such a margin! there are such spaces of silence!
The influences are at work underground.

Our delight is in a few things.

The drying road is enough; a single wild flower, the note of the
first bird, the partridge drumming in the April woods, the restless
herds, the sheep steering for the uplands, the cow lowing in the
highway or hiding her calf in the bushes, the first fires, the smoke
going up through the shining atmosphere, from the burning of rubbish
in gardens and old fields,--each of these simple things fills the
breast with yearning and delight, for they are tokens of the spring.

The best spring poems have this singleness and sparseness.

Listen to Solomon: "For lo, the winter is past, the rain is over
and gone; the flowers appear on the earth; the time of the singing of
birds is come, and the voice of the turtle is heard in the land."

In Wordsworth are some things that breathe the air of spring. These
lines, written in early spring, afford a good specimen:--
"I heard a thousand blended notes, While in a grove I sate reclined, In
that sweet mood when pleasant thoughts Bring sad thoughts to the
mind."
"To her fair works did Nature link The human soul that through me
ran; And much it grieved my heart to think What man has made of man.

"Through primrose tufts, in that green bower, The periwinkle
trailed its wreaths; And 't is my faith that every flower Enjoys
the air it breathes.

"The birds around me hopped and played, Their thoughts I cannot
measure:
But the least motion which they made It seemed a thrill of pleasure."

Or these from another poem, written in his usual study, "Out-of-
Doors," and addressed to his sister:--
"It is the first mild day of March, Each minute sweeter than before;
The redbreast sings from the tall larch That stands beside the door.

"There is a blessing in the air, Which seems a sense of joy to yield To
the bare trees, and mountains bare, And grass in the green field.
. . . . . . . . .

"Love, now a universal birth, From heart to heart is stealing, From
earth to man, from man to earth; It is the hour of feeling.

"One moment now may give us more Than years of toiling reason:
Our minds shall drink at every pore The spirit of the season."

It is the simplicity of such lines, like the naked branches of the trees
or the unclothed fields, and the spring-like depth of feeling and
suggestion they hold, that make them so appropriate to this season.

At this season I often find myself repeating these lines of his
also:--
"My heart leaps up, when I behold A rainbow in the sky; So was it,
when my life began; So is it, now I am a man; So be it, when I shall
grow old, Or let me die!"

Though there are so few good poems especially commemorative of the
spring, there have no doubt been spring poets,--poets with such
newness and fullness of life, and such quickening power, that the
world is re-created, as it were, beneath their touch.

Of course this is in a measure so with all real poets. But the
difference I would indicate may exist between poets of the same or
nearly the same magnitude.

Thus, in this light Tennyson is an autumnal poet, mellow and
dead-ripe, and was so from the first; while Wordsworth has much
more of the spring in him, is nearer the bone of things and to
primitive conditions.

Among the old poems, one which seems to me to have much of the charm of
springtime upon it is the story of Cupid and Psyche in Apuleius. The
songs, gambols, and wooings of the early birds are not more welcome
and suggestive. How graceful and airy, and yet what a tender, profound,
human significance it contains!

But the great vernal poem, doubly so in that it is the expression of the
springtime of the race, the boyhood of man as well, is the Iliad
of Homer.

What faith, what simple wonder, what unconscious strength, what beautiful
savagery, what magnanimous enmity,--a very paradise of war!

Though so young a people, there is not much of the feeling of spring
in any of our books. The muse of our poets is wise rather than joyous.
There is no excess or extravagance or unruliness in her. There are
spring sounds and tokens in Emerson's "May-Day:"--
"April cold with dropping rain Willows and lilacs brings again, The
whistle of returning birds, And trumpet-lowing of the herds.
The scarlet maple-keys betray What potent blood hath modest May, What
fiery force the earth renews, The wealth of forms, the flush of
hues; What joy in rosy waves outpoured Flows from the heart of Love,
the Lord."

But this is not spring in the blood. Among the works of our young and
rising poets, I am not certain but that Mr.

Gilder's "New Day" is entitled to rank as a spring poem in the sense
in which I am speaking.

It is full of gayety and daring, and full of the reckless abandon of
the male bird when he is winning his mate.

It is full also of the tantalizing suggestiveness, the half-lights
and shades, of April and May.

Of prose poets who have the charm of the springtime upon them, the
best recent example I know of is Bjornson, the Norwegian romancist.

What especially makes his books spring-like is their freshness and sweet
good faith.

There is also a reticence and an unwrought suggestiveness about them that
is like the promise of buds and early flowers.
"We'll be delighted to wait," asserted Miss Westlake eagerly, herself
looking apprehensively down the driveway; "won't we, boys?"

"Sure; what is it?" returned Princeman.

"Josephine says that if we'll wait five minutes longer she'll go with
us."

"We'll wait an hour if need be," declared Princeman gallantly.

"It won't need be," said Miss Stevens lightly, and hurrying into the
office she ordered the clerk to send for her saddle-horse.

For ten interminable minutes Miss Westlake never took her eyes from the
road, at the end of which time Miss Stevens returned, hatted and
habited and booted and whipped.

The Hollis Creek young lady was rather grim as she rode down the
graveled approach beside Miss Westlake, and both the girls cast furtive
glances behind them as they turned away from the Meadow Brook road.
When they were safely out of sight around the next bend, Miss Westlake
laughed.

"Mr. Turner is such a funny person," said she.  "He's liable at any
moment to forget all about everything and everybody if somebody
mentions business to him.  If he ever takes time to get married he'll
make it a luncheon hour appointment."

Even Miss Josephine laughed.

"And even then," she added, by way of elaboration, "the bride is likely
to be left waiting at the church."  There was a certain snap and
crackle to whatever Miss Stevens said just now, however, which
indicated a perturbed and even an angry state of mind.

Ten minutes later, Sam Turner, hatless, and carrying a buggy whip and
wearing a torn coat, trudged up the Hollis Creek Inn drive, afoot, and
walked rapidly into the office.

"Is Miss Stevens about?" he wanted to know.

"Not at present," the clerk informed him.  "She ordered out her horse a
few minutes ago, and started over to Sunset Rock with a party of young
people from Meadow Brook."

"Which way is Sunset Rock?"

The clerk handed him a folder which contained a map of the roadways
thereabouts, and pointed out the way.

"Could you get me a saddle-horse right away?"

The clerk pounded a bell and ordered up a saddle-horse for Mr. Turner,
who immediately thereupon turned to the telephone, and, calling up
Meadow Brook, instructed the clerk at that resort to send a carriage
for Mr. Westlake, who was sitting in the trap, entirely unharmed but
disinclined to walk, at the foot of Laurel Hill; then he explained that
the grays had run away down this steep declivity, that the yoke bar had
slipped, the tongue had fallen to the ground, had broken, and had run
back up through the body of the carriage.  The horses had jerked the
doubletree loose, and the last he had seen of their marks they had
turned up the Bald Hill road and were probably going yet.  By the time
he had repeated and amplified this explanation enough to beat it all
through the head of the man at the other end of the wire, his horse was
ready for him, and very much to the wonderment of the clerk he started
off at a rattling gait, without taking the trouble either to have
himself dusted or to pin up his badly torn pocket.

He only lost his way once among the devious turns which led to Sunset
Rock, and arrived there just as the party, quite satisfied with the
inspection of a view they had seen a score of times before, were ready
to depart, his appearance upon the scene with the telltale pocket being
greatly to the discomfiture of everybody concerned except Miss Stevens,
who found herself unaccountably pleased that Sam's delay had been due
to an accident, and able to believe his briefly told explanation at
once.  Miss Westlake was in despair.  She had really hoped, and
believed, that Sam had forgotten his engagement in business talk, and
she had felt quite triumphant about it.  Tilloughby, satisfied to be
with Miss Westlake, and Princeman, more than content to ride by the
side of Miss Stevens, were neither of them overjoyed at the appearance
of the fifth rider, who made fully as much a crowd as any "third party"
has ever done; and he disarranged matters considerably, for, though at
first lagging behind alone, a narrow place in the road shifted the
party so that when they emerged upon the other side of it Miss Westlake
was riding by the side of Sam, and Tilloughby was left to ride alone in
the center.  Thereupon Miss Westlake's horse developed a sudden
inclination to go very slowly.

"Papa says I'm becoming a very keen business woman," she remarked, by
and by.

"Well, you've the proper blood in you for it," said Sam.

"That doesn't seem to count," she laughed; "look at Billy.  But I think
I did a remarkably clever stroke this morning.  I induced papa to say
he'd double his stock in your company and give it to me.  He tells me
I've enough to 'swing' control.  Isn't that jolly?"

"It's hilariously jolly," admitted Sam, but with an inward wince.
Control and Westlake were two words which did not make, for him, a
cheerful juxtaposition.

"So now you'll have to be very nice indeed to me," went on Miss
Westlake banteringly, "or I'm likely to vote with the other crowd."

"I'll be just as nice to you as I know how," offered Sam.  "Just state
what you want me to do and I'll do it."

Miss Westlake did not state what she wanted him to do.  In place of
that she whipped up her horse rather smartly, after a thoughtful
silence, and joined Tilloughby, the three of them riding abreast.  The
next shifting, around a deep mud hole which only left room for an
Indian file procession, brought Sam alongside Miss Josephine, and here
he stuck for the balance of the ride, leaving Princeman to ride part of
the time alone between the two couples, and part of the time to be the
third rider with each couple in alternation.  Miss Josephine was very
much concerned about Mr. Turner's accident, very happy to know how
lucky he had been to come off without a scratch, except for the tear in
his coat, and very solicitous indeed about any further handling of the
obstreperous gray team; and, forgiving him readily under the
circumstances, she renewed her engagement to drive with him the next
morning!

Sam rode on home at the side of Miss Westlake, after leaving Miss
Stevens at Hollis Creek, in a strange and nebulous state of elation,
which continued until bedtime.  As he was about to retire he was handed
a wire from his brother:

"Just received patent papers meet me at Restview morning train."


CHAPTER XIII

A PLEASURE RIDE WITH MISS STEVENS

The morning train was due at ten o'clock.  At ten o'clock also Sam was
due at Hollis Creek to take his long deferred drive with Miss Stevens.
It was a slight conflict, her engagement, but the solution to that was
very easy.  As early in the morning as he dared, Sam called up Miss
Josephine.

"I've some glorious news," he said hopefully.  "My kid brother will
arrive at Restview on the ten o'clock train."

"You are to be congratulated," Miss Stevens told him, with an echo of
his own delight.

"But you know we've an engagement to go driving at ten o'clock," he
reminded her, still hopefully, but trembling in spirit.

There was an instant of hesitation, which ended in a laugh.

"Don't let that interfere," she said.  "We can defer our drive until
some other time, when fate is not so determined against it."

"But that doesn't suit me at all," he assured her.  "Why can't you be
ready at nine in place of ten, let me call for you at that time and
drive over to Restview with me to meet Jack?"

"Is that his name?" she asked in blissfully reassuring tones.  "You've
never spoken of him as anybody but your 'kid brother.'  Why of course
I'll drive over to Restview with you.  I shall be delighted to meet
him."

Privately she had her own fears of what Jack Turner might turn out to
be like.  Sam was always so good in speaking of him, always held him in
such tender regard, such profound admiration, that she feared he might
prove to be perfect only in Sam's eyes.

"Good," said Sam.  "Just for that I'm going to bring you over some
choice blooms that I have been having the gardener save back for me,"
and he turned away from the telephone quite happy in the thought that
for once he had been able to kill two birds with one stone without
ruffling the feathers of either.

Armed with a huge consignment of brilliant blossoms, enough to
transform her room into a fairy bower, he sped quite happily to Hollis
Creek.

"Oh, gladiolas!" cried Miss Josephine, as he drove up.  "How did you
ever guess it!  That little bird must have been busy again."

"Honestly, it was the little bird this time.  I just had an intuition
that you must like them because I do so well," upon which naïve
statement Miss Josephine merely smiled, and calling her father with
pretty peremptoriness, she loaded that heavy gentleman down with the
flowers and with instructions concerning them, and then stepped
brightly into the tonneau with Sam.

It was a pleasant ride they had to Restview, and it was a pleasant
surprise which greeted Miss Josephine when the train arrived, for out
of it stepped a youth who was unmistakably a Turner.  He was as tall as
Sam, but slighter, and as clean a looking boy as one would find in a
day's journey.  There was that, too, in the hand-clasp between the
brothers which proclaimed at once their flawless relationship.

Miss Stevens was so relieved to find the younger Turner so presentable
that she took him into her friendship at once.  He was that kind of
chap anyhow, and in the very first greeting she almost found herself
calling him Jack.  Just behind him, however, was a little, dried-up man
with a complexion the color of old parchment, with sandy, stubby hair
shot with gray, and a stubby gray beard shot with red.  His lips were a
wide straight line, as grim as judgment day.  He walked with a slight
stoop, but with a quick staccato step which betokened great nervous
energy, a quality which the alert expression of his beady eyes
confirmed with distinct emphasis.

"Hello, Creamer!" hailed Sam to this gentleman.  "I didn't expect to
see you here quite so soon."

"You had every right to expect me," snapped the little man querulously.
"After all the experimenting I have done for you boys, you had every
reason to keep me posted on all your movements; and yet I reckon if I
hadn't been in your office yesterday evening when Jack said he was
coming down here, you would not have notified me until you had your
company all formed.  Then I suppose you'd have written to tell me how
much stock you had assigned to me.  I'm going to be in on the formation
of this company, and I'm going to have my say about it!"

"Will you never get over that dyspepsia?" chided Sam easily.  "There
was no intention of leaving you out."

"Just what I told him," declared Jack, turning from Miss Stevens to
them.  "I have been swearing to him that as soon as we had found out
to-day what we were to do I would have wired him at once."

"You were quite right, Jack," approved Sam, opening the door of the car
for them, "and as a proof of it, Creamer, when you return to your
office you will find there a letter postmarked yesterday, telling you
our exact progress here, and warning you to be in readiness to come on
telegram."

"All right, then," said Mr. Creamer, somewhat mollified, "but since
that letter's there and I'm here, you might as well tell me what you've
done."

Sam stopped the proceedings long enough to introduce Creamer to Miss
Stevens after he had closed the door upon them and had taken his own
seat by the chauffeur.

"All right," he then said to Mr. Creamer, "I'll begin at the beginning."

He began at the beginning.  He told Mr. Creamer all the steps in the
development of the company.  He detailed to him the names of the
gentlemen concerned, and their complete commercial histories, pausing
to answer many pertinent side questions and observations from his
younger brother, who proved to be as keen a student of business puzzles
as Sam himself.

"That's all very well," said Mr. Creamer, "and now I'm here.  I want to
get away to-night: Can't we form that company to-day?  At what figure
do you propose offering the original stock?"

"The preferred at fifty, with a par value of a hundred," returned Sam
promptly.

"Common?" asked Mr. Creamer crisply.

"One share of common with each two shares of preferred."

"Eh!  Well, I've twenty-five thousand dollars to put into this marsh
pulp business, if I can have any figure in the management.  I want on
the board."

"It's quite likely you'll be on the board," returned Sam.  "We shall
have a very small list of subscribers, and the board will not be
unwieldy if every investor is a director."

"Voting power in the common stock?"

"In the common stock," repeated Sam.

"Do you intend to buy any preferred?" asked Creamer.

"A hundred shares."

"How much common do you expect to take out for your patents?"

"Two hundred and fifty thousand," Sam answered without an instant's
hesitation.

"Never!" exclaimed Mr. Creamer.  "The time for that's gone by, young
man, no matter how good your proposition is.  It's too old a game.  You
won't handle my money with control in your hands.  I have no objection
to letting you have two hundred thousand dollars worth of common stock
out of the half million, because that will give you an incentive to
make the common worth par; but you shan't at any time have or be able
to acquire a share over two hundred and forty-nine thousand; not if I
know anything about it!  Can you call a meeting as soon as we get
there?"

"I think so," replied Sam, with a more or less worried air.  "I'll try
it.  Tell you what I'll do.  I'll run right on over to get Mr. Stevens,
who wants to join the company, and in the meantime Mr. Westlake or
Princeman can round up the others."

For the first time in that drive Miss Stevens had something to say, but
she said it with a briefness that was like a dash of cold water to the
preoccupied Sam.

"Father is over there now, I think," she said.

"Good," approved Mr. Creamer.  "We can have a little direct business
talk and wind up the whole affair before lunch.  What time do we arrive
at Meadow Brook?"

"Before eleven o'clock."

"That will give us two hours.  Two hours is enough to form any company,
when everybody knows exactly what he wants to do.  Got a lawyer over
there?"

"One of the best in the country."

Miss Stevens sat in the center seat of the tonneau.  Sam, in addressing
his remarks to the others and in listening to their replies, was
compelled to sweep his glance squarely across her, and occasionally in
these sweeps he paused to let his gaze rest upon her.  She was a relief
to his eyes, a blessing to them!  Miss Stevens, however, seldom met any
of these glances.  Very much preoccupied she was, looking at the
passing scenery and not seeing it.

There had begun boiling and seething in Miss Stevens a feeling that she
was decidedly _de trop_, that these men could talk their absorbing
business more freely if she were not there; not because she embarrassed
them, but because she used up space!  Nobody seemed to give her a
thought.  Nobody seemed to be aware that she was present.  They were
almost gaspingly engrossed in something far more important to them than
she was.  It was uncomplimentary, to say the least.  She was not used
to playing "second fiddle" in any company.  She was in the habit of
absorbing the most of the attention in her immediate vicinity.  Mr.
Princeman or Mr. Hollis would neither one ignore her in that way, to
say nothing of Billy Westlake.

She was glad when they reached Meadow Brook.  Their whole talk had been
of marsh pulp, and company organization, and preferred and common
stock, and who was to get it, and how much they were to pay for it, and
how they were going to cut the throats of the wood pulp manufacturers,
and how much profit they were going to make from the consumers and with
all that, not a word for her.  Not a single word!  Not even an apology!
Oh, it was atrocious!  As soon as they drew up to the porch she rose,
and before Sam could jump down to open the door of the tonneau she had
opened it for herself and sprung out.

"I'll hunt up father right away for you," she stated courteously.
"Glad to have met you, Mr. Creamer.  I presume I shall meet you again,
Mr. Turner," she said to Jack.  "Thank you so much for the ride," she
said to Sam, and then she was gone.

Sam looked after her blankly.  It couldn't be possible that she was
"huffy" about this business talk.  Why, couldn't the girl see that this
had to do with the birth of a great big company, a million dollar
corporation, and that it was of vital importance to him?  It meant the
apex of a lifetime of endeavor.  It meant the upbuilding of a fortune.
Couldn't she see that he and his brother were two lone youngsters
against all these shrewd business men, whose only terms of aiding them
and floating this big company was to take their mastery of it away from
them?  Couldn't she understand what control of a million dollar
organization meant?  He was not angry with Miss Stevens for her
apparent attitude in this matter, but he was hurt.  He was not
impatient with her, but he was impatient of the fact that she could not
appreciate.  Now the fat was in the fire again.  He felt that.  Essex.
This, I presume, is the lady whose maiden name he enquires for.

C. R. M.

_Shakepeare's Use of Captious_ (Vol. ii., p. 354.).--In _All's Well that
Ends Well_, Act I. Sc. 3.:

"I know I love in vain; strive against hope; Yet in this _captious_
and intenible sieve, I still pour in the waters of my love, And
lack not to lose still:" 
has not MR.

SINGER, and all the other commentators upon this passage, overlooked a
most apparent and satisfactory solution?

Is it not evident that the printer simply omitted the vowel "a," and
that the word, as written by Shakespeare, was "cap_a_tious," the
"t," according to the orthography of the time, being put for the
"c" used by modern writers?

With great deference to former critics, I think this emendation is
the most probable, as it accords with the sentiment of Helena, who
means to depict her _vast_ but unretentive sieve, into which she
poured the waters of her love.

W. F. S.

P.S.--I hope MR. SINGER and J. S.

W. will tell us what they think of this proposed alteration.

Bognor, Feb, 22. 1851.

_Tanthony_ (Vol. iii., p. 105.).--I would suggest that the "tanthony"
at Kimbolton is a corruption or mis-pronunciation of "tintany,"
_tintinnabulum_. I have failed to discover any legend of St. Anthony,
confirmatory of ARUN'S suggestion.

A.

Newark, Notts., Feb. 12.

_By the bye_ (Vol. iii., p 73.).

--Is your correspondent S.

S. not aware that the phrase "Good bye" is a contraction of our ancestors'
more devotional one of "God be wi' ye!"
D. P. W.

Rotherhithe, Jan. 21. 1851.

_Lama Beads_ (Vol. iii., p. 115.).--It is a pretty bold assertion that
Lama beads are derived from the Lamas of Asia. _Lamma_, according
to Jamieson, is simply the Scotch for _amber_. He says _Lamertyn steen_
means the same in Teutonic.

I do not find it in Wachter's _Lexicon_.

Your correspondent's note is a curious instance of the inconvenience
of half quotation.

He says the Lamas are an order of priests among the Western Tartars.

I was surprised at this, since their chief strength, as everybody
knows, is in Thibet.

On referring to Rees's _Cyclopædia_, I found that the words are taken
from thence; but they are not wrong there, since, by the context
they have reference to China.

C. B.

_Language given to Men, &c._ (Vol. i., p. 83.).--The saying that
language was given to men to conceal their thoughts is generally
fathered upon Talleyrand at present. I did not know it was in
Goldsmith; but the real author of it was Fontenelle.

C. B.
_Daresbury, the White Chapel of England_ (Vol. iii., p. 60.).--This
_jeu-d'esprit_ was an after-dinner joke of a learned civilian, not
less celebrated for his wit than his book-lore. Some stupid blockhead
inserted it in the newspapers, and it is now unfortunately chronicled
in your valuable work.You think I'm a good business man,
don't you?"

"I certainly do," agreed Mr. Stevens emphatically.

"Well, it stands to reason that if I have two hundred and sixty
thousand dollars of common stock that isn't worth a picayune unless I
make it worth par, I'll hustle; and if I make my common stock worth
par, I'm making a fine, fat profit for these other fellows, to say
nothing of the raising of their preferred stock from the value of fifty
to a hundred dollars a share, and their common from nothing to a
hundred."

"That's all right, Sam," returned Mr. Stevens; "but you'll work just as
hard to make your common worth par if you only have two hundred
thousand; and there's a growing tendency on the part of capital to be
able to keep a string on its own money.  Strange, but true."

"All right," said Sam wearily.  "We won't argue that point any more
just now; but will you invest fifty thousand?"

"I can't promise," said Stevens, and he walked out on the porch.  Much
worried, Sam followed him, and with many misgivings he introduced Mr.
Stevens to his brother Jack and to Mr. Creamer.  The prospective
organizers of the Marsh Pulp Company were already in solemn conclave on
the porch, with the single exception of Princeman, who was on the lawn
talking most perfunctorily with Miss Josephine.  That young lady, with
wickedness of the deepest sort in her soul, was doing her best to
entice Mr. Princeman into forgetting the important meeting, but as soon
as Princeman saw the gathering hosts he gently but firmly tore himself
away, very much to her surprise and indignation.  Why, he had been as
rude to her as Sam Turner himself, in placing the charms of business
above her own!  Immediately afterward she snubbed Billy Westlake
unmercifully.  Had he the qualities which would go to make a successful
man in any walk of life?  No!


CHAPTER XIV

A DUAL QUESTION OF MATRIMONIAL ELIGIBILITY AND STOCK SUBSCRIPTION

Mr. Westlake dropped back with his old friend Stevens as they trailed
into the parlor which Blackstone had secured.

"Are you going to subscribe rather heavily in the company, Stevens?"
inquired Westlake, with the curiosity of a man who likes to have his
own opinion corroborated by another man of good judgment.

"Well," replied the father of Miss Josephine, "I think of taking a
rather solid little block of stock.  I believe I can spare twenty-five
thousand dollars to invest in almost any company Sam Turner wants to
start."

"He's a fine boy," agreed Westlake.  "A square, straight young fellow,
a good business man, and a hustler.  I see him playing tennis with my
girl every day, and she seems to think a lot of him."

"He's bound to make his mark," Mr. Stevens acquiesced, sharply
suppressing a fool impulse to speak of his own daughter.  "Do you
fellows intend to let him secure control of this company?"

"I should say not!" replied Westlake, with such unnecessary emphasis
that Stevens looked at him with sudden suspicion.  He knew enough about
old Westlake to "copper" his especially emphatic statements.

"Are you agreeable to Princeman's plan to pool all stock but Turner's?"

"Well--we can talk about that later."

"Huh!" grunted Mr. Stevens, and together the two heavy-weights, Stevens
with his aggressive beard suddenly pointed a trifle more straight out,
and Mr. Westlake with his placidity even more marked than usual,
stalked on into the parlor, where Mr. Blackstone, taking the chair _pro
tem_., read them the preliminary agreement he had drawn up; upon which
Sam Turner immediately started to wrangle, a proceeding which proved
altogether in vain.

The best he could get for patents and promotion was two thousand out of
the five thousand shares of common stock, and finally he gave in,
knowing that he could not secure the right kind of men on better terms.
Mr. Blackstone thereupon offered a subscription list, to which every
man present solemnly appended his name opposite the number of shares he
would take.  Sam, at the last moment, put down his own name for a block
of stock which meant a cash investment of considerably more than he had
originally figured upon.  He cast up the list hurriedly.  Five hundred
shares of preferred, carrying half that much common, were still to be
subscribed.  With whom could he combine to obtain control?  The only
men who had subscribed enough for that purpose were Princeman, who was
out of the question, and, in fact, would be the leader of the
opposition, and Westlake.  The highest of the others were Creamer,
Cuthbert and Stevens.  Sam would have to subscribe for the entire five
hundred in order to make these men available to him.

McComas and Blackstone had only subscribed for the same amount as Sam.
They could do him no good, and he knew it was hopeless to attempt to
get two men to join with him.  He looked over at Westlake.  That
gentleman was smiling like a placid cherub, all innocence without, and
kindliness and good deeds; but there was nevertheless something fishy
about Westlake's eyes, and Sam, in memory, cast over a list of maimed
and wounded and crushed who had come in Westlake's business way.  The
logical candidate was Stevens.  Stevens simply had to take enough stock
to overbalance this thing, then he simply must vote his stock with
Sam's!  That was all there was to it!  Sam did not pause to worry about
how he was to gain over Stevens' consent, but he had an intuitive
feeling that this was his only chance.

"Stevens," said he briskly, "there are five hundred shares left.  I'll
take half of it if you'll take the other half."

His brother Jack looked at him startled.  Their total holdings, in that
case, would mean an investment of more money than they could spare from
their other operations.  It would cramp them tremendously, but Jack
ventured no objections.  He had seen Sam at the helm in decisive places
too often to interfere with him, either by word or look.  As a matter
of fact such a proceeding was not safe anyhow.

"I don't mind--" began Westlake, slowly fixing a beaming eye upon Sam,
and crossing his hands ponderously upon his periphery; but before he
could announce his benevolent intention, Mr. Stevens, with what might
almost have been considered a malevolent glance toward Mr. Westlake,
spoke up.

"I'll accept your proposition," he said with a jerk of his beard as his
jaws snapped.  So Miss Westlake thought a great deal of Sam, eh?  And
old Westlake knew it, eh?  And he had already subscribed enough stock
to throw Sam control, eh?

"Thanks," said Sam, and shot Mr. Stevens a look of gratitude as he
altered the subscription figures.

"Stop just a moment, Sam," put in Mr. Westlake.  "How many shares of
common stock does that give you in combination with your bonus?"

"Two thousand two hundred and sixty," said Sam.

"Oh!" said Mr. Westlake musingly; "not enough for control by two
hundred and forty one shares; so you won't mind, since you haven't
enough for control anyhow, if I take up that additional two hundred and
fifty shares of preferred, with its one hundred and twenty-five of
common, myself."

Sam once more paused and glanced over the subscription list.  As it
stood now, aside from Princeman, there were two members, Westlake and
Stevens, with whom, if he could get either one of them to do so, he
could pool his common stock.  If he allowed Westlake to take up this
additional two hundred and fifty shares, Westlake was the only string
to his bow.

"No, thanks," said Sam.  "I prefer to keep them myself.  It seems to me
to be a very fair and equitable division just as it is."

In the end it stood just that way.


CHAPTER XV

THE HERO OF THE HOUR

On that very same afternoon, the youth and beauty, also the age and
wisdom, of both Hollis Creek and Meadow Brook, gathered around the ball
field of the former resort, to watch the Titanic struggle for victory
between the two picked nines.  As Sam took his place behind the bat for
the first man up, who was Hollis, he felt his first touch of
self-confidence anent the strictly amusement features of summer
resorting.  In all the other athletic pursuits he had been backward,
but here, as he smacked his fist in his glove, he felt at home.

The only thing he did not like about it, as Princeman wound himself up
to deliver the first ball, was that Princeman had the position of
glory.  On that gentleman the spotlight burned brightly all the time,
and if they won, he would be the hero of the hour; the modest, reliable
catcher would scarcely be thought of except by the men who knew the
finer points of the game, and it was not the men whom he had in mind.
Honestly and sincerely, he desired to shine before Miss Josephine
Stevens.  She was over there at the edge of the field under an oak tree.

Before her, cavorting for her amusement, were not only Princeman and
himself, but Billy Westlake and Hollis, each of them alert for action
at this moment; for now Princeman, with a mighty twirl upon his great
toe, released the ball.  It never reached Sam Turner's hands; instead
it bounced off the bat with a "crack!" and sailed right down through
Billy Westlake, who, at second, made a frantic grab for it, and then it
spun out between center and right field, losing itself in the bushes,
while Hollis, amid the frantic cheers of the audience, which consisted
of Miss Josephine Stevens and several unconsidered other spectators,
tore around the circuit.  His colleagues strove wildly to hold Hollis
at third, for the ball was found and was sailing over to that base.  It
arrived there just as he did, but far over the head of the third
baseman, and fat, curly-haired Hollis, who looked like an ice wagon but
ran like a motorcycle, secured the first run for Hollis Creek.

The next batter was up.  Princeman, his confidence loftily unshaken,
gave a correct imitation of a pretzel and delivered the ball.  The
batsman swung viciously at it.

Spat!  It landed in Sam's glove.

"Strike one!" called the strident voice of Blackrock, who, jerking
himself back several years into youth again, was umpiring the game with
great joy.  Nonchalantly Sam snapped the ball back over-hand.
Princeman smiled with calm superiority.  He wound himself up.

Spat!  The ball had cut the plate and was in Sam's hands, while the
batsman stood looking earnestly at the path over which it had come.

"Strike two!" called Blackstone.

Sam jerked the ball back with an underwrist toss of great perfection.
Princeman drew himself up with smiling ease and posed a moment for the
edification of the on-lookers.  Sam Turner was the very first to detect
the unbearable arrogance of that pose.  Don't court, therefore, if
you would philosophize wisely, too intimate an acquaintance
with your brute brother, the baboon--a creature, whose nature
speculative naturalists have most cunningly set forth by the theory,
that it is a parody which the devil, in a fit of ill humour, made
upon God's noblest work, man; and don't hope, on the other hand,
as many great saints and sages have done, by prayer and fasting,
or by study and meditation, to work yourself up to a god, and jump
bodily out of your human skin.

Assume as the first postulate, and lay it down as the last proposition
of your "philosophy of life," that a man is neither a brute, nor a god
nor an angel, but simply and sheerly a MAN. Furthermore, as man
is not only a very comprehensive and complex, but also, (to appearance
at least,) in many points, a very contrary and contradictory creature,
see that you take the _whole_ man along with you into your metaphysical
chamber; for if there be one paper that has a bearing in the case amissing
out of your green bag, (which has happened only too often,) the
evidence will be imperfect, and the sentence false or partial--shake
your wig as you please.

Remember, that though you may be a very subtle logician, the soul of man
is not all made up of logic; remember that reason, (_Vernunft_,)
the purest that Kant ever criticized withal, is not the proper vital
soul in man; is not the creative and productive faculty in intellect
at all, but is merely the tool of that which, in philosophers no
less than in poets, is the proper inventive power, IMAGINATION, as
Wordsworth phrases it: Schlegel's word is _fantasie_.

Remember that in more cases than academic dignities may be willing
to admit, the heart (where a man has one) is the only safe guide,
the only legitimate ruler of the head; and that a mere metaphysician,
and solitary speculator, however properly trimmed,
"One to whose smooth-rubb'd soul can cling Nor form nor feeling,
great nor small; A reasoning, self-sufficing thing, An intellectual
all-in-all,"
may write very famous books, profound even to unintelligibility,
but can never be a philosopher.

Therefore reject Hegel, "that merely thinking, on a barren heath
speculating, self-sufficient, self-satisfied little EGO;"[E] and
consider Kant as weighed in the balance and found wanting on his
own showing: for if that critical portal of pure reason had indeed
been sufficient, as it gave itself out to be, for all the purposes
of a human philosophy, what need was there of the "practical
back-door" which, at the categorical command of conscience, was
afterwards laid open to all men in the "Metaphysic of Ethics?"

As little will you allow your philosophical need to be satisfied with
any thing you can get from SCHELLING; for however well it sounds
to "throw yourself from the transcendental emptiness of ideal reason
into the warm embrace of living and luxuriant nature," here also
you will find yourself haunted by the intellectual phantom of
absolute identity, (say absolute inanity,) or in its best phasis a
"pantheizing deification of nature."

Strange enough as it may seem, the true philosophy is to be found
any where rather than among philosophers.

Each philosopher builds up a reasoned system of a part of existence;
but life is based upon God-given instincts and emotions, with which
reason has nothing to do; and nature contains many things which it
is not given to mortal brain to comprehend, much less to systematize.

True philosophy is not to be found in any intellectual system, much
less in any of the Aristotelian quality, where the emotional element
in man is excluded or subordinated; but in a living experience.

To know philosophy, therefore, first know life.

To learn to philosophize, learn to live; and live not partially, but with
the full outspread vitality of human reason.

You go to college, and, as if you were made altogether of head, expect
some Peter Abelard forthwith, by academic disputation, to _reason_
you into manhood; but neither manhood nor any vital WHOLE ever was
learned by reasoning.

Pray, therefore, to the Author of all good, in the first place,
that you may _be_ something rather than that you may _know_ something.

Get yourself planted in God's garden, and learn to GROW. Woo the sun
of life, which is love, and the breeze which is enthusiasm, an impulse
from that same creative Spirit, which, brooding upon the primeval waters,
out of void brought fulness, and out of chaos a world.

[Footnote E: This is Menzel's phrase, not Schlegel's. "Hegel's _centrum
war ein blos denkendes, auf öder Heide spekulirendes, kleines,
suffisantes, selbstgenügsames Ichlein_." The untranslatable beauty
of the German is in the diminutive with which the sentence closes. It
is difficult to say whether Menzel or Schlegel shows the greater hostility
to the poor Berlin philosopher.]
Such, shortly, so far as we can gather, is the main scope, popularly
stated, of Frederick Schlegel's philosophy, as it is delivered in
his two first lectures on the philosophy of life, the first being
titled, "Of the thinking soul, or the central point of consciousness;"
and the second, "Of the loving soul, or the central point of moral
life."

The healthy-toned reader, who has been exercised in speculations
of this kind, will feel at once that there is much that is noble in
all this, and much that is true; but not a little also, when examined
in detail, of that sublime-sounding sweep of despotic generality,
(so inherent a vice of German literature,) which delights to confound
the differences, rather than to discriminate the characters, of things;
much that seems only too justly to warrant that oracular sentence
of the stern Fichte with which we set out, "_The younger brother
wants clearness_;" much that, when applied to practice, and
consistently followed out in that grand style of consistency which
belongs to a real German philosopher, becomes what we in English
call Puseyism and Popery, and what Goethe in German called a "_chewing
the cud of moral and religious absurdities_."

But we have neither space nor inclination, in this place, to make an
analysis of the Schlegelian philosophy, or to set forth how much of
it is true and how much of it is false. Our intention was merely to
sketch a rapid outline, in as popular phrase as philosophy would allow
itself to be clothed in; to finish which outline without extraneous
remark, with the reader's permission, we now proceed.

If man be not, according to Aristotle's phrase, a [Greek: zôon logikon]
in his highest faculty, a _ratiocinative_, but rather an emotional
and imaginative animal; and if to start from, as to end, in mere reason,
be in human psychology a gross one-sidedness, much more in theology
is such a procedure erroneous, and altogether perverse.

If not the smallest poem of a small poet ever came to him from mere
reason, but from something deeper and more vital, much less are the
strong pulsations of pure emotion, the deep-seated convictions of
religious faith in the inner man, to be spoke of as things that
mere reason can either assert or deny; and in fact we see, when we
look narrowly into the great philosophical systems that have been
projected by scheming reasoners in France and Germany, each man out
of his own brain, that they all end either in materialism and atheism
on the one hand, or in idealism and pantheism on the other.

All our philosophers have stopped short of that one living, personal,
moral God, on whose existence alone humanity can confidently
repose--who alone can give to the trembling arch of human speculation
that keystone which it demands.

The idea of God, in fact, is not a thing that individual reason has
first to strike out, so to speak, by the collision or combination of
ideas, the collocation of proofs, and the concatenation of arguments.
It is a living growth rather of our whole nature, a primary instinct
of all moral beings, a necessary postulate of healthy humanity,
which is given and received as our life and our breath is, and admits
not of being reasoned into any soul that has it not already from other
sources. And as no philosopher of Greek or German times that history
tells of, ever succeeded yet in inventing a satisfactory theology, or
establishing a religion in which men could find solace to their souls,
therefore it is clear that that satisfactory Christian theology and
Christian religion which we have, and not only that, but all the
glimpses of great theological truth that are found twinkling
through the darkness of a widespread superstition, came originally
from God by common revelation, and not from man by private reasoning.
The knowledge of God and a living theology is, in fact, a simple science
of experience like any other, only of a peculiar quality and higher
in degree.

All true human knowledge in moral matters rests on experience,
internal or external, higher or lower, on tradition, on language
as the bearer of tradition, on revelation; while that false,
monstrous, and unconditioned science to which the pride of human
reason has always aspired, which would grasp at every thing at once
by one despotic clutch, and by a violent bound of logic bestride
and beride the ALL, is, and remains, an oscillating abortion that
always would be something, and always can be nothing.

A living, personal, moral God, the faith of nations, the watch-word
of tradition, the cry of nature, the demand of mind, received not
invented, existing in the soul not reasoned into it--this is the
gravitating point of the moral world, the only intelligible centre
of any world; from which whatsoever is centrifugal errs, and to
which whatsoever is opposed is the devil.

Not private speculation, therefore, or famous philosophies of any kind,
but the living spiritual man, and the totality of the living flow of
sacred tradition on which he is borne, and with which he is
encompassed, are the two grand sources of "the philosophy of life." Let
us follow these principles, now, into a few of their wide-spread streams
and multiform historical branchings. First, the Bible clearly indicates
what the profoundest study of the earliest and most venerable literatures
confirms, that man was not created at first in a brutish state, crawling
with a slow and painful progress out of the dull slime of a half
organic state into apehood, and from apehood painfully into
manhood; but he was created perfect in the image of God, and has
fallen from his primeval glory. This is to be understood not only of the
state of man before the Fall as recorded in the two first chapters of
Genesis; but every thing in the Bible, and the early traditions of
famous peoples, warrants us to believe, that the first ages of men
before the Flood, were spiritually enlightened from one great common
source of extraordinary aboriginal revelation; so that the
earliest ages of the world were not the most infantine and
ignorant to a comprehensive survey, as modern conceit so fondly
imagines, but the most gigantic and the most enlightened.

That beautiful but material and debasing heathenism, with which our
Greek and Latin education has made us so familiar, is only a defaced
fragment of the venerable whole which preceded it, that old and true
heathenism of the holy aboriginal fathers of our race. "There were
GIANTS on the earth in those days." We read this; but who believes it?
We ought seriously to consider what it means, and adopt it _bona fide_
into our living faith of man, and man's history. Like the landscape of
some Alpine country, where the primeval granite Titans, protruding
their huge shoulders every where above us and around, make us feel
how petty and how weak a thing is man; so ought our imagination to
picture the inhabitants of the world before the Flood.
Nobility precedes baseness always, and truth is more ancient than
error.
Antediluvian man--antediluvian nature, is to be imaged as nobler in
every respect, more sublime and more pure than postdiluvian man, and
postdiluvian nature.

But mighty energies, when abused, produce mighty corruptions; hence
the gigantic scale of the sins into which the antediluvian men fell;
and the terrible precipitation of humanity which followed.

This is a point of primary importance, in every attempt to understand
how to estimate the value of that world-famous Greek philosophy,
which is commonly represented as the crown and the glory of the
ancient world.

All that Pythagoras and Plato ever wrote of noble and elevating
truths, are merely flashes of that primeval light, in the full
flood of which, man, in his more perfect antediluvian state, delighted
to dwell; and it is remarkable in the case of Pythagoras, Anaxagoras,
Thales, and so many other of the Greek philosophers, that the further
we trace them back, we come nearer to the divine truth, which, in
the systems of Epicurus, Aristippus, Zeno, or the shallow or cold
philosophers of later origin, altogether disappears.

Pythagoras and Plato were indeed divinely gifted with a scientific
presentiment of the great truths of Christianity soon to be revealed,
or say rather restored to the world; while Aristotle, on the other
hand, is to be regarded as the father of those unhappy academical
schismatics from the Great Church of living humanity, who allowed
the ministrant faculty of reason to assume an unlawful supremacy
over the higher powers of intellect, and gave birth to that voracious
despotism of barren dialectics, in the middle ages commonly called
the scholastic philosophy.

The Greek philosophy, however, even its noblest Avatar, Plato, much
less in the case of a Zeno or an Aristotle, was never able to achieve
that which must be the practically proposed end of all higher
philosophy that is in earnest; viz. the coming out of the narrow
sphere of the school and the palaestra, uniting itself with actual
life, and embodying itself completely in the shape of that which
we call a CHURCH.

This Platonism could not do.

Christianity did it. Revelation did it. God Incarnate did it. Now
once again came humanity forth, fresh from the bosom of the divine
creativeness, conquering and to conquer.

There was no Aristotle and Plato--no Abelard and Bernard here--reason
carping at imagination, and imagination despising reason.

But once, if but once in four thousand years, man appeared in all
the might of his living completeness. Love walked hand in hand with
knowledge, and both were identified in life. The spirit of divine
peace brooded in the inner sanctuary of the heart, while the outer
man was mailed for the sternest warfare.

Such was pure Christianity, so long as it lasted--for the celestial plant
was condemned to grow in a terrestrial atmosphere; and there, alas!

it could only grow with a stunted likeness of itself.

It was more than stunted also--it was tainted; for are not all things
tainted here?

Do we not live in a tainted atmosphere? do we not live in a time out
of joint? Does not the whole creation literally groan? Too manifestly
it does, however natural philosophers may affect to speak of the book
of nature, as if it were the clear and uncorrupted text of the living
book of God. Not only man, but the whole environment of external
nature, which belongs to him, has been deranged by the Fall. In such a
world as this, wherein whoso will not believe a devil cannot believe
a God, it was impossible for Christianity to remain in that state
of blissful vital harmony with itself with which it set out. It became
divided. Extravagant developments of ambitious, monopolizing
faculties became manifest on every side.

Self-sufficing Pelagianisn and Arianism, here; self-confounding Gnosticism
and Manichaeism there.

Then came those two great strifes and divisions of the middle
ages--the one, that old dualism of the inner man, the ever-repeated
strife between reason and imagination, to which we have so often
alluded--the other, a no less serious strife of the outward machinery
of life, the strife between the spiritual and the temporal powers,
between the Pope and the Emperor.

This was bad enough; that the two vicars of God on earth should not know
to keep the peace among themselves, when the keeping of the peace
among others was the very end and aim of the appointment.

But worse times were coming.

For in the middle ages, notwithstanding the rank evils of barren
scholasticism, secular-minded popes, and intrusive emperors, there
was still a church, a common Christian religion, a common faith of
all Christians; but now, since that anarchical and rebellious
movement, commonly called the Reformation, but more fitly termed
the revolution, the overturning and overthrowing of the religion
of Christendom, we have no more a mere internal strife and division
to vex us, but there is an entire separation and divorce of one
part of the Christian church (so called) from the main mother
institution.

The abode of peace has become the camp of war and the arena of
battles; that dogmatical theology of the Christian church, which,
if it be not the infallible pure mathematics of the moral world,
has been deceiving men for 1800 years, and is a liar--that theology
is now publicly discussed and denied, scorned and scouted by men
who do not blush to call themselves Christians; there is no universal
peace any longer to be found in that region where it is the instinct
of humanity, before all things, to seek repose; the only religious
peace which the present age recognises, is that of which the Indian
talks, when he says of certain epochs of the world's history, _Brahma
sleeps_!

Those who sleep and are indifferent in spiritual matters find peace;
but those who are alive and awake must beat the wind, and battle,
belike, with much useless loss of strength, before they can arrive
even at that first postulate of all healthy thinking--there is a God.

"_Ueber Gott werd ich nie streiten_," said Herder. "About God I will never
dispute." Yet look at German rationalism, look at Protestant
theology--what do you see there?

Reason usurping the mastery in each individual, without control
of the higher faculties of the soul, and of those institutions in life
by which those faculties are represented; and as one man's reason
is as good as another's, thence arises war of each self-asserted
despotism against that which happens to be next it, and of all
against all--a spiritual anarchy, which threatens the entire
dissolution of the moral world, and from which there is no refuge
but in recurring to the old traditionary faith of a revolted humanity,
no redemption but in the venerable repository of those traditions--the
one and indivisible holy Catholic church of Christ, of whom, as the
inner and eternal keystone is God, so the outer and temporal is the
Pope.

Such is a general outline of the philosophy of Frederick Schlegel--a
philosophy belonging to the class theological and supernatural,
to the genus Christian, to the species sacerdotal and Popish.

Now, without stopping here to blame its sublime generalities and
beautiful confusions, on the one hand, or to praise its elevated
tendency, its catholic and reconciling tone on the other, we shall
merely call attention, in a single sentence, physiologically, to
its main and distinguishing character.

It was, in fact, (in spirit and tendency, though not in outward
accomplishment,) to German literature twenty years ago what Puseyism
is now to the English church--it was a bold and grand attempt to
get rid of those vexing doubts and disputes on the most important
subjects that will ever disquiet minds of a certain constitution,
so long as they have nothing to lean on but their own judgment; and
as Protestantism, when consistently carried out, summarily throws
a man back on his individual opinion, and subjects the vastest and
most momentous questions to the scrutiny of reason and the torture
of doubt, therefore Schlegel in literary Germany, and Pusey in
ecclesiastical England, were equally forced, if they would not lose
Christianity altogether, to renounce Protestantism, and to base
their philosophy upon sacerdotal authority and ecclesiastical
tradition.

That Schlegel became a Romanist at Cologne, and Dr Pusey an
Anglo-Catholic at Oxford, does not affect the kinship.

Both, to escape from the anarchy of Protestant individualism, (as it was
felt by them,) were obliged to assert not merely Christianity, but a
hierarchy--not merely the Bible, but an authoritative interpretation
of the Bible; and both found, or seemed to find, that authoritative
interpretation and exorcism of doubt there, where alone in their
circumstances, and intellectually constituted as they were, it was
to be found.

Dr Pusey did not become a Papist like Frederick Schlegel, for two plain
reasons--first, because he was an Englishman, second, because he was
an English churchman.

The authority which he sought for lay at his door; why should he travel
to Rome for it? Archbishop Laud had taught apostolical succession
before--Dr Pusey might teach it again.

But this convenient prop of Popery without the Pope was not
prepared for Frederick Schlegel.
We will consider this subject as ended, Mr. Turner; as
one never to be referred to again."

"We'll do nothing of the sort," returned Sam flat-footedly.  "I've been
composing this speech for the last two weeks and I'm going to deliver
it.  I'm not going to have it wasted.  I've unconsciously been
rehearsing it every place I went.  Even up in Flatbush, showing a man
the superior advantages of that yellow-mud district, I found myself
repeating sentence number twelve.  It's been the first thing I thought
of in the morning and the last thing I thought of at night.  It's been
with me all day, riding and walking and talking and eating and drinking
and just breathing.  Now I'm going to go through with it.

"I--I--confound it all!  I've forgotten how I was going to say it now!
After all, though, it only amounted to this: I love you!  I want you to
know it and understand it.  I love you and love you and love you!  I
never loved any woman before in my life.  I never had time.  I didn't
know what it was like.  If I had I'd have fought it off until I met
you, because I could not afford it for anybody short of you.  It takes
my whole attention.  It distracts my mind entirely from other things.
I can't think of anything else consecutively and connectedly.  I--I'm
sorry you take the attitude you do about this thing, but--I'm not going
to accept your viewpoint.  You've got to look at this thing differently
to understand it.

"I know you've been glad I loved you.  You were glad the first day we
met, and you always will be glad!  Whatever you have to say about it
just now don't count.  I'm going to let you alone a while to think it
over, and then I'm coming back to tell you more about it," and with
that Sam stalked from the room, leaving Miss Josephine Stevens gasping,
dazed, quite sure that he was unforgivable, indignant with everything,
still rankling, in spite of all Sam had said, with the thought that she
had been made a mere part of a commercial transaction.  Why, it was
like those barbarous countries she had read about, where wives are
bought and sold!  Preposterous and unbearable!

While she was in this storm of mixed emotions her father came in upon
her, this time seriously perplexed.

"What has happened to Sam Turner?" he demanded.  "He slammed out of the
house, passed me on the porch with only a grunt, and jumped into his
automobile.  You must have done something to anger him."

"I hope that I did!" she retorted with spirit.  "I refused to marry
him."

"You did!" he returned in surprise.  "Why, I thought it was all cut and
dried between you."

"It was until you blundered into us and spoiled everything," she
charged.  "But I'm glad you did.  You let me know that Sam Turner
wanted to marry me because you had bought shares enough in his company
to give him the advantage.  I'm ashamed of you and ashamed of Sam--of
Mr. Turner--and ashamed of myself.  Why, you make a bargain-counter
remnant of me!  I never, _never_ was so humiliated!"

"Poor child!" her father blandly sympathized.  "Also, poor Sam.  By the
way, though, he doesn't need you to secure control of his company.  Dan
Westlake, as I told you, has bought enough stock to do the work, and
Miss Westlake would marry him in a minute.  If Sam wants control of his
company, he only has to go to her and say the word."

"Father!" exclaimed his daughter with stern indignation.  "I don't see
how you can even suggest that!"

"Suggest what?  Now, what have I said?"

"That Sam--that Mr. Turner would even dream of marrying that Westlake
girl, just in order to get the better of a business transaction," and
very much to Theophilus Stevens' surprise and consternation and dismay,
she suddenly crumpled up in a heap in her chair and burst out crying.

"Well, I'll be busted!" her father muttered into his beard.


CHAPTER XVII

SHE CALLS HIM SAM!

Miss Josephine, finding all ordinary occupations stale, unprofitable
and wearisome on the following morning, and finding herself, moreover,
possessed of a restless spirit which urged her to do something or other
and yet recoiled at each suggestion she made it, started out quite
aimlessly to walk by herself.  She walked in the direction of Meadow
Brook.  The paths in that direction were so much prettier.

Sam Turner, finding all other occupations stale, unprofitable and
wearisome, at the same moment started out to walk by himself, going in
the direction of Hollis Creek because that was the exact direction in
which he wanted to go.  As he walked much more rapidly than Miss
Stevens, he arrived midway of the distance before she did, but at the
valley where the unnamed stream came rippling down he paused.

He had looked often at this little hollow as he had passed it, and
every time he had looked upon it he seemed to have an idea of some sort
in the back of his head regarding it; a dim, unformed, fugitive sort of
idea which had never asserted itself very prominently because he had
been too busy to listen to its rather timid voice.

Just now, however, the idea suddenly struggled to make itself loudly
known, whereupon Sam bade it come forth.  Given hearing it proved to be
a very pleasant idea, and a forceful one as well; so much so that it
even checked the speed with which Sam had set out for Hollis Creek.  He
looked calculatingly across the road to where the little stream went
flashing from under its wooden bridge across the field and hid around a
curve behind some bushes, then reappeared, dancing in the sunlight,
until finally it plunged among some far trees and was lost to him.  He
gazed up the stream.  He had not very far to look, for there it ran
down between two quite steep hills, through a sort of pocket valley,
closed or almost closed, at the upper end, by another hill equally
steep, its waters being augmented by a leaping little stream from a
strong spring hidden away somewhere in the hill to the left.

As his eyes calculatingly swept stream and hills, they suddenly caught
a flutter of white through the trees, and it was coming down the
winding path which led across the hills to Hollis Creek.  As it emerged
more from the concealment of the leaves his blood gave a leap, for the
flutter of white was a gown inclosing the unmistakable figure of Miss
Josephine Stevens.  The whole valley suddenly seemed radiant.

"Hello!" he called to her as she approached.  "I didn't expect to find
you here."

"I did not expect to be here," she laughed.  "I just started out for a
stroll and happened to land in this beautiful spot."

"Beautiful is no name for it," he replied with sudden vast enthusiasm,
and ran up the path to help her down over a steep place.

For a moment, in the wonderful mystery of the touch of her hand and the
joy of her presence, he forgot everything else.  What was this strange
phenomenon, by which the mere presence of one particular person filled
all the air with a tingling glow?  Marvelous, that's what it was!  If
Miss Josephine had any of the same wonder she was extremely careful not
to express it, nor let it show, especially after yesterday's
conversation, so she immediately talked of other things; and the first
thing which came handy was another reference to the beautiful valley.

"You know, it is a wonder to me," she said, "that no one has built a
summer resort here.  I think it ever so much more charming than either
Hollis Creek or Meadow Brook."

"Do you believe in telepathy?" asked Sam, almost startled.  "I do.  It
hasn't been but a few minutes since that identical idea popped into my
head, and I had just now decided that if I could secure options on this
property I would have a real summer resort here--one that would make
Hollis Creek and Meadow Brook mere farm boarding-houses.  Do you see
how close together these hills draw at their feet?  The hollow is at
least a thousand feet across at the widest part, but down there at the
road, where the stream emerges to the fields, they close in with
natural buttresses, as it were, to not over a hundred feet in width.
Well, right across there we'll build a dam, and there is enough water
here to make a beautiful lake up as high as that yellow rock."

Miss Josephine looked up at the yellow rock and clasped her hands with
an exclamation of delight.

"Glorious!" she said.  "I never would have thought of that; and how
beautiful it will be!  Why, if the lake comes up that high it will go
clear back around that turn in the valley, won't it?"

"Easily," he replied; "although that might make us trouble, for I don't
know where that turn in the valley leads.  I have never explored that
region.  Suppose we go up and look it over."

"Won't that be fun?" she agreed, and they started to follow the stream.

As they reached the rear of the "pocket," where they could see around
the curve, they turned and looked back over the route they had just
traversed.

"My idea," Sam explained, having waited until they reached this
viewpoint to do so, "is to build the dam down there at the roadside,
and build the hotel right over it so that arriving guests will, after
an elevator has brought them up to the height of the main floor, find
the blue of the lake suddenly bursting upon them from the main piazza,
which will face the valley.  All of the inside rooms will, of course,
have hanging balconies looking out over the water."

"Perfectly ideal!" she agreed, her enthusiasm growing.

"I think I'd better investigate the curve of the valley," he decided,
studying the path carefully.  "It seems rather rough for you, and I'll
go alone.  All I want to see is how far the water height will carry
around there, and if it will become necessary to build a dam at the
other end."

"Oh, it isn't too rough for me," she declared immediately.  "I am an
excellent climber," and together they started to explore the now
narrowing valley, following the stream over steep rocks and fallen
trees, and pushing through tangled undergrowth and among briers and
bushes and around slippery banks until they came to another tortuous
turn, where a second spring, welling up from under a flat, overhanging
rock, tumbled down to augment the supply for the future lake; and here
they stopped and had a drink of the cool, delicious water, Sam making
the girl a cup from a huge leaf which she said made the water taste
fuzzy, and then showing her how to get down on her hands and
knees--spreading his coat on the ground to protect her gown--and drink
_au naturel_, a trick at which she was most charming, and probably knew
it.

The valley here had grown most narrow, but they followed the now very
small stream around one sharp curve after another until they found its
source, which was still another spring, and here there was no more
valley; but a cleft in the hill to the right, which they suddenly came
upon, gave them an exquisite view out over the beautiful low-lying
country, miles in extent, which lay between this and the next range of
hills; a delightful vista dotted with green farms and white farm-houses
and smiling streams and waving trees and grazing cattle.  They stopped
in awe at the beauty of it and looked out over the valley in silence;
and unconsciously the girl slipped her hand within the arm of the man!

"Just imagine a sunset out over there," he said.  "You see those fleecy
clouds that are out there now.  If clouds like those are still there
when the sun goes down, they will be a fleet of pearl-gray vessels,
with carmine keels, upon a sea of gold."

She glanced at him quickly, but she did not express her marvel that
this man had so many sides.  Before she could comment, and while she
was still framing some way to express her appreciation of his gentler
gifts, he returned briskly to practical things.

"Our lake will scarcely come up to this point," he judged.  "I don't
think that at any point it will be high enough to cover the springs.
We don't want it to if we can help it, for that would destroy some of
the beauty of it.  Have you noticed that our lake will be much like a
kite in shape, with this winding ravine the tail of it.  We'll have to
take in a lot of acreage to cover this property, but it will be worth
it.  I'm going to look after options right away.  I'm glad now I had
already decided to stay another two weeks."

Of course she was still angry with Sam, she reminded herself, but she
was inexpressibly glad, somehow or other, to find that he was intending
to stay two weeks longer, and was startled as she recognized that fact.

"It will take a lot of money, won't it, to build a hotel here?" she
asked, getting away from certain troublesome thoughts as quickly as she
could.

"Yes, it will take a great deal," he admitted, as they turned to
scramble down the ravine again.  "I should judge, however, that about
two hundred and fifty thousand dollars would finance it."

"But I thought, from something father once said, that you did not have
so much money as that?"

"Bless you, no!" replied Sam, smiling.  "No indeed!  I've enough to
cover an option on this property and that's about all, now, since I'm
tangled up so deeply with my Pulp Company, but I figure that I can make
a quick turn on this property to help me out on the other thing.  What
I'll do," he explained, "is to get this option first of all, and then
have some plans drawn, including a nice perspective view of the
hotel--a water-color sketch, you know, showing the building fronting
the lake--and upon that build a prospectus to get up the stock company.
I'll take stock for my control of the land and for my services in
promotion.  Then I'll sell my stock and get out.  I ought to make the
turn in two or three months and come out fifteen, or possibly twenty or
twenty-five thousand dollars to the good.  It is a nice, big scheme."

"Oh," she said blankly, "then you wouldn't actually build a hotel
yourself?"

"Hardly," he returned.  "I'll be content to make the profit out of
promoting it that I'd make in the first four or five years of running
the place."

"I see," she said musingly; "and you'd get this up just like you formed
your Marsh Pulp Company, I think father called it, and of course you'd
try to get--what is it?--oh, yes; control."

He smiled at her.

"I'd scarcely look for that in this deal," he explained.  "If I can
just get a nice slice of promotion stock and sell it I shall be quite
well satisfied."

She bent puzzled brows over this new problem.

"I don't quite understand how you can do it," she confessed, "but of
course you know how.  You're used to these things.  Father says you're
very good at promoting."

"That's the way I've made all my money, or rather what little I have,"
he told her, modestly enough.  "I expect this Pulp Company, however, to
lift me out of that, for a few years at least; then when I come back
into the promoting field I can go after things on a big scale.  The
Pulp Company ought to make me a lot of money if I can just keep it in
my own hands," and involuntarily he sighed.

She looked at him musingly for a moment, and was about to say
something, but thought better of it and said something else.

"The tail of your kite will be almost a perfect letter 'S'," she
observed.  "How beautiful it will be; the big, broad lake out there in
the main valley, and then the nice, little, secluded, twisty waterway
back in through here; a regular lover's lane of a waterway, as it were.
I don't suppose these springs have any names.  They must be named,
and--why, we haven't even named the lake!"

"Yes, we have," he quickly returned.  "I'm going to call it Lake
Josephine."

"You haven't asked my permission for that," she objected with mock
severity.

"There are plenty of Josephines in the world," he calmly observed.
"Nobody has a copyright on the name, you know."

She smiled, as one sure of her ground.

"Yes, but you wouldn't call it that, if I were to object seriously."

"No, I guess I wouldn't," he gave up; "but you're not going to object
seriously, are you?"

"I'll think it over," she said.

They were now making their way along a bank that was too difficult of
travel to allow much conversation, though it did allow some delicious
helping, but when they came out into the main valley where they could
again look down on the road, they paused to survey the course over
which they had just come, and to appreciate to the full the beauty of
Sam's plan.

"I don't believe I quite like your idea of the hotel built down there
at the roadside," she objected as they sat on a huge boulder to rest.
"It cuts off the view of the lake from passers-by, and I should think
it would be the best advertisement you could have for everybody who
drove past there to say: 'Oh, what a pretty place!'  Now I should think
that right about here where we are sitting would be the proper location
for your hotel.  Just think how the lake and the building would look
from the road.  Right here would be a broad porch jutting out over the
water, giving a view down that first bend of the kite tail, and back of
the hotel would be this big hill and all the trees, and hills and trees
would spread out each side of it, sort of open armed, as it were,
welcoming people in."

"It couldn't be seen, though," objected Sam.  "The dam down there would
necessarily be about thirty feet high at the center, and people driving
along the roadway would not be able to see the water at all.  They
would only see the blank wall of the dam.  Of course we could soften
that by building the dam back a few feet from the roadway, making an
embankment and covering that with turf, or possibly shrubbery or
flowers, but still the water would not be visible, nor the hotel!"

"I see," she said slowly.

They both studied that objection in silence for quite a little while.
Then she suddenly and excitedly ejaculated:

"_Sam_!"

He jumped, and he thrilled all through.  She had called him Sam
entirely unconsciously, which showed that she had been thinking of him
by that familiar name.  With the exclamation had come sparkling eyes
and heightened color, not due to having used the word, but due to a
bright thought, and he almost lost his sense of logic in considering
the delightful combination.  It occurred to him, however, that it would
be very unwise for him to call attention to her slip of the tongue, or
even to give her time to think and recognize it herself.

"Another idea?" he asked.

"Indeed yes," she asserted, "and this time I know it's feasible.  I
don't know much about measurements in feet and inches, but there are
three feet in a yard."

"Yes."

"Well, doesn't the road down there, from hill to hill, dip about ten
yards?"

"Yes."

"Well then, that's thirty feet, just as high as you say the dam will
have to be.  Why not raise the road itself thirty feet, letting it be
level and just as high as your dam?"

Sam rose and solemnly shook hands with her.

"You must come into the firm," he declared.  "That solves the entire
problem.  We'll run a culvert underneath there to the fields.  The road
will reinforce the dam and the edge of the dam will be entirely
concealed.  It will be merely a retaining wall with a nice stone
coping, which will be repeated on the field side.  There will be no
objection from the county commissioners, because we shall improve the
road by taking two steep hills out of it.  Your plan is much better
than mine.  I can see myself, for instance, driving along that road on
my way to Hollis Creek from Restview, looking over that beautiful
little lake to the hotel beyond, and saying to myself: 'Well, next
summer I won't stop at Hollis Creek.  I'll stop at Lake Jo.'"

"I thought it was to be Lake Josephine," she interposed.

"I thought so too," he agreed, "but Lake Jo just slipped out.  It seems
so much better.  Lake Jo!  That would look fine on a prospectus."

"You'd print the cover of it in blue and gold, I suppose, wouldn't you?"

"There would need to be a splash of brown-red in it," he reminded her,
considering color schemes for a moment.  "The roof of the hotel would,
of course, be red tile.  We'd build it fireproof.  There is plenty of
gray stone around here, and we'd build it of native rock."

"And then," she went on, in the full swing of their idea, "think of the
beautiful walks and climbs you could have among these hills; and the
driveway!  Your approach to the hotel would come around the dam and up
that hill, would wind up through those trees and rocks, and right here
at the bend of the ravine it would cross the thick part of the kite
tail to the hotel on a quaint rustic bridge; and as people arrived and
departed you'd hear the clatter of the horses' hoofs."

"Great!" he exclaimed, catching her enthusiasm and with it augmenting
his own, "and guests leaving would first wave good-by at the
porte-cochère just about where we are sitting.  They'd clatter across
the bridge, with their friends on the porch still fluttering
handkerchiefs after them; they'd disappear into the trees over yonder
and around through that cleft in the rocks.  And see; on the other side
of the cleft there is a little tableland which juts out, and the road
would wind over that, where carriages would once more be seen from the
hotel porch.  Then they'd twist in through the trees again down the
winding driveway, and once more, for the very last glimpse, come into
view as they went across our new road in front of the lake; and there
the last flutter of handkerchiefs would be seen.  You know it's silly
to stand and wave your friends out of sight for a long distance when
they're always in view, but if the view is interrupted two or three
times it relieves the monotony."


CHAPTER XVIII

SAM TURNER ACQUIRES A BUSINESS PARTNER

They followed the stream down to the road, at every step gaging with
the eye the height of the lake and judging the altered scenic view from
the level of the water.  There would be room for dozens and dozens of
boats upon that surface without interference.  Sam calculated that from
the upper spring there would be headway enough to run a small fountain
in the center, surrounded by a pond-lily bed which would be kept in
place by a stone curbing.  In the hill to the right there was a deep
indenture.  Back in there would go the bathing pavilions.  They even
went up to look at it, and were delighted to find a natural, shallow
bowl.  By cementing the floor of that bowl they could have a splendid
swimming-pool for timid bathers, where they could not go beyond their
depth; and it was entirely surrounded by a thick screen of shrubbery.
Oh, it was delightful; it was perfect!  At the road they looked back up
over the valley again.  It was no longer a valley.  It was a lake.
They could see the water there.  Sam drew from his pocket a pencil and
an envelope.

"The hotel will have to be long and tall," he observed, "for there will
not be much room on that ledge, from front to back.  The building will
stretch out quite a ways.  Three or four hundred feet long it will be,
and about five stories in height," and taking a letter from the
envelope, he sat down upon a fallen log and began rapidly to sketch.

He drew the hotel with wide-spreading Spanish roofs and balconies, and
a wide porch with rippling water in front of it, and rowboats and
people in them; and behind the hotel rose the broken sky-line of the
hills and the trees, with an indication of fleecy clouds above.  It was
just a light sketch, a sort of shorthand picture, as it were, and yet
it seemed full of sunlight and of atmosphere.

"I hadn't any idea you could draw like that," she exclaimed in
admiration.

"I do a little of everything, I think, but nothing perfectly," he
admitted with some regret.

Discarding them for ever, and speaking and acting on all occasions,
of trifling or of serious moment, with the most jealous regard to
truth and honesty, I relied upon securing for myself what my
predecessors had failed to leave me--the respect of my fellow-men,
and a good and honourable name.

It seems a noble resolution.
I repent it to this hour.

It is true that I rose rapidly in the estimation of my master, and that
I was regarded even with deference, as I grew up, by boys of my own
age, and of better standing; but it is no less true, that, from
the moment my determination was made, I became morbidly anxious
for the good opinion of men, painfully alive to ridicule, and as
fearful of the breath of slander or reproach as though it came
loaded with the plagues of Egypt.

With such an idiosyncrasy, what becomes of happiness on earth? But I tire
you, sir."
"Go on, I beg of you," I answered, deeply interested in the narrative,
and no less surprised at the language and manner of the speaker, both
of which convinced me that he was a man of genius and of
education. The whole thing was a mystery, and I was impatient for the
solution and the end. "Do not fatigue yourself," I continued. "For
my own part I listen with the greatest interest."
"I remember, sir," proceeded Mr Warton, "as if it were yesterday, my first
return home. It was for the midsummer holidays, and gay enough were my
spirits then. All was sunshine and hope. I had not seen my parents
for two years.

It seemed as if twenty had passed over my father's head since our
leave-taking. His hair had become blanched, and a settled frown
had grown upon his brow.

His forehead was full of lines and wrinkles; his lips were constantly
pressed together; anger was the predominant expression of his face. The
openness of countenance which had so well become him, and which inspired
me even as a child with loving confidence, was chased away, and
disappointment and vexation had seated themselves in its place.

He relaxed for a moment when he saw me, and pressed me, even then,
passionately to his arms; but the clouds soon gathered again, and
asserted their right of possession.

I, boylike and apprehensive, concluded that his affairs were in a
disordered state.

I had but one thought at the time. I prayed that misfortune, and not
_dishonesty_, might appear to the world as the occasion of his difficulties.
My mother looked younger than ever. She was dressed with much care,
and there was a bloom upon her cheek that would have adorned a country
maiden.

"All right," he agreed.  "I wish they had telephones here in the woods.
We'll simply have to walk over to Meadow Brook and get an auto."

"Come on," she said energetically, and they started out on the road.
They had not gone far, however, when young Tilloughby, with Miss
Westlake, overtook them in a trap.  He reined up, and Miss Westlake
greeted the pedestrians with frigid courtesy.  Jack Turner had
accidentally dropped her a hint.  Now that she had begun to appreciate
Mr. Tilloughby--Bob--at his true value, she wondered what she had ever
seen in Sam Turner--and she never had liked Josephine Stevens!

"Gug-gug-gug-glorious day, isn't it?" observed Tilloughby, his face
glowing with joy.

"Fine," agreed Sam with enthusiasm.  "There never was a more glorious
day in all the world.  You've just come along in time to save our
lives, Tilloughby.  Which way are you bound?"

"Wuw-wuw-wuw-we had intended to go around Bald Hill."

"Well, postpone that for a few minutes, won't you, Tilloughby, like a
good fellow?  Trot back to Meadow Brook and send an auto out here for
us.  Get Henry, by all means, to drive it."

"Wuw-wuw-wuw-with pleasure," replied Tilloughby, wondering at this
strange whim, but restraining his curiosity like a thoroughbred.
"Huh-huh-huh-Henry shall be back here for you in a jiffy," and he drove
off in a cloud of dust.

Miss Stevens surveyed the retiring trap in satisfaction.

"Good," she exclaimed.  "I already feel as though we were doing
something to save Lake Jo."

They walked back quite contentedly to the valley and surveyed it anew,
there resting now on both of them a sense of almost prideful
possession.  They discovered a high point on which a rustic observatory
could be built; they planned paths and trails; they found where the
water-line came just under an overhanging rock which would make a cave
large enough for three or four boats to scurry under out of the rain.
They found delightful surprises all along the bank of the future lake,
and Miss Stevens declared that when the dam was built and the lake
began to fill, she never intended to leave it except for meals, until
it was up to the level at which they would permit the overflow to be
opened.

Henry, returning with the automobile, found them far up in the valley
discussing a floating band pavilion, but they came down quickly enough
when they saw him, and scrambled into the tonneau with the haste of
small children.  Henry watched them take their places with smiling
affection.  He had not only had good tips but pleasant words from Sam,
and Miss Stevens was her own incentive to good wishes and good will.

"Henry," said Sam, "we want to drive around to see the people who own
this land."

"Oh, shucks," said Henry, disappointed.  "I can't drive you there.  The
man that owns all this land lives in New York."

"In New York!" repeated Sam in dismay.  "What would anybody in New York
want with this?"

"The fellow that bought it got it about ten years ago," Henry informed
them.  "He was going to build a big country house, back up there in the
hills, I understand, and raise deer to shoot at, and things like that;
got an architect to make him plans for house and stables and all
costing hundreds of thousands of dollars; but before he could break
ground on it him and his wife had a spat and got a divorce.  He tried
to sell the land back again to the people he bought it from, but they
wouldn't take it at any price.  They were glad to be shut of it and
none of his rich friends wanted to buy it after that, because, they
said, there were so many of those cheap summer resorts around here."

"I see," said Sam musingly.  "You don't happen to know the man's name,
do you?"

"Dickson, I think it was.  Henry Dickson.  I remember his first name
because it was the same as mine."

"Great!" exclaimed Sam, overjoyed.  "Why, I know Henry Dickson like a
book.  I've engineered several deals for him.  He's a mighty good
friend of mine too.  That simplifies matters.  Drive us right over to
Hollis Creek."

"To Hollis Creek!" she objected.  "I should think you'd drive to Meadow
Brook instead and dress for the trip.  Aren't you going to catch that
afternoon train and go right up there?"

"By no means.  This is Saturday, and by the time I'd get to New York he
couldn't be found anywhere; and anyhow, I wouldn't have time to deliver
you at Hollis Creek and make this next train."

"Don't mind about me," she urged.  "I could go to the train with you
and Henry could take me back to Hollis Creek."

"That's fine of you," returned Sam gratefully; "but it isn't the
program at all.  I happen to know that Dickson stays in his office
until one o'clock on Saturdays.  I'll get him by long distance."

They were quite silent in calculation on the way to Hollis Creek, and
Miss Josephine found herself pushing forward to help make the machine
go faster.  Breathlessly she followed Sam into the house, and he
obligingly left the door of the telephone booth ajar, so that she could
hear his conversation with Dickson.

"Hello, Dickson," said Sam, when he got his connection.  "This is Sam
Turner. . . .  Oh yes, fine.  Never better in my life. . . .  Up here
in Hamster County, taking a little vacation.  Say, Dickson, I
understand you own a thousand acres down here.  Do you want to sell it?
. . .  How much?"  As he received the answer to that question he turned
to Miss Josephine and winked, while an expression of profound joy,
albeit materialized into a grin, overspread his features.  "I won't
dicker with you on that price," he said into the telephone.  "But will
you take my note for it at six per cent.?"

He laughed aloud at the next reply.

"No, I don't want it to run that long.  The interest in a hundred years
would amount to too much; but I'll make it five years. . . .  All
right, Dickson, instruct your lawyer chap to make out the papers and
I'll be up Monday to close with you."

He hung up the receiver and turned to meet her glistening eyes fixed
upon him in ecstasy.  "It's better than all right," he assured her.  He
was more enthusiastic about this than he had ever been about any
business deal in his life, that is, more openly enthusiastic, for Miss
Josephine's enthusiasm was contagion itself.  He took her arm with a
swing, and they hurried into the writing-room, which was deserted for
the time being on account of the mail having just come in.  Across the
fields in the early morning I hear some of the rare April birds,--the
chewink and the brown thrasher.

The robin, the bluebird, the song sparrow, the phoebe-bird, come
in March; but these two ground-birds are seldom heard till toward the
last of April. The ground-birds are all tree-singers or air-singers;
they must have an elevated stage to speak from. Our long-tailed
thrush, or thrasher, like its congeners the catbird and the mockingbird,
delights in a high branch of some solitary tree, whence it will pour
out its rich and intricate warble for an hour together. This bird
is the great American chipper. There is no other bird that I know of
that can chip with such emphasis and military decision as this
yellow-eyed songster.

It is like the click of a giant gunlock.
Why is the thrasher so stealthy?

It always seems to be going about on tiptoe.

I never knew it to steal anything, and yet it skulks and hides like
a fugitive from justice.

One never sees it flying aloft in the air and traversing the world
openly, like most birds, but it darts along fences and through bushes
as if pursued by a guilty conscience. Only when the musical fit is
upon it does it come up into full view, and invite the world to hear
and behold.

The chewink is a shy bird also, but not stealthy. It is very inquisitive,
and sets up a great scratching among the leaves, apparently to
attract your attention.

The male is perhaps the most conspicuously marked of all the ground-birds
except the bobolink, being black above, bay on the sides, and white
beneath. The bay is in compliment to the leaves he is forever
scratching among,--they have rustled against his breast and sides so
long that these parts have taken their color; but whence come the
white and the black?

The bird seems to be aware that his color betrays him, for there are few
birds in the woods so careful about keeping themselves screened from
view.

When in song, its favorite perch is the top of some high bush near to
cover. On being disturbed at such times, it pitches down into the brush
and is instantly lost to view.

This is the bird that Thomas Jefferson wrote to Wilson about, greatly
exciting the latter's curiosity.

Wilson was just then upon the threshold of his career as an
ornithologist, and had made a drawing of the Canada jay which he
sent to the President.

It was a new bird, and in reply Jefferson called his attention to
a "curious bird" which was everywhere to be heard, but scarcely
ever to be seen.

He had for twenty years interested the young sportsmen of his
neighborhood to shoot one for him, but without success.

"It is in all the forests, from spring to fall," he says in his letter,
"and never but on the tops of the tallest trees, from which it perpetually
serenades us with some of the sweetest notes, and as clear as those
of the nightingale.

I have followed it for miles, without ever but once getting a good
view of it. It is of the size and make of the mockingbird, lightly
thrush-colored on the back, and a grayish white on the breast and
belly. Mr. Randolph, my son- in-law, was in possession of one which
had been shot by a neighbor," etc. Randolph pronounced it a flycatcher,
which was a good way wide of the mark. Jefferson must have seen only
the female, after all his tramp, from his description of the color; but
he was doubtless following his own great thoughts more than the
bird, else he would have had an earlier view.

The bird was not a new one, but was well known then as the ground-robin.
The President put Wilson on the wrong scent by his erroneous description,
and it was a long time before the latter got at the truth of the case.
But Jefferson's letter is a good sample of those which specialists often
receive from intelligent persons who have seen or heard something in
their line very curious or entirely new, and who set the man of
science agog by a description of the supposed novelty,-- a description
that generally fits the facts of the case about as well as your
coat fits the chair-back.

Turner," she replied demurely.
"I came in late for lunch, and you had already finished and gone.  Then
we went right back out again.  Father, we have found the dearest, the
most delightful, the most charming business opportunity you ever saw.
You must go out with us to-morrow and look at it.  Sam's going to build
a lake and call it Lake Jo.  You know where that little stream is
between here and Meadow Brook?  Well, that's the place.  We found out
this morning what a delightful spot it would make for a lake and a big
summer resort hotel, and at noon Sam bought the property, and we have
been planning it all afternoon.  He's bought it outright and he's going
to capitalize it for a quarter of a million dollars.  How much stock
are you going to take in it?"

"How much what?"

"How many shares of stock are you going to take in it?  You must speak
up quickly, because it's going to be a favor to you for us to let you
in."

"Well, I don't know," said Mr. Stevens, resisting a sudden desire to
guffaw.  "I'd have to look it over first before I decide to invest.
Sounds like a sort of wild-eyed scheme to me.  Besides that, I already
have a good big block of stock in one of Sam Turner's enterprises."

"Oh, yes," she said, puckering her brows.  "Are you going to vote your
pulp stock with his?"

Mr. Stevens' eyes twinkled, but his tone was conservative gravity
itself.

"Well, since it's a purely business deal it would not be a very wise
thing to do; and though Sam Turner is a mighty fine boy, I don't think
I shall."

"But you will!" she vigorously protested.  "Why, father, you wouldn't
for a minute vote against your own son-in-law!"

"No, I wouldn't!" declared Mr. Stevens emphatically, and suddenly drew
her to him and kissed her; and she clung about his neck half laughing
and half crying.

Do you suppose there is anything in telepathy?  It would seem so, for
it was at this moment that Sam stepped up on the porch.  They in the
parlor heard his voice, and Mr. Stevens immediately slipped out the
back way in order not to be _de trop_ a second time.  Now Sam could not
possibly have known what had been said in the parlor, and yet when he
found his way in there, he and Miss Josephine, without any palaver
about it, without exchanging a solitary word, or scarcely even a look,
just naturally fell into each other's arms.  Neither one of them made
the first move.  I will do any thing for your happiness. I forbid you
to speak to me of your mother.'
"'But if you love me,' I answered quickly, 'you ought to love my
mother, too. Oh! do, dear father--do be kind and loving to her.'
"'Edgar,' exclaimed my parent passionately, 'you are very young now--you
will be older if you live, and then I can speak to you as a friend. You
cannot understand me now. She has broken your father's heart--she
has rendered me the most miserable of men."Sam," she said, and this time she used his first name quite
consciously and was glad it was dark so that he could not see her trace
of shyness, "I wish you would explain to me just what you mean by
control in a stock company."

Sam Turner moved his fingers from under her elbow and caught her hand,
which he firmly clasped before he began.

"Well, Jo, it's just this way," he said, and then, quite comfortably,
he explained to her all about it.




THE END