Now the only thing that can release us from the inextricable
confusion of an infinite multiplicity is the realization of an
underlying unity, and at the back of all things we find the
presence of one Great Affirmative principle without which nothing
could have existence. This, then, is the Root of Life; and if we
credit it with being able, not only to supply the power, but also
the form for its manifestation we shall see that we need not go
beyond this SINGLE Power for the production of anything. It is
Spirit producing Substance out of its own essence, and the
Substance taking Form in accordance with the movement of the
Spirit. What we have to realize is, not only that this is the way
in which the cosmos is brought into existence, but also that,
because the Spirit finds a new centre in ourselves, the same
process is repeated in our own mentality, and therefore we are
continually creating ex nihilo whether we know it or not.
--THE ARTIST_
_V.--The Artist. A Drama Without Words_

CHARACTERS:

A GREAT PIANIST A JANITOR SIX MUSICAL CRITICS A MARRIED WOMAN A
VIRGIN SIXTEEN HUNDRED AND FORTY-THREE OTHER WOMEN SIX OTHER MEN

PLACE--_A City of the United States._
TIME--_A December afternoon._
(_During the action of the play not a word is uttered aloud. All
of the speeches of the characters are supposed to be unspoken
meditations only._)
_A large, gloomy hall, with many rows of uncushioned, uncomfortable
seats, designed, it would seem, by some one misinformed as to the
average width of the normal human pelvis. A number of busts of
celebrated composers, once white, but now a dirty gray, stand in
niches along the walls.The fact,
therefore, of our own existence is a sufficient proof of the
singleness and goodness of the Originating Power, and from this
starting-point there is no second power to be taken into
consideration, and consequently we do not have to study the evil
that may arise out of existing or future circumstances, but
require to keep our minds fixed only upon the good which we
intend to create. There is a very simple reason for this. It is
that every new creation necessarily carries its own law with it
and by that law produces new conditions of its own. A balloon
affords a familiar illustration of my meaning. The balloon with
its freight weighs several hundredweight, yet the introduction of
a new factor, the gas, brings with it a law of its own which
entirely alters the conditions, and the force of gravity is so
completely overcome that the whole mass rises into the air. The
Law itself is never altered, but we have previously known it only
under limiting conditions. These conditions, however, are no part
of the Law itself; and a clearer realization of the Law shows us
that it contains in itself the power of transcending them. The
law which every new creation carries with it is therefore not a
contradiction of the old law but its specialization into a higher
mode of action.

Now the ultimate Law is that of production ex nihilo by the
movement of the Spirit within itself, and all subordinate laws
are merely the measurements of the relations which spontaneously
arise between different things when they are brought into
manifestation, arid therefore, if an entirely new thing is
created it must necessarily establish entirely new relations and
so produce entirely new laws. This is the reason why, if we take
the action of pure unmanifested Spirit as our starting-point, we
may confidently trust it to produce manifestations of law which,
though perfectly new from the stand-point of our past experience,
are quite as natural in their own way as any that have gone
before. It is on this account that in these addresses I lay so
much stress on the fact that Spirit creates ex nihilo, that is,
out of no pre-existing forms, but simply by its own movement
within itself. If, then, this idea is clearly grasped, it
logically follows from it that the Root of Life is not to be
found in the comparison of good and evil, but in the simple
affirmation of the Spirit as the All-creating power of Good. And
since, as we have already seen, this same all-creating Spirit
finds a centre and fresh starting-point of operation in our own
minds, we can trust it to follow the Law of its own being there
as much as in the creation of the cosmos.

Only we must not forget that it is working through our own minds.
It thinks through our mind, and our mind must be made a suitable
channel for this mode of its operation by conforming itself to
the broad generic lines of the Spirit's thinking. The reason for
this is one which I have sought to impress throughout these
lectures, namely, that the specialization of a law is never the
denial of it, but on the contrary the fuller recognition of its
basic principles; and if this is the case in ordinary physical
science it must be equally so when we come to specialize the
great Law of Life itself. The Spirit can never change its
essential nature as the essence of Life, Love, and Beauty; and if
we adopt these characteristics, which constitute the Law of the
Spirit, as the basis of our own thinking, and reject all that is
contrary to them, then we afford the broad generic conditions for
the specialized thinking of the Spirit through our own minds: and
the thinking of the Spirit is that INVOLUTION, or passing of
spirit into form, which is the whole being of the creative
process.

The mind which is all the time being thus formed is our own. It
is not a case of control by an external individuality, but the
fuller expression of the Universal through an organized mentality
which has all along been a less perfect expression of the
Universal; and therefore the process is one of growth. We are not
losing our individuality, but are coming into fuller possession
of ourselves by the conscious recognition of our personal share
in the great work of creation. We begin in some slight measure to
understand what the Bible means when it speaks of our-being
"partakers of the Divine nature" (II. Peter i. 4) and we realize
the significance of the "unity of the Spirit" (Ephesians iv. 3).
Doubtless this will imply changes in our old mode of thinking;
but these changes are not forced upon us, they are brought about
naturally by the new stand-point from which we now see things.
Almost imperceptibly to ourselves we grow into a New Order of
Thought which proceeds, not from a knowledge of good and evil,
but from the Principle of Life itself. That is what makes the
difference between our old thought and our new thought. Our old
thought was based upon a comparison of limited facts: our new
thought is based upon a comprehension of principles. The
difference is like that between the mathematics of the infant,
who cannot count beyond the number of apples or marbles put
before him, and that of the senior wrangler who is not dependent
upon visible objects for his calculations, but plunges boldly
into the unknown because he knows that he is working by
indubitable principles. In like manner when we realize the
infallible Principle of the Creative Law we no longer find we
need to see everything cut and dried beforehand, for if so, we
could never get beyond the range of our old experiences; but we
can move steadily forward because we know the certainty of the
creative principle by which we are working, or rather, which is
working through us, and that our life, in all its minutes"
details, is its harmonious expression. Thus the Spirit thinks
through our thought only its thought is greater than ours. It is
the paradox of the less containing the greater. Our thought will
not be objectless or unintelligible to ourselves. It will be
quite clear as far as it goes. We shall know exactly what we want
to do and why we want to do it, and so will act in a reasonable
and intelligent manner. But what we do not know is the greater
thought that is all the time giving rise to our smaller thought,
and which will open out from it as our lesser thought progresses
into form. Then we gradually see the greater thought which
prompted our smaller one and we find ourselves working along its
lines, guided by the invisible hand of the Creative Spirit into
continually increasing degrees of livingness to which we need
assign no limits, for it is the expansion of the Infinite within
ourselves.

This, as it appears to me, is the hidden meaning of the two trees
in Eden, the Garden of the Soul. It is the distinction between a
knowledge which is merely that of comparisons between different
sorts of conditions, and a knowledge which is that of the Life
which gives rise to and therefore controls conditions. Only we
must remember that the control of conditions is not to be
attained by violent self-assertion which is only recognizing them
as substantive entities to be battled with, but by conscious
unity with that All-creating Spirit which works silently, but
surely, on its own lines of Life, Love, and Beauty.

"Not by might, nor by power, but by My Spirit, saith the Lord of
Hosts."


THE WORSHIP OF ISHI.

In Hosea ii. 16 we find this remarkable statement:--"And it shall
be at that day, saith the Lord, that thou shalt call Me Ishi, and
shalt no more call Me Baali"; and with this we may couple the
statement in Isaiah lxii. 4:--"Thou shalt be called Hephzibah,
and thy land Beulah; for the Lord delighteth in thee, and thy
land shall be married."

In both these passages we find a change of name; and since a name
stands for something which corresponds to it, and in truth only
amounts to a succinct description, the fact indicated in these
texts is a change of condition answering to the change of name.

Now the change from Baali to Ishi indicates an important
alteration in the relation between the Divine Being and the
worshipper; but since the Divine Being cannot change, the altered
relation must result from a change in the stand-point of the
worshipper: and this can only come from a new mode of looking at
the Divine, that is, from a new order of thought regarding it.
Baali means Lord, and Ishi means husband, and so the change in
relation is that of a female slave who is liberated and married
to her former master. We could not have a more perfect analogy.
Relatively to the Universal Spirit the individual soul is
esoterically feminine, as I have pointed out in "Bible Mystery
and Bible Meaning," because its function is that of the receptive
and formative. This is necessarily inherent in the nature of the
creative process. But the individual's development as the
specializing medium of the Universal Spirit will depend entirely
upon his own conception of his relation to it. So long as he only
regards it as an arbitrary power, a sort of slave owner, he will
find himself in the position of a slave driven by an inscrutable
force, he knows not whither or for what purpose. He may worship
such a God, but his worship is only the worship of fear and
ignorance, and there is no personal interest in the matter except
to escape some dreaded punishment. Such a worshipper would gladly
escape from his divinity, and his worship, when analyzed, will be
found to be little else than disguised hatred. This is the
natural result of a worship based upon UNEXPLAINED traditions
instead of intelligible principles, and is the very opposite of
that worship in Spirit and in truth which Jesus speaks of as the
true worship.

But when the light begins to break in upon us, all this becomes
changed. We see that a system of terrorism cannot give expression
to the Divine Spirit, and we realize the truth of St. Paul's
words, "He hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power,
and of love, and of a sound mind." As the true nature of the
relation between the individual mind and the Universal Mind
becomes clearer, we find it to be one of mutual action and
re-action, a perfect reciprocity which cannot be better
symbolized than by the relation between an affectionate husband
and wife. Everything is done from love and nothing from
compulsion, there is perfect confidence on both sides, and both
are equally indispensable to each other. It is simply the
carrying out of the fundamental maxim that the Universal cannot
act on the plane of the Particular except through the Particular;
only this philosophical axiom develops into a warm living
intercourse.

Now this is the position of the soul which is indicated by the
name Hephzibah. In common with all other words derived from the
Semitic root "hafz" it implies the idea of guarding, just as in
the East a hasfiz is one who guards the letter of the Koran by
having the whole book by heart, and in many similar expressions.
Hephzibah may therefore be translated as "a guarded one," thus
recalling the New Testament description of those who are "guarded
into salvation." It is precisely this conception of being guarded
by a superior power that distinguishes the worship of Ishi from
that of Baali. A special relation has been established between
the Divine Spirit and the individual soul, one of absolute
confidence and personal intercourse. This does not require any
departure from the general law of the universe, but is due to
that specializing of the law through the presentation of special
conditions personal to the individual, of which I have spoken
before. But all the time there has been no change in the
Universal Spirit, the only change has been in the mental attitude
of the individual--he has come into a new thought, a clearer
perception of God. He has faced the questions, What is God? Where
is God? How does God work? and he has found the answer in the
apostolic statement that God is "over all, through all, and in
all," and he realises that "God" is the root of his (the
individual's) own being, ever present IN him, ever working
THROUGH him, and universally present around him.

This realization of the true relation between the Originating
Spirit and the individual mind is what is esoterically spoken of
as the Mystical Marriage in which the two have ceased to be
separate and have become one. As a matter of fact they always
were one, but since we can apprehend things only from the
stand-point of our own consciousness, it is our recognition of
the fact that makes it a practical reality for ourselves. But an
intelligent recognition will never make a confusion of the two
parts of which the whole consists, and will never lead the
individual to suppose that he is handling a blind force or that a
blind force is handling him. He will neither dethrone God, nor
lose himself by absorption in deity, but he will recognize the
reciprocity of the Divine and the human as the natural and
logical outcome of the essential conditions of the creative
process.

And what is the Whole which is thus created? It is our conscious
PERSONALITY; and therefore whatever we draw from the Universal
Spirit acquires in us the quality of personality. It is that
process of differentiation of the universal into the particular
of which I have so often spoken, which, by a rude analogy, we may
compare to the differentiation of the universal electric fluid
into specific sorts of power by its passage through suitable
apparatus. It is for this reason that relatively to ourselves the
Universal Spirit must necessarily assume a personal aspect, and
that the aspect which it will assume will be in exact
correspondence with our own conception of it. This is in
accordance with mental and spiritual laws inherent in our own
being, and it is on this account that the Bible seeks to build up
our conception of God on such lines as will set us free from all
fear of evil, and thus leave us at liberty to use the creative
power of our thought affirmatively from the stand-point of a calm
and untroubled mind. This stand-point can only be reached by
passing beyond the range of the happenings of the moment, and
this can only be done by the discovery of our immediate relation
to the undifferentiated source of all good. I lay stress on these
words "immediate" and "undifferentiated" because in them is
contained the secret of the whole position. If we could not draw
immediately from the Universal Spirit our receiving would be
subject to the limitations of the channel through which it
reached us; and if the force which we receive were not
undifferentiated in itself it could not take appropriate form in
our own minds and become to each of us just what we require it to
be. It is this power of the human soul to differentiate
limitlessly from the Infinite that we are apt to overlook, but as
we come to realize that the soul is itself a reflection and image
of the Infinite Spirit--and a clear recognition of the cosmic
creative process shows that it cannot be anything else--we find
that it must possess this power, and that-in fact it is our
possession of this power which is the whole raison d'etre of the
creative process: if the human soul did not possess an unlimited
power of differentiation from the Infinite, then the Infinite
would not be reflected in it, and consequently the Infinite
Spirit would find no outlet for its CONSCIOUS recognition of
itself as the Life, Love, and Beauty which it is. We can never
too deeply ponder the old esoteric definition of Spirit as "the
Power which knows itself": the secret of all things, past,
present, and future is contained in these few words. The self
-recognition or self-contemplation of Spirit is the primary
movement out of which all creation proceeds, and the attainment
in the individual of a fresh centre for self-recognition is what
the Spirit GAINS in the process--this GAIN accruing to the Spirit
is what is referred to in the parables where the lord is
represented as receiving increase from his servants.

When the individual perceives this relation between himself and
Infinite Spirit, he finds that he has been raised from a position
of slavery to one of reciprocity. The Spirit cannot do without
him any more than he can do without the Spirit: the two are as
necessary to each other as the two poles of an electric battery.
The Spirit is the unlimited essence of Love, Wisdom, and Power,
all three in one undifferentiated and waiting to be
differentiated by APPROPRIATION, that is, by the individual
CLAIMING to be the channel of their differentiation. It only
requires the claim to be made with the recognition that by the
Law of Being it is bound to be answered, and the right feeling,
the right seeing, and the right working for the particular matter
we have in hand will flow in quite naturally. Our old enemies,
doubt and fear, may seek to bring us back under bondage to Baali,
but our new stand-point for the recognition of the
All-originating Spirit as being absolutely unified with ourselves
must always be kept resolutely in mind; for, short of this, we
are not working on the creative level--we are creating, indeed,
for we can never divest ourselves of our creative power, but we
are creating in the image of the old limiting and destructive
conditions, and this is merely perpetuating the cosmic Law of
Averages, which is just what the individual has to rise superior
to. The creative level is where new laws begin to manifest
themselves in a new order of conditions, something transcending
our past experiences and thus bringing about a real advance; for
it is no advance only to go on in the same old round even if we
kept at it for centuries: it is the steady go-ahead nature of the
Spirit that has made the world of to-day an improvement upon the
world of the pterodactyl and the icthiosaurus, and we must look
for the same forward movement of the Spirit from its new
starting-point in ourselves.

Now it is this special, personal, and individual relation of the
Spirit to ourselves which is typified by the names Ishi and
Hephzibah. From this stand-point we may say that as the
individual wakes up to the oneness with the Spirit, the Spirit
wakes up to the same thing. It becomes conscious of itself
through the consciousness of the individual, and thus is solved
the paradox of individual self-recognition by the Universal
Spirit, without which no new-creative power could be exercised
and all things would continue to proceed in the old merely cosmic
order. It is of course true that in the merely generic order the
Spirit must be present in every form of Life, as the Master
pointed out when He said that not a sparrow falls to the ground
without "the Father." But as the sparrows He alluded to had been
shot and were on sale at a price which shows that this was the
fate of a good many of them, we see here precisely that stage of
manifestation where the Spirit has not woke up to individual
self-recognition, and remains at the lower level of
self-recognition, that of the generic or race-spirit. The
Master's comment, "Ye are of more value than many sparrows"
points out this difference: in us the generic creation has
reached the level which affords the conditions for the waking up
of the Spirit to self-recognition in the Individual.

And we must bear in mind that all this is perfectly natural.
There is no posing or straining after effect about it. If YOU
have to pump up the Life, who is going to put the Life into you
to pump it? Therefore it is spontaneous or nothing. That is why
the Bible speaks of it as the free gift of God. It cannot be
anything else. You cannot originate the originating force; it
must originate you: but what you can do is to distribute it.
Therefore immediately you experience any sense of friction be
sure there is something wrong somewhere; and since God can never
change, you may be sure that the friction is being caused by some
error in your own thinking--you are limiting the Spirit in some
way: set to work to find out what it is. It is always LIMITING
the Spirit that does this. You are tying it down to conditions
somewhere, saying it is bound by reason of some existing forms.
But the worst he could show me wasn't half as bad as what I have
seen in Chicago. Every night I would say to that Jew: "Come on,
now Mr. Cohen; let's get away from these tinhorn shows.
Lead me to the real stuff." Well, I believe the fellow did
his darndest, but he always fell down. I almost felt sorry for
him. In the end, when I paid him off, I said to him: "Save
up your money, my boy, and come over to the States. Let me know
when you land. I'll show you the sights for nothing. This Baracca
Class atmosphere is killing you."

THE FIRST MAN
And yet Paris is famous all over the world. No American ever came
to Europe without dropping off there to have a look. I once saw
the Bal Tabarin crowded with Sunday-school superintendents
returning from Jerusalem. And when the sucker gets home he goes
around winking and hinting, and so the fake grows. I often
think the government ought to take a hand. If the beer is inspected
and guaranteed in Germany, why shouldn't the shows be inspected
and guaranteed in Paris?

THE SECOND MAN
I guess the trouble is that the Frenchmen themselves never go
to their own shows. They don't know what is going on. They
see thousands of Americans starting out every night from the Place
de l'Opéra and coming back in the morning all boozed up, and so
they assume that everything is up to the mark. You'll find the same
thing in Washington. No Washingtonian has ever been up to the top
of the Washington monument.This is the relation of Hephzibah to Ishi, and is that worship in
Spirit and in truth which needs neither the temple in Jerusalem
nor yet in Samaria for its acceptance, for the whole world is the
temple of the Spirit and you yourself its sanctuary. Bear this in
mind, and remember that nothing is too great or too small, too
interior or too external, for the Spirit's recognition and
operation, for the Spirit is itself both the Life and the
Substance of all things and it is also Self-recognition from the
stand-point of your own individuality; and therefore, because the
Self-recognition of Spirit is the Life of the creative process,
you will, by simply trusting the Spirit to work according to its
own nature, pass more and more completely into that New Order
which proceeds from the thought of Him who says, "Behold I make
all things new."


Twenty-seven into eighty-four goes about three times, and half from
three leaves two and a half.

See how easy it is?

THE SECOND MAN
It _looks_ easy, anyhow. But you haven't got much time to do
all that figuring.

THE FIRST MAN 
Well, let the port_eer_ wait.But we find that the Bible combines the metaphor of the
Shepherd with another metaphor that of "the Stone," and at first
sight the two seem rather incongruous.

"From thence is the Shepherd the Stone of Israel," says the Old
Testament (Genesis xlix. 24), and Jesus calls himself both "The
Good Shepherd" and "The Stone which the builders rejected." The
Shepherd and the Stone are thus identified and we must therefore
seek the interpretation in some conception which combines the
two. A shepherd suggests Personal care for the welfare of the
sheep, and an intelligence greater than theirs. A stone suggests
the idea of Building, and consequently of measurement, adaptation
of parts to whole, and progressive construction according to
plan. Combining these two conceptions we get the idea of the
building of an edifice whose stones are persons, each taking
their more or less conscious part in the construction--thus a
building, not constructed from without, but self-forming by a
principle of growth from within under the guidance of a Supreme
Wisdom permeating the whole and conducting it stage by stage to
ultimate completeness. This points to a Divine Order in human
affairs with which we may more or less consciously co-operate:
both to our personal advantage and also to the furtherance of the
great scheme of human evolution as a whole; the ultimate purpose
being to establish in ALL men that principle of "The Octave" to
which I have already alluded; and in proportion as some
adumbration of this principle is realized by individuals and by
groups of individuals they specialize the law of
race-development, even though they may not be aware of the fact,
and so come under a SPECIALIZED working of the fundamental Law,
which thus differentiates them from other individuals and
nationalities, as by a peculiar guidance, producing higher
developments which the merely generic operation of the Law could
not.

