Life and Death of John of Barneveld, v10, 1618-19


CHAPTER XIX.

     Rancour between the Politico-Religious Parties--Spanish Intrigues
     Inconsistency of James--Brewster and Robinson's Congregation at
     Leyden--They decide to leave for America--Robinson's Farewell Sermon
     and Prayer at Parting.

During this dark and mournful winter the internal dissensions and, as a
matter of course, the foreign intrigues had become more dangerous than
ever.  While the man who for a whole generation had guided the policy of
the Republic and had been its virtual chief magistrate lay hidden from
all men's sight, the troubles which he had sought to avert were not
diminished by his removal from the scene.  The extreme or Gomarist party
which had taken a pride in secret conventicles where they were in a
minority, determined, as they said, to separate Christ from Belial and,
meditating the triumph which they had at last secured, now drove the
Arminians from the great churches.  Very soon it was impossible for these
heretics to enjoy the rights of public worship anywhere.  But they were
not dismayed.  The canons of Dordtrecht had not yet been fulminated.
They avowed themselves ready to sacrifice worldly goods and life itself
in defence of the Five Points.  In Rotterdam, notwithstanding a garrison
of fifteen companies, more than a thousand Remonstrants assembled on
Christmas-day in the Exchange for want of a more appropriate place of
meeting and sang the 112th Psalm in mighty chorus.  A clergyman of their
persuasion accidentally passing through the street was forcibly laid
hands upon and obliged to preach to them, which he did with great
unction.  The magistracy, where now the Contra-Remonstrants had the
control, forbade, under severe penalties, a repetition of such scenes.
It was impossible not to be reminded of the days half a century before,
when the early Reformers had met in the open fields or among the dunes,
armed to the teeth, and with outlying pickets to warn the congregation of
the approach of Red Rod and the functionaries of the Holy Inquisition.

In Schoonhoven the authorities attempted one Sunday by main force to
induct a Contra-Remonstrant into the pulpit from which a Remonstrant had
just been expelled.  The women of the place turned out with their
distaffs and beat them from the field.  The garrison was called out, and
there was a pitched battle in the streets between soldiers, police
officers, and women, not much to the edification certainly of the
Sabbath-loving community on either side, the victory remaining with the
ladies.

In short it would be impossible to exaggerate the rancour felt between
the different politico-religious parties.  All heed for the great war now
raging in the outside world between the hostile elements of Catholicism
and Protestantism, embattled over an enormous space, was lost in the din
of conflict among the respective supporters of conditional and
unconditional damnation within the pale of the Reformed Church.  The
earthquake shaking Europe rolled unheeded, as it was of old said to have
done at Cannae, amid the fierce shock of mortal foes in that narrow
field.

The respect for authority which had so long been the distinguishing
characteristic of the Netherlanders seemed to have disappeared.  It was
difficult--now that the time-honoured laws and privileges in defence of
which, and of liberty of worship included in them, the Provinces had made
war forty years long had been trampled upon by military force--for those
not warmed by the fire of Gomarus to feel their ancient respect for the
magistracy.  The magistracy at that moment seemed to mean the sword.

The Spanish government was inevitably encouraged by the spectacle thus
presented.  We have seen the strong hopes entertained by the council at
Madrid, two years before the crisis now existing had occurred.  We have
witnessed the eagerness with which the King indulged the dream of
recovering the sovereignty which his father had lost, and the vast
schemes which he nourished towards that purpose, founded on the internal
divisions which were reducing the Republic to impotence.  Subsequent
events had naturally made him more sanguine than ever.  There was now a
web of intrigue stretching through the Provinces to bring them all back
under the sceptre of Spain.  The imprisonment of the great stipendiary,
the great conspirator, the man who had sold himself and was on the point
of selling his country, had not terminated those plots.  Where was the
supposed centre of that intrigue?  In the council of state of the
Netherlands, ever fiercely opposed to Barneveld and stuffed full of his
mortal enemies.  Whose name was most familiar on the lips of the Spanish
partisans engaged in these secret schemes?  That of Adrian Manmaker,
President of the Council, representative of Prince Maurice as first noble
of Zealand in the States-General, chairman of the committee sent by that
body to Utrecht to frustrate the designs of the Advocate, and one of the
twenty-four commissioners soon to be appointed to sit in judgment upon
him.

The tale seems too monstrous for belief, nor is it to be admitted with
certainty, that Manmaker and the other councillors implicated had
actually given their adhesion to the plot, because the Spanish emissaries
in their correspondence with the King assured him of the fact.  But if
such a foundation for suspicion could have been found against Barneveld
and his friends, the world would not have heard the last of it from that
hour to this.

It is superfluous to say that the Prince was entirely foreign to these
plans.  He had never been mentioned as privy to the little arrangements
of Councillor du Agean and others, although he was to benefit by them.
In the Spanish schemes he seems to have been considered as an impediment,
although indirectly they might tend to advance him.

"We have managed now, I hope, that his Majesty will be recognized as
sovereign of the country," wrote the confidential agent of the King of
Spain in the Netherlands, Emmanuel Sueyro, to the government of Madrid.
"The English will oppose it with all their strength.  But they can do
nothing except by making Count Maurice sovereign of Holland and duke of
Julich and Cleve.  Maurice will also contrive to make himself master of
Wesel, so it is necessary for the Archduke to be beforehand with him and
make sure of the place.  It is also needful that his Majesty should
induce the French government to talk with the Netherlanders and convince
them that it is time to prolong the Truce."

This was soon afterwards accomplished.  The French minister at Brussels
informed Archduke Albert that du Maurier had been instructed to propose
the prolongation, and that he had been conferring with the Prince of
Orange and the States-General on the subject.  At first the Prince had
expressed disinclination, but at the last interview both he and the
States had shown a desire for it, and the French King had requested from
the Archduke a declaration whether the Spanish government would be
willing to treat for it.  In such case Lewis would offer himself as
mediator and do his best to bring about a successful result.

But it was not the intention of the conspirators in the Netherlands that
the Truce should be prolonged.  On the contrary the negotiation for it
was merely to furnish the occasion for fully developing their plot.
"The States and especially those of Zealand will reply that they no
longer wish the Truce," continued Sueyro, "and that they would prefer war
to such a truce.  They desire to put ships on the coast of Flanders, to
which the Hollanders are opposed because it would be disagreeable to the
French.  So the Zealanders will be the first to say that the
Netherlanders must come back to his Majesty.  This their President
Hanmaker has sworn.  The States of Overyssel will likewise give their
hand to this because they say they will be the first to feel the shock of
the war.  I will conclude this part of my discourse with this observation;
that the Laws of England in all their Acts of Parliament, have granted
the practice of Physic to Physicians and them alone, and in no clause
thereof put in any restraint at all upon them, but every where,
either new priviledges, or a confirmation of the old, have been
granted, by the said powers.

Whereas on the contrary, the Law supposeth cheats in the Apothecaries
Shops, and therefore impowers our Censors to destroy and burn what
they find bad and corrupt.

The next thing to be treated of, shall be the ways of Apothecaries
creeping into practice, and their unfitness thereunto.

As to the first, heretofore when they were Members of the Company
of Grocers, and dispersed in place, as well as in counsel, they then
were wholy subordinate to the Physicians, only keeping in their
Shops, and faithfully making the prescriptions they received from
the Physicians, and when made, sending them to the Patient by their
men (as they still continue to do in Foreign Countries) and not
committing the preparation to raw Boys, or Apprentices, which is
the true interest of the Patient they should do here likewise.

But in process of time, Physicians in acute diseases having taught them
somewhat, sent them to visit their Patients, to give them the best account
they could of the estate of their health, and effect of their Medicines.
And of later years some Physicians took them along with them in their
Visits, whereby they acquired a little smattering of diseases,
by which means, and their continual officiousness, they insinuated
themselves into Families, and by applying (right or wrong) the terms of
Art they had learned from the Physicians, they made people believe they
had acquired some skill in the Art, and afterwards began to venture a
little at practice, and but until these 10 years last past kept themselves
within some bounds and limits; but since that time have daily more
and more incroached upon our Profession, being assisted by a greater
familiarity of conversation with younger Physicians.

And in the Plague time they took upon them the whole Practice of Physic,
which ever since they have continued, being much helped also therein by
the dispersing of Physicians into places unknown to their Patients, by
the Fire, but above all by the burning of the College, by means whereof
their Government and view of their Shops have been omitted, insomuch
that now they are past all restraint, having insinuated and (as
they think) rooted themselves by the aforesaid Artifices, so that there
remains now no other real remedy but that proposed.

Now here I shall take occasion in a short digression, to discourse
briefly the reason, why in all Ages there have been so many pretenders to
Physic, and why some of them have got reputation in the World. One
hath been mentioned before, viz. the great charges sick men are put to,
caused by the separation of the Physician from the Apothecary. But the
principal reason is, the want of knowledge in most persons, both
of the materials used, and the grounds for which they are applyed.

Insomuch that there are but few that can judg, and distinguish rightly
of either, and no wonder therefore that in their reasonings they commit
more absurd mistakes, or Paralogisms then in any other Art whatsoever,
and censure Physicians by the success alone. Which my Lord Verulam
accounts the great unhappiness both of the States-man and the
Physician, both being alike censured by those that know not the
bottom and rise of their Actions and Counsels.

For how can any man in either make a sound Judgment without a full
knowledge of the business it self; and of all the circumstances
thereunto belonging; nor in Physic without the concurrent knowledg
of the sick mans habit, disease, cause, remedies, and many other
particulars necessary to make a clear judgment upon the success? Yet
notwithstanding, many will censure and grumble at the actions of the
States-men, though their proceedings have been never so wise, and
prudent, and oft-times from muttering and whispering, fall to down-right
distast, and mutiny against their Superiors. So that the good
success, in State-affairs, of rash and imprudent undertakers,
have been extolled and preferred before the wary, and prudent
management, and guidance of the soberest and wisest States-men.

The same likewise happens between the bold Empiric, and learnedst
Physician. But in this way of censuring, the States-man hath this advantage
above the Physician, that 'tis possible he may meet with a series of
Business so circumstantiated, as seldom or never to miscarry, especially
having a greater power over subordinate persons then Physicians
have.

But the irreversible statute of Heaven forbids us to expect a constant
recovery of our Patients, for 'tis appointed, that all men must die. 'Tis
sufficient therefore for us, to employ those remedies God hath given
to the Sons of men, to the utmost vertue the Creator hath endowed them
withal: since his eternal decree hath limited their efficacy from making
man immortal. Now since (if men judg by the success alone) it cannot be
otherwise, but that the most learned Physician, and most sottish Empiric
must be thought equal in skill, by those that are not able to make a
right judgment and difference betwixt them on other principles. Hence it
comes to pass, that where some ignorant person hath cured accidentally a
slight disease, and a Physician hath a Patient dye of an irrecoverable
Case, here the Empiric shall be applauded, and the Physician decryed.

Nay many will say the disease is the same in both, whereas we daily see
most gross mistakes in such opinions, when the Cases differ totally
in their Nature, agreeing in one sign only common to both the Cases
proposed, nay to many other also.

Furthermore, if a Patient dy under an Empirics hand, the friends willingly
conceal their Names, lest some discredit should befal them for using such
worthless practisers; but if under the hands of a known Physician
he shall be sure to be named, and sometimes his attendance falsly
fathered on him, when Mountebanks only have been employed: but to
besure if an Empiric hath first been made use of, and afterwards
an able Physician called in (when all opportunity of doing good was
past) and the Patient dy, the Mountebank hath never been mentioned,
but the Physician perhaps condemned though he hath done whatsoever
could have been thought on, rational in that Case.

Add to the former reasons, the bold and confident brags, and promises
of Empirics, that they have cured worse diseases, and will in few
hours free them from their maladies, especially where sober Physicians
have pronounced doubtfully of the event. No wonder that these pleasing
promises to persons in danger and distress bring them into employment
even with a rejection of the former sober Physician.

Besides, a foolish opinion prevails with some ignorant persons, that
they will deal only with such as will undertake the Cure, (that is) contract
with them for a sum of money, one half whereof to be payed in hand, and
the other the Cure being done, and so are usually cheated of one half of
their money; and such people will have nothing to do with such Physicians
as will not undertake them in this sence.

Another Stratagem is, to give strange and hard names to their Medicines,
such as are Pilulæ radiis Solis extractæ, and in English is no more then
Pills dryed to that consistence by the Sun-Beams, which ignorant people
have thought were made of the Sun Beams.

Others commend their Extract of the Soul of the Heathen Gods. One sets
up with a receipt received from Van Helmonts own hands; Another
hath received from a Jew the shining of Moses Face; nay I have heard a
Pseudochymist blasphemously brag, he saw in the making of a grand
Elixir, the Quintessence of the Trinity in Unity, and infinite
other pitiful captivations of silly people, to be seen on every Gate
and Post of this City; such as are the Spirit of the Salt of the World,
Panchymagogon, and other ten-footed Greek names, and some other Mongrel
non-sensical ones compounded of several Languages; promising certain,
speedy, and concealed Cure of incurable Diseases.

And no less ridiculous and absurd to considering persons are, their
cantings of themselves, wherewith they no less befool, amuse, and beguile
the people; as that by long prayer, and seeking of God, they have had
many secrets revealed to them from Heaven. Another by long Travels through
Hungary, Poland, &c. hath attained great secrets from Kings and Emperours.
Another a Gentleman lately come from Oxford, or Cambridg, Cures the
Pox, Running of the Reins, &c. in Capital Letters, at all which what
sober man cannot but laugh? Yet such as these are inducements to many to
resort to them; moreover some of them are Astrologers, Physiognomers,
Fortunetellers, Professors of Palmistry and such other vain Arts;
much applauded by the weaker sort of people.

Besides, the former they have their Emissaries, Scouts, and Setters up and
down, to cry up the skill And feigned Cures done by them, Nurses,
Good-fellows, Midwives, &c. to make up the cry and full noise.

Now it being natural to most people to admire what they understand not,
and for Admiration to infer Love, and Love Praise, and Praise the
use especially of such things as are set off with high and lofty expressions,
it necessarily follows that such persons will cry up, and make use
of, those that by these means captivate their understandings,
especially their credits being ingaged also; but above all, if they
proceed from meaner persons, of whom they are most credulous, having
in suspition wiser men, believing the former are not able, and that
the wiser are able; and therefore will deceive them.

All which appears in some with us cryed up above any Physician that
ever was in England, though for pitiful, dangerous, nay sometimes mortal
Medicines, whereby great sums of money have been gained in a short time;
I shall instance first in Lockyers Pills made of Antimony, discovered
to be so by some of my Collegues, and my self, at the first selling of
them. A Medicine as ill made as any of that Mineral, and no Physician
though meanly versed in Chymistry, but could have excelled it. Yet
so great a Vogue this Pill had for some time, that infinite people resorted
to him, and purchased them for their lives, both for themselves, and
Families, and (as I have heard) for their posterities too.

Though a common Chimney in a little time would have made enough of it to
have served the whole Nation for some years to come, and that at very
small charges. But Experience, the Tutor of too many, hath in a short
time brought these Pills into a dis-use, if not a total Oblivion, even
amongst the vulgar.

A second cryed up Medicine was Mathews's Pills, made of Opium (to
which the virtue of the whole Composition must be attributed) of white
Hellebor Roots, and Oyl of Turpentine, whereto some add Salt of Tartar,
which will puzzle the most knowing Naturalist to declare why these should
be thus jumbled together; unless to obscure the Opium.
'Tis indeed a very cunning Composition, for by giving rest and ease
it may easily decoy people into the use of them, though by long
taking of them, diseases become far more uncurable then they are
in their own Nature.

A third Universal Medicine was Hughes's Powder, sold by him at 10
s.
the Grain, and 3 l. 10 s. the Dose, made doubtless of Gold and Quicksilver.
The tast and weight of it manifestly discover the former to be an
ingredient into it, and the effect, viz. Salivation proves the latter
to be part of the compound. Besides I have made of these two dissolved,
and digested in their peculiar Menstruums, in no long space of time,
a Medicine that had the same effect with his, and in the same Dose, and
having a View of his Cabinet left after his Death, containing a large
quantity of the said Powder (being all he left behind him) there
was found crude Gold, and Quicksilver in the same Cabinet.

Now these three Notorious Universal Medicines were put to sale by
most ignorant persons. Add hereunto the forementioned Mr.
De-laun's Pill, whereof I shall say nothing, being mentioned under the
Name of the Pilule ex duobus, in the London Dispensitory, though some
make them of the Extract of Coloquintida. The last of any Fame with us,
were Dr. Goddard's Drops, a good Medicine, but not so universal, and
superlative as he would have made the World believe, and was nothing
else but what some Physicians many years since enjoyed. I well remember
that in the late troubles, a Person then in great Authority, having
cryed up this above all the Medicines in the World, a round wager was
offered, that the Doctor should not distinguish his own from two
others that should be brought him, both which were but Spirit of Harts-horn.
But the wager would not be accepted of. Furthermore, that this Medicine
of his was Spirit of Harts-horn, some relations plainly argue; One
whereof was the following.

A certain person in Norfolk having sent for as much as came to a 11 l.
and dying upon the 2d. dose of it, and by accident most part of the remainder
being spilt; there comes in a friend to the House, of some skill, who
supposing it to be Spirit of Harts-horn, told the Widow he would
endeavour to gain back the money for her.

And thereupon went to a Chymist, and bought as much of the said Spirit, as
would make up the quantity purchased of Dr. Goddard, who after Tryal of
it by smell, and tast, acknowledged it to be his, and honestly payed
back the sum 'twas first sold for; which I think few of the
Mountebanks do. Sure I am that a Quack sold 21 Pills for 20 l. whereof
the Patient took 4 at two doses, to the great hazard of his life,
who then repairing to me for my advice, I by Tryal of one of them found
them to be Mercurial, and wished him to return them back, but the Quack
would not give him 10 s.
for the 16 remaining.

The inference and sum of what hath been said, is to shew briefly
by what Artifices people are deceived in their Healths, and Purses,
and how easily the ignorant are couzened, and such practices used,
that Physicians, men of honesty and repute, would be ashamed to
own, and must by using them in a short time be ruined and discredited.

And such Cheats as these, the College of Physicians are bound by the Laws
of the Land to decry, and punish (though by so doing it hath often
incurred the censure and clamor of the vulgar) Besides the Statute of the
14th. and 15th. of Henry the Eighth injoyns us to it, declaring that 'tis
good for the Common-wealth of this Realm, and therefore expedient, and
necessary to provide that no person of the College of Physicians
(for all practisers then were of the said body) be suffered to
exercise, and practise Physic, but only those persons that be
profound, sad, and discreet, groundly learned, and deeply studyed
in Physic.

Now certain it is, that none of the said body did or dare use any of
the forementioned frauds and deceits, but will constantly indeavour (since
'tis impossible but there will be Cheatees; (according to the old Proverb,
Populus vult decipi, The People will be deceived) to abridge the
number of the Cheaters, who answer to the former part of the Proverb,
Decipiatur, Let them be couzened.

I shall end this discourse by returning from my digression to the Apothecaries,
who may and do use some of the tricks before-mentioned, and shall here
briefly recite some great advantages they have, and make use of above
Physicians. One is, that they live in this City 7 or 8 years as Apprentices,
as also by their retail Trade, and by living in open Shops, by frequent
converse with their fellow Citizens, whether in Commerce or Offices,
by many friendly and Neighbourly mutual kindnesses and actions, wherein
they spend their whole lives, and are never diverted by studies, and
ingenuity from their proposed way of gain, by all which means they get
into a fixed familiarity and good opinion with their Neighbours,
and a large acquaintance in the World.

Now for their skill, besides what hath been before-mentioned, and common
to them with the Mountebank, viz. Vapouring and braging of their skill,
and decrying Physicians, by talking above the Capacity of those they
converse with, who therefore take all they say to be authentick, though
never so absurd, and trivial, and many times to set off themselves they
will venture to speak Latine commonly as false as the matter, although
some of them at Coffee-Houses, and in other mixt Companies, by
venturing so boldly have been met with and baffled, and made to
depart thence with shame and discredit enough, which their friends
and acquaintance take little notice of.

Add hereunto their exposing to view their Compositions of Treacle,
Mithridate, Diascordium and Alkermes, which all their friends, and
neighbours one time or another must see; (being set off by some
very curiously) and seeing cannot but admire the great charge, art,
and labour of the Apothecary, and perhaps hear his learned Lecture
upon them, whereby they imply their great skill, knowledg in the
virtues of these ingredients, and consequently an ability to practise
with them; all which are below the dignity of a Physician; and
therefore a long time is necessary for him to gain acquaintance,
wanting the fore-mentioned opportunities the Apothecaries enjoy.

Lastly, Their painted Pots and Glasses, with false Titles on them, more
win the vulgar then a Physicians Library of far greater value.

As to their incapacity for Practice, 'tis manifest by their
education, and ignorance of all those things which are required in an
able Physician, viz. the knowledg of Arts and Languages; by the former
whereof men learn the way and rules of observing, and improvements to be
made thereon; by the latter, what the learned searchers of Nature have
in all Ages taken notice of, necessary, and little enough in an
Art so difficult as that of Physic.

They are wholy ignorant also of all Philosophy, and the very Elements of
the Art, and therefore unskillful in knowing diseases; and more surely
their causes, whereto respect is to be had, as well as to the diseases,
to which, fit remedies are to be applyed.

For want of Anatomy know neither the part affected, nor how 'tis affected;
much lets any thing of Chirurgical directions. And through their ignorance
in Philosophy, and Arts, they have not skill enough to advise a diet
sutable to diseases; a thing most necessary, as well in curing diseases
as in preserving of health, and which requires a great insight into the
nature of things; nor the true grounds and reasons of compounding, practising
their way rather by rote then by rule; with better reason may a Brick-layer
or Carpenter pretend to be a Mathematical, or a Common Fidler to be a
Musick Reader in the Universities, or Gresham-College, since both these
have the practical part of those Sciences, which Apothecaries have not
in Physic, in the least measure.

And to conceal their mis-actings, they generally do all by word of
mouth, and not enter their prescriptions into their Books, being
haply ashamed any knowing men should discover their sins of omission,
as dangerous many times in point of life and health, as those of
their commission.

Whereas Physicians Bills are on the File, or registred in Order in their
own Books, which is their justification from all misrepresentations.

Again, they sufficiently confess their ignorance, by calling in Physicians
when their own, or any of their relations healths are concerned, and the
same all people acknowledge, when they are in distress and danger.

And very few understanding persons, and none that are learned and knowing,
will trust them at all. But I shall refer the Reader to the forementioned
Writer against the Apothecaries, viz. Dr.
Daniel Coxe, who permitted me to name him here; by whom this and many other
things here but briefly touched, are judiciously handled, and more
largely.

And as for their skill in practice, we daily see their gross errours
and omissions, being called where they have given Medicines.

I shall instance only in one that hapned at the writing hereof; viz. that
an Apothecary gave strong Purging Pills on the Fit day of a gentle
Quartan Ague, which turned it into a violent Fever, to the great
hazard of the Patients life.

And at how easie rate they practise, many of their Bills brought and
complained of to our College, (in some whereof I have seen Fees set down
for Visits) witness, wherein upon a slight disease 5 l. hath been demanded
for four days practice. And I have heard one of them brag, that he
commonly had from 20 to 100 l. besides presents, for cure of a Clap
(as they call it) which might have been more speedily and securely
performed for a manifold lesser sum.

I now come to answer some slight objections; as first, that Physicians
are unskillful in the Art of making Medicines; but sure those that
thus object cannot deny them that ability which Ladies, and almost
all ordinary women have; viz. of distilling of waters of all sorts,
making of Syrups, Conserves, Preserves, Powders, Trochiscs, Electuaries
(and what not) and as many think, more cleanly and neatly then the
Apothecaries; and some of them Ointments, and Plasters, in which
two lyes their main skill.

Some whereof, to those that understand not the way of dissolution
of bodies, and the nature of their mixture may be difficult. Yet
this defect they may supply by lessening the number of ingredients, and
may perform more with 2, or 3 Simples, then with the larger Compositions,
as 'tis manifest in the use of Galbanum alone, now used and found better
then Emplastrum Hystericum, consisting of 21 ingredients.

And though as matters now stand, Physicians have not the honour to be
counted superiour to Apothecaries in their Art, yet every one knows
that they alone are the prescribers and directors of the Apothecaries
in what they know; and are able to puzzle them in infinite things
that concern their Trade, besides in Chymical preparations, whereof most
of them are totally ignorant; and should Physicians withdraw themselves
from their conversation, few pretenders to Physic would appear more
unskillful then they, neither knowing how to deal with a new Simple,
nor a new disease.

And for all their pretences of skill in Drugs, 'tis most certain that the
State makes Physicians not Apothecaries, Judges of them; and the Statute
of Henry the VIII. appoints the College Censors upon Oath, not the
Apothecaries to judg, and condemn false and sophisticated Medicines.

Civil
and political equality followed as a matter of course.

Two centuries and a half have passed away.

There are now some seventy or eighty millions of the English-speaking
race on both sides the Atlantic, almost equally divided between the
United Kingdom and the United Republic, and the departure of those
outcasts of James has interest and significance for them all.

Most fitly then, as a distinguished American statesman has remarked, does
that scene on board the little English vessel, with the English pastor
uttering his farewell blessing to a handful of English exiles for
conscience sake; depicted on canvas by eminent artists, now adorn the
halls of the American Congress and of the British Parliament.  Sympathy
with one of the many imperishable bonds of union between the two great
and scarcely divided peoples.

We return to Barneveld in his solitary prison.


CHAPTER XX.

     Barneveld's Imprisonment--Ledenberg's Examination and Death--
     Remonstrance of De Boississe--Aerssens admitted to the order of
     Knights--Trial of the Advocate--Barneveld's Defence--The States
     proclaim a Public Fast--Du Maurier's Speech before the Assembly--
     Barneveld's Sentence--Barneveld prepares for Death--Goes to
     Execution.

The Advocate had been removed within a few days after the arrest from the
chamber in Maurice's apartments, where he had originally been confined,
and was now in another building.

It was not a dungeon nor a jail.  Indeed the commonplace and domestic
character of the scenery in which these great events were transacted has
in it something pathetic.  There was and still remains a two-storied
structure, then of modern date, immediately behind the antique hall of
the old Counts within the Binnenhof.  On the first floor was a courtroom
of considerable extent, the seat of one of the chief tribunals of justice
The story above was divided into three chambers with a narrow corridor
on each side.  The first chamber, on the north-eastern side, was
appropriated for the judges when the state prisoners should be tried.
In the next Hugo Grotius was imprisoned.  In the third was Barneveld.
There was a tower at the north-east angle of the building, within which
a winding and narrow staircase of stone led up to the corridor and so to
the prisoners' apartments.  Rombout Hoogerbeets was confined in another
building.

As the Advocate, bent with age and a life of hard work, and leaning on
his staff, entered the room appropriated to him, after toiling up the
steep staircase, he observed--

"This is the Admiral of Arragon's apartment."

It was true.  Eighteen years before, the conqueror of Nieuwpoort had
assigned this lodging to the chief prisoner of war in that memorable
victory over the Spaniards, and now Maurice's faithful and trusted
counsellor at that epoch was placed in durance here, as the result of the
less glorious series of victories which had just been achieved.

It was a room of moderate dimensions, some twenty-five feet square, with
a high vaulted roof and decently furnished.  Below and around him in the
courtyard were the scenes of the Advocate's life-long and triumphant
public services.  There in the opposite building were the windows of the
beautiful "Hall of Truce," with its sumptuous carvings and gildings, its
sculptures and portraits, where he had negotiated with the
representatives of all the great powers of Christendom the famous Treaty
which had suspended the war of forty years, and where he was wont almost
daily to give audience to the envoys of the greatest sovereigns or the
least significant states of Europe and Asia, all of whom had been ever
solicitous of his approbation and support.

Farther along in the same building was the assembly room of the States-
General, where some of the most important affairs of the Republic and
of Europe had for years been conducted, and where he had been so
indispensable that, in the words of a contemporary who loved him not,
"absolutely nothing could be transacted in his absence, all great affairs
going through him alone."

There were two dull windows, closely barred, looking northward over an
irregular assemblage of tile-roofed houses and chimney-stacks, while
within a stone's throw to the west, but unseen, was his own elegant
mansion on the Voorhout, surrounded by flower gardens and shady pleasure
grounds, where now sat his aged wife and her children all plunged in deep
affliction.

He was allowed the attendance of a faithful servant, Jan Franken by name,
and a sentinel stood constantly before his door.  His papers had been
taken from him, and at first he was deprived of writing materials.

He had small connection with the outward world.  The news of the
municipal revolution which had been effected by the Stadholder had not
penetrated to his solitude, but his wife was allowed to send him fruit
from their garden.  One day a basket of fine saffron pears was brought to
him.  On slicing one with a knife he found a portion of a quill inside
it.  Within the quill was a letter on thinnest paper, in minutest
handwriting in Latin.  It was to this effect.

"Don't rely upon the States of Holland, for the Prince of Orange has
changed the magistracies in many cities.  Dudley Carleton is not your
friend."

A sergeant of the guard however, before bringing in these pears, had put
a couple of them in his pocket to take home to his wife.  The letter,
copies of which perhaps had been inserted for safety in several of them,
was thus discovered and the use of this ingenious device prevented for
the future.

Secretary Ledenberg, who had been brought to the Hague in the early days
of September, was the first of the prisoners subjected to examination.
He was much depressed at the beginning of it, and is said to have
exclaimed with many sighs, "Oh Barneveld, Barneveld, what have you
brought us to!"

He confessed that the Waartgelders at Utrecht had been enlisted on
notification by the Utrecht deputies in the Hague with knowledge of
Barneveld, and in consequence of a resolution of the States in order to
prevent internal tumults.  He said that the Advocate had advised in the
previous month of March a request to the Prince not to come to Utrecht;
that the communication of the message, in regard to disbanding the
Waartgelders, to his Excellency had been postponed after the deputies of
the States of Holland had proposed a delay in that disbandment; that
those deputies had come to Utrecht of their own accord; .  .  .  .  that
they had judged it possible to keep everything in proper order in Utrecht
if the garrison in the city paid by Holland were kept quiet, and if the
States of Utrecht gave similar orders to the Waartgelders; for they did
not believe that his Excellency would bring in troops from the outside.
He said that he knew nothing of a new oath to be demanded of the
garrison.  He stated that the Advocate, when at Utrecht, had exhorted
the States, according to his wont, to maintain their liberties and
privileges, representing to them that the right to decide on the Synod
and the Waartgelders belonged to them.  Lastly, he denied knowing who
was the author of The Balance, except by common report.

Now these statements hardly amounted to a confession of abominable and
unpardonable crimes by Ledenberg, nor did they establish a charge of
high-treason and corrupt correspondence with the enemy against Barneveld.
It is certain that the extent of the revelations seemed far from
satisfactory to the accusers, and that some pressure would be necessary
in order to extract anything more conclusive.  Lieutenant Nythof told
Grotius that Ledenberg had accordingly been threatened with torture, and
that the executioner had even handled him for that purpose.  This was
however denied by the judges of instruction who had been charged with the
preliminary examination.

That examination took place on the 27th September.  After it had been
concluded, Ledenberg prayed long and earnestly on returning to prison.
He then entrusted a paper written in French to his son Joost, a boy of
eighteen, who did not understand that language.  The youth had been
allowed to keep his father company in his confinement, and slept in the
same room.

The next night but one, at two o'clock, Joost heard his father utter a
deep groan.  He was startled, groped in the darkness towards his bed and
felt his arm, which was stone cold.  He spoke to him and received no
answer.  He gave the alarm, the watch came in with lights, and it was
found that Ledenberg had given himself two mortal wounds in the abdomen
with a penknife and then cut his throat with a table-knife which he had
secreted, some days before, among some papers.

The paper in French given to his son was found to be to this effect.

"I know that there is an inclination to set an example in my person,
to confront me with my best friends, to torture me, afterwards to convict
me of contradictions and falsehoods as they say, and then to found an
ignominious sentence upon points and trifles, for this it will be
necessary to do in order to justify the arrest and imprisonment.  To
escape all this I am going to God by the shortest road.  Against a dead
man there can be pronounced no sentence of confiscation of property.
Done 17th September (o. s.) 1618."

The family of the unhappy gentleman begged his body for decent burial.
The request was refused.  It was determined to keep the dead secretary
above ground and in custody until he could be tried, and, if possible,
convicted and punished.  It was to be seen whether it were so easy to
baffle the power of the States-General, the Synod, and the Stadholder,
and whether "going to God by the shortest road" was to save a culprit's
carcass from ignominy, and his property from confiscation.

The French ambassadors, who had been unwearied in their endeavour to
restore harmony to the distracted Commonwealth before the arrest of the
prisoners, now exerted themselves to throw the shield of their
sovereign's friendship around the illustrious statesman and his fellow-
sufferers.

"It is with deepest sorrow," said de Boississe, "that I have witnessed
the late hateful commotions.  Especially from my heart I grieve for the
arrest of the Seignior Barneveld, who with his discretion and wise
administration for the past thirty years has so drawn the hearts of all
neighbouring princes to himself, especially that of the King my master,
that on taking up my pen to apprize him of these events I am gravely
embarrassed, fearing to infringe on the great respect due to your
Mightinesses or against the honour and merits of the Seignior Barneveld.
.  .  .  My Lords, take heed to your situation, for a great discontent is
smouldering among your citizens.  Until now, the Union has been the chief
source of your strength.  And I now fear that the King my master, the
adviser of your renowned Commonwealth, maybe offended that you have taken
this resolution after consulting with others, and without communicating
your intention to his ambassador .  .  .  .  It is but a few days that an
open edict was issued testifying to the fidelity of Barneveld, and can it
be possible that within so short a time you have discovered that you have
been deceived?  I summon you once more in the name of the King to lay
aside all passion, to judge these affairs without partiality, and to
inform me what I am to say to the King.  Such very conflicting accounts
are given of these transactions that I must beg you to confide to me the
secret of the affair.  The wisest in the land speak so strongly of these
proceedings that it will be no wonder if the King my master should give
me orders to take the Seignior Barneveld under his protection.  Should
this prove to be the case, your Lordships will excuse my course .  .  .
I beg you earnestly in your wisdom not to give cause of offence to
neighbouring princes, especially to my sovereign, who wishes from his
heart to maintain your dignity and interests and to assure you of his
friendship."

The language was vigorous and sincere, but the Ambassador forgot that the
France of to-day was not the France of yesterday; that Louis XIII.  was
not Henry IV.; that it was but a cheerful fiction to call the present
King the guide and counsellor of the Republic, and that, distraught as
she was by the present commotions, her condition was strength and
tranquillity compared with the apparently decomposing and helpless state
of the once great kingdom of France.  De Boississe took little by his
demonstration.

On the 12th December both de Boississe and du Maurier came before the
States-General once more, and urged a speedy and impartial trial for the
illustrious prisoners.  If they had committed acts of treason and
rebellion, they deserved exemplary punishment, but the ambassadors warned
the States-General with great earnestness against the dangerous doctrine
of constructive treason, and of confounding acts dictated by violence of
party spirit at an excited period with the crime of high-treason against
the sovereignty of the State.

"Barneveld so honourable," they said, "for his immense and long continued
services has both this Republic and all princes and commonwealths for his
witnesses.  It is most difficult to believe that he has attempted the
destruction of his fatherland, for which you know that he has toiled so
faithfully."

They admitted that so grave charges ought now to be investigated.  "To
this end," said the ambassadors, "you ought to give him judges who are
neither suspected nor impassioned, and who will decide according to the
laws of the land, and on clear and undeniable evidence .  .  .  .  So
doing you will show to the whole world that you are worthy to possess and
to administer this Commonwealth to whose government God has called you."

Should they pursue another and a sterner course, the envoys warned the
Assembly that the King would be deeply offended, deeming it thus proved
how little value they set upon his advice and his friendship.

The States-General replied on the 19th December, assuring the ambassadors
that the delay in the trial was in order to make the evidence of the
great conspiracy complete, and would not tend to the prejudice of the
prisoners "if they had a good consciousness of their innocence."  They
promised that the sentence upon them when pronounced would give entire
satisfaction to all their allies and to the King of France in particular,
of whom they spoke throughout the document in terms of profound respect.
But they expressed their confidence that "his Majesty would not place the
importunate and unfounded solicitations of a few particular criminals or
their supporters before the general interests of the dignity and security
of the Republic."

On the same day the States-General addressed a letter filled with very
elaborate and courteous commonplaces to the King, in which they expressed
a certainty that his Majesty would be entirely satisfied with their
actions.

The official answer of the States-General to the ambassadors, just cited,
gave but little comfort to the friends of the imprisoned statesman and
his companions.  Such expressions as "ambitious and factious spirits,"
--"authors and patrons of the faction,"--"attempts at novelty through
changes in religion, in justice and in the fundamental laws of all orders
of polity," and the frequent mention of the word "conspiracy" boded
little good.

Information of this condition of affairs was conveyed to Hoogerbeets and
Grotius by means of an ingenious device of the distinguished scholar, who
was then editing the Latin works of the Hague poet, Janus Secundus.

While the sheets were going through the press, some of the verses were
left out, and their place supplied by others conveying the intelligence
which it was desired to send to the prisoners.  The pages which contained
the secret were stitched together in such wise that in cutting the book
open they were not touched but remained closed.  The verses were to this
effect.  "The examination of the Advocate proceeds slowly, but there is
good hope from the serious indignation of the French king, whose envoys
are devoted to the cause of the prisoners, and have been informed that
justice will be soon rendered.  The States of Holland are to assemble on
the 15th January, at which a decision will certainly be taken for
appointing judges.  The preachers here at Leyden are despised, and men
are speaking strongly of war.  The tumult which lately occurred at
Rotterdam may bring forth some good."

The quick-wited Grotius instantly discovered the device, read the
intelligence thus communicated in the proofsheets of Secundus, and made
use of the system to obtain further intelligence.

Hoogerbeets laid the book aside, not taking much interest at that time
in the works of the Hague poet.  Constant efforts made to attract his
attention to those poems however excited suspicion among his keepers,
and the scheme was discovered before the Leyden pensionary had found
the means to profit by it.'

The allusions to the trial of the Advocate referred to the preliminary
examination which took place, like the first interrogatories of Grotius
and Hoogerbeets, in the months of November and December.

The thorough manner in which Maurice had reformed the States of Holland
has been described.  There was one department of that body however which
still required attention.  The Order of Knights, small in number but
potential in influence, which always voted first on great occasions, was
still through a majority of its members inclined to Barneveld.  Both his
sons-in-law had seats in that college.  The Stadholder had long believed
in a spirit of hostility on the part of those nobles towards himself.
He knew that a short time before this epoch there had been a scheme for
introducing his young brother, Frederic Henry, into the Chamber of
Knights.  The Count had become proprietor of the barony of Naaldwyk, a
property which he had purchased of the Counts of Arenberg, and which
carried with it the hereditary dignity of Great Equerry of the Counts of
Holland.  As the Counts of Holland had ceased to exist, although their
sovereignty had nearly been revived and conferred upon William the
Silent, the office of their chief of the stables might be deemed a
sinecure.  But the jealousy of Maurice was easily awakened, especially by
any movement made or favoured by the Advocate.  He believed that in the
election of Frederic Henry as a member of the College of Knights a plan
lay concealed to thrust him into power and to push this elder brother
from his place.  The scheme, if scheme it were, was never accomplished,
but the Prince's rancour remained.

He now informed the nobles that they must receive into their body Francis
Aerssens, who had lately purchased the barony of Sommelsdyk, and Daniel
de Hartaing, Seignior of Marquette.  With the presence of this deadly
enemy of Barneveld and another gentleman equally devoted to the
Stadholder's interest it seemed probable that the refractory majority of
the board of nobles would be overcome.  But there were grave objections
to the admission of these new candidates.  They were not eligible.  The
constitution of the States and of the college of nobles prescribed that
Hollanders only of ancient and noble race and possessing estates in the
province could sit in that body.  Neither Aerssens nor Hartaing was born
in Holland or possessed of the other needful qualifications.
Nevertheless, the Prince, who had just remodelled all the municipalities
throughout the Union which offered resistance to his authority, was not
to be checked by so trifling an impediment as the statutes of the House
of Nobles.  He employed very much the same arguments which he had used to
"good papa" Hooft.  "This time it must be so."  Another time it might not
be necessary.  So after a controversy which ended as controversies are
apt to do when one party has a sword in his hand and the other is seated
at a green-baize-covered table, Sommelsdyk and Marquette took their seats
among the knights.  Of course there was a spirited protest.  Nothing was
easier for the Stadholder than to concede the principle while trampling
it with his boot-heels in practice.

"Whereas it is not competent for the said two gentlemen to be admitted to
our board," said the nobles in brief, "as not being constitutionally
eligible, nevertheless, considering the strong desire of his Excellency
the Prince of Orange, we, the nobles and knights of Holland, admit them
with the firm promise to each other by noble and knightly faith ever in
future for ourselves and descendants to maintain the privileges of our
order now violated and never again to let them be directly or indirectly
infringed."

And so Aerssens, the unscrupulous plotter, and dire foe of the Advocate
and all his house, burning with bitter revenge for all the favours he had
received from him during many years, and the author of the venomous
pamphlets and diatribes which had done so much of late to blacken the
character of the great statesman before the public, now associated
himself officially with his other enemies, while the preliminary
proceedings for the state trials went forward.

Meantime the Synod had met at Dordtrecht.  The great John Bogerman, with
fierce, handsome face, beak and eye of a bird of prey, and a deluge of
curly brown beard reaching to his waist, took his seat as president.
Short work was made with the Armenians.  They and their five Points were
soon thrust out into outer darkness.

It was established beyond all gainsaying that two forms of Divine worship
in one country were forbidden by God's Word, and that thenceforth by
Netherland law there could be but one religion, namely, the Reformed or
Calvinistic creed.

It was settled that one portion of the Netherlanders and of the rest of
the human race had been expressly created by the Deity to be for ever
damned, and another portion to be eternally blessed.  But this history
has little to do with that infallible council save in the political
effect of its decrees on the fate of Barneveld.  It was said that the
canons of Dordtrecht were likely to shoot off the head of the Advocate.
Their sessions and the trial of the Advocate were simultaneous, but not
technically related to each other.

The conclusions of both courts were preordained, for the issue of the
great duel between Priesthood and State had been decided when the
military chieftain threw his sword into the scale of the Church.

There had been purposely a delay, before coming to a decision as to the
fate of the state prisoners, until the work of the Synod should have
approached completion.

It was thought good that the condemnation of the opinions of the
Arminians and the chastisement of their leaders should go hand-in-hand.

On the 23rd April 1619, the canons were signed by all the members of the
Synod.  Arminians were pronounced heretics, schismatics, teachers of
false doctrines.  They were declared incapable of filling any clerical or
academical post.  No man thenceforth was to teach children, lecture to
adolescents, or preach to the mature, unless a subscriber to the
doctrines of the unchanged, unchangeable, orthodox church.  On the 30th
April and 1st May the Netherland Confession and the Heidelberg Catechism
were declared to be infallible.  No change was to be possible in either
formulary.

Schools and pulpits were inexorably bound to the only true religion.

On the 6th May there was a great festival at Dordtrecht in honour of the
conclusion of the Synod.  The canons, the sentence, and long prayers and
orations in Latin by President Bogerman gladdened the souls of an immense
multitude, which were further enlivened by the decree that both Creed and
Catechism had stood the test of several criticisms and come out unchanged
by a single hair.  Nor did the orator of the occasion forget to render
thanks "to the most magnanimous King James of Great Britain, through
whose godly zeal, fiery sympathy, and truly royal labour God had so often
refreshed the weary Synod in the midst of their toil."

The Synod held one hundred and eighty sessions between the 13th November
1618 and 29th May 1619,  all the doings of which have been recorded in
chronicles innumerable.  There need be no further mention of them here.

Barneveld and the companions of his fate remained in prison.

On the 7th March the trial of the great Advocate began.  He had sat in
prison since the 18th of the preceding August.  For nearly seven months
he had been deprived of all communication with the outward world save
such atoms of intelligence as could be secretly conveyed to him in the
inside of a quill concealed in a pear and by other devices.  The man who
had governed one of the most important commonwealths of the world for
nearly a generation long--during the same period almost controlling the
politics of Europe--had now been kept in ignorance of the most
insignificant everyday events.  During the long summer-heat of the dog-
days immediately succeeding his arrest, and the long, foggy, snowy, icy
winter of Holland which ensued, he had been confined in that dreary
garret-room to which he had been brought when he left his temporary
imprisonment in the apartments of Prince Maurice.

There was nothing squalid in the chamber, nothing specially cruel or
repulsive in the arrangements of his captivity.  He was not in fetters,
nor fed upon bread and water.  He was not put upon the rack, nor even
threatened with it as Ledenberg had been.  He was kept in a mean,
commonplace, meagerly furnished, tolerably spacious room, and he was
allowed the services of his faithful domestic servant John Franken.  A
sentinel paced day and night up the narrow corridor before his door.  As
spring advanced, the notes of the nightingale came through the prison-
window from the neighbouring thicket.  One day John Franken, opening the
window that his master might the better enjoy its song, exchanged
greeting with a fellow-servant in the Barneveld mansion who happened to
be crossing the courtyard.  Instantly workmen were sent to close and
barricade the windows, and it was only after earnest remonstrances and
pledges that this resolve to consign the Advocate to darkness was
abandoned.

He was not permitted the help of lawyer, clerk, or man of business.
Alone and from his chamber of bondage, suffering from bodily infirmities
and from the weakness of advancing age, he was compelled to prepare his
defence against a vague, heterogeneous collection of charges, to meet
which required constant reference, not only to the statutes, privileges,
and customs of the country and to the Roman law, but to a thousand minute
incidents out of which the history of the Provinces during the past dozen
years or more had been compounded.

It is true that no man could be more familiar with the science and
practice of the law than he was, while of contemporary history he was
himself the central figure.  His biography was the chronicle of his
country.  Nevertheless it was a fearful disadvantage for him day by day
to confront two dozen hostile judges comfortably seated at a great table
piled with papers, surrounded by clerks with bags full of documents and
with a library of authorities and precedents duly marked and dog's-eared
and ready to their hands, while his only library and chronicle lay in his
brain.  From day to day, with frequent intermissions, he was led down
through the narrow turret-stairs to a wide chamber on the floor
immediately below his prison, where a temporary tribunal had been
arranged for the special commission.

There had been an inclination at first on the part of his judges to
treat him as a criminal, and to require him to answer, standing, to the
interrogatories propounded to him.  But as the terrible old man advanced
into the room, leaning on his staff, and surveying them with the air of
haughty command habitual to him, they shrank before his glance; several
involuntarily, rising uncovered, to salute him and making way for him to
the fireplace about which many were standing that wintry morning.

He was thenceforth always accommodated with a seat while he listened to
and answered 'ex tempore' the elaborate series of interrogatories which
had been prepared to convict him.

Nearly seven months he had sat with no charges brought against him.  This
was in itself a gross violation of the laws of the land, for according to
all the ancient charters of Holland it was provided that accusation
should follow within six weeks of arrest, or that the prisoner should go
free.  But the arrest itself was so gross a violation of law that respect
for it was hardly to be expected in the subsequent proceedings.  He was a
great officer of the States of Holland.  He had been taken under their
especial protection.  He was on his way to the High Council.  He was in
no sense a subject of the States-General.  He was in the discharge of his
official duty.  He was doubly and trebly sacred from arrest.  The place
where he stood was on the territory of Holland and in the very sanctuary
of her courts and House of Assembly.  The States-General were only as
guests on her soil, and had no domain or jurisdiction there whatever.
He was not apprehended by any warrant or form of law.  It was in time of
peace, and there was no pretence of martial law.  The highest civil
functionary of Holland was invited in the name of its first military
officer to a conference, and thus entrapped was forcibly imprisoned.

At last a board of twenty-four commissioners was created, twelve from
Holland and two from each of the other six provinces.  This affectation
of concession to Holland was ridiculous.  Either the law 'de non
evocando'--according to which no citizen of Holland could be taken out
of the province for trial--was to be respected or it was to be trampled
upon.  If it was to be trampled upon, it signified little whether more
commissioners were to be taken from Holland than from each of the other
provinces, or fewer, or none at all.  Moreover it was pretended that a
majority of the whole board was to be assigned to that province.  But
twelve is not a majority of twenty-four.  There were three fascals or
prosecuting officers, Leeuwen of Utrecht, Sylla of Gelderland, and Antony
Duyck of Holland.  Duyck was notoriously the deadly enemy of Barneveld,
and was destined to succeed to his offices.  It would have been as well
to select Francis Aerssens himself.

It was necessary to appoint a commission because there was no tribunal
appertaining to the States-General.  The general government of the
confederacy had no power to deal with an individual.  It could only
negotiate with the sovereign province to which the individual was
responsible, and demand his punishment if proved guilty of an offence.
There was no supreme court of appeal.  Machinery was provided for
settling or attempting to settle disputes among the members of the
confederacy, and if there was a culprit in this great process it was
Holland itself.  Neither the Advocate nor any one of his associates had
done any act except by authority, express or implied, of that sovereign
State.  Supposing them unquestionably guilty of blackest crimes against
the Generality, the dilemma was there which must always exist by the very
nature of things in a confederacy.  No sovereign can try a fellow
sovereign.  The subject can be tried at home by no sovereign but his own.

The accused in this case were amenable to the laws of Holland only.

It was a packed tribunal.  Several of the commissioners, like Pauw and
Muis for example, were personal enemies of Barneveld.  Many of them were
totally ignorant of law.  Some of them knew not a word of any language
but their mother tongue, although much of the law which they were to
administer was written in Latin.

Before such a court the foremost citizen of the Netherlands, the first
living statesman of Europe, was brought day by day during a period of
nearly three months; coming down stairs from the mean and desolate room
where he was confined to the comfortable apartment below, which had been
fitted up for the commission.

There was no bill of indictment, no arraignment, no counsel.  There were
no witnesses and no arguments.  The court-room contained, as it were,
only a prejudiced and partial jury to pronounce both on law and fact
without a judge to direct them, or advocates to sift testimony and
contend for or against the prisoner's guilt.  The process, for it could
not be called a trial, consisted of a vast series of rambling and tangled
interrogatories reaching over a space of forty years without apparent
connection or relevancy, skipping fantastically about from one period to
another, back and forthwith apparently no other intent than to puzzle the
prisoner, throw him off his balance, and lead him into self-
contradiction.

The spectacle was not a refreshing one.  It was the attempt of a
multitude of pigmies to overthrow and bind the giant.

Barneveld was served with no articles of impeachment.  He asked for a
list in writing of the charges against him, that he might ponder his
answer.  The demand was refused.  He was forbidden the use of pen and ink
or any writing materials.  His papers and books were all taken from him.

He was allowed to consult neither with an advocate nor even with a single
friend.  Alone in his chamber of bondage he was to meditate on his
defence.  Out of his memory and brain, and from these alone, he was to
supply himself with the array of historical facts stretching over a
longer period than the lifetime of many of his judges, and with the
proper legal and historical arguments upon those facts for the
justification of his course.  That memory and brain were capacious and
powerful enough for the task.  It was well for the judges that they had
bound themselves, at the outset, by an oath never to make known what
passed in the courtroom, but to bury all the proceedings in profound
secrecy forever.  Had it been otherwise, had that been known to the
contemporary public which has only been revealed more than two centuries
later, had a portion only of the calm and austere eloquence been heard in
which the Advocate set forth his defence, had the frivolous and ignoble
nature of the attack been comprehended, it might have moved the very
stones in the streets to mutiny.  Hateful as the statesman had been made
by an organized system of calumny, which was continued with unabated
vigour and increased venom sine he had been imprisoned, there was enough
of justice and of gratitude left in the hearts of Netherlanders to resent
the tyranny practised against their greatest man, and the obloquy thus
brought against a nation always devoted to their liberties and laws.

That the political system of the country was miserably defective was no
fault of Barneveld.  He was bound by oath and duty to administer, not
make the laws.  A handful of petty feudal sovereignties such as had once
covered the soil of Europe, a multitude of thriving cities which had
wrested or purchased a mass of liberties, customs, and laws from their
little tyrants, all subjected afterwards, without being blended together,
to a single foreign family, had at last one by one, or two by two,
shaken off that supremacy, and, resuming their ancient and as it were
decapitated individualities, had bound themselves by treaty in the midst
of a war to stand by each other, as if they were but one province, for
purposes of common defence against the common foe.

There had been no pretence of laying down a constitution, of enacting an
organic law.  The day had not come for even the conception of a popular
constitution.  The people had not been invented.  It was not provinces
only, but cities, that had contracted with each other, according to the
very first words of the first Article of Union.  Some of these cities,
like Ghent, Bruges, Antwerp, were Catholic by overwhelming majority, and
had subsequently either fallen away from the confederacy or been
conquered.

And as if to make assurance doubly sure, the Articles of Union not only
reserved to each province all powers not absolutely essential for
carrying on the war in common, but by an express article (the 13th),
declared that Holland and Zealand should regulate the matter of religion
according to their own discretion, while the other provinces might
conform to the provisions of the "Religious Peace" which included mutual
protection for Catholics and Protestants--or take such other order as
seemed most conducive to the religious and secular rights of the
inhabitants.  It was stipulated that no province should interfere with
another in such matters, and that every individual in them all should
remain free in his religion, no man being molested or examined on account
of his creed.  A farther declaration in regard to this famous article was
made to the effect that no provinces or cities which held to the Roman
Catholic religion were to be excluded from the League of Union if they
were ready to conform to its conditions and comport themselves
patriotically.  Language could not be devised to declare more plainly
than was done by this treaty that the central government of the League
had neither wish nor right to concern itself with the religious affairs
of the separate cities or provinces.  If it permitted both Papists and
Protestants to associate themselves against the common foe, it could
hardly have been imagined, when the Articles were drawn, that it would
have claimed the exclusive right to define the minutest points in a
single Protestant creed.

And if the exclusively secular parts of the polity prevailing in the
country were clumsy, irregular, and even monstrous, and if its defects
had been flagrantly demonstrated by recent events, a more reasonable
method of reforming the laws might have been found than the imprisonment
of a man who had faithfully administered them forty years long.

A great commonwealth had grown out of a petty feudal organism, like an
oak from an acorn in a crevice, gnarled and distorted, though wide-
spreading and vigorous.  It seemed perilous to deal radically with such a
polity, and an almost timid conservatism on the part of its guardians in
such an age of tempests might be pardonable.

Moreover, as before remarked, the apparent imbecility resulting from
confederacy and municipalism combined was for a season remedied by the
actual preponderance of Holland.  Two-thirds of the total wealth and
strength of the seven republics being concentrated in one province, the
desired union seemed almost gained by the practical solution of all in
that single republic.  But this was one great cause of the general
disaster.

It would be a thankless and tedious task to wander through the wilderness
of interrogatories and answers extending over three months of time, which
stood in the place of a trial.  The defence of Barneveld was his own
history, and that I have attempted to give in the preceding pages.  A
great part of the accusation was deduced from his private and official
correspondence, and it is for this reason that I have laid such copious
extracts from it before the reader.  No man except the judges and the
States-General had access to those letters, and it was easy therefore, if
needful, to give them a false colouring.  It is only very recently that
they have been seen at all, and they have never been published from that
day to this.

Out of the confused mass of documents appertaining to the trial, a few
generalizations can be made which show the nature of the attack upon him.
He was accused of having permitted Arminius to infuse new opinions into
the University of Leyden, and of having subsequently defended the
appointment of Vorstius to the same place.  He had opposed the National
Synod.  He had made drafts of letters for the King of Great Britain to
sign, recommending mutual toleration on the five disputed points
regarding predestination.  He was the author of the famous Sharp
Resolution.  He had recommended the enlistment by the provinces and towns
of Waartgelders or mercenaries.  He had maintained that those mercenaries
as well as the regular troops were bound in time of peace to be obedient
and faithful, not only to the Generality and the stadholders, but to the
magistrates of the cities and provinces where they were employed, and to
the states by whom they were paid.  He had sent to Leyden, warning the
authorities of the approach of the Prince.  He had encouraged all the
proceedings at Utrecht, writing a letter to the secretary of that
province advising a watch to be kept at the city gates as well as in the
river, and ordering his letter when read to be burned.  He had received
presents from foreign potentates.  He had attempted to damage the
character of his Excellency the Prince by declaring on various occasions
that he aspired to the sovereignty of the country.  He had held a
ciphered correspondence on the subject with foreign ministers of the
Republic.  The north-eastern, which is the main Wady, has a sole uneven
with low swells and falls. It was dry as summer dust: I had expected much
in the way of botanical collection, but the plants were not in flower,
and the trees, stripped of their leaves, looked "black as negroes out of
holiday suits." Here lie the principal ruins, forming a rude parallelogram
from north-east to south-west. The ground plan shows the usual formless
heaps of stones and pebbles, with the bases of squares and oblongs, regular
and irregular, large and small. There were no signs of wells or aqueducts;
and the few furnaces were betrayed only by ashen heaps, thin scatters
of scoriæ, and bits of flux--dark carbonate of lime.

Here and there mounds of the rosy micaceous schist, still unworked,
looked as if it had been washed out by the showers of ages. The general
appearance is that of an ergastulum like Umm Ámil: here perhaps
the ore was crushed and smelted, when not rich enough to be sent
down the Wady for water-working at the place where the inland fort
now is.

The quarrymen, placed at the most likely spots, were ordered to spall rock
for specimens: with their usual perversity, they picked up, when
unwatched, broken bits of useless stuff; they spent the whole day dawdling
over three camel-loads, and they protested against being obliged
to carry the sacks to their tents.

Meanwhile Nájí, who had told marvellous tales concerning a well in the
neighbouring hills, which showed the foundations of houses in its bowels,
was directed to guide Lieutenant Amir.

He objected that the enormous distance would be trying to the stoutest mule,
and yet he did not blush when it was reached after a mile's ride to
the southwest (240° mag.).

It proved to be a long-mouthed pit, sunk in the trap hill-slope some
four fathoms deep, but much filled up; and, so far from being built in,
it had not even the usual wooden platform. Eastward of it, and at the
head of the Wady Shuwaytanah, "the Devilling," lay a square ruin like a
small Mashghal of white quartz: here also were three stones scribbled
with pious ejaculations, such as Yá Allah! and Bismillah, in a modern
Kufic character.

Umm el-Karáyát, "the Mother of the Villages," derives her title,
according to the Baliyy, from the numerous offspring of minor settlements
scattered around her.

We shall pass several on the next day's march, and I am justified
in setting down the number at a dozen. The Wady el-Kibli, the southern
valley, was visited by Lieutenants Amir and Yusuf on April 8th,
when we were encamped below it at Abá'l-Marú[EN#58]. After riding about
six miles to the north-north-west, down the Wady el-Mismáh and up
the Wady el-‘Argah, they reached, on the left bank of the latter,
the ruins known as Marú el-Khaur.

The remains of the daughter are those of the "mother." There are two
large heaps of quartz to the north and to the south-east of the
irregular triangle, whose blunted apex faces northwards: the south-eastern
hill shows an irregular Fahr ("pit") in the reef of white stone, leading
to a number of little tunnels.

I lost all patience with Wellsted,[EN#59] whose blunders concerning
the Umm el-Karáyát are really surprising, even for a sailor on camel-back.
He reaches the ruins after ten miles from the fort, when they lie between
twelve and thirteen from El-Wijh.
He calls the porphyritic trap "dark granite." He makes the grand quartz
formation "limestone, of which the materials used for constructing the
town (coralline!) appear to have been chiefly derived."

He descends the "caves" with ropes and lights; yet he does not
perceive that they are mining shafts and tunnels, puits d'air, adits for
the workmen, and pits by which the ore was "brought to grass." And
the Hydrographic Chart is as bad. It locates the inland fort six miles
and three-quarters from the anchorage, but the mine is thrust eastwards
ten miles and a quarter from the fort; the latter distance being, as has
been seen, little more than the former. Moreover, the ruins are placed to
the north, when they lie nearly on the same parallel of latitude as
El-Wijh. Ahmed Kaptán fixed them, by solar observations, in north lat. 26°
13', so that we made only one mile of southing. It ignores the porphyritic
sub-range in which the "Mother of the Villages" lies: and it brings
close to the east of it the tall peaks of the Tihámat-Balawíyyah' which,
from this point, rise like azure shadows on the horizon. Finally, it
corrupts Umm el-Karáyát to Feyrabat.

"Impossible, but true!"
The night at the ruins was dry and cool, even cold; disturbed only
by the coughing of the men, the moaning of the camels, and the
bleating of the sheep.

We would willingly have spent here another day, but water and forage
were absolutely wanting; and the guides assured us that even greater
marvels, in the shape of ruins and quartz-reefs, lay ahead.

We set out shortly after five a.m. (March 31st): the morning was pearly and
rosy; but puffs of a warmer wind announced the Dufún (local Khamsin),
which promised us three days of ugly working weather. Leaving Umm
el-Karáyát by the upper or eastern valley-fork, we soon fell into
and descended its absorbent, the broad (northern) Wady el-Khaur. Upon
the right bank of the latter rose the lesser "Mountain of Quartz," a
cone white as snow, looking shadowy and ghostly in the petit jour,
the dim light of morning. For the next two hours (= seven miles) we
saw on both sides nothing but veins and outcrops of "Marú," worked as
well as unworked. All was bare and barren as the gypsum: the hardy ‘Aushaz
(Lycium), allied to the tea-tree, is the only growth that takes root in
humus-filled hollows of the stone.

Presently the quartz made way for long lines and broad patches of a
yellow-white, heat-altered clay, often revetted with iron, and passably
aping the nobler rock: from one reef I picked up what appeared to
be trachyte, white like that of Shaghab.

The hill-casing of the valley forms no regular line; the heaps of black,
red, and rusty trap are here detached and pyramidal, there cliffing
as if in presence of the sea. The vegetation improved as we advanced;
the trees were no longer black and heat-blasted; and we recognized
once more the dandelion, the thistle, the senna, the Aristida grass,
and other familiar growths.

Tents, shepherds, and large flocks of goats and kids showed that water
was not distant; and, here in Baliyy-land, even the few young women seemed
to have no fear of the white face.

After a slow, dull ride in the burning and sickly wind, we
crossed the head of our former route, Wady Zurayb the Ugly, and
presently entered the Wady el-Kubbah ("of the Cupola,"), where our
immediate destination rose before us.

It is a grisly black saddleback, banded with two perpendicular stripes
of dark stone that shines like specular iron; and upon its tall northern
end, the pommel, stands a small ruin, the oft spoken of "Dome." Sketches
of paths wind up the western flank; but upon this line, we were assured,
no ruins are seen save a few pits. So we rounded the block by the north,
following the broad Wady to the Máyat el-Kubbah, water-pits in the sand
whose produce had not been libelled when described as salt, scanty,
and stinking. The track then turned up a short, broad branch-Wady, running
from south to north, and falling into the left bank of the "Dome Valley:"
a few yards brought us to a halt at the ruins of El-Kubbah. We had
pushed on sharply during the last half of the way, and our morning's
ride had lasted four hours (= thirteen miles).

The remains lie in the uneven quartzose basin at the head of the little
lateral watercourse: they are built with good cement, and they evidently
belong to the race that worked the "Mother of the Villages;" but there
is nothing to distinguish them except the ruins of a large Sákiyah
("draw-well"), with its basin of weathered alabaster. We were perplexed
by the shallow conical pits in the porphyritic trap, to the east and west
of the "Dome Hill;" the ground is too porous for rain cisterns, and the
depth is not sufficient for quarrying.

The furnaces showed the normal slag; but the only "metals" lying
around them were poor iron-clay, and a shining black porphyry, onyxed
with the whitest quartz. There were, however, extensive scatters of Negro,
which had evidently been brought there; and presently we found large
heaps of rosy-coloured, washed-out schist.[EN#60] These explained the
raison d'être of this dreary and dismal hole.

Meanwhile the juniors ascended the rocky "Kubbah" hill, which proved
to be a small matter of 120 feet (aner. 29.34) above the valley-sole
(aner. 29.46).

The "Dome" was nothing but a truncated circle of wall, porphyry and cement,
just large enough to hold a man; the cupola-roof, if there ever had
been one, was clean gone; and adjoining it yawned a rock-cut pit some
fifteen feet deep. I came to the conclusion that here might have been
a look-out where, possibly, the "bale-fire" was also lit. The
"ascensionists" brought back a very healthy thirst.

We rested till noon in the filmy shade of the thorn-trees. The caravan
was at once sent forward to reach the only good water, lying, said the
guides, many a mile beyond. We had made up our minds for a good long
march; and I was not a little vexed when, after half an hour, we were led
out of the Wady el-Kubbah, whose head, our proper line, lies to the north,
into its eastern influent, the Wady el-Dasnah. Here, after an afternoon
"spell" of forty-five minutes (= two miles and a half), and a total of
four hours and forty-five minutes (= fifteen miles and a half), a day
nearly half wasted, we found the tents pitched. The heat had strewed the
Wady with soldiers and quarrymen; and the large pit in the bed,
supplying "water sweet as the Nile,', showed a swarm of struggling
blacks, which the Egyptian officers compared with Aráfít or "demons;"
we with large pismires.

A sentinel was placed to prevent waste and pollution at the Máyat el-Dasnah,
whose position is in north lat. 26° 23'.

April Fools' day was another that deserved to be marked with a white
stone. I aroused the camp at 3.30 a.m., in order that the camels
might load with abundance of water: we were to reach the springs of Umm
Gezáz, but a presentiment told me that we might want drink. At that
hour the camp was a melancholy sight: the Europeans surly because
they had discussed a bottle of cognac when they should have slept;
the good Sayyid without his coffee, and perhaps without his prayers;
Wakíl Mohammed sorrowfully attempting to gnaw tooth-breaking biscuit;
and the Bedawin working and walking like somnambules.

However, at 5.10 a.m. we struck north, over a low divide of trap hill,
by a broad and evidently made road, and regained the Wady el-Kubbah: here
it is a pleasant spectacle rich in trees, and vocal with the cooing of
the turtle-dove. After an hour's sharp riding we reached its head, a
fair round plain some two miles across, and rimmed with hills of red,
green, and black plutonics, the latter much resembling coal. It
was a replica of the Sadr-basin below the Hismá, even to the
Khuraytah or "Pass" at the northern end.

Here, however, the Col is a mere bogus; that is, no raised plateau
lies beyond it.

We crossed a shallow prism and a feeding-basin: an ugly little gorge
then led to the important Wady Sirr. We are now in the hydrographic area
of the Wady Nejd,[EN#61] which, numbering influents by the dozen,
falls into the Salbah (Thalbah) of Sharm Dumaghah. The Sirr, though still
far from its mouth, is at least three miles broad; and the guides
speak of it as the Asl el-Balawíyyah, or "Old Home of the Baliyy." The
view from its bed is varied and extensive. Behind us lies the Tihámat-Balawíyyah,
the equivalent of the Gháts of North Midian, from the Zahd to the Shárr.
The items are the little Jebel ‘Antar, which, peeping over the
Fiumara's high left bank, is continued south by the lower Libn.

The latter attaches to the higher Libn, whose triad of peaks, the central
and highest built of three distinct castellations, flush and blush
with a delicate pink-white cheek as it receives the hot caresses of the
sun.

We are now haunted by the Libn, which, like its big brother the Shárr,
seems everywhere to accompany us.

Beyond the neutral ground, over which we are travelling, appear in front
the pale-blue heights bordering the Wady Nejd to the north-west,
and apparently connected with the Jebelayn el-Jayy in the far north
(30° mag.).

To the north-east the view is closed by the lumpy Jebel el-Kurr (the Qorh
of Arabian geographers?); followed southwards by the peaked wall of the
Jebel el-Ward, and by El-Safhah with its "Pins." For the last eighteen
miles we had seen no quartz, which, however, might have veined the
underground-rock. The sole of the Sirr now appeared spread with snow,
streaked and patched with thin white paint; the stones were mostly
water-rolled, the discharge of valleys draining from afar.
The ground was unpleasantly pitted and holed; the camels were weak with
semi-starvation and the depressing south-wester; Lieutenant Amir
put his dromedary to speed, resulting in a nose-flattening fall; and
the Sayyid nearly followed suit.

This is our second day of Khamsin; yet on the northern slope of the great
Fiumara we meet the cool land-wind. Either it or the sea-breeze generally
sets in between seven and eight a.m., when the stony, sandy world has
been thoroughly sunned. The short divide beyond the far bank of the Sirr
is strewn with glittering mica-schist that takes the forms of
tree-trunks and rotten wood; and with dark purple-blue fragments
of clay-slate looking as if they had been worked.

A counterslope of the same material, which makes excellent path-metal
placed us in the Wady Rubayyigh ("the Little Rábigh" or "Green-grown
Spring"), a short and proportionally very broad branch draining to the
Sirr. Here large outcrops of quartz mingled with the clay slate. A few
yards further it abutted upon a small gravelly basin with ruins and a
huge white reef of "Mará," which caused a precipitate dismounting. We had
marched only four hours (= thirteen miles); but the loss of time has
its compensations. Our Arabs, who consider this a fair day's work,
will now, in hopes of a halt, show us every strew of quartz and every
fragment of wall. They congratulated us upon reaching a part of their
country absolutely unvisited by Europeans.

The site of our discovery was the water-parting of the Wady Rubayyigh
with the Wady Rábigh, both feeders of the Sirr; this to the north, that
to the south. The ruins, known as Umm el-Haráb, "Mother of Desolation,"
are the usual basement-lines: they lie in the utterly waterless basin,
our camping-ground, stretching west of Mará Rubayyigh, the big
white reef.

This "Mother" bears nearly north of Umm el-Karáyát, in north lat. 26°
33' 36" (Ahmed Kaptán): her altitude was made upwards of a thousand
feet above sea-level (aner. 28.92)
At Umm el-Haráb we saw for the first time an open mine, scientifically
worked by the men of old.

They chose a pear-shaped quartz-reef; the upper dome exposed, the converging
slopes set and hidden in green trap to the east and west, and the
invisible stalk extending downwards, probably deep into Earth's
bowels.
They began by sinking, as we see from certain rounded apertures, a line
of shafts striking north-north-east (45°--50° mag.) to south-south-west
across the summit, which may measure one hundred and twenty yards. The
intervening sections of the roof are now broken away; and a great yawning
crevasse in the hill-top gives this saddleback of bare cream-coloured
rock, spangled with white where recently fractured, the semblance
of a "comb" or cresting reef.

We descended into this chasm, whose slope varies from a maximum of 45° to
a minimum of 36° at the south. The depth apparently did not exceed
thirty feet, making allowance for the filling up of centuries; but
in places the hollow sound of the hammer suggested profounder pits and
wells. I should greatly doubt that such shallow sinking as this could
have worked out any beyond the upper part of the vein. Here it measures
from six to eight feet in diameter, diminishing to four and a half and
even three below.
The sloping roof has been defended from collapse by large pillars of the
rock, left standing as in the old Egyptian quarries; it shows the
clumsy but efficient practice that preceded timbering.
The material worked was evidently the pink-coloured and silver-scaled
micaceous schist; but there was also a whitish quartz, rich in
geodes and veinlets of dark-brown and black dust.

The only inhabitants of the cave, bats and lizards (Gongylus ocellatus,
L., etc.), did not prevent M. Lacaze making careful study of the excavation;
the necessity of brown shadows, however, robs the scene of its charm,
the delicate white which still shimmers under its transparent veil of
shade. Similar features exist at El-Muwaylah and El-Aujah, in the
wilderness of Kadesh:
but those are latomiæ; these are gold mines.[EN#62]
Another sign of superior labour is shown by the quartz-crushing implements.
Here they are of three kinds: coarse and rough basaltic lava for the
first and rudest work; red granite and syenitic granite for the next
stage; and, lastly, an admirable handmill of the compactest grey granite,
smooth as glass and hard as iron. Around the pin-hole are raised and
depressed concentric circles intended for ornament; and the "dishing"
towards the rim is regular as if turned by machinery. We have seen as yet
nothing like this work; nor shall we see anything superior to it. All
are nether millstones, so carefully smashed that one can hardly help
suspecting the kind of superstitious feeling which suggested iconoclasm.
The venerable Shaykh ‘Afnán showed a touching ignorance concerning the
labours of the ancients; and, when lectured about the Nabat
(Nabathæans), only exclaimed, "Allah, Allah!"
In the evening we ascended the porphyry hills to the north of the
little camping-basin; and we found the heights striped by two large
vertical bands of quartz.

The eastern vein, like the Jebel el-Marú, has a north-east to south-west
strike (45° mag.); the western runs east-west with a dip to south.
From the summit we could see that the quartz-mountain, as usual an exaggerated
vein, is hemmed in on both sides by outcrops and hills of trap, black,
green, and yellow, which culminate eastward in the Jebel el-Guráb
(Juráb). We had a fine bird's-eye view of the Wady Rábigh, and of our
next day's march towards the Shafah Mountains: the former was white
with quartz as if hail-strewn.

Far beyond its right bank rose an Ash'hab, or "grey head," which
seemed to promise quartzose granite: it will prove an important feature.
Before sleeping, I despatched to El-Wijh two boxes of micaceous
schist and two bags of quartz, loads for a pair of camels.

Chapter XVII.
The March Continued to El-Badá–Description of the Plain Badais.

After the exciting scenes of the last three days, this stage was dull
riding, and consequently, I fear, it will be dull reading as well
as writing.

We set off afoot betimes (5.10 a.m.) in the still warm morning that augured
Khamsín: the third day was now telling heavily on man and beast. A
walk of ten minutes led down the rough line of the little water-course
draining the Marú
Rubayyigh to the Wady Rábigh. At a re-entering angle of the junction,
a shallow pit was sunk; the sand became moist and red, and presently
it was underlaid by a rubble of porphyritic trap.
Nothing more!

We then crossed the Wady Rábigh, another of the short broad valleys which
distinguish this section of South Midian.

The bed sides, especially the right, are heaps and mounds of snowy quartz,
with glittering crowns of block and boulder: all prove to be veins in
the grey granite, whose large coarse elements are decomposed by weather.
The dark and rusty walls of the valley also discharge the white stone
in shunts and shoots: here and there they might be mistaken for Goz
("sand-banks") heaped up by the wind, except that these are clad in
thin vegetation, whereas the "Maru'" is mostly mother-naked. We
halted here for rest and to examine these features: despite the Khamsín,
the Great Gaster became querulous; hunger was now the chief
complaint, and even the bon ordinaire had lost much of its attraction.

A harmless snake was killed and bottled; its silver robe was beautifully
banded with a line, pink as the circles of the "cobra coral," which
ran along the whole length of the back.

It proved to be a new species; and Dr. Gunther named it Zamenis
elegantissimus.

Beyond the Rábigh, we ascended a lateral valley, whence a low divide led
to the Wady el-Bahrah ("of the Basin"), another feeder of the Sirr. It
was also snow-white, and on the right of the path lay black heaps, Hawáwít,
"ruins" not worth the delay of a visit.
Then began a short up-slope with a longer counterslope, on which we met a
party of Huwaytát, camel-men and foot-men going to buy grain at El-Wigh.
Another apparition was a spear-man bestriding a bare-backed colt; after
reconnoitering us for some time, he yielded to the temptations of curiosity.
It afterwards struck us that, mounted on our mules, preceded and
followed by the Shaykhs riding their dromedaries, we must have
looked mighty like a party of prisoners being marched inland.

The horseman was followed by a rough-coated, bear-eared hound of the kind
described by Wellsted[EN#63] as "resembling the English mastiff"--he did
not know how common is the beast further north.He replied that this was a notorious falsehood and calumny, adding that
it ill accorded with the proclamation against the Jesuits drawn up by
himself some years after the Truce.  He furthermore stated that it was
chiefly by his direction that the discourse of President Jeannin--urging
on part of the French king that liberty of worship might be granted to
the Papists--was kept secret, copies of it not having been furnished even
to the commissioners of the Provinces.

His indignant denial of this charge, especially taken in connection with
his repeated assertions during the trial, that among the most patriotic
Netherlanders during and since the war were many adherents of the ancient
church, seems marvellously in contradiction with his frequent and most
earnest pleas for liberty of conscience.  But it did not appear
contradictory even to his judges nor to any contemporary.  His position
had always been that the civil authority of each province was supreme in
all matters political or ecclesiastical.  The States-General, all the
provinces uniting in the vote, had invited the Catholic provinces on more
than one occasion to join the Union, promising that there should be no
interference on the part of any states or individuals with the internal
affairs religious or otherwise of the provinces accepting the invitation.
But it would have been a gross contradiction of his own principle if he
had promised so to direct matters that the Catholics should have public
right of worship in Holland where he knew that the civil authority was
sure to refuse it, or in any of the other six provinces in whose internal
affairs he had no voice whatever.  He was opposed to all tyranny over
conscience, he would have done his utmost to prevent inquisition into
opinion, violation of domicile, interference with private worship,
compulsory attendance in Protestant churches of those professing the
Roman creed.  This was not attempted.  No Catholic was persecuted on
account of his religion.  Compared with the practice in other countries
this was a great step in advance.  Religious tolerance lay on the road to
religious equality, a condition which had hardly been imagined then and
scarcely exists in Europe even to this day.  But among the men in history
whose life and death contributed to the advancement of that blessing, it
would be vain to deny that Barneveld occupies a foremost place.

Moreover, it should be remembered that religious equality then would have
been a most hazardous experiment.  So long as Church and State were
blended, it was absolutely essential at that epoch for the preservation
of Protestantism to assign the predominance to the State.  Should the
Catholics have obtained religious equality, the probable result would
before long have been religious inequality, supremacy of the Catholics
in the Church, and supremacy of the Church over the State.  The fruits of
the forty years' war would have become dust and ashes.  It would be mere
weak sentimentalism to doubt--after the bloody history which had just
closed and the awful tragedy, then reopening--that every spark of
religious liberty would have soon been trodden out in the Netherlands.
The general onslaught of the League with Ferdinand, Maximilian of
Bavaria, and Philip of Spain at its head against the distracted,
irresolute, and wavering line of Protestantism across the whole of Europe
was just preparing.  Rather a wilderness to reign over than a single
heretic, was the war-cry of the Emperor.  The King of Spain, as we have
just been reading in his most secret, ciphered despatches to the Archduke
at Brussels, was nursing sanguine hopes and weaving elaborate schemes for
recovering his dominion over the United Netherlands, and proposing to
send an army of Jesuits thither to break the way to the reconquest.
To play into his hands then, by granting public right of worship to the
Papists, would have been in Barneveld's opinion like giving up Julich and
other citadels in the debatable land to Spain just as the great war
between Catholicism and Protestantism was breaking out.  There had been
enough of burning and burying alive in the Netherlands during the century
which had closed.  It was not desirable to give a chance for their
renewal now.

In regard to the Synod, Barneveld justified his course by a simple
reference to the 13th Article of the Union.  Words could not more plainly
prohibit the interference by the States-General with the religious
affairs of any one of the Provinces than had been done by that celebrated
clause.  In 1583 there had been an attempt made to amend that article by
insertion of a pledge to maintain the Evangelical, Reformed, religion
solely, but it was never carried out.  He disdained to argue so self-
evident a truth, that a confederacy which had admitted and constantly
invited Catholic states to membership, under solemn pledge of
noninterference with their religious affairs, had no right to lay down
formulas for the Reformed Church throughout all the Netherlands.  The
oath of stadholder and magistrates in Holland to maintain the Reformed
religion was framed before this unhappy controversy on predestination had
begun, and it was mere arrogant assumption on the part of the Contra-
Remonstrants to claim a monopoly of that religion, and to exclude the
Remonstrants from its folds.

He had steadily done his utmost to assuage those dissensions while
maintaining the laws which he was sworn to support.  He had advocated a
provincial synod to be amicably assisted by divines from neighbouring
countries.  He had opposed a National Synod unless unanimously voted by
the Seven Provinces, because it would have been an open violation of the
fundamental law of the confederacy, of its whole spirit, and of liberty
of conscience.  He admitted that he had himself drawn up a protest on the
part of three provinces (Holland, Utrecht, and Overyssel) against the
decree for the National Synod as a breach of the Union, declaring it to
be therefore null and void and binding upon no man.  He had dictated the
protest as oldest member present, while Grotius as the youngest had acted
as scribe.  He would have supported the Synod if legally voted, but would
have preferred the convocation, under the authority of all the provinces,
of a general, not a national, synod, in which, besides clergy and laymen
from the Netherlands, deputations from all Protestant states and churches
should take part; a kind of Protestant oecumenical council.

As to the enlistment, by the States of a province, of soldiers to keep
the peace and suppress tumults in its cities during times of political
and religious excitement, it was the most ordinary of occurrences.  In
his experience of more than forty years he had never heard the right even
questioned.  It was pure ignorance of law and history to find it a
novelty.

To hire temporarily a sufficient number of professional soldiers, he
considered a more wholesome means of keeping the peace than to enlist one
portion of the citizens of a town against another portion, when party and
religious spirit was running high.  His experience had taught him that
the mutual hatred of the inhabitants, thus inflamed, became more lasting
and mischievous than the resentment caused through suppression of
disorder by an armed and paid police of strangers.

It was not only the right but the most solemn duty of the civil authority
to preserve the tranquillity, property, and lives of citizens committed
to their care.  "I have said these fifty years," said Barneveld, "that it
is better to be governed by magistrates than mobs.  I have always
maintained and still maintain that the most disastrous, shameful, and
ruinous condition into which this land can fall is that in which the
magistrates are overcome by the rabble of the towns and receive laws
from them.  Nothing but perdition can follow from that."

There had been good reason to believe that the French garrisons as
well as some of the train bands could not be thoroughly relied upon
in emergencies like those constantly breaking out, and there had been
advices of invasion by sympathizers from neighbouring countries.  In many
great cities the civil authority had been trampled upon and mob rule had
prevailed.  Certainly the recent example in the great commercial capital
of the country--where the house of a foremost citizen had been besieged,
stormed, and sacked, and a virtuous matron of the higher class hunted
like a wild beast through the streets by a rabble grossly ignorant of the
very nature of the religious quibble which had driven them mad, pelted
with stones, branded with vilest names, and only saved by accident from
assassination, while a church-going multitude looked calmly on--with
constantly recurring instances in other important cities were sufficient
reasons for the authorities to be watchful.

He denied that he had initiated the proceedings at Utrecht in
conversation with Ledenberg or any one else, but he had not refused, he
said, his approval of the perfectly legal measures adopted for keeping
the peace there when submitted to him.  He was himself a born citizen of
that province, and therefore especially interested in its welfare, and
there was an old and intimate friendship between Utrecht and Holland.  It
would have been painful to him to see that splendid city in the control
of an ignorant mob, making use of religious problems, which they did not
comprehend, to plunder the property and take the lives of peaceful
citizens more comfortably housed than themselves.

He had neither suggested nor controlled the proceedings at Utrecht.  On
the contrary, at an interview with the Prince and Count William on the
13th July, and in the presence of nearly thirty members of the general
assembly, he had submitted a plan for cashiering the enlisted soldiery
and substituting for them other troops, native-born, who should be sworn
in the usual form to obey the laws of the Union.  The deputation from
Holland to Utrecht, according to his personal knowledge, had received no
instructions personal or oral to authorize active steps by the troops of
the Holland quota, but to abstain from them and to request the Prince
that they should not be used against the will and commands of the States
of Utrecht, whom they were bound by oath to obey so long as they were in
garrison there.

No man knew better than he whether the military oath which was called
new-fangled were a novelty or not, for he had himself, he said, drawn it
up thirty years before at command of the States-General by whom it was
then ordained.  From that day to this he had never heard a pretence that
it justified anything not expressly sanctioned by the Articles of Union,
and neither the States of Holland nor those of Utrecht had made any
change in the oath.  The States of Utrecht were sovereign within their
own territory, and in the time of peace neither the Prince of Orange
without their order nor the States-General had the right to command the
troops in their territory.  The governor of a province was sworn to obey
the laws of the province and conform to the Articles of the General
Union.

He was asked why he wrote the warning letter to Ledenberg, and why he was
so anxious that the letter should be burned; as if that were a deadly
offence.

He said that he could not comprehend why it should be imputed to him
as a crime that he wished in such turbulent times to warn so important
a city as Utrecht, the capital of his native province, against tumults,
disorders, and sudden assaults such as had often happened to her in times
past.  As for the postscript requesting that the letter might be put in
the fire, he said that not being a member of, the government of that
province he was simply unwilling to leave a record that "he had been too
curious in aliens republics, although that could hardly be considered a
grave offence."

In regard to the charge that he had accused Prince Maurice of aspiring to
the sovereignty of the country, he had much to say.  He had never brought
such accusation in public or private.  He had reason to believe however--
he had indeed convincing proofs--that many people, especially those
belonging to the Contra-Remonstrant party, cherished such schemes.  He
had never sought to cast suspicion on the Prince himself on account of
those schemes.  On the contrary, he had not even formally opposed them.
What he wished had always been that such projects should be discussed
formally, legally, and above board.  After the lamentable murder of the
late Prince he had himself recommended to the authorities of some of the
cities that the transaction for bestowing the sovereignty of Holland upon
William, interrupted by his death, "should be completed in favour of
Prince Maurice in despite of the Spaniard."  Recently he had requested
Grotius to look up the documents deposited in Rotterdam belonging to this
affair, in order that they might be consulted.

He was asked whether according to Buzenval, the former French ambassador,
Prince Maurice had not declared he would rather fling himself from the
top of the Hague tower than accept the sovereignty.  Barneveld replied
that the Prince according to the same authority had added "under the
conditions which had been imposed upon his father;" a clause which
considerably modified the self-denying statement.  It was desirable
therefore to search the acts for the limitations annexed to the
sovereignty.

Three years long there had been indications from various sources that a
party wished to change the form of government.  He had not heard nor ever
intimated that the Prince suggested such intrigues.  In anonymous
pamphlets and common street and tavern conversations the Contra-
Remonstrants were described by those of their own persuasion as
"Prince's Beggars" and the like.  He had received from foreign countries
information worthy of attention, that it was the design of the Contra-
Remonstrants to raise the Prince to the sovereignty.  He had therefore in
1616 brought the matter before the nobles and cities in a communication
setting forth to the best of his recollection that under these religious
disputes something else was intended.  He had desired ripe conclusions on
the matter, such as should most conduce to the service of the country.
This had been in good faith both to the Prince and the Provinces, in
order that, should a change in the government be thought desirable,
proper and peaceful means might be employed to bring it about.  He had
never had any other intention than to sound the inclinations of those
with whom he spoke, and he had many times since that period, by word of
mouth and in writing, so lately as the month of April last assured the
Prince that he had ever been his sincere and faithful servant and meant
to remain so to the end of his life, desiring therefore that he would
explain to him his wishes and intentions.

Subsequently he had publicly proposed in full Assembly of Holland that
the States should ripely deliberate and roundly declare if they were
discontented with the form of government, and if so, what change they
would desire.  He had assured their Mightinesses that they might rely
upon him to assist in carrying out their intentions whatever they might
be.  He had inferred however from the Prince's intimations, when he had
broached the subject to him in 1617, that he was not inclined towards
these supposed projects, and had heard that opinion distinctly expressed
from the mouth of Count William.

That the Contra-Remonstrants secretly entertained these schemes,
he had been advised from many quarters, at home and abroad.  In the year
1618 he had received information to that effect from France.  Certain
confidential counsellors of the Prince had been with him recently to
confer on the subject.  He had told them that, if his Excellency chose
to speak to him in regard to it, would listen to his reasoning about it,
both as regarded the interests of the country and the Prince himself,
and then should desire him to propose and advocate it before the
Assembly, he would do so with earnestness, zeal, and affection.  He had
desired however that, in case the attempt failed, the Prince would allow
him to be relieved from service and to leave the country.  What he wished
from the bottom of his heart was that his Excellency would plainly
discover to him the exact nature of his sentiments in regard to the
business.

He fully admitted receiving a secret letter from Ambassador Langerac,
apprising him that a man of quality in France had information of the
intention of the Contra-Remonstrants throughout the Provinces, should
they come into power, to raise Prince Maurice to the sovereignty.  He
had communicated on the subject with Grotius and other deputies in order
that, if this should prove to be the general inclination, the affair
might be handled according to law, without confusion or disorder.  This,
he said, would be serving both the country and the Prince most
judiciously.

He was asked why he had not communicated directly with Maurice.  He
replied that he had already seen how unwillingly the Prince heard him
allude to the subject, and that moreover there was another clause in
the letter of different meaning, and in his view worthy of grave
consideration by the States.

No question was asked him as to this clause, but we have seen that it
referred to the communication by du Agean to Langerac of a scheme for
bestowing the sovereignty of the Provinces on the King of France.  The
reader will also recollect that Barneveld had advised the Ambassador to
communicate the whole intelligence to the Prince himself.

Barneveld proceeded to inform the judges that he had never said a word to
cast suspicion upon the Prince, but had been actuated solely by the
desire to find out the inclination of the States.  The communications
which he had made on the subject were neither for discrediting the Prince
nor for counteracting the schemes for his advancement.  On the contrary,
he had conferred with deputies from great cities like Dordtrecht,
Enkhuyzen, and Amsterdam, most devoted to the Contra-Remonstrant party,
and had told them that, if they chose to propose the subject themselves,
he would conduct himself to the best of his abilities in accordance with
the wishes of the Prince.

It would seem almost impossible for a statesman placed in Barneveld's
position to bear himself with more perfect loyalty both to the country
and to the Stadholder.  His duty was to maintain the constitution and
laws so long as they remained unchanged.  Should it appear that the
States, which legally represented the country, found the constitution
defective, he was ready to aid in its amendment by fair public and legal
methods.

If Maurice wished to propose himself openly as a candidate for the
sovereignty, which had a generation before been conferred upon his
father, Barneveld would not only acquiesce in the scheme, but propose it.

Should it fail, he claimed the light to lay down all his offices and go
into exile.

He had never said that the Prince was intriguing for, or even desired,
the sovereignty.  That the project existed among the party most opposed
to himself, he had sufficient proof.  To the leaders of that party
therefore he suggested that the subject should be publicly discussed,
guaranteeing freedom of debate and his loyal support so far as lay within
his power.

This was his answer to the accusation that he had meanly, secretly, and
falsely circulated statements that the Prince was aspiring to the
sovereignty.

     [Great pains were taken, in the course of the interrogatories, to
     elicit proof that the Advocate had concealed important diplomatic
     information from the Prince.  He was asked why, in his secret
     instructions to Ambassador Langerac, he ordered him by an express
     article to be very cautious about making communications to the
     Prince.  Searching questions were put in regard to these secret
     instructions, which I have read in the Archives, and a copy of which
     now lies before me.  They are in the form of questions, some of them
     almost puerile ones, addressed to Barneveld by the Ambassador then
     just departing on his mission to France in 1614, with the answers
     written in the margin by the Advocate.  The following is all that
     has reference to the Prince:
     "Of what matters may I ordinarily write to his Excellency?"
     Answer--"Of all great and important matters."
     It was difficult to find much that was treasonable in that.]

Among the heterogeneous articles of accusation he was asked why he had
given no attention to those who had so, frequently proposed the formation
of the West India Company.

He replied that it had from old time been the opinion of the States of
Holland, and always his own, that special and private licenses for
traffic, navigation, and foreign commerce, were prejudicial to the
welfare of the land.  He had always been most earnestly opposed to them,
detesting monopolies which interfered with that free trade and navigation
which should be common to all mankind.  He had taken great pains however
in the years 1596 and 1597 to study the nature of the navigation and
trade to the East Indies in regard to the nations to be dealt with in
those regions, the nature of the wares bought and sold there, the
opposition to be encountered from the Spaniards and Portuguese against
the commerce of the Netherlanders, and the necessity of equipping vessels
both for traffic and defence, and had come to the conclusion that these
matters could best be directed by a general company.  He explained in
detail the manner in which he had procured the blending of all the
isolated chambers into one great East India Corporation, the enormous
pains which it had cost him to bring it about, and the great commercial
and national success which had been the result.  The Admiral of Aragon,
when a prisoner after the battle of Nieuwpoort, had told him, he said,
that the union of these petty corporations into one great whole had been
as disastrous a blow to the kingdoms of Spain and Portugal as the Union
of the Provinces at Utrecht had been.  In regard to the West India
Company, its sole object, so far as he could comprehend it, had been to
equip armed vessels, not for trade but to capture and plunder Spanish
merchantmen and silver fleets in the West Indies and South America.  This
was an advantageous war measure which he had favoured while the war
lasted.  It was in no sense a commercial scheme however, and when the
Truce had been made--the company not having come into existence--he
failed to comprehend how its formation could be profitable for the
Netherlanders.  On the contrary it would expressly invite or irritate the
Spaniards into a resumption of the war, an object which in his humble
opinion was not at all desirable.

Certainly these ideas were not especially reprehensible, but had they
been as shallow and despicable as they seem to us enlightened, it is
passing strange that they should have furnished matter for a criminal
prosecution.

It was doubtless a disappointment for the promoters of the company, the
chief of whom was a bankrupt, to fail in obtaining their charter, but it
was scarcely high-treason to oppose it.  There is no doubt however that
the disapprobation with which Barneveld regarded the West India Company,
the seat of which was at Amsterdam, was a leading cause of the deadly
hostility entertained for him by the great commercial metropolis.

It was bad enough for the Advocate to oppose unconditional predestination
and the damnation of infants, but to frustrate a magnificent system of
privateering on the Spaniards in time of truce was an unpardonable crime.

The patience with which the venerable statesman submitted to the taunts,
ignorant and insolent cross-questionings, and noisy interruptions of his
judges, was not less remarkable than the tenacity of memory which enabled
him thus day after day, alone, unaided by books, manuscripts, or friendly
counsel, to reconstruct the record of forty years, and to expound the
laws of the land by an array of authorities, instances, and illustrations
in a manner that would be deemed masterly by one who had all the
resources of libraries, documents, witnesses, and secretaries at command.

Only when insidious questions were put tending to impute to him
corruption, venality, and treacherous correspondence with the enemy--for
they never once dared formally to accuse him of treason--did that almost
superhuman patience desert him.

He was questioned as to certain payments made by him to a certain van der
Vecken in Spanish coin.  He replied briefly at first that his money
transactions with that man of business extended over a period of twenty
or thirty years, and amounted to many hundred thousands of florins,
growing out of purchases and sales of lands, agricultural enterprises on
his estates, moneys derived from his professional or official business
and the like.  It was impossible for him to remember the details of every
especial money payment that might have occurred between them.

Then suddenly breaking forth into a storm of indignation; he could mark
from these questions, he said, that his enemies, not satisfied with
having wounded his heart with their falsehoods, vile forgeries, and
honour-robbing libels, were determined to break it.  This he prayed that
God Almighty might avert and righteously judge between him and them.

It was plain that among other things they were alluding to the stale and
senseless story of the sledge filled with baskets of coin sent by the
Spanish envoys on their departure from the Hague, on conclusion of the
Truce, to defray expenses incurred by them for board and lodging of
servants, forage of horses, and the like-which had accidentally stopped
at Barneveld's door and was forthwith sent on to John Spronssen,
superintendent of such affairs.  Passing over this wanton bit of calumny
with disgust, he solemnly asserted that he had never at any period of his
life received one penny nor the value of one penny from the King of
Spain, the Archdukes, Spinola, or any other person connected with the
enemy, saving only the presents publicly and mutually conferred according
to invariable custom by the high contracting parties, upon the respective
negotiators at conclusion of the Treaty of Truce.  Even these gifts
Barneveld had moved his colleagues not to accept, but proposed that they
should all be paid into the public treasury.  He had been overruled, he
said, but that any dispassionate man of tolerable intelligence could
imagine him, whose whole life had been a perpetual offence to Spain,
to be in suspicious relations with that power seemed to him impossible.
The most intense party spirit, yea, envy itself, must confess that he had
been among the foremost to take up arms for his country's liberties, and
had through life never faltered in their defence.  And once more in that
mean chamber, and before a row of personal enemies calling themselves
judges, he burst into an eloquent and most justifiable sketch of the
career of one whom there was none else to justify and so many to assail.

From his youth, he said, he had made himself by his honourable and
patriotic deeds hopelessly irreconcilable with the Spaniards.  He was one
of the advocates practising in the Supreme Court of Holland, who in the
very teeth of the Duke of Alva had proclaimed him a tyrant and had sworn
obedience to the Prince of Orange as the lawful governor of the land.  He
was one of those who in the same year had promoted and attended private
gatherings for the advancement of the Reformed religion.  He had helped
to levy, and had contributed to, funds for the national defence in the
early days of the revolt.  These were things which led directly to the
Council of Blood and the gibbet.  He had borne arms himself on various
bloody fields and had been perpetually a deputy to the rebel camps.  He
had been the original mover of the Treaty of Union which was concluded
between the Provinces at Utrecht.  He had been the first to propose and
to draw up the declaration of Netherland independence and the abjuration
of the King of Spain.  He had been one of those who had drawn and passed
the Act establishing the late Prince of Orange as stadholder.  Of the
sixty signers of these memorable declarations none were now living save
himself and two others.  When the Prince had been assassinated, he had
done his best to secure for his son Maurice the sovereign position of
which murder had so suddenly deprived the father.  He had been member of
the memorable embassies to France and England by which invaluable support
for the struggling Provinces had been obtained.

And thus he rapidly sketched the history of the great war of independence
in which he had ever been conspicuously employed on the patriotic side.
When the late King of France at the close of the century had made peace
with Spain, he had been sent as special ambassador to that monarch, and
had prevailed on him, notwithstanding his treaty with the enemy, to
continue his secret alliance with the States and to promise them a large
subsidy, pledges which had been sacredly fulfilled.  It was on that
occasion that Henry, who was his debtor for past services, professional,
official, and perfectly legitimate, had agreed, when his finances should
be in better condition, to discharge his obligations; over and above the
customary diplomatic present which he received publicly in common with
his colleague Admiral Nassau.  This promise, fulfilled a dozen years
later, had been one of the senseless charges of corruption brought
against him.  He had been one of the negotiators of the Truce in which
Spain had been compelled to treat with her revolted provinces as with
free states and her equals.  He had promoted the union of the Protestant
princes and their alliance with France and the United States in
opposition to the designs of Spain and the League.  He had organized and
directed the policy by which the forces of England, France, and
Protestant Germany had possessed themselves of the debateable land.  He
had resisted every scheme by which it was hoped to force the States from
their hold of those important citadels.  He had been one of the foremost
promoters of the East India Company, an organization which the Spaniards
confessed had been as damaging to them as the Union of the Provinces
itself had been.

The idiotic and circumstantial statements, that he had conducted
Burgomaster van Berk through a secret staircase of his house into his
private study for the purpose of informing him that the only way for the
States to get out of the war was to submit themselves once more to their
old masters, so often forced upon him by the judges, he contradicted with
disdain and disgust.  He had ever abhorred and dreaded, he said, the
House of Spain, Austria, and Burgundy.  His life had passed in open
hostility to that house, as was known to all mankind.  His mere personal
interests, apart from higher considerations, would make an approach to
the former sovereign impossible, for besides the deeds he had already
alluded to, he had committed at least twelve distinct and separate acts,
each one of which would be held high-treason by the House of Austria, and
he had learned from childhood that these are things which monarchs never
forget.  The tales of van Berk were those of a personal enemy, falsehoods
scarcely worth contradicting.

He was grossly and enormously aggrieved by the illegal constitution of
the commission.  He had protested and continued to protest against it.
If that protest were unheeded, he claimed at least that those men should
be excluded from the board and the right to sit in judgment upon his
person and his deeds who had proved themselves by words and works to be
his capital enemies, of which fact he could produce irrefragable
evidence.  He claimed that the Supreme Court of Holland, or the High
Council, or both together, should decide upon that point.  He held as his
personal enemies, he said, all those who had declared that he, before or
since the Truce down to the day of his arrest, had held correspondence
with the Spaniards, the Archdukes, the Marquis Spinola, or any one on
that side, had received money, money value, or promises of money from
them, and in consequence had done or omitted to do anything whatever.
He denounced such tales as notorious, shameful, and villainous
falsehoods, the utterers and circulators of them as wilful liars, and
this he was ready to maintain in every appropriate way for the
vindication of the truth and his own honour.  He declared solemnly before
God Almighty to the States-General and to the States of Holland that his
course in the religious matter had been solely directed to the
strengthening of the Reformed religion and to the political security of
the provinces and cities.  He had simply desired that, in the awful and
mysterious matter of predestination, the consciences of many preachers
and many thousands of good citizens might be placed in tranquillity, with
moderate and Christian limitations against all excesses.

From all these reasons, he said, the commissioners, the States-General,
the Prince, and every man in the land could clearly see, and were bound
to see, that he was the same man now that he was at the beginning of the
war, had ever been, and with God's help should ever remain.

The proceedings were kept secret from the public and, as a matter of
course, there had been conflicting rumours from day to day as to the
probable result of these great state trials.  In general however it was
thought that the prisoner would be acquitted of the graver charges, or
that at most he would be permanently displaced from all office and
declared incapable thenceforth to serve the State.  The triumph of the
Contra-Remonstrants since the Stadholder had placed himself at the head
of them, and the complete metamorphosis of the city governments even in
the strongholds of the Arminian party seemed to render the permanent
political disgrace of the Advocate almost a matter of certainty.

The first step that gave rise to a belief that he might be perhaps more
severely dealt with than had been anticipated was the proclamation by the
States-General of a public fast and humiliation for the 17th April.

In this document it was announced that "Church and State--during several
years past having been brought into great danger of utter destruction
through certain persons in furtherance of their ambitious designs--had
been saved by the convocation of a National Synod; that a lawful sentence
was soon to be expected upon those who had been disturbing the
Commonwealth; that through this sentence general tranquillity would
probably be restored; and that men were now to thank God for this result,
and pray to Him that He would bring the wicked counsels and stratagems of
the enemy against these Provinces to naught."

All the prisoners were asked if they too would like in their chambers
of bondage to participate in the solemnity, although the motive for the
fasting and prayer was not mentioned to them.  Each of them in his
separate prison room, of course without communication together, selected
the 7th Psalm and sang it with his servant and door-keeper.

From the date of this fast-day Barneveld looked upon the result of his
trial as likely to be serious.

Many clergymen refused or objected to comply with the terms of this
declaration.  Others conformed with it greedily, and preached lengthy
thanksgiving sermons, giving praise to God that, He had confounded the
devices of the ambitious and saved the country from the "blood bath"
which they had been preparing for it.

The friends of Barneveld became alarmed at the sinister language of this
proclamation, in which for the first time allusions had been made to a
forthcoming sentence against the accused.

Especially the staunch and indefatigable du Maurier at once addressed
himself again to the States-General.  De Boississe had returned to
France, having found that the government of a country torn, weakened, and
rendered almost impotent by its own internecine factions, was not likely
to exert any very potent influence on the fate of the illustrious
prisoner.

The States had given him to understand that they were wearied with his
perpetual appeals, intercessions, and sermons in behalf of mercy.  They
made him feel in short that Lewis XIII. and Henry IV.  were two entirely
different personages.

Du Maurier however obtained a hearing before the Assembly on the 1st May,
where he made a powerful and manly speech in presence of the Prince,
urging that the prisoners ought to be discharged unless they could be
convicted of treason, and that the States ought to show as much deference
to his sovereign as they had always done to Elizabeth of England.  He
made a personal appeal to Prince Maurice, urging upon him how much it
would redound to his glory if he should now in generous and princely
fashion step forward in behalf of those by whom he deemed himself to have
been personally offended.

His speech fell upon ears hardened against such eloquence and produced no
effect.

Meantime the family of Barneveld, not yet reduced to despair, chose to
take a less gloomy view of the proclamation.  Relying on the innocence of
the great statesman, whose aims, in their firm belief, had ever been for
the welfare and glory of his fatherland, and in whose heart there had
never been kindled one spark of treason, they bravely expected his
triumphant release from his long and, as they deemed it, his iniquitous
imprisonment.

On this very 1st of May, in accordance with ancient custom, a may-pole
was erected on the Voorhout before the mansion of the captive statesman,
and wreaths of spring flowers and garlands of evergreen decorated the
walls within which were such braised and bleeding hearts.  These
demonstrations of a noble hypocrisy, if such it were, excited the wrath,
not the compassion, of the Stadholder, who thought that the aged matron
and her sons and daughters, who dwelt in that house of mourning, should
rather have sat in sackcloth with ashes on their heads than indulge in
these insolent marks of hope and joyful expectation.

It is certain however that Count William Lewis, who, although most
staunch on the Contra-Remonstrant side, had a veneration for the Advocate
and desired warmly to save him, made a last and strenuous effort for that
purpose.

It was believed then, and it seems almost certain, that, if the friends
of the Advocate had been willing to implore pardon for him, the sentence
would have been remitted or commuted.  Their application would have been
successful, for through it his guilt would seem to be acknowledged.

A wistful child, in foul unwholesome shreds, Recalls some legend of a
daisy chain That makes a pretty necklace. She would fain Make one, and
wear it, if she had some threads.

Sun, leprous flowers, foul child. The asphalt burns.
The garrulous sparrows perch on metal Burns.
Sing! Sing! they say, and flutter with their wings.
He does not sing, he only wonders why He is sitting there. The
sparrows sing. And I Yield to the strait allure of simple things.

ON A PICTURE
TO PIERRE LOUYS
Not pale, as one in sleep or holier death, Nor illcontent the lady seems,
nor loth To lie in shadow of shrill river growth, So steadfast are
the river's arms beneath.

Pale petals follow her in very faith, Unmixed with pleasure or
regret, and both Her maidly hands look up, in noble sloth To take the
blossoms of her scattered wreath.

No weakest ripple lives to kiss her throat.

Nor dies in meshes of untangled hair; No movement stirs the floor of river
moss.

Until some furtive glimmer gleam across Voluptuous mouth, where even teeth
are bare, And gild the broidery of her petticoat. . . .

PARSIFAL IMITATED FROM THE FRENCH OF PAUL VERLAINE
Conquered the flower-maidens, and the wide embrace Of their round
proffered arms, that tempt the virgin boy; Conquered the trickling
of their babbling tongues; the coy Back glances, and the mobile
breasts of subtle grace;
Conquered the Woman Beautiful, the fatal charm Of her hot breast,
the music of her babbling tongue; Conquered the gate of Hell, into
the gate the young Man passes, with the heavy trophy at his arm,
The holy Javelin that pierced the Heart of God.

He heals the dying king, he sits upon the throne, King, and
high priest of that great gift, the living Blood.

In robe of gold the youth adores the glorious Sign Of the green goblet,
worships the mysterious Wine.
And oh! the chime of children's voices in the dome.

A CRUCIFIX
TO ERNEST DOWSON
A gothic church. At one end of an aisle, Against a wall where mystic
sunbeams smile Through painted windows, orange, blue, and gold, The
Christ's unutterable charm behold.
Upon the cross, adorned with gold and green, Long fluted golden tongues
of sombre sheen, Like four flames joined in one, around the head
And by the outstretched arms, their glory spread.

The statue is of wood; of natural size Tinted; one almost sees
before one's eyes The last convulsion of the lingering breath.

"Behold the man!" Robust and frail. Beneath That breast indeed might
throb the Sacred Heart.
And from the lips, so holily dispart, The dying murmur breathes "Forgive!
Forgive!" O wide-stretched arms! "I perish, let them live." Under the
torture of the thorny crown, The loving pallor of the brow looks down On
human blindness, on the toiler's woes; The while, to overturn Despair's
repose, And urge to Hope and Love, as Faith demands, Bleed, bleed
the feet, the broken side, the hands.
A poet, painter, Christian,--it was a friend Of mine--his attributes most
fitly blend-- Who saw this marvel, made an exquisite Copy; and, knowing
how I worshipped it, Forgot it, in my room, by accident.
I write these verses in acknowledgment.

LE CHEVALIER MALHEUR
Grim visor'd cavalier!
Rides silently MISCHANCE.
Stabbed is my dying heart of his unpitying lance.
My poor hearts blood leaps forth, a single crimson jet.
The hot sun licks it up where petals pale are wet.

Deep shadow seals my sight, one shriek my lips has fed.
With a wrung, sullen shudder my poor heart is dead.
The cavalier dismounts; and, kneeling on the ground, His finger iron-mailed
he thrusts into the wound.
Suddenly, at the freezing touch, the iron smart, At once within me bursts
a new, a noble heart.
Suddenly, as the steel into the wound is pressed, A heart all beautiful
and young throbs in my breast.

Trembling, incredulous I sat; but ill at ease, As one who, in a holy
trance, strange visions sees.
While the good cavalier, remounted on his horse, Left me a parting
nod as he retook his course, And shouted to me (still I hear his
cries):
"Once only can the miracle avail.--Be wise!"

SPLEEN

The roses every one were red, And all the ivy leaves were black.

Sweet, do not even stir your head, Or all of my despairs come back.

The sky is too blue, too delicate:
Too soft the air, too green the sea.

I fear---how long had I to wait!-- That you will tear yourself from me.

The shining box-leaves weary me, The varnished holly's glistening,
The stretch of infinite country; So, saving you, does everything.

CLAIR DE LUNE
How like a well-kept garden is your soul, With bergomask and solemn
minuet!
Playing upon the lute! The dancers seem But sad, beneath their strange
habiliments.
While, in the minor key, their songs extol The victor Love, and
life's sweet blandishments, Their looks belie the burden of their lays,
The songs that mingle with the still moon-beams.
So strange, so beautiful, the pallid rays; Making the birds among
the branches dream, And sob with ecstasy the slender jets,
The fountains tall that leap upon the lawns Amid the garden gods, the
marble fauns.

MON DIEU M'A DIT: . . .

God has spoken: Love me, son, thou must; Oh see My broken side;
my heart, its rays refulgent shine; My feet, insulted, stabbed, that
Mary bathes with brine Of bitter tears my sad arms, helpless, son, for
thee;
With thy sins heavy; and my hands; thou seest the rod; Thou seest the
nails, the sponge, the gall; and all my pain Must teach thee love,
amidst a world where flesh doth reign, My flesh alone, my blood, my
voice, the voice of God,
Say, have I not loved thee, loved thee to death, O brother in my
Father, in the Spirit son?

Say, as the word is written, is my work not done?
Thy deepest woe have I not sobbed with struggling breath?
Has not thy sweat of anguished nights from all my pores in pain Of
blood dripped, piteous friend, who seekest me in vain?

GREEN
Leaves and branches, flowers and fruits are here; And here my heart,
which throbs alone for thee.

     Ah! do not wound my heart with those two dear White hands, but
     take the poor gift tenderly.

I come, all covered with the dews of night The morning breeze has
pearled upon my face.

Let my fatigue, at thy feet, in thy sight, Dream through the moments of
its sweet solace.

With thy late kisses ringing, let my head Roll in blest indolence on
thy young breast; To lull the tempest thy caresses bred, And soothe
my senses with a little rest.

FLEURS. IMITATED FROM THE FRENCH OF STEPHANE MALLARMÉ

The tawny iris--oh!

the slim-necked swan; And, sign of exiled souls, the bay divine; Ruddy as
seraph's heel its fleckless sheen, Blushing the brightness of a trampled
dawn.

The hyacinth; the myrtle's sweet alarm; Like to a woman's flesh, the
cruel rose, Blossom'd Herodiade of the garden close, Fed with
ferocious dew of blooddrops warm.

Thou mad'st the lilies' pallor, nigh to swoon.
Which, rolling billows of deep sighs upon, Through the blue incense
of horizons wan, Creeps dreamily towards the weeping moon.

Praise in the censers, praise upon the gong, Madone! from the garden
of our woes:
On eves celestial throb the echo long!
Ecstatic visions! radiance of haloes!

Mother creatrice! in thy strong, just womb, Challices nodding the not
distant strife; Great honey'd blossoms, a balsamic tomb For weary poets
blanched with starless life.

CHARLEVILLE. IMITATED FROM THE FRENCH OF ARTHUR RIMBAUD

TO FRANK HARRIS
The square, with gravel paths and shabby lawns.
Correct, the trees and flowers repress their yawns.

The tradesman brings his favourite conceit, To air it, while he stifles
with the heat.

In the kiosk, the military band.

The shakos nod the time of the quadrilles.
The flaunting dandy strolls about the stand.

The notary, half unconscious of his seals.

On the green seats, small groups of grocermen, Absorbed, their sticks
scooping a little hole Upon the path, talk market prices; then Take up a
cue: I think, upon the whole. . . .

The loutish roughs are larking on the grass.
The sentimental trooper, with a rose Between his teeth, seeing a
baby, grows More tender, with an eye upon the nurse.

Unbuttoned, like a student, I follow A couple of girls along the
chesnut row.
They know I am following, for they turn and laugh, Half impudent, half
shy, inviting chaff.

I do not say a word.

I only stare At their round, fluffy necks.

I follow where The shoulders drop; I struggle to define The subtle
torso's hesitating line.

Only my rustling tread, deliberate, slow; The rippled silence from the
still leaves drips.
They think I am an idiot, they speak low; -- I feel faint kisses creeping
on my lips.

SENSATION
I walk the alleys trampled through the wheat, Through whole blue
summer eves, on velvet grass.
Dreaming, I feel the dampness at my feet; The breezes bathe my naked
head and pass.

I do not think a single thought, nor say A word; but in my soul the
mists upcurl Of infinite love. I will go far away With nature, happily,
as with a girl.

À UNE MADONE. IMITATED FROM THE FRENCH OF CHARLES BAUDELAIRE
Madone! my lady, I will build for thee A grotto altar of my misery.

Deep will I scoop, where darkest lies my heart, Far from the world's
cupidity apart,
A niche, with mercy stained, and streaked with gold, Where none thy
statue's wonder may behold.

Then, for thy head, I will fashion a tiar, A filigree of verse, with
many a star
Of crystal rhyme its heavy folds upon.
And jealousy, O mortal! my Madone,
Shall cut for thee a gown, of dreadful guise, Which like a portcullis,
shall veil thy thighs;
Rude, heavy curtain, faced with bitter fears, Broidered, in place of
pearls, with all my tears.

And, of my worship, shoes will I design; Two satin shoes, to case thy
feet divine,
Which, while their precious freight they softly hold, Shall guard the
imprint in a faithful mould.

If I should fail to forge a silver moon, I with my art, for thee to
tread upon,
Then will I place the writhing beast that hangs Upon my heart, and
tears it with his fangs,
Where thou may'st crush his head, and smile supreme, O majesty!

all potent to redeem.

And all my thoughts, like candles, shalt thou see before thine altar spread,
Star of the Sea!

Starring thine azure roof with points of fire.

With nought hut thee to cherish and admire,
So shall my soul in plaintive fumes arise Of incense ever to thy
pitying eyes.

Last, that indeed a Mary thou may'st be, And that my love be mixed with
cruelty--

O foul voluptuousness!

when I have made Of every deadly sin a deadlier blade,
Torturer filled with pain will I draw near The target of thy breast,
and, sick with fear,
Deliberately plant them all where throbs Thy bleeding heart, and
stifling with its sobs.

FEMMES DAMNÉES
Like moody beasts they lie along the sands;, Look where the sky against
the sea-rim clings:

Foot stretches out to foot, and groping hands Have languors soft and
bitter shudderings.
Some, smitten hearts with the long secrecies, On velvet moss, deep
in their bowers' ease, Prattling the love of timid infancies, Are
tearing the green bark from the young trees.
Others, like sisters, slowly walk and grave; By rocks that swarm
with ghostly legions, Where Anthony saw surging on the waves The
purple breasts of his temptations,
Some, by the light of crumbling, resinous gums, In the still hollows
of old pagan dens, Call thee in aid to their deliriums O Bacchus!
cajoler of ancient pains.
And those whose breasts for scapulars are fain Nurse under their
long robes the cruel thong.
These, in dim woods, where huddling shadows throng.
Mix with the foam of pleasure tears of pain.
LE VOYAGE À CYTHÈRE
Bird-like, my heart was glad to soar and vault; Fluttering among
the cordages; and on The vessel flew, under an empty vault:
An angel drunken of a radiant sun.
Tell me, what is that gray, that sombre isle?
'Tis Cythera, famed on many a poet string; A name that has not
lacked the slavering smile; But now, you see, it is not much to
sing.

Isle of soft whispers, tremours of the heart!
The splendid phantom of thy rude goddess Floats on thy seas like
breath of spikenard, Charging men's souls with love and
lusciousness.

Sweet isle of myrtles, once of open blooms:
Now only of lean lands most lean: it seems A flinty desert bitter
with shrill screams:
But one strange object on its horror looms.
Not a fair temple, foiled with coppiced trees, Where the young
priestess, mistress of the flowers, Goes opening her gown to the
cool breeze, To still the fire, the torment that devours.
But as along the shore we skirted, near Enough to scare the birds
with our white sails, We saw a three-limbed gibbet rising sheer.
Detached against the sky in spare details.
Perched on their pasturage, ferocious fowl Riddled with rage a more
than putrid roast; Each of them stabbing, like a tool, his foul
Beak in the oozing members of his host.
Below, a troop of jealous quadrupeds, Looking aloft with eye and
steadfast snout; A larger beast above the others' heads, A hangman
with his porters round about.
The eyes, two caves; and from the rotten paunch, Its freight, too
heavy, streamed along the haunch, Hang for these harpies' hideous
delight, Poor rag of flesh, torn of thy sex and sight!
Cythera's child, child of so sweet a sky!
Silent thou bearest insult--as we must-- In expiation of what faults
deny Thee even a shallow shelter in the dust.
Ludicrous sufferer! thy woes are mine.
There came, at seeing of thy dangling limbs, Up to my lips, like
vomiting, the streams Of ancient miseries, of gall and brine.
Before thee, brother in my memory fresh!
I felt the mangling of the appetites Of the black panthers, of the
savage kites, That were so fain to rend and pick my flesh.
The sea was sleeping. Blue and beautiful The sky. Henceforth I saw
but murk and blood, Alas! and as it had been in a shroud, My heart
lay buried in that parable,
All thine isle showed me, Venus! was upthrust, A symbol calvary
where my image hung.
Give me, Lord God, to look upon that dung, My body and my heart,
without disgust."Well, Sylla," he said very calmly, "will you in these my last moments
lay down the law to me as to what I shall write to my wife?"

He then added with a half-smile, "Well, what is expected of me?"

"We have no commission whatever to lay down the law," said van Leeuwen.
"Your worship will write whatever you like."

While he was writing, Anthony Walaeus came in, a preacher and professor
of Middelburg, a deputy to the Synod of Dordtrecht, a learned and amiable
man, sent by the States-General to minister to the prisoner on this
supreme occasion; and not unworthy to be thus selected.

The Advocate, not knowing him, asked him why he came.

"I am not here without commission," said the clergyman.  "I come to
console my lord in his tribulation."

"I am a man," said Barneveld; "have come to my present age, and I know
how to console myself.  I must write, and have now other things to do."

The preacher said that he would withdraw and return when his worship was
at leisure.

"Do as you like," said the Advocate, calmly going on with his writing.

When the letter was finished, it was sent to the judges for their
inspection, by whom it was at once forwarded to the family mansion in the
Voorhout, hardly a stone's throw from the prison chamber.

Thus it ran:

"Very dearly beloved wife, children, sons-in-law, and grandchildren,
I greet you altogether most affectionately.  I receive at this moment the
very heavy and sorrowful tidings that I, an old man, for all my services
done well and faithfully to the Fatherland for so many years (after
having performed all respectful and friendly offices to his Excellency
the Prince with upright affection so far as my official duty and vocation
would permit, shown friendship to many people of all sorts, and wittingly
injured no man), must prepare myself to die to-morrow.

"I console myself in God the Lord, who knows all hearts, and who will
judge all men.  I beg you all together to do the same.  I have steadily
and faithfully served My Lords the States of Holland and their nobles and
cities.  To the States of Utrecht as sovereigns of my own Fatherland I
have imparted at their request upright and faithful counsel, in order to
save them from tumults of the populace, and from the bloodshed with which
they had so long been threatened.  I had the same views for the cities of
Holland in order that every one might be protected and no one injured.

"Live together in love and peace.  Pray for me to Almighty God, who will
graciously hold us all in His holy keeping.

"From my chamber of sorrow, the 12th May 1619.

"Your very dear husband, father, father-in-law, and grandfather,

                                   "JOHN OF BARNEVELD."

It was thought strange that the judges should permit so simple and clear
a statement, an argument in itself, to be forwarded.  The theory of his
condemnation was to rest before the public on his confessions of guilt,
and here in the instant of learning the nature of the sentence in a few
hours to be pronounced upon him he had in a few telling periods declared
his entire innocence.  Nevertheless the letter had been sent at once to
its address.

So soon as this sad business had been disposed of, Anthony Walaeus
returned.  The Advocate apologized to the preacher for his somewhat
abrupt greeting on his first appearance.  He was much occupied and did
not know him, he said, although he had often heard of him.  He begged
him, as well as the provost-marshal, to join him at supper, which was
soon brought.

Barneveld ate with his usual appetite, conversed cheerfully on various
topics, and pledged the health of each of his guests in a glass of beer.
Contrary to his wont he drank at that repast no wine.  After supper he
went out into the little ante-chamber and called his servant, asking him
how he had been faring.  Now John Franken had just heard with grief
unspeakable the melancholy news of his master's condemnation from two
soldiers of the guard, who had been sent by the judges to keep additional
watch over the prisoner.  He was however as great a stoic as his master,
and with no outward and superfluous manifestations of woe had simply
implored the captain-at-arms, van der Meulen, to intercede with the
judges that he might be allowed to stay with his lord to the last.
Meantime he had been expressly informed that he was to say nothing to the
Advocate in secret, and that his master was not to speak to him in a low
tone nor whisper in his ear.

When the Advocate came out into the ante-chamber and looking over his
shoulder saw the two soldiers he at once lowered his voice.

"Hush-speak low," he whispered; "this is too cruel."  John then informed
him of van der Meulen's orders, and that the soldiers had also been
instructed to look to it sharply that no word was exchanged between
master and man except in a loud voice.

"Is it possible," said the Advocate, "that so close an inspection is held
over me in these last hours?  Can I not speak a word or two in freedom?
This is a needless mark of disrespect."

The soldiers begged him not to take their conduct amiss as they were
obliged strictly to obey orders.

He returned to his chamber, sat down in his chair, and begged Walaeus to
go on his behalf to Prince Maurice.

"Tell his Excellency," said he, "that I have always served him with
upright affection so far as my office, duties, and principles permitted.
If I, in the discharge of my oath and official functions, have ever done
anything contrary to his views, I hope that he will forgive it, and that
he will hold my children in his gracious favour."

It was then ten o'clock.  The preacher went downstairs and crossed the
courtyard to the Stadholder's apartments, where he at once gained
admittance.

Maurice heard the message with tears in his eyes, assuring Walaeus that
he felt deeply for the Advocate's misfortunes.  He had always had much
affection for him, he said, and had often warned him against his mistaken
courses.  Two things, however, had always excited his indignation.  One
was that Barneveld had accused him of aspiring to sovereignty.  The other
that he had placed him in such danger at Utrecht.  Yet he forgave him
all.  As regarded his sons, so long as they behaved themselves well they
might rely on his favour.

As Walaeus was about to leave the apartment, the Prince called him back.

"Did he say anything of a pardon?" he asked, with some eagerness.

"My Lord," answered the clergyman, "I cannot with truth say that I
understood him to make any allusion to it."

Walaeus returned immediately to the prison chamber and made his report of
the interview.  He was unwilling however to state the particulars of the
offence which Maurice declared himself to have taken at the acts of the
Advocate.

But as the prisoner insisted upon knowing, the clergyman repeated the
whole conversation.

"His Excellency has been deceived in regard to the Utrecht business,"
said Barneveld, "especially as to one point.  But it is true that I had
fear and apprehension that he aspired to the sovereignty or to more
authority in the country.  Ever since the year 1600 I have felt this fear
and have tried that these apprehensions might be rightly understood."

While Walaeus had been absent, the Reverend Jean la Motte (or Lamotius)
and another clergyman of the Hague had come to the prisoner's apartment.
La Motte could not look upon the Advocate's face without weeping, but the
others were more collected.  Conversation now ensued among the four; the
preachers wishing to turn the doomed statesman's thought to the
consolations of religion.

But it was characteristic of the old lawyer's frame of mind that even now
he looked at the tragical position in which he found himself from a
constitutional and controversial point of view.  He was perfectly calm
and undaunted at the awful fate so suddenly and unexpectedly opened
before his eyes, but he was indignant at what he esteemed the ignorance,
injustice, and stupidity of the sentence to be pronounced against him.

"I am ready enough to die," he said to the three clergymen, "but I cannot
comprehend why I am to die.  I have done nothing except in obedience to
the laws and privileges of the land and according to my oath, honour, and
conscience."

"These judges," he continued, "come in a time when other maxims prevail
in the State than those of my day.  They have no right therefore to sit
in judgment upon me."

The clergymen replied that the twenty-four judges who had tried the case
were no children and were conscientious men; that it was no small thing
to condemn a man, and that they would have to answer it before the
Supreme Judge of all.

"I console myself," he answered, "in the Lord my God, who knows all
hearts and shall judge all men.  God is just.

"They have not dealt with me," he continued, "as according to law and
justice they were bound to deal.  They have taken away from me my own
sovereign lords and masters and deposed them.  To them alone I was
responsible.  In their place they have put many of my enemies who were
never before in the government, and almost all of whom are young men who
have not seen much or read much.  I have seen and read much, and know
that from such examples no good can follow.  After my death they will
learn for the first time what governing means."

"The twenty-four judges are nearly all of them my enemies.  What they
have reproached me with, I have been obliged to hear.  I have appealed
against these judges, but it has been of no avail.  They have examined me
in piecemeal, not in statesmanlike fashion.  The proceedings against
me have been much too hard.  I have frequently requested to see the notes
of my examination as it proceeded, and to confer upon it with aid and
counsel of friends, as would be the case in all lands governed by law.
The request was refused.  During this long and wearisome affliction and
misery I have not once been allowed to speak to my wife and children.
These are indecent proceedings against a man seventy-two years of age,
who has served his country faithfully for three-and-forty years.  I bore
arms with the volunteers at my own charges at the siege of Haarlem and
barely escaped with life."

It was not unnatural that the aged statesman's thoughts should revert in
this supreme moment to the heroic scenes in which he had been an actor
almost a half-century before.  He could not but think with bitterness of
those long past but never forgotten days when he, with other patriotic
youths, had faced the terrible legions of Alva in defence of the
Fatherland, at a time when the men who were now dooming him to a
traitor's death were unborn, and who, but for his labours, courage,
wisdom, and sacrifices, might have never had a Fatherland to serve,
or a judgment-seat on which to pronounce his condemnation.

Not in a spirit of fretfulness, but with disdainful calm, he criticised
and censured the proceedings against himself as a violation of the laws
of the land and of the first principles of justice, discussing them as
lucidly and steadily as if they had been against a third person.

The preachers listened, but had nothing to say.  They knew not of such
matters, they said, and had no instructions to speak of them.  They had
been sent to call him to repentance for his open and hidden sins and to
offer the consolations of religion.

"I know that very well," he said, "but I too have something to say
notwithstanding."  The conversation then turned upon religious topics,
and the preachers spoke of predestination.

"I have never been able to believe in the matter of high predestination,"
said the Advocate.  "I have left it in the hands of God the Lord.  I hold
that a good Christian man must believe that he through God's grace and by
the expiation of his sin through our Redeemer Jesus Christ is predestined
to be saved, and that this belief in his salvation, founded alone on
God's grace and the merits of our Redeemer Jesus Christ, comes to him
through the same grace of God.  And if he falls into great sins, his firm
hope and confidence must be that the Lord God will not allow him to
continue in them, but that, through prayer for grace and repentance, he
will be converted from evil and remain in the faith to the end of his
life."

These feelings, he said, he had expressed fifty-two years before to three
eminent professors of theology in whom he confided, and they had assured
him that he might tranquilly continue in such belief without examining
further.  "And this has always been my creed," he said.

The preachers replied that faith is a gift of God and not given to all
men, that it must be given out of heaven to a man before he could be
saved.  Hereupon they began to dispute, and the Advocate spoke so
earnestly and well that the clergymen were astonished and sat for
a time listening to him in silence.

He asked afterwards about the Synod, and was informed that its decrees
had not yet been promulgated, but that the Remonstrants had been
condemned.

"It is a pity," said he.  "One is trying to act on the old Papal system,
but it will never do.  Things have gone too far.  As to the Synod, if My
Lords the States of Holland had been heeded there would have been first a
provincial synod and then a national one."--"But," he added, looking the
preachers in the face, "had you been more gentle with each other, matters
would not have taken so high a turn.  But you have been too fierce one
against the other, too full of bitter party spirit."

They replied that it was impossible for them to act against their
conscience and the supreme authority.  And then they asked him if there
was nothing that troubled him in, his conscience in the matters for which
he must die; nothing for which he repented and sorrowed, and for which he
would call upon God for mercy.

"This I know well," he said, "that I have never willingly done wrong to
any man.  People have been ransacking my letters to Caron--confidential
ones written several years ago to an old friend when I was troubled and
seeking for counsel and consolation.  It is hard that matter of
impeachment against me to-day should be sought for thus."

And then he fell into political discourse again on the subject of the
Waartgelders and the State rights, and the villainous pasquils and libels
that had circulated so long through the country.

"I have sometimes spoken hastily, I confess," he said; "but that was
when I was stung by the daily swarm of infamous and loathsome pamphlets,
especially those directed against my sovereign masters the States of
Holland.  That I could not bear.  Old men cannot well brush such things
aside.  All that was directly aimed at me in particular I endeavoured to
overcome with such patience as I could muster.  The disunion and mutual
enmity in the country have wounded me to the heart.  I have made use
of all means in my power to accommodate matters, to effect with all
gentleness a mutual reconciliation.  I have always felt a fear lest
the enemy should make use of our internal dissensions to strike a blow
against us.  I can say with perfect truth that ever since the year '77
I have been as resolutely and unchangeably opposed to the Spaniards and
their adherents, and their pretensions over these Provinces, as any man
in the world, no one excepted, and as ready to sacrifice property and
shed my blood in defence of the Fatherland.  I have been so devoted to
the service of the country that I have not been able to take the
necessary care of my own private affairs."

So spoke the great statesman in the seclusion of his prison, in the
presence of those clergymen whom he respected, at a supreme moment, when,
if ever, a man might be expected to tell the truth.  And his whole life
which belonged to history, and had been passed on the world's stage
before the eyes of two generations of spectators, was a demonstration of
the truth of his words.

But Burgomaster van Berk knew better.  Had he not informed the twenty-
four commissioners that, twelve years before, the Advocate wished to
subject the country to Spain, and that Spinola had drawn a bill of
exchange for 100,000 ducats as a compensation for his efforts?

It was eleven o'clock.  Barneveld requested one of the brethren to say an
evening prayer.  This was done by La Motte, and they were then requested
to return by three or four o'clock next morning.  They had been directed,
they said, to remain with him all night.  "That is unnecessary," said the
Advocate, and they retired.

His servant then helped his master to undress, and he went to bed as
usual.  Taking off his signet-ring, he gave it to John Franken.

"For my eldest son," he said.

The valet sat down at the head of his bed in order that his master might
speak to him before he slept.  But the soldiers ordered him away and
compelled him to sit in a distant part of the room.

An hour after midnight, the Advocate having been unable to lose himself,
his servant observed that Isaac, one of the soldiers, was fast asleep.
He begged the other, Tilman Schenk by name, to permit him some private
words with his master.  He had probably last messages, he thought, to
send to his wife and children, and the eldest son, M. de Groeneveld,
would no doubt reward him well for it.  But the soldier was obstinate in
obedience to the orders of the judges.

Barneveld, finding it impossible to sleep, asked his servant to read to
him from the Prayer-book.  The soldier called in a clergyman however,
another one named Hugo Bayerus, who had been sent to the prison, and who
now read to him the Consolations of the Sick.  As he read, he made
exhortations and expositions, which led to animated discussion, in which
the Advocate expressed himself with so much fervour and eloquence that
all present were astonished, and the preacher sat mute a half-hour long
at the bed-side.

"Had there been ten clergymen," said the simple-hearted sentry to the
valet, "your master would have enough to say to all of them."

Barneveld asked where the place had been prepared in which he was to die.

"In front of the great hall, as I understand," said Bayerus, "but I don't
know the localities well, having lived here but little."

"Have you heard whether my Grotius is to die, and Hoogerbeets also?" he
asked?

I have heard nothing to that effect," replied the clergyman.

"I should most deeply grieve for those two gentlemen," said Barneveld,
"were that the case.  They may yet live to do the land great service.
That great rising light, de Groot, is still young, but a very wise and
learned gentleman, devoted to his Fatherland with all zeal, heart, and
soul, and ready to stand up for her privileges, laws, and rights.  As for
me, I am an old and worn-out man.  I can do no more.  I have already done
more than I was really able to do.  I have worked so zealously in public
matters that I have neglected my private business.  I had expressly
ordered my house at Loosduinen" [a villa by the seaside] "to be got
ready, that I might establish myself there and put my affairs in order.
I have repeatedly asked the States of Holland for my discharge, but could
never obtain it.  It seems that the Almighty had otherwise disposed of
me."

He then said he would try once more if he could sleep.  The clergyman and
the servant withdrew for an hour, but his attempt was unsuccessful.
After an hour he called for his French Psalm Book and read in it for
some time.  Sometime after two o'clock the clergymen came in again and
conversed with him.  They asked him if he had slept, if he hoped to meet
Christ, and if there was anything that troubled his conscience.

"I have not slept, but am perfectly tranquil," he replied.  "I am ready
to die, but cannot comprehend why I must die.  I wish from my heart that,
through my death and my blood, all disunion and discord in this land may
cease."

He bade them carry his last greetings to his fellow prisoners.  "Say
farewell for me to my good Grotius," said he, "and tell him that I must
die."

The clergymen then left him, intending to return between five and six
o'clock.

He remained quiet for a little while and then ordered his valet to cut
open the front of his shirt.  When this was done, he said, "John, are you
to stay by me to the last?"

"Yes," he replied, "if the judges permit it."

"Remind me to send one of the clergymen to the judges with the request,"
said his master.

The faithful John, than whom no servant or friend could be more devoted,
seized the occasion, with the thrift and stoicism of a true Hollander, to
suggest that his lord might at the same time make some testamentary
disposition in his favour.

"Tell my wife and children," said the Advocate, "that they must console
each other in mutual love and union.  Say that through God's grace I am
perfectly at ease, and hope that they will be equally tranquil.  Tell my
children that I trust they will be loving and friendly to their mother
during the short time she has yet to live.  Say that I wish to recommend
you to them that they may help you to a good situation either with
themselves or with others.  Tell them that this was my last request."

He bade him further to communicate to the family the messages sent that
night through Walaeus by the Stadholder.

The valet begged his master to repeat these instructions in presence of
the clergyman, or to request one of them to convey them himself to the
family.  He promised to do so.

"As long as I live," said the grateful servant, "I shall remember your
lordship in my prayers."

"No, John," said the Advocate, "that is Popish.  When I am dead, it is
all over with prayers.  Pray for me while I still live.  Now is the time
to pray.  When one is dead, one should no longer be prayed for."

La Motte came in.  Barneveld repeated his last wishes exactly as he
desired them to be communicated to his wife and children.  The preacher
made no response.  "Will you take the message?" asked the prisoner.  La
Motte nodded, but did not speak, nor did he subsequently fulfil the
request.

Before five o'clock the servant heard the bell ring in the apartment of
the judges directly below the prison chamber, and told his master he had
understood that they were to assemble at five o'clock.

"I may as well get up then," said the Advocate; "they mean to begin
early, I suppose.  Give me my doublet and but one pair of stockings."

He was accustomed to wear two or three pair at a time.

He took off his underwaistcoat, saying that the silver bog which was in
one of the pockets was to be taken to his wife, and that the servant
should keep the loose money there for himself.  Then he found an
opportunity to whisper to him, "Take good care of the papers which are in
the apartment."  He meant the elaborate writings which he had prepared
during his imprisonment and concealed in the tapestry and within the
linings of the chair.

As his valet handed him the combs and brushes, he said with a smile,
"John, this is for the last time."

When he was dressed, he tried, in rehearsal of the approaching scene, to
pull over his eyes the silk skull-cap which he usually wore under his
hat.  Finding it too tight he told the valet to put the nightcap in his
pocket and give it him when he should call for it.  He then swallowed a
half-glass of wine with a strengthening cordial in it, which he was wont
to take.

The clergymen then re-entered, and asked if he had been able to sleep.
He answered no, but that he had been much consoled by many noble things
which he had been reading in the French Psalm Book.  The clergymen said
that they had been thinking much of the beautiful confession of faith
which he had made to them that evening.  They rejoiced at it, they said,
on his account, and had never thought it of him.  He said that such had
always been his creed.

At his request Walaeus now offered a morning prayer Barneveld fell on his
knees and prayed inwardly without uttering a sound.  La Motte asked when
he had concluded, "Did my Lord say Amen?"--"Yes, Lamotius," he replied;
"Amen."--"Has either of the brethren," he added, "prepared a prayer to be
offered outside there?"

La Motte informed him that this duty had been confided to him.  Some
passages from Isaiah were now read aloud, and soon afterwards Walaeus
was sent for to speak with the judges.  He came back and said to the
prisoner, "Has my Lord any desire to speak with his wife or children, or
any of his friends?"  It was then six o'clock, and Barneveld replied:

"No, the time is drawing near.  It would excite a new emotion."  Walaeus
went back to the judges with this answer, who thereupon made this
official report:

"The husband and father of the petitioners, being asked if he desired
that any of the petitioners should come to him, declared that he did not
approve of it, saying that it would cause too great an emotion for
himself as well as for them.  This is to serve as an answer to the
petitioners."

Now the Advocate knew nothing of the petition.  Up to the last moment his
family had been sanguine as to his ultimate acquittal and release.  They
relied on a promise which they had received or imagined that they had
received from the Stadholder that no harm should come to the prisoner in
consequence of the arrest made of his person in the Prince's apartments
on the 8th of August.  They had opened this tragical month of May with
flagstaffs and flower garlands, and were making daily preparations to
receive back the revered statesman in triumph.

The letter written by him from his "chamber of sorrow," late in the
evening of 12th May, had at last dispelled every illusion.  I moulded
with my hands The mobile breasts, the valley; and the waist I touched;
and pigments reverently placed Upon their thighs in sapient spots and
stains, Beryls and crysolites and diaphanes, And gems whose hot harsh
names are never said.
I was a masseur; and my fingers bled With wonder as I touched their
awful limbs.

III
Suddenly, in the marble trough, there seems O, last of my pale, mistresses,
Sweetness!
A twylipped scarlet pansie. My caress Tinges thy steelgray eyes to
violet.

Adown thy body skips the pit-a-pat Of treatment once heard in a hospital
For plagues that fascinate, but half appal.

IV
So, at the sound, the blood of me stood cold.
Thy chaste hair ripened into sullen gold.
The throat, the shoulders, swelled and were uncouth.

The breasts rose up and offered each a mouth.
And on the belly pallid blushes crept, That maddened me, until I laughed
and wept.

MISHKA
TO HENRI TEIXEIRA DE MATTOS
Mishka is poet among the beasts.
When roots are rotten, and rivers weep.
The bear is at play in the land of sleep.
Though his head be heavy between his fists.
The bear is poet among the beasts.

THE DREAM:

Wide and large are the monster's eyes, Nought saying, save one word
alone:
Mishka! Mishka, as turned to stone, Hears no word else, nor in
anywise Can see aught save the monster's eyes.
Honey is under the monster's lips; And Mishka follows into her lair,
dragged in the net of her yellow hair, Knowing all things when honey
drips On his tongue like rain, the song of the hips
Of the honey-child, and of each twin mound.
Mishka! there screamed a far bird-note, Deep in the sky, when round
his throat The triple coil of her hair she wound.
And stroked his limbs with a humming sound.
Mishka is white like a hunter's son Tor he knows no more of the
ancient south When the honey-child's lips are on his mouth, When
all her kisses are joined in one, And his body is bathed in grass
and sun.
The shadows lie mauven beneath the trees, And purple stains, where
the finches pass, Leap in the stalks of the deep, rank grass.
Flutter of-wing, and the buzz of bees, Deepen the silence, and
sweeten ease.
The honey-child is an olive tree, The voice of birds and the voice
of flowers, Each of them all and all the hours, The honey-child is
a winged bee, Her touch is a perfume, a melody.Before five o'clock he made
urgent application to be heard before the Assembly of the States-General
as ambassador of a friendly sovereign who took the deepest interest in
the welfare of the Republic and the fate of its illustrious statesman.
The appeal was refused.  As a last resource he drew up an earnest and
eloquent letter to the States-General, urging clemency in the name of his
king.  It was of no avail.  The letter may still be seen in the Royal
Archives at the Hague, drawn up entirely in du Maurier's clear and
beautiful handwriting.  Although possibly a, first draft, written as it
was under such a mortal pressure for time, its pages have not one erasure
or correction.

It was seven o'clock.  Barneveld having observed by the preacher (La
Motte's) manner that he was not likely to convey the last messages which
he had mentioned to his wife and children, sent a request to the judges
to be allowed to write one more letter.  Captain van der Meulen came back
with the permission, saying he would wait and take it to the judges for
their revision.

The letter has been often published.

"Must they see this too?  Why, it is only a line in favour of John," said
the prisoner, sitting quietly down to write this letter:

"Very dear wife and children, it is going to an end with me.  I am,
through the grace of God, very tranquil.  I hope that you are equally so,
and that you may by mutual love, union, and peace help each other to
overcome all things, which I pray to the Omnipotent as my last request.
John Franken has served me faithfully for many years and throughout all
these my afflictions, and is to remain with me to the end.  He deserves
to be recommended to you and to be furthered to good employments with you
or with others.  I request you herewith to see to this.

"I have requested his Princely Excellency to hold my sons and children in
his favour, to which he has answered that so long as you conduct
yourselves well this shall be the case.  I recommend this to you in the
best form and give you all into God's holy keeping.  Kiss each other and
all my grandchildren, for the last time in my name, and fare you well.
Out of the chamber of sorrow, 13th May 1619.  Your dear husband and
father,
                                   JOHN OF BARNEVELD.

"P.S.  You will make John Franken a present in memory of me."

Certainly it would be difficult to find a more truly calm, courageous,
or religious spirit than that manifested by this aged statesman at an
hour when, if ever, a human soul is tried and is apt to reveal its
innermost depths or shallows.  Whatever Gomarus or Bogerman, or the whole
Council of Dordtrecht, may have thought of his theology, it had at least
taught him forgiveness of his enemies, kindness to his friends, and
submission to the will of the Omnipotent.  Every moment of his last days
on earth had been watched and jealously scrutinized, and his bitterest
enemies had failed to discover one trace of frailty, one manifestation of
any vacillating, ignoble, or malignant sentiment.

The drums had been sounding through the quiet but anxiously expectant
town since four o'clock that morning, and the tramp of soldiers marching
to the Inner Court had long been audible in the prison chamber.

Walaeus now came back with a message from the judges.  "The high
commissioners," he said, "think it is beginning.  Will my Lord please to
prepare himself?"

He has brought into the common relations of life the most powerful
teaching that can be given to a young woman.

And Heaven knows that to those of our young women who do not find in lofty,
honest principle and stern religion enough to keep them steady in the
accomplishment of their duties as mothers, or who do not find it in
that resignation and practical science of life which bids us accommodate
ourselves to what we have, but who carry their dreams to the outside (and
the most honest, the most pure of our young women, in the prosaic life of
their households, are sometimes tormented by that which is going on
outside), a book like this would bring but one reflection. Of that you
may be sure. And this is what M. Flaubert has intended.

And notice carefully one thing: M. Flaubert is not the man who has painted
a charming adultery for you, in order to arrive later with the
_Deus ex machina_; no, you are carried too quickly on to the last
page.

Adultery with him is only a series of torments, remorse and regret;
and then he arrives at the final, frightful expiation. It is excessive.
If M. Flaubert sins, it is through excess; and I will show you presently
what is meant by this. The expiation is not allowed to wait, and it is
that which makes the book eminently moral and useful. It does not promise
the young woman some beautiful years at the end of which she can say:
after this, one is willing to die. No! from the second day there is
bitterness and disillusion.
The room was lined with soldiers and
crowded with a dark, surging mass of spectators, who had been waiting
there all night.

A chair was placed for the prisoner.  He sat down, and the clerk of the
commission, Pots by name, proceeded at once to read the sentence.
A summary of this long, rambling, and tiresome paper has been already
laid before the reader.  If ever a man could have found it tedious to
listen to his own death sentence, the great statesman might have been in
that condition as he listened to Secretary Pots.

During the reading of the sentence the Advocate moved uneasily on his
seat, and seemed about to interrupt the clerk at several passages which
seemed to him especially preposterous.  But he controlled himself by a
strong effort, and the clerk went steadily on to the conclusion.

Then Barneveld said:

"The judges have put down many things which they have no right to draw
from my confession.  Let this protest be added."

"I thought too," he continued, "that My Lords the States-General would
have had enough in my life and blood, and that my wife and children might
keep what belongs to them.  Is this my recompense for forty-three years'
service to these Provinces?"

Mr.

Hawkins, in his _Picture of Quebec, &c., 1834_, denies the Indian origin
of the word, since, as he says, there is no analogous sound to it in any
of their languages; and he assumes a Norman origin for it on the
strength of "Bec" being always used by the Normans to designate a
promontory in the first place; and secondly, because the word Quebec
is actually found upon a seal of the Earl of Suffolk, of historical
celebrity temp.

Hen. V. and VI., which Mr.
ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

Better to be governed by magistrates than mobs
Burning with bitter revenge for all the favours he had received
Death rather than life with a false acknowledgment of guilt
Enemy of all compulsion of the human conscience
Heidelberg Catechism were declared to be infallible
I know how to console myself
Implication there was much, of assertion very little
John Robinson
Magistracy at that moment seemed to mean the sword
Only true religion
Rather a wilderness to reign over than a single heretic
William Brewster