Produced by Mark C. Orton, Geetu Melwani and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


THE CHILDREN OF ODIN
The Book of Northern Myths

By Padraic Colum

Illustrated by Willy Pogany


Master storyteller Padraic Colum's rich, musical voice captures all the
magic and majesty of the Norse sagas in his retellings of the adventures
of the gods and goddesses who lived in the Northern paradise of Asgard
before the dawn of history.

Here are the matchless tales of All-Father Odin, who crosses the Rainbow
Bridge to walk among men in Midgard and sacrifices his right eye to
drink from the Well of Wisdom; of Thor, whose mighty hammer defends
Asgard; of Loki, whose mischievous cunning leads him to treachery
against the gods; of giants, dragons, dwarfs and Valkyries; and of the
terrible last battle that destroyed their world.

These ancient stories from Northern Europe, which make up one of the
great myth cycles of Western civilization, spring to life in _The
Children of Odin_. This classic volume, first published in 1920 and
reissued in 1962, is now available for the first time in paperback,
illustrated with the original line drawings by Willy Pogany, to inspire
a new generation of readers"Also for a couple of women or I am a mighty poor attempt at a man,"
said the Harvester.

       "This is my day, so you are not to talk, because it won't do any
good.

Things go my way."
"Please see what you think of this," she said.

The Harvester arose and bent over her.

"That will do finely," he answered. "You can stop. I don't require
all those little details for carving, I just want a good outline.

       It is finished. See here!"

He drew some folded papers from his pocket and laid them before her.

"Those are what I have been working from," he said.

The Girl took them and studied each carefully.

"If those are worth five dollars to you," she said gently, "why
then I needn't hesitate to take as much for mine.

They are superior."

"I should say
so," laughed the Harvester as he took up the drawing and laid down
the money.

"If you would
make it half that much I'd
feel better about it," she said.

"How could I?" asked the
Harvester.

"Your fingers are well trained and extremely skilful.
Because some one has not been paying you
enough for your work is no reason why I should keep
it up. From now on you must have what others get. As soon
as you can arrange for work, I want to tell you about some
designs I have studied out from different things, show
you the plants and insects, and have you make some
samples.

I'll send them to proper places,
and see what experts say about the ideas
and drawing.

Work in the woods is healthful, with proper
precautions; it's easy compared with the exactions
of being bound to sewing or
embroidering in the confinement of a room; it's vividly interesting
in the search for new subjects, changes of material, and differing
harmonious combinations; it's truly artistic; and it brings the
prices high grade stuff always does."

"Almost you give me hope," said the Girl.

"Almost, Man----almost! Since mother died, I haven't
thought or planned beyond paying for the medicine she took and the
shelter she lies in.

Oh I didn't mean to say that----!"

She buried her face in her hands. The Harvester
suffered until he scarcely knew how to bear it.

"Please finish," he begged. "You hadn't
planned beyond the debt, you were saying----"
The Girl lifted her tired, strained face.

"Give me a little more of that
delicious drink," she said.

"I am ravenous for it.

It puts new life in me.

This and what you say bring a far away, misty vision of a clean,
bright, peaceful room somewhere, and work one could love and live
on in comfort; enough to give a desire to finish life to its natural
end.

Oh Man, you make me hope in spite of myself!"

"'Praise God from whom all blessings flow;'" quoted the Harvester
reverently.

"Now try one of these peaches. It's juicy
   and cold. Get that room right in focus in your brain, and nurture
the idea.

Its walls shall be bright as sunshine,
   its floor creamy white, and it shall open into a little garden,
where only yellow flowers grow, and the birds shall sing.

The first ray of sun that peeps over the hills of morning shall
fall through its windows across your bed, and you shall work only
as you please, after you've had months of play and rest; and it's
coming true the instant you can leave here.

Dream of it, make up your mind to it,
   because it's coming.

I have a little streak of second sight,
   and I see it on the way."

"You are talking wildly," said the Girl,
   "else you are a good genie trying to conjure a room for me."

"This room I am talking of is ready
   whenever you want to take possession," said the Harvester.

"Accept it as a reality, because I tell you I know where it is,
that it is waiting, and you can earn your way into it with no
obligation to any one."

The Girl stretched out her right hand and
   slowly turned and opened and closed it.

Then she glanced at the Harvester with a weary smile.

"From somewhere I feel a glimmering of the spirit, but Oh, dear
Lord, the flesh is weak!"

she said.
   

"That's where nourishing foods, appetizing drinks, plenty of pure,
fresh air, and good water come in.

Now we have talked enough for one day,
   and worked too much. The fruit and drink go with you.

I will carry it to the house, and you can hide it in your room.

I am going to put a bottle of tonic on top
   that the best surgeon in the state gave me for you.

Try to eat something strengthening and then take a spoonful of this,
and use all the fruit you want.

I'll bring more to-morrow and put it here, with plenty of ice.

Now suppose you let the moth go free," he suggested to avoid
objections.

"You must take my word for it, that it is perfectly harmless, lacking
either sting or bite, and hold your hand before it, so that it will
climb on your fingers.

Then stand where a ray of sunshine falls and in a few minutes it
will go out to live its life."

The Girl hesitated a second as she studied the clean-cut, interested
face of the man; then she held out her hand, and he urged the moth
to climb on her fingers.

She stepped where a ray of strong light fell on the forest floor
and held the moth in it.

The brightness also touched her transparent hand and white face and
the gleaming black hair.

The Harvester choked down a rising surge of
         desire for her, and took a new grip on himself.

"Oh!"

she cried breathlessly, as the clinging feet suddenly loosened and
the luna slowly flew away among the trees.

She turned on the Harvester.

"You teach me wonders!" she cried.

"You give life different meanings.

You are not as other men."
   "If that be true, it is because I am of the woods.

The Almighty does not evolve all his wonders in animal, bird, and
flower form; He keeps some to work out in the heart, if humanity
only will go to His school, and allow Him to have dominion.

Come now, you must go.

I will come back and put away all the things and tomorrow I will
bring your ginseng money.

Any time you cannot come, if you want to tell me why, or if there
is anything I can do for you, put a line under the oilcloth.

I will carry the bucket."

"I am so afraid," she said.

"I will only go to the edge of the woods.

You can see if there is any one at the house first.

If not, you can send the child away, and then I will carry the
bucket to the door for you, and it will furnish comfort for one
night, at least."

They went to the cleared land and the Girl passed on alone. Soon she
reappeared and the Harvester saw the child going down the road. He
took up the bucket and set it inside the door.

"Is there anything I can do for you?"

"Nothing but go, before you make trouble."
"Will you hide that stuff and walk back as far as the woods with me?
There is something more I want to say to you."
The Girl staggered under the heavy load, and the man turned his
head and tried to pretend he did not see. Presently she came out to
him, and they returned to the line of the woods. Just as they entered
the shade there was a flash before them, and on a twig a few rods
away a little gray bird alighted, while in precipitate pursuit came
a flaming wonder of red, and in a burst of excited trills, broken
whistles, and imploring gestures, perched beside her.

The Harvester hastily drew the Girl behind some bushes.

"Watch!" he whispered. "You are going to see a sight so lovely and so
rare it is vouchsafed to few mortals ever to behold."
"What are they fighting about?" she whispered.

"You are witnessing a cardinal bird declare his love," breathed the
Harvester.

"Do cardinals love different birds?"
"No. The female is gray, because if she is coloured the same as the
trees and branches and her nest, she will have more chance to bring off
her young in safety. He is blood red, because he is the bravest, gayest,
most ardent lover of the whole woods," explained the Harvester.

The Girl leaned forward breathlessly watching and a slow surge of colour
crept into her cheeks. The red bird twisted, whistled, rocked, tilted,
and trilled, and the gray sat demurely watching him, as if only half
convinced he really meant it. The gay lover began at the beginning and
said it all over again with more impassioned gestures than before, and
then he edged in touch and softly stroked her wing with his beak.

She appeared startled, but did not fly. So again the fountain of
half-whistled, half-trilled notes bubbled with the acme of pleading
intonation and that time he leaned and softly kissed her as she reached
her bill for the caress. Then she fled in headlong flight, while the
streak of flame darted after her. The Girl caught her breath in a swift
spasm of surprise and wonder. She turned to the Harvester.

"What was it you wanted to say to me?" she asked hurriedly.

The Harvester was not the man to miss the goods the gods provided. Truly
this was his lucky day. Unhesitatingly he took the plunge.

"Precisely what he said to her.

And if you observed closely, you noticed that she didn't ask him 'why.'"

Before she could open her lips, he was gone, his swift strides carrying
him through the woods.

CHAPTER XII. "THE WAY OF A MAN WITH A MAID"
The next day the Harvester lifted the oilcloth, and picking up a
folded note he read---- 
"Aunt Molly found rest in the night.

She was more comfortable than she had been since I have known her. Close
the end she whispered to me to thank you if I ever saw you again. She
will be buried to-morrow. Past that, I dare not think."
The Harvester sat on the log and studied the lines. She would not come
that day or the next. After a long time he put the note in his pocket,
wrote an answer telling her he had been there, and would come on
the following day on the chance of her wanting anything he could
do, and the next he would bring the ginseng money, so she must be
sure to meet him.

Then he went back to the wagon, turned Betsy, and drove around the
Jameson land watching closely. There were several vehicles in the barn
lot, and a couple of men sitting under the trees of the door yard. Faded
bedding hung on the line and women moved through the rooms, but
he could not see the Girl.

Slowly he drove on until he came to the first house, and there he stopped
and went in. He saw the child of the previous day, and as she came
forward her mother appeared in the doorway.

The Harvester explained who he was and that he was examining the
woods in search of some almost extinct herbs he needed in his
business.

Then he told of having been at the adjoining farm the day before
and mentioned the sick woman.

He added that later she had died. He casually mentioned that a young
woman there seemed pale and ill and wondered if the neighbours would
see her through. He suggested that the place appeared as if the owner
did not take much interest, and when the woman finished with Henry
Jameson, he said how very important it seemed to him that some good,
kind-hearted soul should go and mother the poor girl, and the woman
thought she was the very person.

Without knowing exactly how he did it, the Harvester left with her promise
to remain with the Girl the coming two nights. The woman had her hands
full of strange and delicious fruit without understanding why it
had been given her, or why she had made those promises.

She thought the Harvester a remarkably fine young man to take such interest
in strangers and she told him he was welcome to anything he could find
on her place that would help with his medicines.

The Harvester just happened to be coming from the woods as the woman
freshly dressed left the house, so he took her in the wagon and drove
back to the Jameson place, because he was going that way. Then he
returned to Medicine Woods and worked with all his might.

First he polished floors, cleaned windows, and arranged the rooms as best
he could inside the cabin; then he gave a finishing touch to
everything outside.

He could not have told why he did it, but he thought it was because there
was hope that now the Girl would come to Onabasha.
If he found opportunity to bring her to the city, he hoped that possibly
he might drive home with her and show Medicine Woods, so everything
must be in order.

Then he worked with flying fingers in the dry-house, putting up her ginseng
for market, and never was weight so liberal.

The next morning he drove early to Onabasha and came home with a
loaded wagon, the contents of which he scattered through the cabin
where it seemed most suitable, but the greater part of it was for
her.

He glanced at the bare floors and walls of the other rooms, and thought
of trying to improve them, but he was afraid of not getting the right
things.

"I don't know much about what is needed here," he said, "but I am
perfectly safe in buying anything a girl ever used."

Then he returned to the city, explained the situation to the doctor, and
selected the room he wanted in case the Girl could be persuaded to
come to the hospital. After that he went to see the doctor's wife, and
made arrangements for her to be ready for a guest, because there was a
possibility he might want to call for help. He had another jug of fruit
juice and all the delicacies he could think of, also a big cake of
ice, when he reached the woods. There were only a few words for him.

"I will come to-morrow at two, if at all possible; if not, keep the
money until I can."

There was nothing to do except to place his offering under the oilcloth
and wait, but he simply was compelled to add a line to say he would be
there, and to express the hope that she was comfortable as possible
and thinking of the sunshine room.

Then he returned to Medicine Woods to wait, and found that possible
only by working to exhaustion. There were many things he could do,
and one after another he finished them, until completely worn out; and
then he slept the deep sleep of weariness.

At noon the next day he bathed, shaved, and dressed in fresh, clean
clothing. He stopped in Onabasha for more fruit, and drove to the Jameson
woods.

He was waiting and watching the usual path the Girl followed, when her
step sounded on the other side. The Harvester arose and turned. Her pallor
was alarming. She stepped on the rug he had spread, and sank almost
breathless to the chair.

"Why do you come a new way that fills you with fear?" asked the
Harvester.

"It seems as if Uncle Henry is watching me every minute, and I didn't
dare come where he could see.

I must not remain a second. You must take these things away and go at
once. He is dreadful."
"So am I," said the Harvester, "when affairs go too everlastingly wrong.

I am not afraid of any man living. What are you planning to do?"

"I want to ask you, are you sure about the prices of my drawing and the
ginseng?"
"Absolutely," said the Harvester.

"As for the ginseng it went in fresh and early, best wild roots, and
it brought eight a pound. There were eight pounds when I made up weight
and here is your money."
He handed her a long envelope addressed to her.

"What is the amount?" she asked.

"Sixty-four dollars."

"I can't believe it."
"You have it in your fingers."
"You know that I would like to thank you properly, if I had words to
express myself."
"Never mind that," said the Harvester.

"Tell me what you are planning.
Say that you will come to the hospital for the long, perfect rest now."

"It is absolutely impossible. Don't weary me by mentioning it. I
cannot."
"Will you tell me what you intend doing?"
But those shining
apples that grew in Asgard--they who ate of them every day grew never a
day older, for the eating of the apples kept old age away.

Iduna, the Goddess, tended the tree on which the shining apples grew.
None would grow on the tree unless she was there to tend it. No one but
Iduna might pluck the shining apples. Each morning she plucked them and
left them in her basket and every day the Gods and Goddesses came to her
garden that they might eat the shining apples and so stay for ever
young.

Iduna never went from her garden. All day and every day she stayed in
the garden or in her golden house beside it, and all day and every day
she listened to Bragi, her husband, tell a story that never had an end.
Ah, but a time came when Iduna and her apples were lost to Asgard, and
the Gods and Goddesses felt old age approach them. How all that happened
shall be told thee, O well beloved.

Odin, the Father of the Gods, often went into the land of men to watch
over their doings. Once he took Loki with him, Loki, the doer of good
and the doer of evil. For a long time they went traveling through the
world of men. At last they came near Jötunheim, the realm of the Giants.

It was a bleak and empty region. There were no growing things there, not
even trees with berries. There were no birds, there were no animals. As
Odin, the Father of the Gods, and Loki, the doer of good and the doer of
evil, went through this region hunger came upon them. But in all the
land around they saw nothing that they could eat.

Loki, running here and running there, came at last upon a herd of wild
cattle. Creeping up on them, he caught hold of a young bull and killed
him. Then he cut up the flesh into strips of meat. He lighted a fire and
put the meat on spits to roast. While the meat was being cooked, Odin,
the Father of the Gods, a little way off, sat thinking on the things he
had seen in the world of men.

Loki made himself busy putting more and more logs on the fire. At last
he called to Odin, and the Father of the Gods came and sat down near the
fire to eat the meal.

But when the meat was taken off the cooking-spits and when Odin went to
cut it, he found that it was still raw. He smiled at Loki for thinking
the meat was cooked, and Loki, troubled that he had made a mistake, put
the meat back, and put more logs upon the fire. Again Loki took the meat
off the cooking-spits and called Odin to the meal.

Odin, when he took the meat that Loki brought him, found that it was as
raw as if it had never been put upon the fire. "Is this a trick of
yours, Loki?" he said.

Loki was so angry at the meat being uncooked that Odin saw he was
playing no tricks. In his hunger he raged at the meat and he raged at
the fire. Again he put the meat on the cooking-spits and put more logs
on the fire. Every hour he would take up the meat, sure that it was now
cooked, and every time he took it off Odin would find that the meat was
as raw as the first time they took it off the fire.

Now Odin knew that the meat must be under some enchantment by the
Giants. He stood up and went on his way, hungry but strong. Loki,
however, would not leave the meat that he had put back on the fire. He
would make it be cooked, he declared, and he would not leave that place
hungry.

The dawn came and he took up the meat again. As he was lifting it off
the fire he heard a whirr of wings above his head. Looking up, he saw a
mighty eagle, the largest eagle that ever appeared in the sky. The eagle
circled round and round and came above Loki's head. "Canst thou not cook
thy food?" the eagle screamed to him.

"I cannot cook it," said Loki.

"I will cook it for thee, if thou wilt give me a share," screamed the
eagle.

"Come, then, and cook it for me," said Loki.

The eagle circled round until he was above the fire. Then flapping his
great wings over it, he made the fire blaze and blaze. A heat that Loki
had never felt before came from the burning logs. In a minute he drew
the meat from the spits and found it was well cooked.

"My share, my share, give me my share," the eagle screamed at him. He
flew down, and seizing on a large piece of meat instantly devoured it.
He seized on another piece. Piece after piece he devoured until it
looked as if Loki would be left with no meat for his meal.

As the eagle seized on the last piece Loki became angry indeed. Taking
up the spit on which the meat had been cooked, he struck at the eagle.
There was a clang as if he had struck some metal. The wood of the spit
did not come away. It stuck to the breast of the eagle. But Loki did not
let go his hold on the spit. Suddenly the eagle rose up in the air.
Loki, who held to the spit that was fastened to the eagle's breast, was
drawn up with him.

Before he knew what had happened Loki was miles and miles up in the air
and the eagle was flying with him toward Jötunheim, the Realm of the
Giants. And the eagle was screaming out, "Loki, friend Loki, I have thee
at last. It was thou who didst cheat my brother of his reward for
building the wall round Asgard. But, Loki, I have thee at last. Know now
that Thiassi the Giant has captured thee, O Loki, most cunning of the
dwellers in Asgard."

Thus the eagle screamed as he went flying with Loki toward Jötunheim,
the Realm of the Giants. They passed over the river that divides
Jötunheim from Midgard, the World of Men. And now Loki saw a terrible
place beneath him, a land of ice and rock. Great mountains were there:
they were lighted by neither sun nor moon, but by columns of fire thrown
up now and again through cracks in the earth or out of the peaks of the
mountains.

Over a great iceberg the eagle hovered. Suddenly he shook the spit from
his breast and Loki fell down on the ice. The eagle screamed out to him,
"Thou art in my power at last, O thou most cunning of all the Dwellers
in Asgard." The eagle left Loki there and flew within a crack in the
mountain.

Miserable indeed was Loki upon that iceberg. The cold was deadly. He
could not die there, for he was one of the Dwellers in Asgard and death
might not come to him that way. He might not die, but he felt bound to
that iceberg with chains of cold.

After a day his captor came to him, not as an eagle this time, but in
his own form, Thiassi the Giant.

"Wouldst thou leave thine iceberg, Loki," he said, "and return to thy
pleasant place in Asgard? Thou dost delight in Asgard, although only by
one-half dost thou belong to the Gods. Thy father, Loki, was the Wind
Giant."

"O that I might leave this iceberg," Loki said, with the tears freezing
on his face.

"Thou mayst leave it when thou showest thyself ready to pay thy ransom
to me," said Thiassi. "Thou wilt have to get me the shining apples that
Iduna keeps in her basket."

"I cannot get Iduna's apples for thee, Thiassi," said Loki.

"Then stay upon the iceberg," said Thiassi the Giant. He went away and
left Loki there with the terrible winds buffeting him as with blows of a
hammer.

When Thiassi came again and spoke to him about his ransom, Loki said,
"There is no way of getting the shining apples from Iduna."

"There must be some way, O cunning Loki," said the Giant.

"Iduna, although she guards well the shining apples, is simple-minded,"
said Loki. "It may be that I shall be able to get her to go outside the
wall of Asgard. If she goes she will bring her shining apples with her,
for she never lets them go out of her hand except when she gives them to
the Gods and Goddesses to eat."

"Make it so that she will go beyond the wall of Asgard," said the Giant.
"If she goes outside of the wall I shall get the apples from her. Swear
by the World-Tree that thou wilt lure Iduna beyond the wall of Asgard.
Swear it, Loki, and I shall let thee go."

"I swear it by Ygdrassil, the World-Tree, that I will lure Iduna beyond
the wall of Asgard if thou wilt take me off this iceberg," said Loki.

Then Thiassi changed himself into a mighty eagle, and taking Loki in his
talons, he flew with him over the stream that divides Jötunheim, the
Realm of the Giants, from Midgard, the World of Men. He left Loki on the
ground of Midgard, and Loki then went on his way to Asgard.

Now Odin had already returned and he had told the Dwellers in Asgard of
Loki's attempt to cook the enchanted meat. All laughed to think that
Loki had been left hungry for all his cunning. Then when he came into
Asgard looking so famished, they thought it was because Loki had had
nothing to eat. They laughed at him more and more. But they brought him
into the Feast Hall and they gave him the best of food with wine out of
Odin's wine cup. When the feast was over the Dwellers in Asgard went to
Iduna's garden as was their wont.

There sat Iduna in the golden house that opened on her garden. Had she
been in the world of men, every one who saw her would have remembered
their own innocence, seeing one who was so fair and good. She had eyes
blue as the blue sky, and she smiled as if she were remembering lovely
things she had seen or heard. The basket of shining apples was beside
her.

To each God and Goddess Iduna gave a shining apple. Each one ate the
apple given, rejoicing to think that they would never become a day
older. Then Odin, the Father of the Gods, said the runes that were
always said in praise of Iduna, and the Dwellers in Asgard went out of
Iduna's garden, each one going to his or her own shining house.

All went except Loki, the doer of good and the doer of evil. Loki sat in
the garden, watching fair and simple Iduna. After a while she spoke to
him and said, "Why dost thou still stay here, wise Loki?"

"To look well on thine apples," Loki said. "I am wondering if the apples
I saw yesterday are really as shining as the apples that are in thy
basket."

"There are no apples in the world as shining as mine," said Iduna.

"The apples I saw were more shining," said Loki. "Aye, and they smelled
better, Iduna."

Iduna was troubled at what Loki, whom she deemed so wise, told her. Her
eyes filled with tears that there might be more shining apples in the
world than hers. "O Loki," she said, "it cannot be. No apples are more
shining, and none smell so sweet, as the apples I pluck off the tree in
my garden."

"Go, then, and see," said Loki. "Just outside Asgard is the tree that
has the apples I saw. Thou, Iduna, dost never leave thy garden, and so
thou dost not know what grows in the world. Go outside of Asgard and
see."

"I will go, Loki," said Iduna, the fair and simple.

Iduna went outside the wall of Asgard. She went to the place Loki had
told her that the apples grew in. But as she looked this way and that
way, Iduna heard a whirr of wings above her. Looking up, she saw a
mighty eagle, the largest eagle that had ever appeared in the sky.

She drew back toward the gate of Asgard. Then the great eagle swooped
down; Iduna felt herself lifted up, and then she was being carried away
from Asgard, away, away; away over Midgard where men lived, away toward
the rocks and snows of Jötunheim. Across the river that flows between
the World of Men and the Realm of the Giants Iduna was borne. Then the
eagle flew into a cleft in a mountain and Iduna was left in a cavernous
hall lighted up by columns of fire that burst up from the earth.

The eagle loosened his grip on Iduna and she sank down on the ground of
the cavern. The wings and the feathers fell from him and she saw her
captor as a terrible Giant.

"Oh, why have you carried me off from Asgard and brought me to this
place?" Iduna cried.

"That I might eat your shining apples, Iduna," said Thiassi the Giant.

"That will never be, for I will not give them to you," said Iduna.

"Give me the apples to eat, and I shall carry you back to Asgard."

"No, no, that cannot be. I have been trusted with the shining apples
that I might give them to the Gods only."

"Then I shall take the apples from you," said Thiassi the Giant.

He took the basket out of her hands and opened it. But when he touched
the apples they shriveled under his hands. He left them in the basket
and he set the basket down, for he knew now that the apples would be no
good to him unless Iduna gave them to him with her own hands.

"You must stay with me here until you give me the shining apples," he
said to her.

Then was poor Iduna frightened: she was frightened of the strange cave
and frightened of the fire that kept bursting up out of the earth and
she was frightened of the terrible Giant. But above all she was
frightened to think of the evil that would fall upon the Dwellers in
Asgard if she were not there to give them the shining apples to eat.

The Giant came to her again. But still Iduna would not give him the
shining apples. And there in the cave she stayed, the Giant troubling
her every day. And she grew more and more fearful as she saw in her
dreams the Dwellers in Asgard go to her garden--go there, and not being
given the shining apples, feel and see a change coming over themselves
and over each other.

It was as Iduna saw it in her dreams. Every day the Dwellers in Asgard
went to her garden--Odin and Thor, Hödur and Baldur, Tyr and Heimdall,
Vidar and Vali, with Frigga, Freya, Nanna, and Sif. There was no one to
pluck the apples of their tree. And a change began to come over the Gods
and Goddesses.

They no longer walked lightly; their shoulders became bent; their eyes
no longer were as bright as dewdrops. And when they looked upon one
another they saw the change. Age was coming upon the Dwellers in Asgard.

They knew that the time would come when Frigga would be gray and old;
when Sif's golden hair would fade; when Odin would no longer have his
clear wisdom, and when Thor would not have strength enough to raise and
fling his thunderbolts. And the Dwellers in Asgard were saddened by this
knowledge, and it seemed to them that all brightness had gone from their
shining City.

Where was Iduna whose apples would give back youth and strength and
beauty to the Dwellers in Asgard? The Gods had searched for her through
the World of Men. No trace of her did they find. But now Odin, searching
through his wisdom, saw a means to get knowledge of where Iduna was
hidden.

He summoned his two ravens, Hugin and Munin, his two ravens that flew
through the earth and through the Realm of the Giants and that knew all
things that were past and all things that were to come. He summoned
Hugin and Munin and they came, and one sat on his right shoulder and one
sat on his left shoulder and they told him deep secrets: they told him
of Thiassi and of his desire for the shining apples that the Dwellers in
Asgard ate, and of Loki's deception of Iduna, the fair and simple.

What Odin learnt from his ravens was told in the Council of the Gods.
Then Thor the Strong went to Loki and laid hands upon him. When Loki
found himself in the grip of the strong God, he said, "What wouldst thou
with me, O Thor?"

"I would hurl thee into a chasm in the ground and strike thee with my
thunder," said the strong God. "It was thou who didst bring it about
that Iduna went from Asgard."

"O Thor," said Loki, "do not crush me with thy thunder. Let me stay in
Asgard. I will strive to win Iduna back."

"The judgment of the Gods," said Thor, "is that thou, the cunning one,
shouldst go to Jötunheim, and by thy craft win Iduna back from the
Giants. Go or else I shall hurl thee into a chasm and crush thee with my
thunder."

"I will go," said Loki.

From Frigga, the wife of Odin, Loki borrowed the dress of falcon
feathers that she owned. He clad himself in it, and flew to Jötunheim in
the form of a falcon.

He searched through Jötunheim until he found Thiassi's daughter, Skadi.
He flew before Skadi and he let the Giant maid catch him and hold him as
a pet. One day the Giant maid carried him into the cave where Iduna, the
fair and simple, was held.

When Loki saw Iduna there he knew that part of his quest was ended. Now
he had to get Iduna out of Jötunheim and away to Asgard. He stayed no
more with the Giant maid, but flew up into the high rocks of the cave.
Skadi wept for the flight of her pet, but she ceased to search and to
call and went away from the cave.

Then Loki, the doer of good and the doer of evil, flew to where Iduna
was sitting and spoke to her. Iduna, when she knew that one of the
Dwellers in Asgard was near, wept with joy.

Loki told her what she was to do. By the power of a spell that was given
him he was able to change her into the form of a sparrow. But before she
did this she took the shining apples out of her basket and flung them
into places where the Giant would never find them.

Skadi, coming back to the cave, saw the falcon fly out with the sparrow
beside him. She cried out to her father and the Giant knew that the
falcon was Loki and the sparrow was Iduna. He changed himself into the
form of a mighty eagle. By this time sparrow and falcon were out of
sight, but Thiassi, knowing that he could make better flight than they,
flew toward Asgard.

Soon he saw them. They flew with all the power they had, but the great
wings of the eagle brought him nearer and nearer to them. The Dwellers
in Asgard, standing on the wall, saw the falcon and the sparrow with the
great eagle pursuing them. They knew who they were--Loki and Iduna with
Thiassi in pursuit.

As they watched the eagle winging nearer and nearer, the Dwellers in
Asgard were fearful that the falcon and the sparrow would be caught upon
and that Iduna would be taken again by Thiassi. They lighted great fires
upon the wall, knowing that Loki would find a way through the fires,
bringing Iduna with him, but that Thiassi would not find a way.

The falcon and the sparrow flew toward the fires. Loki went between the
flames and brought Iduna with him. And Thiassi, coming up to the fires
and finding no way through, beat his wings against the flames. He fell
down from the wall and the death that came to him afterwards was laid to
Loki.

Thus Iduna was brought back to Asgard. Once again she sat in the golden
house that opened to her garden, once again she plucked the shining
apples off the tree she tended, and once again she gave them to the
Dwellers in Asgard. And the Dwellers in Asgard walked lightly again, and
brightness came into their eyes and into their cheeks; age no more
approached them; youth came back; light and joy were again in Asgard.


[Illustration]

SIF'S GOLDEN HAIR: HOW LOKI WROUGHT MISCHIEF IN ASGARD


All who dwelt in Asgard, the Æsir and the Asyniur, who were the Gods and
the Goddesses, and the Vanir, who were the friends of the Gods and the
Goddesses, were wroth with Loki. It was no wonder they were wroth with
him, for he had let the Giant Thiassi carry off Iduna and her golden
apples. Still, it must be told that the show they made of their wrath
made Loki ready to do more mischief in Asgard.

One day he saw a chance to do mischief that made his heart rejoice. Sif,
the wife of Thor, was lying asleep outside her house. Her beautiful
golden hair flowed all round her. Loki knew how much Thor loved that
shining hair, and how greatly Sif prized it because of Thor's love.
Here was his chance to do a great mischief. Smilingly, he took out his
shears and he cut off the shining hair, every strand and every tress.
She did not waken while her treasure was being taken from her. But Loki
left Sif's head cropped and bare.

Thor was away from Asgard. Coming back to the City of the Gods, he went
into his house. Sif, his wife, was not there to welcome him. He called
to Sif, but no glad answer came from her. To the palaces of all the Gods
and Goddesses Thor went, but in none of them did he find Sif, his
golden-haired wife.

When he was coming back to his house he heard his name whispered. He
stopped, and then a figure stole out from behind a stone. A veil covered
her head, and Thor scarce knew that this was Sif, his wife. As he went
to her she sobbed and sobbed. "O Thor, my husband," she said, "do not
look upon me. I am ashamed that you should see me. I shall go from
Asgard and from the company of the Gods and Goddesses, and I shall go
down to Svartheim and live amongst the Dwarfs. I cannot bear that any of
the Dwellers in Asgard should look upon me now."

"O Sif," cried Thor, "what has happened to change you?"

"I have lost the hair of my head," said Sif, "I have lost the beautiful
golden hair that you, Thor, loved. You will not love me any more, and so
I must go away, down to Svartheim and to the company of the Dwarfs. They
are as ugly as I am now."

Then she took the veil off her head and Thor saw that all her beautiful
hair was gone. She stood before him, shamed and sorrowful, and he grew
into a mighty rage. "Who was it did this to you, Sif?" he said. "I am
Thor, the strongest of all the Dwellers in Asgard, and I shall see to it
that all the powers the Gods possess will be used to get your fairness
back. Come with me, Sif." And taking his wife's hand in his, Thor went
off to the Council House where the Gods and the Goddesses were.

Sif covered her head with her veil, for she would not have the Gods and
Goddesses look upon her shorn head. But from the anger in Thor's eyes
all saw that the wrong done to Sif was great indeed. Then Thor told of
the cutting of her beautiful hair. A whisper went round the Council
House. "It was Loki did this--no one else in Asgard would have done a
deed so shameful," one said to the other.

"Loki it was who did it," said Thor. "He has hidden himself, but I shall
find him and I will slay him."

"Nay, not so, Thor," said Odin, the Father of the Gods. "Nay, no Dweller
in Asgard may slay another. I shall summon Loki to come before us here.
It is for you to make him (and remember that Loki is cunning and able to
do many things) bring back to Sif the beauty of her golden hair."

Then the call of Odin, the call that all in Asgard have to harken to,
went through the City of the Gods. Loki heard it, and he had to come
from his hiding-place and enter the house where the Gods held their
Council. And when he looked on Thor and saw the rage that was in his
eyes, and when he looked on Odin and saw the sternness in the face of
the Father of the Gods, he knew that he would have to make amends for
the shameful wrong he had done to Sif.

Said Odin, "There is a thing that you, Loki, have to do: Restore to Sif
the beauty of her hair."

Loki looked at Odin, Loki looked at Thor, and he saw that what was said
would have to be done. His quick mind searched to find a way of
restoring to Sif the beauty of her golden hair.

"I shall do as you command, Odin All-Father," he said.

But before we tell you of what Loki did to restore the beauty of Sif's
golden hair, we must tell you of the other beings besides the Gods and
the Goddesses who were in the world at the time. First, there was the
Vanir. When the Gods who were called the Æsir came to the mountain on
which they built Asgard, they found other beings there. These were not
wicked and ugly like the Giants; they were beautiful and friendly; the
Vanir they were named.

Although they were beautiful and friendly the Vanir had no thought of
making the world more beautiful or more happy. In that way they differed
from the Æsir who had such a thought. The Æsir made peace with them, and
they lived together in friendship, and the Vanir came to do things that
helped the Æsir to make the world more beautiful and more happy. Freya,
whom the Giant wanted to take away with the Sun and the Moon as a reward
for the building of the wall round Asgard, was of the Vanir. The other
beings of the Vanir were Frey, who was the brother of Freya, and Niörd,
who was their father.

On the earth below there were other beings--the dainty Elves, who danced
and fluttered about, attending to the trees and flowers and grasses. The
Vanir were permitted to rule over the Elves. Then below the earth, in
caves and hollows, there was another race, the Dwarfs or Gnomes, little,
twisted creatures, who were both wicked and ugly, but who were the best
craftsmen in the world.

In the days when neither the Æsir nor the Vanir were friendly to him
Loki used to go down to Svartheim, the Dwarfs' dwelling below the earth.
And now that he was commanded to restore to Sif the beauty of her hair,
Loki thought of help he might get from the Dwarfs.

Down, down, through the winding passages in the earth he went, and he
came at last to where the Dwarfs who were most friendly to him were
working in their forges. All the Dwarfs were master-smiths, and when he
came upon his friends he found them working hammer and tongs, beating
metals into many shapes. He watched them for a while and took note of
the things they were making. One was a spear, so well balanced and made
that it would hit whatever mark it was thrown at no matter how bad the
aim the thrower had. The other was a boat that could sail on any sea,
but that could be folded up so that it would go into one's pocket. The
spear was called Gungnir and the boat was called Skidbladnir.

Loki made himself very agreeable to the Dwarfs, praising their work and
promising them things that only the Dwellers in Asgard could give,
things that the Dwarfs longed to possess. He talked to them till the
little, ugly folk thought that they would come to own Asgard and all
that was in it.

At last Loki said to them, "Have you got a bar of fine gold that you can
hammer into threads--into threads so fine that they will be like the
hair of Sif, Thor's wife? Only the Dwarfs could make a thing so
wonderful. Ah, there is the bar of gold. Hammer it into those fine
threads, and the Gods themselves will be jealous of your work."

Flattered by Loki's speeches, the Dwarfs who were in the forge took up
the bar of fine gold and flung it into the fire. Then taking it out and
putting it upon their anvil they worked on the bar with their tiny
hammers until they beat it into threads that were as fine as the hairs
of one's head. But that was not enough. They had to be as fine as the
hairs on Sif's head, and these were finer than anything else. They
worked on the threads, over and over again, until they were as fine as
the hairs on Sif's head. The threads were as bright as sunlight, and
when Loki took up the mass of worked gold it flowed from his raised hand
down on the ground. It was so fine that it could be put into his palm,
and it was so light that a bird might not feel its weight.

Then Loki praised the Dwarfs more and more, and he made more and more
promises to them. He charmed them all, although they were an unfriendly
and a suspicious folk. And before he left them he asked them for the
spear and the boat he had seen them make, the spear Gungnir and the
boat Skidbladnir. The Dwarfs gave him these things, though in a while
after they wondered at themselves for giving them.

Back to Asgard Loki went. He walked into the Council House where the
Dwellers in Asgard were gathered. He met the stern look in Odin's eyes
and the rageful look in Thor's eyes with smiling good humor. "Off with
thy veil, O Sif," he said. And when poor Sif took off her veil he put
upon her shorn head the wonderful mass of gold he held in his palm. Over
her shoulders the gold fell, fine, soft, and shining as her own hair.
And the Æsir and the Asyniur, the Gods and the Goddesses, and the Van
and Vana, when they saw Sif's head covered again with the shining web,
laughed and clapped their hands in gladness. And the shining web held to
Sif's head as if indeed it had roots and was growing there.


[Illustration]

HOW BROCK BROUGHT JUDGMENT ON LOKI


It was then that Loki, with the wish of making the Æsir and the Vanir
friendly to him once more, brought out the wonderful things he had
gained from the Dwarfs--the spear Gungnir and the boat Skidbladnir. The
Æsir and the Vanir marveled at things so wonderful. Loki gave the spear
as a gift to Odin, and to Frey, who was chief of the Vanir, he gave the
boat Skidbladnir.

All Asgard rejoiced that things so wonderful and so helpful had been
brought to them. And Loki, who had made a great show in giving these
gifts, said boastingly:

"None but the Dwarfs who work for me could make such things. There are
other Dwarfs, but they are as unhandy as they are misshapen. The Dwarfs
who are my servants are the only ones who can make such wonders."

Now Loki in his boastfulness had said a foolish thing. There were other
Dwarfs besides those who had worked for him, and one of these was there
in Asgard. All unknown to Loki he stood in the shadow of Odin's seat,
listening to what was being said. Now he went over to Loki, his little,
unshapely form trembling with rage--Brock, the most spiteful of all the
Dwarfs.

"Ha, Loki, you boaster," he roared, "you lie in your words. Sindri, my
brother, who would scorn to serve you, is the best smith in Svartheim."

The Æsir and the Vanir laughed to see Loki outfaced by Brock the Dwarf
in the middle of his boastfulness. As they laughed Loki grew angry.

"Be silent, Dwarf," he said, "your brother will know about smith's work
when he goes to the Dwarfs who are my friends, and learns something from
them."

"He learn from the Dwarfs who are your friends! My brother Sindri learn
from the Dwarfs who are your friends!" Brock roared, in a greater rage
than before. "The things you have brought out of Svartheim would not be
noticed by the Æsir and the Vanir if they were put beside the things
that my brother Sindri can make."

"Sometime we will try your brother Sindri and see what he can do," said
Loki.

"Try now, try now," Brock shouted. "I'll wager my head against yours,
Loki, that his work will make the Dwellers in Asgard laugh at your
boasting."

"I will take your wager," said Loki. "My head against yours. And glad
will I be to see that ugly head of yours off your misshapen shoulders."

"The Æsir will judge whether my brother's work is not the best that ever
came out of Svartheim. And they will see to it that you will pay your
wager, Loki, the head off your shoulders. Will ye not sit in judgment, O
Dwellers in Asgard?"

"We will sit in judgment," said the Æsir. Then, still full of rage,
Brock the Dwarf went down to Svartheim, and to the place where his
brother Sindri worked.

There was Sindri in his glowing forge, working with bellows and anvil
and hammers beside him, and around him masses of metal--gold and silver,
copper and iron. Brock told his tale, how he had wagered his head
against Loki's that Sindri could make things more wonderful than the
spear and the boat that Loki had brought into Asgard.

"You were right in what you said, my brother," said Sindri, "and you
shall not lose your head to Loki. But the two of us must work at what I
am going to forge. It will be your work to keep the fire so that it will
neither blaze up nor die down for a single instant. If you can keep the
fire as I tell you, we will forge a wonder. Now, brother, keep your
hands upon the bellows, and keep the fire under your control."

Then into the fire Sindri threw, not a piece of metal, but a pig's skin.
Brock kept his hands on the bellows, working it so that the fire neither
died down nor blazed up for a single instant. And in the glowing fire
the pigskin swelled itself into a strange shape.

But Brock was not left to work the bellows in peace. In to the forge
flew a gadfly. It lighted on Brock's hands and stung them. The Dwarf
screamed with pain, but his hands still held the bellows, working it to
keep the fire steady, for he knew that the gadfly was Loki, and that
Loki was striving to spoil Sindri's work. Again the gadfly stung his
hands, but Brock, although his hands felt as if they were pierced with
hot irons, still worked the bellows so that the fire did not blaze up or
die down for a single instant.

Sindri came and looked into the fire. Over the shape that was rising
there he said words of magic. The gadfly had flown away, and Sindri bade
his brother cease working. He took out the thing that had been shaped in
the fire, and he worked over it with his hammer. It was a wonder
indeed--a boar, all golden, that could fly through the air, and that
shed light from its bristles as it flew. Brock forgot the pain in his
hands and screamed with joy. "This is the greatest of wonders," he said.
"The Dwellers in Asgard will have to give the judgment against Loki. I
shall have Loki's head!"

But Sindri said, "The boar Golden Bristle may not be judged as great a
wonder as the spear Gungnir or the boat Skidbladnir. We must make
something more wonderful still. Work the bellows as before, brother, and
do not let the fire die down or blaze up for a single instant."

Then Sindri took up a piece of gold that was so bright it lightened up
the dark cavern that the Dwarfs worked in. He threw the piece of gold
into the fire. Then he went to make ready something else and left Brock
to work the bellows.

The gadfly flew in again. Brock did not know it was there until it
lighted on the back of his neck. It stung him till Brock felt the pain
was wrenching him apart. But still he kept his hands on the bellows,
working it so that the fire neither blazed up nor died down for a single
instant. When Sindri came to look into the fire, Brock was not able to
speak for pain.

Again Sindri said magic words over the gold that was being smelted in
the fire. He took it out of the glow and worked it over on the
main-anvil. Then in a while he showed Brock something that looked like
the circle of their sun. M. train," mused Raffles; "and I've heard no-end
yarns about the joolers' stores in Parrus. But that ain't fair; don't
you take no notice o' that. I'm tryin' to figure a way out. Yes, SIR!"

He was smoking cigarettes out of a twenty-five box; the tradesman and I
had cigars. Raffles sat frowning with a pregnant eye, and it
was only too clear to me that his plans had miscarried. I could not
help thinking, however, that they deserved to do so, if he had
counted upon buying credit for all but L400 by a single payment of
some ten per cent.

That again seemed unworthy of Raffles, and I, for my part, still sat
prepared to spring any moment at our visitor's throat.

"We could mail you the money from Parrus," drawled Raffles at
length.

"But how should we know you'd hold up your end of the string, and mail us
the same articles we've selected to-night?"
The visitor stiffened in his chair. The name of his firm should be
sufficient guarantee for that.

"I guess I'm no better acquainted with their name than they are
with mine," remarked Raffles, laughing. "See here, though! I got a
scheme.
You pack 'em in this!"
He turned the cigarettes out of the tin box, while the jeweller and I
joined wondering eyes.

"Pack 'em in this," repeated Raffles, "the three things we want, and
never mind the boxes; you can pack 'em in cotton-wool. Then we'll ring
for string and sealing wax, seal up the lot right here, and you can
take 'em away in your grip. Within three days we'll have our
remittance, and mail you the money, and you'll mail us this darned box
with my seal unbroken! It's no use you lookin' so sick, Mr. Jooler; you
won't trust us any, and yet we're goin' to trust you some.

Ring the bell, Ezra, and we'll see if they've gotten any sealing-wax
and string."
They had; and the thing was done. The tradesman did not like it; the
precaution was absolutely unnecessary; but since he was taking all
his goods away with him, the sold with the unsold, his sentimental
objections soon fell to the ground.

He packed necklet, ring, and star, with his own hands, in cotton-wool;
and the cigarette-box held them so easily that at the last moment, when
the box was closed, and the string ready, Raffles very nearly added
a diamond bee-brooch at L51 10s.

This temptation, however, he ultimately overcame, to the other's
chagrin.
The cigarette-box was tied up, and the string sealed, oddly enough, with
the diamond of the ring that had been bought and paid for.

"I'll chance you having another ring in the store the dead spit of mine,"
laughed Raffles, as he relinquished the box, and it disappeared into
the tradesman's bag. "And now, Mr. Robinson, I hope you'll appreciate
my true hospitality in not offering you any thing to drink while
business was in progress.

That's Chateau Margaux, sir, and I should judge it's what you'd call
an eighteen-carat article."
In the cab which we took to the vicinity of the flat, I was instantly
snubbed for asking questions which the driver might easily overhear,
and took the repulse just a little to heart. I could make neither
head nor tail of Raffles's dealings with the man from Regent Street,
and was naturally inquisitive as to the meaning of it all.

But I held my tongue until we had regained the flat in the cautious
manner of our exit, and even there until Raffles rallied me with a
hand on either shoulder and an old smile upon his face.

"You rabbit!" said he. "Why couldn't you wait till we got home?"
"Why couldn't you tell me what you were going to do?" I retorted as of
yore.

"Because your dear old phiz is still worth its weight in innocence, and
because you never could act for nuts!

You looked as puzzled as the other poor devil; but you wouldn't if
you had known what my game really was."

"And pray what was it?"
"That," said Raffles, and he smacked the cigarette-box down upon the
mantelpiece. It was not tied. It was not sealed. It flew open from the
force of the impact. And the diamond ring that cost L95, the necklet
for L200, and my flaming star at another L100, all three lay safe and
snug in the jeweller's own cotton-wool!

"Duplicate boxes!" I cried.

"Duplicate boxes, my brainy Bunny. One was already packed and weighted,
and in my pocket. I don't know whether you noticed me weighing the
three things together in my hand? I know that neither of you saw me
change the boxes, for I did it when I was nearest buying the bee-brooch
at the end, and you were too puzzled, and the other Johnny too keen. It
was the cheapest shot in the game; the dear ones were sending old Theobald
to Southampton on a fool's errand yesterday afternoon, and showing
one's own nose down Regent Street in broad daylight while he was
gone; but some things are worth paying for, and certain risks one
must always take.

Nice boxes, aren't they? I only wished they contained a better
cigarette; but a notorious brand was essential; a box of Sullivans
would have brought me to life to-morrow."
"But they oughtn't to open it to-morrow."
"Nor will they, as a matter of fact. Meanwhile, Bunny, I may call upon you
to dispose of the boodle."

"I'm on for any mortal thing!"
My voice rang true, I swear, but it was the way of Raffles to take
the evidence of as many senses as possible.

I felt the cold steel of his eyes through mine and through my brain. But
what he saw seemed to satisfy him no less than what he heard, for his
hand found my hand, and pressed it with a fervor foreign to the
man.

"I know you are, and I knew you would be. Only remember, Bunny, it's my
turn next to pay the shot!"
You shall hear how he paid it when the time came.

A JUBILEE PRESENT
The Room of Gold, in the British Museum, is probably well enough known
to the inquiring alien and the travelled American.

A true Londoner, however, I myself had never heard of it until Raffles
casually proposed a raid.

"The older I grow, Bunny, the less I think of your so-called precious
stones.

When did they ever bring in half their market value in L.s.d.
There was the first little crib we ever cracked together--you with
your innocent eyes shut. A thousand pounds that stuff was worth; but
how many hundreds did it actually fetch.

The Ardagh emeralds weren't much better; old Lady Melrose's necklace
was far worse; but that little lot the other night has about finished
me.

A cool hundred for goods priced well over four; and L35 to come off
for bait, since we only got a tenner for the ring I bought and paid
for like an ass. I'll be shot if I ever touch a diamond again!

Not if it was the Koh-I-noor; those few whacking stones are too
well known, and to cut them up is to decrease their value by arithmetical
retrogression. Besides, that brings you up against the Fence once more,
and I'm done with the beggars for good and all. You talk about your
editors and publishers, you literary swine. Barabbas was neither a
robber nor a publisher, but a six-barred, barbed-wired, spike-topped
Fence.

What we really want is an Incorporated Society of Thieves, with some
public-spirited old forger to run it for us on business lines."
Raffles uttered these blasphemies under his breath, not, I am afraid,
out of any respect for my one redeeming profession, but because we
were taking a midnight airing on the roof, after a whole day of
June in the little flat below.

The stars shone overhead, the lights of London underneath, and between
the lips of Raffles a cigarette of the old and only brand. I had
sent in secret for a box of the best; the boon had arrived that night;
and the foregoing speech was the first result. I could afford to ignore
the insolent asides, however, where the apparent contention was
so manifestly unsound.

"And how are you going to get rid of your gold?" said I,
pertinently.

"Nothing easier, my dear rabbit."

"Is your Room of Gold a roomful of sovereigns?"

Raffles laughed softly at my scorn.

"No, Bunny, it's principally in the shape of archaic ornaments, whose
value, I admit, is largely extrinsic. But gold is gold, from Phoenicia
to Klondike, and if we cleared the room we should eventually do very
well."
"How?"

"I should melt it down into a nugget, and bring it home from the U.S.A.
to-morrow."
"And then?"
"Make them pay up in hard cash across the counter of the Bank of
England. And you CAN make them."
That I knew, and so said nothing for a time, remaining a hostile though
a silent critic, while we paced the cool black leads with our bare
feet, softly as cats.

"And how do you propose to get enough away," at length I asked, "to
make it worth while?"
"Ah, there you have it," said Raffles. "I only propose to reconnoitre
the ground, to see what we can see.

We might find some hiding-place for a night; that, I am afraid, would be
our only chance."
"Have you ever been there before?"
"Not since they got the one good, portable piece which I believe that
they exhibit now. It's a long time since I read of it--I can't remember
where--but I know they have got a gold cup of sorts worth several
thousands.

A number of the immorally rich clubbed together and presented it to the
nation; and two of the richly immoral intend to snaffle it for themselves.
At any rate we might go and have a look at it, Bunny, don't you
think?"

Think! I seized his arm.

"When? When? When?"

I asked, like a quick-firing gun.

"The sooner the better, while old Theobald's away on his honeymoon."
Our medico had married the week before, nor was any fellow-practitioner
taking his work--at least not that considerable branch of it which
consisted of Raffles--during his brief absence from town. There were
reasons, delightfully obvious to us, why such a plan would have
been highly unwise in Dr.

Theobald. I, however, was sending him daily screeds, and both matutinal
and nocturnal telegrams, the composition of which afforded Raffles not
a little enjoyment.

"Well, then, when--when?"

I began to repeat.

"To-morrow, if you like."
"Only to look?"
The limitation was my one regret.

"We must do so, Bunny, before we leap."
"Very well," I sighed. "But to-morrow it is!"
And the morrow it really was.

I saw the porter that night, and, I still think, bought his absolute
allegiance for the second coin of the realm.

My story, however, invented by Raffles, was sufficiently specious
in itself.

That sick gentleman, Mr. Maturin (as I had to remember to call him), was
really, or apparently, sickening for fresh air. Dr. Theobald would allow
him none; he was pestering me for just one day in the country while
the glorious weather lasted.

I was myself convinced that no possible harm could come of the experiment.
Would the porter help me in so innocent and meritorious an intrigue? The
man hesitated. I produced my half-sovereign. The man was lost. And at
half-past eight next morning--before the heat of the day--Raffles
and I drove to Kew Gardens in a hired landau which was to call for
us at mid-day and wait until we came.

The porter had assisted me to carry my invalid downstairs, in a
carrying-chair hired (like the landau) from Harrod's Stores for the
occasion.

It was little after nine when we crawled together into the gardens;
by half-past my invalid had had enough, and out he tottered on my
arm; a cab, a message to our coachman, a timely train to Baker
Street, another cab, and we were at the British Museum--brisk
pedestrians now--not very many minutes after the opening hour of
10 A.M.

It was one of those glowing days which will not be forgotten by many who
were in town at the time. The Diamond Jubilee was upon us, and Queen's
weather had already set in. Raffles, indeed, declared it was as hot
as Italy and Australia put together; and certainly the short summer
nights gave the channels of wood and asphalt and the continents of
brick and mortar but little time to cool.

At the British Museum the pigeons were crooning among the shadows
of the grimy colonnade, and the stalwart janitors looked less
stalwart than usual, as though their medals were too heavy for them.

I recognized some habitual Readers going to their labor underneath
the dome; of mere visitors we seemed among the first.

"That's the room," said Raffles, who had bought the two-penny guide, as
we studied it openly on the nearest bench; "number 43, upstairs and
sharp round to the right. Come on, Bunny!"
And he led the way in silence, but with a long methodical stride
which I could not understand until we came to the corridor leading
to the Room of Gold, when he turned to me for a moment.

"A hundred and thirty-nine yards from this to the open street,"
said Raffles, "not counting the stairs.

I suppose we COULD do it in twenty seconds, but if we did we should
have to jump the gates.

No, you must remember to loaf out at slow march, Bunny, whether you
like it or not."
"But you talked about a hiding-place for a night?"
"Quite so--for all night. We should have to get back, go on lying low,
and saunter out with the crowd next day--after doing the whole
show thoroughly."

"What! With gold in our pockets--"
"And gold in our boots, and gold up the sleeves and legs of our
suits!
You leave that to me, Bunny, and wait till you've tried two pairs of
trousers sewn together at the foot! This is only a preliminary
reconnoitre.

And here we are."
It is none of my business to describe the so-called Room of Gold, with
which I, for one, was not a little disappointed. The glass cases, which
both fill and line it, may contain unique examples of the goldsmith's
art in times and places of which one heard quite enough in the
course of one's classical education; but, from a professional point
of view, I would as lief have the ransacking of a single window in
the West End as the pick of all those spoils of Etruria and of
ancient Greece.

The gold may not be so soft as it appears, but it certainly looks as though
you could bite off the business ends of the spoons, and stop your own
teeth in doing so. Nor should I care to be seen wearing one of the
rings; but the greatest fraud of all (from the aforesaid standpoint)
is assuredly that very cup of which Raffles had spoken.
Moreover, he felt this himself.

"Why, it's as thin as paper," said he, "and enamelled like a middle-aged
lady of quality! But, by Jove, it's one of the most beautiful things
I ever saw in my life, Bunny. I should like to have it for its own sake,
by all my gods!"

The thing had a little square case of plate-glass all to itself at one end
of the room. It may have been the thing of beauty that Raffles affected
to consider it, but I for my part was in no mood to look at it in that
light. Underneath were the names of the plutocrats who had subscribed for
this national gewgaw, and I fell to wondering where their L8,000
came in, while Raffles devoured his two-penny guide-book as greedily
as a school-girl with a zeal for culture.

"Those are scenes from the martyrdom of St. Agnes," said he ...
"'translucent on relief ... one of the finest specimens of its kind.' I
should think it was! Bunny, you Philistine, why can't you admire the
thing for its own sake? It would be worth having only to live up to!

There never was such rich enamelling on such thin gold; and what a good
scheme to hang the lid up over it, so that you can see how thin it is.

I wonder if we could lift it, Bunny, by hook or crook?"
"You'd better try, sir," said a dry voice at his elbow.

The madman seemed to think we had the room to ourselves.

I knew better, but, like another madman, had let him ramble on
unchecked. And here was a stolid constable confronting us, in the short
tunic that they wear in summer, his whistle on its chain, but no truncheon
at his side. Heavens!

how I see him now: a man of medium size, with a broad, good-humored,
perspiring face, and a limp moustache.

He looked sternly at Raffles, and Raffles looked merrily at him.

"Going to run me in, officer?" said he.

"That WOULD be a joke--my hat!"
"I didn't say as I was, sir," replied the policeman.

"But that's queer talk for a gentleman like you, sir, in the British
Museum!" And he wagged his helmet at my invalid, who had taken his
airing in frock-coat and top-hat, the more readily to assume his
present part.

"What!" cried Raffles, "simply saying to my friend that I'd like to
lift the gold cup? Why, so I should, officer, so I should! I don't
mind who hears me say so. It's one of the most beautiful things I ever
saw in all my life."
The constable's face had already relaxed, and now a grin peeped
under the limp moustache.

"I daresay there's many as feels like that, sir," said he.

"Exactly; and I say what I feel, that's all," said Raffles airily.

"But seriously, officer, is a valuable thing like this quite safe in a
case like that?"
"Safe enough as long as I'm here," replied the other, between grim jest
and stout earnest. Raffles studied his face; he was still watching
Raffles; and I kept an eye on them both without putting in my word.

"You appear to be single-handed," observed Raffles.

"Is that wise?"

The note of anxiety was capitally caught; it was at once personal and
public-spirited, that of the enthusiastic savant, afraid for a national
treasure which few appreciated as he did himself. And, to be sure,
the three of us now had this treasury to ourselves; one or two others
had been there when we entered; but now they were gone.

"I'm not single-handed," said the officer, comfortably. "See that seat by
the door? One of the attendants sits there all day long."
"Then where is he now?"
"Talking to another attendant just outside. If you listen you'll hear
them for yourself."
We listened, and we did hear them, but not just outside.

In my own mind I even questioned whether they were in the corridor through
which we had come; to me it sounded as though they were just outside
the corridor.

"You mean the fellow with the billiard-cue who was here when we came in?"
pursued Raffles.

"That wasn't a billiard-cue! It was a pointer," the intelligent officer
explained.

"It ought to be a javelin," said Raffles, nervously. "It ought to be a
poleaxe! The public treasure ought to be better guarded than
this. I shall write to the Times about it--you see if I don't!"
All at once, yet somehow not so suddenly as to excite suspicion,
Raffles had become the elderly busybody with nerves; why, I could not for
the life of me imagine; and the policeman seemed equally at sea.

"Lor' bless you, sir," said he, "I'm all right; don't you bother your
head about ME."
"But you haven't even got a truncheon!"
"Not likely to want one either. You see, sir, it's early as yet; in a few
minutes these here rooms will fill up; and there's safety in numbers,
as they say."
"Oh, it will fill up soon, will it?"

"Any minute now, sir."
"Ah!"
"It isn't often empty as long as this, sir. It's the Jubilee, I suppose."

"Meanwhile, what if my friend and I had been professional thieves?
Why, we could have over-powered you in an instant, my good fellow!"
"That you couldn't; leastways, not without bringing the whole place about
your ears."
"Well, I shall write to the Times, all the same. I'm a connoisseur in
all this sort of thing, and I won't have unnecessary risks run
with the nation's property.

You said there was an attendant just outside, but he sounds to me as though
he were at the other end of the corridor. I shall write to-day!"
For an instant we all three listened; and Raffles was right. Then I saw
two things in one glance.

Raffles had stepped a few inches backward, and stood poised upon
the ball of each foot, his arms half raised, a light in his eyes.

And another kind of light was breaking over the crass features of our
friend the constable.

"Then shall I tell you what I'LL do?"

he cried, with a sudden clutch at the whistle-chain on his chest. The
whistle flew out, but it never reached his lips.

There were a couple of sharp smacks, like double barrels discharged
all but simultaneously, and the man reeled against me so that I
could not help catching him as he fell.

"Well done, Bunny! I've knocked him out--I've knocked him out! Run
you to the door and see if the attendants have heard anything, and take
them on if they have."

Mechanically I did as I was told. There was no time for thought, still
less for remonstrance or reproach, though my surprise must have
been even more complete than that of the constable before Raffles
knocked the sense out of him.

Even in my utter bewilderment, however, the instinctive caution of the
real criminal did not desert me. I ran to the door, but I sauntered
through it, to plant myself before a Pompeiian fresco in the corridor;
and there were the two attendants still gossiping outside the further
door; nor did they hear the dull crash which I heard even as I
watched them out of the corner of each eye.

It was hot weather, as I have said, but the perspiration on my body seemed
already to have turned into a skin of ice.

Then I caught the faint reflection of my own face in the casing of the
fresco, and it frightened me into some semblance of myself as
Raffles joined me with his hands in his pockets.

But my fear and indignation were redoubled at the sight of him, when a
single glance convinced me that his pockets were as empty as his
hands, and his mad outrage the most wanton and reckless of his whole
career.

"Ah, very interesting, very interesting, but nothing to what they
have in the museum at Naples or in Pompeii itself.

You must go there some day, Bunny. I've a good mind to take you
myself. Meanwhile--slow march! The beggar hasn't moved an eyelid.

We may swing for him if you show indecent haste!"
"We!" I whispered. "We!"
And my knees knocked together as we came up to the chatting attendants.

But Raffles must needs interrupt them to ask the way to the Prehistoric
Saloon.

"At the top of the stairs."
"Thank you. Then we'll work round that way to the Egyptian part."
And we left them resuming their providential chat.
"I believe you're mad," I said bitterly as we went.
"I believe I was," admitted Raffles; "but I'm not now, and I'll see
you through. A hundred and thirty-nine yards, wasn't it? Then it
can't be more than a hundred and twenty now--not as much. Steady,
Bunny, for God's sake. It's SLOW march--for our lives."
There was this much management. The rest was our colossal luck. A
hansom was being paid off at the foot of the steps outside, and in
we jumped, Raffles shouting "Charing Cross!" for all Bloomsbury to
hear.
We had turned into Bloomsbury Street without exchanging a syllable
when he struck the trap-door with his fist.
"Where the devil are you driving us?" 
"Charing Cross, sir."
"I said King's Cross! Round you spin, and drive like blazes, or we
miss our train!Then Frey said to himself, "The day of Ragnarök is far off, and I
cannot live without Gerda."

He drew the magic sword from his belt and he placed it in Skirnir's
hand. "I give you my sword, Skirnir," he said. "Take my message to
Gerda, Gymer's daughter. Show her this gold and these precious jewels,
and say I love her, and that I claim her love."

"I shall bring the maid to you," said Skirnir the Venturesome.

"But how wilt thou get to Jötunheim?" said Frey, suddenly remembering
how dark the Giants' land was and how terrible were the approaches to
it.

"Oh, with a good horse and a good sword one can get anywhere," said
Skirnir. "My horse is a mighty horse, and you have given me your sword
of magic. Tomorrow I shall make the journey."

Skirnir rode across Bifröst, the Rainbow Bridge, laughing out of his
wide mouth and his blue eyes at Heimdall, the Warder of the Bridge to
Asgard. His mighty horse trod the earth of Midgard, and swam the river
that divides Midgard, the World of Men, from Jötunheim, the Realm of the
Giants. He rode on heedlessly and recklessly, as he did all things. Then
out of the iron forests came the monstrous wolves of Jötunheim, to tear
and devour him and his mighty horse. It was well for Skirnir that he had
in his belt Frey's magic sword. Its edge slew and its gleam frighted
the monstrous beasts. On and on Skirnir rode on his mighty horse. Then
he came to a wall of fire. No other horse but his mighty horse could go
through it. Skirnir rode through the fire and came to the dale in which
was Gymer's dwelling.

And now he was before the house that Frey had seen Gerda enter on the
day when he had climbed Hlidskjalf, Odin's Watch-Tower. The mighty
hounds that guarded Gymer's dwelling came and bayed around him. But the
gleam of the magic sword kept them away. Skirnir backed his horse to the
door, and made his horse's hooves strike against it.

Gymer was in the feast hall drinking with his Giant friends, and he did
not hear the baying of the hounds nor the clatter that Skirnir made
before the door. But Gerda sat spinning with her maidens in the hall.
"Who comes to Gymer's door?" she said.

"A warrior upon a mighty horse," said one of the maidens.

"Even though he be an enemy and one who slew my brother, yet shall we
open the door to him and give him a cup of Gymer's mead," said Gerda.

One of the maidens opened the door and Skirnir entered Gymer's dwelling.
He knew Gerda amongst her maidens. He went to her and showed her the
rich gold and the precious jewels that he had brought from Frey. "These
are for you, fairest Gerda," he said, "if you will give your love to
Frey, the Chief of the Vanir."

"Show your gold and jewels to other maidens," said Gerda. "Gold and
jewels will never bring me to give my love."

Then Skirnir the Venturesome, the heedless of his words, drew the magic
sword from his belt and held it above her. "Give your love to Frey, who
has given me this sword," he said, "or meet your death by the edge of
it."

Gerda, Gymer's daughter, only laughed at the reckless Skirnir, "Make the
daughters of men fearful by the sharpness of Frey's sword," she said,
"but do not try to frighten a Giant's daughter with it."

Then Skirnir the Reckless, the heedless of his words, made the magic
sword flash before her eyes, while he cried out in a terrible voice,
saying a spell over her:

     Gerda, I will curse thee;
     Yes, with this magic
     Blade I shall touch thee;
     Such is its power
     That, like a thistle,
     Withered 'twill leave thee,
     Like a thistle the wind
     Strips from the roof.

Hearing these terrible words and the strange hissings of the magic
sword, Gerda threw herself on the ground, crying out for pity. But
Skirnir stood above her, and the magic sword flashed and hissed over
her. Skirnir sang:

     More ugly I'll leave thee
     Than maid ever was;
     Thou wilt be mocked at
     By men and by Giants;
     A Dwarf only will wed thee;
     Now on this instant
     With this blade I shall touch thee,
     And leave thee bespelled.

She lifted herself on her knees and cried out to Skirnir to spare her
from the spell of the magic sword.

"Only if thou wilt give thy love to Frey," said Skirnir.

"I will give my love to him," said Gerda. "Now put up thy magic sword
and drink a cup of mead and depart from Gymer's dwelling."

"I will not drink a cup of your mead nor shall I depart from Gymer's
dwelling until you yourself say that you will meet and speak with Frey."

"I will meet and speak with him," said Gerda.

"When will you meet and speak with him?" asked Skirnir.

"In the wood of Barri nine nights from this. Let him come and meet me
there."

Then Skirnir put up his magic sword and drank the cup of mead that Gerda
gave him. He rode from Gymer's house, laughing aloud at having won Gerda
for Frey, and so making the magic sword his own for ever.

Skirnir the Venturesome, the heedless of his words, riding across
Bifröst on his mighty horse, found Frey standing waiting for him beside
Heimdall, the Warder of the Bridge to Asgard.

"What news dost thou bring me?" cried Frey. "Speak, Skirnir, before thou
dost dismount from thine horse."

"In nine nights from this thou mayst meet Gerda in Barri Wood," said
Skirnir. He looked at him, laughing out of his wide mouth and his blue
eyes. But Frey turned away, saying to himself:

     Long is one day;
     Long, long two.
     Can I live through
     Nine long days?

Long indeed were these days for Frey. But the ninth day came, and in the
evening Frey went to Barri Wood. And there he met Gerda, the Giant maid.
She was as fair as when he had seen her before the door of Gymer's
house. And when she saw Frey, so tall and noble looking, the Giant's
daughter was glad that Skirnir the Venturesome had made her promise to
come to Barri Wood. They gave each other rings of gold. It was settled
that the Giant maid should come as a bride to Asgard.

Gerda came, but another Giant maid came also. This is how that came to
be:

All the Dwellers in Asgard were standing before the great gate, waiting
to welcome the bride of Frey. There appeared a Giant maid who was not
Gerda; all in armor was she.

"I am Skadi," she said, "the daughter of Thiassi. My father met his
death at the hands of the Dwellers in Asgard. I claim a recompense."

"What recompense would you have, maiden?" asked Odin, smiling to see a
Giant maid standing so boldly in Asgard.

"A husband from amongst you, even as Gerda. And I myself must be let
choose him."

All laughed aloud at the words of Skadi. Then said Odin, laughing, "We
will let you choose a husband from amongst us, but you must choose him
by his feet."

"I will choose him whatever way you will," said Skadi fixing her eyes on
Baldur, the most beautiful of all the Dwellers in Asgard.

They put a bandage round her eyes, and the Æsir and the Vanir seat in a
half circle around. As she went by she stooped over each and laid hands
upon their feet. At last she came to one whose feet were so finely
formed that she felt sure it was Baldur. She stood up and said:

"This is the one that Skadi chooses for her husband."

Then the Æsir and the Vanir laughed more and more. They took the bandage
off her eyes and she saw, not Baldur the Beautiful, but Niörd, the
father of Frey. But as Skadi looked more and more on Niörd she became
more and more contented with her choice; for Niörd was strong, and he
was noble looking.

These two, Niörd and Skadi, went first to live in Niörd's palace by the
sea; but the coming of the sea mew would waken Skadi too early in the
morning, and she drew her husband to the mountaintop where she was more
at home. He would not live long away from the sound of the sea. Back and
forward, between the mountain and the sea, Skadi and Niörd went. But
Gerda stayed in Asgard with Frey, her husband, and the Æsir and the
Vanir came to love greatly Gerda, the Giant maid.


[Illustration]

HEIMDALL AND LITTLE HNOSSA: HOW ALL THINGS CAME TO BE


Hnossa, the child of Freya and the lost Odur, was the youngest of all
the Dwellers in Asgard. And because it had been prophesied that the
child would bring her father and her mother together, little Hnossa was
often taken without the City of the Gods to stand by Bifröst, the
Rainbow Bridge, so that she might greet Odur if his steps turned toward
Asgard.

In all the palaces of the City of the Gods little Hnossa was made
welcome: in Fensalir, the Halls of Mists, where Frigga, the wife of Odin
All-Father, sat spinning with golden threads; in Breidablik, where
Baldur, the Well Beloved, lived with his fair wife, the young Nanna; in
Bilskirnir, the Winding House, where Thor and Sif lived; and in Odin's
own palace Valaskjalf, that was all roofed over with silver shields.

The greatest of all the palaces was Gladsheim, that was built by the
golden-leaved wood, Glasir. Here the banquets of the Gods were held.
Often little Hnossa looked within and saw Odin All-Father seated at the
banquet table, with a mantle of blue over him and a shining helmet
shaped like an eagle upon his head. Odin would sit there, not eating at
all, but drinking the wine of the Gods, and taking the food off the
table and giving it to Geri and Freki, the two wolves that crouched
beside his seat.

She loved to go outside the great gate and stay beside Heimdall, the
Warder of the Rainbow Bridge. There, when there was no one crossing that
she might watch, she would sit beside Heimdall and listen to the wonders
that he spoke of.

Heimdall held in his hands the horn that was called the Gialarhorn. He
would sound it to let the Dwellers in Asgard know that one was crossing
the Rainbow Bridge. And Heimdall told little Hnossa how he had trained
himself to hear the grasses grow, and how he could see all around him
for a hundred miles. He could see in the night as well as the day. He
never slept. He had nine mothers, he told Hnossa, and he fed on the
strength of the earth and the cold sea.

As she sat beside him day after day, Heimdall would tell little Hnossa
how all things began. He had lived from the beginning of time and he
knew all things. "Before Asgard was built," he said, "and before Odin
lived, earth and sea and sky were all mixed together: what was then was
the Chasm of Chasms. In the North there was Niflheim, the Place of
Deadly Cold. In the South there was Muspelheim, the Land of Fire. In
Niflheim there was a cauldron called Hveigelmer that poured out twelve
rivers that flowed into the Chasm of Chasms.

"Ginnungagap, the Chasm of Chasms, filled up with ice, for the waters of
the rivers froze as they poured into it. From Muspelheim came clouds of
fire that turned the ice into thick mists. The mists fell down again in
drops of dew, and from these drops were formed Ymir, the Ancient Giant.

"Ymir, the Ancient Giant, traveled along by the twelve rivers until he
came to where another living form was standing in the mists. This was a
Giant Cow. Audhumla was the name of that cow. Ymir lay down beside her
and drank her milk, and on the milk she gave him he lived. Other beings
were formed out of the dew that fell to the ground. They were the
Daughters of the Frost, and Ymir, the Ancient Giant, married one, and
their children were the Giants.

"One day Ymir saw Audhumla breathe upon a cliff of ice and lick with her
tongue the place she breathed on. As her tongue went over and over the
place he saw that a figure was being formed. It was not like a Giant's
form; it was more shapely and more beautiful. A head appeared in the
cliff and golden hair fell over the ice. As Ymir looked upon the being
that was being formed he hated him for his beauty.

"Audhumla, the Giant Cow, went on licking the place where she had
breathed. At last a man completely formed stepped from the cliff. Ymir,
the Ancient Giant, hated him so much that he would have slain him then
and there. But he knew that if he did this, Audhumla would feed him no
more with her milk.

"Bur was the name of the man who was formed in the ice cliff, Bur, the
first of the heroes. He, too, lived on the milk of Audhumla. He married
a daughter of the Ancient Giant and he had a son. But Ymir and Ymir's
sons hated Bur, and the time came at last when they were able to kill
him.

"And now there was war between Ymir and Ymir's sons and the son and
son's sons of Bur. Odin was the son of Bur's son. Odin brought all his
brothers together, and they were able to destroy Ymir and all his
brood--all except one. So huge was Ymir that when he was slain his blood
poured out in such a mighty flood that his sons were all drowned in it,
all except Bergelmir, who was in a boat with his wife when the flood
came, and who floated away on the flood to the place that we now call
Jötunheim, the Realm of the Giants.

"Now Odin and his sons took the body of Ymir--the vastest body that ever
was--and they flung it into the Chasm of Chasms, filling up all the
hollow places with it. They dug the bones out of the body and they piled
them up as the mountains. They took the teeth out and they made them
into the rocks. They took the hair of Ymir and they made it into the
forests of trees. They took his eyebrows and formed them into the place
where Men now dwell, Midgard. And out of Ymir's hollow skull they made
the sky.

"And Odin and his sons and brothers did more than this. They took the
sparks and the clouds of flame that blew from Muspelheim, and they made
them into the sun and the moon and all the stars that are in the sky.
Odin found a dusky Giantess named Night whose son was called Day, and he
gave both of them horses to drive across the sky. Night drove a horse
that is named Hrimfaxe, Frosty Mane, and Day drove a horse that is named
Skinfaxe, Shining Mane. From Hrimfaxe's bit fall the drops that make the
dew upon the earth.

"Then Odin and his sons made a race of men and women and gave them
Midgard to live in. Ugly Dwarfs had grown up and had spread themselves
over the earth. These Odin made go live in the hollow places beneath the
earth. The Elves he let stay on the earth, but he gave them the tasks of
tending the streams and the grasses and the flowers. And with the Vanir
he made peace after a war had been waged, taking Niörd from them for a
hostage.

"Bergelmir, the Giant who escaped drowning in Ymir's blood, had sons and
daughters in Jötunheim. They hated Odin and his sons and strove against
them. When Odin lighted up the world with the sun and the moon they were
very wroth, and they found two of the fiercest of the mighty wolves of
Jötunheim and set them to follow them. And still the sun and the moon,
Sol and Mani, are followed by the wolves of Jötunheim."

Such wonders did Heimdall with the Golden Teeth tell Hnossa, the
youngest of the Dwellers in Asgard. Often the child stayed with him by
the Rainbow Bridge, and saw the Gods pass to and from Midgard: Thor,
with his crown of stars, with the great hammer Miölnir in his hands,
with the gloves of iron that he used when he grasped Miölnir; Thor in
his chariot drawn by two goats and wearing the belt that doubled his
strength; Frigga, with her dress of falcon feathers, flying swiftly as a
bird; Odin All-Father himself, riding upon Sleipner, his eight-legged
steed, clad all in golden armor, with his golden helmet, shaped like an
eagle, upon his head, and with his spear Gungnir in his hand.

M. INGLEBY inquires the source of the following definition of proverb,
viz. "The wisdom of many, and the wit of one."
"To Lord John Russell are we indebted for that admirable definition of a
proverb: 'The wisdom,' &c."--See Notes to Rogers's _Italy_, 1848.

The date is added since, in an edition of 1842; this remark makes no
part of the note on the line, "If but a sinew vibrate," &c.

Q. T.

_Ireland a bastinadoed Elephant_ (Vol. viii., p. 366.).--I venture to
suggest whether this expression may not be something more than a bull,
as [Old English W]. inclines to call it. If any one will look at a physical
map of Ireland at some little distance, a very slight exercise of
the "mind's eye" will serve to call up in the figure of that island
the shape of a creature kneeling and in pain.

Lough Foyle forms the eye; the coast from Bengore Head to Benmore Head
the nose or snout; Belfast Lough the mouth; the coast below Donaghdee
the chin; County Wexford the knees. The rest of the outline, according
to the imagination of the observer, may assume that of an elephant, or
something, perhaps, "very like a whale." Some fanciful observation
of this kind may have suggested the otherwise unaccountable simile
to Curran.

POLONIUS.

_Ennui_ (Vol. vii., p. 478.; Vol. viii., p. 377.).--The meaning of this
admirable word is best gleaned from its root, viz. _nuit_. It is somewhat
equivalent to the Greek [Greek: agrupnia], and signifies the sense of
weariness with doing nothing. It gives the lie to the _dolce far niente_:

vide Ps. cxxx. 6., and Job vii. 3, 4. _Ennui_ is closely allied to our
_annoy_ or _annoyance_, through _noceo_, _noxa_, and their probable
root _nox_, [Greek: nux.] It is precisely equivalent to the Latin
_tædium_, which may be derived from _tæda_, which in the plural
means a torch, and through that word may have a side reference to
night, the _tædarum horæ_:
cf.

Ps. xci. 5. The subject is worthy of strict inquiry on the part of
comparative philologists.

C.

MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

_Belle Sauvage_ (Vol. viii., p. 388.).--Your Philadelphian correspondent
asks whether Blue Bell, Blue Anchor, &c., are corruptions of some other
emblem, such as that which in London transformed _La Belle Sauvage_
into the _Bell Savage_.

     
     This is not the fact.
     The Bell Savage on Ludgate Hill was originally kept by one Isabella
Savage.

A cotemporary historian, writing of one of the leaders in a rebellion
in the days of Queen {524} Mary, says, "He then sat down upon a stone
opposite to Bell Savage's Inn."
JAMES EDMESTON.

Homerton.

_History of York_ (Vol. viii., p. 125.).--There is a _History of
York_, published in 1785 by Wilson and Spence, described to be an abridgment
of Drake, which is in three volumes, and may be a later edition of the
same work to which MR. ELLIOT alludes.

F. T. M.

86. Cannon Street.

_Encore_ (Vol. viii., p. 387.).

--If A. A. knows the meaning of "this French word" I am a little surprised
at his Query. Perhaps he means to ask why a French word should be
used? It probably was first used at concerts and operas (_ancora_ in
Italian), where the performers and even the performances were foreign,
and so became the fashion. Pope says:

"To the same notes thy sons shall hum or snore, And all thy yawning
daughters cry _encore_."

It was not, I think, in use so early as Shakspeare's time, who makes
Bottom anticipate that "the Duke shall say, Let him roar _again_,
let him roar _again_," where the jingle of "encore" would have been
obvious.

It is somewhat curious that where we use the French word _encore_, the
French audiences use the Latin word "bis."
C.

_"Hauling over the Coals"_ (Vol. viii., p. 125.).

--This saying I conceive to have arisen from the custom prevalent
in olden times, when every Baron was supreme in his own castle, of
extracting money from the unfortunate Jews who happened to fall
into his power, by means of torture.

The most usual _modus operandi_ seems to have been roasting the
victims over a slow fire.

Every one remembers the treatment of Isaac of York by Front-de-Boeuf, so
vividly described in Sir Walter Scott's _Ivanhoe_. Although the practice
has long been numbered amongst the things that were, the fact of
its having once obtained is handed down to posterity in this saying,
as when any one is taken to task for his shortcomings he is _hauled
over the coals_.

JOHN P. STILWELL.

Dorking.

_The Words "Cash" and "Mob"_ (Vol. viii., p. 386.).

--MR. FOX was right:
_mob_ is not genuine English--teste Dean Swift! A lady who was well known
to Swift used to say that the greatest scrape she ever got into
with him was by using the word _mob_.

"Why do you say that?" he exclaimed in a passion; "never let me hear you
say that again!" "Why, sir," she asked, "what am I to say?" "The rabble,
to be sure," answered he. (Sir W. Scott's _Works of Swift_, vol. ix.) The
word appears to have been introduced about the commencement of the
eighteenth century, by a process to which we owe many other and
similar barbarisms--"beauties introduced to supply the want of wit,
sense, humour, and learning."

In a paper of _The Tatler_, No. 230., much in the spirit, and possibly
from the pen, of Swift, complaint is made of the "abbreviations and
elisions" which had recently been introduced, and a humorous example
of them is given. By these, the author adds,
"Consonants of most obdurate sound are joined together without one softening
vowel to intervene; and all this only to make one syllable of two,
directly contrary to the example of the Greeks and Romans, and a
natural tendency towards relapsing into barbarity.

And this is still more visible in the next refinement, which consists in
pronouncing the first syllable in a word that has many, and dismissing
the rest. Thus we cram one syllable and cut off the rest, as the owl
fattened her mice after she had bit off their legs to prevent their
running away; and if ours be the same reason for maiming our words, it
will certainly answer the end, for I am sure no other nation will desire
to borrow them."
I have only to add (see _Blackwood's Magazine_, vol. ii., 1842)
that "mob is _mobile_."

_Cash_ appears to be from the French _caisse_, a chest, cash.

J. W. THOMAS.

Dewsbury.

_Cash_ is from the French _caisse_, the moneychest where _specie_ was
kept.
So _caissier_ became "cashier," and _specie_ "cash."

_Mob_, Swift tells us (_Polite Conversation_, Introd.), is a contraction
for _mobile_.

CLERICUS RUSTICUS has not, I fear, Johnson's _Dictionary_, where both
these derivations are given.

C.

_Ampers &._ (Vol. ii., pp. 230. 284.; Vol. viii. _passim_).--MR.

INGLEBY may well ask what "and-per-se-and" can mean. The fact is, this
is itself a corruption. In old spelling-books, after the twenty-six
letters it was customary to print the two following symbols with
their explanations 
&c. et cetera.
& (per se), and.

Children were taught to read the above "et-cee, et cetera" and
"et-per-se, and."

Such, at least, was the case in a Dublin school, some ninety years
ago, where my informant, now many years deceased, was educated.

As _se_ was not there pronounced like _cee_, but like _say_, there
was no danger of confounding the two names.

In England, where a different pronunciation of the Latin word prevailed,
such confusion would be apt to occur; and hence, probably, English
teachers substituted _and_ for _et_; from which, in course of time,
the other corruptions mentioned by MR. LOWER were developed.

E. H. D. D.

{525}
_The Keate Family, of the Hoo, Herts_ (Vol. viii., p. 293.).--The following
account is taken from Burke's _Extinct and Dormant Baronetcies of
England_, Lond. 1841:

"William Keate of Hagbourne, in Berkshire, left five sons.

The second son, Ralph Keate of Whaddon, in Wiltshire, married Anne,
daughter of John Clarke, Esq., of Ardington, in Berkshire, and had
with other issue Gilbert Keate, Esq., of London, who married, first,
John, daughter of Niclolas Turbervile, Esq. of Crediton, in Devon,
and, secondly, Elizabeth, daughter of William Armstrong, Esq., of
Remston, Notts, and by her had another son, Jonathan Keate, Esq.,
of the Hoo, in the county of Hertford, which estate he acquired
with his first wife, Susannah daughter of William, and sister and
heir of Thomas Hoo, of the Hoo and Kimpton, both in Hertfordshire.

Mr.

Keate was created a baronet by King Charles II., 12th June, 1660.

Sir Jonathan was sheriff of the county of Hertford, 17 Charles II., and
knight of the same shire in Parliament, in the thirtieth of the same
reign. By his first wife he had issue, Gilbert Hoo, his heir, Jonathan,
Susan, Elizabeth: all died _sine prole_.

He married, secondly, Susanna, daughter of John Orlebar, citizen of
London, but by her had no issue. He died 17th September, 1700. The
baronetcy became extinct in the person of Sir William Keate, D.D.,
who died 6th March, 1757."

[Greek: Halieus]
_Hour-glasses_ (Vol. viii., p. 454.).--In the church of Wiggenhall,
St.

Mary the Virgin, the iron frame of an hour-glass, affixed to a wooden
stand, immediately opposite the pulpit, still remains.

W. B. D.

An iron hour-glass stand still remains near the pulpit in the church
of Ashby-Folville, in this county (Leicester).

It is fixed to the wall containing the staircase to the rood-loft.

In the old church of Anstey, recently pulled down and rebuilt, was
an ancient hour-glass stand, consisting of a pillar of oak, about four
feet high, the top of which is surmounted by a light framework of
wood for the reception of the hour-glass.

This specimen is preserved in the museum of this town.

WILLIAM KELLY.

_Marriage of Cousins_ (Vol. viii., p. 387.).--If there is any foundation
for such a statement as is contained in the Query of J.

P. relative to the marriage of cousins, it consists rather in the marriage
of first cousins once removed than of second cousins. It will be seen
that the latter relationship belongs to the same generation, but
it is not so with the former, which partakes more of the nature of
uncle and aunt with nephew and niece.

W. SLOANE SLOANE-EVANS.

Cornworthy Vicarage, Totnes.

There is no legal foundation for the statement that marriage with a second
cousin is valid, and with a first cousin invalid.

The following quotation from Burn's _Ecc. Law_ by Phill., vol. ii. p.
449., will probably be considered to explain the matter:
"By the civil law first cousins are allowed to marry, but by the
canon law both first and second cousins (in order to make dispensations
more frequent and necessary) are prohibited; therefore, when it is
vulgarly said that first cousins may marry, but second cousins
cannot, probably this arose by confounding these two laws, for first
cousins may marry by the civil law, and second cousins cannot by
the canon law."

J. G.

Exon.

_Waugh, Bishop of Carlisle_ (Vol. viii., p. 271.), was the son of
Thomas and Margaret Waugh, of Appleby, in Westmoreland; born there
2nd February, 1655; educated at Appleby school; matriculated at
Queen's College, Oxford, 4th of April, 1679; took his degree of
M.A. the 7th of July, 1687; and elected Fellow on the 18th of January
following.

He married Elizabeth, widow of the Rev. Mr. Fiddes, rector of Bridewell,
in Oxford, who was the only surviving child of John Machen, Esq., of ----,
in the county of Oxford, by whom he left son, John Waugh, afterwards
chancellor of the diocese of Carlisle.

KARLEOLENSIS.

_Marriage Service_ (Vol. viii., p. 150.).

--I have been many years in holy orders, and have always received
the fee together with the ring on the Prayer Book, as directed in
the Rubric.

The ring I return to the bridegroom to place upon the bride's finger;
the fee (or offering) I deposit in the offertory basin, held for
that purpose by the clerk, and on going to the chancel (the marriage
taking place in the body of the church) lay it on the altar.

Note.--In the parish in which I first ministered, the marriages had
always been commenced in the body of the church, as directed; in the
second parish in which I ministered, that custom had only been broken by
the present incumbent a few years since.

A RECTOR.

I have seen the Rubric carried out in this particular, in St. Mary's Church,
Kidderminster.

CUTHBERT BEDE, B.A.

_Hoby, Family of_ (Vol. viii., p. 243.).--In answer to MR. J. B. WHITBORNE,
I beg to state that the Rev. Sir Philip Hoby, Baronet, was in the
early part of the last century chancellor of the archdiocese of Dublin.
He was an intimate friend of Archbishop Cobbe, and there is a
picture of him in canonicals at Newbridge, co. Dublin.

T. C.

_Cambridge Graduates_ (Vol. viii., p. 365.).--Your correspondent
will find a list of B.A.'

s of Cambridge University from the years 1500 to 1717 in Add. MS.
5885., British Museum.

GLAIUS.

{526}

_"I own I like not," &c._ (Vol. viii., p. 366.).

--The lines--
"I own like not Johnson's turgid style," &c.

are by Peter Pindar, whose works I have not, and so cannot give an
exact reference.

The extract containing them will be found in Chambers' _Cyclopædia of
English Literature_, vol. ii. p. 298.

P. J. F. GANTILLON, B.A.

_"Topsy Turvy"_ (Vol. viii., p. 385.).--This is ludicrously derived,
in _Roland Cashel_, p. 104., from _top side t'other way_.

P. J. F. GANTILLON, B.A.

_"When the Maggot bites"_ (Vol. viii., pp. 244. 304. 353.).--Another
illustration of this phrase may be found in Swift (Introduction
to _Tale of a Tub_):

"The two principal qualifications (says he) of a fanatic preacher are,
his inward light, and his head full of _maggots_; and the two different
fates of his writings are to be burnt or worm-eaten."
The word _maggot_ is sometimes used for the whim or crotchet itself; thus
Butler:

"To reconcile our late dissenters, Our brethren though by different
venters; Unite them and their different _maggots_, As long and short
sticks are in faggots."

--_Hudibras_, part III. canto 2.

So also it is used by Samuel Wesley (father of the founder of the
Methodists) in his rare and facetious volume entitled _Maggots, or
Poems on several Subjects never before handled_, 12mo., 1685.

WILLIAM BATES.

Birmingham.

And
while they were staying on the bleak island, Odin and Frigga saw the
sons of King Hrauding, and both thought that in them the spirit of
heroes could be fostered. Odin and Frigga made plans to bring the
children to them, so that they might be under their care and training.
One day the boys went fishing. A storm came and drove their boat on the
rocks of the island where Odin and Frigga lived.

They brought them to their hut, Odin and Frigga, and they told them they
would care for them and train them through the winter and that in the
spring they would build a boat that would carry them back to their
father's country. "We shall see," said Odin to Frigga that night, "we
shall see which of the two can be formed into the noblest hero."

He said that because Frigga favored one of the boys and he favored the
other. Frigga thought well of the elder boy, Agnar, who had a gentle
voice and quiet and kindly ways. But Odin thought more of the younger
boy. Geirrod, his name was, and he was strong and passionate, with a
high and a loud voice.

Odin took Geirrod into his charge, and he showed him how to fish and
hunt. He made the boy even bolder than he was by making him leap from
rock to rock, and by letting him climb the highest cliffs and jump
across the widest chasms. He would bring him to the den of the bear and
make him fight for his life with the spear he had made for him. Agnar
went to the chase, too, and showed his skill and boldness. But Geirrod
overcame him in nearly every trial. "What a hero Geirrod will be," Odin
would often say.

Agnar stayed often with Frigga. He would stay beside her while she spun,
listening to the tales she told, and asking such questions as brought
him more and more wisdom. And Agnar heard of Asgard and of the Dwellers
in Asgard and of how they protected Midgard, the World of Men, from the
Giants of Jötunheim. Agnar, though he did not speak out, said in his own
mind that he would give all his life and all his strength and all his
thought to helping the work of the Gods.

Spring came and Odin built a boat for Geirrod and Agnar. They could go
back now to their own country. And before they set out Odin told Geirrod
that one day he would come to visit him. "And do not be too proud to
receive a Fisherman in your hall, Geirrod," said Odin. "A King should
give welcome to the poorest who comes to his hall."

"I will be a hero, no doubt of that," Geirrod answered. "And I would be
a King, too, only Agnar Little-good was born before me."

Agnar bade goodby to Frigga and to Odin, thanking them for the care they
had taken of Geirrod and himself. He looked into Frigga's eyes, and he
told her that he would strive to learn how he might fight the battle for
the Gods.

The two went into the boat and they rowed away. They came near to King
Hrauding's realm. They saw the castle overlooking the sea. Then Geirrod
did a terrible thing. He turned the boat back toward the sea, and he
cast the oars away. Then, for he was well fit to swim the roughest sea
and climb the highest cliffs, he plunged into the water and struck out
toward the shore. And Agnar, left without oars, went drifting out to
sea.

Geirrod climbed the high cliffs and came to his father's castle.

King Hrauding, who had given up both of his sons for lost, was rejoiced
to see him. Geirrod told of Agnar that he had fallen out of the boat on
their way back and that he had been drowned. King Hrauding, who had
thought both of his sons were gone from him, was glad enough that one
had come safe. He put Geirrod beside him on the throne, and when he died
Geirrod was made King over the people.

And now Odin, having drunk from Mimir's Well, went through the kingdoms
of men, judging Kings and simple people according to the wisdom he had
gained. He came at last to the kingdom that Geirrod ruled over. Odin
thought that of all the Kings he had judged to be noble, Geirrod would
assuredly be the noblest.

He went to the King's house as a Wanderer, blind of one eye, wearing a
cloak of dark blue and with a wanderer's staff in his hands. As he drew
near the King's house men on dark horses came riding behind him. The
first of the men did not turn his horse as he came near the Wanderer,
but rode on, nearly trampling him to the ground.

As they came before the King's house the men on the dark horses shouted
for servants. Only one servant was in the stable. He came out and took
the horse of the first man. Then the others called upon the Wanderer to
tend their horses. He had to hold the stirrups for some of them to
dismount.

Odin knew who the first man was. He was Geirrod the King. And he knew
who the man who served in the stable was. He was Agnar, Geirrod's
brother. By the wisdom he had gained he knew that Agnar had come back to
his father's kingdom in the guise of a servant, and he knew that
Geirrod did not know who this servant was.

They went into the stable together. Agnar took bread and broke it and
gave some to the Wanderer. He gave him, too, straw to seat himself on.
But in a while Odin said, "I would seat myself at the fire in the King's
hall and eat my supper of meat."

"Nay, stay here," Agnar said. "I will give you more bread and a wrap to
cover yourself with. Do not go to the door of the King's house, for the
King is angry today and he might repulse you."

"How?" said Odin. "A King turn away a Wanderer who comes to his door! It
cannot be that he would do it!"

"Today he is angry," Agnar said. Again he begged him not to go to the
door of the King's house. But Odin rose up from the straw on which he
was seated and went to the door.

A porter, hunchbacked and with long arms, stood at the door. "I am a
Wanderer, and I would have rest and food in the King's hall," Odin said.

"Not in this King's hall," said the hunchbacked porter. He would have
barred the door to Odin, but the voice of the King called him away. Odin
then strode into the hall and saw the King at table with his friends,
all dark-bearded, and cruel-looking men. And when Odin looked on them he
knew that the boy whom he had trained in nobility had become a King over
robbers.

"Since you have come into the hall where we eat, sing to us, Wanderer,"
shouted one of the dark men. "Aye, I will sing to you," said Odin. Then
he stood between two of the stone pillars in the hall and he sang a song
reproaching the King for having fallen into an evil way of life, and
denouncing all for following the cruel ways of robbers.

"Seize him," said the King, when Odin's song was finished. The dark men
threw themselves upon Odin and put chains around him and bound him
between the stone pillars of the hall. "He came into this hall for
warmth, and warmth he shall have," said Geirrod. He called upon his
servants to heap up wood around him. They did this. Then the King, with
his own hand, put a blazing torch to the wood and the fagots blazed up
around the Wanderer.

The fagots burned round and round him. But the fire did not burn the
flesh of Odin All-Father. The King and the King's friends stood round,
watching with delight the fires blaze round a living man. The fagots all
burned away, and Odin was left standing there with his terrible gaze
fixed upon the men who were so hard and cruel.

They went to sleep, leaving him chained to the pillars of the hall. Odin
could have broken the chains and pulled down the pillars, but he wanted
to see what else would happen in this King's house. The servants were
ordered not to bring food or drink to him, but at dawn, when there was
no one near, Agnar came to him with a horn of ale and gave it to him to
drink.

The next evening when the King came back from his robberies, and when he
and his friends, sitting down at the tables, had eaten like wolves, he
ordered the fagots to be placed around Odin. And again they stood
around, watching in delight the fire playing around a living man. And
as before Odin stood there, unhurt by the fire, and his steady and
terrible gaze made the King hate him more and more. And all day he was
kept in chains, and the servants were forbidden to bring him food or
drink. None knew that a horn of ale was brought to him at dawn.

And night after night, for eight nights, this went on. Then, on the
ninth night, when the fires around him had been lighted, Odin lifted up
his voice and began to sing a song.

His song became louder and louder, and the King and the King's friends
and the servants of the thing's house had to stand still and harken to
it. Odin sang about Geirrod, the King; how the Gods had protected him,
giving him strength and skill, and how instead of making a noble use of
that strength and skill he had made himself like one of the wild beasts.
Then he sang of how the vengeance of the Gods was about to fall on this
ignoble King.

The flames died down and Geirrod and his friends saw before them, not a
friendless Wanderer, but one who looked more kingly than any King of the
earth. The chains fell down from his body and he advanced toward the
evil company. Then Geirrod rushed upon him with his sword in hand to
kill him. The sword struck him, but Odin remained unhurt.

     Thy life runs out,
     The Gods they are wroth with thee;
     Draw near if thou canst;
     Odin thou shalt see.

So Odin sang, and, in fear of his terrible gaze, Geirrod and his company
shrank away. And as they shrank away they were changed into beasts, into
the wolves that range the forests.

And Agnar came forward, and him Odin declared to be King. All the folk
were glad when Agnar came to rule over them, for they had been oppressed
by Geirrod in his cruel reign. And Agnar was not only kind, but he was
strong and victorious in his rule.


[Illustration]

ODIN WINS FOR MEN THE MAGIC MEAD


It was the Dwarfs who brewed the Magic Mead, and it was the Giants who
hid it away. But it was Odin who brought it from the place where it was
hidden and gave it to the sons of men. Those who drank of the Magic Mead
became very wise, and not only that but they could put their wisdom into
such beautiful words that every one who heard would love and remember
it.

The Dwarfs brewed the Magic Mead through cruelty and villainy. They made
it out of the blood of a man. The man was Kvasir the Poet. He had
wisdom, and he had such beautiful words with it, that what he said was
loved and remembered by all. The Dwarfs brought Kvasir down into their
caverns and they killed him there. "Now," they said, "we have Kvasir's
blood and Kvasir's wisdom. No one else will have his wisdom but us."
They poured the blood into three jars and they mixed it with honey, and
from it they brewed the Magic Mead.

Having killed a man the Dwarfs became more and more bold. They came out
of their caverns and went up and down through Midgard, the World of Men.
They went into Jötunheim, and began to play their evil tricks on the
most harmless of the Giants.

They came upon one Giant who was very simple. Gilling was his name. They
persuaded Gilling to row them out to sea in a boat. Then the two most
cunning of the Dwarfs, Galar and Fialar, steered the boat on to a rock.
The boat split. Gilling, who could not swim, was drowned. The Dwarfs
clambered up on pieces of the boat and came safely ashore. They were so
delighted with their evil tricks that they wanted to play some more of
them.

Galar and Fialar then thought of a new piece of mischief they might do.
They led their band of Dwarfs to Gilling's house and screamed out to his
wife that Gilling was dead. The Giant's wife began to weep and lament.
At last she rushed out of the house weeping and clapping her hands. Now
Galar and Fialar had clambered up on the lintel of the house, and as she
came running out they cast a millstone on her head. It struck her and
Gilling's wife fell down dead. More and more the Dwarfs were delighted
at the destruction they were making.

They were so insolent now that they made up songs and sang them, songs
that were all a boast of how they had killed Kvasir the Poet, and
Gilling the Giant, and Gilling's wife. They stayed around Jötunheim,
tormenting all whom they were able to torment, and flattering themselves
that they were great and strong. They stayed too long, however. Suttung,
Gilling's brother, tracked them down and captured them.

Suttung was not harmless and simple like Gilling, his brother. He was
cunning and he was covetous. Once they were in his hands the Dwarfs had
no chance of making an escape. He took them and left them on a rock in
the sea, a rock that the tide would cover.

The Giant stood up in the water taller than the rock, and the tide as it
came in did not rise above his knees. He stood there watching the Dwarfs
as the water rose up round them and they became more and more terrified.

"Oh, take us off the rock, good Suttung," they cried out to him. "Take
us off the rock and we will give you gold and jewels. Take us off the
rock and we will give you a necklace as beautiful as Brisingamen." So
they cried out to him, but the Giant Suttung only laughed at them. He
had no need of gold or jewels.

Then Fialar and Galar cried out: "Take us off the rock and we will give
you the jars of the Magic Mead we have brewed."

"The Magic Mead," said Suttung. "This is something that no one else has.
It would be well to get it, for it might help us in the battle against
the Gods. Yes, I will get the Magic Mead from them."

He took the band of Dwarfs off the rock, but he held Galar and Fialar,
their chiefs, while the others went into their caverns and brought up
the jars of the Magic Mead. Suttung took the Mead and brought it to a
cavern in a mountain near his dwelling. And thus it happened that the
Magic Mead, brewed by the Dwarfs through cruelty and villainy, came into
the hands of the Giants. And the story now tells how Odin, the Eldest of
the Gods, at that time in the world as Vegtam the Wanderer, took the
Magic Mead out of Suttung's possession and brought it into the world of
men.

Now, Suttung had a daughter named Gunnlöd, and she by her goodness and
her beauty was like Gerda and Skadi, the Giant maids whom the Dwellers
in Asgard favored. Suttung, that he might have a guardian for the Magic
Mead, enchanted Gunnlöd, turning her from a beautiful Giant maiden into
a witch with long teeth and sharp nails. He shut her into the cavern
where the jars of the Magic Mead were hidden.

Odin heard of the death of Kvasir whom he honored above all men. The
Dwarfs who slew him he had closed up in their caverns so that they were
never again able to come out into the World of Men. And then he set out
to get the Magic Mead that he might give it to men, so that, tasting it,
they would have wisdom, and words would be at their command that would
make wisdom loved and remembered.

How Odin won the Magic Mead out of the rock-covered cavern where Suttung
had hidden it, and how he broke the enchantment that lay upon Gunnlöd,
Suttung's daughter, is a story often told around the hearths of men.

Nine strong thralls were mowing in a field as a Wanderer went by clad in
a dark blue cloak and carrying a wanderer's staff in his hand. One of
the thralls spoke to the Wanderer: "Tell them in the house of Baugi up
yonder that I can mow no more until a whetstone to sharpen my scythe is
sent to me." "Here is a whetstone," said the Wanderer, and he took one
from his belt. The thrall who had spoken whetted his scythe with it and
began to mow. The grass went down before his scythe as if the wind had
cut it. "Give us the whetstone, give us the whetstone," cried the other
thralls. The Wanderer threw the whetstone amongst them, leaving them
quarreling over it, and went on his way.

The Wanderer came to the house of Baugi, the brother of Suttung. He
rested in Baugi's house, and at supper time he was given food at the
great table. And while he was eating with the Giant a Messenger from the
field came in.

"Baugi," said the Messenger, "your nine thralls are all dead. They
killed each other with their scythes, fighting in the field about a
whetstone. There are no thralls now to do your work."

"What shall I do, what shall I do?" said Baugi the Giant. "My fields
will not be mown now, and I shall have no hay to feed my cattle and my
horses in the winter."

"I might work for you," said the Wanderer.

"One man's work is no use to me," said the Giant, "I must have the work
of nine men."

"I shall do the work of nine men," said the Wanderer, "give me a trial,
and see."

The next day Vegtam the Wanderer went into Baugi's field. He did as much
work as the nine thralls had done in a day.

"Stay with me for the season," said Baugi, "and I shall give you a full
reward."

So Vegtam stayed at the Giant's house and worked in the Giant's fields,
and when all the work of the season was done Baugi said to him:

"Speak now and tell me what reward I am to give you."

"The only reward I shall ask of you," said Vegtam, "is a draught of the
Magic Mead."

"The Magic Mead?" said Baugi. "I do not know where it is nor how to get
it."

"Your brother Suttung has it. Go to him and claim a draught of the Magic
Mead for me."

Baugi went to Suttung. But when he heard what he had come for, the Giant
Suttung turned on his brother in a rage.

"A draught of the Magic Mead?" he said. "To no one will I give a draught
of the Magic Mead. Have I not enchanted my daughter Gunnlöd, so that she
may watch over it? And you tell me that a Wanderer who has done the work
of nine men for you asks a draught of the Magic Mead for his fee! O
Giant as foolish as Gilling! O oaf of a Giant! Who could have done such
work for you, and who would demand such a fee from you, but one of our
enemies, the Æsir? Go from me now and never come to me again with talk
of the Magic Mead."

Baugi went back to his house and told the Wanderer that Suttung would
yield none of the Magic Mead. Suddenly the two wrestlers rushed at each
other. By a quick movement, Blunt secured a hold which Merry did not
fancy, and he slipped out of his grasp.

On the marble whiteness of Merriwell's bare back four livid streaks
showed, and a flick of red oozed from one of them.

"First blood fer Barzy!" howled Harrison. "Ye left the mark of yer claws
on him, pard!

Don't let him git away from ye."
Again the two came together, and Blunt once more succeeded in getting under
Merriwell and snapped, him over for a quick "flop."

Merry, however, broke the hold as he went down, twisted to hands and
knees, and bobbed up two feet away and again facing his antagonist.

The cowboys were wildly exultant. They believed that Barzy Blunt was
showing his superiority in these initial moves.

But they were mistaken. Merry was merely trying out his adversary and
calmly studying his weak and his strong points at the game.

Blunt, through lack of proper training, was making the grave mistake of
using all his strength on what might be termed nonessentials.

In wrestling, no more strength should be used than the moment calls for,
a reserve being held for the supreme moment.

When the wrestlers came together for the third time, the time-honored
hold of "one over and one under" was secured, and Merry was
satisfied.

From this, after a minute of squirming and twisting, Merry slipped to an
arm-and-neck hold, his left hand about the back of Blunt's neck, right
hand locked in his left elbow. Blunt began to kick.

"Stop that!" Clancy ordered sternly.

"Never mind, Clan," said Merry, "I've got him now."
With a swiftness and ease beautiful to see, Merriwell thrust his
left foot between Blunt's kicking extremities, pushed the left arm farther,
and completely around his neck, clung like a leech to his left elbow,
twisted on his toes, bent his knees, and heaved upward.

Blunt was lifted clear of the ground on Merry's back. It was the old
reliable hip lock.
The next instant, Blunt had fallen. Merry was on top and Blunt's shoulders
squarely on the ground.

"First fall for Chip Merriwell," sang out Clancy. "He's a chip of the old
block in more ways than one."
Blunt got up, smiling.

It was his old, mirthless smile, and, like a barometer, announced his
rising temper.

The second round was a little more exciting.

Possibly Merriwell, wishing to encourage Blunt, gave him the initial
advantage. A minute, or a minute and a half of fierce, silent struggling
followed, Blunt blowing like a grampus and Merriwell taking it easily.

With an arm clasped around Merriwell's neck, Blunt labored tremendously
to turn him over.

Merry, however, was like a rock, and all the cowboy's efforts failed.
He expended a vast amount of strength, which was exactly what Merry
wanted.

Then, with startling suddenness, Merriwell from a rocklike, passive
defense became the aggressor. He seemed to yield to Blunt's pushing and
hauling, but that supposed yielding was a sorry disappointment to the
cowboy.

Somehow, Merry regained his feet; then, in a flash, Merry's right arm had
Blunt's head in chancery, with Blunt at his back. With a marshaling
of his reserve strength, Merry turned the Wonder a somersault and
laid him stunned and flat on his back.

"Well, I'll be blamed!"

exclaimed Jordan, rubbing a dazed hand across his forehead.

"That's the best I ever seen, an' no mistake."
"How the jumpin' sand hills did he do it?" murmured the bewildered
Harrison.

"He's sure some on the wrestle!" exclaimed Aaron Lloyd.

"Second fall," announced Clancy crisply. "Two straight for Chip Merriwell,
and he wins."

Frank, breathing a little hard, hurried to kneel at Blunt's side.

"Didn't hurt you, did I?" he asked anxiously.

Blunt sat up and stared at him, smiling wrathfully, and his jet-black eyes
two points of flame.

"No, you didn't hurt me," he answered.

"I'm all rawhide and whalebone, and it isn't in you to hurt me. Confound
you, I'll get you at something or other yet. Want to spar with bare
knuckles?"
"Not to-day," Frank answered. "A bargain is a bargain, Blunt. I won
this set-to in a couple of straight falls. Now, tell me what you know
about Professor Borrodaile."
Jordan brought Blunt's shirt, and began pulling it over his head.

Harrison rushed to the horses and returned with a canteen. Blunt took
a long pull at the canteen, and got up.

"If you're afraid to spar--" he began, but Clancy interrupted him.

"You've lost out, Blunt, and Merriwell has bought and paid for the
information about Professor Borrodaile.

Give it to him."
"That's right, old pard," put in Lloyd. "Come across, or let some o' the
rest of us."
"I'll do the talking." Blunt answered.

"Yesterday afternoon," said he, "we stopped for a while at McGurvin's.
While we were watering the bronks, I looked up and saw a man's face at
an upstairs window. It was the face of this professor of yours."
"Great Scott!" gulped Clancy, staring.

"At McGurvin's?" demanded Merry, no less excited.

"Yes, at McGurvin's. I asked Mac what the professor was doing in his
house, and he answered that what I didn't know wouldn't bother me.
It was none of my put-in, and so I let it go at that, There's something
else to it, too. Tell what you found out in Gold Hill, Aaron, two
days ago."
Merry and Clancy turned their eyes on Lloyd.

"I was there fer the ranch mail," began Lloyd, "an' Nick Porter was
crookin' his elbow a-plenty.

And talking a heap, too.

In front of the Red Light he had a feller in flashy clothes with a sandy
mustache, and the two was goin' it some in the gab line. I was leanin'
against the front of the Red Light, at the time, a-readin' a letter,
an' I couldn't help hear a little of what them two said. 'Sam'll put
down a hole an' blow out a bag o' samples,' says Porter, 'an' bring
'em round about to Mac's. Turkeyfoot'll take the perfesser on from
Mac's to the old camp the mornin' after Sam gits through. Arter loadin'
up with the perfesser's plunder, he'll bring him back to Mac's,
an' Mac'll hold him.

Then you, Heppner, can go out to Mac's Tuesday arternoon an' make yer
play.' That's all," finished Lloyd.

"Aaron didn't remember all that until after I'd seen the professor
at the window," interpolated Blunt. "Then, as we were riding on, he
let it out."

"Blazes!" exclaimed Clancy. "There's a scheme on to rob Borrodaile of
that claim of his!"
"Looks thataway," said Lloyd passively.

"Who is this Sam that was to get the bag of samples and take it to
McGurvin's by a roundabout way?" queried Merriwell.

"No sabe."
"He's the fellow that had the leaky bag and dropped this trail of
ore!

Who's Turkeyfoot?"
"Feller that lives out o' Gold Hill a ways. Does freightin'."
"The way I size it up," said Frank, "the professor hired this Turkeyfoot
to came to Happenchance with him and get the goods he had left
there.
They halted at McGurvin's place long enough to give Sam time to do his
blasting and make off with the samples.

Then the professor and Turkeyfoot went to the claim, got the professor's
goods, and went back to McGurvin's; and there, fellows, the professor
is being held until this man in flashy clothes comes out and does
something to beat Borrodaile out of the claim."
"That's you," said Blunt. "To-day's Tuesday; and it's this afternoon
that the business is to be pulled off.

The thing to do is to hike for McGurvin's and nip the affair in the bud.
Mac is on the side of the opposition, and so is Sam, and Turkeyfoot,
and the flashily dressed juniper. That makes four, Merriwell, and there
are only you and Clancy to see this game through. We'll help. That was
part of the bargain, and we Bar Z fellows stand up to our agreements."

"We were at McGurvin's, last night," remarked Frank, puzzled. "There
wasn't any one there but the rancher himself."

"Shucks," said Blunt, "you're easy. There might have been a houseful,
and you none the wiser. McGurvin's so crooked he can't walk around his
house without running into himself. Everybody knows that."
Merry's dark eyes began to flash,

"This is an outrage!" he exclaimed. "McGurvin, and all the rest who are
working with him, ought to be arrested!"
Blunt laughed.

"What do you want to arrest him for?" he asked. "Beat him at his own game
and let it go at that. Climb aboard your chug bikes, and we'll mount and
hurry along with you. We can get to the ranch in time to make McGurvin
and his bunch look two ways for comfort."

Merriwell realized the need of hurry. The sun was climbing toward the
zenith, and afternoon, and the working out of the plot against
Borrodaile, would soon be at hand. Without further delay he got into
his clothes; then he and Clancy started their machines and headed for
McGurvin's. The cowboys galloped along just behind them.

CHAPTER X.

FOILING THE PLOTTERS.

Merriwell and Clancy had to diminish their speed in order to let
the cowboys keep them in sight.

This was annoying, and Merry formed another plan and slowed to a halt
in order to broach it to Blunt.

"Clancy and I," said he, as Blunt and his friends galloped up, "can cover
the ground between here and McGurvin's four times as quick as you
fellows. I think we had better push on."
"What's the use?" Blunt demanded. "We'll all get there before afternoon."

"Suppose the man with the flashy clothes and the red mustache should
take it into his head to come to McGurvin's before afternoon?"
"Then maybe it's too late. Possibly he's there now."
"We'll go on and see," said Merry. "You fellows can lope along and get
there in time to help Clancy and me, if we find they're too many
for us."
"Correct, Merriwell.

We'll come a-smoking."
Frank and Owen ducked through the rough country like a couple of
meteors. The daylight was all they needed to help them in their flight
over a course so carefully covered the night before.

Again, as once before, the professor's claim was at stake, and the
motorcycles were pushed to, the utmost in an attempt to reach McGurvin's
and head off the scoundrelly work of the plotters.

It seemed almost no time at all until the verdant spot, irrigated
by McGurvin's well, came into view in the distance across the bare
sands.

"We'll make a detour, Clan," said Merry, "and come up on the ranch
from the rear. There are only two of us, you know, and we will have
to proceed with care if we don't want to spoil everything."
"Sure," Clancy promptly assented. "We'd better leave our machines in the
brush somewhere, and move up on the adobe on foot. If we don't, McGurvin
will hear us."

This plan was carried out. The motor cycles were left at a safe distance,
and the lads crept cautiously forward under the screen of McGurvin's
corral. Corn was growing in the irrigated truck patch, and Merry and
Clancy got into it and moved upon the house.

Presently they began to hear voices; then, catching a glimpse of
McGurvin's hitching pole, they saw a saddle horse secured there.

"Looks like our man was here already," Merry whispered in his chum's
ear.

"Where is the talking coming from?" returned Clancy. "It seems
pretty close."

"We'll find out."
On hands and knees the boys crept on, screened by the broad leaves of
the corn. Presently Merry reached the edge of the cornfield, and
paused.

The shady side of the house was not over twenty feet from him, and there
comfortably seated, was a florid, flashily dressed, red-mustached person.
Opposite him, in another chair, was not less a personage than Professor
Phineas Borrodaile. He was looking over his glasses in consternation
at the man with the red mustache. Grouped in the background were McGurvin
and two flannel-shirted, rough-looking Arizonians.

It had been a happy inspiration of Merry's to hasten on ahead of the
cowboys.

It was not afternoon, yet already the stage was set and the play for the
professor's claim was being made. Clancy gripped his chum tensely by the
arm.

They did not speak, even in whispers, but crouched at the edge of
the corn and watched and listened.

"Yes, indeed," the professor was saying, in his cracked voice, "you aver
rightly, Mr.

Heppner, that this is a remarkable country, most remarkable. Over in the
Picket Post Mountains, if you please, I have seen misty island-like
protuberances, resembling greatly the post-pliocene crannoges of
the Roscommon loughs.

Now--"
"Call off the dog, professor," interrupted Heppner. "I'm a government
agent, and I'm here on business. See?

You didn't know you'd jumped a mining claim belonging to McGurvin, but
such is the fact. This will have to be straightened out, or the
responsibility will rest heavily upon you. Now, speaking personal, I'd
hate a heap to see you sent to jail, seeing as how you're in this
country for your health.

Jails ain't a health resort, by any manner of means. What do you propose
to do about this?"
"Dear me!" murmured Borrodaile, taking off his hat and rubbing the top of
his bald head. "I am not dishonest, gentlemen. I assure you that I want
only to do what's right. The claim I located was discovered by my nephew;
and I am his next of kin.

I supposed, you understand, that it was rightfully mine."
"Sure," answered the bogus government agent heartily, "I can see right
where you made your mistake. How could you know that, in the years that
followed your nephew's discovery, the claim was located again by
McGurvin, there? When did you locate it, Mac?" he asked, turning on the
rancher.

"Night onto two year ago," asserted McGurvin solemnly.

"There you are!" exclaimed Heppner triumphantly.

"McGurvin has done the assessment work, so it belonged to him. And you
jumped it. State's prison offense, professor."
The professor shuddered.

"I didn't intend to do any wrong," he answered.

"Ignorance of the law," expounded Heppner, "excuses no one.

Still, speaking personal, I'm here to let you off light. You've had a
lot of trouble in this matter, and McGurvin is willing to give you a
hundred dollars for that. You will have to sign a quitclaim deed, though,
so as to clear up the title. I call that," beamed Heppner, "mighty
generous."
"A heap more'n I ort ter do," said McGurvin, in a burst of frankness.

"More'n I'd do, Mac," said one of the two others.

"Ye know, Sam," whimpered the rancher, "I allers was troubled with
enlargement of the heart, I reckon, someday, it'll be the ruination o'
me. Ain't that so, Turkeyfoot?"
"Not as nobody can notice," replied the other bystander. "All I wants
is to see the perfesser git his rights.

I was totin' his stuff ter town, an' I'm in his pay. I stick fer the
hunderd, an' you can whine all ye darn please."
"Mr.

Turkeyfoot," said the professor, casting a grateful look at that noble
gentleman, "I shall never forget your loyalty and kindness to
me.
If you insist, I will accept the hundred dollars, and sign this quit
claim. All I want is to do what is right. _Otium oum dignitate_, that is
my motto, and what I am seeking. Such matters as this, in which I
have unwittingly erred, distress me greatly."
Heppner had pulled a paper and a fountain pen from his pocket.

"There ain't no odium attached to this move, professor," he said
reassuringly. "You have done wrong, but you are doing your best to
make amends." He got up and handed the pen to the professor, and then
opened out the paper. "Sign there," said he. "Mac," he added, "have
your hundred dollars ready."
McGurvin went down into his trousers, fished up a roll of bills, and
held it in his hand, eying it hungrily. The professor, hunting for a
place on which to write, stood up and laid the paper against the
wall of the house.

Merry was astounded to think that Borrodaile should prove so lacking in
ordinary understanding as to take the words of that gang of tricksters
in such a matter.

But he was child, so far as business affairs were concerned. It was
easy to make him believe anything, so long as his particular field of
knowledge was not intruded upon.

Something had to be done, and Merry was not long in doing it. A bold
move was necessary. If Heppner ever got that signed quitclaim deed
in his hands, the transaction would be badly complicated.

Starting up, Merriwell jumped clear of the cornfield, dashed across the
space separating him from the group of men in the shade of the house,
and, before the astounded plotters could interfere, he had reached
over the professor's shoulder, snatched the paper out of his hands, and
torn it to bits.

"Blast ye!" roared McGurvin, jumping forward savagely. "What right you
got buttin' in?"
Sam, Turkeyfoot, and Heppner likewise confronted Merry with flaming eyes
and twitching, angry faces. The professor fell back, astounded.

"Merriwell!" he gasped, lifting a hand to his forehead.

Clancy, losing not a moment, jumped to place himself at his chum's
side.

"You're a pack of curs!"

cried Merriwell, "and you're trying to swindle the professor out of a
bonanza mining claim. You--"
With a snarl of rage, all four of the plotters began closing in on Merry
and Clancy.

CHAPTER XI.

THE COWBOYS SAVE THE DAY.

For a few moments matters took on a serious aspect for the two boys.
The quitclaim deed, however, had been destroyed, and there was no
fear that Professor Borrodaile would again fall into Heppner's trap.

Frank had counted upon this, and had even figured that he would have
to take a few hard knocks in bringing it about.

Heppner, fairly boiling, was rushing at Merry like an unleashed
tornado.

McGurvin, too, was plunging toward him from the right. Sam and Turkeyfoot
were making Clancy the object of their attack.

Merry felt that Heppner was entitled to a little something as a memorial
of the plot that failed. So, dodging the bull-like rush of McGurvin, he
jumped at Heppner, and his doubled fist shot out like a battering-ram.

"Oof!" Heppner grunted, flinging up his arms.

Frank's knuckles had landed on the point of his heavy, brutelike
jaw, in just the place best calculated to make a man see stars,
and, incidentally, to teach him a lesson.

The "government agent" reeled back and staggered groggily. McGurvin,
swearing furiously, flung his arms around Frank from behind.

"I'll wring yer neck fer ye, you young terror!" threatened the
rancher.

And it was at that moment, when Merry and Clancy were hard beset, that a
Bar Z yell floated down the breeze.

It came with an accompaniment of wildly galloping hoofs. High above the
tumult and the shouting arose the voice of Barzy Blunt:

"Hang to it, Merriwell! We're on the way!"
The coming of reenforcements had a dampening effect upon the ardor
of McGurvin, Sam, and Turkeyfoot. The rancher released Frank and started
at a hurried pace for the other side of his house.

Sam and Turkeyfoot also attempted to decamp, but they were not quick
enough.

The cowboys, throwing themselves from their horses, rushed pell-mell
to take a hand in the conflict.

Such a ruction appealed to them, and they proceeded to wade into Sam
and Turkey foot. Frank and Blunt went on a hurried search for McGurvin.

The rancher was finally located, barricaded behind a locked door,
and he was breathing fierce threats of ravage and slaughter.

"Keep away from me, or I'll fill ye fuller o' holes than a pepperbox!" was
one of the rancher's many remarks.

Blunt, laughing loudly, threw himself against the door. With Frank's help,
it was kicked open. And McGurvin did not shoot. It transpired that he
had nothing to shoot with. He tried to fight, but Merry and Blunt
got him in hand and dragged him out of doors.

"Tell us about this, you blamed coyote," said Blunt, "and be quick.

You've got about as much grit as a chipmunk, and if you don't talk we'll
show you a trick or two that will make you wish you had."
"What you a-tryin' to do, Barzy?" asked McGurvin in an injured
tone.
"Takin' the part o' this Eastern crowd agin' me?"
"Pah!" exclaimed the Cowboy Wonder, in disgust. "I'm no friend of
yours, you old tinhorn. What were you trying to do? Out with it."

"It wasn't me, Barzy," whimpered McGurvin, "it was Heppner--Heppner
from Tombstone. He put it all up--him an' Nick Porter."
"Put what up?"
"Why, this scheme to beat the perfesser out o' that claim o' his.
I was drawed inter it innercent like."
"Yes, you were mighty innocent!" put in Frank scathingly. "You
pretended that you had located the professor's claim a long while
ago, and that the professor had jumped it. Heppner professed to be
a government agent sent here to straighten the matter out, and you
were to give Borrodaile a hundred dollars for a quitclaim deed to
the mine."
"A hundred dollars?" gasped Blunt. "Great snakes! Why, that claim's
worth thousands. The professor stood for that yarn?"
"They had him scared stiff," said Merriwell. "He was signing the
deed when I jumped out of the cornfield and grabbed it away from
him."
"It was Heppner's doin's," insisted McGurvin. "He was ter gi' me a
hundred for helpin' him."
"You were to sign the quitclaim over to him, eh?" asked Blunt.
"That's the how o' it, Barzy. He's a villain, that Heppner person,
but I was took in by his wiles."
"How much was Sam to get?" asked Merry.
"He was gittin' another hunderd fer the bag o' samples, an' fer
helpin' in other ways." 
"And Turkeyfoot?"
"Another hunderd was comin' ter him, same's to the rest o' us."
"How about Nick Porter?"
"Dunno how much he was ter git. He told Heppner about the perfesser
an' the claim in the fust place, so I reckon he come higher. The
perfesser is kinder weak in the headpiece. He'd b'leeve anythin'.
Nick Porter tole me so when he was here last night."
"Oh!" said Merry. "So Porter was here, was he, when Clancy and I
came looking for him?"
"Well, yes. I didn't say nothin' ter you about it, Merriwell, bec'us'
I didn't dare. Porter would 'a' killed me, if I had."
"You're a skunk!" gritted Barzy Blunt.
"Where's Porter now?" demanded. Frank.
"He hiked out early this mornin'. Say, Barzy, I heerd ye wasn't no
friend o' Merriwell's."
"I'm not," was the answer. "I made a bargain with him, and this is
part of it."
"Where are the professor's goods and Turkeyfoot's wagon?" Merry
questioned.
"Out in the scrub," was the rancher's reply. "So's Sam's burro,
which he took when he went arter the ore t'other day. Sam was gittin'
the ore ter show Heppner. He lost part o' it on the way here, but
enough was left ter make Heppner open his eyes a whole lot. He
allowed it was the richest claim he ever seen."
"Yes," remarked Blunt, "we know all about Sam's losing the ore. But
for that golden trail, Merriwell, you and I would never have got
together out there in the desert, and this scheme against the
professor might have worked to a fare you well. I'd never have
butted in, if you hadn't bested me with two straight falls."
"Have you been keeping the professor here against his will?" demanded
Frank of McGurvin.
"Nary, I wasn't. Turkeyfoot had him skeered. He tells the perfessor
there's a gov'ment agent arter him, named Heppner, an' that the
claim he thought he located he really jumped. That was Turkeyfoot's
part a' it--purtendin' ter be the perfesser's friend an' goadin'
him on ter fall in with Heppner's plan. Oh, Turkeyfoot's a missable
skunk, all right."
"The professor stayed here because Turkeyfoot told him to?" asked
Frank, far gone with wonder on Borrodaile's account.
"That's the how of it, an' I'm givin' it to ye straight." Clancy
had come up during part of the talk with McGurvin, and presently
Ben Jordan arrived with Turkeyfoot, and Harrison and Lloyd with
Sam. The professor, dazed and bewildered, came pottering along
presently, and stood off at a distance while he tried to adjust his
wits to the sudden whirl of events.
"Where's Heppner, Clan?" Merry asked.
"Concluded he hadn't better stay, Chip," Clancy explained. "Just
as the cowboys got here, Heppner jumped to the back of his horse
and began hitting the high places. He took your mark along with
him, though," the redheaded chap finished, with a laugh.
Merry walked over to Borrodaile and laid a soothing hand on his
shoulder.
"Wake up, professor," said he. "It's all over, and you've still got
your claim."
"My boy," answered the professor, still a little "flighty," "I don't
want that claim if it's not legally mine."
"It is legally yours. Heppner was only pretending to be a government
agent, and McGurvin never saw the claim."
"Well, well!" murmured the professor, mildly surprised. "Then they
were dishonest?" 
"I should say!"
"But Mr. Turkeyfoot is my friend. He thought I had done wrong, and
he fought loyally to get me off and to make McGurvin give me a
hundred dollars." 
Clancy turned away to hide a laugh.
"Turkeyfoot deceived you, just as the others did," Frank explained
patiently. "You hired him to go to Happenchance after the stuff you
had left there?"
"Yes. We came thus far on our way, and Mr. Turkeyfoot explained how
I had laid myself liable to fine and imprisonment for stealing a
claim."Bring me one to wrestle with, and I swear you
shall see me overthrow him."

"Here is one for you to wrestle with, Asa Thor," said the King. Thor
looked round and saw an old woman hobbling toward him. She was
blear-eyed and toothless. "This is Ellie, my ancient nurse," said the
Giant King. "She is the one we would have you wrestle with."

"Thor does not wrestle with old women. I will lay my hands on your
tallest Giants instead."

"Ellie has come where you are," said the Giant King. "Now it is she who
will lay hands upon you."

The old woman hobbled toward Thor, her eyes gleaming under her falling
fringes of gray hair. Thor stood, unable to move as the hag came toward
him. She laid her hands upon his arms. Her feet began to trip at his. He
tried to cast her from him. Then he found that her feet and her hands
were as strong against his as bands and stakes of iron.

Then began a wrestling match in earnest between Thor and the ancient
crone Ellie. Round and round the hall they wrestled, and Thor was not
able to bend the old woman backward nor sideways. Instead he became
less and less able under her terrible grasp. She forced him down, down,
and at last he could only save himself from being left prone on the
ground by throwing himself down on one knee and holding the hag by the
shoulders. She tried to force him down on the ground, but she could not
do that. Then she broke from him, hobbled to the door and went out of
the hall.

Thor rose up and took the hammer from Loki's hands. Without a word he
went out of the hall and along the ways and toward the gate of the
Giants' City. He spoke no word to Loki nor to the lad Thialfi who went
with him for the seven weeks that they journeyed through Jötunheim.


[Illustration]

HOW THOR AND LOKI BEFOOLED THRYM THE GIANT


Loki told another tale about Thor--about Thor and Thrym, a stupid Giant
who had cunning streaks in him. Loki and Thor had been in this Giant's
house. He had made a feast for them and Thor had been unwatchful.

Then when they were far from Jötunheim Thor missed Miölnir, missed the
hammer that was the defence of Asgard and the help of the Gods. He could
not remember how or where he had mislaid it. Loki's thoughts went toward
Thrym, that stupid Giant who yet had cunning streaks in him. Thor, who
had lost the hammer that he had sworn never to let out of his sight, did
not know what to do.

But Loki thought it would be worth while to see if Thrym knew anything
about it. He went first to Asgard. He hurried across the Rainbow Bridge
and passed Heimdall without speaking to him. To none of the Dwellers in
Asgard whom he met did he dare relate the tidings of Thor's loss. He
spoke to none until he came to Frigga's palace.

To Frigga he said, "You must lend me your falcon dress until I fly to
Thrym's dwelling and find out if he knows where Miölnir is."

"If every feather was silver I would give it to you to go on such an
errand," Frigga said.

So Loki put on the falcon dress and flew to Jötunheim and came near
Thrym's dwelling. He found the Giant upon a hillside putting golden and
silver collars upon the necks of his hounds. Loki in the plumage of a
falcon perched on the rock above him, watching the Giant with falcon
eyes.

And while he was there he heard the Giant speak boastful words. "I put
collars of silver and gold on you now, my hounds," said he, "but soon we
Giants will have the gold of Asgard to deck our hounds and our steeds,
yea, even the necklace of Freya to put upon you, the best of my hounds.
For Miölnir, the defence of Asgard, is in Thrym's holding."

Then Loki spoke to him. "Yea, we know that Miölnir is in thy possession,
O Thrym," said he, "but know thou that the eyes of the watchful Gods are
upon thee."

"Ha, Loki, Shape-changer," said Thrym, "you are there! But all your
watching will not help you to find Miölnir. I have buried Thor's hammer
eight miles deep in the earth. Find it if you can. It is below the caves
of the Dwarfs."

"It is useless for us to search for Thor's hammer," said Loki; "eh
Thrym?"

"It is useless for you to search for it," said the Giant sulkily.

"But what a recompense you would gain if you restored Thor's hammer to
the Dwellers in Asgard," Loki said.

"No, cunning Loki, I will never restore it, not for any recompense,"
said Thrym.

"Yet bethink thee, Thrym," said Loki. "Is there nought in Asgard you
would like to own? No treasure, no possession? Odin's ring or Frey's
ship, Skidbladnir?"

"No, no," said Thrym. "Only one thing could the Dwellers in Asgard offer
me that I would take in exchange for Miölnir, Thor's hammer."

"And what would that be, Thrym?" said Loki, flying toward him.

"She whom many Giants have striven to gain--Freya, for my wife," said
Thrym.

Loki watched Thrym for long with his falcon eyes. He saw that the Giant
would not alter his demand. "I will tell the Dwellers in Asgard of your
demand," he said at last, and he flew away.

Loki knew that the Dwellers in Asgard would never let Freya be taken
from them to become the wife of Thrym, the stupidest of the Giants. He
flew back.

By this time all the Dwellers in Asgard had heard of the loss of
Miölnir, the help of the Gods. Heimdall shouted to him as he crossed the
Rainbow Bridge to ask what tidings he brought back. But Loki did not
stop to speak to the Warden of the Bridge but went straight to the hall
where the Gods sat in Council.

To the Æsir and the Vanir he told Thrym's demand. None would agree to
let the beautiful Freya go live in Jötunheim as a wife to the stupidest
of the Giants. All in the Council were cast down. The Gods would never
again be able to help mortal men, for now that Miölnir was in the
Giants' hands all their strength would have to be used in the defence of
Asgard.

So they sat in the Council with looks downcast. But cunning Loki said,
"I have thought of a trick that may win back the hammer from stupid
Thrym. Let us pretend to send Freya to Jötunheim as a bride for him. But
let one of the Gods go in Freya's veil and dress."

"Which of the Gods would bring himself to do so shameful a thing?" said
those in the Council.

"Oh, he who lost the hammer, Thor, should be prepared to do as much to
win it back," said Loki.

"Thor, Thor! Let Thor win back the hammer from Thrym by Loki's trick,"
said the Æsir and the Vanir. They left it to Loki to arrange how Thor
should go to Jötunheim as a bride for Thrym.

Loki left the Council of the Gods and came to where he had left Thor.
"There is but one way to win the hammer back, Thor," he said, "and the
Gods in Council have decreed that you shall take it."

"What is the way?" said Thor. "But no matter what it is, tell me of it
and I shall do as thou dost say."

"Then," said laughing Loki, "I am to take you to Jötunheim as a bride
for Thrym. Thou art to go in bridal dress and veil, in Freya's veil and
bridal dress."

"What! I dress in woman's garb?" shouted Thor.

"Yea, Thor, and wear a veil over your head and a garland of flowers upon
it."

"I--I wear a garland of flowers?"

"And rings upon thy fingers. And a bunch of housekeeper's keys in thy
girdle."

"Cease thy mockery, Loki," said Thor roughly, "or I shall shake thee."

"It is no mockery. Thou wilt have to do this to win Miölnir back for the
defence of Asgard. Thrym will take no other recompense than Freya. I
would mock him by bringing thee to him in Freya's veil and dress. When
thou art in his hall and he asks thee to join hands with him, say thou
wilt not until he puts Miölnir into thy hands. Then when thy mighty
hammer is in thy holding thou canst deal with him and with all in his
hall. And I shall be with thee as thy bridesmaid! O sweet, sweet maiden
Thor!"

"Loki," said Thor, "thou didst devise all this to mock me. I in a bridal
dress! I with a bride's veil upon me! The Dwellers in Asgard will never
cease to laugh at me."

"Yea," said Loki, "but there will never be laughter again in Asgard
unless thou art able to bring back the hammer that thine unwatchfulness
lost."

"True," said Thor unhappily, "and is this, thinkst thou, Loki, the only
way to win back Miölnir from Thrym?"

"It is the only way, O Thor," said the cunning Loki.

So Thor and Loki set out for Jötunheim and the dwelling of Thrym. A
messenger had gone before them to tell Thrym that Freya was coming with
her bridesmaid; that the wedding-feast was to be prepared and the guests
gathered and that Miölnir was to be at hand so that it might be given
over to the Dwellers in Asgard. Thrym and his Giant mother hastened to
have everything in readiness.

Thor and Loki came to the Giant's house in the dress of a bride and a
bridesmaid. A veil was over Thor's head hiding his beard and his fierce
eyes. A red-embroidered robe he wore and at his side hung a girdle of
housekeeper's keys. Loki was veiled, too. The hall of Thrym's great
house was swept and garnished and great tables were laid for the feast.
And Thrym's mother was going from one guest to another, vaunting that
her son was getting one of the beauteous Dwellers in Asgard for his
bride, Freya, whom so many of the Giants had tried to win.

When Thor and Loki stepped across the threshold Thrym went to welcome
them. He wanted to raise the veil of his bride and give her a kiss. Loki
quickly laid his hand on the Giant's shoulder.

"Forbear," he whispered. "Do not raise her veil. We Dwellers in Asgard
are reserved and bashful. Freya would be much offended to be kissed
before this company."

"Aye, aye," said Thrym's old mother. "Do not raise thy bride's veil,
son. These Dwellers in Asgard are more refined in their ways than we,
the Giants." Then the old woman took Thor by the hand and led him to the
table.

The size and the girth of the bride did not surprise the huge Giants who
were in the wedding company. They stared at Thor and Loki, but they
could see nothing of their faces and little of their forms because of
their veils.

Thor sat at the table with Thrym on one side of him and Loki on the
other. Then the feast began. Thor, not noticing that what he did was
unbecoming to a refined maiden, ate eight salmon right away. Loki nudged
him and pressed his foot, but he did not heed Loki. After the salmon he
ate a whole ox.

"These maids of Asgard," said the Giants to each other, "they may be
refined, as Thrym's mother says, but their appetites are lusty enough."

"No wonder she eats, poor thing," said Loki to Thrym. "It is eight days
since we left Asgard. And Freya never ate upon the way, so anxious was
she to see Thrym and to come to his house."

"Poor darling, poor darling," said the Giant. "What she has eaten is
little after all."

Thor nodded his head toward the mead vat. Thrym ordered his servants to
bring a measure to his bride. The servants were kept coming with
measures to Thor. While the Giants watched, and while Loki nudged and
nodded, he drank three barrels of mead.

"Oh," said the Giants to Thrym's mother, "we are not so sorry that we
failed to win a bride from Asgard."

And now a piece of the veil slipped aside and Thor's eyes were seen for
an instant. "Oh, how does it come that Freya has such glaring eyes?"
said Thrym.

"Poor thing, poor thing," said Loki, "no wonder her eyes are glaring and
staring. She has not slept for eight nights, so anxious was she to come
to you and to your house, Thrym. But now the time has come for you to
join hands with your bride. First, put into her hands the hammer Miölnir
that she may know the great recompense that the Giants have given for
her coming."

Then Thrym, the stupidest of the Giants, rose up and brought Miölnir,
the defence of Asgard, into the feasting hall. Thor could hardly
restrain himself from springing up and seizing it from the Giant. But
Loki was able to keep him still. Thrym brought over the hammer and put
the handle into the hands of her whom he thought was his bride. Thor's
hands closed on his hammer. Instantly he stood up. The veil fell off
him. His countenance and his blazing eyes were seen by all. He struck
one blow on the wall of the house. Down it crashed. Then Thor went
striding out of the ruin with Loki beside him, while within the Giants
bellowed as the roof and walls fell down on them. And so was Miölnir,
the defence of Asgard, lost and won back.


[Illustration]

ÆGIR'S FEAST: HOW THOR TRIUMPHED


The time between midday and evening wore on while the Æsir and the Vanir
gathered for the feast in old Ægir's hall listened to the stories that
Loki told in mockery of Thor. The night came, but no banquet was made
ready for the Dwellers in Asgard. They called to Ægir's two
underservants, Fimaffenger and Elder, and they bade them bring them a
supper. Slight was what they got, but they went to bed saying, "Great
must be the preparations that old Ægir is making to feast us tomorrow."

The morrow came and the midday of the morrow, and still the Dwellers in
Asgard saw no preparations being made for the banquet. Then Frey rose up
and went to seek old Ægir, the Giant King of the Sea. He found him
sitting with bowed head in his inner hall. "Ho, Ægir," he said, "what of
the banquet that you have offered to the Dwellers in Asgard?"

Old Ægir mumbled and pulled at his beard. At last he looked his guest in
the face and told why the banquet was not being made ready. The mead for
the feast was not yet brewed. And there was little chance of being able
to brew mead that would do for all, for Ægir's hall was lacking a mead
kettle that would contain enough.

When the Æsir and the Vanir heard this they were sorely disappointed.
Who now, outside of Asgard, would give them a feast? Ægir was the only
one of the Giants who was friendly to them, and Ægir could not give them
full entertainment.

Then a Giant youth who was there spoke up and said, "My kinsman, the
Giant Hrymer, has a mead kettle that is a mile wide. If we could bring
Hrymer's kettle here, what a feast we might have!"

"One of us can go for that kettle," Frey said.

"Ah, but Hrymer's dwelling is beyond the deepest forest and behind the
highest mountain," the Giant youth said, "and Hrymer himself is a rough
and a churlish one to call on."

"Still, one of us should go," Frey said.

"I will go to Hrymer's dwelling," said Thor, standing up. "I will go to
Hrymer's dwelling and get the mile-wide kettle from him by force or
cunning." He had been sitting subdued under the mocking tales that Loki
told of him and he was pleased with this chance to make his prowess
plain to the Æsir and the Vanir. He buckled on the belt that doubled his
strength. He drew on the iron gloves that enabled him to grasp Miölnir.
He took his hammer in his hands, and he signed to the Giant youth to
come with him and be his guide.

The Æsir and the Vanir applauded Thor as he stepped out of old Ægir's
hall. But Loki, mischievous Loki, threw a gibe after him. "Do not let
the hammer out of your hands this time, bride of Thrym," he shouted.

Thor, with the Giant youth to guide him, went through the deepest forest
and over the highest mountain. He came at last to the Giant's dwelling.
On a hillock before Hrymer's house was a dreadful warden; a Giant crone
she was, with heads a-many growing out of her shoulders. She was
squatting down on her ankles, and her heads, growing in bunches, were
looking in different directions. As Thor and the Giant youth came near
screams and yelps came from all her heads. Thor grasped his hammer and
would have flung it at her if a Giant woman, making a sign of peace, had
not come to the door of the dwelling. The youthful Giant who was with
Thor greeted her as his mother.

"Son, come within," said she, "and you may bring your fellow farer with
you."

The Giant crone--she was Hrymer's grandmother--kept up her screaming and
yelping. But Thor went past her and into the Giant's dwelling.

When she saw that it was one of the Dwellers in Asgard who had come with
her son the Giant woman grew fearful for them both. "Hrymer," she said,
"will be in a rage to find one of the Æsir under his roof. He will
strive to slay you."

"It is not likely he will succeed," Thor said, grasping Miölnir, the
hammer that all the Giant race knew of and dreaded.

"Hide from him," said the Giant woman. "He may injure my son in his rage
to find you here."

"I am not wont to hide from the Giants," Thor said.

"Hide only for a little while! Hide until Hrymer has eaten," the Giant
woman pleaded. "He comes back from the chase in a stormy temper. After
he has eaten he is easier to deal with. Hide until he has finished
supper."

Thor at last agreed to do this. He and the Giant youth hid behind a
pillar in the hall. They were barely hidden when they heard the clatter
of the Giant's steps as he came through the courtyard. He came to the
door. His beard was like a frozen forest around his mouth. And he
dragged along with him a wild bull that he had captured in the chase. So
proud was he of his capture that he dragged it into the hall.

"I have taken alive," he shouted, "the bull with the mightiest head and
horns. 'Heaven-breaking' this bull is called. No Giant but me could
capture it." He tied the bull to the post of the door and then his eyes
went toward the pillar behind which Thor and the Giant youth were
hiding. The pillar split up its whole length at that look from Hrymer's
eyes. He came nearer. The pillar of stone broke across. It fell with the
crossbeam it supported and all the kettles and cauldrons that were
hanging on the beam came down with a terrible rattle.

Then Thor stepped out and faced the wrathful Giant. "It is I who am
here, friend Hrymer," he said, his hands resting on his hammer.

Then Hrymer, who knew Thor and knew the force of Thor's hammer, drew
back. "Now that you are in my house, Asa Thor," he said, "I will not
quarrel with you. Yes, you pass your prelim., and can come inside;
you're one of the few.

We had most just after breakfast, but now the porter's heading off the
worst cases, and that last chap was the first for twenty minutes.
Come in here."
And I was ushered into an empty room with a good bay-window, which enabled
my full-blooded friend to inspect me yet more critically in a good
light; this he did without the least false delicacy; then his
questions began.

"'Varsity man?"
"No."

"Public school?"
"Yes."

"Which one?"
I told him, and he sighed relief.

"At last! You're the very first I've not had to argue with as to what is
and what is not a public school. Expelled?"
"No," I said, after a moment's hesitation; "no, I was not expelled.

And I hope you won't expel me if I ask a question in my turn?"

"Certainly not."
"Are you Mr. Maturin's son?"
"No, my name's Theobald. You may have seen it down below."
"The doctor?" I said.

"His doctor," said Theobald, with a satisfied eye. "Mr. Maturin's
doctor. He is having a male nurse and attendant by my advice, and he
wants a gentleman if he can get one. I rather think he'll see you,
though he's only seen two or three all day.

There are certain questions which he prefers to ask himself, and it's no
good going over the same ground twice. So perhaps I had better tell
him about you before we get any further."
And he withdrew to a room still nearer the entrance, as I could hear,
for it was a very small flat indeed.

But now two doors were shut between us, and I had to rest content with
murmurs through the wall until the doctor returned to summon me.

"I have persuaded my patient to see you," he whispered, "but I confess
I am not sanguine of the result. He is very difficult to please. You must
prepare yourself for a querulous invalid, and for no sinecure if
you get the billet."

"May I ask what's the matter with him?"

"By all means--when you've got the billet."

Dr. Theobald then led the way, his professional dignity so
thoroughly intact that I could not but smile as I followed his
swinging coat-tails to the sick-room.

I carried no smile across the threshold of a darkened chamber which
reeked of drugs and twinkled with medicine bottles, and in the
middle of which a gaunt figure lay abed in the half-light.

"Take him to the window, take him to the window," a thin voice snapped,
"and let's have a look at him. Open the blind a bit. Not as much as
that, damn you, not as much as that!"
The doctor took the oath as though it had been a fee. I no longer pitied
him. It was now very clear to me that he had one patient who was a little
practice in himself. I determined there and then that he should prove a
little profession to me, if we could but keep him alive between us. Mr.
Maturin, however, had the whitest face that I have ever seen, and his
teeth gleamed out through the dusk as though the withered lips no longer
met about them; nor did they except in speech; and anything ghastlier
than the perpetual grin of his repose I defy you to imagine. It was
with this grin that he lay regarding me while the doctor held the blind.

"So you think you could look after me, do you?"
"I'm certain I could, sir."
"Single-handed, mind! I don't keep another soul. You would have to cook
your own grub and my slops. Do you think you could do all that?"
"Yes, sir, I think so."
"Why do you? Have you any experience of the kind?"
"No, sir, none."
"Then why do you pretend you have?"
"I only meant that I would do my best."
"Only meant, only meant! Have you done your best at everything else, then?"

I hung my head. This was a facer. And there was something in my invalid
which thrust the unspoken lie down my throat.

"No, sir, I have not," I told him plainly.

"He, he, he!"

the old wretch tittered; "and you do well to own it; you do well,
sir, very well indeed. If you hadn't owned up, out you would have gone,
out neck-and-crop! You've saved your bacon. You may do more. So you are
a public-school boy, and a very good school yours is, but you weren't
at either University. Is that correct?"

"Absolutely."
"What did you do when you left school?"
"I came in for money."

"And then?"
"I spent my money."
"And since then?"

I stood like a mule.

"And since then, I say!"
"A relative of mine will tell you if you ask him.

He is an eminent man, and he has promised to speak for me. I would
rather say no more myself."

     "But you shall, sir, but you
     shall! Do you suppose that
     I suppose a public-school boy
     would apply for a berth like this if something or other hadn't
happened?

What I want is a gentleman of sorts, and I don't much care what sort;
but you've got to tell me what did happen, if you don't tell anybody
else. Dr. Theobald, sir, you can go to the devil if you won't take a
hint.

This man may do or he may not. You have no more to say to it till I send
him down to tell you one thing or the other.

Clear out, sir, clear out; and if you think you've anything to complain
of, you stick it down in the bill!"

In the mild excitement of our interview the thin voice had gathered
strength, and the last shrill insult was screamed after the devoted
medico, as he retired in such order that I felt certain he was
going to take this trying patient at his word.

The bedroom door closed, then the outer one, and the doctor's heels
went drumming down the common stair.

I was alone in the flat with this highly singular and rather terrible
old man.

"And a damned good riddance!" croaked the invalid, raising himself on one
elbow without delay. "I may not have much body left to boast about,
but at least I've got a lost old soul to call my own. That's why I want
a gentleman of sorts about me. I've been too dependent on that
chap. He won't even let me smoke, and he's been in the flat all day
to see I didn't. You'll find the cigarettes behind the Madonna of the
Chair."

It was a steel engraving of the great Raffaelle, and the frame was tilted
from the wall; at a touch a packet of cigarettes tumbled down from
behind.

"Thanks; and now a light."
I struck the match and held it, while the invalid inhaled with
normal lips; and suddenly I sighed.

I was irresistibly reminded of my poor dear old Raffles. A smoke-ring
worthy of the great A. J. was floating upward from the sick man's
lips.

"And now take one yourself. I have smoked more poisonous cigarettes.

But even these are not Sullivans!"
I cannot repeat what I said. I have no idea what I did. I only know--I
only knew--that it was A.

J. Raffles in the flesh!

II
"Yes, Bunny, it was the very devil of a swim; but I defy you to sink in
the Mediterranean. That sunset saved me. The sea was on fire. I hardly
swam under water at all, but went all I knew for the sun itself; when it
set I must have been a mile away; until it did I was the invisible
man. I figured on that, and only hope it wasn't set down as a case
of suicide. I shall get outed quite soon enough, Bunny, but I'd rather
be dropped by the hangman than throw my own wicket away."

"Oh, my dear old chap, to think of having you by the hand again! I feel
as though we were both aboard that German liner, and all that's
happened since a nightmare. I thought that time was the last!"
"It looked rather like it, Bunny. It was taking all the risks, and
hitting at everything. But the game came off, and some day I'll
tell you how."

"Oh, I'm in no hurry to hear. It's enough for me to see you lying there.
I don't want to know how you came there, or why, though I fear you must
be pretty bad. I must have a good look at you before I let you speak
another word!"
I raised one of the blinds, I sat upon the bed, and I had that look.

It left me all unable to conjecture his true state of health, but quite
certain in my own mind that my dear Raffles was not and never would be
the man that he had been. He had aged twenty years; he looked fifty
at the very least. His hair was white; there was no trick about
that; and his face was another white.

The lines about the corners of the eyes and mouth were both many and deep.
On the other hand, the eyes themselves were alight and alert as ever;
they were still keen and gray and gleaming, like finely tempered steel.
Even the mouth, with a cigarette to close it, was the mouth of Raffles
and no other: strong and unscrupulous as the man himself.

It was only the physical strength which appeared to have departed; but
that was quite sufficient to make my heart bleed for the dear rascal
who had cost me every tie I valued but the tie between us two.

"Think I look much older?"

he asked at length.

"A bit," I admitted. "But it is chiefly your hair."
"Whereby hangs a tale for when we've talked ourselves out, though
I have often thought it was that long swim that started it.

Still, the Island of Elba is a rummy show, I can assure you. And Naples
is a rummier!"
"You went there after all?"
"Rather! It's the European paradise for such as our noble selves. But
there's no place that's a patch on little London as a non-conductor
of heat; it never need get too hot for a fellow here; if it does it's
his own fault. It's the kind of wicket you don't get out on, unless
you get yourself out.

So here I am again, and have been for the last six weeks. And I mean
to have another knock."
"But surely, old fellow, you're not awfully fit, are you?"
"Fit? My dear Bunny, I'm dead--I'm at the bottom of the sea--and don't you
forget it for a minute."

"But are you all right, or are you not?"
"No, I'm half-poisoned by Theobald's prescriptions and putrid cigarettes,
and as weak as a cat from lying in bed."
"Then why on earth lie in bed, Raffles?"

"Because it's better than lying in gaol, as I am afraid YOU know, my poor
dear fellow. I tell you I am dead; and my one terror is of coming to
life again by accident. Can't you see? I simply dare not show my nose
out of doors--by day.

You have no idea of the number of perfectly innocent things a dead man
daren't do. I can't even smoke Sullivans, because no one man was ever so
partial to them as I was in my lifetime, and you never know when
you may start a clew."

"What brought you to these mansions?"
"I fancied a flat, and a man recommended these on the boat; such a
good chap, Bunny; he was my reference when it came to signing the
lease.

You see I landed on a stretcher--most pathetic case--old Australian without
a friend in old country--ordered Engadine as last chance--no go--not
an earthly--sentimental wish to die in London--that's the history of Mr.
Maturin. If it doesn't hit you hard, Bunny, you're the first.

But it hit friend Theobald hardest of all. I'm an income to him. I
believe he's going to marry on me."
"Does he guess there's nothing wrong?"
"Knows, bless you!

But he doesn't know I know he knows, and there isn't a disease in
the dictionary that he hasn't treated me for since he's had me in
hand.

To do him justice, I believe he thinks me a hypochondriac of the
first water; but that young man will go far if he keeps on the
wicket.

He has spent half his nights up here, at guineas apiece."
"Guineas must be plentiful, old chap!"

"They have been, Bunny. I can't say more. But I don't see why they
shouldn't be again."
I was not going to inquire where the guineas came from.

As if I cared!

But I did ask old Raffles how in the world he had got upon my tracks; and
thereby drew the sort of smile with which old gentlemen rub their
hands, and old ladies nod their noses.

Raffles merely produced a perfect oval of blue smoke before replying.

"I was waiting for you to ask that, Bunny; it's a long time since I did
anything upon which I plume myself more. Of course, in the first
place, I spotted you at once by these prison articles; they were
not signed, but the fist was the fist of my sitting rabbit!"

"But who gave you my address?"
"I wheedled it out of your excellent editor; called on him at dead
of night, when I occasionally go afield like other ghosts, and
wept it out of him in five minutes.

I was your only relative; your name was not your own name; if he insisted
I would give him mine.

He didn't insist, Bunny, and I danced down his stairs with your address
in my pocket."
"Last night?"
"No, last week."
"And so the advertisement was yours, as well as the telegram!"
I had, of course, forgotten both in the high excitement of the hour,
or I should scarcely have announced my belated discovery with such
an air.

As it was I made Raffles look at me as I had known him look before, and
the droop of his eyelids began to sting.

"Why all this subtlety?" I petulantly exclaimed. "Why couldn't you come
straight away to me in a cab?"
He did not inform me that I was hopeless as ever. He did not address
me as his good rabbit.

He was silent for a time, and then spoke in a tone which made me
ashamed of mine.

"You see, there are two or three of me now, Bunny: one's at the bottom
of the Mediterranean, and one's an old Australian desirous of dying
in the old country, but in no immediate danger of dying anywhere.

The old Australian doesn't know a soul in town; he's got to be consistent,
or he's done. This sitter Theobald is his only friend, and has seen
rather too much of him; ordinary dust won't do for his eyes.

Begin to see? To pick you out of a crowd, that was the game; to let old
Theobald help to pick you, better still!

To start with, he was dead against my having anybody at all; wanted me
all to himself, naturally; but anything rather than kill the goose!
So he is to have a fiver a week while he keeps me alive, and he's going
to be married next month.

That's a pity in some ways, but a good thing in others; he will want
more money than he foresees, and he may always be of use to us at a pinch.
Meanwhile he eats out of my hand."
I complimented Raffles on the mere composition of his telegram,
with half the characteristics of my distinguished kinsman squeezed
into a dozen odd words; and let him know how the old ruffian had really
treated me.

Raffles was not surprised; we had dined together at my relative's in the
old days, and filed for reference a professional valuation of his
household gods.

I now learnt that the telegram had been posted, with the hour marked for
its despatch, at the pillar nearest Vere Street, on the night before
the advertisement was due to appear in the Daily Mail.

This also had been carefully prearranged; and Raffles's only fear had been
lest it might be held over despite his explicit instructions, and so
drive me to the doctor for an explanation of his telegram. But the
adverse chances had been weeded out and weeded out to the irreducible
minimum of risk.

His greatest risk, according to Raffles, lay nearest home: bedridden
invalid that he was supposed to be, his nightly terror was of running
into Theobald's arms in the immediate neighborhood of the flat. But
Raffles had characteristic methods of minimizing even that danger,
of which something anon; meanwhile he recounted more than one of
his nocturnal adventures, all, however, of a singularly innocent
type; and one thing I noticed while he talked.

His room was the first as you entered the flat.

The long inner wall divided the room not merely from the passage
but from the outer landing as well.

Thus every step upon the bare stone stairs could be heard by Raffles
where he lay; and he would never speak while one was ascending,
until it had passed his door.

The afternoon brought more than one applicant for the post which
it was my duty to tell them that I had already obtained.

Between three and four, however, Raffles, suddenly looking at his watch,
packed me off in a hurry to the other end of London for my things.

"I'm afraid you must be famishing, Bunny. It's a fact that I eat very
little, and that at odd hours, but I ought not to have forgotten you.
Get yourself a snack outside, but not a square meal if you can resist
one. We've got to celebrate this day this night!"
"To-night?" I cried.

"To-night at eleven, and Kellner's the place. You may well open your
eyes, but we didn't go there much, if you remember, and the staff
seems changed.

Anyway we'll risk it for once. I was in last night, talking like a stage
American, and supper's ordered for eleven sharp."
"You made as sure of me as all that!"
"There was no harm in ordering supper.

We shall have it in a private room, but you may as well dress if you've
got the duds."
"They're at my only forgiving relative's."
"How much will get them out, and square you up, and bring you back
bag and baggage in good time?"
I had to calculate.

"A tenner, easily."
"I had one ready for you. Here it is, and I wouldn't lose any time if I
were you.

On the way you might look up Theobald, tell him you've got it and how
long you'll be gone, and that I can't be left alone all the time.

And, by Jove, yes! You get me a stall for the Lyceum at the nearest
agent's; there are two or three in High Street; and say it was
given you when you come in.

That young man shall be out of the way to-night."

I found our doctor in a minute consulting-room and his shirt-sleeves, a
tall tumbler at his elbow; at least I caught sight of the tumbler
on entering; thereafter he stood in front of it, with a futility
which had my sympathy.

"So you've got the billet," said Dr. Theobald. "Well, as I told you
before, and as you have since probably discovered for yourself,
you won't find it exactly a sinecure.

My own part of the business is by no means that; indeed, there are
those who would throw up the case, after the kind of treatment that
you have seen for yourself.

But professional considerations are not the only ones, and one cannot
make too many allowances in such a case."
"But what is the case?" I asked him.

"You said you would tell me if I was successful."

Dr. Theobald's shrug was worthy of the profession he seemed destined
to adorn; it was not incompatible with any construction which one chose
to put upon it.

Next moment he had stiffened. I suppose I still spoke more or less like a
gentleman. Yet, after all, I was only the male nurse. He seemed to
remember this suddenly, and he took occasion to remind me of the
fact.

"Ah," said he, "that was before I knew you were altogether without
experience; and I must say that I was surprised even at Mr. Maturin's
engaging you after that; but it will depend upon yourself how long I
allow him to persist in so curious an experiment. As for what is the
matter with him, my good fellow, it is no use my giving you an
answer which would be double Dutch to you; moreover, I have still
to test your discretionary powers.

I may say, however, that that poor gentleman presents at once the most
complex and most troublesome case, which is responsibility enough
without certain features which make it all but insupportable.

Beyond this I must refuse to discuss my patient for the present; but I
shall certainly go up if I can find time."
He went up within five minutes.

I found him there on my return at dusk. But he did not refuse my stall
for the Lyceum, which Raffles would not allow me to use myself,
and presented to him off-hand without my leave.

"And don't you bother any more about me till to-morrow," snapped the
high thin voice as he was off. "I can send for you now when I want you,
and I'm hoping to have a decent night for once." 

III
It was half-past ten when we left the flat, in an interval of silence
on the noisy stairs. The silence was unbroken by our wary feet. Yet
for me a surprise was in store upon the very landing. Instead of
going downstairs, Raffles led me up two flights, and so out upon a
perfectly flat roof.
"There are two entrances to these mansions," he explained between
stars and chimney-stacks: "one to our staircase, and another round
the corner. But there's only one porter, and he lives on the basement
underneath us, and affects the door nearest home. We miss him by
using the wrong stairs, and we run less risk of old Theobald. I got
the tip from the postmen, who come up one way and down the other.
Now, follow me, and look out!"
There was indeed some necessity for caution, for each half of the
building had its L-shaped well dropping sheer to the base, the
parapets so low that one might easily have tripped over them into
eternity.
However, we were soon upon the second staircase, which opened on
the roof like the first. And twenty minutes of the next twenty-five
we spent in an admirable hansom, skimming east.
"Not much change in the old hole, Bunny. More of these magic-lantern
advertisements ... and absolutely the worst bit of taste in town,
though it's saying something, in that equestrian statue with the
gilt stirrups and fixings; why don't they black the buffer's boots
and his horse's hoofs while they are about it? ... More bicyclists,
of course.
That was just beginning, if you remember. It might have been useful
to us.... And there's the old club, getting put into a crate for
the Jubilee; by Jove, Bunny, we ought to be there.It was made out of gold that was
refined of all impurities and it was engraven with a rune of power.

Loki took up this most precious ring and put it on his finger. Then the
Dwarf screamed at him, turning his thumbs toward him in a curse:

     The ring with the rune
     Of power upon it:
     May it weigh down your fortune,
     And load you with evil,
     You, Loki, and all
     Who lust to possess
     The ring I have cherished.

As Andvari uttered this curse Loki saw a figure rise up in the cave and
move toward him. As this figure came near he knew who it was: Gulveig, a
Giant woman who had once been in Asgard.

Far back in the early days, when the Gods had come to their holy hill
and before Asgard was built, three women of the Giants had come amongst
the Æsir. After the Three had been with them for a time, the lives of
the Æsir changed. Then did they begin to value and to hoard the gold
that they had played with. Then did they think of war. Odin hurled his
spear amongst the messengers that came from the Vanir, and war came into
the world.

The Three were driven out of Asgard. Peace was made with the Vanir. The
Apples of Lasting Youth were grown in Asgard. The eagerness for gold was
curbed. But never again were the Æsir as happy as they were before the
women came to them from the Giants.

Gulveig was one of the Three who had blighted the early happiness of the
Gods. And, behold, she was in the cave where Andvari had hoarded his
treasure and with a smile upon her face she was advancing toward Loki.

"So, Loki," she said, "thou seest me again. And Odin who sent thee to
this cave will see me again. Lo, Loki! I go to Odin to be thy messenger
and to tell him that thou comest with Andvari's hoard."

And speaking so, and smiling into his face, Gulveig went out of the cave
with swift and light steps. Loki drew the ends of the Magic Net together
and gathering all the treasures in its meshes he, too, went out.

Odin, the Eldest of the Gods, stood leaning on his spear and looking at
the skin of the otter that was spread out before him. One came into the
dwelling swiftly. Odin looked and saw that she who had come in on such
swift, glad feet was Gulveig who, once with her two companions, had
troubled the happiness of the Gods. Odin raised his spear to cast it at
her.

"Lay thy spear down, Odin," she said. "I dwelt for long in the Dwarf's
cave. But thy word unloosed me, and the curse said over Andvari's ring
has sent me here. Lay thy spear down, and look on me, O Eldest of the
Gods.

"Thou didst cast me out of Asgard, but thy word has brought me to come
back to thee. And if ye two, Odin and Loki, have bought yourselves free
with gold and may enter Asgard, surely I, Gulveig, am free to enter
Asgard also."

Odin lowered his spear, sighing deeply. "Surely it is so, Gulveig," he
said. "I may not forbid thee to enter Asgard. Would I had thought of
giving the man Kvasir's Mead or Mimir's well water rather than this gold
as a recompense."

As they spoke Loki came into Hreidmar's dwelling. He laid on the floor
the Magic Net. Old Hreidmar with his sharp eyes, and huge Fafnir, and
lean and hungry-looking Regin came in to gaze on the gold and gems that
shone through the meshes. They began to push each other away from gazing
at the gold. Then Hreidmar cried out, "No one may be here but these two
kings and I while we measure out the gold and gems and see whether the
recompense be sufficient. Go without, go without, sons of mine."

Then Fafnir and Regin were forced to go out of the dwelling. They went
out slowly, and Gulveig went with them, whispering to both.

With shaking hands old Hreidmar spread out the skin that once covered
his son. He drew out the ears and the tail and the paws so that every
single hair could be shown. For long he was on his hands and knees, his
sharp eyes searching, searching over every line of the skin. And still
on his knees he said, "Begin now, O kings, and cover with a gem or a
piece of gold every hair on the skin that was my son's."

Odin stood leaning on his spear, watching the gold and gems being paid
out. Loki took the gold--the ingots, and the lumps and the circlets; he
took the gems--the rubies, and the emeralds and the sapphires, and he
began to place them over each hair. Soon the middle of the skin was all
covered. Then he put the gems and the gold over the paws and the tail.
Soon the otter-skin was so glittering that one would think it could
light up the world. And still Loki went on finding a place where a gem
or a piece of gold might be put.

At last he stood up. Every gem and every piece of gold had been taken
out of the net. And every hair on the otter's skin had been covered with
a gem or a piece of gold.

And still old Hreidmar on his hands and knees was peering over the skin,
searching, searching for a hair that was not covered. At last he lifted
himself up on his knees. His mouth was open, but he was speechless. He
touched Odin on the knees, and when Odin bent down he showed him a hair
upon the lip that was left uncovered.

"What meanest thou?" Loki cried, turning upon the crouching man.

"Your ransom is not paid yet--look, here is still a hair uncovered. You
may not go until every hair is covered with gold or a gem."

"Peace, old man," said Loki roughly. "All the Dwarf's hoard has been
given thee."

"Ye may not go until every hair has been covered," Hreidmar said again.

"There is no more gold or gems," Loki answered.

"Then ye may not go," cried Hreidmar, springing up.

It was true. Odin and Loki might not leave that dwelling until the
recompense they had agreed to was paid in full. Where now would the Æsir
go for gold?

And then Odin saw the gleam of gold on Loki's finger: it was the ring he
had forced from Andvari. "Thy fingerring," said Odin. "Put thy
fingerring over the hair on the otter's skin."

Loki took off the ring that was engraved with the rune of power, and he
put it on the lip-hair of the otter's skin. Then Hreidmar clapped his
hands and screamed aloud. Huge Fafnir and lean and hungry-looking Regin
came within, and Gulveig came behind them. They stood around the skin of
the son and the brother that was all glittering with gold and gems. But
they looked at each other more than they looked on the glittering mass,
and very deadly were the looks that Fafnir and Regin cast upon their
father and cast upon each other.

Over Bifröst, the Rainbow Bridge, went all of the Æsir and the Vanir
that had been at old Ægir's feast--Frey and Freya, Frigga, Iduna, and
Sif; Tyr with his sword and Thor in his chariot drawn by the goats. Loki
came behind them, and behind them all came Odin, the Father of the Gods.
He went slowly with his head bent, for he knew that an unwelcome one was
following--Gulveig, who once had been cast out of Asgard and whose
return now the Gods might not gainsay.


PART III

THE WITCH'S HEART

[Illustration]

FOREBODING IN ASGARD


What happened afterwards is to the shame of the Gods, and mortals may
hardly speak of it. Gulveig the Witch came into Asgard, for Heimdall
might not forbid her entrance. She came within and she had her seat
amongst the Æsir and the Vanir. She walked through Asgard with a smile
upon her face, and where she walked and where she smiled Care and dire
Foreboding came.

Those who felt the care and the foreboding most deeply were Bragi the
Poet and his wife, the fair and simple Iduna, she who gathered the
apples that kept age from the Dwellers in Asgard. Bragi ceased to tell
his never-ending tale. Then one day, overcome by the fear and the
foreboding that was creeping through Asgard, Iduna slipped down
Ygdrassil, the World Tree, and no one was left to pluck the apples with
which the Æsir and the Vanir stayed their youth.

Then were all the Dwellers in Asgard in sore dismay. Strength and beauty
began to fade from all. Thor found it hard to lift Miölnir, his great
hammer, and the flesh under Freya's necklace lost its white radiance.
And still Gulveig the Witch walked smiling through Asgard, although now
she was hated by all.

It was Odin and Frey who went in search of Iduna. She would have been
found and brought back without delay if Frey had had with him the magic
sword that he had bartered for Gerda. In his search he had to strive
with one who guarded the lake wherein Iduna had hidden herself. Beli was
the one he strove against. He overcame him in the end with a weapon made
of stags' antlers. Ah, it was not then but later that Frey lamented the
loss of his sword: it was when the Riders of Muspell came against
Asgard, and the Vanir, who might have prevailed, prevailed not because
of the loss of Frey's sword.

They found Iduna and they brought her back. But still Care and
Foreboding crept through Asgard. And it was known, too, that the witch
Gulveig was changing the thoughts of the Gods.

At last Odin had to judge Gulveig. He judged her and decreed her death.
And only Gungnir, the spear of Odin, might slay Gulveig, who was not of
mortal race.

Odin hurled Gungnir. The spear went through Gulveig. But still she stood
smiling at the Gods. A second time Odin hurled his spear. A second time
Gungnir pierced the witch. She stood livid as one dead but fell not
down. A third time Odin hurled his spear. And now, pierced for the third
time, the witch gave a scream that made all Asgard shudder and she fell
in death on the ground.

"I have slain in these halls where slaying is forbidden," Odin said.
"Take now the corpse of Gulveig and burn it on the ramparts, so that no
trace of the witch who has troubled us will remain in Asgard."

They brought the corpse of Gulveig the witch out on the ramparts and
they lighted fires under the pile on which they laid her and they called
upon Hræsvelgur to fan up the flame:

     Hræsvelgur is the Giant,
     Who on heaven's edge sits
     In the guise of an eagle;
     And the winds, it is said,
     Rush down on the earth
     From his outspreading pinions.

Far away was Loki when all this was being done. Often now he went from
Asgard, and his journeys were to look upon that wondrous treasure that
had passed from the keeping of the Dwarf Andvari. It was Gulveig who had
kept the imagination of that treasure within his mind. Now, when he came
back and heard the whispers of what had been done, a rage flamed up
within him. For Loki was one of those whose minds were being changed by
the presence and the whispers of the witch Gulveig. His mind was being
changed to hatred of the Gods. Now he went to the place of Gulveig's
burning. All her body was in ashes, but her heart had not been devoured
by the flames. And Loki in his rage took the heart of the witch and ate
it. Oh, black and direful was it in Asgard, the day that Loki ate the
heart that the flames would not devour!


[Illustration]

LOKI THE BETRAYER


He stole Frigga's dress of falcon feathers. Then as a falcon he flew out
of Asgard. Jötunheim was the place that he flew toward.

The anger and the fierceness of the hawk was within Loki as he flew
through the Giants' Realm. The heights and the chasms of that dread land
made his spirits mount up like fire. He saw the whirlpools and the
smoking mountains and had joy of these sights. Higher and higher he
soared until, looking toward the South, he saw the flaming land of
Muspelheim. Higher and higher still he soared. With his falcon's eyes he
saw the gleam of Surtur's flaming sword. All the fire of Muspelheim and
all the gloom of Jötunheim would one day be brought against Asgard and
against Midgard. But Loki was no longer dismayed to think of the ruin of
Asgard's beauty and the ruin of Midgard's promise.

He hovered around one of the dwellings in Jötunheim. Why had he come to
it? Because he had seen two of the women of that dwelling, and his rage
against the Asyniur and the Vanir was such that the ugliness and the
evil of these women was pleasing to him.

He hovered before the open door of the Giant's house and he looked upon
those who were within. Gerriöd, the most savage of all the Giants, was
there. And beside him, squatting on the ground, were his two evil and
ugly daughters, Gialp and Greip.

They were big and bulky, black and rugged, with horses' teeth and hair
that was like horses' manes. Gialp was the uglier of the two, if one
could be said to be uglier than the other, for her nose was a yard long
and her eyes were crooked.

What were they talking about as they sat there, one scratching the
other? Of Asgard and the Dwellers in Asgard whom they hated. Thor was
the one whom they hated most of all, and they were speaking of all they
would like to do to him.

"I would keep Thor bound in chains," said Gerriöd the Giant, "and I
would beat him to death with my iron club."

"I would grind his bones to powder," said Greip.

"I would tear the flesh off his bones," said Gialp. "Father, can you not
catch this Thor and bring him to us alive?"

"Not so long as he has his hammer Miölnir, and the gloves with which he
grasps his hammer, and the belt that doubles his strength."

"Oh, if we could catch him without his hammer and his belt and his
gloves," cried Gialp and Greip together.

At that moment they saw the falcon hovering before the door. They were
eager now for something to hold and torment and so the hearts of the
three became set upon catching the falcon. They did not stir from the
place where they were sitting, but they called the child Glapp, who was
swinging from the roof-tree, and they bade him go out and try to catch
the falcon.

All concealed by the great leaves the child Glapp climbed up the ivy
that was around the door. The falcon came hovering near. Then Glapp
caught it by the wings and fell down through the ivy, screaming and
struggling as he was being beaten, and clawed, and torn by the wings and
the talons and the beak of the falcon.

Gerriöd and Greip and Gialp rushed out and kept hold of the falcon. As
the Giant held him in his hands and looked him over he knew that this
was no bird-creature. The eyes showed him to be of Alfheim or Asgard.
The Giant took him and shut him in a box till he would speak.

Soon he tapped at the closed box and when Gerriöd opened it Loki spoke
to him. So glad was the savage Giant to have one of the Dwellers in
Asgard in his power that he and his daughters did nothing but laugh and
chuckle to each other for days. And all this time they left Loki in the
closed box to waste with hunger.

When they opened the box again Loki spoke to them. He told them he
would do any injury to the Dwellers in Asgard that would please them if
they would let him go.

"Will you bring Thor to us?" said Greip.

"Will you bring Thor to us without his hammer, and without the gloves
with which he grasps his hammer, and without his belt?" said Gialp.

"I will bring him to you if you will let me go," Loki said. "Thor is
easily deceived and I can bring him to you without his hammer and his
belt and his gloves."

"We will let you go, Loki," said the Giant, "if you will swear by the
gloom of Jötunheim that you will bring Thor to us as you say."

Loki swore that he would do so by the gloom of Jötunheim--"Yea, and by
the fires of Muspelheim," he added. The Giant and his daughters let him
go, and he flew back to Asgard.

He restored to Frigga her falcon dress. All blamed him for having stolen
it, but when he told how he had been shut up without food in Gerriöd's
dwelling those who judged him thought he had been punished enough for
the theft. He spoke as before to the Dwellers in Asgard, and the rage
and hatred he had against them since he had eaten Gulveig's heart he
kept from bursting forth.

He talked to Thor of the adventures they had together in Jötunheim. Thor
would now roar with laughter when he talked of the time when he went as
a bride to Thrym the Giant.

Loki was able to persuade him to make another journey to Jötunheim. "And
I want to speak to you of what I saw in Gerriöd's dwelling," he said.
"I saw there the hair of Sif, your wife."

"The hair of Sif, my wife," said Thor in surprise.

"Yes, the hair I once cut off from Sif's head," said Loki. "Gerriöd was
the one who found it when I cast it away. They light their hall with
Sif's hair. Oh, yes, they don't need torches where Sif's hair is."

"I should like to see it," said Thor.

"Then pay Gerriöd a visit," Loki replied. "But if you go to his house
you will have to go without your hammer Miölnir, and without your gloves
and your belt."

"Where will I leave Miölnir, and my gloves and my belt?" Thor asked.

"Leave them in Valaskjalf, Odin's own dwelling," said cunning Loki.
"Leave them there and come to Gerriöd's dwelling. Surely you will be
well treated there."

"Yes, I will leave them in Valaskjalf and go with you to Gerriöd's
dwelling," Thor said.

Thor left his hammer, his gloves, and his belt in Valaskjalf. Then he
and Loki went toward Jötunheim. When they were near the end of their
journey, they came to a wide river, and with a young Giant whom they met
on the bank they began to ford it.

Suddenly the river began to rise. Loki and the young Giant would have
been swept away only Thor gripped both of them. Higher and higher the
river rose, and rougher and rougher it became. Thor had to plant his
feet firmly on the bottom or he and the two he held would have been
swept down by the flood. He struggled across, holding Loki and the
young Giant. A mountain ash grew out of the bank, and, while the two
held to him, he grasped it with his hands. The river rose still higher,
but Thor was able to draw Loki and the young Giant to the bank, and then
he himself scrambled up on it.

Now looking up the river he saw a sight that filled him with rage. A
Giantess was pouring a flood into it. This it was that was making the
river rise and seethe. Thor pulled a rock out of the bank and hurled it
at her. It struck her and flung her into the flood. Then she struggled
out of the water and went yelping away. This Giantess was Gialp,
Gerriöd's ugly and evil daughter.

Nothing would do the young Giant whom Thor had helped across but that
the pair would go and visit Grid, his mother, who lived in a cave in the
hillside. Loki would not go and was angered to hear that Thor thought of
going. But Thor, seeing that the Giant youth was friendly, was willing
enough to go to Grid's dwelling.

"Go then, but get soon to Gerriöd's dwelling yonder. I will wait for you
there," said Loki. He watched Thor go up the hillside to Grid's cave. He
waited until he saw Thor come back down the hillside and go toward
Gerriöd's dwelling. He watched Thor go into the house where, as he
thought, death awaited him. Then in a madness for what he had done,
Loki, with his head drawn down on his shoulders, started running like a
bird along the ground.

Grid, the old Giantess, was seated on the floor of the cave grinding
corn between two stones. "Who is it?" she said, as her son led Thor
within. "One of the Æsir! What Giant do you go to injure now, Asa Thor?"

"I go to injure no Giant, old Grid," Thor replied. "Look upon me! Cannot
you see that I have not Miölnir, my mighty hammer, with me, nor my belt,
nor my gloves of iron?"

"But where in Jötunheim do you go?"

"To the house of a friendly Giant, old Grid--to the house of Gerriöd."

"Gerriöd a friendly Giant! You are out of your wits, Asa Thor. Is he not
out of his wits, my son--this one who saved you from the flood, as you
say?"

"Tell him of Gerriöd, old mother," said the Giant youth.

"Do not go to his house, Asa Thor. Do not go to his house."

"My word has been given, and I should be a craven if I stayed away now,
just because an old crone sitting at a quernstone tells me I am going
into a trap."

"I will give you something that will help you, Asa Thor. Lucky for you I
am mistress of magical things. Take this staff in your hands. It is a
staff of power and will stand you instead of Miölnir."

"I will take it since you offer it in kindness, old dame, this
worm-eaten staff."

"And take these mittens, too. They will serve you for your gauntlets of
iron."

"I will take them since you offer them in kindness, old dame, these worn
old mittens."

"And take this length of string. It will serve you for your belt of
prowess."

"I will take it since you offer it in kindness, old dame, this ragged
length of string."

"'Tis well indeed for you, Asa Thor, that I am mistress of magical
things."

Thor put the worn length of string around his waist, and as he did he
knew that Grid, the old Giantess, was indeed the mistress of magical
things. For immediately he felt his strength augmented as when he put on
his own belt of strength. He then drew on the mittens and took the staff
that she gave him in his hands.

He left the cave of Grid, the old Giantess, and went to Gerriöd's
dwelling. Loki was not there. It was then that Thor began to think that
perhaps old Grid was right and that a trap was being laid for him.

No one was in the hall. He came out of the hall and into a great stone
chamber and he saw no one there either. But in the center of the stone
chamber there was a stone seat, and Thor went to it and seated himself
upon it.

No sooner was he seated than the chair flew upwards. Thor would have
been crushed against the stone roof only that he held his staff up. So
great was the power in the staff, so great was the strength that the
string around him gave, that the chair was thrust downward. The stone
chair crashed down upon the stone floor.

There were horrible screams from under it. Thor lifted up the seat and
saw two ugly, broken bodies there. The Giant's daughters, Gialp and
Greip, had hidden themselves under the chair to watch his death. But
the stone that was to have crushed him against the ceiling had crushed
them against the floor.

Thor strode out of that chamber with his teeth set hard. A great fire
was blazing in the hall, and standing beside that fire he saw Gerriöd,
the long-armed Giant.

He held a tongs into the fire. As Thor came toward him he lifted up the
tongs and flung from it a blazing wedge of iron. It whizzed straight
toward Thor's forehead. Thor put up his hands and caught the blazing
wedge of iron between the mittens that old Grid had given him. Quickly
he hurled it back at Gerriöd. It struck the Giant on the forehead and
went blazing through him.

Gerriöd crashed down into the fire, and the burning iron made a blaze
all around him. And when Thor reached Grid's cave (he went there to
restore to the old Giantess the string, the mittens, and the staff of
power she had given him) he saw the Giant's dwelling in such a blaze
that one would think the fires of Muspelheim were all around it.


[Illustration]

LOKI AGAINST THE ÆSIR


The Æsir were the guests of the Vanir: in Frey's palace the Dwellers in
Asgard met and feasted in friendship. Odin and Tyr were there, Vidar and
Vali, Niörd, Frey, Heimdall, and Bragi. The Asyniur and the Vana were
also--Frigga, Freya, Iduna, Gerda, Skadi, Sif, and Nanna. Thor and Loki
were not at the feast, for they had left Asgard together.

In Frey's palace the vessels were of shining gold; they made light for
the table and they moved of their own accord to serve those who were
feasting. All was peace and friendship there until Loki entered the
feast hall.

Frey, smiling a welcome, showed a bench to Loki. It was beside Bragi's
and next to Freya's. Loki did not take the place; instead he shouted
out, "Not beside Bragi will I sit; not beside Bragi, the most craven of
all the Dwellers in Asgard."

Bragi sprang up at that affront, but his wife, the mild Iduna, quieted
his anger. Freya turned to Loki and reproved him for speaking injurious
words at a feast.

"Freya," said Loki, "why were you not so mild when Odur was with you?
Would it not have been well to have been wifely with your husband
instead of breaking faith with him for the sake of a necklace that you
craved of the Giant women?"

Amazement fell on all at the bitterness that was in Loki's words and
looks. Tyr and Niörd stood up from their seats. But then the voice of
Odin was heard and all was still for the words of the All-Father.

"Take the place beside Vidar, my silent son, O Loki," said Odin, "and
let thy tongue which drips bitterness be silent."

"All the Æsir and the Vanir listen to thy words, O Odin, as if thou wert
always wise and just," Loki said. "But must we forget that thou didst
bring war into the world when thou didst fling thy spear at the envoys
of the Vanir? And didst thou not permit me to work craftily on the one
who built the wall around Asgard for a price? Thou dost speak, O Odin,
and all the Æsir and the Vanir listen to thee! But was it not thou who,
thinking not of wisdom but of gold when a ransom had to be made, brought
the witch Gulveig out of the cave where she stayed with the Dwarf's
treasure? Thou wert not always wise nor always just, O Odin, and we at
the table here need not listen to thee as if always thou wert."

Then Skadi, the wife of Niörd, flung words at Loki. She spoke with all
the fierceness of her Giant blood. "Why should we not rise up and chase
from the hall this chattering crow?" she said.

"Skadi," said Loki, "remember that the ransom for thy father's death has
not yet been paid. Thou wert glad to snatch a husband instead of it.
Remember who it was that killed thy Giant father. It was I, Loki. And no
ransom have I paid thee for it, although thou hast come amongst us in
Asgard."

Then Loki fixed his eyes on Frey, the giver of the feast, and all knew
that with bitter words he was about to assail him. But Tyr, the brave
swordsman, rose up and said, "Not against Frey mayst thou speak, O Loki.
Frey is generous; he is the one amongst us who spares the vanquished and
frees the captive."

"Cease speaking, Tyr," said Loki. "Thou mayst not always have a hand to
hold that sword of thine. Remember this saying of mine in days to come.

"Frey," said he, "because thou art the giver of the feast they think I
will not speak the truth about thee. But I am not to be bribed by a
feast. Didst thou not send Skirnir to Gymer's dwelling to befool Gymer's
flighty daughter? Didst thou not bribe him into frightening her into a
marriage with thee, who, men say, wert the slayer of her brother? Yea,
Frey. Thou didst part with a charge, with the magic sword that thou
shouldst have kept for the battle. Thou hadst cause to grieve when thou
didst meet Beli by the lake."

When he said this all who were there of the Vanir rose up, their faces
threatening Loki.

"Sit still, ye Vanir," Loki railed. "If the Æsir are to bear the brunt
of Jötunheim's and Muspelheim's war upon Asgard it was your part to be
the first or the last on Vigard's plain. But already ye have lost the
battle for Asgard, for the weapon that was put into Frey's hands he
bartered for Gerda the Giantess. Ha! Surtur shall triumph over you
because of Frey's bewitchment."

In horror they looked at the one who could let his hatred speak of
Surtur's triumph. All would have laid hands on Loki only Odin's voice
rang out. Then another appeared at the entrance of the feasting hall. It
was Thor. With his hammer upon his shoulder, his gloves of iron on his
hands, and his belt of prowess around him, he stood marking Loki with
wrathful eyes.

"Ha, Loki, betrayer," he shouted. "Thou didst plan to leave me dead in
Gerriöd's house, but now thou wilt meet death by the stroke of this
hammer."

His hands were raised to hurl Miölnir. But the words that Odin spoke
were heard. "Not in this hall may slaying be done, son Thor. Keep thy
hands upon thy hammer."

Then shrinking from the wrath in the eyes of Thor, Loki passed out of
the feast hall. He went beyond the walls of Asgard and crossed Bifröst,
the Rainbow Bridge. And he cursed Bifröst, and longed to see the day
when the armies of Muspelheim would break it down in their rush against
Asgard.

East of Midgard there was a place more evil than any region in
Jötunheim. It was Jarnvid, the Iron Wood. There dwelt witches who were
the most foul of all witches. And they had a queen over them, a hag,
mother of many sons who took upon themselves the shapes of wolves. Two
of her sons were Skoll and Hati, who pursued Sol, the Sun, and Mani, the
Moon. She had a third son, who was Managarm, the wolf who was to be
filled with the life-blood of men, who was to swallow up the Moon, and
stain the heavens and earth with blood. To Jarnvid, the Iron Wood, Loki
made his way. And he wed one of the witches there, Angerboda, and they
had children that took on dread shapes. Loki's offspring were the most
terrible of the foes that were to come against the Æsir and the Vanir in
the time that was called the Twilight of the Gods.


[Illustration]

THE VALKYRIE


Against the time when the riders of Muspelheim, with the Giants and the
evil powers of the Underworld, would bring on battle, Odin All-Father
was preparing a host of defenders for Asgard. They were not of the Æsir
nor of the Vanir; they were of the race of mortal men, heroes chosen
from amongst the slain on fields of battle in Midgard.

To choose the heroes, and to give victory to those whom he willed to
have victory, Odin had battle-maidens that went to the fields of war.
Beautiful were those battle-maidens and fearless; wise were they also,
for to them Odin showed the Runes of Wisdom. Valkyries, Choosers of the
Slain, they were named.

Those who were chosen on the fields of the slain were called in Asgard
the Einherjar. For them Odin made ready a great Hall. Valhalla, the Hall
of the Slain, it was called. Five hundred and forty doors had Valhalla,
and out of each door eight hundred Champions might pass. Every day the
Champions put on their armor and took their weapons down from the walls,
and went forth and battled with each other. All who were wounded were
made whole again, and in peace and goodly fellowship they sat down to
the feast that Odin prepared for them. Odin himself sat with his
Champions, drinking wine but eating no meat.

For meat the Champions ate the flesh of the boar Sæhrimnir; every day
the boar was killed and cooked, and every morning it was whole again.
For drink they had the mead that was made from the milk of the goat
Heidrun, the goat that browsed on the leaves of the tree Læradir. And
the Valkyries, the wise and fearless battle-maidens, went amongst them,
filling up the drinking-horns with the heady mead.

Youngest of all the battle-maidens was Brynhild. Nevertheless, to her
Odin All-Father had shown more of the Runes of Wisdom than he had shown
to any of her sisters. And when the time came for Brynhild to journey
down into Midgard he gave her a swan-feather dress such as he had given
before to the three Valkyrie sisters--Alvit, Olrun, and Hladgrun.

In the dazzling plumage of a swan the young battle-maiden flew down from
Asgard. Not yet had she to go to the battlefields. I pen the last word
advisedly. I fancy it is one which I have never used before in writing
of A. J.

Raffles, for I cannot at the moment recall any other occasion upon which
its use would have been justified.
On resuming, however, he was not only calm, but cold; and this
flying for safety to the other extreme is the single instance of
self-distrust which the present Achates can record to the credit
of his impious AEneas.

"I called the girl Eve," said he. "Her real name was Faustina, and she was
one of a vast family who hung out in a hovel on the inland border of the
vineyard. And Aphrodite rising from the sea was less wonderful and not
more beautiful than Aphrodite emerging from that hole!

"It was the most exquisite face I ever saw or shall see in this life.
Absolutely perfect features; a skin that reminded you of old gold, so
delicate was its bronze; magnificent hair, not black but nearly;
and such eyes and teeth as would have made the fortune of a face
without another point.

I tell you, Bunny, London would go mad about a girl like that. But I
don't believe there's such another in the world.
And there she was wasting her sweetness upon that lovely but desolate
little corner of it! Well, she did not waste it upon me. I would
have married her, and lived happily ever after in such a hovel as her
people's--with her. Only to look at her--only to look at her for the rest
of my days--I could have lain low and remained dead even to you!

And that's all I'm going to tell you about that, Bunny; cursed be
he who tells more! Yet don't run away with the idea that this poor Faustina
was the only woman I ever cared about.

I don't believe in all that 'only' rot; nevertheless I tell you that
she was the one being who ever entirely satisfied my sense of
beauty; and I honestly believe I could have chucked the world
and been true to Faustina for that alone.

"We met sometimes in the little temple I told you about, sometimes among
the vines; now by honest accident, now by flagrant design; and found
a ready-made rendezvous, romantic as one could wish, in the cave
down all those subterranean steps.

Then the sea would call us--my blue champagne--my sparkling cobalt--and
there was the dingy ready to our hand. Oh, those nights! I never knew
which I liked best, the moonlit ones when you sculled through silver
and could see for miles, or the dark nights when the fishermen's torches
stood for the sea, and a red zig-zag in the sky for old Vesuvius.

We were happy. I don't mind owning it. We seemed not to have a care between
us. My mates took no interest in my affairs, and Faustina's family
did not appear to bother about her. The Count was in Naples five
nights of the seven; the other two we sighed apart.

"At first it was the oldest story in literature--Eden plus Eve. The
place had been a heaven on earth before, but now it was heaven itself.

So for a little; then one night, a Monday night, Faustina burst out
crying in the boat; and sobbed her story as we drifted without mishap
by the mercy of the Lord.

And that was almost as old a story as the other.

"She was engaged--what! Had I never heard of it? Did I mean to upset
the boat? What was her engagement beside our love? 'Niente, niente,'
crooned Faustina, sighing yet smiling through her tears.

No, but what did matter was that the man had threatened to stab her to
the heart--and would do it as soon as look at her--that I knew.

"I knew it merely from my knowledge of the Neapolitans, for I had no idea
who the man might be. I knew it, and yet I took this detail better than
the fact of the engagement, though now I began to laugh at both. As if
I was going to let her marry anybody else!

As if a hair of her lovely head should be touched while I lived to protect
her! I had a great mind to row away to blazes with her that very night,
and never go near the vineyard again, or let her either. But we had not
a lira between us at the time, and only the rags in which we sat barefoot
in the boat.

Besides, I had to know the name of the animal who had threatened a
woman, and such a woman as this.

"For a long time she refused to tell me, with splendid obduracy;
but I was as determined as she; so at last she made conditions.

I was not to go and get put in prison for sticking a knife into him--he
wasn't worth it--and I did promise not to stab him in the back. Faustina
seemed quite satisfied, though a little puzzled by my manner, having
herself the racial tolerance for cold steel; and next moment she
had taken away my breath.

'It is Stefano,' she whispered, and hung her head.

"And well she might, poor thing! Stefano, of all creatures on God's
earth--for her!

"Bunny, he was a miserable little undersized wretch--ill-favored--servile--surly--and
second only to his master in bestial cunning and hypocrisy. His face was
enough for me; that was what I read in it, and I don't often make
mistakes. He was Corbucci's own confidential body-servant, and
that alone was enough to damn him in decent eyes: always came out first
on the Saturday with the spese, to have all ready for his master and
current mistress, and stayed behind on the Monday to clear and lock
up. Stefano! That worm! I could well understand his threatening a
woman with a knife; what beat me was how any woman could ever have
listened to him; above all, that Faustina should be the one!

It passed my comprehension. But I questioned her as gently as I could;
and her explanation was largely the thread-bare one you would expect.
Her parents were so poor. They were so many in family. Some of them
begged--would I promise never to tell? Then some of them stole--sometimes--and
all knew the pains of actual want.
She looked after the cows, but there were only two of them, and brought
the milk to the vineyard and elsewhere; but that was not employment
for more than one; and there were countless sisters waiting to take
her place.

Then he was so rich, Stefano.

"'Rich!' I echoed. 'Stefano?'
"'Si, Arturo mio.'

"Yes, I played the game on that vineyard, Bunny, even to going my own
first name.

"'And how comes he to be rich?' I asked, suspiciously.

"She did not know; but he had given her such beautiful jewels; the
family had lived on them for months, she pretending an avocat had taken
charge of them for her against her marriage.

But I cared nothing about all that.

"'Jewels! Stefano!' I could only mutter.

"'Perhaps the Count has paid for some of them. He is very kind.'
"'To you, is he?'
"'Oh, yes, very kind.'
"'And you would live in his house afterwards?'

"'Not now, mia cara--not now!'
"'No, by God you don't!' said I in English.

'But you would have done so, eh?'
"'Of course. That was arranged. The Count is really very kind.'
"'Do you see anything of him when he comes here?'
"Yes, he had sometimes brought her little presents, sweetmeats,
ribbons, and the like; but the offering had always been made through
this toad of a Stefano.

Knowing the men, I now knew all. But Faustina, she had the pure and simple
heart, and the white soul, by the God who made it, and for all her
kindness to a tattered scapegrace who made love to her in broken Italian
between the ripples and the stars.
She was not to know what I was, remember; and beside Corbucci and
his henchman I was the Archangel Gabriel come down to earth.

"Well, as I lay awake that night, two more lines of Swinburne came into
my head, and came to stay:

"God said 'Let him who wins her take And keep Faustine.'
"On that couplet I slept at last, and it was my text and watchword when
I awoke in the morning. I forget how well you know your Swinburne,
Bunny; but don't you run away with the idea that there was anything
else in common between his Faustine and mine. For the last time let me
tell you that poor Faustina was the whitest and the best I ever
knew.

"Well, I was strung up for trouble when the next Saturday came, and I'll
tell you what I had done. I had broken the pledge and burgled Corbucci's
villa in my best manner during his absence in Naples.

Not that it gave me the slightest trouble; but no human being could have
told that I had been in, when I came out.

And I had stolen nothing, mark you, but only borrowed a revolver
from a drawer in the Count's desk, with one or two trifling
accessories; for by this time I had the measure of these damned
Neapolitans.

They are spry enough with a knife, but you show them the business end
of a shooting-iron, and they'll streak like rabbits for the nearest hole.
But the revolver wasn't for my own use.

It was for Faustina, and I taught her how to use it in the cave down there
by the sea, shooting at candles stuck upon the rock. The noise in the
cave was something frightful, but high up above it couldn't be
heard at all, as we proved to each other's satisfaction pretty early
in the proceedings.

So now Faustina was armed with munitions of self-defence; and I knew enough
of her character to entertain no doubt as to their spirited use
upon occasion.
Between the two of us, in fact, our friend Stefano seemed tolerably
certain of a warm week-end.

"But the Saturday brought word that the Count was not coming this week,
being in Rome on business, and unable to return in time; so for a whole
Sunday we were promised peace; and made bold plans accordingly. There
was no further merit in hushing this thing up. 'Let him who wins her
take and keep Faustine.' Yes, but let him win her openly, or lose her
and be damned to him! So on the Sunday I was going to have it out with
her people--with the Count and Stefano as soon as they showed their
noses.

I had no inducement, remember, ever to return to surreptitious life within
a cab-fare of Wormwood Scrubbs.

Faustina and the Bay of Naples were quite good enough for me. And the
prehistoric man in me rather exulted in the idea of fighting for
my desire.

"On the Saturday, however, we were able to meet for the last time as
heretofore--just once more in secret--down there in the cave--as
soon as might be after dark.

Neither of us minded if we were kept for hours; each knew in the end
that the other would come; and there was a charm of its own even
in waiting with such knowledge.

But that night I did lose patience: not in the cave, but up above, where
first on one pretext and then on another the direttore kept me
going until I smelt a rat.

He was not given to exacting overtime, this direttore, whose only fault
was his servile subjection to our common boss. It seemed pretty obvious,
therefore, that he was acting upon some secret instructions from Corbucci
himself, and, the moment I suspected this, I asked him to his face
if it was not the case.

And it was; he admitted it with many shrugs, being a conveniently weak
person, whom one felt almost ashamed of bullying as the occasion
demanded.

"The fact was, however, that the Count had sent for him on finding
he had to go to Rome, and had said he was very sorry to go just
then, as among other things he intended to speak to me about Faustina.

Stefano had told him all about his row with her, and moreover that it
was on my account, which Faustina had never told me, though I had
guessed as much for myself.

Well, the Count was going to take his jackal's part for all he was worth,
which was just exactly what I had expected him to do.
He intended going for me on his return, but meanwhile I was not to make
hay in his absence, and so this tool of a direttore had orders to
keep me at it night and day.

I undertook not to give the poor beast away, but at the same time told
him I had not the faintest intention of doing another stroke of work
that night.

"It was very dark, and I remember knocking my head against the oranges
as I ran up the long, shallow steps which ended the journey between the
direttore's lodge and the villa itself. But at the back of the villa was
the garden I spoke about, and also a bare chunk of the cliff where it was
bored by that subterranean stair.

So I saw the stars close overhead, and the fishermen's torches far
below, the coastwise lights and the crimson hieroglyph that spelt
Vesuvius, before I plunged into the darkness of the shaft.

And that was the last time I appreciated the unique and peaceful
charm of this outlandish spot.

"The stair was in two long flights, with an air-hole or two at the top
of the upper one, but not another pin-prick till you came to the
iron gate at the bottom of the lower. As you may read of an infinitely
lighter place, in a finer work of fiction than you are ever likely
to write, Bunny, it was 'gloomy at noon, dark as midnight at dusk,
and black as the ninth plague of Egypt at midnight.'

I won't swear to my quotation, but I will to those stairs. They were as
black that night as the inside of the safest safe in the strongest
strong-room in the Chancery Lane Deposit. Yet I had not got far down
them with my bare feet before I heard somebody else coming up in boots.
You may imagine what a turn that gave me! It could not be Faustina, who
went barefoot three seasons of the four, and yet there was Faustina
waiting for me down below.

What a fright she must have had! And all at once my own blood ran cold:
for the man sang like a kettle as he plodded up and up.
It was, it must be, the short-winded Count himself, whom we all supposed
to be in Rome!

     "Higher he came and nearer,
     nearer, slowly yet
     hurriedly, now stopping
     to cough and gasp, now
     taking a few steps by elephantine assault.

I should have enjoyed the situation if it had not been for poor Faustina
in the cave; as it was I was filled with nameless fears. But I could
not resist giving that grampus Corbucci one bad moment on account. A
crazy hand-rail ran up one wall, so I carefully flattened myself
against the other, and he passed within six inches of me, puffing
and wheezing like a brass band.

I let him go a few steps higher, and then I let him have it with both
lungs.

"Buona sera, eccellenza, signori!' I roared after him. And a scream came
down in answer--such a scream!

A dozen different terrors were in it; and the wheezing had stopped, with
the old scoundrel's heart.

"'Chi sta la?' he squeaked at last, gibbering and whimpering like a
whipped monkey, so that I could not bear to miss his face, and got
a match all ready to strike.

"'Arturo, signori.'
"He didn't repeat my name, nor did he damn me in heaps. He did nothing
but wheeze for a good minute, and when he spoke it was with insinuating
civility, in his best English.

"'Come nearer, Arturo. You are in the lower regions down there. I want
to speak with you.'

"'No, thanks. I'm in a hurry,' I said, and dropped that match back into
my pocket. He might be armed, and I was not.

"'So you are in a 'urry!' and he wheezed amusement. 'And you thought I
was still in Rome, no doubt; and so I was until this afternoon, when
I caught train at the eleventh moment, and then another train from
Naples to Pozzuoli.

I have been rowed here now by a fisherman of Pozzuoli. I had not time to
stop anywhere in Naples, but only to drive from station to station.
So I am without Stefano, Arturo, I am without Stefano.'
"His sly voice sounded preternaturally sly in the absolute darkness, but
even through that impenetrable veil I knew it for a sham. I had laid
hold of the hand-rail. It shook violently in my hand; he also was
holding it where he stood.

And these suppressed tremors, or rather their detection in this way,
struck a strange chill to my heart, just as I was beginning to pluck
it up.

For three days and three nights of silence and
darkness he journeyed on. Once one of the hounds of Helheim broke loose
and bayed upon Sleipner's tracks. For a day and a night Garm, the hound,
pursued them, and Odin smelled the blood that dripped from his monstrous
jaws.

At last he came to where, wrapped in their shrouds, a field of the Dead
lay. He dismounted from Sleipner and called upon one to rise and speak
with him. It was on Volva, a dead prophetess, he called. And when he
pronounced her name he uttered a rune that had the power to break the
sleep of the Dead.

There was a groaning in the middle of where the shrouded ones lay. Then
Odin cried, out, "Arise, Volva, prophetess." There was a stir in the
middle of where the shrouded ones lay, and a head and shoulders were
thrust up from amongst the Dead.

"Who calls on Volva the Prophetess? The rains have drenched my flesh and
the storms have shaken my bones for more seasons than the living know.
No living voice has a right to call me from my sleep with the Dead."

"It is Vegtam the Wanderer who calls. For whom is the bed prepared and
the seat left empty in Hela's habitation?"

"For Baldur, Odin's son, is the bed prepared and the seat left empty.
Now let me go back to my sleep with the Dead."

But now Odin saw beyond Volva's prophecy. "Who is it," he cried out,
"that stands with unbowed head and that will not lament for Baldur?
Answer, Volva, prophetess!"

"Thou seest far, but thou canst not see clearly. Thou art Odin. I can
see clearly but I cannot see far. Now let me go back to my sleep with
the Dead."

"Volva, prophetess!" Odin cried out again.

But the voice from amongst the shrouded ones said, "Thou canst not wake
me any more until the fires of Muspelheim blaze above my head."

Then there was silence in the field of the Dead, and Odin turned
Sleipner, his steed, and for four days, through the gloom and silence,
he journeyed back to Asgard.

Frigga had felt the fear that Odin had felt. She looked toward Baldur,
and the shade of Hela came between her and her son. But then she heard
the birds sing in the Peace Stead and she knew that none of all the
things in the world would injure Baldur.

And to make it sure she went to all the things that could hurt him and
from each of them she took an oath that it would not injure Baldur, the
Well-Beloved. She took an oath from fire and from water, from iron and
from all metals, from earths and stones and great trees, from birds and
beasts and creeping things, from poisons and diseases. Very readily they
all gave the oath that they would work no injury on Baldur.

Then when Frigga went back and told what she had accomplished the gloom
that had lain on Asgard lifted. Baldur would be spared to them. Hela
might have a place prepared in her dark habitation, but neither fire
nor water, nor iron nor any metals, nor earths nor stones nor great
woods, nor birds nor beasts nor creeping things, nor poisons nor
diseases, would help her to bring him down. "Hela has no arms to draw
you to her," the Æsir and the Vanir cried to Baldur.

Hope was renewed for them and they made games to honor Baldur. They had
him stand in the Peace Stead and they brought against him all the things
that had sworn to leave him hurtless. And neither the battle-axe flung
full at him, nor the stone out of the sling, nor the burning brand, nor
the deluge of water would injure the beloved of Asgard. The Æsir and the
Vanir laughed joyously to see these things fall harmlessly from him
while a throng came to join them in the games; Dwarfs and friendly
Giants.

But Loki the Hater came in with that throng. He watched the games from
afar. He saw the missiles and the weapons being flung and he saw Baldur
stand smiling and happy under the strokes of metal and stones and great
woods. He wondered at the sight, but he knew that he might not ask the
meaning of it from the ones who knew him.

He changed his shape into that of an old woman and he went amongst those
who were making sport for Baldur. He spoke to Dwarfs and friendly
Giants. "Go to Frigga and ask. Go to Frigga and ask," was all the answer
Loki got from any of them.

Then to Fensalir, Frigga's mansion, Loki went. He told those in the
mansion that he was Groa, the old Enchantress who was drawing out of
Thor's head the fragments of a grindstone that a Giant's throw had
embedded in it. Frigga knew about Groa and she praised the Enchantress
for what she had done.

"Many fragments of the great grindstone have I taken out of Thor's head
by the charms I know," said the pretended Groa. "Thor was so grateful
that he brought back to me the husband that he once had carried off to
the end of the earth. So overjoyed was I to find my husband restored
that I forgot the rest of the charms. And I left some fragments of the
stone in Thor's head."

So Loki said, repeating a story that was true. "Now I remember the rest
of the charm," he said, "and I can draw out the fragments of the stone
that are left. But will you not tell me, O Queen, what is the meaning of
the extraordinary things I saw the Æsir and the Vanir doing?"

"I will tell you," said Frigga, looking kindly and happily at the
pretended old woman. "They are hurling all manner of heavy and dangerous
things at Baldur, my beloved son. And all Asgard cheers to see that
neither metal nor stone nor great wood will hurt him."

"But why will they not hurt him?" said the pretended Enchantress.

"Because I have drawn an oath from all dangerous and threatening things
to leave Baldur hurtless," said Frigga.

"From all things, lady? Is there no thing in all the world that has not
taken an oath to leave Baldur hurtless?"

"Well, indeed, there is one thing that has not taken the oath. But that
thing is so small and weak that I passed it by without taking thought of
it."

"What can it be, lady?"

"The Mistletoe that is without root or strength. It grows on the eastern
side of Valhalla. I passed it by without drawing an oath from it."

"Surely you were not wrong to pass it by. What could the Mistletoe--the
rootless Mistletoe--do against Baldur?"

Saying this the pretended Enchantress hobbled off.

But not far did the pretender go hobbling. He changed his gait and
hurried to the eastern side of Valhalla. There a great oak tree
flourished and out of a branch of it a little bush of Mistletoe grew.
Loki broke off a spray and with it in his hand he went to where the Æsir
and the Vanir were still playing games to honor Baldur.

All were laughing as Loki drew near, for the Giants and the Dwarfs, the
Asyniur and the Vana, were all casting missiles. The Giants threw too
far and the Dwarfs could not throw far enough, while the Asyniur and the
Vana threw far and wide of the mark. In the midst of all that glee and
gamesomeness it was strange to see one standing joyless. But one stood
so, and he was of the Æsir--Hödur, Baldur's blind brother.

"Why do you not enter the game?" said Loki to him in his changed voice.

"I have no missile to throw at Baldur," Hödur said.

"Take this and throw it," said Loki. "It is a twig of the Mistletoe."

"I cannot see to throw it," said Hödur.

"I will guide your hand," said Loki. He put the twig of Mistletoe in
Hödur's hand and he guided the hand for the throw. The twig flew toward
Baldur. It struck him on the breast and it pierced him. Then Baldur fell
down with a deep groan.

The Æsir and the Vanir, the Dwarfs and the friendly Giants, stood still
in doubt and fear and amazement. Loki slipped away. And blind Hödur,
from whose hand the twig of Mistletoe had gone, stood quiet, not knowing
that his throw had bereft Baldur of life.

Then a wailing rose around the Peace Stead. It was from the Asyniur and
the Vana. Baldur was dead, and they began to lament him. And while they
were lamenting him, the beloved of Asgard, Odin came amongst them.

"Hela has won our Baldur from us," Odin said to Frigga as they both bent
over the body of their beloved son.

"Nay, I will not say it," Frigga said.

When the Æsir and the Vanir had won their senses back the mother of
Baldur went amongst them. "Who amongst you would win my love and
goodwill?" she said. "Whoever would let him ride down to Hela's dark
realm and ask the Queen to take ransom for Baldur. It may be she will
take it and let Baldur come back to us. Who amongst you will go? Odin's
steed is ready for the journey."

Then forth stepped Hermod the Nimble, the brother of Baldur. He mounted
Sleipner and turned the eight-legged steed down toward Hela's dark
realm.

For nine days and nine nights Hermod rode on. His way was through rugged
glens, one deeper and darker than the other. He came to the river that
is called Giöll and to the bridge across it that is all glittering with
gold. The pale maid who guards the bridge spoke to him.

"The hue of life is still on thee," said Modgudur, the pale maid. "Why
dost thou journey down to Hela's deathly realm?"

"I am Hermod," he said, "and I go to see if Hela will take ransom for
Baldur."

"Fearful is Hela's habitation for one to come to," said Modgudur, the
pale maid. "All round it is a steep wall that even thy steed might
hardly leap. Its threshold is Precipice. The bed therein is Care, the
table is Hunger, the hanging of the chamber is Burning Anguish."

"It may be that Hela will take ransom for Baldur."

"If all things in the world still lament for Baldur, Hela will have to
take ransom and let him go from her," said Modgudur, the pale maid that
guards the glittering bridge.

"It is well, then, for all things lament Baldur. I will go to her and
make her take ransom."

"Thou mayst not pass until it is of a surety that all things still
lament him. Go back to the world and make sure. If thou dost come to
this glittering bridge and tell me that all things still lament Baldur,
I will let thee pass and Hela will have to hearken to thee."

"I will come back to thee, and thou, Modgudur, pale maid, wilt have to
let me pass."

"Then I will let thee pass," said Modgudur.

Joyously Hermod turned Sleipner and rode back through the rugged glens,
each one less gloomy than the other. He reached the upper world, and
saw that all things were still lamenting for Baldur. Joyously Hermod
rode onward. He met the Vanir in the middle of the world and he told
them the happy tidings.

Then Hermod and the Vanir went through the world seeking out each thing
and finding that each thing still wept for Baldur. But one day Hermod
came upon a crow that was sitting on the dead branch of a tree. The crow
made no lament as he came near. She rose up and flew away and Hermod
followed her to make sure that she lamented for Baldur.

He lost sight of her near a cave. And then before the cave he saw a hag
with blackened teeth who raised no voice of lament. "If thou art the
crow that came flying here, make lament for Baldur," Hermod said.

"My pal, my pal, and no time to be lost!" I translated freely, and
flew for my hat.

"Ecco, signore!"

cried the fellow, snatching the watch from my waistcoat pocket, and putting
one black thumb-nail on the long hand, the other on he numeral twelve.
"Mezzogiorno--poco tempo--poco tempo!" And again I seized his meaning,
that it was twenty past eleven, and we must be there by twelve.

But where, but where? It was maddening to be summoned like this, and not
to know what had happened, nor to have any means of finding out. But
my presence of mind stood by me still, I was improving by seven-league
strides, and I crammed my handkerchief between the drum and hammer
of the bell before leaving.

The doctor could ring now till he was black in the face, but I was not
coming, and he need not think it.

I half expected to find a hansom waiting, but there was none, and we
had gone some distance down the Earl's Court Road before we got one;
in fact, we had to run to the stand. Opposite is the church with the
clock upon it, as everybody knows, and at sight of the dial my companion
had wrung his hands; it was close upon the half-hour.

"Poco tempo--pochissimo!" he wailed. "Bloom-buree Ske-warr," he then
cried to the cabman--"numero trentotto!"
"Bloomsbury Square," I roared on my own account, "I'll show you the
house when we get there, only drive like be-damned!"

My companion lay back gasping in his corner. The small glass told me that
my own face was pretty red.

"A nice show!" I cried; "and not a word can you tell me. Didn't you
bring me a note?"
I might have known by this time that he had not, still I went through
the pantomime of writing with my finger on my cuff.

But he shrugged and shook his head.

"Niente," said he. "Una quistione di vita, di vita!"
"What's that?" I snapped, my early training come in again. "Say it
slowly--andante--rallentando."
Thank Italy for the stage instructions in the songs one used to
murder!

The fellow actually understood.

"Una--quistione--di--vita."
"Or mors, eh?" I shouted, and up went the trap-door over our heads.

"Avanti, avanti, avanti!"

cried the Italian, turning up his one-eyed face.

"Hell-to-leather," I translated, "and double fare if you do it by twelve
o'clock."
But in the streets of London how is one to know the time?

In the Earl's Court Road it had not been half-past, and at Barker's in
High Street it was but a minute later. A long half-mile a minute,
that was going like the wind, and indeed we had done much of it at a
gallop.
But the next hundred yards took us five minutes by the next clock, and
which was one to believe? I fell back upon my own old watch (it was my
own), which made it eighteen minutes to the hour as we swung across
the Serpentine bridge, and by the quarter we were in the Bayswater
Road--not up for once.

"Presto, presto," my pale guide murmured. "Affretatevi--avanti!"
"Ten bob if you do it," I cried through the trap, without the slightest
notion of what we were to do. But it was "una quistione di vita," and
"vostro amico" must and could only be my miserable Raffles.

What a very godsend is the perfect hansom to the man or woman in a hurry!
It had been our great good fortune to jump into a perfect hansom; there
was no choice, we had to take the first upon the rank, but it must
have deserved its place with the rest nowhere.

New tires, superb springs, a horse in a thousand, and a driver up to
every trick of his trade! In and out we went like a fast half-back at
the Rugby game, yet where the traffic was thinnest, there were we. And
how he knew his way! At the Marble Arch he slipped out of the main
stream, and so into Wigmore Street, then up and in and out and on until
I saw the gold tips of the Museum palisade gleaming between the horse's
ears in the sun. Plop, plop, plop; ting, ling, ling; bell and horse-shoes,
horse-shoes and bell, until the colossal figure of C. J. Fox in a
grimy toga spelt Bloomsbury Square with my watch still wanting
three minutes to the hour.

"What number?" cried the good fellow over-head.

"Trentotto, trentotto," said my guide, but he was looking to the
right, and I bundled him out to show the house on foot.

I had not half-a-sovereign after all, but I flung our dear driver a
whole one instead, and only wish that it had been a hundred.

Already the Italian had his latch-key in the door of 38, and in another
moment we were rushing up the narrow stairs of as dingy a London house
as prejudiced countryman can conceive. It was panelled, but it was dark
and evil-smelling, and how we should have found our way even to the
stairs but for an unwholesome jet of yellow gas in the hall, I
cannot myself imagine.

However, up we went pell-mell, to the right-about on the half-landing,
and so like a whirlwind into the drawing-room a few steps higher. There
the gas was also burning behind closed shutters, and the scene is
photographed upon my brain, though I cannot have looked upon it for a
whole instant as I sprang in at my leader's heels.

This room also was panelled, and in the middle of the wall on our left,
his hands lashed to a ring-bolt high above his head, his toes barely
touching the floor, his neck pinioned by a strap passing through smaller
ring-bolts under either ear, and every inch of him secured on the
same principle, stood, or rather hung, all that was left of Raffles,
for at the first glance I believed him dead.

A black ruler gagged him, the ends lashed behind his neck, the blood
upon it caked to bronze in the gaslight. And in front of him, ticking
like a sledge-hammer, its only hand upon the stroke of twelve, stood a
simple, old-fashioned, grandfather's clock--but not for half an
instant longer--only until my guide could hurl himself upon it and
send the whole thing crashing into the corner.

An ear-splitting report accompanied the crash, a white cloud lifted from
the fallen clock, and I saw a revolver smoking in a vice screwed below
the dial, an arrangement of wires sprouting from the dial itself, and the
single hand at once at its zenith and in contact with these.

"Tumble to it, Bunny?"

He was alive; these were his first words; the Italian had the blood-caked
ruler in his hand, and with his knife was reaching up to cut the
thongs that lashed the hands. He was not tall enough, I seized him and
lifted him up, then fell to work with my own knife upon the straps. And
Raffles smiled faintly upon us through his blood-stains.

"I want you to tumble to it," he whispered; "the neatest thing in revenge
I ever knew, and another minute would have fixed it.

I've been waiting for it twelve hours, watching the clock round, death
at the end of the lap! Electric connection. Simple enough. Hour-hand
only--O Lord!"
We had cut the last strap. He could not stand. We supported him between
us to a horsehair sofa, for the room was furnished, and I begged him not
to speak, while his one-eyed deliverer was at the door before Raffles
recalled him with a sharp word in Italian.

"He wants to get me a drink, but that can wait," said he, in firmer
voice; "I shall enjoy it the more when I've told you what happened.

Don't let him go, Bunny; put your back against the door. He's a decent
soul, and it's lucky for me I got a word with him before they trussed
me up. I've promised to set him up in life, and I will, but I don't
want him out of my sight for the moment."
"If you squared him last night," I exclaimed, "why the blazes didn't he
come to me till the eleventh hour?"
"Ah, I knew he'd have to cut it fine though I hoped not quite so fine as
all that. But all's well that ends well, and I declare I don't feel so
much the worse. I shall be sore about the gills for a bit--and
what do you think?"

He pointed to the long black ruler with the bronze stain; it lay
upon the floor; he held out his hand for it, and I gave it to him.

"The same one I gagged him with," said Raffles, with his still
ghastly smile; "he was a bit of an artist, old Corbucci, after all!"

"Now let's hear how you fell into his clutches," said I, briskly,
for I was as anxious to hear as he seemed to tell me, only for my
part I could have waited until we were safe in the flat.

"I do want to get it off my chest, Bunny," old Raffles admitted,
"and yet I hardly can tell you after all.

I followed your friend with the velvet eyes. I followed him all the way
here. Of course I came up to have a good look at the house when he'd
let himself in, and damme if he hadn't left the door ajar!

Who could resist that? I had pushed it half open and had just one foot on
the mat when I got such a crack on the head as I hope never to get again.
When I came to my wits they were hauling me up to that ring-bolt by
the hands, and old Corbucci himself was bowing to me, but how HE got
here I don't know yet."
"I can tell you that," said I, and told how I had seen the Count for
myself on the pavement underneath our windows. "Moreover," I continued,
"I saw him spot you, and five minutes after in Earl's Court Road I was
told he'd driven off in a cab. He would see you following his man,
drive home ahead, and catch you by having the door left open in
the way you describe."

"Well," said Raffles, "he deserved to catch me somehow, for he'd come from
Naples on purpose, ruler and all, and the ring-bolts were ready fixed,
and even this house taken furnished for nothing else! He meant catching
me before he'd done, and scoring me off in exactly the same way that I
scored off him, only going one better of course.

He told me so himself, sitting where I am sitting now, at three o'clock
this morning, and smoking a most abominable cigar that I've smelt
ever since. It appears he sat twenty-four hours when I left HIM trussed
up, but he said twelve would content him in my case, as there was certain
death at the end of them, and I mightn't have life enough left to
appreciate my end if he made it longer. But I wouldn't have trusted him
if he could have got the clock to go twice round without firing
off the pistol.

He explained the whole mechanism of that to me; he had thought it all out
on the vineyard I told you about; and then he asked if I remembered
what he had promised me in the name of the Camorra.

I only remembered some vague threats, but he was good enough to
give me so many particulars of that institution that I could make
a European reputation by exposing the whole show if it wasn't for
my unfortunate resemblance to that infernal rascal Raffles.

Do you think they would know me at the Yard, Bunny, after all this time?
Upon my soul I've a good mind to risk it!"

I offered no opinion on the point. How could it interest me then? But
interested I was in Raffles, never more so in my life. He had been tortured
all night and half a day, yet he could sit and talk like this the
moment we cut him down; he had been within a minute of his death,
yet he was as full of life as ever; ill-treated and defeated at the
best, he could still smile through his blood as though the boot
were on the other leg.

I had imagined that I knew my Raffles at last. I was not likely so
to flatter myself again.

"But what has happened to these villains?" I burst out, and my indignation
was not only against them for their cruelty, but also against their
victim for his phlegmatic attitude toward them.

It was difficult to believe that this was Raffles.

"Oh," said he, "they were to go off to Italy INSTANTER; they should be
crossing now. But do listen to what I am telling you; it's interesting,
my dear man.

This old sinner Corbucci turns out to have been no end of a boss
in the Camorra--says so himself.

One of the capi paranze, my boy, no less; and the velvety Johnny a
giovano onorato, Anglice, fresher. This fellow here was also in it, and
I've sworn to protect him from them evermore; and it's just
as I said, half the organ-grinders in London belong, and the whole lot
of them were put on my tracks by secret instructions. This excellent
youth manufactures iced poison on Saffron Hill when he's at home."
"And why on earth didn't he come to me quicker?"
"Because he couldn't talk to you, he could only fetch you, and it
was as much as his life was worth to do that before our friends had
departed.

They were going by the eleven o'clock from Victoria, and that didn't leave
much chance, but he certainly oughtn't to have run it as fine as
he did.

Still you must remember that I had to fix things up with him in the fewest
possible words, in a single minute that the other two were indiscreet
enough to leave us alone together."

The ragamuffin in question was watching us with all his solitary eye, as
though he knew that we were discussing him.

Suddenly he broke out in agonized accents, his hands clasped, and
a face so full of fear that every moment I expected to see him on
his knees.

But Raffles answered kindly, reassuringly, I could tell from his
tone, and then turned to me with a compassionate shrug.

"He says he couldn't find the mansions, Bunny, and really it's not to be
wondered at.

I had only time to tell him to hunt you up and bring you here by hook or
crook before twelve to-day, and after all he has done that.

But now the poor devil thinks you're riled with him, and that we'll
give him away to the Camorra."
"Oh, it's not with him I'm riled," I said frankly, "but with those
other blackguards, and--and with you, old chap, for taking it all
as you do, while such infamous scoundrels have the last laugh, and
are safely on their way to France!"

Raffles looked up at me with a curiously open eye, an eye that I
never saw when he was not in earnest.

I fancied he did not like my last expression but one. After all, it was
no laughing matter to him.

"But are they?" said he. "I'm not so sure."
"You said they were!"
"I said they should be."
"Didn't you hear them go?"

"I heard nothing but the clock all night. It was like Big Ben striking
at the last--striking nine to the fellow on the drop."
And in that open eye I saw at last a deep glimmer of the ordeal through
which he had passed.

"But, my dear old Raffles, if they're still on the premises--"
The thought was too thrilling for a finished sentence.

"I hope they are," he said grimly, going to the door. "There's a gas on!
Was that burning when you came in?"
Now that I thought of it, yes, it had been.

"And there's a frightfully foul smell," I added, as I followed Raffles
down the stairs. He turned to me gravely with his hand upon the front-room
door, and at the same moment I saw a coat with an astrakhan collar
hanging on the pegs.

"They are in here, Bunny," he said, and turned the handle.

The door would only open a few inches. But a detestable odor came out,
with a broad bar of yellow gaslight. Raffles put his handkerchief to his
nose. I followed his example, signing to our ally to do the same, and in
another minute we had all three squeezed into the room.

The man with the yellow boots was lying against the door, the Count's
great carcass sprawled upon the table, and at a glance it was
evident that both men had been dead some hours.

The old Camorrist had the stem of a liqueur-glass between his swollen
blue fingers, one of which had been cut in the breakage, and the
livid flesh was also brown with the last blood that it would ever
shed.

His face was on the table, the huge moustache projecting from under either
leaden cheek, yet looking itself strangely alive. Broken bread and
scraps of frozen macaroni lay upon the cloth and at the bottom of two
soup-plates and a tureen; the macaroni had a tinge of tomato; and
there was a crimson dram left in the tumblers, with an empty fiasco
to show whence it came.

But near the great gray head upon the table another liqueur-glass
stood, unbroken, and still full of some white and stinking liquid; and
near that a tiny silver flash, which made me recoil from Raffles as
I had not from the dead; for I knew it to be his.

"Come out of this poisonous air," he said sternly, "and I will tell
you how it has happened."

So we all three gathered together in the hall. But it was Raffles who stood
nearest the street-door, his back to it, his eyes upon us two.

And though it was to me only that he spoke at first, he would pause from
point to point, and translate into Italian for the benefit of the
one-eyed alien to whom he owed his life.

"You probably don't even know the name, Bunny," he began, "of the
deadliest poison yet known to science.

It is cyanide of cacodyl, and I have carried that small flask of it about
with me for months. Where I got it matters nothing; the whole point is
that a mere sniff reduces flesh to clay. I have never had any opinion
of suicide, as you know, but I always felt it worth while to be
forearmed against the very worst. Well, a bottle of this stuff is
calculated to stiffen an ordinary roomful of ordinary people within
five minutes; and I remembered my flask when they had me as good
as crucified in the small hours of this morning.

I asked them to take it out of my pocket. I begged them to give me a drink
before they left me. And what do you suppose they did?"
I thought of many things but suggested none, while Raffles turned this
much of his statement into sufficiently fluent Italian. But when he
faced me again his face was still flaming.

"That beast Corbucci!" said he--"how can I pity him?

He took the flask; he would give me none; he flicked me in the face instead.
My idea was that he, at least, should go with me--to sell my life
as dearly as that--and a sniff would have settled us both.

But no, he must tantalize and torment me; he thought it brandy;
he must take it downstairs to drink to my destruction! Can you have any
pity for a hound like that?"

"Let us go," I at last said, hoarsely, as Raffles finished speaking
in Italian, and his second listener stood open-mouthed.

"We will go," said Raffles, "and we will chance being seen; if the
worst comes to the worst this good chap will prove that I have been
tied up since one o'clock this morning, and the medical evidence
will decide how long those dogs have been dead."

But the worst did not come to the worst, more power to my unforgotten
friend the cabman, who never came forward to say what manner of
men he had driven to Bloomsbury Square at top speed on the very day
upon which the tragedy was discovered there, or whence he had driven
them.

To be sure, they had not behaved like murderers, whereas the evidence
at the inquest all went to show that the defunct Corbucci was little
better.
His reputation, which transpired with his identity, was that of a libertine
and a renegade, while the infernal apparatus upstairs revealed the
fiendish arts of the anarchist to boot. The inquiry resulted eventually
in an open verdict, and was chiefly instrumental in killing such
compassion as is usually felt for the dead who die in their sins.

But Raffles would not have passed this title for this tale.

TO CATCH A THIEF

I
Society persons are not likely to have forgotten the series of
audacious robberies by which so many of themselves suffered in
turn during the brief course of a recent season. Raid after raid was
made upon the smartest houses in town, and within a few weeks more
than one exalted head had been shorn of its priceless tiara.

The Duke and Duchess of Dorchester lost half the portable pieces of their
historic plate on the very night of their Graces' almost equally
historic costume ball.

The Kenworthy diamonds were taken in broad daylight, during the excitement
of a charitable meeting on the ground floor, and the gifts of her
belted bridegroom to Lady May Paulton while the outer air was thick with
a prismatic shower of confetti.

It was obvious that all this was the work of no ordinary thief, and
perhaps inevitable that the name of Raffles should have been dragged
from oblivion by callous disrespecters of the departed and unreasoning
apologists for the police. These wiseacres did not hesitate to bring
a dead man back to life because they knew of no living one capable
of such feats; it is their heedless and inconsequent calumnies
that the present paper is partly intended to refute.

As a matter of fact, our joint innocence in this matter was only exceeded
by our common envy, and for a long time, like the rest of the
world, neither of us had the slightest clew to the identity of the
person who was following in our steps with such irritating results.

"I should mind less," said Raffles, "if the fellow were really playing
my game. But abuse of hospitality was never one of my strokes, and
it seems to me the only shot he's got. When we took old Lady Melrose's
necklace, Bunny, we were not staying with the Melroses, if you
recollect."
We were discussing the robberies for the hundredth time, but for
once under conditions more favorable to animated conversation than
our unique circumstances permitted in the flat.

We did not often dine out.
Dr. Theobald was one impediment, the risk of recognition was another.
But there were exceptions, when the doctor was away or the patient defiant,
and on these rare occasions we frequented a certain unpretentious
restaurant in the Fulham quarter, where the cooking was plain but
excellent, and the cellar a surprise.

Our bottle of '89 champagne was empty to the label when the subject
arose, to be touched by Raffles in the reminiscent manner indicated
above.

I can see his clear eye upon me now, reading me, weighing me.

But I was not so sensitive to his scrutiny at the time. His tone was
deliberate, calculating, preparatory; not as I heard it then, through a
head full of wine, but as it floats back to me across the gulf between
that moment and this.

"Excellent fillet!" said I, grossly.

"So you think this chap is as much in society as we were, do you?"
I preferred not to think so myself. We had cause enough for jealousy
without that. But Raffles raised his eyebrows an eloquent half-inch.

"As much, my dear Bunny? He is not only in it, but of it; there's no
comparison between us there. Society is in rings like a target, and
we never were in the bull's-eye, however thick you may lay on the ink!
I was asked for my cricket. I haven't forgotten it yet. But this
fellow's one of themselves, with the right of entre into the houses
which we could only 'enter' in a professional sense.

That's obvious unless all these little exploits are the work of different
hands, which they as obviously are not. And it's why I'd give five
hundred pounds to put salt on him to-night!"
"Not you," said I, as I drained my glass in festive incredulity.

"But I would, my dear Bunny. Waiter! another half-bottle of this," and
Raffles leant across the table as the empty one was taken away.

"I never was more serious in my life," he continued below his
breath.
"Whatever else our successor may be, he's not a dead man like me, or a
marked man like you.

If there's any truth in my theory he's one of the last people upon whom
suspicion is ever likely to rest; and oh, Bunny, what a partner
he would make for you and me!"

Under less genial influences the very idea of a third partner would have
filled my soul with offence; but Raffles had chosen his moment
unerringly, and his arguments lost nothing by the flowing accompaniment
of the extra pint.

They were, however, quite strong in themselves.
The gist of them was that thus far we had remarkably little to show
for what Raffles would call "our second innings."

This even I could not deny. We had scored a few "long singles," but our
"best shots" had gone "straight to hand," and we were "playing a
deuced slow game."

Therefore we needed a new partner--and the metaphor failed Raffles.

It had served its turn. I already agreed with him. In truth I was tired
of my false position as hireling attendant, and had long fancied myself
an object of suspicion to that other impostor the doctor. A fresh,
untrammelled start was a fascinating idea to me, though two was company,
and three in our case might be worse than none. But I did not see how
we could hope, with our respective handicaps, to solve a problem
which was already the despair of Scotland Yard.

"Suppose I have solved it," observed Raffles, cracking a walnut in his
palm.

"How could you?" I asked, without believing for an instant that he
had.

"I have been taking the Morning Post for some time now."
"Well?"

"You have got me a good many odd numbers of the less base society
papers."

"I can't for the life of me see what you're driving at."
He saw the heath that was left barren by his breath, and he saw the cave
where he had his den, and he saw him crawling down from his cave, his
scales glittering like rings of mail, and his length the length of a
company of men on the march.

The next day he worked with Regin to shape the great sword. When it was
shapen with all the cunning Regin knew it looked indeed a mighty sword.
Then Regin sharpened it and Sigurd polished it. And at last he held the
great sword by its iron hilt.

Then Sigurd took the shield that had the image of Fafnir the Dragon upon
it and he put the shield over the anvil of the smithy. Raising the great
sword in both his hands he struck full on the iron shield.

The stroke of the sword sheared away some of the shield, but the blade
broke in Sigurd's hands. Then in anger he turned on Regin, crying out,
"Thou hast made a knave's sword for me. To work with thee again! Thou
must make me a Volsung's sword."

Then he went out and called to Grani, his horse, and mounted him and
rode to the river bank like the sweep of the wind.

Regin took more pieces of iron and began to forge a new sword, uttering
as he worked runes that were about the hoard that Fafnir the Dragon
guarded. And Sigurd that night dreamt of glittering treasure that he
coveted not, masses of gold and heaps of glistening jewels.

He was Regin's help the next day and they both worked to make a sword
that would be mightier than the first. For three days they worked upon
it, and then Regin put into Sigurd's hands a sword, sharpened and
polished, that was mightier and more splendid looking than the one that
had been forged before. And again Sigurd took the shield that had the
image of the Dragon upon it and he put it upon the anvil. Then he
raised his arms and struck his full blow. The sword cut through the
shield, but when it struck the anvil it shivered in his hands.

He left the smithy angrily and called to Grani, his proud horse. He
mounted and rode on like the sweep of the wind.

Later he came to his mother's bower and stood before Hiordis. "A greater
sword must I have," said he, "than one that is made of metal dug out of
the earth. The time has come, mother, when thou must put into my hands
the broken pieces of Gram, the sword of Sigmund and the Volsungs."

Hiordis measured him with the glance of her eyes, and she saw that her
son was a mighty youth and one fit to use the sword of Sigmund and the
Volsungs. She bade him go with her to the King's Hall. Out of the great
stone chest that was in her chamber she took the beast's skin and the
broken blade that was wrapped in it. She gave the pieces into the hands
of her son. "Behold the halves of Gram," she said, "of Gram, the mighty
sword that in the far-off days Odin left in the Branstock, in the tree
of the house of Volsung. I would see Gram new-shapen in thy hands, my
son."

Then she embraced him as she had never embraced him before, and standing
there with her ruddy hair about her she told him of the glory of Gram
and of the deeds of his fathers in whose hands the sword had shone.

Then Sigurd went to the smithy, and he wakened Regin out of his sleep,
and he made him look on the shining halves of Sigmund's sword. He
commanded him to make out of these halves a sword for his hand.

Regin worked for days in his smithy and Sigurd never left his side. At
last the blade was forged, and when Sigurd held it in his hand fire ran
along the edge of it.

Again he laid the shield that had the image of the Dragon upon it on the
anvil of the smithy. Again, with his hands on its iron hilt, he raised
the sword for a full stroke. He struck, and the sword cut through the
shield and sheared through the anvil, cutting away its iron horn. Then
did Sigurd know that he had in his hands the Volsungs' sword. He went
without and called to Grani, and like the sweep of the wind rode down to
the River's bank. Shreds of wool were floating down the water. Sigurd
struck at them with his sword, and the fine wool was divided against the
water's edge. Hardness and fineness, Gram could cut through both.

That night Gram, the Volsungs' sword, was under his head when he slept,
but still his dreams were filled with images that he had not regarded in
the day time; the shine of a hoard that he coveted not, and the gleam of
the scales of a Dragon that was too loathly for him to battle with.


[Illustration]

THE DRAGON'S BLOOD


Sigurd went to war: with the men that King Alv gave him he marched into
the country that was ruled over by the slayer of his father. The war
that he waged was short and the battles that he won were not perilous.
Old was King Lygni now, and feeble was his grasp upon his people. Sigurd
slew him and took away his treasure and added his lands to the lands of
King Alv.

But Sigurd was not content with the victory he had gained. He had dreamt
of stark battles and of renown that would be hardily won. What was the
war he had waged to the wars that Sigmund his father, and Volsung his
father's father, had waged in their days? Not content was Sigurd. He led
his men back by the hills from the crests of which he could look upon
the Dragon's haunts. And having come as far as those hills he bade his
men return to King Alv's hall with the spoils he had won.

They went, and Sigurd stayed upon the hills and looked across Gnita
Heath to where Fafnir the Dragon had his lair. All blasted and wasted
was the Heath with the fiery breath of the Dragon. And he saw the cave
where Fafnir abode, and he saw the track that his comings and goings
made. For every day the Dragon left his cave in the cliffs, crossing the
Heath to come to the River at which he drank.

For the length of a day Sigurd watched from the hills the haunt of the
Dragon. In the evening he saw him lengthening himself out of the cave,
and coming on his track across the Heath, in seeming like a ship that
travels swiftly because of its many oars.

Then to Regin in his smithy he came. To that cunning man Sigurd said:

"Tell me all thou dost know of Fafnir the Dragon."

Regin began to talk, but his speech was old and strange and filled with
runes. When he had spoken it all Sigurd said, "All thou hast told me
thou wilt have to say over again in a speech that is known to men of our
day."

Then said Regin: "Of a hoard I spoke. The Dwarf Andvari guarded it from
the first days of the world. But one of the Æsir forced Andvari to give
the hoard to him, masses of gold and heaps of jewels, and the Æsir gave
it to Hreidmar, who was my father.

"For the slaying of his son Otter the Æsir gave the hoard to Hreidmar,
the greatest hoard that had ever been seen in the world. But not long
was it left to Hreidmar to gloat over. For a son slew a father that he
might possess that hoard. Fafnir, that son was Fafnir, my brother.

"Then Fafnir, that no one might disturb his possession of the hoard,
turned himself into a Dragon, a Dragon so fearful that none dare come
nigh him. And I, Regin, was stricken with covetousness of the hoard. I
did not change myself into another being, but, by the magic my father
knew, I made my life longer than the generations of men, hoping that I
would see Fafnir slain and then have the mighty hoard under my hands.

"Now, son of the Volsungs, thou dost know all that has to do with Fafnir
the Dragon, and the great hoard that he guards."

"Little do I care about the hoard he guards," Sigurd said. "I care only
that he has made the King's good lands into a waste and that he is an
evil thing to men. I would have the renown of slaying Fafnir the
Dragon."

"With Gram, the sword thou hast, thou couldst slay Fafnir," Regin cried,
his body shaken with his passion for the hoard. "Thou couldst slay him
with the sword thou hast. Harken now and I will tell thee how thou
mightst give him the deathly stroke through the coils of his mail.
Harken, for I have thought of it all.

"The track of the Dragon to the River is broad, for he takes ever the
one track. Dig a pit in the middle of that track, and when Fafnir comes
over it strike up into his coils of mail with Gram, thy great sword.
Gram only may pierce that mail. Then will Fafnir be slain and the hoard
will be left guardless."

"What thou sayst is wise, Regin," Sigurd answered. "We will make this
pit and I will strike Fafnir in the way thou sayst."

Then Sigurd went and he rode upon Grani, his proud horse, and he showed
himself to King Alv and to Hiordis, his mother. Afterwards he went with
Regin to the Heath that was the haunt of the Dragon, and in his track
they dug a pit for the slaying of Fafnir.

And, lest his horse should scream aloud at the coming of the Dragon,
Sigurd had Grani sent back to a cave in the hills. It was Regin that
brought Grani away. "I am fearful and can do nothing to help thee, son
of the Volsungs," he said. "I will go away and await the slaying of
Fafnir."

He went, and Sigurd lay down in the pit they had made and practiced
thrusting upward with his sword. He lay with his face upward and with
his two hands he thrust the mighty sword upward.

But as he lay there he bethought of a dread thing that might happen;
namely, that the blood and the venom of the Dragon might pour over him
as he lay there, and waste him flesh and bone. When he thought of this
Sigurd hastened out of the pit, and he dug other pits near by, and he
made a passage for himself from one pit to the other that he might
escape from the flow of the Dragon's envenomed blood.

As he lay down again in the pit he heard the treading of the Dragon and
he heard the Dragon's strange and mournful cry. Mightily the Dragon came
on and he heard his breathing. His shape came over the pit. Then the
Dragon held his head and looked down on Sigurd.

It was the instant for him to make stroke with Gram. He did not let the
instant pass. He struck mightily under the shoulder and toward the heart
of the beast. The sword went through the hard and glittering scales that
were the creature's mail. Sigurd pulled out the sword and drew himself
through the passage and out into the second pit as Fafnir's envenomed
blood drenched where he had been.

Drawing himself up out of the second pit he saw the huge shape of Fafnir
heaving and lashing. He came to him and thrust his sword right through
the Dragon's neck. The Dragon reared up as though to fling himself down
on Sigurd with all his crushing bulk and dread talons, with his fiery
breath and his envenomed blood. But Sigurd leaped aside and ran far off.
Then did Fafnir scream his death scream. After he had torn up rocks with
his talons he lay prone on the ground, his head in the pit that was
filled with his envenomed blood.

Then did Regin, hearing the scream that let him know that Fafnir was
slain, come down to where the battle had been fought. When he saw that
Sigurd was alive and unharmed he uttered a cry of fury. For his plan had
been to have Sigurd drowned and burnt in the pit with the stream of
Fafnir's envenomed blood.

But he mastered his fury and showed a pleased countenance to Sigurd.
"Now thou wilt have renown," he cried. "Forever wilt thou be called
Sigurd, Fafnir's Bane. More renown than ever any of thy fathers had wilt
thou have, O Prince of the Volsungs."

So he spoke, saying fair words to him, for now that he was left alive
there was something he would have Sigurd do.

"Fafnir is slain," Sigurd said, "and the triumph over him was not
lightly won. Now may I show myself to King Alv and to my mother, and the
gold from Fafnir's hoard will make me a great spoil."

"Wait," said Regin cunningly. "Wait. Thou hast yet to do something for
me. With the sword thou hast, cut through the Dragon and take out his
heart for me. When thou hast taken it out, roast it that I may eat of it
and become wiser than I am. Do this for me who showed thee how to slay
Fafnir."

Sigurd did what Regin would have him do. He cut out the heart of the
Dragon and he hung it from stakes to roast. Regin drew away and left
him. As Sigurd stood before the fire putting sticks upon it there was a
great silence in the forest.

He put his hand down to turn an ashen branch into the heart of the fire.
As he did a drop from the roasting Dragon-heart fell upon his hand. The
drop burnt into him. He put his hand to his mouth to ease the smart, and
his tongue tasted the burning blood of the Dragon.

He went to gather wood for the fire. In a clearing that he came to there
were birds; he saw four on a branch together. They spoke to each other
in birds' notes, and Sigurd heard and knew what they were saying.

Said the first bird: "How simple is he who has come into this dell! He
has no thought of an enemy, and yet he who was with him but a while ago
has gone away that he may bring a spear to slay him."

"For the sake of the gold that is in the Dragon's cave he would slay
him," said the second bird.

And the third bird said: "If he would eat the Dragon's heart himself he
would know all wisdom."

But the fourth bird said: "He has tasted a drop of the Dragon's blood
and he knows what we are saying."

The four birds did not fly away nor cease from speaking. Instead they
began to tell of a marvelous abode that was known to them.

Deep in the forest, the birds sang, there was a Hall that was called the
House of Flame. Its ten walls were Uni, Iri, Barri, Ori, Varns,
Vegdrasil, Derri, Uri, Dellinger, Atvarder, and each wall was built by
the Dwarf whose name it bore. All round the Hall there was a circle of
fire through which none might pass. And within the Hall a maiden slept,
and she was the wisest and the bravest and the most beautiful maiden in
the world.

Sigurd stood like a man enchanted listening to what the birds sang.

But suddenly they changed the flow of their discourse, and their notes
became sharp and piercing.

"Look, look!" cried one. "He is coming against the youth."

"He is coming against the youth with a spear," cried another.

"Now will the youth be slain unless he is swift," cried a third.

Sigurd turned round and he saw Regin treading the way toward him, grim
and silent, with a spear in his hands. The spear would have gone through
Sigurd had he stayed one instant longer in the place where he had been
listening to the speech of the birds. As he turned he had his sword in
his hand, and he flung it, and Gram struck Regin on the breast.

Then Regin cried out: "I die--I die without having laid my hands on the
hoard that Fafnir guarded. Ah, a curse was upon the hoard, for Hreidmar
and Fafnir and I have perished because of it. May the curse of the gold
now fall on the one who is my slayer."

Then did Regin breathe out his life. Sigurd took the body and cast it
into the pit that was alongside the dead Fafnir. Then, that he might eat
the Dragon's heart and become the wisest of men, he went to where he had
left it roasting. And he thought that when he had eaten the heart he
would go into the Dragon's cave and carry away the treasure that was
there, and bring it as spoil of his battle to King Alv and to his
mother. Then he would go through the forest and find the House of Flame
where slept the maiden who was the wisest and bravest and most beautiful
in the world.

But Sigurd did not eat the Dragon's heart. When he came to where he had
left it roasting he found that the fire had burnt it utterly.


[Illustration]

THE STORY OF SIGMUND AND SIGNY


He called to Grani, his proud horse; he stood up on a mound in the Heath
and he sent forth a great shout. And Grani heard in the cave where Regin
had left him and he came galloping to Sigurd with flowing mane and eyes
flashing fire.

He mounted Grani and he rode to Fafnir's cave. When he went into the
place where the Dragon was wont to lie he saw a door of iron before him.
With Gram, his mighty sword, he hewed through the iron, and with his
strong hands he pulled the door back. Then, before him he saw the
treasure the Dragon guarded, masses of gold and heaps of shining jewels.

But as he looked on the hoard Sigurd felt some shadow of the evil that
lay over it all. This was the hoard that in the far-off days the
River-Maidens watched over as it lay deep under the flowing water. Then
Andvari the Dwarf forced the River-Maidens to give it to him. And Loki
had taken it from Andvari, letting loose as he did Gulveig the Witch who
had such evil power over the Gods. For the sake of the hoard Fafnir had
slain Hreidmar, his father, and Regin had plotted death against Fafnir,
his brother.

Not all this history did Sigurd know. But a shadow of its evil touched
his spirit as he stood there before the gleaming and glittering heap. He
would take all of it away, but not now. The tale that the birds told was
in his mind, and the green of the forest was more to him than the
glitter of the treasure heap. He would come back with chests and load it
up and carry it to King Alv's hall. But first he would take such things
as he himself might wear.

He found a helmet of gold and he put it on his head. He found a great
armring and his put it around his arm. On the top of the armring there
was a small fingerring with a rune graved upon it. Sigurd put it on his
finger. And this was the ring that Andvari the Dwarf had put the curse
upon when Loki had taken the hoard from him.

He knew that no one would cross the Heath and come to Fafnir's lair, so
he did not fear to leave the treasure unguarded. He mounted Grani, his
proud horse, and rode toward the forest. He would seek the House of
Flame where she lay sleeping, the maiden who was the wisest and the
bravest and the most beautiful in the world. With his golden helmet
shining above his golden hair Sigurd rode on.

As he rode toward the forest he thought of Sigmund, his father, whose
slaying he had avenged, and he thought of Sigmund's father, Volsung, and
of the grim deeds that the Volsungs had suffered and wrought.

Rerir, the son of Sigi who was the son of Odin, was the father of
Volsung. And Volsung when he was in his first manhood had built his hall
around a mighty tree. Its branches went up to the roof and made the
beams of the house and its great trunk was the center of the hall. "The
Branstock" the tree was called, and Volsung hall was named "The Hall of
the Branstock."

Many children had Volsung, eleven sons and one daughter. Strong were all
his sons and good fighters, and Volsung of the Hall of the Branstock was
a mighty chief.

It was through Signy, the daughter of the house, that a feud and a
deadly battle was brought to Volsung and his sons. She was a wise and a
fair maiden and her fame went through all the lands. Now, one day
Volsung received a message from a King asking for the hand of Signy in
marriage. And Volsung who knew of this King through report of his
battles sent a message to him saying that he would be welcome to the
Hall of the Branstock.

So King Siggeir came with his men. But when the Volsungs looked into his
face they liked it not. And Signy shrank away, saying, "This King is
evil of heart and false of word."

Volsung and his eleven sons took counsel together. Siggeir had a great
force of men with him, and if they refused to give her he could slay
them all and harry their kingdom. Besides they had pledged themselves
to give Signy when they had sent him a message of welcome. Long counsel
they had together. And ten of Signy's brothers said, "Let Signy wed this
King. He is not as evil as he seems in her mind." Ten brothers said it.
But one spoke out, saying, "We will not give our sister to this evil
King. Rather let us all go down fighting with the Hall of the Branstock
flaming above our heads."

It was Sigmund, the youngest of the Volsungs, who said this.

But Signy's father said: "We know nought of evil of King Siggeir. Also
our word is given to him. Let him feast with us this night in the Hall
of the Branstock and let Signy go from us with him as his wife." Then
they looked to her and they saw Signy's face and it was white and stern.
"Let it be as ye have said, my father and my brothers," she said. "I
will wed King Siggeir and go with him overseas." So she said aloud. But
Sigmund heard her say to herself, "It is woe for the Volsungs."

A feast was made and King Siggeir and his men came to the Hall of the
Branstock. Fires were lighted and tables were spread, and great horns of
mead went around the guests. In the middle of the feasting a stranger
entered the Hall. He was taller than the tallest there, and his bearing
made all do him reverence. One offered him a horn of mead and he drank
it. Then, from under the blue cloak that he wore, he drew a sword that
made the brightness of the Hall more bright.

He went to the tree that the Hall was built around, to the Branstock,
and he thrust the sword into it. All the company were hushed. Then they
heard the voice of the stranger, a voice that was like the trumpet's
call: "The sword is for the hand that can draw it out of the Branstock."
Then he went out of the Hall.

All looked to where the sword was placed and saw a hand's breadth of
wonderful brightness. This one and that one would have laid hands on the
hilt, only Volsung's voice bade them stand still. "It is meet," he said,
"that our guest and our son-in-law, King Siggeir, should be the first to
put hands on its hilt and try to draw the sword of the stranger out of
the Branstock."

King Siggeir went to the tree and laid his hands on the broad hilt. He
strove hard to draw out the sword, but all his might could not move it.
As he strained himself to draw it and failed, a dark look of anger came
into his face.

Then others tried to draw it, the captains who were with King Siggeir,
and they, too, failed to move the blade. Then Volsung tried and Volsung
could not move it. One after the other, his eleven sons strained to draw
out the stranger's sword. At last it came to the turn of the youngest,
to Sigmund, to try. And when Sigmund laid his hand on the broad hilt and
drew it, behold! The sword came with his hand, and once again the Hall
was brightened with its marvelous brightness.

It was a wondrous sword, a sword made out of better metal and by smiths
more cunning than any known. All envied Sigmund that he had won for
himself that wonder-weapon.

King Siggeir looked on it with greedy eyes. "I will give thee its weight
in gold for that sword, good brother," he said.

But Sigmund said to him proudly: "If the sword was for thy hand thou
shouldst have won it. The sword was not for thine, but for a Volsung's
hand."

And Signy, looking at King Siggeir, saw a look of deeper evil come into
his face. She knew that hatred for all the Volsung race was in his
heart.

But at the end of the feast she was wed to King Siggeir, and the next
day she left the Hall of the Branstock and went with him down to where
his great painted ship was drawn up on the beach. And when they were
parting from her, her father and her brothers, King Siggeir invited them
to come to his country, as friends visiting friends and kinsmen visiting
kinsmen, and look on Signy again. And he stood on the beach and would
not go on board his ship until each and all of the Volsungs gave their
word that they would visit Signy and him in his own land. "And when thou
comest," he said to Sigmund, "be sure thou dost bring with thee the
mighty sword that thou didst win."

All this was thought of by Sigurd, the son of Sigmund, as he rode toward
the fringe of the forest.

The time came for Volsung and his sons to redeem the promise they made
to King Siggeir. They made ready their ship and they sailed from the
land where stood the Hall of the Branstock. And they landed on the coast
of King Siggeir's country, and they drew their ship up on the beach and
they made their camp there, intending to come to the King's Hall in the
broad light of the day.

But in the half light of the dawn one came to the Volsung ship. A cloak
and hood covered the figure, but Sigmund, who was the watcher, knew who
it was. "Signy!" he said, and Signy asked that her father and her
brothers be awakened until she would speak to them of a treason that was
brewed against them.

"King Siggeir has made ready a great army against your coming," she told
them. "He hates the Volsungs, the branch as well as the root, and it is
his plan to fall upon you, my father and my brothers, with his great
army and slay you all. And he would possess himself of Gram, Sigmund's
wonder-sword. Therefore, I say to you, O Volsungs, draw your ship into
the sea and sail from the land where such treachery can be."

But Volsung, her father, would not listen. "The Volsungs do not depart
like broken men from a land they have brought their ship to," he said.
"We gave, each and all, the word that we would visit King Siggeir and
visit him we will. And if he is a dastard and would fall upon us, why we
are the unbeaten Volsungs, and we will fight against him and his army
and slay him, and bear you back with us to the Hall of the Branstock.
The day widens now, and we shall go to the Hall."

Signy would have spoken of the great army King Siggeir had gathered, but
she knew that the Volsungs never harkened to talk of odds. She spoke no
more, but bowed her head and went back to King Siggeir's hall.

Siggeir knew that Signy had been to warn her father and her brothers. He
called the men he had gathered and he posted them cunningly in the way
the Volsungs would come. Then he sent one to the ship with a message of
welcome.

As they left their ship the army of King Siggeir fell upon the Volsungs
and their followers. Very fierce was the battle that was waged on the
beach, and many and many a one of King Siggeir's fierce fighters went
down before the fearless ones that made Volsung's company. But at last
Volsung himself was slain and his eleven sons were taken captive. And
Gram, his mighty sword, was taken out of Sigmund's hands.

They were brought before King Siggeir in his hall, the eleven Volsung
princes. Siggeir laughed to see them before him. "Ye are not in the Hall
of the Branstock now, to dishonor me with black looks and scornful
words," he said, "and a harder task will be given you than that of
drawing a sword out of a tree-trunk. Before set of sun I will see you
hewn to pieces with the sword."

Then Signy who was there stood up with her white face and her wide eyes,
and she said: "I pray not for longer life for my brothers, for well I
know that my prayers would avail them nought. But dost thou not heed the
proverb, Siggeir--'Sweet to the eye as long as the eye can see'?"

And Siggeir laughed his evil laugh when he heard her. "Aye, my Queen,"
he said, "sweet to the eye as long as the eye may see their torments.
They shall not die at once nor all together. I will let them see each
other die."

So Siggeir gave a new order to his dastard troops. The order was that
the eleven brothers should be taken into the depths of the forest and
chained to great beams and left there. This was done with the eleven
sons of Volsung.

The next day one who had watched and who was faithful to Signy came, and
Signy said to him: "What has befallen my brothers?"

And the watcher said: "A great wolf came to where the chained men are,
and fell upon the first of them and devoured him."

When Signy heard this no tears came from her eyes, but that which was
hard around her heart became harder. She said, "Go again, and watch what
befalls."

And the watcher came the second time and said: "The second of your
brothers has been devoured by the wolf." Signy shed no tears this time
either, and again that which was hard around her heart became harder.

And every day the watcher came and he told her what had befallen her
brothers. And it came to the time when but one of her brothers was left
alive, Sigmund, the youngest.

The word "station" was the only one I caught, and I wondered whether
it was to be Bow Street again. My companion's next words, however,
or rather the tone in which he uttered them, destroyed my capacity
for idle speculation.

"Mr. Maturin!" said he. "Mr.

Maturin indeed!"
"Well," said I, "what about him?"
"Do you think we don't know who he was?"
"Who was he?" I asked, defiantly.

"You ought to know," said he. "You got locked up through him the other
time, too. His favorite name was Raffles then."

"It was his real name," I said, indignantly. "And he has been dead for
years."
My captor simply chuckled.

"He's at the bottom of the sea, I tell you!"
But I do not know why I should have told him with such spirit, for what
could it matter to Raffles now? I did not think; instinct was still
stronger than reason, and, fresh from his funeral, I had taken up
the cudgels for my dead friend as though he were still alive.

Next moment I saw this for myself, and my tears came nearer the
surface than they had been yet; but the fellow at my side laughed
outright.

"Shall I tell you something else?"

said he.

"As you like."
"He's not even at the bottom of that grave! He's no more dead than you
or I, and a sham burial is his latest piece of villainy!"
I doubt whether I could have spoken if I had tried. I did not try. I had
no use for speech. I did not even ask him if he was sure, I was
so sure myself.

It was all as plain to me as riddles usually are when one has the answer.
The doctor's alarms, his unscrupulous venality, the simulated illness,
my own dismissal, each fitted in its obvious place, and not even
the last had power as yet to mar my joy in the one central fact
to which all the rest were as tapers to the sun.

"He is alive!" I cried. "Nothing else matters--he is alive!"
At last I did ask whether they had got him too; but thankful as I
was for the greater knowledge, I confess that I did not much care
what answer I received.

Already I was figuring out how much we might each get, and how old we
should be when we came out.

But my companion tilted his hat to the back of his head, at the same time
putting his face close to mine, and compelling my scrutiny. And my answer,
as you have already guessed, was the face of Raffles himself,
superbly disguised (but less superbly than his voice), and yet so
thinly that I should have known him in a trice had I not been too
miserable in the beginning to give him a second glance.

Jacques Saillard had made his life impossible, and this was the one escape.
Raffles had bought the doctor for a thousand pounds, and the doctor
had bought a "nurse" of his own kidney, on his own account; me, for
some reason, he would not trust; he had insisted upon my dismissal
as an essential preliminary to his part in the conspiracy.

Here the details were half-humorous, half-grewsome, each in turn as Raffles
told me the story.

At one period he had been very daringly drugged indeed, and, in his
own words, "as dead as a man need be"; but he had left strict
instructions that nobody but the nurse and "my devoted physician"
should "lay a finger on me" afterwards; and by virtue of this proviso
a library of books (largely acquired for the occasion) had been
impiously interred at Kensal Green.

Raffles had definitely undertaken not to trust me with the secret,
and, but for my untoward appearance at the funeral (which he had
attended for his own final satisfaction), I was assured and am
convinced that he would have kept his promise to the letter.

In explaining this he gave me the one explanation I desired, and in another
moment we turned into Praed Street, Paddington.

"And I thought you said Bow Street!" said I. "Are you coming straight
down to Richmond with me?"

"I may as well," said Raffles, "though I did mean to get my kit
first, so as to start in fair and square as the long-lost brother
from the bush.

That's why I hadn't written. The function was a day later than I
calculated.

I was going to write to-night."
"But what are we to do?" said I, hesitating when he had paid the
cab.

"I have been playing the colonies for all they are worth!"

"Oh, I've lost my luggage," said he, "or a wave came into my cabin and
spoilt every stitch, or I had nothing fit to bring ashore. We'll settle
that in the train."

THE WRONG HOUSE
My brother Ralph, who now lived with me on the edge of Ham Common,
had come home from Australia with a curious affection of the eyes,
due to long exposure to the glare out there, and necessitating the
use of clouded spectacles in the open air.

He had not the rich complexion of the typical colonist, being indeed
peculiarly pale, but it appeared that he had been confined to his
berth for the greater part of the voyage, while his prematurely
gray hair was sufficient proof that the rigors of bush life had at
last undermined an originally tough constitution.

Our landlady, who spoilt my brother from the first, was much concerned
on his behalf, and wished to call in the local doctor; but Ralph
said dreadful things about the profession, and quite frightened the
good woman by arbitrarily forbidding her ever to let a doctor inside
her door.

I had to apologize to her for the painful prejudices and violent
language of "these colonists," but the old soul was easily mollified.

She had fallen in love with my brother at first sight, and she never
could do too much for him.

It was owing to our landlady that I took to calling him Ralph, for
the first time in our lives, on her beginning to speak of and to
him as "Mr.

Raffles."
"This won't do," said he to me.

"It's a name that sticks."

"It must be my fault! She must have heard it from me," said I
self-reproachfully.

"You must tell her it's the short for Ralph."

"But it's longer."
"It's the short," said he; "and you've got to tell her so."

Henceforth I heard as much of "Mr. Ralph," his likes and dislikes, what
he would fancy and what he would not, and oh, what a dear gentleman
he was, that I often remembered to say "Ralph, old chap," myself.

It was an ideal cottage, as I said when I found it, and in it our
delicate man became rapidly robust. Not that the air was also ideal,
for, when it was not raining, we had the same faithful mist from
November to March.

But it was something to Ralph to get any air at all, other than
night-air, and the bicycle did the rest. We taught ourselves, and may I
never forget our earlier rides, through and through Richmond Park
when the afternoons were shortest, upon the incomparable Ripley
Road when we gave a day to it.

Raffles rode a Beeston Humber, a Royal Sunbeam was good enough for me,
but he insisted on our both having Dunlop tires.

"They seem the most popular brand.

I had my eye on the road all the way from Ripley to Cobham, and there
were more Dunlop marks than any other kind. Bless you, yes, they all
leave their special tracks, and we don't want ours to be extra special;
the Dunlop's like a rattlesnake, and the Palmer leaves telegraph-wires,
but surely the serpent is more in our line."

That was the winter when there were so many burglaries in the Thames Valley
from Richmond upward. It was said that the thieves used bicycles in
every case, but what is not said? They were sometimes on foot to my
knowledge, and we took a great interest in the series, or rather
sequence of successful crimes.

Raffles would often get his devoted old lady to read him the latest
local accounts, while I was busy with my writing (much I wrote) in
my own room.

We even rode out by night ourselves, to see if we could not get on
the tracks of the thieves, and never did we fail to find hot coffee
on the hob for our return. We had indeed fallen upon our feet. Also,
the misty nights might have been made for the thieves. But their
success was not so consistent, and never so enormous as people said,
especially the sufferers, who lost more valuables than they had
ever been known to possess.

Failure was often the caitiff's portion, and disaster once; owing,
ironically enough, to that very mist which should have served them.

But as I am going to tell the story with some particularity, and perhaps
some gusto, you will see why who read.

The right house stood on high ground near the river, with quite a drive
(in at one gate and out at the other) sweeping past the steps. Between
the two gates was a half-moon of shrubs, to the left of the steps
a conservatory, and to their right the walk leading to the tradesmen's
entrance and the back premises; here also was the pantry window,
of which more anon.

The right house was the residence of an opulent stockbroker who wore a
heavy watch-chain and seemed fair game.

There would have been two objections to it had I been the stockbroker.
The house was one of a row, though a goodly row, and an army-crammer had
established himself next door. There is a type of such institutions
in the suburbs; the youths go about in knickerbockers, smoking pipes,
except on Saturday nights, when they lead each other home from the last
train. It was none of our business to spy upon these boys, but their
manners and customs fell within the field of observation.

And we did not choose the night upon which the whole row was likely
to be kept awake.

The night that we did choose was as misty as even the Thames Valley is
capable of making them. Raffles smeared vaseline upon the plated parts
of his Beeston Humber before starting, and our dear landlady
cosseted us both, and prayed we might see nothing of the nasty burglars,
not denying as the reward would be very handy to them that got it,
to say nothing of the honor and glory.

We had promised her a liberal perquisite in the event of our success,
but she must not give other cyclists our idea by mentioning it to
a soul.

It was about midnight when we cycled through
Kingston to Surbiton, having trundled our machines across Ham
Fields, mournful in the mist as those by Acheron, and so over
Teddington Bridge.

I often wonder why the pantry window is the vulnerable point of nine
houses out of ten. This house of ours was almost the tenth, for the
window in question had bars of sorts, but not the right sort. The only
bars that Raffles allowed to beat him were the kind that are let into
the stone outside; those fixed within are merely screwed to the
woodwork, and you can unscrew as many as necessary if you take the
trouble and have the time.

Barred windows are usually devoid of other fasteners worthy the name;
this one was no exception to that foolish rule, and a push with the
pen-knife did its business. I am giving householders some valuable hints,
and perhaps deserving a good mark from the critics.

These, in any case, are the points that I would see to, were I a rich
stockbroker in a riverside suburb. In giving good advice, however, I
should not have omitted to say that we had left our machines in the
semi-circular shrubbery in front, or that Raffles had most ingeniously
fitted our lamps with dark slides, which enabled us to leave them
burning.

It proved sufficient to unscrew the bars at the bottom only, and then to
wrench them to either side. Neither of us had grown stout with advancing
years, and in a few minutes we both had wormed through into the sink,
and thence to the floor.

It was not an absolutely noiseless process, but once in the pantry we
were mice, and no longer blind mice.
There was a gas-bracket, but we did not meddle with that. Raffles went
armed these nights with a better light than gas; if it were not
immoral, I might recommend a dark-lantern which was more or less
his patent.

It was that handy invention, the electric torch, fitted by Raffles with
a dark hood to fulfil the functions of a slide. I had held it through
the bars while he undid the screws, and now he held it to the keyhole,
in which a key was turned upon the other side.

There was a pause for consideration, and in the pause we put on our
masks.

It was never known that these Thames Valley robberies were all com-mitted
by miscreants decked in the livery of crime, but that was because until
this night we had never even shown our masks.

It was a point upon which Raffles had insisted on all feasible occasions
since his furtive return to the world.

To-night it twice nearly lost us everything--but you shall hear.

There is a forceps for turning keys from the wrong side of the door, but
the implement is not so easy of manipulation as it might be.

Raffles for one preferred a sharp knife and the corner of the panel.
You go through the panel because that is thinnest, of course in the
corner nearest the key, and you use a knife when you can, because it
makes least noise.

But it does take minutes, and even I can remember shifting the electric
torch from one hand to the other before the aperture was large
enough to receive the hand and wrist of Raffles.

He had at such times a motto of which I might have made earlier use, but
the fact is that I have only once before described a downright burglary
in which I assisted, and that without knowing it at the time.
The most solemn student of these annals cannot affirm that he has cut
through many doors in our company, since (what was to me) the
maiden effort to which I allude.

I, however, have cracked only too many a crib in conjunction with A.
J. Raffles, and at the crucial moment he would whisper "Victory or
Wormwood Scrubbs, Bunny!" or instead of Wormwood Scrubbs it might be
Portland Bill.

This time it was neither one nor the other, for with that very word "victory"
upon his lips, they whitened and parted with the first taste of
defeat.

"My hand's held!" gasped Raffles, and the white of his eyes showed all
round the iris, a rarer thing than you may think.

At the same moment I heard the shuffling feet and the low, excited young
voices on the other side of the door, and a faint light shone round
Raffles's wrist.

"Well done, Beefy!"
"Hang on to him!"
"Good old Beefy!"
"Beefy's got him!"

"So have I--so have I!"
And Raffles caught my arm with his one free hand. "They've got me tight,"
he whispered. "I'm done."
"Blaze through the door," I urged, and might have done it had I been
armed. But I never was. It was Raffles who monopolized that risk.

"I can't--it's the boys--the wrong house!" he whispered. "Curse the
fog--it's done me.

But you get out, Bunn, while you can; never mind me; it's my turn, old
chap."
His one hand tightened in affectionate farewell. I put the electric
torch in it before I went, trembling in every inch, but without a
word.

Get out! His turn! Yes, I would get out, but only to come in again, for
it was my turn--mine--not his.

Would Raffles leave me held by a hand through a hole in a door? What he
would have done in my place was the thing for me to do now. I began
by diving head-first through the pantry window and coming to earth
upon all fours.

But even as I stood up, and brushed the gravel from the palms of
my hands and the knees of my knickerbockers, I had no notion what
to do next.

And yet I was halfway to the front door before I remembered the vile crape
mask upon my face, and tore it off as the door flew open and my
feet were on the steps.

"He's into the next garden," I cried to a bevy of pyjamas with bare
feet and young faces at either end of them.

"Who? Who?" said they, giving way before me.

"Some fellow who came through one of your windows head-first."
"The other Johnny, the other Johnny," the cherubs chorused.

"Biking past--saw the light--why, what have you there?"

Of course it was Raffles's hand that they had, but now I was in the hall
among them. A red-faced barrel of a boy did all the holding, one
hand round the wrist, the other palm to palm, and his knees braced up
against the panel. Another was rendering ostentatious but
ineffectual aid, and three or four others danced about in their pyjamas.
After all, they were not more than four to one. I had raised my voice,
so that Raffles might hear me and take heart, and now I raised it
again.

Yet to this day I cannot account for my inspiration, that proved nothing
less.

"Don't talk so loud," they were crying below their breath; "don't wake
'em upstairs, this is our show."
"Then I see you've got one of them," said I, as desired.

"Well, if you want the other you can have him, too. I believe he's hurt
himself."
"After him, after him!" they exclaimed as one.

"But I think he got over the wall--"

"Come on, you chaps, come on!"
And there was a soft stampede to the hall door.

"Don't all desert me, I say!" gasped the red-faced hero who held Raffles
prisoner.

"We must have them both, Beefy!"

"That's all very well--"
"Look here," I interposed, "I'll stay by you. I've a friend outside, I'll
get him too."
"Thanks awfully," said the valiant Beefy.

The hall was empty now. My heart beat high.

"How did you hear them?" I inquired, my eye running over him.

"We were down having drinks--game o' Nap--in there."
Beefy jerked his great head toward an open door, and the tail of my eye
caught the glint of glasses in the firelight, but the rest of it
was otherwise engaged.

"Let me relieve you," I said, trembling.

"No, I'm all right."
"Then I must insist."
And before he could answer I had him round the neck with such a will
that not a gurgle passed my fingers, for they were almost buried in
his hot, smooth flesh. Oh, I am not proud of it; the act was as vile as
act could be; but I was not going to see Raffles taken, my one desire
was to be the saving of him, and I tremble even now to think to
what lengths I might have gone for its fulfilment.

As it was, I squeezed and tugged until one strong hand gave way after
the other and came feeling round for me, but feebly because they had
held on so long.
And what do you suppose was happening at the same moment? The pinched
white hand of Raffles, reddening with returning blood, and with a
clot of blood upon the wrist, was craning upward and turning the
key in the lock without a moment's loss.

"Steady on, Bunny!"
And I saw that Beefy's ears were blue; but Raffles was feeling in
his pockets as he spoke.

"Now let him breathe," said he, clapping his handkerchief over the
poor youth's mouth.

An empty vial was in his other hand, and the first few stertorous
breaths that the poor boy took were the end of him for the time
being.

Oh, but it was villainous, my part especially, for he must have
been far gone to go the rest of the way so readily.

I began by saying I was not proud of this deed, but its dastardly
character has come home to me more than ever with the penance of writing
it out. I see in myself, at least my then self, things that I never saw
quite so clearly before. Yet let me be quite sure that I would not
do the same again. I had not the smallest desire to throttle this innocent
lad (nor did I), but only to extricate Raffles from the most
hopeless position he was ever in; and after all it was better than
a blow from behind.

On the whole, I will not alter a word, nor whine about the thing any
more.

We lifted the plucky fellow into Raffles's place in the pantry, locked
the door on him, and put the key through the panel. Now was the moment
for thinking of ourselves, and again that infernal mask which Raffles
swore by came near the undoing of us both.

We had reached the steps when we were hailed by a voice, not from without
but from within, and I had just time to tear the accursed thing from
Raffles's face before he turned.

A stout man with a blonde moustache was on the stairs, in his pyjamas like
the boys.

"What are you doing here?" said he.

"There has been an attempt upon your house," said I, still spokesman for
the night, and still on the wings of inspiration.

"Your sons--"
"My pupils."
"Indeed. Well, they heard it, drove off the thieves, and have given
chase."
"And where do you come in?" inquired the stout man, descending.

"We were bicycling past, and I actually saw one fellow come head-first
through your pantry window.

I think he got over the wall."
Here a breathless boy returned.

"Can't see anything of him," he gasped.

"It's true, then," remarked the crammer.

"Look at that door," said I.

But unfortunately the breathless boy looked also, and now he was being
joined by others equally short of wind.

"Where's Beefy?" he screamed. "What on earth's happened to Beefy?"
"My good boys," exclaimed the crammer, "will one of you be kind enough
to tell me what you've been doing, and what these gentlemen have been
doing for you?

Come in all, before you get your death. I see lights in the class-room,
and more than lights. Can these be signs of a carouse?"
"A very innocent one, sir," said a well set-up youth with more moustache
than I have yet.

"Well, Olphert, boys will be boys.

Suppose you tell me what happened, before we come to recriminations."

The bad old proverb was my first warning. I caught two of the youths
exchanging glances under raised eyebrows. Yet their stout, easy-going
mentor had given me such a reassuring glance of side-long humor,
as between man of the world and man of the world, that it was
difficult to suspect him of suspicion.

I was nevertheless itching to be gone.

Young Olphert told his story with engaging candor. It was true that they
had come down for an hour's Nap and cigarettes; well, and there was
no denying that there was whiskey in the glasses.

The boys were now all back in their class-room, I think entirely for
the sake of warmth; but Raffles and I were in knickerbockers and
Norfolk jackets, and very naturally remained without, while the
army-crammer (who wore bedroom slippers) stood on the threshold,
with an eye each way. The more I saw of the man the better I liked and
the more I feared him. His chief annoyance thus far was that they had not
called him when they heard the noise, that they had dreamt of
leaving him out of the fun.

But he seemed more hurt than angry about that.

"Well, sir," concluded Olphert, "we left old Beefy Smith hanging on to
his hand, and this gentleman with him, so perhaps he can tell us what
happened next?"

"I wish I could," I cried with all their eyes upon me, for I had had time
to think. "Some of you must have heard me say I'd fetch my friend in
from the road?"
"Yes, I did," piped an innocent from within.

"Well, and when I came back with him things were exactly as you see them
now.

Evidently the man's strength was too much for the boy's; but whether
he ran upstairs or outside I know no more than you do."
"It wasn't like that boy to run either way," said the crammer, cocking a
clear blue eye on me.

"But if he gave chase!"
"It wasn't like him even to let go."

"I don't believe Beefy ever would," put in Olphert. "That's why we
gave him the billet."
"He may have followed him through the pantry window," I suggested
wildly.

"But the door's shut," put in a boy.
"I'll have a look at it," said the crammer.
And the key no longer in the lock, and the insensible youth within!
The key would be missed, the door kicked in; nay, with the man's
eye still upon me, I thought I could smell the chloroform.
I thought I could hear a moan, and prepared for either any moment.
And how he did stare! I have detested blue eyes ever since, and
blonde moustaches, and the whole stout easy-going type that is not
such a fool as it looks. I had brazened it out with the boys, but
the first grown man wa too many for me, and the blood ran out of
my heart as though there was no Raffles at my back.Now Grimhild was one of the wisest of
women, and she knew when she looked upon him that Sigurd was the world's
greatest warrior. She would have him belong to the Nibelungs, not only
by the oaths of brotherhood he had sworn with Gunnar and Högni, but by
other ties. And when she heard of the great hoard that was his she had
greater wish and will that he should be one with the Nibelungs. She
looked on the helmet of gold and on the great armring that he wore, and
she made it her heart's purpose that Sigurd should wed with Gudrun, her
daughter. But neither Sigurd nor the maiden Gudrun knew of Grimhild's
resolve.

And the Queen, watching Sigurd closely, knew that he had a remembrance
in his breast that held him from seeing Gudrun's loveliness. She had
knowledge of spells and secret brews (she was of the race of Borghild
whose brew had destroyed Sinfiotli's life) and she knew that she could
make a potion that would destroy the memory Sigurd held.

She mixed the potion. Then one night when there was feasting in the hall
of the Nibelungs, she gave the cup that held the potion into the hands
of Gudrun and bade her carry it to Sigurd.

Sigurd took the cup out of the hands of the fair Nibelung maiden and he
drank the potion. When he had drunk it he put the cup down and he stood
amongst the feasters like a man in a dream. And like a man in a dream he
went into his chamber, and for a day and a night afterwards he was
silent and his mind was astray. When he rode out with Gunnar and Högni
they would say to him, "What is it thou hast lost, brother?" Sigurd
could not tell them. But what he had lost was all memory of Brynhild the
Valkyrie in the House of Flame.

He saw Gudrun and it was as though he looked upon her for the first
time. Soft were the long tresses of her hair; soft were her hands. Her
eyes were like woodflowers, and her ways and her speech were gentle. Yet
was she noble in her bearing as became a Princess who would come into a
kingdom. And from the first time she had seen him upon Grani, his proud
horse, and with his golden helmet above his golden hair, Gudrun had
loved Sigurd.

At the season when the wild swans came to the lake Gudrun went down to
watch them build their nests. And while she was there Sigurd rode
through the pines. He saw her, and her beauty made the whole place
change. He stopped his horse and listened to her voice as she sang to
the wild swans, sang the song that Völund made for Alvit, his
swan-bride.

No more was Sigurd's heart empty of memory: it was filled with the
memory of Gudrun as he saw her by the lake when the wild swans were
building their nests. And now he watched her in the hall, sitting with
her mother embroidering, or serving her father or her brothers, and
tenderness for the maiden kept growing in his heart.

A day came when he asked Gunnar and Högni, his sworn brethren, for
Gudrun. They were glad as though a great fortune had befallen them. And
they brought him before Giuki the King, and Grimhild the Queen. It
seemed as if they had cast off all trouble and care and entered into the
prime of their life and power, so greatly did the King and the Queen
rejoice at Sigurd's becoming one with the Nibelungs through his marriage
with Gudrun.

When Gudrun heard that Sigurd had asked for her, she said to the Queen:
"Oh, my mother, your wisdom should have strengthened me to bear such
joy. How can I show him that he is so dear, so dear to me? But I shall
try not to show it, for he might deem that there was no sense in me but
sense to love him. So great a warrior would not care for such love. I
would be with him as a battle-maiden."

Sigurd and Gudrun were wed and all the kingdom that the Nibelungs ruled
over rejoiced. And Queen Grimhild thought that though the effect of the
potion she gave would wear away, his love for Gudrun would ever fill his
heart, and that no other memory would be able to find a place there.


[Illustration]

HOW BRYNHILD WAS WON FOR GUNNAR


Now that Sigurd had wed Gudrun he was one with the Nibelungs. The hoard
that was in Fafnir's cave he brought away and he left it in their
treasure house. He went into his fosterfather's kingdom again, and he
saw King Alv and Hiordis, his mother. But he had no memory now of the
House of Flame, nor of Brynhild, who waited there for him.

King Giuki died, and Gunnar, Sigurd's sworn brother, became King in his
stead. His mother would have him wed, but Gunnar told her he had seen no
maiden whom he would choose for his wife.

But when Sigurd and he were together Gunnar would speak of a maiden far
away, one whom he often thought on. And one day when Sigurd pressed him
to tell who this maiden was, he spoke of one whom the wisest of the
poets told of, a maiden in a Hall with a flame around it, a maiden named
Brynhild who was guarded by a ring of fire.

Sigurd laughed to think that his shrewd brother was beguiled by one whom
he had only heard of. But if he was beguiled by the tale of her, why
should he not come to her and wed her? So Sigurd said. Then Gunnar bent
to him and asked Sigurd would he aid him to win her? And Sigurd took
Gunnar's hand and swore that he would.

So they started off for Hindfell, Gunnar and Högni and Sigurd. They rode
on until they came in sight of the black walls with the mounting and
circling fire around them. No memory had Sigurd of the place. With the
flame of eagerness upon his stolid face Gunnar went forward to ride
through the ring of fire. He brought Goti, his horse, near the flame,
but the horse, for no urging, would go through it. Then Gunnar thought
that, mounted on Grani, Sigurd's horse, he could ride through the ring
of fire. He mounted Grani and came near to the flaring wall. But Grani,
knowing that the one who rode him had fear of the fire, reared up and
would not go through it. Only with Sigurd on his back would Grani go
through the flame.

Then were the three sworn brethren greatly discomfited. But after they
had considered it for long Högni the Wise said: "There is a way to win
Brynhild, and that is for Sigurd to change shapes, by the magic of his
helmet, with Gunnar. Then Sigurd could ride Grani through the wall of
flame and come to Brynhild in Gunnar's shape."

So spoke Högni the Wise, and when he saw his sworn brother's gaze fixed
on him in pleading, Sigurd could not but agree to ride through the flame
and come to Brynhild in the way he said. And so by the magic of his
helmet he changed shapes with Gunnar. Then he mounted Grani and rode to
the wall of flame. And Grani, knowing that the one he bore was without
fear, rode through the flaring fire. Then Sigurd came into the courtyard
of the House of Flame. He dismounted from Grani, and he bade his horse
be still.

He went within the Hall and he saw one with a bow in her hands shooting
at a mark. She turned to him, and he saw a beautiful and stern face,
with coils of wondrous, bright-gleaming hair and eyes that were like
stars in an unventured-in sea. He thought that the arrow in her hands
had been shot through him. But it was not so. Brynhild threw down the
bow and came to him with that walk of hers that was as of one moving
above the earth. And when she came near and looked upon him she uttered
a strange cry.

"Who art thou?" she said. "Who art thou who hast come to me through the
wall of flaring fire?"

"Gunnar, son of Giuki, of the race of the Nibelungs," Sigurd said.

"Art thou the bravest one in the world?" she asked.

"I have ridden through the wall of flaring fire to come to thee," Sigurd
answered.

"He who has come through that wall of flaring fire may claim me,"
Brynhild said. "It is written in the runes, and it must be so. But I
thought there was only one who would come to me through it." She looked
at him, and her eyes had a flame of anger. "Oh, I would strive with thee
with warrior-weapons," she cried. Then Sigurd felt her strong hands upon
him, and he knew that she was striving to throw him.

They wrestled, and each was so strong that none could move the other.
They wrestled, Sigurd the first of heroes, and Brynhild, the Valkyrie.
Sigurd got her hand in his in the wrestle. On that hand was a ring, and
Sigurd bent back the finger and drew it off.

It was Andvari's ring, the ring he had placed on her finger. And when
the ring was taken off it, Brynhild sank down on her knees like one that
was strengthless.

Then Sigurd lifted her in his arms and carried her to where Grani, his
horse, was waiting. He lifted her across his horse, and he mounted
behind her and again he rode through the wall of flame. Högni and Gunnar
were waiting, Gunnar in Sigurd's shape. Brynhild did not look upon them,
but covered her face with her hands. Then Sigurd took back his own
shape, and he rode before Gunnar and Högni to the hall of the Nibelungs.

He went within, and he found Gudrun, his wife, playing with Sigmund, his
little son, and he sat beside her and he told her of all that had
befallen: how, for the sake of the sworn brotherhood, he had won
Brynhild the Valkyrie for Gunnar, and how he had striven with her and
had overcome her, and had taken off her finger the ring that he now
wore upon his own.

And even as he spoke to his wife the fume of the potion that Gudrun's
mother had given him was wearing off, and he had memories of going to
the House of Flame on a day that was not this day, and of riding through
the wall of fire in his own shape. And again, as on the night when he
drank the potion that Queen Grimhild brewed, he became as one whose wits
are astray. He stood watching his child as he played, and his wife as
she worked at her embroidery, and he was as a man in a dream.

While he was standing there Gunnar and Högni came into the hall of the
Nibelungs bringing Brynhild with them. Gudrun rose up to welcome her who
came as her brother's bride. Then did Sigurd look on Brynhild and then
did he remember all. And when he remembered all such a mighty sigh rose
from his heart as burst the links of the mail that was across his
breast.


[Illustration]

THE DEATH OF SIGURD


It happened one day that Brynhild, Gunnar's wife, now a Queen, was with
Sigurd's wife, bathing in a river. Not often they were together.
Brynhild was the haughtiest of women, and often she treated Gudrun with
disdain. Now as they were bathing together, Gudrun, shaking out her
hair, cast some drops upon Brynhild. Brynhild went from Gudrun. And
Sigurd's wife, not knowing that Brynhild had anger against her, went
after her up the stream.

"Why dost thou go so far up the river, Brynhild?" Gudrun asked.

"So that thou mayst not shake thy hair over me," answered Brynhild.

Gudrun stood still while Brynhild went up the river like a creature who
was made to be alone. "Why dost thou speak so to me, sister?" Gudrun
cried.

She remembered that from the first Brynhild had been haughty with her,
often speaking to her with harshness and bitterness. She did not know
what cause Brynhild had for this.

It was because Brynhild had seen in Sigurd the one who had ridden
through the fire for the first time, he who had awakened her by breaking
the binding of her breastplate and so drawing out of her flesh the thorn
of the Tree of Sleep. She had given him her love when she awakened on
the world. But he, as she thought, had forgotten her easily, giving his
love to this other maiden. Brynhild, with her Valkyrie's pride, was left
with a mighty anger in her heart.

"Why dost thou speak so to me, Brynhild?" Gudrun asked.

"It would be ill indeed if drops from thy hair fell on one who is so
much above thee, one who is King Gunnar's wife," Brynhild answered.

"Thou art married to a King, but not to one more valorous than my lord,"
Gudrun said.

"Gunnar is more valorous; why dost thou compare Sigurd with him?"
Brynhild said.

"He slew the Dragon Fafnir, and won for himself Fafnir's hoard," said
Gudrun.

"Gunnar rode through the ring of fire. Mayhap thou wilt tell us that
Sigurd did the like," said Brynhild.

"Yea," said Gudrun, now made angry. "It was Sigurd and not Gunnar who
rode through the ring of fire. He rode through it in Gunnar's shape, and
he took the ring off thy finger--look, it is now on mine."

And Gudrun held out her hand on which was Andvari's ring. Then Brynhild
knew, all at once, that what Gudrun said was true. It was Sigurd that
rode through the ring of fire the second as well as the first time. It
was he who had struggled with her, taking the ring off her hand and
claiming her for a bride, not for himself but for another, and out of
disdain.

Falsely had she been won. And she, one of Odin's Valkyries, had been wed
to one who was not the bravest hero in the world, and she to whom
untruth might not come had been deceived. She was silent now, and all
the pride that was in her turned to hatred of Sigurd.

She went to Gunnar, her husband, and she told him that she was so deeply
shamed that she could never be glad in his Hall again; that never would
he see her drinking wine, nor embroidering with golden threads, and
never would he hear her speaking words of kindness. And when she said
this to him she rent the web she was weaving, and she wept aloud so that
all in the hall heard her, and all marveled to hear the proud Queen cry.

Then Sigurd came to her, and he offered in atonement the whole hoard of
Fafnir. And he told her how forgetfulness of her had come upon him, and
he begged her to forgive him for winning her in falseness. But she
answered him: "Too late thou hast come to me, Sigurd. Now I have only a
great anger in my heart."

When Gunnar came she told him she would forgive him, and love him as she
had not loved him before, if he would slay Sigurd. But Gunnar would not
slay him, although Brynhild's passion moved him greatly, since Sigurd
was a sworn brother of his.

Then she went to Högni and asked him to slay Sigurd, telling him that
the whole of Fafnir's hoard would belong to the Nibelungs if Sigurd were
slain. _Pharaoh's Ring_ (Vol. viii., p. 416.).--The mention of the
ring conferred on, or confided to, Joseph by the Pharaoh of Egypt,
as stated in Genesis xli. 42., reminds me of a ring being shown to
me some years ago, which was believed by its then possessor to be
the identical ring, or at all events a signet ring of the very
Pharaoh who promoted Joseph to the chief office in his kingdom.

It was a ring of pure gold, running through a hole in a massive wedge of
gold, about the size, as far as I recollect, of a moderate-sized walnut.
On one of its faces was cut the hieroglyphic (inclosed as usual
with the names of Egyptian kings in an oval), as I was assured, of the
king, the friend of Joseph, as was generally supposed by the readers of
hieroglyphics: I pretend to no knowledge of them myself.

The possessor of the ring, who showed it to me, was Mr. Sams, one of the
Society of Friends, a bookseller at Darlington. Since railroads have
{522} whirled me past that town, I have lost my means of periodical
communication with him.

He had, not long before I saw him last, returned from the Holy Land, where
he assured me he had visited every spot that could be identified
mentioned in the New Testament.

He had also been some time in Egypt, and had brought home a great quantity
of Egyptian antiquities. The lesser ones he had in the first floor
of a carver and gilder's in Great Queen Street, between the Freemason's
Tavern and Lincoln's Inn Fields. He was then anxious that these
should be bought for the British Museum, and I think that at his request
I wrote to the Earl of Aberdeen to mention this, and that the
answer was that there was already so large a collection in the
Museum, that more, as they must most of them be duplicates, would
be of no use.

What has become of them I know not. I was told that a number of his
larger antiquities, stone and marble, were for some time placed on Waterloo
Bridge, that being a very quiet place, where people might view them
without interruption. I did not happen to be in London that season,
and therefore did not see them.

J. SS.

[The whole of Mr. Sams's collection of Egyptian antiquities were bought
by Joseph Mayer, Esq, F.S.A., of Liverpool, about two years ago, to add
to his previous assemblage of similar monuments, and are placed by him,
with a very valuable collection of mediæval antiquities, in the
Egyptian Museum, 8.

Colquitt Street, Liverpool. The small charge of sixpence for each visit
opens the entire collection to the public; but it is a lamentable
fact, that the curiosity or patriotism of the inhabitants does not
cover Mr.

Mayer's expenses by a large annual amount.]
_"Could we with ink,"_ &c. (Vol. iii., pp. 127. 180. 257. 422.).--Have
not those correspondents who have answered this Query overlooked the
concluding verse of the gospel according to St. John, of which it
appears to me that the lines in question are an amplification without
improvement? Mahomet, it is well known, imitated many parts of the Bible
in the Koran.

E. G. R.

_"Populus vult decipi"_ (Vol. vii., p. 578.; Vol. viii, p. 65.).

--As an illustration of this expression the following anecdote is given.
When my father was about thirteen years old, being in London he was,
on one occasion in company with Dr. Wolcot (Peter Pindar), who,
calling him to him, laid his hand on his head, and said, "My little
boy, I want you to remember one thing as long as you live--the
people of this world love to be cheated."

UNEDA.

Philadelphia.

_Red Hair_ (Vol. vii., p. 616.; Vol. viii., p. 86.).--It is frequently
stated that the Turks are admirers of red hair. I have lately met with
a somewhat different account, namely, that the Turks consider
red-haired persons who are fat as "first-rate" people, but those
who are lean as the very reverse.

M. E.

Philadelphia.

_"Land of Green Ginger"_ (Vol. viii., p. 227.).--The authority which I am
able to afford MR. RICHARDSON is simply the tradition of the place,
which I had so frequently heard that I could scarcely doubt the
truth of it; this I intended to be deduced, when I said I did not
recollect that the local histories gave any derivation, and that
it was the one "generally received by the inhabitants."

To any mind the solution brought forward by MR. BUCKTON (Vol. viii.,
p.
303.) carries the greatest amount of probability with it of any yet
proposed; and should any of your correspondents have the opportunity of
looking through the unpublished history of Hull by the Rev.
But Jötunheim and Muspelheim and Hel waited tremblingly; it might be
that Fenrir the Wolf might not burst the bonds wherewith the Gods had
bound him. Without his being loosed the Gods might not be destroyed. And
then was heard the rending of the rock as Fenrir broke loose. For the
second time the Hound Garm barked in Gnipa's Cave.

Then was heard the galloping of the horses of the riders of Muspelheim;
then was heard the laughter of Loki; then was heard the blowing of
Heimdall's horn; then was heard the opening of Valhalla's five hundred
and forty doors, as eight hundred Champions made ready to pass through
each door.

Odin took council with Mimir's head. Up from the waters of the Well of
Wisdom he drew it, and by the power of the runes he knew he made the
head speak to him. Where best might the Æsir and the Vanir and the
Einherjar, who were the Champions of Midgard, meet, and how best might
they strive with the forces of Muspelheim and Jötunheim and Hel? 
Nicholas New Year Offering.

Having exploited the probables and possibles she finally handed the
document on to me with instructions to tout it round among my
friends.

(This is the sort of thing you get nowadays for placing your life at a
young woman's disposal.)
Unfortunately I have no friends just now, except what I want to keep.
While I was thus at a loss, Charles came to stay for a few days
three doors off.

He lives a long way away and would have time to forget before I saw him
again. So on the day before his departure I bearded him like a man.

"Charles," I began, "you are fabulously rich. Your income comes in at
such a pace that you hardly ever know within five shillings how much you
have at the bank."
Charles blinked through the smoke of a violet-tipped cigarette.

"What about it?" he asked.

"This," I said; "I am, very reluctantly, offering you the chance of doing
good.

All you have to do is to sign your name here for anything up to a
hundred pounds, and the good does itself. It is the Saint Nicholas New
Year Offering."
"What does it do?" asked Charles uncomfortably.

"Do?" I answered. "Why, I don't think it does exactly _do_. You see it's
a New Year Offering."
"I see," said Charles. "It doesn't do; it offers. Just like a Member
of Parliament."
"I wish," I said, "instead of being funny at other people's expense
you would be serious at your own, and tell me exactly how much I
can put you down for?"
"There you go again," said Charles. "You want me to think of some
definite amount on the spot. You know I hate thinking, and I hate
definite amounts. And I loathe doing anything on the spot."
I looked at the subscription list. The last entry was:--
Major-General R. Hewland, £5 5s. 0d.Frey and Surtur fought;
he perished, Frey perished in that battle, but he would not have
perished if he had had in his hand his own magic sword.

And now, for the third time, Garm, the hound with blood upon his jaws,
barked. He had broken loose on the world, and with fierce bounds he
rushed toward Vigard Plain, where the Gods had assembled their powers.
Loud barked Garm. The Eagle Hræsvelgur screamed on the edge of heaven.
Then the skies were cloven, and the tree Ygdrassil was shaken in all its
roots.

To the place where the Gods had drawn up their ranks came the ship of
Jötunheim and the ship of Hel, came the riders of Muspelheim, and Garm,
the hound with blood upon his jaws. And out of the sea that now
surrounded the plain of Vigard the serpent Jörmungand came.

What said Odin to the Gods and to the Champions who surrounded him? "We
will give our lives and let our world be destroyed, but we will battle
so that these evil powers will not live after us." Out of Hel's ship
sprang Fenrir the Wolf. His mouth gaped; his lower jaw hung against the
earth, and his upper jaw scraped the sky. Against the Wolf Odin
All-Father fought. Thor might not aid him, for Thor had now to encounter
Jörmungand, the monstrous serpent.

By Fenrir the Wolf Odin was slain. But the younger Gods were now
advancing to the battle; and Vidar, the Silent God, came face to face
with Fenrir. He laid his foot on the Wolf's lower jaw, that foot that
had on the sandal made of all the scraps of leather that shoemakers had
laid by for him, and with his hands he seized the upper jaw and tore his
gullet. Thus died Fenrir, the fiercest of all the enemies of the Gods.

Sure we are that not one of our readers will regret the length at which
we have noticed this work.

* * * * * * *
The short and unpretending critique which I add from "Bell's Weekly
Messenger" was written, I believe, either by or at the instance of
Mr.

Bellamy, a gentleman who acted as secretary to the National Club.
His son addressed me as editor of "The Germ," in terms of great ardour,
and through the son I on one occasion saw the father as well.

_Art and Poetry._ Nos. I., II., and III. London, Dickinson and Co.

The present numbers are the commencement of a very useful publication,
conducted principally by artists, the design of which is to "express
thoughts towards Nature."

Bright and
gleaming were all their weapons. Before them and behind them went
wasting fires. Surtur cast fire upon the earth; the tree Ygdrassil took
fire and burned in all its great branches; the World Tree was wasted in
the blaze. But the fearful fire that Surtur brought on the earth
destroyed him and all his host.

The Wolf Hati caught up on Sol, the Sun; the Wolf Managarm seized on
Mani, the Moon; they devoured them; stars fell, and darkness came down
on the world.

The seas flowed over the burnt and wasted earth and the skies were dark
above the sea, for Sol and Mani were no more. Charles, when our protest
was lodged, merely replied that our favour of the 10th inst. was to hand,
and that he really could not see his way to moving further in the
matter. Let me explain the present extent of Charles's movement.Four of the younger Gods stood on the highest of the world's peaks; they
were Vidar and Vali, the sons of Odin, and Modi and Magni, the sons of
Thor. Modi and Magni found Miölnir, Thor's hammer, and with it they slew
the monsters that still raged through the world, the Hound Garm and the
Wolf Managarm.

I went; but it is hardly necessary to say that I didn't find any,
and, on the whole, I was glad of it If people don't know any more than
to leave their _Galaxys_ and _Harper's_ lying around loose when travelling,
why, they deserve to have them stolen, that's all.Baldur and Hödur came
from Hela's habitation, and the Gods sat on the peak together and held
speech with each other, calling to mind the secrets and the happenings
they had known before Ragnarök, the Twilight of the Gods.

Next morning, on being taken before a magistrate, the prisoners were
discharged, on the grounds that the affair was a mistake--or a joke--we
are not exactly informed which; but the parties chiefly interested do not
look upon it as a joke.They walked abroad in the world, and
from them and from their children came the men and women who spread
themselves over the earth.


The End.