
the expression 'eternal lines' clearly alludes to one of his plays
that he was sending him at the time, just as the concluding couplet
points to his confidence in the probability of his plays being
always acted.  In his address to the Dramatic Muse (Sonnets C. and
CI.), we find the same feeling.


Where art thou, Muse, that thou forget'st so long
To speak of that which gives thee all thy might?
Spend'st thou thy fury on some worthless song,
Darkening thy power to lend base subjects light?


he cries, and he then proceeds to reproach the Mistress of Tragedy
and Comedy for her 'neglect of Truth in Beauty dyed,' and says -


Because he needs no praise, wilt thou be dumb?
Excuse not silence so, for 't lies in thee
To make him much outlive a gilded tomb
And to be praised of ages yet to be.
Then do thy office, Muse; I teach thee how
To make him seem long hence as he shows now.


It is, however, perhaps in the 55th Sonnet that Shakespeare gives to
this idea its fullest expression.  To imagine that the 'powerful
rhyme' of the second line refers to the sonnet itself, is to mistake
Shakespeare's meaning entirely.  It seemed to me that it was
extremely likely, from the general character of the sonnet, that a
particular play was meant, and that the play was none other but
Romeo and Juliet.


Not marble, nor the gilded monuments
Of princes, shall outlive this powerful rhyme;
But you shall shine more bright in these contents
Than unswept stone besmear'd with sluttish time.
When wasteful wars shall statues overturn,
And broils root out the work of masonry,
Nor Mars his sword nor war's quick fire shall burn
The living record of your memory.
'Gainst death and all-oblivious enmity
Shall you pace forth; your praise shall still find room
Even in the eyes of all posterity
That wear this world out to the ending doom.
Remedies have been proposed; resolutions have
been offered, proposing for adoption measures which it was thought
would satisfy the Country, and preserve as much of the Union as
remained to us at least, if they were not enough at once to recall
the Seceding States to the Union.

We have passed none of these measures. The differences of opinion
among Senators have been such that we have not been able to
concur in any of the measures which have been proposed, even by bare
majorities, much less by that two-thirds majority which is necessary
to carry into effect some of the pacific measures which have been
proposed.

We are about to adjourn. We have done nothing. Even the Senate of
the United States, beholding this great ruin around them, beholding
Dismemberment and Revolution going on, and Civil War threatened
as the result, have been able to do nothing; we have absolutely done
nothing.
Sir, is not this a remarkable spectacle? * * * How does it happen
that not even a bare majority here, when the Country trusted to
our hands is going to ruin, have been competent to devise any
measure of public safety? How does it happen that we have not had
unanimity enough to agree on any measure of that kind? Can we account
for it to ourselves, gentlemen? We see the danger; we acknowledge
our duty, and yet, with all this before us, we are acknowledging
before the world that we can do nothing; acknowledging before the
world, or appearing to all the world, as men who do nothing! Sir,
this will make a strange record in the history of Governments and
in the history of the world. Some are for Coercion; yet no army
has been raised, no navy has been equipped. Some are for pacification;
yet they have been able to do nothing; the dissent of their colleagues
prevents them; and here we are in the midst of a falling Country,
in the midst of a falling State, presenting to the eyes of the
World the saddest spectacle it has ever seen.

Cato is represented by Addison as a worthy spectacle, 'a great man
falling with a falling State,' but he fell struggling. We fall with
the ignominy on our heads of doing nothing, like the man who stands
by and sees his house in flames, and says to himself, 'perhaps
the fire will stop before it consumes all.'"
No:  Marlowe was
clearly the rival dramatist of whom Shakespeare spoke in such
laudatory terms; and that


Affable familiar ghost
Which nightly gulls him with intelligence,


was the Mephistopheles of his Doctor Faustus.  No doubt, Marlowe was
fascinated by the beauty and grace of the boy-actor, and lured him
away from the Blackfriars Theatre, that he might play the Gaveston
of his Edward II.  That Shakespeare had the legal right to retain
Willie Hughes in his own company is evident from Sonnet LXXXVII.,
where he says:-


Farewell! thou art too dear for my possessing,
And like enough thou know'st thy estimate:
The CHARTER OF THY WORTH gives thee releasing;
My BONDS in thee are all determinate.
For how do I hold thee but by thy granting?
And for that riches where is my deserving?
The cause of this fair gift in me is wanting,
AND SO MY PATENT BACK AGAIN IS SWERVING.
Thyself thou gayest, thy own worth then not knowing,
Or me, to whom thou gavest it, else mistaking;
So thy great gift, upon misprision growing,
Comes home again, on better judgement making.
Thus have I had thee, as a dream doth flatter,
In sleep a king, but waking no such matter.


But him whom he could not hold by love, he would not hold by force.
If Foster could sever the cable just opposite him there was an
excellent chance that the longer one of the free ends would drop
directly upon the machine.
And in his possession he had a possible means of severing that
cable--the pistol that was still crammed in his belt.On Marlowe's death, he seems to have
returned to Shakespeare, who, whatever his fellow-partners may have
thought of the matter, was not slow to forgive the wilfulness and
treachery of the young actor.

How well, too, had Shakespeare drawn the temperament of the stage-
player!  Willie Hughes was one of those


That do not do the thing they most do show,
Who, moving others, are themselves as stone.


He could act love, but could not feel it, could mimic passion
without realising it.


In many's looks the false heart's history
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange,


but with Willie Hughes it was not so.  'Heaven,' says Shakespeare,
in a sonnet of mad idolatry -


Heaven in thy creation did decree
That in thy face sweet love should ever dwell;
Whate'er thy thoughts or thy heart's workings be,
Thy looks should nothing thence but sweetness tell.


In his 'inconstant mind' and his 'false heart,' it was easy to
recognise the insincerity and treachery that somehow seem
inseparable from the artistic nature, as in his love of praise that
desire for immediate recognition that characterises all actors.  Their
bodies were already swiftly darkening in decay.

Foster smiled grimly as he looked around the cavern.

There were scientific treasures here that would
revolutionize a world. It was a fitting retribution
for the Shining Ones. When they had destroyed
Atlantis they had robbed Earth of countless
centuries of scientific knowledge and
progress. Now, here in the cavern that had
at last become their tomb, they were leaving
a legacy of science that would go far toward repaying that ancient
debt.Congress shall provide by law that the United States shall pay to
the owner the full value of the Fugitive from Labor, in all cases
where the Marshal, or other officer, whose duty it was to arrest
such Fugitive, was prevented from so doing by violence or intimidation
from mobs or riotous assemblages, or when, after arrest, such
Fugitive was rescued by like violence or intimidation, and the owner
thereby deprived of the same; and the acceptance of such payment
shall preclude the owner from further claim to such Fugitive.

.