Produced by Sue Asscher


THE POOL IN THE DESERT

By Sara Jeanette Duncan


Contents

    1.  A Mother in India.

    2.  An Impossible Ideal.

    3.  The Hesitation of Miss Anderson.

    4.  The Pool in the Desert.


1. A Mother in India


Chapter 1.I

There were times when we had to go without puddings to pay John's
uniform bills, and always I did the facings myself with a cloth-ball to
save getting new ones. I would have polished his sword, too, if I had
been allowed; I adored his sword. And once, I remember, we painted and
varnished our own dog-cart, and very smart it looked, to save fifty
rupees. We had nothing but our pay--John had his company when we were
married, but what is that?--and life was made up of small knowing
economies, much more amusing in recollection than in practise. We were
sodden poor, and that is a fact, poor and conscientious, which was
worse. A big fat spider of a money-lender came one day into the veranda
and tempted us--we lived in a hut, but it had a veranda--and John
threatened to report him to the police. Poor when everybody else had
enough to live in the open-handed Indian fashion, that was what made it
so hard; we were alone in our sordid little ways. When the expectation
of Cecily came to us we made out to be delighted, knowing that the whole
station pitied us, and when Cecily came herself, with a swamping burst
of expense, we kept up the pretense splendidly. She was peevish, poor
little thing, and she threatened convulsions from the beginning, but we
both knew that it was abnormal not to love her a great deal, more than
life, immediately and increasingly; and we applied ourselves honestly to
do it, with the thermometer at a hundred and two, and the nurse leaving
at the end of a fortnight because she discovered that I had only six
of everything for the table. To find out a husband's virtues, you must
marry a poor man. The regiment was under-officered as usual, and John
had to take parade at daylight quite three times a week; but he walked
up and down the veranda with Cecily constantly till two in the morning,
when a little coolness came. I usually lay awake the rest of the
night in fear that a scorpion would drop from the ceiling on her.
Nevertheless, we were of excellent mind towards Cecily; we were in such
terror, not so much of failing in our duty towards her as towards the
ideal standard of mankind. We were very anxious indeed not to come
short. To be found too small for one's place in nature would have been
odious. We would talk about her for an hour at a time, even when John's
charger was threatening glanders and I could see his mind perpetually
wandering to the stable. I would say to John that she had brought a new
element into our lives--she had indeed!--and John would reply, 'I know
what you mean,' and go on to prophesy that she would 'bind us together.'
We didn't need binding together; we were more to each other, there in
the desolation of that arid frontier outpost, than most husbands and
wives; but it seemed a proper and hopeful thing to believe, so we
believed it. Of course, the real experience would have come, we weren't
monsters; but fate curtailed the opportunity. She was just five
weeks old when the doctor told us that we must either pack her home
immediately or lose her, and the very next day John went down with
enteric. So Cecily was sent to England with a sergeant's wife who had
lost her twins, and I settled down under the direction of a native
doctor, to fight for my husband's life, without ice or proper food, or
sickroom comforts of any sort. Ah! Fort Samila, with the sun glaring up
from the sand!--however, it is a long time ago now. I trusted the baby
willingly to Mrs. Berry and to Providence, and did not fret; my capacity
for worry, I suppose, was completely absorbed. Mrs. Berry's letter,
describing the child's improvement on the voyage and safe arrival came,
I remember, the day on which John was allowed his first solid mouthful;
it had been a long siege. 'Poor little wretch!' he said when I read it
aloud; and after that Cecily became an episode.

She had gone to my husband's people; it was the best arrangement. We
were lucky that it was possible; so many children had to be sent to
strangers and hirelings. Since an unfortunate infant must be brought
into the world and set adrift, the haven of its grandmother and its Aunt
Emma and its Aunt Alice certainly seemed providential. I had absolutely
no cause for anxiety, as I often told people, wondering that I did
not feel a little all the same. Nothing, I knew, could exceed the
conscientious devotion of all three Farnham ladies to the child. She
would appear upon their somewhat barren horizon as a new and interesting
duty, and the small additional income she also represented would be
almost nominal compensation for the care she would receive. They were
excellent persons of the kind that talk about matins and vespers, and
attend both. They helped little charities and gave little teas,
and wrote little notes, and made deprecating allowance for the
eccentricities of their titled or moneyed acquaintances. They were the
subdued, smiling, unimaginatively dressed women on a small definite
income that you meet at every rectory garden-party in the country, a
little snobbish, a little priggish, wholly conventional, but apart from
these weaknesses, sound and simple and dignified, managing their two
small servants with a display of the most exact traditions, and keeping
a somewhat vague and belated but constant eye upon the doings of their
country as chronicled in a bi-weekly paper. They were all immensely
interested in royalty, and would read paragraphs aloud to each other
about how the Princess Beatrice or the Princess Maud had opened a fancy
bazaar, looking remarkably well in plain grey poplin trimmed with Irish
lace--an industry which, as is well known, the Royal Family has set its
heart on rehabilitating. Upon which Mrs. Farnham's comment invariably
would be, 'How thoughtful of them, dear!' and Alice would usually say,
'Well, if I were a princess, I should like something nicer than plain
grey poplin.' Alice, being the youngest, was not always expected to
think before she spoke. Alice painted in water-colours, but Emma was
supposed to have the most common sense.

"Ah, sir, I pray thee to pray to God for me that I may have a child
of my lord, for great fear I have lest he leave me." "Dame," said the
good man, "my prayer shall avail but little, but if it please God;
nevertheless I will pray heartily."
The good man departed from the lady, and the barons of the land and
of the country came to the King Florus, and bade him send away his
wife and take another, since by this he might have no child. And if
he did not after their counsel, they would go and dwell otherwhere; for
in no case would they that the realm should be without an heir.
King Florus feared his barons and trowed their word, and he said that he
would send away his wife, and that they should seek him another, and
they trusted him therein. When the lady knew it she was exeeeding heavy
of heart; but nought durst she do, for she knew that her lord would
leave her. So she sent for the hermit who had been her confessor,
and he came to her. Then the lady told him all the tale of the matter of
the barons, who would seek for their lord another woman. "And I pray
thee, good father, that thou wouldst aid me, and counsel me what
I should do."

"Dame," said the good man, "if it be so as thou sayest, ye must needs
suffer it; for against thy lord and against his barons ye may do nought
perforce." "Sir," said the good lady, "thou sayest sooth: but if it
please God, I were fain to be a recluse nigh unto thee; whereby I may be
at the service of God all the days of my life, and that I may have
comfort of thee." "Dame," said the good man, "that would be over
strange a thing, whereas thou art too young a lady and too fair. But I
will tell thee what thou shalt do. Hard by my hermitage there is an
abbey of White Nuns, who are right good ladies, and I counsel you go
thither; and they will have great joy of thee for thy goodness and thy
high dignity." "Sir," said she, "thou hast well said; I will do all
that thou counsellest me."
On the morrow King Florus spake to his wife, and said thus: "Needs must
thou and I sunder, for that thou mayst have no child by me. Now I say
thee soothly that the sundering lies heavy on me, for never shall I
love woman as I have loved thee." Therewith fell King Florus to weep
sorely, and the lady also. "Sir," said she, "a-God's mercy!
And whither shall I go, and what shall I do?" "Dame, thou shalt do well,
if it please God, for I will send thee back well and richly into thy
country to thy kindred." "Sir," said the lady, "it shall not be so: I
have purveyed me an abbey of nuns, where I will be, if it please
thee; and there I will serve God all my life; for since I lose thy
company I am she that no man shall go with any more.

Thereat King Florus wept and the lady also. But on the third day
the queen went to the abbey; and the other queen was come, and had great
feast made her, and great joy of her friends. King Florus held her for
three years, but never might have child of her. But here the tale holdeth
peace of King Florus, and betaketh it again to Sir Robin, and to John
who were at Marseilles.

Here telleth the tale that much sorry was Sir Robin when he came to
Marseilles, whereas he heard tell of nought toward in the country; so
he said to John: "What do we? Thou hast lent me of thy moneys,
whereof I thank thee: I will give them back to thee, for I will
sell my palfrey, and quit me toward thee." "Sir," said John, "if
it please thee, believe me, and I shall tell thee what we shall
do. I have yet well an hundred sols of Tournay, and if it please thee,
I will sell our two horses, and make money thereby: for I am the best
of bakers that ye may wot of; and I will make French bread, and I doubt
me not but I shall earn my spending well and bountifully." "John,"
said Sir Robin, "I grant it thee to do all as thou wilt."
So on the morrow John sold the two horses for ten pounds Tournays, and
bought corn and let grind it, and bought baskets, and fell to making
French bread, so good and so well made that he sold it for more than
the best baker of the town might do; and he did so much within two
years that he had well an hundred pounds of chattels.
Then said John to his lord: "I rede thee well that we buy us a very great
house, and that we buy us wine and take to harbouring good folk." "John,"
said Sir Robin, "do according to thy will, for I grant it thee, and
moreover I praise thee much." So John bought a house, great and fair,
and harboured good folk, and earned enough plenteously; and he arrayed
his lord well and richly; and Sir Robin had his palfrey, and went
to eat and drink with the most worthy of the town, and John sent
him wine and victual, so that all they that haunted his company
marvelled thereat.

So much he gained that in three years' time he had gotten him more
than three hundred pounds of garnishment, out-taken his plenishing,
which was well worth fifty pounds.

But here leaveth the tale to tell of Sir Robin and of John, and
goeth back to tell of Sir Raoul.

For, saith the tale, that the chaplain held Sir Raoul right short
that he should go over sea, and quit him of the pledge he had laid
down; for great fear he had lest he yet should leave it; and so
much he did that Sir Raoul saw well that he needs must go.

So he dight his journey, and arrayed him right richly, as he that hath
well enough thereto; and so he betook him to the road with three
squires:
and went so much by his journeys that he came into Marseilles-on-sea
and took lodging in the French hostel, whereas dwelt Sir Robin and
John.

So soon as John saw him she knew him by the scar of the wound she
had made him, and because she had seen him many times.

The knight sojourned in the town fifteen days, and hired him passage.

But the while he sojourned, John drew him in to privy talk, and
asked of him the occasion of his going over sea, and Sir Raoul told
him all the occasion, as one who had little heed thereof, even as
the tale hath told afore.

When John heard that, he held his peace. Sir Raoul set his goods aboard
ship, and went upon the sea; but tarried so much the ship wherein
he was that he abode in the town for eight days; but on the ninth
day he betook him to go his ways to the holy sepulchre, and did his
pilgrimage, and confessed him the best he might: and his confessor
charged him in penance that he should give back the land which he
held wrongfully to the knight and his wife.

Whereon he said to his confessor, that when he came into his own
country he would do what his heart bade him.

So he departed from Jerusalem and came to Acre, and dight his passage as
one who had great longing to repair to his own country.

He went up on to the sea, and wended so diligently, as well by night
as by day, till in less than three months he came to the port of
Aigues-mort. Then he departed from the port and came straight to
Marseilles, wherein he sojourned eight days in the hostel of Sir
Robin and John, which hight the French house.

Never did Sir Robin know him, for on that matter he thought nothing. At
the end of eight days he departed from Marseilles, he and his squires,
and went so long by his journeys that he came into his own country,
where he was received with great joy, as one who was a knight rich
in land and chattels.

Thereon his chaplain took him to task, and asked of him if any had
demanded the occasion of his journey; and he said: "Yea, in three
places, to wit: Marseilles, Acre, and Jerusalem: and he of whom I took
counsel bade me to give back the land to Sir Robin, if I hear
tidings of him, or to his wife else, or to his heir."

"Certes," said the chaplain; "he bade thee good counsel." Thus was Sir
Raoul in his own country a great while in rest and good ease. But
here leaveth the tale to tell of him, and returneth to Sir Robin and
John.

Here saith the tale that when Sir Robin and John had been at Marseilles
for six years that John had gotten to the value of six hundred pounds,
and they were come into the seventh year, and John might gain eke what
he would, and so sweet he was, and so debonaire that he made himself
loved of all the neighbours, and therewithal he was of good hap as
he might not be of more, and maintained his lord so nobly and so
richly that it was wonder to behold.

When the end of the seven years drew nigh, John fell to talk with his
lord Sir Robin, and spake thus: "Sir, we have now been a great
while in this country, and so much have we gained, that we have hard
on six hundred pounds of chattels, what of money, what of vessel of
silver." "Forsooth, John," said Sir Robin, "they be not mine, but thine;
for it is thou hast earned them." "Sir," said John, "saving thy grace,
it is not so, but they are thine: for thou art my rightful lord, and
never, if it please God, will I change." "Gramercy, John, I hold thee
not for servant, but for companion and friend."

"Sir," said John, "all days I have kept thee loyal company, and
shall do from henceforth."

"By my faith," said Sir Robin, "I will do what so pleaseth thee: but
to go into my country, I wot not to say thereof:
for I have lost so much there that hardly shall my scathe be righted
to me."

"Sir," said John, "be thou never dismayed of that matter; for when
thou art come into thine own country thou shalt hear good tidings, please
God. And doubt thou nothing, for in all places whereas we shall be, if
it please God, I shall earn enough for thee and for me." "Certes,
John," said Sir Robin, "I will do as it pleaseth thee, and where thou
wilt that I go, thither will I." "Sir," said John, "I shall sell our
chattels, and dight our journey, and we will go within fifteen days."
"A-God's name, John," said Sir Robin.

John sold all his plenishing, whereof he had good store and goodly, and
bought three horses, a palfrey for his lord, another for himself, and
a sumpter horse.

Then they took leave of the neighbours, and the most worthy of the
town, who were sore grieved of their departure.

Wore the way Sir Robin and John, insomuch that in three weeks' space they
came into their country. And Robin made known to his lord, whose daughter
he had had, that he was at hand. The lord was much joyful thereof, for
he was deeming well that his daughter would be with him. And she
indeed it was, but in the guise of an esquire.
Sir Robin was well received of his lord, whose daughter he had erewhile
wedded. When the lord could have no tidings of his daughter, he
was right sorrowful; nevertheless he made good feast to Sir Robin,
and bade thereto his knights and his neighbours; and thither came Sir
Raoul, who held the land of Sir Robin wrongfully.
Great was the joy that day and the morrow, and that while Sir Robin
told to John the occasion of the wager, and how Sir Raoul held his land
wrongfully. "Sir," said John, "do thou appeal him of treason, and I
will do the battle for thee." "Nay, John," said Sir Robin, "thou shalt
not do it."
So they left it till the morrow, when John came to Sir Robin and did
him to wit that he would speak to the father of his wife; and thus
he said to him: "Sir, thou art lord to my lord Sir Robin after God,
and he wedded thy daughter time was. But there was a wager betwixt
him and Sir Raoul, who said that he would make him cuckold by then
he returned from St. Jakeme; whereof Sir Raoul hath made false report,
whereas he hath had nor part nor lot in thy fair daughter. And he hath
done disloyal treason. All which things I am ready to prove on his
body." Then leapt forth Sir Robin and said: "John, fair friend, none
shall do the battle save I; nowise shalt thou hang shield on neck
herein." Therewith Sir Robin reached his pledge to his lord; and Sir
Raoul was sore grieving of the pledging, but needs must he defend
him, or cry craven; so he reached for this pledge right cowardly.

So were the pledges given, and day of battle appointed on that day
fifteen days without naysay.

Now hear ye marvels of John what he did.

John who had to name my Lady Jehane, had in the house of her father
a cousin germain of hers, who was a fair damsel, and of some five and
twenty years. Jehane came to her, and laid all the whole truth bare to
her, and told her the whole business from point to point, and showed her
all openly; and prayed her much that she would hide all the matter
until the time and hour came when she should make herself known to her
father.
Wherefore her cousin, who knew her well, said to her that she would
keep all well hidden, so that by her it should never be discovered.
Then was the chamber of her cousin dight for the Lady Jehane; and the
said lady, the while of the fortnight before the battle should be, let
bathe her and stove her; and she took her ease the best she might, as
one who well had therewithal. And she let cut and shape for her duly
four pair of gowns, of Scarlet, of Vair, of Perse, and of cloth of silk;
and she took so well her ease that she came back to her most beauty,
and was so fair and dainty as no lady might be more.

But when it came to the end of the fifteen days, then was Sir Robin
sore grieving of John his esquire, because he had lost him, and knew not
where he was become.

But none the more did he leave to apparel him for the fight as one
who had heart enough and hardihood.

On the morn of the day whenas the battle was appointed, came both the
knights armed. They drew apart one from the other, and then they
fell on each other with the irons of their glaives, and smote on each
other with so great heat that they bore down each other's horses to the
earth beneath their bodies. Sir Raoul was hurt a little on the left
side. Sir Robin rose up the first, and came a great pace on Sir Raoul,
and smote him a great stroke on the helm in such wise that he beat down
the head-piece and drave in the sword on to the mail-coif, and sheared
all thereto; but the coif was of steel so strong that he wounded
him not, howbeit he made him to stagger, so that he caught hold of the
arson of the saddle; and if he had not, he had fallen to earth. Then Sir
Raoul, who was a good knight, smote Sir Robin so great a stroke upon the
helm that he all to astonied him; and the stroke fell down to the shoulder,
and sheared the mails of the hawberk, but hurt him not.

Then Sir Robin smote him with all his might, but he threw his shield
betwixt, and Sir Robin smote off a quarter thereof. When Sir Raoul
felt his strong strokes, he misdoubted him much, and wished well that
he were over sea, if he were but quit of the battle, and Sir Robin
back on the land which he held. Nevertheless he put forth all his might
and drew nigh, and fell on Sir Robin much hardly, and gave him a
great stroke upon his shield so that he sheared it to the boss
thereof. But Sir Robin laid a great stroke upon his helm, but he
threw his shield betwixt and Sir Robin sheared it amidst, and the
sword fell upon the neck of the horse, and sheared it amidst, and beat
down straightway both horse and man. Then Sir Raoul leapt to his feet,
as one who was in a stour exceeding heavy.

Then Sir Robin lighted down, whereas he would not betake him to his
horse while the other was afoot.

Now were both knights come unto the skirmish and they hewed in pieces
each other's shields and helms and haw--berks, and drew the blood from
each other's bodies with their trenchant swords; and had they smitten
as great strokes as at first, soon had they slain each other, for they
had so little of their shields that scarce might they cover their fists
therewith.

Yet had neither of them fear of death or shame: nevertheless the nighness
of them to each other called on them to bring the battle to an end. Sir
Robin took his sword in both hands, and smote Sir Raoul with all his might
on the helm, and sheared it amidst, so that one half thereof fell
upon the shoulders, and he sheared the steel coif, and made him a
great wound on the head; and Sir Raoul was so astonied of the stroke
that he bent him to the earth on one knee; but he rose up straightway
and was in great misease when he thus saw his head naked, and great
fear of death he had.

But he came up to Sir Robin and fetched a stroke with all his might
on what he had of shield and he sheared it asunder and the stroke came
on the helm and cut into it well three fingers, so that the sword
came on the iron coif, which was right good, so that the sword brake
a-twain.

When Sir Raoul saw his sword broken and his head naked, he doubted much
the death. Nevertheless he stooped down to the earth, and took up a great
stone in his two hands, and cast it after Sir Robin with all his might;
but Sir Robin turned aside when he saw the stone coming, and ran on Sir
Raoul, who took to flight all over the field; and Sir Robin said to
him that he would slay him but if he cried craven. Whereon Sir Raoul
thus bespake him: mercy on me, gentle knight, and ere my sword, so
much as I have thereof, and I render it to thee, and all of me therewith
unto thy mercy; and I pray thee have pity of me, and beg of thy lord and
mine to have mercy on me and that thou and he save my life, and I
render and give both thy land and mine. For I have held it against
right and against reason.
And I have wrongfully defamed the fair lady and good.

When Sir Robin heard this, he said that he had done enough, and he
prayed his lord so much that he pardoned Sir Raoul of his misdeed,
in such wise that he was quit thereof on the condition that he
should go over seas and abide there lifelong.

Thuswise conquered Sir Robin his land and the land of Sir Raoul to boot
for all his days. But he was so sore grieving and sad at heart of
his good dame and fair, whom he had thus lost, that he could have no
solace; and on the other hand, he was so sore grieving for John his esquire
whom he had so lost, that marvel it was. And his lord was no less sad
at heart for his fair daughter whom he had thus lost, and of whom he
might have no tidings.

But dame Jehane, who was in the chamber of her cousin germain for
fifteen days in good ease, when she wotted that her lord had vanquished
the battle, was exceeding much at ease.
Tottenham, who administers
Her Majesty's pleasure in parts of India about Allahabad. My daughter,
Dacres.' She was certainly looking very fresh, and her calm grey eyes
had the repose in them that has never known itself to be disturbed about
anything. I wondered whether she bowed so distantly also because it was
Sunday, and then I remembered that Dacres was a young man, and that
the Farnham ladies had probably taught her that it was right to be very
distant with young men.

'It is almost eleven, mamma.'

'Yes, dear. I see you are going to church.'

'Are you not coming, mamma?'

I was well wrapped up in an extremely comfortable corner. I had 'La
Duchesse Bleue' uncut in my lap, and an agreeable person to talk to. I
fear that in any case I should not been inclined to attend the service,
but there was something in my daughter's intonation that made me
distinctly hostile to the idea. I am putting things down as they were,
extenuating nothing.

'I think not, dear.'

'I've turned up two such nice seats.'

'Stay, Miss Farnham, and keep us in countenance,' said Dacres, with
his charming smile. The smile displaced a look of discreet and amused
observation. Dacres had an eye always for a situation, and this one was
even newer to him than to me.

'No, no. She must run away and not bully her mamma,' I said. 'When she
comes back we will see how much she remembers of the sermon;' and as
the flat tinkle from the companion began to show signs of diminishing,
Cecily, with one grieved glance, hastened down.

'You amazing lady!' said Dacres. 'A daughter--and such a tall daughter!
I somehow never--'

'You knew we had one?'

'There was theory of that kind, I remember, about ten years ago. Since
then--excuse me--I don't think you've mentioned her.'

'You talk as if she were a skeleton in the closet!'

'You DIDN'T talk--as if she were.'

'I think she was, in a way, poor child. But the resurrection day hasn't
confounded me as I deserved. She's a very good girl.'

'If you had asked me to pick out your daughter--'

'She would have been the last you would indicate! Quite so,' I said.
'She is like her father's people. I can't help that.'

'I shouldn't think you would if you could,' Dacres remarked absently;
but the sea air, perhaps, enabled me to digest his thoughtlessness with
a smile.

'No,' I said, 'I am just as well pleased. I think a resemblance to me
would confuse me, often.'

There was a trace of scrutiny in Dacres's glance. 'Don't you find
yourself in sympathy with her?' he asked.

'My dear boy, I have seen her just twice in twenty-one years! You see,
I've always stuck to John.'

'But between mother and daughter--I may be old-fashioned, but I had an
idea that there was an instinct that might be depended on.'

'I am depending on it,' I said, and let my eyes follow the little blue
waves that chased past the hand-rail. 'We are making very good speed,
aren't we? Thirty-five knots since last night at ten. Are you in the
sweep?'

'I never bet on the way out--can't afford it. Am I old-fashioned?' he
insisted.

'Probably. Men are very slow in changing their philosophy about women. I
fancy their idea of the maternal relation is firmest fixed of all.'

'We see it a beatitude!' he cried.

'I know,' I said wearily, 'and you never modify the view.'

Dacres contemplated the portion of the deck that lay between us. His
eyes were discreetly lowered, but I saw embarrassment and speculation
and a hint of criticism in them.

'Tell me more about it,' said he.

'Oh, for heaven's sake don't be sympathetic!' I exclaimed. 'Lend me a
little philosophy instead. There is nothing to tell. There she is and
there I am, in the most intimate relation in the world, constituted
when she is twenty-one and I am forty.' Dacres started slightly at the
ominous word; so little do men realize that the women they like can ever
pass out of the constated years of attraction. 'I find the young
lady very tolerable, very creditable, very nice. I find the relation
atrocious. There you have it. I would like to break the relation into
pieces,' I went on recklessly, 'and throw it into the sea. Such things
should be tempered to one. I should feel it much less if she occupied
another cabin, and would consent to call me Elizabeth or Jane. It is not
as if I had been her mother always. One grows fastidious at forty--new
intimacies are only possible then on a basis of temperament--'

I paused; it seemed to me that I was making excuses, and I had not the
least desire in the world to do that.

'How awfully rough on the girl!' said Dacres Tottenham.

'That consideration has also occurred to me,' I said candidly, 'though I
have perhaps been even more struck by its converse.'

'You had no earthly business to be her mother,' said my friend, with
irritation.

I shrugged my shoulders--what would you have done?--and opened 'La
Duchesse Bleue'.


Chapter 1.III

Mrs. Morgan, wife of a judge of the High Court of Bombay, and I sat
amidships on the cool side in the Suez Canal. She was outlining 'Soiled
Linen' in chain-stitch on a green canvas bag; I was admiring the
Egyptian sands. 'How charming,' said I, 'is this solitary desert in the
endless oasis we are compelled to cross!'

'Oasis in the desert, you mean,' said Mrs. Morgan; 'I haven't noticed
any, but I happened to look up this morning as I was putting on my
stockings, and I saw through my port-hole the most lovely mirage.'

I had been at school with Mrs. Morgan more than twenty years agone, but
she had come to the special enjoyment of the dignities of life while I
still liked doing things. Mrs. Morgan was the kind of person to make
one realize how distressing a medium is middle age. Contemplating her
precipitous lap, to which conventional attitudes were certainly more
becoming, I crossed my own knees with energy, and once more resolved to
be young until I was old.

'How perfectly delightful for you to be taking Cecily out!' said Mrs.
Morgan placidly.

'Isn't it?' I responded, watching the gliding sands.

'But she was born in sixty-nine--that makes her twenty-one. Quite time,
I should say.'

'Oh, we couldn't put it off any longer. I mean--her father has such a
horror of early debuts. He simply would not hear of her coming before.'

'Doesn't want her to marry in India, I dare say--the only one,' purred
Mrs. Morgan.

'Oh, I don't know. It isn't such a bad place. I was brought out there to
marry, and I married. I've found it very satisfactory.'

'You always did say exactly what you thought, Helena,' said Mrs. Morgan
excusingly.

'I haven't much patience with people who bring their daughters out to
give them the chance they never would have in England, and then go about
devoutly hoping they won't marry in India,' I said. 'I shall be very
pleased if Cecily does as well as your girls have done.'

'Mary in the Indian Civil and Jessie in the Imperial Service Troops,'
sighed Mrs. Morgan complacently. 'And both, my dear, within a year. It
WAS a blow.'

'Oh, it must have been!' I said civilly.

There was no use in bandying words with Emily Morgan.

'There is nothing in the world like the satisfaction and pleasure one
takes in one's daughters,' Mrs. Morgan went on limpidly. 'And one can be
in such CLOSE sympathy with one's girls. I have never regretted having
no sons.'

'Dear me, yes. To watch oneself growing up again--call back the lovely
April of one's prime, etcetera--to read every thought and anticipate
every wish--there is no more golden privilege in life, dear Emily.
Such a direct and natural avenue for affection, such a wide field for
interest!'

I paused, lost in the volume of my admirable sentiments.

'How beautifully you talk, Helena! I wish I had the gift.'

'It doesn't mean very much,' I said truthfully.

'Oh, I think it's everything! And how companionable a girl is! I quite
envy you, this season, having Cecily constantly with you and taking her
about everywhere. Something quite new for you, isn't it?'

'Absolutely,' said I; 'I am looking forward to it immensely. But it
is likely she will make her own friends, don't you think?' I added
anxiously.

'Hardly the first season. My girls didn't. I was practically their only
intimate for months. Don't be afraid; you won't be obliged to go shares
in Cecily with anybody for a good long while,' added Mrs. Morgan kindly.
'I know just how you feel about THAT.'

The muddy water of the Ditch chafed up from under us against its banks
with a smell that enabled me to hide the emotions Mrs. Morgan evoked
behind my handkerchief. The pale desert was pictorial with the drifting,
deepening purple shadows of clouds, and in the midst a blue glimmer of
the Bitter Lakes, with a white sail on them. A little frantic Arab boy
ran alongside keeping pace with the ship. Except for the smell, it was
like a dream, we moved so quietly; on, gently on and on between the
ridgy clay banks and the rows of piles. Peace was on the ship; you could
hear what the Fourth in his white ducks said to the quartermaster in
his blue denims; you could count the strokes of the electric bell in the
wheel-house; peace was on the ship as she pushed on, an ever-venturing,
double-funneled impertinence, through the sands of the ages. My eyes
wandered along a plank-line in the deck till they were arrested by a
petticoat I knew, when they returned of their own accord. I seemed to be
always seeing that petticoat.

'I think,' resumed Mrs. Morgan, whose glance had wandered in the same
direction, 'that Cecily is a very fine type of our English girls.
With those dark grey eyes, a LITTLE prominent possibly, and that good
colour--it's rather high now perhaps, but she will lose quite enough
of it in India--and those regular features, she would make a splendid
Britannia. Do you know, I fancy she must have a great deal of character.
Has she?'

'Any amount. And all of it good,' I responded, with private dejection.

'No faults at all?' chaffed Mrs. Morgan.

I shook my head. 'Nothing,' I said sadly, 'that I can put my finger on.
But I hope to discover a few later. The sun may bring them out.'

'Like freckles. Well, you are a lucky woman. Mine had plenty, I assure
you. Untidiness was no name for Jessie, and Mary--I'm SORRY to say that
Mary sometimes fibbed.'

'How lovable of her! Cecily's neatness is a painful example to me, and I
don't believe she would tell a fib to save my life.'

'Tell me,' said Mrs. Morgan, as the lunch-bell rang and she gathered her
occupation into her work-basket, 'who is that talking to her?'

'Oh, an old friend,' I replied easily; 'Dacres Tottenham, a dear fellow,
and most benevolent. He is trying on my behalf to reconcile her to the
life she'll have to lead in India.'

'She won't need much reconciling, if she's like most girls,' observed
Mrs. Morgan, 'but he seems to be trying very hard.'

That was quite the way I took it--on my behalf--for several days. When
people have understood you very adequately for ten years you do not
expect them to boggle at any problem you may present at the end of the
decade. I thought Dacres was moved by a fine sense of compassion. I
thought that with his admirable perception he had put a finger on the
little comedy of fruitfulness in my life that laughed so bitterly at
the tragedy of the barren woman, and was attempting, by delicate
manipulation, to make it easier. I really thought so. Then I observed
that myself had preposterously deceived me, that it wasn't like that at
all. When Mr. Tottenham joined us, Cecily and me, I saw that he listened
more than he talked, with an ear specially cocked to register any small
irony which might appear in my remarks to my daughter. Naturally he
registered more than there were, to make up perhaps for dear Cecily's
obviously not registering any. I could see, too, that he was suspicious
of any flavour of kindness; finally, to avoid the strictures of his
upper lip, which really, dear fellow, began to bore me, I talked
exclusively about the distant sails and the Red Sea littoral. When he
no longer joined us as we sat or walked together, I perceived that his
hostility was fixed and his parti pris. He was brimful of compassion,
but it was all for Cecily, none for the situation or for me. (She would
have marvelled, placidly, why he pitied her. I am glad I can say that.)
The primitive man in him rose up as Pope of nature and excommunicated
me as a creature recusant to her functions. Then deliberately Dacres
undertook an office of consolation; and I fell to wondering, while
Mrs. Morgan spoke her convictions plainly out, how far an impulse of
reparation for a misfortune with which he had nothing to do might carry
a man.

I began to watch the affair with an interest which even to me seemed
queer. It was not detached, but it was semi-detached, and, of course,
on the side for which I seem, in this history, to be perpetually
apologizing. With certain limitations it didn't matter an atom whom
Cecily married. So that he was sound and decent, with reasonable
prospects, her simple requirements and ours for her would be quite met.
There was the ghost of a consolation in that; one needn't be anxious or
exacting.

I could predict with a certain amount of confidence that in her first
season she would probably receive three or four proposals, any one of
which she might accept with as much propriety and satisfaction as any
other one. For Cecily it was so simple; prearranged by nature like her
digestion, one could not see any logical basis for difficulties. A nice
upstanding sapper, a dashing Bengal Lancer--oh, I could think of half
a dozen types that would answer excellently. She was the kind of young
person, and that was the summing up of it, to marry a type and be
typically happy. I hoped and expected that she would. But Dacres!

Dacres should exercise the greatest possible discretion. He was not
a person who could throw the dice indifferently with fate. He could
respond to so much, and he would inevitably, sooner or later, demand so
much response! He was governed by a preposterously exacting temperament,
and he wore his nerves outside. And what vision he had! How he explored
the world he lived in and drew out of it all there was, all there was!
I could see him in the years to come ranging alone the fields that were
sweet and the horizons that lifted for him, and ever returning to pace
the common dusty mortal road by the side of a purblind wife. On general
principles, as a case to point at, it would be a conspicuous pity. Nor
would it lack the aspect of a particular, a personal misfortune. Dacres
was occupied in quite the natural normal degree with his charming self;
he would pass his misery on, and who would deserve to escape it less
than his mother-in-law?

I listened to Emily Morgan, who gleaned in the ship more information
about Dacres Tottenham's people, pay, and prospects than I had ever
acquired, and I kept an eye upon the pair which was, I flattered myself,
quite maternal. I watched them without acute anxiety, deploring the
threatening destiny, but hardly nearer to it than one is in the stalls
to the stage. My moments of real concern for Dacres were mingled more
with anger than with sorrow--it seemed inexcusable that he, with his
infallible divining-rod for temperament, should be on the point of
making such an ass of himself. Though I talk of the stage there was
nothing at all dramatic to reward my attention, mine and Emily Morgan's.
To my imagination, excited by its idea of what Dacres Tottenham's
courtship ought to be, the attentions he paid to Cecily were most
humdrum. He threw rings into buckets with her--she was good at that--and
quoits upon the 'bull' board; he found her chair after the decks were
swabbed in the morning and established her in it; he paced the deck with
her at convenient times and seasons. They were humdrum, but they were
constant and cumulative. Cecily took them with an even breath that
perfectly matched. There was hardly anything, on her part, to note--a
little discreet observation of his comings and goings, eyes scarcely
lifted from her book, and later just a hint of proprietorship, as the
evening she came up to me on deck, our first night in the Indian
Ocean. I was lying in my long chair looking at the thick, low stars and
thinking it was a long time since I had seen John.

'Dearest mamma, out here and nothing over your shoulders! You ARE
imprudent. Where is your wrap? Mr. Tottenham, will you please fetch
mamma's wrap for her?'

'If mamma so instructs me,' he said audaciously.

'Do as Cecily tells you,' I laughed, and he went and did it, while I by
the light of a quartermaster's lantern distinctly saw my daughter blush.

Another time, when Cecily came down to undress, she bent over me as I
lay in the lower berth with unusual solicitude. I had been dozing, and I
jumped.

'What is it, child?' I said. 'Is the ship on fire?'

'No, mamma, the ship is not on fire. There is nothing wrong. I'm so
sorry I startled you. But Mr. Tottenham has been telling me all about
what you did for the soldiers the time plague broke out in the lines at
Mian-Mir. I think it was splendid, mamma, and so does he.'

'Oh, Lord!' I groaned. 'Good night.'


Chapter 1.IV.

It remained in my mind, that little thing that Dacres had taken the
trouble to tell my daughter; I thought about it a good deal. It seemed
to me the most serious and convincing circumstances that had yet offered
itself to my consideration. Dacres was no longer content to bring solace
and support to the more appealing figure of the situation; he must set
to work, bless him! to improve the situation itself. He must try to
induce Miss Farnham, by telling her everything he could remember to
my credit, to think as well of her mother as possible, in spite of the
strange and secret blows which that mother might be supposed to sit
up at night to deliver to her. Cecily thought very well of me already;
indeed, with private reservations as to my manners and--no, NOT my
morals, I believe I exceeded her expectations of what a perfectly new
and untrained mother would be likely to prove. It was my theory that she
found me all she could understand me to be. The maternal virtues of the
outside were certainly mine; I put them on with care every morning and
wore them with patience all day. Dacres, I assured myself, must have
allowed his preconception to lead him absurdly by the nose not to see
that the girl was satisfied, that my impatience, my impotence, did
not at all make her miserable. Evidently, however, he had created
our relations differently; evidently he had set himself to their
amelioration. There was portent in it; things seemed to be closing in. I
bit off a quarter of an inch of wooden pen-handle in considering whether
or not I should mention it in my letter to John, and decided that it
would be better just perhaps to drop a hint. Though I could not expect
John to receive it with any sort of perturbation. Men are different; he
would probably think Tottenham well enough able to look after himself.

I had embarked on my letter, there at the end of a corner-table of the
saloon, when I saw Dacres saunter through. He wore a very conscious
and elaborately purposeless air; and it jumped with my mood that he had
nothing less than the crisis of his life in his pocket, and was looking
for me. As he advanced towards me between the long tables doubt left me
and alarm assailed me. 'I'm glad to find you in a quiet corner,' said
he, seating himself, and confirmed my worst anticipations.

'I'm writing to John,' I said, and again applied myself to my
pen-handle. It is a trick Cecily has since done her best in vain to cure
me of.

'I am going to interrupt you,' he said. 'I have not had an opportunity
of talking to you for some time.'

'I like that!' I exclaimed derisively.

'And I want to tell you that I am very much charmed with Cecily.'

'Well,' I said, 'I am not going to gratify you by saying anything
against her.'

'You don't deserve her, you know.'

'I won't dispute that. But, if you don't mind--I'm not sure that I'll
stand being abused, dear boy.'

'I quite see it isn't any use. Though one spoke with the tongues of men
and of angels--'

'And had not charity,' I continued for him. 'Precisely. I won't go on,
but your quotation is very apt.'

'I so bow down before her simplicity. It makes a wide and beautiful
margin for the rest of her character. She is a girl Ruskin would have
loved.'

'I wonder,' said I. 'He did seem fond of the simple type, didn't he?'

'Her mind is so clear, so transparent. The motive spring of everything
she says and does is so direct. Don't you find you can most completely
depend upon her?'

'Oh yes,' I said; 'certainly. I nearly always know what she is going
to say before she says it, and under given circumstances I can tell
precisely what she will do.'

'I fancy her sense of duty is very beautifully developed.'

'It is,' I said. 'There is hardly a day when I do not come in contact
with it.'

'Well, that is surely a good thing. And I find that calm poise of hers
very restful.'

'I would not have believed that so many virtues could reside in one
young lady,' I said, taking refuge in flippancy, 'and to think that she
should be my daughter!'

'As I believe you know, that seems to me rather a cruel stroke of
destiny, Mrs. Farnham.'

'Oh yes, I know! You have a constructive imagination, Dacres. You
don't seem to see that the girl is protected by her limitations, like a
tortoise. She lives within them quite secure and happy and content. How
determined you are to be sorry for her!'

Mr. Tottenham looked at the end of this lively exchange as though he
sought for a polite way of conveying to me that I rather was the limited
person. He looked as if he wished he could say things. The first of them
would be, I saw, that he had quite a different conception of Cecily,
that it was illuminated by many trifles, nuances of feeling and
expression, which he had noticed in his talks with her whenever they had
skirted the subject of her adoption by her mother. He knew her, he was
longing to say, better than I did; when it would have been natural to
reply that one could not hope to compete in such a direction with an
intelligent young man, and we should at once have been upon delicate and
difficult ground. So it was as well perhaps that he kept silence until
he said, as he had come prepared to say, 'Well, I want to put that
beyond a doubt--her happiness--if I'm good enough. I want her, please,
and I only hope that she will be half as willing to come as you are
likely to be to let her go.'

It was a shock when it came, plump, like that; and I was horrified to
feel how completely every other consideration was lost for the instant
in the immense relief that it prefigured. To be my whole complete self
again, without the feeling that a fraction of me was masquerading about
in Cecily! To be freed at once, or almost, from an exacting condition
and an impossible ideal! 'Oh!' I exclaimed, and my eyes positively
filled. 'You ARE good, Dacres, but I couldn't let you do that.'

His undisguised stare brought me back to a sense of the proportion of
things. I saw that in the combination of influences that had brought Mr.
Tottenham to the point of proposing to marry my daughter consideration
for me, if it had a place, would be fantastic. Inwardly I laughed at the
egotism of raw nerves that had conjured it up, even for an instant, as
a reason for gratitude. The situation was not so peculiar, not so
interesting, as that. But I answered his stare with a smile; what I had
said might very well stand.

'Do you imagine,' he said, seeing that I did not mean to amplify it,
'that I want to marry her out of any sort of GOODness?'

'Benevolence is your weakness, Dacres.'

'I see. You think one's motive is to withdraw her from a relation
which ought to be the most natural in the world, but which is, in her
particular and painful case, the most equivocal.'

'Well, come,' I remonstrated. 'You have dropped one or two things, you
know, in the heat of your indignation, not badly calculated to give one
that idea. The eloquent statement you have just made, for instance--it
carries all the patness of old conviction. How often have you rehearsed
it?'

I am a fairly long-suffering person, but I began to feel a little
annoyed with my would-be son-in-law. If the relation were achieved it
would give him no prescriptive right to bully me; and we were still in
very early anticipation of that.

'Ah!' he said disarmingly. 'Don't let us quarrel. I'm sorry you think
that; because it isn't likely to bring your favour to my project, and
I want you friendly and helpful. Oh, confound it!' he exclaimed, with
sudden temper. 'You ought to be. I don't understand this aloofness.
I half suspect it's pose. You undervalue Cecily--well, you have no
business to undervalue me. You know me better than anybody in the world.
Now are you going to help me to marry your daughter?'

'I don't think so,' I said slowly, after a moment's silence, which he
sat through like a mutinous schoolboy. 'I might tell you that I don't
care a button whom you marry, but that would not be true. I do care more
or less. As you say, I know you pretty well. I'd a little rather you
didn't make a mess of it; and if you must I should distinctly prefer
not to have the spectacle under my nose for the rest of my life. I can't
hinder you, but I won't help you.'

'And what possesses you to imagine that in marrying Cecily I should make
a mess of it? Shouldn't your first consideration be whether SHE would?'

'Perhaps it should, but, you see, it isn't. Cecily would be happy with
anybody who made her comfortable. You would ask a good deal more than
that, you know.'

Dacres, at this, took me up promptly. Life, he said, the heart of life,
had particularly little to say to temperament. By the heart of life I
suppose he meant married love. He explained that its roots asked other
sustenance, and that it throve best of all on simple elemental goodness.
So long as a man sought in women mere casual companionship, perhaps
the most exquisite thing to be experienced was the stimulus of some
spiritual feminine counterpart; but when he desired of one woman that
she should be always and intimately with him, the background of his
life, the mother of his children, he was better advised to avoid
nerves and sensibilities, and try for the repose of the common--the
uncommon--domestic virtues. Ah, he said, they were sweet, like lavender.
(Already, I told him, he smelled the housekeeper's linen-chest.) But
I did not interrupt him much; I couldn't, he was too absorbed. To
temperamental pairing, he declared, the century owed its breed of
decadents. I asked him if he had ever really recognized one; and he
retorted that if he hadn't he didn't wish to make a beginning in his
own family. In a quarter of an hour he repudiated the theories of a
lifetime, a gratifying triumph for simple elemental goodness. Having
denied the value of the subtler pretensions to charm in woman as you
marry her, he went artlessly on to endow Cecily with as many of them as
could possibly be desirable. He actually persuaded himself to say that
it was lovely to see the reflections of life in her tranquil spirit;
and when I looked at him incredulously he grew angry, and hinted that
Cecily's sensitiveness to reflections and other things might be a trifle
beyond her mother's ken. 'She responds instantly, intimately, to the
beautiful everywhere,' he declared.

'Aren't the opportunities of life on board ship rather limited to
demonstrate that?' I inquired. 'I know--you mean sunsets. Cecily is very
fond of sunsets. She is always asking me to come and look at them.'

'I was thinking of last night's sunset,' he confessed. 'We looked at it
together.'

'What did she say?' I asked idly.

'Nothing very much. That's just the point. Another girl would have raved
and gushed.'

'Oh, well, Cecily never does that,' I responded. 'Nevertheless she is
a very ordinary human instrument. I hope I shall have no temptation ten
years hence to remind you that I warned you of her quality.'

'I wish, not in the least for my own profit, for I am well convinced
already, but simply to win your cordiality and your approval--never did
an unexceptional wooer receive such niggard encouragement!--I wish there
were some sort of test for her quality. I would be proud to stand by it,
and you would be convinced. I can't find words to describe my objection
to your state of mind.'

The thing seemed to me to be a foregone conclusion. I saw it
accomplished, with all its possibilities of disastrous commonplace. I
saw all that I have here taken the trouble to foreshadow. So far as
I was concerned, Dacres's burden would add itself to my philosophies,
voila tout. I should always be a little uncomfortable about it, because
it had been taken from my back; but it would not be a matter for the
wringing of hands. And yet--the hatefulness of the mistake! Dacres's
bold talk of a test made no suggestion. Should my invention be more
fertile? I thought of something.

'You have said nothing to her yet?' I asked.

'Nothing. I don't think she suspects for a moment. She treats me as if
no such fell design were possible. I'm none too confident, you know,' he
added, with longer face.

'We go straight to Agra. Could you come to Agra?'

'Ideal!' he cried. 'The memory of Mumtaz! The garden of the Taj! I've
always wanted to love under the same moon as Shah Jehan. How thoughtful
of you!'

'You must spend a few days with us in Agra,' I continued. 'And as you
say, it is the very place to shrine your happiness, if it comes to pass
there.'

'Well, I am glad to have extracted a word of kindness from you at last,'
said Dacres, as the stewards came to lay the table. 'But I wish,' he
added regretfully, 'you could have thought of a test.'


Chapter 1.V.

Four days later we were in Agra. A time there was when the name would
have been the key of dreams to me; now it stood for John's headquarters.
I was rejoiced to think I would look again upon the Taj; and the
prospect of living with it was a real enchantment; but I pondered most
the kind of house that would be provided for the General Commanding the
District, how many the dining-room would seat, and whether it would
have a roof of thatch or of corrugated iron--I prayed against corrugated
iron. I confess these my preoccupations. I was forty, and at forty the
practical considerations of life hold their own even against domes of
marble, world-renowned, and set about with gardens where the bulbul
sings to the rose. I smiled across the years at the raptures of my first
vision of the place at twenty-one, just Cecily's age. Would I now sit
under Arjamand's cypresses till two o'clock in the morning to see the
wonder of her tomb at a particular angle of the moon? Would I climb one
of her tall white ministering minarets to see anything whatever? I very
greatly feared that I would not. Alas for the aging of sentiment, of
interest! Keep your touch with life and your seat in the saddle as
long as you will, the world is no new toy at forty. But Cecily was
twenty-one, Cecily who sat stolidly finishing her lunch while Dacres
Tottenham talked about Akbar and his philosophy. 'The sort of man,' he
said, 'that Carlyle might have smoked a pipe with.'

'But surely,' said Cecily reflectively, 'tobacco was not discovered in
England then. Akbar came to the throne in 1526.'

'Nor Carlyle either for that matter,' I hastened to observe.
'Nevertheless, I think Mr. Tottenham's proposition must stand.'

'Thanks, Mrs. Farnham,' said Dacres. 'But imagine Miss Farnham's
remembering Akbar's date! I'm sure you didn't!'

'Let us hope she doesn't know too much about him,' I cried gaily, 'or
there will be nothing to tell!'

'Oh, really and truly very little!' said Cecily, 'but as soon as we
heard papa would be stationed here Aunt Emma made me read up about those
old Moguls and people. I think I remember the dynasty. Baber, wasn't he
the first? And then Humayon, and after him Akbar, and then Jehangir, and
then Shah Jehan. But I've forgotten every date but Akbar's.'

She smiled her smile of brilliant health and even spirits as she made
the damaging admission, and she was so good to look at, sitting there
simple and wholesome and fresh, peeling her banana with her well-shaped
fingers, that we swallowed the dynasty as it were whole, and smiled back
upon her. John, I may say, was extremely pleased with Cecily; he
said she was a very satisfactory human accomplishment. One would
have thought, positively, the way he plumed himself over his handsome
daughter, that he alone was responsible for her. But John, having
received his family, straightway set off with his Staff on a tour of
inspection, and thereby takes himself out of this history. I sometimes
think that if he had stayed--but there has never been the lightest
recrimination between us about it, and I am not going to hint one now.

'Did you read,' asked Dacres, 'what he and the Court poet wrote over the
entrance gate to the big mosque at Fattehpur-Sikri? It's rather nice.
"The world is a looking-glass, wherein the image has come and is
gone--take as thine own nothing more than what thou lookest upon."'

My daughter's thoughtful gaze was, of course, fixed upon the speaker,
and in his own glance I saw a sudden ray of consciousness; but Cecily
transferred her eyes to the opposite wall, deeply considering, and while
Dacres and I smiled across the table, I saw that she had perceived no
reason for blushing. It was a singularly narrow escape.

'No,' she said, 'I didn't; what a curious proverb for an emperor to
make! He couldn't possibly have been able to see all his possessions at
once.'

'If you have finished,' Dacres addressed her, 'do let me show you what
your plain and immediate duty is to the garden. The garden waits for
you--all the roses expectant--'

'Why, there isn't one!' cried Cecily, pinning on her hat. It was
pleasing, and just a trifle pathetic, the way he hurried her out of the
scope of any little dart; he would not have her even within range of
amused observation. Would he continue, I wondered vaguely, as, with my
elbows on the table, I tore into strips the lemon-leaf that floated in
my finger-bowl--would he continue, through life, to shelter her from his
other clever friends as now he attempted to shelter her from her mother?
In that case he would have to domicile her, poor dear, behind the
curtain, like the native ladies--a good price to pay for a protection
of which, bless her heart! she would be all unaware. I had quite stopped
bemoaning the affair; perhaps the comments of my husband, who treated
it with broad approval and satisfaction, did something to soothe my
sensibilities. At all events, I had gradually come to occupy a high
fatalistic ground towards the pair. If it was written upon their
foreheads that they should marry, the inscription was none of mine;
and, of course, it was true, as John had indignantly stated, that
Dacres might do very much worse. One's interest in Dacres Tottenham's
problematical future had in no way diminished; but the young man was so
positive, so full of intention, so disinclined to discussion--he had
not reopened the subject since that morning in the saloon of the
Caledonia--that one's feeling about it rather took the attenuated form
of a shrug. I am afraid, too, that the pleasurable excitement of such
an impending event had a little supervened; even at forty there is no
disallowing the natural interests of one's sex. As I sat there pulling
my lemon-leaf to pieces, I should not have been surprised or in the
least put about if the two had returned radiant from the lawn to demand
my blessing. As to the test of quality that I had obligingly invented
for Dacres on the spur of the moment without his knowledge or
connivance, it had some time ago faded into what he apprehended it to
be--a mere idyllic opportunity, a charming background, a frame for his
project, of prettier sentiment than the funnels and the hand-rails of a
ship.

Mr. Tottenham had ten days to spend with us. He knew the place well;
it belonged to the province to whose service he was dedicated, and he
claimed with impressive authority the privilege of showing it to Cecily
by degrees--the Hall of Audience today, the Jessamine Tower tomorrow,
the tomb of Akbar another, and the Deserted City yet another day. We
arranged the expeditions in conference, Dacres insisting only upon the
order of them, which I saw was to be cumulative, with the Taj at the
very end, on the night precisely of the full of the moon, with a better
chance of roses. I had no special views, but Cecily contributed some;
that we should do the Hall of Audience in the morning, so as not to
interfere with the club tennis in the afternoon, that we should bicycle
to Akbar's tomb and take a cold luncheon--if we were sure there would
be no snakes--to the Deserted City, to all of which Dacres gave loyal
assent. I endorsed everything; I was the encouraging chorus, only
stipulating that my number should be swelled from day to day by the
addition of such persons as I should approve. Cecily, for instance,
wanted to invite the Bakewells because we had come out in the same ship
with them; but I could not endure the Bakewells, and it seemed to me
that our having made the voyage with them was the best possible reason
for declining to lay eyes on them for the rest of our natural lives.
'Mamma has such strong prejudices,' Cecily remarked, as she reluctantly
gave up the idea; and I waited to see whether the graceless Tottenham
would unmurmuringly take down the Bakewells. How strong must be the
sentiment that turns a man into a boa-constrictor without a pang of
transmigration! But no, this time he was faithful to the principles of
his pre-Cecilian existence. 'They are rather Boojums,' he declared.
'You would think so, too, if you knew them better. It is that kind of
excellent person that makes the real burden of India.' I could have
patted him on the back.

Thanks to the rest of the chorus, which proved abundantly available,
I was no immediate witness to Cecily's introduction to the glorious
fragments which sustain in Agra the memory of the moguls. I may as well
say that I arranged with care that if anybody must be standing by when
Dacres disclosed them, it should not be I. If Cecily had squinted,
I should have been sorry, but I would have found in it no personal
humiliation. There were other imperfections of vision, however, for
which I felt responsible and ashamed; and with Dacres, though the
situation, Heaven knows, was none of my seeking, I had a little the
feeling of a dealer who offers a defective bibelot to a connoisseur. My
charming daughter--I was fifty times congratulated upon her appearance
and her manners--had many excellent qualities and capacities which she
never inherited from me; but she could see no more than the bulk, no
further than the perspective; she could register exactly as much as a
camera.

This was a curious thing, perhaps, to displease my maternal vanity, but
it did; I had really rather she squinted; and when there was anything to
look at I kept out of the way. I can not tell precisely, therefore, what
the incidents were that contributed to make Mr. Tottenham, on our return
from these expeditions, so thoughtful, with a thoughtfulness which
increased, towards the end of them, to a positive gravity. This would
disappear during dinner under the influence of food and drink. He
would talk nightly with new enthusiasm and fresh hope--or did I imagine
it?--of the loveliness he had arranged to reveal on the following day.
If again my imagination did not lead me astray, I fancied this occurred
later and later in the course of the meal as the week went on; as if
his state required more stimulus as time progressed. One evening, when
I expected it to flag altogether, I had a whim to order champagne and
observe the effect; but I am glad to say that I reproved myself, and
refrained.

Cecily, meanwhile, was conducting herself in a manner which left nothing
to be desired. If, as I sometimes thought, she took Dacres very much for
granted, she took him calmly for granted; she seemed a prey to none of
those fluttering uncertainties, those suspended judgments and elaborate
indifferences which translate themselves so plainly in a young lady
receiving addresses. She turned herself out very freshly and very well;
she was always ready for everything, and I am sure that no glance of
Dacres Tottenham's found aught but direct and decorous response. His
society on these occasions gave her solid pleasure; so did the drive and
the lunch; the satisfactions were apparently upon the same plane. She
was aware of the plum, if I may be permitted a brusque but irresistible
simile; and with her mouth open, her eyes modestly closed, and her head
in a convenient position, she waited, placidly, until it should fall in.
The Farnham ladies would have been delighted with the result of their
labours in the sweet reason and eminent propriety of this attitude.
Thinking of my idiotic sufferings when John began to fix himself upon my
horizon, I pondered profoundly the power of nature in differentiation.

One evening, the last, I think, but one, I had occasion to go to my
daughter's room, and found her writing in her commonplace-book. She had
a commonplace-book, as well as a Where Is It? an engagement-book, an
account-book, a diary, a Daily Sunshine, and others with purposes too
various to remember. 'Dearest mamma,' she said, as I was departing,
'there is only one "p" in "opulence", isn't there?'

'Yes,' I replied, with my hand on the door-handle, and added curiously,
for it was an odd word in Cecily's mouth, 'Why?'

She hardly hesitated. 'Oh,' she said, 'I am just writing down one or two
things Mr. Tottenham said about Agra before I forget them. They seemed
so true.'

'He has a descriptive touch,' I remarked.

'I think he describes beautifully. Would you like to hear what he said
today?'

'I would,' I replied, sincerely.

'"Agra,"' read this astonishing young lady, '"is India's one pure idyll.
Elsewhere she offers other things, foolish opulence, tawdry pageant,
treachery of eunuchs and jealousies of harems, thefts of kings' jewels
and barbaric retributions; but they are all actual, visualized, or
part of a past that shows to the backward glance hardly more relief
and vitality than a Persian painting"--I should like to see a Persian
painting--"but here the immortal tombs and pleasure-houses rise out of
colour delicate and subtle; the vision holds across three hundred years;
the print of the court is still in the dust of the city."'

'Did you really let him go on like that?' I exclaimed. 'It has the
license of a lecture!'

'I encouraged him to. Of course he didn't say it straight off. He said
it naturally; he stopped now and then to cough. I didn't understand it
all; but I think I have remembered every word.'

'You have a remarkable memory. I'm glad he stopped to cough. Is there
any more?'

'One little bit. "Here the moguls wrought their passions into marble,
and held them up with great refrains from their religion, and set them
about with gardens; and here they stand in the twilight of the glory of
those kings and the noonday splendour of their own."'

'How clever of you!' I exclaimed. 'How wonderfully clever of you to
remember!'

'I had to ask him to repeat one or two sentences. He didn't like that.
But this is nothing. I used to learn pages letter-perfect for Aunt Emma.
She was very particular. I think it is worth preserving, don't you?'

'Dear Cecily,' I responded, 'you have a frugal mind.'

There was nothing else to respond. I could not tell her just how
practical I thought her, or how pathetic her little book.


Chapter 1.VI.

We drove together, after dinner, to the Taj. The moonlight lay in an
empty splendour over the broad sandy road, with the acacias pricking up
on each side of it and the gardens of the station bungalows stretching
back into clusters of crisp shadows. It was an exquisite February night,
very still. Nothing seemed abroad but two or three pariah dogs, upon
vague and errant business, and the Executive Engineer going swiftly home
from the club on his bicycle. Even the little shops of the bazaar were
dark and empty; only here and there a light showed barred behind
the carved balconies of the upper rooms, and there was hardly any
tom-tomming. The last long slope of the road showed us the river curving
to the left, through a silent white waste that stretched indefinitely
into the moonlight on one side, and was crowned by Akbar's fort on the
other. His long high line of turrets and battlements still guarded a
hint of their evening rose, and dim and exquisite above them hovered
the three dome-bubbles of the Pearl Mosque. It was a night of perfect
illusion, and the illusion was mysterious, delicate, and faint. I sat
silent as we rolled along, twenty years nearer to the original joy of
things when John and I drove through the same old dream.

Dacres, too, seemed preoccupied; only Cecily was, as they say, herself.
Cecily was really more than herself, she exhibited an unusual flow of
spirits. She talked continually, she pointed out this and that, she
asked who lived here and who lived there. At regular intervals of
about four minutes she demanded if it wasn't simply too lovely. She
sat straight up with her vigorous profile and her smart hat; and the
silhouette of her personality sharply refused to mingle with the dust
of any dynasty. She was a contrast, a protest; positively she was
an indignity. 'Do lean back, dear child,' I exclaimed at last. And
so far they went, till they heard a Christian woman who travailed
in child-bed in a certain house whereby they went.

There was the husband of the said woman aloft in a high solar, and
was praying to God one while that she might be delivered, and then
again another while that she might not be delivered.

When the Emperor had hearkened this a great while, he said to the knight:
"Hast thou heard it of yonder churl how he prayeth that his wife may
be delivered of her child, and another while prayeth that she may not
be delivered? Certes, he is worser than a thief. For every man ought to
have pity of women, more especially of them that be sick of childing.
And now, so help me Mahoume and Termagaunt! if I do not hang him, if he
betake him not to telling me reason wherefore he doeth it! Come
we now unto him."
They went within, and said the Emperor: "Now churl, tell me of a sooth
wherefore thou prayedst thy God thus for thy wife, one while that she
might be delivered, and another while that she might be delivered not.
This have I will to wot."
"Sir," said he, "I will tell thee well. Sooth it is that I be a clerk,
and know mickle of a science which men call Astronomy. Withal I wot
of the course of the stars and of the planets; therefore saw I well
that if my wife were delivered at the point and the hour whereas I prayed
God that she might not be delivered, that if she were delivered
at that hour, the child would go the way of perdition, and that
needs must he be burned, or hanged, or drowned.

But whenas I saw that it was good hour and good point, then
prayed I to God that she might be delivered. And so sore have I prayed
God, that he hath hearkened my prayer of his mercy, and that she is
delivered in good point. God be heried and thanked!"
"Well me now," said the Emperor, "in what good point is the child
born?"
"Sir," said he, "of a good will; know sir, for sooth, that this child,
which here is born, shall have to wife the daughter of the emperor
of this city, who was born but scarce eight days ago; and he shall
be emperor withal, and lord of this city, and of all the earth." "Churl,"
said the Emperor, "this which thou sayest can never come to pass."
"Sir," said he, "it is all sooth, and thus it behoveth it to be." "Certes,"
quoth the Emperor, "'tis a mighty matter to trow in."

But the Emperor and the Knight departed thence, and the Emperor bade
the Knight go bear off the child in such wise, if he might, that none
should see him therein. The Knight went and found there two women,
who were all busied in arraying the woman who had been brought to
bed. The child was wrapped in linen clothes, and they had laid him
on a chair. Thereto came the Knight, and took the child and laid him
on a board, and brought him to the Emperor, in such wise that none
of the women wotted thereof. The Emperor did do slit the belly of him
with a knife from the breast down to the navel, and said withal
to the Knight, that never should the son of that churl have to wife
his daughter, nor be emperor after him.

Therewithal would the Emperor do the Knight to put forth his hand to
the belly, to seek out the heart; but the Knight said to him: "Ah,
sir, a-God's mercy, what wouldst thou do?

It is nought meet to thee, and if folk were to wot thereof, great
reproach wouldst thou get thee.

Let him be at this present, for he is more than dead. And if it please
thee that that one trouble more about the matter, I will bear him down
to the sea to drown him."

"Yea," quoth the Emperor, "bear him away thither, for right sore do
I hate him."
So the Knight took the child, and wrapped him in a cover-point of
silk, and bore him down toward the sea.

But therewith had he pity of the child, and said that by him should he
never be drowned; so he left him, all wrapped up as he was, on a
midden before the gate of a certain abbey of monks, who at that
very nick of time were singing their matins.

When the monks had done singing their matins, they heard the child
crying, and they bore him before the Lord Abbot.

And the Abbot saw that the child was fair, and said that he would
do it to be nourished.

Therewith he did do unwrap it, and saw that it had the belly cloven from
the breast down to the navel.

The Abbot, so soon as it was day, bade come leeches, and asked of
them for how much they would heal the child and they craved for the
healing of him an hundred of bezants.

But he said that it would be more than enough, for overmuch would the
child be costing.

And so much did the Abbot, that he made market with the surgeons
for four- score bezants.

And thereafter the Abbot did do baptize the child, and gave him to name
Coustans, because him-seemed that he costed exceeding much for the
healing of him.

The leeches went so much about with child, that he was made whole and the
Abbot sought him a good nurse, and got the child to suckle, and he was
healed full soon; whereas the flesh of him was soft and tender,
and grew together swiftly one to the other, but ever after showed
the mark.

Much speedily waxed the child in great beauty; when he was seven years
old the Abbot did him to go to the school, and he learned so well,
that he over-passed all his fellows in subtilty and science.

When he was of twelve years, he was a child exceeding goodly; so it might
nought avail to seek a goodlier.

And whenas the Abbot saw him to be a child so goodly and gentle, he did
him to ride abroad with him.

Now so it fell out, that the Abbot had to speak with the Emperor of a
wrong which his bailiffs had done to the abbey.

The Abbot made him a goodly gift, whereas the abbey and convent
were subject unto him, for the Emperor was a Saracen. When the Abbot
had given him his goodly gift, the Emperor gave him day for the
third day thence, whenas he should be at a castle of his, three
leagues from the city of Byzance.

The Abbot abode the day: when he saw the time at point to go to the
Emperor, he mounted a-horseback, and his chaplain, and esquire,
and his folk; and with him was Coustans, who was so well fashioned
that all praised his great beauty, and each one said that he seemed
well to be come of high kindred, and that he would come to great
good.

So when the Abbot was come before the castle whereas the Emperor should
be, he came before him and spake to and greeted him: and the Emperor
said to him that he should come into the castle, and he would speak
with him of his matter: the Abbot made him obeisance, and said to
him: "Sir, a-God's name!"

Then the Abbot called to him Coustans, who was holding of his hat while
he spake unto the Emperor; and the Emperor looked on the lad, and saw
him so fair and gentle as never before had he seen the like fair
person. So he asked of the Abbot what he was; and the Abbot said him that
he wotted not, save that he was of his folk, and that he had bred him
up from a little child.
"And if I had leisure with thee, I would tell thee thereof fine marvels."
"Yea," said the Emperor; "come ye into the castle, and therein shalt
thou say me the sooth."
The Emperor came into the castle, and the Abbot was ever beside
him, as one who had his business to do; and he did it to the best
that he might, as he who was subject unto him.

The Emperor forgat in nowise the great beauty of the lad, and said unto
the Abbot that he should cause him come before him, and the Abbot
sent for the lad, who came straightway.

When the child was before the Emperor, he seemed unto him right fair;
and he said unto the Abbot, that great damage it was that so fair a
lad was Christian. But the Abbot said that it was great joy thereof,
whereas he would render unto God a fair soul.

When the Emperor heard that, he fell a-laughing, and said to the
Abbot that the Christian law was of no account, and that all they
were lost who trowed therein.

When the Abbot heard him so say, he was sore grieved; but he durst
not make answer as he would, so he said much humbly: "Sir, if God
please, who can all things, they are not lost; for God will have mercy
of his sinners."
Then the Emperor asked of him whence that fair child was come; and
the Abbot said that it was fifteen years gone since he had been
found before their gate, on a midden, all of a night-tide.

"And our monks heard him a-crying whenas they had but just said
matins; and they went to seek the child, and brought him to me; and
I looked on the babe, and beheld him much fair, and I said that I
would do him to be nourished and baptized.

I unwrapped him, for the babe was wrapped up in a cover-point of
vermil sendel; and when he was unwrapped, I saw that he had the
belly slit from the breast to the navel.

Then I sent for leeches and surgeons, and made market with them to
heal him for four-score bezants; and thereafter he was baptized,
and I gave him to name Coustans, because he costed so much of goods
to heal.

So was the babe presently made whole: but never sithence might it
be that the mark appeared not on his belly."

When the Emperor heard that, he knew that it was the child whose belly he
had slit to draw the heart out of him.

So he said to the Abbot that he should give him the lad. And the Abbot
said that he would speak thereof to his convent, and that he should
have him with their good-will. The Emperor held his peace, and
answered never a word. But the Abbot took leave of him, and came to
his abbey, and his monks, and told them that the Emperor had craved
Coustans of him.
"But I answered that I would speak to you if ye will yea-say it.
Say, now, what ye would praise of my doing herein."
"What!" said the wisest of the convent; "by our faith, evil hast thou
done, whereas thou gavest him not presently, even as he demanded of
thee. We counsel thee send him straightway, lest the Emperor be wrath
against us, for speedily may we have scathe of him."

Thereto was their counsel fast, that Coustans should be sent to the Emperor.
So the Abbot commanded the Prior to lead Coustans thereto; and the
Prior said: "A-God's name!"
So he mounted, and led with him Coustans, and came unto the Emperor, and
greeted him on behalf of the Abbot and the convent; and then he took
Coustans by the hand, and, on the said behalf, gave him to the Emperor,
who received him as one who was much wrath that such a runagate and
beggar churl should have his daughter to wife. But he thought in
his heart that he would play him the turn.

When the Emperor had gotten Coustans, he was in sore imagination how
he should be slain in such wise that none might wot word thereof.
And it fell out so that the Emperor had matters on hand at the outer
marches of his land, much long aloof thence, well a twelve days' journey.
So the Emperor betook him to going thither, and had Coustans thither
with him, and thought what wise he might to do slay him, till at last he
let write a letter to his Burgreve of Byzance.

"I Emperor of Byzance and Lord of Greece, do thee to wit who abidest
duly in my place for the warding of my land; and so soon as thou seest
this letter thou shalt slay or let slay him who this letter shall bear
to thee, so soon as he hast delivered the said letter to thee, without
longer tarrying. As thou holdest dear thine own proper body, do
straightway my commandment herein."
Even such was the letter which the fair child Coustans bore, and knew
not that he bore his own death. The lad took the letter, which was
close, and betook him to the road, and did so much by his journeys that
he came in less than fifteen days to Byzance, which is nowadays called
Constantinople.

When the lad entered into the city, it was the hour of dinner;
so, as God would have it, he thought that he would not go his errand at
that nick of time, but would tarry till folk had done dinner: and
exceeding hot was the weather, as is wont about St.

John's-mass. So he entered into the garden all a-horseback. Great and
long was the garden; so the lad took the bridle from off his horse and
unlaced the saddle-girths, and let him graze; and thereafter he went
into the nook of a tree; and full pleasant was the place, so that presently
he fell asleep.

Now so it fell out, that when the fair daughter of the Emperor had
eaten, she went into the garden with three of her maidens; and they fell
to chasing each other about, as whiles is the wont of maidens
to play; until at the last the fair Emperor's daughter came under the
tree whereas Coustans lay a-sleeping, and he was all vermil as the
rose. And when the damsel saw him, she beheld him with a right good
will, and she said to herself that never on a day had she seen so fair
a fashion of man. Then she called to her that one of her fellows in
whom she had the most affiance, and the others she made to go forth
from out of the garden.

Then the fair maiden, daughter of the Emperor, took her fellow by the
hand, and led her to look on the lovely lad whereas he lay a- sleeping;
and she spake thus: "Fair fellow, here is a rich treasure.
Lo thou! the most fairest fashion of a man that ever mine eyes have
seen on any day of my life. And he beareth a letter, and well I would
see what it sayeth."
So the two maidens drew nigh to the lad, and took from him the letter,
and the daughter of the Emperor read the same; and when she had
read it, she fell a-lamenting full sore, and said to her fellow:
"Certes here is a great grief!"

"Ha, my Lady!" said the other one, "tell me what it is." "Of a surety,"
said the Maiden, "might I but trow in thee I would do away that sorrow!"
"Ha, Lady," said she, "hardily mayest thou trow in me, whereas for
nought would I uncover that thing which thou wouldst have hid."
Then the Maiden, the daughter of the Emperor, took oath of her
according to the paynim law; and thereafter she told her what the letter
said; and the damsel answered her: "Lady, and what wouldest thou
do?" "I will tell thee well," said the daughter of the Emperor;
"I will put in his pouch another letter, wherein the Emperor, my father,
biddeth his Burgreve to give me to wife to this fair child here, and
that he make great feast at the doing of the wedding unto all the
folk of this land; whereas he is to wot well that the lad is a high
man and a loyal."

When the damsel had heard that, she said that would be good to do.

"But, Lady, how wilt thou have the seal of thy father?"

"Full well," said the Maiden, "for my father delivered to me four pair
of scrolls, sealed of his seal thereon; he hath written nought therein;
and I will write all that I will." "Lady," said she, "thou hast
said full well; but do it speedily, and haste thee ere he awakeneth."
"So will I," said the Maiden.

Then the fair Maiden, the daughter of the Emperor, went to her coffers,
and drew thereout one of the said scrolls sealed, which her father
had left her, that she might borrow moneys thereby, if so she would.
For ever was the Emperor and his folk in war, whereas he had neighbours
right felon, and exceeding mighty, whose land marched upon his. So
the Maiden wrote the letter in this wise:

"I King Musselin, Emperor of Greece and of Byzance the city, to my Burgreve
of Byzance greeting. I command thee that the bearer of this letter ye
give to my fair daughter in marriage according to our law; whereas
I have heard and wot soothly that he is a high person, and well
worthy to have my daughter.

And thereto make ye great joy and great feast to all them of my city
and of all my land."
In such wise wrote and said the letter of the fair daughter of the
Emperor; and when she had written the said letter, she went back to the
garden, she and her fellow together, and found that one yet asleep, and
they put the letter into his pouch. And then they began to sing and make
noise to awaken him. So he awoke anon, and was all astonied at the
fair Maiden, the daughter of the Emperor, and the other one her fellow,
who came before him; and the fair Maiden, daughter of the Emperor, greeted
him; and he greeted her again right debonairly.

Then she asked of him what he was, and whither he went; and he said
that he bore a letter to the Burgreve, which the Emperor sent by
him; and the Maiden said that she would bring him straightway whereas
was the Burgreve.

Therewith she took him by the hand, and brought him to the palace,
where there was much folk, who all rose against the Maiden, as to
her who was their Lady.

Now the Maiden demanded the Burgreve, and they told her that he was
in a chamber; so thither she led the lad, and the lad delivered the
letter, and said that the Emperor greeted him.

But the Burgreve made great joy of the lad, and kissed the hand of
him.

The Maiden opened the pouch, and fell a-kissing the letter
and the seal of her father for joy's sake, whereas she had not
heard tidings of him a great while.

Thereafter she said to the Burgreve that she would hearken the
letter in privy council, even as if she wotted nought thereof; and
the Burgreve said that that were good to do.

I saw his studio in Paris
afterward. Between his own canvases and Ahmedabad balconies and Delhi
embroideries and Burmese Buddhas and other things he seemed to have
carried off the whole place.'

'But they don't come up here ever. They come in the cold weather, and
as they can get plenty of snow and ice at home, they stay down in the
plains with the palm-trees.'

'Precisely; they do,' I said.

'And besides,' Dora went on, with increasing excitement, 'this isn't
a master. You see, he doesn't send a single picture--only these tiny
things. And there's a certain tentativeness'--Miss Harris, her parasol
handle pressed against her lips, looked at me with an eagerness that was
a pleasure to look at in itself.

'A certain weakness, almost a lack of confidence, in the drawing,' I
said.

'What does that signify?'

'Why, immaturity, of course--not enough discipline.'

'He's a student. Not that it amounts to a defect, you know'--she was as
jealous already as if she possessed the things--'only a sign to read
by. I should be grateful for more signs. Why should a student come to
Simla?'

'To teach, perhaps,' I suggested. Naturally one sought only among
reasons of utility.

'It's the Kensington person who teaches. When they have worked in the
ateliers and learned as much as this they never do. They paint fans and
menu cards, and starve, but they don't teach.'

Sir William Lamb, Member of Council for the Department of Finance,
was borne by the stream to our sides. The simile will hardly stand
conscientious examination, for the stream was a thin one and did no more
than trickle past, while Sir William weighed fifteen stone, and was
so eminent that it could never inconvenience him at its deepest. Dora
detached her gaze from the pictures and turned her back upon them; I
saw the measure of precaution. It was unavailing, however. 'What have
we here?' said Sir William. Dora removed her person from his line of
vision, and he saw what we had there.

'The work of a friend of yours?' Sir William was spoken of as
a 'cautious' man. He had risen to his present distinction on
stepping-stones of mistakes he conspicuously had not made.

'No,' said Dora, 'we were wondering who the artist could be.'

Sir William looked at the studies, and had a happy thought. 'If you ask
me, I should say a child of ten,' he said. He was also known as a man of
humour.

'Miss Harris had just remarked a certain immaturity,' I ventured.

'Oh, well,' said Sir William, 'this isn't the Royal Academy, is it? I
always say it's very good of people to send their things here at all.
And some of them are not half bad--I should call this year's average
very high indeed.'

'Are you pleased with the picture that has taken your prize, Sir
William?' asked Dora.

'I have bought it.' Sir William's chest underwent before our eyes an
expansion of conscious virtue. Living is so expensive in Simla; the
purchase of a merely decorative object takes almost the proportion of an
act of religion, even by a Member of Council drawing four hundred pounds
a month.

'First-rate it is, first-rate. Have you seen it? "Our Camp in Tirah."
Natives cooking in the foreground, fellows standing about smoking, and
a whole pile of tinned stores dumped down in one corner, exactly as they
would be, don't you know! Oh, I think the Committee made a very good
choice indeed, a very good choice.'

Sir William moved on, and Dora was free to send me an expressive glance.
'Isn't that just LIKE this place?' she demanded. 'Let me see, the
Viceroy's medal, the Society's silver medal, five prizes from Members
of Council. Highly Commended's as thick as blackberries, and these
perfectly fresh, original, admirable things completely ignored. What an
absurd, impossible corner of the earth it is!'

'You look very cross, you two,' said Mrs. Sinclair, trailing past. 'Come
and see the crazy china exhibit, all made of little bits, you know. They
say the photograph frames are simply lovely.'

Mrs. Sinclair's invitation was not sincere. Miss Harris was able to
answer it with a laugh and a wave. We remained beside the serious fact
of exhibits 97-103.

'Who are the judges this year?' I asked, not that I did not know
precisely who they were likely to be. There is a custom in these
matters, and I had been part of Simla for eleven years.

Dora took the catalogue from my hand and turned its pages over.

'Mr. Cathcart, of course; the Private Secretary to the Viceroy would be
on the Committee almost ex officio, wouldn't he? Impossible to conceive
a Private Secretary to the Viceroy whose opinion would not be valuable
upon any head. The member for Public Works--I suppose he can build
bridges, or could once, therefore he can draw, or could once; besides,
look at his precedence and his pay! General Haycock--isn't he head of
the Ordnance Department? I can't think of any other reason for putting
him on. Oh yes--he's a K.C.B., and he is inventing a way of taking
coloured photographs. Mr. Tilley, the old gentleman that teaches
elementary drawing to the little girls in the diocesan school, that's
all right. And Mr. Jay, of course, because Mr. Jay's water-colours
are the mainstay of the exhibition, and he must be given a chance of
expressing his opinion of them.' She handed me back the catalogue. 'I
have never been really angry with them before,' she said.

'Are you really angry now?' I asked.

'Furious,' Dora replied, and indeed her face expressed indignation. Its
lines were quite tense, and a spark shone oddly in the middle of the
eyes. One could not credit her with beauty, but as her lady friends were
fond of saying, there was something 'more' in her face. I saw a good
deal more at this moment, and it gave me pleasure, as all her feelings
did when they came out like that. I hasten to add that she was not
unpleasing; her features had a symmetry and a mobility, and her eyes
could take any transient charm they chose to endow themselves with;
though there were moments when she compared very badly with the
other young ladies of Simla with their high spirits and their pretty
complexions, very badly indeed. Those were occasions when the gay
monotony of the place pressed, I imagine, a little heavily upon her, and
the dullness she felt translated itself in her expression. But she was
by no means unpleasing.

'I must go and see Lady Pilkey's picture,' I said.

'What is the use?' said Dora. 'It's a landscape in oils--a view of the
Himalayas, near Narkanda. There are the snows in the background, very
thin and visionary through a gap in the trees, and two hills, one hill
on each side. Dark green trees, pine-trees, with a dead one in the
left foreground covered with a brilliant red creeper. Right foreground
occupied by a mountain path and a solitary native figure with its back
turned. Society's silver medal.'

'When did you see it?' I asked.

'I haven't seen it--this year. But I saw the one she sent last, and the
one the year before that. You can trust my memory, really.'

'No,' I said, 'I can't. I'm dining there tonight. I must have an
original impression.'

'Congratulate her on the warm blaze of colour in the foreground. It's
perfectly safe,' urged Miss Harris, but I felt compelled to go myself to
see lady Pilkey's landscape. When I returned I found her still sitting
in grave absorption before the studies that had taken us so by surprise.
Her face was full of a soft new light; I had never before seen the
spring touched in her that could flood it like that.

'You were very nearly right,' I announced; 'but the blaze of colour was
in the middle distance, and there was a torrent in the foreground that
quite put it out. And the picture does take the Society's silver medal.'

'I can not decide,' she replied without looking at me, 'between the
Kattiawar fair thing and those hills in the rain. I can only have
one--father won't hear of more than one.'

'You can have two,' I said bluntly, so deeply interested I was in the
effect the things had on her. 'And I will have a third for myself. I
can't withstand those apricot-trees.'

I thought there was moisture in the eyes she turned upon me, an unusual
thing--a most unusual thing--in Dora Harris; but she winked it back, if
it was there, too quickly for any certainty.

'You are a dear,' she said. Once or twice before she had called me
a dear. It reminded me, as nothing else ever did, that I was a
contemporary of her father's. It is a feeble confession, but I have
known myself refrain from doing occasional agreeable things apprehending
that she might call me a dear.


Chapter 2.II.

Dora had been out three seasons when these things happened. I remember
sharing Edward Harris's anxiety in no slight degree as to how the
situation would resolve itself when she came, the situation consisting
so considerably in his eyes of the second Mrs. Harris, who had
complicated it further with three little red-cheeked boys, all of the
age to be led about the station on very small ponies, and not under any
circumstances to be allowed in the drawing-room when one went to tea
with their mother. No one, except perhaps poor Ted himself, was more
interested than I to observe how the situation did resolve itself, in
the decision of Mrs. Harris that the boys, the two eldest at least, must
positively begin the race for the competitive examinations of the future
without further delay, and that she must as positively be domiciled in
England 'to be near' them, at all events until they had well made the
start. I should have been glad to see them ride their ponies up and down
the Mall a bit longer, poor little chaps; they were still very cherubic
to be invited to take a view of competitive examinations, however
distant; but Mrs. Harris's conviction was not to be overcome. So they
went home to begin, and she went with them, leaving Dora in possession
of her father, her father's house, his pay, his precedence, and all
that was his. Not that I would suggest any friction; I am convinced that
there was nothing like that--at least, nothing that met the eye, or the
ear. Dora adored the three little boys and was extremely kind to their
mother. She regarded this lady, I have reason to believe, with
the greatest indulgence, and behaved towards her with the greatest
consideration; I mean she had unerring intuitions as to just when,
on afternoons when Mrs. Harris was at home from dusk till dinner, she
should be dying for a walk. One could imagine her looking with her grey
eyes at dear mamma's horizon and deciding that papa was certainly not
enough to fill it by himself, deciding at the same time that he was
never likely to be ousted there, only accompanied, in a less important
and entirely innocent degree. It may be surprising that any one should
fly from so broad-minded a step-daughter; but the happy family party
lasted a bare three months. I think Mrs. Harris had a perception--she
was the kind of woman who arrived obscurely at very correct
conclusions--that she was contributing to her step-daughter's amusement
in a manner which her most benevolent intentions had not contemplated,
and she was not by any means the little person to go on doing that
indefinitely, perhaps increasingly. Besides, it was in the natural order
of things that Dora should marry, and Mrs. Harris doubtless foresaw a
comfortable return for herself in the course of a year or two, when the
usual promising junior in 'the Department' should gild his own
prospects and promote the general well-being by acquiring its head for a
father-in-law. Things always worked out if you gave them time. How much
time you ought to give them was doubtless by now a pretty constant
query with the little lady in her foggy exile; for two years had already
passed and Dora had found no connection with any young man of the
Department more permanent than those prescribed at dinners and at
dances. It is doubtful, indeed, if she had had the opportunity. There
was no absolute means of knowing; but if offers were made they never
transpired, and Mrs. Harris, far away in England, nourished a certainty
that they never were made. Speaking with her intimate knowledge of the
sex she declared that Dora frightened the men, that her cleverness was
of a kind to paralyze any sentiment of the sort that might be expected.
It depended upon Mrs. Harris's humour whether this was Dora's misfortune
or her crime. She, Dora, never frightened me, and by the time her
cleverness dawned upon me, my sentiment about her had become too robust
to be paralyzed. On the contrary, the agreeable stimulus it gave me
was one of the things I counted most valuable in my life out there. It
hardly mattered, however, that I should confess this; I was not a young
man in Harris's department. I had a department of my own; and Dora,
though she frisked with me gloriously and bullied continually, must ever
have been aware of the formidable fact that I joined the Service two
years before Edward Harris did. The daughter of three generations of
bureaucrats was not likely to forget that at one time her father had
been junior to me in the same office, though in the course of time and
the march of opportunity he had his own show now, and we nodded to
each other on the Mall with an equal sense of the divine right of
secretaries. It may seem irrelevant, but I feel compelled to explain
here that I had remained a bachelor while Harris had married twice, and
that I had kept up my cricket, while Harris had let his figure take all
the soft curves of middle age. Nevertheless the fact remained. Sometimes
I fancied it gave a certain piquancy to my relations with his daughter,
but I could never believe that the laugh was on my side.

If we met at dinner-parties, it would be sometimes Edward Harris and
sometimes myself who would take the dullest and stoutest woman down. If
she fell to him, the next in precedence was bestowed upon me, and there
might not be a pin to choose between them for phlegm and inflation. It
is a preposterous mistake to suppose that the married ladies of Simla
are in the majority brilliant and fascinating creatures, who say things
in French for greater convenience, and lead a man on. After fifteen
years I am ready to swear that I have been led on to nothing more
compromising than a subscription to the Young Women's Christian
Association, though no one could have been more docile or more
intelligent. During one viceroyalty of happy memory half a dozen
clever and amusing men and women came together in Simla--it was a mere
fortuitous occurrence, aided by a joyous ruler who hated being bored
as none before or ever since have hated it--and the place has lived
socially upon the reputation of that meteoric term ever since. And she
had been bathed, and attired and had ease at all points for the fifteen
days, so that she was come into so great beauty as wonder was. Much
fair was the Lady Jehane in her gown of silk bended of gold. So she
called her cousin to her and said: "How deemest thou of me?" "What,
dame!" said her cousin, "thou art the fairest lady of the world." "I
shall tell thee, then, fair cousin, what thou shalt do: go thou tell
so much before my father as that he shall make dole no more, but
be glad and joyful, and that thou bearest him good news of his daughter
who is whole and well; and that he come with thee and thou wilt show
him.
Then bring him hither, and meseemeth he will see me with a good
will."At these
moments I felt my seniority bitterly; to give Dora to a cavalry
subaltern was such plain waste.

It was an infinite pleasure to know any one as well as I seemed to know
Dora Harris. She, I believe, held no one else upon the same terms of
intimacy, though she found women, of course, with whom she fluttered and
embraced; and while there were, naturally, men with whom I exchanged the
time o'day in terms more or less cordial, I am certain that I kept all
my closest thoughts for her. It is necessary again to know Simla to
understand how our friendship was gilded by the consideration that it
was on both sides perfectly spontaneous. Social life in the poor little
place is almost a pure farce with the number of its dictated, prompted
intimacies, not controlled by general laws of expediency as at home, but
each on its own basis of hope and expectancy, broadly and ludicrously
obvious as a case by itself. There is a conspiracy of stupidity about
it, for we are all in the same hat, every one of us; there is none so
exalted that he does not urgently want a post that somebody else can
give him. So we continue to exchange our depreciated smiles, and only
privately admit that the person who most desires to be agreeable to us
is the person whom we regard with the greatest suspicion. As between
Dora Harris and myself there could be, naturally, no ax to grind. We
amused ourselves by looking on penetratingly but tolerantly at the
grinding of other people's.

That was a very principal bond between us, that uncompromising clearness
with which we looked at the place we lived in, and on the testimony of
which we were so certain that we didn't like it. The women were nearly
all so much in heaven in Simla, the men so well satisfied to be there
too, at the top of the tree, that our dissatisfaction gave us to
one another the merit of originality, almost proved in one another a
superior mind. It was not that either of us would have preferred to
grill out our days in the plains; we always had a saving clause for the
climate, the altitude, the scenery; it was Simla intrinsic, Simla as its
other conditions made it, with which we found such liberal fault. Again
I should have to explain Simla, at the length of an essay at least, to
justify our condemnation. This difficulty confronts me everywhere.
I must ask you instead to imagine a small colony of superior--very
superior--officials, of British origin and traditions, set on the top of
a hill, years and miles away from literature, music, pictures, politics,
existing like a harem on the gossip of the Viceroy's intentions, and
depending for amusement on tennis and bumble-puppy, and then consider,
you yourself, whether you are the sort of person to be unquestionably
happy there. If you see no reason to the contrary, pray do not go on.
There were times when Dora declared that she couldn't breathe for want
of an atmosphere, and times when I looked round and groaned at the
cheerful congratulatory aridity in every man's eye--men who had done
things at Oxford in my own year, and come out like me to be mummified
into a last state like this. Thank Heaven, there was never any cheerful
congratulation in my eye; one could always put there, when the thought
inspired it, a saving spark of rank ingratitude instead.

It was as if we had the most desirable things--roses, cool airs, far
snowy ranges--to build what we like with, and we built Simla--altitude,
7,000, population 2,500, headquarters of the Government of India during
the summer months. An ark it was, of course; an ark of refuge from the
horrible heat that surged below, and I wondered as I climbed the steeps
of Summer Hill in search of I. Armour's inaccessible address, whether he
was to be the dove bearing beautiful testimony of a world coming nearer.
I rejected the simile, however, as over-sanguine; we had been too long
abandoned on our Ararat.


Chapter 2.III.

A dog of no sort of caste stood in the veranda and barked at me
offensively. I picked up a stone, and he vanished like the dog of a
dream into the house. It was such a small house that it wasn't on the
municipal map at all: it looked as if someone had built it for amusement
with anything that was lying about. Nevertheless, it had a name, it
was called Amy Villa, freshly painted in white letters on a shiny
black board, and nailed against the nearest tree in the orthodox Simla
fashion. It looked as if the owner of the place had named it as a
duty towards his tenant, the board was so new, and in that case the
reflection presented itself that the tenant might have cooperated to
call it something else. It was disconcerting somehow to find that our
dove had perched, even temporarily, in Amy Villa. Nor was it soothing
to discover that the small white object stuck in the corner of the board
was Mr. Ingersoll Armour's card.

In Simla we do not stick our cards about in that way at the mercy of the
wind and the weather; we paint our names neatly under the names of our
houses with 'I.C.S.' for Indian Civil Service, or 'P.W.D.' for Public
Works Department, or whatever designation we are entitled to immediately
after, so that there can be no mistake. This strikes newcomers sometimes
as a little professional, especially when a hand accompanies, pointing;
but it is the only possible way where there are no streets and no
numbers, but where houses are dropped about a hilltop as if they had
fallen from a pepper-pot. In sticking his card out like that Mr. Armour
seemed to imagine himself au quatrieme or au cinquieme somewhere on
the south side of the Seine; it betrayed rather a ridiculous lack of
conformity. He was high enough up, however, to give any illusion; I had
to stop to find the wind to announce myself. There was nobody else to do
it if I except the dog.

I walked into the veranda and shouted. Then I saw that one end of it was
partly glazed off, and inside sat a young man in his shirt-sleeves with
his back to the door.

In reply he called out, 'That you, Rosario?' and I stood silent, taken
somewhat aback.

There was only one Rosario in Simla, and he was a subordinate in my own
office. Again the hateful need to explain. Between subordinate clerks
and officials in Simla there is a greater gulf fixed than was ever
imagined in parable. Besides, Rosario had a plain strain of what we
call 'the country' in him, a plain strain, that is, of the colour of the
country. It was certainly the first time in my official career that I
had been mistaken for Rosario.

Armour turned round and saw me--that I was a stranger.

He got up at once. 'Oh,' he said, 'I thought it was Rosario.

'It isn't,' I replied, 'my name is Philips. May I ask whether you were
expecting Mr. Rosario? I can come again, you know.'

'Oh, it doesn't matter. Sit down. He may drop in or he may not--I rather
thought he would today. It's a pull up, isn't it, from the Mall? Have a
whisky and soda.'

I stood on the threshold spellbound. It was just the smell that bound
me, the good old smell of oil paints and turpentine and mediums and
varnish and new canvas that you never by any chance put your nose into
in any part of Asia. It carried me back twenty years to old haunts,
old friends, old joys, ideals, theories. Ah, to be young and have a
temperament! For I had one then--that instant in Armour's veranda proved
it to me forever.

'No thanks,' I said. 'If you don't mind I'll just have the smell.'

The young fellow knew at once that I liked the smell. 'Well, have a
chair, anyhow,' he said, and took one himself and sat down opposite me,
letting his lean brown hands fall between his knees.

'Do you mind,' I said, 'if for a minute I sit still and look round?'

He understood again.

'I haven't brought much,' he said, 'I left pretty near everything in
Paris.'

'You have brought a world.' Then after a moment, 'Did you do that?' I
asked, nodding towards a canvas tacked against the wall. It was the head
of a half-veiled Arab woman turned away.

The picture was in the turning away, and the shadow the head-covering
made over the cheek and lips.

'Lord, no! That's Dagnan Bouveret. I used to take my things to him,
and one day he gave me that. You have an eye,' he added, but without
patronage. 'It's the best thing I've got.'

I felt the warmth of an old thrill.

'Once upon a time,' I said, 'I was allowed to have an eye.' The wine,
untasted all those years, went to my head. 'That's a vigorous bit
above,' I continued.

'Oh, well! It isn't really up to much, you know. It's Rosario's. He
photographs mostly, but he has a notion of colour.'

'Really?' said I, thinking with regard to my eye that the sun of that
atrocious country had put it out. 'I expect I've lost it,' I said aloud.

'Your eye? Oh, you'll easily get a fresh one. Do you go home for the
exhibitions?'

'I did once,' I confessed. 'My first leave. A kind of paralysis
overtakes one here. Last time I went for the grouse.'

He glanced at me with his light clear eyes as if for the first time he
encountered a difficulty.

'It's a magnificent country for painting,' he said.

'But not for pictures,' I rejoined. He paid no attention, staring at the
ground and twisting one end of his moustache.

'The sun on those old marble tombs--broad sun and sand--'

'You mean somewhere about Delhi.'

'I couldn't get anywhere near it.' He was not at that moment anywhere
near me. 'But I have thought out a trick or two--I mean to have another
go when it cools off again down there.' He returned with a smile, and
I saw how delicate his face was. The smile turned down with a little
gentle mockery in its lines. I had seen that particular smile only on
the faces of one or two beautiful women. It had a borrowed air upon a
man, like a tiara or an earring.

'There's plenty to paint,' he said, looking at me with an air of
friendly speculation.

'Indeed, yes. And it has never been done. We are sure it has never been
done.'

'"We"--you mean people generally?'

'Not at all. I mean Miss Harris, Miss Harris and myself.'

'Your daughter?'

'My name is Philips,' I reminded him pleasantly, remembering that the
intelligence of clever people is often limited to a single art. 'Miss
Harris is the daughter of Mr. Edward Harris, Secretary of the Government
of India in the Legislative Department. She is fond of pictures. We have
a good many tastes in common. We have always suspected that India had
never been painted, and when we saw your things at the Town Hall we knew
it.'

His queer eyes dilated, and he blushed.

'Oh,' he said, 'it's only one interpretation. It all depends on what a
fellow sees. No fellow can see everything.'

'Till you came,' I insisted, 'nobody had seen anything.'

He shook his head, but I could read in his face that this was not news
to him.

'That is mainly what I came up to tell you,' I continued, 'to beg that
you will go on and on. To hope that you will stay a long time and do a
great deal. It is such an extraordinary chance that any one should turn
up who can say what the country really means.'

He stuck his hands in his pockets with a restive movement. 'Oh, don't
make me feel responsible,' he said, 'I hate that;' and then suddenly he
remembered his manners. 'But it's certainly nice of you to think so,' he
added.

There was something a little unusual in his inflection which led me to
ask at this point whether he was an American, and to discover that he
came from somewhere in Wisconsin, not directly, but by way of a few
years in London and Paris. This accounted in a way for the effect of
freedom in any fortune about him for which I already liked him, and
perhaps partly for the look of unembarrassed inquiry and experiment
which sat so lightly in his unlined face. He came, one realized, out of
the fermentation of new conditions; he never could have been the product
of our limits and systems and classes in England. His surroundings, his
'things,' as he called them, were as old as the sense of beauty, but
he seemed simply to have put them where he could see them, there was no
pose in their arrangement. They were all good, and his delight in them
was plain; but he was evidently in no sense a connoisseur beyond that of
natural instinct. Some of those he had picked up in India I could tell
him about, but I had no impression that he would remember what I said.
There was one Bokhara tapestry I examined with a good deal of interest.

'Yes,' he said, 'they told me I shouldn't get anything as good as that
out here, so I brought it,' but I had to explain to him why it was
anomalous that this should be so.

'It came a good many miles over desert from somewhere,' he remarked, as
I made a note of inquiry as to the present direction of trade in woven
goods from Persia, 'I had to pound it for a week to get the dust out.'

Thereon the good King bade come to him all manner folk, Bishops, Abbots,
Dukes, Princes, Marquises and other strong knights. And he sent
to Cluses certain of these for to guard the passage of the ways.
Amongst the which was Albins, Bishop of Angier, a man full of great
holiness.

Then the King Charles together with many warriors, drew nigh to Cluses
by the Mount of Sinense, and sent Bernhart his uncle, and a many with
him, by the Mount of Jove. And the vanward said that Desir, together
with all his force, was already at Cluses, the which he had do dight
with bulwarks of iron and stone.

But whenas Charles drew nigh to Cluses, he sent his messengers to
Desir, praying him to give back to the Holy Father the cities which
he had taken; but he would nought for the prayer.

Again Charles bade him that he send three of the children of the judges
of Lombardy in hostage, until such time as he had given back the
cities of the Church, and that he would betake him to France with
all his host, without battle and without doing any scathe. But he neither
for that, nor for aught else would blench one whit.

Now when God the almighty had seen the hard heart and malice of this man;
and that the French were sore desirous to get them aback home, he
set so great fear and so great trembling in the hearts of the
Lombards, that they turned to flight all of them, although none
chased them, and left there behind them their tents and all their
gear.

When that saw Charles and his host, they followed them and thrust
forth into Lombardy French, Almaines, English and all other manner
of folk.

Of that host were Amis and Amile, who were the first in the court
of the King, and every way they heeded the works of our Lord, in
fasting, in praying, in alms-doing, in giving aid to widows and orphans,
in often times appeasing the wrath of the King, in suffering the evil,
and consoling the realm of the Romans.

Now whenas Charles had much folk in Lombardy, King Desir came to meet him
with his little host; for whereas Desir had a priest, Charles had a
bishop; whereas that one had a monk, the other had an abbot; where
Desir had a knight Charles had a prince; the one had a man afoot,
the other a duke or a count. What should I say, where that King had
one knight, Charles had thirty. So the two hosts fell to blows together
with great cries and banners displayed; stones and darts flying
here and there, and knights falling on every part.

And the Lombards fought so mightily for three days, that they slew of
King Charles a very great infinity.

And after the third day's wearing Charles called to him the most mighty
and the strongest of his host, and said to them: "Either die ye
in battle, or gain ye the victory."

So the King Desir and the whole host of the Lombards together fled
away to the place hight Mortara, which in those days was called
Fair- wood, whereas thereabout was the land delectable: there they
refreshed them and took heed to their horses.

On the morrow morn King Charles and his host came thither, and found
the Lombards all armed, and there they joined battle, and a great
multitude of dead there was on one side and the other, and because
of this slaughter had the place to name Mortara.

Moreover, there died Amis and Amile, for even as God had joined
them together by good accord in their life-days, so in their death
they were not sundered.

Withal many another doughty baron was slain with them. But Desir,
together with his judges, and a great multitude of the Lombards,
fled away and entered into Pavia; and King Charles followed after
them, and besieged the city on all sides.

Withal he sent into France for his wife and his children. But the holy
Albins, bishop of Angier, and many other bishops and abbots gave counsel
to the King and the Queen, that they should bury the dead and make
there a church: and the said counsel pleased much the King, and
there were made two churches, one by the commandment of Charles in
honour of St.

Eusebius of Verceil, and the other by the commandment of the Queen in
honour of St. Peter.

And the King did do bear thither two arks of stone, wherein were buried
Amis and Amile; and Amile was borne into the Church of St.
Peter, and Amis into the Church of St.

Eusebius; and the other corpses were buried here and there. But on the
morrow's morn the body of Amile, and his coffin therewith, was found in
the Church of St.

Eusebius hard by the coffin of Amis his fellow.

Now hear ye of this marvellous fellowship which might not be sundered
by death.

This wonder wrought for them God, who had given such might to His
disciples that they had power to move mountains and shift them.

But because of this miracle the King and the Queen abode there thirty
days, and did do the service of them that were slain, and worshipped
the said churches with great gifts.

Meanwhile the host of Charles wrought for the taking of the city which
they had besieged; and our Lord tormented them that were within in
such wise that they were brought to nought by great feebleness and
by mortalities. And after ten months from the time when the city
was besieged, Charles took Desir, and all them who were with him, and
laid the city and all the realm under his subjection. And King Desir
and his wife they led into France.

But Saint Albins, who by that time had raised the dead to life, and
given light to many blind folk, ordained clerks, priests, and deacons
in the aforesaid Church of St. Eusebius, and commanded them that they
should without ceasing guard and keep the bodies of those two
fellows, AMIS and AMILE, who suffered death at the hands of Desir,
King of Lombardy, on the fourth of the ides of October.

Reigning our Lord Jesus Christ, who liveth and reigneth without end
with the Father and the Holy Ghost. AMEN.

THE TALE OF KING FLORUS AND THE FAIR JEHANE

Here telleth the tale of a king who had to name King Florus of Ausay.

A full good knight was he and a gentleman of high lineage. The said
King Florus of Ausay took to wife the daughter of the Prince of Brabant,
who was a woman very gentle, and of great line: and a right fair maid
was she when he wedded her and dainty of body and fashion; and saith
the tale that she was but of fifteen years when the King Florus took
her, and he but of seventeen. A full good life they lived, as for young
folk who loved together dearly: but King Florus might have no child
of her, whereof he was sore grieving, and she also was exceeding
heavy-hearted thereat. Much fair was this lady, and much she loved God
and Holy Church, and therewith was so good almsgiver and so charitable
that she fed and clad poor people and kissed their feet.

And to mesel folk both carles and queans was she so kind and careful,
that the Ho]y Ghost dwelt in her. Her Lord King Florus went often to
tournays in Alemain and France, and in many other lands whereas he
wotted of them, when he was without war: much good he expended thereon
and much honour he gained thereby.

But now leaveth the tale to tell of him and taketh up the word of a knight
who dwelt in the marches of Flanders and Hainault.

This said knight was full valiant and hardy, and right trusty, and
had to wife a full fair dame of whom he had a much fair daughter,
who had to name Jehane and was then of the age of twelve years.

Much word there was of this fair maiden; for in all the land was none
so fair. Her mother spake often to her lord that he should give her
in marriage; but he was so given up to the following of tournays, that
he was nowise hot on the wedding of his daughter, and his wife
ever admonished him thereof when he came home from his tournays.

Now this knight had a squire who had to name Robin, and was the valiantest
squire to be found in any land, and by his prowess and his good
fame oft he bore away the prize for his lord from the tournay whereas
he wended.

Whereon it befel that his lady thus bespake him:
"Robin, my lord is so given up to these tournays that I know not
how to speak with him, whereof I am sore at heart, for I would well
that he should lay pain and care to the wedding of my daughter;
wherefore I pray thee, for the love of me, that whenas thou seest
the point thou say to him that he doth very ill and is sore blamed
that he weddeth not his fair daughter, for there is no knight in
the land how rich soever he be who would not take her with a good
will."

"Lady," said Robin, "ye have said well; I will say it right well; since
forsooth he troweth me of many things, and so will he hereof meseemeth."
"Robin," said the lady, "I pray thee of this business for all
guerdon."

"Dame," said Robin, "I am well prayed hereof; and wot ye that I
will do to my power herein."

"It is enough," said the lady.

No long while after the knight betook him to wending to a tournay
afar from his land, and when he came there he was retained straightway
of the fellowship, he and the knight of whose mesney he was, and
his banner was borne into the hostel of his lord.

The tournay began, and the knight did so well by means of the good deeds
of Robin, his squire, that he bore off the praise and prize of the tournay
from one party and the other.

On the second day the knight betook him to wending to his own land,
and Robin put him to reason many times and blamed him much in that
he gave not his fair daughter in marriage, and many times he said
it to him, till at the last his lord said to him: "Robin, thou and
thy lady give me no peace about the marrying of my daughter; but
as yet I know and see no man in my land unto whom I would give her."

"Ah, sir," said Robin, "there is not a knight in thy land who would
not take her with a good will."

"Fair friend Robin, they are of no avail, all of them; and to none of
them shall I give her; and forsooth to no one would I give her as
now, save to one man only, and he forsooth is no knight."

"Sir, tell me of him," said Robin, "and I shall speak or let speak
to him so subtilly that the marriage shall be made."

"Certes, Robin," said the knight, "from the semblance that I see of thee
thou willest well that my daughter should be wedded."

"Sir," said Robin, "thou sayest sooth, for it is well time." "Robin,"
said the knight, "whereas thou art so eager that my daughter should
be wedded, she shall be wedded right soon if thou accord to the
said wedding."

"Certes, sir," said Robin, "of a good will shall I accord thereto." "Wilt
thou give me thy word herein?" "Yea, sir," said Robin. "Robin, thou
hast served me exceeding well, and I have found thee a valiant
man, and a loyal, and such as I be thou hast made me, and great
gain have I gotten by thee, to wit, five hundred pounds of land;
for it was but a little while that I had but five hundred, and now
have I a thousand, and I tell thee that I owe much to thee: wherefore
will I give my fair daughter unto thee, if thou wilt take her."

"Ha, sir," said Robin, "God's mercy, what is this thou sayest? I am too
poor a person to have so high a maiden, nor one so fair and so
rich as my damsel is; I am not meet thereto.

For there is no knight in this land, be he never so gentle a man,
but would take her with a good will." "Robin, know that no knight
of this land shall have her, but I shall give her to thee, if thou
will it; and thereto will I give thee four hundred pounds of my
land."

"Ha, sir," said Robin, "I deem that thou mockest me."

"Robin," said the knight, "wot thou surely that I mock thee not." "Ha,
sir, neither my lady nor her great lineage will accord hereto."

"Robin," said the knight, "nought shall be done herein at the will
of any of them.

Hold! here is my glove, I invest thee with four hundred pounds of my land,
and I will be thy warrant for all." "Sir," said Robin "I will nought
naysay it; fair is the gift since I know that is soothfast." "Robin,"
said the knight, "now hast thou the rights thereof."
Then the knight delivered to him his glove, and invested him with the
land and his fair daughter.

Then rode the knight so far by his journeys, that he came into his
land, and when he was come thither, his wife, who was a much fair
lady, made him right great joy, and said to him: "Sir, for God's
sake think of thy fair daughter, that she be wedded."

"Dame," said the lord, "so much hast thou spoken hereof that I have
wedded her." "Sir," said the lady, "unto whom?" "Forsooth, dame, I have
given her to such a man as shall never lack of valiancy: I have given her
to Robin my squire." "Robin! Alas!" quoth the lady; "Robin hath
nought, and there is no knight so mighty in all the land, but will take
her with a good will; of a surety Robin shall never have her." "Yea,
but have her he shall, dame," said the knight, "and I have invested him
with four hundred pounds of my land; and all that I ought to warrant
him, warrant him I will." When the dame heard that, she was much sorry,
and said to her lord that Robin should have her never. "Nay,
dame," said the lord, "have her he shall, wilt thou or wilt thou
not; for even so have I made covenant and I will hold to the same.

When the lady heard her lord, she entered into her chamber and fell a-weeping
and making great dole; after the dole which she made she sent to seek
her brothers and her nephews and her cousins germain, and showed them
that which her lord would do; and they said to her:
"Dame, what will ye that we do?

We have no will to go against thy lord, for he is a knight valiant
and hardy and weighty withal: and on the other hand he may do with
his daughter according to his will, and with his land which he hath
gotten withal.

So wot thou well that we will not hang shield on neck herein." "Nay?
alas, then!" said the dame, "so shall my heart never have joy if
I lose my fair daughter.
At least, fair lords, I pray you that ye show him that if he does
thus he will neither do well nor according to his honour."

"Dame," say they, "this setting forth will we do with a good will."

So they came unto the knight, and when they had showed him their business
he answered them right courteously: "Fair lords, I will tell you what
I will do for the love of you; if it please you I will put off the
wedding in this wise as I shall tell you; to wit:
Amongst you ye be rich and of great lands; ye are nigh friends of my fair
daughter, whom I love much.

If ye will give her four hundred pounds of land I will set aside the
wedding, and she shall be wedded elsewhere according to your
counsel."

"A-God's name," quoth they, "we be nought fain to lay down so much."
"Well, then," said the knight, "since ye will not do this, then suffer
me to do with my daughter as I list."

"Sir, with a good will," said they.

So the knight sent for his chaplain, and brought thither his fair daughter,
and let affiance her to Robin, and set a day for the wedding. But the
third day thereafter, Robin spake to his lord, and prayed him make him a
knight, whereas it was nought meet that he should take to him so high a
wife and so fair before he was a knight.

His lord had great joy thereof, and the next day he was made knight, and
the third day wedded the fair maiden with great feast and joyance.

But when master Robin was made knight he spake thus to his lord:
"Sir, ye have made me knight; and true it is that against the peril
of death I vowed me to the road unto Saint Jamesward on the morrow of
my knighting; wherefore I pray thee take it not in dudgeon if to- morrow
morn I must needs go my ways so soon as I shall have wedded thy fair
daughter; whereas in nowise will I break mine oath." "Forsooth,
master Robin, if thou leave thus my fair daughter and thus wise go
your ways, ye shall be much to blame." "Sir," said he, "I shall come back
right soon if God will; but this wayfaring I needs must perforce."

Whenas a certain knight of the court of the lord heard these words
he blamed Sir Robin much, whereas he was leaving his fair wife at
such a point, and Sir Robin said that he needs must do it.

"Certes," said the knight, who had to name Raoul, "if thou goest thus to
Saint James without touching thy fair wife, I will make thee cuckold
before thine home-coming, and when thou comest home I will give
thee good tokens that I have had share of her.

Now I will lay my land thereto against thine, which our lord hath
given thee, for I have well four hundred pounds of land even as
thou hast."

"Forsooth," said Sir Robin, "my wife is not come of such blood as that she
shall misdo against me, and I may not believe in it nowise:
I will make the wager with thee, if it please thee." "Yea," said Sir
Raoul, "wilt thou pledge thee thereto?" "Yea, verily," said Sir Robin,
"and thou?" "Yea, and I also. Now go we to my lord and make record of
our covenant." "That will I well," said Sir Robin.
Therewith they go unto the lord, and the wager was recorded, and
they pledged them to hold thereto. On the morrow betimes Sir Robin
wedded the fair maiden, and straightway after mass was said, he departed
from the house and left the wedding, and took the road for St.
Jakem."
But now leaveth the tale to tell of him and telleth of Sir Raoul, who
was in great imagination how he might win his wager and lie by
the fair lady. And saith the tale that the lady held her much simply
while her lord was on pilgrimage, and was going to the minster with a
good will, and prayed God that he would bring back her lord. But Sir Raoul
pained him on the other hand how he might win his wager, for great
doubt he had to lose his land. He spake with the carline who dwelt
with the fair lady, and said to her, that if she could so bring it about
that she might set him in place and at point that he might speak
privily with my lady Jehane, and have his will of her, he would
give her much good, so that there would be no hour when she should
not be rich.

"Sir, forsooth," said the carline, "thou art so fair a knight, and
so wise and courteous that my lady should well ought to love thee par
amours, and I will put myself to the pain herein to the utmost of my
might." Then the knight drew out straightway a forty sols, and gave
it to her to buy a gown. The carline took them with a goodwill, and
set them away surely, and said that she would speak with the lady. The
knight departed from the carline, and the carline abode and took her
lady to task when she came back from the minster, and said to her: "In
God's name, lady, tell me true! My lord, when he went to Saint
Jakem, had he ever lain by thee?" "Wherefore dost thou say this, dame
Hersent?" "Lady, because I trow that thou be yet a clean maid."
"Certes, dame Hersent, so am I verily; for of no woman wot I who
would do such a deed." "Lady," said dame Hersent, "great damage it
is; for if ye wotted how great is the joy that women have when they
be with a man who loveth them, ye would say that there is no joy so great;
and for this cause I marvel much that ye love not par amours even as these
other ladies who all love. But if it pleaseth thee the matter is ready
to hand; whereas I wot of a knight, fair and valiant and wise, who
will love thee with a good will; a much rich man is he, and fairer by
far than the coward recreant who hath left thee. And if ye dare
love ye may have whatso ye dare ask; and so much joy shall ye have
as never lady had more." So much spake the carline by her words that
the needle of nature stirred somewhat.
The lady asked who the knight might be. "Who is it, lady? A-God's name!
I may well name him. It is the lovely, the valiant, the hardy Sir Raoul,
who is one of the mesney of thy father; the kindest heart men wot
of." "Dame Hersent," said the lady, "thou wert best let such words
be; for I have no desire to misdo of my body, of no such blood am I
come." "Dame," said the carline, "I wot well. But never shalt thou
know the worthy joy when a man wendeth with a woman."
Thuswise abode the matter. Sir Raoul came back to the carline, and she
told him how she had talked with the lady, and what she had answered.
"Dame Hersent," said the knight, "thus wise should a good lady answer;
but ye shall speak with her again, for one doeth not the business
at the first stroke: and hold, here be twenty sols to buy thee a
cloth to thy surcoat."

The carline took the silver, and spake with the lady often, but nought it
availed.

Wore the time till at last they heard news that Sir Robin was wending
back from Saint Jakem, and that he was already hard on Paris. Soon was
known the tidings, and Sir Raoul, who had fear of the losing of
his lands, returned to the carline, and spake with her; and she
said that she might not bring the business to an end: but that she
would do so much for the love of him, if she should earn her service,
that she would so bring it about as that there should be none in
the house save he and this lady: and then he might do his will on
her, will she nill she: and he said that he asked for nought else.

"Then," said the carline, "ye, my lord, shall come within eight
days, and I will do my lady to bathe her in her chamber, and I
will send all the mesney out of the house and out of the castle;
then can ye come to her bathing in the chamber, and may have your
desire of her, either with her good will or maugre."

"Ye have well said," quoth he.

Abode matters thus till Sir Robin sent word that he was coming to
hand, and would be at the house on the Sunday.

Then the carline let bathe the lady the Thursday before, and the bath
was in her chamber, and the fair lady entered therein.

But the carline sent after Sir Raoul, and he came. Thereafter she sent
all the folk of the household out of the house. Sir Raoul came his ways
to the chamber and entered therein, and greeted the lady, but she
greeted him not again, but said thus:
"Sir Raoul, thou art nowise courteous.

Whether wottest thou forsooth that it is well with me of thy coming?
accursed be thou, villain knight!"

But Sir Raoul said: "My lady, mercy, a-God's name! I am but dying for
grief of thee. For God's sake have pity of me!" "Sir Raoul," said
she, "I will have no mercy in such wise that I will ever be thy darling.
And wot thou well that if thou leave me not in peace I will tell my lord,
my father, the honour thou requirest of me: for I am none such as that."
"Nay, lady, is it so, then?" "Yea, verily," said she.

Therewith Sir Raoul drew nigh to her, and embraced her in his arms, which
were strong enow, and drew her all naked out of the bath and bore her
toward her bed; and so soon as he drew her forth of the bath he saw
a black spot which she had on her right groin hard by her natural
part; and he thought therewithal that that were a good token that he
had lain by her.

Thus as he bore her off to her bed, his spurs hooked them into the serge
at the bed's edge toward the foot thereof, and down fell the
knight, he and the lady together, he below and she above; but she rose
up straightway and caught up a billet of wood, and smote Sir Raoul
therewith amidst the face, and made him a wound both deep and wide,
so that the blood fell to earth. So when Sir Raoul felt himself hurt he
had no great desire to play, wherefore he arose and got him gone out of
the chamber straightway: he did so much that he came to his hostel,
where he dwelt a good league thence, and there he had his wound dealt
with. But the good dame entered into her bath again, and called dame
Hersent, and told the adventure of the knight.

Much great array made the father of the fair lady against the coming
of Sir Robin, and he summoned much folk, and sent and bade Sir Raoul
to come; but he sent word that he might not come, for that he was
sick.

On the Sunday camel Sir Robin, and was received right fairly; and the
father of the fair lady went to seek Sir Raoul and found him wounded,
and said that now for nought might he abide behind from the feast. So he
dight his face and his hurt the best wise he might, and went to the feast,
which was great and grand day long of drinking and of eating, and
of dancing and carolling.

When night was come Sir Robin went to bed with his wife, who received
him much joyously as a good dame ought to her lord; so abode they
in joy and in feast the more part of the night.

On the morrow great was the feast, and the victual was dight and they
ate.
said Kauffer, 'but I sink I sell you that Porcha; it is ze
best of ze two.'


Chapter 2.VI.

I ventured for a few days to keep the light which chance had shed for
me upon Armour's affairs to myself. The whole thing considered in
connection with his rare and delicate talent, seemed too derogatory and
disastrous to impart without the sense of doing him some kind of injury
in the mere statement. But there came a point when I could no longer
listen to Dora Harris's theories to account for him, wild idealizations
as most of them were of any man's circumstances and intentions. 'Why
don't you ask him point-blank?' I said, and she replied, frowning
slightly, 'Oh, I couldn't do that. It would destroy something--I don't
know what, but something valuable--between us.' This struck me as
an exaggeration, considering how far, by that time, they must have
progressed towards intimacy, and my mouth was opened. She heard me
without the exclamations I expected, her head bent over the pencil she
was sharpening, and her silence continued after I had finished. The
touch of comedy I gave the whole thing--surely I was justified in
that!--fell flat, and I extracted from her muteness a sense of rebuke;
one would think I had been taking advantage of the poor devil.

At last, having broken the lead of her pencil three times, she turned a
calm, considering eye upon me.


'You have known this for a fortnight?' she asked. 'That doesn't seem
somehow quite fair.'

'To whom?' I asked, and her answer startled me.

'To either of us,' she said.

How she advised herself to that effect is more than I can imagine, but
the print of her words is indelible, that is what she said.

'Oh, confound it!' I exclaimed. 'I couldn't help finding out, you know.'

'But you could help keeping it to yourself in that--in that base way,'
she replied, and almost--the evening light was beginning to glimmer
uncertainly through the deodars--I could swear I saw the flash of a tear
on her eyelid.

'I beg your pardon,' she went on a moment later, 'but I do hate having
to pity him. It's intolerable--that.'

I picked up a dainty edition of Aucassin and Nicolette with the
intention of getting upon ground less emotional, and observed on the
flyleaf 'D.H. from I.A. In memory of the Hill of Stars.' I looked
appreciatively at the binding, and as soon as possible put it down.

'He was not bound to tell me,' Dora asserted presently, in reply to my
statement that the mare had somehow picked up a nail in the stable, and
was laid up.

'You have been very good to him,' I said. 'I think he was.'

'His reticence was due,' she continued, as if defying contradiction, 'to
a simple dislike to bore one with his personal affairs.'

'Was it?' I assented. My tone acknowledged with all humility that she
was likely to know, and I did not deserve her doubtful glance.

'He could not certainly,' she went on, with firmer decision, 'have been
in the least ashamed of his connection with Kauffer.'

'He comes from a country where social distinctions are less sharp than
they are in this idiotic place,' I observed.

'Oh, if you think it is from any lack of recognition! His sensitiveness
is beyond reason. He has met two or three men in the Military Department
here--he was aware of the nicest shade of their patronage. But he does
not care. To him life is more than a clerkship. He sees all round people
like that. They are only figures in the landscape.'

'Then,' I said, 'he is not at all concerned that nobody in this Capua
of ours knows him, or cares anything about him, or has bought a scrap of
his work, except our two selves.'

'That's a different matter. I have tried to rouse in him the feeling
that it would be as well to be appreciated, even in Simla, and I think
I've succeeded. He said, after those two men had gone away on Sunday,
that he thought a certain reputation in the place where he lived would
help anybody in his work.'

'On Sunday? Do you mean between twelve and two?'

'Yes, he came and made a formal call. There was no reason why he
shouldn't.'

'Now that I think of it,' I rejoined, 'he shot a card on me too, at the
Club. I was a little surprised. We didn't seem somehow to be on those
terms. One doesn't readily associate him with any conventionality.'

'There's no reason why he shouldn't,' said Dora again, and with this
vague comment we spoke of something else, both of us, I think, a little
disquieted and dissatisfied that he had.

'I think,' Dora said as I went away, 'that you had better go up to the
studio and tell him what you have told me. Perhaps it doesn't matter
much, but I can't bear the thought of his not knowing.'

'Come to Kauffer's in the morning and see the pictures,' I urged; but
she turned away, 'Oh, not with you.'

I found my way almost at once to Amy Villa, not only because I had been
told to go there. I wanted, myself, certain satisfactions. Armour was
alone and smoking, but I had come prepared against the contingency of
one of his cigars. They were the cigars of the man who doesn't know what
he eats. With sociable promptness I lighted one of my own. The little
enclosed veranda testified to a wave of fresh activity. The north light
streamed in upon two or three fresh canvases, the place seemed full of
enthusiasm, and you could see its source, at present quiescent under the
influence of tobacco, in Armour's face.

'You have taken a new line,' I said, pointing to a file of camels, still
half obscured by the dust of the day, coming along a mountain road
under a dim moon. They might have been walking through time and through
history. It was a queer, simple thing, with a world of early Aryanism in
it.

'Does that say anything? I'm glad. It was to me articulate, but I didn't
know. Oh, things have been going well with me lately. Those two studies
over there simply did themselves. That camp scene on the left is almost
a picture. I think I'll put a little more work on it and give it a
chance in Paris. I got in once, you know. Champ de Mars. With some
horses.'

'Did you, indeed?' I said. 'Capital.' I asked him if he didn't
atrociously miss the life of the Quarter, and he surprised me by saying
that he never had lived it. He had been en pension instead with a dear
old professor of chemistry and his family at Puteaux, and used to go in
and out. A smile came into his eyes at the remembrance, and he told
me one after the other idyllic little stories of the old professor and
madame. Madame and the omelet--madame and the melon--M. Vibois and the
maire; I sat charmed. So long as we remained in France his humour was
like this, delicate and expansive, but an accidental allusion led us
across the Channel when he changed. He had no little stories of the
time he spent in England. Instead he let himself go in generalizations,
aimed, for they had a distinct animus, at English institutions and
character, particularly as these appear in English society. I could
not believe, from the little I had seen of him, that his experience of
English society of any degree had been intimate; what he said had the
flavour of Radical Sunday papers. The only original element was the
feeling behind, which was plainly part of him; speculation instantly
clamoured as to how far this was purely temperamental and how far the
result of painful contact. He himself, he said, though later of
the Western States, had been born under the British flag of British
parents--though his mother was an Irishwoman she came from loyal
Ulster--and he repeated the statement as if it in some way justified his
attitude towards his fellow countrymen and excused his truculence in the
ear of a servant of the empire which he had the humour to abuse. I heard
him, I confess, with impatience, it was all so shabby and shallow, but
I heard him out, and I was rewarded; he came for an illustration in
the end to Simla. 'Look,' he said, 'at what they call their "Government
House list"; and look at Strobo, Signor Strobo. Isn't Strobo a man of
intelligence, isn't he a man of benevolence? He gave ten thousand rupees
last week to the famine fund. Is Strobo on Government House list? Is he
ever invited to dine with the Viceroy? No, because Strobo keeps a hotel!
Look at Rosario--where does Rosario come in? Nowhere, because Rosario is
a clerk, and a subordinate. Yet Rosario is a man of wide reading and a
very accomplished fellow!'

It became more or less necessary to argue then, and the commonplaces
with which I opposed him called forth a wealth of detail bearing most
picturesquely upon his stay among us. I began to think he had never
hated English rigidity and English snobbery until he came to Simla,
and that he and Strobo and Rosario had mingled their experiences in one
bitter cup. I gathered this by inference only, he was curiously watchful
and reticent as to anything that had happened to him personally; indeed,
he was careful to aver preferences for the society of 'sincere'
people like Strobo and Rosario, that seemed to declare him more than
indifferent to circles in which he would not meet them. In the end our
argument left me ridiculously irritated--it was simply distressing to
see the platform from which he obtained so wide and exquisite a view of
the world upheld by such flimsy pillars--and my nerves were not soothed
by his proposal to walk with me to the Club. I could hardly refuse it,
however, and he came along in excellent spirits, having effected the
demolition of British social ideals, root and branch. His mongrel dog
accompanied, keeping offensively near our heels. It was not even an
honest pi, but a dog of tawdry pretensions with a banner-like tail
dishonestly got from a spaniel. On one occasion I very nearly kicked the
dog.


Chapter 2.VII.

'The fact is,' I said to Dora as we rode down to the gymkhana, 'his
personality takes possession of one. I constantly go to that little hut
of his with intentions, benevolent or otherwise, which I never carry
out.'

'You mean,' she answered, 'that you completely forgot to reveal to him
your hateful knowledge about Kauffer.'

'On the contrary, I didn't forget it for a moment. But the conversation
took a turn that made it quite impossible to mention.'

'I can understand,' Miss Harris replied softly, 'how that might be. And
it doesn't in the least matter,' she went on triumphantly, 'because I've
told him myself.'

My nerves must have been a trifle strung up at the time, for this struck
me as a matter for offense. 'You thought I would trample upon him,' I
exclaimed.

'No, no really. I disliked his not knowing it was known--rien de plus,'
she said lightly.

'What did he say?'

'Oh, not much. What should he say?'

'He might have expressed a decent regret on poor Kauffer's account,' I
growled. Dora did not reply, and a glance showed her frowning.

'I believe he apologized!' I cried, pushing, as it were, my advantage.

'He explained.'

'Oh!'

'Of course he hasn't relished the position, and of course he didn't
realize it before he came. Shall we trot?'

I was compelled to negative the idea of trotting, since we were
descending quite the steepest pitch of the road down to Annandale. We
went on at a walk, and it occurred to me, as my contemplative gaze
fell on my own pig-skins, that we were, even for Simla, an uncommonly
well-turned-out pair. I had helped to pick Dora's hack, and I allowed
myself to reflect that he did my judgment credit. She sat him perfectly
in her wrath--she was plainly angry--not a hair out of place. Why is it
that a lady out of temper with her escort always walks away from him? Is
her horse sympathetic? Ronald, at all events, was leading by a couple of
yards, when suddenly he shied, bounding well across the road.

The mare, whose manners I can always answer for, simply stopped and
looked haughtily about for explanations. A path dropped into the road
from the hillside; something came scrambling and stumbling down.

'Oh!' cried Dora, as it emerged and was Armour on his much enduring
white pony, 'how you frightened us!'

'Why don't you stick to the road, man?' I exclaimed. 'It isn't usual to
put ponies up and down these coolie tracks!'

He took no notice of this rather broad hint that I was annoyed, but
fixed his eager, light, luminous eyes upon Dora.

'I'm sorry,' he said, and added, 'I did not expect to see you today!'

'Not till tomorrow,' she returned. 'You remember that we are sketching
tomorrow?'

He looked at her and smiled slightly; and then I remember noticing that
his full, arched upper lip seldom quite met its counterpart over his
teeth. This gave an unpremeditated casual effect to everything he found
to say, and made him look a dreamer at his busiest. His smile was at the
folly of her reminder.

'I've just been looking for something that you would like,' he said,
'but it isn't much good hunting about alone. I see five times as much
when we go together.'

He and his pony barred the way; he had an air of leisure and of
felicity; one would think we had met at an afternoon party.

'We are on our way,' I explained, 'to the gymkhana. Miss Harris is in
one of the events. You did enter for the needle-threading race, didn't
you, with Lord Arthur? I think we must get on.'

A slow, dull red mounted to Armour's face and seemed to put out that
curious light in his eyes.

'Is it far?' he asked, glancing down over the tree-tops. 'I've never
been there.'

'Why,' cried Dora, suddenly, 'you've been down!'

'So you have,' I confirmed her. 'Your beast is damaged too.'

'Oh, it was only a stumble,' Armour replied; 'I stuck on all right.'

'Well,' I said, 'you had better get off now, as you didn't then,
and look at your animal's near fore. The swelling's as big as a bun
already.'

Again he made me no answer, but looked intently and questioningly at
Dora.

'Get off, Mr. Armour,' she said, sharply, 'and lead your horse home. It
is not fit to be ridden. Goodbye.'

I have no doubt he did it, but neither of us were inclined to look back
to see. We pushed on under the deodars, and I was indulgent to a trot.
At the end of it Dora remarked that Mr. Armour naturally could not be
expected to know anything about riding, it was very plucky of him to get
on a horse at all, among these precipices; and I of course agreed.

Lord Arthur was waiting when we arrived, on his chestnut polo pony, but
Dora immediately scratched for the brilliant event in which they were
paired. Ronald, she said, was simply cooked with the heat. Ronald had
come every yard of the way on his toes and was fit for anything, but
Lord Arthur did not insist. There were young ladies in Simla, I am glad
to say, who appealed more vividly to his imagination than Dora Harris
did, and one of them speedily replaced her, a fresh-coloured young
Amazon who was staying at the Chief's. She wandered about restlessly
over the dry turf for a few minutes, and then went and sat down in a
corner of the little wooden Grand Stand and sent me for a cup of tea.

'Won't you come to the tent?' I asked a little ruefully, eyeing the
distance and the possible collisions between, but she shook her head.

'I simply couldn't bear it,' she said, and I went feeling somehow
chastened myself by the cloud that was upon her spirit.

I found her on my return regarding the scene with a more than usually
critical eye, and a more than usually turned down lip. Yet it was
exactly the scene it always was, and always, probably, will be. I sat
down beside her and regarded it also, but more charitably than usual.
Perhaps it was rather trivial, just a lot of pretty dresses and excited
young men in white riding-breeches doing foolish things on ponies in
the shortest possible time, with one little crowd about the Club's
refreshment tent and another about the Staff's, while the hills sat
round in an indifferent circle; but it appealed to me with a kind of
family feeling that afternoon, and inspired me with tolerance, even
benevolence.

'After all,' I said, 'it's mainly youth and high spirits--two good
things. And one knows them all.'

'And who are they to know?' complained Dora.

'Just decent young Englishmen and Englishwomen, out here on their
country's business,' I replied cheerfully; 'with the marks of Oxford and
Cambridge and Sandhurst and Woolwich on the men. Well-set-up youngsters,
who know what to do and how to do it. Oh, I like the breed!'

'I wonder,' said she, in a tone of preposterous melancholy, 'if
eventually I have to marry one of them.'

'Not necessarily,' I said. She looked at me with interest, as if I had
contributed importantly to the matter in hand, and resumed tapping her
boot with her riding-crop. We talked of indifferent things and had long
lapses. At the close of one effort Dora threw herself back with a deep,
tumultuous sigh. 'The poverty of this little wretched resort ties up
one's tongue!' she cried. 'It is the bottom of the cup; here one gets
the very dregs of Simla's commonplace. Let us climb out of it.'

I thought for a moment that Ronald had been too much for her nerves
coming down, and offered to change saddles, but she would not. We took
it out of the horses all along the first upward slopes, and as we pulled
in to breathe them she turned to me paler than ever.

'I feel better now,' she said.

For myself I had got rid of Armour for the afternoon. I think my
irritation with him about his pony rose and delivered me from the
too insistent thought of him. With Dora it was otherwise; she had
dismissed him; but he had never left her for a moment the whole long
afternoon.

She flung a searching look at me. With a reckless turn of her head, she
said, 'Why didn't we take him with us?'

'Did we want him?' I asked.

'I think I always want him.'

'Ah!' said I, and would have pondered this statement at some length in
silence, but that she plainly did not wish me to do so.

'We might perfectly well have sent his pony home with one of our own
servants--he would have been delighted to walk down.'

'He wasn't in proper kit,' I remonstrated.

'Oh, I wish you would speak to him about that. Make him get some
tennis-flannels and riding-things.'

'Do you propose to get him asked to places?' I inquired.

She gave me a charmingly unguarded smile. 'I propose to induce you to
do so. I have done what I could. He has dined with us several times, and
met a few people who would, I thought, be kind to him.'

'Oh, well,' I said, 'I have had him at the Club too, with old Lamb and
Colonel Hamilton. He made us all miserable with his shyness. Don't ask
me to do it again, please.'

'I've sent him to call on certain people,' Dora continued, 'and I've
shown his pictures to everybody, and praised him and talked about him,
but I can't go on doing that indefinitely, can I?'

'No,' I said; 'people might misunderstand.'

'I don't think they would MISunderstand,' replied this astonishing girl,
without flinching. She even sought my eyes to show me that hers were
clear and full of purpose.

'Good God!' I said to myself, but the words that fell from me were, 'He
is outside all that life.'

'What is the use of living a life that he is outside of?'

'Oh, if you put it that way,' I said, and set my teeth, 'I will do what
I can.'

She held out her hand with an affectionate gesture, and I was
reluctantly compelled to press it.

The horses broke into a trot, and we talked no more of Armour, or of
anything, until Ted Harris joined us on the Mall.

I have rendered this conversation with Dora in detail because subsequent
events depend so closely upon it. Some may not agree that it was basis
enough for the action I thought well to take; I can only say that it was
all I was ever able to obtain. Dora was always particularly civil and
grateful about my efforts, but she gave me only one more glimpse, and
that enigmatic, of any special reason why they should be made. Perhaps
this was more than compensated for by the abounding views I had of the
situation as it lay with Ingersoll Armour, but of that, other persons,
approaching the subject without prejudice, will doubtless judge better
than I.


Chapter 2.VIII.

It was better not to inquire, so I never knew to what extent Kauffer
worked upon the vanity of ancient houses the sinful dodge I suggested to
him; but I heard before long that the line of Armour's rejected efforts
had been considerably diminished. Armour told me himself that Kauffer's
attitude had become almost conciliatory, that Kauffer had even hinted
at the acceptance of, and adhesion to, certain principles which he would
lay down as the basis of another year's contract. In talking to me about
it, Armour dwelt on these absurd stipulations only as the reason why any
idea of renewal was impossible. It was his proud theory with me that to
work for a photographer was just as dignified as to produce under any
other conditions, provided you did not stoop to ideals which for lack
of a better word might be called photographic. How he represented it to
Dora, or permitted Dora to represent it to him, I am not so certain--I
imagine there may have been admissions and qualifications. Be that as
it may, however, the fact was imperative that only three months of the
hated bond remained, and that some working substitute for the hated bond
would have to be discovered at their expiration. Simla, in short, must
be made to buy Armour's pictures, to appreciate them, if the days of
miracle were not entirely past, but to buy them any way. On one or two
occasions I had already made Simla buy things. I had cleared out young
Ludlow's stables for him in a week--he had a string of ten--when he
played polo in a straw hat and had to go home with sunstroke; and I once
auctioned off all the property costumes of the Amateur Dramatic Society
at astonishing prices. Pictures presented difficulties which I have
hinted at in an earlier chapter, but I did not despair. I began by
hauling old Lamb, puffing and blowing like a grampus, up to Amy Villa,
filling him up all the way with denunciations of Simla's philistinism
and suggestions that he alone redeemed it.

It is a thing I am ashamed to think of, and it deserved its reward.

Lamb criticized and patronized every blessed thing he saw, advised
Armour to beware of mannerisms and to be a little less liberal with his
colour, and heard absolutely unmoved of the horses Armour had got into
the Salon. 'I understand,' he said, with a benevolent wink, 'that about
four thousand pictures are hung every year at the Salon, and I don't
know how many thousand are rejected. Let Mr. Armour get a picture
accepted by the Academy. Then he will have something to talk about.'

Neither did Sir William Lamb buy anything at all.

The experiment with Lady Pilkey was even more distressing. She gushed
with fair appropriateness and great liberality, and finally fixed upon
one scene to make her own. She winningly asked the price of it. She
had never known anybody who did not understand prices. Poor Armour, the
colour of a live coal, named one hundred rupees.

'One hundred rupees! Oh, my dear boy, I can never afford that! You must,
you must really give it to me for seventy-five. It will break my heart
if I can't have it for seventy-five.'

'Give me the pleasure,' said Armour, 'of making you a present of it. You
have been so kind about everything, and it's so seldom one meets
anybody who really cares. So let me send it to you.' It was honest
embarrassment; he did not mean to be impertinent.

And she did.

Blum, of the Geological Department--Herr Blum in his own country--came
up and honestly rejoiced, and at end of an interminable pipe did
purchase a little Breton bit that I hated to see go--it was one of
the things that gave the place its air; but Blum had a large family
undergoing education at Heidelberg, and exclaimed, to Armour's keenest
anguish, that on this account he could not more do.

Altogether, during the months of August and September, persons resident
in Simla drawing their income from Her Majesty, bought from the
eccentric young artist from nowhere, living on Summer Hill, canvases and
little wooden panels to the extent of two hundred and fifty rupees. Lady
Pilkey had asked him to lunch--she might well! and he had appeared at
three garden-parties and a picnic. It was not enough.

It was not enough, and yet it was, in a manner, too much. Pitiful as
it was in substance, it had an extraordinary personal effect. Armour
suddenly began to turn himself out well--his apparel was of smarter cut
than mine, and his neckties in better taste. Little elegances appeared
in the studio--he offered you Scotch in a Venetian decanter and
Melachrinos from a chased silver box. The farouche element faded out of
his speech; his ideas remained as fresh and as simple as ever, but he
gave them a form, bless me! that might have been used at the Club. He
worked as hard as ever, but more variously; he tried his hand at several
new things. He said he was feeling about for something that would really
make his reputation.

In spite of all this his little measure of success made him more
contemptuous than before of its scene and its elements. He declared that
he had a poorer idea than ever of society now that he saw the pattern
from the smart side. That his convictions on this head survived one of
the best Simla tailors shows that they must always have been strong. I
think he believed that he was doing all that he did do to make himself
socially possible with the purpose of pleasing Dora Harris. I would
not now venture to say how far Dora inspired and controlled him in
this direction, and how far the impulse was his own. The measure of
appreciation that began to seek his pictures, poor and small though it
was, gave him, on the other hand, the most unalloyed delight. He talked
of the advice of Sir William Lamb as if it were anything but that of a
pompous old ass, and he made a feast with champagne for Blum that must
have cost him quite as much as Blum paid for the Breton sketch. He
confirmed my guess that he had never in his life until he came to Simla
sold anything, so that even these small transactions were great things
to him, and the earnest of a future upon which he covered his eyes not
to gaze too raptly. He mentioned to me that Kauffer had been asked
for his address--who could it possibly be?--and looked so damped by my
humourous suggestion that it was a friend of Kauffer's in some other
line who wanted a bill paid, that I felt I had been guilty of brutality.
And all the while the quality of his wonderful output never changed or
abated. Pure and firm and prismatic it remained. I found him one day at
the very end of October, with shining eyes and fingers blue with cold,
putting the last of the afternoon light on the snows into one of the
most dramatic hill pictures I ever knew him to do. He seemed intoxicated
with his skill, and hummed the 'Marseillaise,' I remember, all the way
to Amy Villa whither I accompanied him.

It was the last day of Kauffer's contract; and besides, all the world,
secretaries, establishments, hill captains, grass widows, shops, and
sundries, was trundling down the hill. I came to ask my young friend
what he meant to do.

'Do?' he cried. 'Why, eat, drink, and be merry! Kauffer has paid up, and
his yoke is at the bottom of the sea. Come back and dine with me!'

The hour we spent together in his little inner room before dinner was
served stands out among my strangest, loveliest memories of Armour. He
was divinely caught up, and absurd as it is to write, he seemed to carry
me with him. We drank each a glass of vermouth before dinner sitting
over a scented fire of deodar branches, while outside the little window
in front of me the lifted lines of the great empty Himalayan landscape
faded and fell into a blur. I remembered the solitary scarlet dahlia
that stood between us and the vast cold hills and held its colour when
all was grey but that. The hill world waited for the winter; down a
far valley we could hear a barking deer. Armour talked slowly, often
hesitating for a word, of the joy there was in beauty and the divinity
in the man who saw it with his own eyes. I have read notable pages that
brought conviction pale beside that which stole about the room from what
he said. The comment may seem fantastic, but it is a comment--I caressed
the dog. The servant clattered in with the plates, and at a shout
outside Armour left me. He came in radiant with Signor Strobo, also
radiant and carrying a violin, for hotel-keeping was not the Signor's
only accomplishment. I knew Strobo well; many a special dish had he
ordered for my little parties; and we met at Armour's fireside like the
genial old acquaintances we were. Another voice without and presently
I was nodding to Rosario and vaguely wondering why he looked
uncomfortable.

'I'm sorry,' said Armour, as we sat down, 'I've got nothing but beer.
If I had known you were all coming, no vintage that crawls up the hill
would have been good enough for me.' He threw the bond of his wonderful
smile round us as we swallowed his stuff, and our hearts were lightened.
'You fellows,' he went on nodding at the other two, 'might happen any
day, but my friend John Philips comes to me across aerial spaces; he is
a star I've trapped--you don't do that often. Pilsener, John Philips, or
Black?' He was helping his only servant by pouring out the beer himself,
and as I declared for Black he slapped me affectionately on the back and
said my choice was good.

The last person who had slapped me on the back was Lord Dufferin, and
I smiled softly and privately at the remembrance, and what a difference
there was. I had resented Dufferin's slap.

We had spiced hump and jungle-fowl and a Normandy cheese, everybody will
understand that; but how shall I make plain with what exultation and
simplicity we ate and drank, how the four candid selves of us sat around
the table in a cloud of tobacco and cheered each other on, Armour always
far in front turning handsprings as he went. Scraps come back to me, but
the whole queer night has receded and taken its place among those dreams
that insist at times upon having been realities. Rosario told us stories
Kipling might have coveted of the under life of Port Said. Strobo talked
with glorious gusto of his uncle the brigand. They were liberated men;
we were all liberated men. 'Let the direction go,' cried Armour, 'and
give the senses flight, taking the image as it comes, beating the air
with happy pinions.' He must have been talking of his work, but I can
not now remember. And what made Strobo say, of life and art, 'I have
waited for ten years and five thousand pounds--now my old violin says,
"Go, handle the ladle! Go, add up the account!"' And did we really
discuss the chances of ultimate salvation for souls in the Secretariat?
I know I lifted my glass once and cried, 'I, a slave, drink to freedom!'
and Rosario clinked with me. And Strobo played wailing Hungarian airs
with sudden little shakes of hopeless laughter in them. I can not
even now hear Naches without being filled with the recollection of how
certain bare branches in me that night blossomed.

I walked alone down the hill and along the three miles to the Club, and
at every step the tide sank in me till it cast me on my threshold at
three in the morning, just the middle-aged shell of a Secretary to the
Government of India that I was when I set forth. Next day when my head
clerk brought me the files we avoided one another's glances; and it was
quite three weeks before I could bring myself to address him with the
dignity and distance prescribed for his station as 'Mr.' Rosario.


Chapter 2.IX.

I went of course to Calcutta for the four winter months. Harris and I
were together at the Club. It was the year, I remember, of the great
shindy as to whether foreign consuls should continue to be made
honourary members, in view of the sentiments some of them were freely
reflecting from Europe upon the subject of a war in South Africa which
was none of theirs. Certainly, feeling as they did, it would have been
better if they had swaggered less about a club that stood for British
Government; but I did not vote to withdraw the invitation. We can not,
after all, take notice of every idle word that drops from Latin or
Teutonic tongues; it isn't our way; but it was a liverish cold weather
on various accounts, and the public temper was short. I heard from Dora
oftener, Harris declared, than he did. She was spending the winter
with friends in Agra, and Armour, of course, was there too, living at
Laurie's Hotel, and painting, Dora assured me, with immense energy.
It was just the place for Armour, a sumptuous dynasty wrecked in white
marble and buried in desert sands for three hundred years; and I was
glad to hear that he was making the most of it. It was quite by the way,
but I had lent him the money to go there--somebody had to lend it to
him--and when he asked me to decide whether he should take his passage
for Marseilles or use it for this other purpose I could hardly hesitate,
believing in him, as I did, to urge him to paint a little more of India
before he went. I frankly despaired of his ever being able to pay his
way in Simla without Kauffer, but that was no reason why he should not
make a few more notes for further use at home, where I sometimes saw
for him, when his desultory and experimental days were over and some
definiteness and order had come into his work, a Bond Street exhibition.

I have not said all this time what I thought of Ingersoll Armour and
Dora Harris together, because their connection seemed too vague and
fantastic and impossible to hold for an instant before a steady gaze. I
have no wish to justify myself when I write that I preferred to keep my
eyes averted, enjoying perhaps just such a measure of vision as would
enter at a corner of them. This may or may not have been immoral under
the circumstances--the event did not prove it so--but for urgent private
reasons I could not be the person to destroy the idyll, if indeed its
destruction were possible, that flourished there in the corner of
my eye. Besides, had not I myself planted and watered it? But it was
foolish to expect other people, people who are forever on the lookout
for trousseaux and wedding-bells, and who considered these two as mere
man and maid, and had no sight of them as engaging young spirits in
happy conjunction--it was foolish to expect such people to show equal
consideration. Christmas was barely over before the lady with whom Miss
Harris was staying found it her duty to communicate to Edward Harris the
fact that dear Dora's charming friendship--she was sure it was nothing
more--with the young artist--Mrs. Poulton believed Mr. Harris would
understand who was meant--was exciting a good deal of comment in the
station, and WOULD dear Mr. Harris please write to Dora himself, as Mrs.
Poulton was beginning to feel so responsible?

I saw the letter; Harris showed it to me when he sat down to breakfast
with the long face of a man in a domestic difficulty, and we settled
together whom we should ask to put his daughter up in Calcutta. It
should be the wife of a man in his own department of course; it is to
one's Deputy Secretary that one looks for succour at times like this;
and naturally one never looks in vain. Mrs. Symons would be delighted.
I conjured up Dora's rage on receipt of the telegram. She loathed the
Symonses.

She came, but not at the jerk of a wire; she arrived a week later, with
a face of great propriety and a smile of great unconcern. Harris, having
got her effectually out of harm's way, shirked further insistence, and
I have reason to believe that Armour was never even mentioned between
them.

Dora applied herself to the gaieties of the season with the zest of
a debutante; she seemed really refreshed, revitalized. She had never
looked better, happier. I met her again for the first time at one of
the Thursday dances at Government House. In the glance she gave me I was
glad to detect no suspicion of collusion. She plainly could not dream
that Edward Harris in his nefarious exercise of parental authority had
acted upon any hint from me. It was rather sweet.

Out in the veranda, away from the blare of the Viceroy's band, she told
me very delicately and with the most charming ellipses how Armour had
been filling her life in Agra, how it had all been, for these two, a
dream and a vision. There is a place below the bridge there, where the
cattle come down from the waste pastures across the yellow sands to
drink and stand in the low water of the Jumna, to stand and switch their
tails while their herdsmen on the bank coax them back with 'Ari!' 'Ari!'
'Ari!' long and high, faint and musical; and the minarets of Akbar's
fort rise beyond against the throbbing sky and the sun fills it all.
This place I shall never see more distinctly than I saw it that night on
the veranda at Government House, Calcutta, with the conviction, like a
margin for the picture, that its foreground had been very often occupied
by the woman I profoundly worshiped and Ingersoll Armour. She told me
that he had sent me a sketch of it, and I very much wished he hadn't.
One felt that the gift would carry a trifle of irony.

'He has told me,' she said once brusquely, 'how good you have been to
him.'

'Is he coming to Simla again?' I asked.

'Oh yes! And please take it from me that this time he will conquer the
place. He has undertaken to do it.'

'At your request?'

'At my persuasion--at my long entreaty. They must recognize him--they
must be taught. I have set my heart on it.'

'Does he himself very much care?' I asked remembering the night of the
thirty-first of October.

'Yes, he does care. He despises it, of course, but in a way he cares.
I've been trying to make him care more. A human being isn't an orchid;
he must draw something from the soil he grows in.'

'If he were stable,' I mused; 'if he had a fixed ambition somewhere in
the firmament. But his purpose is a will-o'-the-wisp.'

'I think he has an ambition,' said Miss Harris, into the dark.

'Ah! Then we must continue,' I said--'continue to push from behind.'

Dora did not reply. She is a person of energy and determination, and
might have been expected to offer to cooperate gladly. But she didn't.

'He is painting a large picture for next season's exhibition,' she
informed me. 'I was not allowed to see it or to know anything about it,
but he declares it will bring Simla down.'

'I hope not,' I said, piously.

'Oh, I hope so. I have told him,' Dora continued, slowly, 'that a great
deal depends on it.'

'Here is Mrs. Symons,' I was able to return, 'and I am afraid she is
looking for you.'

March came, and the city lay white under its own dust. The electric fans
began to purr in the Club, and Lent brought the flagging season to a
full stop. I had to go that year on tour through the famine district
with the Member, and we escaped, gasping, from the Plains about the
middle of April. Simla was crimson with rhododendron blossoms, and
seemed a spur of Arcady. There had been the usual number of flittings
from one house to another, and among them I heard with satisfaction
that Armour no longer occupied Amy Villa. I would not for the world have
blurred my recollections of that last evening--I could not have gone
there again.

'He is staying with Sir William Lamb,' said Dora, handing me my cup of
tea. 'And I am quite jealous. Sir William, only Sir William, has been
allowed to see the exhibition picture.'

'What does that portend?' I said, thoughtfully.

'I don't know. Sir William was here yesterday simply swelling with his
impression of it. He says it's the finest thing that has been done in
India. I told you he would conquer them.'

'You did,' and without thinking I added, 'I hope you won't be sorry that
you asked him to.' It must have been an inspiration.

Armour, those weeks before the exhibition, seemed invisible. Dora
reported him torn with the incapacity of the bazaar frame-maker to
follow a design, and otherwise excessively occupied, and there was no
lack of demands upon my own time. Besides, my ardour to be of assistance
to the young man found a slight damper in the fact that he was staying
with Sir William Lamb. What competence had I to be of use to the guest
of Sir William Lamb?

'I do not for a moment think he will be there,' said Dora, on the day
of the private view as we went along the Mall towards the Town Hall
together. 'He will not run with an open mouth to his success. He will
take it from us later.'

But he was there. We entered precisely at the dramatic moment of his
presentation by Sir William Lamb to the Viceroy. He stood embarrassed
and smiling in a little circle of compliments and congratulation. Behind
him and a little to the left hung his picture, large and predominant,
and in the corner of the frame was stuck the red ticket that signified
the Viceroy's gold medal. We saw that, I think, before we saw anything
else. Then with as little haste as was decent, considering His
Excellency's proximity, we walked within range of the picture.

I am not particularly pleased, even now, to have the task of describing
the thing. Its subject was an old Mahomedan priest with a green turban
and a white beard exhorting a rabble of followers. I heard myself saying
to Dora that it was very well painted indeed, very conscientiously
painted, and that is certainly what struck me. The expression of the
fire-eater's face was extremely characteristic; his arm was flung
out with a gesture that perfectly matched. The group of listeners was
carefully composed and most 'naturally'; that is the only word that
would come to me.

I glanced almost timidly at Dora. She was regarding it with a deep
vertical line between her handsome brows.

'What--on earth--has he done with himself?' she demanded, but before I
could reply Armour was by our side.

'Well?' he said, looking at Dora.

'It--it's very nice,' she stammered, 'but I miss YOU.'

'She only means, you know,' I rushed in, 'that you've put in everything
that was never there before. Accuracy of detail, you know, and so forth.
'Pon my word, there's some drawing in that!'

'No,' said Dora, calmly, 'what I complain of is that he has left out
everything that was there before. But he has won the gold medal, and I
congratulate him.'

'Well,' I said, uneasily, 'don't congratulate me. I didn't do it.
Positively I am not to blame.'

'His Excellency says that it reminds him of an incident in one of Mrs.
Steel's novels,' said Armour, just turning his head to ascertain His
Excellency's whereabouts.

'Dear me, so it does,' I exclaimed, eagerly, 'one couldn't name the
chapter--it's the general feeling.' I went on to discourse of the
general feeling. Words came generously, questions with point, comments
with intelligence. I swamped the situation and so carried it off.

'The Viceroy has bought the thing,' Armour went on, looking at Dora,
'and has commissioned me to paint another. The only restriction he makes
is--'

'That it shall be of the same size?' asked Dora.

'That it must deal with some phase of native life.'

Miss Harris walked to a point behind us, and stood there with her eyes
fixed upon the picture. I glanced at her once; her gaze was steady, but
perfectly blank. Then she joined us again, and struck into the stream of
my volubility.

'I am delighted,' she said, pleasantly, to Armour. 'You have done
exactly what I wanted you to do. You have won the Viceroy's medal, and
all the reputation there is to win in this place. Come and dine
tonight, and we will rejoice together. But wasn't it--for you--a little
difficult?'

He looked at her as if she had offered him a cup, and then dashed it
from his lips; but the occasion was not one, of course, for crying out.

'Oh no,' he said, putting on an excellent face. 'But it took a hideous
time.'


Chapter 2.X.

Within a fortnight I was surprised and a little irritated to receive
from Armour the amount of my loan in full. It was not in accordance
with my preconceived idea of him that he should return it at all. I had
arranged in my own mind that he should be governed by the most honest
impulses and the most approved intentions up to the point of departure,
but that he should never find it quite convenient to pay, and that in
order to effect his final shipment to other shores I should be compelled
to lend him some more money. In the far future, when he should be famous
and I an obscure pauper on pension, my generous imagination permitted me
to see the loan repaid; but not till then. These are perhaps stereotyped
and conventional lines to conceive him on, but I hardly think that
anybody who has followed my little account to this point will think them
unjustifiable. I looked at his cheque with disgust. That a man turns out
better than you expected is no reason why you such not be annoyed that
your conception of him is shattered. You may be gratified on general
grounds, but distinctly put out on personal ones, especially when your
conception pointed to his inevitable removal. That was the way I felt.

The cheque stood for so much more than its money value. It stood for a
possible, nay, a probable capacity in Armour to take his place in the
stable body of society, to recognize and make demands, to become a
taxpayer, a churchgoer, a householder, a husband. As I gazed, the
signature changed from that of a gnome with luminous eyes who inhabited
an inaccessible crag among the rhododendrons to that of a prosperous
artist-bourgeois with a silk hat for Sundays. I have in some small
degree the psychological knack, I saw the possibilities of the situation
with immense clearness; and I cursed the cheque.

Coincidence is odious, tells on the nerves. I never felt it more so than
a week later, when I read in the 'Pioneer' the announcement of the death
of my old friend Fry, Superintendent of the School of Art in Calcutta.
The paragraph in which the journal dismissed poor Fry to his reward was
not unkind, but it distinctly implied that the removal of Fry should
include the removal of his ideas and methods, and the substitution of
something rather more up to date. It remarked that the Bengali student
had been pinned down long enough to drawing plaster casts, and declared
that something should be done to awake within him the creative idea. I
remember the phrase, it seemed so directly to suggest that the person to
awake it should be Ingersoll Armour.

I turned the matter over in my mind; indeed, for the best part of an
hour my brain revolved with little else. The billet was an excellent
one, with very decent pay and charming quarters. It carried a pension,
it was the completest sort of provision. There was a long vacation, with
opportunities for original effort, and I had heard Fry call the work
interesting. Fry was the kind of man to be interested in anything that
gave him a living, but there was no reason why a more captious spirit,
in view of the great advantages, should not accommodate itself to the
routine that might present itself. The post was in the gift of the
Government of Bengal, but that was no reason why the Government of
Bengal should not be grateful in the difficulty of making a choice for a
hint from us. The difficulty was really great. They would have to
write home and advertise in the 'Athenaeum'--for some reason
Indian Governments always advertise educational appointments in
the 'Athenaeum'; it is a habit which dates from the days of John
Company--and that would mean delay. And then the result might be a
disappointment. Might Armour not also be a disappointment? That I really
could not say. A new man is always a speculation, and departments, like
individuals, have got to take their luck.

The Viceroy was so delighted--everybody was so delighted--with the medal
picture that the merest breath blown among them would secure Armour's
nomination. Should I blow that breath? These happy thoughts must always
occur to somebody. This one had occurred to me. Ten to one it
would occur to nobody else, and last of all to Armour himself. The
advertisement might already be on its way home to the 'Athenaeum'.

It would make everything possible. It would throw a very different
complexion over the idyll. It would turn that interlacing wreath of
laurels and of poppies into the strongest bond in the world.

I would simply have nothing to do with it.

But there was no harm I asking Armour to dine with me; I sent the note
off by messenger after breakfast and told the steward to put a magnum
of Pommery to cool at seven precisely. I had some idea, I suppose, of
drinking with Armour to his eternal discomfiture. Then I went to the
office with a mind cleared of responsibility and comfortably pervaded
with the glow of good intentions.

The moment I saw the young man, punctual and immediate and a little
uncomfortable about the cuffs, I regretted not having asked one or two
more fellows. It might have spoiled the occasion, but it would have
saved the situation. That single glance of my accustomed eye--alas!
that it was so well accustomed--revealed him anxious and screwed up,
as nervous as a cat, but determined, revealed--how well I knew the
signs!--that he had something confidential and important and highly
personal to communicate, a matter in which I could, if I only would, be
of the greatest possible assistance. From these appearances twenty years
had taught me to fly to any burrow, but your dinner-table offers no
retreat; you are hoist, so to speak, on your own carving-fork. There are
men, of course, and even women, who have scruples about taking advantage
of so intimate and unguarded an opportunity, but Armour, I rapidly
decided, was not one of these. His sophistication was progressing, but
it had not reached that point. He wanted something--I flew instantly to
the mad conclusion that he wanted Dora. I did not pause to inquire why
he should ask her of me. It had seemed for a long time eminently proper
that anybody who wanted Dora should ask her of me. The application was
impossible, but applications nearly always were impossible. Nobody knew
that better than the Secretary to the Government of India in the Home
Department.

I squared my shoulders and we got through the soup. It was necessary to
apologize for the fish. 'I suppose one must remember,' I said, 'that it
has to climb six thousand feet,' when suddenly he burst out.

'Sir William Lamb tells me,' he said, and stopped to swallow some wine,
'that there is something very good going in Calcutta and that I should
ask you to help me to get it. May I?'

So the miserable idea--the happy thought--had occurred to somebody else.

'Is there?' I said, with interest and attention.

'It's something in the School of Art. A man named Fry has died.'

'Ah!' I said, 'a man named Fry. He, I think was Director of that
institution.' I looked at Armour in the considering, measuring way with
which we suggest to candidates for posts that their fitness to fill them
is not to be absolutely taken for granted. 'Fry was a man of fifty-six,'
I said.

'I am thirty.' He certainly did not look it, but years often fall
lightly upon a temperament.

'It's a vile climate.'

'I know. Is it too vile, do you think,' he said anxiously, 'to ask a
lady to share?'

'Lots of ladies do share it,' I replied, with amazing calmness; 'but I
must decline absolutely to enter into that.'

My frown was so forbidding that he couldn't and didn't dare to go on.
He looked dashed and disappointed; he was really a fool of an applicant,
quite ready to retire from the siege on the first intimation that the
gates were not to be thrown open at his approach.

'Do you think you would like teaching?' I asked.

'I can teach. Miss--my only pupil here has made capital progress.'

'I am afraid you must not measure the Bengali art student by the
standard of Miss Harris,' I replied coldly. He WAS a fool. We talked of
other things. I led him on to betray his ludicrous lack of knowledge
of the world in various directions. At other times it had irritated
me, that night it gave me purest pleasure. I agreed with him about
everything.

As he selected his smoke to go home with I said, 'Send your application
in to the Director of Public Instruction, Bengal--Lamb will tell you
how--and I'll see what I can do.'

They were only too thankful to get him. As a student it seemed he had
been diligent both in London and Paris; he possessed diplomas or
some such things bearing names which were bound to have weight with a
Department of Public Instruction anywhere. I felt particularly thankful
for this, for I was committed to him if he had not a rag to show.

The matter was settled in three weeks, during which Armour became
more and more the fashion in Simla. He was given every opportunity of
experiment in the society of which he was about to become a permanent
item. He dined out four or five times a week, and learned exactly what
to talk about. He surprised me one day with a piece of news of my own
department, which was a liberty of a very serious kind, but I forgave
him upon finding that it was not true. He rode Lamb's weight-carriers,
to cross which his short legs were barely adequate, and apart from
this disadvantage he did not ride them badly. Only one thing marred the
completeness of the transformation--he didn't dismiss the dog. The dog,
fundamentally, was still and ever his companion. It was a suspicious
circumstance if we had known; but we saw in it only a kind heart, and
ignored it.

I saw little of Dora Harris at this time. Making no doubt that she was
enjoying her triumph as she deserved, I took the liberty of
supposing that she would hardly wish to share so intimate a source of
satisfaction. I met them both several times at people's houses--certain
things had apparently been taken for granted--but I was only one of
the little circle that wondered how soon it might venture upon open
congratulations. The rest of us knew as much, it seemed, as Edward
Harris did. Lady Pilkey asked him point-blank, and he said what his
daughter found to like in the fellow the Lord only knew, and he was glad
to say that at present he had no announcement to make. Lady Pilkey
told me she thought it very romantic--like marrying a newspaper
correspondent--but I pointed to a lifelong task, with a pension
attached, of teaching fat young Bengalis to draw, and asked her if she
saw extravagant romance in that.

They wrote up from Calcutta that they would like to have a look at
Armour before making the final recommendation, and he left us, I
remember, by the mail tonga of the third of June. He dropped into my
office to say goodbye, but I was busy with the Member and could see
nobody, so he left a card with 'P.P.C.' on it. I kept the card
by accident, and I keep it still by design, for the sake of that
inscription.

Strobo had given up his hotel in Simla to start one in Calcutta. It
never occurred to me that Armour might go to Strobo's; but it was, of
course, the natural thing for him to do, especially as Strobo happened
to be in Calcutta himself at the time. He went and stayed with Strobo,
and every day he and the Signor, clad in bath-towels, lay in closed
rooms under punkahs and had iced drinks in the long tumblers of the
East, and smoked and talked away the burden of the hours.

Strobo was in Calcutta to meet a friend, an Austrian, who was shortly
leaving India in the Messagerie Maritimes steamer Dupleix after
agreeable wanderings disguised as a fakir in Tibet; and to this friend
was attached, in what capacity I never thought well to inquire, a lady
who was a Pole, and played and sang as well as Strobo fiddled. I believe
they dined together every night, this precious quartet, and exchanged
in various tongues their impressions of India under British control.
'A houri in stays,' the lady who was a Pole described it. I believe she
herself was a houri without them. And at midnight, when the south wind
was cool and strong from the river, Strobo and Armour would walk up
Chowringhee Road and look at the red brick School of Art from the
outside in the light of the street lamps, as a preliminary to our
friend's final acceptance of the task of superintending it from within.

We in Simla, of course, knew nothing of all this at the time; the
details leaked out later when Strobo came up again. I began to feel some
joyful anxiety when in a letter dated a week after Armour's arrival in
Calcutta, the Director of Public Instruction wrote to inquire whether he
had yet left Simla; but the sweet blow did not fall with any precision
or certainty until the newspaper arrived containing his name immediately
under that of Herr Vanrig and Mme. Dansky in the list of passengers who
had sailed per S.S. Dupleix on the fifteenth of June for Colombo. There
it was, 'I. Armour,' as significant as ever to two persons intimately
concerned with it, but no longer a wrapping of mystery, rather a
radiating centre of light. Its power of illumination was such that it
tried my eyes. I closed them to recall the outlines of the School of
Art--it had been built in a fit of economy--and the headings of the last
Director's report, which I had kindly sent after Armour to Calcutta.
Perhaps that had been the last straw.

The real meaning of the task of implanting Western ideals in the Eastern
mind rose before me when I thought of Armour's doing it--how they would
dwindle in the process, and how he must go on handling them and looking
at them withered and shrunken for twenty-odd years. I understood--there
was enough left in me to understand--Armour's terrified escape. I was
happy in the thought of him, sailing down the Bay. The possibilities
of marriage, social position, assured income, support in old age, the
strands in the bond that held him, the bond that holds us all, had been
untwisting, untwisting, from the third of June to the fifteenth. The
strand that stood for Dora doubtless was the last to break, but it did
not detract from my beatitude to know that even this consideration,
before the Dupleix and liberty, failed to hold.

I kept out of Miss Harris's way so studiously for the next week or two
that she was kind enough in the end to feel compelled to send for me. I
went with misgivings--I expected, as may be imagined, to be very deeply
distressed. She met me with a storm of gay reproaches. I had never seen
her in better health or spirits. My surprise must have been more evident
than I supposed or intended, for before I went away she told me the
whole story. By that time she had heard from Ceylon, a delicious letter
with a pen-and-ink sketch at the top. I have it still; it infallibly
brought the man back to me. But it was all over; she assured me
with shining eyes that it was. The reason of her plainly boundless
thankfulness that Armour had run away from the School of Art did not
come to the surface until I was just going. Then I gathered that if he
had taken the post she would have felt compelled, compelled by all she
had done for him, to share its honours with him; and this, ever since
at her bidding he had begun to gather such things up, was precisely what
she had lost all inclination to do.

We were married the following October. We had a big, gorgeous official
wedding, which we both enjoyed enormously. I took furlough, and we went
home, but we found London very expensive and the country very slow; and
with my K.C.S.I. came the offer of the Membership, so we went back to
Simla for three perfectly unnecessary years, which we now look back upon
with pleasure and regret. I fear that we, no more than Ingersoll Armour,
were quite whole-hearted Bohemians; but I don't know that we really ever
pretended to be.


3. The Hesitation of Miss Anderson.


Chapter 3.I.

When it became known that Madeline Anderson had finally decided to go
abroad for two years, her little circle in New York naturally talked
a good deal, in review, about her curious reason for never having gone
before. So much that happened afterward, so much that I am going to
tell, depends upon this reason for not going before, that I also must
talk about it and explain it; I could never bring it out just as we went
along. It would have been a curious reason in connection with anybody,
but doubly so as explaining the behaviour of Miss Anderson, whose
profile gave you the impression that she was anything but the
shuttlecock of her emotions. Shortly, her reason was a convict, Number
1596, who, up to February in that year, had been working, or rather
waiting, out his sentence in the State penitentiary. So long as he
worked or waited, Madeline remained in New York, but when in February
death gave him his quittance, she took her freedom too, with wide
intentions and many coupons.

Earlier in his career Number 1596 had been known in New York society
as Mr. Frederick Prendergast, and for a little while he was disapproved
there on the score of having engaged himself to a Miss Anderson,
Madeline Anderson, whom nobody knew anything about. There was her
own little circle, as I have said, and it lacked neither dignity nor
refinement, but I doubt whether any member of it was valeted from
London, or could imply, in conversation, a personal acquaintance with
Yvette Guilbert. There is no need, however, to insist that there are
many persons of comfortable income and much cultivation in New York,
who would not be met by strangers having what are called the 'best'
introductions there. The best so often fails to include the better. It
may be accepted that Madeline Anderson and her people were of these, and
that she wondered sometimes during the brief days of her engagement what
it would be like to belong to the brilliant little world about her
that had its visiting list in London, Paris, or St. Petersburg, and was
immensely entertained by the gaucheries of the great ones of the earth.

Then came, with the most unexceptionable introductions, Miss Violet
Forde, from a Sloane Square address, London. She came leaning on the arm
of a brother, the only relative she had in the world, and so brilliant
was the form of these young people that it occurred to nobody to imagine
that it had the most precarious pecuniary foundation, must have faded
and shrivelled indeed, after another year or two of anything but
hospitality as generous as that of New York. Well-nourished and
undimmed, however, it concealed for them admirably the fact that it
was the hospitality they were after, and not the bracing climate or the
desire to see the fascinating Americans of London and Paris at home.
New York found them agreeable specimens of high-spirited young English
people, and played with them indefinitely. Miss Forde, when she sat
imperturbably on a cushion in the middle of the floor after dinner
and sang to a guitar the songs of Albert Chevalier, was an anomaly in
English decorum that was as pleasing to observe as it was amusing to
criticize.

The Americans she met delighted in drawing her out--it was a pastime
that took the lead at dinner-parties, to an extent which her hostess
often thought preposterous--and she responded with naivete and vigour,
perfectly aware that she was scoring all along the line. Upon many
charming people she made the impression that she was a type of the most
finished class of what they called 'English society girls,' that she
represented the best they could do over there in this direction. As
a matter of fact she might have sat to any of those 'black and white'
artists, who draw townish young women of London, saying cynical things
to young men in the weekly papers. That was her type, and if you look
for her picture there, you will see that her face was very accurately
oval, with eyes that knew their value, and other features that didn't
very much matter, except in so far as they expressed a very full
conception of the satisfactions of this life, and a wide philosophy as
to methods of obtaining them.

Frederick Prendergast was unacquainted with the popular pictures I
have mentioned, having a very reasonable preference for the illustrated
papers of his own country; otherwise--there is no telling--he might
have observed the resemblance and escaped the State prison, whither he
assuredly never would have gone had he married Madeline Anderson--as
he fully intended to do when Miss Forde came over. He was worth at that
time a great deal of money, besides being more personable than any one
would have believed who knew him as '1596.' His fiancee was never too
obtrusively in evidence, and if Miss Forde thought of Miss Anderson with
any scruple, it was probably to reflect that if she could not take care
of these things she did not deserve to have them. This at all events was
how her attitude expressed itself practically; and the upshot was that
Miss Anderson lost them. There came a day when Frederick Prendergast,
in much discomfort of mind, took to Violet the news that Madeline had
brought their engagement to an end. She, Violet, gave him some tea, and
they talked frankly of the absurd misconception of the relations between
them upon which his dismissal was founded; and Prendergast went away
much comforted and wholly disposed to respect Miss Anderson's startling
wishes. She, with what both the others thought excellent taste,
persuaded her mother and sister to move to Brooklyn; and so far as the
thoroughfares and social theatres of New York were concerned, the city
over the river might have been a nunnery which had closed its gates upon
her. It was only in imagination that she heard Frederick Prendergast's
wedding-bells when, two months later, he was united to Miss Forde in
Grace Church, and that after the fact, their melody being brought to her
inner sense next day by the marriage notice in the 'Tribune'.

It would be painful, in view of what we know of Frederick Prendergast,
to dwell upon what Madeline Anderson undeniably felt. Besides her
emotions were not destructively acute, they only lasted longer than
any one could have either expected or approved. She suffered for him as
well; she saw as plainly as he did the first sordid consequences of his
mistake the afternoon he came to solicit her friendship, having lost
other claims; and it was then perhaps, that her responsibility in
allowing Violet Forde to spoil his life for him began to suggest itself
to her. Up to that time she had thought of the matter differently, as
she would have said, selfishly. He was not permitted to come again; but
he went away lightened, inasmuch as he had added his burden to hers.

When a year later the national credit involved that of Prendergast's
firm, Madeline read financial articles in the newspapers with heavy
concern, surprising her family with views on 'sound money'; and when,
shortly afterward, his partners brought that unhappy young man before
the criminal courts for an irregular use of the firm's signature, which
further involved it beyond hope of extrication, there was no moment of
the day which did not find her, in spirit, beside him there.

The case dragged on through appeal, and the decision of the lower courts
was not reversed. The day this became known the fact also transpired
that poor Prendergast would never live to complete his ten years' term
of imprisonment. He went to prison with hardly more than one lung, and
in the most favourable physical condition to get rid of the other. Mrs.
Prendergast wept a little over the installation, and assured Frederick
that it was perfectly absurd; they were certain to get him out again;
people always got people out again in America. She took him grapes and
flowers once a week for about a month, and then she sailed for Europe.
She put it about that her stay was to be as brief as was consistent with
the transaction of certain necessary business in London; but she never
came back, and Madeline Anderson had taken her place, in so far as
the grapes and flowers were concerned, for many months, when the
announcement of his wife's death reached Prendergast in an English
paper published in Paris. About a year after that it began to be thought
singular how he picked up in health, and Madeline's mother and sister
occasionally romanced about the possibility of his recovering and
marrying her after all--they had an enormous opinion of the artistic
virtue of forgiveness--but it was not a contingency ever seriously
contemplated by Miss Anderson herself. Her affection, pricked on by
remorse, had long satisfied itself with the duties of her ministry. If
she would not leave him until he died, it was because there was no one
but herself to brighten the long day in the prison hospital for him,
because she had thrown him into the arms of the woman who had deserted
him, because he represented in her fancy her life's only budding towards
the sun. Her patience lasted through six years, which was four years
longer than any doctor had given Frederick Prendergast to live; but when
one last morning she found an empty bed, and learned that Number 1596
had been discharged in his coffin, she rose from the shock with the
sense of a task fully performed and a well-developed desire to see what
else there might be in the world.

She announced her intention of travelling for a year or two with a maid,
and her family expressed the usual acquiescence. It would help her, they
said, to 'shake it off'; but they said that to one another. They were
not aware--and it would have spoiled an ideal for them if they had
been--that she had shaken it off, quite completely, into Prendergast's
grave.

This was the curious reason why Miss Anderson's travels were so long
postponed.


Chapter 3.II.

It was Madeline's fancy to enjoy the contrast between West and East
in all its sharpness, so she and Brookes embarked at San Francisco for
Yokohama. Their wanderings in Japan were ideal, in spite of Brookes's
ungrateful statement that she could have done with fewer eggs and more
bacon; and Madeline prolonged the appeal of the country to her sense
of humour and fantasy, putting off her departure for India from week to
week. She went at last in March; and found herself down with fever at
Benares in the middle of one particularly hot April, two months after
the last of her fellow travellers had sailed from Bombay, haunted on her
baking pillow by pictorial views of the burning ghat and the vultures.
The station doctor, using appalling language to her punkah-coolie,
ordered her to the hills; and thus it was that she went to Simla, where
she had no intention of going, and where this story really begins.

Brookes has always declared that Providence in sending Miss Anderson to
Simla had it in mind to prevent a tragedy; but as to that there is
room for a difference of opinion: besides I can not be anticipated by
Brookes.

'It's the oddest place imaginable, and in many ways the most
delightful,' Madeline wrote to her sister Adele, 'this microcosm of
Indian official society withdrawn from all the world, and playing at
being a municipality on three Himalayan mountaintops. You can't imagine
its individuality, its airy, unsubstantial, superior poise. How can I
explain to you elderly gentlemen, whose faces express daily electric
communications with the Secretary of State, playing tennis violently
every single afternoon in striped flannels--writing letters of
admonition to the Amir all day long, and in the evening, with the
assistance of yellow wigs and make-up sticks from the Calcutta
hair-dresser, imagining that they produce things, poor dears, only a
LITTLE less well done than is done at the Lyceum? Nothing is beyond
them. I assure you they are contemplating at the moment 'The Second Mrs.
Tanqueray'. The effect of remoteness from the world, I suppose, and
the enormous mutual appreciation of people who have watched each other
climb. For to arrive officially at Simla they have had to climb in more
ways than one...It is all so hilarious, so high-spirited, so young
and yet, my word! what a cult of official dignity underlying! I saw a
staff-officer in full uniform, red and white feathers and all, going
to the birthday dinner at the Viceroy's the other evening in a
perambulator--rickshaw, you know, such as they have in Japan. That is
typical of the place. All the honours and dignities--and a perambulator
to put them in--or a ridiculous little white-washed house made of mud
and tin, and calling itself Warwick Castle, Blenheim, Abbotsford! They
haven't a very good hold, these Simla residences, and sometimes they
slip fifty yards or so down the mountain-side, but the chimneys (bad pun
coming) are never any more out of drawing than they were before.

But a little while wore in the years whereas she had the son, ere
she conceived and had a daughter, who anon became much fair and
much wise, and in all lordliness she let nourish her.

Thus was the Lady abiding a two years in much joy and mirth.

But now the story leaves telling of the Lady and the Soudan till after,
as ye shall come to hear, and returneth to the Count of Ponthieu, and
to the son of the Count, and to Messire Thibault of Dontmart,
who were sore grieving for the Lady who had been thuswise cast into
the sea, even as ye have heard, and knew no tidings of her, what was
become of her, and trowed more that she were dead than alive.

Now saith the history, and the sooth beareth witness thereto, that the
Count was in Ponthieu, and his son, and Messire Thibault. The Count
was in sore great sadness, and heavy thought of his daughter, and much
he doubted him of the sin which he had done. Messire Thibault durst
not to wed him; nor did the son of the Count either, because of the
dolour wherein he saw his friends abiding. Neither would the son of the
Count become knight, though he were well of an age thereto,
had he the will.

On a day the Count forthought him much of the sin which he had done to
his daughter, and he betook him to the Archbishop of Rheims and confessed
to him, and said to him all the deed, as he had done it.

He took the cross of Over Sea, and crossed him. And whenas Messire Thibault
saw his lord the Count crossed, he confessed him and crossed him withal.
Likewise, when the son of the Count saw his father crossed, and
Messire Thibault also, whom he loved much, he also crossed himself.

And when the Count saw his son crossed, he was much grieved, and
said: "Fair son, wherefore art thou crossed? Now shall the land abide
void of lord." But the son answered and said:
"Father, I am crossed for God's sake first before all things, and for the
saving of my soul, and to serve God and honour him to my power, so long
as I shall have the life in my body."
So the Count arrayed him speedily and bestirred him, and went and took
leave; but withal he looked to it who should ward his land. And Messire
Thibault and the son of the Count dight their matters, and they took
to the way with much great safe-conduct. They came in the Land
of Over Sea safe of body and havings, and there they did their
pilgrimage much holily in all the places whereas they wotted that
it ought to be done, and God to be served.

And when the Count had so done, he bethought him that he would well to
do yet more: so he gave himself to the service of the Temple for one
year, him and his company; and then when it came to the end of the
year, deemed that he would go visit his land and his country.
Wherefore he sent unto Acre and let array his journey, and he took
leave of them of the Temple, and of the land, and much they thanked
him for the honour which he had brought them. He came to Acre with his
fellows, and they went aboard ship, and departed from the haven with
right good wind at will; but it endured but for a little; for when they
were on the high sea, then did a wind mighty and horrible fall upon
them unawares; and the mariners knew not whitherward they went,
and every hour they looked to be drowned; and so great was their
distress that they bound themselves together, the son to the father,
the nephew to the uncle, yea, one to the other, even as they were
intermingled.

The Count and his son and Messire Thibault bound themselves together so
that they might not sunder.

But a little way had they gone in this wise ere they saw land; and they
asked the mariners what land it was, and they answered that it was the
Land of the Saracens; and they called it the Land of Aumarie, and said
unto the Count: "Sir, what is thy pleasure that we do? for if we go yonder,
we shall be all taken and fall into the hands of the Saracens."

The Count said to them: "Let go according to the will of Jesus Christ,
who shall take heed to our bodies and our lives; for of an eviller
or uglier death we may not die than to die in this sea."
So they let run along Aumarie, and galleys and craft of the Saracens
came against them. Wot ye well that this was an evil meeting; for
they took them and brought them before the Soudan, who was lord of that
land and country. So they made him a present of the Christians and of
all their havings: the Soudan departed them, and sent them to divers
places of his prisons. The Count of Ponthieu and his son and Messire
Thibault were so strongly bound together that they might not be
sundered.

The Soudan commanded that they should be laid in a prison by themselves,
where they should have but little to eat and little to drink; and
it was done even as he commanded.

There were they a while of time in great misease, and so long that
the son of the Count was much sick, insomuch that the Count and
Messire Thibault had fear of his dying.

Thereafter it fell out that the Soudan held court much mightily, and
made great joy for his birthday; and this was after the custom of
the Saracens.

After dinner came the Saracens unto the Soudan, and said to him:
"Sir, we require of thee our right."

He asked them what it was, and they said: "Sir, a captive Christian
to set up at the butts."

So he granted it to them whereas it was a matter of nought, and he
said to them: "Go ye to the gaol, and take him who has the least
of life in him."

To the gaol they went, and drew out the Count, all bedone with a thick
beard; and when the Soudan saw him in so poor estate, he said to them:
"This one hath little might to live; go ye, lead him hence, and
do ye your will on him."

The wife of the Soudan, of whom ye have heard, who was daughter of the
Count, was in the place whereas the Count who was her father was being
led to the death, and so soon as she saw him, the blood and the
heart was stirred within her, not so much for that she knew him,
but rather that nature constrained her.

Then said the Lady to the Soudan: "Sir, I am French, wherefore I would
willingly speak to yonder poor man before he dieth, if it please
thee." "Yea, dame," said the Soudan, "it pleaseth me well."
So the Lady came to the Count, and drew him apart, and caused the
Saracens to draw aback, and asked him of whence he was, and he
said:
"Lady, I am of the kingdom of France, of a land which is called
Ponthieu."

When the Lady heard that, all the blood of her stirred within her, and
straightway she asked of what kindred he was.

"Certes, dame," said he, "it may not import to me of what kin I be,
for I have suffered so many pains and griefs since I departed, that I
love better to die than to live; but so much can I tell thee of a sooth,
that I was the Count of Ponthieu."
When the Lady heard that, she made no semblance, but forthwith
departed from the Count and came to the Soudan, and said: "Sir,
give me this captive, if it please thee, for he knoweth the chess
and the tables, and fair tales withal, which shall please thee much;
and he shall play before thee and learn thee."

"Dame," said the Soudan, "by my law, wot that with a good will I
will give him thee; do with him as thou wilt."

Then the Lady took him and sent him into her chamber, and the jailers
went to seek another, and led out Messire Thibault, who was the husband
of the Lady; and in sorry raiment was he, for he was dight with long
hair, and had a great beard; he was lean and fleshless, as one who had
suffered pain and dolour enough.

When the Lady saw him, she said unto the Soudan: "Sir, again with this
one would I willingly speak, if it please thee." "Dame," said the Soudan,
"it pleaseth me well." So the Lady came to Messire Thibault, and asked
him of whence he was, and he said: "I am of the land of the old warrior
whom they led before thee e'en now: and I had his daughter to wife;
and I am a knight."

The Lady knew well her lord, so she went back unto the Soudan, and
said to him: "Sir, great goodness wilt thou do unto me if thou wilt
give me this one also."

"Dame," said he, "with a good will I will give him to thee." So she
thanked him, and sent him into her chamber with the other.

But the archers hastened and came to the Soudan, and said: "Sir, thou
doest us wrong, and the day is a-waning." And therewith they went to the
gaol and brought out the son of the Count, who was all covered with
his hair and dishevelled, as one who had not been washen a while. Young
man he was, so that he had not yet a beard; but so lean he was, and so
sick and feeble, that scarce might he hold him up. And when the Lady saw
him, she had of him much great pity. She came to him and asked of him
whose son, and whence he was, and he said he was the son of the first
worthy. Then she wotted well that he was her brother, but no semblance
she made thereof.

"Sir, certes," said she to the Soudan, "thou wilt now do me great goodness
if thou wilt give me this one also; for he knows the chess and the
tables, and all other games, which much shall please thee to see
and to hear."

But the Soudan said: "Dame, by my law, were there an hundred of
them I would give them unto thee willingly."

The Lady thanked him much, and took her brother, and sent him straightway
into her chamber. But the folk betook them anew to the gaol, and brought
forth another; and the Lady departed thence, whereas she knew him
not.

So was he led to his martyrdom, and our Lord Jesus Christ received
his soul. But the Lady went her ways forthwith; for it pleased her not,
the martyrdoms which the Saracens did on the Christians.

She came to her chamber wherein were the prisoners, and when they saw
her coming, they made as they would rise up, but she made sign to
them to hold them still. Then she went close up to them, and made
them sign of friendship.

And the Count, who was right sage, asked thereon: "Dame, when shall they
slay us?" And she answered that it would not be yet. "Dame," said they,
"thereof are we heavy; for we have so great hunger, that it lacketh but
a little of our hearts departing from us."

Thereat she went forth and let array meat; and then she brought it, and
gave to each one a little, and a little of drink. And when they had
taken it, then had they yet greater hunger than afore.

Thuswise she gave them to eat, ten times the day, by little and little;
for she doubted that if they ate all freely, that they would take so
much as would grieve them. Wherefore she did them to eat thus
attemperly.

Thuswise did the good dame give them might again; and they were before
her all the first seven days, and the night-tide she did them to lie
at their ease; and she did them do off their evil raiment and let
give them good and new.

After the eighth day, she had strengthened them little by little and
more and more; and then she let bring them victuals and drink to their
contentment, and in such wise that they were so strong that she
abandoned to them the victual and the drink withal.

They had chequers and tables, and played thereon, and were in all
content.

The Soudan was ofttimes with them, and good will he had to see them
play, and much it pleased him. But the dame refrained her sagely
toward them, so that never was one of them that knew her, neither
by word nor deed of hers.

But a little while wore after this matter, as telleth the tale, ere the
Soudan had to do, for a rich soudan, who marched on him, laid waste his
land, and fell to harrying him. And he, to avenge his trouble,
summoned folk from every part, and assembled a great host.
When the Lady knew thereof she came into the chamber whereas were the
prisoners, and she sat down before them, and spoke to them, and
said:
"Lords, ye have told me of your matters a deal; now would I wot whether
that which ye have told me be true or not: for ye told me that
thou wert Count of Ponthieu on the day that thou departedst therefrom,
and that that man had had thy daughter to wife, and that the other one
was thy son.

Now, I am Saracen, and know the art of astronomy: wherefore I tell
you well, that never were ye so nigh to a shameful death as now ye
be, if ye tell me not the truth.

Thy daughter, whom this knight had, what became of her?"
"Lady," said the Count, "I trow that she be dead."

"What wise died she?" quoth she. "Certes, Lady," said the Count, "by
an occasion which she had deserved." "And what was the occasion?" said
the Lady.

Then the Count fell to tell, sore weeping, how she was wedded, and of
the tarrying, whereby she might not have a child; and how the good
knight promised his ways to St.

Jakeme in Galicia, and how the Lady besought him that she might go
along with him, and he granted it willingly.

And how they bestirred them with great joy, and went their ways, and
so far that they came unto a place where they were without company.

Then met they in a forest robbers well armed, who fell upon them. The good
knight might do nothing against all them, for he was lacking of arms;
but amidst all that he slew three, and five were left, who fell upon him
and slew his palfrey, and took the knight and stripped him to the shirt,
and bound him hand and foot, and cast him into a briar-bush: and the
Lady they stripped, and took from her her palfrey. They beheld the
Lady, and saw that she was full fair, and each one would have her.
At the last, they accorded betwixt them hereto, that they should
lie with her, and they had their will of her in her despite; and
when they had so done they went their ways, and she abode, much
grieving and much sad.

The good knight beheld it, and said much sweetly: "Dame, now unbind me
my hands, and let us be going."

Now she saw a sword, which was of one of the slain strong-thieves; she
took it, and went towards her lord, who lay as aforesaid; she came
in great ire by seeming, and said:
"Yea, unbind thee I will."

Then she held the sword all bare, and hove it up, and thought to
smite him amidst the body, but by the good mercy of Jesus Christ, and by
the valiancy of the knight, he turned upso down, and she smote the
bonds he was bound withal, and sundered them, and he leapt up, for
as bound and hurt as he was, and said:
"Dame, if God will, thou shalt slay me not to-day."

At this word spake the Lady, the wife of the Soudan: "Ha, sir!

thou sayest the sooth; and well I know wherefore she would to do it."

"Dame," said the Count, "and wherefore?" "Certes," quoth she, "for
the great shame which had befallen her."
When Messire Thibault heard that, he fell a-weeping much tenderly, and
said: "Ha, alas!

what fault had she therein then, Lady? So may God give me deliverance from
this prison wherein I am, never should I have made worse semblance to
her therefor, whereas it was maugre her will."
"Sir," said the Lady, "that she deemed nought.

Now tell me," she said, "which deem ye the rather, that she be quick
or dead?" "Dame," said he, "we wot not."

"Well wot I," said the Count, "of the great pain we have suffered, which
God hath sent us for the sin which I did against her."

"But if it pleased God," said the Lady, "that she were alive, and
that ye might have of her true tidings, what would ye say thereto?"

"Lady," said the Count, "then were I gladder than I should be to be
delivered out of this prison, or to have so much riches as never had I
in my life."

"Dame," said Messire Thibault, "may God give me no joy of that which I
most desire, but I were not the gladder than to be king of France."
"Dame," said the varlet who was her brother, "certes none could
give me or promise me thing whereof I should be so glad as of the life
of my sister, who was so fair a dame, and so good."

But when the Lady heard these words, then was the heart of her softened
and she praised God, and gave him thanks therefor, and said to
them: "Take heed, now, that there be no feigning in your words."

And they answered and said that none there was. Then fell the
Lady a-weeping tenderly, and said to them: "Sir, now mayest thou well
say that thou art my father, and I thy daughter, even her on whom
thou didest such cruel justice.

And thou, Messire Thibault, thou art my lord and my baron. And thou,
sir varlet, art my brother."

Therewith she told them how the merchants had found her, and how they
gave her as a gift to the Soudan.

And when they heard that, they were much glad, and made much great joy,
and humbled them before her; but she forbade them that they should make
any semblance, and said:
"I am Saracen, and renied, for otherwise I might never endure, but
were presently dead. Wherefore I pray you and bid you, for as dear as
ye hold your lives and honours, and your havings the greater, that
ye never once, whatso ye may hear or see, make any more fair
semblance unto me, but hold you simply.

So leave me to deal therewith. Now shall I tell you wherefore I have
uncovered me to you. The Soudan, who is now my lord, goeth presently
a-riding; and I know thee well" (said she to Messire Thibault), "that
thou art a valiant man and a good knight: therefore I will pray
the Soudan to take thee with him; and then if ever thou wert valiant,
now do thou show it, and serve the Soudan so well that he may have
no evil to tell of thee."

Therewith departed the Lady, and came unto the Soudan, and said:
"Sir, one of my prisoners will go with thee, if it please thee." "Dame,"
said he, "I would not dare trust me to him, lest he do me some treason."
"Sir," she said, "in surety mayest thou lead him along; for I will
hold the others."

"Dame," said he, "I will lead him with me, since thou counsellest me so,
and I will give him a horse much good, and arms, and all that is meet
for him."
So then the Lady went back, and said to Messire Thibault: "I have done
so much with the Soudan, that thou shalt go with him. Now bethink thee
to do well." But her brother kneeled before her, and prayed her that she
would do so much with the Soudan that he also should go. But said
she: "I will not do it, the matter be over open thereby."

The Soudan arrayed his matters and went his ways, and Messire Thibault
with him, and they went against the enemy. The Soudan delivered to Messire
Thibault arms and horse. By the will of Jesus Christ, who never forgetteth
them who have in him trust and good faith, Messire Thibault did so
much in arms, that in a little while the enemy of the Soudan was brought
under, whereof much was the Soudan rejoiced; he had the victory, and led
away much folk with him.

And so soon as he was come back, he went to the Lady, and said:
"Dame, by my law, I much praise thy prisoner, for much well hath
he served me; and if he will cast aside his law and take ours, I
will give him wide lands, and richly will I marry him."

"Sir," she said, "I wot not, but I trow not that he will do it." Therewith
they were silent, so that they spake not more. But the Lady dighted
in her business straightway after these things the best she might, and
she came to her prisoners, and said:
"Lords, now do ye hold ye wisely, that the Soudan perceive not our
counsel; for, if God please, we shall yet be in France and the land
of Ponthieu."

Now came a day when the Lady moaned much, and complained her, and came
before the Soudan, and said: "Sir, I go with child, well I wot it,
and am fallen into great infirmity, nor ever since thy departure
have I eaten aught wherein was any savour to me."

"Dame," said he, "I am heavy of thy sickness, but much joyous that
thou art with child. But now command and devise all things that thou
deemest might be good for thee, and I will let seek and array them,
whatsoever they may cost me."
When the Lady heard that, she had much great joy in her heart; but
never did she show any semblance thereof, save that so much she
said:
"Sir, my old prisoner hath said to me, that but I be presently upon
earth of a right nature, I am but dead and that I may not live long."

"Dame," said the Soudan, "nought will I thy death: look to it, then,
on what land thou wouldest be, and I will let lead thee thereto."

"Sir," she said, "it is of no matter to me, so that I be out of this
city."
Then the Soudan let array a ship fair and stout, and let garnish
her well with wine and victual.

"Sir," said the Lady to the Soudan, "I will have with me my old
prisoner and my young one, and they shall play at the chess and
the tables; and my son will I take to pleasure me."

"Dame," said he, "it pleaseth me well that thou do thy will herein. But
what hap with the third prisoner?" "Sir," said she, "thou shalt do thy
will herein." "Dame," said he, "I will that thou take him with thee; for
he is a valiant man, and will heed thee well on land and sea, if need
thou have thereto."
Therewith she prayed leave of the Soudan, and he granted it, and
much he prayed her to come back speedily.

The ship was apparelled, and they were alboun; and they went aboard, and
departed from the haven.

Good wind they had, and ran much hard: and the mariners called to the
Lady, and said to her: "Dame, this wind is bringing straight to
Brandis; now command us thy pleasure to go thither or elsewhere."

And she said to them: "Let run hardily, for I know well how to speak
French and other tongues, and I will lead you through all."

Now so much they ran by day and by night, through the will of Jesus
Christ, that they are come to Brandis there they took harbour in
all safety, and lighted down on the shore, and were received with much
great joy. The Lady, who was much wise, drew towards the prisoners, and
said to them: "Lords, I would that ye call to mind the words and
agreements which ye said to me, and I would be now all sure of you, and
have good surety of your oaths, and that ye say to me on all that
ye hold to be of God if ye will to hold to your behests, which ye
have behight me, or not; for yet have I good might to return."

They answered: "Lady, know without doubt that we have covenanted nought
with you which shall not be held toward you by us loyally; and know by
our Christendom and our Baptism, and by whatsoever we hold of God,
that we will hold to it; be thou in no doubt thereof."

"And I will trow in you henceforth," said the Lady.

"Now, lords," said she, "lo here my son, whom I had of the Soudan; what
shall we do with him?"
'No,' he said, 'my wife is not like that.'

He walked along in absorption, from which he roused himself with
resentment in his voice.

'I can not leave such a fabric of illusion in your mind. It irritates me
that it should be there--about anybody belonging to me. My wife is not
in the least what you imagine her. She has her virtues, but she is--like
the rest. I can not hope that you will take to her, and she won't
like you either--we never care about the same people. And we shall see
nothing of you--nothing. I can hardly believe that I am saying this of
my own wife, but--I wish that she had stayed in England.'

'Mrs. Mickie!' cried Madeline to a passing rickshaw, 'what are you
rushing on like that for? Just go quietly and peaceably along with us,
please, and tell us what Mrs. Vesey decided to do about her part in 'The
Outcast Pearl'. I'm dining out tonight--I must know.' And Mrs. Mickie
was kind enough to accompany them all the rest of the way.

Miss Anderson dined out, and preferred to suppose that she had no time
to think until she was on her way home along the empty road round Jakko
at eleven o'clock that night. Then it pleased her to get out of her
rickshaw and walk. There was an opulent moon, the vast hills curving
down to the plains were all grey and silvery, and the deodars overhead
fretted the road with dramatic shadows. About her hung the great
stillness in a mighty loneliness in which little Simla is set, and it
freed her from what had happened, so that she could look at it and cry
out. She actually did speak, pausing in the little pavilion on the road
where the nursemaids gather in the daytime, but very low, so that her
words fell round her even in that silence, and hardly a deodar was
aware. 'I will not go now,' she said. 'I will stay and realize that he
is another woman's husband. That should cure me if anything will--to see
him surrounded by the commonplaces of married life, that kind of married
life. I will stay till she comes and a fortnight after. Besides, I want
to see her--I want to see how far she comes short.' She was silent for
a moment, and the moonlight played upon her smile of quiet triumph.
'He cares too,' she said; 'he cares too, but he doesn't know it, and
I promise you one thing, Madeline Anderson, you won't help him to find
out. And in five weeks I will go away and leave my love where I found
it--on a mountaintop in the middle of Asia!'


Chapter 3.IV.

Madeline did her best to make certain changes delicately, imperceptibly,
so that Innes would not, above all things, be perplexed into seeking for
their reason. The walks and rides came to a vague conclusion, and Miss
Anderson no longer kept the Viceroy or anybody else waiting, while Innes
finished what he had to say to her in public, since his opportunities
for talking to her seemed to become gradually more and more like
everybody else's. So long as she had been mistress of herself she was
indifferent to the very tolerant and good-natured gossip of the hill
capital; but as soon as she found her citadel undermined, the lightest
kind of comment became a contingency unbearable. In arranging to make
it impossible, she was really over-considerate and over-careful. Her
soldier never thought of analyzing his bad luck or searching for motive
in it. To him the combinations of circumstances that seemed always to
deprive him of former pleasures were simply among the things that might
happen. Grieving, she left him under that impression for the sake of its
expediency, and tried to make it by being more than ever agreeable on
the occasions when he came and demanded a cup of tea, and would not be
denied. After all, she consoled herself, no situation was improved by
being turned too suddenly upside down.

She did not wholly withdraw his privilege of taking counsel with her,
and he continued to go away freshened and calmed, leaving her to toss
little sad reflections into the fire, and tremulously wonder whether the
jewel of her love had flashed ever so little behind the eyes. They both
saw it a conspicuous thing that as those three weeks went on, neither he
nor she alluded even remotely to Mrs. Innes, but the fact remained, and
they allowed it to remain.

Nevertheless, Madeline knew precisely when that lady was expected, and
as she sauntered in the bazaar one morning, and heard Innes's steps and
voice behind her, her mind became one acute surmise as to whether he
could possibly postpone the announcement any longer. But he immediately
made it plain that this was his business in stopping to speak to her.
'Good morning,' he said, and then, 'My wife comes tomorrow.' He had
not told her a bit of personal news, he had made her an official
communication, as briefly as it could be done, and he would have raised
his hat and gone on without more words if Madeline had not thwarted him.
'What a stupidity for him to be haunted by afterward!' was the essence
of the thought that visited her; and she put out a detaining hand.

'Really! By the Bombay mail, I suppose--no, an hour or so later; private
tongas are always as much as that behind the mail.'

'About eleven, I fancy. You--you are not inclined for a canter round
Summer Hill before breakfast?'

'I am terrified of Summer Hill. The Turk always misbehaves there.
Yesterday he got one leg well over the khud--I WAS thankful he had four.
Tell me, are you ready for Mrs. Innes--everything in the house? Is there
anything I can do?

'Oh, thanks very much! I don't think so. The house isn't ready, as a
matter of fact, but two or three people have offered to put us up for a
day or so until it is. I've left it open till my wife comes, as I dare
say she has already arranged to go to somebody. What are you buying?
Country tobacco, upon my word! For your men? That's subversive of all
discipline!'

The lines on his face relaxed; he looked at her with fond recognition of
another delightful thing in her.

'You give sugar-cane to your horses,' she declared; 'why shouldn't I
give tobacco to mine? Goodbye; I hope Mrs. Innes will like "Two Gables".
There are roses waiting for her in the garden, at all events.'

'Are there?' he said. 'I didn't notice. Goodbye, then.'

He went on to his office thinking of the roses, and that they were in
his garden, and that Madeline had seen them there. He thought that if
they were good roses--in fact, any kind of roses--they should be taken
care of, and he asked a Deputy Assistant Inspector-General of Ordnance
whether he knew of a gardener that was worth anything.

'Most of them are mere coolies,' said Colonel Innes, 'and I've got some
roses in this little place I've taken that I want to look after.'

Next day Madeline took Brookes, and 'The Amazing Marriage', and a
lunch-basket, and went out to Mashobra, where the deodars shadow hardly
any scandal at all, and the Snows come, with perceptible confidence, a
little nearer.

'They almost step,' she said to Brookes, looking at them, 'out of the
realm of the imagination.'

Brookes said that they did indeed, and hoped that she hadn't by any
chance forgotten the mustard.

'The wind is keen off the glaciers over there--anybody would think of a
condiment,' Miss Anderson remarked in deprecation, and to this Brookes
made no response. It was a liberty she often felt compelled to take.

The Snows appealed to Madeline even more than did Carintha, Countess
of Fleetwood, to whose fortunes she gave long pauses while she looked
across their summits at renunciation, and fancied her spirit made strong
and equal to its task. She was glad of their sanctuary; she did not know
where she should find such another. Perhaps the spectacle was more than
ever sublime in its alternative to the one she had come away to postpone
the sight of; at all events it drove the reunion of the Inneses from her
mind several times for five minutes together, during which she thought
of Horace by himself, and went over, by way of preparation for her
departure, all that had come and gone between them. There had been
luminous moments, especially as they irradiated him, and she dwelt on
these. There was no reason why she should not preserve in London or in
New York a careful memory of them.

So the lights were twinkling all up and down and round about Simla
when she cantered back to it and it was late when she started for the
Worsleys, where she was dining. One little lighted house looked much
like another perched on the mountainside, and the wooden board painted
'Branksome Hall, Maj.-Gen. T.P. Worsley, R.E.,' nailed to the most
conspicuous tree from the main road, was invisible in the darkness.
Madeline arrived in consequence at the wrong dinner-party, and was
acclaimed and redirected with much gaiety, which gave her a further
agreeable impression of the insouciance of Simla, but made her later
still at the Worsleys. So that half the people were already seated when
she at last appeared, and her hostess had just time to cry, 'My dear,
we thought the langurs must have eaten you! Captain Gordon, you are not
abandoned after all. You know Miss Anderson?' when she found herself
before her soup.

Captain Gordon heard her account of herself with complacence, and
declared, wiping his moustache, that a similar experience had befallen
him only a fortnight before.

'Did you ever hear the story of that absent-minded chap, Sir James
Jackson, who went to the RIGHT dinner-party by mistake?' he asked, 'and
apologized like mad, by Jove! and insisted he couldn't stay. The people
nearly had to tie him down in his--' Captain Gordon stopped, arrested by
his companion's sudden and complete inattention.

'I see a lady,' interrupted Madeline, with odd distinctness, 'curiously
like somebody I have known before.' Her eyes convinced themselves, and
then refused to be convinced of the inconceivable fact that they were
resting on Violet Prendergast. It was at first too amazing, too amazing
only. Then an old forgotten feeling rose in her bosom; the hand on
the stem of her wine-glass grew tense. The sensation fell away; she
remembered her emancipation, the years arose and reassured her during
which Violet Prendergast, living or dead, had been to her of absolutely
no importance. Yet there was a little aroused tremour in her voice as
she went on, 'She is on the General's right--he must have taken her in.
Can you see from where you are sitting?'

'These narrow oval tables are a nuisance that way, aren't they? You
don't know who you're dining with till the end of the function. Oh! I
see--that's Mrs. Innes, just out, and fresh as paint, isn't she? The
Colonel'--Captain Gordon craned his head again--'is sitting fourth from
me on this side.'

'Mrs. Innes! Really!' said Madeline. 'Then--then of course I must be
mistaken.'

She removed her eyes almost stealthily from the other woman's face
and fixed them on the pattern of the table-cloth. "Forsooth," said King
Florus, "so to do have I no great longing, for two wives have I had,
and never child might I have by either. And on the other hand, the
first that I had was so good and so fair, and so much I loved her
in my heart for the great beauty that was in her, that I may not
forget her. And I tell you well that never woman will I wed but may have
her as fair and as good as was she. Now may God have mercy on her soul,
for she hath passed away in the abbey where she was, as folk have
done me to wit." "Ha, sir," said a knight, who was of his privy
counsel, "there be many good dames up and down the country side, of
whom ye know not all; and I know one who hath not for goodness and
beauty her peer in the world.
And if thou knew her goodness, and saw but her beauty, thou wouldst say
well that happy were the king who held the danger of such a lady.
And wot well that she is a gentle lady, and valiant, and rich, and of great
lands. And I will tell thee a part of her goodness so please thee."

So the king said that he would well he should tell him. Wherefore the
knight fell to telling how she had bestirred her to go seek her lord,
and how she found him and brought him to Marseilles, and the great
goodness and great services which she did him, even as the tale hath told
afore, so that King Florus wondered much thereat; and he said to the
knight privily that such a woman he would take with a good will.

"Sir," said the knight, who was of the country of the lady, "I will go
to her, if it please thee, and I will so speak to her, if I may,
that the marriage of you two shall be made." "Yea," said King
Florus, "I will well that thou go, and I pray thee to give
good heed to the business."
So the knight bestirred him, and went so much by his journeys that
he came to the country where dwelt the fair dame, whom the tale
calleth my Lady Jehane, and found her abiding at a castle of hers, and
she made him great joy, as one whom she knew. The knight drew her to
privy talk, and told her of King Florus of Ausay, how he bade her come
unto him that he might take her to wife. When the lady heard the
knight so speak, she began to smile, which beseemed her right
well, and she said to the knight: "Thy king is neither so well learned,
nor so courteous as I had deemed, whereas he biddeth me come to
him and he will take me to wife: forsooth, I am no wageling of him
to go at his command.

But say to thy king, that, so please him, he come to me, if he prize me
so much and loveth me, and it seem good to him that I take him to husband
and spouse, for the lords ought to beseech the ladies, and not
ladies the lords."

"Lady," said the knight, "all that thou hast said to me, I will tell
him straight; but I doubt that he hold not with pride." "Sir knight,"
said the lady, "he shall take what heed thereof may please him but
in the matter whereof I have spoken to thee, he hath neither
courtesy nor reason."

"Lady," said the knight, "so be it, a-God's name! And I will get me gone,
with thy leave, to my lord the king, and will tell him what thou
hast told me. And if thou wilt give me any word more, now tell it
me." "Yea," said the lady, "tell him that I send him greeting, and
that I can him much good will for the honour he biddeth me."

So the knight departed therewith from the lady, and came the fourth day
thereafter to King Florus of Ausay, and found him in his chamber, whereas
he was speaking with his privy counsel. The knight greeted the king,
who returned the greeting, and made him sit by his side, and asked tidings
of the fair lady, and he told all her message how she would not
come to him, whereas she was not his wageling to come at his command:
for that lords are bound to beseech ladies how she had given him
word that she sent him greeting, and could him goodwill for the
honour he bade her.

When the King Florus had heard these words, he fell a-pondering, and
spake no word for a great while.

"Sir," said a knight who was of his most privity, "what ponderest thou
so much? Forsooth, all these words well befit a good lady and wise
to say; and so, may help me God, she is both wise and valiant.
Wherefore I counsel thee in good faith that thou look to a day when
thou canst be there; that thou send greeting to her that thou wilt
be there on such day to do her honour, and take her to wife." "Forsooth,"
said King Florus, "I will send word that I will be there in the
month of Paske, and that she apparel her to receive such a man as
I be."

Then said King Florus to the knight who had been to the lady, that within
three days he should go his ways to tell the lady these tidings. So on
the third day the knight departed, and went so much that he came
to the lady, and said that the king sent word that he would be with
her in the month of Paske; and she answered that it was so by God's
will, and that she would speak with her friends, and that she would
be arrayed to do his will as the honour of a good lady called on her.

After these words departed the knight, and came to his lord King Florus,
and told him the answer of the fair lady, as ye have heard it. So
King Florus of Ausay dight his departure, and went his ways with a right
great folk to come to the country of the fair lady; and when he was come
thither, he took her and wedded her, and had great joy and great feast
thereof. Then he led her into his country where folk made exceeding
great joy of her. But King Florus loved her much for her great beauty,
and for the great wit and great valiancy that was in her.

And within the year that he had taken her to wife, she was big with
child, and she bore the fruit of her belly so long as right was,
and was delivered of a daughter first, and of a son thereafter, who
had to name Florence and the daughter had to name Floria. And the child
Florence was exceeding fair, and when he was a knight he was the
best that knew arms in his time, so that he was chosen to be Emperor
of Constantinople.

A much valiant man was he, and wrought much wrack and dole on the
Saracens. But the daughter became queen of the land of her father,
and the son of the King of Hungary took her to wife, and lady she
was of two realms.

This great honour gave God to the fair lady for the goodness of her
and her loyalty.

A great while abode King Florus with that fair lady; and when it
pleased God that his time came, he had such goodly knowledge that
God had in him a fair soul.

Thereafter the lady lived but a half year, and passed away from the world
as one good and loyal, and had fair end and good knowledge.

Here endeth the tale of King Florus and the Fair Jehane.

THE HISTORY OF OVER SEA

In years bygone was a Count of Ponthieu, who loved much chivalry
and the world, and was a much valiant man and a good knight.

In the same times was a Count of St. Pol, who held all the country,
and was lord thereof, and a man much valiant.

He had no heir of his flesh, whereof he was sore grieving; but a
sister he had, a much good dame, and a valiant woman of much avail,
who was Dame of Dontmart in Ponthieu.

The said dame had a son, Thibault by name, who was heir of the country
of St. Pol, but a poor man so long as his uncle lived; he was a brave
knight and a valiant, and good at arms: noble he was, and goodly,
and was much honoured and loved of good folk; for a high man he
was, and gentle of blood.

Now the Count of Ponthieu, with whom beginneth this tale, had a wife, a
much good dame: of the said dame he had a daughter, much good and
of much avail, the which waxed in great beauty and multiplied in
much good; and she was of well sixteen years of age.

But within the third year of her birth, her mother died, whereof sore
troubled she was and much sorrowful.

The Count, her father, wedded him right speedily thereafter, and took a
high lady and a gentle; and in a little while the Count had of the said
lady a son, whom he loved much.

The said son waxed in great worth and in great goodness, and
multiplied in great good.

The Count of Ponthieu, who was a valiant man, saw my lord Thibault
of Dontmart, and summoned him, and retained him of his meney; and when
he had him of his meney he was much joyous thereat, for the Count
multiplied in great good and in great avail by means of him.

As they returned from a tournament, the Count called to him Messire
Thibault, and asked of him and said: "Thibault, as God may help thee,
tell me what jewel of my land thou lovest the best?"

"Sir," said Messire Thibault, "I am but a poor man, but, as God may help
me, of all the jewels of thy land I love none so much as my damosel,
thy daughter."

The Count, when he heard that, was much merry and joyful in his heart, and
said: "Thibault, I will give her to thee if she will."

"Sir," said he, "much great thank have thou; God reward thee."
Then went the Count to his daughter, and said to her: "Fair daughter, I
have married thee, save by thee be any hindrance." "Sir," said she,
"unto whom?"

"A-God's name," said he, "to a much valiant man, of much avail: to a knight
of mine, who hath to name Thibault of Dontmart." "Ha," sir, said she,
"if thy country were a kingdom, and should come to me all wholly,
forsooth I should hold me right well wedded in him."

"Daughter," said the Count, "blessed be thine heart, and the hour
wherein thou wert born."

So the wedding was done; the Count of Ponthieu and the Count of St.

Pol were thereat, and many another good valiant man. With great joy
were they assembled, in great lordship and in great mirth: and in
great joy dwelt those together for five years.

But it pleased not our Lord Jesus Christ that they should have an
heir of their flesh, which was a heavy matter to both of them.

On a night lay Messire Thibault in his bed and pondered sore, and
said: "God!

of whom it cometh that I love so much this dame, and she me, and
forsooth no heir of our flesh may we have, whereby God might be
served, and good be done to the world."

Therewith he thought on my lord St.

Jakeme, the apostle of Galicia, who would give to such as crave aright
that which by right they crave, and he behight him the road thither
in his heart.

The dame was a-sleeping yet, and whenas she awoke he held her betwixt
his arms, and prayed her that she would give him a gift.

"Sir," said the dame, "and what gift?" "Dame," said he, "thou shalt wot
that when I have it."

"Sir," she said, "if I may give it, I will give it, whatso it may be."
"Dame," he said, "I crave leave of thee to go to my lord St. Jacque the
Apostle, that he may pray our Lord Jesus Christ to give us an heir of
our flesh, whereby God may be served in this world, and the Holy
Church refreshed."

"Sir," said the dame, "the gift is full courteous, and much debonairly
will I grant it thee."

In much great joy were they for long while: wore one day, and
another, and a third; and it befell that they lay together in bed
on a night, and then said the dame: "Sir, I pray and require of thee
a gift."

"Dame," said he, "ask, and I will give it, if give it I may." "Sir,"
she said, "I crave leave of thee to go with thee on thy journey.'
When Messire Thibault heard that, he was much sorrowful, and said:

"Dame, grievous thing would it be to thine heart, for the way is
much longsome, and the land is much strange and much diverse."

She said:
"Sir, doubt thou nought of me, for of such littlest squire that
thou hast, shalt thou be more hindered than of me."

"Dame," said he, "a- God's name, I grant it thee."
Day came, and the tidings ran so far till the Count of Ponthieu
knew it, and sent for Messire Thibault, and said: "Thibault, thou
art vowed a pilgrim, as they tell me, and my daughter also?"

"Sir," said he, "that is sooth." "Thibault," said the Count, "concerning
thee it is well, but concerning my daughter it is heavy on me."

"Sir," said Messire Thibault, "I might not naysay her."

"Thibault," said the Count, "bestir ye when ye will; so hasten ye your
palfreys, your nags, and your sumpter-beasts; and I will give you
pennies and havings enow."

"Sir," said Messire Thibault, "great thank I give thee."
So then they arrayed them, and departed with great joy; and they went
so far by their journeys, that they drew nigh to St.

Jacque by less than two days.

On a night they came to a good town, and in the evening Messire Thibault
called his host, and asked him concerning the road for the morrow,
what road they should find, and what like it might be; and he said
to him: "Fair sir, at the going forth from this town ye shall find
somewhat of a forest to pass through, and all the day after a good
road."

Therewith they held their peace, and the bed was apparelled, and
they went to rest.

The morrow was much fair, and the pilgrims rose up at daybreak and made
noise.

Messire Thibault arose, and found him somewhat heavy, wherefore he
called his chamberlain, and said: "Arise now, and do our meyney to
truss and go their ways, and thou shalt abide with me and truss our
harness: for I am somewhat heavy and ill at ease."

So that one commanded the sergeants the pleasure of their lord, and
they went their ways.

But a little while was ere Messire Thibault and his wife arose and
arrayed them, and got to the road. The chamberlain trussed their
bed, and it was not full day, but much fair weather.

They issued out of the town, they three, without more company but only
God, and drew nigh to the forest; and whenas they came thither, they
found two ways, one good, and the other bad. Then Messire Thibault
said to his chamberlain: "Prick spur now, and come up with our folk, and
bid them abide us, for ugly thing it is for a dame and a knight
to wend the wild-wood with little company."

So the chamberlain went his ways speedily; and Messire Thibault came
into the forest, and came on the sundering ways, and knew not by which
to wend.

So he said: "Dame, by which way go we?"

"Sir," said she, "by the good way, so please God."
But in this forest were certain strong-thieves, who wasted the good way,
and made the false way wide and side, and like unto the other, for to
make pilgrims go astray. So Messire Thibault lighted down, and looked
on the way, and found the false way bigger and wider than the good; so
he said: "Come dame, a-God's name, this is it." So they entered therein,
and went a good quarter of a league, and then began the way to wax
strait, and the boughs to hang alow; so he said:
"Dame, meseemeth that we go not well."

When he had so said, he looked before him, and saw four strong-
thieves armed, upon four big horses, and each one held spear in
hand.
And when he beheld them, he looked behind him, and saw other four in
other fashion armed and arrayed; and he said: "Dame, be not abashed
at anything thou mayst see now from henceforward." Then Messire Thibault
greeted those first come, but they held them all aloof from his
greeting. So thereafter he asked them what was their will toward
him; and one thereof said: "That same shall we tell thee anon."
Therewith the strong thief came against Messire Thibault with glaive
in rest, and thought to smite him amidst of the body; and Messire
Thibault saw the stroke a-coming, and if he doubted thereof, no
marvel was it; but he swerved from the stroke as best he might, and
that one missed him; and as he passed by him Messire Thibault threw
himself under the glaive, and took it from the strong thief, and
bestirred him against those three whence that one was come, and
smote one of them amidst the body, and slew him; and thereafter
turned about, and went back, and smote him who had first come on
him amidst of the body, and slew him.

Now it pleased God that of the eight strong-thieves he slew three, and the
other five encompassed him, and slew his palfrey, so that he fell
adown on his back without any wound to grieve him: he had neither
sword nor any other armour to help him.

So the strong- thieves took his raiment from him, all to his shirt, and
his spurs and shoon; and then they took a sword-belt, and bound
his hands and his feet, and cast him into a bramble-bush much sharp
and much rough.

And when they had thus done, they came to the Lady, and took from her
her palfrey and all her raiment, right to her smock; and she was much
fair, and she was weeping tenderly, and much and of great manner
was she sorrowful.

Then one of the strong-thieves beheld her, and said thus to his
fellows: "Masters, I have lost my brother in this stour, therefore
will I have this Lady in atonement thereof."

Another said: "But I also, I have lost my cousin-german; therefore
I claim as much as thou herein: yea, and another such right have I."

And even in such wise said the third and the fourth and the fifth; but
at last said one:
"In the holding of this Lady ye have no great getting nor gain; so let
us lead her into the forest here, and do our will on her, and then
set her on the road again and let her go."

So did they even as they had devised, and set her on the road again.

Messire Thibault saw it well, and much sorrowful he was, but nought might
he do against it; nor none ill will had he against the Lady for that which
had befallen her; for he wotted well that it had been perforce and
against the will of her. The Lady was much sorrowful, and all ashamed.
So Messire Thibault called to her and said: "Dame, for God's sake come
hither and unbind me, and deliver me from the grief wherein I am;
for these brambles grieve me sore and anguish me."

So the Lady went whereas lay Messire Thibault, and espied a sword lying
behind there of one of the strong-thieves who had been slain.
So she took it, and went toward her lord, full of great ire and evil
will of that which was befallen. For she doubted much that he would have
her in despite for that he had seen her thus, and that he would reprove
her one while and lay before her what had her betid. She said: "Sir,
I will deliver thee anon."

Therewith she hove up the sword and came to her lord, and thought to
smite him amidst of the body; and when he saw the stroke coming he
doubted it much, for he was all naked to his shirt and breeches,
and no more.
What a comfort she must be!
THE luxury of all others that I long for; but alas! army pay, you know.
I did once bring a dear thing out with me from Nice--you should have
seen Horace's face.'

'I couldn't very well go about quite alone; it would be uncomfortable.'

'Except that you Americans are so perfectly independent.'

'On the contrary. If I could order about a servant the way an
Englishwoman does--'

'Say you are not going to tell him! I've got such a lot of other calls
to make,' exclaimed Mrs. Innes. 'Dear Lady Bloomfield won't understand
it if I don't call today, especially after the baby. What people in
that position want with more babies I can not comprehend. Of course you
haven't noticed it, but a baby is such a shock to Simla.'

'Don't let me keep you,' Madeline said, rising.

'But you haven't promised. Do promise, Miss Anderson. You gain nothing
by telling him, except your revenge; and I should think by this time
you would have forgiven me for taking Frederick away from you. He didn't
turn out so well! You can't still bear me malice over that convict in
Sing Sing.'

'For his sake, poor fellow, I might.'

'Coming along I said to myself, "She CAN score off me badly, but surely
she doesn't want to so much as all that." Besides, I really only took
your leavings, you know. You threw poor Fred Prendergast over.'

'I am not prepared to discuss that,' Madeline said, at no pains to
smooth the curve out of her lip.

'Then I thought, "Perhaps--you never can tell with people--she will
think it her DUTY to make a fuss."'

'That is a possible point of view.'

'I know. You think I'm an imposter on society and I ought to be exposed,
and I suppose you could shut every door in Simla against me if you
liked. But you are a friend of my husband's, Miss Anderson. You would
not turn his whole married life into a scandal and ruin his career?'

'Ruin his career?'

'Of course. Government is awfully particular. It mayn't be his fault
in the least, but no man is likely to get any big position with a cloud
over his domestic affairs. Horace would resign, naturally.'

'Or take long leave,' Mrs. Innes added to herself, but she did not give
Madeline this alternative. A line or two of nervous irritation marked
themselves about her eyes, and her colour had faded. Her hat was less
becoming than it had been, and she had pulled a button off her glove.

'Besides,' she went on quickly, 'it isn't as if you could do any good,
you know. The harm was done once for all when I let him think he'd
married me. I thought then--well, I had to take it or leave it--and
every week I expected to hear of Frederick's death. Then I meant to tell
Horace myself, and have the ceremony over again. He couldn't refuse.
And all these years it's been like living on a volcano, in the fear of
meeting New York people. Out here there never are any, but in England I
dye my hair, and alter my complexion.'

'Why did you change your mind,' Madeline asked, 'about telling Colonel
Innes?'

'I haven't! Why should I change my mind? For my own protection, I mean
to get things put straight instantly--when the time comes.'

'When the time comes,' Madeline repeated; and her eyes, as she fixed
them on Mrs. Innes, were suddenly so lightened with a new idea that she
dropped the lids over them as she waited for the answer.

'When poor Frederick does pass away,' Mrs. Innes said, with an air of
observing the proprieties. 'When they put him in prison it was a matter
of months, the doctors said. That was one reason why I went abroad. I
couldn't bear to stay there and see him dying by inches, poor fellow.'

'Couldn't you?'

'Oh, I couldn't. And the idea of the hard labour made me SICK. But
it seems to have improved his health, and now--there is no telling! I
sometimes believe he will live out his sentence. Should you think that
possible in the case of a man with half a lung?'

'I have no knowledge of pulmonary disease,' Madeline said. She forced
the words from her lips and carefully looked away, taking this second
key to the situation mechanically, and for a moment groping with it.

'What arrangement did you make to be informed about--about him?' she
asked, and instantly regretted having gone so perilously near provoking
a direct question.

'I subscribe to the "New York World". I used to see lots of things in
it--about the shock the news of my death gave him--'

A flash of hysterical amusement shot into Mrs. Innes's eyes, and she
questioned Madeline's face to see whether it responded to her humour.
Then she put her own features straight behind her handkerchief and went
on.

'And about his failing health, and then about his being so much better.
But nothing now for ages.'

'Did the "World" tell you,' asked Miss Anderson, with sudden interest,
'that Mr. Prendergast came into a considerable fortune before--about two
years ago?'

Mrs. Innes's face turned suddenly blank. 'How much?' she exclaimed.

'About five hundred thousand dollars, I believe. Left him by a cousin.
Then you didn't know?'

'That must have been Gordon Prendergast--the engineer!' Mrs. Innes said,
with excitement. 'Fancy that! Leaving money to a relation in Sing Sing!
Hadn't altered his will, I suppose. Who could possibly,' and her face
fell visibly, 'have foreseen such a thing?'

'No one, I think,' said Madeline, through a little edged smile. 'On that
point you will hardly be criticized.'

Mrs. Innes, with clasped hands, was sunk in thought. She raised her eyes
with a conviction in them which she evidently felt to be pathetic.

'After all,' she said, 'there is something in what the padres say
about our reaping the reward of our misdeeds in this world--some of us,
anyway. If I had stayed in New York--'

'Yes?' said Madeline. 'I shall wake up presently,' she reflected, 'and
find that I have been dreaming melodrama.' But that was a fantastic
underscoring of her experience. She knew very well she was making it.

Mrs. Innes, again wrapped in astonished contemplation, did not reply.
Then she jumped to her feet with a gesture that cast fortunes back into
the lap of fate.

'One thing is certain,' she said; 'I can't do anything NOW, can I?'

Madeline laid hold of silence and made armour with it. At all events,
she must have time to think.

'I decline to advise you,' she said, and she spoke with a barely
perceptive movement of her lips only. The rest of her face was stone.

'How unkind and unforgiving you are! Must people would think the loss of
a hundred thousand pounds about punishment enough for what I have done.
You don't seem to see it. But on top of that you won't refuse to promise
not to tell Horace?'

'I will not bind myself in any way whatever.'

'Not even when you know that the moment I hear of the--death I intend
to--to--'

'Make an honest man of him? Not even when I know that.'

'Do you want me to go down on my knees to you?'

Madeline glanced at the flowered fabric involved and said, 'I wouldn't,
I think.'

'And this is to hang over me the whole season? I shall enjoy
nothing--absolutely NOTHING.' The blue eyes were suddenly eclipsed
by angry tears, which the advent of a servant with cards checked as
suddenly.

'Goodbye, then, dear,' cried Mrs. Innes, as if in response to the
advancing rustle of skirts in the veranda. 'So glad to have found you
at home. Dear me, has Trilby made her way up--and I gave such particular
orders! Oh, you NAUGHTY dog!'


Chapter 3.VII.

From the complication that surged round Miss Anderson's waking hours
one point emerged, and gave her a perch for congratulation. That was
the determination she had shown in refusing to let Frederick Prendergast
leave her his money, or any part of it.

It has been said that he had outlived her tenderness, if not her care,
and this fact, which she never found it necessary to communicate to
poor Frederick himself, naturally made his desire in the matter sharply
distasteful. She was even unaware of the disposition he had made of his
ironical fortune, a reflection which brought her thankfulness that there
was something she did not know. 'If I had let him do it,' she thought,
'I should have felt compelled to tell her everything, instantly. And
think of discussing it with her!' This was quite a fortnight later, and
Mrs. Innes still occupied her remarkable position only in her own mind
and Madeline's, still knowing herself the wife of 1596 and of 1596 only,
and still unaware that 1596 was in his grave. Simla had gone on with its
dances and dinners and gymkhanas quite as if no crucial experience were
hanging over the heads of three of the people one met 'everywhere,' and
the three people continued to be met everywhere, although only one
of them was unconscious. The women tried to avoid each other without
accenting it, exchanging light words only as occasion demanded, but they
were not clever enough for Mrs. Gammidge and Mrs. Mickie, who went
about saying that Mrs. Innes's treatment of Madeline Anderson was as
ridiculous as it was inexplicable. 'Did you ever know her to be jealous
of anybody before?' demanded Mrs. Mickie, to which Mrs. Gammidge
responded, with her customary humour, that the Colonel had never, in the
memory of the oldest inhabitant, been known to give her occasion.

'Well,' declared Mrs. Mickie, 'if friendships--UNSENTIMENTAL
friendships--between men and women are not understood in Simla, I'd like
to be told what is understood.'

Between them they gave Madeline a noble support, for which--although she
did not particularly require it, and they did not venture to offer it in
so many words--she was grateful. A breath of public criticism from
any point of view would have blown over the toppling structure she was
defending against her conscience. The siege was severe and obstinate,
with an undermining conviction ever at work that in the end she would
yield; in the end she would go away, at least as far as Bombay or
Calcutta, and from there send to Mrs. Innes the news of her liberation.
It would not be necessary, after all, or even excusable, to tell Horace.
His wife would do that quickly enough--at least, she had said she
would. If she didn't--well, if she didn't, nothing would be possible but
another letter, giving HIM the simple facts, she, Madeline, carefully
out of the way of his path of duty--at all events, at Calcutta or
Bombay. But there was no danger that Mrs. Innes would lose the advantage
of confession, of throwing herself on his generosity--and at this
point Madeline usually felt her defenses against her better nature
considerably strengthened, and the date of her sacrifice grow vague
again.

Meanwhile, she was astonished to observe that, in spite of her threat
to the contrary, Mrs. Innes appeared to be enjoying herself particularly
well. Madeline had frequent occasion for private comment on the
advantages of a temperament that could find satisfaction in dancing
through whole programmes at the very door, so to speak, of the criminal
courts; and it can not be denied that this capacity of Mrs. Innes's went
far to increase the vacillation with which Miss Anderson considered
her duty towards that lady. If she had shown traces of a single hour
of genuine suffering, there would have been an end to Madeline's
hesitation. But beyond an occasional watchful glance at conversations in
which she might be figuring dramatically, and upon which she instantly
turned her back as soon as she was perceived, Mrs. Innes gave no sign
even of preoccupation. If she had bad half-hours, they occurred between
the teas and tennises, the picnics, riding-parties, luncheons, and other
entertainments, at which you could always count upon meeting her; and in
that case they must have been short. She looked extremely well, and
her admirable frocks gave an accent even to 'Birthday' functions at
Viceregal Lodge, which were quite hopelessly general. If any one
could have compelled a revelation of her mind, I think it would have
transpired that her anxieties about Capt. Valentine Drake and Mrs. Vesey
gave her no leisure for lesser ones. These for a few days had been keen
and indignant--Captain Drake had so far forgotten himself as to ride
with Mrs. Vesey twice since Mrs. Innes's arrival--and any display of
poverty of spirit was naturally impossible under the circumstances. The
moment was a critical one; Captain Drake seemed inclined to place her
in the category of old, unexacting friends--ladies who looked on and
smiled, content to give him tea on rainy days, and call him by his
Christian name, with perhaps the privilege of a tapping finger on his
shoulder, and an occasional order about a rickshaw. Mrs. Violet was not
an introspective person, or she might have discovered here that the most
stable part of her self-respect was her EXIGENCE with Captain Drake.

She found out quickly enough, however, that she did not mean to discard
it. She threw herself, therefore--her fine shoulders and arms, her
pretty clothes, her hilarity, her complexion, her eyelashes, and all
that appertained to her--into the critical task of making other men
believe, at Captain Drake's expense, that they were quite as fond of her
as he was. Mrs. Vesey took opposite measures, and the Club laid bets on
the result.

The Club was not prepossessed by Captain Drake. He said too little and
he implied too much. He had magnificent shoulders, which he bent a great
deal over secluded sofas, and a very languid interest in matters over
which ordinary men were enthusiastic. He seemed to believe that if he
smiled all the way across his face, he would damage a conventionality.
His clothes were unexceptionable, and he always did the right thing,
though bored by the necessity. He was good-looking in an ugly way, which
gave him an air of restrained capacity for melodrama, and made women
think him interesting. Somebody with a knack of disparagement said that
he was too much expressed. It rather added to his unpopularity that he
was a man whom women usually took with preposterous seriousness--all but
Kitty Vesey, who charmed and held him by her outrageous liberties.
When Mrs. Vesey chaffed him, he felt picturesque. He was also aware of
inspiring entertainment for the lookers-on, with the feeling at such
times that he, too, was an amused spectator. This was, of course, their
public attitude. In private there was sentiment, and they talked about
the tyranny of society, or delivered themselves of ideas suggested by
works of fiction which everybody simply HAD to read.

For a week Mrs. Innes looked on, apparently indifferent, rather
apparently not observing; and an Assistant Secretary in the Home
Department began to fancy that his patience in teaching the three
dachshund puppies tricks was really appreciated. He was an on-coming
Assistant Secretary, with other conspicuous parts, and hitherto his time
had been too valuable to spend upon ladies' dachshunds. Mrs. Innes
had selected him well. There came an evening when, at a dance at the
Lieutenant-Governor's, Mrs. Innes was so absorbed in what the Assistant
Secretary was saying to her, as she passed on his arm, that she did
not see Captain Drake in the corridor at all, although he had carefully
broken an engagement to walk with Kitty Vesey that very afternoon,
as the beginning of gradual and painless reform in her direction. His
unrewarded virtue rose up and surprised him with the distinctness of
its resentment; and while his expression was successfully amused,
his shoulders and the back of his neck, as well as the hand on
his moustache, spoke of discipline which promised to be efficient.
Reflection assured him that discipline was after all deserved, and a
quarter of an hour later found him wagging his tail, so to speak, over
Mrs. Innes's programme in a corner pleasantly isolated. The other chair
was occupied by the Assistant Secretary. Captain Drake represented an
interruption, and was obliged to take a step towards the nearest lamp to
read the card. Three dances were rather ostentatiously left, and Drake
initialled them all. He brought back the card with a bow, which spoke
of dignity under bitter usage, together with the inflexible intention of
courteous self-control, and turned away.

'Oh, if you please, Captain Drake--let me see what you've done. All
those? But--'

'Isn't it after eleven, Mrs. Innes?' asked the Assistant Secretary, with
a timid smile. He was enjoying himself, but he had a respect for vested
interests, and those of Captain Drake were so well known that he felt a
little like a buccaneer.

'Dear me, so it is!' Mrs. Innes glanced at one of her bracelets.
'Then, Captain Drake, I'm sorry'--she carefully crossed out the three
'V.D.'s'--'I promised all the dances I had left after ten to Mr.
Holmcroft. Most of the others I gave away at the gymkhana--really. Why
weren't you there? That Persian tutor again! I'm afraid you are working
too hard. And what did the Rani do, Mr. Holmcroft? It's like the Arabian
Nights, only with real jewels--'

'Oh, I say, Holmcroft, this is too much luck, you know. Regular
sweepstakes, by Jove!' And Captain Drake lingered on the fringe of the
situation.

'Perhaps I have been greedy,' said the Assistant Secretary,
deprecatingly. 'I'll--'

'Not in the very least! That is,' exclaimed Mrs. Violet, pouting, 'if
I'M to be considered. We'll sit out all but the waltzes, and you shall
tell me official secrets about the Rani. She put us up once, she's a
delicious old thing. Gave us string beds to sleep on and gold plate to
eat from, and swore about every other word. She had been investing in
Government paper, and it had dropped three points. "Just my damn luck!"
she said. Wasn't it exquisite? Captain Drake--'

'Mrs. Innes--'

'I don't want to be rude, but you're a dreadful embarrassment. Mr.
Holmcroft won't tell you official secrets!'

'If she would only behave!' thought Madeline, looking on, 'I would tell
her--indeed I would--at once.'

Colonel Innes detached himself from a group of men in mess dress as she
appeared with the Worsleys, and let himself drift with the tide that
brought them always together.

'You are looking tired--ill,' she said, seriously, as they sought
the unconfessed solace of each other's eyes. 'Last night it was the
Commander-in-Chief's, and the night before the dance at Peliti's.
And again tonight. And you are not like those of us who can rest
next morning--you have always your heavy office work!' She spoke with
indignant, tender reproach, and he gave himself up to hearing it. 'You
will have to take leave and go away,' she insisted, foolishly.

'Leave! Good heavens, no! I wish all our fellows were as fit as I am.
And--'

'Yes?' she said.

'Don't pity me, dear friend. I don't think it's good for me. The world
really uses me very well.'

'Then it's all right, I suppose,' Madeline said, with sudden depression.

'Of course it is. You are dining with us on the eighth?'

'I'm afraid not, I'm engaged.'

'Engaged again? Don't you WANT to break bread in my house, Miss
Anderson?' She was silent, and he insisted, 'Tell me,' he said.

She gave him instead a kind, mysterious smile.

'I will explain to you what I feel about that some day,' she said;
'some day soon. I can't accept Mrs. Innes's invitation for the eighth,
but--Brookes and I are going to take tea with the fakir's monkeys on the
top of Jakko tomorrow afternoon.'

'Anybody else, or only Brookes?'

'Only Brookes.' And she thought she had abandoned coquetry!

'Then may I come?'

'Indeed you may.'

'I really don't know,' reflected Madeline, as she caught another glimpse
of Mrs. Innes vigorously dancing the reel opposite little Lord Billy in
his Highland uniform, with her hands on her flowered-satin hips, 'that I
am behaving very well myself.'


Chapter 3.VIII.

Horace Innes looked round his wife's drawing-room as if he were making
an inventory of it, carefully giving each article its value, which
happened, however, to have nothing to do with rupees. Madeline Anderson
had been saying something the day before about the intimacy and accuracy
with which people's walls expressed them, and though the commonplace was
not new to him, this was the first time it had ever led him to scan his
wife's. What he saw may be imagined, but his only distinct reflection
was that he had no idea that she had been photographed so variously or
had so many friends who wore resplendent Staff uniforms. The relation of
cheapness in porcelain ornaments to the lady's individuality was beyond
him, and he could not analyze his feelings of sitting in the midst of
her poverty of spirit. Indeed, thinking of his ordinary unsusceptibility
to such things, he told himself sharply that he was adding an
affectation of discomfort to the others that he had to bear; and that
if Madeline had not given him the idea it would never have entered his
mind. The less, he mused, that one had to do with finicking feelings
in this world the better. They were well enough for people who were
tolerably conditioned in essentials--he preferred this vagueness, even
with himself, in connection with his marriage--otherwise they added
pricks. Besides he had that other matter to think of.

He thought of the other matter with such obvious irritation that the
butler coming in to say that the 'English water' was finished, and how
many dozen should he order, put a chair in its place instead, closed
the door softly again, and went away. It was not good for the dignity of
butlers to ask questions of any sort with a look of that kind under the
eyebrows of the sahib. The matter was not serious, Colonel Innes told
himself, but he would prefer by comparison to deal with matters that
were serious. He knew Simla well enough to attach no overwhelming
importance to things said about women at the Club, where the broadest
charity prevailed underneath, and the idle comment of the moment had
an intrinsic value as a distraction rather than a reflective one as
a criticism. This consideration, however, was more philosophical
in connection with other men's wives. He found very little in it to
palliate what he had overheard, submerged in the 'Times of India', that
afternoon. And to put an edge on it, the thing had been said by one of
his own juniors. Luckily the boy had left the room without discovering
who was behind the 'Times of India'. Innes felt that he should be
grateful for having been spared the exigency of defending his wife
against a flippant word to which she had very probably laid herself
open. He was very angry, and it is perhaps not surprising that he did
not pause to consider how far his anger was due to the humiliating
necessity of speaking to her about it. She was coming at last though;
she was in the hall. He would get it over quickly.

'Goodbye!' said Mrs. Innes at the door. 'No, I can't possibly let you
come in to tea. I don't know how you have the conscience after drinking
three cups at Mrs. Mickie's, where I had no business to take you!
Tomorrow? Oh, all right if you want to VERY badly. But I won't promise
you strawberries--they're nearly all gone.'

There was the sound of a departing pony's trot, and Mrs. Innes came into
the drawing-room.

'Good heavens, Horace! what are you sitting there for like a--like a
ghost? Why didn't you make a noise or something, and why aren't you at
office? I can't tell you how you startled me.'

'It is early,' Colonel Innes said. 'We are neither of us in the house,
as a rule, at this hour.'

'Coincidence!' Violet turned a cool, searching glance on her husband,
and held herself ready. 'I came home early because I want to alter the
lace on my yellow bodice for tonight. It's too disgusting as it is. But
I was rather glad to get away from Mrs. Mickie's lot. So rowdy!'

'And I came because I had a special reason for wanting to speak to you.'

Mrs. Violet's lips parted, and her breath, in spite of herself, came a
little faster.

'As we are dining out tonight, I thought that if I didn't catch you now
I might not have another opportunity--till tomorrow morning.'

'And it's always a pity to spoil one's breakfast. I can tell from your
manner, mon ami, it's something disagreeable. What have I been and gone
and done?'

She was dancing, poor thing, in her little vulgar way, on hot iron. But
her eyes kept their inconsistent coolness.

'I heard something today which you are not in the way of hearing. You
have--probably--no conception that it could be said.'

'Then she has been telling other people. ABSOLUTELY the worst thing she
could do!' Mrs. Innes exclaimed privately, sitting unmoved, her face a
little too expectant.

'You won't be prepared for it--you may be shocked and hurt by it.
Indeed, I think there is no need to repeat it to you. But I must put you
on your guard. Men are coarser, you know, than women; they are apt to
put their own interpretation--'

'What is it?'

There was a physical gasp, a sharpness in her voice that brought Innes's
eyes from the floor to her face.

'I am sorry,' he said, 'but--don't overestimate it, don't let it worry
you. It was simply a very impertinent--a very disagreeable reference
to you and Mr. She held her much humbly and much she loved the poor,
and did them much good, and was so good a lady that none knew how to
blame her or to say of her aught save great good. Therewithal was she
so fair, that each one said who saw her, that she was the mirror
of all ladies in the world for beauty and goodness.

But here leaveth the tale a little to speak of her, and returneth
to tell of the King Florus, of whom it hath been silent a great
while.

Mere idle rumour--'

Innes bit his lip.

'Captain Gordon said it,' he replied.

'Bobby Gordon! DO tell me what he said! I'm dying to know. Was he very
disagreeable? I DID give his dance away on Thursday night.'

Innes looked at her with the curious distrust which she often inspired
in him. He had a feeling that he would like to put her out of the room
into a place by herself, and keep her there.

'I won't repeat what he said.' Colonel Innes took up the 'Saturday
Review'.

'Oh, do, Horace! I particularly want to know.'

Innes said nothing.

'Horace! Was it--was it anything about Mr. Holmcroft being my
Secretariat baa-lamb?'

'If you adorn your guess with a little profanity,' said Innes, acidly,
'you won't be far wrong.'

Mrs. Violet burst into a peal of laughter.

'Why, you old goose!' she articulated, behind her handkerchief; 'he said
that to ME.'

Innes laid down the 'Saturday Review'.

'To you!' he repeated; 'Gordon said it to you!'

'Rather!' Mrs. Violet was still mirthful. 'I'm not sure that he didn't
call poor little Homie something worse than that. It's the purest
jealousy on his part--nothing to make a fuss about.'

The fourth skin which enables so many of us to be callous to all but the
relative meaning of careless phrases had not been given to Innes, and
her words fell upon his bare sense of propriety.

'Jealous,' he said, 'of a married woman? I find that difficult to
understand.'

Violet's face straightened out.

'Don't be absurd, Horace. These boys are always jealous of somebody or
other--it's the occupation of their lives! So having finished these
words, and received his Saviour, he departed in our Lord, and his
son did do bury him, and did do render him his service, even as one
should do for the dead.

After the death of his father evil folk bore envy against him, and did
him many a scathe, and grieved him sorely; but he loved them all
and suffered whatsoever they did to him.

What more may I tell you, save that they cast him and his folk out of
the heritage of his fathers, and chased him forth out of his castle.

So when he bethought him of the commandment of his father, he said to
them who went in his company: "The wicked have wrongfully cast me
forth out of mine heritage: yet have I good hope in our Lord that
he will help me; go we now to the Court of the Count Amile, who was
my friend and my fellow.

But I don't suppose you would be in such a hurry to repeat them
to HER.'

Innes turned very white, and the rigidity of his face gave place to
heavy dismay. His look was that of a man upon whom misfortune had fallen
out of a clear sky. For an instant he stared at his wife. When he spoke
his voice was altered.

'For God's sake!' he said, 'let us have done with this pitiful
wrangling. I dare say you can take care of yourself; at all events, I
only meant to warn you. But now you must tell me exactly what you mean
by this that you have said--this--about--'

'The fat's in the fire,' was Mrs. Innes's reflection.

'Certainly, I'll tell you--'

'Don't shout, please!'

'I mean simply that all Simla is talking about your affair with Miss
Anderson. You may imagine that because you are fifteen years older than
she is things won't be thought of, but they are, and I hear it's been
spoken about at Viceregal Lodge. I KNOW Lady Bloomfield has noticed it,
for she herself mentioned it to me. I told her I hadn't the slightest
objection, and neither have I, but there's an old proverb about people
in glass houses. What are you going to do?'

Colonel Innes's expression was certainly alarming, and he had made a
step toward her that had menace in it.

'I am going out,' he said, and turned and left her to her triumph.


Chapter 3.IX.

She--Violet--had unspeakably vulgarized it, but it must be true--it must
be, to some extent, true. She may even have lied about it, but the truth
was there, fundamentally, in the mere fact that it had been suggested
to her imagination. Madeline's name, which had come to be for him an
epitome of what was finest and most valuable, most to be lived for,
was dropping from men's lips into a kind of an abyss of dishonourable
suggestion. There was no way out of it or around it. It was a cloud
which encompassed them, suddenly blackening down.

There was nothing that he could do--nothing. Except, yes, of
course--that was obvious, as obvious as any other plain duty. Through
his selfishness it had a beginning; in spite of his selfishness it
should have an end. That went without saying. No more walks or rides. In
a conventional way, perhaps--but nothing deliberate, designed--and never
alone together. Gossip about flippant married women was bad enough, but
that it should concern itself with an unprotected creature like Madeline
was monstrous, incredible. He strode fiercely into the road round Jakko,
and no little harmless snake, if it had crawled across his path,
would have failed to suffer a quick fate under the guidance of his
imagination. But there was nothing for him to kill, and he turned upon
himself.

The sun went down into the Punjab and left great blue-and-purple hill
worlds barring the passage behind him. The deodars sank waist deep into
filmy shadow, and the yellow afterlight lay silently among the branches.
A pink-haunched monkey lopading across the road with a great show of
prudence seemed to have strayed into an unfamiliar country, and
the rustling twigs behind him made an episode of sound. The road in
perpetual curve between its little stone parapet and the broad flank of
the hill rose and fell under the deodars; Innes took its slopes and its
steepnesses with even, unslackened stride, aware of no difference, aware
of little indeed except the physical necessity of movement, spurred on
by a futile instinct that the end of his walk would be the end of his
trouble--his amazing, black, menacing trouble. A pony's trot behind him
struck through the silence like percussion-caps; all Jakko seemed to
echo with it; and it came nearer--insistent, purposeful--but he
was hardly aware of it until the creature pulled up beside him, and
Madeline, slipping quickly off, said--

'I'm coming too.'

He took off his hat and stared at her. She seemed to represent a climax.

'I'm coming too,' she said. 'I'm tired of picking flies off the Turk,
and he's really unbearable about them tonight. Here, syce.' She threw
the reins to the man and turned to Innes with a smile of relief. 'I
would much rather do a walk. Why--you want me to come too, don't you?'

His face was all one negative, and under the unexpectedness of it and
the amazement of it her questioning eyes slowly filled with sudden,
uncontrollable tears, so that she had to lower them, and look steadily
at the hoof-marks in the road while she waited for his answer.

'You know how I feel about seeing you--how glad I always am,' he
stammered. 'But there are reasons--'

'Reasons?' she repeated, half audibly.

'I don't know how to tell you. I will write. But let me put you up
again--'

'I will not,' Madeline said, with a sob, 'I won't be sent home like
a child. I am going to walk, but--but I can quite well go alone.' She
started forward, and her foot caught in her habit so that she made an
awkward stumble and came down on her knee. In rising she stumbled again,
and his quick arm was necessary. Looking down at her, he saw that she
was crying bitterly. The tension had lasted long, and the snap had come
when she least expected it.

'Stop,' Innes said, firmly, hardly daring to turn his head and ascertain
the blessed fact that they were still alone. 'Stop instantly. You
shall not go by yourself.' He flicked the dust off her habit with
his pocket-handkerchief. 'Come, please; we will go on together.' Her
distress seemed to make things simple again. It was as if the cloud that
hung over them had melted as she wept, and lifted, and drifted a little
further on. For the moment, naturally, nothing mattered except that she
should be comforted. As she walked by his side shaken with her effort
at self-control, he had to resist the impulse to touch her. His hand
tingled to do its part in soothing her, his arm ached to protect her,
while he vaguely felt an element of right, of justice, in her tears;
they were in a manner his own. What he did was to turn and ask the syce
following if he had loosened the Turk's saddle-girths.

'I shall be better--in a moment,' Madeline said, and he answered, 'Of
course'; but they walked on and said nothing more until the road ran out
from under the last deodar and round the first bare boulder that marked
the beginning of the Ladies' Mile. It lay rolled out before them, the
Ladies' Mile, sinuous and grey and empty, along the face of the cliff;
they could see from one end of it to the other. It was the bleak side of
Jakko; even tonight there was a fresh springing coldness in it blowing
over from the hidden snows behind the rims of the nearer hills. Madeline
held up her face to it, and gave herself a moment of its grateful
discipline.

'I have been as foolish as possible,' she said, 'as foolish as possible.
I have distressed you. Well, I couldn't help it--that is all there is to
be said. Now if you will tell me--what is in your mind--what you spoke
of writing--I will mount again and go home. It doesn't matter--I know
you didn't mean to be unkind.' Her lip was trembling again, and he knew
it, and dared not look at it.

'How can you ask me to tell you--miserable things!' he exclaimed. 'How
can I find the words? And I have only just been told--I can hardly
myself conceive it--'

'I am not a child in her teens that my ears should be guarded from
miserable things. I have come of age, I have entered into my inheritance
of the world's bitterness with the rest. I can listen,' Madeline said.
'Why not?'

He looked to her with grave tenderness. 'You think yourself very old,
and very wise about the world,' he said; 'but you are a woman, and you
will be hurt. And when I think that a little ordinary forethought on my
part would have protected you, I feel like the criminal I am.'

'Don't make too much of it,' she said, simply. 'I have a presentiment--'

'I'll tell you,' Innes said, slowly; 'I won't niggle about it. The
people of this place--idiots!--are unable to believe that a man and a
woman can be to each other what we are.'

'Yes?' said Madeline. She paused beside the parapet and looked down at
the indistinct little fields below, and the blurred masses of white wild
roses waving midway against the precipice.

'They can not understand that there can be any higher plane of
intercourse between us than the one they know. They won't see--they
can't see--that the satisfaction we find in being together is of a
different nature.'

'I see,' said Madeline. She had raised her eyes, and they sought
the solemn lines of the horizon. She looked as if she saw something
infinitely lifted above the pettiness he retailed to her.

'So they say--good God, why should I tell you what they say!' It
suddenly flashed upon him that the embodiment of it in words would be at
once, from him, sacrilegious and ludicrous. It flashed upon him that her
natural anger would bring him pain, and that if she laughed--it was so
hard to tell when she would laugh--it would be as if she struck him.
He cast about him dumb and helpless while she kept her invincibly
quiet gaze upon the farther hills. She was thinking that this breath of
gossip, now that it had blown, was a very slight affair compared with
Horace Innes's misery--which he did not seem to understand. Then her
soul rose up in her, brushing everything aside, and forgetting, alas!
the vow it had once made to her.

'I think I know,' she said. 'They are indeed foolish. They say that
we--love each other. Is not that what they say?'

He looked in amazement into her tender eyes and caught at the little
mocking smile about her lips. Suddenly the world grew light about him,
the shadows fled away. Somewhere down in the valley, he remembered
afterward, a hill-flute made music. When he spoke it was almost in a
whisper, lest he should disturb some newly perceived lovely thing that
had wings, and might leave him. 'Oh, Madeline,' he said, 'is it true?'
She only smiled on in gladness that took no heed of any apprehension,
any fear or scruple, and he himself keeping his eyes upon her face,
said, 'It is true.'

So they stood for a little time in silence while she resisted her great
opportunity. She resisted it to the end, and presently beckoned to the
syce, who came up leading the pony. Innes mounted her mechanically and
said, 'Is that all right?' as she put her foot in the stirrup, without
knowing that he had spoken.

'Goodbye,' she said; 'I am going away--immediately. It will be better.
And listen--I have known this for weeks--and I have gone on seeing you.
And I hope I am not any more wicked than I feel. Goodbye.'

'Goodbye,' he said, taking his hand from the pony's neck, and she rode
buoyantly away. He, turning to breast the road again, saw darkness
gathering over the end of it, and drawing nearer.

At eleven o'clock next morning Brookes rose from her packing to take
a note addressed to her mistress from the hand of a messenger in the
Imperial red and gold. It ran:

'Dear Miss Anderson--I write to tell you that I have obtained three
weeks' leave, and I am going into the interior to shoot, starting this
afternoon. You spoke yesterday of leaving Simla almost immediately. I
trust you will not do this, as it would be extremely risky to venture
down to the Plains just now. In ten days the rains will have broken,
when it will be safe. Pray wait till then.

'Yours sincerely,

'Horace Innes.'

Involuntarily the letter found its way to Madeline's lips, and remained
there until she saw the maid observing her with intelligence.

'Brookes,' she said, 'I am strongly advised not to start until the rains
break. I think, on the whole, that we won't.'

'Indeed, miss,' returned Brookes, 'Mrs. Sergeant Simmons told me that
it was courting cholera to go--and nothing short of it. I must say I'm
thankful.'


Chapter 3.X.

A week later Colonel Innes had got his leave, and had left Simla for the
snow-line by what is facetiously known as 'the carriage road to Tibet.'
Madeline had done as she was bidden, and was waiting for the rains to
break. Another day had come without them. To write and tell Innes, to
write to tell Violet, to go away and leave the situation as she
found it; she had lived and moved and slept and awakened to these
alternatives. At the moment she slept.

It was early, very early in the morning. The hills all about seemed
still unaware of it, standing in the greyness, compact, silent,
immutable, as if they slept with their eyes open. Nothing spoke of the
oncoming sun, nothing was yet surprised. The hill world lifted itself
unconscious in a pale solution of daylight, and only on the sky-line,
very far away, it rippled into a cloud. The flimsy town clinging steeply
roof above roof to the slope, mounting to the saddle and slipping over
on the other side, cut the dawn with innumerable little lines and angles
all in one tone like a pencil drawing.

There was no feeling in it, no expression. It had a temporary air in
that light, like trampled snow, and even the big Secretariat buildings
that raised themselves here and there out of the huddling bazaar looked
trivial, childish enterprises in the simple revelation of the morning.
A cold silence was abroad, which a crow now and then vainly tried to
disturb with a note of tentative enterprise, forced, premature. It
announced that the sun would probably rise, but nothing more. In the
little dark shops of the wood-carvers an occasional indefinite figure
moved, groping among last night's tools, or an old woman in a red sari
washed a brass dish over the shallow open drain that ran past her door.
At the tonga terminus, below the Mall, a couple of coughing syces,
muffled in their blankets, pulled one of these vehicles out of the
shed. They pushed it about sleepily, with clumsy futility; nothing else
stirred or spoke at all in Simla. Nothing disturbed Miss Anderson asleep
in her hotel.

A brown figure in a loin-cloth, with a burden, appeared where the road
turned down from the Mall, and then another, and several following. They
were coolies, and they carried luggage.

The first to arrive beside the tonga bent and loosed the trunk he
brought, which slipped from his back to the ground. The syces looked at
him, saying nothing, and he straightened himself against the wall of the
hillside, also in silence. It was too early for conversation. Thus did
all the others.

When the last portmanteau had been deposited, a khaki-coloured heap on
the shed floor rose up as a broad-shouldered Punjabi driver, and walked
round the luggage, looking at it.

'And you, owls' brethren,' he said, with sarcasm, addressing the first
coolie, 'you have undertaken to carry these matter fifty-eight kos to
Kalka, have you?'

'Na,' replied the coolie, stolidly, and spat.

'How else, then, is it to be taken?' the driver cried, with anger in
his argument. 'Behold the memsahib has ordered but one tonga, and a
fool-thing of an ekka. Here is work for six tongas! What reason is there
in this?'

The coolie folded his naked arms, and dug in the dust with an
unconcerned toe.

'I, what can I do?' he said, 'It is the order of the memsahib.'

Ram Singh grunted and said no more. A rickshaw was coming down from the
Mall, and the memsahib was in it.

Ten minutes later the ponies stood in their traces under the iron bar,
and the lady sat in the tonga behind Ram Singh. Her runners, in uniform,
waited beside the empty rickshaw with a puzzled look, at which she
laughed, and threw a rupee to the head man.

The luggage was piled and corded on three ekkas behind, and their
cross-legged drivers, too, were ready.

'Chellao!' she cried, crisply, and Ram Singh imperturbably lifted the
reins. The little procession clanked and jingled along the hillside,
always tending down, and broke upon the early grey melancholy with a
forced and futile cheerfulness, too early, like everything else. As
it passed the last of Simla's little gardens, spread like a
pocket-handkerchief on the side of the hill, the lady leaned forward and
looked back as if she wished to impress the place upon her memory. Her
expression was that of a person going forth without demur into the
day's hazards, ready to cope with them, yet there was some regret in the
backward look.

'It's a place,' she said aloud, 'where EVERYBODY has a good time!'

Then the Amusement Club went out of sight behind a curve; and she
settled herself more comfortably among her cushions, and drew a wrap
round her to meet the chill wind of the valley. It was all behind
her. The lady looked out as the ponies galloped up to the first
changing-place, and, seeing a saddled horse held by a syce, cramped
herself a little into one corner to make room. The seat would just hold
two.

Ram Singh salaamed, getting down to harness the fresh pair, and a man
put his face in at the side of the tonga and took off his hat.

'Are you all right?' he said. His smile was as conscious as his words
were casual.

'Quite right. The ayah was silly about coming--didn't want to leave her
babies or something--so I had to leave her behind. Everything else is
either here or in the ekkas.'

'The brute! Never mind--they're not much use in a railway journey. You
can pick up another at Bombay. Then I suppose I'd better get in.'

'I suppose you better had. Unless you think of walking,' she laughed,
and he took the place beside her.

Ram Singh again unquestioningly took up the reins.

'Nobody else going down?'

'Not another soul. We might just as well have started together.'

'Oh, well, we couldn't tell. Beastly awkward if there had been anybody.'

'Yes,' she said, but thrust up her under lip indifferently.

Then, with the effect of turning to the business in hand, she bent her
eyes upon him understandingly and smiled in frank reference to something
that had not been mentioned. 'It's goodbye Simla, isn't it?' she
said. He smiled in response and put his hand upon her firm, round arm,
possessively, and they began to talk.

Ram Singh, all unaware, kept his horses at their steady clanking
downward gallop, and Simla, clinging to the hilltops, was brushed by the
first rays of the sun.

It came a gloriously clear morning; early riders round Jakko saw the
real India lying beyond the outer ranges, flat and blue and pictured
with forests and rivers like a map. The plains were pretty and
interesting in this aspect, but nobody found them attractive. Sensitive
people liked it better when the heat mist veiled them and it was
possible to look abroad without a sudden painful thought of contrasting
temperatures. We may suppose that the inhabitants of Paradise sometimes
grieve over their luck. Even Madeline Anderson, whose heart knew no
constriction at the remembrance of brother or husband at some cruel
point in the blue expanse, had come to turn her head more willingly the
other way, towards the hills rolling up to the snows, being a woman who
suffered by proxy, and by observation, and by Rudyard Kipling.

On this particular morning, however, she had not elected to do either.
She slept late instead, and was glad to sleep. I might as well say at
once that on the night before she had made up her mind, had brought
herself to the point, and had written to Mrs. Innes, at 'Two Gables',
all the facts, in so far as she was acquainted with them, connected with
Frederick Prendergast's death. Therewith they went their ways to the
Court of the Count and found him not there, because he was gone to
Bericain to visit Amis his fellow, and comfort him of the death of his
father. And when he found him not, he departed sore troubled, and
said to himself that he would not betake him to his own land till
he had found Amis his fellow; and he sought him in France and in
Almaine, where soever he heard tell that his kindred were, and could
find no certainty of him.

Therewithal Amis together with his folk, ceased not to seek his fellow
Amile, until they came to the house of a noble man where they were
guested. Thereat they told by order all their adventure and the noble
man said to them: "Abide with me, Sir Knights, and I will give my daughter
to your lord, because of the wisdom that I have heard of him, and
I will make you all rich of gold and of silver, and of havings."

That word pleased them, and they I held the bridal with mickle joy.
But when they had abided there for a year and a half, then said
Amis to his ten fellows "We have done amiss in that we have left
seeking of Amile."

And he left there two of his sergeants and his hanap, and went his ways
toward Paris.

Now by this time had Amile been a-seeking for Amis two years past
without ceasing. And whenas Amile drew nigh to Paris he found a
pilgrim and asked if he had seen Amis whom men had chased out of his
land; and that one said nay, he had not. But Amile did off his coat and
gave it to the pilgrim and said: "Pray thou to our Lord and his Hallows
that they give me to find Amis my fellow."
Then he departed from the pilgrim, and went his ways to Paris, and
found no-whither Amis his fellow.

But the pilgrim went his ways forthwith, and about vespers happened on
Amis, and they greeted each the other. And Amis said to the pilgrim, had
he seen or heard tidings in any land of Amile, son of the Count of
Alverne. And the pilgrim answered him all marvelling:
"Who art thou, Knight, who thus mockest a pilgrim? Thou seemest to me
that Amile who this day asked of me if I had seen Amis his fellow.

I wot not for why thou hast changed thy garments, thy folk, thine horses,
and thine arms. Thou askest me now what thou didst ask me to-day about
tierce; and thou gavest me this coat."
"Trouble not thine heart," said Amis, "I am not he whom thou deemest;
but I am Amis who seeketh Amile." And he gave him of his silver, and
bade him pray our Lord to give him to find Amile.

And the pilgrim said: "Go thy ways forthright to Paris, and I trow that
thou shalt find him whom thou seekest so sore longing." And therewith
Aims went his ways full eagerly.

Now on the morrow Amile was already departed from Paris, and was
sitting at meat with his knights hard by the water of Seine in a
flowery meadow.

And when they saw Amis coming with his fellows all armed, they rose
up and armed them, and so went forth before them; and Amis said to his
fellows: "I see French knights who come against us in arms.

Now fight hardily and defend your lives. If we may escape this peril,
then shall we go with great joy to Paris, and thereto shall we be
received with high favour at the Court of the King."

Then were the reins let loose and the spears shaken aloft, and the swords
drawn on either side, in such wise that no semblance was there that any
should escape alive. But God the all mighty who seeth all, and who
setteth an end to the toil of the righteous, did to hold aback them of
one part and of the other when they were now hard on each other, for
then said Amis: "Who are ye knights, who have will to slay Amis the
exile and his fellows?"

At that voice Amile knew Amis his fellow and said: "O thou Amis most
well beloved, rest from my travail, I am Amile, son of the Count of
Alverne, who have not ceased to seek thee for two whole years."
And therewith they lighted down from their horses, and embraced and
kissed each other, and gave thanks to God of that they were found.
And they swore fealty and friendship and fellowship perpetual, the one
to the other, on the sword of Amile, wherein were relics.

Thence went they all together to the Court of Charles, King of France;
there might men behold them young, well attempered, wise, fair,
and of like fashion and visage, loved of all and honoured.

And the King received them much joyously, and made of Amis his
treasurer, and of Amile his server.

But when they had abided thus three years, Amis said unto Amile:
"Fair sweet fellow, I desire sore to go see my wife whom I have left behind;
and I will return the soonest that I may; and do thou abide at the
Court. But keep thee well from touching the daughter of the King; and
above all things beware of Arderi the felon." Amile answered him: "I
will take heed of thy commandment; but betake thee back hither so
soon as thou mayest."

Thuswise departed Amis. But Amile cast his eyes upon the King's daughter,
and knew her so soon as he might; and right soon forgat he the
commandment and the teaching of Amis his fellow. Yet is not this adventure
strange, whereas he was no holier than David, nor wiser than
Solomon.

Amidst these things Arderi the traitor, who bore him envy, came to him
and said: "Thou wottest not, fellow, thou wottest not, how Amis hath
robbed the treasure of the King, and therefore is fled away.
Wherefore I require of thee thou swear me fealty and friendship and
fellowship, and I will swear the same to thee on the holy Gospel."
And so when that was done Amile doubted not to lay bare his secret
to Arderi.

But whenas Amile was a-giving water to the King to wash his hands withal,
the false Arderi said to the King: "Take thou no water from this evil
man, sir King: for he is more worthy of death than of life, whereas he
hath taken from the Queen's Daughter the flower of her virginity." But
when Amile heard this, he fell adown all astonied, and might say never
a word; but the benign King lifted him up again, and said to him: "Rise
up, Amile, and have no fear, and defend thee of this blame." So he
lifted himself up and said: "Have no will to trow, sire, in the
lies of Arderi the traitor, for I wot that thou art a rightwise
judge, and that thou turnest not from the right way, neither for love
nor for hatred. Wherefore I pray thee that thou give me frist of counsel;
and that I may purge me of this guilt before thee, and do the battle
against Arderi the traitor, and make him convict of his lies before all
the Court."
So the King gave to one and the other frist of counsel till after
nones, and that then they should come before him for to do their devoir;
and they came before the King at the term which he had given them. Arderi
brought with him the Count Herbert for his part; but Amile found none
who would be for him saving Hildegarde the Queen, who took up the cause
for him, and gat frist of counsel for Amile, on such covenant that if
Amile came not back by the term established, she should be lacking
all days of the bed of the King.

But when Amile went to seek counsel, he happened on Amis, his fellow,
who was betaking him to the King's Court; and Amile lighted down
from his horse, and cast himself at the feet of his fellow, and
said: "O thou, the only hope of my salvation, evilly have I kept
thy commandment; for I have run into wyte of the King's Daughter,
and I have taken up battle against the false Arderi."

Then said Amis, sighing: "Leave we here our folk, end enter into
this wood to lay bare our secret."

And Amis fell to blaming Amile, and said: "Change we our garments
and our horses, and get thee to my house, and I will do the battle for
thee against the traitor." And Amile answered: "How may I go into thine
house, who have no knowledge of thy wife and thy folk, and have
never seen them face to face?"

But Amis said to him: "Go in all safety, and seek wisely to know
them: but take good heed that thou touch not my wife."
And thuswise they departed each from his fellow weeping; and Amis went
his ways to the Court of the King in the semblance of Amile, and
Amile to the house of his fellow in the semblance of Amis. But the wife
of Amis, when she saw him betake him thither, ran to embrace him, whom
she deemed was her husband, and would have kissed him. But he said:
"Flee thou from before me, for I have greater need to lament than
to play; whereas, since I departed from thee, I have suffered
adversity full sore, and yet have to suffer."

And a night-time whenas they lay in one bed, then Amile laid his
sword betwixt the two of them, and said to the woman: "Take heed
that thou touch me in no manner wise, else diest thou straightway
by this sword."

And in likewise did he the other nights, until Amis betook him in
disguise to his house to wot if Amile kept faith with him of his
wife.

Now was the term of the battle come, and the Queen abode Amile all
full of fear, for the traitor Arderi said, all openly, that the
Queen should nevermore draw nigh the bed of the King, whereas she
had suffered and consented hereto, that Amile should shame her
daughter.

Amidst these words Amis entered into the Court of the King clad in
the raiment of his fellow, Amile, at the hour of midday and said
to the King: "Right debonaire and loyal judge, here am I apparelled
to do the battle against the false Arderi, in defence of me, the
Queen, and her daughter of the wyte which they lay upon us."

And the King answered benignly and said: "Be thou nought troubled, Count,
for if thou vanquishest the battle, I will give thee to wife
Belisant my daughter."

On the morrow's morn, Arderi and Amis entered armed into the field in the
presence of the King and his folk. And the Queen with much company
of virgins, and widows and wedded wives, went from church to church
making prayers for the Champion of her daughter, and they gave gifts,
oblations and candles.

But Amis fell to pondering in his heart, that if he should slay
Arderi, he would be guilty of his death before God, and if he were
vanquished, it should be for a reproach to him all his days.

Wherefore he spake thuswise to Arderi: "O thou, Count, foul rede thou
hast, in that thou desirest my death so sorely, and hast foolishly
cast thy life into peril of death.

If thou wouldest but take back the wyte which thou layest on me,
and leave this mortal battle, thou mayest have my friendship and
my service."

But Arderi, as one out of his wit, answered him: "I will nought of thy
friendship nor thy service; but I shall swear the sooth as it
verily is, and I shall smite the head from off thee."

So Arderi swore that he had shamed the King's Daughter, and Amis
swore that he lied; and straightway they dealt together in strokes,
and fought together from the hour of tierce right on till nones.

And Arderi was vanquished, and Amis smote off his head.

The King was troubled that he had Arderi; yet was he joyous that
his daughter was purged of her guilt.

And he gave to Amis his daughter, and a great sum of gold and silver, and
a city hard by the sea wherein to dwell. And Amis received the
same with great joy.

Then he returned at his speediest to his hostel wherein he had left
Amile his fellow; but whenas Amile saw him coming with much company
of horse, he deemed that Amis was vanquished, and fell to fleeing:
but Amis bade him return in all safety, for that he had vanquished
Arderi, and thereby was wedded for him to the King's Daughter.

Thence then did Amile betake him, and abode in the aforesaid city
with his wife.

But Amis abode with his wife, and he became mesel by the will of our Lord,
in such wise that he might not move from his bed; for God chastiseth
him that He loveth.

And his wife, who had to name Obias, had him in sore hate, and many a
time strove to strangle him; and when Amis found that, he called to him
two of his sergeants, Azones and Horatus by name, and said to them:
"Take me out of the hands of this evil woman, and take my hanap privily
and bear me to the Castle of Bericain."
So when they drew nigh to the castle, folk came to meet them, and
asked of them who was the feeble sick man whom they bore; and they
said it was Amis, the master of them, who was become mesel, and
prayed them that they would do him some mercy.

But nevertheless, they beat the sergeants of Amis, and cast him down
from the cart whereon they were bearing him, and said: "Flee hence
speedily if ye would not lose your lives."
Then Amis fell a-weeping, and said:

"O Thou, God debonaire and full of pity, give me death, or give me aid
from mine infirmity!" And therewith he said to his sergeants:
"Bring me to the Church of the Father of Rome, whereas God may
peradventure of His great mercy purvey for my poverty."
When they came to Rome, Constantin the Apostle, full of pity and of
holiness, and many a knight of Rome of them who had held Amis at
the font, came to meet him, and gave him sustenance enough for him and
his sergeants.

But in the space of three years thereafter was so great famine in the city,
that the father had will to thrust the son away from his house.
Then spake Azones and Horatus to Amis, and said: "Fair sir, thou wottest
how feally we have served thee sithence the death of thy father
unto this day, and that we have never trespassed against thy
commandment.

But now we may no longer abide with thee, whereas we have no will
to perish of hunger: wherefore we pray thee give us leave to escape
this mortal pestilence."

Then Amis answered them weeping: "O ye fair sons, and not sergeants,
my only comfort, I pray you for God's sake that ye leave me not
here, but bear me to the city of the Count Amile my fellow."

And they who would well obey his commandments, bore him thither
whereas was Amile; and there they fell to sounding on their tartavelles
before the Court of Amile, even as mesel folk be wont to do.

And when Amile heard the sound thereof he bade a sergeant of his to
bear to the sick man of bread and of flesh, and therewithal his
hanap, which was given to him at Rome, full of good wine: and when the
sergeant had done his commandment he said to him when he came
again: "By the faith which I owe thee, sir, if I held not thine
hanap in my hand, I had deemed that it was even that which the sick
man had; for one and the same be they of greatness and of fashion."

Then said Amile: "Go speedily and lead him hither to me."

But when he was before his fellow he asked of him who he was, and how
he had gotten that hanap.

Said he: "I am of Bericain the Castle, and the hanap was given me
by the Apostle of Rome, when he baptized me."

And when Amile heard that, he knew that it was Amis his fellow who had
delivered him from death, and given him to wife the King's Daughter
of France; straightway he cast himself upon him and fell to crying
out strongly, and to weeping and lamenting, and to kissing and
embracing him.

And when his wife heard the same, she ran thereto all dishevelled, and
making great dole, whereas she had in memory of how he had slain Arderi.
And straightway they laid him in a very fair bed, and said to him:
"Abide with us, fair sir, until that God shall do his will of thee, for
whatsoever we have is for thee to deal with." And he abode with them,
and his sergeants with him.

Now it befel on a night whenas Amis and Amile lay in one chamber without
other company, that God sent to Amis Raphael his angel, who said to him:
"Sleepest thou, Amis?" And he, who deemed that Amile had called to him,
answered: "I sleep not, fair sweet fellow." Then the angel said to
him: "Thou hast answered well, whereas thou art the fellow of the
citizens of Heaven, and thou hast followed after Job, and Thoby in
patience. Now I am Raphael, an angel of our Lord, and am come to tell
thee of a medicine for thine healing, whereas He hath heard thy prayers.
Thou shalt tell to Amile thy fellow, that he slay his two children
and wash thee in their blood, and thence thou shalt get thee the healing
of thy body."

Then said Amis: "Never shall it be that my fellow be a manslayer for
the healing of me." But the Angel said: "Yet even so it behoveth to do."

And when he had so said, the Angel departed; and therewith Amile,
as if a-sleeping, heard those words, and awoke, and said: "What
is it, fellow? who hath spoken unto thee?" And Amis answered that none
had spoken: "But I have prayed to our Lord according to my wont." Then
Amile said: "Nay, it is not so; some one hath spoken to thee."
Therewith he arose and went to the door of the chamber, and
found it shut, and said: "Tell me, fair brother, who hath spoken to
thee these words of the night?"
Then Amis fell a-weeping sorely, and said to him that it was Raphael
the Angel of our Lord who had said to him: "Amis, our Lord biddeth
that thou tell Amile that he slay his two children, and wash thee
with the blood of them, and that then thou wilt be whole of thy
meselry."

But Amile was sore moved with these words, and said to him: "Amis,
I have given over to thee man-servant and maid-servant and all my
goods, and now thou feignest in fraud that the Angel hath spoken
to thee that I slay my two children!"

But forthwith Amis fell a- weeping, and said: "I wot that I have spoken
to thee things grievous, as one constrained, and now I pray thee
that thou cast me not out of thine house." And Amile said that he had
promised that he would hold him till the hour of his death: "But I
conjure thee by the faith which is betwixt thee and me, and by our
fellowship, and by the baptism which we took between me and thee at Rome,
that thou tell me if it be man or Angel who hath said this to
thee."
Then Amis answered: "As true as it was an Angel who spake to me this
night, so may God deliver me from mine infirmity."
Then Amile fell to weeping privily, and thinking in his heart: "This man
forsooth was apparelled before the King to die for me, and why
should I not slay my children for him; if he hath kept faith with
me to the death, why keep I not faith?

Abraham was saved by faith, and by faith have the hallows vanquished
kingdoms; and God saith in the Gospel: 'That which ye would that men
should do unto you, do ye even so to them.'"
And Amile without more tarrying, went to the chamber of his wife,
and bade her go hear the service of our Lord; and the Countess gat
her to the church even as she was wont.

Then the Count took his sword, and went to the bed where lay his children,
and found them sleeping, and he threw himself upon them, and fell to
weeping bitterly and said: "Who hath heard ever of a father who of his
own will hath slain his child? Ah, alas my children! I shall be no
more your father, but your cruel murderer!
And therewith the children awoke because of the tears which fell on
them from their father; and the children, who looked on the face of their
father, fell a-laughing. And whereas they were of the age of three
years or thereabout, their father said to them: "Your laughter shall
be turned into weeping, for now shall your innocent blood be shed."
When he had so said he cut off their heads and then laid them out
behind the bed, and laid the heads to the bodies, and covered them
over even as they slept.

And with their blood which he received, he washed his fellow, and said:
"Sire God, Jesus Christ, who commandest men to keep faith upon the
earth, and who cleansest the mesel by thy word, deign thou to cleanse
my fellow, for the love of whom I have shed the blood of my children."

Then was Amis cleansed of his meselry, and they gave thanks to our
Lord with great joy and said: "Blessed be God, the father of our Lord
Jesus Christ, who healeth them that have hope in him."
And Amile clad his fellow in his own right goodly raiment; and therewith
they went to the church to give thanks there, and the bells by the grace
of God rang of themselves. And when the people of the city heard that,
they ran all together toward that marvel.

Now the wife of the Count when she saw them both going together, fell
to asking which of the two was her husband and said: "I know well the
raiment of these twain, but I wot not which is Amile."
And the Count said: "I am Amile, and this my fellow is Amis, who is
whole." Then the Countess wondered, and said: "I see him all whole;
but much I desire to know whereby he is healed." "Render we thanks
to our Lord," said the Count, "nor disquiet us as to how it may be."

Now was come the hour of tierce, and neither the father nor the mother
was yet entered in to their children; but the father sighed grievously
for the death of his babes. Then the Countess asked for her children
to make her joy, and the Count said: "Dame let be, let the children
sleep!"
Therewith he entered all alone to the children to weep over them, and
he found them playing in the bed; but the scars of their wounds showed
about the necks of each of them even as a red fillet.

Then he took them in his arms, and bore them to their mother, and said
"Make great joy, dame, whereas thy sons whom I had slain by the
commandment of the Angel are alive again, and by their blood is
Amis cured and healed."
And when the Countess heard it she said: "O thou, Count, why didst thou
not lead me with thee to receive the blood of my children, and I would
have washed therewith Amis thy fellow and my Lord?"
Then said the Count: "Dame, let be these words; and let us be at the
service of our Lord, who hath done such great wonders in our house."

Which thing they did even unto their death and held chastity.

And they made great joy through that same city for ten days.

But on the selfsame day that Amis was made whole, the devils bore off his
wife; they brake the neck of her, and bore away her soul.

After these things Amis betook him to the Castle of Bericain and laid
siege before it; and abode there before so long, that they of the
castle rendered themselves to him. He received them benignly, and pardoned
them their evil will; and from thenceforth he dwelt with them peaceably
and he held with him the elder son of Amile, and served our Lord with all
his heart.

Thereafter Adrian, Apostle of Rome, sent word to Charles, King of France,
that he come help him against Desir, the King of the Lombards, who much
tormented the Church; and Charles was as then in the town of
Theodocion. Thither came Peter, messenger of the Apostle, who said
to him that the Apostle prayed him to come defend Holy Church.
Thereupon King Charles sent to the said Desir messengers to pray him
that he give back to the Holy Father the cities and other things
which he had taken from him, and that he would give him thereto the
sum of forty thousand sols of gold in gold and in silver.

But he would give way neither for prayers nor gifts.
Chichele were like men, they
never kissed each other. I think Judy prescribed these conditions. Anna
was far more a person who did as the world told her. But it was a poor
negation to describe all that they never did; there was no common little
convention of attachment that did not seem to be tacitly omitted between
them. I hope one did not too cynically observe that they offered these
to their husbands instead; the redeeming observation was their husbands'
complete satisfaction. This they maintained to the end. In the
natural order of things Robert Harbottle should have paid heavily for
interfering as he did in Paris between a woman and what she was entitled
to live for. As a matter of fact he never paid anything at all; I doubt
whether he ever knew himself a debtor. Judy kept her temperament under
like a current and swam with the tides of the surface, taking refreshing
dips only now and then which one traced in her eyes and her hair when
she and Robert came back from leave. That sort of thing is lost in the
sands of India, but it makes an oasis as it travels, and it sometimes
seemed to me a curious pity that she and Anna should sit in the shade of
it together, while Robert and Peter Chichele, their titular companions,
blundered on in the desert. But after all, if you are born blind--and
the men were both immensely liked, and the shooting was good.

Ten years later Somers joined. The Twelfth were at Peshawur. Robert
Harbottle was Lieutenant-Colonel by that time and had the regiment.
Distinction had incrusted, in the Indian way, upon Peter Chichele, its
former colonel; he was General Commanding the District and K.C.B. So
we were all still together in Peshawur. It was great luck for the
Chicheles, Sir Peter's having the district, though his father's old
regiment would have made it pleasant enough for the boy in any case. He
came to us, I mean, of course, to two or three of us, with the interest
that hangs about a victim of circumstances; we understood that he
wasn't a 'born soldier.' Anna had told me on the contrary that he was
a sacrifice to family tradition made inevitable by the General's
unfortunate investments. Bellona's bridegroom was not a role he fancied,
though he would make a kind of compromise as best man; he would agree,
she said, to be a war correspondent and write picturesque specials
for the London halfpenny press. There was the humour of the poor boy's
despair in it, but she conveyed it, I remember, in exactly the same tone
with which she had said to me years before that he wanted to drive a
milk-cart. She carried quite her half of the family tradition, though
she could talk of sacrifice and make her eyes wistful, contemplating
for Somers the limitations of the drill-book and the camp of exercise,
proclaiming and insisting upon what she would have done if she could
only have chosen for him. Anna Chichele saw things that way. With more
than a passable sense of all that was involved, if she could have made
her son an artist in life or a commander-in-chief, if she could have
given him the seeing eye or Order of the Star of India, she would not
have hesitated for an instant. Judy, with her single mind, cried out,
almost at sight of him, upon them both, I mean both Anna and Sir Peter.
Not that the boy carried his condemnation badly, or even obviously; I
venture that no one noticed it in the mess; but it was naturally plain
to those of us who were under the same. He had put in his two years with
a British regiment at Meerut--they nurse subalterns that way for the
Indian army--and his eyes no longer played with the tinsel vision
of India; they looked instead into the arid stretch beyond. This
preoccupation conveyed to the Surgeon-Major's wife the suggestion that
Mr. Chichele was the victim of a hopeless attachment. Mrs. Harbottle
made no such mistake; she saw simply, I imagine, the beginnings of
her own hunger and thirst in him, looking back as she told us across a
decade of dusty sunsets to remember them. The decade was there, close to
the memory of all of us; we put, from Judy herself downward, an absurd
amount of confidence in it.

She looked so well the night she met him. It was English mail day;
she depended a great deal upon her letters, and I suppose somebody had
written her a word that brought her that happy, still excitement that
is the inner mystery of words. He went straight to her with some speech
about his mother having given him leave, and for twenty minutes she
patronized him on a sofa as his mother would not have dreamed of doing.

Anna Chichele, from the other side of the room, smiled on the pair.

'I depend on you and Judy to be good to him while we are away,' she
said. She and Sir Peter were going on leave at the end of the week to
Scotland, as usual, for the shooting.

Following her glance I felt incapable of the proportion she assigned me.
'I will see after his socks with pleasure,' I said. 'I think, don't you,
we may leave the rest to Judy?'

Her eyes remained upon the boy, and I saw the passion rise in them,
at which I turned mine elsewhere. Who can look unperturbed upon such a
privacy of nature as that?

'Poor old Judy!' she went on. 'She never would be bothered with him
in all his dear hobble-dehoy time; she resented his claims, the
unreasonable creature, used to limit me to three anecdotes a week;
and now she has him on her hands, if you like. See the pretty air
of deference in the way he listens to her! He has nice manners, the
villain, if he is a Chichele!'

'Oh, you have improved Sir Peter's,' I said kindly.

'I do hope Judy will think him worth while. I can't quite expect that he
will be up to her, bless him, she is so much cleverer, isn't she, than
any of us? But if she will just be herself with him it will make such a
difference.'

The other two crossed the room to us at that, and Judy gaily made Somers
over to his mother, trailing off to find Robert in the billiard-room.

'Well, what has Mrs. Harbottle been telling you?' Anna asked him.

The young man's eye followed Judy, his hand went musingly to his
moustache.

'She was telling me,' he said, 'that people in India were sepulchers of
themselves, but that now and then one came who could roll away another's
stone.'

'It sounds promising,' said Lady Chichele to me.

'It sounds cryptic,' I laughed to Somers, but I saw that he had the key.

I can not say that I attended diligently to Mr. Chichele's socks, but
the part corresponding was freely assigned me. After his people went I
saw him often. He pretended to find qualities in my tea, implied that he
found them in my talk. As a matter of fact it was my inquiring attitude
that he loved, the knowledge that there was no detail that he could give
me about himself, his impressions and experiences, that was unlikely to
interest me. I would not for the world imply that he was egotistical or
complacent, absolutely the reverse, but he possessed an articulate soul
which found its happiness in expression, and I liked to listen. I feel
that these are complicated words to explain a very simple relation,
and I pause to wonder what is left to me if I wished to describe his
commerce with Mrs. Harbottle. Luckily there is an alternative; one
needn't do it. I wish I had somewhere on paper Judy's own account of it
at this period, however. It is a thing she would have enjoyed writing
and more enjoyed communicating, at this period.

There was a grave reticence in his talk about her which amused me in the
beginning. Mrs. Harbottle had been for ten years important enough to us
all, but her serious significance, the light and the beauty in her,
had plainly been reserved for the discovery of this sensitive and
intelligent person not very long from Sandhurst and exactly twenty-six.
I was barely allowed a familiar reference, and anything approaching a
flippancy was met with penetrating silence. I was almost rebuked for
lightly suggesting that she must occasionally find herself bored in
Peshawur.

'I think not anywhere,' said Mr. Chichele; 'Mrs. Harbottle is one of the
few people who sound the privilege of living.'

This to me, who had counted Mrs. Harbottle's yawns on so many occasions!
It became presently necessary to be careful, tactful, in one's
implications about Mrs. Harbottle, and to recognize a certain
distinction in the fact that one was the only person with whom Mr.
Chichele discussed her at all.

The day came when we talked of Robert; it was bound to come in the
progress of any understanding and affectionate colloquy which had his
wife for inspiration. I was familiar, of course, with Somers's opinion
that the Colonel was an awfully good sort; that had been among the
preliminaries and become understood as the base of all references. And I
liked Robert Harbottle very well myself. When his adjutant called him a
born leader of men, however, I felt compelled to look at the statement
consideringly.

'In a tight place,' I said--dear me, what expressions had the freedom of
our little frontier drawing-rooms!--'I would as soon depend on him as on
anybody. But as for leadership--'

'He is such a good fellow that nobody here does justice to his soldierly
qualities,' said Mr. Chichele, 'except Mrs. Harbottle.'

'Has she been telling you about them?' I inquired.

'Well,' he hesitated, 'she told me about the Mulla Nulla affair. She is
rather proud of that. Any woman would be.'

'Poor dear Judy!' I mused.

Somers said nothing, but looked at me, removing his cigarette, as if my
words would be the better of explanation.

'She has taken refuge in them--in Bob Harbottle's soldierly
qualities--ever since she married him,' I continued.

'Taken refuge,' he repeated, coldly, but at my uncompromising glance his
eyes fell.

'Well?' I said.

'You mean--'

'Oh, I mean what I say,' I laughed. 'Your cigarette has gone out--have
another.'

'I think her devotion to him splendid.'

'Quite splendid. Have you seen the things he brought her from the Simla
Art Exhibition? He said they were nice bits of colour, and she has hung
them in the drawing-room, where she will have to look at them every day.
Let us admire her--dear Judy.'

'Oh,' he said, with a fine air of detachment, 'do you think they are so
necessary, those agreements?'

'Well,' I replied, 'we see that they are not indispensable. More sugar?
I have only given you one lump. And we know, at all events,' I added,
unguardedly, 'that she could never have had an illusion about him.'

The young man looked up quickly. 'Is that story true?' he asked.

'There was a story, but most of us have forgotten it. Who told you?'

'The doctor.'

'The Surgeon-Major,' I said, 'has an accurate memory and a sense of
proportion. As I suppose you were bound to get it from somebody, I am
glad you got it from him.'

I was not prepared to go on, and saw with some relief that Somers was
not either. His silence, as he smoked, seemed to me deliberate; and I
had oddly enough at this moment for the first time the impression that
he was a man and not a boy. Then the Harbottles themselves joined us,
very cheery after a gallop from the Wazir-Bagh. We talked of old times,
old friendships, good swords that were broken, names that had carried
far, and Somers effaced himself in the perfect manner of the British
subaltern. It was a long, pleasant gossip, and I thought Judy seemed
rather glad to let her husband dictate its level, which, of course, he
did. I noticed when the three rode away together that the Colonel was
beginning to sit down rather solidly on his big New Zealander; and I
watched the dusk come over from the foothills for a long time thinking
more kindly than I had spoken of Robert Harbottle.

I have often wondered how far happiness is contributed to a temperament
like Judy Harbottle's, and how far it creates its own; but I doubt
whether, on either count, she found as much in any other winter of her
life except perhaps the remote ones by the Seine. Those ardent hours
of hers, when everything she said was touched with the flame of her
individuality, came oftener; she suddenly cleaned up her palate and
began to translate in one study after another the language of the
frontier country, that spoke only in stones and in shadows under the
stones and in sunlight over them. There is nothing in the Academy of
this year, at all events, that I would exchange for the one she gave me.
She lived her physical life at a pace which carried us all along
with her; she hunted and drove and danced and dined with such sincere
intention as convinced us all that in hunting and driving and dancing
and dining there were satisfactions that had been somehow overlooked.
The Surgeon-Major's wife said it was delightful to meet Mrs. Harbottle,
she seemed to enjoy everything so thoroughly; the Surgeon-Major looked
at her critically and asked her if she were quite sure she hadn't a
night temperature. He was a Scotchman. One night Colonel Harbottle,
hearing her give away the last extra, charged her with renewing her
youth.

'No, Bob,' she said, 'only imitating it.'

Ah, that question of her youth. It was so near her--still, she told
me once, she heard the beat of its flying, and the pulse in her veins
answered the false signal. That was afterward, when she told the truth.
She was not so happy when she indulged herself otherwise. As when she
asked one to remember that she was a middle-aged woman, with middle-aged
thoughts and satisfactions.

'I am now really happiest,' she declared, 'when the Commissioner takes
me in to dinner, when the General Commanding leads me to the dance.'

She did her best to make it an honest conviction. I offered her a recent
success not crowned by the Academy, and she put it down on the table.
'By and by,' she said. 'At present I am reading Pascal and Bossuet.'
Well, she was reading Pascal and Bossuet. She grieved aloud that most
of our activities in India were so indomitably youthful, owing to the
accident that most of us were always so young. 'There is no dignified
distraction in this country,' she complained, 'for respectable ladies
nearing forty.' She seemed to like to make these declarations in the
presence of Somers Chichele, who would look at her with a little queer
smile--a bad translation, I imagine, of what he felt.

She gave herself so generously to her seniors that somebody said Mrs.
Harbottle's girdle was hung with brass hats. It seems flippant to add
that her complexion was as honest as the day, but the fact is that the
year before Judy had felt compelled, like the rest of us, to repair just
a little the ravages of the climate. If she had never done it one would
not have looked twice at the absurdity when she said of the powder-puff
in the dressing-room, 'I have raised that thing to the level of an
immorality,' and sailed in to dance with an uncompromising expression
and a face uncompromised. I have not spoken of her beauty; for one
thing it was not always there, and there were people who would deny
it altogether, or whose considered comment was, 'I wouldn't call
her plain.' They, of course, were people in whom she declined to be
interested, but even for those of us who could evoke some demonstration
of her vivid self her face would not always light in correspondence.
When it did there was none that I liked better to look at; and I envied
Somers Chichele his way to make it the pale, shining thing that would
hold him lifted, in return, for hours together, with I know not what
mystic power of a moon upon the tide. And he? Oh, he was dark and
delicate, by nature simple, sincere, delightfully intelligent. His
common title to charm was the rather sweet seriousness that rested on
his upper lip, and a certain winning gratification in his attention;
but he had a subtler one in his eyes, which must be always seeking and
smiling over what they found; those eyes of perpetual inquiry for the
exquisite which ask so little help to create it. A personality to button
up in a uniform, good heavens!

As I begin to think of them together I remember how the maternal note
appeared in her talk about him.

'His youth is pathetic,' she told me, 'but there is nothing that he does
not understand.'

'Don't apologize, Judy,' I said. We were so brusque on the frontier.
Besides, the matter still suffered a jocular presentment. Mrs. Harbottle
and Mr. Chichele were still 'great friends'; we could still put them
next each other at our dinner-parties without the feeling that it would
be 'marked.' There was still nothing unusual in the fact that when Mrs.
Harbottle was there Mr. Chichele might be taken for granted. We were so
broad-minded also, on the frontier.

It grew more obvious, the maternal note. I began positively to dread it,
almost as much, I imagine, as Somers did. She took her privileges all in
Anna's name, she exercised her authority quite as Lady Chichele's proxy.
She went to the very limit. 'Anna Chichele,' she said actually in his
presence, 'is a fortunate woman. She has all kinds of cleverness, and
she has her tall son. I have only one little talent, and I have no tall
son.' Now it was not in nature that she could have had a son as tall as
Somers, nor was that desire in her eyes. All civilization implies a good
deal of farce, but this was a poor refuge, a cheap device; I was glad
when it fell away from her sincerity, when the day came on which she
looked into my fire and said simply, 'An attachment like ours has no
terms.'

'I wonder,' I said.

'For what comes and goes,' she went on dreamily, 'how could there be a
formula?'

'Look here, Judy,' I said, 'you know me very well. What if the flesh
leaps with the spirit?'

She looked at me, very white. 'Oh no,' she said, 'no.'

I waited, but there seemed nothing more that she could say; and in the
silence the futile negative seemed to wander round the room repeating
itself like an echo, 'Oh no, no.' I poked the fire presently to drown
the sound of it. Judy sat still, with her feet crossed and her hands
thrust into the pockets of her coat, staring into the coals.

'Can you live independently, satisfied with your interests and
occupations?' she demanded at last. 'Yes, I know you can. I can't. I
must exist more than half in other people. It is what they think and
feel that matters to me, just as much as what I think and feel. The best
of life is in that communication.'

'It has always been a passion with you, Judy,' I replied. 'I can imagine
how much you must miss--'

'Whom?'

'Anna Chichele,' I said softly.

She got up and walked about the room, fixing here and there an intent
regard upon things which she did not see. 'Oh, I do,' she said at one
point, with the effect of pulling herself together. She took another
turn or two, and then finding herself near the door she went out. I felt
as profoundly humiliated for her as if she had staggered.

The next night was one of those that stand out so vividly, for no
reason that one can identify, in one's memory. We were dining with the
Harbottles, a small party, for a tourist they had with them. Judy and I
and Somers and the traveller had drifted out into the veranda, where the
scent of Japanese lilies came and went on the spring wind to trouble the
souls of any taken unawares. There was a brightness beyond the foothills
where the moon was coming, and I remember how one tall clump swayed
out against it, and seemed in passionate perfume to lay a burden on the
breast. Judy moved away from it and sat clasping her knees on the edge
of the veranda. Somers, when his eyes were not upon her, looked always
at the lily.

Even the spirit of the globe-trotter was stirred, and he said, 'I think
you Anglo-Indians live in a kind of little paradise.'

There was an instant's silence, and then Judy turned her face into the
lamplight from the drawing-room. 'With everything but the essentials,'
she said.

We stayed late; Mr. Chichele and ourselves were the last to go.
Judy walked with us along the moonlit drive to the gate, which is so
unnecessary a luxury in India that the servants always leave it open.
She swung the stiff halves together.

'Now,' she said, 'it is shut.'

'And I,' said Somers Chichele, softly and quickly, 'am on the other
side.'

Even over that depth she could flash him a smile. 'It is the business of
my life,' she gave him in return, 'to keep this gate shut.' I felt as
if they had forgotten us. Somers mounted and rode off without a word. We
were walking in a different direction. Looking back, I saw Judy leaning
immovable on the gate, while Somers turned in his saddle, apparently
to repeat the form of lifting his hat. And all about them stretched
the stones of Kabul valley, vague and formless in the tide of the
moonlight...

Next day a note from Mrs. Harbottle informed me that she had gone to
Bombay for a fortnight. In a postscript she wrote, 'I shall wait for the
Chicheles there, and come back with them.' I remember reflecting that
if she could not induce herself to take a passage to England in the ship
that brought them, it seemed the right thing to do.

She did come back with them. I met the party at the station. I knew
Somers would meet them, and it seemed to me, so imminent did disaster
loom, that someone else should be there, someone to offer a covering
movement or a flank support wherever it might be most needed. And among
all our smiling faces disaster did come, or the cold premonition of it.
We were all perfect, but Somers's lip trembled. Deprived for a fortnight
he was eager for the draft, and he was only twenty-six. His lip
trembled, and there, under the flickering station-lamps, suddenly stood
that of which there never could be again any denial, for those of us who
saw.

Did we make, I wonder, even a pretense of disguising the consternation
that sprang up among us, like an armed thing, ready to kill any further
suggestion of the truth? I don't know. Anna Chichele's unfinished
sentence dropped as if someone had given her a blow upon the mouth.
Coolies were piling the luggage into a hired carriage at the edge of the
platform. She walked mechanically after them, and would have stepped in
with it but for the sight of her own gleaming landau drawn up within a
yard or two, and the General waiting. We all got home somehow, taking it
with us, and I gave Lady Chichele twenty-four hours to come to me
with her face all one question and her heart all one fear. She came in
twelve.

'Have you seen it--long?' Prepared as I was her directness was
demoralizing.

'It isn't a mortal disease.'

'Oh, for Heaven's sake--'

'Well, not with certainty, for more than a month.'

She made a little spasmodic movement with her hands, then dropped them
pitifully. 'Couldn't you do ANYthing?'

I looked at her, and she said at once, 'No, of course you couldn't.'

For a moment or two I took my share of the heavy sense of it, my trivial
share, which yet was an experience sufficiently exciting. 'I am afraid
it will have to be faced,' I said.

'What will happen?' Anna cried. 'Oh, what will happen?'

'Why not the usual thing?' Lady Chichele looked up quickly as if at a
reminder. 'The ambiguous attachment of the country,' I went on, limping
but courageous, 'half declared, half admitted, that leads vaguely
nowhere, and finally perishes as the man's life enriches itself--the
thing we have seen so often.'

'Whatever Judy is capable of it won't be the usual thing. You know
that.'

I had to confess in silence that I did.

'It flashed at me--the difference in her--in Bombay.' She pressed her
lips together and then went on unsteadily. 'In her eyes, her voice. She
was mannered, extravagant, elaborate. With me! All the way up I wondered
and worried. But I never thought--' She stopped; her voice simply shook
itself into silence. I called a servant.

'I am going to give you a good stiff peg,' I said. I apologize for
the 'peg,' but not for the whisky and soda. It is a beverage on the
frontier, of which the vulgarity is lost in the value. While it was
coming I tried to talk of other things, but she would only nod absently
in the pauses.

'Last night we dined with him, it was guest night at the mess, and she
was there. I watched her, and she knew it. I don't know whether she
tried, but anyway, she failed. The covenant between them was written
on her forehead whenever she looked at him, though that was seldom. She
dared not look at him. And the little conversation that they had--you
would have laughed--it was a comedy of stutters. The facile Mrs.
Harbottle!'

Transcribed from the 1896 George Allen edition by David Price, email
ccx074@coventry.ac.uk
OLD FRENCH ROMANCES DONE INTO ENGLISH BY WILLIAM MORRIS
INTRODUCTION
Many of us have first found our way into the Realm of Romance,
properly so called, through the pages of a little crimson clad
volume of the Bibliotheque Elzevirienne. {1} Its last pages contain
the charming Cante-Fable of Aucassin et Nicolete, which Mr.

Walter Pater's praises and Mr. Andrew Lang's brilliant version have made
familiar to all lovers of letters. But the same volume contains four
other tales, equally charming in their way, which Mr. William Morris has
now made part of English literature by writing them out again for us
in English, reproducing, as his alone can do of living men's, the
tone, the colour, the charm of the Middle Ages.

His versions have appeared in three successive issues of the Kelmscott
Press, which have been eagerly snapped up by the lovers of good
books.

It seemed a pity that these cameos of romance should suffer the same
fate as Mr. Lang's version of Aucassin et Nicolete, which has been swept
off the face of the earth by the Charge of the Six Hundred, who were
lucky enough to obtain copies of the only edition of that little
masterpiece of translation. Mr. Morris has, therefore, consented to
allow his versions of the Romances to be combined into one volume
in a form not unworthy of their excellence but more accessible to
those lovers of books whose purses have a habit of varying in inverse
proportion to the amount of their love.

He has honoured me by asking me to introduce them to that wider
public to which they now make their appeal.

I.

Almost all literary roads lead back to Greece. Obscure as still remains
the origin of that genre of romance to which the tales before us belong,
there is little doubt that their models, if not their originals, were
once extant at Constantinople. Though in no single instance has the Greek
original been discovered of any of these romances, the mere name of their
heroes would be in most cases sufficient to prove their Hellenic or
Byzantine origin.

Heracles, Athis, Porphirias, Parthenopeus, Hippomedon, Protesilaus,
Cliges, Cleomades, Clarus, Berinus--names such as these can come
but from one quarter of Europe, and it is as easy to guess how and
when they came as whence.

The first two crusades brought the flower of European chivalry to
Constantinople and restored that spiritual union between Eastern
and Western Christendom that had been interrupted by the great
schism of the Greek and Roman Churches.

The crusaders came mostly from the Lands of Romance.

Permanent bonds of culture began to be formed between the extreme
East and the extreme West of Europe by intermarriage, by commerce,
by the admission of the nobles of Byzantium within the orders of
chivalry.

These ties went on increasing throughout the twelfth century till they
culminated at its close with the foundation of the Latin kingdom of
Constantinople. In European literature these historic events are
represented by the class of romances represented in this volume,
which all trace back to versions in verse of the twelfth century,
though they were done into prose somewhere in Picardy during the
course of the next century.

Daphnis and Chloe, one might say, had revived after a sleep of 700
years, and donned the garb and spoke the tongue of Romance.

II

The very first of our tales illustrates admirably the general course
of their history. It is, in effect, a folk etymology of the name
of the great capital of the Eastern Empire.

Constantinople, so runs the tale, received that name instead of
Byzantium, because of the remarkable career of one of its former
rulers, Coustans.

M.
It was the strangest
cooperation without a word or a sign to show it conscious--a playing
together for stakes that could not be admitted, a thing to hang upon
breathless. It was there between them--the tenable ground of what they
were to each other: they occupied it with almost an equal eye upon
the tide that threatened, while I from my mainland tower also made an
anguished calculation of the chances. I think in spite of the menace,
they found real beatitudes; so keenly did they set about the business
that it brought them moments finer than any they could count in the
years that were behind them, the flat and colourless years that were
gone. Once or twice the wild idea even visited me that it was, after
all, the projection of his mother in Somers that had so seized Judy
Harbottle, and that the original was all that was needed to help the
happy process of detachment. Somers himself at the time was a good deal
away on escort duty: they had a clear field.

I can not tell exactly when--between Mrs. Harbottle and myself--it
became a matter for reference more or less overt, I mean her defined
problem, the thing that went about between her and the sun. It will be
imagined that it did not come up like the weather; indeed, it was hardly
ever to be envisaged and never to be held; but it was always there, and
out of our joint consciousness it would sometimes leap and pass, without
shape or face. It might slip between two sentences, or it might remain,
a dogging shadow, for an hour. Or a week would go by while, with
a strong hand, she held it out of sight altogether and talked of
Anna--always of Anna. Her eyes shone with the things she told me then:
she seemed to keep herself under the influence of them as if they had
the power of narcotics. At the end of a time like this she turned to me
in the door as she was going and stood silent, as if she could neither
go nor stay. I had been able to make nothing of her that afternoon: she
had seemed preoccupied with the pattern of the carpet which she traced
continually with her riding crop, and finally I, too, had relapsed. She
sat haggard, with the fight forever in her eyes, and the day seemed to
sombre about her in her corner. When she turned in the door, I looked up
with sudden prescience of a crisis.

'Don't jump,' she said, 'it was only to tell you that I have persuaded
Robert to apply for furlough. Eighteen months. From the first of April.
Don't touch me.' I suppose I made a movement towards her. Certainly
I wanted to throw my arms about her; with the instinct, I suppose, to
steady her in her great resolution.

'At the end of that time, as you know, he will be retired. I had some
trouble, he is so keen on the regiment, but I think--I have succeeded.
You might mention it to Anna.'

'Haven't you?' sprang past my lips.

'I can't. It would be like taking an oath to tell her, and--I can't take
an oath to go. But I mean to.'

'There is nothing to be said,' I brought out, feeling indeed that there
was not. 'But I congratulate you, Judy.'

'No, there is nothing to be said. And you congratulate me, no doubt!'

She stood for a moment quivering in the isolation she made for herself;
and I felt a primitive angry revolt against the delicate trafficking
of souls that could end in such ravage and disaster. The price was too
heavy; I would have denuded her, at the moment, of all that had led
her into this, and turned her out a clod with fine shoulders like fifty
other women in Peshawur. Then, perhaps, because I held myself silent and
remote and she had no emotion of fear from me, she did not immediately
go.

'It will beat itself away, I suppose, like the rest of the unreasonable
pain of the world,' she said at last; and that, of course, brought me to
her side. 'Things will go back to their proportions. This,' she
touched an open rose, 'will claim its beauty again. And life will
become--perhaps--what it was before.' Still I found nothing to say,
I could only put my arm in hers and walk with her to the edge of the
veranda where the syce was holding her horse. She stroked the animal's
neck. 'Everything in me answered him,' she informed me, with the grave
intelligence of a patient who relates a symptom past. As she took the
reins she turned to me again. 'His spirit came to mine like a homing
bird,' she said, and in her smile even the pale reflection of happiness
was sweet and stirring. It left me hanging in imagination over the
source and the stream, a little blessed in the mere understanding.

Too much blessed for confidence, or any safe feeling that the source
was bound. Rather I saw it leaping over every obstacle, flashing to its
destiny. As I drove to the Club next day I decided that I would not
tell Anna Chichele of Colonel Harbottle's projected furlough. If to Judy
telling her would be like taking an oath that they would go, to me it
would at least be like assuming sponsorship for their intention. That
would be heavy indeed. From the first of April--we were then in March.
Anna would hear it soon enough from the General, would see it soon
enough, almost, in the 'Gazette', when it would have passed into
irrecoverable fact. So I went by her with locked lips, kept out of the
way of those eyes of the mother that asked and asked, and would have
seen clear to any depth, any hiding-place of knowledge like that. As I
pulled up at the Club I saw Colonel Harbottle talking concernedly to the
wife of our Second-in-Command, and was reminded that I had not heard
for some days how Major Watkins was going on. So I, too, approached Mrs.
Watkins in her victoria to ask. Robert Harbottle kindly forestalled her
reply. 'Hard luck, isn't it? Watkins has been ordered home at once. Just
settled into their new house, too--last of the kit came up from Calcutta
yesterday, didn't it, Mrs. Watkins? But it's sound to go--Peshawur is
the worst hole in Asia to shake off dysentery in.'

We agreed upon this and discussed the sale-list of her new furniture
that Mrs. Watkins would have to send round the station, and considered
the chances of a trooper--to the Watkinses with two children and not
a penny but his pay it did make it easier not to have to go by a
liner--and Colonel Harbottle and I were halfway to the reading-room
before the significance of Major Watkins's sick-leave flashed upon me.

'But this,' I cried, 'will make a difference to your plans. You won't--'

'Be able to ask for that furlough Judy wants. Rather not. I'm afraid
she's disappointed--she was tremendously set on going--but it doesn't
matter tuppence to me.'

I sought out Mrs. Harbottle, at the end of the room. She looked radiant;
she sat on the edge of the table and swung a light-hearted heel. She
was talking to people who in themselves were a witness to high spirits,
Captain the Hon. Freddy Gisborne, Mrs. Flamboys.

At sight of me her face clouded, fell suddenly into the old weary lines.
It made me feel somehow a little sick; I went back to my cart and drove
home.

For more than a week I did not see her except when I met her riding
with Somers Chichele along the peach-bordered road that leads to the
Wazir-Bagh. The trees were all in blossom and made a picture that might
well catch dreaming hearts into a beatitude that would correspond.
The air was full of spring and the scent of violets, those wonderful
Peshawur violets that grow in great clumps, tall and double. Gracious
clouds came and trailed across the frontier barrier; blue as an idyll it
rose about us; the city smiled in her gardens.

She had it all in her face, poor Judy, all the spring softness and more,
the morning she came, intensely controlled, to announce her defeat. I
was in the drawing-room doing the flowers; I put them down to look at
her. Wore the night, and Messire Thibault went on the morrow into that
house and heard mass, and thereafter spake to the abbess, and the convent,
and prayed them that they would guard that Lady there till his coming
back; and they granted it to him much willingly. Messire Thibault left
of his meney there to serve the Lady, and went his ways, and did his
pilgrimage the best he might. And when he had done his pilgrimage fair
and well, he returned, and came to the Lady. He did good to the house,
and gave thereto of his havings, and took the Lady unto him again,
and led her into his country with as much great honour as he had led
her away, save the lying a-bed with her.

When he was gotten aback into his land, much great joy did they make
of him, and of the Lady. At his homecoming was the Count of Ponthieu,
the father of the Lady, and there also was the Count of St.

Pol, who was uncle unto my lord Thibault. A many was there of good
folk and valiant at their coming. The Lady was much honoured of dames
and of damsels.

That day the Count of Ponthieu sat, he and Messire Thibault, they
two together, at one dish, and so it fell out that the Count said
to him:
"Thibault, fair son, he who long way wendeth heareth much, and seeth
of adventures, whereof nought they know who stir not; tell me tale,
then, if it please thee, of some matter which thou hast seen, or
heard tell of, since ye departed hence."

Messire Thibault answered him that he knew of no adventure to tell
of; but the Count prayed him again, and tormented him thereto, and held
him sore to tell of some adventure, insomuch that Messire Thibault
answered him: "Sir, since tell I needs must, I will tell thee; but so
please thee, let it not be within earshot of so much folk." The Count
answered and said that it so pleased him well. So after dinner, whenas
they had eaten, the Count arose and took Messire Thibault by the hand,
and said to him: "Now would I that thou say thy pleasure, for here is
not a many of folk."

And Messire Thibault fell to telling how that it had betid to a
knight and a lady, even as ye have heard in the tale told; but he
told not the persons unto whom it had befallen: and the Count, who
was much sage and right thoughtful, asked what the knight had done
with the Lady; and he answered that the knight had brought and led
the Lady back to her own country, with as much great joy and as
much great honour as he had led her thence, save lying in the bed
whereas lay the Lady.

--I could more willingly give him up than the desire of him.
That seems as impossible to part with as life itself.'

She sat reflective for a moment, and I saw her eyes slowly fill.

Don't--don't CRY, Judy,' I faltered, wanting to horribly, myself.

She smiled them dry.

'Not now. But I am giving myself, I suppose, to many tears.'

'God help you,' I said. What else was there to say?

'There is no such person,' she replied, gaily. 'There is only a blessed
devil.'

'Then you go all the way--to the logical conclusion?'

She hardly hesitated. 'To the logical conclusion. What poor words!'

'May I ask--when?'

'I should like to tell you that quite definitely, and I think I can. The
English mail leaves tonight.'

'And you have arranged to take it?'

'We have arranged nothing. Do you know'--she smiled as if at the fresh
colours of an idyll--'we have not even come to the admission? There has
been between us no word, no vision. Ah, we have gone in bonds, and dumb!
Hours we have had, exquisite hours of the spirit, but never a moment of
the heart, a moment confessed. It was mine to give--that moment, and he
has waited--I know--wondering whether perhaps it would ever come. And
today--we are going for a ride today, and I do not think we shall come
back.'

'O Judy,' I cried, catching at her sleeve, 'he is only a boy!'

'There were times when I thought that conclusive. Now the misery of it
has gone to sleep; don't waken it. It pleases me to believe that the
years are a convention. I never had any dignity, you know, and I seem
to have missed the moral deliverance. I only want--oh, you know what I
want. Why don't you open your telegram?'

I had been folding and fingering the brown envelope as if it had been a
scrap of waste paper.

'It is probably from Mrs. Watkins about the victoria,' I said,
feeling its profound irrelevance. 'I wired an offer to her in Bombay.
However'--and I read the telegram, the little solving telegram from
Army Headquarters. I turned my back on her to read it again, and then I
replaced it very carefully and put it in my pocket. It was a moment to
take hold of with both hands, crying on all one's gods for steadiness.

'How white you look!' said Mrs. Harbottle, with concern. 'Not bad news?'

'On the contrary, excellent news. Judy, will you stay to lunch?'

She looked at me, hesitating. 'Won't it seem rather a compromise on your
part? When you ought to be rousing the city--'

'I don't intend to rouse the city,' I said.

'I have given you the chance.'

'Thank you,' I said, grimly, 'but the only real favour you can do me is
to stay to lunch.' It was then just on one.

'I'll stay,' she said, 'if you will promise not to make any sort of
effort. I shouldn't mind, but it would distress you.'

'I promise absolutely,' I said, and ironical joy rose up in me, and the
telegram burned in my pocket.

She would talk of it, though I found it hard to let her go on, knowing
and knowing and knowing as I did that for that day at least it could not
be. There was very little about herself that she wanted to tell me; she
was there confessed a woman whom joy had overcome; it was understood
that we both accepted that situation. But in the details which she asked
me to take charge of it was plain that she also kept a watchful eye upon
fate--matters of business.

We were in the drawing-room. The little round clock in its Armritsar
case marked half-past three. Judy put down her coffee cup and rose to
go. But service was done unto her, as was meet to a queen.

Then abode King Florus in widowhood more than two years, and he was
still a young man, whereas he was not of more than five-and-forty
winters, wherefore the barons said to him that he behoved to marry
again.Then as we stood, suddenly, the sound of hoofs at a gallop on the drive,
and my husband threw himself off at the door and tore through the hall
to his room; and in the certainty that overwhelmed me even Judy, for an
instant, stood dim and remote.

'Major Jim seems to be in a hurry,' said Mrs. Harbottle, lightly. 'I
have always liked your husband. I wonder whether he will say tomorrow
that he always liked me.'

'Dear Judy, I don't think he will be occupied with you tomorrow.'

'Oh, surely, just a little, if I go tonight.'

'You won't go tonight.'

She looked at me helplessly. I felt as if I were insisting upon her
abasement instead of her salvation. 'I wish--'

'You're not going--you're not! You can't! Look!'

I pulled it out of my pocket and thrust it at her--the telegram.
It came, against every regulation, from my good friend the Deputy
Adjutant-General, in Simla, and it read, 'Row Khurram 12th probably
ordered front three hours' time.'

Her face changed--how my heart leaped to see it change!--and that took
command there which will command trampling, even in the women of the
camp, at news like this.

'What luck that Bob couldn't take his furlough!' she exclaimed,
single-thoughted. 'But you have known this for hours'--there was even
something of the Colonel's wife, authority, incisiveness. 'Why didn't
you tell me? Ah--I see.'

I stood before her abashed, and that was ridiculous, while she measured
me as if I presented in myself the woman I took her to be. 'It wasn't
like that,' she said. I had to defend myself. 'Judy,' I said, 'if you
weren't in honour bound to Anna, how could I know that you would be in
honour bound to the regiment? There was a train at three.'

'I beg to assure you that you have overcalculated,' said Mrs. Harbottle.
Her eyes were hard and proud. 'And I am not sure'--a deep red swept over
her face, a man's blush--'in the light of this I am not sure that I am
not in honour bound to Anna.'

We had reached the veranda, and at her signal her coachman drove quickly
up. 'You have kept me here three hours when there was the whole of
Bob's kit to see to,' she said, as she flung herself in; 'you might have
thought of that.'

It was a more than usually tedious campaign, and Colonel Robert
Harbottle was ambushed and shot in a place where one must believe pure
boredom induced him to take his men. The incident was relieved, the
newspapers said--and they are seldom so clever in finding relief for
such incidents--by the dash and courage shown by Lieutenant Chichele,
who, in one of those feats which it has lately been the fashion to
criticize, carried the mortally wounded body of his Colonel out of range
at conspicuous risk of depriving the Queen of another officer. The Count
spake so much to my lord Raoul and to his friends, that he made the
wedding betwixt William his nephew, son to the Soudan of Aumarie, and the
daughter of my lord Raoul, for no heir had he save that daughter. William
wedded the damsel, and the wedding was done much richly, and thereafter
was the said William lord of Preaux.

Long time thence was the land in peace and without war: and Messire
Thibault was with the Lady, and had of her sithence two man-children,
who thereafter were worthies and of great lordship. The son of the
Count of Ponthieu, of whom we have told so much good, died but a little
thereafter, whereof was made great dole throughout all the land. The
Count of St. Pol lived yet, and now were the two sons of my lord
Thibault heirs of those two countries, and thereto they attained at the
last. The good dame their mother lived in great penitence, and much she
did of good deeds and alms; and Messire Thibault lived as the worthy which
he was, and much did he of good whiles he was in life.

Now it befell that the daughter of the Lady, who had abided with the
Soudan her father, waxed in great beauty and became much wise, and was
called the Fair Caitif, because her mother had left her thus as ye have
heard: but a Turk, much valiant, who served the Soudan (Malakin
of Baudas was he called), this Malakin saw the damsel to be courteous
and sage, and much good had heard tell of her; wherefore he coveted
her in his heart, and came to the Soudan and said to him:
"Sir, for the service which I have done thee, give me a gift."I had been from the beginning so much 'in it' that Anna showed me, a
year later, though I don't believe she liked doing it, the letter in
part of which Mrs. Harbottle shall finally excuse herself.

'Somers will give you this,' I read, 'and with it take back your son.
You will not find, I know, anything grotesque in the charming enthusiasm
with which he has offered his life to me; you understand too well, you
are too kind. There is even a popular tendency to attribute a lowly
origin to all favourites of fortune, as witness the legends that have
grown up about the early careers of Beckett, Whittington, Wolsey,
none of whom was as ill-born as popular tradition asserts.It was like her to abandon in pride a happiness that asked so much less
humiliation; I don't know why, but it was like her. And of course, when
one thought of it, she had consulted all sorts of high expediencies. But
I sat silent with remembrance, quieting a pang in my heart, trying not
to calculate how much it had cost Judy Harbottle to take her second
chance.