Produced by Charles Keller for Tina


THE VOYAGES OF DOCTOR DOLITTLE

By Hugh Lofting


                            To
                             Colin
                              and
                               Elizabeth


CONTENTS

     PART ONE
          PROLOGUE
     I    THE COBBLER'S SON
     II   I HEAR OF THE GREAT NATURALIST
     III  THE DOCTOR'S HOME
     IV   THE WIFF-WAFF
     V    POLYNESIA
     VI   THE WOUNDED SQUIRREL
     VII  SHELLFISH TALK
     VIII ARE YOU A GOOD NOTICER?
     IX   THE GARDEN OF DREAMS
     X    THE PRIVATE ZOO
     XI   MY SCHOOLMASTER, POLYNESIA
     XII  MY GREAT IDEA
     XIII A TRAVELER ARRIVES
     XIV  CHEE-CHEE'S VOYAGE
     XV   I BECOME A DOCTOR'S ASSISTANT

     PART TWO
     I    THE CREW OF "THE CURLEW"
     II   LUKE THE HERMIT
     III  JIP AND THE SECRET
     IV   BOB
     V    MENDOZA
     VI   THE JUDGE'S DOG
     VII  THE END OF THE MYSTERY
     VIII THREE CHEERS
     IX   THE PURPLE BIRD-OF-PARADISE
     X    LONG ARROW, THE SON OF GOLDEN ARROW
     XI   BLIND TRAVEL
     XII  DESTINY AND DESTINATION

     PART THREE
     I    THE THIRD MAN
     II   GOOD-BYE!
     III  OUR TROUBLES BEGIN
     IV   OUR TROUBLES CONTINUE
     V    POLYNESIA HAS A PLAN
     VI   THE BED-MAKER OF MONTEVERDE
     VII  THE DOCTOR'S WAGER
     VIII THE GREAT BULLFIGHT
     IX   WE DEPART IN A HURRY

     PART FOUR
     I    SHELLFISH LANGUAGES AGAIN
     II   THE FIDGIT'S STORY
     III  BAD WEATHER
     IV   WRECKED!
     V    LAND!
     VI   THE JABIZRI
     VII  HAWK'S-HEAD MOUNTAIN

     PART FIVE
     I    A GREAT MOMENT
     II   "THE MEN OF THE MOVING, LAND"
     III  FIRE
     IV   WHAT MAKES AN ISLAND FLOAT
     V    WAR!
     VI   GENERAL POLYNESIA
     VII  THE PEACE OF THE PARROTS
     VIII THE HANGING STONE
     IX   THE ELECTION
     X   THE CORONATION OF KING JONG

     PART SIX
     I    NEW POPSIPETEL
     II   THOUGHTS OF HOME
     III  THE RED MAN'S SCIENCE
     IV   THE SEA-SERPENT
     V    THE SHELLFISH RIDDLE SOLVED AT LAST
     VI   THE LAST CABINET MEETING
     VII  THE DOCTOR'S DECISION


THE VOYAGES OF DOCTOR DOLITTLE


PROLOGUE


ALL that I have written so far about Doctor Dolittle I heard long after
it happened from those who had known him--indeed a great deal of it took
place before I was born. But I now come to set down that part of the
great man's life which I myself saw and took part in.

Many years ago the Doctor gave me permission to do this. But we were
both of us so busy then voyaging around the world, having adventures and
filling note-books full of natural history that I never seemed to get
time to sit down and write of our doings.

Now of course, when I am quite an old man, my memory isn't so good
any more. But whenever I am in doubt and have to hesitate and think, I
always ask Polynesia, the parrot.

That wonderful bird (she is now nearly two hundred and fifty years old)
sits on the top of my desk, usually humming sailor songs to herself,
while I write this book. And, as every one who ever met her knows,
Polynesia's memory is the most marvelous memory in the world. If there
is any happening I am not quite sure of, she is always able to put
me right, to tell me exactly how it took place, who was there and
everything about it. In fact sometimes I almost think I ought to say
that this book was written by Polynesia instead of me.

Very well then, I will begin. And first of all I must tell you something
about myself and how I came to meet the Doctor.


PART I


THE FIRST CHAPTER. THE COBBLER'S SON

MY name was Tommy Stubbins, son of Jacob Stubbins, the cobbler of
Puddleby-on-the-Marsh; and I was nine and a half years old. At that time
Puddleby was only quite a small town. A river ran through the middle
of it; and over this river there was a very old stone bridge, called
Kingsbridge, which led you from the market-place on one side to the
churchyard on the other.

Sailing-ships came up this river from the sea and anchored near the
bridge. I used to go down and watch the sailors unloading the ships upon
the river-wall. The sailors sang strange songs as they pulled upon
the ropes; and I learned these songs by heart. And I would sit on the
river-wall with my feet dangling over the water and sing with the men,
pretending to myself that I too was a sailor.

For I longed always to sail away with those brave ships when they turned
their backs on Puddleby Church and went creeping down the river again,
across the wide lonely marshes to the sea. I longed to go with them out
into the world to seek my fortune in foreign lands--Africa, India, China
and Peru! When they got round the bend in the river and the water was
hidden from view, you could still see their huge brown sails towering
over the roofs of the town, moving onward slowly--like some gentle
giants that walked among the houses without noise. What strange things
would they have seen, I wondered, when next they came back to anchor
at Kingsbridge! And, dreaming of the lands I had never seen, I'd sit on
there, watching till they were out of sight.

Three great friends I had in Puddleby in those days. One was Joe, the
mussel-man, who lived in a tiny hut by the edge of the water under the
bridge. This old man was simply marvelous at making things. I never
saw a man so clever with his hands. He used to mend my toy ships for me
which I sailed upon the river; he built windmills out of packing-cases
and barrel-staves; and he could make the most wonderful kites from old
umbrellas.

Joe would sometimes take me in his mussel-boat, and when the tide was
running out we would paddle down the river as far as the edge of the sea
to get mussels and lobsters to sell. And out there on the cold lonely
marshes we would see wild geese flying, and curlews and redshanks and
many other kinds of seabirds that live among the samfire and the
long grass of the great salt fen. And as we crept up the river in
the evening, when the tide had turned, we would see the lights on
Kingsbridge twinkle in the dusk, reminding us of tea-time and warm
fires.

Another friend I had was Matthew Mugg, the cat's-meat-man. He was a
funny old person with a bad squint. He looked rather awful but he was
really quite nice to talk to. He knew everybody in Puddleby; and he knew
all the dogs and all the cats. In those times being a cat's-meat-man was
a regular business. And you could see one nearly any day going through
the streets with a wooden tray full of pieces of meat stuck on skewers
crying, "Meat! M-E-A-T!" People paid him to give this meat to their cats
and dogs instead of feeding them on dog-biscuits or the scraps from the
table.

I enjoyed going round with old Matthew and seeing the cats and dogs come
running to the garden-gates whenever they heard his call. Sometimes he
let me give the meat to the animals myself; and I thought this was great
fun. He knew a lot about dogs and he would tell me the names of the
different kinds as we went through the town. He had several dogs of his
own; one, a whippet, was a very fast runner, and Matthew used to win
prizes with her at the Saturday coursing races; another, a terrier,
was a fine ratter. The cat's-meat-man used to make a business of
rat-catching for the millers and farmers as well as his other trade of
selling cat's-meat.

My third great friend was Luke the Hermit. But of him I will tell you
more later on.

I did not go to school; because my father was not rich enough to send
me. But I was extremely fond of animals. So I used to spend my time
collecting birds' eggs and butterflies, fishing in the river, rambling
through the countryside after blackberries and mushrooms and helping the
mussel-man mend his nets.

Yes, it was a very pleasant life I lived in those days long ago--though
of course I did not think so then. I was nine and a half years old; and,
like all boys, I wanted to grow up--not knowing how well off I was with
no cares and nothing to worry me. Always I longed for the time when I
should be allowed to leave my father's house, to take passage in one of
those brave ships, to sail down the river through the misty marshes to
the sea--out into the world to seek my fortune.


THE SECOND CHAPTER. I HEAR OF THE GREAT NATURALIST

ONE early morning in the Springtime, when I was wandering among the
hills at the back of the town, I happened to come upon a hawk with a
squirrel in its claws. It was standing on a rock and the squirrel was
fighting very hard for its life. The hawk was so frightened when I came
upon it suddenly like this, that it dropped the poor creature and flew
away. I picked the squirrel up and found that two of its legs were badly
hurt. So I carried it in my arms back to the town.

When I came to the bridge I went into the musselman's hut and asked him
if he could do anything for it. Joe put on his spectacles and examined
it carefully. Then he shook his head.

"Yon crittur's got a broken leg," he said--"and another badly cut an'
all. I can mend you your boats, Tom, but I haven't the tools nor the
learning to make a broken squirrel seaworthy. This is a job for a
surgeon--and for a right smart one an' all. There be only one man I know
who could save yon crittur's life. And that's John Dolittle."

"Who is John Dolittle?" I asked. "Is he a vet?"

"No," said the mussel-man. "He's no vet. Doctor Dolittle is a
nacheralist."

"What's a nacheralist?"

"A nacheralist," said Joe, putting away his glasses and starting to
fill his pipe, "is a man who knows all about animals and butterflies and
plants and rocks an' all. John Dolittle is a very great nacheralist. I'm
surprised you never heard of him--and you daft over animals. He knows
a whole lot about shellfish--that I know from my own knowledge. He's
a quiet man and don't talk much; but there's folks who do say he's the
greatest nacheralist in the world."

"Where does he live?" I asked.

"Over on the Oxenthorpe Road, t'other side the town. Don't know just
which house it is, but 'most anyone 'cross there could tell you, I
reckon. Go and see him. He's a great man."

So I thanked the mussel-man, took up my squirrel again and started oft
towards the Oxenthorpe Road.

The first thing I heard as I came into the marketplace was some one
calling "Meat! M-E-A-T!"

"There's Matthew Mugg," I said to myself. "He'll know where this Doctor
lives. Matthew knows everyone."

So I hurried across the market-place and caught him up.

"Matthew," I said, "do you know Doctor Dolittle?"

"Do I know John Dolittle!" said he. "Well, I should think I do! I know
him as well as I know my own wife--better, I sometimes think. He's a
great man--a very great man."

"Can you show me where he lives?" I asked. "I want to take this squirrel
to him. It has a broken leg."

"Certainly," said the cat's-meat-man. "I'll be going right by his house
directly. Come along and I'll show you."

So off we went together.

"Oh, I've known John Dolittle for years and years," said Matthew as we
made our way out of the market-place. "But I'm pretty sure he ain't home
just now. He's away on a voyage. But he's liable to be back any day.
I'll show you his house and then you'll know where to find him."

All the way down the Oxenthorpe Road Matthew hardly stopped talking
about his great friend, Doctor John Dolittle--"M. D." He talked so much
that he forgot all about calling out "Meat!" until we both suddenly
noticed that we had a whole procession of dogs following us patiently.

"Where did the Doctor go to on this voyage?" I asked as Matthew handed
round the meat to them.

"I couldn't tell you," he answered. "Nobody never knows where he goes,
nor when he's going, nor when he's coming back. He lives all alone
except for his pets. He's made some great voyages and some wonderful
discoveries. Last time he came back he told me he'd found a tribe of
Red Indians in the Pacific Ocean--lived on two islands, they did. The
husbands lived on one island and the wives lived on the other. Sensible
people, some of them savages. They only met once a year, when the
husbands came over to visit the wives for a great feast--Christmas-time,
most likely. Yes, he's a wonderful man is the Doctor. And as for
animals, well, there ain't no one knows as much about 'em as what he
does."

"How did he get to know so much about animals?" I asked.

The cat's-meat-man stopped and leant down to whisper in my ear.

"HE TALKS THEIR LANGUAGE," he said in a hoarse, mysterious voice.

"The animals' language?" I cried.

"Why certainly," said Matthew. "All animals have some kind of a
language. Some sorts talk more than others; some only speak in
sign-language, like deaf-and-dumb. But the Doctor, he understands them
all--birds as well as animals. Another, who had poisoned an orphan, to
whom he was guardian, and next heir to the estate, he crucified.
On this delinquent imploring the protection of the law, and crying
out that he was a Roman citizen, he affected to afford him some alleviation,
and to mitigate his punishment, by a mark of honour, ordered a cross,
higher than usual, and painted white, to be erected for him. But by
degrees he gave himself up to a life of indolence and inactivity,
from the fear of giving Nero any occasion of jealousy, and because,
as he used to say, "Nobody was obliged to render an account of their
leisure hours."

He was holding a court of justice on the circuit at New Carthage [661],
when he received intelligence of the insurrection in Gaul [662];
and while the lieutenant of Aquitania was soliciting his assistance,
letters were brought from Vindex, requesting him "to assert the
rights of mankind, and put himself at their head to relieve them
from the tyranny of Nero."

Without any long demur, he accepted the invitation, from a mixture of
fear and hope. For he had discovered that private orders had been sent
by Nero to his procurators in the province to get (407) him
dispatched; and he was encouraged to the enterprise, as well by
several auspices and omens, as by the prophecy of a young woman of
good, family.

The more so, because the priest of Jupiter at Clunia [663], admonished by
a dream, had discovered in the recesses of the temple some verses similar
to those in which she had delivered her prophecy. These had also been
uttered by a girl under divine inspiration, about two hundred years before.
The import of the verses was, "That in time, Spain should give the world
a lord and master."
X.

Taking his seat on the tribunal, therefore, as if there was no other
business than the manumitting of slaves, he had the effigies of a
number of persons who had been condemned and put to death by Nero, set
up before him, whilst a noble youth stood by, who had been banished, and
whom he had purposely sent for from one of the neighbouring Balearic
isles; and lamenting the condition of the times, and being thereupon
unanimously saluted by the title of Emperor, he publicly declared himself
"only the lieutenant of the senate and people of Rome." Then shutting
the courts, he levied legions and auxiliary troops among the
provincials, besides his veteran army consisting of one legion, two
wings of horse, and three cohorts.

Out of the military leaders most distinguished for age and prudence,
he formed a kind of senate, with whom to advise upon all matters
of importance, as often as occasion should require.

He likewise chose several young men of the equestrian order, who
were to be allowed the privilege of wearing the gold ring, and,
being called "The Reserve," should mount guard before his bed-chamber,
instead of the legionary soldiers.

He likewise issued proclamations throughout the provinces of the empire,
exhorting all to rise in arms unanimously, and aid the common cause,
by all the ways and means in their power. About the same time, in
fortifying a town, which he had pitched upon for a military post,
a ring was found, of antique workmanship, in the stone of which was
engraved the goddess Victory with a trophy.

Presently after, a ship of Alexandria arrived at Dertosa [664],
loaded with arms, without any person to steer it, or so much as a
single sailor or passenger (408) on board.

From this incident, nobody entertained the least doubt but the war
upon which they were entering was just and honourable, and favoured
likewise by the gods; when all on a sudden the whole design was
exposed to failure.

One of the two wings of horse, repenting of the violation of their
oath to Nero, attempted to desert him upon his approach to the camp,
and were with some difficulty kept in their duty.

And some slaves who had been presented to him by a freedman of Nero's,
on purpose to murder him, had like to have killed him as he went through
a narrow passage to the bath. Being overheard to encourage one another
not to lose the opportunity, they were called to an account concerning
it; and recourse being had to the torture, a confession was extorted
from them.

XI. These dangers were followed by the death of Vindex, at which being
extremely discouraged, as if fortune had quite forsaken him, he had
thoughts of putting an end to his own life; but receiving advice by
his messengers from Rome that Nero was slain, and that all had taken
an oath to him as emperor, he laid aside the title of lieutenant,
and took upon him that of Caesar. Putting himself upon his march in his
general's cloak, and a dagger hanging from his neck before his breast,
he did not resume the use of the toga, until Nymphidius Sabinus,
prefect of the pretorian guards at Rome, with the two lieutenants,
Fonteius Capito in Germany, and Claudius Macer in Africa, who opposed
his advancement, were all put down.

XII.

Rumours of his cruelty and avarice had reached the city before his arrival;
such as that he had punished some cities of Spain and Gaul, for not joining
him readily, by the imposition of heavy taxes, and some by levelling
their walls; and had put to death the governors and procurators
with their wives and children: likewise that a golden crown, of
fifteen pounds weight, taken out of the temple of Jupiter, with
which he was presented by the people of Tarracona, he had melted
down, and had exacted from them three ounces which were wanting in
the weight.

This report of him was confirmed and increased, as soon as he entered
the town. For some seamen who had been taken from the fleet, and
enlisted (409) among the troops by Nero, he obliged to return to their
former condition; but they refusing to comply, and obstinately
clinging to the more honourable service under their eagles and
standards, he not only dispersed them by a body of horse, but
likewise decimated them.

He also disbanded a cohort of Germans, which had been formed by the
preceding emperors, for their body-guard, and upon many occasions found
very faithful; and sent them back into their own country, without giving
them any gratuity, pretending that they were more inclined to favour the
advancement of Cneius Dolabella, near whose gardens they encamped,
than his own. The following ridiculous stories were also related of
him; but whether with or without foundation, I know not; such as,
that when a more sumptuous entertainment than usual was served up, he
fetched a deep groan: that when one of the stewards presented him with
an account of his expenses, he reached him a dish of legumes from his
table as a reward for his care and diligence; and when Canus, the
piper, had played much to his satisfaction, he presented him, with
his own hand, five denarii taken out of his pocket.

XIII. His arrival, therefore, in town was not very agreeable to
the people; and this appeared at the next public spectacle. For when the
actors in a farce began a well-known song,
Venit, io, Simus [665] a villa:
Lo!

Clodpate from his village comes;
all the spectators, with one voice, went on with the rest, repeating
and acting the first verse several times over.

XIV. He possessed himself of the imperial power with more favour and
authority than he administered it, although he gave many proofs of
his being an excellent prince: but these were not so grateful to
the people, as his misconduct was offensive.

He was governed by three favourites, who, because they lived in the
palace, and were constantly about him, obtained the name of his
pedagogues. These were Titus Vinius, who had been his lieutenant in
Spain, a man of insatiable (410) avarice; Cornelius Laco, who, from an
assessor to the prince, was advanced to be prefect of the pretorian
guards, a person of intolerable arrogance, as well as indolence; and his
freedman Icelus, dignified a little before with the privilege of
wearing the gold ring, and the use of the cognomen Martianus, who
became a candidate for the highest honour within the reach of any
person of the equestrian order [666].

He resigned himself so implicitly into the power of those three favourites,
who governed in every thing according to the capricious impulse
of their vices and tempers, and his authority was so much abused
by them, that the tenor of his conduct was not very consistent with
itself.

At one time, he was more rigorous and frugal, at another, more lavish and
negligent, than became a prince who had been chosen by the people, and
was so far advanced in years.

He condemned some men of the first rank in the senatorian and equestrian
orders, upon a very slight suspicion, and without trial. He rarely granted
the freedom of the city to any one; and the privilege belonging
to such as had three children, only to one or two; and that with
great difficulty, and only for a limited time.

When the judges petitioned to have a sixth decury added to their number,
he not only denied them, but abolished the vacation which had been granted
them by Claudius for the winter, and the beginning of the year.

XV.

It was thought that he likewise intended to reduce the offices held by
senators and men of the equestrian order, to a term of two years'
continuance; and to bestow them only on those who were unwilling to accept
them, and had refused them. All the grants of Nero he recalled, saving
only the tenth part of them.

For this purpose he gave a commission to fifty Roman knights; with
orders, that if players or wrestlers had sold what had been formerly
given them, it should be exacted from the purchasers, since the
others, having, no doubt, spent the money, were not in a condition
to pay.

But on the other hand, he suffered his attendants and freedmen to sell
or give away the revenue of the state, or immunities from taxes,
and to punish the innocent, or pardon criminals, at pleasure.

Nay, when the Roman people were very clamorous for the punishment
of Halotus and Tigellinus, two of the (411) most mischievous amongst
all the emissaries of Nero, he protected them, and even bestowed on
Halotus one of the best procurations in his disposal. And as to
Tigellinus, he even reprimanded the people for their cruelty by a
proclamation.

XVI.

By this conduct, he incurred the hatred of all orders of the people,
but especially of the soldiery. For their commanders having promised
them in his name a donative larger than usual, upon their taking the oath
to him before his arrival at Rome; he refused to make it good,
frequently bragging, "that it was his custom to choose his soldiers,
not buy them."

Thus the troops became exasperated against him in all quarters.
The pretorian guards he alarmed with apprehensions of danger and
unworthy treatment; disbanding many of them occasionally as disaffected
to his government, and favourers of Nymphidius.

But most of all, the army in Upper Germany was incensed against him, as
being defrauded of the rewards due to them for the service they had
rendered in the insurrection of the Gauls under Vindex.

They were, therefore, the first who ventured to break into open
mutiny, refusing upon the calends [the 1st] of January, to take any
oath of allegiance, except to the senate; and they immediately dispatched
deputies to the pretorian troops, to let them know, "they did not
like the emperor who had been set up in Spain," and to desire that "they
would make choice of another, who might meet with the approbation
of all the armies."

XVII.

Upon receiving intelligence of this, imagining that he was slighted not
so much on account of his age, as for having no children, he immediately
singled out of a company of young persons of rank, who came to pay their
compliments to him, Piso Frugi Licinianus, a youth of noble descent
and great talents, for whom he had before contracted such a regard,
that he had appointed him in his will the heir both of his estate
and name.

Him he now styled his son, and taking him to the camp, adopted him
in the presence of the assembled troops, but without making any
mention of a donative.

This circumstance afforded the better opportunity to Marcus Salvius Otho
of accomplishing his object, six days after the adoption.

XVIII. Many remarkable prodigies had happened from the (412) very beginning
of his reign, which forewarned him of his approaching fate.

In every town through which he passed in his way from Spain to Rome, victims
were slain on the right and left of the roads; and one of these,
which was a bull, being maddened with the stroke of the axe, broke
the rope with which it was tied, and running straight against his
chariot, with his fore-feet elevated, bespattered him with blood.

Likewise, as he was alighting, one of the guard, being pushed forward by
the crowd, had very nearly wounded him with his lance.

And upon his entering the city and, afterwards, the palace, he was
welcomed with an earthquake, and a noise like the bellowing of cattle.
These signs of ill-fortune were followed by some that were still
more apparently such.

Out of all his treasures he had selected a necklace of pearls and jewels,
to adorn his statue of Fortune at Tusculum.

But it suddenly occurring to him that it deserved a more august
place, he consecrated it to the Capitoline Venus; and next night,
he dreamt that Fortune appeared to him, complaining that she had been
defrauded of the present intended her, and threatening to resume
what she had given him. Terrified at this denunciation, at break of
day he sent forward some persons to Tusculum, to make preparations
for a sacrifice which might avert the displeasure of the goddess; and
when he himself arrived at the place, he found nothing but some hot embers
upon the altar, and an old man in black standing by, holding a little
incense in a glass, and some wine in an earthern pot. It was remarked,
too, that whilst he was sacrificing upon the calends of January,
the chaplet fell from his head, and upon his consulting the pullets for
omens, they flew away.

Farther, upon the day of his adopting Piso, when he was to harangue the
soldiers, the seat which he used upon those occasions, through the
neglect of his attendants, was not placed, according to custom, upon
his tribunal; and in the senate-house, his curule chair was set
with the back forward.

XIX. The day before he was slain, as he was sacrificing in the morning,
the augur warned him from time to time to be upon his guard, for that
he was in danger from assassins, and that they were near at hand. Soon
after, he was informed, that Otho was in possession of the pretorian camp.
And though most of his friends advised him to repair thither immediately,
(413) in hopes that he might quell the tumult by his authority and
presence, he resolved to do nothing more than keep close within the
palace, and secure himself by guards of the legionary soldiers, who
were quartered in different parts about the city.

He put on a linen coat of mail, however, remarking at the same time,
that it would avail him little against the points of so many swords.

But being tempted out by false reports, which the conspirators had
purposely spread to induce him to venture abroad--some few of those
about him too hastily assuring him that the tumult had ceased, the
mutineers were apprehended, and the rest coming to congratulate
him, resolved to continue firm in their obedience--he went forward
to meet them with so much confidence, that upon a soldier's boasting
that he had killed Otho, he asked him, "By what authority?"

and proceeded as far as the Forum.

There the knights, appointed to dispatch him, making their way through
the crowd of citizens, upon seeing him at a distance, halted a while;
after which, galloping up to him, now abandoned by all his attendants,
they put him to death.

XX. Some authors relate, that upon their first approach he cried
out, "What do you mean, fellow-soldiers?

I am yours, and you are mine," and promised them a donative: but the
generality of writers relate, that he offered his throat to them,
saying, "Do your work, and strike, since you are resolved upon it."

It is remarkable, that not one of those who were at hand, ever made
any attempt to assist the emperor; and all who were sent for,
disregarded the summons, except a troop of Germans.

They, in consideration of his late kindness in showing them particular
attention during a sickness which prevailed in the camp, flew to
his aid, but came too late; for, being not well acquainted with the
town, they had taken a circuitous route.

He was slain near the Curtian Lake [667], and there left, until a common
soldier returning from the receipt of his allowance of corn,
throwing down the load which he carried, cut off his head.

There being upon it no hair, by which he might hold it, he hid it in
the bosom of his dress; but afterwards thrusting his thumb into the
mouth, he carried it in that manner to Otho, who gave it to the drudges
and slaves who attended the soldiers; and they, fixing it upon the
(414) point of a spear, carried it in derision round the camp,
crying out as they went along, "You take your fill of joy in your
old age."

They were irritated to this pitch of rude banter, by a report spread
a few days before, that, upon some one's commending his person as
still florid and vigorous, he replied,
Eti moi menos empedoi estin. [668] My strength, as yet, has suffered
no decay.

A freedman of Petrobius's, who himself had belonged to Nero's family,
purchased the head from them at the price of a hundred gold pieces,
and threw it into the place where, by Galba's order, his patron had
been put to death.

At last, after some time, his steward Argius buried it, with the rest
of his body, in his own gardens near the Aurelian Way.

XXI.

In person he was of a good size, bald before, with blue eyes, and
an aquiline nose; and his hands and feet were so distorted with the
gout, that he could neither wear a shoe, nor turn over the leaves
of a book, or so much as hold it.

He had likewise an excrescence in his right side, which hung down to
that degree, that it was with difficulty kept up by a bandage.

XXII. He is reported to have been a great eater, and usually took his
breakfast in the winter-time before day. At supper, he fed very heartily,
giving the fragments which were left, by handfuls, to be distributed
amongst the attendants.

In his lust, he was more inclined to the male sex, and such of them
too as were old.

It is said of him, that in Spain, when Icelus, an old catamite of his,
brought him the news of Nero's death, he not only kissed him
lovingly before company, but begged of him to remove all impediments,
and then took him aside into a private apartment.

XXIII.

He perished in the seventy-third year of his age, and the seventh
month of his reign [669].

The senate, as soon as they could with safety, ordered a statue to
be erected for him upon the naval column, in that part of the Forum
where he (415) was slain.

But Vespasian cancelled the decree, upon a suspicion that he had sent
assassins from Spain into Judaea to murder him.

* * * * * *
GALBA was, for a private man, the most wealthy of any who had ever aspired
to the imperial dignity. He valued himself upon his being descended from
the family of the Servii, but still more upon his relation to Quintus
Catulus Capitolinus, celebrated for integrity and virtue.

He was likewise distantly related to Livia, the wife of Augustus; by
whose interest he was preferred from the station which he held in
the palace, to the dignity of consul; and who left him a great legacy
at her death.
His parsimonious way of living, and his aversion to all superfluity or
excess, were construed into avarice as soon as he became emperor;
whence Plutarch observes, that the pride which he took in his
temperance and economy was unseasonable. While he endeavoured to reform
the profusion in the public expenditure, which prevailed in the
reign of Nero, he ran into the opposite extreme; and it is objected
to him by some historians, that he maintained not the imperial
dignity in a degree consistent even with decency.

He was not sufficiently attentive either to his own security or the
tranquillity of the state, when he refused to pay the soldiers the
donative which he had promised them.

This breach of faith seems to be the only act in his life that affects
his integrity; and it contributed more to his ruin than even the odium
which he incurred by the open venality and rapaciousness of his favourites,
particularly Vinius.

While we were gobbling away, the door suddenly opened and in marched the
duck, Dab-Dab, and the dog, Jip, dragging sheets and pillow-cases behind
them over the clean tiled floor. The Doctor, seeing how surprised I was,
explained:

"They're just going to air the bedding for me in front of the fire.
Dab-Dab is a perfect treasure of a housekeeper; she never forgets
anything. I had a sister once who used to keep house for me (poor, dear
Sarah! I wonder how she's getting on--I haven't seen her in many years).
But she wasn't nearly as good as Dab-Dab. Have another sausage?"

The Doctor turned and said a few words to the dog and duck in some
strange talk and signs. They seemed to understand him perfectly.

"Can you talk in squirrel language?" I asked.

"Oh yes. That's quite an easy language," said the Doctor. "You could
learn that yourself without a great deal of trouble. But why do you
ask?"

"Because I have a sick squirrel at home," I said. "I took it away from a
hawk. But two of its legs are badly hurt and I wanted very much to have
you see it, if you would. Shall I bring it to-morrow?"

"Well, if its leg is badly broken I think I had better see it to-night.
It may be too late to do much; but I'll come home with you and take a
look at it."

So presently we felt the clothes by the fire and mine were found to be
quite dry. I took them upstairs to the bedroom and changed, and when I
came down the Doctor was all ready waiting for me with his little black
bag full of medicines and bandages.

"Come along," he said. "The rain has stopped now."

Outside it had grown bright again and the evening sky was all red with
the setting sun; and thrushes were singing in the garden as we opened
the gate to go down on to the road.


THE FIFTH CHAPTER. POLYNESIA

"I THINK your house is the most interesting house I was ever in," I
said as we set off in the direction of the town. "May I come and see you
again to-morrow?"

"Certainly," said the Doctor. "Come any day you like. To-morrow I'll
show you the garden and my private zoo."

"Oh, have you a zoo?" I asked.

"Yes," said he. "The larger animals are too big for the house, so I keep
them in a zoo in the garden. It is not a very big collection but it is
interesting in its way."

"It must be splendid," I said, "to be able to talk all the languages of
the different animals. Do you think I could ever learn to do it?"

"Oh surely," said the Doctor--"with practise. You have to be very
patient, you know. You really ought to have Polynesia to start you. It
was she who gave me my first lessons."

"Who is Polynesia?" I asked.

"Polynesia was a West African parrot I had. She isn't with me any more
now," said the Doctor sadly.

"Why--is she dead?"

"Oh no," said the Doctor. "She is still living, I hope. But when we
reached Africa she seemed so glad to get back to her own country. She
wept for joy. And when the time came for me to come back here I had not
the heart to take her away from that sunny land--although, it is true,
she did offer to come. I left her in Africa--Ah well! I have missed
her terribly. She wept again when we left. But I think I did the right
thing. She was one of the best friends I ever had. It was she who first
gave me the idea of learning the animal languages and becoming an animal
doctor. I often wonder if she remained happy in Africa, and whether I
shall ever see her funny, old, solemn face again--Good old Polynesia!--A
most extraordinary bird--Well, well!"

Just at that moment we heard the noise of some one running behind us;
and turning round we saw Jip the dog rushing down the road after us,
as fast as his legs could bring him. He seemed very excited about
something, and as soon as he came up to us, he started barking and
whining to the Doctor in a peculiar way. Then the Doctor too seemed to
get all worked up and began talking and making queer signs to the dog.
At length he turned to me, his face shining with happiness.

"Polynesia has come back!" he cried. "Imagine it. Jip says she has just
arrived at the house. My! And it's five years since I saw her--Excuse me
a minute."

He turned as if to go back home. But the parrot, Polynesia, was already
flying towards us. The Doctor clapped his hands like a child getting
a new toy; while the swarm of sparrows in the roadway fluttered,
gossiping, up on to the fences, highly scandalized to see a gray and
scarlet parrot skimming down an English lane.

On she came, straight on to the Doctor's shoulder, where she immediately
began talking a steady stream in a language I could not understand.
She seemed to have a terrible lot to say. And very soon the Doctor had
forgotten all about me and my squirrel and Jip and everything else; till
at length the bird clearly asked him something about me.

"Oh excuse me, Stubbins!" said the Doctor. "I was so interested
listening to my old friend here. We must get on and see this squirrel of
yours--Polynesia, this is Thomas Stubbins."

The parrot, on the Doctor's shoulder, nodded gravely towards me and
then, to my great surprise, said quite plainly in English,

"How do you do? I remember the night you were born. It was a terribly
cold winter. You were a very ugly baby."

"Stubbins is anxious to learn animal language," said the Doctor. "I was
just telling him about you and the lessons you gave me when Jip ran up
and told us you had arrived."

"Well," said the parrot, turning to me, "I may have started the Doctor
learning but I never could have done even that, if he hadn't first
taught me to understand what I was saying when I spoke English. You see,
many parrots can talk like a person, but very few of them understand
what they are saying. They just say it because--well, because they fancy
it is smart or, because they know they will get crackers given them."

By this time we had turned and were going towards my home with Jip
running in front and Polynesia still perched on the Doctor's shoulder.
The bird chattered incessantly, mostly about Africa; but now she spoke
in English, out of politeness to me.

"How is Prince Bumpo getting on?" asked the Doctor.

"Oh, I'm glad you asked me," said Polynesia. "I almost forgot to tell
you. What do you think?--BUMPO IS IN ENGLAND!"

"In England!--You don't say!" cried the Doctor. "What on earth is he
doing here?"

"His father, the king, sent him here to a place called--er--Bullford, I
think it was--to study lessons."

"Bullford!--Bullford!" muttered the Doctor. "I never heard of the
place--Oh, you mean Oxford."

"Yes, that's the place--Oxford," said Polynesia "I knew it had cattle in
it somewhere. Oxford--that's the place he's gone to."

"Well, well," murmured the Doctor. "Fancy Bumpo studying at
Oxford--Well, well!"

"There were great doings in Jolliginki when he left. He was scared to
death to come. He was the first man from that country to go abroad. He
thought he was going to be eaten by white cannibals or something. You
know what those niggers are--that ignorant! Well!--But his father made
him come. He said that all the black kings were sending their sons to
Oxford now. It was the fashion, and he would have to go. Bumpo wanted
to bring his six wives with him. But the king wouldn't let him do that
either. Poor Bumpo went off in tears--and everybody in the palace was
crying too. You never heard such a hullabaloo."

"Do you know if he ever went back in search of The Sleeping Beauty?"
asked the Doctor.

"Oh yes," said Polynesia--"the day after you left. And a good thing for
him he did: the king got to know about his helping you to escape; and he
was dreadfully wild about it."

"And The Sleeping Beauty?--did he ever find her?"

"Well, he brought back something which he SAID was The Sleeping Beauty.
Myself, I think it was an albino niggeress. She had red hair and the
biggest feet you ever saw. But Bumpo was no end pleased with her and
finally married her amid great rejoicings. The feastings lasted seven
days. She became his chief wife and is now known out there as the
Crown-Princess BumPAH--you accent the last syllable."

"And tell me, did he remain white?"

"Only for about three months," said the parrot. "After that his face
slowly returned to its natural color. It was just as well. He was so
conspicuous in his bathing-suit the way he was, with his face white and
the rest of him black."

"And how is Chee-Chee getting on?--Chee-Chee," added the Doctor in
explanation to me, "was a pet monkey I had years ago. I left him too in
Africa when I came away."

"Well," said Polynesia frowning,--"Chee-Chee is not entirely happy. I
saw a good deal of him the last few years. He got dreadfully homesick
for you and the house and the garden. It's funny, but I was just the
same way myself. You remember how crazy I was to get back to the dear
old land? And Africa IS a wonderful country--I don't care what anybody
says. Well, I thought I was going to have a perfectly grand time. But
somehow--I don't know--after a few weeks it seemed to get tiresome. I
just couldn't seem to settle down. Well, to make a long story short,
one night I made up my mind that I'd come back here and find you. So I
hunted up old Chee-Chee and told him about it. He said he didn't blame
me a bit--felt exactly the same way himself. Africa was so deadly quiet
after the life we had led with you. He missed the stories you used to
tell us out of your animal books--and the chats we used to have sitting
round the kitchen-fire on winter nights. The animals out there were very
nice to us and all that. But somehow the dear kind creatures seemed
a bit stupid. Chee-Chee said he had noticed it too. But I suppose it
wasn't they who had changed; it was we who were different. When I left,
poor old Chee-Chee broke down and cried. He said he felt as though
his only friend were leaving him--though, as you know, he has simply
millions of relatives there. He said it didn't seem fair that I should
have wings to fly over here any time I liked, and him with no way to
follow me. But mark my words, I wouldn't be a bit surprised if he found
a way to come--some day. He's a smart lad, is Chee-Chee."

At this point we arrived at my home. My father's shop was closed and the
shutters were up; but my mother was standing at the door looking down
the street.

"Good evening, Mrs. Stubbins," said the Doctor. "It is my fault your son
is so late. I made him stay to supper while his clothes were drying.
He was soaked to the skin; and so was I. We ran into one another in the
storm and I insisted on his coming into my house for shelter."

"I was beginning to get worried about him," said my mother. "I am
thankful to you, Sir, for looking after him so well and bringing him
home."

"Don't mention it--don't mention it," said the Doctor. "We have had a
very interesting chat."

"Who might it be that I have the honor of addressing?" asked my mother
staring at the gray parrot perched on the Doctor's shoulder.

"Oh, I'm John Dolittle. I dare say your husband will remember me. He
made me some very excellent boots about four years ago. They really
are splendid," added the Doctor, gazing down at his feet with great
satisfaction.

"The Doctor has come to cure my squirrel, Mother," said I. "He knows all
about animals."

"Oh, no," said the Doctor, "not all, Stubbins, not all about them by any
means."

"It is very kind of you to come so far to look after his pet," said my
mother. "Tom is always bringing home strange creatures from the woods
and the fields."

"Is he?" said the Doctor. "Perhaps he will grow up to be a naturalist
some day. Who knows?"

"Won't you come in?" asked my mother. "The place is a little untidy
because I haven't finished the spring cleaning yet. But there's a nice
fire burning in the parlor."

"Thank you!" said the Doctor. "What a charming home you have!"

And after wiping his enormous boots very, very carefully on the mat, the
great man passed into the house.


THE SIXTH CHAPTER. THE WOUNDED SQUIRREL

INSIDE we found my father busy practising on the flute beside the fire.
This he always did, every evening, after his work was over.

The Doctor immediately began talking to him about flutes and piccolos
and bassoons; and presently my father said,

"Perhaps you perform upon the flute yourself, Sir. Won't you play us a
tune?"

"Well," said the Doctor, "it is a long time since I touched the
instrument. But I would like to try. May I?"

Then the Doctor took the flute from my father and played and played and
played. It was wonderful. My mother and father sat as still as statues,
staring up at the ceiling as though they were in church; and even I, who
didn't bother much about music except on the mouth-organ--even I felt
all sad and cold and creepy and wished I had been a better boy.

"Oh I think that was just beautiful!" sighed my mother when at length
the Doctor stopped.

"You are a great musician, Sir," said my father, "a very great musician.
Won't you please play us something else?"

"Why certainly," said the Doctor--"Oh, but look here, I've forgotten all
about the squirrel."

"I'll show him to you," I said. "He is upstairs in my room."

So I led the Doctor to my bedroom at the top of the house and showed him
the squirrel in the packing-case filled with straw.

The animal, who had always seemed very much afraid of me--though I had
tried hard to make him feel at home, sat up at once when the Doctor came
into the room and started to chatter. The Doctor chattered back in
the same way and the squirrel when he was lifted up to have his leg
examined, appeared to be rather pleased than frightened.

I held a candle while the Doctor tied the leg up in what he called
"splints," which he made out of match-sticks with his pen-knife.

"I think you will find that his leg will get better now in a very short
time," said the Doctor closing up his bag. "Don't let him run about for
at least two weeks yet, but keep him in the open air and cover him up
with dry leaves if the nights get cool. He tells me he is rather lonely
here, all by himself, and is wondering how his wife and children are
getting on. I have assured him you are a man to be trusted; and I will
send a squirrel who lives in my garden to find out how his family are
and to bring him news of them. He must be kept cheerful at all costs.
Squirrels are naturally a very cheerful, active race. It is very hard
for them to lie still doing nothing. But you needn't worry about him. He
will be all right."

Then we went back again to the parlor and my mother and father kept him
playing the flute till after ten o'clock.

Although my parents both liked the Doctor tremendously from the first
moment that they saw him, and were very proud to have him come and play
to us (for we were really terribly poor) they did not realize then what
a truly great man he was one day to become. Of course now, when almost
everybody in the whole world has heard about Doctor Dolittle and his
books, if you were to go to that little house in Puddleby where my
father had his cobbler's shop you would see, set in the wall over
the old-fashioned door, a stone with writing on it which says: "JOHN
DOLITTLE, THE FAMOUS NATURALIST, PLAYED THE FLUTE IN THIS HOUSE IN THE
YEAR 1839."

I often look back upon that night long, long ago. And if I close my eyes
and think hard I can see that parlor just as it was then: a funny little
man in coat-tails, with a round kind face, playing away on the flute
in front of the fire; my mother on one side of him and my father on the
other, holding their breath and listening with their eyes shut; myself,
with Jip, squatting on the carpet at his feet, staring into the coals;
and Polynesia perched on the mantlepiece beside his shabby high hat,
gravely swinging her head from side to side in time to the music. I see
it all, just as though it were before me now.

And then I remember how, after we had seen the Doctor out at the front
door, we all came back into the parlor and talked about him till it was
still later; and even after I did go to bed (I had never stayed up so
late in my life before) I dreamed about him and a band of strange
clever animals that played flutes and fiddles and drums the whole night
through.


THE SEVENTH CHAPTER. SHELLFISH TALK

THE next morning, although I had gone to bed so late the night before,
I was up frightfully early. The first sparrows were just beginning to
chirp sleepily on the slates outside my attic window when I jumped out
of bed and scrambled into my clothes.

I could hardly wait to get back to the little house with the big
garden--to see the Doctor and his private zoo. For the first time in
my life I forgot all about breakfast; and creeping down the stairs on
tip-toe, so as not to wake my mother and father, I opened the front door
and popped out into the empty, silent street.

When I got to the Doctor's gate I suddenly thought that perhaps it was
too early to call on any one: and I began to wonder if the Doctor would
be up yet. I looked into the garden. No one seemed to be about. So I
opened the gate quietly and went inside.

As I turned to the left to go down a path between some hedges, I heard a
voice quite close to me say,

"Good morning. How early you are!"

I turned around, and there, sitting on the top of a privet hedge, was
the gray parrot, Polynesia.

"Good morning," I said. "I suppose I am rather early. Is the Doctor
still in bed?"

"Oh no," said Polynesia. "He has been up an hour and a half. You'll find
him in the house somewhere. The front door is open. Just push it and go
in, He is sure to be in the kitchen cooking breakfast--or working in his
study. Walk right in. I am waiting to see the sun rise. But upon my word
I believe it's forgotten to rise. It is an awful climate, this. Now if
we were in Africa the world would be blazing with sunlight at this hour
of the morning. Just see that mist rolling over those cabbages. It is
enough to give you rheumatism to look at it. Beastly climate--Beastly!
Really I don't know why anything but frogs ever stay in England--Well,
don't let me keep you. Run along and see the Doctor."

"Thank you," I said. "I'll go and look for him."

When I opened the front door I could smell bacon frying, so I made my
way to the kitchen. There I discovered a large kettle boiling away over
the fire and some bacon and eggs in a dish upon the hearth. It seemed
to me that the bacon was getting all dried up with the heat. So I pulled
the dish a little further away from the fire and went on through the
house looking for the Doctor.

I found him at last in the Study. I did not know then that it was called
the Study. It was certainly a very interesting room, with telescopes
and microscopes and all sorts of other strange things which I did not
understand about but wished I did. Hanging on the walls were pictures of
animals and fishes and strange plants and collections of birds' eggs and
sea-shells in glass cases.

The Doctor was standing at the main table in his dressing-gown. At first
I thought he was washing his face. He had a square glass box before him
full of water. He was holding one ear under the water while he covered
the other with his left hand. As I came in he stood up.

"Good morning, Stubbins," said he. "Going to be a nice day, don't
you think? I've just been listening to the Wiff-Waff. But he is very
disappointing--very."

"Why?" I said. "Didn't you find that he has any language at all?"

"Oh yes," said the Doctor, "he has a language. But it is such a poor
language--only a few words, like 'yes' and 'no'--'hot' and 'cold.'
That's all he can say. It's very disappointing. You see he really
belongs to two different families of fishes. I thought he was going to
be tremendously helpful--Well, well!"

"I suppose," said I, "that means he hasn't very much sense if his
language is only two or three words?"

"Yes, I suppose it does. Possibly it is the kind of life he leads.
You see, they are very rare now, these Wiff-Waffs--very rare and very
solitary. They swim around in the deepest parts of the ocean entirely
by themselves--always alone. So I presume they really don't need to talk
much."

"Perhaps some kind of a bigger shellfish would talk more," I said.
"After all, he is very small, isn't he?"

"Yes," said the Doctor, "that's true. Oh I have no doubt that there
are shellfish who are good talkers--not the least doubt. But the big
shellfish--the biggest of them, are so hard to catch. They are only to
be found in the deep parts of the sea; and as they don't swim very much,
but just crawl along the floor of the ocean most of the time, they are
very seldom taken in nets. I do wish I could find some way of going down
to the bottom of the sea. I could learn a lot if I could only do that.
But we are forgetting all about breakfast--Have you had, breakfast yet,
Stubbins?"

I told the Doctor that I had forgotten all about it and he at once led
the way into the kitchen.

"Yes," he said, as he poured the hot water from the kettle into the
tea-pot, "if a man could only manage to get right down to the bottom
of the sea, and live there a while, he would discover some wonderful
things--things that people have never dreamed of."

But the general direction of Russia's evolution is not doubtful.
Western students of her history might do well, instead of sedulously
collecting damaging evidence, to pay some attention to the building
up of Russia's universities, the persistent efforts of the Zemstvos,
the independence and the zeal of the press.

German scholars should read Hertzen's vivid description of the "idealists
of the forties." And what about the history of the emancipation of the
serfs, or of the regeneration of the judicature? The "reforms of the
sixties" are a household word in Russia, and surely they are one of the
noblest efforts ever made by a nation in the direction of moral
improvement.

Looking somewhat deeper, what right have the Germans to speak of their
cultural ideals as superior to those of the Russian people? They deride
the superstitions of the mujikh as if tapers and genuflexions were
the principal matters of popular religion.

Those who have studied the Russian people without prejudice know better
than that. Read Selma Lagerloef's touching description of Russian pilgrims
in Palestine. She, the Protestant, has understood the true significance
of the religious impulse which leads these poor men to the Holy Land, and
which draws them to the numberless churches of the vast country. These
simple people cling to the belief that there is something else in God's
world besides toil and greed; they flock toward the light, and find
in it the justification of their human craving for peace and mercy. For
the Russian people have the Christian virtues of patience in suffering;
their pity for the poor and oppressed are more than occasional
manifestations of individual feeling--they are deeply rooted in national
psychology. This frame of mind has been scorned as fit for slaves! It
is indeed a case where the learning of philosophers is put to shame by
the insight of the simple-minded. Conquerors should remember that the
greatest victories in history have been won by the unarmed--by the
Christian confessors whom the Emperors sent to the lions, by the
"old believers" of Russia who went to Siberia and to the flames for
their unyielding faith, by the Russian serfs who preserved their
human dignity and social cohesion in spite of the exactions of their
masters, by the Italians, Poles, and Jews, when they were trampled
under foot by their rulers.

It is such a victory of the spirit that Tolstoy had in mind when
he preached his gospel of non-resistance, and I do not think even
a German on the war path would be blind enough to suppose that
Tolstoy's message came from a craven soul.

The orientation of the so-called "intelligent" class in Russia--that is,
the educated middle class, which is much more numerous and influential
than people suppose--is somewhat different, of course. It is "Western"
in this sense, that it is imbued with current European ideas as to
politics, economics, and law.

It has to a certain extent lost the simple faith and religious fervor of
the peasants, but the keynote of popular ideals has been faithfully
preserved by this class.

It is still characteristically humanitarian in its view of the
world and in its aims.

A book like that of Gen. von Bernhardi would be impossible in Russia.

If anybody were to publish it it would not only fall flat, but earn for
its author the reputation of a bloodhound.

Many deeds of cruelty and brutality happen, of course, in Russia,
but no writer of any standing would dream of building up a theory of
violence in vindication of a claim to culture. It may be said, in fact,
that the leaders of Russian public opinion are pacific, cosmopolitan, and
humanitarian to a fault. The mystic philosopher Vladimir Solovieff used
to dream of the union of the churches with the Pope as the spiritual
head, and democracy in the Russian sense as the broad basis of the
rejuvenated Christendom.

Dostoyevsky, a writer most sensitive to the claims of nationality
in Russia, defined the ideal of the Russians in a celebrated speech
as the embodiment of a universally humanitarian type.

These are extremes, but characteristic extremes pointing to the trend
of national thought. Russia is so huge and so strong that
material power has ceased to be attractive to her thinkers.
But we need not yet retire into the desert and deliver ourselves to be
bound hand and foot by civilized Germans. Russia also wields a sword--a
charmed sword, blunt in an unrighteous cause, but sharp enough in the
defense of right and freedom. And this war is indeed our "Befreiungskrieg."
The Slavs must have their chance in the history of the world, and the
date of their coming of age will mark a new departure in the
growth of civilization.

Yours truly,
PAUL VINOGRADOFF.

Court Place, Iffley, Oxford.

Russian Appeal for the Poles
By A. Konovalov of the Russian Duma.

[A Letter to the Russkia Vedomosti, No. 231, P. 2, Oct. 8, 1914.]

The population of Poland has been forced to experience the first horrible
onslaught of the wrathful enemy.

All points within the sphere of the German offensive offer a picture
of utter desolation.

The people are fleeing in horror before the advancing enemy, leaving
their homes and their property to sure destruction. An uninterrupted
line of arson fire shines on the sorrowful path of the exiles.

Their fields have been devastated and furrowed by the trenches,
their animals have been taken away, their savings have been wasted,
and all their chattels destroyed.

The prosperity of millions has been destroyed and men have been turned
into homeless beggars without a morsel of bread.

The flight of these people is beyond description. One cannot fail to
realize the stupefying horrors of such a deep and overwhelming national
calamity. The strokes of fate have come down upon the people of Poland
with a most merciless cruelty. Shall we gaze upon these horrors with
indifference?

Can the Russian people remain neutral witnesses of the sufferings and
privations thrust upon the population of the devastated country?

The Russians are making heavy sacrifices for the war, but in these
historic days we must speed up our energies still more, we must double
and treble our sacrifices. Let us not forget that despite all our
sacrifices, despite all our sorrow and alarm we are not deprived of
peaceful work, we have not been drawn into destruction as the people
of Poland have been. Without further delay we have to hasten to their
aid.

A widely organized social aid must be brought to the fleeing people.
We must provide them with shelter and food. These victims are flocking
to the central provinces of Russia, to Moscow, and they must be assisted
up to the time when they shall be able to return to their country. It
is necessary to ascertain the degree of their distress and to help
to provide them with the necessities of life in places already cleared
from the enemy by the aggressiveness of the Russian Army.

Of course, the main duty in the regaining of the prosperity of Poland
lies with the Government. Only the Government is able to stand the expense
of millions required for this task, only the State through its legislative
organs is capable of creating the social, economic, and political
conditions making possible the reconstruction of the civilization
of Poland.

But we also owe a duty of help, a sacred duty of immediate sympathy to
those stricken with disaster.

To carry out our task we need funds. In submitting this problem to
the Russian people, in calling upon it for the solution of this tremendous
and pressing issue, as far as possible, I herewith forward my little
contribution of 10,000 rubles for aid to the people of Poland
suffering from war.

A. KONOVALOV,
Member of the Duma.

Moscow, Oct. 7, (20,) 1914.

Note.--Konovalov's appeal met with a most generous response. Not only
individuals and charitable associations came forward with funds and food,
but a large number of Russian cities organized permanent aid
committees for the benefit of the war victims in Poland.

Street and house-to-house collections were organized, and considerable
funds have already been collected. Not only Russians, but also the
Armenians, the Jews, and other nationalities of Russia have shown a
deep and substantial sympathy for the Poles.

Prince Trubetskoï's appeal emphasized the political side of this
campaign of succor, while Mr.

Konovalov has given prominence to the human side of it. Prince Trubetskoï's
appeal follows.

I AM FOR PEACE!

By LURANA SHELDON.

I am of New England! A daughter of mountains, Wide-stretching fields,
broad rivers that smile With the sun on their breasts. I am of the
hills-- The great, bald hills where the cattle roam.
The peace of the valleys still clings and thrills, And the joy of
the tinkling fountains, Where the deep-creviced boulders pile.

I am of it, New England, my home!

The tenure of conflicts, the feeble thriving, Are lore of the past.
Now the giant peaks May sleep and sleep. Their watch is ended.
The beacon towers may crumble and fall.
So well have my people defended-- So well have they prospered through
striving-- Today her triumph New England speaks In the mantling calm
that envelops all.

They have come to New England, the woeful invaders.
The hills attracted, the valleys lured; They have sowed their seeds of
disturbance and fear.

They wrought for destruction, but all in vain.

They were told that order was master here.
The hills turned censors, the streams, upbraiders.
No war of men should be fought, endured!
They need wage no battle for peace again!

Like my native hills, my strife is ended; Like my sleeping hills, I
have earned life's calm.
The sun that smiles on New England's streams Bids human conflicts forever
cease.
Let those who must, writhe in their dreams At thought of days with
horror blended.

For me, the meadow's gentle balm-- I am of New England--where all
is peace!

United Russia
By Peter Struve.

[From The London Times.]
Prof. Peter Struve, editor of the monthly, Russian Thought, is recognized
as one of the most acute political thinkers in Europe.

He was one of the chief founders of the Constitutional Democratic Party
(the Cadets) and was member for St.

Petersburg in the Second Duma. He is also known as an economist of great
erudition.

PETROGRAD, Sept. 16.

The future historian will note with astonishment that official Germany,
when she declared war on Russia, was in no way informed of the state of
public opinion in our country.

This is all the more astonishing because not a single country to
the west of Russia maintains so close a communication with Russia
as Germany.

The Germans, better than other peoples, could and should have known
Russia and her material resources, her internal state, and her
moral condition.

When she declared war on Russia, Germany evidently counted, above
all, on the weakness of the Russian Army. There was nothing, however,
to justify such an estimate of the armed forces of Russia. Certainly
Russia had been beaten in the Japanese war, but in that war the decision
was reached on the sea, and after the fall of Port Arthur the land war
had no object.

The Germans have probably convinced themselves already how superficial
was such an estimate of the forces of Russia, but in reality their
mistake was due to an entirely superficial view of the national
culture of Russia and an extremely elementary idea of our internal
development.

The Germans did not believe that there is in Russia a genuine and growing
national civilization, and did not understand that the liberation
movement in Russia had not only not shaken the power of the Russian
State, but had, on the contrary, increased it.

Not understanding this, they thought that any blow from outside would
tumble over the Russian State like a rotten tree. German aggression,
on the contrary, united the whole population of Russia, and by this alone
strengthened a hundredfold her external power. This, of course, would
have been the natural effect of any attack from without upon any sound
people or any State that was not in decomposition. But in this case there
was something else. Such a war as this could not fail to take on at
once the character both of a world war and of a national war. That is
why in this struggle with Germany and Austria-Hungary, elemental forces
united in one impulse and spirit both the Russian Radicals, with their
tendency to cosmopolitanism, and the extreme Nationalist Conservatives.

Nay, more than that, all the races of Russia understood that a
challenge had been thrown out to Russia by Germany that morally
compelled her, in the interests of the whole and of the various
parts, to forget for the time all quarrels and grievances.

This showed itself in the most natural and inevitable way with the
Poles, of whose national culture Germanism is the sworn foe. The
well-known manifesto of the Commander in Chief did not awake this
feeling among the Poles of Russia, but simply met it and gave it
support.

Equally natural and elemental was the patriotic outburst that spread
among the Jews of Russia.

In their case the political and social Radicalism which we always find
in the Jews turned by some sound instinct against German militarism,
which had shown itself the chief cause and occasion of a world
catastrophe.

The German declaration of war on Russia at once dispersed all doubts
and hesitations in the many millions of the population of the Russian
Empire.

Some may put in the forefront of this war the struggle with the
uncivilizing militarism of Prussia.

Others may see in it, above all things, a struggle for the national
principle and for the inured rights of nationalities--Serbians, Poles,
and Belgians. Others, again, see in the war the only means of securing
the peaceful future of Russia and her allies from the extravagant
pretensions of Germany.

But all alike feel that this war is a great, popular, liberating work,
which starts a new epoch in the history of the world. Thus the war
against united Germany and Austria-Hungary has become in Russia a truly
national war.

That is the enormous difference between it and the war with Japan, whose
political grounds and objects, apart from self-defense against a hostile
attack, were alien to the public conscience.

There is one other consideration which cannot be passed over in
silence.

In Russia many are convinced, and others instinctively feel, that
a victorious war will contribute to the internal recovery and
regeneration of the State.

Many barriers have already fallen, national and political feuds have
been softened, new conditions are being created for the mutual relations
of the people and the Government. There is every reason to think that
some members of the Government--unfortunately, it is true, not
all--have understood that at the present time of complete national
union many of the old methods of administration and all the old
Government psychology are not only out of place, but simply
impossible.

In one question, the Polish, this conviction has received the supreme
sanction of the sovereign and of the Commander in Chief, and a striking
expression in the latter's manifesto to the Poles. Further than this,
the actual attitude of Russian Liberals and Radicals toward a whole
series of problems and relations cannot fail to be changed. Thus the war
will help to reconcile and soften many internal contradictions in
Russia.

How far we are, with this state of public opinion and these perspectives
of the internal development of Russia, from those fantastic pictures of
civil disunion and revolutionary conflagration which were anticipated
before the war and have sometimes been, even since the war, portrayed
in the German and Austro-Hungarian press! Our enemies counted on these
domestic divisions, and they have made a bitter mistake.

Constitutional Russia, precisely because of the radical internal
transformation which it has experienced in the period that began
with the Japanese war, has proved to be fully equal to the immense
universal and national task that has devolved upon it. The national
and political consciousness of Russia not only has not weakened,
but has wonderfully strengthened and taken shape.

As one who has had a close and constant share in the struggle for
the Russian Constitution, I can only note with the greatest satisfaction
the striking result of Russia's entry into the number of constitutional
States, a result which has so plainly showed itself in the tremendous
part that Russia is playing in the great world-crisis of 1914.

Prince Trubetskoi's Appeal to Russians to Help the Polish Victims of
War
[Russkia Vedomosti, No. 231, Oct. 8, (21,) 1914, P. 2.]

A new era of Russian-Polish relations has begun, and the noble initiative
of A.J.

Konovalov, who has donated 10,000 rubles for the needs of the war victims
of Poland, offers a shining testimony.

Up to the present the Polish people have had relations with official
Russia only. The war has brought them for the first time into
immediate touch with _the Russian people_.

Thousands of Polish exiles have gone forth to our central provinces. In
Moscow alone there are not less than 1,000 former inhabitants of Kalisz,
to say nothing of fleeing people from other provinces.

Moscow, of course, attracts the largest number of these unfortunates.

Some particular instinctive faith draws the Poles to
Moscow, to the centre of popular Russia. To my query why she had chosen
Moscow among all Russian cities, a poor Polish woman, the wife of
a reservist, said:

"I was sent here by the military chief.

'Go to Moscow,' said he. 'You won't perish there.'"

And indeed in Moscow the Polish exiles have not perished. They have found
here brotherly love, shelter, and food. The municipality of Moscow,
numerous philanthropists, both Polish and Russian, are rendering them
assistance.

It is needless to describe the impression made upon the Poles by
this attitude of the people of Russia. A prominent municipal worker
of the City of Kalisz, with tears in his eyes, told me: "Up to the
present moment Poland has been segregated from Russia by a wall of
officialdom erected by the Germans; now for the first time this
wall has been broken down, two peoples are seeing each other and
feeling each other."

A tremendous process of mutual understanding has begun before our
eyes!

It has barely begun as yet; for what has been accomplished by Russia for
Poland is but a drop as compared with what still remains to be done.

It is not enough to help the Polish immigrants in our central provinces.

Our help must be carried to the provinces devastated by the German and
Austrian hordes.

Right there the scenes of misery make the hair stand upon our heads.

Let us realize that the City of Kalisz alone has suffered not less
than 40,000,000 rubles in loss of property.

Representatives of Polish municipalities with whom I had opportunity
to discuss the situation told me that in the City of Kalisz there
is no longer a single drug store, nor a grocery store, and there
were about three thousand of them before.
There are numerous cities and villages where everything has been
pillaged by the German requisitions. Horses, cows, food, even
mattresses, have been taken away, and for all these ironical receipts
have been tendered: "So much worth of goods have been taken; the
payment for same will be made by the Russian Government."
Owing to the destruction of the inventory and the stock in the
villages, there is nothing to till the soil with, and the fields
have to remain unseeded.
Poland is indeed the Belgium of Russia. Belgium is aided by England
and France, but there is nobody to help Poland except us.The first thing I saw was an
enormous black retriever dog sitting in the middle of the hearth-rug
with his ears cocked up, listening to the Doctor who was reading aloud
to him from a letter.

"What is the Doctor doing?" I asked Polynesia in a whisper.

"Oh, the dog has had a letter from his mistress and he has brought it
to the Doctor to read for him. That's all. He belongs to a funny little
girl called Minnie Dooley, who lives on the other side of the town. She
has pigtails down her back. She and her brother have gone away to the
seaside for the Summer; and the old retriever is heart-broken while the
children are gone. So they write letters to him--in English of course.
And as the old dog doesn't understand them, he brings them here, and the
Doctor turns them into dog language for him. I think Minnie must have
written that she is coming back--to judge from the dog's excitement.
Just look at him carrying on!"

Indeed the retriever seemed to be suddenly overcome with joy. As the
Doctor finished the letter the old dog started barking at the top of his
voice, wagging his tail wildly and jumping about the study. He took the
letter in his mouth and ran out of the room snorting hard and mumbling
to himself.

"He's going down to meet the coach," whispered Polynesia. "That dog's
devotion to those children is more than I can understand. You should
see Minnie! She's the most conceited little minx that ever walked. She
squints too."


THE TWELFTH CHAPTER. MY GREAT IDEA

PRESENTLY the Doctor looked up and saw us at the door.

"Oh--come in, Stubbins," said he, "did you wish to speak to me? Come in
and take a chair."

"Doctor," I said, "I want to be a naturalist--like you--when I grow up."

"Oh you do, do you?" murmured the Doctor. "Humph!--Well!--Dear me!--You
don't say!--Well, well! Have, you er--have you spoken to your mother and
father about it?"

"No, not yet," I said. "I want you to speak to them for me. You would do
it better. I want to be your helper--your assistant, if you'll have me.
Last night my mother was saying that she didn't consider it right for me
to come here so often for meals. And I've been thinking about it a good
deal since. Couldn't we make some arrangement--couldn't I work for my
meals and sleep here?"

"But my dear Stubbins," said the Doctor, laughing, "you are quite
welcome to come here for three meals a day all the year round. I'm only
too glad to have you. Besides, you do do a lot of work, as it is. I've
often felt that I ought to pay you for what you do--But what arrangement
was it that you thought of?"

"Well, I thought," said I, "that perhaps you would come and see my
mother and father and tell them that if they let me live here with you
and work hard, that you will teach me to read and write. You see my
mother is awfully anxious to have me learn reading and writing. And
besides, I couldn't be a proper naturalist without, could I?"

"Oh, I don't know so much about that," said the Doctor. "It is nice, I
admit, to be able to read and write. But naturalists are not all alike,
you know. For example: this young fellow Charles Darwin that people are
talking about so much now--he's a Cambridge graduate--reads and writes
very well. And then Cuvier--he used to be a tutor. But listen, the
greatest naturalist of them all doesn't even know how to write his own
name nor to read the A B C."

"Who is he?" I asked.

"He is a mysterious person," said the Doctor--"a very mysterious person.
His name is Long Arrow, the son of Golden Arrow. He is a Red Indian."

"Have you ever seen him?" I asked.

"No," said the Doctor, "I've never seen him. No white man has ever
met him. I fancy Mr. Darwin doesn't even know that he exists. He lives
almost entirely with the animals and with the different tribes of
Indians--usually somewhere among the mountains of Peru. Never stays long
in one place. Goes from tribe to tribe, like a sort of Indian tramp."

"How do you know so much about him?" I asked--"if you've never even seen
him?"

"The Purple Bird-of-Paradise," said the Doctor--"she told me all about
him. She says he is a perfectly marvelous naturalist. I got her to take
a message to him for me last time she was here. I am expecting her back
any day now. I can hardly wait to see what answer she has brought from
him. It is already almost the last week of August. I do hope nothing has
happened to her on the way."

"But why do the animals and birds come to you when they are sick?" I
said--"Why don't they go to him, if he is so very wonderful?"

"It seems that my methods are more up to date," said the Doctor. "But
from what the Purple Bird-of-Paradise tells me, Long Arrow's knowledge
of natural history must be positively tremendous. His specialty is
botany--plants and all that sort of thing. But he knows a lot about
birds and animals too. He's very good on bees and beetles--But now
tell me, Stubbins, are you quite sure that you really want to be a
naturalist?"

"Yes," said I, "my mind is made up."

"Well you know, it isn't a very good profession for making money. Not
at all, it isn't. Most of the good naturalists don't make any money
whatever. All they do is SPEND money, buying butterfly-nets and
cases for birds' eggs and things. It is only now, after I have been a
naturalist for many years, that I am beginning to make a little money
from the books I write."

"I don't care about money," I said. "I want to be a naturalist.
Won't you please come and have dinner with my mother and father next
Thursday--I told them I was going to ask you--and then you can talk to
them about it. You see, there's another thing: if I'm living with you,
and sort of belong to your house and business, I shall be able to come
with you next time you go on a voyage."

"Oh, I see," said he, smiling. "So you want to come on a voyage with me,
do you?--Ah hah!"

"I want to go on all your voyages with you. It would be much easier
for you if you had someone to carry the butterfly-nets and note-books.
Wouldn't it now?"

For a long time the Doctor sat thinking, drumming on the desk with his
fingers, while I waited, terribly impatiently, to see what he was going
to say.

At last he shrugged his shoulders and stood up.

"Well, Stubbins," said he, "I'll come and talk it over with you and your
parents next Thursday. And--well, we'll see. We'll see. Give your mother
and father my compliments and thank them for their invitation, will
you?"

Then I tore home like the wind to tell my mother that the Doctor had
promised to come.


THE THIRTEENTH CHAPTER. A TRAVELER ARRIVES

THE next day I was sitting on the wall of the Doctor's garden after
tea, talking to Dab-Dab. I had now learned so much from Polynesia that
I could talk to most birds and some animals without a great deal of
difficulty. I found Dab-Dab a very nice, old, motherly bird--though not
nearly so clever and interesting as Polynesia. She had been housekeeper
for the Doctor many years now.

Well, as I was saying, the old duck and I were sitting on the flat top
of the garden-wall that evening, looking down into the Oxenthorpe Road
below. We were watching some sheep being driven to market in Puddleby;
and Dab-Dab had just been telling me about the Doctor's adventures in
Africa. For she had gone on a voyage with him to that country long ago.

Suddenly I heard a curious distant noise down the road, towards the
town. It sounded like a lot of people cheering. I stood up on the wall
to see if I could make out what was coming. Presently there appeared
round a bend a great crowd of school-children following a very ragged,
curious-looking woman.

"What in the world can it be?" cried Dab-Dab.

The children were all laughing and shouting. And certainly the woman
they were following was most extraordinary. She had very long arms and
the most stooping shoulders I have ever seen. She wore a straw hat on
the side of her head with poppies on it; and her skirt was so long for
her it dragged on the ground like a ball-gown's train. I could not see
anything of her face because of the wide hat pulled over her eyes. But
as she got nearer to us and the laughing of the children grew louder,
I noticed that her hands were very dark in color, and hairy, like a
witch's.

Besides, although I appreciate toads and cows, and all that sort of
thing, I like to have a game-preserve more in the English style.

And we did. For in July, while the game-law was on, and the young
quails were coming on, we were awakened one morning by
firing,--musketry-firing, close at hand.

My first thought was, that war was declared; but, as I should never pay
much attention to war declared at that time in the morning, I went to
sleep again. But the occurrence was repeated,--and not only early in
the morning, but at night.

There was calling of dogs, breaking down of brush, and firing of guns.
It is hardly pleasant to have guns fired in the direction of the
house, at your own quails. The hunters could be sometimes seen, but
never caught. Their best time was about sunrise; but, before one could
dress and get to the front, they would retire.

One morning, about four o'clock, I heard the battle renewed.

I sprang up, but not in arms, and went to a window. Polly (like another
'blessed damozel') flew to another window,--
"The blessed damozel leaned out From the gold bar of heaven,"
and reconnoitered from behind the blinds.

"The wonder was not yet quite gone From that still look of hers,"

when an armed man and a legged dog appeared in the opening. I was
vigilantly watching him.

. . . . "And now She spoke through the still weather."

"Are you afraid to speak to him?" asked Polly.

Not exactly,
. . . ."she spoke as when The stars sang in their spheres.
"Stung by this inquiry, I leaned out of the window till
"The bar I leaned on (was) warm," 
and cried,--
"Halloo, there! What are you doing?"
"Look out he don't shoot you," called out Polly from the other
window, suddenly going on another tack."Run up to my bedroom, Stubbins," said the Doctor, turning to me.
"You'll find a bag of peanuts in the small left-hand drawer of the
bureau. I have always kept them there in case he might come back
unexpectedly some day. And wait a minute--see if Dab-Dab has any bananas
in the pan-try. Chee-Chee hasn't had a banana, he tells me, in two
months."

When I came down again to the kitchen I found everybody listening
attentively to the monkey who was telling the story of his journey from
Africa.


THE FOURTEENTH CHAPTER. CHEE-CHEE'S VOYAGE

IT seems that after Polynesia had left, Chee-Chee had grown more
homesick than ever for the Doctor and the little house in Puddleby. At
last he had made up his mind that by hook or crook he would follow her.
And one day, going down to the seashore, he saw a lot of people, black
and white, getting on to a ship that was coming to England. He tried to
get on too. But they turned him back and drove him away. And presently
he noticed a whole big family of funny people passing on to the ship.
CHESTERTON, GILBERT PARKER, ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE, ERNEST DE SELINCOURT,
NEVILL FORBES, MAY SINCLAIR, JOHN GALSWORTHY, D. MACKENZIE WALLACE,
CONSTANCE GARNETT, MARY A. WARD, EDWARD GARNETT, WILLIAM WATSON, A.P.
GOUDY, H.G. WELLS, THOMAS HARDY, MARGARET L. WOODS, JANE HARRISON, C.
HAGBERG WRIGHT.

ANTHONY HOPE, HENRY JAMES,

Russia and Europe's War
By Paul Vinogradoff.

_The following letter to The London Times by Paul Vinogradoff, Corpus
Professor of Jurisprudence at Oxford University, appeared on Sept.
14, 1914.

Prof. Vinogradoff was invited to return to Russia a few years ago to
become a Minister of State, but on going there he found the Ministry not
liberal enough for him, and returned to Oxford._
_To the Editor of The Times:_
SIR: I hope you may see your way to publish the following somewhat
lengthy statement on one of the burning questions of the day.

In this time of crisis, when the clash of ideas seems as fierce as
the struggle of the hosts, it is the duty of those who possess authentic
information on one or the other point in dispute to speak out firmly
and clearly. I should like to contribute some observations on German
and Russian conceptions in matters of culture. I base my claim to
be heard on the fact that I have had the privilege of being closely
connected with Russian, German, and English life. As a Russian Liberal,
who had to give up an honorable position at home for the sake of his
opinions, I can hardly be suspected of subserviency to the Russian
bureaucracy.

I am struck by the insistence with which the Germans represent their
cause in this worldwide struggle as the cause of civilization as opposed
to Muscovite barbarism; and I am not sure that some of my English
friends do not feel reluctant to side with the subjects of the Czar
against the countrymen of Harnack and Eucken. One would like to know,
however, since when did the Germans take up this attitude? They were
not so squeamish during the "war of emancipation," which gave birth
to modern Germany.

At that time the people of Eastern Prussia were anxiously waiting for
the appearance of Cossacks as heralds of the Russian hosts who were to
emancipate them from the yoke of Napoleon.

Did the Prussians and Austrians reflect on the humiliation of an
alliance with the Muscovites, and on the superiority of the code civil
when the Russian Guard at Kulm stood like a rock against the
desperate onslaughts of Vandamme?

Perhaps by this time the inhabitants of Berlin have obliterated the
bas-relief in the Alley of Victories, representing Prince William of
Prussia, the future victor of Sedan, seeking safety within the square
of the Kaluga regiment!

Russian blood has flowed in numberless battles in the cause of the
Germans and Austrians. The present Armageddon might perhaps have been
avoided if Emperor Nicholas I. had left the Hapsburg monarchy to its
own resources in 1849, and had not unwisely crushed the independence
of Hungary.

Within our memory, the benevolent neutrality of Russia guarded
Germany in 1870 from an attack in the rear by its opponents of
Sadowa.

Are all such facts to be explained away on the ground that the
despised Muscovites may be occasionally useful as "gun meat," but
are guilty of sacrilege if they take up a stand against German
taskmasters in "shining armor"?

The older generations of Germany had not yet reached that comfortable
conclusion.

The last recommendation which the founder of the German Empire made
on his deathbed to his grandson was to keep on good terms with that
Russia which is now proclaimed to be a debased mixture of Byzantine,
Tartar, and Muscovite abominations.

Fortunately, the course of history does not depend on the frantic
exaggerations of partisans.
To-night she had them all on the table waiting for him;
and she was now fussing round the house to see if everything was tidy
and in readiness for his coming.

At last we heard a knock upon the door, and of course it was I who got
there first to let him in.

The Doctor had brought his own flute with him this time. And after
supper was over (which he enjoyed very much) the table was cleared away
and the washing-up left in the kitchen-sink till the next day. Then the
Doctor and my father started playing duets.

They got so interested in this that I began to be afraid that they would
never come to talking over my business. But at last the Doctor said,

"Your son tells me that he is anxious to become a naturalist."

And then began a long talk which lasted far into the night. At first
both my mother and father were rather against the idea--as they had
been from the beginning. They said it was only a boyish whim, and that
I would get tired of it very soon. But after the matter had been talked
over from every side, the Doctor turned to my father and said,

"Well now, supposing, Mr. Stubbins, that your son came to me for two
years--that is, until he is twelve years old. During those two years he
will have time to see if he is going to grow tired of it or not. Also
during that time, I will promise to teach him reading and writing and
perhaps a little arithmetic as well. What do you say to that?"

"I don't know," said my father, shaking his head. "You are very kind and
it is a handsome offer you make, Doctor. But I feel that Tommy ought to
be learning some trade by which he can earn his living later on."

Then my mother spoke up. Although she was nearly in tears at the
prospect of my leaving her house while I was still so young, she pointed
out to my father that this was a grand chance for me to get learning.

"Now Jacob," she said, "you know that many lads in the town have been to
the Grammar School till they were fourteen or fifteen years old. Tommy
can easily spare these two years for his education; and if he learns no
more than to read and write, the time will not be lost. Though goodness
knows," she added, getting out her handkerchief to cry, "the house will
seem terribly empty when he's gone."

"I will take care that he comes to see you, Mrs. Stubbins," said the
Doctor--"every day, if you like. After all, he will not be very far
away."

Well, at length my father gave in; and it was agreed that I was to live
with the Doctor and work for him for two years in exchange for learning
to read and write and for my board and lodging.

"Of course," added the Doctor, "while I have money I will keep Tommy in
clothes as well. But money is a very irregular thing with me; sometimes
I have some, and then sometimes I haven't."

"You are very good, Doctor," said my mother, drying her tears. "It seems
to me that Tommy is a very fortunate boy."

And then, thoughtless, selfish little imp that I was, I leaned over and
whispered in the Doctor's ear,

"Please don't forget to say something about the voyages."

"Oh, by the way," said John Dolittle, "of course occasionally my work
requires me to travel. You will have no objection, I take it, to your
son's coming with me?"

My poor mother looked up sharply, more unhappy and anxious than ever
at this new turn; while I stood behind the Doctor's chair, my heart
thumping with excitement, waiting for my father's answer.

"No," he said slowly after a while. "If we agree to the other
arrangement I don't see that we've the right to make any objection to
that."

Well, there surely was never a happier boy in the world than I was at
that moment. My head was in the clouds. I trod on air. I could scarcely
keep from dancing round the parlor. At last the dream of my life was
to come true! At last I was to be given a chance to seek my fortune, to
have adventures! For I knew perfectly well that it was now almost time
for the Doctor to start upon another voyage. Polynesia had told me that
he hardly ever stayed at home for more than six months at a stretch.
Therefore he would be surely going again within a fortnight. And I--I,
Tommy Stubbins, would go with him! Just to think of it!--to cross the
Sea, to walk on foreign shores, to roam the World!


PART TWO


THE FIRST CHAPTER. THE CREW OF "THE CURLEW"

FROM that time on of course my position in the town was very different.
I was no longer a poor cobbler's son. I carried my nose in the air as
I went down the High Street with Jip in his gold collar at my side; and
snobbish little boys who had despised me before because I was not
rich enough to go to school now pointed me out to their friends and
whispered, "You see him? He's a doctor's assistant--and only ten years
old!"

But their eyes would have opened still wider with wonder if they had but
known that I and the dog that was with me could talk to one another.

Two days after the Doctor had been to our house to dinner he told me
very sadly that he was afraid that he would have to give up trying to
learn the language of the shellfish--at all events for the present.

"I'm very discouraged, Stubbins, very. I've tried the mussels and the
clams, the oysters and the whelks, cockles and scallops; seven different
kinds of crabs and all the lobster family. I think I'll leave it for the
present and go at it again later on."

"What will you turn to now?" I asked.

"Well, I rather thought of going on a voyage, Stubbins. It's quite a
time now since I've been away. And there is a great deal of work waiting
for me abroad."

"When shall we start?" I asked.

Quoth Sa'idah, 'Had ye any heart- yearnings for him or had ye loved him,
ye had not cast him into the sea; but choose ye now what death ye will
die.' Then she seized on them and would have slain them; but they cried
out, saying, 'In thy safeguard, O our brother!'

Thereupon I interceded and said to her, 'I claim of thine honour not to
kill my brothers.' Quoth she, 'There is no help but that I slay them,
for they are traitors.'

But I ceased not to speak her fair and conciliate her till she said, 'To
content thee, I will not kill them, but I will enchant them.'

So saying, she brought out a cup and filling it with sea-water,
pronounced over it words that might not be understood; then saying,
'Quit this human shape for the shape of a dog;' she sprinkled them
with the water, and immediately they were transmewed into dogs, as
thou seest them, O Vicar of Allah."

Whereupon he turned to the dogs and said to them, "Have I spoken
the truth, O my brothers?"

And they bowed their heads, as they would say, "Thou hast spoken sooth."
At this he continued, "Then she said to those who were in the
galleon, 'Know ye that Abdullah bin Fazil here present is become
my brother and I shall visit him once or twice every day: so, whoso
of you crosseth him or gainsayeth his bidding or doth him hurt with
hand or tongue, I will do with him even as I have done with these
two traitors and bespell him to a dog, and he shall end his days
in that form, nor shall he find deliverance.'

And they all said to her, 'O our lady, we are his slaves and his
servants every one of us and will not disobey him in aught.' Moreover,
she said to me, 'When thou comest to Bassorah, examine all thy
property and if there lack aught thereof, tell me and I will bring
it to thee, in whose hands and in what place soever it may be, and
will change him who took it into a dog.

When thou hast magazined thy goods, clap a collar[FN#533] of wood on the
neck of each of these two traitors and tie them to the leg of a couch
and shut them up by themselves.

Moreover, every night, at midnight, do thou go down to them and beat
each of them a bout till he swoon away; and if thou suffer a single
night to pass without beating them, I will come to thee and drub
thee a sound drubbing, after which I will drub them.'

And I answered, 'To hear is to obey.' Then said she, 'Tie them up with
ropes till thou come to Bassorah.' So I tied a rope about each dog's
neck and lashed them to the mast, and she went her way. On the morrow we
entered Bassorah and the merchants came out to meet me and saluted
me, and no one of them enquired of my brothers.

But they looked at the dogs and said to me, 'Ho, such and such,[FN#534]
what wilt thou do with these two dogs thou hast brought with thee?'

Quoth I, 'I reared them on this voyage and have brought them home
with me.' And they laughed at them, knowing not that they were my brothers.
When I reached my house, I put the twain in a closet and busied
myself all that night with the unpacking and disposition of the
bales of stuffs and jewels.

Moreover, the merchants were with me being minded to offer me the
salam; wherefore I was occupied with them and forgot to beat the
dogs or chain them up.

Then without doing them aught of hurt, I lay down to sleep, but suddenly
and unexpectedly there came to me the Red King's daughter Sa'idah
and said to me, 'Did I not bid thee clap chains on their necks and
give each of them a bout of beating?'

So saying, she seized me and pulling out a whip, flogged me till I
fainted away, after which she went to the place where my brothers
were and with the same scourge beat them both till they came nigh
upon death.

Then said she to me, 'Beat each of them a like bout every night, and if
thou let a night pass without doing this, I will beat thee;' and I
replied, 'O my lady, to-morrow I will put chains on their necks, and
next night I will beat them nor will I leave them one night unbeaten.'
And she charged me strictly to beat them and disappeared. When the
morning morrowed it being no light matter for me to put fetters of
iron on their necks, I went to a goldsmith and bade him make them
collars and chains of gold. He did this and I put the collars on their
necks and chained them up, as she bade me; and next night I beat them
both in mine own despite.

This befel in the Caliphate of Al- Mahdi,[FN#535] third of the sons
of Al-Abbas, and I commended myself to him by sending him presents,
so he invested me with the government and made me viceroy of
Bassorah.

On this wise I abode some time and after a while I said to myself, 'Haply
her wrath is grown cool;' and left them a night unbeaten, whereupon
she came to me and beat me a bout whose burning I shall never forget
long as I live.

So, from that time to this, I have never left them a single night
unbeaten during the reign of Al-Mahdi; and when he deceased and
thou camest to the succession, thou sentest to me, confirming me
in the government of Bassorah.

These twelve years past have I beaten them every night, in mine own
despite, and after I have beaten them, I excuse myself to them and
comfort them and give them to eat and drink; and they have remained
shut up, nor did any of the creatures of Allah know of them, till
thou sentest to me Abu Ishak the boon-companion, on account of the
tribute, and he discovered my secret and returning to thee, acquainted
thee therewith.

Then thou sentest him back to fetch me and them; so I answered with
'Hearkening and obedience,' and brought them before thee, whereupon
thou questionedst me and I told thee the truth of the case; and
this is my history."

The Caliph marvelled at the case of the two dogs and said to Abdullah,
"Hast thou at this present forgiven thy two brothers the wrong they did
thee, yea or nay?"

He replied, "O my lord, may Allah forgive them and acquit them of
responsibility in this world and the next! Indeed, 'tis I who stand in
need of their forgiveness, for that these twelve years past I have
beaten them a grievous bout every night!"

Rejoined the Caliph, "O Abdullah, Inshallah, I will endeavour for
their release and that they may become men again, as they were
before, and I will make peace between thee and them; so shall you
live the rest of your lives as brothers loving one another; and
like as thou hast forgiven them, so shall they forgive thee.

But now take them and go down with them to thy lodging and this night
beat them not, and to- morrow there shall be naught save weal." Quoth
Abdullah, "O my lord, as thy head liveth, if I leave them one night
unbeaten, Sa'idah will come to me and beat me, and I have no body
to brook beating."

Quoth the Caliph, "Fear not, for I will give thee a writing under
my hand.

[FN#536] An she come to thee, do thou give her the paper and if, when
she has read it, she spare thee, the favour will be hers; but,
if she obey not my bidding, commit thy business to Allah and let her
beat thee a bout and suppose that thou hast forgotten to beat them
for one night and that she beateth thee because of that: and if it
fall out thus and she thwart me, as sure as I am Commander of the
Faithful, I will be even with her."

Then he wrote her a letter on a piece of paper, two fingers broad, and
sealing it with his signet-ring, gave it to Abdullah, saying, "O
Abdullah, if Sa'idah come, say to her, 'The Caliph, King of mankind,
hath commanded me to leave beating them and hath written me this
letter for thee; and he saluteth thee with the salam.'

Then give her the warrant and fear no harm." After which he exacted
of him an oath and a solemn pledge that he would not beat them. So
Abdullah took the dogs and carried them to his lodging, saying to
himself, "I wonder what the Caliph will do with the daughter of the
Sovran of the Jinn, if she cross him and trounce me to-night!

But I will bear with a bout of beating for once and leave my brothers at
rest this night, though for their sake I suffer torture."

Then he bethought himself awhile, and his reason said to him, "Did not the
Caliph rely on some great support, he had never forbidden me from
beating them."

So he entered his lodging and doffed the collars from the dogs'
necks, saying, "I put my trust in Allah," and fell to comforting
them and saying, "No harm shall befal you; for the Caliph, fifth[FN#537]
of the sons of Al-Abbas, hath pledged himself for your deliverance
and I have forgiven you.

An it please Allah the Most High, the time is come and ye shall be
delivered this blessed night; so rejoice ye in the prospect of
peace and gladness." when they heard these words, they fell to
whining with the whining of dogs,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn
of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

When it was the Nine Hundred and Eighty-sixth Night, She resumed, It hath
reached me, O auspicious King, that Abdullah bin Fazil said to his
brothers, "Rejoice ye in the prospect of comfort and gladness."

And when they heard his words they fell to whining with the whining of
dogs, and rubbed their jowls against his feet, as if blessing him
and humbling themselves before him.

He mourned over them and took to stroking their backs till supper time;
and when they set on the trays he bade the dogs sit. So they sat down
and ate with him from the tray, whilst his officers stood gaping and
marvelling at his eating with dogs and all said, "Is he mad or are
his wits gone wrong?

How can the Viceroy of Bassorah city, he who is greater than a Wazir,
eat with dogs?

Knoweth he not that the dog is unclean?[FN#538]" And they stared at the
dogs, as they ate with him as servants eat with their lords,[FN#539]
knowing not that they were his brothers; nor did they cease staring at
them, till they had made an end of eating, when Abdullah washed his hands
and the dogs also put out their paws and washed; whereupon all who were
present began to laugh at them and to marvel, saying, one to other,
"Never in our lives saw we dogs eat and wash their paws after
eating!"

Then the dogs sat down on the divans beside Abdullah, nor dared any ask
him of this; and thus the case lasted till midnight, when he
dismissed the attendants and lay down to sleep and the dogs with
him, each on a couch; whereupon the servants said one to other,
"Verily, he hath lain down to sleep and the two dogs are lying with
him."

Quoth another, "Since he hath eaten with the dogs from the same tray,
there is no harm in their sleeping with him; and this is naught
save the fashion of madmen."

Moreover, they ate not anything of the food which remained in the tray,
saying, "'Tis unclean." Such was their case; but as for Abdullah, ere
he could think, the earth clave asunder and out rose Sa'idah, who
said to him, "O Abdullah, why hast thou not beaten them this night
and why hast thou undone the collars from their necks?

Hast thou acted on this wise perversely and in mockery of my commandment?

But I will at once beat thee and spell thee into a dog like them."

He replied, "O my lady, I conjure thee by the graving upon the seal-ring
of Solomon David-son (on the twain be peace!)

have patience with me till I tell thee my cause and after do with
me what thou wilt."

Quoth she, "Say on," and quoth he, "The reason of my not punishing
them is only this.

The King of mankind, the Commander of the Faithful, the Caliph Harun
al-Rashid, ordered me not to beat them this night and took of me
oaths and covenants to that effect; and he saluteth thee with the
salam and hath committed to me a mandate under his own hand, which
he bade me give thee.

So I obeyed his order for to obey the Commander of the Faithful is
obligatory; and here is the mandate.

Take it and read it and after work thy will." She replied "Hither with
it!"

So he gave her the letter and she opened it and read as follows, "In
the name of Allah, the Compassionating, the Compassionate! From the King
of mankind, Harun al-Rashid, to the daughter of the Red King, Sa'idah!
But, after.

Verily, this man hath forgiven his brothers and hath waived his claim
against them, and we have enjoined them to reconciliation. Now, when
reconciliation ruleth, retribution is remitted, and if you of the
Jinn contradict us in our commandments, we will contrary you in
yours and traverse your ordinances; but, an ye obey our bidding and
further our orders, we will indeed do the like with yours.

Wherefore I bid thee hurt them no hurt, and if thou believe in Allah and
in His Apostle, it behoveth thee to obey and us to command.

[FN#540] So an thou spare them, I will requite thee with that whereto
my Lord shall enable me; and the token of obedience is that thou remove
thine enchantment from these two men, so they may come before me
to- morrow, free.

But an thou release them not, I will release them in thy despite,
by the aid of Almighty Allah."

When she had read the letter, she said, "O Abdullah, I will do nought
till I go to my sire and show him the mandate of the monarch of
mankind and return to thee with the answer in haste."

So saying, she signed with her hand to the earth, which clave open
and she disappeared therein, whilst Abdullah's heart was like to
fly for joy and he said, "Allah advance the Commander of the
Faithful!"

As for Sa'idah, she went in to her father; and, acquainting him with that
which had passed, gave him the Caliph's letter, which he kissed and laid
on his head. Then he read it and understanding its contents said, "O my
daughter, verily, the ordinance of the monarch of mankind obligeth us
and his commandments are effectual over us, nor can we disobey
him: so go thou and release the two men forth-with and say to them,
'Ye are freed by the intercession of the monarch of mankind.'

For, should he be wroth with us, he would destroy us to the last of us;
so do not thou impose on us that which we are unable." Quoth she "O my
father, if the monarch of mankind were wroth with us, what could
he do with us?"

; and quoth her sire, "He hath power over us for several reasons.

In the first place, he is a man and hath thus pre-eminence over
us[FN#541]; secondly he is the Vicar of Allah; and thirdly, he is
constant in praying the dawn-prayer of two bows[FN#542]; therefore
were all the tribes of the Jinn assembled together against him from
the Seven Worlds they could do him no hurt.

But he, should he be wroth with us would pray the dawn-prayer of
two bows and cry out upon us one cry, when we should all present
ourselves before him obediently and be before him as sheep before
the butcher.

If he would, he could command us to quit our abiding-places for a
desert country wherein we might not endure to sojourn; and if he
desired to destroy us, he would bid us destroy ourselves, whereupon
we should destroy one another.
wherefore we may not disobey his bidding for, if we did this, he
would consume us with fire nor could we flee from before him to any
asylum.

Thus is it with every True Believer who is persistent in praying the
dawn-prayer of two bows; his commandment is effectual over us: so be
not thou the means of our destruction, because of two mortals, but
go forthright and release them, ere the anger of the Commander of
the Faithful fall upon us."

So she returned to Abdullah and acquainted him with her father's
words, saying, "Kiss for us the hands of the Prince of True Believers
and seek his approval for us."

Then she brought out the tasse and filling it with water, conjured over
it and uttered words which might not be understood; after which
she sprinkled the dogs with the water saying, "Quit the form of
dogs and return to the shape of men!"

Whereupon they became men as before and the spell of the enchantment
was loosed from them. Quoth they, "I testify that there is no god but
the God and I testify that Mohammed is the Apostle of God!" Then they
fell on their brother's feet and hands, kissing them and beseeching his
forgiveness: but he said, "Do ye forgive me;" and they both repented
with sincere repentance, saying, "Verily, the damned Devil lured us
and covetise deluded us: but our Lord hath requited us after our
deserts, and forgiveness is of the signs of the noble." And they went
on to supplicate their brother and weep and profess repentance for
that which had befallen him from them[FN#543].

Then quoth he to them, "What did ye with my wife whom I brought from
the City of Stone?"

Quoth they, "When Satan tempted us and we cast thee into the sea, there
arose strife between us, each saying, I will have her to wife. Now when
she heard these words and beheld our contention, she knew that we had
thrown thee into the sea; so she came up from the cabin and said
to us, 'Contend not because of me, for I will not belong to either
of you.

My husband is gone into the sea and I will follow him.'

So saying, she cast herself overboard and died." Exclaimed Abdullah, "In
very sooth she died a martyr[FN#544]! But there is no Majesty and there
is no Might save in Allah, the Glorious, the Great!" Then he wept for
her with sore weeping and said to his brothers, "It was not well of
you to do this deed and bereave me of my wife." They answered, "Indeed,
we have sinned, but our Lord hath requited us our misdeed and this
was a thing which Allah decreed unto us, ere He created us."

And he accepted their excuse; but Sa'idah said to him, "Have they
done all these things to thee and wilt thou forgive them?"

He replied, "O my sister, whoso hath power[FN#545] and spareth, for Allah's
reward he prepareth." Then said she, "Be on thy guard against them, for
they are traitors;" and fare-welled him and fared forth.--And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.

When it was the Nine Hundred and Eighty-seventh Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Abdullah,
when Sa'idah warned him and blessed him and went her ways, passed
the rest of the night with his brothers and on the morrow, he sent
them to the Hammam and clad each of them, on his coming forth, in
a suit worth a hoard of money.

Then he called for the tray of food and they set it before him and
he ate, he and his brothers.

When his attendants saw the twain and knew them for his brothers they
saluted them and said to him, "O our lord, Allah give thee joy of
thy reunion with thy dear brothers!

Where have they been this while?"

He replied, "It was they whom ye saw in the guise of dogs; praise
be to Allah who hath delivered them from prison and grievous
torment!"

Then he carried them to the Divan of the Caliph and kissing ground before
Al-Rashid wished him continuance of honour and fortune and surcease
of evil and enmity.

Quoth the Caliph, "Welcome, O Emir Abdullah! Tell me what hath befallen
thee." And quoth he, "O Commander of the Faithful (whose power Allah
increase!) when I carried my brothers home to my lodging, my heart
was at rest concerning them, because thou hadst pledged thyself to their
release and I said in myself, 'Kings fail not to attain aught for
which they strain, inasmuch as the divine favour aideth them.'

So I took off the collars from their necks, putting my trust in Allah,
and ate with them from the same tray, which when my suite saw, they
made light of my wit and said each to other, 'He is surely mad! How
can the governor of Bassorah who is greater than the Wazir, eat
with dogs?' Then they threw away what was in the tray, saying, 'We
will not eat the dogs' orts.' And they went on to befool my reason,
whilst I heard their words, but returned them no reply because of
their unknowing that the dogs were my brothers. When the hour of sleep
came, I sent them away and addressed myself to sleep; but, ere I was
ware, the earth clave in sunder and out came Sa'idah, the Red King's
daughter, enraged against me, with eyes like fire." And he went on to
relate to the Caliph all what had passed between him and her and
her father and how she had transmewed his brothers from canine to
human form, adding, "And here they are before thee, O Commander of
the Faithful!"

The Caliph looked at them and seeing two young men like moons, said,
"Allah requite thee for me with good, O Abdullah, for that thou hast
acquainted me with an advantage[FN#546] I knew not! Henceforth,
Inshallah, I will never leave to pray these two-bow orisons before
the breaking of the dawn, what while I live."

He was a nasty lawyer, this Prosecutor, with a long nose.

Most of the time I could hardly keep my eyes off poor Luke, who sat
there between his two policemen, staring at the floor as though he
weren't interested. The only time I saw him take any notice at all was
when a small dark man with wicked, little, watery eyes got up into the
witness-box. I heard Bob snarl under my chair as this person came into
the court-room and Luke's eyes just blazed with anger and contempt.

This man said his name was Mendoza and that he was the one who had
guided the Mexican police to the mine after Bluebeard Bill had been
killed. And at every word he said I could hear Bob down below me
muttering between his teeth,

"It's a lie! It's a lie! I'll chew his face. It's a lie!"

And both the Doctor and I had hard work keeping the dog under the seat.

Then I noticed that our Mr. Jenkyns had disappeared from the Doctor's
side. But presently I saw him stand up at the long table to speak to the
judge.

"Your Honor," said he, "I wish to introduce a new witness for the
defense, Doctor John Dolittle, the naturalist. Will you please step into
the witness-stand, Doctor?"

There was a buzz of excitement as the Doctor made his way across the
crowded room; and I noticed the nasty lawyer with the long nose lean
down and whisper something to a friend, smiling in an ugly way which
made me want to pinch him.

Then Mr. Jenkyns asked the Doctor a whole lot of questions about himself
and made him answer in a loud voice so the whole court could hear. He
finished up by saying,

"And you are prepared to swear, Doctor Dolittle, that you understand the
language of dogs and can make them understand you. Is that so?"

"Yes," said the Doctor, "that is so."

"And what, might I ask," put in the judge in a very quiet, dignified
voice, "has all this to do with the killing of er--er--Bluebeard Bill?"

"This, Your Honor," said Mr. Jenkyns, talking in a very grand manner as
though he were on a stage in a theatre: "there is in this court-room at
the present moment a bulldog, who was the only living thing that saw the
man killed. With the Court's permission I propose to put that dog in
the witness-stand and have him questioned before you by the eminent
scientist, Doctor John Dolittle."


THE SIXTH CHAPTER. THE JUDGE'S DOG

AT first there was a dead silence in the Court. Then everybody began
whispering or giggling at the same time, till the whole room sounded
like a great hive of bees. Many people seemed to be shocked; most of
them were amused; and a few were angry.

Presently up sprang the nasty lawyer with the long nose.

"I protest, Your Honor," he cried, waving his arms wildly to the judge.
"I object. The dignity of this court is in peril. I protest."

"I am the one to take care of the dignity of this court," said the
judge.

Then Mr. Jenkyns got up again. (If it hadn't been such a serious matter,
it was almost like a Punch-and-Judy show: somebody was always popping
down and somebody else popping up).

"If there is any doubt on the score of our being able to do as we say,
Your Honor will have no objection, I trust, to the Doctor's giving the
Court a demonstration of his powers--of showing that he actually
can understand the speech of animals?" I thought I saw a twinkle of
amusement come into the old judge's eyes as he sat considering a moment
before he answered.

"No," he said at last, "I don't think so." Then he turned to the Doctor.

"Are you quite sure you can do this?" he asked.

"Quite, Your Honor," said the Doctor--"quite sure."

"Very well then," said the judge. "If you can satisfy us that you really
are able to understand canine testimony, the dog shall be admitted as
a witness. I do not see, in that case, how I could object to his being
heard. But I warn you that if you are trying to make a laughing-stock of
this Court it will go hard with you."

"I protest, I protest!" yelled the long-nosed Prosecutor. "This is a
scandal, an outrage to the Bar!"

"Sit down!" said the judge in a very stern voice.

"What animal does Your Honor wish me to talk with?" asked the Doctor.

"I would like you to talk to my own dog," said the judge. "He is outside
in the cloak-room. I will have him brought in; and then we shall see
what you can do."

Then someone went out and fetched the judge's dog, a lovely great
Russian wolf-hound with slender legs and a shaggy coat. He was a proud
and beautiful creature.

"Now, Doctor," said the judge, "did you ever see this dog
before?--Remember you are in the witness-stand and under oath."

"No, Your Honor, I never saw him before."

"Very well then, will you please ask him to tell you what I had for
supper last night? He was with me and watched me while I ate."

Then the Doctor and the dog started talking to one another in signs and
sounds; and they kept at it for quite a long time. And the Doctor began
to giggle and get so interested that he seemed to forget all about the
Court and the judge and everything else.

"What a time he takes!" I heard a fat woman in front of me whispering.
"He's only pretending. Of course he can't do it! Who ever heard of
talking to a dog? He must think we're children."

"Haven't you finished yet?" the judge asked the Doctor. "It shouldn't
take that long just to ask what I had for supper."

"Oh no, Your Honor," said the Doctor. "The dog told me that long ago.
But then he went on to tell me what you did after supper."

"Never mind that," said the judge. "Tell me what answer he gave you to
my question."

"He says you had a mutton-chop, two baked potatoes, a pickled walnut and
a glass of ale."

The Honorable Eustace Beauchamp Conckley went white to the lips.

"Sounds like witchcraft," he muttered. "I never dreamed--"

"And after your supper," the Doctor went on, "he says you went to see a
prize-fight and then sat up playing cards for money till twelve o'clock
and came home singing, 'We wont get--'"

"That will do," the judge interrupted, "I am satisfied you can do as you
say. The prisoner's dog shall be admitted as a witness."

"I protest, I object!" screamed the Prosecutor. "Your Honor, this is--"

"Sit down!" roared the judge. "I say the dog shall be heard. That ends
the matter. Put the witness in the stand."

And then for the first time in the solemn history of England a dog was
put in the witness-stand of Her Majesty's Court of Assizes. And it was
I, Tommy Stubbins (when the Doctor made a sign to me across the room)
who proudly led Bob up the aisle, through the astonished crowd, past the
frowning, spluttering, long-nosed Prosecutor, and made him comfortable
on a high chair in the witness-box; from where the old bulldog sat
scowling down over the rail upon the amazed and gaping jury.


THE SEVENTH CHAPTER. THE END OF THE MYSTERY

THE trial went swiftly forward after that. Mr. Jenkyns told the Doctor
to ask Bob what he saw on the "night of the 29th;" and when Bob had told
all he knew and the Doctor had turned it into English for the judge and
the jury, this was what he had to say:

"On the night of the 29th of November, 1824, I was with my master, Luke
Fitzjohn (otherwise known as Luke the Hermit) and his two partners,
Manuel Mendoza and William Boggs (otherwise known as Bluebeard Bill)
on their gold-mine in Mexico. For a long time these three men had been
hunting for gold; and they had dug a deep hole in the ground. On the
morning of the 29th gold was discovered, lots of it, at the bottom of
this hole. And all three, my master and his two partners, were very
happy about it because now they would be rich. But Manuel Mendoza asked
Bluebeard Bill to go for a walk with him. These two men I had always
suspected of being bad. So when I noticed that they left my master
behind, I followed them secretly to see what they were up to. And in a
deep cave in the mountains I heard them arrange together to kill Luke
the Hermit so that they should get all the gold and he have none."

At this point the judge asked, "Where is the witness Mendoza? Constable,
see that he does not leave the court."

But the wicked little man with the watery eyes had already sneaked out
when no one was looking and he was never seen in Puddleby again.

"Then," Bob's statement went on, "I went to my master and tried very
hard to make him understand that his partners were dangerous men. But it
was no use. He did not understand dog language. So I did the next best
thing: I never let him out of my sight but stayed with him every moment
of the day and night.

"Now the hole that they had made was so deep that to get down and up it
you had to go in a big bucket tied on the end of a rope; and the three
men used to haul one another up and let one another down the mine in
this way. That was how the gold was brought up too--in the bucket. Well,
about seven o'clock in the evening my master was standing at the top of
the mine, hauling up Bluebeard Bill who was in the bucket. Just as he
had got Bill halfway up I saw Mendoza come out of the hut where we
all lived. Mendoza thought that Bill was away buying groceries. But
he wasn't: he was in the bucket. And when Mendoza saw Luke hauling and
straining on the rope he thought he was pulling up a bucketful of gold.
So he drew a pistol from his pocket and came sneaking up behind Luke to
shoot him.

"I barked and barked to warn my master of the danger he was in; but he
was so busy hauling up Bill (who was a heavy fat man) that he took no
notice of me. I saw that if I didn't do something quick he would surely
be shot. So I did a thing I've never done before: suddenly and savagely
I bit my master in the leg from behind. Luke was so hurt and startled
that he did just what I wanted him to do: he let go the rope with both
hands at once and turned round. And then, CRASH! down went Bill in his
bucket to the bottom of the mine and he was killed.

"While my master was busy scolding me Mendoza put his pistol in his
pocket, came up with a smile on his face and looked down the mine.

"'Why, Good Gracious'!" said he to Luke, 'You've killed Bluebeard Bill.
I must go and tell the police'--hoping, you see, to get the whole mine
to himself when Luke should be put in prison. Then he jumped on his
horse and galloped away."

"And soon my master grew afraid; for he saw that if Mendoza only told
enough lies to the police, it WOULD look as though he had killed Bill on
purpose. So while Mendoza was gone he and I stole away together secretly
and came to England. Here he shaved off his beard and became a hermit.
And ever since, for fifteen years, we've remained in hiding. This is all
I have to say. And I swear it is the truth, every word."

When the Doctor finished reading Bob's long speech the excitement among
the twelve men of the jury was positively terrific. One, a very old man
with white hair, began to weep in a loud voice at the thought of poor
Luke hiding on the fen for fifteen years for something he couldn't help.
And all the others set to whispering and nodding their heads to one
another.

In the middle of all this up got that horrible Prosecutor again, waving
his arms more wildly than ever.

"Your Honor," he cried, "I must object to this evidence as biased.
Of course the dog would not tell the truth against his own master. I
object. I protest."

"Very well," said the judge, "you are at liberty to cross-examine. It is
your duty as Prosecutor to prove his evidence untrue. There is the dog:
question him, if you do not believe what he says."

I thought the long-nosed lawyer would have a fit. He looked first at
the dog, then at the Doctor, then at the judge, then back at the dog
scowling from the witness-box. He opened his mouth to say something;
but no words came. He waved his arms some more. His face got redder and
redder. At last, clutching his forehead, he sank weakly into his seat
and had to be helped out of the court-room by two friends. As he
was half carried through the door he was still feebly murmuring, "I
protest--I object--I protest!"


THE EIGHTH CHAPTER. THREE CHEERS

NEXT the judge made a very long speech to the jury; and when it was over
all the twelve jurymen got up and went out into the next room. And at
that point the Doctor came back, leading Bob, to the seat beside me.

"What have the jurymen gone out for?" I asked.

"They always do that at the end of a trial--to make up their minds
whether the prisoner did it or not."

"Couldn't you and Bob go in with them and help them make up their minds
the right way?" I asked.

"No, that's not allowed. They have to talk it over in secret. Sometimes
it takes--My Gracious, look, they're coming back already! They didn't
spend long over it."

Everybody kept quite still while the twelve men came tramping back
into their places in the pews. Then one of them, the leader--a little
man--stood up and turned to the judge. Every one was holding his breath,
especially the Doctor and myself, to see what he was going to say. You
could have heard a pin drop while the whole court-room, the whole of
Puddleby in fact, waited with craning necks and straining ears to hear
the weighty words.

"Your Honor," said the little man, "the jury returns a verdict of NOT
GUILTY."

"What's that mean?" I asked, turning to the Doctor.

But I found Doctor John Dolittle, the famous naturalist, standing on top
of a chair, dancing about on one leg like a schoolboy.

"It means he's free!" he cried, "Luke is free!"

"Then he'll be able to come on the voyage with us, won't he?"

But I could not hear his answer; for the whole court-room seemed to be
jumping up on chairs like the Doctor. The crowd had suddenly gone crazy.
All the people were laughing and calling and waving to Luke to show him
how glad they were that he was free. The noise was deafening.

Then it stopped. All was quiet again; and the people stood up
respectfully while the judge left the Court. For the trial of Luke the
Hermit, that famous trial which to this day they are still talking of in
Puddleby, was over.

In the hush while the judge was leaving, a sudden shriek rang out,
and there, in the doorway stood a woman, her arms out-stretched to the
Hermit.

"Luke!" she cried, "I've found you at last!"

"It's his wife," the fat woman in front of me whispered. "She ain't
seen 'im in fifteen years, poor dear! What a lovely re-union. I'm glad I
came. I wouldn't have missed this for anything!"

As soon as the judge had gone the noise broke out again; and now the
folks gathered round Luke and his wife and shook them by the hand and
congratulated them and laughed over them and cried over them.

"Come along, Stubbins," said the Doctor, taking me by the arm, "let's
get out of this while we can."

"But aren't you going to speak to Luke?" I said--"to ask him if he'll
come on the voyage?"

"It wouldn't be a bit of use," said the Doctor. "His wife's come for
him. No man stands any chance of going on a voyage when his wife hasn't
seen him in fifteen years. Come along. Let's get home to tea. We didn't
have any lunch, remember. And we've earned something to eat. We'll have
one of those mixed meals, lunch and tea combined--with watercress and
ham. Nice change. Come along."

Just as we were going to step out at a side door I heard the crowd
shouting,

"The Doctor! The Doctor! Where's the Doctor? The Hermit would have
hanged if it hadn't been for the Doctor. Speech! Speech!--The Doctor!"

And a man came running up to us and said,

"The people are calling for you, Sir."

"I'm very sorry," said the Doctor, "but I'm in a hurry."

"The crowd won't be denied, Sir," said the man. "They want you to make a
speech in the marketplace."

"Beg them to excuse me," said the Doctor--"with my compliments. I have
an appointment at my house--a very important one which I may not break.
Tell Luke to make a speech. Come along, Stubbins, this way."

"Oh Lord!" he muttered as we got out into the open air and found another
crowd waiting for him at the side door. "Let's go up that alleyway--to
the left. Quick!--Run!"

We took to our heels, darted through a couple of side streets and just
managed to get away from the crowd.

It was not till we had gained the Oxenthorpe Road that we dared to
slow down to a walk and take our breath. And even when we reached the
Doctor's gate and turned to look backwards towards the town, the faint
murmur of many voices still reached us on the evening wind.

"They're still clamoring for you," I said. "Listen!"

The murmur suddenly swelled up into a low distant roar; and although it
was a mile and half away you could distinctly hear the words,

"Three cheers for Luke the Hermit: Hooray!--Three cheers for his dog:
Hooray!--Three cheers for his wife: Hooray!--Three cheers for the
Doctor: Hooray! Hooray! HOO-R-A-Y!"


THE NINTH CHAPTER. THE PURPLE BIRD-OF-PARADISE

POLYNESIA was waiting for us in the front porch. She looked full of some
important news.

"Doctor," said she, "the Purple Bird-of-Paradise has arrived!"

"At last!" said the Doctor. "I had begun to fear some accident had
befallen her. And how is Miranda?"

From the excited way in which the Doctor fumbled his key into the lock I
guessed that we were not going to get our tea right away, even now.

"Oh, she seemed all right when she arrived," said Polynesia--"tired
from her long journey of course but otherwise all right. But what DO you
think? That mischief-making sparrow, Cheapside, insulted her as soon as
she came into the garden. When I arrived on the scene she was in
tears and was all for turning round and going straight back to Brazil
to-night. I had the hardest work persuading her to wait till you came.
She's in the study. I shut Cheapside in one of your book-cases and told
him I'd tell you exactly what had happened the moment you got home."

The Doctor frowned, then walked silently and quickly to the study.

Here we found the candles lit; for the daylight was nearly gone. Dab-Dab
was standing on the floor mounting guard over one of the glass-fronted
book-cases in which Cheapside had been imprisoned. The noisy little
sparrow was still fluttering angrily behind the glass when we came in.

In the centre of the big table, perched on the ink-stand, stood the most
beautiful bird I have ever seen. She had a deep violet-colored
breast, scarlet wings and a long, long sweeping tail of gold. She was
unimaginably beautiful but looked dreadfully tired. Already she had her
head under her wing; and she swayed gently from side to side on top of
the ink-stand like a bird that has flown long and far.

"Sh!" said Dab-Dab. "Miranda is asleep. I've got this little imp
Cheapside in here. Listen, Doctor: for Heaven's sake send that sparrow
away before he does any more mischief. He's nothing but a vulgar little
nuisance. We've had a perfectly awful time trying to get Miranda to
stay. Shall I serve your tea in here, or will you come into the kitchen
when you're ready?"

"We'll come into the kitchen, Dab-Dab," said the Doctor. "Let Cheapside
out before you go, please."

Dab-Dab opened the bookcase-door and Cheapside strutted out trying hard
not to look guilty.

"Cheapside," said the Doctor sternly, "what did you say to Miranda when
she arrived?"

"I didn't say nothing, Doc, straight I didn't. That is, nothing much. I
was picking up crumbs off the gravel path when she comes swanking into
the garden, turning up her nose in all directions, as though she owned
the earth--just because she's got a lot of colored plumage. A London
sparrow's as good as her any day. I don't hold by these gawdy bedizened
foreigners nohow. Why don't they stay in their own country?"

"But what did you say to her that got her so offended?"

"All I said was, 'You don't belong in an English garden; you ought to be
in a milliner's window. That's all."

"You ought to be ashamed of yourself, Cheapside. Don't you realize that
this bird has come thousands of miles to see me--only to be insulted by
your impertinent tongue as soon as she reaches my garden? What do you
mean by it?--If she had gone away again before I got back to-night I
would never have forgiven you--Leave the room."

Sheepishly, but still trying to look as though he didn't care, Cheapside
hopped out into the passage and Dab-Dab closed the door.

The Doctor went up to the beautiful bird on the ink-stand and gently
stroked its back. Instantly its head popped out from under its wing.


THE TENTH CHAPTER. LONG ARROW, THE SON OF GOLDEN ARROW

"WELL, Miranda," said the Doctor. "I'm terribly sorry this has happened.
But you mustn't mind Cheapside; he doesn't know any better. He's a city
bird; and all his life he has had to squabble for a living. You must
make allowances. He doesn't know any better."

Miranda stretched her gorgeous wings wearily. Now that I saw her awake
and moving I noticed what a superior, well-bred manner she had. There
were tears in her eyes and her beak was trembling.

"I wouldn't have minded so much," she said in a high silvery voice,
"if I hadn't been so dreadfully worn out--That and something else," she
added beneath her breath.

"Did you have a hard time getting here?" asked the Doctor.

"The worst passage I ever made," said Miranda. "The weather--Well there.
What's the use? I'm here anyway."

"Tell me," said the Doctor as though he had been impatiently waiting to
say something for a long time: "what did Long Arrow say when you gave
him my message?"

The Purple Bird-of-Paradise hung her head.

The ranch house isn't more than three miles from here, and if we could
have got there we would have been all right. By morning we may be ten
miles away, if we let the herd drift, and we'll have a dickens of
a time getting the brutes back through the snow."

"What aire we goin' ter do with the wimminfolks?"

"I'm going to try to get them to the ranch house. You boys will have to
make a snow camp, and hold the herd from drifting at all odds. Don't let
them sneak on you. Keep pushing them from the south. You see, they're all
turned that way now with their tails to the wind. As soon as they
get cold they will begin to move. Don't let 'em do it."
"All right, Ted. We'll do the best we can. You take care o' ther
wimminfolks. So long, an' good luck."
Ted rode back to where Mrs.

Graham was shivering in the closed wagon the boys had provided for her,
and Stella was sitting her pony by her side, trying to encourage her.

Carl Schwartz was the jehu of the outfit, and sat on the driver's
seat, a fair imitation of a snow man.

"Carl, get a move on you. We're going to try to make the Long Tom
ranch house," said Ted. "I'll lead, and you follow. If you lose
sight of me, yell to me and I'll come back. I've got my pocket searchlight,
and will send you back a flash now and then."
Carl was half frozen and would have been pleased to get down and walk
the rest of the distance, but he knew the danger that surrounded them,
and simply yelled back "Yah!" and gathered up the reins for a start.

"Come on, Stella," said Ted. "We're going to try to make the ranch
house."

Without a word Stella followed him, and the little caravan struck into
the teeth of the snow-laden wind, which was now blowing half a
gale.

The wagon moved slowly through the snow, which was getting deeper
every minute, and was like heavy sand.

Every few minutes Carl's voice could be heard, and Ted called back to
him.

Ted was traveling entirely by instinct, for it was so dark that he could
not see a foot in front of them.

So they struggled on for an hour, halting occasionally to give the horses
a breathing spell, then drove obstinately forward again.

"We should have been at the ranch house long ago," shouted Ted at last,
pulling in his panting horse.

"Then we're lost, I suppose," shouted Stella in return.

"Looks that way."

"What are you going to do?"
"Stop for the rest of the night."
"I wouldn't. Keep on until the horses won't go any farther."

"All right, if you think best."
On they went again for a half hour more, and Ted was beginning to
believe it was folly to go any farther when his pony stumbled and
almost fell.

In front of them loomed a darkness more intense than before.

Ted scrambled from the back of his pony and led it forward. The pony
had stumbled over the horse block at the very door of the Long Tom ranch
house.

CHAPTER II.

THE LONG TOM RANCH.

Ted and Stella raised such a shout that Carl pulled his horses up just
in time to keep them from trying to climb upon the veranda.

With the aid of his searchlight Ted had found the door and entered the
house, followed by Stella.

In the big, front living room they found a lamp, which they lighted and
looked around.

The house had been left ready for occupancy, and in the great, wide
fireplace logs were piled high ready to be burned.

In a moment Ted had a fire leaping high up the chimney, then hastened
out to the carriage.

Carl had scrambled down from the seat of the carriage, and was so cold
and numb that he couldn't walk, while Mrs. Graham had to be carried
into the house by Ted and placed before the fire to thaw out.

Soon the room was comfortable, and Ted, who had set out on a tour
of inspection, found that the kitchen was well stored with food.

He started a fire, and soon had coffee and bacon cooking.

Outside the storm continued to rage through the night, but
all within was tight and warm, and Stella and her aunt retired to their
comfortable bedrooms. But Ted sat up through the night.

He had considered starting back through the storm to the herd, but
thought better of it, for Bud was perfectly capable of doing all
that could be done with the cattle until daylight came to their
rescue.

While daylight was struggling up through the leaden eastern sky the wind
died down as suddenly as it had risen, and the snow ceased falling.

Ted had fallen into a doze in a chair in front of the fire, but a stray
sunbeam coming through a window fell upon his closed eyelids, and
he awoke with a start.

For a minute he could not think where he was. Then the cheery voice of
Stella fell upon his ears.

Somewhere in the distance she was singing, and he sprang to his feet
and looked about him.

It came to him that he was at the Long Tom, and he remembered having
left the Circle S herd out in the blizzard.

This stirred him to action, and he went back to the kitchen with the
intention of lighting the fire and getting breakfast.

He stopped in the doorway in astonishment. Stella, with her sleeves rolled
to the elbows, was busily engaged at the stove, singing as she
worked.

"Good morning," said Ted. "You beat me to it. Why didn't you wake me up
and put me to work?"

"Hello!" said Stella cheerily. "You looked so tired sitting in that
chair that I thought I'd let you sleep.

At any rate, cooking breakfast is no work for a boy in a house. Get
ready. Breakfast will be on the table in a minute.

What do you think I found in the shed behind the house? A mountain
sheep already dressed, and hung up for us. The fellow who left this
house for us certainly was a good one. He knew we'd come in hungry, and
left everything ready for us."
"That was just like Fred Sturgis. He's one of the best fellows in the
world. He's the owner of the ranch. Young New York fellow. Wanted to
spend the winter in the East. That's how I was able to get the ranch.

But I'll bet he'll be back here before the snow melts. You couldn't
keep him off the range for any length of time."

"He certainly has good taste.

The house is almost as nice as the Moon Valley house, but nothing is
quite as nice as that."

Mrs. Graham and Carl were roused, and they were soon sitting down to
chops from a mountain sheep and corn bread which Stella had made;
and they all voted that winter life in Montana promised to be a very jolly
thing.

When Ted went outdoors the whole world was simply a glittering waste
where the sun shone on, and was reflected back from the vast field of
snow.

Sultan was in the sheltered corral, and as Ted threw the saddle on his
back he reared and jumped about like a playful kitten.

"Quit your cavorting about, you rascal," said Ted, as Sultan wheeled away
from the saddle with a playful snort, at the same time reaching around
and trying to nip Ted's shoulder with his teeth.

"My, but you're feeling gay this morning," said Ted. "Here, hold still,
won't you? How do you suppose I'm ever going to get this saddle on
you if you don't stand still?"
But the cold weather and the bright sunshine had filled Sultan with
ginger, and he was as full of play as a small boy when he wakes up some
early winter morning and sees the ground covered with the first snow, and
remembers the sled that has lain in the woodshed all summer.

But at last the saddle was on, and then Ted had his hands full getting
into it.

"Gee, but you're skittish this morning," said Ted, giving Sultan a
vigorous slap on the haunch. "But just you wait a few minutes until
I get on you.

I'll take some of that out of you."

But when he tried to find the stirrup with his toe, Sultan wheeled
away from him with a little kick that was as dainty as that of a
professional dancer.

But at last Ted made a leap and landed safely upon Sultan's back, and
gave him a slap with the loose end of his rein.

The little horse gave a leap like a kangaroo, and dashed through the
gateway of the corral and across the white prairie, running like a
quarter horse.

The herd was nowhere in sight, but in the far distance Ted saw a
thin blue stream of smoke rising in the still, frosty air.

He knew it to be the camp fire of McCall, and that breakfast was
going forward at the cow camp in the snow.

Heading Sultan toward it, Ted rushed on through the stimulating air
of a Northern winter, and soon came in sight of the chuck wagon,
and several of the boys standing around a fire.

As he dashed forward he raised the long yell, which was gleefully
answered, and soon he was at the camp.

This was where he and Stella had started from the night before.

Turning his eyes back in the direction he had come, Ted could see
the smoke rising from the chimney of the ranch house, although the
house itself was hidden behind a swell in the surface of the
prairie.

Had he only known it, he might have driven the herd right up to the ranch
house during the night. As it was, he saw now that he and Stella, with
the carriage, had ridden for almost two hours in the night, traveling in
a circle, and by the merest chance had stumbled upon the ranch house.

"Hello, fellows!"

he shouted as he rode up. "Where are the dogies?"
"Oh, to blazes and gone!" exclaimed big Ben, who was trying to thaw out
his boots at the fire.

"Where?" asked Ted anxiously.

"Away off yonder." Ben pointed disconsolately toward the south.

"Are they all right?"
"All right, nothing. They're up to their bellies in snow in a coulee, and
won't stir.

They're the sickest-looking lot of beef critters you ever saw. We've been
working with them ever since daylight, then Bud sent us along to thaw
out and get some chuck into us, and hurry back so that the other
fellows could get limbered up some. Find the house?"
"Yes, accidentally stumbled on to it.

Bully place, and the womenfolks are comfortably settled."
"Looks like it," grunted Ben, pointing to the north.

Ted looked in that direction and saw a spotted pony leaping toward
them, and above it a dash of scarlet.

It was Stella, riding like the wind on Magpie.

"Have any trouble with the critters in the night?" asked Ted.

"Did we? Well, I should howl. After you got under way they began
to drift before the wind.

We fought them all night, and if we'd let them go they'd been plumb
into Colorado by this time.

I don't want any more such nights in mine."
"That was only a starter, my friend. That was a picnic compared to what
you may have to go up against before the daisies bloom again."
"Chuck!"

yelled McCall, beating on the bottom of a griddle with a big iron
spoon.

The fellows left the fire in a hurry and, squatting in the snow with
a tin cup full of steaming coffee and a plate heaped with fried
bacon and griddle cakes, were soon too busy to remember their
weariness.

Stella had ridden up, her cheeks glowing, and her eyes sparkling with
the frost and the exercise.

"Why didn't you wait for me?" she cried to Ted. "You're a mean
thing.
Thought you'd leave me behind, but here I am."

She made a little face at Ted.

"I thought you'd rather stay indoors to-day on account of the
cold," stammered Ted.

"Well, change your line of thought.

There's going to be nothing to keep me indoors in this country, and
don't you forget it.

If I've got to stay indoors, I'll go South."
As soon as the boys had finished breakfast they were ready for another
day's work.

"Come on, fellows," shouted Ted. "Let's hurry to where the critters
are, and send the other boys back. Mac, cook up another breakfast for
them."
They were in the saddle in a jiffy, and scurrying toward the south
as fast as their ponies could carry them.

Ted found the herd bogged in a shallow coulee that was filled to
the top with snow, in which they stood up to their bellies, lowing
from fright, hunger, and thirst.

They were packed in a solid mass, and could not get out on the other
side because the wall of the coulee was too steep for them to clamber
up, as they might have done had it not been for the deep snow with
which it was drifted full.

As a matter of fact, though, the coulee had saved the herd from
drifting many miles in the night.

But how to get them out was the question that perplexed Bud, and
with the arrival of Ted he thankfully turned the task over to him.

"Hike for the chuck wagon, boys," shouted Ted, as he came up.

"Well, I should smile to ejaculate," said Bud, "we're as hollow an'
cold as a rifle bar'l.

I'll turn this leetle summer matinée over ter you, my friend, not wishin'
you any harm."
"Go ahead and enjoy yourselves," said Ted. "But as soon as you have
filled up and warmed up come back.

As soon as we get the bunch out of this hole it will be a snap to
get them near the ranch house.

If we'd only known it, we could have made it in half an hour more last
night."
When Bud had ridden away Ted took stock of the situation, and found
that he had a difficult problem to solve.

Under ordinary circumstances it would have been easy to snake the cattle
out of the coulee by roping them around the horns and dragging them
out with the ponies, but it was utterly impossible to do that with a
couple of thousand of them.

While he was looking things over he became aware that Stella had ridden
away. He looked anxiously after her, for he knew her propensity
for getting into trouble when she rode alone. Soon she dropped out of
sight behind a swell in the prairie with a flash in the sunlight
of her scarlet jacket.

Ted was still studying the situation, riding up and down the edge
of the coulee, trying to figure out some plan of rescue, and noting
the cattle that were down, and which were rapidly being trampled
to death by the other beasts, or being smothered by the snow.

The prospect was not a pleasing one to the young cow boss, for he
saw the profits of the venture fading away hourly.

Suddenly a faint, shrill yell reached his ears, and he wheeled his pony
in the direction from which it came.

Stella's scarlet jacket was coming toward him in a whirlwind of
flying snow, and he rushed toward her.

What could have happened to her? He looked in vain for whatever was
pursuing her, and saw that she was not being followed, but was swinging
her arm above her head with a triumphant gesture.

He slowed his pony down, and soon she dashed to his side.

"You fellows are certainly a bright lot of cow-punchers," she exclaimed.

"What's the matter now?" asked Ted gloomily.

"Didn't any of you think of scouting down the coulee?"

"I confess I didn't."
"You ought to be laid off the job for a week."
"Why?"
"You can get those cattle out of that hole in an hour."
"We can! How do you know?"

"The coulee runs out about a mile to the west, and straight to the north,
up a wide swale, lies the ranch house in full view."
"Stella, you're all right.

But the cattle are bogged, and they can't move even down the coulee."

"I believe they can."
"How?"
"When the other boys come back from breakfast all of you jump into the
coulee and tramp the snow down as much as you can ahead of the leaders.

Then start them up."
"Bully for you, Stella; you're a better cow-puncher than any of us."

"No, I'm not, but because I don't know as much about it I go at it in
a woman's way, which is a roundabout way, and nearly always foolish
to look at, but sometimes does the work."

This suggestion had the effect of taking a great load from Ted's
shoulders, for if he did not succeed in getting the herd out before
night they would freeze solid in their molds of snow, and then he
would never get half of them out alive.

Presently Bud and the other boys came winging back from breakfast,
and Ted told them of the plan for releasing the cattle, at the same
time praising Stella and giving her all the credit for the idea.

"Peevish peppers, but I'm a tenderfoot," grunted Bud.

"Why in Sam Hill didn't I think o' that myself?

I reckon I'm gettin' too old fer ther cow business.

I ought ter be milkin' cows at some dairy farm."
The boys followed Stella's suggestion, and, leaping into the coulee,
wheeled their ponies about until they had a well-beaten road for
several hundred feet toward the west.

Then, cutting out a bunch of about fifty steers, led by a wise old
fellow, the herd leader, whom they called Baldy on account of the
spot of white hair between his horns, drove them along the path.

After getting the bunch going well, the boys drove them with yells and
the lashing of quirts into the deep snow ahead, and would not let them
stop.

Another bunch was driven up, and soon there was a smooth road along
the bottom of the coulee to the open ground, over which the cattle passed
to safety.

Stella's good common sense had saved the herd.

CHAPTER III.

THE SIGN-CAMP GHOST.

As the last of the herd came out of the coulee to the open ground, a cheer
went up for Stella, who blushed rosy-red, and told the boys to hush.

Then the drive to the big pasture began, word having been sent to McCall
to follow with the chuck wagon.

The big pasture ran north from the home pasture, which was near the
ranch house.

It comprised thousands of acres, and was so high that nearly always it was
free of snow, which the strong winds coming down from the mountains
swept as clear as if a gigantic broom had been used.

Back of the pasture lay a range of low mountains, the Sweet Grass
they were called, in which several high buttes towered like
sentinels.

The Sweet Grass Mountains had the reputation of harboring a great
many "bad men," both whites and Indians, who had forsaken the
Blackfeet Indian reservation to the west.

The mountain valleys afforded a splendid protection for the cattle,
as did the numerous coulees with which the country was seamed.
The big pasture of the Long Tom was reputed to be the best winter
feeding ground in Montana. The grass was high and nutritious, and
there were plenty of water holes.
Once on the pasture the cattle scattered into smaller herds, each
under the leadership of a bull, while the steers drifted off by
themselves.
All that was necessary to care for the herd was to ride the lines
of the pasture, and keep the cattle on their own feeding grounds,
prevent them from straying, and hunt down the packs of wolves which
preyed upon the weak cows and young cattle.
At stated intervals along the lines of the pasture were cabins,
known as "sign camps," in which the line riders lived.
The first sign camp out of the home pasture was eight miles distant,
and the next was under the lee of the mountains, on the west line.
As Ted directed the drive of the herd to the big pasture, on the
south and west line of which the first sign camp was situated, he
cut out part of the herd and held it back, while the remainder of
the cattle went forward.
At the first sign camp Bud and Carl were dropped, for they were to
ride the line to the north and east from that point.
Bud was glad to get some rest, and with a wave of the hand went on
his way to the camp to await the arrival of Carl, who had ridden
back to the ranch house for his blankets and other supplies.
During the day the chuck wagon, following the instructions of Ted,
stopped at the sign camp, and left a supply of provisions and Bud's
blankets.
Bud looked out the window of the cabin, and saw that the herd was
grazing quietly, for the cattle were very hungry, and as they were
safe for the time being, he rolled himself in his blankets and was
soon sleeping soundly.
He awoke on hearing a fumbling at the door, and sat up.
It was pitch dark, and he had slept nearly all day.
Unlimbering his six-shooter, he called, "Who's thar?"
"Ach, Pud, it's me alretty," came the muffled reply.
"So it's you, Carl. Why don't you come in?"
"Der door open, Pud, please. I my arrums full mit dings have."
Bud sprang from his blankets and threw the door open, admitting a
cold blast and a flurry of snow.
"Ugh!" he ejaculated, with a shudder. "Come in, yer fat wad o'
Dutch.
What yer waitin' fer?"
"Someding has my hat stolen off mit my head." Carl's voice expressed
both perplexity and awe.
Evidently something unusual had happened, and Bud put on his hat
and stepped outside.
He had no sooner passed through the doorway than his own hat was
snatched from his head.
He drew his revolver, leaped into the open, and looked about
him.
There was no one in sight except Carl, who was standing near him
with his arms full of blankets and bundles.And
if you are really sure that you want to come, we shall be delighted to
have you. Because, to tell you the truth, I think you are exactly the
man we need."


THE SECOND CHAPTER. GOOD-BYE!

TWO days after that we had all in readiness for our departure.

On this voyage Jip begged so hard to be taken that the Doctor finally
gave in and said he could come. Polynesia and Chee-Chee were the only
other animals to go with us. Dab-Dab was left in charge of the house and
the animal family we were to leave behind.

Of course, as is always the way, at the last moment we kept remembering
things we had forgotten; and when we finally closed the house up and
went down the steps to the road, we were all burdened with armfuls of
odd packages.

Halfway to the river, the Doctor suddenly remembered that he had left
the stock-pot boiling on the kitchen-fire. However, we saw a blackbird
flying by who nested in our garden, and the Doctor asked her to go back
for us and tell Dab-Dab about it.

Down at the river-wall we found a great crowd waiting to see us off.

Standing right near the gang-plank were my mother and father. I hoped
that they would not make a scene, or burst into tears or anything like
that. But as a matter of fact they behaved quite well--for parents. My
mother said something about being sure not to get my feet wet; and my
father just smiled a crooked sort of smile, patted me on the back and
wished me luck. Good-byes are awfully uncomfortable things and I was
glad when it was over and we passed on to the ship.

We were a little surprised not to see Matthew Mugg among the crowd. We
had felt sure that he would be there; and the Doctor had intended to
give him some extra instructions about the food for the animals we had
left at the house.

At last, after much pulling and tugging, we got the anchor up and undid
a lot of mooring-ropes. Then the Curlew began to move gently down the
river with the out-running tide, while the people on the wall cheered
and waved their handkerchiefs.

We bumped into one or two other boats getting out into the stream; and
at one sharp bend in the river we got stuck on a mud bank for a few
minutes. But though the people on the shore seemed to get very excited
at these things, the Doctor did not appear to be disturbed by them in
the least.

"These little accidents will happen in the most carefully regulated
voyages," he said as he leaned over the side and fished for his boots
which had got stuck in the mud while we were pushing off. "Sailing is
much easier when you get out into the open sea. There aren't so many
silly things to bump into."

For me indeed it was a great and wonderful feeling, that getting out
into the open sea, when at length we passed the little lighthouse at the
mouth of the river and found ourselves free of the land. It was all
so new and different: just the sky above you and sea below. This ship,
which was to be our house and our street, our home and our garden, for
so many days to come, seemed so tiny in all this wide water--so tiny and
yet so snug, sufficient, safe.

I looked around me and took in a deep breath. The Doctor was at the
wheel steering the boat which was now leaping and plunging gently
through the waves. (I had expected to feel seasick at first but
was delighted to find that I didn't.) Bumpo had been told off to go
downstairs and prepare dinner for us. Chee-Chee was coiling up ropes in
the stern and laying them in neat piles. My work was fastening down
the things on the deck so that nothing could roll about if the weather
should grow rough when we got further from the land. Jip was up in the
peak of the boat with ears cocked and nose stuck out--like a statue, so
still--his keen old eyes keeping a sharp look-out for floating wrecks,
sand-bars, and other dangers. Each one of us had some special job to do,
part of the proper running of a ship. Even old Polynesia was taking the
sea's temperature with the Doctor's bath-ther-mometer tied on the end of
a string, to make sure there were no icebergs near us. As I listened
to her swearing softly to herself because she couldn't read the pesky
figures in the fading light, I realized that the voyage had begun in
earnest and that very soon it would be night--my first night at sea!


THE THIRD CHAPTER. OUR TROUBLES BEGIN

JUST before supper-time Bumpo appeared from downstairs and went to the
Doctor at the wheel.

"A stowaway in the hold, Sir," said he in a very business-like seafaring
voice. "I just discovered him, behind the flour-bags."

"Dear me!" said the Doctor. "What a nuisance! Stubbins, go down with
Bumpo and bring the man up. I can't leave the wheel just now."

So Bumpo and I went down into the hold; and there, behind the
flour-bags, plastered in flour from head to foot, we found a man. After
we had swept most of the flour off him with a broom, we discovered that
it was Matthew Mugg. We hauled him upstairs sneezing and took him before
the Doctor.

"Why Matthew!" said John Dolittle. "What on earth are you doing here?"

"The temptation was too much for me, Doctor," said the cat's-meat-man.
"You know I've often asked you to take me on voyages with you and you
never would. Well, this time, knowing that you needed an extra man, I
thought if I stayed hid till the ship was well at sea you would find
I came in handy like and keep me. But I had to lie so doubled up, for
hours, behind them flour-bags, that my rheumatism came on something
awful. I just had to change my position; and of course just as I
stretched out my legs along comes this here African cook of yours and
sees my feet sticking out--Don't this ship roll something awful! How
long has this storm been going on? I reckon this damp sea air wouldn't
be very good for my rheumatics."

"No, Matthew it really isn't. You ought not to have come. You are not
in any way suited to this kind of a life. I'm sure you wouldn't enjoy a
long voyage a bit. We'll stop in at Penzance and put you ashore.
Bumpo, please go downstairs to my bunk; and listen: in the pocket of my
dressing-gown you'll find some maps. Bring me the small one--with
blue pencil-marks at the top. I know Penzance is over here on our left
somewhere. But I must find out what light-houses there are before I
change the ship's course and sail inshore."

"Very good, Sir," said Bumpo, turning round smartly and making for the
stairway.

"Now Matthew," said the Doctor, "you can take the coach from Penzance
to Bristol. And from there it is not very far to Puddleby, as you know.
Don't forget to take the usual provisions to the house every Thursday,
and be particularly careful to remember the extra supply of herrings for
the baby minks."

While we were waiting for the maps Chee-Chee and I set about lighting
the lamps: a green one on the right side of the ship, a red one on the
left and a white one on the mast.

At last we heard some one trundling on the stairs again and the Doctor
said,

"Ah, here's Bumpo with the maps at last!"

But to our great astonishment it was not Bumpo alone that appeared but
THREE people.

"Good Lord deliver us! Who are these?" cried John Dolittle.

"Two more stowaways, Sir," said Bumpo stepping forward briskly. "I found
them in your cabin hiding under the bunk. One woman and one man, Sir.
Here are the maps."

"This is too much," said the Doctor feebly. "Who are they? I can't see
their faces in this dim light. Strike a match, Bumpo."

You could never guess who it was. It was Luke and his wife. Mrs. Luke
appeared to be very miserable and seasick.

They explained to the Doctor that after they had settled down to live
together in the little shack out on the fens, so many people came
to visit them (having heard about the great trial) that life became
impossible; and they had decided to escape from Puddleby in this
manner--for they had no money to leave any other way--and try to find
some new place to live where they and their story wouldn't be so well
known. But as soon as the ship had begun to roll Mrs. Luke had got most
dreadfully unwell.

Poor Luke apologized many times for being such a nuisance and said that
the whole thing had been his wife's idea.

The Doctor, after he had sent below for his medicine-bag and had given
Mrs. Luke some sal volatile and smelling-salts, said he thought the best
thing to do would be for him to lend them some money and put them ashore
at Penzance with Matthew. He also wrote a letter for Luke to take with
him to a friend the Doctor had in the town of Penzance who, it was
hoped, would be able to find Luke work to do there.

As the Doctor opened his purse and took out some gold coins I heard
Polynesia, who was sitting on my shoulder watching the whole affair,
mutter beneath her breath,

"There he goes--lending his last blessed penny--three pounds ten--all
the money we had for the whole trip! Now we haven't the price of a
postage-stamp aboard if we should lose an anchor or have to buy a pint
of tar--Well, let's, pray we don't run out of food--Why doesn't he give
them the ship and walk home?"

Presently with the help of the map the course of the boat was changed
and, to Mrs. Luke's great relief, we made for Penzance and dry land.

I was tremendously interested to see how a ship could be steered into a
port at night with nothing but light-houses and a compass to guide you.
It seemed to me that the Doctor missed all the rocks and sand-bars very
cleverly.

We got into that funny little Cornish harbor about eleven o'clock that
night. The Doctor took his stowaways on shore in our small row-boat
which we kept on the deck of the Curlew and found them rooms at the
hotel there. When he got back he told us that Mrs. Luke had gone
straight to bed and was feeling much better.

It was now after midnight; so we decided to stay in the harbor and wait
till morning before setting out again.

I was glad to get to bed, although I felt that staying up so
tremendously late was great fun. As I climbed into the bunk over the
Doctor's and pulled the blankets snugly round me, I found I could look
out of the port-hole at my elbow, and, without raising my head from the
pillow, could see the lights of Penzance swinging gently up and down
with the motion of the ship at anchor. It was like being rocked to sleep
with a little show going on to amuse you. I was just deciding that I
liked the life of the sea very much when I fell fast asleep.


THE FOURTH CHAPTER. OUR TROUBLES CONTINUE

THE next morning when we were eating a very excellent breakfast of
kidneys and bacon, prepared by our good cook Bumpo, the Doctor said to
me,

"I was just wondering, Stubbins, whether I should stop at the Capa
Blanca Islands or run right across for the coast of Brazil. Miranda said
we could expect a spell of excellent weather now--for four and a half
weeks at least."

"Well," I said, spooning out the sugar at the bottom of my cocoa-cup, "I
should think it would be best to make straight across while we are sure
of good weather. And besides the Purple Bird-of-Paradise is going to
keep a lookout for us, isn't she? She'll be wondering what's happened to
us if we don't get there in about a month."

"True, quite true, Stubbins. On the other hand, the Capa Blancas make
a very convenient stopping place on our way across. If we should need
supplies or repairs it would be very handy to put in there."

"How long will it take us from here to the Capa Blancas?" I asked.

"About six days," said the Doctor--"Well, we can decide later. For the
next two days at any rate our direction would be the same practically in
either case. If you have finished breakfast let's go and get under way."

Upstairs I found our vessel surrounded by white and gray seagulls
who flashed and circled about in the sunny morning air, looking for
food-scraps thrown out by the ships into the harbor.

By about half past seven we had the anchor up and the sails set to a
nice steady breeze; and this time we got out into the open sea without
bumping into a single thing. We met the Penzance fishing fleet coming in
from the night's fishing, and very trim and neat they looked, in a line
like soldiers, with their red-brown sails all leaning over the same way
and the white water dancing before their bows.

For the next three or four days everything went smoothly and nothing
unusual happened. During this time we all got settled down into our
regular jobs; and in spare moments the Doctor showed each of us how to
take our turns at the wheel, the proper manner of keeping a ship on her
right course, and what to do if the wind changed suddenly. We divided
the twenty-four hours of the day into three spells; and we took it in
turns to sleep our eight hours and be awake sixteen. So the ship was
well looked after, with two of us always on duty.

Besides that, Polynesia, who was an older sailor than any of us, and
really knew a lot about running ships, seemed to be always awake--except
when she took her couple of winks in the sun, standing on one leg beside
the wheel. You may be sure that no one ever got a chance to stay abed
more than his eight hours while Polynesia was around. She used to watch
the ship's clock; and if you overslept a half-minute, she would come
down to the cabin and peck you gently on the nose till you got up.

I very soon grew to be quite fond of our funny black friend Bumpo,
with his grand way of speaking and his enormous feet which some one was
always stepping on or falling over. Although he was much older than
I was and had been to college, he never tried to lord it over me. He
seemed to be forever smiling and kept all of us in good humor. It wasn't
long before I began to see the Doctor's good sense in bringing him--in
spite of the fact that he knew nothing whatever about sailing or travel.

On the morning of the fifth day out, just as I was taking the wheel over
from the Doctor, Bumpo appeared and said,

"The salt beef is nearly all gone, Sir."

"The salt beef!" cried the Doctor. "Why, we brought a hundred and twenty
pounds with us. We couldn't have eaten that in five days. What can have
become of it?"

"I don't know, Sir, I'm sure. Every time I go down to the stores I find
another hunk missing. If it is rats that are eating it, then they are
certainly colossal rodents."

Polynesia who was walking up and down a stay-rope taking her morning
exercise, put in,

"We must search the hold. If this is allowed to go on we will all be
starving before a week is out. Come downstairs with me, Tommy, and we
will look into this matter."

So we went downstairs into the store-room and Polynesia told us to keep
quite still and listen. This we did. And presently we heard from a dark
corner of the hold the distinct sound of someone snoring.

"Ah, I thought so," said Polynesia. "It's a man--and a big one. Climb in
there, both of you, and haul him out. It sounds as though he were behind
that barrel--Gosh! We seem to have brought half of Puddleby with us.
Anyone would think we were a penny ferry-boat. Such cheek! Haul him
out."

So Bumpo and I lit a lantern and climbed over the stores. And there,
behind the barrel, sure enough, we found an enormous bearded man fast
asleep with a well-fed look on his face. We woke him up.

"Washamarrer?" he said sleepily.

It was Ben Butcher, the able seaman.

Polynesia spluttered like an angry fire-cracker.

"This is the last straw," said she. "The one man in the world we least
wanted. Shiver my timbers, what cheek!"

"Would it not be advisable," suggested Bumpo, "while the varlet is still
sleepy, to strike him on the head with some heavy object and push him
through a port-hole into the sea?"

"No. We'd get into trouble," said Polynesia. "We're not in Jolliginki
now, you know--worse luck!--Besides, there never was a port-hole big
enough to push that man through. Bring him upstairs to the Doctor."

So we led the man to the wheel where he respectfully touched his cap to
the Doctor.

"Another stowaway, Sir," said Bumpo smartly. I thought the poor Doctor
would have a fit.

"Good morning, Captain," said the man. "Ben Butcher, able seaman, at
your service. I knew you'd need me, so I took the liberty of stowing
away--much against my conscience. But I just couldn't bear to see you
poor landsmen set out on this voyage without a single real seaman to
help you. You'd never have got home alive if I hadn't come--Why look
at your mainsail, Sir--all loose at the throat. First gust of wind come
along, and away goes your canvas overboard--Well, it's all right now I'm
here. We'll soon get things in shipshape."

"No, it isn't all right," said the Doctor, "it's all wrong. And I'm not
at all glad to see you. I told you in Puddleby I didn't want you. You
had no right to come."

"But Captain," said the able seaman, "you can't sail this ship without
me. You don't understand navigation. Why, look at the compass now:
you've let her swing a point and a half off her course. It's madness for
you to try to do this trip alone--if you'll pardon my saying so, Sir.
Why--why, you'll lose the ship!"

"Look here," said the Doctor, a sudden stern look coming into his eyes,
"losing a ship is nothing to me. I've lost ships before and it doesn't
bother me in the least. When I set out to go to a place, I get there.
Do you understand? I may know nothing whatever about sailing and
navigation, but I get there just the same. Now you may be the best
seaman in the world, but on this ship you're just a plain ordinary
nuisance--very plain and very ordinary. And I am now going to call at
the nearest port and put you ashore."

"Yes, and think yourself lucky," Polynesia put in, "that you are not
locked up for stowing away and eating all our salt beef."

"I don't know what the mischief we're going to do now," I heard her
whisper to Bumpo. "We've no money to buy any more; and that salt beef
was the most important part of the stores."

"Would it not be good political economy," Bumpo whispered back, "if we
salted the able seaman and ate him instead? I should judge that he would
weigh more than a hundred and twenty pounds."

"How often must I tell you that we are not in Jolliginki," snapped
Polynesia. "Those things are not done on white men's ships--Still," she
murmured after a moment's thought, "it's an awfully bright idea. I don't
suppose anybody saw him come on to the ship--Oh, but Heavens! we haven't
got enough salt. Besides, he'd be sure to taste of tobacco."


THE FIFTH CHAPTER. POLYNESIA HAS A PLAN

THEN the Doctor told me to take the wheel while he made a little
calculation with his map and worked out what new course we should take.

"I shall have to run for the Capa Blancas after all," he told me when
the seaman's back was turned. "Dreadful nuisance! But I'd sooner swim
back to Puddleby than have to listen to that fellow's talk all the way
to Brazil."

Indeed he was a terrible person, this Ben Butcher. You'd think that any
one after being told he wasn't wanted would have had the decency to keep
quiet. But not Ben Butcher. He kept going round the deck pointing out
all the things we had wrong. According to him there wasn't a thing right
on the whole ship. The anchor was hitched up wrong; the hatches weren't
fastened down properly; the sails were put on back to front; all our
knots were the wrong kind of knots.

At last the Doctor told him to stop talking and go downstairs. He
refused--said he wasn't going to be sunk by landlubbers while he was
still able to stay on deck.

This made us feel a little uneasy. He was such an enormous man there was
no knowing what he might do if he got really obstreperous.

Bumpo and I were talking about this downstairs in the dining-saloon
when Polynesia, Jip and Chee-Chee came and joined us. And, as usual,
Polynesia had a plan.

"Listen," she said, "I am certain this Ben Butcher is a smuggler and a
bad man. Oppress not the True Believers, or they will curse you and ill
report of you will reach the Caliph, wherefore dishonour will
betide both me and you.

Go not therefore about to violence any, but whatso ye greed for of the
goods of the folk, take it from my goods, over and above that
whereof ye have need; for 'tis not unknown to you what is handed
down in the Koran of prohibition versets on the subject of oppression
and Allah-gifted is he who said these couplets,
'Oppression ambusheth in sprite of man * Whom naught withholdeth
save the lack of might:
The sage shall ne'er apply his wits to aught * Until befitting time
direct his sight:
The tongue of wisdom woneth in the heart; * And in his mouth the
tongue of foolish wight.

Who at occasion's call lacks power to rise * Is slain by feeblest who
would glut his spite.
A man may hide his blood and breed, but aye * His deeds on darkest hiddens
cast a light.
Wights of ill strain with ancestry as vile * Have lips which never
spake one word aright:
And who committeth case to hands of fool * In folly proveth self
as fond and light; And who his secret tells to folk at large * Shall
rouse his foes to work him worst despight.

Suffice the generous what regards his lot * Nor meddles he with
aught regards him not'"
And he went on to admonish his brothers and bid them to equity and
forbid them from tyranny, doubting not but they would love him the
better for his boon of good counsel[FN#549] and he relied upon them and
honoured them with the utmost honour; but notwithstanding all his generosity
to them, they only waxed in envy and hatred of him, till, one day, the
two being together alone, quoth Nasir to Mansur, "O my brother, how
long shall we be mere subjects of our brother Abdullah, and he in this
estate of lordship and worship? After being a merchant, he is become
an Emir, and from being little, he is grown great: but we, we grow not
great nor is there aught of respect or degree left us; for, behold,
he laugheth at us and maketh us his assistants!

What is the meaning of this? Is it not that we are his servants and
under his subjection?

But, long as he abideth in good case, our rank will never be raised nor
shall we be aught of repute; wherefore we shall not fulfil our wish,
except we slay him and win to his wealth, nor will it be possible to
get his gear save after his death.

So, when we have slain him, we shall become lords and will take all
that is in his treasuries of gems and things of price and divide them
between us. Then will we send the Caliph a present and demand of him
the government of Cufah, and thou shalt be governor of Cufah and
I of Bassorah.

Thus each of us shall have formal estate and condition, but we shall never
effect this, except we put him out of the world!"

Answered Mansur, "Thou sayest sooth, but how shall we do to kill
him?"

Quoth Nasir, "We will make an entertainment in the house of one of us and
invite him thereto and serve him with the uttermost service. Then will
we sit through the night with him in talk and tell him tales and jests
and rare stories till his heart melteth with sitting up when we will
spread him a bed, that he may lie down to sleep.
When he is asleep, we will kneel upon him and throttle him and throw
him into the river; and on the morrow, we will say, 'His sister the
Jinniyah came to him, as he sat chatting with us, and said to him,
'O thou scum of mankind, who art thou that thou shouldst complain
of me to the Commander of the Faithful?

Deemest thou that we dread him? As he is a King, so we too are
Kings, and if he mend not his manners in our regard we will do him
die by the foulest of deaths.

But meantime I will slay thee, that we may see what the hand of the
Prince of True Believers availeth to do.' So saying, she caught him
up and clave the earth and disappeared with him which when we saw, we
swooned away. Then we revived and we reck not what is become of him.' And
saying this we will send to the Caliph and tell him the case and
he will invest us with the government in his room.

After awhile, we will send him a sumptuous present and seek of him the
government of Cufah, and one of us shall abide in Bassorah and the
other in Cufah. So shall the land be pleasant to us and we will be
down upon the True Believers and win our wishes."

And quoth Mansur, "Thou counsellest well, O my brother," and they
agreed upon the murther. So Nasir made an entertainment and said to
Abdullah, "O my brother, verily I am thy brother, and I would have
thee hearten my heart thou and my brother Mansur and eat of my
banquet in my house, so I may boast of thee and that it may be said,
The Emir Abdullah hath eaten of his brother Nasir's guest meal;
when my heart will be solaced by this best of boons."

Abdullah replied, "So be it, O my brother; there is no distinction
between me and thee and thy house is my house; but since thou
invitest me, none refuseth hospitality save the churl."

Then he turned to Mansur and said to him, "Wilt thou go with me to
thy brother Nasir's house and we will eat of his feast and heal his heart?"
Replied Mansur, "As thy head liveth, O my brother, I will not go with
thee, unless thou swear to me that, after thou comest forth of brother
Nasir's house, thou wilt enter my house and eat of my banquet!

Is Nasir thy brother and am not I thy brother? So, even as thou heartenest
his heart, do thou hearten mine."

Answered Abdullah, "There is no harm in that: with love and gladly
gree!

When I come out from Nasir's house, I will enter thine, for thou
art my brother even as he."

So he kissed his hand and going forth of the Divan, made ready his feast.
On the morrow, Abdullah took horse and repaired, with his brother
Mansur and a company of his officers, to Nasir's house, where they sat
down, he and Mansur and his many. Then Nasir set the trays before
them and welcomed them; so they ate and drank and sat in mirth and
merriment; after which the trays and the platters were removed and
they washed their hands. They passed the day in feasting and
wine-drinking and diversion and delight till night-fall, when they
supped and prayed the sundown prayers, and the night orisons; after
which they sat conversing and carousing, and Nasir and Mansur fell to
telling stories whilst Abdullah hearkened. Now they three were alone in
the pavilion, the rest of the company being in another place, and
they ceased not to tell quips and tales and rare adventures and
anecdotes, till Abdullah's heart was dissolved within him for
watching and sleep overcame him.

--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted
say.

When it was the Nine Hundred and Eighty-ninth Night,
She pursued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when
Abdullah was a-wearied with watching and wanted to sleep, they also
lay beside him on another couch and waited till he wasdrowned in
slumber and when they were certified thereof they arose and knelt
upon him: whereupon he awoke and seeing them kneeling on his breast,
said to them, "What is this, O my brothers?"

Cried they, "We are no brothers of thine, nor do we know thee unmannerly
that thou art! Thy death is become better than thy life." Then they
gripped him by the throat and throttled him, till he lost his senses and
abode without motion; so that they deemed him dead. Now the pavilion
wherein they were overlooked the river; so they cast him into the
water; but, when he fell, Allah sent to his aid a dolphin[FN#550] who
was accustomed to come under that pavilion because the kitchen had
a window that gave upon the stream; and, as often as they slaughtered
any beast there, it was their wont to throw the refuse into the
river and the dolphin came and picked it up from the surface of the
water; wherefore he ever resorted to the place.

That day they had cast out much offal by reason of the banquet; so the
dolphin ate more than of wont and gained strength. Hearing the splash
of Abdullah's fall, he hastened to the spot, where he saw a son
of Adam and Allah guided him so that he took the man on his back and
crossing the current made with him for the other bank, where he cast
his burthen ashore. Now the place where the dolphin cast up Abdullah
was a well-beaten highway, and presently up came a caravan and finding
him lying on the river bank, said, "Here is a drowned man, whom
the river hath cast up;" and the travellers gathered around to gaze
at the corpse.

The Shaykh of the caravan was a man of worth, skilled in all sciences
and versed in the mystery of medicine and, withal, sound of judgment:
so he said to them, "O folk, what is the news?" They answered, "Here
is a drowned man;" whereupon he went up to Abdullah and examining
him, said to them, "O folk, there is life yet in this young man,
who is a person of condition and of the sons of the great, bred in
honour and fortune, and Inshallah there is still hope of him."

Then he took him and clothing him in dry clothes warmed him
before the fire; after which he nursed him and tended him three days'
march till he revived; but he was passing feeble by reason of the
shock, and the chief of the caravan proceeded to medicine him with
such simples as he knew, what while they ceased not faring on till
they had travelled thirty days' journey from Bassorah and came to
a city in the land of the Persians, by name 'Aúj.

[FN#551] Here they alighted at a Khan and spread Abdullah a bed, where
he lay groaning all night and troubling the folk with his groans. And
when morning morrowed the concierge of the Khan came to the chief of
the caravan and said to him, "What is this sick man thou hast with
thee? Verily, he disturbeth us." Quoth the chief, "I found him by the
way, on the river-bank and well nigh drowned; and I have tended him, but
to no effect, for he recovereth not." Said the porter, "Show him to
the Shaykhah[FN#552] Rájihah." "Who is this Religious?" asked the chief
of the caravan, and the door-keeper answered, "There is with us a holy
woman, a clean maid and a comely, called Rajihah, to whom they
present whoso hath any ailment; and he passeth a single night in
her house and awaketh on the morrow, whole and ailing nothing."

Quoth the chief, "Direct me to her;" quoth the porter, "Take up thy sick
man." So he and took up Abdullah and the doorkeeper forewent him,
till he came to a hermitage, where he saw folk entering with many an
ex voto offering and other folk coming forth, rejoicing. The porter
went in, till he came to the curtain,[FN#553] and said, "Permission, O
Shaykhah Rajihah! Take this sick man." Said she, "Bring him within
the curtain;" and the porter said to Abdullah, "Enter." So he entered
and looking upon the holy woman, saw her to be his wife whom he
had brought from the City of Stone.

And when he knew her she also knew him and saluted him and he
returned her salam.

Then said he, "Who brought thee hither?"; and she answered, "When I saw
that thy brothers had cast thee away and were contending concerning
me, I threw myself into the sea; but my Shaykh Al-Khizr Abu al-'Abbás
took me up and brought me to this hermitage, where he gave me leave
to heal the sick and bade cry in the city, 'Whoso hath any ailment,
let him repair to the Shaykhah Rajihah;' and he also said to me,
'Tarry in this hermitage till the time betide, and thy husband shall
come to thee here.'

So all the sick used to flock to me and I rubbed them and shampoo'd
them and they awoke on the morrow whole and sound; whereby the
report of me became noised abroad among the folk, and they brought
me votive gifts, so that I have with me abundant wealth.

And now I live here in high honour and worship, and all the people
of these parts seek my prayers."

Then she rubbed him and by the ordinance of Allah the Most High, he
became whole. Now Al-Khizr used to come to her every Friday night, and
it chanced that the day of Abdullah's coming was a Thursday.

[FN#554] Accordingly, when the night darkened he and she sat, after a
supper of the richest meats, awaiting the coming of Al-Khizr, who made
his appearance anon and carrying them forth of the hermitage, set
them down in Abdullah's palace at Bassorah, where he left them and
went his way.

As soon as it was day, Abdullah examined the palace and knew it for his
own; then, hearing the folk clamouring without, he looked forth of the
lattice and saw his brothers crucified, each on his own cross.
Now the reason of this was as ensueth. When they had thrown him into the
Tigris, the twain arose on the morrow, weeping and saying, "Our brother!
the Jinniyah hath carried off our brother!" Then they made ready a present
and sent it to the Caliph, acquainting him with these tidings and
suing from him the government of Bassorah.

He sent for them and questioned them and they told him the false tale
we have recounted, whereupon he was exceeding wroth.

[FN#555] So that night he prayed a two-bow prayer before daybreak,
as of his wont, and called upon the tribes of the Jinn, who came
before him subject-wise, and he questioned them of Abdullah: when
they sware to him that none of them had done him aught of hurt and
said, "We know not what is become of him."

Then came Sa'idah, daughter of the Red King, and acquainted the Caliph
with the truth of Abdullah's case, and he dismissed the Jinn. On the
morrow, he subjected Nasir and Mansur to the bastinado till they confessed,
one against other: whereupon the Caliph was enraged with them and cried,
"Carry them to Bassorah and crucify them there before Abdullah's palace."
Such was their case; but as regards Abdullah, when he saw his
brothers crucified, he commanded to bury them, then took horse and
repairing to Baghdad, acquainted the Caliph with that which his
brothers had done with him, from first to last and told him how he
had recovered his wife; whereat Al-Rashid marvelled and summoning
the Kazi and the witnesses, bade draw up the marriage- contract
between Abdullah and the damsel whom he had brought from the City
of Stone.

So he went in to her and woned with her at Bassorah till there came to
them the Destroyer of delights and the Severer of societies; and
extolled be the perfection of the Living, who dieth not! Moreover, O
auspicious King, I have heard a tale anent

End of Volume 9.

Arabian Nights, Volume 9 Footnotes

[FN#1] Arab. "Wa lá rajma ghaybin:" lit. = without stone-throwing
(conjecture) of one latent.

[FN#2] i.e. saying Bismillah, etc.

See vol. v. 206.

[FN#3] Where he was to await her.

[FN#4] As a rule, amongst Moslems the rider salutes the man on foot and
the latter those who sit. The saying in the text suggests the Christian
byword anent Mohammed and the Mountain, which is, I need hardly
say, utterly unknown to Mahommedans.

[FN#5] The story-teller does not remember that "the city-folk trust
to the locking of the gates" (dccclxxxix.); and forgets to tell us that
the Princess took the keys from the Wazir whom she had hocussed.

In a carefully corrected Arabic Edition of The Nights, a book much wanted,
the texts which are now in a mutilated state would be supplied with these
details.

[FN#6] Which probably would not be the last administered to him by
the Amazonian young person, who after her mate feared to approach the
dead blackamoor must have known him to be cowardly as Cairenes
generally are.

Moreover, he had no shame in his poltroonery like the recreant Fellah-soldiers,
in the wretched Sawákin campaign against the noble Súdáni negroids,
who excused their running away by saying, "We are Egyptians" i.e.
too good men and Moslems to lose our lives as becomes you Franks
and dog-Christians.

Yet under Mohammed Ali the Great, Fellah-soldiers conquered the "colligated"
Arabs (Pilgrimage iii. 48) of Al-Asir (Ophir) at Bissel and in Wahhabi-land
and put the Turks to flight at the battle of Nazib, and the late General
Johnmus assured me that he saved his command, the Ottoman cavalry in
Syria, by always manoeuvring to refuse a pitched battle.

But Mohammed Ali knew his men.

He never failed to shoot a runaway, and all his officers, even the
lieutenants, were Turks or Albanians.

Sa'id Pasha was the first to appoint Fellah-officers and under their
command the Egyptian soldier, one of the best in the East, at once
became the worst.

We have at last found the right way to make them fight, by officering
them with Englishmen, but we must not neglect the shooting process
whenever they dare to turn tail.

[FN#7] "Al-walhán" (as it should be printed in previous places,
instead of Al-walahán) is certainly not a P.N. in this place.

[FN#8] Arab. "Kundur," Pers. and Arab. manna, mastich, frankincense,
the latter being here meant.

[FN#9] So Emma takes the lead and hides her lover under her cloak during
their flight to the place where they intended to lie concealed. In
both cases the women are the men.

[FN#10] Or "Bartút," in which we recognise the German Berthold.

[FN#11] i.e. Head of Killaut which makes, from the Muhít, "the name
of a son of the sons of the Jinn and the Satans."
[FN#12] i.e. attacked her after a new fashion: see vol. i. 136.

[FN#13] i.e.

Weevil's dung; hence Suez = Suways the little weevil, or "little Sus"
from the Maroccan town: see The Mines of Midian p. 74 for a note on
the name.

Near Gibraltar is a fuimara called Guadalajara i.e. Wady al-Khara, of
dung.

"Bartús" is evidently formed "on the weight" of "Bartút;" and his metonym
is a caricature, a chaff fit for Fellahe.

[FN#14] Arab.

"Al-Din al-a'raj," the perverted or falsified Faith, Christianity having
been made obsolete and abolished by the Mission of Mohammed, even as
Christianity claims to have superseded the Mosaic and Noachian
dispensations.

Moslems are perfectly logical in their deductions, but logic and
truth do not always go together.

[FN#15] The "Breaker of Wind" (faswah - a fizzle, a silent crepitus)
"son of Children's dung."
[FN#16] Arab. "Ammá laka an 'alayk" lit. = either to thee (be the gain)
or upon thee (be the loss).

This truly Arabic idiom is varied in many ways.

[FN#17] In addition to what was noted in vol. iii. 100 and viii.
51, I may observe that in the "Masnavi" the "Baghdad of Nulliquity"
is opposed to the Ubiquity of the World. The popular derivation is Bagh
(the idol-god, the slav "Bog") and dád a gift, he gave (Persian). It
is also called Al-Zaurá = a bow, from the bend of the Tigris where
it was built.

[FN#18] Arab. "Jawásís" plur. of Jásús lit. the spies.

[FN#19] The Caliph could not "see" her "sweetness of speech"; so
we must understand that he addressed her and found out that she was
fluent of tongue.

But this idiomatic use of the word "see" is also found in the languages
of Southern Europe: so Camoens (Lus.

1. ii.), "Ouvi * * * vereis" lit. = "hark, you shall see" which sounds
Hibernian.

[FN#20] Here "Farz" (Koranic obligation which it is mortal sin to
gainsay) follows whereas it should precede "Sunnat" (sayings and
doings of the Apostle) simply because "Farz" jingles with "Arz"
(earth).

[FN#21] Moslems, like modern Agnostics, hold that Jesus of Nazareth
would be greatly scandalized by the claims to Godship advanced for
him by his followers.

[FN#22] Koran ix. 33: See also v. 85. In the passage above quoted Mr.
Rodwell makes the second "He" refer to the deity.

[FN#23] Koran xxvi. 88, 89. For a very indifferent version (and abridgment)
of this speech, see Saturday Review, July 9, 1881.

[FN#24] Koran iv. 140.

[FN#25] Arab. "Furát" from the Arab.

"Faruta" = being sweet, as applied to water. Al-Furátáni = the two sweet
(rivers), are the Tigris and Euphrates. The Greeks, who in etymology were
satisfied with Greek, derived the latter from {Greek} (to gladden,
laetificare, for which see Pliny and Strabo, although both are
correct in explaining "Tigris") and Selden remarks hereon, "Talibus
nugis nugantur Graeculi."

But not only the "Graeculi"; e.g. Parkhurst's good old derivations
from the Heb. "Farah" of fero, fructus, Freya (the Goddess), frayer
(to spawn), friand, fry (of fish), etc., etc.
[FN#26] The great Caliph was a poet; and he spoke verses as did all
his contemporaries: his lament over his slave-girl Haylanah (Helen)
is quoted by Al-Suyuti, p. 305.

[FN#27] "The Brave of the Faith."
[FN#28] i.e., Saladin. See vol. iv. p. 116.

[FN#29] usually called the Horns of Hattin (classically Hittin)
North of Tiberias where Saladin by good strategy and the folly of
the Franks annihilated the Latin kingdom of Jerusalem.

For details see the guide-books. In this action (June 23, 1187), after
three bishops were slain in its defence, the last fragment of the
True Cross (or rather the cross verified by Helena) fell into Moslem
hands. The Christians begged hard for it, but Saladin, a conscientious
believer, refused to return to them even for ransom "the object of
their iniquitous superstition." His son, however, being of another
turn, would have sold it to the Franks who then lacked money to
purchase.

It presently disappeared and I should not be surprised if it were still
lying, an unknown and inutile lignum in some Cairene mosque.

[FN#30] Akká (Acre) was taken by Saladin on July 29, 1187. The Egyptian
states that he was at Acre in 1184 or three years before the affair
of Hattin (Night dcccxcv.).

[FN#31] Famous Sufis and ascetics of the second and third centuries
A.H. For Bishr Barefoot, see vol. ii. p. 127. Al-Sakati means "the
old-clothes man;" and the names of the others are all recorded in
D'Herbelot.

[FN#32] i.e., captured, forced open their gates.

[FN#33] Arab.

"Al-Sáhil" i.e. the seaboard of Syria; properly Phoenicia or the coast-lands
of Southern Palestine. So the maritime lowlands of continental Zanzibar
are called in the plur.

Sawáhil = "the shores" and the people Sawáhílí = Shore-men.

[FN#34] Arab. "Al-Khizánah" both in Mac. Edit. and Breslau x.
426. Mr. Payne has translated "tents" and says, "Saladin seems to have
been encamped without Damascus and the slave-merchant had apparently come
out and pitched his tent near the camp for the purposes of his
trade."

But I can find no notice of tents till a few lines below.

[FN#35] Bahá al-Dín ibn Shaddád, then Kázi al-Askar (of the Army) or
Judge-Advocate-General under Saladin.

[FN#36] i.e. "abide with" thy second husband, the Egyptian.

[FN#37] A descendant of Háshim, the Apostle's great-grandfather from whom
the Abbasides were directly descended. The Ommiades were less directly
akin to Mohammed, being the descendants of Hashim's brother, Abd al-Shams.
The Hashimis were famed for liberality; and the quality seems to have
been inherited. The first Háshim got his name from crumbling bread into
the Saríd or brewis of the Meccan pilgrims during "The Ignorance."
He was buried at Ghazzah (Gaza) but his tomb was soon forgotten.

[FN#38] i.e. thy lover.

[FN#39] i.e. of those destined to hell; the especial home of Moslem
suicides.

[FN#40] Arab.

"Ummál" (plur. of Ámil) viceroys or governors of provinces.

[FN#41] A town of Irák Arabi (Mesopotamia) between Baghdad and Bassorah
built upon the Tigris and founded by Al-Hajjaj: it is so called
because the "Middle" or half-way town between Basrah and Kufah.

To this place were applied the famous lines:--

In good sooth a right noble race are they; Whose men "yea" can't say
nor their women "nay."
[FN#42] i.e. robed as thou art.

[FN#43] i.e. his kinsfolk of the Hashimis.

[FN#44] See vol. ii. 24. {Vol2, FN#49}
[FN#45] Arab. "Sur'itu" = I was possessed of a Jinn, the common Eastern
explanation of an epileptic fit long before the days of the Evangel.

See vol. iv. 89.

[FN#46] Arab. "Zí'ah," village, feof or farm.

[FN#47] Arab. "Taríkah."
[FN#48] "Most of the great Arab musicians had their own peculiar fashion
of tuning the lute, for the purpose of extending its register or
facilitating the accompaniment of songs composed in uncommon keys
and rhythms or possibly of increasing its sonority, and it appears
to have been a common test of the skill of a great musician, such
as Ishac el-Mausili or his father Ibrahim, to require him to accompany
a difficult song on a lute purposely untuned.

As a (partial) modern instance of the practice referred to in the text,
may be cited Paganini's custom of lowering or raising the G string
of the violin in playing certain of his own compositions. According to
the Kitab el-Aghani, Ishac el-Mausili is said to have familiarized
himself, by incessant practice, with the exact sounds produced by
each division of the strings of the four course lute of his day,
under every imaginable circumstance of tuning."

It is regrettable that Mr. Payne does not give us more of such notes.

[FN#49] See vol. vii. 363 for the use of these fumigations.

[FN#50] In the Mac. Edit. "Aylah" for Ubullah: the latter is one of the
innumerable canals, leading from Bassorah to Ubullah-town a distance of
twelve miles.

Its banks are the favourite pleasure- resort of the townsfolk, being
built over with villas and pavilions (now no more) and the orchards
seem to form one great garden, all confined by one wall.

But presently the Doctor was seen to break loose from the mob of animals
that surrounded him. Then catching each of them by the horns, one after
another, he would give their heads a sudden twist and throw them down
flat on the sand. The great fellows acted their parts extremely well.
I have never seen trained animals in a circus do better. They lay
there panting on the ground where the Doctor threw them as if they were
exhausted and completely beaten.

Then with a final bow to the ladies John Dolittle took a cigar from his
pocket, lit it and strolled out of the ring.


THE NINTH CHAPTER. WE DEPART IN A HURRY

AS soon as the door closed behind the Doctor the most tremendous noise
I have ever heard broke loose. Some of the men appeared to be angry
(friends of Pepito's, I suppose); but the ladies called and called to
have the Doctor come back into the ring.

When at length he did so, the women seemed to go entirely mad over him.
They blew kisses to him. They called him a darling. Then they started
taking off their flowers, their rings, their necklaces, and their
brooches and threw them down at his feet. You never saw anything like
it--a perfect shower of jewelry and roses.

But the Doctor just smiled up at them, bowed once more and backed out.

"Now, Bumpo," said Polynesia, "this is where you go down and gather up
all those trinkets and we'll sell 'em. That's what the big matadors
do: leave the jewelry on the ground and their assistants collect it for
them. We might as well lay in a good supply of money while we've got the
chance--you never know when you may need it when you're traveling with
the Doctor. Never mind the roses--you can leave them--but don't leave
any rings. And when you've finished go and get your three-thousand
pesetas out of Don Ricky-ticky. Tommy and I will meet you outside and
we'll pawn the gew-gaws at that Jew's shop opposite the bed-maker's. Run
along--and not a word to the Doctor, remember."

Outside the bull-ring we found the crowd still in a great state of
excitement. Violent arguments were going on everywhere. Bumpo joined us
with his pockets bulging in all directions; and we made our way slowly
through the dense crowd to that side of the building where the matadors'
dressing-room was. The Doctor was waiting at the door for us.

"Good work, Doctor!" said Polynesia, flying on to his shoulder--"Great
work!--But listen: I smell danger. I think you had better get back to
the ship now as quick and as quietly as you can. Put your overcoat on
over that giddy suit. I don't like the looks of this crowd. More than
half of them are furious because you've won. Don Ricky-ticky must now
stop the bullfighting--and you know how they love it. What I'm afraid of
is that some of these matadors who are just mad with jealousy may start
some dirty work. I think this would be a good time for us to get away."

"I dare say you're right, Polynesia," said the Doctor--"You usually are.
The crowd does seem to be a bit restless. I'll slip down to the ship
alone--so I shan't be so noticeable; and I'll wait for you there. You
come by some different way. But don't be long about it. Hurry!"

As soon as the Doctor had departed Bumpo sought out Don Enrique and
said,

"Honorable Sir, you owe me three-thousand pesetas."

Without a word, but looking cross-eyed with annoyance, Don Enrique paid
his bet.

We next set out to buy the provisions; and on the way we hired a cab and
took it along with us.

Not very far away we found a big grocer's shop which seemed to sell
everything to eat. We went in and bought up the finest lot of food you
ever saw in your life.

As a matter of fact, Polynesia had been right about the danger we were
in. The news of our victory must have spread like lightning through the
whole town. For as we came out of the shop and loaded the cab up with
our stores, we saw various little knots of angry men hunting round the
streets, waving sticks and shouting,

"The Englishmen! Where are those accursed Englishmen who stopped the
bullfighting?--Hang them to a lamp-post!--Throw them in the sea! The
Englishmen!--We want the Englishmen!"

After that we didn't waste any time, you may be sure. Bumpo grabbed the
Spanish cab-driver and explained to him in signs that if he didn't drive
down to the harbor as fast as he knew how and keep his mouth shut the
whole way, he would choke the life out of him. Then we jumped into the
cab on top of the food, slammed the door, pulled down the blinds and
away we went.

"We won't get a chance to pawn the jewelry now," said Polynesia, as we
bumped over the cobbly streets. "But never mind--it may come in handy
later on. And anyway we've got two-thousand five-hundred pesetas left
out of the bet. Don't give the cabby more than two pesetas fifty, Bumpo.
That's the right fare, I know."

Well, we reached the harbor all right and we were mighty glad to find
that the Doctor had sent Chee-Chee back with the row-boat to wait for us
at the landing-wall.

Unfortunately while we were in the middle of loading the supplies from
the cab into the boat, the angry mob arrived upon the wharf and made
a rush for us. Bumpo snatched up a big beam of wood that lay near
and swung it round and round his head, letting out dreadful African
battle-yells the while. This kept the crowd off while Chee-Chee and I
hustled the last of the stores into the boat and clambered in ourselves.
Bumpo threw his beam of wood into the thick of the Spaniards and leapt
in after us. Then we pushed off and rowed like mad for the Curlew.

The mob upon the wall howled with rage, shook their fists and hurled
stones and all manner of things after us. Poor old Bumpo got hit on the
head with a bottle. But as he had a very strong head it only raised a
small bump while the bottle smashed into a thousand pieces.

When we reached the ship's side the Doctor had the anchor drawn up and
the sails set and everything in readiness to get away. Looking back we
saw boats coming out from the harbor-wall after us, filled with angry,
shouting men. So we didn't bother to unload our rowboat but just tied it
on to the ship's stern with a rope and jumped aboard.

It only took a moment more to swing the Curlew round into the wind; and
soon we were speeding out of the harbor on our way to Brazil.

"Ha!" sighed Polynesia, as we all flopped down on the deck to take a
rest and get our breath. "That wasn't a bad adventure--quite reminds me
of my old seafaring days when I sailed with the smugglers--Golly, that
was the life!--Never mind your head, Bumpo. It will be all right when
the Doctor puts a little arnica on it. Think what we got out of the
scrap: a boat-load of ship's stores, pockets full of jewelry and
thousands of pesetas. Not bad, you know--not bad."


PART FOUR


THE FIRST CHAPTER. SHELLFISH LANGUAGES AGAIN

MIRANDA, the Purple Bird-of-Paradise had prophesied rightly when she had
foretold a good spell of weather. For three weeks the good ship Curlew
plowed her way through smiling seas before a steady powerful wind.

I suppose most real sailors would have found this part of the voyage
dull. But not I. As we got further South and further West the face
of the sea seemed different every day. And all the little things of
a voyage which an old hand would have hardly bothered to notice were
matters of great interest for my eager eyes.

We did not pass many ships. When we did see one, the Doctor would get
out his telescope and we would all take a look at it. Sometimes he would
signal to it, asking for news, by hauling up little colored flags upon
the mast; and the ship would signal back to us in the same way. The
meaning of all the signals was printed in a book which the Doctor kept
in the cabin. He told me it was the language of the sea and that all
ships could understand it whether they be English, Dutch, or French.

Our greatest happening during those first weeks was passing an iceberg.
When the sun shone on it it burst into a hundred colors, sparkling like
a jeweled palace in a fairy-story. Through the telescope we saw a mother
polar bear with a cub sitting on it, watching us. The Doctor recognized
her as one of the bears who had spoken to him when he was discovering
the North Pole. So he sailed the ship up close and offered to take her
and her baby on to the Curlew if she wished it. But she only shook her
head, thanking him; she said it would be far too hot for the cub on the
deck of our ship, with no ice to keep his feet cool. It had been indeed
a very hot day; but the nearness of that great mountain of ice made us
all turn up our coat-collars and shiver with the cold.

During those quiet peaceful days I improved my reading and writing a
great deal with the Doctor's help. I got on so well that he let me keep
the ship's log. This is a big book kept on every ship, a kind of diary,
in which the number of miles run, the direction of your course and
everything else that happens is written down.

The Doctor too, in what spare time he had, was nearly always writing--in
his note-books. I used to peep into these sometimes, now that I could
read, but I found it hard work to make out the Doctor's handwriting.
Many of these note-books seemed to be about sea things. There were six
thick ones filled full with notes and sketches of different seaweeds;
and there were others on sea birds; others on sea worms; others on
seashells. They were all some day to be re-written, printed and bound
like regular books.

One afternoon we saw, floating around us, great quantities of stuff that
looked like dead grass. The Doctor told me this was gulf-weed. A little
further on it became so thick that it covered all the water as far as
the eye could reach; it made the Curlew look as though she were moving
across a meadow instead of sailing the Atlantic.

Crawling about upon this weed, many crabs were to be seen. And the sight
of them reminded the Doctor of his dream of learning the language of the
shellfish. He fished several of these crabs up with a net and put them
in his listening-tank to see if he could understand them. Among the
crabs he also caught a strange-looking, chubby, little fish which he
told me was called a Silver Fidgit.

After he had listened to the crabs for a while with no success, he put
the fidgit into the tank and began to listen to that. I had to leave
him at this moment to go and attend to some duties on the deck. But
presently I heard him below shouting for me to come down again.

"Stubbins," he cried as soon as he saw me--"a most extraordinary
thing--Quite unbelievable--I'm not sure whether I'm dreaming--Can't
believe my own senses. I--I--I--"

"Why, Doctor," I said, "what is it?--What's the matter?"

"The fidgit," he whispered, pointing with a trembling finger to the
listening-tank in which the little round fish was still swimming
quietly, "he talks English! And--and--and HE WHISTLES TUNES--English
tunes!"

"Talks English!" I cried--"Whistles!--Why, it's impossible."

"It's a fact," said the Doctor, white in the face with excitement. "It's
only a few words, scattered, with no particular sense to them--all mixed
up with his own language which I can't make out yet. But they're English
words, unless there's something very wrong with my hearing--And the tune
he whistles, it's as plain as anything--always, the same tune. Now you
listen and tell me what you make of it. Tell me everything you hear.
Don't miss a word."

I went to the glass tank upon the table while the Doctor grabbed
a note-book and a pencil. Undoing my collar I stood upon the empty
packing-case he had been using for a stand and put my right ear down
under the water.

For some moments I detected nothing at all--except, with my dry ear, the
heavy breathing of the Doctor as he waited, all stiff and anxious, for
me to say something. At last from within the water, sounding like a
child singing miles and miles away, I heard an unbelievably thin, small
voice.

"Ah!" I said.

"What is it?" asked the Doctor in a hoarse, trembly whisper. "What does
he say?"

"I can't quite make it out," I said. "It's mostly in some strange fish
language--Oh, but wait a minute!--Yes, now I get it--'No smoking'....
'My, here's a queer one!' 'Popcorn and picture postcards here.... This
way out.... Don't spit'--What funny things to say, Doctor!--Oh, but
wait!--Now he's whistling the tune."

"What tune is it?" gasped the Doctor.

"John Peel."

"Ah hah," cried the Doctor, "that's what I made it out to be." And he
wrote furiously in his note-book.

I went on listening.

"This is most extraordinary," the Doctor kept muttering to himself
as his pencil went wiggling over the page--"Most extraordinary--but
frightfully thrilling. I wonder where he--"

"Here's some more," I cried--"some more English.... 'THE BIG TANK NEEDS
CLEANING'.... That's all. Now he's talking fish-talk again."

"The big tank!" the Doctor murmured frowning in a puzzled kind of way.
"I wonder where on earth he learned--"

Then he bounded up out of his chair.

"I have it," he yelled, "this fish has escaped from an aquarium. Why,
of course! Look at the kind of things he has learned: 'Picture
postcards'--they always sell them in aquariums; 'Don't spit'; 'No
smoking'; 'This way out'--the things the attendants say. And then, 'My,
here's a queer one!' That's the kind of thing that people exclaim
when they look into the tanks. It all fits. There's no doubt about it,
Stubbins: we have here a fish who has escaped from captivity. And it's
quite possible--not certain, by any means, but quite possible--that
I may now, through him, be able to establish communication with the
shellfish. This is a great piece of luck."


THE SECOND CHAPTER. THE FIDGIT'S STORY

WELL, now that he was started once more upon his old hobby of the
shellfish languages, there was no stopping the Doctor. He worked right
through the night.

A little after midnight I fell asleep in a chair; about two in the
morning Bumpo fell asleep at the wheel; and for five hours the Curlew
was allowed to drift where she liked. But still John Dolittle worked on,
trying his hardest to understand the fidgit's language, struggling to
make the fidgit understand him.

When I woke up it was broad daylight again. The Doctor was still
standing at the listening-tank, looking as tired as an owl and
dreadfully wet. But on his face there was a proud and happy smile.

"Stubbins," he said as soon as he saw me stir, "I've done it. I've
got the key to the fidgit's language. It's a frightfully difficult
language--quite different from anything I ever heard. The only thing it
reminds me of--slightly--is ancient Hebrew. It isn't shellfish; but it's
a big step towards it. Now, the next thing, I want you to take a pencil
and a fresh notebook and write down everything I say. The fidgit has
promised to tell me the story of his life. I will translate it into
English and you put it down in the book. Are you ready?"

Once more the Doctor lowered his ear beneath the level of the water; and
as he began to speak, I started to write. And this is the story that the
fidgit told us.


THIRTEEN MONTHS IN AN AQUARIUM


"I was born in the Pacific Ocean, close to the coast of Chile. I was one
of a family of two-thousand five-hundred and ten. Soon after our mother
and father left us, we youngsters got scattered. The family was broken
up--by a herd of whales who chased us. I and my sister, Clippa (she was
my favorite sister) had a very narrow escape for our lives. As a rule,
whales are not very hard to get away from if you are good at dodging--if
you've only got a quick swerve. But this one that came after Clippa and
myself was a very mean whale, Every time he lost us under a stone or
something he'd come back and hunt and hunt till he routed us out into
the open again. I never saw such a nasty, persevering brute.

"Well, we shook him at last--though not before he had worried us for
hundreds of miles northward, up the west coast of South America. But
luck was against us that day. While we were resting and trying to get
our breath, another family of fidgits came rushing by, shouting, 'Come
on! Swim for your lives! The dog-fish are coming!'

"Now dog-fish are particularly fond of fidgits. We are, you might say,
their favorite food--and for that reason we always keep away from deep,
muddy waters. What's more, dog-fish are not easy to escape from; they
are terribly fast and clever hunters. So up we had to jump and on again.

"After we had gone a few more hundred miles we looked back and saw that
the dog-fish were gaining on us. So we turned into a harbor. It happened
to be one on the west coast of the United States. Here we guessed, and
hoped, the dog-fish would not be likely to follow us. As it happened,
they didn't even see us turn in, but dashed on northward and we never
saw them again. I hope they froze to death in the Arctic Seas.

"But, as I said, luck was against us that day. While I and my sister
were cruising gently round the ships anchored in the harbor looking for
orange-peels, a great delicacy with us---SWOOP! BANG!--we were caught in
a net.

"We struggled for all we were worth; but it was no use. The net was
small-meshed and strongly made. Kicking and flipping we were hauled
up the side of the ship and dumped down on the deck, high and dry in a
blazing noon-day sun.

"Here a couple of old men in whiskers and spectacles leant over us,
making strange sounds. Some codling had got caught in the net the same
time as we were. These the old men threw back into the sea; but us they
seemed to think very precious. They put us carefully into a large
jar and after they had taken us on shore they went to a big house and
changed us from the jar into glass boxes full of water. This house was
on the edge of the harbor; and a small stream of sea-water was made to
flow through the glass tank so we could breathe properly. Of course
we had never lived inside glass walls before; and at first we kept on
trying to swim through them and got our noses awfully sore bumping the
glass at full speed.

"Then followed weeks and weeks of weary idleness. They treated us well,
so far as they knew how. The old fellows in spectacles came and looked
at us proudly twice a day and saw that we had the proper food to eat,
the right amount of light and that the water was not too hot or too
cold. But oh, the dullness of that life! It seemed we were a kind of a
show. At a certain hour every morning the big doors of the house were
thrown open and everybody in the city who had nothing special to do came
in and looked at us. There were other tanks filled with different kinds
of fishes all round the walls of the big room. And the crowds would go
from tank to tank, looking in at us through the glass--with their mouths
open, like half-witted flounders. We got so sick of it that we used
to open our mouths back at them; and this they seemed to think highly
comical.

"One day my sister said to me, 'Think you, Brother, that these strange
creatures who have captured us can talk?'

"'Surely,' said I, 'have you not noticed that some talk with the lips
only, some with the whole face, and yet others discourse with the hands?
When they come quite close to the glass you can hear them. Listen!'

"At that moment a female, larger than the rest, pressed her nose up
against the glass, pointed at me and said to her young behind her, 'Oh,
look, here's a queer one!'

"And then we noticed that they nearly always said this when they looked
in. And for a long time we thought that such was the whole extent of the
language, this being a people of but few ideas. To help pass away the
weary hours we learned it by heart, 'Oh, look, here's a queer one!' But
we never got to know what it meant. Other phrases, however, we did get
the meaning of; and we even learned to read a little in man-talk. Many
big signs there were, set up upon the walls; and when we saw that the
keepers stopped the people from spitting and smoking, pointed to these
signs angrily and read them out loud, we knew then that these writings
signified, 'No Smoking and Don't Spit.' Then in the evenings, after the
crowd had gone, the same aged male with one leg of wood, swept up the
peanut-shells with a broom every night. And while he was so doing he
always whistled the same tune to himself. This melody we rather liked;
and we learned that too by heart--thinking it was part of the language.

"Thus a whole year went by in this dismal place. Some days new fishes
were brought in to the other tanks; and other days old fishes were taken
out. At first we had hoped we would only be kept here for a while, and
that after we had been looked at sufficiently we would be returned to
freedom and the sea. But as month after month went by, and we were left
undisturbed, our hearts grew heavy within our prison-walls of glass and
we spoke to one another less and less.

"One day, when the crowd was thickest in the big room, a woman with a
red face fainted from the heat. I watched through the glass and saw that
the rest of the people got highly excited--though to me it did not seem
to be a matter of very great importance. They threw cold water on her
and carried her out into the open air.

"This made me think mightily; and presently a great idea burst upon me.

"'Sister,' I said, turning to poor Clippa who was sulking at the bottom
of our prison trying to hide behind a stone from the stupid gaze of the
children who thronged about our tank, 'supposing that we pretended we
were sick: do you think they would take us also from this stuffy house?'

"'Brother,' said she wearily, 'that they might do. But most likely they
would throw us on a rubbish-heap, where we would die in the hot sun.'

"'But,' said I, 'why should they go abroad to seek a rubbish-heap,
when the harbor is so close? While we were being brought here I saw men
throwing their rubbish into the water. If they would only throw us also
there, we could quickly reach the sea.'

"'The Sea!' murmured poor Clippa with a faraway look in her eyes (she
had fine eyes, had my sister, Clippa). 'How like a dream it sounds--the
Sea! Oh brother, will we ever swim in it again, think you? Every night
as I lie awake on the floor of this evil-smelling dungeon I hear its
hearty voice ringing in my ears. How I have longed for it! Just to feel
it once again, the nice, big, wholesome homeliness of it all! To jump,
just to jump from the crest of an Atlantic wave, laughing in the trade
wind's spindrift, down into the blue-green swirling trough! To chase
the shrimps on a summer evening, when the sky is red and the light's all
pink within the foam! To lie on the top, in the doldrums' noonday calm,
and warm your tummy in the tropic sun! To wander hand in hand once
more through the giant seaweed forests of the Indian Ocean, seeking the
delicious eggs of the pop-pop! To play hide-and-seek among the castles
of the coral towns with their pearl and jasper windows spangling the
floor of the Spanish Main! To picnic in the anemone-meadows, dim blue
and lilac-gray, that lie in the lowlands beyond the South Sea Garden!
To throw somersaults on the springy sponge-beds of the Mexican Gulf! To
poke about among the dead ships and see what wonders and adventures lie
inside!--And then, on winter nights when the Northeaster whips the water
into froth, to swoop down and down to get away from the cold, down to
where the water's warm and dark, down and still down, till we spy the
twinkle of the fire-eels far below where our friends and cousins sit
chatting round the Council Grotto--chatting, Brother, over the news and
gossip of THE SEA!... Oh--'

"And then she broke down completely, sniffling.

"'Stop it!' I said. 'You make me homesick. Look here: let's pretend
we're sick--or better still, let's pretend we're dead; and see what
happens. If they throw us on a rubbish-heap and we fry in the sun, we'll
not be much worse off than we are here in this smelly prison. What do
you say? Will you risk it?'

"'I will,' she said--'and gladly.'

"So next morning two fidgits were found by the keeper floating on the
top of the water in their tank, stiff and dead. We gave a mighty good
imitation of dead fish--although I say it myself. The keeper ran and
got the old gentlemen with spectacles and whiskers. They threw up their
hands in horror when they saw us. Lifting us carefully out of the water
they laid us on wet cloths. That was the hardest part of all. If you're
a fish and get taken out of the water you have to keep opening and
shutting your mouth to breathe at all--and even that you can't keep up
for long. And all this time we had to stay stiff as sticks and breathe
silently through half-closed lips.

"Well, the old fellows poked us and felt us and pinched us till I
thought they'd never be done. Then, when their backs were turned a
moment, a wretched cat got up on the table and nearly ate us. Luckily
the old men turned round in time and shooed her away. You may be sure
though that we took a couple of good gulps of air while they weren't
looking; and that was the only thing that saved us from choking. I
wanted to whisper to Clippa to be brave and stick it out. But I couldn't
even do that; because, as you know, most kinds of fish-talk cannot be
heard--not even a shout--unless you're under water.

"Then, just as we were about to give it up and let on that we were
alive, one of the old men shook his head sadly, lifted us up and carried
us out of the building.

"'Now for it!' I thought to myself. 'We'll soon know our fate: liberty
or the garbage-can.'

"Outside, to our unspeakable horror, he made straight for a large
ash-barrel which stood against the wall on the other side of a yard.
Most happily for us, however, while he was crossing this yard a very
dirty man with a wagon and horses drove up and took the ash-barrel away.
I suppose it was his property.

"Then the old man looked around for some other place to throw us. He
seemed about to cast us upon the ground. But he evidently thought
that this would make the yard untidy and he desisted. The suspense was
terrible. He moved outside the yard-gate and my heart sank once more as
I saw that he now intended to throw us in the gutter of the roadway. But
(fortune was indeed with us that day), a large man in, blue clothes and
silver buttons stopped him in the nick of time. Evidently, from the way
the large man lectured and waved a short thick stick, it was against the
rules of the town to throw dead fish in the streets.

"At last, to our unutterable joy, the old man turned and moved off with
us towards the harbor. He walked so slowly, muttering to himself all the
way and watching the man in blue out of the corner of his eye, that I
wanted to bite his finger to make him hurry up. Both Clippa and I were
actually at our last gasp.

"Finally he reached the sea-wall and giving us one last sad look he
dropped us into the waters of the harbor.

"Never had we realized anything like the thrill of that moment, as we
felt the salt wetness close over our heads. With one flick of our tails
we came to life again. The old man was so surprised that he fell right
into the water, almost on top of us. From this he was rescued by a
sailor with a boat-hook; and the last we saw of him, the man in blue was
dragging him away by the coat-collar, lecturing him again. Apparently
it was also against the rules of the town to throw dead fish into the
harbor.

"But we?--What time or thought had we for his troubles? WE WERE FREE!
In lightning leaps, in curving spurts, in crazy zig-zags--whooping,
shrieking with delight, we sped for home and the open sea!

"That is all of my story and I will now, as I promised last night, try
to answer any questions you may ask about the sea, on condition that I
am set at liberty as soon as you have done."


The Doctor: "Is there any part of the sea deeper than that known as the
Nero Deep--I mean the one near the Island of Guam?"

The Fidgit: "Why, certainly. There's one much deeper than that near the
mouth of the Amazon River. But it's small and hard to find. We call it
'The Deep Hole.' And there's another in the Antarctic Sea."

The Doctor: "Can you talk any shellfish language yourself?"

The Fidgit: "No, not a word. We regular fishes don't have anything to do
with the shellfish. We consider them a low class."

The Doctor: "But when you're near them, can you hear the sound they make
talking--I mean without necessarily understanding what they say?"

The Fidgit: "Only with the very largest ones. Shellfish have such weak
small voices it is almost impossible for any but their own kind to hear
them. But with the bigger ones it is different. They make a sad, booming
noise, rather like an iron pipe being knocked with a stone--only not
nearly so loud of course."

The Doctor: "I am most anxious to get down to the bottom of the sea--to
study many things. But we land animals, as you no doubt know, are unable
to breathe under water. Have you any ideas that might help me?"

The Fidgit: "I think that for both your difficulties the best thing for
you to do would be to try and get hold of the Great Glass Sea Snail."

The Doctor: "Er--who, or what, is the Great Glass Sea Snail?"

The Fidgit: "He is an enormous salt-water snail, one of the winkle
family, but as large as a big house. He talks quite loudly--when he
speaks, but this is not often. He can go to any part of the ocean, at
all depths because he doesn't have to be afraid of any creature in the
sea. His shell is made of transparent mother-o'-pearl so that you can
see through it; but it's thick and strong. When he is out of his shell
and he carries it empty on his back, there is room in it for a wagon
and a pair of horses. He has been seen carrying his food in it when
traveling."

The Doctor: "I feel that that is just the creature I have been looking
for. He could take me and my assistant inside his shell and we could
explore the deepest depths in safety. Do you think you could get him for
me?"

The Fidgit: "Alas! no. I would willingly if I could; but he is hardly
ever seen by ordinary fish. He lives at the bottom of the Deep Hole, and
seldom comes out--And into the Deep Hole, the lower waters of which are
muddy, fishes such as we are afraid to go."

The Doctor: "Dear me! That's a terrible disappointment. Are there many
of this kind of snail in the sea?"

The Fidgit: "Oh no. He is the only one in existence, since his second
wife died long, long ago. He is the last of the Giant Shellfish. He
belongs to past ages when the whales were land-animals and all that.
They say he is over seventy thousand years old."

The Doctor: "Good Gracious, what wonderful things he could tell me! I do
wish I could meet him."

The Fidgit: "Were there any more questions you wished to ask me? This
water in your tank is getting quite warm and sickly. I'd like to be put
back into the sea as soon as you can spare me."

The Doctor: "Just one more thing: when Christopher Columbus crossed the
Atlantic in 1492, he threw overboard two copies of his diary sealed up
in barrels. One of them was never found. It must have sunk. I would like
to get it for my library. Do you happen to know where it is?"

The Fidgit: "Yes, I do. That too is in the Deep Hole. When the barrel
sank the currents drifted it northwards down what we call the Orinoco
Slope, till it finally disappeared into the Deep Hole. If it was any
other part of the sea I'd try and get it for you; but not there."

The Doctor: "Well, that is all, I think. I hate to put you back into the
sea, because I know that as soon as I do, I'll think of a hundred other
questions I wanted to ask you. But I must keep my promise. Would
you care for anything before you go?--it seems a cold day--some
cracker-crumbs or something?"

The Fidgit: "No, I won't stop. All I want just at present is fresh
sea-water."

The Doctor: "I cannot thank you enough for all the information you have
given me. You have been very helpful and patient."

The Fidgit: "Pray do not mention it. It has been a real pleasure to
be of assistance to the great John Dolittle. You are, as of course
you know, already quite famous among the better class of fishes.
Goodbye!--and good luck to you, to your ship and to all your plans!"


The Doctor carried the listening-tank to a porthole, opened it and
emptied the tank into the sea. "Good-bye!" he murmured as a faint splash
reached us from without.

I dropped my pencil on the table and leaned back with a sigh. My fingers
were so stiff with writers' cramp that I felt as though I should never
be able to open my hand again. But I, at least, had had a night's sleep.
As for the poor Doctor, he was so weary that he had hardly put the tank
back upon the table and dropped into a chair, when his eyes closed and
he began to snore.

In the passage outside Polynesia scratched angrily at the door. I rose
and let her in.

"A nice state of affairs!" she stormed. "What sort of a ship is this?
There's that colored man upstairs asleep under the wheel; the Doctor
asleep down here; and you making pot-hooks in a copy-book with a pencil!
Expect the ship to steer herself to Brazil? We're just drifting around
the sea like an empty bottle--and a week behind time as it is. What's
happened to you all?"

She was so angry that her voice rose to a scream. But it would have
taken more than that to wake the Doctor.

I put the note-book carefully in a drawer and went on deck to take the
wheel.


THE THIRD CHAPTER. BAD WEATHER

AS soon as I had the Curlew swung round upon her course again I noticed
something peculiar: we were not going as fast as we had been. Our
favorable wind had almost entirely disappeared.

This, at first, we did not worry about, thinking that at any moment it
might spring up again. But the whole day went by; then two days; then a
week,--ten days, and the wind grew no stronger. The Curlew just dawdled
along at the speed of a toddling babe.

I now saw that the Doctor was becoming uneasy. He kept getting out his
sextant (an instrument which tells you what part of the ocean you are
in) and making calculations. He was forever looking at his maps and
measuring distances on them. The far edge of the sea, all around us, he
examined with his telescope a hundred times a day.

"But Doctor," I said when I found him one afternoon mumbling to himself
about the misty appearance of the sky, "it wouldn't matter so much would
it, if we did take a little longer over the trip? We've got plenty to
eat on board now; and the Purple Bird-of-Paradise will know that we have
been delayed by something that we couldn't help."

"Yes, I suppose so," he said thoughtfully. "But I hate to keep her
waiting. At this season of the year she generally goes to the Peruvian
mountains--for her health. And besides, the good weather she prophesied
is likely to end any day now and delay us still further. If we could
only keep moving at even a fair speed, I wouldn't mind. It's this
hanging around, almost dead still, that gets me restless--Ah, here comes
a wind--Not very strong--but maybe it'll grow."

A gentle breeze from the Northeast came singing through the ropes; and
we smiled up hopefully at the Curlew's leaning masts.

"We've only got another hundred and fifty miles to make, to sight the
coast of Brazil," said the Doctor. "If that wind would just stay with
us, steady, for a full day we'd see land."

But suddenly the wind changed, swung to the East, then back to the
Northeast--then to the North. It came in fitful gusts, as though it
hadn't made up its mind which way to blow; and I was kept busy at the
wheel, swinging the Curlew this way and that to keep the right side of
it.

Rather:
"Seven hours to law, to soothing slumber seven; Ten to the world
allot, and all to Heaven!"

But this is not practical. I must prefer the Chartist distribution:

Six hours sleep and six hours play: Six hours work and six shillings a
day.

Mr Froude (Oceana) speaks of New Zealanders having attained that ideal
of operative felicity:--

Eight to work, eight to play; Eight to sleep and eight shillings a
day.

[FN#109] Arab. "Bahímah," mostly=black cattle: see vol. iv. 54.

[FN#110] As a rule when the felidæ wag their tails, it is a sign
of coming anger, the reverse with the canidæ.

[FN#111] In India it is popularly said that the Rajah can do anything
with the Ryots provided he respects their women and their religion--not
their property.

[FN#112] Arab. "Sunan" for which see vol. v. 36, 167. Here it is=Rasm
or usage, equivalent to our precedents, and held valid, especially
when dating from olden time, in all matters which are not expressly
provided for by Koranic command.

For instance a Hindí Moslem (who doubtless borrowed the customs from
Hindús) will refuse to eat with the Kafir, and when the latter objects
that there is no such prohibition in the Koran will reply, "No but
it is our Rasm."

As a rule the Anglo-Indian is very ignorant on this essential point.

[FN#113] Lit. "lowering the wings," see supra p. 33.

[FN#114] .i.e. friends and acquaintances.

[FN#115] Arab. "Hamídah"=praiseworthy or satisfactory.

[FN#116] Not only alluding to the sperm of man and beast, but also
to the "Neptunist" doctrine held by the ancient Greeks and Hindus
and developed in Europe during the last century.

[FN#117] Arab. "Taksím" dividing into parts, analysis.

[FN#118] this is the usual illogical contention of all religions.
It is not the question whether an Almighty Being can do a given thing:
the question is whether He has or has not done it.

[FN#119] Upon the old simile of the potter I shall have something
to say in a coming volume.

[FN#120] A fine specimen of a peculiarity in the undeveloped mind of man,
the universal confusion between things objective as a dead body
and states of things as death.

We begin by giving a name, for facility of intercourse, to phases,
phenomena and conditions of matter; and, having created the word
we proceed to supply it with a fanciful entity, e.g.

"The Mind (a useful term to express the aggregate action of the brain,
nervous system etc.) of man is immortal." The next step is personification
as Time with his forelock, Death with his skull and Night (the absence
of light) with her starry mantle. For poetry this abuse of language
is a sine qua non, but it is deadly foe to all true philosophy.

[FN#121] Christians would naturally understand this "One Word" to be
the {Greek} of the Platonists, adopted by St. John (comparatively a
late writer) and by the Alexandrian school, Jewish (as Philo Judaeus)
and Christian. But here the tale-teller alludes to the Divine Word
"Kun" (be!)

whereby the worlds came into existence.

[FN#122] Arab. "Ya bunayyí" a dim. form lit. "O my little son !" an
affectionate address frequent in Russian, whose "little father" (under
"Bog") is his Czar.

[FN#123] Thus in two texts. Mr. Payne has, "Verily God the Most High
created man after His own image, and likened him to Himself, all of
Him truth, without falsehood; then He gave him dominion over himself
and ordered him and forbade him, and it was man who transgressed
His commandment and erred in his obedience and brought falsehood
upon himself of his own will."

Here he borrows from the Bresl.

Edit. viii. 84 (five first lines). But the doctrine is rather Jewish
and Christian than Moslem: Al-Mas'údi (ii. 389) introduces a
Copt in the presence of Ibn Tutún saying, "Prince, these
people (designing a Jew) pretend that Allah Almighty created Adam
(i.e. mankind) after His own image" ('Alá
Súrati-h).

[FN#124] Arab. "Istitá'ah"=ableness e.g. "Al hajj 'inda 'l-Istitá'ah"=Pilgrimage
when a man is able thereto (by easy circumstances).

[FN#125] Arab. "Al-Kasab," which phrenologists would translate
"acquisitiveness," The author is here attempting to reconcile man's
moral responsibility, that is Freewill, with Fate by which all human
actions are directed and controlled.

I cannot see that he fails to "apprehend the knotty point of doctrine
involved"; but I find his inability to make two contraries agree
as pronounced as that of all others, Moslems and Christians, that
preceded him in the same path.

[FN#126] The order should be, "men, angels and Jinn," for which see vol.
i. p. 10. But "angels" here takes precedence because Iblis was one
of them.

[FN#127] Arab.

"Wartah"=precipice, quagmire, quicksand and hence sundry secondary
and metaphorical significations, under which, as in the "Semitic" (Arabic)
tongues generally, the prosaical and material sense of the word
is clearly evident.

I noted this in Pilgrimage iii. 66 and was soundly abused for so
saying by a host of Sciolists.

[FN#128] i.e. Allowing the Devil to go about the world and seduce mankind
until Doomsday when "auld Sootie's" occupation will be gone. Surely
"Providence" might have managed better.

[FN#129] i.e. to those who deserve His love.

[FN#130] Here "Istitá'ah" would mean capability of action,
i.e.
freewill, which is a mere word like "free-trade."

[FN#131] Arab. "Bi al-taubah" which may also mean "for (on account of
his) penitence." The reader will note how the learned Shimas "dodges"
the real question. He is asked why the "Omnipotent, Omniscient did not
prevent (i.e. why He created) sin?" He answers that He kindly
permitted (i.e. created and sanctioned) it that man might repent. Proh
pudor! If any one thus reasoned of mundane matters he would be looked
upon as the merest fool.

[FN#132] Arab. "Mahall al-Zauk," lit.=seat of taste.

[FN#133] Mr.

Payne translates "it" i.e. the Truth; but the formula following
the word shows that Allah is meant.

[FN#134] Moslems, who do their best to countermine the ascetic
idea inherent in Christianity, are not ashamed of the sensual
appetite; but rather the reverse.

I have heard in Persia of a Religious, highly esteemed for learning
and saintly life who, when lodged by a disciple at Shiraz, came out of
his sleeping room and aroused his host with the words "Shahwat dáram!"
equivalent to our "I want a woman." He was at once married to one of the
slave-girls and able to gratify the demands of the flesh.

[FN#135] Koran iv. 81, "Whatever good betideth thee is from God,
and whatever betideth thee Of evil is from thyself": rank Manichæism,
as pronounced as any in Christendom.

[FN#136] Arab. "Zukhruf" which Mr. Payne picturesquely renders "painted
gawds."
[FN#137] It is the innate craving in the "Aryan" (Iranian, not the
Turanian) mind, this longing to know what follows Death, or if
nothing follows it, which accounts for the marvellous diffusion of
the so-called Spiritualism which is only Swedenborgianism systematised
and earned out into action, amongst nervous and impressionable races
like the Anglo-American.

In England it is the reverse; the obtuse sensitiveness of a people bred
on beef and beer has made the "Religion of the Nineteenth Century"
a manner of harmless magic, whose miracles are table-turning and
ghost seeing whilst the prodigious rascality of its prophets (the
so-called Mediums) has brought it into universal disrepute.

It has been said that Catholicism must be true to co-exist with the
priest and it is the same with Spiritualism proper, by which I understand
the belief in a life beyond the grave, a mere continuation of this
life; it flourishes (despite the Medium) chiefly because it has
laid before man the only possible and intelligible idea of a future
state.

[FN#138] See vol. vi. p. 7. The only lie which degrades a man in his own
estimation and in that of others, is that told for fear of telling
the truth.

Au reste, human society and civilised intercourse are built upon a system
of conventional lying. and many droll stories illustrate the
consequences of disregarding the dictum, la verité n'est pas tonjours
bonne à dire.

[FN#139] Arab.

"Walí'ahd" which may mean heir-presumptive (whose heirship is contingent)
or heir-apparent.

[FN#140] Arab.

"Yá abati"= my papa (which here would sound absurd).

[FN#141] All the texts give a decalogue; but Mr. Payne has reduced it
to a heptalogue.

[FN#142] The Arabs who had a variety of anæsthetics never seem to have
studied the subject of "euthanasia." They preferred seeing a man expire
in horrible agonies to relieving him by means of soporifics and other
drugs: so I have heard Christians exult in saying that the sufferer "kept
his senses to the last." Of course superstition is at the bottom of
this barbarity; the same which a generation ago made the silly accoucheur
refuse to give ether because of the divine (?)

saying "In sorrow shalt thou bring forth children." (Gen iii. 16.)

In the Bosnia-Herzegovina campaign many of the Austrian officers
carried with them doses of poison to be used in case of being taken
prisoners by the ferocious savages against whom they were fighting.

As many anecdotes about "Easing off the poor dear" testify, the
Euthanasia-system is by no means unknown to the lower classes in England.
I shall have more to say on this subject.

[FN#143] See vol. iii. p. 253 for the consequences of royal seclusion
of which Europe in the present day can contribute examples.

The lesson which it teaches simply is that the world can get on
very well without royalties.

[FN#144] The grim Arab humour in the text is the sudden change for the
worse of the good young man. Easterns do not believe in the Western saw,
"Nemo repente fuit turpissimus." The spirited conduct of the subjects
finds many parallels in European history, especially in Portugal:
see my Life of Camoens p. 234.

[FN#145] Arab. "Muhárabah" lit.=doing battle; but is sometimes used in the
sense of gain-saying or disobeying.

[FN#146] Arab. "Duwámah" (from "duwám"=vertigo, giddiness) also applied
to a boy's whip ton.

[FN#147] Arab. "Khayr o (we) Áfiyah," a popular phrase much used in
salutations, &c.

[FN#148] Another instance, and true to life, of the democracy of despotism
in which the express and combined will of the people is the only absolute
law.

Hence Russian autocracy is forced into repeated wars for the possession
of Constantinople which, in the present condition of the Empire, would
be an unmitigated evil to her and would be only too glad to see a
Principality of Byzantium placed under the united protection of
the European Powers.

I have treated of this in my paper on the "Partition of Turkey," which
first appeared, headed the "Future of Turkey," in the Daily
Telegraph, of March 7, 1880, and subsequently by its own name in
the Manchester Examiner, January 3, 1881.

The main reason why the project is not carried out appears to be that the
"politicals" would thereby find their occupation gone and they
naturally object to losing so fine a field of action.

So Turkey still plays the rôle of the pretty young lady being courted
by a rabble of valets.

[FN#149] Good Moslems are bound to abate such scandals; and in a
case of the kind even neighbours are expected to complain before
the Chief of Police.

This practice forms "Viligance Committees" all over the Mahommedan East:
and we may take a leaf out of their books if dynamite-outrages
continue.

[FN#150] But a Hadis, attributed to Mohammed, says, "The Prince of a
people is their servant." See Matth. xx. 26-27.

[FN#151] Easterns are well aware of the value of this drug which has
become the base of so many of our modern medicines.

[FN#152] The strangest poison is mentioned by Sonnini who, as a rule, is
a trustworthy writer. Noticing the malignity of Egyptian women he
declares (p. 628, English trans.) that they prepare a draught containing
a quant. suff. of menstruous discharge at certain phases of the moon,
which produces symptoms of scurvy; the gums decay, the teeth, beard and
hair fall off, the body dries, the limbs lose strength and death follows
within a year.

He also asserts that no counterpoison is known and if this be true he
confers a boon upon the Locustæ and Brinvilliers of modern Europe.
In Morocco "Ta'am" is the vulgar name for a mixture of dead men's
bones, eyes, hair and similar ingredients made by old wives and
supposed to cause a wasting disease for which the pharmacopoeia has
no cure.

Dogs are killed by needles cunningly inserted into meat-balls; and
this process is known through out the Moslem world.

[FN#153] Which contained the Palace.

[FN#154] Arab. "Lá baas." See Night vol. iv. 164.

[FN#155] For Ta'lab (Sa'lab) see supra, p. 48. In Morocco it is undoubtedly
the red or common fox which, however, is not gregarious as in the
text.

[FN#156] See vol. iii. 146.

[FN#157] Arab. "Muunah" which in Morocco applies to the
provisions furnished gratis by the unfortunate village-people to
travellers who have a passport from the Sultan. its root is Maun
=supplying necessaries.

"The name is supposed to have its origin in that of Manna the miraculous
provision bestowed by the bounty of Heaven on the Israelites while
wandering in the deserts of Arabia." Such is the marvellous information
we find in p. 40, "Morocco and the Moors" by John Drummond Hay
(Murray, 1861) 
[FN#158] i.e.

He resolved to do them justice and win a reward from Heaven.

[FN#159] Arab. ''Luss" = thief, robber, rogue, rascal, the Persian "Luti"
of popular usage. This is one of the many ''Simpleton stories" in which
Eastern folk-lore abounds. I hear that Mr.

Clouston is preparing a collection, and look forward to it with
interest.

[FN#160] Arab. "Tibn" for which see vol. i 16.

[FN#161] A fanciful origin of "Díván" (here an audience-chamber)
which may mean demons (plural of Dív) is attributed to a King of Persia.
He gave a series of difficult documents and accounts to his scribes
and surprised at the quickness and cleverness with which they were
ordered exclaimed, "These men be Divs!"

Hence a host of secondary meanings as a book of Odes with distichs rhymed
in alphabetical order and so forth.

[FN#162] In both cases the word "Jabábirah" is used, the plur. of Jabbár,
the potent, especially applied to the Kings of the Canaanites and
giants like the mythical Og of Bashan. So the Heb.
Jabbúrah is a title of the Queens of Judah.

[FN#163] Arab. "Kitáb al-Kazá"= the Book of Judgments, such as the Kazi
would use when deciding cases in dispute, by legal precedents and
the Rasm or custom of the country.
[FN#164] i.e. sit before the King as referee, etc.
[FN#165] This massacre of refractory chiefs is one of the grand
moyens of Eastern state-craft, and it is almost always successful
because circumstances require it; popular opinion approves of it
and it is planned and carried out with discretion and secrecy.
The two familiar instances in our century are the massacre of the
Mamelukes by Mohammed Ali Pasha the Great and of the turbulent
chiefs of the Omani Arabs by our ancient ally Sayyid Sa'íd, miscalled
the "Imám of Maskat."
[FN#166] The metaphor (Sabaka) is from horse-racing, the Arabs
being, I have said, a horsey people.
[FN#167] Arab. "Kurdús" = A body of horse.
[FN#168] Arab. "Ibn 'Irs." See vol. iii. 147.
[FN#169] Arab. "Al Hind-al-Aksá." The Sanskrit Sindhu (lands on the
Indus River) became in Zend "Hendu" and hence in Arabic Sind and
Hind, which latter I wish we had preserved instead of the classical
"India" or the poetical "Ind."When the light increased still further we noticed that the palms and
grasses of the island seemed withered and almost dead. The Doctor said
that it must be on account of the cold that the island was now suffering
from in its new climate. These trees and grasses, he told us, were the
kind that belonged to warm, tropical weather.

The porpoises asked if we wanted them any further. And the Doctor said
that he didn't think so, not for the present--nor the raft either, he
added; for it was already beginning to fall to pieces and could not
float much longer.

As we were preparing to go inland and explore the island, we suddenly
noticed a whole band of Red Indians watching us with great curiosity
from among the trees. The Doctor went forward to talk to them. But he
could not make them understand. He tried by signs to show them that
he had come on a friendly visit. The Indians didn't seem to like us
however. They had bows and arrows and long hunting spears, with stone
points, in their hands; and they made signs back to the Doctor to tell
him that if he came a step nearer they would kill us all. They evidently
wanted us to leave the island at once. It was a very uncomfortable
situation.

At last the Doctor made them understand that he only wanted to see the
island all over and that then he would go away--though how he meant to
do it, with no boat to sail in, was more than I could imagine.

While they were talking among themselves another Indian
arrived--apparently with a message that they were wanted in some
other part of the island. Because presently, shaking their spears
threateningly at us, they went off with the newcomer.

"What discourteous pagans!" said Bumpo. "Did you ever see such
inhospitability?--Never even asked us if we'd had breakfast, the
benighted bounders!"

"Sh! They're going off to their village," said Polynesia. "I'll bet
there's a village on the other side of those mountains. If you take my
advice, Doctor, you'll get away from this beach while their backs are
turned. Let us go up into the higher land for the present--some place
where they won't know where we are. They may grow friendlier when they
see we mean no harm. They have honest, open faces and look like a decent
crowd to me. They're just ignorant--probably never saw white folks
before."

So, feeling a little bit discouraged by our first reception, we moved
off towards the mountains in the centre of the island.


THE SIXTH CHAPTER. THE JABIZRI

WE found the woods at the feet of the hills thick and tangly and
somewhat hard to get through. On Polynesia's advice, we kept away from
all paths and trails, feeling it best to avoid meeting any Indians for
the present.

But she and Chee-Chee were good guides and splendid jungle-hunters; and
the two of them set to work at once looking for food for us. In a very
short space of time they had found quite a number of different fruits
and nuts which made excellent eating, though none of us knew the names
of any of them. We discovered a nice clean stream of good water which
came down from the mountains; so we were supplied with something to
drink as well.

We followed the stream up towards the heights. And presently we came to
parts where the woods were thinner and the ground rocky and steep. Here
we could get glimpses of wonderful views all over the island, with the
blue sea beyond. While we were admiring one of these the Doctor suddenly
said, "Sh!--A Jabizri!--Don't you hear it?"

We listened and heard, somewhere in the air about us, an extraordinarily
musical hum-like a bee, but not just one note. This hum rose and fell,
up and down--almost like some one singing.

"No other insect but the Jabizri beetle hums like that," said the
Doctor. "I wonder where he is--quite near, by the sound--flying among
the trees probably. Oh, if I only had my butterfly-net! Why didn't I
think to strap that around my waist too. Confound the storm: I may
miss the chance of a lifetime now of getting the rarest beetle in the
world--Oh look! There he goes!"

A huge beetle, easily three inches long I should say, suddenly flew by
our noses. The Doctor got frightfully excited. He took off his hat to
use as a net, swooped at the beetle and caught it. He nearly fell down
a precipice on to the rocks below in his wild hurry, but that didn't
bother him in the least. He knelt down, chortling, upon the ground
with the Jabizri safe under his hat. From his pocket he brought out a
glass-topped box, and into this he very skillfully made the beetle walk
from under the rim of the hat. Then he rose up, happy as a child, to
examine his new treasure through the glass lid.

It certainly was a most beautiful insect. It was pale blue underneath;
but its back was glossy black with huge red spots on it.

"There isn't an entymologist in the whole world who wouldn't give all he
has to be in my shoes to-day," said the Doctor--"Hulloa! This Jabizri's
got something on his leg--Doesn't look like mud. I wonder what it is."

He took the beetle carefully out of the box and held it by its back
in his fingers, where it waved its six legs slowly in the air. We all
crowded about him peering at it. Rolled around the middle section of its
right foreleg was something that looked like a thin dried leaf. It was
bound on very neatly with strong spider-web.

It was marvelous to see how John Dolittle with his fat heavy fingers
undid that cobweb cord and unrolled the leaf, whole, without tearing it
or hurting the precious beetle. The Jabizri he put back into the box.
Then he spread the leaf out flat and examined it.

You can imagine our surprise when we found that the inside of the leaf
was covered with signs and pictures, drawn so tiny that you almost
needed a magnifying-glass to tell what they were. Some of the signs
we couldn't make out at all; but nearly all of the pictures were quite
plain, figures of men and mountains mostly. The whole was done in a
curious sort of brown ink.

For several moments there was a dead silence while we all stared at the
leaf, fascinated and mystified.

"I think this is written in blood," said the Doctor at last. "It turns
that color when it's dry. Somebody pricked his finger to make these
pictures. It's an old dodge when you're short of ink--but highly
unsanitary--What an extraordinary thing to find tied to a beetle's leg!
I wish I could talk beetle language, and find out where the Jabizri got
it from."

"But what is it?" I asked--"Rows of little pictures and signs. What do
you make of it, Doctor?"

"It's a letter," he said--"a picture letter. All these little things
put together mean a message--But why give a message to a beetle to
carry--and to a Jabizri, the rarest beetle in the world?--What an
extraordinary thing!"

Then he fell to muttering over the pictures.

"I wonder what it means: men walking up a mountain; men walking into a
hole in a mountain; a mountain falling down--it's a good drawing, that;
men pointing to their open mouths; bars--prison-bars, perhaps; men
praying; men lying down--they look as though they might be sick; and
last of all, just a mountain--a peculiar-shaped mountain."

All of a sudden the Doctor looked up sharply at me, a wonderful smile of
delighted understanding spreading over his face.

"LONG ARROW!" he cried, "don't you see, Stubbins?--Why, of course! Only
a naturalist would think of doing a thing like this: giving his letter
to a beetle--not to a common beetle, but to the rarest of all, one
that other naturalists would try to catch--Well, well! Long Arrow!--A
picture-letter from Long Arrow. For pictures are the only writing that
he knows."

"Yes, but who is the letter to?" I asked.

"It's to me very likely. Miranda had told him, I know, years ago, that
some day I meant to come here. But if not for me, then it's for any one
who caught the beetle and read it. It's a letter to the world."

"Well, but what does it say? It doesn't seem to me that it's much good
to you now you've got it."

"Yes, it is," he said, "because, look, I can read it now. First picture:
men walking up a mountain--that's Long Arrow and his party; men going
into a hole in a mountain--they enter a cave looking for medicine-plants
or mosses; a mountain falling down--some hanging rocks must have slipped
and trapped them, imprisoned them in the cave. And this was the only
living creature that could carry a message for them to the outside
world--a beetle, who could BURROW his way into the open air. Of course
it was only a slim chance that the beetle would be ever caught and the
letter read. But it was a chance; and when men are in great danger they
grab at any straw of hope.... All right. Now look at the next picture:
men pointing to their open mouths--they are hungry; men praying--begging
any one who finds this letter to come to their assistance; men lying
down--they are sick, or starving. This letter, Stubbins, is their last
cry for help."

He sprang to his feet as he ended, snatched out a note-book and put
the letter between the leaves. His hands were trembling with haste and
agitation.

"Come on!" he cried--"up the mountain--all of you. There's not a moment
to lose. Bumpo, bring the water and nuts with you. Heaven only knows how
long they've been pining underground. Let's hope and pray we're not too
late!"

"But where are you going to look?" I asked. "Miranda said the island was
a hundred miles long and the mountains seem to run all the way down the
centre of it."

"Didn't you see the last picture?" he said, grabbing up his hat from
the ground and cramming it on his head. "It was an oddly shaped
mountain--looked like a hawk's head. Well, there's where he is if he's
still alive. First thing for us to do, is to get up on a high peak and
look around the island for a mountain shaped like a hawks' head--just
to think of it! There's a chance of my meeting Long Arrow, the son of
Golden Arrow, after all!--Come on! Hurry! To delay may mean death to the
greatest naturalist ever born!"


THE SEVENTH CHAPTER. HAWK'S-HEAD MOUNTAIN

WE all agreed afterwards that none of us had ever worked so hard in our
lives before as we did that day. For my part, I know I was often on the
point of dropping exhausted with fatigue; but I just kept on going--like
a machine--determined that, whatever happened, I would not be the first
to give up.

When we had scrambled to the top of a high peak, almost instantly we saw
the strange mountain pictured in the letter. In shape it was the perfect
image of a hawk's head, and was, as far as we could see, the second
highest summit in the island.

Although we were all out of breath from our climb, the Doctor didn't let
us rest a second as soon as he had sighted it. With one look at the
sun for direction, down he dashed again, breaking through thickets,
splashing over brooks, taking all the short cuts. For a fat man, he was
certainly the swiftest cross-country runner I ever saw.

We floundered after him as fast as we could. When I say WE, I mean Bumpo
and myself; for the animals, Jip, Chee-Chee and Polynesia, were a long
way ahead--even beyond the Doctor--enjoying the hunt like a paper-chase.

At length we arrived at the foot of the mountain we were making for; and
we found its sides very steep. Said the Doctor,

"Now we will separate and search for caves. This spot where we now are,
will be our meeting-place. If anyone finds anything like a cave or a
hole where the earth and rocks have fallen in, he must shout and hulloa
to the rest of us. If we find nothing we will all gather here in about
an hour's time--Everybody understand?"

Then we all went off our different ways.

Each of us, you may be sure, was anxious to be the one to make a
discovery. And never was a mountain searched so thoroughly. But alas!
nothing could we find that looked in the least like a fallen-in cave.
There were plenty of places where rocks had tumbled down to the foot of
the slopes; but none of these appeared as though caves or passages could
possibly lie behind them.

One by one, tired and disappointed, we straggled back to the
meeting-place. The Doctor seemed gloomy and impatient but by no means
inclined to give up.

"Jip," he said, "couldn't you SMELL anything like an Indian anywhere?"

"No," said Jip. "I sniffed at every crack on the mountainside. But I am
afraid my nose will be of no use to you here, Doctor. The trouble is,
the whole air is so saturated with the smell of spider-monkeys that it
drowns every other scent--And besides, it's too cold and dry for good
smelling."

"It is certainly that," said the Doctor--"and getting colder all the
time. I'm afraid the island is still drifting to the southward. Let's
hope it stops before long, or we won't be able to get even nuts and
fruit to eat--everything in the island will perish--Chee-Chee, what luck
did you have?"

"None, Doctor. I climbed to every peak and pinnacle I could see. I
searched every hollow and cleft. But not one place could I find where
men might be hidden."

"And Polynesia," asked the Doctor, "did you see nothing that might put
us on the right track?"

"Not a thing, Doctor--But I have a plan."

"Oh good!" cried John Dolittle, full of hope renewed. "What is it? Let's
hear it."

"You still have that beetle with you," she asked--"the Biz-biz, or
whatever it is you call the wretched insect?"

"Yes," said the Doctor, producing the glass-topped box from his pocket,
"here it is."

"All right. Now listen," said she. "If what you have supposed is
true--that is, that Long Arrow had been trapped inside the mountain by
falling rock, he probably found that beetle inside the cave--perhaps
many other different beetles too, eh? He wouldn't have been likely to
take the Biz-biz in with him, would he?--He was hunting plants, you say,
not beetles. Isn't that right?"

"Yes," said the Doctor, "that's probably so."

"Very well. It is fair to suppose then that the beetle's home, or his
hole, is in that place--the part of the mountain where Long Arrow and
his party are imprisoned, isn't it?"

"Quite, quite."

"All right. Then the thing to do is to let the beetle go--and watch him;
and sooner or later he'll return to his home in Long Arrow's cave. And
there we will follow him--Or at all events," she added smoothing down
her wing-feathers with a very superior air, "we will follow him till the
miserable bug starts nosing under the earth. But at least he will show
us what part of the mountain Long Arrow is hidden in."

"But he may fly, if I let him out," said the Doctor. "Then we shall just
lose him and be no better off than we were before."

"LET him fly," snorted Polynesia scornfully. "A parrot can wing it as
fast as a Biz-biz, I fancy. If he takes to the air, I'll guarantee not
to let the little devil out of my sight. And if he just crawls along the
ground you can follow him yourself."

"Splendid!" cried the Doctor. "Polynesia, you have a great brain. I'll
set him to work at once and see what happens."

Again we all clustered round the Doctor as he carefully lifted off the
glass lid and let the big beetle climb out upon his finger.

"Ladybug, Ladybug, fly away home!" crooned Bumpo. "Your house is on fire
and your chil--"

"Oh, be quiet!" Without doubt, a King who is after this wise of his
lieges is beloved and gaineth of this world eminence and of the
next honour and favour with the Creator thereof.

And we, the body politic of thy subjects, acknowledge in thee, O King,
all the attributes of kingship I have noted, even as it is said, 'The
best of things is that the King of a people be just and equitable,
their physician skilful and their teacher experience-full, acting
according to his knowledge.'

Now we enjoy this happiness, after we had despaired of the birth of a
son to thee, to inherit thy kingship; however, Allah (extolled be His
name!) hath not disappointed thine expectation, but hath granted thy
petition, by reason of the goodliness of thy trust in Him and thy
submission of thine affairs to Him.

Then fair fall thy hope! there hath betided thee that which betided the
Crow and the Serpent." Asked the King "What was that?"

; and the Wazir answered, "Hear, O King, the tale of

The Crow and the Serpent.

A crow once dwelt in a tree, he and his wife, in all delight of life,
till they came to the time of the hatching of their young, which was
the midsummer season, when a Serpent issued from its hole and crawled
up the tree wriggling around the branches till it came to the Crows'
nest, where it coiled itself up and there abode all the days of the
summer, whilst the Crow was driven away and found no opportunity to
clear his home nor any place wherein to lie. When the days of heat
were past, the Serpent went away to its own place and quoth the
Crow to his wife, "Let us thank Almighty Allah, who hath preserved us
and delivered us from this Serpent, albeit we are forbidden from increase
this year. Yet the Lord will not cut off our hope; so let us express our
gratitude to Him for having vouchsafed us safety and soundness of
body:
indeed, we have none other in whom to confide, and if He will and
we live to see the next year, He shall give us other young in the
stead of those we have missed this year."

Next summer when the hatching-season came round, the Serpent again
sallied forth from its place and made for the Crows' nest; but,
as it was coiling up a branch, a kite swooped down on it and struck
claws into its head and tare it, whereupon it fell to the ground
a-swoon, and the ants came out upon it and ate it.

[FN#78] So the Crow and his wife abode in peace and quiet and bred a
numerous brood and thanked Allah for their safety and for the young
that were born to them.

"In like manner, O King," continued the Wazir, "it behoveth us to thank
God for that wherewith He hath favoured thee and us in vouchsafing us
this blessed child of good omen, after despair and the cutting off
of hope.

May He make fair thy future reward and the issue of thine affair!"

--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted
say.

When it was the Nine Hundred and Fourth Night,
She continued: It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the
second Wazir had ended with the words, "Allah make fair thy future
reward and the issue of thine affair!"

, the third Wazir, presently rose and said, "Rejoice, O just King, in
the assurance of present prosperity and future felicity; for him,
whom the denizens of Earth love, the denizens of Heaven likewise
love, and indeed Almighty Allah hath made affection to be thy portion
and hath stablished it in the hearts of the people of thy kingdom;
wherefore to Him be thanks and praise from us and from thee, so He
may deign increase His bounty unto thee and unto us in thee!

For know, O King, that man can originate naught but by command of
Allah the Most High and that He is the Giver and all good which befalleth
a creature hath its end and issue in Him.

He allotteth His favours to His creatures, as it liketh Him; to some
he giveth gifts galore while others He doometh barely to win their daily
bread.

Some He maketh Lords and Captains, and others Recluses, who abstain from
the world and aspire but to Him, for He it is who saith, 'I am the Harmer
with adversity and the Healer with prosperity.

I make whole and make sick. I enrich and impoverish.
I kill and quicken; in my hand is everything and unto Me all things
do tend.'

Wherefore it behoveth all men to praise Him.
Now, especially thou, O King, art of the fortunate, the pious, of whom
it is said, 'The happiest of the just is he for whom Allah uniteth the
weal of this world and of the next world; who is content with that
portion which Allah allotteth to him and who giveth Him thanks for
that which He hath stablished.'

And indeed he that is rebellious and seeketh other than the dole which
God hath decreed unto him and for him, favoureth the wild Ass and the
Jackal.''[FN#79] The King asked, "And what is the story of the
twain?"

; the Wazir answered, "Hear, O King, the tale of

The Wild Ass and the Jackal.

A certain Jackal was wont every day to leave his lair and fare forth
questing his daily bread.

Now one day, as he was in a certain mountain, behold, the day was
done and he set out to return when he fell in with another Jackal who
saw him on the tramp, and each began to tell his mate of the quarry
he had gotten.

Quoth one of them, "The other day I came upon a wild Ass and I was an
hungered, for it was three days since I had eaten; so I rejoiced
in this and thanked Almighty Allah for bringing him into my power.

Then I tare out his heart and ate it and was full and returned to
my home.

That was three days ago, since which time I have found nothing to
eat, yet am I still full of meat."

When the other Jackal heard his fellow's story, he envied his fulness and
said in himself, "There is no help but that I eat the heart of a
wild Ass." So he left feeding for some days, till he became emaciated
and nigh upon death and bestirred not himself neither did he
endeavour to get food, but lay coiled up in his earth.

And whilst he was thus, behold, one day there came out two hunters trudging
in quest of quarry and started a wild Ass. They followed on his trail
tracking him all day, till at last one of them shot at him a forked[FN#80]
arrow, which pierced his vitals and reached his heart and killed him in
front of the Jackal's hole. Then the hunters came up and finding him
dead, pulled out the shaft from his heart, but only the wood came
away and the forked head abode in the Ass's belly. So they left him where
he lay, expecting that others of the wild beasts would flock to him;
but, when it was eventide and nothing fell to them, they returned to
their abiding places.

The Jackal, hearing the commotion at the mouth of his home, lay
quiet till nightfall, when he came forth of his lair, groaning for
weakness and hunger, and seeing the dead Ass lying at his door,
rejoiced with joy exceeding till he was like to fly for delight and
said, "Praised be Allah who hath won me my wish without toil!

Verily, I had lost hope of coming at a wild Ass or aught else; and
assuredly[FN#81] the Almighty hath sent him to me and crave him
fall to my homestead."

Then he sprang on the body and tearing open its belly, thrust in
his head and with his nose rummaged about its entrails, till he found
the heart and tearing a tidbit swallowed it: but, as soon as he had
so done, the forked head of the arrow struck deep in his gullet and he
could neither get it down into his belly nor bring it forth of his
throttle. So he made sure of destruction and said, "Of a truth it
beseemeth not the creature to seek for himself aught over and above
that which Allah hath allotted to him.

Had I been content with what He appointed to me, I had not come to
destruction."

"Wherefore, O King," added the Wazir, "it becometh man to be content with
whatso Allah hath distributed to him and thank Him for His bounties
to him and cast not off hope of his Lord. And behold, O King, because
of the purity of thy purpose and the fair intent of thy good works,
Allah hath blessed thee with a son, after despair, wherefore we
pray the Almighty to vouchsafe him length of days and abiding
happiness and make him a blessed successor, faithful in the observance
of thy covenant, after thy long life."

Then arose the fourth Wazir, and said, "Verily, an the King be a man
of understanding, a frequenter of the gates of wisdom,"--And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.

When it was the Nine Hundred and Fifth Night,
She pursued: It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the fourth
Wazir, arose and said, "Verily an the King be a man of understanding,
a frequenter of the gates of wisdom, versed in science, government
and policy, and eke upright in purpose and just to his subjects,
honouring those to whom honour is due, revering those who are digne
of reverence, tempering puissance with using clemency whenas it
behoveth, and protecting both governors and governed, lightening
all burthens for them and bestowing largesse on them, sparing their
blood and covering their shame and keeping his troth with them.

Such a King, I say, is worthy of felicity both present and future, worldly
and other- worldly, and this is of that which protecteth him from
ill-will and helpeth him to the stablishing of his Kingdom and the
victory over his enemies and the winning of his wish, together with
increase of Allah's bounty to him and His favouring him for his
praise of Him and the attainment of His protection.

But an the King be the contrary of this, he never ceaseth from
misfortunes and calamities, he and the people of his realm, for
that his oppression embraceth both stranger far and kinsman near
and there cometh to pass with him that which befel the unjust King
with the pilgrim Prince."

King Jali'ad asked, "And how was that?"

and the Wazir answered, "Hear, O King, the tale of

The Unjust King and the Pilgrim Prince.

There was once in Mauritania-land[FN#82] a King who exceeded in his
rule, a tyrant, violent and over severe, who had no respect for the
welfare or protection of his lieges nor of those who entered his realm;
and from everyone who came within his Kingdom his officers took four-fifths
of his monies, leaving him one- fifth and no more.

Now Allah Almighty decreed that he should have a son, who was
fortunate and God-favoured and seeing the pomps and vanities of this
world to be transient as they are unrighteous, renounced them in his youth
and rejected the world and that which is therein and fared forth serving
the Most High, wandering pilgrim-wise over words and wastes and bytimes
entering towns and cities.

One day, he came to his father's capital and the guards laid hands
on him and searched him but found naught upon him save two gowns,
one new and the other old.[FN#83] So they stripped the new one from
him and left him the old, after they had entreated him with contumely
and contempt; whereat he complained and said, "Woe to you, O ye oppressors!
I am a poor man and a pilgrim,[FN#84] and what shall this gown by
any means profit you?

Except ye restore it to me, I will go to the King and make complaint to
him of you." They replied, "We act thus by the King's command: so do
what seemeth good to thee." Accordingly he betook himself to the King's
palace and would have entered, but the chamberlains denied him admittance,
and he turned away, saying in himself, "There is nothing for me except
to watch till he cometh out and complain to him of my case and
that which hath befallen me."

And whilst he waited, behold, he heard one of the guards announce the
King's faring forth; whereupon he crept up, little by little, till
he stood before the gate; and presently when the King came out, he
threw himself in his way and after blessing him and wishing him
weal, he made his complaint to him informing him how scurvily he
had been entreated by the gatekeepers.

Lastly he gave him to know that he was a man of the people of
Allah[FN#85] who had rejected the world seeking acceptance of Allah
and who went wandering over earth and entering every city and hamlet,
whilst all the folk he met gave him alms according to their competence.

"I entered this thy city" (continued he), "hoping that the folk would
deal kindly and graciously with me as with others of my condition,[FN#86]
but thy followers stopped me and stripped me of one of my gowns and
loaded me with blows. Wherefore do thou look into my case and take me
by the hand and get me back my gown and I will not abide in thy city
an hour." Quoth the unjust King, "Who directed thee to enter this city,
unknowing the custom of its King?"; and quoth the pilgrim, "Give me
back my gown and do with me what thou wilt." Now when the King heard this,
his temper changed for the worse and he said, "O fool,[FN#87] we
stripped thee of thy gown, so thou mightest humble thyself to us,
but since thou makest this clamour I will strip thy soul from thee."

Then he commanded to cast him into gaol, where he began to repent
of having answered the King and reproached himself for not having
left him the gown and saved his life. When it was the middle of the
night, he rose to his feet and prayed long and prayerfully, saying,
"O Allah, Thou art the Righteous Judge.

Thou knowest my case and that which hath befallen me with this tyrannical
King, and I, Thine oppressed servant, beseech Thee, of the abundance
of Thy mercy, to deliver me from the hand of this unjust ruler and
send down on him Thy vengeance; for Thou art not unmindful of the
upright of every oppressor.

Wherefore, if Thou know that he hath wronged me, loose on him Thy
vengeance this night and send down on him Thy punishment; for Thy
rule is just and Thou art the Helper of every mourner, O Thou to
whom belong the power and the glory to the end of time!"

When the gaoler heard the prayer of the poor prisoner he trembled in
every limb, and behold, a fire suddenly broke out in the King's palace
and consumed it and all that were therein, even to the door of the
prison,[FN#88] and none was spared but the gaoler and the pilgrim.

Now when the gaoler saw this, he knew that it had not befallen save because
of the pilgrim's prayer; so he loosed him and fleeing with him
forth of the burning, betook himself, he and the King's son, to
another city.

So was the unjust King consumed, he and all his city, by reason of his
injustice, and he lost the goods both of this world and the next
world.

"As for us, O auspicious King" continued the Wazir, "we neither lie
down nor rise up without praying for thee and thanking Allah the Most
High for His grace in giving thee to us, tranquil in reliance on
thy justice and the excellence of thy governance; and sore indeed
was our care for thy lack of a son to inherit thy kingdom, fearing
lest after thee there betide us a King unlike thee.

But now the Almighty hath bestowed His favours upon us and done away
our concern and brought us gladness in the birth of this blessed child;
wherefore we beseech the Lord to make him a worthy successor to thee and
endow him with glory and felicity enduring and good abiding."

Then rose the fifth Wazir and said, "Blessed be the Most High,"--And
Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted
say.

When it was the Nine Hundred and Sixth Night,
She resumed: It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the fifth
Wazir said, "Blessed be the Most High, Giver of all good gifts and
graces the most precious!

But to continue: we are well assured that Allah favoureth whoso are
thankful to Him and mindful of His faith; and thou, O auspicious
King, art far-famed for these illustrious virtues and for justice
and equitable dealing between subject and subject and in that which
is acceptable to Allah Almighty.

By reason of this hath the Lord exalted thy dignity and prospered thy
days and bestowed on thee the good gift of this august child, after
despair, wherefrom there hath betided us gladness abiding and joys
which may not be cut off; for we before this were in exceeding
cark and passing care, because of thy lack of issue, and full of
concern bethinking us of all thy justice and gentle dealing with
us and fearful lest Allah decree death to thee and there be none
to succeed thee and inherit the kingdom after thee, and so we be
divided in our counsels and dissensigns arise between us and there
befal us what befel the Crows."

Asked the King, "And what befel the Crows?"; and the Wazir answered saying,
"Hear, O auspicious King, the tale of

The Crows and the Hawk.

There was once, in a certain desert, a spacious Wady, full of rills and
trees and fruits and birds singing the praises of Allah the One of All
might, Creator of day and night; and among them was a troop of Crows,
which led the happiest of lives. Now they were under the sway and
government of a Crow who ruled them with mildness and benignity, so
that they were with him in peace and contentment; and by reason of
their wisely ordering their affairs, none of the other birds could avail
against them.
Presently it chanced that there befel their chief the doom irrevocably
appointed to all creatures and he departed life;[FN#89] whereupon
the others mourned for him with sore mourning, and what added to
their grief was that there abided not amongst them like him one who
should fill his place.

So they all assembled and took counsel together concerning whom it
befitted for his goodness and piety to set over them; and a party
of them chose one Crow, saying, "It beseemeth that this be King over
us," whilst others objected to him and would none of him; and thus
there arose division and dissension amidst them and the strife of
excitement waxed hot between them.

At last they agreed amongst themselves and consented to sleep the night
upon it and that none should go forth at dawn next day to seek his
living, but that all must wait till high morning, when they should
gather together all in one place. "Then," said they, "we will all take
flight at once and whichsoever shall soar above the rest in his
flying, he shall be accepted of us as ruler and be made King over
us."

The fancy pleased them; so they made covenant together and did as they had
agreed and took flight all, but each of them deemed himself higher
than his fellow; wherefore quoth this one, "I am highest," and that,
"Nay, that am I."

Then said the lowest of them, "Look up, all of you, and whomsoever ye
find the highest of you, let him be your chief." So they raised their
eyes and seeing the Hawk soaring over them, said each to other, "We
agreed that which bird soever should be the highest of us we will make
king over us, and behold, the Hawk is the highest of us; what say ye to
him?" And they all cried out, "We accept of him."

Accordingly they summoned the Hawk and said to him, "O Father of
Good,[FN#90] we have chosen thee ruler over us, that thou mayst
look into our affair."

The Hawk consented, saying, "Inshallah, ye shall win of me abounding
weal." So they rejoiced and made him their King. But after awhile, he
fell to taking a company of them every day and betaking himself with them
afar off to one of the caves, where he struck them down and eating
their eyes and brains, threw their bodies into the river.

"Oh Lord!" groaned Polynesia in my ear--"Just like Puddleby: patients
arriving in the middle of dinner. Well, one thing: the food's raw, so
nothing can get cold anyway."

The Doctor examined the baby and found at once that it was thoroughly
chilled.

"Fire--FIRE! That's what it needs," he said turning to Long
Arrow--"That's what you all need. This child will have pneumonia if it
isn't kept warm."

"Aye, truly. But how to make a fire," said Long Arrow--"where to get it:
that is the difficulty. All the volcanoes in this land are dead."

Then we fell to hunting through our pockets to see if any matches had
survived the shipwreck. The best we could muster were two whole ones and
a half--all with the heads soaked off them by salt water.

"Hark, Long Arrow," said the Doctor: "divers ways there be of making
fire without the aid of matches. One: with a strong glass and the rays
of the sun. That however, since the sun has set, we cannot now employ.
Another is by grinding a hard stick into a soft log--Is the daylight
gone without?--Alas yes. Then I fear we must await the morrow; for
besides the different woods, we need an old squirrel's nest for
fuel--And that without lamps you could not find in your forests at this
hour."

"Great are your cunning and your skill, oh White Man," Long Arrow
replied. "But in this you do us an injustice. Know you not that all
fireless peoples can see in the dark? Having no lamps we are forced to
train ourselves to travel through the blackest night, lightless. I will
despatch a messenger and you shall have your squirrel's nest within the
hour."

He gave an order to two of our boy-servants who promptly disappeared
running. And sure enough, in a very short space of time a squirrel's
nest, together with hard and soft woods, was brought to our door.

The moon had not yet risen and within the house it was practically
pitch-black. I could feel and hear, however, that the Indians were
moving about comfortably as though it were daylight. The task of making
fire the Doctor had to perform almost entirely by the sense of touch,
asking Long Arrow and the Indians to hand him his tools when he mislaid
them in the dark. And then I made a curious discovery: now that I had
to, I found that I was beginning to see a little in the dark myself. And
for the first time I realized that of course there is no such thing as
pitch-dark, so long as you have a door open or a sky above you.

Calling for the loan of a bow, the Doctor loosened the string, put the
hard stick into a loop and began grinding this stick into the soft wood
of the log. Soon I smelt that the log was smoking. Then he kept feeding
the part that was smoking with the inside lining of the squirrel's nest,
and he asked me to blow upon it with my breath. He made the stick drill
faster and faster. More smoke filled the room. And at last the darkness
about us was suddenly lit up. The squirrel's nest had burst into flame.

The Indians murmured and grunted with astonishment. At first they were
all for falling on their knees and worshiping the fire. Then they wanted
to pick it up with their bare hands and play with it. We had to teach
them how it was to be used; and they were quite fascinated when we laid
our fish across it on sticks and cooked it. They sniffed the air with
relish as, for the first time in history, the smell of fried fish passed
through the village of Popsipetel.

Then we got them to bring us piles and stacks of dry wood; and we made
an enormous bonfire in the middle of the main street. Round this, when
they felt its warmth, the whole tribe gathered and smiled and wondered.
It was a striking sight, one of the pictures from our voyages that I
most frequently remember: that roaring jolly blaze beneath the black
night sky, and all about it a vast ring of Indians, the firelight
gleaming on bronze cheeks, white teeth and flashing eyes--a whole town
trying to get warm, giggling and pushing like school-children.


In a little, when we had got them more used to the handling of fire,
the Doctor showed them how it could be taken into their houses if a hole
were only made in the roof to let the smoke out. And before we turned
in after that long, long, tiring day, we had fires going in every hut in
the village.

The poor people were so glad to get really warm again that we thought
they'd never go to bed. Well on into the early hours of the morning
the little town fairly buzzed with a great low murmur: the Popsipetels
sitting up talking of their wonderful pale-faced visitor and this
strange good thing he had brought with him--FIRE!


THE FOURTH CHAPTER. WHAT MAKES AN ISLAND FLOAT

VERY early in our experience of Popsipetel kindness we saw that if we
were to get anything done at all, we would almost always have to do it
secretly. The Doctor was so popular and loved by all that as soon as he
showed his face at his door in the morning crowds of admirers, waiting
patiently outside, flocked about him and followed him wherever he went.
After his fire-making feat, this childlike people expected him, I think,
to be continually doing magic; and they were determined not to miss a
trick.

It was only with great difficulty that we escaped from the crowd the
first morning and set out with Long Arrow to explore the island at our
leisure.

In the interior we found that not only the plants and trees were
suffering from the cold: the animal life was in even worse straits.
Everywhere shivering birds were to be seen, their feathers all fluffed
out, gathering together for flight to summer lands. And many lay dead
upon the ground. Going down to the shore, we watched land-crabs in large
numbers taking to the sea to find some better home. While away to the
Southeast we could see many icebergs floating--a sign that we were now
not far from the terrible region of the Antarctic.

As we were looking out to sea, we noticed our friends the porpoises
jumping through the waves. The Doctor hailed them and they came inshore.

He asked them how far we were from the South Polar Continent.

About a hundred miles, they told him. And then they asked why he wanted
to know.

"Because this floating island we are on," said he, "is drifting
southward all the time in a current. It's an island that ordinarily
belongs somewhere in the tropic zone--real sultry weather, sunstrokes
and all that. If it doesn't stop going southward pretty soon everything
on it is going to perish."

"Well," said the porpoises, "then the thing to do is to get it back into
a warmer climate, isn't it?"

"Yes, but how?" said the Doctor. "We can't ROW it back."

"No," said they, "but whales could push it--if you only got enough of
them."

"What a splendid idea!--Whales, the very thing!" said the Doctor. "Do
you think you could get me some?"

"Why, certainly," said the porpoises, "we passed one herd of them out
there, sporting about among the icebergs. We'll ask them to come over.
And if they aren't enough, we'll try and hunt up some more. Better have
plenty."

"Thank you," said the Doctor. "You are very kind--By the way, do you
happen to know how this island came to be a floating island? At least
half of it, I notice, is made of stone. It is very odd that it floats at
all, isn't it?"

"It is unusual," they said. "But the explanation is quite simple.
It used to be a mountainous part of South America--an overhanging
part--sort of an awkward corner, you might say. Way back in the glacial
days, thousands of years ago, it broke off from the mainland; and by
some curious accident the inside of it, which is hollow, got filled with
air as it fell into the ocean. You can only see less than half of
the island: the bigger half is under water. And in the middle of it,
underneath, is a huge rock air-chamber, running right up inside the
mountains. And that's what keeps it floating."

"What a pecurious phenometer!" said Bumpo.

"It is indeed," said the Doctor. "I must make a note of that." And out
came the everlasting note-book.

The porpoises went bounding off towards the icebergs. And not long
after, we saw the sea heaving and frothing as a big herd of whales came
towards us at full speed.

They certainly were enormous creatures; and there must have been a good
two hundred of them.

"Here they are," said the porpoises, poking their heads out of the
water.

"Good!" said the Doctor. "Now just explain to them, will you please?
that this is a very serious matter for all the living creatures in this
land. And ask them if they will be so good as to go down to the far
end of the island, put their noses against it and push it back near the
coast of Southern Brazil."

The porpoises evidently succeeded in persuading the whales to do as
the Doctor asked; for presently we saw them thrashing through the seas,
going off towards the south end of the island.

Then we lay down upon the beach and waited.

After about an hour the Doctor got up and threw a stick into the water.
For a while this floated motionless. But soon we saw it begin to move
gently down the coast.

"Ah!" said the Doctor, "see that?--The island is going North at last.
Thank goodness!"

Faster and faster we left the stick behind; and smaller and dimmer grew
the icebergs on the skyline.

The Doctor took out his watch, threw more sticks into the water and made
a rapid calculation.

"Humph!--Fourteen and a half knots an hour," he murmured--"A very nice
speed. It should take us about five days to get back near Brazil. Well,
that's that--Quite a load off my mind. I declare I feel warmer already.
Let's go and get something to eat."


THE FIFTH CHAPTER. WAR!

ON our way back to the village the Doctor began discussing natural
history with Long Arrow. But their most interesting talk, mainly about
plants, had hardly begun when an Indian runner came dashing up to us
with a message.

Long Arrow listened gravely to the breathless, babbled words, then
turned to the Doctor and said in eagle tongue,

"Great White Man, an evil thing has befallen the Popsipetels. Our
neighbors to the southward, the thievish Bag-jagderags, who for so long
have cast envious eyes on our stores of ripe corn, have gone upon the
war-path; and even now are advancing to attack us."

"Evil news indeed," said the Doctor. "Yet let us not judge harshly.
Perhaps it is that they are desperate for food, having their own crops
frost-killed before harvest. For are they not even nearer the cold South
than you?"

"Make no excuses for any man of the tribe of the Bag-jagderags," said
Long Arrow shaking his head. "They are an idle shiftless race. They do
but see a chance to get corn without the labor of husbandry. If it were
not that they are a much bigger tribe and hope to defeat their neighbor
by sheer force of numbers, they would not have dared to make open war
upon the brave Popsipetels."

When we reached the village we found it in a great state of excitement.
Everywhere men were seen putting their bows in order, sharpening spears,
grinding battle-axes and making arrows by the hundred. Women were
raising a high fence of bamboo poles all round the village. Scouts and
messengers kept coming and going, bringing news of the movements of the
enemy. While high up in the trees and hills about the village we could
see look-outs watching the mountains to the southward.

Long Arrow brought another Indian, short but enormously broad, and
introduced him to the Doctor as Big Teeth, the chief warrior of the
Popsipetels.

The Doctor volunteered to go and see the enemy and try to argue the
matter out peacefully with them instead of fighting; for war, he said,
was at best a stupid wasteful business. But the two shook their heads.
Such a plan was hopeless, they said. In the last war when they had sent
a messenger to do peaceful arguing, the enemy had merely hit him with an
ax.

While the Doctor was asking Big Teeth how he meant to defend the village
against attack, a cry of alarm was raised by the look-outs.

"They're coming!--The Bag-jagderags-swarming down the mountains in
thousands!"

"Well," said the Doctor, "it's all in the day's work, I suppose. I don't
believe in war; but if the village is attacked we must help defend it."

And he picked up a club from the ground and tried the heft of it against
a stone.

"This," he said, "seems like a pretty good tool to me." And he walked to
the bamboo fence and took his place among the other waiting fighters.

Then we all got hold of some kind of weapon with which to help our
friends, the gallant Popsipetels: I borrowed a bow and a quiver full of
arrows; Jip was content to rely upon his old, but still strong teeth;
Chee-Chee took a bag of rocks and climbed a palm where he could throw
them down upon the enemies' heads; and Bumpo marched after the Doctor
to the fence armed with a young tree in one hand and a door-post in the
other.

When the enemy drew near enough to be seen from where we stood we all
gasped with astonishment. The hillsides were actually covered with
them--thousands upon thousands. They made our small army within the
village look like a mere handful.

"Saints alive!" muttered Polynesia, "our little lot will stand no chance
against that swarm. This will never do. I'm going off to get some help."
Where she was going and what kind of help she meant to get, I had no
idea. She just disappeared from my side. But Jip, who had heard her,
poked his nose between the bamboo bars of the fence to get a better view
of the enemy and said,

"Likely enough she's gone after the Black Parrots. Let's hope she
finds them in time. Just look at those ugly ruffians climbing down the
rocks--millions of 'em! This fight's going to keep us all hopping."

And Jip was right. Before a quarter of an hour had gone by our
village was completely surrounded by one huge mob of yelling, raging
Bag-jagderags.

I now come again to a part in the story of our voyages where things
happened so quickly, one upon the other, that looking backwards I see
the picture only in a confused kind of way. I know that if it had not
been for the Terrible Three--as they came afterwards to be fondly called
in Popsipetel history--Long Arrow, Bumpo and the Doctor, the war would
have been soon over and the whole island would have belonged to the
worthless Bag-jagderags. But the Englishman, the African and the Indian
were a regiment in themselves; and between them they made that village a
dangerous place for any man to try to enter.

The bamboo fencing which had been hastily set up around the town was not
a very strong affair; and right from the start it gave way in one place
after another as the enemy thronged and crowded against it. Then the
Doctor, Long Arrow and Bumpo would hurry to the weak spot, a terrific
hand-to-hand fight would take place and the enemy be thrown out. But
almost instantly a cry of alarm would come from some other part of the
village-wall; and the Three would have to rush off and do the same thing
all over again.

The Popsipetels were themselves no mean fighters; but the strength and
weight of those three men of different lands and colors, standing close
together, swinging their enormous war-clubs, was really a sight for the
wonder and admiration of any one,

Many weeks later when I was passing an Indian camp-fire at night I
heard this song being sung. It has since become one of the traditional
folksongs of the Popsipetels.


THE SONG OF THE TERRIBLE THREE

     Oh hear ye the Song of the Terrible Three
 And the fight that they fought by the edge of the sea.
     Down from the mountains, the rocks and the crags,
 Swarming like wasps, came the Bag-jagderags.

     Surrounding our village, our walls they broke down.
 Oh, sad was the plight of our men and our town!
     But Heaven determined our land to set free
 And sent us the help of the Terrible Three.
     One was a Black--he was dark as the night;
 One was a Red-skin, a mountain of height;
     But the chief was a White Man, round like a bee;
 And all in a row stood the Terrible Three.

     Shoulder to shoulder, they hammered and hit.
 Like demons of fury they kicked and they bit.
     Like a wall of destruction they stood in a row,
 Flattening enemies, six at a blow.

     Oh, strong was the Red-skin fierce was the Black.
 Bag-jagderags trembled and tried to turn back.
     But 'twas of the White Man they shouted, "Beware!
 He throws men in handfuls, straight up in the air!"

     Long shall they frighten bad children at night
 With tales of the Red and the Black and the White.
     And long shall we sing of the Terrible Three
 And the fight that they fought by the edge of the sea.


THE SIXTH CHAPTER. GENERAL POLYNESIA

BUT alas! even the Three, mighty though they were, could not last
forever against an army which seemed to have no end. In one of the
hottest scrimmages, when the enemy had broken a particularly wide hole
through the fence, I saw Long Arrow's great figure topple and come down
with a spear sticking in his broad chest.

For another half-hour Bumpo and the Doctor fought on side by side. How
their strength held out so long I cannot tell, for never a second were
they given to get their breath or rest their arms.

The Doctor--the quiet, kindly, peaceable, little Doctor!--well, you
wouldn't have known him if you had seen him that day dealing out whacks
you could hear a mile off, walloping and swatting in all directions.

As for Bumpo, with staring eye-balls and grim set teeth, he was
a veritable demon. None dared come within yards of that wicked,
wide-circling door-post. But a stone, skilfully thrown, struck him at
last in the centre of the forehead. And down went the second of the
Three. John Dolittle, the last of the Terribles, was left fighting
alone.

Jip and I rushed to his side and tried to take the places of the fallen
ones. But, far too light and too small, we made but a poor exchange.
Another length of the fence crashed down, and through the widened gap
the Bag-jagderags poured in on us like a flood.

"To the canoes!--To the sea!" shouted the Popsipetels. "Fly for your
lives!--All is over!--The war is lost!"

But the Doctor and I never got a chance to fly for our lives. We were
swept off our feet and knocked down flat by the sheer weight of the mob.
And once down, we were unable to get up again. I thought we would surely
be trampled to death.

But at that moment, above the din and racket of the battle, we heard
the most terrifying noise that ever assaulted human ears: the sound of
millions and millions of parrots all screeching with fury together.

The army, which in the nick of time Polynesia had brought to our rescue,
darkened the whole sky to the westward. I asked her afterwards, how many
birds there were; and she said she didn't know exactly but that they
certainly numbered somewhere between sixty and seventy millions. In
that extraordinarily short space of time she had brought them from the
mainland of South America.

If you have ever heard a parrot screech with anger you will know that it
makes a truly frightful sound; and if you have ever been bitten by one,
you will know that its bite can be a nasty and a painful thing.

The Black Parrots (coal-black all over, they were--except for a scarlet
beak and a streak of red in wing and tail) on the word of command
from Polynesia set to work upon the Bag-jagderags who were now pouring
through the village looking for plunder.

; and the Wazir answered, "'Twere best that thou bid some of thy female
slaves carry the women who played thee false to the apartment, wherein
befel the slaughter of thy Wazirs and wise men and imprison them there;
and bid that they be provided with a little meat and drink, enough
to keep life in their bodies. Let them never be suffered to go forth
of that place, and whenever one of them dies, let her abide among them,
as she is, till they die all, even to the last of them.

This is the least of their desert, because they were the cause of this
great avail, ay, and the origin of all the troubles and calamities
that have befallen in our time; so shall there be verified in them the
saying of the Sayer, 'Whoso diggeth his brother a pit shall surely
himself fall into it, albeit of long safety he have benefit.'"

The King accepted the Wazir's counsel and sending for four stalwart female
slaves, committed the offending women to them, bidding them bear them
into the place of slaughter and imprison them there and allow them every
day a little coarse food and a little troubled water. They did with
them as he bade; wherefore the women mourned with sore mourning,
repenting them of that which they had done and lamenting with grievous
lamentation. Thus Allah gave them their reward of abjection in this
world and prepared for them torment in the world to come; nor did
they cease to abide in that murky and noisome place, whilst every day
one or other of them died, till they all perished, even to the last
of them;[FN#183] and the report of this event was bruited abroad
in all lands and countries.

This is the end of the story of the King and his Wazirs and subjects,
and praise be to Allah who causeth peoples to pass away, and
quickeneth the bones that rot in decay; Him who alone is worthy to
be glorified and magnified alway and hallowed for ever and aye!

And amongst the tales they tell is one of

ABU KIR THE DYER AND ABU SIR THE BARBER.

There dwelt once, in Alexandria city, two men, of whom one was a dyer,
by name Abú Kír, and the other a barber Abú Sír[FN#184]; and they were
neighbours in the market-street, where their shops stood side by
side.

The dyer was a swindler and a liar, an exceeding wicked wight, as
if indeed his head-temples were hewn out of a boulder rock or fashioned
of the threshold of a Jewish synagogue, nor was he ashamed of any
shameful work he wrought amongst the folk.

It was his wont, when any brought him cloth for staining, first to
require of him payment under pretence of buying dyestuffs therewith.
So the customer would give him the wage in advance and wend his ways,
and the dyer would spend all he received on meat and drink; after
which he would sell the cloth itself as soon as ever its owner
turned his back and waste its worth in eating and drinking and what
not else, for he ate not but of the daintiest and most delicate
viands nor brank but of the best of that which doth away the with
of man.

And when the owner of the cloth came to him, he would say to him,
"Return to me to-morrow before sunrise and thou shalt find thy
stuff dyed."

So the customer would go away, saying to himself, "One day is near
another day," and return next day at the appointed time, when the
dyer would say to him, "Come to-morrow; yesterday I was not at
work, for I had with me guests and was occupied with doing what
their wants required till they went: but to-morrow before sunrise
come and take thy cloth dyed."

So he would fare forth and return on the third day, when Abu Kir
would say to him, "Indeed yesterday I was excusable, for my wife
was brought to bed in the night and all day I was busy with manifold
matters; but to-morrow, without fail, come and take thy cloth dyed."

When the man came again at the appointed time, he would put him off
with some other pretence, it mattered little what, and would swear
to him;--Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her
permitted say.

When it was the Nine Hundred and Thirty-first Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that every time the owner
of an article came to the dyer he would put him off with any
pretext[FN#185] and would swear to him; nor would he cease to promise
and swear to him, as often as he came, till the customer lost
patience and said, "How often wilt thou say to me, 'To-morrow?'

Give me my stuff: I will not have it dyed." Whereupon the dyer would
make answer, "By Allah, O my brother, I am abashed at thee; but I must
tell the truth and may Allah harm all who harm folk in their goods!"
The other would exclaim, "Tell me what hath happened;" and Abu
Kir would reply, "As for thy stuff I dyed that same on matchless wise
and hung it on the drying rope but 'twas stolen and I know not who stole
it."

If the owner of the stuff were of the kindly he would say, "Allah
will compensate me;" and if he were of the ill-conditioned, he
would haunt him with exposure and insult, but would get nothing of him,
though he complained of him to the judge. He ceased not doing thus till
his report was noised abroad among the folk and each used to warn other
against Abu Kir who became a byword amongst them. So they all held
aloof from him and none would be entrapped by him save those who were
ignorant of his character; but, for all this, he failed not daily to
suffer insult and exposure from Allah's creatures.

By reason of this his trade became slack and he used to go to the shop
of his neighbour the barber Abu Sir and sit there, facing the dyery
and with his eyes on the door. Whenever he espied any one who knew him
not standing at the dyery-door, with a piece of stuff in his hand, he
would leave the barber's booth and go up to him saying, "What
seekest thou, O thou?"

; and the man would reply, "Take and dye me this thing." So the dyer
would ask, "What colour wilt thou have it?" For, with all his
knavish tricks his hand was in all manner of dyes; but he was never
true to any one; wherefore poverty had gotten the better of him. Then
he would take the stuff and say, "Give me my wage in advance and come
to-morrow and take the stuff."

So the stranger would advance him the money and wend his way; whereupon
Abu Kir would carry the cloth to the market-street and sell it and with
its price buy meat and vegetables and tobacco[FN#186] and fruit and
what not else he needed; but, whenever he saw any one who had given him
stuff to dye standing at the door of his shop, he would not come forth
to him or even show himself to him. On this wise he abode years and
years, till it fortuned one day that he received cloth to dye from a
man of wrath and sold it and spent the proceeds.

The owner came to him every day, but found him not in his shop; for,
whenever he espied any one who had claim against him, he would flee from
him into the shop of the barber Abu Sir. At last, that angry man finding
that he was not to be seen and growing weary of such work, repaired to
the Kazi and bringing one of his serjeants to the shop, nailed up
the door, in presence of a number of Moslems, and sealed it, for
that he saw therein naught save some broken pans of earthenware to
stand him instead of his stuff; after which the serjeant took the
key, saying to the neighbours, "Tell him to bring back this man's
cloth then come to me[FN#187] and take his shop key;" and went his
way, he and the man.

Then said Abu Sir to Abu Kir, "What ill business is this?[FN#188]
Whoever bringeth thee aught thou losest it for him. What hath become
of this angry man's stuff?" Answered the dyer, "O my neighbour, 'twas
stolen from me." "Prodigous!" exclaimed the barber. "Whenever any one
giveth thee aught, a thief stealeth it from thee! Art thou then the
meeting-place of every rogue upon town?

But I doubt me thou liest: so tell me the truth." Replied Abu Kir, "O
my neighbour, none hath stolen aught from me." Asked Abu Sir, "What
then dost thou with the people's property?"

; and the dyer answered, "Whenever any one giveth me aught to dye, I sell
it and spend the price." Quoth Abu Sir, "Is this permitted thee of Allah?"
and quoth Abu Kir, "I do this only out of poverty, because business is
slack with me and I am poor and have nothing."[FN#189] And he went on
to complain to him of the dulness of his trade and his lack of
means. Abu Sir in like manner lamented the little profit of his own
calling, saying, "I am a master of my craft and have not my equal in
this city; but no one cometh to me to be polled, because I am a pauper;
and I loathe this art and mystery, O my brother."

Abu Kir replied, "And I also loathe my own craft, by reason of its slackness;
but, O my brother, what call is there for abiding in this town? Let us
depart from it, I and thou, and solace ourselves in the lands of
mankind, carrying in our hands our crafts which are in demand all
the world over; so shall we breathe the air and rest from this
grievous trouble."

And he ceased not to commend travel to Abu Sir, till the barber became
wishful to set out; so they agreed upon their route,--And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

When it was the Nine Hundred and Thirty-second Night,
She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Abu Kir
ceased not his praises of wayfaring to Abu Sir till the barber
became wishful to depart; so they agreed upon their route, at which
decision Abu Kir rejoiced and improvised these lines,
"Leave thy home for abroad an wouldst rise on high, * And travel
whence benefits five-fold rise; The soothing of sorrow and winning
of bread, * Knowledge, manners and commerce with good men and wise.

An they say that in travel are travail and care, * And disunion of
friends and much hardship that tries; Yet to generous youth death is
better than life * In the house of contempt betwixt haters and
spies."
When they agreed to travel together Abu Kir said to Abu Sir, "O my
neighbour, we are become brethren and there is no difference between
us, so it behoveth us to recite the Fátihah[FN#190] that he of us
who gets work shall of his gain feed him who is out of work, and
whatever is left, we will lay in a chest; and when we return to
Alexandria, we will divide it fairly and equally."

"So be it," replied Abu Sir, and they repeated the Opening Chapter of
the Koran on this understanding. Then Abu Sir locked up his shop and
gave the key to its owner, whilst Abu Kir left his door locked and
sealed and let the key lie with the Kazi's serjeant; after which they
took their baggage and embarked on the morrow in a galleon[FN#191]
upon the salt sea. They set sail the same day and fortune attended them,
for, of Abu Sir's great good luck, there was not a barber in the
ship albeit it carried an hundred and twenty men, besides captain
and crew.

So, when they loosed the sails, the barber said to the dyer, "O my
brother, this is the sea and we shall need meat and drink; we have
but little provaunt with us and haply the voyage will be long upon us;
wherefore methinks I will shoulder my budget and pass among the
passengers, and may be some one will say to me, 'Come hither, O
barber, and shave me,' and I will shave him for a scone or a silver
bit or a draught of water: so shall we profit by this, I and thou
too."

"There's no harm in that," replied the dyer and laid down his head
and slept, whilst the barber took his gear and water-tasse[FN#192]
and throwing over his shoulder a rag, to serve as napkin (because
he was poor), passed among the passengers.

Quoth one of them, "Ho, master, come and shave me." So he shaved him,
and the man gave him a half-dirham;[FN#193] whereupon quoth Abu Sir, "O
my brother, I have no use for this bit; hadst thou given me a scone
'twere more blessed to me in this sea, for I have a shipmate and we are
short of provision." So he gave him a loaf and a slice of cheese and
filled him the tasse with sweet water. The barber carried all this to Abu
Kir and said, "Eat the bread and cheese and drink the water." Accordingly
he ate and drank, whilst Abu Sir again took up his shaving gear and,
tasse in hand and rag on shoulder, went round about the deck among
the passengers. One man he shaved for two scones and another for a
bittock of cheese, and he was in demand, because there was no other
barber on board. Also he bargained with every one who said to him,
"Ho, master, shave me!"

for two loaves and a half dirham, and they gave him whatever he sought,
so that, by sundown, he had collected thirty loaves and thirty silvers
with store of cheese and olives and botargoes.[FN#194] And besides these
he got from the passengers whatever he asked for and was soon in
possession of things galore.

Amongst the rest he shaved the Captain,[FN#195] to whom he complained
of his lack of victual for the voyage, and the skipper said to him, "Thou
art welcome to bring thy comrade every night and sup with me and have
no care for that so long as ye sail with us." Then he returned to the
dyer, whom he found asleep; so he roused him; and when Abu Kir awoke,
he saw at his head an abundance of bread and cheese and olives and botargoes
and said, "Whence gottest thou all this?" "From the bounty of Allah
Almighty," replied Abu Sir.

Then Abu Kir would have fallen to, but the barber said to him, "Eat
not of this, O my brother; but leave it to serve us another time;
for know that I shaved the Captain and complained to him of our
lack of victual: whereupon quoth he, 'Welcome to thee!

Bring thy comrade and sup both of ye with me every night.' And this
night we sup with him for the first time." But Abu Kir replied, "My
head goeth round with sea-sickness and I cannot rise from my stead; so
let me sup off these things and fare thou alone to the Captain." Abu Sir
replied, "There is no harm in that;" and sat looking at the other as he
ate, and saw him hew off gobbets, as the quarryman heweth stone
from the hill-quarries and gulp them down with the gulp of an
elephant which hath not eaten for days, bolting another mouthful
ere he had swallowed the previous one and glaring the while at that
which was before him with the glowering of a Ghul, blowing and
blowing as bloweth the hungry bull over his beans and bruised straw.

Presently up came a sailor and said to the barber, "O craftsmaster,
the Captain biddeth thee come to supper and bring thy comrade." Quoth
the barber to the dyer, "Wilt thou come with us?"; but quoth he, "I
cannot walk." So the barber went by himself and found the Captain sitting
before a tray whereon were a score or more of dishes and all the
company were awaiting him and his mate.

When the Captain saw him he asked, "Where is thy friend?"; and Abu Sir
answered, "O my lord, he is sea-sick." Said the skipper, "That will
do him no harm; his sickness will soon pass off; but do thou carry
him his supper and come back, for we tarry for thee." Then he set
apart a porringer of Kabábs and putting therein some of each dish,
till there was enough for ten, gave it to Abu Sir, saying, "Take
this to thy chum." He took it and carried it to the dyer, whom he found
grinding away with his dog-teeth[FN#196] at the food which was
before him, as he were a camel, and heaping mouthful on mouthful
in his hurry.

Quoth Abu Sir, "Did I not say to thee, 'Eat not of this'?

Indeed the Captain is a kindly man. See what he hath sent thee, for that
I told him thou wast sea-sick." "Give it here," cried the dyer. So
the barber gave him the platter, and he snatched it from him and
fell upon his food, ravening for it and resembling a grinning
dog or a raging lion or a Rukh pouncing on a pigeon or one well-nigh
dead for hunger who seeing meat falls ravenously to eat.

Then Abu Sir left him and going back to the Captain, supped and enjoyed
himself and drank coffee[FN#197] with him; after which he returned to
Abu Kir and found he had eaten all that was in the porringer and
thrown it aside, empty.

--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her
permitted say.

When it was the Nine Hundred and Thirty-third Night,
She pursued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Abu
Sir returned to Abu Kir he saw that he had eaten all that was in
the porringer and had thrown it aside empty.

So he took it up and gave it to one of the Captain's servants, then
went back to Abu Kir and slept till the morning.

On the morrow, he continued to shave, and all he got by way of meat and
drink he gave to his shipmate, who ate and drank and sat still, rising
not save to do what none could do for him, and every night the
barber brought him a full porringer from the Captain's table.

They fared thus twenty days until the galleon cast anchor in the
harbour of a city; whereupon they took leave of the skipper and
landing, entered the town and hired them a closet in a Khan.

Abu Sir furnished it and buying a cooking pot and a platter and spoons[FN#198]
and what else they needed, fetched meat and cooked it; but Abu Kir fell
asleep the moment he entered the Caravanserai and awoke not till Abu
Sir aroused him and set a tray of food[FN#199] before him.

When he awoke, he ate and saying to Abu Sir, "Blame me not, for I am
giddy," fell asleep again. Thus he did forty days, whilst, every day, the
barber took his gear and making the round of the city, wrought for
that which fell to his lot,[FN#200] and returning, found the dyer
asleep and aroused him.

The moment he awoke he fell ravenously upon the food, eating as one who
cannot have his fill nor be satisfied; after which he went asleep
again.

On this wise he passed other forty days and whenever the barber said to
him, "Sit up and be comfortable[FN#201] and go forth and take an
airing in the city, for 'tis a gay place and a pleasant and hath not
its equal among the cities," he would reply, "Blame me not, for I
am giddy." Abu Sir cared not to hurt his feelings nor give him hard
words; but, on the forty-first day, he himself fell sick and could not
go abroad; so he engaged the porter of the Khan to serve them both,
and he did the needful for them and brought them meat and drink
whilst Abu Kir would do nothing but eat and sleep.

The man ceased not to wait upon them on this wise for four days, at the
end of which time the barber's malady redoubled on him, till he
lost his senses for stress of sickness; and Abu Kir, feeling the
sharp pangs of hunger, arose and sought in his comrade's clothes,
where he found a thousand silver bits.

He took them and, shutting the door of the closet upon Abu Sir,
fared forth without telling any; and the doorkeeper was then at
market and thus saw him not go out.

Presently Abu Kir betook himself to the bazar and clad himself in costly
clothes, at a price of five hundred half-dirhams; then he proceeded to
walk about the streets and divert himself by viewing the city which he
found to be one whose like was not among cities; but he noted that
all its citizens were clad in clothes of white and blue, without
other colour.

Presently he came to a dyer's and seeing naught but blue in his shop,
pulled out to him a kerchief and said, "O master, take this and dye it
and win thy wage." Quoth the dyer, "The cost of dyeing this will be
twenty dirhams;" and quoth Abu Kir, "In our country we dye it for
two."

"Then go and dye it in your own country! As for me, my price is twenty
dirhams and I will not bate a little thereof." "What colour wilt thou
dye it?" "I will dye it blue." "But I want it dyed red." "I know not
how to dye red."

"Then dye it green." "I know not how to dye green." "Yellow." "Nor yet
yellow." Thereupon Abu Kir went on to name the different tints to him,
one after other, till the dyer said, "We are here in this city forty
masterdyers, not one more nor one less; and when one of us dieth,
we teach his son the craft.

If he leave no son, we abide lacking one, and if he leave two sons,
we teach one of them the craft, and if he die, we teach his brother.

This our craft is strictly ordered, and we know how to dye but blue and
no other tine whatsoever." Then said Abu Kir, "Know that I too am a
dyer and wot how to dye all colours; and I would have thee take
me into thy service on hire, and I will teach thee everything of
my art, so thou mayst glory therein over all the company of dyers."

But the dyer answered, "We never admit a stranger into our craft."
Asked Abu Kir, "And what if I open a dyery for myself?"
"I tell you I'm not going to be crowned," cried the Doctor--"not if I
can help it. I'll make them a speech. Perhaps that will satisfy them."
He turned back to the Indians at the door.

"My friends," he said, "I am not worthy of this great honor you would do
me. Little or no skill have I in the arts of kingcraft. Assuredly among
your own brave men you will find many better fitted to lead you. For
this compliment, this confidence and trust, I thank you. But, I pray
you, do not think of me for such high duties which I could not possibly
fulfil."

The old man repeated his words to the people behind him in a louder
voice. Stolidly they shook their heads, moving not an inch. The old man
turned back to the Doctor.

"You are the chosen one," said he. "They will have none but you."

Into the Doctor's perplexed face suddenly there came a flash of hope.

"I'll go and see Long Arrow," he whispered to me. "Perhaps he will know
of some way to get me out of this."

And asking the personages to excuse him a moment, he left them there,
standing at his door, and hurried off in the direction of Long Arrow's
house. I followed him.

We found our big friend lying on a grass bed outside his home, where he
had been moved that he might witness the holiday-making.

"Long Arrow," said the Doctor speaking quickly in eagle tongue so that
the bystanders should not overhear, "in dire peril I come to you for
help. These men would make me their king. If such a thing befall me, all
the great work I hoped to do must go undone, for who is there unfreer
than a king? I pray you speak with them and persuade their kind
well-meaning hearts that what they plan to do would be unwise."

Long Arrow raised himself upon his elbow. "Oh Kindly One," said he (this
seemed now to have become the usual manner of address when speaking to
the Doctor), "sorely it grieves me that the first wish you ask of me I
should be unable to grant. Alas! I can do nothing. These people have so
set their hearts on keeping you for king that if I tried to interfere
they would drive me from their land and likely crown you in the end in
any case. A king you must be, if only for a while. We must so arrange
the business of governing that you may have time to give to Nature's
secrets. Later we may be able to hit upon some plan to relieve you of
the burden of the crown. But for now you must be king. These people
are a headstrong tribe and they will have their way. There is no other
course."

Sadly the Doctor turned away from the bed and faced about. And there
behind him stood the old man again, the crown still held in his wrinkled
hands and the royal litter waiting at his elbow. With a deep reverence
the bearers motioned towards the seat of the chair, inviting the white
man to get in.

Once more the poor Doctor looked wildly, hopelessly about him for some
means of escape. For a moment I thought he was going to take to his
heels and run for it. But the crowd around us was far too thick and
densely packed for anyone to break through it. A band of whistles and
drums near by suddenly started the music of a solemn processional march.
He turned back pleadingly again to Long Arrow in a last appeal for help.
But the big Indian merely shook his head and pointed, like the bearers,
to the waiting chair.

At last, almost in tears, John Dolittle stepped slowly into the litter
and sat down. As he was hoisted on to the broad shoulders of the bearers
I heard him still feebly muttering beneath his breath,

"Botheration take it!--I don't WANT to be a king!"

"Farewell!" called Long Arrow from his bed, "and may good fortune ever
stand within the shadow of your throne!"

"He comes!--He comes!" murmured the crowd. "Away! Away!--To the
Whispering Rocks!"

And as the procession formed up to leave the village, the crowd about
us began hurrying off in the direction of the mountains to make sure of
good seats in the giant theatre where the crowning ceremony would take
place.


THE TENTH CHAPTER. THE CORONATION OF KING JONG

IN my long lifetime I have seen many grand and inspiring things, but
never anything that impressed me half as much as the sight of the
Whispering Rocks as they looked on the day King Jong was crowned. As
Bumpo, Chee-Chee, Polynesia, Jip and I finally reached the dizzy edge
of the great bowl and looked down inside it, it was like gazing over
a never-ending ocean of copper-colored faces; for every seat in the
theatre was filled, every man, woman and child in the island--including
Long Arrow who had been carried up on his sick bed--was there to see the
show.

Yet not a sound, not a pin-drop, disturbed the solemn silence of the
Whispering Rocks. It was quite creepy and sent chills running up and
down your spine. Bumpo told me afterwards that it took his breath away
too much for him to speak, but that he hadn't known before that there
were that many people in the world.

Away down by the Table of the Throne stood a brand-new, brightly colored
totem-pole. All the Indian families had totem-poles and kept them set up
before the doors of their houses. The idea of a totem-pole is something
like a door-plate or a visiting card. It represents in its carvings
the deeds and qualities of the family to which it belongs. This one,
beautifully decorated and much higher than any other, was the Dolittle
or, as it was to be henceforth called, the Royal Thinkalot totem. It had
nothing but animals on it, to signify the Doctor's great knowledge of
creatures. And the animals chosen to be shown were those which to the
Indians were supposed to represent good qualities of character, such as,
the deer for speed; the ox for perseverance; the fish for discretion,
and so on. But at the top of the totem is always placed the sign or
animal by which the family is most proud to be known. This, on the
Thinkalot pole, was an enormous parrot, in memory of the famous Peace of
the Parrots.

The Ivory Throne had been all polished with scented oil and it glistened
whitely in the strong sunlight. At the foot of it there had been strewn
great quantities of branches of flowering trees, which with the new
warmth of milder climates were now blossoming in the valleys of the
island.

Soon we saw the royal litter, with the Doctor seated in it, slowly
ascending the winding steps of the Table. Reaching the flat top at last,
it halted and the Doctor stepped out upon the flowery carpet. So
still and perfect was the silence that even at that distance above I
distinctly heard a twig snap beneath his tread.

Walking to the throne accompanied by the old man, the Doctor got up upon
the stand and sat down. How tiny his little round figure looked
when seen from that tremendous height! The throne had been made for
longer-legged kings; and when he was seated, his feet did not reach the
ground but dangled six inches from the top step.

Then the old man turned round and looking up at the people began to
speak in a quiet even voice; but every word he said was easily heard in
the furthest corner of the Whispering Rocks.

First he recited the names of all the great Popsipetel kings who in days
long ago had been crowned in this ivory chair. He spoke of the greatness
of the Popsipetel people, of their triumphs, of their hardships. Then
waving his hand towards the Doctor he began recounting the things
which this king-to-be had done. And I am bound to say that they easily
outmatched the deeds of those who had gone before him.

As soon as he started to speak of what the Doctor had achieved for the
tribe, the people, still strictly silent, all began waving their right
hands towards the throne. This gave to the vast theatre a very singular
appearance: acres and acres of something moving--with never a sound.

At last the old man finished his speech and stepping up to the chair,
very respectfully removed the Doctor's battered high hat. He was about
to put it upon the ground; but the Doctor took it from him hastily and
kept it on his lap. Then taking up the Sacred Crown he placed it upon
John Dolittle's head. It did not fit very well (for it had been made for
smaller-headed kings), and when the wind blew in freshly from the sunlit
sea the Doctor had some difficulty in keeping it on. But it looked very
splendid.

Turning once more to the people, the old man said,

"Men of Popsipetel, behold your elected king!--Are you content?"

And then at last the voice of the people broke loose.

"JONG! JONG!" they shouted, "LONG LIVE KING JONG!"

The sound burst upon the solemn silence with the crash of a hundred
cannon. There, where even a whisper carried miles, the shock of it was
like a blow in the face. Back and forth the mountains threw it to one
another. I thought the echoes of it would never die away as it passed
rumbling through the whole island, jangling among the lower valleys,
booming in the distant sea-caves.

Suddenly I saw the old man point upward, to the highest mountain in
the island; and looking over my shoulder, I was just in time to see the
Hanging Stone topple slowly out of sight--down into the heart of the
volcano.

"See ye, Men of the Moving Land!" the old man cried: "The stone has
fallen and our legend has come true: the King of Kings is crowned this
day!"

The Doctor too had seen the stone fall and he was now standing up
looking at the sea expectantly.

"He's thinking of the air-chamber," said Bumpo in my ear. "Let us hope
that the sea isn't very deep in these parts."

After a full minute (so long did it take the stone to fall that depth)
we heard a muffled, distant, crunching thud--and then immediately
after, a great hissing of escaping air. The Doctor, his face tense with
anxiety, sat down in the throne again still watching the blue water of
the ocean with staring eyes.

Soon we felt the island slowly sinking beneath us. We saw the sea creep
inland over the beaches as the shores went down--one foot, three feet,
ten feet, twenty, fifty, a hundred. And then, thank goodness, gently
as a butterfly alighting on a rose, it stopped! Spidermonkey Island had
come to rest on the sandy bottom of the Atlantic, and earth was joined
to earth once more.

Of course many of the houses near the shores were now under water.
Popsipetel Village itself had entirely disappeared. But it didn't
matter. No one was drowned; for every soul in the island was high up in
the hills watching the coronation of King Jong.

The Indians themselves did not realize at the time what was taking
place, though of course they had felt the land sinking beneath them.
The Doctor told us afterwards that it must have been the shock of that
tremendous shout, coming from a million throats at once, which had
toppled the Hanging Stone off its perch. But in Popsipetel history the
story was handed down (and it is firmly believed to this day) that when
King Jong sat upon the throne, so great was his mighty weight, that the
very island itself sank down to do him honor and never moved again.


PART SIX


THE FIRST CHAPTER. NEW POPSIPETEL

JONG THINKALOT had not ruled over his new kingdom for more than a couple
of days before my notions about kings and the kind of lives they led
changed very considerably. I had thought that all that kings had to
do was to sit on a throne and have people bow down before them several
times a day. I now saw that a king can be the hardest-working man in the
world--if he attends properly to his business.

From the moment that he got up, early in the morning, till the time he
went to bed, late at night--seven days in the week--John Dolittle was
busy, busy, busy. First of all there was the new town to be built. The
village of Popsipetel had disappeared: the City of New Popsipetel must
be made. With great care a place was chosen for it--and a very beautiful
position it was, at the mouth of a large river. The shores of the island
at this point formed a lovely wide bay where canoes--and ships too, if
they should ever come--could lie peacefully at anchor without danger
from storms.

In building this town the Doctor gave the Indians a lot of new ideas. He
showed them what town-sewers were, and how garbage should be collected
each day and burnt. High up in the hills he made a large lake by damming
a stream. This was the water-supply for the town. None of these things
had the Indians ever seen; and many of the sicknesses which they had
suffered from before were now entirely prevented by proper drainage and
pure drinking-water.

Peoples who don't use fire do not of course have metals either; because
without fire it is almost impossible to shape iron and steel. One of the
first things that John Dolittle did was to search the mountains till he
found iron and copper mines. Then he set to work to teach the Indians
how these metals could be melted and made into knives and plows and
water-pipes and all manner of things.

In his kingdom the Doctor tried his hardest to do away with most of the
old-fashioned pomp and grandeur of a royal court. As he said to Bumpo
and me, if he must be a king he meant to be a thoroughly democratic one,
that is a king who is chummy and friendly with his subjects and
doesn't put on airs. And when he drew up the plans for the City of New
Popsipetel he had no palace shown of any kind. A little cottage in a
back street was all that he had provided for himself.

But this the Indians would not permit on any account. They had been used
to having their kings rule in a truly grand and kingly manner; and they
insisted that he have built for himself the most magnificent palace ever
seen. In all else they let him have his own way absolutely; but they
wouldn't allow him to wriggle out of any of the ceremony or show that
goes with being a king. A thousand servants he had to keep in his
palace, night and day, to wait on him. The Royal Canoe had to be kept
up--a gorgeous, polished mahogany boat, seventy feet long, inlaid with
mother-o'-pearl and paddled by the hundred strongest men in the island.
The palace-gardens covered a square mile and employed a hundred and
sixty gardeners.

Even in his dress the poor man was compelled always to be grand and
elegant and uncomfortable. The beloved and battered high hat was put
away in a closet and only looked at secretly. State robes had to be
worn on all occasions. And when the Doctor did once in a while manage to
sneak off for a short, natural-history expedition he never dared to wear
his old clothes, but had to chase his butterflies with a crown upon his
head and a scarlet cloak flying behind him in the wind.

There was no end to the kinds of duties the Doctor had to perform and
the questions he had to decide upon--everything, from settling disputes
about lands and boundaries, to making peace between husband and wife who
had been throwing shoes at one another. In the east wing of the Royal
Palace was the Hall of Justice. And here King Jong sat every morning
from nine to eleven passing judgment on all cases that were brought
before him.

Then in the afternoon he taught school. The sort of things he taught
were not always those you find in ordinary schools. Grown-ups as well as
children came to learn. You see, these Indians were ignorant of many of
the things that quite small white children know--though it is also true
that they knew a lot that white grown-ups never dreamed of.

Bumpo and I helped with the teaching as far as we could--simple
arithmetic, and easy things like that. But the classes in astronomy,
farming science, the proper care of babies, with a host of other
subjects, the Doctor had to teach himself. The Indians were tremendously
keen about the schooling and they came in droves and crowds; so that
even with the open-air classes (a school-house was impossible of
course) the Doctor had to take them in relays and batches of five or six
thousand at a time and used a big megaphone or trumpet to make himself
heard.

The rest of his day was more than filled with road-making, building
water-mills, attending the sick and a million other things.

In spite of his being so unwilling to become a king, John Dolittle made
a very good one--once he got started. He may not have been as dignified
as many kings in history who were always running off to war and getting
themselves into romantic situations; but since I have grown up and seen
something of foreign lands and governments I have often thought that
Popsipetel under the reign of Jong Thinkalot was perhaps the best ruled
state in the history of the world.

The Doctor's birthday came round after we had been on the island six
months and a half. Then he lay that night and on the morrow he
took the ring and went to his shop. As for Kamar al-Zaman, as soon
as it was day, he repaired to the barber's wife and gave her two
hundred dinars.

Quoth she, "Go to the jeweller and when he giveth thee the ring, put
it on thy finger and pull it off again in haste, saying, 'Thou hast
made a mistake, O master! This ring is too large. A master like
thee, when the like of me cometh to him with a piece of work, it behoveth
him to take right measure; and if thou hadst measured my finger,
thou hadst not erred.'

Then pull out another stone worth a thousand dinars and say to him,
'Take this and set it, and give this ring to one of thy slave-women.'
Give him forty ducats and to each of his journeymen three, saying,
"This is for the chasing, and for the cost of the ring, that shall
remain.' And see what he will say.

Then bring three hundred diners and give them to thy father the
barber that he may mend his fortune withal, for he is a poor man."

Answered Kamar al-Zaman, "I hear and obey," and betook himself to the
jeweller, who welcomed him and making him sit down, gave him the ring.
He took it and put it on his finger; then pulled it off in haste
and said, "It behoveth a master like thee, when the like of me
bringeth him a piece of work, to take his measure.

Hadst thou measured my finger, thou hadst not erred but take it and
give it to one of thy slave women."

Then he brought out to him a stone worth a thousand sequins and said to
him, "Take this and set it in a signet-ring for me after the measure
of my finger."

Quoth Obayd, "Thou hast spoken sooth and art in the right;" and took his
measure, whereupon he pulled out forty gold pieces and gave them to
him, saying, "Take these for the chasing and the price of the ring
shall remain."

Cried the jeweller, "O my lord, how much hire have we taken of thee'
Verily, thy bounty to us is great!"

"No harm," replied Kamar al-Zaman and sat talking with him awhile and
giving a diner to every beggar who passed by the shop. Then he left
him and went away, whilst the jeweller returned home and said to his
wife, 'How generous is this young merchant!

Never did I set eyes on a more open handed or a comelier than he,
no, nor a sweeter of speech.

And he went on to recount to her his charms and generosity and was
loud in his praise. Cried she, "O thou lack tact,[FN#409] since thou
notest these qualities in him, and indeed he hath given thee two
seal rings of price, it behoveth thee to invite him and make him
an entertainment and entreat him lovingly.

When he seest that thou affectest him and cometh to our place, we
shall surely get great good of him; and if thou grudge him the
banquet do thou bid him and I will entertain him of my monies."

Quoth he, "Dost thou know me to be niggardly, that thou sayest this Say?;
and quoth she, "Thou art no niggard, but thou lackest tact. Invite him
this very night and come not without him. An he refuse, conjure him
by the divorce oath and be persistent with him "On my head and eyes,"
answered he and moulded the ring till he had finished it, after
which he passed the night and went forth on the morrow to his shop
and sat there.

On this wise it was with him, but as for Kamar al-Zaman, he took
three hundred diners and carrying them to the old wife, gave them
to her for the barber, her husband.

Said she, "Most like he will invite thee to his house this day; and if
he do this and thou pass the night there, tell me in the morning
what befalleth thee and bring with thee four hundred diners and
give them to thy father."

Answered he, "Hearing and obeying;" and as often as he ran out of money,
he would sell some of his stones. So he repaired to the jeweller, who
rose to him and received him with open arms, greeted him heartily
and clapped up companionship with him.

Then he gave him the ring, and he found it after the measure of his
finger and said to the jeweller, "Allah bless thee, O prince of
artists! The setting is conformable but the stone is not to my
liking." And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her
permitted say,

When it was the Nine Hundred and Seventieth Night,
She resumed, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Kamar al-Zaman
said to the jeweller, "The setting is conformable to my wishes, but the
stone is not to my liking. I have a handsomer than this: so take the
seal-ring and give it to one of thy slave women." Then he gave him a
fourth stone and an hundred diners, saying, "Take thy hire and excuse
the trouble we have given thee." Obayd replied, "O merchant, all the
trouble thou hast given us thou hast requited us and hast over
whelmed us with thy great bounties: and indeed my heart is taken with
love of thee and I cannot brook parting from thee.

So, Allah upon thee, be thou my guest this night and heal my heart."
He rejoined, "So be it; but needs must I go to my Khan, that I may
give a charge to my domestics and tell them that I shall sleep
abroad to night, so they may not expect me."

"Where dost thou lodge?" asked the jeweller; and he answered, "In such
a Khan." Quoth Obayd, "I will come for thee there;" and quoth the
other "'Tis well." So the jeweller repaired to the Khan before
sundown, fearing lest his wife should be anangered with him, if
he returned home without his guest; and, carrying Kamar al-Zaman
to his house, seated him in a saloon that had not its match, Halimah
saw him, as he entered, and was ravished with him.

They talked till supper was served when they ate and drank; after which
appeared coffee and sherbets, and the jeweller ceased not to
entertain him with talk till eventide, when they prayed the obligatory
prayers.

Then entered a handmaid with two cups[FN#410] of night drink, which when
they had drunk, drowsiness overcame them and they slept.
Presently in came the jeweller's wife and seeing them asleep, looked
upon Kamar al-Zaman's face and her wit was confounded at his beauty.

Said she, "How can he sleep who loveth the fair?"

and, turning him over on his back, sat astraddle upon his breast.
Then, in the mania of her passion for him, she rained down kisses
on his cheeks, till she left a mark upon them and they became
exceeding red and his cheek bones shone; and, she sucked his lips,
till the blood ran out into her mouth; but with all this, her fire
was not quenched nor her thirst assuaged.

She ceased not to kiss and clip him and twine leg with leg, till
the forebrow of Morn grew white and the dawn broke forth in light;
when she put in his pocket four cockals[FN#411] and went away.

Then she sent her maid with something like snuff, which she applied
to their nostrils and they sneezed and awoke, when the slave-girl
said, "O my lords, prayer is a duty; so rise ye and pray the
dawn-prayer."

And she brought them basin and ewer.[FN#412] Quoth Kaman al-Zamar "O
master, 'tis late and we have overslept ourselves;" and quoth the
jeweller, "O my friend verily the air of this room is heavy; for,
whenever I sleep in it, this happens to me."

Rejoined Kamar al-Zaman, "True," and proceeded to make the Wuzu
ablution; but, when he put the water to his face, his cheeks and
lips burned him.

Cried he, "Prodigious! If the air of the room be heavy and we have been
drowned in sleep, what aileth my cheeks and lips that they burn me?"
And he said to the jeweller, "O master, my cheeks and lips burn me."

The other replied, "I guess this cometh of the mosquito bites."
"Strange!" said Kamar al-Zaman. "Hath this thing happened to thee?" Replied
Obayd, "No! But whenever I have by me a guest like thee, he complaineth
in the morning of the mosquito bites, and this happeneth only when he
is like thee beardless.

If he be bearded the mosquitoes sting him not, and naught hindereth
them from me but my beard.

It seems mosquitoes love not bearded men."[FN#413] Rejoined Kamar
al-Zaman, "True." Then the maid brought them early breakfast and
they broke their fast and went out.

Kamar al-Zaman betook himself to the old woman, who exclaimed, when
she saw him, "I see the marks of joyance on thy face: tell me what
thou hast seen."

Said he, "I have seen nothing. Only I supped with the house master
in a saloon and prayed the night prayer, after which we fell asleep
and woke not till morning."

She laughed and said, "What be those marks on thy cheeks and lips?"

He answered, "'Twas the mosquitoes of the saloon that did this with me;"
and she rejoined, "'Tis well. But did the same thing betide the house
master?" He retorted, "Nay; but he told me that the mosquitoes of that
saloon molest not bearded men, but sting those only who have no hair on
face, and that whenever he hath for guest one who is beard less, the
stranger awaketh complaining of the mosquito bites; whereas an he have
a beard, there befalleth him naught of this." Said she, "Sooth thou
speakest: but say me, sawest thou aught save this?" And he answered,
"I found four cockals in my pocket." Quoth she, "Show them to me." So
he gave them to her and she laughed and said, "Thy mistress laid these
in thy pocket." He asked, "How so?" And she answered, " 'Tis as if she
said to thee, in the language of signs,[FN#414] 'An thou wert in
love, thou wouldst not sleep, for a lover sleepeth not: but thou
hast not ceased to be a child and fit for nothing but to play with
these cockals.

So what crave thee to fall in love with the fair?'

Now she came to thee by night and finding thee asleep, scored thy cheeks
with her kisses and left thee this sign. But that will not suffice her
of thee and she will certainly send her husband to invite thee again
to night; so, when thou goest home with him, hasten not to fall asleep,
and on the morrow bring me five hundred diners and come and acquaint
me with what hath passed, and I will perfect for thee the device."
Answered he, "I hear and obey," and went back to the Khan. Thus it befel
him; but as regards the jeweller's wife, she said to her husband, "Is
the guest gone?" Answered he, "Yes, but, O Halimah,[FN#415]the mosquitoes
plagued him last night and scarified his cheeks and lips, and indeed I
was abashed before him." She rejoined, "This is the wont of the
mosquitoes of our saloon; for they love none save the beardless. But do
thou invite him again to night." So he repaired to the Khan where the
youth abode, and bidding him, carried him to his house, where they
ate and drank and prayed the night prayer in the saloon, after which
the slave-girl entered and gave each of them a cup of night drink, And
Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted
say.

When it was the Nine Hundred and Seventy first Night,

She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the slave-
girl went in to the twain and gave each of them a cup of night
drink, and they drank and fell asleep.

Presently, in came Halimah and said, "O good for nothing, how canst
thou sleep and call thy self a lover? A lover sleepeth not!"

Then she mounted on his breast and ceased not to come down upon him
with kisses and caresses, biting and sucking his lips and so forth,
till the morning. when she put in his pocket a knife and sent her
handmaid to arouse them.

And when the youth awoke, his cheeks were on fire, for excess of
redness, and his lips like coral, for dint of sucking and kissing.

Quoth the jeweller, "Did the mosquitoes plague thee last night?"

; and quoth the other, "Nay!"; for he now knew the conceit and left
complaining.

Then he felt the knife in his pocket and was silent; but when he had
broken his fast and drunk coffee, he left the jeweller and going
to the Khan; took five hundred diners of gold and carried them to
the old woman, to whom he related what had passed, saying, "I slept
despite myself, and when I woke at dawn I found nothing but a knife
in my pocket."

Exclaimed the old trot, "May Allah protect thee from her this next
night!

For she saith to thee by this sign, 'An thou sleep again, I will
cut thy throat.'

Thou wilt once more be bidden to the jeweller's house to night,[FN#416]
and if thou sleep, she will slay thee."

Said he, "What is to be done?"

; and said she, "Tell me what thou atest and drankest before sleeping."
Quoth he, "We supped as was our wont and prayed the night prayer,
after which there came in to us a maid, who gave each of us a cup
of night drink, which when I had drunk, I fell asleep and awoke not
till the morning."

Quoth the old woman, "The mischief is in the cup: so, when the maid
giveth it to thee, take it from her, but drink not and wait till the
master of the house have drunken and fallen asleep; then say to her,
'Give me a draught of water,' and she will go to fetch thee the gugglet.
Then do thou empty the cup behind the pillow and lie down and feign
sleep. So when she cometh back with the gugglet, she will deem that thou
hast fallen asleep, after having drunk off the cup, and will leave
thee; and presently the case will appear to thee; but beware of
disobeying my bidding."

Answered he, "I hear and I obey," and returned to the Khan. Meanwhile
the jeweller's wife said to her husband, "A guest's due honour is
three nights' entertainment: so do thou invite him a third time."
Whereupon he betook himself to the youth and inviting him, carried him
home and sat down with him in the saloon.

When they had supped and prayed the night prayer, behold, in came
the handmaid and gave each of them a cup. Her master drank and fell
asleep; but Kamar al-Zaman forbore to drink, whereupon quoth the
maid, "Wilt thou not drink, O my lord?"

Answered he, "I am athirst, bring me the gugglet." Accordingly she
went to fetch it, and he emptied the cup behind the pillow and lay
down.

When the slave-girl returned, she saw him lying down and going to
her mistress said, "He hath drunk off the cup and fallen asleep;" whereupon
quoth Halimah to herself, "Verily, his death is better than his
life."

Then, taking a sharp knife, she went in to him, saying, "Three times,
and thou notedst not the sign, O fool![FN#417] So now I will rip up
thy maw." When he saw her making for him knife in hand, he opened his
eyes and rose, laughing; whereupon said she, "'Twas not of thine own
wit, that thou camest at the meaning of the sign, but by the help of
some wily cheat; so tell me whence thou hadst this knowledge." "From
an old woman," replied he, "between whom and me befel such and
such;" and he told her all that had passed.

Quoth she, "To morrow go thou forth from us and seek her and say, 'Hast
thou any further device in store?'

And if she answer, 'I have,' do thou rejoin, 'Then do thy best that
I may enjoy her publicly.'

But, if she say, 'I have no means of doing that, and this is the
last of my devices,' put her away from thy thought, and to morrow
night my husband will come to thee and invite thee.

Do thou come with him and tell me and I will consider what remaineth to
be done."

Answered he, "There is no harm in that!" Then he spent the rest of the
night with her in embracing and clipping, plying the particle of
copulation in concert[FN#418] and joining the conjunctive with the
conjoined,[FN#419] whilst her husband was as a cast-out nunnation
of construction.

[FN#420] And they ceased not to be thus till morning, when she said
to him, "'Tis not a night of thee that will content me, nor a day; no,
nor yet a month nor a year; but it's my intent to abide with thee
the rest of my life. Wait, however, till I play my husband a trick
which would baffle the keenest witted and win for us our wishes. I
will cause doubt to enter into him, so that he shall divorce me,
whereupon I will marry thee and go with thee to thine own country; I will
also transport all his monies and hoards to thy lodging and will
contrive thee the ruin of his dwelling place and the blotting out
of his traces.

But do thou hearken to my speech and obey me in that I shall say to thee
and gainsay me not." He replied, "I hear and I obey: in me there is
none opposition." Then said she, "Go to the Khan and, when my husband
cometh to thee and inviteth thee, say to him, 'O my brother, a son
of Adam is apt to be burdensome, and when his visits grow over
frequent, both generous and niggard loathe him.

[FN#421] How then shall I go with thee every night and lie I and thee,
on the saloon? An thou wax not chagrined with me, thy Harim will
bear me grudge, for that I hinder thee from thine. Therefore if thou
have a mind to my company, take me a house beside thine own and we
will abide thus, now I sitting with thee till the time of sleep, and
now with me thou. Then I will go to my place and thou to thy Harim and
this will be a better rede than that I hinder thee from thy Harim every
night.' Then will he come to me and take counsel with me, and I will
advise him to turn out our neighbour, for the house wherein he
liveth is our house and he renteth it of us; and once thou art in
the house, Allah will make easy to us the rest of our scheme."

And presently she added, "Go now and do as I bid thee." Answered he,
"I hear and obey;" whereupon she left him and went away, whilst he lay
down and feigned to be asleep. Presently, the handmaid came and
aroused them; and when the jeweller awoke, he said to his guest,
"O merchant have the mosquitoes worried thee?"

He replied, "No," and Obayd said, "Belike thou art grown used to them."
Then they broke their fast and drank coffee, after which they fared
forth to their affairs, and Kamar al-Zaman betook himself to the old
crone, and related to her what had passed, And Shahrazad perceived
the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

When it was the Nine Hundred and Seventy-second Night,
She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when
Kamar al-Zaman betook himself to the old crone, he related to her
what had passed, saying, "She spake to me this and that, and I
answered her thus and thus.

Now say me, hast thou any farther device for bringing me to enjoy
her publicly?"

Quoth she, "O my son, here endeth my contrivance, and now I am at the
term of my devices." Upon this he left her and returned to the Khan
where, as eventide evened, the jeweller came to him and invited him.
He said, "I cannot go with thee." Asked the merchant, "Why so? I love
thee and cannot brook separation from thee.

Allah upon thee come with me!" The other replied, "An it be thy wish
to continue our comradeship and keep up the friendship betwixt thee and
me, take me a house by the side of thine own and when thou wilt, thou
shalt pass the evening with me and I with thee; but, as soon as the time
of sleep cometh, each of us shall hie him to his own home and lie
there." Quoth Obayd, "I have a house adjoining mine, which is my own
property: so go thou with me to night and to- morrow I will have the house
untenanted for thee." Accordingly he went with him and they supped and
prayed the night prayer, after which the jeweller drank the cup
of drugged[FN#422] liquor and fell asleep: but in Kamar al-Zaman's
cup there was no trick; so he drank it and slept not.

Then came the jeweller's wife and sat chatting with him through the
dark hours, whilst her husband lay like a corpse.

When he awoke in the morning as of wont, he sent for his tenant and
said to him, "O man, quit me the house, for I have need of it." "On
my head and eyes," answered the other and voided the house to him,
whereupon Kamar al-Zaman took up his abode therein and transported
thither all his baggage.

The jeweller passed that evening with him, then went to his own
house. On the next day, his wife sent for a cunning builder and
bribed him with money to make her an underground-way[FN#423] from her
chamber to Kamar al-Zaman's house, with a trap-door under the earth.

So, before the youth was ware, she came in to him with two bags of
money and he said to her, "Whence comest thou?"

She showed him the tunnel and said to him, "Take these two bags of his
money." Then she sat with him, the twain toying and tumbling together
till the morning, when she said, "Wait for me, till I go to him and wake
him, so he may go to his shop, and I return to thee." He sat expecting
her, whilst she went away and awoke her husband, who made the Wuzu
ablution and prayed and went to his shop. As soon as he was gone, she
took four bags and, carrying them through the Souterrain to Kamar al-Zaman,
said to him, "Store these up;" then she sat with him awhile, after which
she retired to her home and he betook himself to the bazar.

When he returned at sundown, he found in his house ten purses and
jewels and much besides. Presently the jeweller came to him and
carried him to his own house, where they passed the evening in the
saloon, till the handmaid came in according to custom, and brought them
the drink. Her master drank and fell asleep, whilst naught betided
Kamar al-Zaman for that his cup was wholesome and there was no trick
therein. Then came Halimah who sat down atoying with him, whilst the
slave-girl transported the jeweller's goods to Kamar al-Zaman's house
by the secret passage.
Thus they did till morning, when the handmaid awoke her lord and
gave them to drink coffee, after which they went each his own way.

On the third day the wife brought out to him a knife of her husband's,
which he had chased and wrought with his own hand, and which he
priced at five hundred diners.

But there was no knife like it and because of the eagerness with which
folk sought it of him, he had laid it up in a chest and could not bring
himself to sell it to any one in creation.

Quoth she, "Take this knife and set it in thy waist shawl and go
to my husband and sit with him.

Then pull out the knife and say to him, 'O master, look at this
knife I bought to day and tell me if I have the worst or the best
of the bargain.'

He will know it, but will be ashamed to say to thee, 'This is my knife;'
so he will ask thee, 'Whence didst thou buy it and for how much?'; and
do thou make answer, 'I saw two Levantines[FN#424] disputing and one
said to the other, 'Where hast thou been?' Quoth his companion, 'I have
been with my mistress, and whenever I foregather with her, she giveth
me ten dirhams; but this day she said to me, 'My hand is empty of
silver for thee to day, but take this knife of my husband's.'

So I took it and intend to sell it.'

The knife pleased me and hearing his tale I said to him, 'Wilt thou
sell it to me?' when he replied, 'Buy.' So I got it of him for three
hundred gold pieces and I wonder whether it was cheap or dear.' And
note what he will say to thee. Then talk with him awhile and rise
and come back to me in haste. Thou wilt find me awaiting thee at the
tunnel mouth, and do thou give me the knife." Replied Kamar al-Zaman,
"I hear and I obey," and taking the knife set it in his waist-shawl.
Then he went to the shop of the jeweller, who saluted him with the
salam and welcomed him and made him sit down. He spied the knife in his
waist shawl, at which he wondered and said to himself, "That is my knife:
who can have conveyed it to this merchant?" And he fell a musing and
saying in his mind, "I wonder an it be my knife or a knife like it!"
Presently Kamar al-Zaman pulled it out and said to him, "Harkye,
master; take this knife and look at it."

Obayd took it and knew it right well, but was ashamed to say, "This
is my knife;" And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased
saying her permitted say.

When it was the Nine Hundred and Seventy-third Night,
She pursued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the
jeweller took the knife from Kamar al-Zaman, he knew it, but was
ashamed to say, "This is my knife."

So he asked, "Where didst thou buy it?" Kamar al-Zaman answered as
Halimah had charged him, and the jeweller said, "The knife was cheap at
that price, for it is worth five hundred diners." But fire flamed in
his heart and his hands were tied from working at his craft. Kamar
al-Zaman continued to talk with him, whilst he was drowned in the sea
of solicitudes, and for fifty words wherewith the youth bespoke
him, he answered him but one; for his heart ached and his frame was
racked and his thoughts were troubled and he was even as saith the
poet,
"I have no words though folk would have me talk * And who bespeak
me find me thought waylaid:
Plunged in the Care-sea's undiscovered depths, * Nor aught of
difference see 'twixt man and maid!"

When Kamar al-Zaman saw his case thus changed, he said to him "Belike thou
art busy at this present," and leaving him, returned in hottest haste
to his own house, where he found Halimah standing at the passage door
awaiting him.

Quoth she "Hast thou done as I bade thee?"; and quoth he, "Yes." She
asked, "What said he to thee?"; and he answered, "He told me that the
knife was cheap at that price, for that it was worth five hundred
diners:
but I could see that he was troubled; so I left him and know not
what befel him after that."

Cried she, "Give me the knife and reck thou not of him." Then she
took the knife and restoring it to its place, sat down.
However the Doctor was by this time terrifically excited about getting
near to learning the language he had sought so long. And presently by
making the other fishes repeat over and over again short phrases which
the snail used, he began to put words together for himself. You see, he
was already familiar with one or two fish languages; and that helped him
quite a little. After he had practised for a while like this he leant
over the side of the canoe and putting his face below the water, tried
speaking to the snail direct.

It was hard and difficult work; and hours went by before he got any
results. But presently I could tell by the happy look on his face, that
little by little he was succeeding.

The sun was low in the West and the cool evening breeze was beginning to
rustle softly through the bamboo-groves when the Doctor finally turned
from his work and said to me,

"Stubbins, I have persuaded the snail to come in on to the dry part of
the beach and let me examine his tail. Will you please go back to the
town and tell the workmen to stop working on the theatre for to-day?
Then go on to the palace and get my medicine-bag. I think I left it
under the throne in the Audience Chamber."

"And remember," Polynesia whispered as I turned away, "not a word to a
soul. If you get asked questions, keep your mouth shut. Pretend you have
a toothache or something."

This time when I got back to the shore--with the medicine-bag--I found
the snail high and dry on the beach. Seeing him in his full length like
this, it was easy to understand how old-time, superstitious sailors had
called him the Sea-serpent. He certainly was a most gigantic, and in
his way, a graceful, beautiful creature. John Dolittle was examining a
swelling on his tail.

From the bag which I had brought the Doctor took a large bottle of
embrocation and began rubbing the sprain. Next he took all the bandages
he had in the bag and fastened them end to end. But even like that, they
were not long enough to go more than halfway round the enormous tail.
The Doctor insisted that he must get the swelling strapped tight
somehow. So he sent me off to the palace once more to get all the sheets
from the Royal Linen-closet. These Polynesia and I tore into bandages
for him. And at last, after terrific exertions, we got the sprain
strapped to his satisfaction.

The snail really seemed to be quite pleased with the attention he had
received; and he stretched himself in lazy comfort when the Doctor was
done. In this position, when the shell on his back was empty, you could
look right through it and see the palm-trees on the other side.

"I think one of us had better sit up with him all night," said the
Doctor. "We might put Bumpo on that duty; he's been napping all day, I
know--in the summer-house. It's a pretty bad sprain, that; and if the
snail shouldn't be able to sleep, he'll be happier with some one with
him for company. He'll get all right though--in a few days I should
judge. If I wasn't so confoundedly busy I'd sit up with him myself. I
wish I could, because I still have a lot of things to talk over with
him."

"But Doctor," said Polynesia as we prepared to go back to the town,
"you ought to take a holiday. All Kings take holidays once in the
while--every one of them. King Charles, for instance--of course Charles
was before your time--but he!--why, he was ALWAYS holiday-making. Not
that he was ever what you would call a model king. But just the same,
he was frightfully popular. Everybody liked him--even the golden-carp in
the fish-pond at Hampton Court. As a king, the only thing I had against
him was his inventing those stupid, little, snappy dogs they call King
Charles Spaniels. There are lots of stories told about poor Charles;
but that, in my opinion, is the worst thing he did. However, all this is
beside the point. As I was saying, kings have to take holidays the same
as anybody else. And you haven't taken one since you were crowned, have
you now?"

"No," said the Doctor, "I suppose that's true."

"Well now I tell you what you do," said she: "as soon as you get back to
the palace you publish a royal proclamation that you are going away for
a week into the country for your health. And you're going WITHOUT
ANY SERVANTS, you understand--just like a plain person. It's called
traveling incognito, when kings go off like that. They all do it--It's
the only way they can ever have a good time. Then the week you're away
you can spend lolling on the beach back there with the snail. How's
that?"

"I'd like to," said the Doctor. "It sounds most attractive. But there's
that new theatre to be built; none of our carpenters would know how to
get those rafters on without me to show them--And then there are the
babies: these native mothers are so frightfully ignorant."

"Oh bother the theatre--and the babies too," snapped Polynesia. "The
theatre can wait a week. And as for babies, they never have anything
more than colic. How do you suppose babies got along before you came
here, for heaven's sake?--Take a holiday.... You need it."


THE SIXTH CHAPTER. THE LAST CABINET MEETING

FROM the way Polynesia talked, I guessed that this idea of a holiday was
part of her plan.

The Doctor made no reply; and we walked on silently towards the town. I
could see, nevertheless that her words had made an impression on him.

After supper he disappeared from the palace without saying where he was
going--a thing he had never done before. Of course we all knew where he
had gone: back to the beach to sit up with the snail. We were sure of it
because he had said nothing to Bumpo about attending to the matter.

As soon as the doors were closed upon the Cabinet Meeting that night,
Polynesia addressed the Ministry:

"Look here, you fellows," said she: "we've simply got to get the Doctor
to take this holiday somehow--unless we're willing to stay in this
blessed island for the rest of our lives."

"But what difference," Bumpo asked, "is his taking a holiday going to
make?"

Impatiently Polynesia turned upon the Minister of the Interior.

"Don't you see? If he has a clear week to get thoroughly interested in
his natural history again--marine stuff, his dream of seeing the floor
of the ocean and all that--there may be some chance of his consenting
to leave this pesky place. But while he is here on duty as king he
never gets a moment to think of anything outside of the business of
government."

"Yes, that's true. He's far too consententious Bumpo agreed.

"And besides," Polynesia went on, "his only hope of ever getting away
from here would be to escape secretly. He's got to leave while he is
holiday-making, incognito--when no one knows where he is or what he's
doing, but us. If he built a ship big enough to cross the sea in, all
the Indians would see it, and hear it, being built; and they'd ask what
it was for. They would interfere. They'd sooner have anything happen
than lose the Doctor. Why, I believe if they thought he had any idea of
escaping they would put chains on him."

"Yes, I really think they would," I agreed. "Yet without a ship of some
kind I don't see how the Doctor is going to get away, even secretly."

"Well, I'll tell you," said Polynesia. "If we do succeed in making him
take this holiday, our next step will be to get the sea-snail to promise
to take us all in his shell and carry us to the mouth of Puddleby River.
If we can once get the snail willing, the temptation will be too much
for John Dolittle and he'll come, I know--especially as he'll be able to
take those new plants and drugs of Long Arrow's to the English doctors,
as well as see the floor of the ocean on the way."

"How thrilling!" I cried. "Do you mean the snail could take us under the
sea all the way back to Puddleby?"

"Certainly," said Polynesia, "a little trip like that is nothing to him.
He would crawl along the floor of the ocean and the Doctor could see all
the sights. Perfectly simple. Oh, John Dolittle will come all right, if
we can only get him to take that holiday--AND if the snail will consent
to give us the ride."

"Golly, I hope he does!" sighed Jip. "I'm sick of these beastly
tropics--they make you feel so lazy and good-for-nothing. And there are
no rats or anything here--not that a fellow would have the energy to
chase 'em even if there were. My, wouldn't I be glad to see old Puddleby
and the garden again! And won't Dab-Dab be glad to have us back!"

"By the end of next month," said I, "it will be two whole years since
we left England--since we pulled up the anchor at Kingsbridge and bumped
our way out into the river."

"And got stuck on the mud-bank," added Chee-Chee in a dreamy, far-away
voice.

"Do you remember how all the people waved to us from the river-wall?" I
asked.

"Yes. And I suppose they've often talked about us in the town since,"
said Jip--"wondering whether we're dead or alive."

"Cease," said Bumpo, "I feel I am about to weep from sediment."


THE SEVENTH CHAPTER. THE DOCTOR'S DECISION

WELL, you can guess how glad we were when next morning the Doctor, after
his all-night conversation with the snail, told us that he had made up
his mind to take the holiday. A proclamation was published right away
by the Town Crier that His Majesty was going into the country for
a seven-day rest, but that during his absence the palace and the
government offices would be kept open as usual.

Polynesia was immensely pleased. She at once set quietly to work making
arrangements for our departure--taking good care the while that no one
should get an inkling of where we were going, what we were taking with
us, the hour of our leaving or which of the palace-gates we would go out
by.

Cunning old schemer that she was, she forgot nothing. And not even we,
who were of the Doctor's party, could imagine what reasons she had for
some of her preparations. She took me inside and told me that the
one thing I must remember to bring with me was ALL of the Doctor's
note-books. Long Arrow, who was the only Indian let into the secret of
our destination, said he would like to come with us as far as the beach
to see the Great Snail; and him Polynesia told to be sure and bring
his collection of plants. Bumpo she ordered to carry the Doctor's
high hat--carefully hidden under his coat. She sent off nearly all the
footmen who were on night duty to do errands in the town, so that there
should be as few servants as possible to see us leave. And midnight, the
hour when most of the towns-people would be asleep, she finally chose
for our departure.

We had to take a week's food-supply with us for the royal holiday.
So, with our other packages, we were heavy laden when on the stroke of
twelve we opened the west door of the palace and stepped cautiously and
quietly into the moonlit garden.

"Tiptoe incognito," whispered Bumpo as we gently closed the heavy doors
behind us.

No one had seen us leave.

At the foot of the stone steps leading from the Peacock Terrace to the
Sunken Rosary, something made me pause and look back at the magnificent
palace which we had built in this strange, far-off land where no white
men but ourselves had ever come. Somehow I felt it in my bones that
we were leaving it to-night never to return again. And I wondered what
other kings and ministers would dwell in its splendid halls when we
were gone. The air was hot; and everything was deadly still but for
the gentle splashing of the tame flamingoes paddling in the lily-pond.
Suddenly the twinkling lantern of a night watchman appeared round the
corner of a cypress hedge. Polynesia plucked at my stocking and, in an
impatient whisper, bade me hurry before our flight be discovered.

On our arrival at the beach we found the snail already feeling much
better and now able to move his tail without pain.

The porpoises (who are by nature inquisitive creatures) were still
hanging about in the offing to see if anything of interest was going to
happen. Polynesia, the plotter, while the Doctor was occupied with his
new patient, signaled to them and drew them aside for a little private
chat.

"Now see here, my friends," said she speaking low: "you know how much
John Dolittle has done for the animals--given his whole life up to
them, one might say. Well, here is your chance to do something for him.
Listen: he got made king of this island against his will, see? And now
that he has taken the job on, he feels that he can't leave it--thinks
the Indians won't be able to get along without him and all that--which
is nonsense, as you and I very well know. All right. Then here's the
point: if this snail were only willing to take him and us--and a little
baggage--not very much, thirty or forty pieces, say--inside his shell
and carry us to England, we feel sure that the Doctor would go; because
he's just crazy to mess about on the floor of the ocean. What's more
this would be his one and only chance of escape from the island. Now it
is highly important that the Doctor return to his own country to carry
on his proper work which means such a lot to the animals of the world.
So what we want you to do is to tell the sea-urchin to tell the starfish
to tell the snail to take us in his shell and carry us to Puddleby
River. Is that plain?"

"Quite, quite," said the porpoises. "And we will willingly do our very
best to persuade him--for it is, as you say, a perfect shame for the
great man to be wasting his time here when he is so much needed by the
animals."

"And don't let the Doctor know what you're about," said Polynesia as
they started to move off. "He might balk if he thought we had any hand
in it. Get the snail to offer on his own account to take us. See?"

John Dolittle, unaware of anything save the work he was engaged on, was
standing knee-deep in the shallow water, helping the snail try out his
mended tail to see if it were well enough to travel on. Bumpo and Long
Arrow, with Chee-Chee and Jip, were lolling at the foot of a palm a
little way up the beach. Polynesia and I now went and joined them. Half
an hour passed.

What success the porpoises had met with, we did not know, till suddenly
the Doctor left the snail's side and came splashing out to us, quite
breathless.

"What do you think?" he cried, "while I was talking to the snail just
now he offered, of his own accord, to take us all back to England inside
his shell. He says he has got to go on a voyage of discovery anyway, to
hunt up a new home, now that the Deep Hole is closed. Said it wouldn't
be much out of his way to drop us at Puddleby River, if we cared to come
along--Goodness, what a chance! I'd love to go. To examine the floor of
the ocean all the way from Brazil to Europe! No man ever did it before.
What a glorious trip!--Oh that I had never allowed myself to be made
king! Now I must see the chance of a lifetime slip by."

He turned from us and moved down the sands again to the middle beach,
gazing wistfully, longingly out at the snail. There was something
peculiarly sad and forlorn about him as he stood there on the lonely,
moonlit shore, the crown upon his head, his figure showing sharply black
against the glittering sea behind.

Out of the darkness at my elbow Polynesia rose and quietly moved down to
his side.

"Now Doctor," said she in a soft persuasive voice as though she were
talking to a wayward child, "you know this king business is not your
real work in life. These natives will be able to get along without
you--not so well as they do with you of course--but they'll manage--the
same as they did before you came. Nobody can say you haven't done your
duty by them. It was their fault: they made you king. Why not accept the
snail's offer; and just drop everything now, and go? The work you'll do,
the information you'll carry home, will be of far more value than what
you're doing here."

"Good friend," said the Doctor turning to her sadly, "I cannot. They
would go back to their old unsanitary ways: bad water, uncooked fish,
no drainage, enteric fever and the rest.... No. I must think of their
health, their welfare. I began life as a people's doctor: I seem to
have come back to it in the end. I cannot desert them. Later perhaps
something will turn up. But I cannot leave them now."

"That's where you're wrong, Doctor," said she. "Now is when you should
go. Nothing will 'turn up.' The longer you stay, the harder it will be
to leave--Go now. Go to-night."

"What, steal away without even saying good-bye to them! Why, Polynesia,
what a thing to suggest!"

"A fat chance they would give you to say good-bye!" snorted Polynesia
growing impatient at last. "I tell you, Doctor, if you go back to that
palace tonight, for goodbys or anything else, you will stay there.
Now--this moment--is the time for you to go."

The truth of the old parrot's words seemed to be striking home; for the
Doctor stood silent a minute, thinking.

"But there are the note-books," he said presently: "I would have to go
back to fetch them."

"I have them here, Doctor," said I, speaking up--"all of them."

Again he pondered.

"And Long Arrow's collection," he said. Being appointed by Caius Caesar
to supersede Gaetulicus in his command, the day after his joining
the legions, he put a stop to their plaudits in a public spectacle,
by issuing an order, "That they should keep their hands under their
cloaks."

Immediately upon which, the following verse became very common in
the camp:

Disce, miles, militare: Galba est, non Gaetulicus.

Learn, soldier, now in arms to use your hands, 'Tis Galba, not
Gaetulicus, commands.

With equal strictness, he would allow of no petitions for leave of absence
from the camp. He hardened the soldiers, both old and young, by constant
exercise; and having quickly reduced within their own limits the
barbarians who had made inroads into Gaul, upon Caius's coming into
Germany, he so far recommended himself and his army to that emperor's
approbation, that, amongst the innumerable troops drawn from all
the provinces of the empire, none met with higher commendation, or
greater rewards from him.

He likewise distinguished himself by heading an escort, with a
shield in his hand [658], and running at the side of the emperor's
chariot twenty miles together.

VII. Upon the news of Caius's death, though many earnestly pressed
him to lay hold of that opportunity of seizing the empire, he chose
rather to be quiet.

On this account, he was in great favour with Claudius, and being received
into the number of his friends, stood so high in his good opinion,
that the expedition to Britain [659] was for some time suspended, because
he was suddenly seized with a slight indisposition.
He governed Africa, as pro-consul, for two years; being chosen out of the
regular course to restore order in the province, which was in great
disorder from civil dissensions, and the alarms of the barbarians. His
administration was distinguished by great strictness and equity,
even in matters of small importance.

A soldier upon some expedition being charged with selling, in a great
scarcity of corn, a bushel of wheat, which was all he had left, for a
hundred denarii, he forbad him to be relieved by any body, when
he came to be in want himself; and accordingly he died of famine.

When sitting in judgment, a cause being brought before him about
some beast of burden, the ownership of which was claimed by two
persons; the evidence being slight on both sides, and it being
difficult to come at the truth, he ordered the beast to be led to
a pond at which he had used to be watered, with his head muffled
up, and the covering being there removed, that he should be the
property of the person whom he followed of his own accord, after
drinking.

VIII. For his achievements, both at this time in Africa, and formerly
in Germany, he received the triumphal ornaments, and three
sacerdotal appointments, one among The Fifteen, another in the college
of Titius, and a third amongst the Augustals; and from that time
to the middle of Nero's reign, he lived for the most part in
retirement.

He never went abroad (405) so much as to take the air, without a
carriage attending him, in which there was a million of sesterces
in gold, ready at hand; until at last, at the time he was living
in the town of Fundi, the province of Hispania Tarraconensis was
offered him.

After his arrival in the province, whilst he was sacrificing in a
temple, a boy who attended with a censer, became all on a sudden
grey-headed.

This incident was regarded by some as a token of an approaching
revolution in the government, and that an old man would succeed a young
one: that is, that he would succeed Nero.

And not long after, a thunderbolt falling into a lake in Cantabria [660],
twelve axes were found in it; a manifest sign of the supreme power.

IX.

I found that it was just as irregular and changeful as
the surface of the dry land. We climbed over great mountain-ranges, with
peaks towering above peaks. We threaded our way through dense forests
of tall sea-plants. We crossed wide empty stretches of sandy mud, like
deserts--so vast that you went on for a whole day with nothing ahead
of you but a dim horizon. Sometimes the scene was moss-covered, rolling
country, green and restful to the eye like rich pastures; so that you
almost looked to see sheep cropping on these underwater downs. And
sometimes the snail would roll us forward inside him like peas, when he
suddenly dipped downward to descend into some deep secluded valley with
steeply sloping sides.

In these lower levels we often came upon the shadowy shapes of dead
ships, wrecked and sunk Heaven only knows how many years ago; and
passing them we would speak in hushed whispers like children seeing
monuments in churches.

Here too, in the deeper, darker waters, monstrous fishes, feeding
quietly in caves and hollows would suddenly spring up, alarmed at our
approach, and flash away into the gloom with the speed of an arrow.
While other bolder ones, all sorts of unearthly shapes and colors, would
come right up and peer in at us through the shell.

"I suppose they think we are a sort of sanaquarium," said Bumpo--"I'd
hate to be a fish."

It was a thrilling and ever-changing show. The Doctor wrote or sketched
incessantly. Before long we had filled all the blank note-books we had
left. Then we searched our pockets for any odd scraps of paper on which
to jot down still more observations. We even went through the used books
a second time, writing in between the lines, scribbling all over the
covers, back and front.

Our greatest difficulty was getting enough light to see by. In the lower
waters it was very dim. On the third day we passed a band of fire-eels,
a sort of large, marine glow-worm; and the Doctor asked the snail to get
them to come with us for a way. This they did, swimming alongside; and
their light was very helpful, though not brilliant.

How our giant shellfish found his way across that vast and gloomy world
was a great puzzle to us. John Dolittle asked him by what means he
navigated--how he knew he was on the right road to Puddleby River. And
what the snail said in reply got the Doctor so excited, that having no
paper left, he tore out the lining of his precious hat and covered it
with notes.

By night of course it was impossible to see anything; and during the
hours of darkness the snail used to swim instead of crawl. When he did
so he could travel at a terrific speed, just by waggling that long tail
of his. This was the reason why we completed the trip in so short a time
five and a half days.

If nothing else came of this great historical upheaval but the
reconciliation of the Russians and their noble kinsmen the Poles, the
sacrifices which this crisis demands would not be too great a price
to pay for the result.Early in the afternoon of the sixth day, we noticed we were climbing
a long gentle slope. As we went upward it grew lighter. Finally we saw
that the snail had crawled right out of the water altogether and had now
come to a dead stop on a long strip of gray sand.

Behind us we saw the surface of the sea rippled by the wind. On our left
was the mouth of a river with the tide running out. I don'd vant ter stay
here, Pud. Please let us camp out in der snow."
"Why, yer doodle, can't ther ghost come out yere jest ez easy ez he
kin' go inter ther house--that is, if he's a sure-enough ghost?"
"Yah, I guess he can.

Vat vill ve didding?"
"I don't care what you do, but I'm goin' inter ther shack ter start
up ther fire an' get warm.

I don't care what you do, but I'm 'most froze."
"Don't leaf me alone, dear Pud. Please, I imploring you."
"Come on, then."

Bud stepped inside, and, as he did so, he uttered an exclamation
of surprise.

Both the purloined hats lay in the middle of the floor.
"There, didn't I told you?" exclaimed Carl, in an awed voice.
Bud simply stared at the hats.
"Nopody but a ghostes could haf did dat.""Oh, but fellows," cried Jip, as he sniffed up the air in great gulps,
"it has a SMELL--a good and glorious smell!--Excuse me a minute: I see a
water-rat."


"Sh!--Listen!" said Chee-Chee through teeth that chattered with the
cold. "There's Puddleby church-clock striking four. Why don't we divide
up the baggage and get moving. We've got a long way to foot it home
across the marshes."

"Let's hope," I put in, "that Dab-Dab has a nice fire burning in the
kitchen."

"I'm sure she will," said the Doctor as he picked out his old handbag
from among the bundles--"With this wind from the East she'll need it to
keep the animals in the house warm. It is a most distressing perpetual
reminder of the brevity of life and the shortness of feed.
It is unpleasant to the family. We sometimes hear it in the middle of the
night, breaking the silence like a suggestion of coming calamity.
"