
Some of these items need explanation. I have charged nothing for my
own time waiting for the potatoes to grow. My time in hoeing,
fighting weeds, etc., is put in at five days: it may have been a
little more. Nor have I put in anything for cooling drinks while
hoeing. I leave this out from principle, because I always recommend
water to others. I had some difficulty in fixing the rate of my own
wages. It was the first time I had an opportunity of paying what I
thought labor was worth; and I determined to make a good thing of it
for once. I figured it right down to European prices,--seventeen
cents a day for unskilled labor. Of course, I boarded myself. I
ought to say that I fixed the wages after the work was done, or I
might have been tempted to do as some masons did who worked for me at
four dollars a day. They lay in the shade and slept the sleep of
honest toil full half the time, at least all the time I was away. I
have reason to believe that when the wages of mechanics are raised to
eight and ten dollars a day, the workmen will not come at all: they
will merely send their cards.

I do not see any possible fault in the above figures. I ought to say
that I deferred putting a value on the potatoes until I had footed up
the debit column. This is always the safest way to do. I had
twenty-five bushels. I roughly estimated that there are one hundred
good ones to the bushel. Making my own market price, I asked two
cents apiece for them. This I should have considered dirt cheap last
June, when I was going down the rows with the hoe. If any one thinks
that two cents each is high, let him try to raise them.

Nature is "awful smart." I intend to be complimentary in saying so.
She shows it in little things. I have mentioned my attempt to put in
a few modest turnips, near the close of the season. I sowed the
seeds, by the way, in the most liberal manner. Into three or four
short rows I presume I put enough to sow an acre; and they all came
up,--came up as thick as grass, as crowded and useless as babies in a
Chinese village. Of course, they had to be thinned out; that is,
pretty much all pulled up; and it took me a long time; for it takes a
conscientious man some time to decide which are the best and
healthiest plants to spare. After all, I spared too many. That is
the great danger everywhere in this world (it may not be in the
next): things are too thick; we lose all in grasping for too much.
The Scotch say, that no man ought to thin out his own turnips,
because he will not sacrifice enough to leave room for the remainder
to grow: he should get his neighbor, who does not care for the
plants, to do it. But this is mere talk, and aside from the point:
if there is anything I desire to avoid in these agricultural papers,
it is digression. I did think that putting in these turnips so late
in the season, when general activity has ceased, and in a remote part
of the garden, they would pass unnoticed. But Nature never even
winks, as I can see. The tender blades were scarcely out of the
ground when she sent a small black fly, which seemed to have been
born and held in reserve for this purpose,--to cut the leaves. They
speedily made lace-work of the whole bed. Thus everything appears to
have its special enemy,--except, perhaps, p----y: nothing ever
troubles that.

Did the Concord Grape ever come to more luscious perfection than this
year? or yield so abundantly? The golden sunshine has passed into
them, and distended their purple skins almost to bursting. Such
heavy clusters! such bloom! such sweetness! such meat and drink in
their round globes! What a fine fellow Bacchus would have been, if
he had only signed the pledge when he was a young man! I have taken
off clusters that were as compact and almost as large as the Black
Hamburgs. It is slow work picking them. I do not see how the
gatherers for the vintage ever get off enough. It takes so long to
disentangle the bunches from the leaves and the interlacing vines and
the supporting tendrils; and then I like to hold up each bunch and
look at it in the sunlight, and get the fragrance and the bloom of
it, and show it to Polly, who is making herself useful, as taster and
companion, at the foot of the ladder, before dropping it into the
basket. But we have other company. The robin, the most knowing and
greedy bird out of paradise (I trust he will always be kept out), has
discovered that the grape-crop is uncommonly good, and has come back,
with his whole tribe and family, larger than it was in pea-time. He
knows the ripest bunches as well as anybody, and tries them all. If
he would take a whole bunch here and there, say half the number, and
be off with it, I should not so much care. But he will not. He
pecks away at all the bunches, and spoils as many as he can. It is
time he went south.

There is no prettier sight, to my eye, than a gardener on a ladder in
his grape-arbor, in these golden days, selecting the heaviest
clusters of grapes, and handing them down to one and another of a
group of neighbors and friends, who stand under the shade of the
leaves, flecked with the sunlight, and cry, "How sweet!" "What nice
ones!" and the like,--remarks encouraging to the man on the ladder.
It is great pleasure to see people eat grapes.

Moral Truth.--I have no doubt that grapes taste best in other
people's mouths. It is an old notion that it is easier to be
generous than to be stingy. I am convinced that the majority of
people would be generous from selfish motives, if they had the
opportunity.

Philosophical Observation.--Nothing shows one who his friends are
like prosperity and ripe fruit. I had a good friend in the country,
whom I almost never visited except in cherry-time. By your fruits
you shall know them.


SEVENTEENTH WEEK

I like to go into the garden these warm latter days, and muse. To
muse is to sit in the sun, and not think of anything. I am not sure
but goodness comes out of people who bask in the sun, as it does out
of a sweet apple roasted before the fire. The late September and
October sun of this latitude is something like the sun of extreme
Lower Italy: you can stand a good deal of it, and apparently soak a
winter supply into the system. If one only could take in his winter
fuel in this way! The next great discovery will, very likely, be the
conservation of sunlight. In the correlation of forces, I look to
see the day when the superfluous sunshine will be utilized; as, for
instance, that which has burned up my celery this year will be
converted into a force to work the garden.

This sitting in the sun amid the evidences of a ripe year is the
easiest part of gardening I have experienced. Rothe gems and related
rocks. # A. _Unsere Mineralogical Gattung_. _Korund_ (Telesie,
Corindon) with the _edlen species Rubin_ (roth), _Sapphir_ (blue),
as _den base types Demantspath_ and _Smirgel_. A. Corundum or
Sapphir in general. The jewelry is different, very different than
precious stones, according to the colors: 1) _Rubin_ (hellroth),
2) _Balais_ or ruby balais (pale red), 3) _orientalischer Topas_
(yellow), 4) _orientalischer Smaragd_ (green ), 5) _Sapphir_
(beautiful blue), 6) _Luchssapphir_ (dark blue), 7) _Wassersapphir_
(light blue and wasserhell), 8) _Sternsapphir_ (with a star-like
forms), but in the newer time is noted that all these mineralogical
only gems _Einer Gattung_ species are equal Krystallform,
hardness, gravity and chemical components, including the fact
that these species have a base connection: some the Indian
_Demantspath_ and some of the granular _Smirgel_, which is the
hardest abrasive powder have general distribution.

The mineral species have different colors, of which Roth and blue
are the most common, most appreciated. In Oriente you understood
since ancient times, all these different colored stones in a large
genus with the name _Jakut_, the _Hyacinthos_ of the Greeks, hence
our name Hyacinth, we are on an entirely different mineral species
have transferred (in the yellow-red zircon), and probably it would
be desirable that the scientific name Hyacinth his old role right
again give those described genus, which we call jetzo corundum. As
the main indicator of the Republican leads the Arab mineralogist
Taifasachi (although in the 13th century lived, but based on older
mineralogy will have) to: that he, with the exception of diamonds,
all the other stones crack, only diamonds will geritzt and specifisch
heavier than the other gems sey. _Jakut_ in Malay; _Jakut_ and
_Joacht_ in Turkish, we can distinguish: a) Kyzyl, the red, b) giök,
the blue c) k, the white d) Sary, the yellow .-- _Joachet_ in Tatar;
- _Jakut_ in Arabic, even elhum-muri [or: elhummuri], el giohar
(the gemstone), el asgiad called different here: a) achmaru and
kyrmyzy, the red, b) azfaru, the yellow c) samandschunijj or
esmanagiuni, Sary and asrak also called the black blue d) the
blue e) abjadu, the white or wasserhellen - _Jakent_ in Abyssinian,
where we can distinguish: kajeh, the red, tzalin, the blue; -
_Jakudno, aikantum_ in Syriac - _Dijakint_ the Chaldean (the jarukt,
Jarok, jarket is probably wrong with topazius translated, is
expected here or yellow corundum are );--_ najude_ in Amharic hieher
could include - _Jakut, Yaachet , Yankot_ in Persian, a distinction
is made here: a) the red (ruby), b) the yellow (Topaz our jewelers),
c) the dark (Luchssapphir), d) the white (Wassersapphir), e) the
green (Smaragd our Jewelers), f) and the blue smoke-colored (Sapphire),
and also the Adschemi course krystallisirten and mensu or cut -
_Jakut_ in Kurdish, with: keli the red and the blue machine.

_Jakinth_ in Armenian; _Hiatzinthos_ the Magyar; -- _Yachante, Jachont_
in Russian - in _Jacinth_ Illyrian. _ [Greek: hyakinthos] [1],
hyacinthus_ in the Greek and Latin, understood the above mentioned
species, we distinguished: a) roseus, the red, b) thalassites, the
green c) nativus (probably the water bright), d) channiaeus and
perileucos (with dunkelm core), this will also include the granatus,
actually granatus Hyacinthus.
His imagination is quite as hungry
as his stomach. And again and again it is stronger than his other
appetites. You can easily engage his imagination in a story which
will make him forget his dinner. He is credulous and superstitious,
and open to all wonder. In this, he is exactly like the savage
races. Both gorge themselves on the marvelous; and all the unknown
is marvelous to them. I know the general impression is that children
must be governed through their stomachs. I think they can be
controlled quite as well through their curiosity; that being the more
craving and imperious of the two. I have seen children follow about
a person who told them stories, and interested them with his charming
talk, as greedily as if his pockets had been full of bon-bons.

Perhaps this fact has no practical relation to gardening; but it
occurs to me that, if I should paper the outside of my high board
fence with the leaves of "The Arabian Nights," it would afford me a
good deal of protection,--more, in fact, than spikes in the top,
which tear trousers and encourage profanity, but do not save much
fruit. A spiked fence is a challenge to any boy of spirit. But if
the fence were papered with fairy-tales, would he not stop to read
them until it was too late for him to climb into the garden? I don't
know. Human nature is vicious. [Footnote: Francis Bacon _Sir his
apology, in certain imputation concerning the Late Earl of Essex,
etc. London, the 1604th Works X, pag 139-162_.] The Baconianer but
let him say: "Even though I did not confess that I am a poet." He
is following his own confessions a secret poet, a poet incognito,
ie Shakespeare!

From a secret poet, ie a man who does not hold for a poet and
ausgiebt, but located in hour sonnet, even probably a Festival
componirt, a mysterious poet, one after three centuries, discovered
that he was Shakespeare. Never is a poem so rich, so fertile
been like this sonnet, as it has in the minds of Baconianer 36 plays
and 154 sonnets born! 3rd Staatsgefährlicher Bacon as a poet.
Hardly Bacon has just mentioned in his apology, said casually, the
model and a masterpiece of memoir, the story told by that sonnets,
so he makes our current Baconianern soon is a second very curious
and consequently many confessions. I want and foremost that Bacon, one
of the most famous and best parliamentary speakers of England, the
art of concise, accurate, visually plausible speech to a large
extent and had deliberately train was considered. Answers of this
kind were among his specialties. There were, as one says today, "winged
words," the lips away from his and other zuflogen that they weitertrugen
probably also wanted to have said. The queen loved those speeches
and answers, and knew them to reciprocate. Now, a _Dr_. Hayward earl
Essex a font dedicated to the government from the first years of
Henry IV, so the dethronement of Richard II acted.

The queen had the worst suspicions, she senses hochverrätherische
intentions and wanted to lock up the alleged author and tortured in
order to know the real. Bacon sought to begütigen the ruler and the
writing as a harmless way; Verrath it is not included, but Felonie,
the author had not threatened the throne, but Tacitus bestohlen, the
Queen may not be the man, but his spring on the embarrassing
question, ie the author of the font as Clausur continue, where
he had canceled the same, then would he (Bacon) already recognize
whether Hayward is the author above is not. In his narrative, that of
the sonnets comes from, goes Bacon then continued: "At the same
time, in a matter consistent with the process of Count Essex had
some relatives, I remember one of my responses, which, although they
expected from me, and later in other names umlief". [Footnote:
_Apology, pag 149-150_.] So, he said. But now you can tell him (by
making Uebersetzung inserting a word that is not in the text): "At
the same time I remember a reply from me in one thing, some kinship
with the Lords matter and who, although they expected from me, then
other names umlief ". [Footnote: E. Bormann, P. 278 - 282] Thus were
what Bacon party, not the response was that he gave to the Queen,
but the thing with the Process of Count linked, ie the representation
of the dethronement Richards II, but the others on whose behalf
the case later umlief were _Dr._ Hayward and William Shakespeare.
Here is Bacon himself had announced that he had "Richard II" written
and, fearing the wrath of the Queen behind Shakespeare as his straw
man had hidden.

The open rebellion of the Count, which he with his death Hochverräther
fined as has happened on 8 February 1601.

On the afternoon of the 7th was before the Verschworenen "Richard
II" listed in order to let them see how to depose a king. This piece
was not, how often has - even I was mistaken - Shakespeare's eponymous
history, also contributed to the revolutionary purpose could have
a bad fit, but according to court and finding an old piece (_old play_)
which had lost its pulling power, so the actors a higher price for
the performance has been paid. [Footnote: _A declaration of the
practices and Treason attempted and committed by Robert late Earl of
Essex and his Complices, etc. 1,601th Works IX. p. 289-290_.]
Shakespeare's "Richard II" was published in 1597.
We had a convention
lately to resolve that the house should keep itself; but it won't.
There has been a lively time in our garden this summer; but it seems
to me there is very little to show for it. It has been a terrible
campaign; but where is the indemnity? Where are all "sass" and
Lorraine? It is true that we have lived on the country; but we
desire, besides, the fruits of the war. There are no onions, for one
thing. I am quite ashamed to take people into my garden, and have
them notice the absence of onions. It is very marked. In onion is
strength; and a garden without it lacks flavor. The onion in its
satin wrappings is among the most beautiful of vegetables; and it is
the only one that represents the essence of things. It can almost be
said to have a soul. You take off coat after coat, and the onion is
still there; and, when the last one is removed, who dare say that the
onion itself is destroyed, though you can weep over its departed
spirit? If there is any one thing on this fallen earth that the
angels in heaven weep over--more than another, it is the onion.

I know that there is supposed to be a prejudice against the onion;
but I think there is rather a cowardice in regard to it. I doubt not
that all men and women love the onion; but few confess their love.
Affection for it is concealed. Good New-Englanders are as shy of
owning it as they are of talking about religion. Some people have
days on which they eat onions,--what you might call "retreats," or
their "Thursdays." The act is in the nature of a religious ceremony,
an Eleusinian mystery; not a breath of it must get abroad. On that
day they see no company; they deny the kiss of greeting to the
dearest friend; they retire within themselves, and hold communion
with one of the most pungent and penetrating manifestations of the
moral vegetable world. Happy is said to be the family which can eat
onions together. They are, for the time being, separate from the
world, and have a harmony of aspiration. There is a hint here for
the reformers. Let them become apostles of the onion; let them eat,
and preach it to their fellows, and circulate tracts of it in the
form of seeds. In the onion is the hope of universal brotherhood.
If all men will eat onions at all times, they will come into a
universal sympathy. Look at Italy. I hope I am not mistaken as to
the cause of her unity. It was the Reds who preached the gospel
which made it possible. All the Reds of Europe, all the sworn
devotees of the mystic Mary Ann, eat of the common vegetable. Their
oaths are strong with it. It is the food, also, of the common people
of Italy. All the social atmosphere of that delicious land is laden
with it. Its odor is a practical democracy. In the churches all are
alike: there is one faith, one smell. The entrance of Victor Emanuel
into Rome is only the pompous proclamation of a unity which garlic
had already accomplished; and yet we, who boast of our democracy, eat
onions in secret.

I now see that I have left out many of the most moral elements.
Neither onions, parsnips, carrots, nor cabbages are here. I have
never seen a garden in the autumn before, without the uncouth cabbage
in it; but my garden gives the impression of a garden without a head.
The cabbage is the rose of Holland. I admire the force by which it
compacts its crisp leaves into a solid head. The secret of it would
be priceless to the world. We should see less expansive foreheads
with nothing within. Even the largest cabbages are not always the
best. But I mention these things, not from any sympathy I have with
the vegetables named, but to show how hard it is to go contrary to
the expectations of society. Society expects every man to have
certain things in his garden. Not to raise cabbage is as if one had
no pew in church. Perhaps we shall come some day to free churches
and free gardens; when I can show my neighbor through my tired
garden, at the end of the season, when skies are overcast, and brown
leaves are swirling down, and not mind if he does raise his eyebrows
when he observes, "Ah! I see you have none of this, and of that." At
present we want the moral courage to plant only what we need; to
spend only what will bring us peace, regardless of what is going on
over the fence. We are half ruined by conformity; but we should be
wholly ruined without it; and I presume I shall make a garden next
year that will be as popular as possible.

And this brings me to what I see may be a crisis in life. I begin to
feel the temptation of experiment. Agriculture, horticulture,
floriculture,--these are vast fields, into which one may wander away,
and never be seen more. It seemed to me a very simple thing, this
gardening; but it opens up astonishingly. It is like the infinite
possibilities in worsted-work. Polly sometimes says to me, "I wish
you would call at Bobbin's, and match that skein of worsted for me,
when you are in town." Time was, I used to accept such a commission
with alacrity and self-confidence. I went to Bobbin's, and asked one
of his young men, with easy indifference, to give me some of that.
The young man, who is as handsome a young man as ever I looked at,
and who appears to own the shop, and whose suave superciliousness
would be worth everything to a cabinet minister who wanted to repel
applicants for place, says, "I have n't an ounce: I have sent to
Paris, and I expect it every day. I have a good deal of difficulty
in getting that shade in my assortment." To think that he is in
communication with Paris, and perhaps with Persia! Respect for such
a being gives place to awe. I go to another shop, holding fast to my
scarlet clew. There I am shown a heap of stuff, with more colors and
shades than I had supposed existed in all the world. What a blaze of
distraction! I have been told to get as near the shade as I could;
and so I compare and contrast, till the whole thing seems to me about
of one color. But I can settle my mind on nothing. The affair
assumes a high degree of importance. I am satisfied with nothing but
perfection. I don't know what may happen if the shade is not
matched. I go to another shop, and another, and another. At last a
pretty girl, who could make any customer believe that green is blue,
matches the shade in a minute. I buy five cents worth. That was the
order. Women are the most economical persons that ever were. I have
spent two hours in this five-cent business; but who shall say they
were wasted, when I take the stuff home, and Polly says it is a
perfect match, and looks so pleased, and holds it up with the work,
at arm's length, and turns her head one side, and then takes her
needle, and works it in? Working in, I can see, my own obligingness
and amiability with every stitch. Five cents is dirt cheap for such
a pleasure.

The things I may do in my garden multiply on my vision. How
fascinating have the catalogues of the nurserymen become! Can I
raise all those beautiful varieties, each one of which is preferable
to the other? Shall I try all the kinds of grapes, and all the sorts
of pears? I have already fifteen varieties of strawberries (vines);
and I have no idea that I have hit the right one. Must I subscribe
to all the magazines and weekly papers which offer premiums of the
best vines? Oh, that all the strawberries were rolled into one, that
I could inclose all its lusciousness in one bite! Oh for the good
old days when a strawberry was a strawberry, and there was no
perplexity about it! There are more berries now than churches; and
no one knows what to believe. I have seen gardens which were all
experiment, given over to every new thing, and which produced little
or nothing to the owners, except the pleasure of expectation. The
Piccolomini Friedrich Schiller in five people lifts Wallenstein, Duke
of Friedland, Generalissimo emperor during the Thirty Years'
War Octavio Piccolomini, Lieutenant General Max Piccolomini, his
son, Colonel in a Cuirassier Regiment Graf Terzky, Wallenstein
Schwager, Chief of several regiments illo Field Marshal, Wallenstein
Isolani confidant, General Croats Buttler, Head of a Dragoons Regiment
Tiefenbach, Head of a Dragoons Regiment Don Maradas, under General
Wallenstein Götz, under General Wallenstein Colalto, under General
Wallenstein Rittmeister Neumann, Terzkys Adjutant War Quest Mountain
by Emperor sent Baptista Seni, astrologers Duchess of Friedland,
Wallenstein wife Thekla , Princess of Friedland, Countess Terzky
her daughter, a sister of the Duchess Kornet cellar master of Count
One Terzky Kornet Friedländische Pagenberg and operated and Hoboisten
Several colonels and generals First Elevator An old Gothic hall
on the Town Hall to Pilsen, with flags and other things decorated
war equipment.

First appearance illo with Buttler, and Isolani. illo.

You have arrived late - But your coming! The wide path, Graf Isolan
excuse your hems. Isolani. We also do not come with empty hands,
it was announced at us Danube Werth, A Swedish transport was en
route with food, to the six hundred wagons .- The Croatians attacked
me on, We get it. illo.
Such
a man will be likely to put his garden in complete order before the
snow comes, so that its last days shall not present a scene of
melancholy ruin and decay.

I confess that, after such an exhausting campaign, I felt a great
temptation to retire, and call it a drawn engagement. But better
counsels prevailed. I determined that the weeds should not sleep on
the field of battle. I routed them out, and leveled their works. I
am master of the situation. If I have made a desert, I at least have
peace; but it is not quite a desert. The strawberries, the
raspberries, the celery, the turnips, wave green above the clean
earth, with no enemy in sight. In these golden October days no work
is more fascinating than this getting ready for spring. The sun is
no longer a burning enemy, but a friend, illuminating all the open
space, and warming the mellow soil. And the pruning and clearing
away of rubbish, and the fertilizing, go on with something of the
hilarity of a wake, rather than the despondency of other funerals.
When the wind begins to come out of the northwest of set purpose, and
to sweep the ground with low and searching fierceness, very different
from the roistering, jolly bluster of early fall, I have put the
strawberries under their coverlet of leaves, pruned the grape-vines
and laid them under the soil, tied up the tender plants, given the
fruit trees a good, solid meal about the roots; and so I turn away,
writing Resurgam on the gatepost. And Calvin, aware that the summer
is past and the harvest is ended, and that a mouse in the kitchen is
worth two birds gone south, scampers away to the house with his tail
in the air.

And yet I am not perfectly at rest in my mind. I know that this is
only a truce until the parties recover their exhausted energies. All
winter long the forces of chemistry will be mustering under ground,
repairing the losses, calling up the reserves, getting new strength
from my surface-fertilizing bounty, and making ready for the spring
campaign. They will open it before I am ready: while the snow is
scarcely melted, and the ground is not passable, they will begin to
move on my works; and the fight will commence. Yet how deceitfully
it will open to the music of birds and the soft enchantment of the
spring mornings! I shall even be permitted to win a few skirmishes:
the secret forces will even wait for me to plant and sow, and show my
full hand, before they come on in heavy and determined assault.
There are already signs of an internecine fight with the devil-grass,
which has intrenched itself in a considerable portion of my
garden-patch. It contests the ground inch by inch; and digging it
out is very much such labor as eating a piece of choke-cherry pie
with the stones all in. It is work, too, that I know by experience I
shall have to do alone. Every man must eradicate his own
devil-grass. The neighbors who have leisure to help you in
grape-picking time are all busy when devil-grass is most aggressive.
My neighbors' visits are well timed: it is only their hens which have
seasons for their own.

I am told that abundant and rank weeds are signs of a rich soil; but
I have noticed that a thin, poor soil grows little but weeds. I am
inclined to think that the substratum is the same, and that the only
choice in this world is what kind of weeds you will have. I am not
much attracted by the gaunt, flavorless mullein, and the wiry thistle
of upland country pastures, where the grass is always gray, as if the
world were already weary and sick of life. The awkward, uncouth
wickedness of remote country-places, where culture has died out after
the first crop, is about as disagreeable as the ranker and richer
vice of city life, forced by artificial heat and the juices of an
overfed civilization. There is no doubt that, on the whole, the rich
soil is the best: the fruit of it has body and flavor. To what
affluence does a woman (to take an instance, thank Heaven, which is
common) grow, with favoring circumstances, under the stimulus of the
richest social and intellectual influences! I am aware that there
has been a good deal said in poetry about the fringed gentian and the
harebell of rocky districts and waysides, and I know that it is
possible for maidens to bloom in very slight soil into a wild-wood
grace and beauty; yet, the world through, they lack that wealth of
charms, that tropic affluence of both person and mind, which higher
and more stimulating culture brings,--the passion as well as the soul
glowing in the Cloth-of-Gold rose. Neither persons nor plants are
ever fully themselves until they are cultivated to their highest. I,
for one, have no fear that society will be too much enriched. The
only question is about keeping down the weeds; and I have learned by
experience, that we need new sorts of hoes, and more disposition to
use them.

Moral Deduction.--The difference between soil and society is
evident. We bury decay in the earth; we plant in it the perishing;
we feed it with offensive refuse: but nothing grows out of it that is
not clean; it gives us back life and beauty for our rubbish. Society
returns us what we give it.

Pretending to reflect upon these things, but in reality watching the
blue-jays, who are pecking at the purple berries of the woodbine on
the south gable, I approach the house. Polly is picking up chestnuts
on the sward, regardless of the high wind which rattles them about
her head and upon the glass roof of her winter-garden. The garden, I
see, is filled with thrifty plants, which will make it always summer
there. The callas about the fountain will be in flower by Christmas:
the plant appears to keep that holiday in her secret heart all
summer. I close the outer windows as we go along, and congratulate
myself that we are ready for winter. For the winter-garden I have no
responsibility: Polly has entire charge of it. [Footnote: Spedding
makes the text just above the body the same remark. You may not
believe that Shakespeare was, and especially in the big world had
known. In an exchange of letters between John Chamberlain, and
Dudley Carleton, which runs through the quarter-century covers
(1598-1623), in which Shakespeare's career falls height, was the
talk of all-day, court and city news, anything on the stage and
speakers literature in the new issue of the mask games at the court
in the smallest details from their writers and actors, of their
plan, its execution and recording, but not with a single syllable
of S hakespeare, the poet of "Hamlet" "What you want," "Othello,"
"Measure for Measure," "Merchant of Venice," "Macbeth," "Lear,"
"Storm", "Winter's Tale", etc. - In the year 1608, the Lord Southampton
to the Lord Chancellor Ellesmere written to a petition of the two
actors and Shakespeare Burbadge to advocate, he refers to Shakespeare
as his special friend and the author of some of the best shows,
both men were quite famous in their field, but His Lordship would
not befit, to the Places to go, where you get the ear of the amount
of delight.

And yet the same Lord Chancellor had six years before the Queen at
Harewood receive their entertainment and the "Othello" can perform.
The people knew the plays, but cared little about its author, it
behaved with the plays, like the children to the stories, it takes so
much pleasure to listen to, they ask not afterwards, those who survived
or invented stories.

The spectacles as lust objects of the show belonged to the theater,
where she saw and heard, but not in the literature and books, you
read.

So it was to Shakespeare's time and long afterwards in England.
_Works_ 1, p.

Note 519-520.] 2 The school Bacon.

Voltaire. Urtheil Bacon How about Shakespeare would be unusual
if he had respected literature, is to me now, after detailed
consideration, plausible enough: he saw in him an example,
probably one of the most effective causes of the "_corruptela
theatri_».

   Similarly, the philosophers, in the direction of its advanced state,
as Hobbes and Locke, Shakespeare is ungewürdigt and unheeded.

And it was as difficult to believe that
he would ever be aged as it was to imagine that he had ever been in
immature youth. There was in him a mysterious perpetuity.

After some years, when Mrs. Stowe made her winter home in Florida,
Calvin came to live with us. From the first moment, he fell into the
ways of the house and assumed a recognized position in the family,--I
say recognized, because after he became known he was always inquired
for by visitors, and in the letters to the other members of the
family he always received a message. Although the least obtrusive of
beings, his individuality always made itself felt.

His personal appearance had much to do with this, for he was of royal
mould, and had an air of high breeding. He was large, but he had
nothing of the fat grossness of the celebrated Angora family; though
powerful, he was exquisitely proportioned, and as graceful in every
movement as a young leopard. When he stood up to open a door--he
opened all the doors with old-fashioned latches--he was portentously
tall, and when stretched on the rug before the fire he seemed too
long for this world--as indeed he was. His coat was the finest and
softest I have ever seen, a shade of quiet Maltese; and from his
throat downward, underneath, to the white tips of his feet, he wore
the whitest and most delicate ermine; and no person was ever more
fastidiously neat. In his finely formed head you saw something of
his aristocratic character; the ears were small and cleanly cut,
there was a tinge of pink in the nostrils, his face was handsome, and
the expression of his countenance exceedingly intelligent--I should
call it even a sweet expression, if the term were not inconsistent
with his look of alertness and sagacity.

It is difficult to convey a just idea of his gayety in connection
with his dignity and gravity, which his name expressed. As we know
nothing of his family, of course it will be understood that Calvin
was his Christian name. Just thought would be different from
all of Shakespeare Scenes and Scenes from individual lifts must
be whole. Because if the sleeves from the dress of a giant to a dwarf
rather wants to use, so he must not again a sleeve, but an entire
skirt out of it. "The fact that in Shakespeare's seals sparks
and flashes of genius to see that often on the wonderful nature of
truth illuminate things that Voltaire had not misunderstood, but
the whole thing appeared to him as "a dark chaos." Well, this chaos
is clarified, and it showed a well, wonderful paintings, as
Lessing hineinschaute. "Shakespeare," he said, "studirt will not
be plundered.
Calvin would ask to have the door opened,
and then you would hear a rush and a "pestzt," and the concert would
explode, and Calvin would quietly come in and resume his seat on the
hearth. There was no trace of anger in his manner, but he would n't
have any of that about the house. He had the rare virtue of
magnanimity. Although he had fixed notions about his own rights, and
extraordinary persistency in getting them, he never showed temper at
a repulse; he simply and firmly persisted till he had what he wanted.
His diet was one point; his idea was that of the scholars about
dictionaries,--to "get the best." He knew as well as any one what was
in the house, and would refuse beef if turkey was to be had; and if
there were oysters, he would wait over the turkey to see if the
oysters would not be forthcoming. And yet he was not a gross
gourmand; he would eat bread if he saw me eating it, and thought he
was not being imposed on. His habits of feeding, also, were refined;
he never used a knife, and he would put up his hand and draw the fork
down to his mouth as gracefully as a grown person. Unless necessity
compelled, he would not eat in the kitchen, but insisted upon his
meals in the dining-room, and would wait patiently, unless a stranger
were present; and then he was sure to importune the visitor, hoping
that the latter was ignorant of the rule of the house, and would give
him something. Fourth elevator scene: A large, festively lit room in
the middle of that and after the depth of the theater a richly
decorated table, in which eight generals, including Octavio
Piccolomini, Terzky and Maradas, sit. Right and left, more
to the rear to two other panels, which each with six passengers are
occupied. Next, the serving, the whole front stage remains to
wait and Pagenberg servant free.
Yet he enjoyed the company of his equals, and
never withdrew, no matter how many callers--whom he recognized as of
his society--might come into the drawing-room. Calvin was fond of
company, but he wanted to choose it; and I have no doubt that his was
an aristocratic fastidiousness rather than one of faith. It is so
with most people.

