------------------------------------------------------------------------

BOOKS FOR BOYS.

Friends, Though Divided, A Tale of the Civil War. By G. A. Henty. With
illustrations. 12mo, cloth, olivine edges, price $1.

  "It has a good plot; it abounds in action; the scenes are equally
  spirited and realistic, and we can only say we have read it with much
  pleasure from first to last."--Times.

Out on the Pampas; or, The Young Settlers. By G. A. Henty With
illustrations. 12mo, cloth, olivine edges, price $1.00.

  "A really noble story, which adult readers will find to the full as
  satisfying as the boys. Lucky boys! to have such a caterer as Mr. G.
  A. Henty."--Black and White.

The Boy Knight: A Tale of the Crusades. By G. A. Henty. With
illustrations. 12mo, cloth, olivine edges, price $1.00.

  "Of stirring episode there is no lack. The book, with its careful
  accuracy and its descriptions of all the chief battles, will give many
  a school-boy his first real understanding of a very important period
  of history."--St. James's Gazette.

The Wreck of the Golden Fleece. The Story of a North Sea Fisher Boy. By
Robert Leighton. 12mo, cloth, illustrated, price $1.

  A description of life on the wild North Sea.--the hero being a
  parson's son who is appreciated on board a Lowestoft fishing lugger.
  The lad has to suffer many buffets from his shipmates, while the
  storms and dangers which he braved on board the "North Star" are set
  forth with minute knowledge and intense power. The wreck of the
  "Golden Fleece" forms the climax to a thrilling series of desperate
  mischances.

Olaf the Glorious. A Story of the Viking Age. By Robert Leighton. 12mo,
cloth, illustrated, price $1.00.

  This story of Olaf the Glorious, King of Norway, opens with the
  incident of his being found by his uncle living as a bond-slave in
  Esthonia: then come his adventures as a Viking and his raids upon the
  coasts of Scotland and England, his victorious battle against the
  English at Maldon in Essex, his being bought off by Ethelred the
  Unready, and his conversion to Christianity. He then returns to Pagan
  Norway, is accepted as king and converts his people to the Christian
  faith.

To Greenland and the Pole. A story of Adventure in the Arctic Regions.
By Gordon Stables. 12mo, cloth, illustrated, price $1.

  The unfailing fascination of Arctic venturing is presented in this
  story with new vividness. It deals with skilobning in the north of
  Scotland, deer-hunting in Norway, sealing in the Arctic Seas,
  bear-stalking on the ice-floes, the hardships of a journey across
  Greenland, and a successful voyage to the back of the North Pole. This
  is, indeed, a real sea-yarn by a real sailor, and the tone is as
  bright and wholesome as the adventures are numerous.

Yussuf the Guide. A Story of Adventure in Asia Minor. By George Manville
Fenn. 12mo, cloth, illustrated, price $1.00.

  This story deals with the stirring incidents in the career of a lad
  who has been almost given over by the doctors, but who rapidly
  recovers health and strength in a journey through Asia Minor. The
  adventures are many, and culminate in the travellers being snowed up
  for the winter in the mountains, from which they escape while their
  captors are waiting for the ransom that does not come.

For sale by all booksellers, or sent postpaid on receipt of price by the
publisher, A. L. BURT, 52-58 Duane Street, New York.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

BOOKS FOR BOYS

Grettir the Outlaw. A Story of Iceland. By S. Baring-Gould. 12mo, cloth,
illustrated, price $1.00.

  "This is the boys' book of the year. That is, of course, as much as to
  say that it will do for men grown as well as juniors. It is told in
  simple, straightforward English, as all stories should be, and it has
  a freshness and freedom which make it irresistible."--National
  Observer.

Thousand Years Ago. The Adventures of a Roman Boy. By A. J. Church.
12mo, cloth, illustrated, price $1.00.

  "Prof. Church has in this story sought to revivify that most
  interesting period, the last days of the Roman Republic. The book is
  extremely entertaining as well as useful; there is a wonderful
  freshness in the Roman scenes and characters."--Times.

Nat the Naturalist. A Boy's Adventure in the Eastern Seas. By George
Manville Fenn. 12mo, cloth, illustrated, price $1.

  Nat and his uncle Dick go on a voyage to the remoter islands of the
  Eastern seas, and their adventures are told in a truthful and vastly
  interesting fashion. The descriptions of Mr. Ebony, their black
  comrade, and of the scenes of savage life, are full of genuine humor.

The Log of the Flying Fish. A Story of Peril and Adventure. By Harry
Collingwood. 12mo, cloth, illustrated, price $1.

  "This story is full of even more vividly recounted adventures than
  those which charmed so many boy readers in 'Pirate Island' and 'Congo
  Rovers.' ... There is a thrilling adventure on the precipices of Mount
  Everest, when the ship floats off and providentially returns by force
  of 'gravitation.'"--Academy.

The Congo Rovers. A Story of the Slave Squadron. By Harry Collingwood.
12mo, cloth, illustrated, price $1.00.

  "The scene of this tale is laid on the west coast of Africa, and in
  the lower reaches of the Congo; the characteristic scenery of the
  great river being delineated with wonderful accuracy. Mr. Collingwood
  carries us off for another cruise at sea, in 'The Congo Rovers,' and
  boys will need no pressing to join the daring crew, which seeks
  adventures and meets with any number of them."--The Times.

Boris the Bear Hunter. A Tale of Peter the Great and His Times. By Fred
Wishaw. 12mo, cloth, illustrated, price $1.00.

  "This is a capital story. The characters are marked and lifelike, and
  it is full of incident and adventure."--Standard.

Michael Strogoff; or, The Courier of the Czar. By Jules Verne. 12mo,
cloth, illustrated, price $1.00.

  "The story is full of originality and vigor. The characters are
  lifelike, there is plenty of stirring incident, the interest is
  sustained throughout, and every boy will enjoy following the fortunes
  of the hero."--Journal of Education.

Mother Carey's Chicken. Her Voyage to the Unknown Isle. By George
Manville Fenn. 12mo, cloth, illustrated, price $1.00.

  "Undoubtedly one of the best Mr. Fenn has written. The incidents are
  of thrilling interest, while the characters are drawn with a care and
  completeness rarely found in a boy's book."--Literary World.

For sale by all booksellers, or sent postpaid on receipt of price by the
publisher, A. L. BURT. 52-58 Duane Street, New York.