"We was the youngest of thirteen, Lovey and I, and we was twins. There
's never been more 'n half o' me left sence she died. We was born
together, played and went to school together, got engaged and married
together, and we all but died together, yet we wa'n't a mite alike.
There was an old lady come to our house once that used to say, 'There's
sister Nabby, now: she 'n' I ain't no more alike 'n if we wa'n't two;
she 's jest as diff'rent as I am t' other way.' Well, I know what I want
to put into my rag story, Miss Hollis, but I don't hardly know how to
begin."

Priscilla dropped her needle, and bent over the frame with interest.

"A spray of two roses in the centre,--there 's the beginning; why, don't
you see, dear Mrs. One of these helices was connected with a galvanometer, the other
with a voltaic battery of ten pairs of plates four inches square,
with double coppers and well charged; yet not the slightest sensible
deflection of the galvanometer needle could be observed.

The stalk 's got to be green, and here
is the very green silk mother walked bride in, and Lovey and I had
roundabouts of it afterwards. She had the chicken-pox when we was about
four years old, and one of the first things I can remember is climbing
up and looking over mother's footboard at Lovey, all speckled. Mother
had let her slip on her new green roundabout over her nightgown, just to
pacify her, and there she set playing with the kitten Reuben Granger had
brought her. He was only ten years old then, but he 'd begun courting
Lovice.

"The Grangers' farm joined ours. They had eleven children, and mother
and father had thirteen, and we was always playing together. Mother
used to tell a funny story about that. We were all little young ones and
looked pretty much alike, so she didn't take much notice of us in the
daytime when we was running out 'n' in; but at night when the turn-up
bedstead in the kitchen was taken down and the trundle-beds were full,
she used to count us over, to see if we were all there. One night, when
she 'd counted thirteen and set down to her sewing, father come in and
asked if Moses was all right, for one of the neighbors had seen him
playing side of the river about supper-time. Mother knew she 'd counted
us straight, but she went round with a candle to make sure. Now, Mr.
Granger had a head as red as a shumac bush; and when she carried the
candle close to the beds to take another tally, there was thirteen
children, sure enough, but if there wa'n't a red-headed Granger right in
amongst our boys in the turn-up bedstead! While father set out on a hunt
for our Moses, mother yanked the sleepy little red-headed Granger out o'
the middle and took him home, and father found Moses asleep on a pile of
shavings under the joiner's bench.

"They don't have such families nowadays. One time when measles went
all over the village, they never came to us, and Jabe Slocum said there
wa'n't enough measles to go through the Dennett family, so they didn't
start in on 'em. There, I ain't going to finish the stalk; I'm going
to draw in a little here and there all over the rug, while I'm in the
sperit of plannin' it, and then it will be plain work of matching colors
and filling out.

"You see the stalk is mother's dress, and the outside green of the moss
roses is the same goods, only it 's our roundabouts. I meant to make 'em
red, when I marked the pattern, and then fill out round 'em with a light
color; but now I ain't satisfied with anything but white, for nothing
will do in the middle of the rug but our white wedding dresses. I shall
have to fill in dark, then, or mixed. Well, that won't be out of the
way, if it 's going to be a true rag story; for Lovey's life went out
altogether, and mine hasn't been any too gay.

"I'll begin on Lovey's rose first. She was the prettiest and the
liveliest girl in the village, and she had more beaux than you could
shake a stick at. I generally had to take what she left over. Reuben
Granger was crazy about her from the time she was knee-high; but when
he went away to Bangor to study for the ministry, the others had it
all their own way. Most of the soils covering the great dry-farm territory
of the United States and other countries have been formed in this
way.

In places, glaciers moving slowly down the canons crush and grind
into powder the rock over which they pass and deposit it lower down as
soils. In other places, where strong winds blow with frequent regularity,
sharp soil grains are picked up by the air and hurled against the
rocks, which, under this action, are carved into fantastic forms. In
still other places, the strong winds carry soil over long distances
to be mixed with other soils. Finally, on the seashore the great waves
dashing against the rocks of the coast line, and rolling the mass
of pebbles back and forth, break and pulverize the rock until soil is
formed._ Glaciers, winds, _and _waves _are also, therefore, physical
agencies of soil formation.

It may be noted that the result of the action of all these agencies
is to form a rock powder, each particle of which preserves the
composition that it had while it was a constituent part of the rock.

It may further be noted that the chief of these soil-forming agencies act
more vigorously in arid than in humid sections. Under the cloudless sky
and dry atmosphere of regions of limited rainfall, the daily and
seasonal temperature changes are much greater than in sections of greater
rainfall. Consequently the pulverization of rocks goes on most rapidly
in dry-farm districts. Constant heavy winds, which as soil formers
are second only to temperature changes and freezing water, are also
usually more common in arid than in humid countries. This is strikingly
shown, for instance, on the Colorado desert and the Great Plains.

The rock powder formed by the processes above described is continually
being acted upon by agencies, the effect of which is to change its
chemical composition.

Chief of these agencies is _water, _which exerts a solvent action on all
known substances. Pure water exerts a strong solvent action, but when
it has been rendered impure by a variety of substances, naturally occurring,
its solvent action is greatly increased.

The most effective water impurity, considering soil formation, is the
gas, _carbon dioxid. _This gas is formed whenever plant or animal
substances decay, and is therefore found, normally, in the atmosphere
and in soils. Rains or flowing water gather the carbon dioxid from the
atmosphere and the soil; few natural waters are free from it.
She had a change of heart that winter; in
fact she had two of 'em, for she changed hers for Reuben's, and found a
hope at the same time. 'T was a good honest conversion, too, though she
did say to me she was afraid that if Reuben hadn't taught her what love
was or might be, she 'd never have found out enough about it to love God
as she 'd ought to.

"There, I've begun both roses, and hers is 'bout finished. I sha'n't
have more 'n enough white alapaca. It's lucky the moths spared one
breadth of the wedding dresses; we was married on the same day, you
know, and dressed just alike. Jot wa'n't quite ready to be married, for
he wa'n't any more forehanded 'bout that than he was 'bout other things;
but I told him Lovey and I had kept up with each other from the start,
and he 'd got to fall into line or drop out o' the percession.--Now what
next?"

"Wasn't there anybody at the wedding but you and Lovice?" asked
Priscilla, with an amused smile.

"Land, yes! The meeting-house was cram jam full. Oh, to be sure! I know
what you 're driving at! Well, I have to laugh to think I should have
forgot the husbands! They'll have to be worked into the story, certain;
but it'll be consid'able of a chore, for I can't make flowers out of
coat and pants stuff, and there ain't any more flowers on this branch
anyway."

Diadema sat for a few minutes in rapt thought, and then made a sudden
inspired dash upstairs, where Miss Hollis presently heard her rummaging
in an old chest. She soon came down, triumphant.

"Wa'n't it a providence I saved Jot's and Reuben's wedding ties! And
here they are,--one yellow and green mixed, and one brown. Do you know
what I'm going to do? I'm going to draw in a butterfly hovering over
them two roses, and make it out of the neckties,--green with brown
spots. That'll bring in the husbands; and land! I wouldn't have either
of 'em know it for the world. I'll take a pattern of that lunar moth you
pinned on the curtain yesterday."

Miss Hollis smiled in spite of herself. "You have some very ingenious
ideas and some very pretty thoughts, Mrs. Bascom, do you know it?"

"It's the first time I ever heard tell of it," said Diadema cheerfully.
"Lovey was the pretty-spoken, pretty-appearing one; I was always plain
and practical. While I think of it, I'll draw in a little mite of this
red into my carnation pink. It was a red scarf Reuben brought Lovey from
Portland. It was the first thing he ever give her, and aunt Hitty said
if one of the Abel Grangers give away anything that cost money, it meant
business. That was all fol-de-rol, for there never was a more liberal
husband, though he was a poor minister; but then they always _are_ poor,
without they're rich; there don't seem to be any halfway in ministers.

"We was both lucky that way. There ain't a stingy bone in Jot Bascom's
body. He don't make much money, but what he does make goes into the
bureau drawer, and the one that needs it most takes it out. He never
asks me what I done with the last five cents he give me. You 've never
been married Miss Hollis, and you ain't engaged, so you don't know much
about it; but I tell you there 's a heap o' foolishness talked about
husbands. If you get the one you like yourself, I don't know as it
matters if all the other women folks in town don't happen to like him
as well as you do; they ain't called on to do that. They see the face
he turns to them, not the one he turns to you. Jot ain't a very good
provider, nor he ain't a man that 's much use round a farm, but he 's
such a fav'rite I can't blame him. There 's one thing: when he does
come home he 's got something to say, and he 's always as lively as a
cricket, and smiling as a basket of chips. I like a man that 's good
comp'ny, even if he ain't so forehanded. There ain't anything specially
lovable about forehandedness, when you come to that. I shouldn't ever
feel drawed to a man because he was on time with his work. He 's got
such pleasant ways, Jot has! The other afternoon he didn't get home
early enough to milk; and after I done the two cows, I split the
kindling and brought in the wood, for I knew he 'd want to go to the
tavern and tell the boys 'bout the robbery up to Boylston. There ain't
anybody but Jot in this village that has wit enough to find out what 's
going on, and tell it in an int'resting way round the tavern fire. And
he can do it without being full of cider, too; he don't need any apple
juice to limber _his_ tongue!

