Produced by The Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Internet Archive/American
Libraries.)


       *       *       *       *       *

    +-----------------------------------------------------------+
    | Transcriber's Note:                                       |
    |                                                           |
    | Inconsistent hyphenation in the original document has     |
    | been preserved.                                           |
    |                                                           |
    | Obvious typographical errors have been corrected. For     |
    | a complete list, please see the end of this document.     |
    |                                                           |
    +-----------------------------------------------------------+

       *       *       *       *       *


[Illustration: PRIVATE EDWARD ALVA TRUEBLOOD]


_Observations of an American Soldier During
His Service With the A. E. F. in France_

In the
Flash Ranging
Service

_by_

_Private Edward Alva Trueblood_


[Illustration]


Press of
THE NEWS PUBLISHING COMPANY
Sacramento, California
1919


[Illustration]

"I pledge allegiance to my Flag and to
the Republic for which it stands--
one nation, indivisible, with liberty
and justice for all."


          This book is a record of the personal
          observations of a private soldier in the Flash
          Ranging Service of the American Expeditionary
          Forces in France. It not only relates his
          experiences while in France, but also tells of
          going over and returning. In brief, it is a
          soldier's story from the time he left America to
          help crush the autocracy of Germany, until he
          returned again after fighting was over.


Contents


Chapter                                                      Page

   I. Going Over                                                1

  II. Our First Glimpse of France                              10

 III. From Brest to Langres                                    18

  IV. Nearing the Front                                        29

   V. Preparation for Battle                                   37

  VI. The Great St. Mihiel Drive                               42

 VII. Gassed                                                   54

VIII. Hospital Experiences                                     63

  IX. Home Again                                               72


In the Flash Ranging Service

_By Private Edward Alva Trueblood_


Chapter I.

Going Over.


When the sun arose on the 22nd of June, 1918, three great transports
were lying out in the stream of New York harbor. They were filled with
American soldiers for duties overseas. They were well camouflaged and
well convoyed. The previous afternoon they had pulled away from a
Jersey City pier, where they had taken on their human cargoes, and
they were undoubtedly under sealed orders. 'Poor man, poor man!'
said the bishop.

'It will naturally be a matter of much moment to your lordship who is
to succeed him,' said Mr Slope. 'It would be a great thing if you
could secure the appointment for some person of your own way of
thinking on important points.The
departure was made without a word of warning and not a fond good-bye.
It was accomplished with a methodical silence that called for
admiration. It is the way Uncle Sam does things during war times.

Just before 9 o'clock on that beautiful June morning, simultaneously
but without communicating with each other, each of those transports
began to weigh anchor, and except for the click, click, click of the
machinery all was silent. Precisely at 9:05, without the blast of a
whistle, the sound of a gong, or the hoisting of a signal flag on the
mast, but like so many automatic machines, these vessels turned their
prows to the sea and began their long voyage.

I want to tell you about our three days in the first line.

Snow and frost. We went down the slopes leading to our emplacement
in the village. The night was then so beautiful that it moved the
heart of every soldier to see it.As we glided out of the great harbor and saw first the Statue of
Liberty, then all trace of our native land disappear from sight, and
we realized that we were on our way to fight the most savage, inhuman
and despicable foe that has ever drawn a lance, a feeling of solemn
thoughtfulness came over most of the boys. Many of them were so
affected, as they knew a certain percentage of us must inevitably fall
in battle, that they went below to spend a few hours by themselves in
serious thought. I am not ashamed to say that I was one of those who
sought solace for my feelings in thoughtful solitude.

The vessel upon which we sailed was an Italian transport, by name, the
"King of Italy." It was accompanied by a French and a former German
liner and was convoyed by a destroyer and a cruiser. On the second day
out we picked up four more transports, making seven in all in our
fleet.

There were 1,500 American soldiers on our transport and approximately
the same on four of the other transports. Two of them, however,
carried more than 3,500 men, making a total of about 15,000 men on
that one fleet bound for duty overseas. Of the 1,500 men on the King
of Italy, 500 were white and 1,000 colored troops. No trouble was
caused by this mixture of races because of good management. The white
and colored boys were kept on different parts of the boat and all
guard duty was in the hands of the white troops.

For the first few hours after sailing, thoughts of home lingered in
the minds of most of the boys, but these were hastily banished when we
had our first life drill. This took place at 2 o'clock on our first
day out. The drill was a thorough one, and it soon became apparent to
most of the boys that even if we should be torpedoed by a submarine
while going across, our troops would have no difficulty in getting
away from the boat before it took its final plunge toward the bottom
of the sea. In the life drill, every man had his place. He was
assigned to a certain boat and could take no other. The lower decks
were emptied first, and then those above, one at a time. I was bunked
on the fifth deck, hence, as the liner had six decks, would have been
among the last to leave the ship, in case of disaster.

The object of the life drill, of course, was to make it possible to
empty the boat of troops quickly and in military order in the event
that the boat became a submarine victim. Every man was instructed at
the sound of the alarm to go to his bunk and stand there until given
further orders. In the meantime, he was to put on his life belt. The
boys marched out to the life boats only when they received orders from
their superiors to do so. After a few drills, we mastered the
manoeuver and it would have been possible for us to have emptied that
boat of 1,500 soldiers in twelve minutes, if such action had been
necessary.

We had life drills two or three times a day all the way across. The
signal for the drill was four siren blasts, and when we heard those
blasts, there was a lively time on deck for a few minutes, until the
ship, in theory, had been abandoned.

