Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Sandra Brown and the PG Online
Distributed Proofreading Team.


MY BOOK

OF

FAVOURITE FAIRY TALES


ILLUSTRATED BY JENNIE HARBOUR.


[Illustration: From "THE GOOSE GIRL"]

[Illustration: _Painted by Jennie Harbour_
THE GOOSE GIRL]


MY BOOK OF

FAVOURITE FAIRY TALES


RETOLD BY THE EDITOR

& OTHERS


[Illustration]


ILLUSTRATED BY JENNIE HARBOUR


EDITED BY CAPT. EDRIC VREDENBURG


RAPHAEL TUCK &. SONS. LTP

_Publishers in Their Majesties the King & Queen_

LONDON & PARIS


DESIGNED & PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN


PHILADELPHIA

DAVID MCKAY COMPANY

WASHINGTON SQUARE


[Illustration: From "THE SLEEPING BEAUTY"]


CONTENTS

    THE OLD, OLD STORIES

    THE GOOSE GIRL

    LITTLE SNOW-WHITE

    CINDERELLA

    PRINCESS GOLDENHAIR

    LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD

    THE WHITE FAWN

    HANSEL AND GRETHEL

    SNOW-WHITE AND ROSE-RED

    THE SLEEPING BEAUTY

    PRINCE CHÉRI

    THE WHITE CAT

    BLUEBEARD

    BEAUTY AND THE BEAST

    TUFTY RIQUET

    THUMBLING

[Illustration: From "THE WHITE FAWN"]


LIST OF COLOUR PLATES

    THE GOOSE GIRL _Frontispiece_

    THE MAGIC MIRROR

    CINDERELLA

    LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD

    THE WHITE FAWN

    HANSEL AND GRETHEL

    SNOW-WHITE AND ROSE-RED

    THE SLEEPING BEAUTY

    ZÉLIE AND THE FAIRY CANDIDE

    BLUEBEARD

    BEAUTY AND THE BEAST

    THE BEAUTIFUL PRINCESS

[Illustration: From "PRINCESS GOLDENHAIR"]

[Illustration: From "CINDERELLA"]


THE OLD, OLD STORIES


Here they are again, the old, old stories, the very best; dear
Cinderella, wicked old Bluebeard, tiny Thumbling, beautiful Beauty and
the ugly Beast, and a host of others. There can be no two opinions about
it, of course. At the same time----"
How very uncomfortable! There had been a time when the Precentor would
have been proud indeed to walk down the High Street arm-in-arm
with the Archdeacon.

But that time was past. The High Street was crowded. Any one might see
them. They would take it for granted that the Precentor was of the
Archdeacon's party. And to be seen thus affectionately linked with the
Archdeacon just now, when his family affairs were in so strange a
disorder, when he himself was behaving so oddly, when, as it was
whispered, at the Jubilee Fair he had engaged in a scuffle of a
most disreputable kind.

The word "Drink" was mentioned.

Ryle tried, every so gently, to disengage his arm. Brandon's hand was
of steel.

"This seems to me," the Archdeacon was continuing, "a most critical
moment in our Cathedral's history.

If we don't stand together now we--we--"
The Archdeacon's hand relaxed.

His eyes wandered.

Ryle detached his arm.

How strange the man was! Why, there was Samuel Hogg on the other side
of the street!

He had taken his hat off and was smiling. How uncomfortable! How
unpleasant to be mixed in this kind of encounter! How Mrs. Ryle,
would dislike it if she knew!

But his mind was speedily taken off his own affairs. He was
conscious of the Archdeacon, standing at his full height, his eyes,
as he afterwards described it a thousand times, "bursting from his
head." Then, "before you could count two," the Archdeacon was
striding across the street.When the time came for them to set out, the old queen went into her
bed-chamber, and took a little knife, and cut off a lock of her hair,
and gave it to her daughter, and said, "Take care of it, dear child;
for it is a charm that may be of use to you on the road." Then they
took a sorrowful leave of each other, and the princess put the lock of
her mother's hair into her bosom, got upon her horse, and set off on
her journey to her bridegroom's kingdom. One day, as they were riding
along by the side of a brook, the princess began to feel very thirsty,
and said to her maid, "Pray get down and fetch me some water, in my
golden cup, out of yonder brook, for I want to drink." "Nay," said
the maid, "if you are thirsty, get down yourself, and lie down by the
water and drink; I shall not be your waiting-maid any longer." Then
the princess was so thirsty that she got down, and knelt over the
brook and drank, for she was frightened, and dared not bring out her
golden cup; and then she wept, and said "Alas! what will become of
me?" And the lock of hair answered her, and said--

      "Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it,
      Sadly, sadly her heart would rue it."

But the princess was very humble and meek, so she said nothing to her
maid's ill behaviour, but got upon her horse again.

Then all rode further on their journey, till the day grew so warm, and
the sun so scorching, that the bride began to feel very thirsty again;
and at last, when they came to a river, she forgot her maid's rude
speech, and said, "Pray get down and fetch me some water to drink
in my golden cup." Through the interpreter, they replied that three
travellers--missionaries--had stayed for a couple of months with
their master, the King of Arda, and the good fathers had told them
"that Madame de Montespan was the second spouse of the great King."
These same missionaries had chosen the sort of presents which
they were to give me.

      CHAPTER XXIX.
      

Comte de Vegin, Abbe of Saint Germain des Pres.--Revenues Required, but
Not the Cowl.--Discussion between the King and the Marquise.--Madame
Scarron Chosen as Arbiter.--An Unanswerable Argument.

The wealthy abbey of Saint Germain des Pres--[Yielding a revenue of
five hundred thousand livres.]--was vacant; the King appointed thereto
his son, the Comte de Vegin, and as the Benedictine monks secretly
complained that they should have given to them as chief a child
almost still in its cradle, the King instructed the grand almoner
to remind them that they had had as abbes in preceding reigns princes
who were married and of warlike tastes.

"Such abuses," said the prelate, "were more than reprehensible; his
Majesty is incapable of wishing to renew them. As to the Prince's
extreme youth, that is in no way prejudicial to you, my brethren,
as monseigneur will be suitably represented by his vicar-general
until such time as he is able to assume the governorship himself."

"Is it your intention to condemn my son to be an ecclesiastic?" I asked
the King, in amazement.

"Madame, these are my views," he answered: "If the Comte de Vegin
as he grows up should continue to show pluck and a taste for things
military, as by birth he is bound to do, we will relieve him of the
abbey on the eve of his marriage, while he will have profited thereby
up to that time.

If, on the contrary, my son should show but inferior mental capacity,
and a pusillanimous character, there will be no harm in his remaining
among the Church folk; he will be far better off there than elsewhere.

The essential thing for a parent is to study carefully and in good time
the proper vocation for his children; the essential thing for the ruler
of an Empire is to employ the right people to do the work in hand."
"Will my son, on receiving this abbey, have to wear the dress of
his office?" I asked. "Imagine the Comte de Vegin an abbe!"
"Do not feel the slightest repugnance on that score," added the King.
"The Electors of the German Empire are nearly all of them ecclesiastics;
our own history of France will show you that the sons of kings were
bishops or mere abbes; the grandson of the Duc de Savoie is a cardinal
and an archbishop, and King Charles X., my grandfather's paternal
uncle, nearly became King of France and cardinal at one and the
same time."

At this moment Madame Scarron came in.
She carried her point, and the
faithful Falada was killed; but when the true princess heard of it she
wept, and begged the man to nail up Falada's head against a large
dark gate in the city through which she had to pass every morning
and evening, that there she might still see him sometimes. Then the
slaughterer said he would do as she wished; cut off the head, and
nailed it fast under the dark gate.

Early the next morning, as she and Curdken went out through the gate,
she said sorrowfully--

      "Falada, Falada, there thou art hanging!"

and the head answered--

      "Bride, bride, there thou art ganging!
      Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it,
      Sadly, sadly her heart would rue it."

Then they went out of the city, and drove the geese in. And when she
came to the meadow, she sat down upon a bank here, and let down her
waving locks of hair, which were all of pure gold; and when Curdken
saw it glitter in the sun, he ran up, and would have pulled some of
the locks out; but she cried--

      "Blow, breezes, blow!
      Let Curdken's hat go!
      Blow, breezes, blow!
      Let him after it go!
      O'er hills, dales, and rocks.
      Away be it whirl'd,
      Till the golden locks
      Are all comb'd and curl'd!"

[Illustration]

Then there came a wind, so strong that it blew off Curdken's hat, and
away it flew over the hills, and he after it; till, by the time he
came back, she had done combing and curling her hair, and put it up
again safe. Then he was very angry and sulky, and would not speak
to her at all; but they watched the geese until it grew dark in the
evening, and then drove them homewards.

The next morning, as they were going through the dark gate, the poor
girl looked up at Falada's head, and cried--

      "Falada, Falada, there thou art hanging!"

and it answered--

      "Bride, bride, there thou art ganging!
      Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it,
      Sadly, sadly her heart would rue it."

Then she drove on the geese and sat down again in the meadow, and
began to comb out her hair as before, and Curdken ran up to her, and
wanted to take hold of it; but she cried out quickly--

      "Blow, breezes, blow!
      Let Curdken's hat go,
      Blow, breezes, blow!
      Let him after it go!
      He sat exultant. Some of the
      shame had been wiped
      away. He could feel
      again the riotous happiness that had surged up in him as he struck
that face, felt it yield before him, saw it fade away into dust and
nothingness.

That face that had for all these months been haunting him, at last he
had banished it, and with it had gone those other leering faces that
had for so long kept him company. His room was dark, and it was always
in the dark that they came to him--Hogg's, the drunken painter's,
that old woman's in the dirty dress.

And to-day they did not come. If they came he would treat them as he
had treated Hogg. That was the way to deal with them!

His heart was bad, fluttering, stampeding, pounding and then dying
away.

He walked about the room that he might think less of it.

Never mind his heart!

Destroy his enemies, that's what he had to do--these men and women
who were the enemies of himself, his town and his Cathedral.

      Suddenly he thought that he would go out.

He got his hat and his coat and went into the rain.

      He crossed the Green and let himself into
      the Cathedral by the Saint Margaret
      Chapel door, as he had so often done before.

The Cathedral was very dark, and he stumbled about, knocking against
pillars and hassocks. He was strange here. It was as though he didn't
know the place. He got into the middle of the nave, and positively
he didn't know where he was. A faint green light glimmered in the
East end. There were chairs in his way. He stood still, listening.

He was lost. He would never find his way out again. _His_ Cathedral,
and he was lost! Figures were moving everywhere. They jostled him and
said nothing. The air was thick and hard to breathe.

      Here was the Black
      Bishop's Tomb. He let
      his fingers run along
      the metal work. How
      cold it was! His hand touched
      the cold icy beard!
      His hand stayed there.
      He could not remove it.

His fingers stuck.

He tried to cry out, and he could say nothing. An icy hand, gauntleted,
descended upon his and held it. He tried to scream.

He could not.

He shouted. His voice was a whisper. He sank upon his knees. He
fainted, slipping to the ground like a man tired out.

There, half an hour later, Lawrence found him.

Chapter IV
The Last Tournament

On the morning of the Chapter Meeting Ronder went in through the West
door, intending to cross the nave by the Cloisters.

Just as he closed the heavy door behind him there sprang up, close
to him, as though from nowhere at all, that horrible man Davray.
Horrible always to Ronder, but more horrible now because of the dreadful
way in which he had, during the last few months, gone tumbling
downhill.

There had been, until lately, a certain austerity and even nobility in
the man's face. That was at last completely swept away. This morning
he looked as though he had been sleeping out all night, his face
yellow, his eyes bloodshot, his hair tangled and unkempt, pieces
of grass clinging to his well-worn grey flannel suit.

"Good morning, Canon Ronder," he said.

"Good morning," Ronder replied severely, and tried to pass on. But the
man stood in his way.

"I'm not going to keep you," he said. "I know what your business
is this morning.

I wouldn't keep you from it for a single moment. I know what you're going
to do. You're going to get rid of that damned Archdeacon.

Finish him for once and all.

Stamp on him so that he can never raise up his beautiful head again.

I know. It's fine work you've been doing ever since you came here,
Canon Ronder. But it isn't you that's been doing it.
It's the Cathedral."
"Please let me pass," said Ronder. "I haven't any time just now to
spare."
"Ah, that hurts your pride. You like to think it's you who's been
the mighty fine fellow all this time. Well, it isn't you at all. It's
the Cathedral. The Cathedral's jealous, you know--don't like its
servants taking all the credit to themselves. Pride's dangerous, Canon
Ronder.

In a year or two's time, when you're feeling pretty pleased with
yourself, you just look back on the Archdeacon's history for a moment
and consider it.
It may have a lesson for you. Good morning, Canon Ronder. Pleased
to have met you."
The wretched creature went slithering up the aisle, chuckling to
himself.
How miserable to be drunk at that early hour of the morning! Ronder
shrugged his shoulders as though he would like to shake off from
them something unpleasant that was sticking to them. He was not in
a good mood this morning. He was assured of victory--he had no doubt
about it at all-- and unquestionably when the affair was settled
he would feel more tranquil about it. But ever since his talk with
Wistons he had been unsure of the fellow. Was it altogether wise
that he should come here? His perfect content seemed to be as far
away as ever.She had a magical looking-glass, to which she
used to go and gaze upon herself in it, and say,

      "Tell me, glass, tell me true!
      Of all the ladies in the land.
      Who is fairest? Tell me who?"

And the glass answered, "Thou, Queen, art fairest in the land."

But Snow-White grew more and more beautiful; and when she was seven
years old, she was as bright as the day, and fairer than the queen
herself. Then the glass one day answered the queen, when she went to
consult it as usual:

      "Thou, Queen, may'st fair and beauteous be,
      But Snow-White is lovelier far than thee!"

When she heard this she turned pale with rage and envy; and calling
to one of her servants said, "Take Snow-White away into the wide wood,
that I may never see her more." Then the servant led her away; but his
heart melted when she begged him to spare her life, and he said, "I
will not hurt thee, thou pretty child." So he left her by herself, and
though he thought it most likely that the wild beasts would tear her
to pieces, he felt as if a great weight were taken off his heart when
he had made up his mind not to kill her, but leave her to her fate.

[Illustration]

Then poor Snow-White wandered along through the wood in great fear;
and the wild beasts roared about her, but none did her any harm. In
the evening she came to a little cottage, and went in there to rest
herself, for her weary feet would carry her no further. Everything was
spruce and neat in the cottage: on the table was spread a white cloth,
and there were seven little plates with seven little loaves and seven
little glasses with wine in them; and knives and forks laid in order,
and by the wall stood seven little beds. Then, as she was very hungry,
she picked a little piece off each loaf, and drank a very little wine
out of each glass; and after that she thought she would lie down and
rest. So she tried all the little beds; and one was too long, and
another was too short, till at last the seventh suited her; and there
she laid herself down and went to sleep. Presently in came the masters
of the cottage, who were seven little dwarfs that lived among the
mountains, and dug and searched about for gold. They lighted up their
seven lamps, and saw directly that all was not right. The first said,
"Who has been sitting on my stool?" The second, "Who has been eating
off my plate?" The third, "Who has been picking at my bread?" the
fourth, "Who has been meddling with my spoon?" The fifth, "Who has
been handling my fork?" The sixth, "Who has been cutting with my
knife?" The seventh, "Who has been drinking my wine?" Then the first
looked round and said. "Who has been lying on my bed?" And the rest
came running to him, and every one cried out that somebody had been
upon his bed. But the seventh saw Snow-White, and called upon his
brethren to come and see her; and they cried out with wonder and
astonishment, and brought their lamps to look at her, and said, "Good
heavens! What a lovely child she is!" and they were delighted to see
her, and took care not to waken her; and the seventh dwarf slept an
hour with each of the other dwarfs in turn, till the night was gone.

[Illustration: THE MAGIC MIRROR--"LITTLE SNOW-WHITE"]

In the morning Snow-White told them all her story; and they pitied
her, and said if she would keep all things in order, and cook and
wash, and knit and spin for them, she might stay where she was, and
they would take good care of her. Then they went out all day long
to their work, seeking for gold and silver in the mountains; and
Snow-White remained at home: and they warned her, and said, "The queen
will soon find out where you are, so take care and let no one in." But
the queen, now that she thought Snow-White was dead, believed that
she was certainly the handsomest lady in the land; and she went to her
glass, and the glass answered,

      "Thou, Queen, thou art fairest in all this land;
      But over the hills, in the greenwood shade.
      Where the seven dwarfs their dwelling have made.
      There Snow-White is hiding her head; and she
      Is lovelier far, O Queen, than thee."

Then the queen was very much alarmed; for she knew that the glass
always spoke the truth, and was sure that the servant had betrayed
her. And she could not bear to think that anyone lived who was more
beautiful than she was; so she disguised herself as a pedlar and went
her way over the hills to the place where the dwarfs dwelt. Then
she knocked at the door, and cried, "Fine wares to sell!" Snow-White
looked out of the window, and cried, "Good-day, good woman; what have
you to sell?" "Good wares, fine wares," said she; "laces and bobbins
of all colours." "I will let the old lady in; she seems to be a
very good sort of a body," thought Snow-White; so she ran down, and
unbolted the door. "Bless me!" said the woman, "how badly your
stays are laced. Let me lace them up with one of my nice new laces."
Snow-White did not dream of any mischief; so she stood up before
the old woman; but she set to work so nimbly, and pulled the lace so
tight, that Snow-White lost her breath, and fell down as if she were
dead. "There's an end of all thy beauty," said the spiteful queen, and
went away home.

[Illustration: "'THERE'S AN END TO ALL THY BEAUTY' SAID THE SPITEFUL
QUEEN, AND SHE WENT AWAY HOME."]

In the evening the seven dwarfs returned; and I need not say how
grieved they were to see their faithful Snow-White stretched upon the
ground motionless, as if she were quite dead. However, they lifted her
up, and when they found what was the matter, they cut the lace; and in
a little time she began to breathe, and soon came to life again. Then
they said, "The old woman was the queen herself; take care another
time, and let no one in when we are away."

When the queen got home, she went to her glass, and spoke to it, but
to her surprise it said the same words as before.

Then the blood ran cold in her heart with spite and malice to see
that Snow-White still lived; and she dressed herself up again in a
disguise, but very different from the one she wore before, and took
with her a poisoned comb, When she reached the dwarf's cottage, she
knocked at the door, and cried, "Fine wares to sell!" Draw up another
petition as quickly as possible, and send it to me. I will present it
myself, and to tell you this is tantamount to a promise that your
plea shall succeed."
Mademoiselle d'Aubigne, all flushed with emotion, assured me of her
gratitude with the ingenuous eloquence peculiar to herself.

We embraced as two friends of the Albret set should do, and three
days later, the King received a new petition, not signed with the
name of Scarron, but with that of D'Aubigne.

The pension of two thousand francs, granted three years before her death
by the Queen-mother, was renewed. Madame Scarron had the honour
of making her courtesy to the King, who thought her handsome, but
grave in demeanour, and in a loud, clear voice, he said to her,
"Madame, I kept you waiting; I was jealous of your friends."[Illustration]

Meantime the queen went home to her glass, and trembled with rage
when she received exactly the same answer as before; and she said
"Snow-White shall die, if it costs me my life." So she went secretly
into a chamber, and prepared a poisoned apple; the outside looked very
rosy and tempting, but whosoever tasted it was sure to die. Then she
dressed herself up as a peasant's wife, and travelled over the hills
to the dwarfs' cottage, and knocked at the door; but Snow-White put
her head out of the window, and said, "I dare not let anyone in, for
the dwarfs have told me not to." "Do as you please," said the old
woman, "but at any rate take this pretty apple; I will make you a
present of it." "No," said Snow-White, "I dare not take it." "You
silly girl!" answered the other, "what are you afraid of? In short, he
advocated sleeping all together on the bare floor of an ice-cold
dormitory, the continual contemplation of death, the dreadful obligation
of digging, while alive, one's own grave every day with one's own hands,
and thus, in imagination, burying oneself therein before being at rest
there for ever.

As laws so foolish and so tyrannical were read out to them, the worthy
monks--all of them of different character and age openly expressed
their discontent.

      And then her envious heart was glad, and as happy as such a heart
could be.

