He took his wife home to his old father's house in the precincts of
Sheffield Park, where she was kindly welcomed; but wealth did not so
abound in the family but that, when opportunity offered, he was
thankful to accept the command of the Mastiff, a vessel commissioned
by Queen Elizabeth, but built, manned, and maintained at the expense
of the Earl of Shrewsbury.  It formed part of a small squadron which
was cruising on the eastern coast to watch over the intercourse
between France and Scotland, whether in the interest of the
imprisoned Mary, or of the Lords of the Congregation.  He had
obtained lodgings for Mistress Susan at Hull, so that he might be
with her when he put into harbour, and she was expecting him for the
first time since the loss of their second child, a daughter whom he
had scarcely seen during her little life of a few months.

Moreover, there had been a sharp storm a few days previously, and
experience had not hardened her to the anxieties of a sailor's wife.
She had been down once already to the quay, and learnt all that the
old sailors could tell her of chances and conjectures; and when her
boy began to fret from hunger and weariness, she had left her
serving-man, Gervas, to watch for further tidings.  Yet, so does one
trouble drive out another, that whereas she had a few days ago
dreaded the sorrow of his return, she would now have given worlds to
hear his step.

Hark, what is that in the street?  Oh, folly!  If the Mastiff were
in, would not Gervas have long ago brought her the tidings?  Should
she look over the balcony only to be disappointed again?  Ah! she had
been prudent, for the sounds were dying away.  Nay, there was a foot
at the door!  Gervas with ill news!  No, no, it bounded as never did
Gervas's step!  It was coming up.  She started from the chair,
quivering with eagerness, as the door opened and in hurried her
suntanned sailor!  She was in his arms in a trance of joy.  That was
all she knew for a moment, and then, it was as if something else were
given back to her.  No, it was not a dream!  It was substance.  In
her arms was a little swaddled baby, in her ears its feeble wail,
mingled with the glad shout of little Humfrey, as he scrambled from
the cradle to be uplifted in his father's arms.

"What is this?" she asked, gazing at the infant between terror and
tenderness, as its weak cry and exhausted state forcibly recalled the
last hours of her own child.

"It is the only thing we could save from a wreck off the Spurn," said
her husband.  "Scottish as I take it.  The rogues seem to have taken
to their boats, leaving behind them a poor woman and her child.  I
trust they met their deserts and were swamped.  We saw the fluttering
of her coats as we made for the Humber, and I sent Goatley and Jaques
in the boat to see if anything lived.  The poor wench was gone before
they could lift her up, but the little one cried lustily, though it
has waxen weaker since.  We had no milk on board, and could only give
it bits of soft bread soaked in beer, and I misdoubt me whether it
did not all run out at the corners of its mouth."

This was interspersed with little Humfrey's eager outcries that
little sister was come again, and Mrs. Talbot, the tears running down
her cheeks, hastened to summon her one woman-servant, Colet, to bring
the porringer of milk.

Captain Talbot had only hurried ashore to bring the infant, and show
himself to his wife.  He was forced instantly to return to the wharf,
but he promised to come back as soon as he should have taken order
for his men, and for the Mastiff, which had suffered considerably in
the storm, and would need to be refitted.

Colet hastily put a manchet of fresh bread, a pasty, and a stoup of
wine into a basket, and sent it by her husband, Gervas, after their
master; and then eagerly assisted her mistress in coaxing the infant
to swallow food, and in removing the soaked swaddling clothes which
the captain and his crew had not dared to meddle with.

When Captain Talbot returned, as the rays of the setting sun glanced
high on the roofs and chimneys, little Humfrey stood peeping through
the tracery of the balcony, watching for him, and shrieking with joy
at the first glimpse of the sea-bird's feather in his cap.  The
spotless home-spun cloth and the trenchers were laid for supper, a
festive capon was prepared by the choicest skill of Mistress Susan,
and the little shipwrecked stranger lay fast asleep in the cradle.

All was well with it now, Mrs. Talbot said.  Nothing had ailed it but
cold and hunger, and when it had been fed, warmed, and dressed, it
had fallen sweetly asleep in her arms, appeasing her heartache for
her own little Sue, while Humfrey fully believed that father had
brought his little sister back again.

The child was in truth a girl, apparently three or four months old.
She had been rolled up in Mrs. Talbot's baby's clothes, and her own
long swaddling bands hung over the back of a chair, where they had
been dried before the fire.  They were of the finest woollen below,
and cambric above, and the outermost were edged with lace, whose
quality Mrs. Talbot estimated very highly.

"See," she added, "what we found within.  A Popish relic, is it not?
Colet and Mistress Gale were for making away with it at once, but it
seemed to me that it was a token whereby the poor babe's friends may
know her again, if she have any kindred not lost at sea."

The token was a small gold cross, of peculiar workmanship, with a
crystal in the middle, through which might be seen some mysterious
object neither husband nor wife could make out, but which they agreed
must be carefully preserved for the identification of their little
waif.  Mrs. Talbot also produced a strip of writing which she had
found sewn to the inmost band wrapped round the little body, but it
had no superscription, and she believed it to be either French,
Latin, or High Dutch, for she could make nothing of it.  Indeed, the
good lady's education had only included reading, writing, needlework
and cookery, and she knew no language but her own.  Her husband had
been taught Latin, but his acquaintance with modern tongues was of
the nautical order, and entirely oral and vernacular.  However, it
enabled him to aver that the letter--if such it were--was neither
Scottish, French, Spanish, nor High or Low Dutch.  He looked at it in
all directions, and shook his head over it.

"Who can read it, for us?" asked Mrs. Talbot.  "Shall we ask Master
Heatherthwayte? he is a scholar, and he said he would look in to see
how you fared."

"At supper-time, I trow," said Richard, rather grimly, "the smell of
thy stew will bring him down in good time."

"Nay, dear sir, I thought you would be fain to see the good man, and
he lives but poorly in his garret."

"Scarce while he hath good wives like thee to boil his pot for him,"
said Richard, smiling.  "Tell me, hath he heard aught of this gear?
thou hast not laid this scroll before him?"

"No, Colet brought it to me only now, having found it when washing
the swaddling-bands, stitched into one of them."

"Then hark thee, good wife, not one word to him of the writing."

"Might he not interpret it?"

"Not he!  I must know more about it ere I let it pass forth from mine
hands, or any strange eye fall upon it-- Ha, in good time!  I hear
his step on the stair."

The captain hastily rolled up the scroll and put it into his pouch,
while Mistress Susan felt as if she had made a mistake in her
hospitality, yet almost as if her husband were unjust towards the
good man who had been such a comfort to her in her sorrow; but there
was no lack of cordiality or courtesy in Richard's manner when, after
a short, quick knock, there entered a figure in hat, cassock, gown,
and bands, with a pleasant, though grave countenance, the complexion
showing that it had been tanned and sunburnt in early youth, although
it wore later traces of a sedentary student life, and, it might be,
of less genial living than had nourished the up-growth of that
sturdily-built frame.

Master Joseph Heatherthwayte was the greatly underpaid curate of a
small parish on the outskirts of Hull.  He contrived to live on some
(pounds)10 per annum in the attic of the house where the Talbots lodged,--
and not only to live, but to be full of charitable deeds, mostly at
the expense of his own appetite.  The square cut of his bands, and
the uncompromising roundness of the hat which he doffed on his
entrance, marked him as inclined to the Puritan party, which, being
that of apparent progress, attracted most of the ardent spirits of
the time.

Captain Talbot's inclinations did not lie that way, but he respected
and liked his fellow-lodger, and his vexation had been merely the
momentary disinclination of a man to be interrupted, especially on
his first evening at home.  He responded heartily to Master
Heatherthwayte's warm pressure of the hand and piously expressed
congratulation on his safety, mixed with condolence on the grief that
had befallen him.

"And you have been a good friend to my poor wife in her sorrow," said
Richard, "for the which I thank you heartily, sir."

"Truly, sir, I could have been her scholar, with such edifying
resignation did she submit to the dispensation," returned the
clergyman, uttering these long words in a broad northern accent which
had nothing incongruous in it to Richard's ears, and taking advantage
of the lady's absence on "hospitable tasks intent" to speak in her
praise.

Little Humfrey, on his father's knee, comprehending that they were
speaking of the recent sorrow, put in his piece of information that
"father had brought little sister back from the sea."

"Ah, child!" said Master Heatherthwayte, in the ponderous tone of one
unused to children, "thou hast yet to learn the words of the holy
David, 'I shall go to him, but he shall not return to me.'"

"Bring not that thought forward, Master Heatherthwayte," said
Richard, "I am well pleased that my poor wife and this little lad can
take the poor little one as a solace sent them by God, as she
assuredly is."

"Mean you, then, to adopt her into your family?" asked the minister.

He let M. Gerard take the child from him, and then his head fell like
a dead person's upon the good engraver's shoulder, and he began to
weep with heavy sobs that shook his whole body.

"Mamma! See mamma!" cried the little Amedee, full of terror.

Alas! he never will see her again!

At the Gerards, where they carried him and the kind neighbor
dressed him, they told him that his mother had gone for a long time,
a very long time; that he must love his papa very much and think
only of him; and other things that he could not understand and dared
not ask the meaning of, but which filled him with consternation.

It was strange! The engraver and his wife busied themselves entirely
with him, watching him every moment."Ha, Cuthbert Langston, art thou there?" said the captain, rising.
"Thou art kindly welcome.  Sit down and crush a cup of sack with
Master Heatherthwayte and me."

"Thanks, cousin," returned the visitor, "I heard that the Mastiff was
come in, and I came to see whether all was well."

"It was kindly done, lad," said Richard, while the others did their
part of the welcome, though scarcely so willingly.  Cuthbert Langston
was a distant relation on the mother's side of Richard, a young
scholar, who, after his education at Oxford, had gone abroad with a
nobleman's son as his pupil, and on his return, instead of taking
Holy Orders, as was expected, had obtained employment in a merchant's
counting-house at Hull, for which his knowledge of languages
eminently fitted him.  Though he possessed none of the noble blood of
the Talbots, the employment was thought by Mistress Susan somewhat
derogatory to the family dignity, and there was a strong suspicion
both in her mind and that of Master Heatherthwayte that his change of
purpose was due to the change of religion in England, although he was
a perfectly regular church-goer.  Captain Talbot, however, laughed at
all this, and, though he had not much in common with his kinsman,
always treated him in a cousinly fashion.  He too had heard a rumour
of the foundling, and made inquiry for it, upon which Richard told
his story in greater detail, and his wife asked what the poor mother
was like.

"I saw her not," he answered, "but Goatley thought the poor woman to
whom she was bound more like to be nurse than mother, judging by her
years and her garments."

"The mother may have been washed off before," said Susan, lifting the
little one from the cradle, and hushing it.
"Weep not, poor babe, thou hast found a mother here."

"Saw you no sign of the crew?" asked Master Heatherthwayte.

"None at all.  The vessel I knew of old as the brig Bride of Dunbar,
one of the craft that ply between Dunbar and the French ports."

"And how think you?  Were none like to be saved?"

"I mean to ride along the coast to-morrow, to see whether aught can
be heard of them, but even if their boats could live in such a sea,
they would have evil hap among the wreckers if they came ashore.  I
would not desire to be a shipwrecked man in these parts, and if I had
a Scottish or a French tongue in my head so much the worse for me."

"Ah, Master Heatherthwayte," said Susan, "should not a man give up
the sea when he is a husband and father?"

"Tush, dame!  With God's blessing the good ship Mastiff will ride out
many another such gale.  Tell thy mother, little Numpy, that an
English sailor is worth a dozen French or Scottish lubbers."

"Sir," said Master Heatherthwayte, "the pious trust of the former
part of your discourse is contradicted by the boast of the latter
end."

"Nay, Sir Minister, what doth a sailor put his trust in but his God
foremost, and then his good ship and his brave men?"

It should be observed that all the three men wore their hats, and
each made a reverent gesture of touching them.  The clergyman seemed
satisfied by the answer, and presently added that it would be well,
if Master and Mistress Talbot meant to adopt the child, that she
should be baptized.

"How now?" said Richard, "we are not so near any coast of Turks or
Infidels that we should deem her sprung of heathen folk."

"Assuredly not," said Cuthbert Langston, whose quick, light-coloured
eyes had spied the reliquary in Mistress Susan's work-basket, "if
this belongs to her.  By your leave, kinswoman," and he lifted it in
his hand with evident veneration, and began examining it.

"It is Babylonish gold, an accursed thing!" exclaimed Master
Heatherthwayte.  "Beware, Master Talbot, and cast it from thee."

"Nay," said Richard," that shall I not do.  It may lead to the
discovery of the child's kindred.  Why, my master, what harm think
you it will do to us in my dame's casket?  Or what right have we to
make away with the little one's property?"

His common sense was equally far removed from the horror of the one
visitor as from the reverence of the other, and so it pleased
neither.  Master Langston was the first to speak, observing that the
relic made it evident that the child must have been baptized.

"A Popish baptism," said Master Heatherthwayte, "with chrism and
taper and words and gestures to destroy the pure simplicity of the
sacrament."

Controversy here seemed to be setting in, and the infant cause of it
here setting up a cry, Susan escaped under pretext of putting Humfrey
to bed in the next room, and carried off both the little ones.  The
conversation then fell upon the voyage, and the captain described the
impregnable aspect of the castle of Dumbarton, which was held for
Queen Mary by her faithful partisan, Lord Flemyng.  On this, Cuthbert
Langston asked whether he had heard any tidings of the imprisoned
Queen, and he answered that it was reported at Leith that she had
well-nigh escaped from Lochleven, in the disguise of a lavender or
washerwoman.  She was actually in the boat, and about to cross the
lake, when a rude oarsman attempted to pull aside her muffler, and
the whiteness of the hand she raised in self-protection betrayed her,
so that she was carried back.  "If she had reached Dumbarton," he
said, "she might have mocked at the Lords of the Congregation.  Nay,
she might have been in that very brig, whose wreck I beheld."

"And well would it have been for Scotland and England had it been the
will of Heaven that so it should fall out," observed the Puritan.

"Or it may be," said the merchant, "that the poor lady's escape was
frustrated by Providence, that she might be saved from the rocks of
the Spurn."

"The poor lady, truly!  Say rather the murtheress," quoth
Heatherthwayte.

"Say rather the victim and scapegoat of other men's plots," protested
Langston.

"Come, come, sirs," says Talbot, "we'll have no high words here on
what Heaven only knoweth.  Poor lady she is, in all sooth, if
sackless; poorer still if guilty; so I know not what matter there is
for falling out about.  In any sort, I will not have it at my table."
He spoke with the authority of the captain of a ship, and the two
visitors, scarce knowing it, submitted to his decision of manner, but
the harmony of the evening seemed ended.  Cuthbert Langston soon rose
to bid good-night, first asking his cousin at what hour he proposed
to set forth for the Spurn, to which Richard briefly replied that it
depended on what had to be done as to the repairs of the ship.

The clergyman tarried behind him to say, "Master Talbot, I marvel
that so godly a man as you have ever been should be willing to
harbour one so popishly affected, and whom many suspect of being a
seminary priest."

"Master Heatherthwayte," returned the captain, "my kinsman is my
kinsman, and my house is my house.  No offence, sir, but I brook not
meddling."

The clergyman protested that no offence was intended, only caution,
and betook himself to his own bare chamber, high above.  No sooner
was he gone than Captain Talbot again became absorbed in the
endeavour to spell out the mystery of the scroll, with his elbows on
the table and his hands over his ears, nor did he look up till he was
touched by his wife, when he uttered an impatient demand what she
wanted now.

She had the little waif in her arms undressed, and with only a
woollen coverlet loosely wrapped round her, and without speaking she
pointed to the little shoulder-blades, where two marks had been
indelibly made--on one side the crowned monogram of the Blessed
Virgin, on the other a device like the Labarum, only that the upright
was surmounted by a fleur-de-lis.

Richard Talbot gave a sort of perplexed grunt of annoyance to
acknowledge that he saw them.

"Poor little maid! how could they be so cruel?  They have been
branded with a hot iron," said the lady.

"They that parted from her meant to know her again," returned Talbot.

"Surely they are Popish marks," added Mistress Susan.

"Look you here, Dame Sue, I know you for a discreet woman.  Keep this
gear to yourself, both the letter and the marks.  Who hath seen
them?"

"I doubt me whether even Colet has seen this mark."

"That is well.  Keep all out of sight.  Many a man has been brought
into trouble for a less matter swelled by prating tongues."

"Have you made it out?"

"Not I.  Monsieur Combier, by your leave, Monsieur Combier! Do not
forget the three dozen of the Apparition de la Salette in stucco
for Grenoble, with twenty-five per cent. reduction upon the bill.
Are you working hard, Amedee? What do you say?"Should they not be shown to my lord, or to her Grace's Council ?"

"I'm not going to run my head into trouble for making a coil about
what may be naught.  That's what befell honest Mark Walton.  He
thought he had seized matter of State, and went up to Master
Walsingham, swelling like an Indian turkey-cock, with his secret
letters, and behold they turned out to be a Dutch fishwife's charm to
bring the herrings.  I can tell you he has rued the work he made
about it ever since.  On the other hand, let it get abroad through
yonder prating fellow, Heatherthwayte, or any other, that Master
Richard Talbot had in his house a child with, I know not what Popish
tokens, and a scroll in an unknown tongue, and I should be had up in
gyves for suspicion of treason, or may be harbouring the Prince of
Scotland himself, when it is only some poor Scottish archer's babe."

"You would not have me part with the poor little one?"

"Am I a Turk or a Pagan?  No.  Only hold thy peace, as I shall hold
mine, until such time as I can meet some one whom I can trust to read
this riddle.  Tell me--what like is the child?  Wouldst guess it to
be of gentle, or of clownish blood, if women can tell such things ?"

"Of gentle blood, assuredly," cried the lady, so that he smiled and
said, "I might have known that so thou wouldst answer."

"Nay, but see her little hands and fingers, and the mould of her
dainty limbs.  No Scottish fisher clown was her father, I dare be
sworn.  Her skin is as fair and fine as my Humfrey's, and moreover
she has always been in hands that knew how a babe should be tended.
Any woman can tell you that!"

"And what like is she in your woman's eyes?  What complexion doth she
promise?"

"Her hair, what she has of it, is dark; her eyes--bless them--are of
a deep blue, or purple, such as most babes have till they take their
true tint.  There is no guessing.  Humfrey's eyes were once like to
be brown, now are they as blue as thine own."

"I understand all that," said Captain Talbot, smiling.  "If she have
kindred, they will know her better by the sign manual on her tender
flesh than by her face."

"And who are they?"

"Who are they?" echoed the captain, rolling up the scroll in despair.
"Here, take it, Susan, and keep it safe from all eyes.  Whatever it
may be, it may serve thereafter to prove her true name.  And above
all, not a word or breath to Heatherthwayte, or any of thy gossips,
wear they coif or bands."

"Ah, sir! that you will mistrust the good man."

"I said not I mistrust any one; only that I will have no word of all
this go forth!  Not one!  Thou heedest me, wife?"

"Verily I do, sir; I will be mute."


CHAPTER II. EVIL TIDINGS.


After giving orders for the repairs of the Mastiff, and the disposal
of her crew, Master Richard Talbot purveyed himself of a horse at the
hostel, and set forth for Spurn Head to make inquiries along the
coast respecting the wreck of the Bride of Dunbar, and he was joined
by Cuthbert Langston, who said his house had had dealings with her
owners, and that he must ascertain the fate of her wares.  His good
lady remained in charge of the mysterious little waif, over whom her
tender heart yearned more and more, while her little boy hovered
about in serene contemplation of the treasure he thought he had
recovered.  To him the babe seemed really his little sister; to his
mother, if she sometimes awakened pangs of keen regret, yet she
filled up much of the dreary void of the last few weeks.

