One May morning the three Princes arrived to try their fortunes and to
sue for the hand of the Princess Elene. Prince Tristan, who was straight
and handsome, put on his best white satin doublet and stuck a rose behind
his ear. Prince Martin put on glittering armor like a knight going to
battle; but Prince Lorenzo was so consumed with love that he thought not
at all of what he wore.

King Theophile himself led them into the presence of the Princess Elene,
who was clad in a silk robe that shimmered like a rainbow, and who looked
so beautiful that for an instant Prince Lorenzo put his hand before his
eyes. The two other princes gazed straight at the lady; then made grand
sweeping bows.

"May I tell you," said Prince Tristan, holding out his rose, "that you
are the most beautiful princess I have ever seen?"

"May I tell you," said Prince Martin, "that your eyes are like stars?"

In a letter written to his resident ambassador in that city, John Keterich,
Bishop of Lichfield, he requires, in very humble language, that his
Holiness would not invade the rights of the crown of England as settled
by a concordat between Edward III.Prince Tristan began at once to tell her of his hunting exploits, and
what joy he took in the chase. But the Princess's face grew colder and
colder as she listened, for she loved all living things, and could not
bear to see any of them hurt. Tristan did not observe this, for like all
vain people, he was thinking of his own charms, and so was unaware of the
effect he was producing.

He finished with a flourish, and Prince Martin stumbled in on the last
words, so eager was he to render in his turn a glowing account of all his
fine deeds. These were not few, for he was a brave lad, so for an hour he
discoursed upon tourneys and battles; nor did he observe that the
Princess Elene grew pale--and trembled, for her mother's sorrow over war
lived again in her heart.

To her relief he came at last to the end of his recital; then with a sigh
Elene turned her beautiful eyes upon Prince Lorenzo. "And what have you
to tell me, my Prince?"

For answer he said to a page, "Give me thy harp"; and when it was
delivered to him he struck the strings and sang:

"In the hour of the white moths flying
   Beneath the great gray moon,
My sad heart was a-sighing
   Lest love should come too soon.

"In the hour of the dawn-birds flying
   Each to his feathery mate,
 My sad heart was a-sighing
   Lest love should come too late.

"Thy spirit heard my voicing,
   And bade me cease from fears,
 And follow thee, rejoicing,
   Beyond all time and tears."

"It is a beautiful song," said the Princess. "And it would be sweet to
follow someone beyond time and tears."

Though the Dauphin avoided Henry altogether, he was forced to engage with
the Duke of Burgundy's army, and he suffered a most decided defeat near
Blanche Tache.

Henry, meanwhile, was engaged in reducing Dreux and other towns, still
garrisoned for the Dauphin.

The town of Meaux was so strong, and so well manned, that the siege of
that one place occupied Henry from the 6th of October through the whole
winter, and to the very end of the next April.The three princes stayed on at the Castle, and the court was very gay.
Only King Theophile's heart was heavy, for he knew that he must lose his
most beautiful daughter. She was equally kind to all her suitors, and he
could not discover which prince she favored. So one evening he came to
her in her octagon room, which was of white ivory and whose windows were
hung with coral silk; and he found her spinning with her maidens. Her
robe of lace rippled about her little feet, and the band of sapphires
which held back her yellow hair were not as blue as her eyes.

