Serafina, accomplished as she was, could not fail to make conquests among
the Spanish cavaliers, who are famous for sensibility in love.  Indeed,
she never appeared without a numerous train of admirers; and though we
had bred her up in that freedom of conversation and intercourse which
holds a middle space between the French licence and Spanish restraint,
she was now so much exposed to the addresses of promiscuous gallantry,
that we found it necessary to retrench the liberty of our house, and
behave to our male visitants with great reserve and circumspection, that
our honour and peace might run no risk from the youth and inexperience of
our daughter.

This caution produced overtures from a great many young gentlemen of rank
and distinction, who courted my alliance, by demanding Serafina in
marriage; and from the number I had actually selected one person, who was
in all respects worthy the possession of such an inestimable prize.  His
name was Don Manuel de Mendoza.  His birth was noble, and his character
dignified with repeated acts of generosity and virtue.  Yet, before I
would signify to him my approbation of his suit, I resolved to inform
myself whether or not the heart of Serafina was totally unengaged, and
indifferent to any other object, that I might not lay a tyrannical
restraint upon her inclinations.  The result of my inquiry was a full
conviction of her having hitherto been deaf to the voice of love; and
this piece of information, together with my own sentiments in his favour,
I communicated to Don Manuel, who heard these tidings with transports of
gratitude and joy.  He was immediately favoured with opportunities of
acquiring the affection of my daughter, and his endeavours were at first
received with such respectful civility, as might have been easily warmed
into a mutual passion, had not the evil genius of our family interposed.

O my friend! how shall I describe the depravity of that unhappy virgin's
sentiments! how recount the particulars of my own dishonour!  I that am
descended from a long line of illustrious Castilians, who never received
an injury they did not revenge, but washed away every blemish in their
fame with the blood of those who attempted to stain it!  In that
circumstance I have imitated the example of my glorious progenitors, and
that consideration alone hath supported me against all the assaults of
despair.

As I grudged no pains and expense in perfecting the education of
Serafina, my doors were open to every person who made an extraordinary
figure in the profession of those amusing sciences in which she
delighted.  The house of Don Diego de Zelos was a little academy for
painting, poetry, and music; and Heaven decreed that it should fall a
sacrifice to its regard for these fatal and delusive arts.  Among other
preceptors, it was her fate to be under the instruction of a cursed
German, who, though his profession was drawing, understood the elements
and theory of music, possessed a large fund of learning and taste, and
was a person remarkable for his agreeable conversation.  This traitor,
who like you had lost one eye, I not only admitted into my house for the
improvement of my daughter, but even distinguished with particular marks
of confidence and favour, little thinking he had either inclination or
capacity to debauch the sentiments of my child.  I was rejoiced beyond
measure to see with what alacrity she received his lessons, with what
avidity she listened to his discourse, which was always equally moral,
instructing, and entertaining.

Antonia seemed to vie with me in expressions of regard for this
accomplished stranger, whom she could not help supposing to be a person
of rank and family, reduced to his present situation by some unfortunate
vicissitude of fate.  I was disposed to concur with this opinion, and
actually conjured him to make me his confidant, with such protestations
as left him no room to doubt my honour and beneficence; but he still
persisted in declaring himself the son of an obscure mechanic in Bohemia;
an origin to which surely no man would pretend who had the least claim to
nobility of birth.  While I was thus undeceived in my conjecture touching
his birth and quality, I was confirmed in an opinion of his integrity and
moderation, and looked upon him as a man of honour, in despite of the
lowness of his pedigree.  Nevertheless, he was at bottom a most
perfidious wretch, and all this modesty and self-denial were the effects
of the most villanous dissimulation, a cloak under which he, unsuspected,
robbed me of my honour and my peace.

Not to trouble you with particulars, the recital of which would tear my
heart-strings with indignation and remorse, I shall only observe, that,
by the power of his infernal insinuation, he fascinated the heart of
Serafina, brought over Antonia herself to the interests of his passion,
and at once detached them both from their duty and religion.  Heaven and
earth! how dangerous, how irresistible is the power of infatuation!
While I remained in the midst of this blind security, waiting for the
nuptials of my daughter, and indulging myself with the vain prospect of
her approaching felicity, Antonia found means to protract the
negotiations of the marriage, by representing that it would be a pity to
deprive Serafina of the opportunity she then had of profiting by the
German's instructions; and, upon that account, I prevailed upon Don
Manuel to bridle the impatience of his love.

During this interval, as I one evening enjoyed the cool air in my own
garden, I was accosted by an old duenna, who had been my nurse and lived
in the family since the time of my childhood.--"My duty," said she, "will
no longer permit me to wink in silence at the wrongs I see you daily
suffer.  Dismiss that German from your house without delay, if you
respect the glory of your name, and the rights of our holy religion; the
stranger is an abominable heretic; and, grant Heaven! he may not have
already poisoned the minds of those you hold most dear."  I had been
extremely alarmed at the beginning of this address; but, finding the
imputation limited to the article of religion, in which, thank God, I am
no bigot, I recovered my serenity of disposition, thanked the old woman
for her zeal, commended her piety, and encouraged her to persevere in
making observations on such subjects as should concern my honour and my
quiet.

We live in such a world of wickedness and fraud, that a man cannot be too
vigilant in his own defence: had I employed such spies from the
beginning, I should in all probability have been at this day in
possession of every comfort that renders life agreeable.  The duenna,
thus authorised, employed her sagacity with such success, that I had
reason to suspect the German of a design upon the heart of Serafina; but,
as the presumptions did not amount to conviction, I contented myself with
exiling him from my house, under the pretext of having discovered that he
was an enemy to the Catholic church; and forthwith appointed a day for
the celebration of my daughter's marriage with Don Manuel de Mendoza.  I
could easily perceive a cloud of melancholy overspread the faces of
Serafina and her mother, when I declared these my resolutions; but, as
they made no objection to what I proposed, I did not at that time enter
into an explanation of the true motives that influenced my conduct.  Both
parties were probably afraid of such expostulation.

Meanwhile, preparations were made for the espousals of Serafina; and,
notwithstanding the anxiety I had undergone, on account of her connexion
with the German, I began to think that her duty, her glory, had triumphed
over all such low-born considerations, if ever they had been entertained;
because she, and even Antonia, seemed to expect the ceremony with
resignation, though the features of both still retained evident marks of
concern, which I willingly imputed to the mutual prospect of their
separation.  This, however, was but a faithless calm, that soon, ah! too
soon, brought forth a tempest which hath wrecked my hopes.

Two days before the appointed union of Don Manuel and Serafina, I was
informed by the duenna, that, while she accompanied Antonia's
waiting-maid at church, she had seen her receive a billet from an old
woman, who, kneeling at her side, had conveyed it in such a mysterious
manner, as awakened the duenna's apprehensions about her young lady; she
had therefore hastened home to communicate this piece of intelligence,
that I might have an opportunity of examining the messenger before she
could have time to deposit her trust.  I could not help shivering with
fearful presages upon this occasion, and even abhorring the person to
whose duty and zeal I was beholden for the intelligence, even while I
endeavoured to persuade myself that the inquiry would end in the
detection of some paltry intrigue between the maid and her own gallant.
I intercepted her in returning from church, and, commanding her to follow
me to a convenient place, extorted from her, by dint of threats, the
fatal letter, which I read to this effect:--

"The whole business of my life, O divine Serafina! will be to repay that
affection I have been so happy as to engage.  With what transport then
shall I obey your summons, in performing that enterprise, which will
rescue you from the bed of a detested rival, and put myself in full
possession of a jewel which I value infinitely more than life!  Yes,
adorable creature!  I have provided everything for our escape, and at
midnight will attend you in your own apartment, from whence you shall be
conveyed into a land of liberty and peace, where you will, unmolested,
enjoy the purity of that religion you have espoused, and in full security
bless the arms of your ever faithful,       ORLANDO."

Were you a fond parent, a tender husband, and a noble Castilian, I should
not need to mention the unutterable horrors that took possession of my
bosom, when I perused this accursed letter, by which I learned the
apostasy, disobedience, and degeneracy of my idolised Serafina, who had
overthrown and destroyed the whole plan of felicity which I had erected,
and blasted all the glories of my name; and when the wretched messenger,
terrified by my menaces and agitation, confessed that Antonia herself was
privy to the guilt of her daughter, whom she had solemnly betrothed to
that vile German, in the sight of Heaven, and that by her connivance this
plebeian intended, that very night, to bereave me of my child, I was for
some moments stupefied with grief and amazement, that gave way to an
ecstasy of rage, which had well-nigh terminated in despair and
distraction.

I now tremble, and my head grows giddy with the remembrance of that
dreadful occasion.  Behold how the drops trickle down my forehead; this
agony is a fierce and familiar visitant; I shall banish it anon.  I
summoned my pride, my resentment, to my assistance; these are the
cordials that support me against all other reflections; those were the
auxiliaries that enabled me, in the day of trial, to perform that
sacrifice which my honour demanded, in a strain so loud as to drown the
cries of nature, love, and compassion.  Yes, they espoused that glory
which humanity would have betrayed, and my revenge was noble, though
unnatural.

My scheme was soon laid, my resolution soon taken; I privately confined
the wretch who had been the industrious slave of this infamous
conspiracy, that she might take no step to frustrate or interrupt the
execution of my design.  Then repairing to the house of an apothecary who
was devoted to my service, communicated my intention, which he durst not
condemn, and could not reveal, without breaking the oath of secrecy I had
imposed; and he furnished me with two vials of poison for the dismal
catastrophe I had planned.  Thus provided, I, on pretence of sudden
business at Seville, carefully avoided the dear, the wretched pair, whom
I had devoted to death, that my heart might not relent, by means of those
tender ideas which the sight of them would have infallibly inspired; and,
when daylight vanished, took my station near that part of the house
through which the villain must have entered on his hellish purpose.
There I stood, in a state of horrid expectation, my soul ravaged with the
different passions that assailed it, until the fatal moment arrived; when
I perceived the traitor approach the window of a lower apartment, which
led into that of Serafina, and gently lifting the casement, which was
purposely left unsecured, insinuated half of his body into the house.
Then rushing upon him, in a transport of fury, I plunged my sword into
his heart, crying, "Villain! receive the reward of thy treachery and
presumption."

The steel was so well aimed as to render a repetition of the stroke
unnecessary; he uttered one groan, and fell breathless at my feet.
Exulting with this first success of my revenge, I penetrated into the
chamber where the robber of my peace was expected by the unhappy Serafina
and her mother, who, seeing me enter with a most savage aspect, and a
sword reeking with the vengeance I had taken, seemed almost petrified
with fear.  "Behold," said I, "the blood of that base plebeian, who made
an attempt upon the honour of my house; your conspiracy against the
unfortunate Don Diego de Zelos is now discovered; that presumptuous
slave, the favoured Orlando, is now no more."

Scarce had I pronounced these words, when a loud scream was uttered by
both the unhappy victims.  "If Orlando is slain," cried the infatuated
Serafina, "what have I to do with life?  O my dear lord! my husband, and
my lover! how are our promised joys at once cut off! here, strike, my
father! complete your barbarous sacrifice! the spirit of the murdered
Orlando still hovers for his wife."  These frantic exclamations, in which
she was joined by Antonia, kept up the fury of my resentment, which by
meekness and submission might have been weakened and rendered
ineffectual.  The first open steps were taken in January, 1822, when the
_Gazette_ and other Nashville papers sounded the clarion call. The response
was overwhelming; and when Jackson himself, in reply to a letter from
Grundy, diplomatically declared that he would "neither seek nor
shun" the presidency, his candidacy was regarded as an established
fact. On the 20th of July, the Legislature of the State placed him
formally in nomination.

Meanwhile Lewis had gone to North Carolina to work up sentiment there, and
by the close of the year assurances of support were coming in
satisfactorily. From being skeptical or at best indifferent, Jackson
himself had come to share the enthusiasm of his assiduous friends.

The Jackson managers banked from the first upon two main assets:
one was the exceptional popularity of their candidate, especially
in the South and West; the other was a political situation so muddled
that at the coming election it might be made to yield almost any
result.

For upwards of a generation the presidency and vice presidency
had been at the disposal of a working alliance of Virginia and New
York, buttressed by such support as was needed from other controllable
States. Virginia regularly got the presidency, New York (except at
the time of the Clinton defection of 1812) the vice presidency. After the
second election of Monroe, in 1820, however, there were multiplying
signs that this affiliation of interests had reached the end of its tether.
In the first place, the Virginia dynasty had run out; at all events
Virginia had no candidate to offer and was preparing to turn its support
to a Georgian of Virginian birth, William H. Crawford. In the second
place, party lines had totally disappeared, and the unifying and
stabilizing influences of party names and affiliations could not
be counted on to keep down the number of independent candidacies.

Already, indeed, by the end of 1822 there were a half-dozen avowed candidates,
three of whom had seats at Monroe's Cabinet table. Each was the representative
of a section or of a distinct interest, rather than of a party, and no
one was likely to feel under any compulsion to withdraw from the race at
a preliminary stage.

New England offered John Quincy Adams. She did so with reluctance, for
the old Federalist elements had never forgiven him for his desertion to
the Republican camp in the days of the embargo, while the back country
democracy had always looked upon him as an alien. But he was the
section's only available man--indeed, the only promising candidate from
any Northern State.

His frigid manner was against him. But he had had a long and honorable
diplomatic career; he was winning new distinction as Secretary of
State; and he could expect to profit both by the feeling that the
North was entitled to the presidency and by the fact that he was the
only candidate from a non-slave State.

Crawford, Secretary of the Treasury, was the heir apparent of the
Virginia dynasty. Formerly this would have meant a clear road to
the White House. Even now it was supposed to be a tremendous asset; and
notwithstanding the Georgian's personal unpopularity in most parts of
the country, his advantages as the "regular candidate," coupled with the
long and careful campaign carried on in his behalf, were expected by
many keen observers to pull him through.

A third candidate within the Cabinet circle was Calhoun, Secretary
of War. Like Crawford, he could expect to reach the presidency only by
winning the support of one or more of the greater Northern States. For a
while he had hopes of Pennsylvania. When it appeared that he had nothing
to look for in this direction, he resigned himself to the conclusion that,
since he was yet hardly forty years of age, his time had not yet come.

For the first time, the West now put forward candidates--two of them,
Clay and Jackson. Clay was a Kentuckian, of Virginian birth and breeding,
in whom were mingled the leading characteristics of both his native and
his adopted section. He was "impetuous, wilful, high-spirited, daring,
jealous, but, withal, a lovable man." For a decade he had been the
most conspicuous figure in the national House of Representatives.Such an order, with a minute description of my person, was at the
same time despatched to all the seaports and frontier places in Spain.

You may easily suppose how I, who was already overwhelmed with distress,
could bear this aggravation of misfortune and disgrace: I, who had always
maintained the reputation of loyalty, which was acquired at the hazard of
my life, and the expense of my blood.  To deal candidly, I must own, that
this intelligence roused me from a lethargy of grief which had begun to
overpower my faculties.  I immediately imputed this dishonourable charge
to the evil offices of some villain, who had basely taken the advantage
of my deplorable situation, and I was inflamed, inspirited with the
desire of vindicating my fame, and revenging the injury.  Thus animated,
I resolved to disguise myself effectually from the observation of those
spies which every nation finds its account in employing in foreign
countries; I purchased this habit from the Dutch navigator, in whose
house I kept myself concealed, after our arrival at Amsterdam, until my
beard was grown to a sufficient length to favour my design, and then
appeared as a Persian dealer in jewels.  As I could gain no satisfactory
information touching myself in this country, had no purpose to pursue,
and was extremely miserable among a people, who, being mercenary and
unsocial, were very ill adapted to alleviate the horrors of my condition,
I gratified my landlord for his important services, with the best part of
my effects; and having, by his means, procured a certificate from the
magistracy, repaired to Rotterdam, from whence I set out in a travelling
carriage for Antwerp, on my way to this capital; hoping, with a
succession of different objects, to mitigate the anguish of my mind, and
by the most industrious inquiry, to learn such particulars of that false
impeachment, as would enable me to take measures for my own
justification, as well as for projecting a plan of revenge against the
vile perfidious author.

This, I imagined, would be no difficult task, considering the friendship
and intercourse subsisting between the Spanish and French nations, and
the communicative disposition for which the Parisians are renowned; but I
have found myself egregiously deceived in my expectation.  The officers
of police in this city are so inquisitive and vigilant that the most
minute action of a stranger is scrutinised with great severity; and,
although the inhabitants are very frank in discoursing on indifferent
subjects, they are at the same time extremely cautious in avoiding all
conversation that turns upon state occurrences and maxims of government.
In a word, the peculiarity of my appearance subjects me so much to
particular observation, that I have hitherto thought proper to devour my
griefs in silence, and even to bear the want of almost every convenience,
rather than hazard a premature discovery, by offering my jewels to sale.

In this emergency I have been so far fortunate as to become acquainted
with you, whom I look upon as a man of honour and humanity.  Realizing
that further resistance was useless, a portion of the tribe signified its
readiness to go. The remainder, however, held out, and it was only at
the close of 1835 that the long-desired treaty of cession could be
secured. All Cherokee lands east of the Mississippi were now
relinquished to the United States, which agreed to pay five million dollars
for them, to provide an adequate home in the new Indian Territory
created by Congress during the preceding year, and to bear all the
costs of removing the tribe thither.I
have put my life, my honour, in your power; and I must beg leave to
depend upon your friendship, for obtaining that satisfaction for which
alone I seek to live.  Your employment engages you in the gay world; you
daily mingle with the societies of men; the domestics of the Spanish
ambassador will not shun your acquaintance; you may frequent the
coffee-houses to which they resort; and, in the course of these
occasions, unsuspected inform yourself of that mysterious charge which
lies heavy on the fame of the unfortunate Don Diego.  I must likewise
implore your assistance in converting my jewels into money, that I may
breathe independent of man, until Heaven shall permit me to finish this
weary pilgrimage of life.


CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN

A FLAGRANT INSTANCE OF FATHOM'S VIRTUE, IN THE MANNER OF HIS RETREAT TO
ENGLAND.

