and David Widger  <widger@cecomet.net>


SANDRA BELLONI

By George Meredith


CONTENTS

BOOK 1
I.        THE POLES PRELUDE
II.       THE EXPEDITION BY MOONLIGHT
III.      WILFRID'S DIPLOMACY
IV.       EMILIA'S FIRST TRIAL IN PUBLIC
V.        EMILIA PLAYS ON THE CORNET
VI.       EMILIA SUPPLIES THE KEY TO HERSELF AND CONTINUES HER
          PERFORMANCE ON THE CORNET
VII.      THREATS OF A CRISIS IN THE GOVERNMENT OF BROOKFIELD:
          AND OF THE VIRTUE RESIDENT IN A TAIL-COAT
VIII.     IN WHICH A BIG DRUM SPEEDS THE MARCH OF
          EMILIA'S HISTORY
IX.       THE RIVAL CLUBS
X.        THE LADIES OF BROOKFIELD AT SCHOOL

BOOK 2
XI.       IN WHICH WE SEE THE MAGNANIMITY THAT IS IN BEER.
XII.      SHOWING HOW SENTIMENT AND PASSION TAKE
          THE DISEASE OF LOVE
XIII.     CONTAINS A SHORT DISCOURSE ON PUPPETS
XIV.      THE BESWORTH QUESTION
XV.       WILFRID'S EXHIBITION OF TREACHERY
XVI.      HOW THE LADIES OF BROOKFIELD CAME TO THEIR RESOLVE
XVII.     IN THE WOODS

BOOK 3
XVIII.    RETURN OF THE SENTIMENTALIST INTO BONDAGE
XIX.      LIFE AT BROOKFIELD.
XX.       BY WILMING WEIR
XXI.      RETURN OF MR. PERICLES
XXII.     THE PITFALL OF SENTIMENT
XXIII.    WILFRID DIPLOMATIZES
XXIV.     EMILIA MAKES A MOVE
XXV.      A FARCE WITHIN A FARCE

BOOK 4
XXVI.     SUGGESTS THAT THE COMIC MASK HAS SOME KINSHIP WITH A SKULL
XXVII.    SMALL LIFE AT BROOKFIELD
XXVIII.   GEORGIANA FORD
XXIX.     FIRST SCOURGING OF THE FINE SHADES
XXX.      OF THE DOUBLE-MAN IN US, AND THE GREAT FIGHT
          WHEN THESE ARE FULL-GROWN
XXXI.     BESWORTH LAWN
XXXII.    THE SUPPER
XXXIII.   DEFEAT AND FLIGHT OF MRS. CHUMP

BOOK 5
XXXIV.    INDICATES THE DEGRADATION OF BROOKFIELD, TOGETHER
          WITH CERTAIN PROCEEDINGS OF THE YACHT
XXXV.     MRS. CHUMP'S EPISTLE
XXXVI.    ANOTHER PITFALL OF SENTIMENT
XXXVII.   EMILIA'S FLIGHT.
XXXVIII.  SHE CLINGS TO HER VOICE
XXXIX.    HER VOICE FAILS

BOOK 6
XL.       SHE TASTES DESPAIR
XLI.      SHE IS FOUND
XLII.     DEFECTION OF MR. PERICLES FROM THE BROOKFIELD CIRCLE
XLIII.    IN WHICH WE SEE WILFRID KINDLING
XLIV.     ON THE HIPPOGRIFF IN AIR: IN WHICH THE
          PHILOSOPHER HAS A SHORT SPELL.
XLV.      ON THE HIPPOGRIFF ON EARTH.
XLVI.     RAPE OF THE BLACK-BRIONY WREATH
XLVII.    THE CALL TO ACTION
XLVIII.   CONTAINS A FURTHER VIEW OF SENTIMENT
XLIX.     BETWEEN EMILIA AND GEORGIANA

BOOK 7
L.        EMILIA BEGINS TO FEEL MERTHYR'S POWER
LI.       A CHAPTER INTERRUPTED BY THE PHILOSOPHER
LII.      A FRESH DUETT BETWEEN WILFRID AND EMILIA
LIII.     ALDERMAN'S BOUQUET
LIIV.     THE EXPLOSION AT BROOKFIELD
LV.       THE TRAGEDY OF SENTIMENT
LVI.      AN ADVANCE AND A CHECK.
LVII.     CONTAINS A FURTHER ANATOMY OF WILFRID
LVIII.    FROST ON THE MAY NIGHT.
LVIX.     EMILIA'S GOOD-BYE


SANDRA BELLONI

ORIGINALLY EMILIA IN ENGLAND


BOOK 1

I.        THE POLES PRELUDE
II.       First, because, when eaten
alone, the fine flour will not
go so far as when mixed with a certain
proportion of bran: that is to say,--a
given weight of fine flour will produce an increased nutritive
          effect when mixed with the
bran: greater than is due to the constituents of the bran taken
          alone. The mixture of the two in reality
increases the virtues of both. Again, if eaten
          alone, bran would
prove too difficult, and
therefore slow of digestion in most stomachs.

Much would thus pass, unexhausted of its nutritive matter, through
the alimentary canal, as whole oats often do through that of horses,
and thus a considerable waste would ensue.

And further, supposing all to be dissolved in the stomach, there would
still, of necessity, be a waste of material, since the bran actually
contains a larger proportion of bone material and saline matter
compared with its other ingredients, than the body, in its natural healthy
state, can make use of. All this excess must, therefore, be rejected
by the body, and, as nutritive matter, for the time be wasted.

Lastly, it is doubtful if bran alone contains enough of starch, or of
any substitute for it, to meet the other demands of the human system. I
have not spoken of the use of the starch of the grain in the preceding
observations, because, as both whole meal and fine flour contain
a sufficient quantity of it to supply the wants of the living animal, it
was unnecessary to the main object of this paper. But with bran the
case is different. It is doubtful if the purposes of the starch could
be fully, and with sufficient speed, fulfilled by the ingredients which,
in the bran, take the place of starch in the flour. The cellular fibre
or woody matter, of which it contains a considerable proportion,
is too slowly soluble in the stomachs of ordinary men. While, therefore,
much of it would pass through the body undigested, it would require to
be eaten in far larger proportions than its composition indicates, if
the body was to be supported, and thus a further waste would be incurred.

On the whole, therefore, we come back to the whole meal, as the most
economical as well as the most nutritive and wholesome form in which the
grain of wheat can be consumed. The Deity has done far better for us,
by the natural mixtures to be found in the whole seed, than we can do
for ourselves. The materials, both in form and in proportion, are
adjusted in each seed, as wheat, in a way more suitable to us than
any which, with our present knowledge, we appear able to devise.

A word to our Scottish readers, before we conclude. We do not recommend
to you even the whole meal of wheat as a substitute for your oatmeal or
your oaten-cake. The oat is more nutritive even than the whole grain of
wheat, taken weight for weight. For the growing boy, for the hard-working
man, and for the portly matron, oatmeal contains the materials of
the most hearty nourishment. This it owes in part to its peculiar
chemical composition, and in part to its being, as it is used in
Scotland, a kind of whole meal.The Tinleys did not go `so' at all, and consequently they lost the
satirical man, and were called 'the ballet-dancers' by Adela which thorny
scoff her sisters permitted to pass about for a single day, and no more.
The Tinleys were their match at epithets, and any low contention of this
kind obscured for them the social summit they hoped to attain; the dream
whereof was their prime nourishment.

That the Tinleys really were their match, they acknowledged, upon the
admission of the despicable nature of the game.  The Tinleys had winged a
dreadful shaft at them; not in itself to be dreaded, but that it struck a
weak point; it was a common shot that exploded a magazine; and for a time
it quite upset their social policy, causing them to act like simple young
ladies who feel things and resent them.  The ladies of Brookfield had let
it be known that, in their privacy together, they were Pole, Polar, and
North Pole.  Pole, Polar, and North Pole were designations of the three
shades of distance which they could convey in a bow: a form of salute
they cherished as peculiarly their own; being a method they had invented
to rebuke the intrusiveness of the outer world, and hold away all
strangers until approved worthy.  Even friends had occasionally to submit
to it in a softened form.  Arabella, the eldest, and Adela, the youngest,
alternated Pole and Polar; but North Pole was shared by Cornelia with
none.  She was the fairest of the three; a nobly-built person; her eyes
not vacant of tenderness when she put off her armour.  In her war-panoply
before unhappy strangers, she was a Britomart.  They bowed to an iceberg,
which replied to them with the freezing indifference of the floating
colossus, when the Winter sun despatches a feeble greeting messenger-beam
from his miserable Arctic wallet.  The simile must be accepted in its
might, for no lesser one will express the scornfulness toward men
displayed by this strikingly well-favoured, formal lady, whose heart of
hearts demanded for her as spouse, a lord, a philosopher, and a
Christian, in one: and he must be a member of Parliament.  Hence her
isolated air.

Now, when the ladies of Brookfield heard that their Pole, Polar, and
North Pole, the splendid image of themselves, had been transformed by the
Tinleys, and defiled by them to Pole, Polony, and Maypole, they should
have laughed contemptuously; but the terrible nerve of ridicule quivered
in witness against them, and was not to be stilled.  They could not
understand why so coarse a thing should affect them.  It stuck in their
flesh.  It gave them the idea that they saw their features hideous, but
real, in a magnifying mirror.

There was therefore a feud between the Tinleys and the Poles; and when
Mr. Pericles entirely gave up the former, the latter rewarded him by
spreading abroad every possible kind interpretation of his atrocious bad
manners.  He was a Greek, of Parisian gilding, whose Parisian hat flew
off at a moment's notice, and whose savage snarl was heard at the
slightest vexation.  His talk of renowned prime-donne by their Christian
names, and the way that he would catalogue emperors, statesmen, and
noblemen known to him, with familiar indifference, as things below the
musical Art, gave a distinguishing tone to Brookfield, from which his
French accentuation of our tongue did not detract.

Mr. Pericles grimaced bitterly at any claim to excellence being set up
for the mysterious voice in the woods.  Tapping one forefinger on the
uplifted point of the other, he observed that to sing abroad in the night
air of an English Spring month was conclusive of imbecility; and that no
imbecile sang at all.  Because, to sing, involved the highest
accomplishment of which the human spirit could boast.  Did the ladies
see? he asked.  They thought they saw that he carried on a deception
admirably.  In return, they inquired whether he would come with them and
hunt the voice, saying that they would catch it for him.  "I shall catch
a cold for myself," said Mr. Pericles, from the elevation of a shrug,
feeling that he was doomed to go forth.  He acted reluctance so well that
the ladies affected a pretty imperiousness; and when at last he consented
to join the party, they thanked him with a nicely simulated warmth,
believing that they had pleased him thoroughly.

Their brother Wilfrid was at Brookfield.  Six months earlier he had
returned from India, an invalided cornet of light cavalry, with a
reputation for military dash and the prospect of a medal.  Then he was
their heroic brother he was now their guard.  They love him tenderly, and
admired him when it was necessary; but they had exhausted their own
sensations concerning his deeds of arms, and fancied that he had served
their purpose.  And besides, valour is not an intellectual quality, they
said.  They were ladies so aspiring, these daughters of the merchant
Samuel Bolton Pole, that, if Napoleon had been their brother, their
imaginations would have overtopped him after his six months' inaction in
the Tuileries.  They would by that time have made a stepping-stone of the
emperor.  'Mounting' was the title given to this proceeding.  They went
on perpetually mounting.  It is still a good way from the head of the
tallest of men to the stars; so they had their work before them; but, as
they observed, they were young.  To be brief, they were very ambitious
damsels, aiming at they knew not exactly what, save that it was something
so wide that it had not a name, and so high in the air that no one could
see it.  They knew assuredly that their circle did not please them.  So,
therefore, they were constantly extending and refining it: extending it
perhaps for the purpose of refining it.  Their susceptibilities demanded
that they should escape from a city circle.  Having no mother, they ruled
their father's house and him, and were at least commanders of whatsoever
forces they could summon for the task.

It may be seen that they were sentimentalists.  That is to say, they
supposed that they enjoyed exclusive possession of the Nice Feelings, and
exclusively comprehended the Fine Shades.  Whereof more will be said; but
in the meantime it will explain their propensity to mount; it will
account for their irritation at the material obstructions surrounding
them; and possibly the philosopher will now have his eye on the source of
that extraordinary sense of superiority to mankind which was the crown of
their complacent brows.  Eclipsed as they may be in the gross
appreciation of the world by other people, who excel in this and that
accomplishment, persons that nourish Nice Feelings and are intimate with
the Fine Shades carry their own test of intrinsic value.

Nor let the philosopher venture hastily to despise them as pipers to
dilettante life.  Such persons come to us in the order of civilization.
In their way they help to civilize us.  Sentimentalists are a perfectly
natural growth of a fat soil.  Wealthy communities must engender them.
If with attentive minds we mark the origin of classes, we shall discern
that the Nice Feelings and the Fine Shades play a principal part in our
human development and social history.  I dare not say that civilized man
is to be studied with the eye of a naturalist; but my vulgar meaning
might almost be twisted to convey: that our sentimentalists are a variety
owing their existence to a certain prolonged term of comfortable feeding.
The pig, it will be retorted, passes likewise through this training.  He
does.  But in him it is not combined with an indigestion of high German
romances.  Here is so notable a difference, that he cannot possibly be
said to be of the family.  And I maintain it against him, who have
nevertheless listened attentively to the eulogies pronounced by the
vendors of prize bacon.

After thus stating to you the vast pretensions of the ladies of
Brookfield, it would be unfair to sketch their portraits.  Nothing but
comedy bordering on burlesque could issue from the contrast, though they
graced a drawing-room or a pew, and had properly elegant habits and taste
in dress, and were all fair to the sight.  Moreover, Adela had not long
quitted school.  Outwardly they were not unlike other young ladies with
wits alert.  They were at the commencement of their labours on this night
of the expedition when they were fated to meet something greatly
confusing them.


CHAPTER II

Half of a rosy mounting full moon was on the verge of the East as the
ladies, with attendant cavaliers, passed, humming softly, through the
garden-gates.  Arabella had, by right of birth, made claim to Mr.
Pericles: not without an unwontedly fretful remonstrance from Cornelia,
who said, "My dear, you must allow that I have some talent for drawing
men out."

And Arabella replied: "Certainly, dear, you have; and I think I have some
too."

The gentle altercation lasted half-an-hour, but they got no farther than
this.  Mr. Pericles was either hopeless of protecting himself from such
shrewd assailants, or indifferent to their attacks, for all his defensive
measures were against the cold.  He was muffled in a superbly mounted
bearskin, which came up so closely about his ears that Arabella had to
repeat to him all her questions, and as it were force a way for her voice
through the hide.  This was provoking, since it not only stemmed the
natural flow of conversation, but prevented her imagination from
decorating the reminiscence of it subsequently (which was her profound
secret pleasure), besides letting in the outer world upon her.  The name
was originally assumed by the great Otoo, (to be read of in Captain Cook,)
who united the whole island under one crown. It descended to his son,
and then to his grandson, who came to the throne an infant, and, dying
young, was succeeded by her present majesty, Pomaree Vahinee I.,
the first female Pomaree.

This lady has been twice married. Her first husband was a king's son, but
the union was ill assorted, a divorce obtained, and she took up with
one Tanee, a chief from the neighbouring island of Imeco. She leads
him a dog's life, and he consoles himself by getting drunk. In that state,
he now and then violently breaks out, contemns the royal authority,
thrashes his wife, and smashes the crockery. Captain Bob gave Typee
an account of a burst of this sort, which occurred about seven years
ago. Stimulated by the seditious advice of his boon companions, and
under the influence of an unusually large dose of strong waters, the
turbulent king-consort forgot the respect due to his wife and sovereign,
mounted his horse, and ran full tilt at the royal cavalcade, out for their
afternoon ride in the park. One maid of honour was floored, the
rest fled in terror, save and except Pomaree, who stood her ground
like a man, and apostrophised her insubordinate spouse in the
choicest Tahitian Billingsgate.

For once her eloquence failed of effect. Dragged from her horse, her
personal charms were deteriorated by a severe thumping on the face.

This done, Othello-Tanee attempted to strangle her, and was in a fair
way to succeed, when her loving subjects came to her rescue. So heinous
a crime could not be overlooked, and Tanee, was banished to his
native island; but after a short time he declared his penitence, made
_amende honorable_, and was restored to favour. He does not very often
venture to thwart the will of his royal wife, much less to raise his hand
against her sacred person, but submits with exemplary patience to her
caprices and abuse, and even to the manual admonitions she not unfrequently
bestows upon him.

Upon the whole, life, at the Calabooza was not very disagreeable. The
prisoners, now only nominally so, had little to complain of, except
occasional short commons, arising not from unwillingness, but from
disability, on the part of the kind-hearted natives, to satisfy the
cravings of the hungry whalers, whose appetites were remarkable, especially
that of lanky Doctor Long Ghost. The doctor was a stickler for quality as
well as quantity; the memory of his claret and beccafico days
still clung to him, like the scent of the roses to Tom Moore's broken
gallipot: he was curious in condiments, and whilst devouring,
grumbled at the unseasoned viands of Tahiti.

Cayenne and Harvey abounded not in those latitudes, but pepper and
salt were on board the Julia, and the doctor prevailed on Rope Yarn to
bring him a supply. "This he placed in a small leather wallet, a
monkey bag (so called by sailors) usually worn as a purse about
the neck. 'In my poor opinion,' said Long Ghost, as he tucked the wallet
out of sight, 'it behoves a stranger in Tahiti to have his knife in
readiness, and his castor slung.'" And thus equipped, the doctor and
his brethren in captivity rambled over the verdant slopes and through the
cool groves of Tahiti, bathed in the mountain streams, and luxuriated in
orange orchards, where "the trees formed a dense shade, spreading
overhead a dark, rustling vault, groined with boughs, and studded here and
there with the ripened spheres, like gilded balls." Then they had
plenty of society; native visitors flocked to see them, and Doctor Johnson,
a resident English physician, was constant in his attendance, knowing
that the Consul must pay his bill.
Three French priests also called upon them, one of whom proved to
be no Frenchman, but a portly, handsome, good-humoured Irishman,
well known and much disliked by the Polynesian protestant missionaries.

A strong attempt was made by Guy and Wilson to get the men to do duty. A
schooner was about to sail for Sydney, and they were threatened to be
sent thither for trial. They still refused to hand rope or break biscuit
on board the Julia. Long Ghost made some cutting remarks on the
captain; and the sailors, who had been taken down to the Consul's office
for examination, began to bully, and talked of carrying off Consul and
Captain to bear them company in the Calabooza. The same ill success attended
subsequent attempts, until Captain Guy was compelled to look out for
another crew, which he obtained with difficulty, and by a considerable
advance of hard dollars. And at last, "It was Sunday in Tahiti, and a
glorious morning, when Captain Bob, waddling into the Calabooza,
startled us by announcing, 'Ah, my boy--shippee you, harree--maky sail!'
in other words, the Julia was off," and had taken her stores of old
biscuit with her: so the next morning the inmates of the Calabooza were
without rations. The Consul would supply none, and it was pretty evident
that he rather desired the departure of the obstinate seamen from that
part of the island. The whole of his proceedings with regard to
them had served but to render him ridiculous, and he wished them
out of his neighbourhood; but the ex-prisoners found themselves
pretty comfortable, and preferred remaining.

They were better off than they had for some time been, for Jermin--not
such a bad fellow, after all--had sent them their chests ashore;
and these, besides supplying them with sundry necessaries, gave
them immense importance in Tahitian eyes.

They had been kindly treated before, but now they were courted and flattered,
like younger sons in marching regiments, who suddenly step into the family
acres.

The natives crowded round them, eager to swear eternal friendship, according
to an old Polynesian custom, once universal in the islands, but that has
fallen into considerable disuse, except when something is to be
gained by its observance.

A gentleman of the name of Kooloo fixed his affections upon Typee--or
rather upon his goods and chattels; for when he had wheedled him out
of a regatta shirt, and other small pieces of finery, he transferred
his affections to a newly-arrived sailor, whose chest was better
lined, and who bestowed on him a love-token, in the shape of a heavy
pea-jacket.

In this garment, closely buttoned up, Kooloo took morning promenades, with
the tropical sun glaring down upon him. He frequently met his former
friend, but passed him with a careless "How d'ye do?" which presently
dwindled into a nod. "In one week's time," says poor Typee, "he gave me
the cut direct, and lounged by without even nodding. He must have
taken me for part of the landscape."
After a while the contents of the chests, and even the chests
themselves--esteemed by the Tahitians most valuable pieces of furniture--were
given or bartered away, and, as the Consul still refused them rations,
the sailors knew not how to live. The natives helped them as much as
they could, but their larders were scantily furnished, and they grew
tired of feeding fifteen hungry idlers. So at last the latter made a
morning call upon the Consul, who, being unwilling to withdraw, and equally
so to press, charges which he knew would not be sustained, refused to have
any thing to say to them. Thereupon some of the party, strong in
principle and resolution, and seeing how grievous an annoyance their
presence was to their enemy, Wilson, swore to abide near him and never
to leave him.

Others, less obstinate or more impatient of a change, resolved to decamp
from the Calabooza. The first to depart were Typee and Long Ghost. They
had received intelligence of a new plantation in Imeco, recently formed
by foreigners, who wanted white labourers, and were expected at Papeetee
to seek them. With these men they took service under the names of Peter
and Paul, at wages of fifteen silver dollars a month; and, after an
affecting separation from their shipmates--whose respectable character
may be judged of by the fact, that one of them picked Long Ghost's
pocket in the very act of embracing him,--they sailed away for
Imeco, and arrived without accident in the valley of Martair, where
the plantation was situate.

The chapters recording their stay here are amongst the very best in the
book, full of rich, quiet fun. Typee gives a capital description of
his employers. They were two in number, both "whole-souled fellows; one
was a tall robust Yankee, born in the backwoods of Maine, sallow, and
with a long face; the other, a short little Cockney who had first
clapped his eyes on the Monument."

Zeke the Yankee, had christened his comrade "Shorty;" and Shorty looked
up to him with respect, and yielded to him in most things. Both
showed themselves well disposed towards their new labourers, whom
they at once discovered to be superior to their station.

And they soon found their society so agreeable, that they were willing
to keep them to do little more than nominal work.

As to making them efficient farm servants, they quickly gave up
that idea.

As a sailor, Typee had little fancy for husbandry; and the doctor found his
long back terribly in his way when requested to dig potatoes and
root up stumps, under a sun which, as Shorty said, "was hot enough
to melt the nose hoff a brass monkey."

Long Ghost very soon gave in; the extraction of a single tree-root
settled him; he pleaded illness, and retired to his hammock, but was
considerably vexed when he heard the Yankee propose a bullock hunting
expedition, in which, as a sick man, he could not decently take
part.
This was only the prologue to his annoyances.

Musquitoes, unknown in Tahiti, abound in Imeeo. They were brought
there, according to a native tradition, by one Nathan Coleman, of
Nantucket, who, in revenge for some fancied grievance, towed a rotten
water-cask ashore, and left it in a neglected _taro_ patch, where the
ground was moist and warm.

Musquitoes were the result.

"When tormented by them, I found much relief in coupling the word
Coleman with another of one syllable, and pronouncing them together
energetically."

The musquito chapter is very amusing, showing the various comical
and ingenious manoeuvres of the friends to avoid their tormentors,
and obtain a night's sleep.

At last they entered a fishing canoe, paddled some distance from
shore, and dropped the native anchor, a stone secured to a rope.

They were awakened in the morning by the motion of their boat. Zeke
was wading in the shallow water, and towing them from a reef towards which
they had drifted. "The water-sprites had rolled our stone out of its
noose, and we had floated away."

This was a narrow escape, but nevertheless they stuck to their
floating bedstead as the only possible sleeping place.

A day's successful hunting, followed by a famous supper and jollification
under a banian-tree, put the doctor in good humour, and he made himself
vastly agreeable. The natives beheld his waggish pranks with infinite
admiration, and Zeke looked upon him with particular favour; so much so,
that when upon the following morning an order came from a ship at
Papeetee, for a supply of potatoes, he almost hesitated to tell
funny Peter to assist in digging them up.

But the emergency pressed, and the work must be done. So Peter and Paul
were set to unearth the vegetables.
This was no very cruel task, for "the rich tawny soil seemed specially
adapted to the crop; the great yellow murphies rolling out of the
hills like eggs from a nest."

But when they were dug up, they had to be carried to the beach; and
to this part of the business the lazy adventurers had a special
dislike, although Zeke kindly provided them, to lighten their toil,
with what he called the barrel machine--a sort of rural sedan, in
which the servants carried their loads with comparative ease, whilst
their employers sweated under shouldered hampers.

But no alleviation could reconcile the sailor and the physician to this
novel and unpleasant labour, and the potato-digging was the last
piece of work, deserving the name, that either of them did.

A few days afterwards they gave their masters warning, greatly to
the vexation of Zeke, although he received the notice--with true
Yankee imperturbability.

He proposed that Long Ghost, who, after the hunt, had shown,
considerable culinary skill, should assume the office of cook, and
that Paul-Typee should only work when it suited him, which would
not have been very often.

The offer was friendly and favourable, but it was refused.

A hospitable invitation to remain as guests as long as was convenient to
them, was likewise rejected, and, bent upon a ramble, the restless
adventurers left the vale of Martair.

Even greater inducements would probably have been insufficient to keep
them there.

They had been so long on the rove, that change of scene had become essential
to their happiness. The doctor, especially, was anxious to be off to
Tamai, an inland village on the borders of a lake, where the fruits
were the finest, and the women the most beautiful and unsophisticated
in all the Society Islands.

Epicurean Long Ghost had set his mind upon visiting this terrestrial
paradise, and thither his steady chum willingly accompanied him.

It was a day's journey on foot, allowing time for dinner and siesta;
and the path lay through wood and ravine, unpeopled save by wild cattle.
About noon they reached the heart of the island, thus pleasantly described.
"It was a green, cool hollow among the mountains, into which we at last
descended with a bound. The place was gushing with a hundred springs,
and shaded over with great solemn trees, on whose mossy boles the
moisture stood in beads." There is something delightfully hydropathic
in these lines; they cool one like a shower-bath. He is a prime fellow,
this common sailor Melville, at such scraps of description, terse and
true, placing the scene before us in ten words. In long yarns he indulges
not, but of such happy touches as the above, we could quote a score.

We have not room, either for them, or for an account of the valley of
Tamai, its hospitable inhabitants, and its heathenish dances,
performed in secret, and in dread of the missionaries, by whom such
saturnalia are forbidden.

The place was altogether so pleasant, that the doctor and his friend
entertained serious thoughts of settling there, or at least of
making a long stay, when one morning they were put to flight by the
arrival of strangers, said to be missionaries, with whom, vagrants
as they were, they had no wish to fall in.

So they returned to their friend Zeke, nursing new and ambitious
projects. They had no intention of remaining with the good-hearted Yankee,
but merely paid him a flying visit, and that with an interested motive.
What they wanted of him was this.

Although feeling themselves gentlemen every inch, they were not always
able to convince the world of their respectability. So they resolved
to have a passport, and pitched upon Zeke to manufacture it, he being
well known and much respected in Imeeo. Zeke was gratified by the compliment,
and set to work with a rooster's quill, and a piece of dirty paper.
"Evidently he was not accustomed to composition; for his literary
throes were so violent, that the doctor suggested that some sort
of a Cæsarian operation might be necessary.

The precious paper was at last finished; and a great curiosity it was.
We were much diverted with his reasons for not dating it. 'In this
here damned climate,' he observed, 'a feller can't keep the run
of the months, no how; 'cause there's no seasons, no summer and
winter to go by.

One's etarnally thinking it's always July, it's so pesky hot.' A
passport provided, we cast about for some means of getting to Taloo."

The decline of the Tahitian monarchy--the degradation of the regal house
of Pomaree, is painful to contemplate. The queen still wears a
crown--a tinsel one, received as a present from her sister-sovereign
of England,--she has also a court and a palace, such as they are;
but her power is little more than nominal, her exchequer seldom
otherwise than empty.

Typee draws a touching contrast between times past and present.
"'I'm a greater man than King George,' said the incorrigible young Otoo,
to the first missionaries; 'he rides on a horse and I on a man.' Such was
the case.

He travelled post through his dominions on the shoulders of his
subjects, and relays of immortal beings were provided in all the
valleys.

But, alas! how times have changed! how transient human greatness! Some
years since, Pomaree Vahinee I., granddaughter of the proud
Otoo, went into the laundry business, publicly soliciting, by her
agents, the washing of the linen belonging to officers of ships
touching in her harbours."

Into the court of this washerwoman-queen, Typee and Long Ghost were
exceedingly anxious to penetrate. Vague ideas of favour and preferment
haunted their brains. During their Polynesian cruise, they had
seen many instances of rapid advancement; vagabond foreigners, of all
nations, domesticated in the families of chiefs and kings, and sometimes
married to their daughters and sharing their power.

At one of the Tonga islands, a scamp of a Welshman officiated as
cupbearer to the king of the cannibals.

The monarch of the Sandwich islands has three foreigners about his court--a
Negro to beat the drum, a wooden-legged Portuguese to play the
fiddle, and Mordecai, a juggler, to amuse his majesty with cups and
balls and sleight of hand.

On the Marquesan island of Hivarhoo, they had found an English sailor
who had attained to the highest dignity in the country.

He had deserted from a merchant ship, and at once set up, on his own
hook, as an independent sovereign, without dominions, but by
disposition most belligerent.

A musket and a store of cartridges were his whole possessions; but
in a land where war was rife, carried on with the primitive weapons of
spear and javelin, they were sufficiently important to make a native
prince covet his alliance. His first battle was a decisive victory, a
perfect Waterloo, and he became the Wellington of Hivarhoo, receiving,
as reward for his distinguished services, the hand of a princess, and a
splendid dowry of hogs, mats, and other produce. To conform to the
prejudices of his new family, he allowed himself to be tattooed, tabooed,
and otherwise paganized, becoming as big a savage as any in the
island.

A blue shark adorned his forehead; a broad bar, of the same colour,
traversed his face. The tabooing was a less ornamental but more decidedly
useful formality, for by it his person was declared sacred and
inviolable.
Typee and his medical friend had a strong prejudice against cerulean
sharks and the like embellishments; but if these could be dispensed
with, they felt no disinclination to form part of Pomaree's
household.

They had not quite made up their minds what office would best suit
them, but their circumstances were unprosperous, and they resolved
not to be particular.

They understood that the queen was mustering around her all the foreigners
she could recruit, to make head against the French. She was then at
Taloo, a village on the coast of Imeeo, and thither the two adventurers
betook themselves, hoping to be at once elevated to important posts
at court; but quite resigned, in case of disappointment, to work as
day-labourers in a sugar-plantation, or go to sea in a whaler, then in the
harbour for wood and water. Disgusted with their desultory, hand-to-mouth
existence, they yearned after respectability and a prime-ministership.
To their sanguine anticipations, both of these seemed easy of attainment.
Long Ghost, indeed, who, amongst his various accomplishments, was
a very Orpheus upon the violin, insisted strongly upon the probability
of his becoming a Tahitian Rizzio. But a necessary preliminary to the
realisation of these day-dreams, was a presentation at court, and that
was difficult to obtain. Once before Queen Pomaree, they doubted not but
she, with Napoleonic sagacity, would discern their merits, and
forthwith make Typee her admiral, and Long Ghost inspector-general
of hospitals.
"Even papa was in raptures."

"Very good indeed," said Mr. Pole.  "I'm no judge; but you might listen
to that sort of playing after dinner."

Mr. Pericles seemed to think that was scarcely a critical period, but he
merely grimaced, and inquired: "Did you see ze player?"

"Oh, no: they are hidden," Arabella explained to him, "behind a curtain."

"But, what!" shouted the impetuous Greek: "have you no curiosity?
A woman!  And zen, you saw not her?"

"No," remarked Cornelia, in the same aggravating sing-song voice of utter
indifference: "we don't know whether it was not a man.  Our usual
organist is a man, I believe."

The eyes of the Greek whitened savagely, and he relapsed into frigid
politeness.

Wilfrid was not present to point their apprehensions.  He had loitered
behind; but when he joined them in the house subsequently, he was
cheerful, and had a look of triumph about him which made his sisters say,
"So, you have been with the Copleys:" and he allowed them to suppose it,
if they pleased; the Copleys being young ladies of position in the
neighbourhood, of much higher standing than the Tinleys, who, though very
wealthy, could not have given their brother such an air, the sisters
imagined.

At lunch, Wilfrid remarked carelessly: "By the way, I met that little
girl we saw last night."

"The singer! where?" asked his sisters, with one voice.

"Coming out of church."

"She goes to church, then!"

This exclamation showed the heathen they took her to be.

"Why, she played the organ," said Wilfrid.

"And how does she look by day?  How does she dress?"

"Oh! very jolly little woman!  Dresses quiet enough."

"She played the organ!  It was she, then!  An organist!  Is there
anything approaching to gentility in her appearance?"

"I--really I'm no judge," said Wilfrid.  "You had better ask Laura
Tinley.  She was talking to her when I went up."

The sisters exchanged looks.  Presently they stood together in
consultation.  Then they spoke with their aunt, Mrs. Lupin, and went to
their papa.  The rapacity of those Tinleys for anything extraordinary was
known to them, but they would not have conceived that their own
discovery, their own treasure, could have been caught up so quickly.  If
the Tinleys got possession of her, the defection of Mr. Pericles might be
counted on, and the display of a phenomenon would be lost to them.  They
decided to go down to Wilson's farm that very day, and forestall their
rivals by having her up to Brookfield.  The idea of doing this had been
in a corner of their minds all the morning: it seemed now the most
sensible plan in the world.  It was patronage, in its right sense.  And
they might be of great service to her, by giving a proper elevation and
tone to her genius; while she might amuse them, and their guests, and be
let off, in fact, as a firework for the nonce.  Among the queenly cases
of women who are designing to become the heads of a circle (if I may use
the term), an accurate admeasurement of reciprocal advantages can
scarcely be expected to rank; but the knowledge that an act, depending
upon us for execution, is capable of benefiting both sides, will make the
proceeding appear so unselfish, that its wisdom is overlooked as well as
its motives.  The sisters felt they were the patronesses of the little
obscure genius whom they longed for to illumine their household, before
they knew her name.  Cornet Wilfrid Pole must have chuckled mightily to
see them depart on their mission.  These ladies, who managed everybody,
had themselves been very cleverly managed.  It is doubtful whether the
scheme to surprise and delight Mr. Pericles would have actuated the step
they took, but for the dread of seeing the rapacious Tinleys snatch up
their lawful prey.  The Tinleys were known to be quite capable of doing
so.  They had, on a particular occasion, made transparent overtures to a
celebrity belonging to the Poles, whom they had first met at Brookfield:
could never have hoped to have seen had they not met him at Brookfield;
and girls who behaved in this way would do anything.  The resolution was
taken to steal a march on them; nor did it seem at all odd to people
naturally so hospitable as the denizens of Brookfield, that the stranger
of yesterday should be the guest of to-day.  Kindness of heart, combined
with a great scheme in the brain, easily put aside conventional rules.

"But we don't know her name," they said, when they had taken the advice
of the gentlemen on what they had already decided to do: all excepting
Mr. Pericles, for whom the surprise was in store.

"Belloni--Miss Belloni," said Wilfrid.

"Are you sure?  How do you know--?"

"She told Laura Tinley."

Within five minutes of the receipt of this intelligence the ladies were
on their way to Wilson's farm.


CHAPTER IV

The circle which the ladies of Brookfield were designing to establish
just now, was of this receipt:--Celebrities, London residents, and County
notables, all in their severally due proportions, were to meet, mix, and
revolve: the Celebrities to shine; the Metropolitans to act as
satellites; the County ignoramuses to feel flattered in knowing that all
stood forth for their amusement: they being the butts of the quick-witted
Metropolitans, whom they despised, while the sons of renown were
encouraged to be conscious of their magnanimous superiority over both
sets, for whose entertainment they were ticketed.

This is a pudding indeed!  And the contemplation of the skill and energy
required to get together and compound such a Brookfield Pudding, well-
nigh leads one to think the work that is done out of doors a very
inferior business, and, as it were, mere gathering of fuel for the fire
inside.  It was known in the neighbourhood that the ladies were preparing
one; and moreover that they had a new kind of plum; in other words, that
they intended to exhibit a prodigy of genius, who would flow upon the
world from Brookfield.  To announce her with the invitations, rejecting
the idea of a surprise in the assembly, had been necessary, because there
was no other way of securing Lady Gosstre, who led the society of the
district.  The great lady gave her promise to attend: "though," as she
said to Arabella, "you must know I abominate musical parties, and think
them the most absurd of entertainments possible; but if you have anything
to show, that's another matter."

Two or three chosen friends were invited down beforehand to inspect the
strange girl, and say what they thought of her; for the ladies themselves
were perplexed.  They had found her to be commonplace: a creature without
ideas and with a decided appetite.  So when Tracy Runningbrook, who had
also been a plum in his day, and was still a poet, said that she was
exquisitely comic, they were induced to take the humorous view of the
inexplicable side in the character of Miss Belloni, and tried to laugh at
her eccentricities.  Seeing that Mr. Pericles approved of her voice as a
singer, and Tracy Runningbrook let pass her behaviour as a girl, they
conceived that on the whole they were safe in sounding a trumpet loudly.
These gentlemen were connoisseurs, each in his walk.

Concerning her position and parentage, nothing was known.  She had met
Adela's delicately-searching touches in that direction with a marked
reserve.  It was impossible to ask her point-blank, after probing her
with a dozen suggestions, for the ingenuousness of an indifferent inquiry
could not then be assumed, so that Adela was constantly baked and felt
that she must some day be excessively 'fond with her,' which was
annoying.  The girl lit up at any sign of affection.  A kind look gave
Summer depths to her dark eyes.  Otherwise she maintained a simple
discretion and walked in her own path, content to look quietly pleased on
everybody, as one who had plenty to think of and a voice in her ear.

Apparently she was not to be taught to understand 'limits': which must be
explained as a sort of magnetic submissiveness to the variations of Polar
caprice; so that she should move about with ease, be cheerful, friendly,
and, at a signal, affectionate;, still not failing to recognize the
particular nooks where the family chalk had traced a line.  As the day of
exhibition approached, Adela thought she would give her a lesson in
limits.  She ventured to bestow a small caress on the girl, after a
compliment; thinking that the compliment would be a check: but the
compliment was passed, and the caress instantly replied to with two arms
and a tender mouth.  At which, Adela took fright and was glad to slip
away.

At last the pudding flowed into the bag.

Emilia was posted by the ladies in a corner of the room. Receiving her
assurance that she was not hungry, they felt satisfied that she wanted
nothing.  Wilfrid came up to her to console her for her loneliness, until
Mr. Pericles had stationed himself at the back of her chair, and then
Wilfrid nodded languidly and attended to his graver duties.  Who would
have imagined that she had hurt him?  But she certainly looked with
greater animation on Mr. Pericles; and when Tracy Runningbrook sat down
by her, a perfect little carol of chatter sprang up between them.  These
two presented such a noticeable contrast, side by side, that the ladies
had to send a message to separate them.  She was perhaps a little the
taller of the two; with smoothed hair that had the gloss of black briony
leaves, and eyes like burning brands in a cave; while Tracy's hair was
red as blown flame, with eyes of a grey-green hue, that may be seen
glistening over wet sunset.  People, who knew him, asked: "Who is she?"
and it was not in the design of the ladies to have her noted just yet.

Lady Gosstre's exclamation on entering the room was presently heard.
"Well! and where's our extraordinary genius?  Pray, let me see her
immediately."

Thereat Laura Tinley, with gross ill-breeding, rushed up to Arabella, who
was receiving her ladyship, and touching her arm, as if privileges were
permitted her, cried: "I'm dying to see her.  Has she come?"

Arabella embraced the offensive girl in a hostess's smile, and talked
flowingly to the great lady.

Laura Tinley was punished by being requested to lead off with a favourite
song in a buzz.  She acceded, quite aware of the honour intended, and sat
at the piano, taming as much as possible her pantomime of one that would
be audible.  Lady Gosstre scanned the room, while Adela, following her
ladyship's eyeglass, named the guests.

"You get together a quaint set of men," said Lady Gosstre.

"Women!" was on Adela's tongue's tip.  She had really thought well of her
men.  Her heart sank.

"In the country!" she began.

"Yes, yes!" went my lady.

These were the lessons that made the ladies of Brookfield put a check
upon youth's tendency to feel delightful satisfaction with its immediate
work, and speedily conceive a discontented suspicion of anything
whatsoever that served them.

Two other sacrifices were offered at the piano after Laura Tinley.  Poor
victims of ambition, they arranged their dresses, smiled at the leaves,
and deliberately gave utterance to the dreadful nonsense of the laureates
of our drawing-rooms.  Mr. Pericles and Emilia exchanged scientific
glances during the performance.  She was merciless to indifferent music.
Wilfrid saw the glances pass.  So, now, when Emilia was beckoned to the
piano, she passed by Wilfrid, and had a cold look in return for beaming
eyes.

According to directions, Emilia sang a simple Neapolitan air.  The singer
was unknown, and was generally taken for another sacrifice.

"Come; that's rather pretty," Lady Gosstre hailed the close.

"It is of ze people--such as zat," assented Mr. Pericles.

Adela heard my lady ask for the singer's name.  She made her way to her
sisters.  Adela was ordinarily the promoter, Cornelia the sifter, and
Arabella the director, of schemes in this management.  The ladies had a
moment for counsel over a music-book, for Arabella was about to do duty
at the piano.  During a pause, Mr. Pole lifting his white waistcoat with
the effort, sent a word abroad, loudly and heartily, regardless of its
guardian aspirate, like a bold-faced hoyden flying from her chaperon.
They had dreaded it.  They loved their father, but declined to think his
grammar parental.  Hushing together, they agreed that it had been a false
move to invite Lady Gosstre, who did not care a bit for music, until the
success of their Genius was assured by persons who did.  To suppose that
she would recognize a Genius, failing a special introduction, was absurd.
The ladies could turn upon aristocracy too, when it suited them.

Arabella had now to go through a quartett.  The fever of ill-luck had
seized the violin.  He would not tune.  Then his string broke; and while
he was arranging it the footman came up to Arabella.  Misfortunes, we
know, are the most united family on earth.  The news brought to her was
that a lady of the name of Mrs. Chump was below.  Holding her features
rigidly bound, not to betray perturbation, Arabella confided the fact to
Cornelia, who, with a similar mental and muscular compression, said
instantly, "Manoeuvre her."  Adela remarked, "If you tell her the company
is grand, she will come, and her Irish once heard here will destroy us.
The very name of Chump!"

Mrs. Chump was the wealthy Irish widow of an alderman, whose
unaccountable bad taste in going to Ireland for a wife, yet filled the
ladies with astonishment.  She pretended to be in difficulties with her
lawyers; for which reason she strove to be perpetually in consultation
with her old flame and present trustee Mr. Pole.  The ladies had fought
against her in London, and since their installation at Brookfield they
had announced to their father that she was not to be endured there.  Mr.
Pole had plaintively attempted to dilate on the virtues of Martha Chump.
"In her place," said the ladies, and illustrated to him that amid a
nosegay of flowers there was no fit room for an exuberant vegetable.  The
old man had sighed and seemed to surrender.  One thing was certain: Mrs.
Chump had never been seen at Brookfield.  "She never shall be, save by
the servants," said the ladies.

Emilia, not unmarked of Mr. Pericles, had gone over to Wilfrid once or
twice, to ask him if haply he disapproved of anything she had done.  Mr.
Pericles shrugged, and went "Ah!" as who should say, "This must be
stopped."  Adela now came to her and caught her hand, showering sweet
whispers on her, and bidding her go to her harp and do her best.  "We
love you; we all love you!" was her parting instigation.

The quartett was abandoned.  Arabella had departed with a firm
countenance to combat Mrs. Chump.

Emilia sat by her harp.  The saloon was critically still; so still that
Adela fancied she heard a faint Irish protest from the parlour.  Wilfrid
was perhaps the most critical auditor present: for he doubted whether she
could renew that singular charm of her singing in the pale lighted woods.
The first smooth contralto notes took him captive.  He scarcely believed
that this could be the raw girl whom his sisters delicately pitied.

A murmur of plaudits, the low thunder of gathering acclamation, went
round.  Lady Gosstre looked a satisfied, "This will do." Wilfrid saw
Emilia's eyes appeal hopefully to Mr. Pericles.  The connoisseur
shrugged.  A pain lodged visibly on her black eyebrows.  She gripped her
harp, and her eyelids appeared to quiver as she took the notes.  Again,
and still singing, she turned her head to him.  The eyes of Mr. Pericles
were white, as if upraised to intercede for her with the Powers of
Harmony.  Her voice grew unnerved.  On a sudden she excited herself to
pitch and give volume to that note which had been the enchantment of the
night in the woods.  It quavered.  One might have thought her caught by
the throat.

Emilia gazed at no one now.  She rose, without a word or an apology,
keeping her eyes down.

"Fiasco!" cruelly cried Mr. Pericles.

That was better to her than the silly kindness of the people who deemed
it well to encourage her with applause.  Emilia could not bear the
clapping of hands, and fled.


CHAPTER V

The night was warm under a slowly-floating moon.  Full of compassion for
the poor girl, who had moved him if she had failed in winning the
assembly, Wilfrid stepped into the garden, where he expected to find her,
and to be the first to pet and console her.  Threading the scented
shrubs, he came upon a turn in one of the alleys, from which point he had
a view of her figure, as she stood near a Portugal laurel on the lawn.
Mr. Pericles was by her side.  Wilfrid's intention was to join them.  A
loud sob from Emilia checked his foot.

"You are cruel," he heard her say.

"If it is good, I tell it you; if it is bad; abominable, I tell it you,
juste ze same," responded Mr. Pericles.

"The others did not think it very bad."

"Ah! bah!" Mr. Pericles cut her short.

Had they been talking of matters secret and too sweet, Wilfrid would have
retired, like a man of honour.  As it was, he continued to listen.  The
tears of his poor little friend, moreover, seemed to hold him there in
the hope that he might afford some help.

"Yes; I do not care for the others," she resumed.  "You praised me the
night I first saw you."

"It is perhaps zat you can sing to z' moon," returned Mr. Pericles.
"But, what! a singer, she must sing in a house.  To-night it is warm,
to-morrow it is cold.  If you sing through a cold, what noise do we hear?
It is a nose, not a voice.  It is a trompet."

Emilia, with a whimpering firmness, replied: "You said I am lazy.  I am
not."

"Not lazy," Mr. Pericles assented.

"Do I care for praise from people who do not understand music?  It is not
true.  I only like to please them."

"Be a street-organ," Mr. Pericles retorted.

"I must like to see them pleased when I sing," said Emilia desperately.

"And you like ze clap of ze hands.  Yez.  It is quite natural.  Yess.
You are a good child, it is clear.  But, look.  You are a voice
uncultivated, sauvage.  You go wrong: I hear you: and dese claps of zese
noodels send you into squeaks and shrills, and false! false  away you go.
It is a gallop ze wrong way."

Here Mr. Pericles attempted the most horrible reproduction of Emilia's
failure.  She cried out as if she had been bitten.

"What am I to do?" she asked sadly.

"Not now," Mr. Pericles answered.  "You live in London?--at where?"

"Must I tell you?"

"Certainly, you must tell me."

"But, I am not going there; I mean, not yet."

"You are going to sing to z' moon through z' nose.  Yez.  For how long?"

"These ladies have asked me to stay with them.  They make me so happy.
When I leave them--then!"

Emilia sighed.

"And zen?" quoth Mr. Pericles.

"Then, while my money lasts, I shall stay in the country."

"How much money?"

"How much money have I?"  Emilia frankly and accurately summed up the
condition of her treasury.  "Four pounds and nineteen shillings."

"Hom! it is spent, and you go to your father again?"

"Yes."

"To ze old Belloni?"

"My father."

"No!" cried Mr. Pericles, upon Emilia's melancholy utterance.  He bent to
her ear and rapidly spoke, in an undertone, what seemed to be a vivid
sketch of a new course of fortune for her.  Emilia gave one joyful
outcry; and now Wilfrid retreated, questioning within himself whether he
should have remained so long.  But, as he argued, if he was convinced
that the rascally Greek fellow meant mischief to her, was he not bound to
employ every stratagem to be her safeguard?  The influence of Mr.
Pericles already exercised over her was immense and mysterious.  Within
ten minutes she was singing triumphantly indoors.  Wilfrid could hear
that her voice was firm and assured.  She was singing the song of the
woods.  He found to his surprise that his heart dropped under some
burden, as if he had no longer force to sustain it.

By-and-by some of the members of the company issued forth.  Carriages
were heard on the gravel, and young men in couples, preparing to light
the ensign of happy release from the ladies (or of indemnification for
their absence, if you please), strolled about the grounds.

"Did you see that little passage between Laura Tinley and Bella Pole?"
said one, and forthwith mimicked them: "Laura commencing:-'We must have
her over to us.' 'I fear we have pre-engaged her.'--'Oh, but you, dear,
will do us the favour to come, too?' 'I fear, dear, our immediate
engagements will preclude the possibility.'--'Surely, dear Miss Pole, we
may hope that you have not abandoned us?'--'That, my dear Miss Tinley, is
out of the question.'--'May we not name a day?'--'If it depends upon us,
frankly, we cannot bid you do so.'"

The other joined him in laughter, adding: "'Frankly' 's capital!  What
absurd creatures women are!  How the deuce did you manage to remember it
all?"

"My sister was at my elbow.  She repeated it, word for word."

"Pon my honour, women are wonderful creatures!"

The two young men continued their remarks, with a sense of perfect
consistency.

Lady Gosstre, as she was being conducted to her carriage, had pronounced
aloud that Emilia was decidedly worth hearing.

"She's better worth knowing," said Tracy Runningbrook.  "I see you are
all bent on spoiling her.  If you were to sit and talk with her, you
would perceive that she's meant for more than to make a machine of her
throat.  What a throat it is!  She has the most comical notion of things.
I fancy I'm looking at the budding of my own brain.  She's a born artist,
but I'm afraid everybody's conspiring to ruin her."

"Surely," said Adela, "we shall not do that, if we encourage her in her
Art."

"He means another kind of art," said Lady Gosstre.  "The term 'artist,'
applied to our sex, signifies 'Frenchwoman' with him.  He does not allow
us to be anything but women.  As artists then we are largely privileged,
I assure you."

"Are we placed under a professor to learn the art?" Adela inquired,
pleased with the subject under such high patronage.

"Each new experience is your accomplished professor," said Tracy.  "One
I'll call Cleopatra a professor: she's but an illustrious example."

"Imp! you are corrupt."  With which my lady tapped farewell on his
shoulder.  Leaning from the carriage window, she said: "I suppose I shall
see you at Richford?  Merthyr Powys is coming this week.  And that
reminds me: he would be the man to appreciate your 'born artist.'  Bring
her to me.  We will have a dinner.  I will despatch a formal invitation
to-morrow.  The season's bad out of town for getting decent people to
meet you.  I will do my best."

She bowed to Adela and Tracy.  Mr. Pole, who had hovered around the
unfamiliar dialogue to attend the great lady to the door, here came in
for a recognition, and bowed obsequiously to the back of the carriage.

Arabella did not tell her sisters what weapons she had employed to effect
the rout of Mrs. Chump.  She gravely remarked that the woman had
consented to go, and her sisters thanked her.  They were mystified by
Laura's non-recognition of Emilia, and only suspected Wilfrid so faintly
that they were able to think they did not suspect him at all.  On the
whole, the evening had been a success.  It justified the ladies in
repeating a well-known Brookfield phrase: "We may be wrong in many
things, but never in our judgement of the merits of any given person."
In the case of Tracy Runningbrook, they had furnished a signal instance
of their discernment.  Him they had met at the house of a friend of the
Tinleys (a Colonel's wife distantly connected with great houses).  The
Tinleys laughed at his flaming head and him, but the ladies of Brookfield
had ears and eyes for a certain tone and style about him, before they
learnt that he was of the blood of dukes, and would be a famous poet.
When this was mentioned, after his departure, they had made him theirs,
and the Tinleys had no chance.  Through Tracy, they achieved their
introduction to Lady Gosstre.  And now they were to dine with her.  They
did not say that this was through Emilia.  In fact, they felt a little
that they had this evening been a sort of background to their prodigy:
which was not in the design.  Having observed, "She sang deliciously,"
they dismissed her, and referred to dresses, gaucheries of members of the
company, pretensions here and there, Lady Gosstre's walk, the way to
shuffle men and women, how to start themes for them to converse upon, and
so forth.  Not Juno and her Court surveying our mortal requirements in
divine independence of fatigue, could have been more considerate for the
shortcomings of humanity.  And while they were legislating this and that
for others, they still accepted hints for their own improvement, as those
who have Perfection in view may do.  Lady Gosstre's carriage of her
shoulders, and general manner, were admitted to be worthy of study.  "And
did you notice when Laura Tinley interrupted her conversation with Tracy
Runningbrook, how quietly she replied to the fact and nothing else, so
that Laura had not another word?"--"And did you observe her deference to
papa, as host?"--"And did you not see, on more than one occasion, with
what consummate ease she would turn a current of dialogue when it had
gone far enough?"  They had all noticed, seen, and observed.  They agreed
that there was a quality beyond art, beyond genius, beyond any special
cleverness; and that was, the great social quality of taking, as by
nature, without assumption, a queenly position in a circle, and making
harmony of all the instruments to be found in it.  High praise of Lady
Gosstre ensued.  The ladies of Brookfield allowed themselves to bow to
her with the greater humility, owing to the secret sense they nursed of
overtopping her still in that ineffable Something which they alone
possessed: a casket little people will be wise in not hurrying our Father
Time to open for them, if they would continue to enjoy the jewel they
suppose it to contain.  Finally, these energetic young ladies said their
prayers by the morning twitter of the birds, and went to their beds, less
from a desire for rest than because custom demanded it.

Three days later Emilia was a resident in the house, receiving lessons in
demeanour from Cornelia, and in horsemanship from Wilfrid.  She expressed
no gratitude for kindnesses or wonder at the change in her fortune, save
that pleasure sat like an inextinguishable light on her face.  There were
no delicate feeders on board, but this saccharine essence of rat
was too much even for the unscrupulous stomachs of South-Sea whalers.

A queer set they were on board that Sydney barque. Paper Jack, the captain,
was a feeble Cockney, of meek spirit and puny frame, who glided
about the vessel in a nankeen jacket and canvass pumps, a laughing-stock
to his crew.

The real command devolved upon the chief mate, John Jermin--a good
sailor and brave fellow, but violent, and given to drink.

The junior mate had deserted; of the four harpooners only one was
left, a fierce barbarian of a New Zealander--an excellent mariner,
whose stock of English was limited to nautical phrases and a frightful
power of oath, but who, in spite of his cannibal origin, ranked as
a sort of officer, in virtue of his harpoon, and took command of
the ship when mate and captain were absent.

What a capital story, by the bye, Typee tells us of one of this
Bembo's whaling exploits!

New Zealanders are brave and bloodthirsty, and excellent harpooners,
and they act up to the South-Seaman's war-cry, "A dead whale or a
stove boat!"

There is a world of wild romance and thrilling adventure in the
occasional glimpses of the whale fishery afforded us in Omoo; a
strange picturesqueness and piratical mystery about the lawless
class of seamen engaged in it.

Such a portrait gallery as Typee makes out of the Julia's crew,
beginning with Chips and Bungs, the carpenter and cooper, the "Cods,"
or leaders of the forecastle, and descending until he arrives at
poor Rope Yarn, or Ropey, as he was called, a stunted journeyman
baker from Holborn, the most helpless and forlorn of all land-lubbers,
the butt and drudge of the ship's company!

A Dane, a Portuguese, a Finlander, a savage from Hivarhoo, sundry
English, Irish, and Americans, a daring Yankee _beach-comber_,
called Salem, and Sydney Ben, a runaway ticket-of-leave-man, made
up a crew much too weak to do any good in the whaling way.

But the best fellow on board, and by far the most remarkable, was
a disciple of Esculapius, known as Doctor Long-Ghost.

Jermin is a good portrait; so is Captain Guy; but Long-Ghost is a jewel
of a boy, a complete original, hit off with uncommon felicity. Nothing
is told us of his early life.

Typee takes him up on board the Julia, shakes hands with him in the
last page of the book, and informs us that he has never since seen
or heard of him.

So we become acquainted with but a small section of the doctor's
life; his subsequent adventures are unknown, and, save a chance
hint or two, his previous career is a mystery, unfathomable as the
Tahitian coast, where, within a biscuit's toss of the coral shore,
soundings there are none.

Now and then he would obscurely refer to days more palmy and
prosperous than those spent on board the Julia.

But however great the contrast between his former fortunes and his then
lowly position, he exhibited much calm philosophy and cheerful resignation.
He was even merry and facetious, a practical wag of the very first order,
and as such a great favourite with the whole ship's company, the captain
excepted. He had arrived at Sydney in an emigrant ship, had expended
his resources, and entered as doctor on board the Julia. All British
whalers are bound to carry a medico, who is treated as a gentleman, so
long as he behaves as such, and has nothing to do but to drug the men
and play drafts with the captain. At first Long-Ghost and Captain Guy
hit it off very well; until, in an unlucky hour, a dispute about
politics destroyed their harmonious association.
The captain got a thrashing; the mutinous doctor was put in confinement and
on bread and water, ran away from the ship, was pursued, captured, and
again imprisoned. Released at last, he resigned his office, refused to
do duty, and went forward amongst the men. This was more magnanimous than
wise. Long-Ghost was a sort of medical Tom Coffin, a raw-boned giant,
upwards of two yards high, one of those men to whom the between-decks
of a small craft is a residence little less afflicting than one of
Cardinal Balue's iron cages. And to one who "had certainly, at some time
or other, spent money, drunk Burgundy, and associated with gentlemen,"
the Julia's forecastle must have contained a host of disagreeables,
irrespective of rats and cockroaches, of its low roof, evil odours,
damp timbers, and dungeon-like aspect. The captain's table, if less
luxurious than that of a royal yacht or New York liner, surely offered
something better than the biscuits, hard as gun-flints and thoroughly
honeycombed, and the shot-soup, "great round peas polishing themselves
like pebbles by rolling about in tepid water," on which the restive
man of medicine was fain to exercise his grinders during his abode
forward.

As regarded society, he lost little by relinquishing that of Guy the
Cockney, since he obtained in exchange the intimacy of Melville the
Yankee, who, to judge from his book, must be exceeding good company,
and to whom he was a great resource. The doctor was a man of learning
and accomplishments, who had made the most of his time whilst the sun
shone on his side the hedge, and had rolled his ungainly carcass
over half the world. "He quoted Virgil, and talked of Hobbes of
Malmsbury, besides repeating poetry by the canto, especially Hudibras.
In the easiest way imaginable, he could refer to an amour he had in Palermo,
his lion-hunting before breakfast among the Caffres, and the quality of
the coffee to be drunk in Muscat." Strangely must such reminiscences
have sounded in a whaler's forecastle, with Dunks the Dane, Finland
Van, and Wymontoo the Savage, for auditors.

The Julia had hitherto had little luck in her cruise, and could scarcely
hope for better in the state in which Typee found her. Besides the losses
by desertion, her crew was weakened by disease.

Several of the men lay sick in their berths, wholly unfit for duty.

The captain himself was ill, and all would have derived benefit from a
short sojourn in port; but this could not be thought of. The discipline
of the ship was bad, and the sailors, desperate and unruly fellows,
discontented, as well they might be, with their wretched provisions
and uncomfortable state, were not to be trusted on or near shore.

Three-fourths of them, had they once set foot on dry land, would
have absconded, taken refuge in the woods or amongst the savages,
and have submitted to any amount of tattoo, paint, and nose-ringing,
rather than return to the ship.

Already, at St Christina, one of the Marquesas, a large party had made
their escape in two of the four whale-boats, scuttling the third, and
cutting the tackles of the fourth nearly through, so that when Bembo
jumped in to clear it away, man and boat went souse into the water.

By the assistance of a French corvette, and by bribing the king of
the country with a musket and ammunition, the fugitives were captured.

But it was more than probable that they and others would renew the
attempt should opportunity offer; so there was no alternative but
to keep the sea, and hope for better days and for the convalescence
of the invalids.

Two of these died.

Neither Bible nor Prayer-book were on board the godless craft, and
like dogs, without form of Christian burial, the dead were launched
into the deep.

The situation of the survivors inspired with considerable uneasiness the
few amongst them capable of reflection.

The captain was ignorant of navigation; it was the mate who, from
the commencement of the voyage, had kept the ship's reckoning, and
kept it all to himself.

He had only to get washed overboard in a gale, or to walk over
in a drunken fit, to leave his shipmates in a fix of the most unpleasant
description, ignorant of latitude, longitude, and of everything else
necessary to be known to guide the vessel on her course.

And as to the sperm whales, which Jermin had promised them in such abundance
that they would only have to strike and take, not a single fin
showed itself.

At last the captain was reported dying, and the mate took counsel
with Long-Ghost, Typee, and others of the crew.

He would gladly have continued the cruise, but his wish was overruled,
and the whaler's stern was turned towards the Society Islands.

The first glimpse of the peaks of Tahiti was hailed with transport
by the Julia's weary mariners.

They had got a notion that if the captain left the ship, their
articles were no longer binding, and they should be free to follow
his example.

And, at any rate, the sickness on board and the shaky condition
of the barque, guaranteed them, as they thought, long and blissful
leisure amongst the waving palm-groves and soft-eyed Neuhas of
Polynesia.

Their arrival in sight of Papeetee, the Tahitian capital, was welcomed by
the boom of cannon.

The frigate Reine Blanche, at whose fore flew the flag of Admiral Du Petit
Thouars, thus celebrated the compulsory treaty, concluded that morning,
by which the island was ceded to the French.

Captain Guy and his baggage were now set on shore, and it was soon
apparent to his men that whilst he nursed himself in the pure climate
and pleasant shades of Tahiti, they were to put to sea under the
mate's orders, and after a certain time to touch again at the island,
and take off their commander.

The vessel was not even allowed to go into port, although needing
repairs, and in fact unseaworthy; and as to healing the sick, selfish
Paper Jack thought only of solacing his own infirmities.

The fury of the ill-fed, reckless, discontented crew, on discovering
the project of their superiors, passed all bounds.

Chips and Bungs volunteered to head a mutiny, and a round-robin was
drawn up and signed.

But when Wilson, an old acquaintance of Guy's, and acting consul in the
absence of missionary Pritchard, came on board, the gallant cooper, who
derived much of his courage from the grog-kid, was cowed and craven. The
grievances brought forward, amongst others that of the _salt-horse_, (a
horse's hoof with the shoe on, so swore the cook, had been found in the
pickle,) were treated as trifles and pooh-poohed by the functionary,
"a minute gentleman with a viciously pugged nose, and a decidedly thin
pair of legs." But if Bungs allowed himself to be brow-beaten, so did not
his comrades. Yankee Salem flourished a bowie-knife, and such alarming
demonstrations were made, that the _counsellor_, as the sailors persisted
in calling the consul, thought it wise to beat a retreat.
Jermin now tried his hand, holding out brilliant prospects of a rich cargo
of sperm oil, and a pocket-full of dollars for every man on his return
to Sydney. The mutineers were proof alike against menace and blandishment,
and, at the secret instigation of Long Ghost and Typee, resolutely refused
to do duty. The consul, who had promised to return, did not show; and at
last the mate, having now but a few invalids and landsmen to work
the ship and keep her off shore, was compelled to enter the harbour. The
Julia came to an anchor within cable's length of the French frigate,
on board which consul Wilson repaired to obtain assistance. The Reine
Blanche was to sail in a few days for Valparaiso, and the mutineers
expected to go with her and be delivered up to a British man-of-war.
Undismayed by this prospect, they continued stanch in their contumacy, and
presently an armed cutter, "painted a 'pirate black,' its crew a
dark, grim-looking set, and the officers uncommonly fierce-looking
little Frenchmen," conveyed them on board the frigate, where they were
duly handcuffed, and secured by the ankle to a great iron bar bolted down
to the berth-deck.

Touching the proceedings on board the French man-of-war, its imperfect
discipline, and the strange, un-nautical way of carrying on the
duty, Typee is jocular and satirical.

American though he be--and, but for occasional slight yankeeisms in his
style, we might have doubted even that fact--he has evidently much
more sympathy with his cousin John Bull than with his country's old
allies, the French, whom he freely admits to be a clever and gallant
nation, whilst he broadly hints that their valour is not likely to
be displayed to advantage on the water. He finds too much of the military
style about their marine institutions.

Sailors should be fighting men, but not soldiers or musket-carriers,
as they all are in turn in the French navy. He laughs at or objects
to every thing; the mustaches of the officers, the system of
punishment, the sour wine that replaces rum and water, the soup
instead of junk, the pitiful little rolls baked on board, and
distributed in lieu of hard biscuit.

And whilst praising the build of their ships--the only thing about them he
does praise--he ejaculates a hope, which sounds like a doubt, that they
will not some day fall into the hands of the people across the Channel.
"In case of war," he says, "what a fluttering of French ensigns there
would be! for the Frenchman makes but an indifferent seaman, and though
for the most part he fights well enough, somehow or other, he seldom
fights well enough to beat:"--at sea, be it understood. We are rather
at a loss to comprehend the familiarity shown by Typee with the internal
arrangements and architecture of the Reine Blanche. His time on board
was passed in fetters; at nightfall on the fifth day he left the ship.
How, we are curious to know, did he become acquainted with the minute
details of "the crack craft in the French navy," with the disposition
of her guns and decks, the complicated machinery by which certain exceedingly
simple things were done, and even with the rich hangings, mirrors, and
mahogany of the commodore's cabin? Surely the ragged and disreputable
mutineer of the Julia, whose foot had scarcely touched the gangway,
when he was hurried into confinement below, could have had scanty opportunity
for such observations: unless, indeed, Herman Melville, or Typee, or the
Rover, or by whatever other _alias_ he be known, instead of
creeping in at the hawse-holes, was welcomed on the quarter-deck and
admitted to the gun-room, or to the commodore's cabin, an honoured guest
in broad-cloth, not a despised merchant seaman in canvass frock and hat
of tarpaulin. We shall not dwell on these small inconsistencies and
oversights in an amusing book. We prefer accompanying the Julia's
crew to Tahiti, where they were put on shore contrary to their expectations,
and not altogether to their satisfaction, since they had anticipated a
rapid run to Valparaiso, the fag-end of a cruise in an English man-of-war,
and a speedy discharge at Portsmouth. Paper Jack and Consul Wilson had
other designs, and still hoped to reclaim them to their duty on board the
crazy Julia. On their stubborn refusal, they were given in charge
to a fat, good-humoured, old Tahitian, called Captain Bob, who, at
the head of an escort of natives, conveyed them up the country to a sort
of shed, known as the Calabooza Beretanee or English jail, used as a
prison for refractory sailors. This commences Typee's shore-going adventures,
not less pleasant and original than his sea-faring ones; although it is
with some regret that we lose sight of the vermin-haunted barque, on whose
board such strange and exciting scenes occurred.

Throughout the book, however, fun and incident abound, and we are
consoled for our separation from poor little Jule, by the curious insight
we obtain into the manners, morals, and condition of the gentle savages,
on whom an attempted civilisation has brought far more curses than
blessings.

"How pleasant were the songs of Toobonai,"
how gladsome and grateful the rustle of leaves and tinkle of rills, and
silver-toned voices of Tahitian maidens, to the rough seamen who had so
long been "cabined, cribbed, confined," in the Julia's filthy forecastle!
Not that they were allowed free range of the Eden of the South Seas.
On board the Reine Blanche their ankles had been manacled to an
iron bar; in the Calabooza, (from the Spanish _calabozo_, a dungeon,)
they were placed in rude wooden stocks twenty feet long, constructed
for the particular benefit of refractory mariners.

There they lay, merry men all of a row, fed upon _taro_ (Indian turnip)
and bread-fruit, and covered up at night with one huge counterpane
of brown _tappa_, the native cloth.

It was owing to no friendly indulgence on the part of Guy and the
consul, that their diet was so agreeable and salutary.

Every morning Ropey came grinning into the prison, with a bucket full
of the old worm-eaten biscuit from the Julia. It was a huge treat to the
unfortunate Cockney, thus to be instrumental in the annoyance of his
former persecutors; and lucky for him that their limbo'd legs prevented
their rewarding his visible exultation otherwise than by a shower of
maledictions. They swore to starve rather than consume the maggoty provender.
Luckily the natives had it in very different estimation. They did not
mind maggots, and held British biscuit to be a piquant and delicious
delicacy. So in exchange for their allotted ration, the mutineers
obtained a small quantity of vegetable food, and an unlimited supply of
oranges, thanks to which refreshing regimen the sick were speedily
restored to health. And after a few days of stocks and submission, jolly
old Captain Bob, who spoke sailor's English, and obstinately claimed
intimacy with Captain Cook,--whose visit to the island had occurred some
years before his birth--relaxed his severity, and allowed the captives
their freedom during the day. They profited of this permission to forage
a little, in a quiet way; assisting at pig-killings, and dropping in at
dinner-time upon the wealthier of their neighbours. Tahitian hospitality
is boundless, and the more praiseworthy that the island, although so
fertile, produces but a scanty amount of edibles. Bread-fruit is the
chief resource; fish, a very important one, the chief dependence of many
of the poorer natives. There is little industry amongst them, and on
the spontaneous produce of the soil the shipping make heavy demands.
Polynesian indolence is proverbial. Very light labour would enable the
Tahitians to roll in riches, at least according to their own
estimate of the value of money and of the luxuries it procures. The
sugar-cane is indigenous to the island, and of remarkably fine quality;
cotton is of ready growth; but the fine existing plantations "are owned
and worked by whites, who would rather pay a drunken sailor eighteen or
twenty Spanish dollars a month, than hire a sober native for his fish and
_taro_." Wholly without energy, the Tahitians saunter away their lives
in a state of drowsy indolence, aiming only at the avoidance of trouble,
and the sensual enjoyment of the moment.

The race rapidly diminishes. "In 1777, Captain Cook estimated the population
of Tahiti at about two hundred thousand.

By a regular census taken some four or five years ago, it was found to
be only nine thousand!"

Diseases of various kinds, entirely of European introduction, and
chiefly the result of drunkenness and debauchery, account for this
frightful decrease, which must result in the extinction of the
aborigines.

"The palm-tree shall grow, The coral shall spread, But man shall cease."

So runs an old Tahitian prophecy, soon to be realised. And if Pomaree, who
is under forty years of age, proves a long-lived sovereign, she may chance
to find herself a queen without subjects. Concerning her majesty and her
court, Typee is diffuse and diverting.
My father
pulled me away roughly from the laughing and staring people on the
bridge.  But I knew the potatoes were only bruised.  Even three potatoes
will prevent you from starving.  They were very fine ones, for I always
took care to buy them good.  When I reached home--"

Wilfrid had risen, and was yawning with a desperate grimace.  He bade her
continue, and pitched back heavily into his seat.

"When I reached home and could be alone with my mother, she told me my
father had been out watching me the day before, and that he had filled
his pockets that morning.  She thought he was going to walk out in the
country and get people on the road to cook them for him.  That is what he
has done when he was miserable,--to make himself quite miserable, I
think, for he loves streets best.  Guess my surprise!  My mother was
making my head ache with her complaints, when, as I drew out the potatoes
to show her we had some food, there was a purse at the bottom of my
pocket,--a beautiful green purse!  O that kind gentleman!  He must have
put it in my hand with the potatoes that my father flung at him!  How I
have cried to think that I may never sing to him my best to please him!
My mother and I opened the purse eagerly.  It had ten pounds in paper
money, and five sovereigns, and silver,--I think four shillings.  We
determined to keep it a secret; and then we thought of the best way of
spending it, and decided not to spend it all, but to keep some for when
we wanted it dreadfully, and for a lesson or two for me now and then, and
a music-score, and perhaps a good violin for my father, and new strings
for him and me, and meat dinners now and then, and perhaps a day in the
country: for that was always one of my dreams as I watched the clouds
flying over London.  They seemed to be always coming from happy places
and going to happy places, never stopping where I was!  I cannot be
sorrowful long.  You know that song of mine that you like so much--my own
composing?  It was a song about that kind gentleman.  I got words to suit
it as well as I could, from a penny paper, but they don't mean anything
that I mean, and they are only words."

She did not appear to hear the gallant cornet's denial that he cared
particularly for that song.

"What I meant was,--that gentleman speaks--I have fought for Italy; I am
an English hero and have fought for Italy, because of an Italian child;
but now I am wounded and a prisoner.  When you shoot me, cruel Austrians,
I shall hear her voice and think of nothing else, so you cannot hurt me."

Emilia turned spitefully on herself at this close.  "How I spoil it!  My
words are always stupid, when I feel.--Well, now my mother and I were
quite peaceful, and my father was better fed.  One night he brought home
a Jew gentleman, beautifully dressed, with diamonds all over him.  He
sparkled like the Christmas cakes in pastry-cooks" windows.  I sang to
him, and he made quite a noise about me.  But the man made me so
uncomfortable, touching my shoulders, and I could not bear his hands,
even when he was praising me.  I sang to him till the landlady made me
leave off, because of the other lodgers who wanted to sleep.  He came
every evening; and then said I should sing at a concert.  It turned out
to be a public-house, and my father would not let me go; but I was sorry;
for in public the man could not touch me as he did.  It damped the
voice!"

"I should like to know where that fellow lives," cried the cornet.

"I don't know, I'm sure," she said.  "He lends money.  Do you want any?
I heard your sisters say something, one day.  You can always have all
that I have, you know."

A quick spirit of pity and honest kindness went through Wilfrid's veins
and threatened to play the woman with his eyes, for a moment.  He took
her hand and pressed it.  She put her lips to his fingers.

"Once," she continued, "when the Jew gentleman had left, I spoke to my
father of his way with me, and then my father took me on his knee, and
the things he told me of what that man felt for me made my mother come
and tear me away to bed.  I was obliged to submit to the Jew gentleman
patting and touching me always.  He used to crush my dreams afterwards!
I know my voice was going.  My father was so eager for me to please him,
I did my best; but I felt dull, and used to sit and shake my head at my
harp, crying; or else I felt like an angry animal, and could have torn
the strings.

"Think how astonished I was when my mother came to me to say my father
had money in his pockets!--one pound, seventeen shillings, she counted:
and he had not been playing!  Then he brought home a new violin, and he
said to me, 'I shall go; I shall play; I am Orphee, and dinners shall
rise!'  I was glad, and kissed him; and he said, 'This is Sandra's gift
to me,' showing the violin.  I only knew what that meant two days
afterwards.  Is a girl not seventeen fit to be married?"

With this abrupt and singular question she had taken an indignant figure,
and her eyes were fiery: so that Wilfrid thought her much fitter than a
minute before.

"Married!" she exclaimed.  "My mother told me about that.  You do not
belong to yourself: you are tied down.  You are a slave, a drudge;
mustn't dream, mustn't think!  I hate it.  By-and-by, I suppose it will
happen.  Not yet!  And yet that man offered to take me to Italy.  It was
the Jew gentleman.  He said I should make money, if he took me, and grow
as rich as princesses.  He brought a friend to hear me, another Jew
gentleman; and he was delighted, and he met me near our door the very
next morning, and offered me a ring with blue stones, and he proposed to
marry me also, and take me to Italy, if I would give up his friend and
choose him instead.  This man did not touch me, and, do you know, for
some time I really thought I almost, very nearly, might,--if it had not
been for his face!  It was impossible to go to Italy--yes, to go to
heaven! through that face of his!  That face of his was just like the
pictures of dancing men with animals' hairy legs and hoofs in an old
thick poetry book belonging to my mother.  Just fancy a nose that seemed
to be pecking at great fat red lips!  He met me and pressed me to go
continually, till all of a sudden up came the first Jew gentleman, and he
cried out quite loud in the street that he was being robbed by the other;
and they stood and made a noise in the street, and I ran away.  But then
I heard that my father had borrowed money from the one who came first,
and that his violin came from that man; and my father told me the violin
would be taken from him, and he would have to go to prison, if I did not
marry that man.  I went and cried in my mother's arms.  I shall never
forget her kindness; for though she could never see anybody crying
without crying herself, she did not, and was quiet as a mouse, because
she knew how her voice hurt me.  There's a large print-shop in one of the
great streets of London, with coloured views of Italy.  I used to go
there once, and stand there for I don't know how long, looking at them,
and trying to get those Jew gentlemen--"

"Call them Jews--they're not gentlemen," interposed Wilfrid.

"Jews," she obeyed the dictate, "out of my mind.  When I saw the views of
Italy they danced and grinned up and down the pictures.  Oh, horrible!
There was no singing for me then.  My music died.  At last that oldish
lady gave up her lessons, and said to me, 'You little rogue! you will do
what I do, some day;' for she was going to be married to that young man
who thought her voice so much improved; and she paid me three pounds, and
gave me one pound more, and some ribbons and gloves.  I went at once to
my mother, and made her give me five pounds out of the gentleman's purse.
I took my harp and music-scores.  I did not know where I was going, but
only that I could not stop.  My mother cried: but she helped to pack my
things.  If she disobeys me I act my father, and tower over her, and
frown, and make her mild.  She was such a poor good slave to me that day!
but I trusted her no farther than the door.  There I kissed her, full of
love, and reached the railway.  They asked me where I was going, and
named places to me: I did not know one.  I shut my eyes, and prayed to be
directed, and chose Hillford.  In the train I was full of music in a
moment.  There I met farmer Wilson, of the farm near us--where your
sisters found me; and he was kind, and asked me about myself; and I
mentioned lodgings, and that I longed for woods and meadows.  Just as we
were getting out of the train, he said I was to come with him; and I did,
very gladly.  Then I met you; and I am here.  All because I prayed to be
directed--I do think that!"

Emilia clasped her hands, and looked pensively at the horizon sky, with a
face of calm gratefulness.

The cornet was on his legs.  "So!" he said.  "And you never saw anything
more of that fellow you kissed in the park?"

"Kissed?--that gentleman?" returned Emilia.  "I have not kissed him.  He
did not want it.  Men kiss us when we are happy, and we kiss them when
they are unhappy."

Wilfrid was perhaps incompetent to test the truth of this profound
aphoristic remark, delivered with the simplicity of natural conviction.
The narrative had, to his thinking, quite released from him his temporary
subjection to this little lady's sway.  All that he felt for her
personally now was pity.  It speaks something for the strength of the
sentiment with which he had first conceived her, that it was not pelted
to death, and turned to infinite disgust, by her potatoes.  For sentiment
is a dainty, delicate thing, incapable of bearing much: revengeful, too,
when it is outraged.  Bruised and disfigured, it stood up still, and
fought against them.  They were very fine ones, as Emilia said, and they
hit him hard.  However, he pitied her, and that protected him like a
shield.  He told his sisters a tale of his own concerning the strange
damsel, humorously enough to make them see that he enjoyed her presence
as that of no common oddity.


CHAPTER VII

While Emilia was giving Wilfrid her history in the garden, the ladies of
Brookfield were holding consultation over a matter which was well
calculated to perplex and irritate them excessively.  Mr. Pole had
received a curious short epistle from Mrs. Chump, informing him of the
atrocious treatment she had met with at the hands of his daughter; and
instead of reviewing the orthography, incoherence, and deliberate
vulgarity of the said piece of writing with the contempt it deserved, he
had taken the unwonted course of telling Arabella that she had done a
thing she must necessarily repent of, or in any case make apology for.
An Eastern Queen, thus addressed by her Minister of the treasury, could
not have felt greater indignation.  Arabella had never seen her father
show such perturbation of mind.  He spoke violently and imperiously.  The
apology was ordered to be despatched by that night's post, after having
been submitted to his inspection.  Mr. Pole had uttered mysterious
phrases: "You don't know what you've been doing:--You think the ship'll
go on sailing without wind: You'll drive the horse till he drops," and
such like; together with mutterings.  The words were of no import
whatsoever to the ladies.  They were writings on the wall;
untranslateable.  But, as when the earth quakes our noble edifices
totter, their Palace of the Fine Shades and the Nice Feelings groaned and
creaked, and for a moment they thought: "Where are we?"  Very soon they
concluded, that the speech Arabella had heard was due to their darling
papa's defective education.

In the Council of Three, with reference to the letter of apology to Mrs.
Chump, Adela proposed, if it pleased Arabella, to fight the battle of the
Republic.  She was young, and wished both to fight and to lead, as
Arabella knew.  She was checked.  "It must be left to me," said Arabella.

"Of course you resist, dear?" Cornelia carelessly questioned.

"Assuredly I do."

"Better humiliation! better anything! better marriage! than to submit in
such a case," cried Adela.

For, so united were the ladies of Brookfield, and so bent on their grand
hazy object, that they looked upon married life unfavourably: and they
had besides an idea that Wedlock, until 'late in life' (the age of
thirty, say), was the burial alive of woman intellectual.

Toward midday the ladies put on their garden hats and went into the
grounds together, for no particular purpose.  Near the West copse they
beheld Mr. Pole with Wilfrid and Emilia talking to a strange gentleman.
Assuming a proper dignity, they advanced, when, to their horror, Emilia
ran up to them crying: "This is Mr. Purcell Barrett, the gentleman who
plays the organ at church.  I met him in the woods before I knew you.  I
played for him the other Sunday, and I want you to know him."

She had hold of Arabella's hand and was drawing her on.  There was no
opportunity for retreat.  Wilfrid looked as if he had already swallowed
the dose.  Almost precipitated into the arms of the ladies, Mr. Barrett
bowed.  He was a tolerably youthful man, as decently attired as old black
cloth could help him to be.  A sharp inspection satisfied the ladies that
his hat and boots were inoffensive: whereupon they gave him the three
shades of distance, tempered so as not to wound his susceptible poverty.

The superlative Polar degree appeared to invigorate Mr. Barrett.  He
devoted his remarks mainly to Cornelia, and cheerfully received her
frozen monosyllables in exchange.  The ladies talked of Organs and Art,
Emilia and Opera.  He knew this and that great organ, and all the operas;
but he amazed the ladies by talking as if he knew great people likewise.
This brought out Mr. Pole, who, since he had purchased Brookfield, had
been extinguished by them and had not once thoroughly enjoyed his money's
worth.  A courtly poor man was a real pleasure to him.

Giving a semicircular sweep of his arm: "Here you see my little estate,
sir," he said.  "You've seen plenty bigger in Germany, and England too.
We can't get more than this handful in our tight little island.  Unless
born to it, of course.  Well! we must be grateful that all our nobility
don't go to the dogs.  We must preserve our great names.  I speak against
my own interest."

He lifted Adela's chin on his forefinger.  She kept her eyes demurely
downward, and then gazed at her sisters with gravity.  These ladies took
a view of Mr. Barrett.  His features wore an admirable expression of
simple interest.  "Well, sir; suppose you dine with us to-day?" Mr. Pole
bounced out.  "Neighbours should be neighbourly."

This abrupt invitation was decorously accepted.

"Plain dinner, you know.  Nothing like what you get at the tables of
those Erzhogs, as you call 'em, over in Germany.  Simple fare; sound
wine!  At all events, it won't hurt you.  You'll come?"

Mr. Barrett bowed, murmuring thanks.  This was the very man Mr. Pole
wanted to have at his board occasionally: one who had known great people,
and would be thankful for a dinner.  He could depreciate himself as a
mere wealthy British merchant imposingly before such a man.  His
daughters had completely cut him off from his cronies; and the sense of
restriction, and compression, and that his own house was fast becoming
alien territory to him, made him pounce upon the gentlemanly organist.
His daughters wondered why he should, in the presence of this stranger,
exaggerate his peculiar style of speech.  But the worthy merchant's
consciousness of his identity was vanishing under the iron social rule of
the ladies.  His perishing individuality prompted the inexplicable
invitation, and the form of it.

After Mr. Barrett had departed, the ladies ventured to remonstrate with
their papa.  He at once replied by asking whether the letter to Mrs.
Chump had been written; and hearing that it had not, he desired that
Arabella should go into the house and compose it straightway.  The ladies
coloured.  To Adela's astonishment, she found that Arabella had turned.
Joining her, she said, "Dearest, what a moment you have lost!  We could
have stood firm, continually changing the theme from Chump to Barrett,
Barrett to Chump, till papa's head would have twirled.  He would have
begun to think Mr. Barrett the Irish widow, and Mrs. Chump the organist."

Arabella rejoined: "Your wit misleads you, darling.  I know what I am
about.  I decline a wordy contest.  To approach to a quarrel, or, say
dispute, with one's parent apropos of such a person, is something worse
than evil policy, don't you think?"

So strongly did the sisters admire this delicate way of masking a piece
of rank cowardice, that they forgave her.  The craven feeling was common
to them all, which made it still more difficult to forgive her.

"Of course, we resist?" said Cornelia.

"Undoubtedly."

"We retire and retire," Adela remarked.  "We waste the royal forces.
But, dear me, that makes us insurgents!"

She laughed, being slightly frivolous.  Her elders had the proper
sentimental worship of youth and its supposed quality of innocence, and
caressed her.

At the ringing of the second dinner-bell, Mr. Pole ran to the foot of the
stairs and shouted for Arabella, who returned no answer, and was late in
her appearance at table.  Grace concluded, Mr. Pole said, "Letter gone?
I wanted to see it, you know."

"It was as well not, papa," Arabella replied.

Mr. Pole shook his head seriously.  The ladies were thankful for the
presence of Mr. Barrett.  And lo! this man was in perfect evening
uniform.  He looked as gentlemanly a visitor as one might wish to see.
There was no trace of the poor organist.  Poverty seemed rather a gold-
edge to his tail-coat than a rebuke to it; just as, contrariwise, great
wealth is, to the imagination, really set off by a careless costume.  One
need not explain how the mind acts in such cases: the fact, as I have put
it, is indisputable.  And let the young men of our generation mark the
present chapter, that they may know the virtue residing in a tail-coat,
and cling to it, whether buffeted by the waves, or burnt out by the fire,
of evil angry fortune.  His tail-coat safe, the youthful Briton is always
ready for any change in the mind of the moody Goddess.  And it is an
almost certain thing that, presuming her to have a damsel of condition in
view for him as a compensation for the slaps he has received, he must
lose her, he cannot enter a mutual path with her, if he shall have failed
to retain this article of a black tail, his social passport.  I mean of
course that he retain respect for the article in question.  Respect for
it firmly seated in his mind, the tail may be said to be always handy.
It is fortune's uniform in Britain: the candlestick, if I may dare to say
so, to the candle; nor need any young islander despair of getting to
himself her best gifts, while he has her uniform at command, as glossy as
may be.

The ladies of Brookfield were really stormed by Mr. Barrett's elegant
tail.  When, the first glass of wine nodded over, Mr. Pole continued the
discourse of the morning, with allusions to French cooks, and his cook,
their sympathies were taken captive by Mr. Barrett's tact: the door to
their sympathies having been opened to him as it were by his attire.
They could not guess what necessity urged Mr. Pole to assert his locked-
up self so vehemently; but it certainly made the stranger shine with a
beautiful mild lustre.  Their spirits partly succumbed to him by a
process too lengthened to explain here.  Indeed, I dare do no more than
hint at these mysteries of feminine emotion.  I beg you to believe that
when we are dealing with that wonder, the human heart female, the part
played by a tail-coat and a composed demeanour is not insignificant.  No
doubt the ladies of Brookfield would have rebutted the idea of a tail-
coat influencing them in any way as monstrous.  But why was it, when Mr.
Pole again harped on his cook, in almost similar words, that they were
drawn to meet the eyes of the stranger, on whom they printed one of the
most fabulously faint fleeting looks imaginable, with a proportionately
big meaning for him that might read it?  It must have been that this
uniform of a tail had laid a basis of equality for the hour, otherwise
they never would have done so; nor would he have enjoyed the chance of
showing them that he could respond to the remotest mystic indications,
with a muffled adroitness equal to their own, and so encouraged them to
commence a language leading to intimacy with a rapidity that may well
appear magical to the uninitiated.  In short, the man really had the
language of the very elect of polite society.  If you are not versed in
this alphabet of mute intelligence, you are in the ranks with waiters and
linen-drapers, and are, as far as ladies are concerned, tail-coated to no
purpose.

Mr. Pole's fresh allusion to his cook: "I hope you don't think I keep a
man!  No; no; not in the country.  Wouldn't do.  Plays the deuce, you
know.  My opinion is, Mrs. Mallow's as clever as any man-cook going.  I'd
back her:" and Mr. Barrett's speech: "She is an excellent person!"
delivered briefly, with no obtrusion of weariness, confirmed the triumph
of the latter; a triumph all the greater, that he seemed unconscious of
it.  They leaped at one bound to the conclusion that there was a romance
attached to him.  Do not be startled.  An attested tail-coat, clearly out
of its element, must contain a story: that story must be interesting;
until its secret is divulged, the subtle essence of it spreads an aureole
around the tail.  The ladies declared, in their subsequent midnight
conference, that Mr. Barrett was fit for any society.  They had visions
of a great family reduced; of a proud son choosing to earn his bread
honourably and humbly, by turning an exquisite taste to account.  Many
visions of him they had, and were pleased.

Patronage of those beneath, much more than the courting of those above
them, delighted the ladies of Brookfield.  They allowed Emilia to give
Mr. Barrett invitations, and he became a frequent visitor; always neat,
pathetically well-brushed, and a pleasanter pet than Emilia, because he
never shocked their niceties.  He was an excellent talker, and was very
soon engaged in regular contests with the argumentative Cornelia.  Their
political views were not always the same, as Cornelia sometimes had read
the paper before he arrived.  Happily, on questions of religion, they
coincided.  Theories of education occupied them mainly.  In these
contests Mr. Barrett did not fail to acknowledge his errors, when
convicted, and his acknowledgment was hearty and ample.  She had many
clear triumphs.  Still, he could be positive; a very great charm in him.
Women cannot repose on a man who is not positive; nor have they much
gratification in confounding him.  Wouldst thou, man, amorously
inclining! attract to thee superior women, be positive.  Be stupidly
positive, rather than dubious at all.  Face fearful questions with a
vizor of brass.  Array thyself in dogmas.  Show thy decisive judgement on
the side of established power, or thy enthusiasm in the rebel ranks, if
it must be so; but be firm.  Waver not.  If women could tolerate
waverings and weakness, and did not rush to the adoration of decision of
mind, we should not behold them turning contemptuously from philosophers
in their agony, to find refuge in the arms of smirking orthodoxy.  I do
not say that Mr. Barrett ventured to play the intelligent Cornelia like a
fish; but such a fish was best secured by the method he adopted: that of
giving her signal victory in trifles, while on vital matters he held his
own.

Very pleasant evenings now passed at Brookfield, which were not at all
disturbed by the wonder expressed from time to time by Mr. Pole, that he
had not heard from Martha, meaning Mrs. Chump.  "You have Emilia," the
ladies said; this being equivalent to "She is one of that sort;" and Mr.
Pole understood it so, and fastened Emilia in one arm, with "Now, a kiss,
my dear, and then a toon." Emilia readily gave both.  As often as he
heard instances of her want of ladylike training, he would say, "Keep her
here; we'll better her."  Mr. Barrett assisted the ladies to see that
there was more in Emilia than even Mr. Pericles had perceived.  Her story
had become partially known to them; and with two friendly dependents of
the household, one a gentleman and the other a genius, they felt that
they had really attained a certain eminence, which is a thing to be felt
only when we have something under our feet.  Flying about with a
desperate grip on the extreme skirts of aristocracy, the ladies knew to
be the elevation of dependency, not true eminence; and though they
admired the kite, they by no means wished to form a part of its tail.
They had brains.  A circle was what they wanted, and they had not to
learn that this is to be found or made only in the liberally-educated
class, into the atmosphere of which they pressed like dungeoned plants.
The parasite completes the animal, and a dependent assures us of our
position.  The ladies of Brookfield, therefore, let Emilia cling to them,
remarking, that it seemed to be their papa's settled wish that she should
reside among them for a time.  Consequently, if the indulgence had ever
to be regretted, they would not be to blame.  In their hearts they were
aware that it was Emilia who had obtained for them their first invitation
to Lady Gosstre's.  Gratitude was not a part of their policy, but when it
assisted a recognition of material facts they did not repress it.  "And
if," they said, "we can succeed in polishing her and toning her, she may
have something to thank us for, in the event of her ultimately making a
name."  That event being of course necessary for the development of so
proper a sentiment.  Thus the rides with Wilfrid continued, and the sweet
quiet evenings when she sang.


CHAPTER VIII

The windows of Brookfield were thrown open to the air of May, and bees
wandered into the rooms, gold spots of sunshine danced along the floors.
The garden-walks were dazzling, and the ladies went from flower-bed to
flower-bed in broad garden hats that were, as an occasional light glance
flung at a window-pane assured Adela, becoming.  Sunshine had burst on
them suddenly, and there was no hat to be found for Emilia, so Wilfrid
placed his gold-laced foraging-cap on her head, and the ladies, after a
moment's misgiving, allowed her to wear it, and turned to observe her now
and then.  There was never pertness in Emilia's look, which on the
contrary was singularly large and calm when it reposed: perhaps her
dramatic instinct prompted her half-jaunty manner of leaning against the
sunny corner of the house where the Chinese honeysuckle climbed.  It was
made of the skin of some animal, whose genus I will not venture to
guess; and had been contrived in such fashion that the tail hung
over the top, and whisked about at the caprice of the wearer.

This was a never-failing source of amusement to the performer himself, as
well as to the native bystanders. As he bobbed his head up and down,
and ran after this tail, the people burst into peals of laughter.

They were quite taken up with the exhibition, except when they stole a
moment now and then for a peep to see how the Frank visitors were
amused with their wit. Besides this, the jester had a number of practical
jokes, such as coming quietly along-side of some unsuspecting person,
and catching hold of his leg, barking loudly the while, so as to make him
think that some dog had bitten him. But this part of the performance was
decidedly coarse, and did not improve our idea of the civilisation
of the place. A good deal of sketching was going on in the course of
this day; and the visages of some of these musicians, and especially of
the jester, and of a blind old choragus, have been handed down to the
posterity of our affectionate friends. We had a visit this day of a gentler
kind. A Greek lady, the owner of considerable landed property in the
place, came with her youthful daughter to interchange civilities
with us.

She was a plain, almost ugly old woman; but, like nine out of ten of
all women extant, was of kind and _feminine_ disposition. Moreover, like
the rest of the ladies, she was very fond of talking; but, on this particular
occasion, unhappily could speak no single word that would convey
meaning to us. Still it was not to be expected that she could hold her
tongue; so she squatted down by us, and talked, perhaps all the faster
because she had the conversation all to herself. Her daughter was a young
lady, whom by appearance in England, you would call somewhere in her
teens; but, hereaway they are so precocious that one is constantly
deceived in guessing their age.

She would have been pretty if she had been clean; and was abundantly
and expensively ornamented.

Sometimes we hear it figuratively said of a domestic coquette, that
she carries all her property on her back.

These Greeks must be well off, if it may not sometimes be so said with
propriety of them. They have a plan of advertising a young lady's assets,
in a manner that must be most satisfactory to fortune-hunters, and
prevent the mistakes that with us constantly foil the best-laid plans.
They turn a girl's fortune into money, and hang it--it, the fortune
proper--the [Greek: poion] and the [Greek: poson]--about her neck.

They do not buy jewels worth so many hundreds or tens--but transpierce
the actual coin, and of them compose a necklace of whose value there can
be no doubt, and whose fashion is not very variable. This may be called
a fair and above-board way of doing things.

The swain, as he sits by the beloved object, may amuse himself by counting
the number of precious links in the chain that is drawing him into
matrimony, and debate within himself, on sure data, the question
whether or no he shall yield to the gentle influence.

There would not have been much doubt about the monetary recommendations
of this young lady, for she was abundantly gilt, as became the
daughter of one reputed so rich as the old lady.

Poor girls!

It makes one sad to look upon them, brought up with so little idea of what
is girlish and beautiful; to see them ignorant yet sophisticated,
bejeweled and unwashed.

This poor child was decked out in the most absurd manner, and sat
for admiration most palpably.

She also sat for something else, which was her picture. This was taken
by several of the party, so much to the satisfaction of mother and
daughter, that the old lady insisted on taking her turn as model.
We invariably found them pleased with the productions of our art in
these cases, and satisfied of the correctness of the likeness. The only
objections they would occasionally make, would refer to the pretermission
of some such thing as a tassel in the cap.
The fidelity of the likeness they took implicitly on trust.

I have said we could not talk to this old lady, Greek though she was,
furnished though some of us were with the language of her
compatriots.

The deficiency was on her part--not on ours. She could not speak one single
word of her own language. And so it is, that of all the Greeks of
Adalia, not one can converse in the language of their fathers.

Separated from their countrymen, they have become almost a distinct
race; and, losing that language of which they have no practice,
have learnt to use as their own the vernacular of the land in which
they are immigrants of such antique standing.

They talk Turkish--live almost like Turks; and by their religion only
are distinguished from their neighbours.

For religious purposes they use their own language: and, by
consequence, understand no single word of the ritual or lessons.

This is certainly a singular national position--impossible, except from
religious prevention. It is just the reverse of what may be seen elsewhere:
for instance, in the mountains of Thessaly you find a colony of Germans,
who, though completely shut in by the people of the land, and holding
intercourse with none other, remain foreigners and Germans, resisting
the tendency to amalgamation. So in Sicily you find the _Piana della
Grecia_, where the original Greek colonists have kept their language and
customs in their integrity. But where else, save in this one spot, will
you find people who, after having imbibed the influences of the country
to the extent of adoption of its language, have been able to resist
amalgamation with its denizens in every respect?

By the bye, these people have opened a sort of royal road to the
acquisition of the Turkish language. The orthography of this language is
a most vexed and perplexed affair. Those who have made the attempt to
master its difficulties may say something in its vituperation; but the
practice of many of those who are well acquainted therewith, says a
great deal more. These Greeks, for instance, though they have adopted
this language as their own, and have been accustomed in no other to lisp
to their nurses, have altogether discarded the orthography. They speak
as do the natives, but write in their own character; accommodating the
flexible capabilities of their alphabet to the purposes of Turkish orthoepy.
Thus have you the means of reading Turkish in a familiar character, which
also has the advantage of presenting your words in a definite form. The
real Turkish alphabet is any thing but definite; at least to one within
any decent term of years of his commencing the study. This is a mode
of teaching which I have known to be insisted on by at least one good
master: though of course the man of any ambition would regard this
byway to knowledge as merely a step preliminary in the course.

This was not the only party at which we assisted during our visit.
A rich Greek merchant invited us to enjoy the coolness of evening in his
gardens. It was duly impressed on our minds by the gentleman of the
place that this old fellow was worth his weight in gold.

They did say that his name was good for £150,000--a long figure, certainly,
to meet in such a place.

He was a quiet-looking, unpretending person, with very much the air
of a moneyed man.

The hope that we had formed of seeing a display of the youth and
fashion of Adalia was disappointed.

It was by all express relaxation of the law of etiquette that we
had the opportunity of seeing even the one or two ladies belonging
to the family.

Greeks, in their own country, though exceedingly jealous, and apt
to build up alarms on the slightest foundation, are yet by no means
chary in showing their women.

In-doors and out, you will meet them, both old and young; and
perfectly unconstrained and companionable you will find them.

But here the case is far otherwise.

They have acquired so much of Mussulman notions, that they do not
allow their women to mix in society.

This is the general rule: more pliant to occasion than the law of
the Turks, which never yields.

And not only here is there a strong feeling on this subject: the
same prejudice prevails widely in the Turco-Greek islands.

For instance, in Mytilene, on occasion of taking that long excursion
which I have already mentioned, we observed that all the women we
met were old and ugly.

From this observed fact we drew conclusions unfavourable to the general
appearance and presentability of the Mytilenian ladies. But subsequently
we found the reason of the phenomenon to be, that the young and pretty
girls were kept within doors, and the old ones alone allowed the
privilege of walking forth--a difference of condition that might
almost induce the girls of Mytilene to wish for age and wrinkles.

They did not, at Adalia, use us quite so ill as to withhold their ladies
from the entertainment.

The mother was there and a daughter--a young lady with the romantic name
of Dúdù. With such a name as this she ought to have been very pretty,
and certainly she did not fall far short of such condition. It was clearly
to be perceived that she was unaccustomed to mix in general society, and
that the company of strange men disturbed her. But she was not ungraceful
either in manner or dress, or in her evident desire to please. The place
of our reception was in the central court, which the best kind of houses
preserve--a contrivance which gives to each of the four sides on
which the building is disposed, the advantages of a pure and thorough
current of air. Here we sat drinking sherbet, and, of course, smoking the
unfailing chibouque. The lady mother was painfully anxious to talk to us,
and pretty Miss Dúdù was seriously bent on listening; but we
could not manage to execute a colloquy. All the civil things imaginable
were expressed to us by gesture, and the young lady came out
strong in the presentation of bouquets. One fortunate man received
from her an orange, the only one remaining at that time in the garden;
this we persuaded ourselves must, in their symbolical language,
imply a declaration of some soft interest.
Miss Dúdù would not have been such a very bad _parti_, being, as
she was, the sole heritress of her father's thousands.

However, she was, we understood, engaged already to a youth, who was obeying
the cruel law prevalent in this place, which compels the accepted swain
to absent himself from his inamorata for a long probation. I think the
time was said to be a year; during which no communication must pass
between the parties. Should the first overtures of a suitor be rejected,
it is a settled matter of etiquette, that he never again is to see
or speak to the young lady.

This must be likely, we would think, to render a man cautious in proposing:
but certainly it must tend to lessen the number of eventual old maids,
by rendering the young ladies also chary of saying No, when they
mean Yes.

On the whole, we can scarcely admire their matrimonial tactics. We
found that we were among a family of Hádjis.

Miss Dúdù was a Hadji, and so were her father and mother. In their case
the place of pilgrimage is Jerusalem, a visit to which confers on them
the respectable title of Hadji for life. This old gentleman had made a
pious use of some of his money, by promoting the cause of pilgrimage
among his less opulent brethren.

The desire to tread the holy soil is common to them all; not only to the
religious. These have their motives; but so also have the disorderly
and wicked, who think that a world of cheating and ill-living is covered
over by the wholesome cloak of pilgrimage.

There are also certain less considerable places of pilgrimage,
invested with considerable sanctity, though inferior in character to the
one great rendezvous of the religious.
Health to body seems often the expected result of visits to these secondary
places, to which recourse will frequently be had when medical aid has
failed to be available. Dúdù's father had made himself highly popular
by chartering a vessel, and conveying, for charity's sake, as many
devotees as chose to go on one of these minor expeditions. The island
of Cyprus has a convent of peculiar sanctity, a visit to which is
highly esteemed as an antidote to bodily ills.

He gave a great number the opportunity of testing the truth of the
tradition.

It was not bad fun, after all, tarrying a few days in Adalia: only, by
choice, we would hardly choose that particular season for the
excursion.

What between the Consul's gardens, and the old Greek, and the little bit
of business we had upon our hands, we managed to get through the
time pleasantly enough.

We saw that we had here a good specimen of the variety of life commonly
described as deadly-lively.

Were it not that they have such a lot of strangers constantly passing
through the place, they might seem to be in danger of a
moral_anchylosis_--of falling into a state of mind so rusty, as to
be incapable of direction to any object, save such as lay before
them, in the way of immediate physical requirement.

The few days that we remained there did not afford time enough for the
disease to make much head with us. Indeed, for us it was a variety of
experience, sufficiently stirring for the time, to mark the ways of a
people so deeply buried in imperturbability and incuriosity.

I think we were not sorry when at last the messenger returned from
the Caimacan, and we found we were in condition to leave the place.

The Consul was set on his legs again, and the English name in better odour
than ever. The _attachés_ of the consulate had taken care that our visit
should fail in no degree of its wholesome influence, for want of
their good word; and I fancy that the town's people thought themselves
rather well off that we left their town standing.

We left, too, with the full reputation for merciful dealing; as we
had spared the poor soap-rioters the infliction of the bastinado.

And so we sped on our way to Rhodes.

PACIFIC ROVINGS.[C]

We were much puzzled, a few weeks since, by a tantalising and unintelligible
paragraph, pertinaciously reiterated in the London newspapers.

Its brevity equalled its mystery; it consisted but of five words, the
first and last in imposing majuscules.

Thus it ran:--
"OMOO, by the author of TYPEE."
With Trinculo we exclaimed, "What have we here? a man or a fish? dead or
alive?"

Who or what were Typee and Omoo? Were things or creatures thus designated?
Did they exist on the earth, or in the air, or in the waters under
the earth; were they spiritual or material, vegetable or mineral,
brute or human?

Were they newly-discovered planets, nicknamed whilst awaiting baptism,
or strange fossils, contemporaries of the Megatherium, or Magyar
dissyllables from Dr Bowring's vocabulary? Perchance they were a pair
of new singers for the Garden, or a fresh brace of beasts for the legitimate
drama at Drury. Omoo might be the heavy elephant; Typee the light-comedy
camel. Did danger lurk in the enigmatical words? Were they obscure
intimations of treasonable designs, Swing advertisements, or masonic
signs? Was the palace at Westminster in peril? had an agent of sure of
Barbarossa Joinville undermined the Trafalgar column? Were they
conspirators' watchwords, lovers' letters, signals concerted between
the robbers of Rogers's bank? We tried them anagrammatically, but in
vain:
there was nought to be made of Omoo; shake it as we would, the O's
came uppermost; and by reversing Typee we obtained but a pitiful result.
At last a bright gleam broke through the mist of conjecture. Omoo was a
book. The outlandish title that had perplexed us was intended to perplex;
it was a bait thrown out to that wide-mouthed fish, the public; a
specimen of what is theatrically styled _gag_. Having but an indifferent
opinion of books ushered into existence by such charlatanical manoeuvres,
we thought no more of Omoo, until, musing the other day over our matutinal
hyson, the volume itself was laid before us, and we suddenly found
ourselves in the entertaining society of Marquesan Melville, the
phoenix of modern voyagers, sprung, it would seem, from the mingled
ashes of Captain Cook and Robin Crusoe.

Those who have read M. Herman Melville's former work will remember, those
who have not are informed by the introduction to the present one, that the
author, an educated American, whom circumstances had shipped as a common
sailor on board a South-Seaman, was left by his vessel on the island of
Nukuheva, one of the Marquesan group.

Here he remained some months, until taken off by a Sydney whaler,
short-handed, and glad to catch him.

At this point of his adventures he commences Omoo. The title is borrowed
from the dialect of the Marquesas, and signifies a rover:
the book is excellent, quite first-rate, the "clear grit," as Mr
Melville's countrymen would say.

Its chief fault, almost its only one, interferes little with the pleasure
of reading it, will escape many, and is hardly worth insisting upon. Omoo
is of the order composite, a skilfully concocted Robinsonade, where
fictitious incident is ingeniously blended with genuine information.

Doubtless its author has visited the countries he describes, but not in
the capacity he states.

He is no Munchausen; there is nothing improbable in his adventures, save
their occurrence to himself, and that he should have been a man before the
mast on board South-Sea traders, or whalers, or on any ship or ships
whatever. His speech betrayeth him. His voyages and wanderings commenced,
according to his own account, at least as far back as the year 1838;
for aught we know they are not yet at an end. On leaving Tahiti in 1843,
he made sail for Japan, and the very book before us may have been
scribbled on the greasy deck of a whaler, whilst floating amidst
the coral reefs of the wide Pacific.

True that in his preface, and in the month of January of the present
year, Mr Melville hails from New York; but in such matters we really
place little dependence upon him. From his narrative we gather that
this literary and gentlemanly common-sailor is quite a young man. His
life, therefore, since he emerged from boyhood, has been spent in
a ship's forecastle, amongst the wildest and most ignorant class
of mariners.

Yet his tone is refined and well-bred; he writes like one accustomed
to good European society, who has read books and collected stores
of information, other than could be perused or gathered in the
places and amongst the rude associates he describes.

These inconsistencies are glaring, and can hardly be explained. A wild
freak or unfortunate act of folly, or a boyish thirst for adventure,
sometimes drives lads of education to try life before the mast, but
when suited for better things they seldom persevere; and Mr Melville does
not seem to us the manner of man to rest long contented with the coarse
company and humble lot of merchant seamen. Other discrepancies strike
us in his book and character.

The train of suspicion once lighted, the flame runs rapidly along. Our
misgivings begin with the title-page.

"Lovel or Belville," says the Laird of Monkbarns, "are just the names
which youngsters are apt to assume on such occasions." And Herman Melville
sounds to us vastly like the harmonious and carefully selected appellation
of an imaginary hero of romance.

Separately the names are not uncommon; we can urge no valid reason against
their junction, and yet in this instance they fall suspiciously
on our ear.

We are similarly impressed by the dedication.

Of the existence of Uncle Gansevoort, of Gansevoort, Saratoga County, we
are wholly incredulous.

We shall commission our New York correspondents to inquire as to the
reality of Mr Melville's avuncular relative, and, until certified
of his corporality, shall set down the gentleman with the Dutch
patronymic as a member of an imaginary clan.

Although glad to escape from Nukuheva, where he had been held in a sort
of honourable captivity, Typee--the _alias_ bestowed upon the rover by
his new shipmates, after the valley whence they rescued him--was but
indifferently pleased with the vessel on which he left it, and whose
articles he signed as a seaman for one cruise.

The Julia was of a beautiful model, and on or before a wind she sailed
like a witch; but that was all that could be said in her praise. She was
rotten to the core, incommodious, and ill-provided, badly manned, and
worse commanded.
American-built, she dated from the Short war, had served as a
privateer, been taken by the British, passed through many vicissitudes,
and was in no condition for a long cruise in the Pacific.

So mouldering was her fabric, that the reckless sailors, when seated
in the forecastle, dug their knives into the dank boards between
them and eternity as easily as into the moist sides of some old
pollard oak.

She was much dilapidated and rapidly becoming more so; for Black
Baltimore, the ship's cook, when in want of firewood, did not scruple to
hack splinters from the bits and beams. Lugubrious indeed was the aspect
of the forecastle. Landsmen, whose ideas of a sailor's sleeping-place
are taken from the snow-white hammocks and exquisitely clean berth-deck
of a man of war, or from the rough, but substantial comfort of a
well-appointed merchantman, can form no conception of the surpassing
and countless abominations of a South-Sea whaler.

The "Little Jule," as her crew affectionately styled her, was a craft of
two hundred tons or thereabouts; she had sailed with thirty-two hands,
whom desertion had reduced to twenty, but these were too many for the
cramped and putrid nook in which they slept, ate, and smoked, and
alternately desponded or were jovial, as sickness and discomfort, or a
Saturday night's bottle and hopes of better luck, got the upper
hand. Want of room, however, was one of the least grievances of which
the Julia's crew complained. It was a mere trifle, not worth the
naming. They could have submitted to close stowage had the dunnage been
decent. But instead of swinging in cosy hammocks, they slept in _bunks_
or wretched pigeon-holes, on fragments of sails, unclean rags, blanket-shreds,
and the like.

"If I promise I perform," returned Mr. Pole.

"Our Hillford people have cause for complaint," Mr. Barrett observed.
And to Emilia: "You will hardly favour one party more than another, will
you?"

"I am for that poor man Jim," said Emilia, "He carried my harp evening
after evening, and would not even take sixpence for the trouble."

"Are you really going to sing there?"

"Didn't you hear?  I promised."

"To-night?"

"Yes; certainly."

"Do you know what it is you have promised?"

"To sing."

Adela glided to her sisters near at hand, and these ladies presently
hemmed Emilia in.  They had a method of treating matters they did not
countenance, as if nature had never conceived them, and such were the
monstrous issue of diseased imaginations.  It was hard for Emilia to hear
that what she designed to do was "utterly out of the question and not to
be for one moment thought of." She reiterated, with the same interpreting
stress, that she had given her promise.

"Do you know, I praised you for putting them off so cleverly," said Adela
in tones of gentle reproach that bewildered Emilia.

"Must we remind you, then, that you are bound by a previous promise?"
Cornelia made a counter-demonstration with the word.  "Have you not
promised to dine with us at Lady Gosstre's to-night?"

"Oh, of course I shall keep that," replied Emilia.  "I intend to.  I will
sing there, and then I will go and sing to those poor people, who never
hear anything but dreadful music--not music at all, but something that
seems to tear your flesh!"

"Never mind our flesh," said Adela pettishly: melodiously remonstrating
the next instant: "I really thought you could not be in earnest."

"But," said Arabella, "can you find pleasure in wasting your voice and
really great capabilities on such people?"

Emilia caught her up--"This poor man?  But he loves music: he really
knows the good from the bad.  He never looks proud but when I sing to
him."

The situation was one that Cornelia particularly enjoyed.  Here was a low
form of intellect to be instructed as to the precise meaning of a word,
the nature of a pledge.  "There can be no harm that I see, in your
singing to this man," she commenced.  "You can bid him come to one of the
out-houses here, if you desire, and sing to him.  In the evening, after
his labour, will be the fit time.  But, as your friends, we cannot permit
you to demean yourself by going from our house to a public booth, where
vulgar men are smoking and drinking beer.  I wonder you have the courage
to contemplate such an act!  You have pledged your word.  But if you had
pledged your word, child, to swing upon that tree, suspended by your
arms, for an hour, could you keep it?  I think not; and to recognize an
impossibility economizes time and is one of the virtues of a clear
understanding.  It is incompatible that you should dine with Lady
Gosstre, and then run away to a drinking booth.  Society will never
tolerate one who is familiar with boors.  If you are to succeed in life,
as we, your friends, can conscientiously say that we most earnestly hope
and trust you will do, you must be on good terms with Society.  You must!
You pledge your word to a piece of folly.  Emancipate yourself from it as
quickly as possible.  Do you see?  This is foolish: it, therefore, cannot
be.  Decide, as a sensible creature."

At the close of this harangue, Cornelia, who had stooped slightly to
deliver it, regained her stately posture, beautified in Mr. Barrett's
sight by the flush which an unwonted exercise in speech had thrown upon
her cheeks.

Emilia stood blinking like one sensible of having been chidden in a
strange tongue.

"Does it offend you--my going?" she faltered.

"Offend!--our concern is entirely for you," observed Cornelia.

The explanation drew out a happy sparkle from Emilia's eyes.  She seized
her hand, kissed it, and cried: "I do thank you.  I know I promised, but
indeed I am quite pleased to go!"

Mr. Barrett swung hurriedly round and walked some paces away with his
head downward.  The ladies remained in a tolerant attitude for a minute
or so, silent.  They then wheeled with one accord, and Emilia was left to
herself.


CHAPTER X

Richford was an easy drive from Brookfield, through lanes of elm and
white hawthorn.

The ladies never acted so well as when they were in the presence of a
fact which they acknowledged, but did not recognize.  Albeit constrained
to admit that this was the first occasion of their ever being on their
way to the dinner-table of a person of quality, they could refuse to look
the admission in the face.  A peculiar lightness of heart beset them; for
brooding ambition is richer in that first realizing step it takes,
insignificant though it seem, than in any subsequent achievement.  I fear
to say that the hearts of the ladies boiled, because visages so sedate,
and voices so monotonously indifferent, would witness decidedly against
me.  The common avoidance of any allusion to Richford testified to the
direction of their thoughts; and the absence of a sign of exultation may
be accepted as a proof of the magnitude of that happiness of which they
might not exhibit a feature.  The effort to repress it must have cost
them horrible pain.  Adela, the youngest of the three, transferred her
inward joy to the cottage children, whose staring faces from garden porch
and gate flashed by the carriage windows.  "How delighted they look!" she
exclaimed more than once, and informed her sisters that a country life
was surely the next thing to Paradise.  "Those children do look so
happy!"  Thus did the weak one cunningly relieve herself.  Arabella
occupied her mind by giving Emilia leading hints for conduct in the great
house.  "On the whole, though there is no harm in your praising
particular dishes, as you do at home, it is better in society to say
nothing on those subjects until your opinion is asked: and when you
speak, it should be as one who passes the subject by.  Appreciate
flavours, but no dwelling on them!  The degrees of an expression of
approbation, naturally enough, vary with age.  Did my instinct prompt me
to the discussion of these themes, I should be allowed greater licence
than you."  And here Arabella was unable to resist a little bit of the
indulgence Adela had taken: "You are sure to pass a most agreeable
evening, and one that you will remember."

North Pole sat high above such petty consolation; seldom speaking, save
just to show that her ideas ranged at liberty, and could be spontaneously
sympathetic on selected topics.

Their ceremonious entrance to the state-room of Richford accomplished,
the ladies received the greeting of the affable hostess; quietly
perturbed, but not enough so to disorder their artistic contemplation of
her open actions, choice of phrase, and by-play.  Without communication
or pre-arrangement, each knew that the other would not let slip the
opportunity, and, after the first five minutes of languid general
converse; they were mentally at work comparing notes with one another's
imaginary conversations, while they said "Yes," and "Indeed," and "I
think so," and appeared to belong to the world about them.

"Merthyr, I do you the honour to hand this young lady to your charge,"
said Lady Gosstre, putting on equal terms with Emilia a gentleman of
perhaps five-and-thirty years; who reminded her of Mr. Barrett, but was
unclouded by that look of firm sadness which characterized the poor
organist.  Mr. Powys was a travelled Welsh squire, Lady Gosstre's best
talker, on whom, as Brookfield learnt to see, she could perfectly rely to
preserve the child from any little drawing-room sins or dinner-table
misadventures.  This gentleman had made sacrifices for the cause of
Italy, in money, and, it was said, in blood.  He knew the country and
loved the people.  Brookfield remarked that there was just a foreign
tinge in his manner; and that his smile, though social to a degree
unknown to the run of English faces, did not give him all to you, and at
a second glance seemed plainly to say that he reserved much.

Adela fell to the lot of a hussar-captain: a celebrated beauty, not too
foolish.  She thought it proper to punish him for his good looks till
propitiated by his good temper.

Nobody at Brookfield could remember afterwards who took Arabella down to
dinner; she declaring that she had forgotten.  Her sisters, not unwilling
to see insignificance banished to annihilation, said that it must have
been nobody in person, and that he was a very useful guest when ladies
were engaged.  Cornelia had a different lot.  She leaned on the right arm
of the Member for Hillford, the statistical debate, Sir Twickenham Pryme,
who had twice before, as he ventured to remind her, enjoyed the honour of
conversing, if not of dining, with her.  Nay, more, he revived their
topics.  "And I have come round to your way of thinking as regards
hustings addresses," he said.  "In nine cases out of ten--at least,
nineteen-twentieths of the House will furnish instances--one can only, as
you justly observed, appeal to the comprehension of the mob by pledging
oneself either to their appetites or passions, and it is better plainly
to state the case and put it to them in figures."  Whether the Baronet
knew what he was saying is one matter: he knew what he meant.

Wilfrid was cavalier to Lady Charlotte Chillingworth, of Stornley, about
ten miles distant from Hillford; ninth daughter of a nobleman who passed
current as the Poor Marquis; he having been ruined when almost a boy in
Paris, by the late illustrious Lord Dartford.  Her sisters had married
captains in the army and navy, lawyers, and parsons, impartially.  Lady
Charlotte was nine-and-twenty years of age; with clear and telling stone-
blue eyes, firm but not unsweet lips, slightly hollowed cheeks, and a jaw
that certainly tended to be square.  Her colour was healthy.  Walking or
standing her figure was firmly poised.  Her chief attraction was a bell-
toned laugh, fresh as a meadow spring.  She had met Wilfrid once in the
hunting-field, so they soon had common ground to run on.

Mr. Powys made Emilia happy by talking to her of Italy, in the intervals
of table anecdotes.

"Why did you leave it?" she said.

"I found I had more shadows than the one allotted me by nature; and as I
was accustomed to a black one, and not half a dozen white, I was fairly
frightened out of the country."

"You mean, Austrians."

"I do."

"Do you hate them?"

"Not at all."

"Then, how can you love the Italians?"

"They themselves have taught me to do both; to love them and not to hate
their enemies.  Your Italians are the least vindictive of all races of
men."

"Merthyr, Merthyr!" went Lady Gosstre; Lady Charlotte murmuring aloud:
"And in the third chapter of the Book of Paradox you will find these
words."

"We afford a practical example and forgive them, do we not?" Mr. Powys
smiled at Emilia.

She looked round her, and reddened a little.

"So long as you do not write that Christian word with the point of a
stiletto!" said Lady Charlotte.

"You are not mad about the Italians?" Wilfrid addressed her.

"Not mad about anything, I hope.  If I am to choose, I prefer the
Austrians.  A very gentlemanly set of men!  At least, so I find them
always.  Capital horsemen!"

"I will explain to you how it must be," said Mr. Powys to Emilia.  "An
artistic people cannot hate long.  Hotly for the time, but the oppression
gone, and even in the dream of its going, they are too human to be
revengeful."

"Do we understand such very deep things?" said Lady Gosstre, who was near
enough to hear clearly.

"Yes: for if I ask her whether she can hate when her mind is given to
music, she knows that she cannot.  She can love."

"Yet I think I have heard some Italian operatic spitfires, and of some!"
said Lady Charlotte.

"What opinion do you pronounce in this controversy?" Cornelia made appeal
to Sir Twickenham.

"There are multitudes of cases," he began: and took up another end of his
statement: "It has been computed that five-and-twenty murders per month
to a population...to a population of ninety thousand souls, is a fair
reckoning in a Southern latitude."

"Then we must allow for the latitude?"

"I think so."

"And also for the space into which the ninety thousand souls are packed,"
quoth Tracy Runningbrook.

"Well! well!" went Sir Twickenham.

"The knife is the law to an Italian of the South," said Mr. Powys.  "He
distrusts any other, because he never gets it.  Where law is established,
or tolerably secure, the knife is not used.  Duels are rare.  There is
too much bonhomie for the point of honour."

"I should like to believe that all men are as just to their mistresses,"
Lady Charlotte sighed, mock-earnestly.

Presently Emilia touched the arm of Mr. Powys.  She looked agitated.  "I
want to be told the name of that gentleman." His eyes were led to rest on
the handsome hussar-captain.

"Do you know him?"

"But his name!"

"Do me the favour to look at me.  Captain Gambier."

"It is!"

Captain Gambier's face was resolutely kept in profile to her.

"I hear a rumour," said Lady Gosstre to Arabella, "that you think of
bidding for the Besworth estate.  Are you tired of Brookfield?"

"Not tired; but Brookfield is modern, and I confess that Besworth has won
my heart."

"I shall congratulate myself on having you nearer neighbours.  Have you
many, or any rivals?"

"There is some talk of the Tinleys wishing to purchase it.  I cannot see
why."

"What people are they?" asked Lady Charlotte.  "Do they hunt?"

"Oh, dear, no!  They are to society what Dissenters are to religion.  I
can't describe them otherwise."

"They pass before me in that description," said Lady Gosstre.

"Besworth's an excellent centre for hunting," Lady Charlotte remarked to
Wilfrid.  "I've always had an affection for that place.  The house is on
gravel; the river has trout; there's a splendid sweep of grass for the
horses to exercise.  I think there must be sixteen spare beds.  At all
events, I know that number can be made up; so that if you're too poor to
live much in London, you can always have your set about you."

The eyes of the fair economist sparkled as she dwelt on these particular
advantages of Besworth.

Richford boasted a show of flowers that might tempt its guests to parade
the grounds on balmy evenings.  Wilfrid kept by the side of Lady
Charlotte.  She did not win his taste a bit.  Had she been younger, less
decided in tone, and without a title, it is very possible that she would
have offended his native, secret, and dominating fastidiousness as much
as did Emilia.  Then, what made him subject at all to her influence, as
he felt himself beginning to be?  She supplied a deficiency in the youth.
He was growing and uncertain: she was set and decisive.  In his soul he
adored the extreme refinement of woman; even up to the thin edge of
inanity (which neighbours what the philosopher could tell him if he
would, and would, if it were permitted to him).  Nothing was too white,
too saintly, or too misty, for his conception of abstract woman.  But the
practical wants of our nature guide us best.  Conversation with Lady
Charlotte seemed to strengthen and ripen him.  The queen was at the
bishop's palace, but a few hundred yards distant.
Philip, doubtless, could have endured the postponement of an interview
till morning; but Mary could not wait, and the same night he was
conducted into the presence of his haggard bride, who now, after
a life of misery, believed herself at the open gate of Paradise. Let the
curtain fall over the meeting, let it close also over the wedding solemnities
which followed with due splendour two days later. There are scenes in
life which we regard with pity too deep for words.

The unhappy queen, unloved, unlovable, yet with her parched heart
thirsting for affection, was flinging herself upon a breast to which an
iceberg was warm; upon a man to whom love was an unmeaning word, except
as the most brutal of passions. For a few months she created for
herself an atmosphere of unreality. She saw in Philip the ideal of her
imagination, and in Philip's feelings the reflex of her own; but the dream
passed away--her love for her husband remained; but remained only
to be a torture to her.

With a broken spirit and bewildered understanding, she turned to
Heaven for comfort, and, instead of heaven, she saw only the false
roof of her creed painted to imitate and shut out the sky.

{p.144} The scene will change for a few pages to the Low Countries.
Charles V. more than any other person was responsible for this
marriage.

He had desired it not for Mary's sake, not for Philip's sake, not
for religion's sake; but that he might be able to assert a decisive
preponderance over France; and, to gain his end, he had already led
the queen into a course which had forfeited the regard of her
subjects.

She had murdered Lady Jane Grey at the instigation of his ambassador,
and under the same influence she had done her best to destroy her
sister.

Yet Charles, notwithstanding, was one of nature's gentlemen.

If he was unscrupulous in the sacrifice of others to his purposes,
he never spared himself; and in the days of his successes he showed
to less advantage than now, when, amidst failing fortunes and ruined
health, his stormy career was closing.

In the spring he had been again supposed to be dying. His military
reputation had come out tarnished from his failure at Metz, and while
he was labouring with imperfect success to collect troops for a summer's
campaign, Henry of France, unable to prevent the English marriage, was
preparing to strike a blow so heavy, as should enable him to dictate
peace on his own terms before England was drawn into the quarrel.

Meeting Wilfrid and Lady Charlotte, Emilia was asked by him, who it was
she had quitted so abruptly.

"That is the gentleman I told you of.  Now I know his name.  It is
Captain Gambier."

She was allowed to pass on.

"What is this she says?" Lady Charlotte asked.

"It appears...something about a meeting somewhere accidentally, in the
park, in London, I think; I really don't know.  She had forgotten his
name."

Lady Charlotte spurred him with an interrogative "Yes?"

"She wanted to remember his name.  That's all.  He was kind to her."

"But, after all," remonstrated Lady Charlotte, "that's only a
characteristic of young men, is it not? no special distinction.  You are
all kind to girls, to women, to anything!"

Captain Gambier and Adela crossed their path.  He spoke a passing word,
Lady Charlotte returned no answer, and was silent to her companion for
some minutes.  Then she said, "If you feel any responsibility about this
little person, take my advice, and don't let her have appointments and
meetings.  They're bad in  any case, and for a girl who has no brother--
has she?  no:--well then, you should make the best provision you can
against the cowardice of men.  Most men are cowards."

Emilia sang in the drawing-room.  Brookfield knew perfectly why she
looked indifferent to the plaudits, and was not dissatisfied at hearing
Lady Gosstre say that she was a little below the mark.  The kindly lady
brought Emilia between herself and Mr. Powys, saying, "I don't intend to
let you be the star of the evening and outshine us all."  After which,
conversation commenced, and Brookfield had reason to admire her
ladyship's practised play upon the social instrument, surely the grandest
of all, the chords being men and women.  Consider what an accomplishment
this is!

Albeit Brookfield knew itself a student at Richford, Adela was of too
impatient a wit to refrain from little ventures toward independence, if
not rivalry.  "What we do," she uttered distinctively once or twice.
Among other things she spoke of "our discovery," to attest her
declaration that, to wakeful eyes, neither Hillford nor any other place
on earth was dull.  Cornelia flushed at hearing the name of Mr. Barrett
pronounced publicly by her sister.

"An organist an accomplished man!" Lady Gosstre repeated Adela's words.
"Well, I suppose it is possible, but it rather upsets one's notions, does
it not?"

They made up to a Marquesan gentleman of herculean proportions, whose
office it was to take the princes of the blood an airing in his
arms.

Typee, who spoke his language, and had been at his native village, soon
ingratiated himself with Marbonna, who introduced them to one of
the queen's chamberlains.

Bribery and corruption now came into play: a plug of tobacco, proved
an excellent passport to within the royal precincts, but then
Marbonna was suddenly called away, and the intruders found themselves
abandoned to their fate amongst the ladies of the court, amiable
and affable damsels, whom a little "soft sawder" induced to conduct
them into the queen's own drawing room.

Here were collected numerous costly articles of European manufacture,
sent as presents to Pomaree.

"Purcell Barrett is his name," said Adela.  "Our Emilia brought him to
us.  Where is she?  But, where can she be?"

Adela rose.

"She pressed my hand just now," said Lady Gosstre.

"She was here when Captain Gambler quitted the room," Arabella remarked.

"Good heaven!"

The exclamation came from Adela.

"Oh, Lady Gosstre!  I fear to tell you what I think she has done."

The scene of the rival Clubs was hurriedly related, together with the
preposterous pledge given by Emilia, that she would sing at the Ipley
Booth: "Among those dreadful men!"

These three substances are liable to constant waste in the living
body, and therefore must be constantly renewed from the food that
we eat.

The vegetable food we consume contains these three substances almost
ready formed. The plant is the brick-maker.

"Everything that
explanations of the impropriety of such a thing could do, we have done.
We thought that at last we had convinced her.  She is quite untamed."

Mr. Powys now asked where this place was that she had hurried to.

The unhappy ladies of Brookfield, quick as they were to read every sign
surrounding them, were for the moment too completely thrown off their
balance by Emilia's extraordinary exhibition of will, to see that no
reflex of her shameful and hideous proceeding had really fallen upon
them.  Their exclamations were increasing, until Adela, who had been the
noisiest, suddenly adopted Lady Gosstre's tone.  "If she has gone, I
suppose she must be simply fetched away."

The confessions of many of the prisoners had more or less implicated
Throgmorton.

Cuthbert Vaughan, who was out with Wyatt, swore in the court that
Throgmorton had discussed the plan of the insurrection with him;
and Throgmorton himself admitted that he had talked to Sir Peter
Carew and Wyatt about the probability of a rebellion.

He it was, too, who was to have conducted Courtenay to Andover on his
flight into Devonshire; and the evidence[311] leaves very little
doubt that he was concerned as deeply as any one who did not actually
take up arms.

Sir Nicholas, however, defended himself with resolute pertinacity;
he fought through all the charges against him, and dissected the
depositions with the skill of a practised pleader; and in the end,
the jury returned the bold verdict of {p.132} "Not guilty."

They will saddle
you a horse down below, if you care to have one."

Wilfrid thanked her ladyship, and declined the horse.  He was soon
walking rapidly under a rough sky in the direction of Ipley, with no firm
thought that he would find Emilia there.




She said she would raise eight thousand men and keep them in London
as his guard and hers; she would send a fleet into the Channel and
sweep the French into their harbours; only let him come before Lent,
which was now but a fortnight distant: "give him my affectionate
love," she added; "tell him that I will be all to him that a wife
ought to be; and tell him, too [delightful message to an already
hesitating bridegroom], tell him to bring his own cook with him"
for fear he should be poisoned,[214] The ceremony, could it have
been accomplished, {p.092} would have been a support to her; but
the forms from Rome were long in coming.

On the 24th of January the emperor was at last
able to send a brief, which, in the absence of the bulls,
he trusted might be enough to satisfy the queen's scruples.
d