Produced by Julia Miller and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


Transcriber's Note: This sentence is incomplete, as printed:

Wheelwright, hoping that he was the bearer of agreeable tidings from
his estates, threw him all but his last quarter, and Thady took his
leave with,


UPS AND DOWNS

IN THE LIFE OF

A DISTRESSED GENTLEMAN.


BY THE AUTHOR OF
"TALES AND SKETCHES, SUCH AS THEY ARE."

WILLIAM L. STONE


If fortune wrap thee warm,
Then friends about thee swarm,
  Like flies about a honey pot;
But if fortune frown,
And cast thee down,
  Thou mayest lie and rot.


NEW-YORK:

LEAVITT, LORD & CO. 180 BROADWAY.

BOSTON:--CROCKER & BREWSTER.

1836.


Entered, according to Act of Congress, by LEAVITT, LORD & Co., in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-six, in the
Clerk's office of the southern district of New-York.

WEST & TROW, PRS.


                    TO
           ALL DOATING PARENTS,
            WHO IMAGINE THAT
WISDOM WILL DIE WITH THEIR OWN CHILDREN,
       THIS LITTLE RECORD OF THE
   LIFE AND MISFORTUNES OF A GENIUS,
      IS AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED,
    BY THEIR FRIEND AND WELL WISHER,

                        THE AUTHOR.


BILL OF LADING.


INTRODUCTION.

How to keep a secret--Unique illustration of the way to do
it--Historical truth--Anecdote of a Chinese Emperor                 9

CHAPTER I.

Wherein the Author discourses of cycles, of which he enumerates a
great variety, illustrates the uses of some, and speaks of the
genesis of others. As to the intent or application of this chapter,
the reader will be kept in the dark for a time                     13

CHAPTER II.

Of pedigree--Introduction to a beautiful section of country--Birth
of the hero--The secret of obtaining the root of all evil          20

CHAPTER III.

Genius in its juvenility--Indulgent mothers--Women sure to carry
their points--Preparation for the university--How he gets in       27

CHAPTER IV.

Intellectual development--Learned societies--The progress of
genius--Idleness and incompetency no bar to academic
advancement--Literary exercises--A bit of knotty and doubtful
metre--The hill of science--The crowning honor                     33

CHAPTER V.

The learned professions--Why a man should not be a lawyer--Contention
respecting the birthplace of Homer--Any body can be a doctor--_Bas
bleus_--Medical studies and lectures--A studious genius in
New-York--Gallantry--Sad effects of choosing the wrong profession  46

CHAPTER VI.

Easy methods of pulpit preparation--Revival of ancient pulpit
eloquence--Style of living--The mercantile profession not
incompatible with genius--Parallel between Burke and the last
man that would be thought of in Rhode-Island--The art of sinking
capital--A profitable clerk--A fire--And a mercantile catastrophe  57

CHAPTER VII.

A claim upon the public treasury--Amy Darden--Mr. Whittlesey--Life in
Washington--Swells and _attaches_--Fortune's frolics--Difficulty
of getting rich by lotteries--Pockets to let                       69


CHAPTER VIII.

Ancient edifice--Brief lecture upon the arts--of architecture
in particular--Summons from a gentleman in distress--Poppy
Lownds--Prison discipline--Not improved since the days of the
Vicar of Wakefield--Unexpected meeting with a genius--A scene
in limbo--The bastile--An aged prisoner--Illiberality of a
landlord--Paying debts by the assistance of the Record             80

CHAPTER IX.

Unexpected morning scene at the foot of Courtlandt-street--An
agreeable surprise--Some things can be done as well as
others--Fashionable travelling--Touches of the sublime and
beautiful--Ancient history of Lake George--Darkness
visible--Ludicrous situation of the hero--A skeleton dance
which did not take place--Fire works, and a midnight view
of mountain, wood, and water scenery                               95

CHAPTER X.

The yellow fever--The Genius appearing by the side of a
mysterious lady--Unsatisfied curiosity--Fortune-hunting--Bright
prospects ahead--Obscured by a little cloud of dubiousness        111

CHAPTER XI.

Mistake of Mr. Pope--Anticipation--Value of editorial
assistance in the march of mind--Female education--Model
of a modern prospectus--Advantages of travel in the art
of imparting female embellishments, mental and physical           124

CHAPTER XII.

Village excitement and ambition--A pattern seminary--Beautiful
embroidery and blending of languages--Flight of a flock of
girls--A touch of the brogue--An explosion--Miss Fortune turns
out to be a humbug--A sad development                             139

CHAPTER XIII.

Reflections on poverty--Mistakes of country people concerning the
supposed wealth and comfort of every body that lives in town--The
narrative resumed--Visit from the hero in a snow-storm--Evidences
of misfortune, with a colloquy thereon--Hard way to earn a
living--Destitution--Relief therefrom--Miss Edgeworth's tale of
Murad, the Unlucky--Seneca--Closing moralities of the chapter     155

CHAPTER XIV.

Visit to the abode of Famine--Unexampled state of destitution--A
spectacle that would have melted the heart of Shylock--Singular
affection of a wife who loved her husband too well to keep him
from starvation--Charitable character of New-Yorkers--Visit
to the Lombards--Painful scenes--Frauds and oppression of
those establishments--Avarice--How it chills the current of
sympathy--Chapter breaks off unfinished                           171

CHAPTER XV.

Continuation of the subject--Pawn-brokers' shops good
schools of study for the philosopher--Illustration of
intemperance--A loving husband--How to provide for one's
household--A young man about town--A benevolent gambler--A
shark in trouble--Unexpected development--An interesting
stranger--Gems--How to embezzle a jewel--The lady's
history--Ship of war going to sea--Forebodings--West India
climate and scenery--Venus and her glittering train--A
hurricane and a shipwreck in which the hero has no
concern--Return from the digression--Bedstead timber              183

CHAPTER XVI.

Dilemma of Garrick and the author hereof--Evils of
prosperity--Message from a gentleman in Bridewell--Account of a
domestic civil war--Tribulations of matrimony--Gallantry of a
husband in defence of his wife--Accident to a nose with a woman
behind it--Scene in the police, the actors in which were unhappily
born in exile from their native land--Clemency of the
magistrate--What sad care some people take of their virtue--How
to divide a quarrelsome house--COMPLETION OF THE CIRCLE--THE
MORAL                                                             207


INTRODUCTION.


The best parallel to the conduct of the silly ostrich, that thrusts her
head into a thicket, or the sand, and fancies she is thereby hidden
from view, occurred some years since in the village of Catskill. A
printer, who was neither an observer of the Sabbath, nor a member of
the Temperance Society, went to a grocery one Sunday morning for a
bottle of gin. On coming out of the dram-shop, with his decanter of
fire-water, he perceived that the services in the church near by, were
just closed, and the congregation were returning to their homes. Not
having entirely lost his self-respect, and unwilling to be seen in the
public street by the whole village, on such a day, and with such a
burden, he hastily thrust his hand, holding the bottle, behind, for the
purpose of concealing it underneath the skirts of his coat: and in this
way, apparently with the greatest possible unconcern, the disciple of
Faust walked up the street, just in advance of the congregation.
Unfortunately, however, in his haste he had thrust his decanter quite
through between the folds of his coat-skirts, so that his hands and the
neck of the bottle only were concealed; while, to the irresistible
merriment of the people, the object which he wished to hide was ten
times more the subject of observation than it could have been before.
Very much in the same predicament stands the writer of the following
pages. His intention was to publish them anonymously, if at all. But an
unauthorized annunciation of his name, in the Booksellers' Advertiser,
a few weeks since, has rendered the effort as abortive as the trick of
the foolish bird, and the expedient of the printer. The mask, thus
torn, has therefore been entirely doffed.

And now a few words as to the sketches themselves.

Whatever else may be said of the writer, it cannot be predicated of
him, as by Addison of a certain class of biographers of his day, "that
they watched for the death of a great man, like so many undertakers, on
purpose to make a penny by him." The subject of this little volume is
neither a great man, nor, happily, is he yet numbered among the dead.
Should it then be asked, Why write about small men at all, or, in any
event, until after they are dead? The answer is at hand: it is the
fashion of the times in which we live. The present is the age of small
men, whose lives are necessarily written while living, lest, when dead,
and all hope of reward is past, nothing should be remembered to be
said of them. What, moreover, can be more agreeable, than for a man
to read his own biography, especially when drawn by the partial hand
of friendship, and retouched in each successive edition, as new
circumstances require, new virtues are disclosed, and new deeds demand
a record? It may be likened to the reading of one's own epitaph,
wherein one can see to it for himself, that SHAKSPEARE did not speak
advisedly when he wrote, "It is the evil only that men do that lives
after them, while the good is interred with their bones." And besides,
biography is history; and history has been defined to be "philosophy
teaching by example." By having his own biography in his library,
therefore, a man may become his own philosophical teacher, and save the
expense of a professor; while, at the same time, he can enjoy the
consolation of seeing how mankind around him are improving themselves
by the study of his example. Should the subject of the present sketches
object, that the writer has deviated from the course of most modern
biographers, by the indulgence of his old-fashioned notions of
impartiality and truth, he must plead guilty to the charge; but, in
mitigation of punishment, he would beg leave to relate a story:

It is written in the annals of the Celestial Empire, that there once,
and for ages, existed an historical tribunal, instituted for the
purpose of perpetuating the virtues and vices of their monarchs. One
day the Emperor Tai-t-song summoned the President of this tribunal
before him, and ordered him to exhibit the history of his own reign.
The President declined to obey the mandate, upon the ground that they
were required to keep an exact record of the virtues and vices of their
sovereigns, and would no longer be at liberty to record the truth, if
their register was to be subject to the royal inspection. "What!"
Richardson, Field Worker Brooksville, Florida
AMBROSE DOUGLASS

In 1861, when he was 16 years old, Ambrose Hilliard Douglass was given
a sound beating by his North Carolina master because he attempted
to refuse the mate that had been given to him--with the instructions
to produce a healthy boy-child by her--and a long argument on the value
of having good, strong, healthy children. In 1937, at the age of 92,
Ambrose Douglass welcomed his 38th child into the world.

The near-centenarian lives near Brooksville, in Hernando County, on a
run-down farm that he no longer attempts to tend now that most of his
38 children have deserted the farm for the more lucrative employment
of the cities of the phosphate camps.

Douglass was born free in Detroit in 1845. His parents returned South
to visit relatives still in slavery, and were soon reenslaved themselves,
with their children. Ambrose was one of these.

For 21 years he remained in slavery; sometimes at the plantation of his
original master in North Carolina, sometimes in other sections after
he had been sold to different masters.

"Yassuh, I been sold a lot of times", the old man states. "Our master
didn't believe in keeping a house, a horse or a darky after he had
a chance to make some money on him.

Mostly, though, I was sold when I cut up".

"I was a young man", he continues, "and didn't see why I should be
anybody's slave.

I'd run away every chance I got.

Sometimes they near killed me, but mostly they just sold me.

I guess I was pretty husky, at that."

"They never did get their money's worth out of me, though.

I worked as long as they stood over me, then I ran around with
the gals or sneaked off to the woods. Sometimes they used to put
dogs on me to get me back.

"When they finally sold me to a man up in Suwannee County--his name
was Harris--I thought it would be the end of the world. We had heard
about him all the way up in Virginia. They said he beat you, starved
you and tied you up when you didn't work, and killed you if you ran
away.

    

"But I never had a better master. He never beat me, and always fed all
of us. 'Course, we didn't get too much to eat; corn meal, a little
piece of fat meat now and then, cabbages, greens, potatoes, and plenty
of molasses. When I worked up at 'the house' I et just what the master
et; sometimes he would give it to me his-self. When he didn't, I et it
anyway.

"He was so good, and I was so scared of him, till I didn't ever run away
from his place", Ambrose reminisces; "I had somebody there that I
liked, anyway. When he finally went to the war, he sold me back
to a man in North Carolina, in Hornett County. But the war was near
over then; I soon was as free as I am now.

"I guess we musta celebrated 'Mancipation about twelve times in
Hornett County. Every time a bunch of No'thern sojers would come through
they would tell us we was free and we'd begin celebratin'.
Before we would get through somebody else would tell us to go
back to work, and we would go. Some of us wanted to jine up with the
army, but didn't know who was goin' to win and didn't take no
chances.

"I was 21 when freedom finally came, and that time I didn't take no chances
on 'em taking it back again. I lit out for Florida and wound up
in Madison County. I had a nice time there; I got married, got a
plenty of work, and made me a little money. I fixed houses, built 'em,
worked around the yards, and did everything. My first child was already
born; I didn't know there was goin' to be 37 more, though. I guess I
would have stopped right there....

"I stayed in Madison County until they started to working concrete rock
down here. I heard about it and thought that would be a good way for
me to feed all them two dozen children I had. So I came down this
side.
That was about 20 years ago.

"I got married again after I got here; right soon after.

    My wife now is 30 years old; we already had 13 children together.

(His wife is a slight, girlish-looking woman; she says she was 13 when
she married Douglass, had her first child that year. Eleven of her
thirteen are still living.)
"Yossuh, I ain't long stopped work. I worked here in the phosphate
mine until last year, when they started to paying pensions. I thought I
would get one, but all I got was some PWA work, and this
year they told me I was too old for that. I told 'em I wasn't but 91,
but they didn't give nothin' else. I guess I'll get my pension soon,
though. My oldest boy ought to get it, too; he's sixty-five."

FOLK STUFF, FLORIDA
Jules A. Frost Tampa, Florida May 19, 1937
"MAMA DUCK"

"Who is the oldest person, white or colored, that you know of
in Tampa?"
"See Mama Duck," the grinning Negro elevator boy told me. "She bout
a hunnert years old."
So down into the "scrub" I went and found the old woman hustling about
from washpot to pump. "I'm mighty busy now, cookin breakfast," she
said, "but if you come back in bout an hour I'll tell you what I can
bout old times in Tampa."
On the return visit, her skinny dog met me with elaborate demonstrations
of welcome.

"Guan way fum here Spot. Dat gemmen ain gwine feed you nothin. You keep
your dirty paws offen his clothes."
Mama duck sat down on a rickety box, motioning me to another one on the
shaky old porch. "Take keer you doan fall thoo dat old floor," she
cautioned. "It's bout ready to fall to pieces, but I way behind in
the rent, so I kaint ask em to have it fixed."

"I see you have no glass in the windows--doesn't it get you wet
when it rains?"

"Not me.

I gits over on de other side of de room. It didn't have no door neither
when I moved in.

De young folks frum here useta use it for a courtin-house."
"A what?"
"Courtin-house. Dey kept a-comin after I moved in, an I had to shoo em
away. Dat young rascal comin yonder--he one of em. I clare to goodness--"
and Mama Duck raised her voice for the trespasser's benefit, "I
wisht I had me a fence to keep folks outa my yard."
"Qua-a-ck, quack, quack," the young Negro mocked, and passed on
grinning.

"Dat doan worry me none; I doan let _nothin_ worry me. Worry makes folks
gray-headed." She scratched her head where three gray braids, about the
length and thickness of a flapper's eyebrow, stuck out at odd angles.

"I sho got plenty chancet to worry ifen I wants to," she
mused, as she sipped water from a fruit-jar foul with fingermarks.
"Relief folks got me on dey black list. Dey won't give me rations--dey
give rations to young folks whas workin, but won't give me nary a
mouthful."
"Why is that?"
"Well, dey wanted me to go to de poor house. I was willin to go, but I
wanted to take my trunk along an dey wouldn't let me. I got some
things in dere I been havin nigh onta a hunnert years. Got my old
blue-back Webster, onliest book I ever had, scusin my Bible. Think I
wanna throw dat stuff away? No-o, suh!" Mama Duck pushed the dog away
from a cracked pitcher on the floor and refilled her fruit-jar. "So day
black list me, cause I won't kiss dey feets. I ain kissin _nobody's_
feets--wouldn't kiss my own mammy's."
"Well, we'd all do lots of things for our mothers that we wouldn't
do for anyone else."
"Maybe you would, but not me. My mammy put me in a hickry basket when
I was a day an a half old, with nothin on but my belly band an
diaper.
Took me down in de cotton patch an sot me on a stump in de bilin sun."

"What in the world did she do that for?"
"Cause I was black. All de other younguns was bright. My granmammy
done hear me bawlin an go fotch me to my mammy's house. 'Dat you mammy?'
she ask, sweet as pie, when granmammy pound on de door.

"'Doan you never call me mammy no more,' granmammy say. 'Any woman
what'd leave a poor lil mite like dis to perish to death ain
fitten to be no datter o' mine.'
"So granmammy took me to raise. I ain never seen my mammy sincet, an I
ain never wanted to."
"What did your father think of the way she treated you?"
"Never knew who my daddy was, an I reckon she didn't either."
"Do you remember anything about the Civil War?"
"What dat?"
"The Civil War, when they set the slaves free."
"Oh, you mean de fust war. I reckon I does--had three chillern,
boys, borned fore de war. When I was old enough to work I was taken to
Pelman, Jawja. Dey let me nust de chillern. Den I got married. We jus
got married in de kitchen and went to our log house.

"I never got no beatins fum my master when I was a slave. But I seen
collored men on de Bradley plantation git frammed out plenty. De whippin
boss was Joe Sylvester. He had pets amongst de women folks, an let
some of em off light when they deserved good beatins."
"How did he punish his 'pets'?"
"Sometimes he jus bop em crosst de ear wid a battlin stick."
"A what?"
"Battlin stick, like dis. You doan know what a battlin stick is? Well,
dis here is one. Use it for washin clothes. You lift em outa de wash
pot wid de battlin stick; den you lay em on de battlin block, dis here
stump. Den you beat de dirt out wid de battlin stick."
"A stick like that would knock a horse down!"
"Wan't nigh as bad as what some of de others got. Some of his pets
amongst de mens got it wusser dan de womens. He strap em crosst
de sharp side of a barrel an give em a few right smart licks wid a
bull whip."
"And what did he do to the bad ones?"
"He make em cross dere hands, den he tie a rope roun dey wrists an throw
it over a tree limb. Den he pull em up so dey toes jus touch de ground
an smack em on da back an rump wid a heavy wooden paddle, fixed full
o' holes. Den he make em lie down on de ground while he bust all dem
blisters wid a raw-hide whip."
"Didn't that kill them?"
"Some couldn't work for a day or two. Sometimes dey throw salt brine
on dey backs, or smear on turputine to make it git well quicker."

"I suppose you're glad those days are over."
"Not me. I was a heap better off den as I is now. Allus had sumpun
to eat an a place to stay. No sich thing as gittin on a black list.
Mighty hard on a pusson old as me not to git no rations an not
have no reglar job."

"How old are you?"

"I doun know, zackly.

Wait a minnit, I didn't show you my pitcher what was in de paper, did
I?

I kaint read, but somebody say dey put how old I is under my pitcher
in dat paper."
Mama Duck rummaged through a cigar box and brought out a page of a
Pittsburgh newspaper, dated in 1936. It was so badly worn that it was
almost illegible, but it showed a picture of Mama Duck and below
it was given her age, 109.

FLORIDA FOLKLORE
Jules Abner Frost May 19, 1937
"MAMA DUCK"

1. Name and address of informant, Mama Duck, Governor & India Sts.,
Tampa, Florida.

2. Date and time of interview, May 19, 1937, 9:30 A.M.

3. Place of interview, her home, above address.

4. Name and address of person, if any, who put you in touch with informant,
J.D. Davis (elevator operator), 1623 Jefferson St., Tampa, Florida.

5. Name and address of person, if any accompanying you (none).

6. Description of room, house, surroundings, etc.

Two-room unpainted shack, leaky roof, most window panes missing, porch
dangerous to walk on. House standing high on concrete blocks.
Located in alley, behind other Negro shacks.

NOTE: Letter of Feb. 17, 1939, from Mr. B.A. Botkin to Dr. Corse states
that my ex-slave story, "Mama Duck" is marred by use of the
question and answer method. In order to make this material of use as
American Folk Stuff material, I have rewritten it, using the first person,
as related by the informant.

Personal History of Informant
[TR: Repetitive information removed.]
1. Ancestry: Negro.

2. Place and date of birth: Richard (probably Richmond), Va., about
1828.

3. Family: unknown.

4. Places lived in, with dates: Has lived in Tampa since about 1870.

5. Education, with dates: Illiterate.

6. Occupations and accomplishments, with dates: None. Informant was
a slave, and has always performed common labor.

7. Special skills and interests: none.

8. Community and religious activities: none.

9. Description of informant: Small, emaciated, slightly graying, very
thin kinky hair, tightly braided in small pigtails. Somewhat wrinkled,
toothless. Active for her age, does washing for a living.

10. Other points gained in interview: Strange inability of local Old
Age Pension officials to establish right of claimants to benefits.
Inexplainable causes of refusal of direct relief.

MAMA DUCK
Gwan away f'm here, Po'-Boy; dat gemmen ain't gwine feed you nuthin.
You keep yo' dirty paws offen his close.
Come in, suh. Take care you don't fall thoo dat ol' po'ch flo'; hit
'bout ready to go t' pieces, but I 'way behind on rent, so I cain't
ask 'em to have hit fixed. Dis ol' house aint fitten fer nobody t'
live in; winder glass gone an' roof leaks. Young folks in dese parts
done be'n usin' it fer a co't house 'fore I come; you know--a place
to do dey courtin' in. Kep' a-comin' atter I done move in, an' I
had to shoo 'em away.
Dat young rascal comin' yondah, he one of 'em. I claiah to goodness,
I wisht I had a fence to keep folks outa my yahd. Reckon you don't
know what he be quackin' lak dat fer. Dat's 'cause my name's "Mama
Duck." He doin' it jus' t' pester me. But dat don't worry me none;
I done quit worryin'.
I sho' had plenty chance to worry, though. Relief folks got me on
dey black list. Dey give rashuns to young folks what's wukkin' an'
don't give me nary a mouthful. Reason fer dat be 'cause dey wanted
me t' go t' de porehouse. I wanted t' take my trunk 'long, an' dey
wouldn't lemme. I got some things in dere I be'n havin' nigh onto
a hunnert years. Got my ol' blue-back Webster, onliest book I evah
had, 'scusin' mah Bible.
Think I wanna th'ow dat away? No-o suh!
So dey black-list me, 'cause I won't kiss dey feets. I ain't kissin
_nobody's_, wouldn't kiss my own mammy's.
I nevah see my mammy. She put me in a hick'ry basket when I on'y a
day and a half old, with nuthin' on but mah belly band an' di'per.
Took me down in de cotton patch an' sot de basket on a stump in de
bilin sun.
Didn't want me, 'cause I be black. All de otha youngins o' hers be
bright.
Gran'mammy done tol' me, many a time, how she heah me bawlin' an'
go an' git me, an' fotch me to mammy's house; but my own mammy, she
say, tu'n me down cold.
"Dat you, Mammy" she say, sweet as pie, when gran'mammy knock on
de do'.
"Dont you _nevah_ call me 'Mammy' no mo'," gran'mammy tol' 'er.
"Any woman what'd leave a po' li'l mite lak dat to perish to death
ain't fitten t' be no dotter o' mine."
So gran'mammy tuk me to raise, an' I ain't nevah wanted no mammy
but her. Nevah knowed who my daddy was, an' I reckon my mammy didn't
know, neithah. I bawn at Richard, Vahjinny. My sistah an' brothah
be'n dead too many years to count; I de las' o' de fam'ly.
I kin remember 'fore de fust war start. I had three chillen, boys,
taller'n me when freedom come. Mah fust mastah didn't make de li'l
chillen wuk none. All I done was play. W'en I be ol' enough t' wuk,
dey tuk us to Pelman, Jawjah. I never wukked in de fiel's none, not
den. Dey allus le me nuss de chillens.
Den I got married. Hit wa'nt no church weddin'; we got married in
gran'mammy's kitchen, den we go to our own log house. By an' by mah
mahster sol' me an' mah baby to de man what had de plantation nex'
to ours. His name was John Lee. He was good to me, an' let me see
my chillens.
I nevah got no beatin's. Onliest thing I evah got was a li'l slap
on de han', lak dat. Didn't hurt none. But I'se seen cullud men on
de Bradley plantation git tur'ble beatin's. De whippin' boss was
Joe Sylvester, a white man. He had pets mongst de wimmen folks, an'
used t' let 'em off easy, w'en dey desarved a good beatin'. Sometimes
'e jes' bop 'em crost de ear wid a battlin' stick, or kick 'em in
de beehind.
You don't know what's a battlin' stick? Well, dis here be one. You
use it fer washin' close. You lif's de close outa de wash pot wid
dis here battlin' stick; den you tote 'em to de battlin' block--dis
here stump.
Den you beat de dirt out wid de battlin' stick.
De whippin' boss got pets 'mongst de mens, too, but dey got it a
li'l wusser'n de wimmens. Effen dey wan't _too_ mean, he jes' strap
'em 'crost de sharp side of a bar'l an' give 'em a few right smaht
licks wid a bull whip.
But dey be some niggahs he whip good an' hard. If dey sass back,
er try t' run away, he mek 'em cross dey han's lak dis; den he pull
'em up, so dey toes jes' tetch de ground'; den he smack 'em crost
de back an' rump wid a big wood paddle, fixed full o' holes. Know
what dem holes be for?
Ev'y hole mek a blister. Den he mek 'em lay down on de groun',
whilst he bus' all dem blisters wid a rawhide whip.
I nevah heard o' nobody dyin' f'm gittin' a beatin'. Some couldn't
wuk fer a day or so. Sometimes de whippin' boss th'ow salt brine
on dey backs, or smear on turpentine, to mek it well quicker.
I don't know, 'zackly, how old I is. Mebbe--wait a minute, I didn't
show you my pitcher what was in de paper. I cain't read, but somebody
say dey put down how old I is undah mah pitcher. Dar hit--don't dat
say a hunndrt an' nine? I reckon dat be right, seein' I had three
growed-up boys when freedom come.
Dey be on'y one sto' here when I come to Tampa. Hit b'long t' ol'
man Mugge. Dey be a big cotton patch where Plant City is now. I
picked some cotton dere, den I come to Tampa, an' atter a while I
got a job nussin' Mister Perry Wall's chillen. Cullud folks jes'
mek out de bes' dey could. Some of 'em lived in tents, till dey c'd
cut logs an' build houses wid stick-an'-dirt chimbleys.
Lotta folks ask me how I come to be called "Mama Duck." Dat be jes'
a devil-ment o' mine. I named my own se'f dat. One day when I be
'bout twelve year old, I come home an' say, "Well, gran'mammy, here
come yo' li'l ducky home again." She hug me an' say, "Bress mah
li'l ducky."Indeed, it is believed that he had actually read
Cornelius Nepos and three books of the Æneid. He had likewise thumbed
over his Greek grammar, and gone through the gospel of John. The kind
mother heard of his initiatory success with delight, and the father was
rather gratified than otherwise--especially as it cost him nothing.


CHAPTER IV.

OF UNIVERSITY HONORS AND THE WAY THEY ARE OBTAINED.

"O this learning! what a thing it is!"--_Shakspeare._

"You do ill to teach the child such words: he teaches him to hick and
to hack, which they'll do fast enough of themselves; and to call horum;
fye upon you!"--_Idem._


How young Wheelwright had ever accomplished even what has already been
indicated, was a matter of astonishment to himself; and before many
months had passed away, to every body else, for his subsequent
acquirements did not correspond thereunto. In good sooth it is believed
that he never really mastered a single lesson afterward. Having
succeeded in getting _into_ the college, it was a very rational
conclusion that he would some day find his way _out_ of it. He knew
that the four years would pass away in less than five; and as he had
turned student to avoid hard labor, why should he fatigue himself by
digging at the roots of hard language! It was either from sheer
indolence, or because he had completely exhausted himself in his
preparatory studies, that he made no farther advances in literature,
although he kept within its flowery walks. I have already mentioned a
snug little orchard, which, in truth, was one of rare productiveness,
and of which his father's industry had made him the proprietor. The
produce of this orchard, both of apples and cider, added to, and in
connection with, his imperturbable good nature, enabled Daniel to
maintain the popularity among the students of which I have spoken in a
former chapter. The reader will not be surprised, therefore, to learn
that he succeeded in obtaining an election as a member of the
_Philo-Peitho-logicalethian Institute_--a society, as its name imports,
learned in all that is eloquent, logical and veracious--and of which, I
am proud to say, the distinguished subject of this memoir had the honor
once of being chosen semi-monthly secretary, after a sharp and close
canvass. In the transactions of this society the principal forte of
Daniel was debating; albeit the character of his elocution was not the
most brilliant, and it was not often until after the ayes and noes were
called, that it could be determined from the drift of his argument,
which side he had espoused, or in fact whether he himself understood
the proposition--unless, indeed, as was sometimes the case, he
commenced his speech by saying, "Mr. President, I _are_ in favor of the
negative of that are question." In the ordinary tasks of his class he
contrived from day to day, by the promptings of others, to work his way
along; and previous to the quarterly examinations, it was his practice
to obtain the assistance of some of his classmates to go over his
exercises with him, which they very cheerfully did, as an evening could
always be comfortably spent in this way, over a pitcher of cider and a
basket of apples. Having a pretty good memory, Dan could retain a part
of his lesson, guess at another part, and catch the wings and legs of
the residue from the promptings of friends--although he so greatly
outstripped them in growth, that it became difficult to send the
necessarily subdued sounds of their corrections up to his anxious ears.
It was a kind and indulgent class of which he was a member, and of no
ordinary character--it having furnished the president of one
university; the chief manager, for years, of half the Christian
missionaries in heathendom; and its full share of learned professors,
sagacious legislators, and eloquent counsellors in the law. And as the
truly great are ever the most active in labors of love, its members
were always ready and willing to lend our hero a helping hand in
"climbing" the difficult "steep" which Dr. Beattie pronounces so "hard"
of access. Still, at the close of every quarter, he was regularly "read
off," as the declaration of deficiency is denominated, and threatened
with degradation. But he nevertheless kept along; how, his biographer
cannot tell;--all that he is able to say upon this point, being the
fact, that the close of every academic year found him one year older,
somewhat taller, and advanced one grade higher in his classic course.
Whether on the ground of proficiency, of size, of family influence, or
for the purpose of swelling the catalogue by another name, the reader
is left to determine for himself.

The earth having at length nearly completed her fourth annual circle
around the orb of day, since Daniel commenced his collegiate course,
the anniversary at which he was to take his degree, if he could get it,
was rapidly approaching, for which occasion it may well be supposed he
was no better prepared than he should be. The faculty, however, were
indulgent, and had, moreover, even at that early day, hit upon the
happy expedient of awarding to every member of the graduating class an
honor of some sort, the delivery of an oration or a poem,--taking
especial care, by the way, to note in the _proces verbal_ of the
exercises that those students who were too poor to purchase, and too
stupid to manufacture, either the one or the other, had been excused
from taking the part assigned;--a convenient device, by which many a
deceived and doting parent has been adroitly blinded. It was in this
way that the faculty determined to dispose of the subject of this
memoir; and an Irish professor, who was an incontinent snuff-taker, and
sometimes a little mischievous withal, caused him to be announced for a
poem. Alike to the amusement and the astonishment of every body,
although he had no ear for numbers, and scarcely knew a dactyl from a
spondee, Daniel accepted the honor. Nor, after all, was he so much of a
fool as many people took him to be; and, whether by the process of
counting his fingers, or by some other means, I cannot say, but still I
have known him to bring out several stanzas of Hudibrastic metre,
sweetly rhyming "trees" with "breeze," "love" with "dove," "zephyr"
with "heifer," &c. Indeed I have likewise known him to be guilty of
positive waggery; but it must be confessed that in this line his
attempts were few and far between, and not always successful. He had
seen, however, that the professor, though not exactly poking fun at
him, had nevertheless intended a sly touch of irony upon his
proverbially prosing character. He therefore determined to "be up to
him," as the fancy have it; and having somewhere found the copy of an
obsolete satirical epic which an enamored snuff-taker had once
addressed to a mistress, who could reciprocate the interjection over
her snuff box,--

    "Knows he the joys that my nose knows!"

Wheelwright copied it out, and presented it to the faculty as his own
composition. Being addicted to the use of the titillating powder
himself, it was but a reasonable supposition on his own part, that it
would give no offence. It commenced thus:--

    Softly waft, ye southern breezes,
    Bear my plaints to her I _love_--
    Say to her whene'er she sneezes,
      Sympathy my muscles _move_;

    My true-love is formed of graces,
      Takes cephalic, likes a quid,
    And is beauteous as the faces
      Carved on an _Irish_ snuff-box lid.

                          _Cetera desunt._

The hit at the rhetoric-professor's snuff-box was only understood by
those who had seen the article referred to; and on the whole, the
performance was considered a very clever _jeu-d'esprit_ by the faculty,
who knew nothing of its paternity, and set it down as his own. Still,
as being hardly in keeping with the gravity of the occasion, it was
rejected as a part of the public exercises of the commencement.
Anticipating this result, however, Daniel had provided himself, by
virtue of a basket of Spitzenbergs, with a few stanzas of metre,
entitled "An Ode on Ambition," which were more successful. It was
written by a young gentleman who has since taken several silver cups
for theatrical prize-addresses, full of phoenixes, and the Greek
classics from Lempriere. He has also been a large contributor to those
beautifully printed, useful, and fashionable hebdomadals, the
Milliners' Literary Gazette, Young Ladies' Companion, _et id genus
omne_. The ode ran thus:--

    The warrior fights, and dies for fame--
    The empty glories of a name;--
    But we who linger round this spot,
    The warrior's guerdon covet Nott.

    Nott for the miser's glittering heap
    Within these walls is bartered sleep;
    The humble scholar's quiet lot
    With dreams of wealth is troubled Nott.

    While poring o'er the midnight lamp,
    In rooms too cold, and sometimes damp,
    O man, who land and cash hast got,
    Thy life of ease we envy Nott.

    Our troubles here are light and few;--
    An empty purse when bills fall due,
    A locker, without e'er a shot,--
    Hard recitations, or a Knot.

    Ty problem, which we can't untie,--
    Our only shirt hung out to dry,--
    A chum who never pays his scot,--
    Such ills as these we value Nott.

    O, cherished *****! learning's home,
    Where'er the fates may bid us roam,
    Though friends and kindred be forgot,
    Be sure we shall forget thee Nott.

    For years of peaceful, calm content,
    To science and hard study lent,
    Though others thy good name may blot,
    T'were wondrous if we loved thee Nott.

There was a touch of waggery, if not of mischief, in these verses,
which happened to escape detection from the faculty, though not very
artfully concealed. But the terminations of the stanzas rendered the
thing transparent to the audience during the delivery, as was quite
manifest from the general movement of their risibles. But Wheelwright
was himself as ignorant of the pun as the faculty were, until both were
enlightened the following week, when the real author caused it to be
published in the _Cistula Literaria_--an interesting journal, edited by
a committee of the junior class--with a capital "N" and a superfluous
"t" in the monosyllable referred to, as it appears in the present
memoir. The conceit was _Nott_ thought a bad one, and those who were
not in the secret gave my hero more credit for his metrical skill, than
he has ever received since.

Thus borne along upon the current with his class, Wheelwright was
admitted _ad gradum in artibus_--a certificate of which fact he took
care to have elegantly filled out upon the largest and handsomest
scroll of parchment that could be procured. It was of course verified
by the signature of the Reverend Præses, and decorated with an enormous
seal, representing, very appropriately in the present and many other
instances the Temple of Science perched upon an _inaccessible_ hill. At
the base of the hill, stood the goddess of Wisdom with her favorite
bird (the owl) upon her shoulder, and pointing the attention of young
aspirants to its beetling summit. The motto was "_Perseverantia omnia
vincit_," a very consoling legend to the numerous alumni proceeding
annually from this venerable university.

With the subject of this history, and perhaps with many others also,
the puzzle was to construe this splendid testimonial for the
edification of his simple-minded parents, when he came home with the
burden of his blushing honors. But in this effort we question whether
he ever succeeded. Indeed it has always been a grave matter of doubt
among philologers, whether the document was even capable of being
rendered into English, in conformity with the laws of any language
which the human race has ever spoken, since the low Dutch and the
Basque dispersed our ambitious ancestors at the building of Babel.


CHAPTER V.

HE CHOOSES A PROFESSION.

"Here let us breathe, and happily introduce a course of learning, and
ingenious studies."--_Shakspeare._

"The whole world cannot again prick out five such, take each one in his
vein."--_Idem._


Having thus completed his classical studies, and come off, as we have
seen, with the customary academic honors, the next subject of
consideration at the domestic fireside was the choice of a profession.
His parents were not only conscientious people, but sincerely
religious, and really desirous of doing good. They would, therefore,
have preferred making him a clergyman, had he given evidence of piety.
But such was not the fact. He was truly amiable in his disposition, of
grave and quiet manners, and of sound morality. Still, they could not
think of thrusting their son into the sacerdotal office, as is
oftentimes the practice with regard to younger sons in foreign parts,
merely as a trade to get a living by, while the head only is engaged in
the work, and the heart has neither part nor lot in the matter. Some
other profession was therefore necessary; and as his good parents were
religiously opposed to the quarrelsome profession of the law, the
choice was necessarily directed to that of medicine. In the sequel it
will be seen, that, let people be ever so conscientious, they are
obnoxious to great errors in the education of their children, and
equally liable with others to err in the selection of that walk of
life, or profession, for which they are least adapted by character or
capacity.

But to proceed. Law and divinity being out of the question, it was
resolved, in family council, that Daniel should become a disciple of
Galen, and acquire the art of compounding simples, and healing the
various diseases which flesh is heir to. He was accordingly entered in
the office of an eminent medical gentleman, in one of the most
beautiful cities which adorn the banks of the majestic Hudson. I will
not be so particular as to name the place, lest other towns should be
moved to jealousy. Each of the seven cities that contended for the
honor of giving birth to Homer, was as well off as though each was
actually entitled to it--whereas, had the point been settled, six of
them would not have been worth living in; rent-free. There is another
reason for not being too particular. Although, unlike Byron, I have no
fear of being taken for the hero of my own tale, yet were I to bring
matters too near their homes, but too many of the real characters of my
narrative might be identified. Suffice it, then, to say of the
location--_Ilium fuit_!

Immediately after his induction into the office of his Æsculapian
Mentor, Daniel became DOCTOR WHEELWRIGHT--and through all the subsequent
vicissitudes of his life, and all the changes of his pursuits, and
they have neither been few nor unimportant, the title has adhered to
him until this day.

I have already said that his personal appearance was good, a
circumstance which of course was not at all to his disadvantage. His
first business in his new station, was the selection of a genteel
boarding-house, the purchase of a new and fashionable suit of clothes,
and a snuff-box. Ever partial to the society of ladies, he was
assiduous in his efforts to cultivate their acquaintance, especially of
those among them who were of a literary turn. Chief of the female
literati of the town, was a lady of no certain age, but of great
pretensions, whose hose were deeply _azure_. With her he became quite
intimate, and she found his services particularly convenient, in
sending to the circulating library for books, and in other respects in
which it was found he could render himself useful; and he in turn was
never more truly happy than when obeying the behests of a blue of such
celebrity. These preliminary arrangements occupied about three or four
months of the first year, during which he could of course have but
little time to attend to his books. He did, however, make a beginning;
but mental application was no easier now, than when in college, and he
had moreover succeeded in forming acquaintances in a larger and more
attractive circle than was to be found within and about the college
walls. It required the greater portions of his mornings to keep alive
these acquaintances; and every body knows it is no time for hard study
after a hearty dinner--of which, particularly if it were good, few were
more fond than "Doctor Wheelwright." Thus the first year found him
scarcely at the close of the first chapter of Cheselden's Anatomy.

An attendance upon the lectures of some regular medical college was of
course essential to a thorough professional education, and his father
had now become ambitious of doing the best for a son upon whom he began
to look as a young man of high promise. Every where he was now spoken
of as "young Doctor Wheelwright;" and there was something gratifying to
a parent's ear in that. He was therefore sent to New-York to hear the
instructive eloquence of Hosack; the wise and prudent counsels of Post;
to press into his goblet the grapes of wisdom clustering around the
tongue of Mitchill; and to acquire the principles of surgery from the
lips, and the skilful use of the knife from the untrembling hand, of
Mott. Tickets were procured for all the regular courses of the college
lectures, all of which were attended without intermission, and most of
them slept over without compunction. The truth is, that neither medical
authors, nor medical orations had any congeniality with his feelings.
His love for science could not conquer his aversion to the
dissecting-room, and he greatly preferred taking care of the body as he
found it, to the labor of ascertaining how it was made;--he liked well
to have the springs and wheels of his own frame in easy and accurate
motion, but cared not to examine the delicate structure of the
complicated machinery. The consequence was, that when not in the
lecture-room his time was occupied--not with his books, but in
lion-hunting. He visited the theatre when Cooper, and Pritchard, and
Mrs. Darley, were in their glory; lounged frequent hours in the
museums; and was the first to run after every new attraction placarded
at the corners. He was greatly taken with the agility of an Armenian
girl, upon the wire and slack-rope, who was in truth a second Fenella
in the sprightliness of her nimble exhibitions. Day Francis, the
conjuror, was his admiration. He was delighted with Rannie, the old
ventriloquist, and the first in America; and Potter, the late sable and
celebrated professor of legerdemain, in slight-of-hand, he thought
actually excelled Doctor Mott himself.

At the close of the term he returned to the country, and resumed
Cheselden. But he yet preferred the society of the ladies--accompanying
them in their morning walks, and at their evening parties. And with
them all he was a favorite--of a particular description. Full of good
nature--easy and accommodating in his disposition, ever ready to
oblige, when any of the fair were in distress for a beau, he could
always be had, and even felt honored to be called upon such service,
when it was not desirable to take such a liberty with gallants of a
different cast and temperament. Especially were his services of value
at parties, where exigencies of a particular description were likely to
occur--as, when some not very popular damsel lived at the farthermost
end of the town; or in such other undefinable cases as might result in
the danger of some forlorn maidens being left, after the whips and
blanc-manges were disposed of, to perform the homeward pilgrimage on
foot and alone--as the girl went to get married.

But the beau and the student are different animals; and at the close of
the second year, the young doctor had only half completed Cheselden's
article on Osteology. It began now to be evident that at this rate he
would never become an M.D., easily as this honor is obtained; and it
was equally doubtful whether the most complaisant censors of a medical
society, would, at the end of three years, admit him to practice. The
distinguished medical gentleman with whom he was attempting to play the
student, saw that if Harvey had not discovered the theory of the
circulation of the blood, Doctor Wheelwright certainly would never have
made it, and he hinted to his pupil in as delicate a manner as
possible, that even if he had been cut out by nature for a physician,
he had been spoiled in the making up. My friend was by this time quite
of the same opinion himself; and he thereupon quitted the profession,
with no more medical knowledge than the art of mixing suitable portions
of salts and senna for children, and the preparation of cough-drops, by
compounding the syrup of squills with paregoric and balsam of honey in
equal proportions--which mixture, by the way, is the best prescription
to be found in the Vade Mecum of any physician in Christendom--from Sir
Astley Cooper down to Hahnnemann, of all medical humbugs the chief.
Would that Daniel Wheelwright were the only person who has trifled away
the misapplied money of industrious and misjudging parents!


CHAPTER VI.

HOW HE BECAME A MERCHANT--AND THE RESULT.

    "----Now I play a merchant's part,
    And venture madly on a desperate mart."--_Shakspeare._

"A man whom Fortune hath cruelly scratched."--_Idem._


Having thus "thrown physic to the dogs," the next important subject of
consideration was the choice of some new occupation or pursuit, not of
a professional character. His mother's project of making him a
clergyman had been previously rejected, as stated in a former chapter.
The decision might have been otherwise had the lot of our hero been
cast in England, where the minor clergy of the establishment purchase
their sermons already written to their hands, if they are able, or copy
them from the moral essays of Doctor Johnson, or the more devotional
writings of Hannah More, according to their tastes and feelings, if
they are not. But such easy methods of pulpit preparation are not
tolerated in this country, unless in respect of the youngest
ecclesiastics; and even they are compelled to be exceedingly chary in
the use even of the printed skeletons to be found in most Episcopal
libraries--not venturing to let their people know of the existence of
such "helps," much less that they are in the habit of cutting out their
sermons by such patterns. Moreover, as for the preaching of other men's
sermons outright, the Americans are such a reading people, that the
detection of borrowed "thunder," is almost certain to follow its use.
An instance in point was then fresh in the public mind, in which one of
the most eloquent and popular pulpit orators in the land, had been
arraigned before an ecclesiastical tribunal, on the charge of
appropriating _ad libitum_ to his own use and the behoof of his
congregation the works of Barrow and Jeremy Taylor, Flavel and
Massillon, Toplady and Tillotson. True, the depredator was endowed with
powers of eloquence worthy of the great masters whose sermons he had
the good taste to prefer to his own--delivering their breathing
thoughts and burning words, with a deep-toned solemnity, and a splendor
of elocution, which thrilled the bosoms, and alternately charmed the
minds, and melted the hearts, of his devotional hearers. But the
disguise of manner was not sufficient. There were those of his
congregation who had read and remembered the works with which he was
making so free; and although they were by no means the losers by the
substitution of the kindling periods of the sound old divines for his
own, yet the late Rev. Mr. Hooper soon found himself under the
discipline of his clerical superiors. Shut out, therefore, from the
pulpit, my friend Wheelwright had turned his attention to medicine, as
being in his apprehension the next easiest of the learned professions;
and now that he had relinquished the healing art, because he possessed
neither the industry nor the capacity for acquiring it, some other
method of earning a subsistence seemed to be necessary. Should it be
the law? His resolution would have deserted him at the thought of
mastering even the elementary treatises of Blackstone, and the sight of
an ordinary law library would have appalled him. But employment he must
have. He had cultivated a taste for style, and ease, and luxury, which
it would require no inconsiderable means to indulge. He desired to cut
a figure in the world, and to make money that he might do so; and he
was anxious withal to select that occupation with which he might
personally be the least occupied--in which he might indulge his
inactive propensities with the least corporeal exertion--and by which
he might realize the greatest profit. After duly weighing matters,
therefore, and balancing the various considerations that occurred, with
all appropriate gravity, he determined to engage in merchandise--a
branch of business for which of all men he possessed the least possible
fitness. His worthy parents, moreover, were thereunto consenting. Fond
and unhappy people! They had never read the splendid philippic of Burke
against the mercantile character, in which the indignant senator
denounced the members of that enterprising occupation as having no
altar but their counter, no Bible but their leger, and no God but their
gold! Nor, (being neither prophets nor descendants of prophets,) could
they foresee that another Burke was soon to illuminate this occidental
hemisphere, by the blaze of his genius,--embodying in his own person
half the wisdom of the whole nation of Rhode Island,--who should revive
and indorse the dictum of the florid British rhetorician, and fix upon
the name of the American merchant as fact, the fancy sketch first drawn
by a brilliant but libellous imagination! Had it been otherwise, I am
sure my friend would have been spared the toils and perplexities
incident alike to the mercantile calling, whether dealing in foreign
commerce by millions, or vending tape and buckram by the yard in
Chatham-street or Albany.

But it was written that Daniel was to be a merchant; and an opportunity
was soon presented for purchasing the odds and ends of a fashionable
fancy and jobbing concern in Albany. His father, moreover, who had by
this time accumulated a snug property by his own honest calling--who
knew little of the perils of the mercantile business, and still less of
the skill and attention necessary for its successful prosecution,
consented in an evil hour to become his indorser. The chief clerk of
the concern, a young man by the name of John Smith, was continued in
the establishment; new goods were bought in New-York in most
enterprising quantities; and although both old and new were purchased
at no small disadvantage, yet a plausible exterior, and a fair credit,
enabled Mr. Wheelwright to drive a brisk, and, as he no doubt honestly
thought, a thriving business. It was indeed true that the return of
every six months found him somewhat deeper in debt. He was obliged to
fill up the blanks in the notes which his kind parent had indorsed in
advance, and by the quantity, for larger and yet larger sums, and
occasionally to ask the name of some other friend, "just for form's
sake," under that of his father. But his faithful clerk assured him
that his capital was increasing, as the books would show, and that
every thing was going on swimmingly. He took lodgings at the Tontine,
like a gentleman of means; was free and liberal in his expenditures;
invited his friends often to suppers of game and oysters, which
invitations were but too often accepted;--and as he knew nothing of his
own business, but continued to repose all confidence in his chief
clerk--taking his assurances that all was well,--he supposed it was so,
and began to fancy that he was actually becoming rich. It had ever been
a common saying in his mouth, that "the world owed him a living," and
he now verily believed that he had taken the wave of fortune at its
flood, and was floating along triumphantly upon the spring-tide of
wealth. Nor was he undeceived until the disclosure was too late for the
salvation of his credit. His notes began to come round too fast to be
promptly "lifted;" and just at the moment when a portion of his
increased capital would have been exceedingly convenient, greatly to
his surprise he was unable to find even that with which he had
commenced. The consequence was frequent visits from the notary; and his
indorsers began occasionally to receive an unceremonious call from
those officious legal gentlemen, Messrs. John Doe and Richard Roe.

At this stage of his unpromising mercantile career, the approaching
catastrophe was hastened by a very grievous and untoward event. After
having despatched a duck and a dozen of oysters at Bement's, he had
scarcely composed himself to sleep before he was aroused by an alarm of
fire, and astounded by the vociferations of a watchman under the
window, who thundered in his ears that it was his own store that was
now illuminating the venerable Dutch capital! Not an article escaped
the ravages of "the devouring element," to quote the newspaper account
of the following morning; and what was more melancholy still, his
faithful clerk, who always slept in the store, was for the moment
supposed to have perished in the flames! Morning came, however, and lo!
Mr. John Smith, junior, was seen to emerge from the portal of a house,
the fame whereof was no better than it should have been--it being none
other than one of those places of which the wise man would have said,
"the dead are there," and "the guests in the depths of hell."

The residue of this section of Mr. Wheelwright's biography is soon
told. With the flames of his store, were his fortunes for the time
being extinguished; and his father soon afterward found himself to be
as destitute of property as when he first entered the valley of the
Mohawk, with only an adz, a pod-auger, and an axe upon his shoulder.
The trusty clerk soon afterward sickened, even unto death, and in his
last moments disclosed various delinquencies which had hastened his
employer's ruin;--for all of which he was readily forgiven by the
really kind-hearted man whom he had so deeply wronged, and from his
penitence it is to be hoped he was also forgiven by Him against whom he
had yet more grievously sinned.

The merchants of New-York are proverbially liberal to unfortunate
debtors; the tale of Mr. Wheelwright's misfortunes excited their lively
sympathies; and they generously released him from all those obligations
which neither he nor his indorsers could pay. And thus amid the frowns
of adversity ended the mercantile career of the subject of this memoir.


CHAPTER VII.

HOW FORTUNE AGAIN SMILED, AND THEN FROWNED UPON HIM.

    "----Fortune is merry,
    And in this mood will give us any thing."--_Shakspeare._

    "Full oft 'tis seen our mere defects
    Prove our commodities."--_Idem._

    "----A motley company,
    Blacklegs, and thieves, and would-be gentlemen."--_Idem._

"The lottery of my destiny bars me the right of voluntary
choosing."--_Idem._


The succeeding stage in the life of my hero and friend, was marked by
no very striking or extraordinary event; but the incidents attending it
were nevertheless quite characteristic of his varying fortunes. It so
happened that in adjusting the results of his mercantile experiment,
Mr. Wheelwright became possessed of a questionable claim upon the
government, for property said to have been destroyed by the enemy on
the northern frontier, during the late war with Great Britain. It came
into his hands by way of satisfaction for a debt due from a country
merchant; and although the chances were as twenty to one, either that
it had already been paid, or that it had no existence in equity, or
that even if ever so just, like the claim for Amy Dardin's celebrated
blood-horse, the period of two generations would be consumed in
petitioning for relief, yet he determined forthwith to proceed to the
federal capital, and prosecute his suit before the august majesty of
the people in congress assembled. It did not forbid juvenile caprices;
it overlooked _venial_ sins.

One Sunday he took his scholars to Nanterre, some to perform, others to
hear, a mass of his own composition. A few friends joined the
party. The mass over, they wandered into the country in groups. Some
walked; some sat upon the grassy turf. The air was pleasant, the
conversation animated; time passed quickly.

Suddenly the vesper bell was heard. Some one drew Delsarte's attention
to it--not without a tiny grain of malice.

"Master, what a pity--you must leave us."
He made no answer.

When the second summons sounded, the same voice continued:

"There's no help for it; for us poor sinners, it's no matter! But
you, master, you cannot miss the mass!"
He put his hand to his head and considered.

"Bah!" he cried boldly, "I'll send my children."
Let me give another trait in illustration of the nature which from
time to time pierced through and rent the flimsy fabric of
his opinions. This anecdote is a political one.

Despite the precedent of an ultra democratic grandfather, and all
his plebeian tendencies as a philanthropist and a Christian, his
Catholic friends had inclined him toward monarchical ideas--although
he never actually sided with the militant portion of the party.

On one occasion, it happened that the two wings of this politico-religious
fusion disagreed. As at Nanterre, Delsarte acted independently, and
on this occasion politics were the victim. It fell out as follows:

A claimant of the throne of France, still young, finding himself in the
Eternal City, had not, to all appearance, fulfilled his duties to the
Vatican promptly.

The first time that Delsarte encountered certain of those zealous
legitimists, who are said to be "more royalist than the king," he
launched this apostrophe at their heads:

"I hear that _your young man_ was in no haste to pay his respects to
His Holiness."
Thus, always free--even when he seemed to have forged chains for
himself--he obeyed his impulse without counting the cost. Never
mind!
This childish outburst must have gladdened the manes of the ancestor who
connected the syllables in the patronymic name of Delsarte!

I hope I shall not forget, as my pen moves along, any of these memories,
insignificant to many minds, no doubt, but serving to distinguish this
figure from the vast mass of creation. If, among my readers, some
may say "pass on," others will enjoy these trifles, and will thank
me for writing them.

Thus, Delsarte was always pleased to think he bore the name of François
in memory of Francis of Assisi--not the Spaniard whom we know, but
the great saint of the twelfth century; he who "appeased quarrels,
settled differences, taught slaves and common men,--the poor man
who was good to the poor."

"The fish, the rabbits and the hares," the legend says, "placed
themselves in this fortunate man's hands." * * * * The birds
were silent or sang at his command. "Be silent," said the saint
to the swallows, "'tis my turn to talk now." And again: "My brothers,
the birds, you have great cause to praise your Creator, who covered
you with such fine feathers and gave you wings to fly through
the clear, broad fields of air."
One need not be very devout to be attracted by such graceful
simplicity.

Delsarte went farther. Whether he accepted this magnetic attraction as
true or whether he regarded it as purely symbolic--for this kind of
miracle is not dependent on faith,--he considered the monk of
Assisi as a lover of nature, whose heart was big enough to love
everything that lives, to suffer with all that suffers.

    He strove to comprehend him by placing him upon a pinnacle, well
aware that the sublime often lurks between the trifling.

It was on such occasions that the man of intellect revived to ennoble
and illumine everything. If, despite his magnificent rendering
of them, Delsarte never called legendary fictions in question, let
us not refuse him that privilege. In such cases the poetry became
his accomplice, and--"Every poet is the toy of the gods," as
Béranger says, a simple song-writer, as Delsarte was a simple
singer.

There was in him whom Kreutzer called "the apostle of the grand dramatic
style," a desire, I will not say for realism, but for _realization_,
for action. Thus he once had a fancy to join the semi-clerical society
of the third order; it was a way of keeping himself in practice,
since there were various prescriptions, observances and interdictions
attached to the office. One must repeat certain prayers every day, and
submit to a certain severity of costume. No precious metal, not even
a thread of gold or silver must be seen about one. In the first
moments of fervor, a beautiful green velvet cap, beautifully
embroidered in gold--the loving gift of some pupil or admirer,--was
interdicted, that is to say, was shut up in a closet or reduced to the
condition of a mere piece of bric-à-brac.

Luckily, the association did not require eternal vows, and I think I
saw the pretty article restored to its proper use later on.

Another attempt--and this was his own creation--tempted this inquiring
mind; he wished to pay especial homage, under some novel form, to the
Holy Trinity. The adepts were to be called _the Trinitarians_. In
the founder's mind, this starting-point was to be the seed for a sort
of confraternity with the mark of true friendship and unity of
faith.

This dream was never realized, apparently, for it seems that the
association could never number more than three members at a time:
so that it was in number only that it justified its title.
Delsarte was very fond of these few adherents. "The Trinitarians--where
are the Trinitarians?" was sometimes the cry at a lecture. It was
the voice of the master who had reserved a seat of honor for each of
them.

This is all I ever knew about this society, and I have reason to
think that it never got beyond a few talks among the members upon
the subject which united them.

It is not without reluctance that I expose his weaknesses; but timid
as the steps must ever be which are taken upon historic ground, we
must walk in daylight.

No one, moreover, could regard this effervescence of a sentiment noble
in its source, as a want of intellectual liberty. It was the
affectionate side of his nature which at moments dimmed his reason,
but never went so far as to put out its light.

I need not attempt to defend on this point one, of whom Auguste Luchet
wrote:

"It is by his soul and _his science_ that he lifts you, transports you,
strikes you, shatters you with terror, anguish and love!"
And Pierre Zaccone says:

"He is an artist, apart, exceptional, perhaps unique! with what
finished art, what talent, what GENIUS, he uses the resources of
his voice!"
That which best atoned in Delsarte for the grain of fanaticism with which
he was reproached, was the tolerance which prevailed in every controversy,
in every dissension. If he sometimes blamed free thought, he never
showed ill will to free-thinkers. In the spirit of the gospel--so
different from the spirit of the devout party--he was "all things
to all men." He was on a very friendly footing with a priest whom, by
his logic and his sincerity, he had prevailed upon to forsake the
ecclesiastical calling.

In our discussions, which dealt with secondary subjects of various
forms of belief--for I never denied God, or the soul and its
immortality, or the freedom of the will which is the honor of the human
race, or the power of charity, provided it become social and fraternal,
instead of merely alms-giving as it has been,--in these debates, sometimes
rather lively, I would end by saying to him: "You know that I love
and seek truth; very well!

if God wished me to join the ranks in which you serve, he would certainly
give me a sign; but so long as I do not receive His summons, what have
I to do with it?"
I spoke his own language, and he yielded to my reasoning. "Come,"
he would say, "I prefer your frankness to the pretenses of feigned
piety;" and he would add sorrowfully: "Alas! I often encounter them!"
So we always ended by agreeing, and this truce lasted--until our
next meeting.

The words which I have just quoted prove that if Delsarte clung to the
Catholic dogmas, he was particularly touched by the sincere piety and
active charity of simple, evangelic hearts. I may give yet another
proof of this.

To satisfy his sympathies as much as to rescue his clan, when
attacked, he would always quote a father confessor, one Father
Pricette--this name should be remembered in the present age--who,
during the icy nights of December, slept in an arm-chair, because
he had given his last mattress to some one poorer than himself.

Chapter XIII.

Delsarte's Friends.

Friendly relations--although disputes often arose--were established
toward 1840 between Delsarte and Raymond Brucker (known to literature
as Michel Raymond).

Fortunately in spite of the influence of the author of "Mensonge,"
Delsarte's superior rank always prevailed in this intimacy.

Michel Raymond published several novels in the first half of this
century. Later on, he took his place in the ranks of that militia of
Neo-Catholics, the fruit of the Restoration. (I do not know whether I
am justified in giving the name of Neo-Catholic to Brucker; perhaps,
on the contrary, his dreams were all of the primitive church. But, in
spite of his Jewish crudities, I suppose he would never have joined
the followers of Father Loyson.) His keen, sharp and caustic spirit
did not forsake him when he changed his principles; and never did the
Christ--whose symbol is a lamb without a stain--have a sterner or
more warlike zealot.

In appearance, Brucker had somewhat the look of a Mephistopheles--a demon
then very much in vogue,--especially when he laughed, his laughter
being full of sardonic reserves. If Delsarte's mode of proselyting was
almost always gentle, affectionate, adapted to the spirit he aspired
to conquer, that of Raymond Brucker had an aggressive fashion; he
became brutal and cynical when discussion waxed warm.

Once, in reply to one of his vehement attacks against the age,
in which he used very unparliamentary expressions, he drew upon himself
the following answer from a woman: "But, sir, I should think that in
the ardor of your recent convictions, your first act of faith should
have been to make an _auto-da-fé_ of all the books signed Michel
Raymond."
I repeat, this writer, although of undoubted intellectual merit, could
not annul Delsarte's native tendencies; he could never have led
Delsarte into any camp which the latter had not already decided to
join; but when they met on common ground, he influenced, excited and
sometimes threw a shadow over him.

When they had fought together against the nearest rebel, long and lively
discussions would often arise between them, but they always agreed
in the end: the artist's good-nature so willed it.

If dissension continued, if the fiery friend had given cause for reproach,
Delsarte merely said: "Poor Brucker!" But how much that brief phrase
could be made to mean in the mouth of a man who taught an actor to
say, "I hate you!" by uttering the words, "I love you," and who could
ring as many changes on one sentence as the thought, the feeling, the
occasion, could possibly require.

Do not suppose, however, that Delsarte abused his power. Contrary to
many actors who carry their theatrical habits into their private
life, he aimed at the most perfect simplicity outside of the rôles
which he interpreted. "I make myself as simple as possible,"
he would say, "to avoid all suspicion of posing." But still he could
not entirely rid himself, in conversation, of those inflections which
illuminate words and are the genuine manifestation of the inner
meaning.

Be this as it may, the relation between our two converts assumed
the proportions of friendship, doubtless in virtue of the
mysterious law which makes contrast attractive.

Hegel says: "The identical and the non-identical are identical;"
and this proposition passes for nonsense.

Perhaps if he had said: "May become identical," it would be understood
that he meant to speak, in general, of that reconciliation of contraries
which united the calm genius of Delsarte and the bristling, prickly
spirit of Raymond Brucker.

One motive particularly contributed to the union; Brucker was unfortunate
in a worldly sense. Delsarte, improvident for the future and
scorning money, still had, during the best years of his professorship,
a relatively comfortable home. He loved to have his friend take
advantage of it. Large rooms, well warmed in winter, a simple table,
but one which lacked no essential article, were of no small importance
to one whose scanty household had naught but sorrow and privation
to offer.

How many evenings they spent together in dissertations which often
ended in nothing--and how often the dawn surprised them before they
were weary!

For Brucker it was a refuge, but for Delsarte, what a waste of time and
strength taken from his real work! That wasted time might have sufficed
to fix and produce certain special points in his method. Then, too,
his health demanded greater care.

Take it for all in all, this intimacy was perhaps more harmful than
helpful to Delsarte.

Yet I have been told that Raymond Brucker urged the innovator to
elaborate his discovery, and often reproached him with his negligence
in pecuniary matters.

It was he who said: "François Delsarte's system is an orthopedic
machine to straighten crippled intellects."

I have also heard in favor of Raymond Brucker, that that mind so
full of bitterness, that inquisitor _in partibus_, was most tender
toward a child in his family, and that he bore his poverty bravely.

I desire to note these eulogies side by side with the less favorable
reflections which I considered it my duty to write down here.

I recall a short anecdote which will serve to close the Brucker
story.

As we have said, they were seldom parted. One day Delsarte had
agreed to dine with the family of a pupil.

As he was on his way thither, he met his inseparable friend.

From that moment his only thought was to excuse himself from the dinner;
but his hosts were reluctant to give up such a guest; they
insisted"--they were offended.

"Pardon me," said Delsarte; "I really cannot stay! I had forgotten that
Brucker was to dine with me."

"But that can be arranged! M. Brucker can join us. Suppose we send
and ask him?"
"You need not," replied the master; "if you are willing, I will call
him; he is waiting for me below at the corner."
They had acted as children do, when one says to the other on leaving
school:

"Wait a minute for me, I'll ask mamma if you can come and dine
with us."

Brucker, who after all knew how to be agreeable when he chose, took
his place at the table, and all went well.

This proves yet once again the extent to which Delsarte possessed that
charming simplicity so well suited to all distinction.

In the dissertations upon religious subjects incessantly renewed
about Delsarte, it was sometimes declared that "great sinners were
surer of salvation than the most perfect unbelievers in the world."

A young man, who doubtless felt himself to be in the first category,
once said to the master:

"My friend, the good God has been too kind to me! I disobey him, I
offend against his laws.... I repent, and he accepts my prayer! I
relapse into sin--and he forgives me! Decidedly, the good God is a
very poltroon!"
This seems to exceed the unrestrained ease and confidence usual toward
an earthly father; but we must not forget that the inflection modifies
the meaning of a phrase, and that _poltroon_ may mean _adorable_.

This penitent, now famous, carried his provocation of the inexhaustible
goodness very far. At one time in his life he tried to blow out his
brains! By a mere chance--he probably said, by a miracle,--the wound
was not mortal; but he always retained the accusing scar. I never
knew whether this unpleasant adventure preceded or followed Mr.
L.'s conversion, or whether it was coincident with one of the relapses
of which that repentant sinner accused himself.
Another very religious friend was no less fragile in the observance
of his firm vow. Becoming a widower, he swore eternal fidelity to
the "departed angel." Soon after, he was seen with another wife on
his arm!

"And your angel?" whispered a sceptic in his ear.
"Oh, my friend!" was the reply, "this one is an archangel."
Another figure haunted Delsarte and afforded yet another proof of
his tolerance. The Italian, C----, shared neither his political
ideas nor his religious beliefs; he was one of those refugees whom
the defeats of the Carbonari have cast upon our soil, and whose
necessities France--does our neighbor remember this?--for years
supplied, as if they were her own children. However, she could offer
them but a precarious living.
Signer C., to give some charm to his wretched existence, desired
to add to his scanty budget a strong dose of hope and intellectual
enjoyment:
hope in--what came later--the independence and unity of Italy. By
way of diversion, this stranger gratified himself by indulging in
a whim; he had dreams of a panacea, a plant whose complex virtues
should combat all the evils which fall to the lot of poor humanity;
but this marvel must be sought in America. And how was he to get
there, when he could barely scrape together the necessary five cents
to ride in an omnibus! The Isabellas of our day do not build ships
for every new Columbus who desires to endow the world with some
wonderful treasure trove! And yet this man was not mad; he was one
of those who prove how many insane ideas a brain may cherish, without
being entitled to a cell in Bedlam or Charenton.
While awaiting the realization of his golden dreams, poor C. spent
his time in perpetual adoration of the Talma of Music--for so
Théophile Gautier styled Delsarte; he never missed a lecture; he
took part in the talks which lengthened out the evening when the
parlor was at last cleared of superfluous guests.
Among his many manias--how many people have this one in common with
him!--the Italian cherished the idea that he was of exceptional
ability, and that in more than one direction. He proclaimed that
Delsarte went far beyond everything that he knew--equal to all that
could be imagined or desired in regard to art--but as for himself,
C., was he not from a land where art is hereditary, where it is
breathed in at every pore, from birth? And more than the mass of
his countrymen, did he not feel the volcanic heat of the sacred
fire burning within him?
One evening, he made a bold venture. He had prepared a tirade written
by some Italian poet. All that I remember of it is that it began
with the words: "_Trema--Trema!_" [Tremble--Tremble!]
The impromptu tragedian recited several lines in a declamatory tone
accompanied by gestures to match. Delsarte listened without a sign
of praise or blame. Then he rose, struck an attitude appropriate
to the text, but perfectly natural, and, in his quiet way, said:
"Might not you as well give it in this key?" Then, in a voice of
repressed harshness, his gestures subdued but expressive of hatred,
he repeated the two words: "_Trema--Trema!_"
The listeners shuddered.The old
man had perhaps read the pathetic tale in the school-books, of the aged
prisoner released from the Bastile, and he cared not to return to a
world by which he was unknown, or had long since been forgotten. If,
perchance, any of those whom he had once taken by the hand, were yet on
the stage, their chariot-wheels might roll too fast to enable them to
recognize the poor old man by whose early patronage they had been
enabled to purchase their equipage. He therefore preferred the cold
victuals of his prison-house, to the cold charities of the world.

Wheelwright had already taken the preliminary steps to procure relief
under the insolvent law. He should soon be discharged from jail "by
order of the honorable Richard Riker;"--and as "the world owed him a
living," he was quite confident of doing well enough yet.

All that was necessary for his comfort was of course done for him, and
at the time appointed, he was discharged from prison in due course of
law--free from debt--and the wide world all before him where to choose.
His clothes were redeemed from the landlord; and setting his face
northward, he departed, in the first steamboat, for the ancient city of
Albany, and to revisit the scenes of his youth in the valley of the
Mohawk.


CHAPTER IX.

AN ILLUSTRATION OF THE SUBLIME AND BEAUTIFUL.

"Who can speak broader than he who has no house to put his head
in?"--_Shakspeare._

"With darkness circled, and an ambient cloud."


Nearly a year elapsed after his release from the old _don-jon_,
before I was enabled again to rejoice in a meeting with my friend
Wheelwright; and our interview happened on this wise: Passing by, or
rather crossing, the foot of Courtland-street, one bright morning in
May, I observed a group of laborers occupied in placing some articles
of heavy iron-machinery on board of an Albany sloop--the General
Trotter, I believe, commanded by Capt. Keeler--a veteran navigator of
the Hudson. And whom should I discover among these men, giving
directions with an authoritative air, and actually bending his own back
to the work, but the veritable Doctor Daniel Wheelwright! It was indeed
no less a personage. From the previous character and habits of my
friend, the reader may judge of my surprise at beholding him thus
engaged--laboring, too, as though his work was made easy by the good
will with which he was performing it. Having exchanged salutations,
mingled with expressions of surprise at finding him thus employed, and
inquired upon what new enterprise he was bent--

"Why havn't you hearn?" was his response.

"No," was the laconic reply.

"What? not of the launch of the 'Lady-of-the-Lake,' on Lake George?"

"Ah--let me see--yes: I think I have seen a paragraph respecting it, in
the Sandy Hill newspaper. But pray what have _you_ to do with that?"

"To do with it? Why every thing. I am the agent of the concern. I have
made up the company, and built the boat. The engine has gone up the
river, and I am now shipping the last of the machinery.--[Come, bear a
hand there, boys--what are you about?] Have you ever been to Lake
George? If you want to see a touch of the grand and glorious, I guess
you'll find it there. The hills is sublime; and the lake so clear that
you can see the stars in it when it's cloudy."

"Indeed! And you then are to be wedded to the Lady-of-the-Lake?"

"And a beautiful thing she is, too. We shall have all the travel of the
grand tower through the lake to Montreal, and mean to have the boat
ready to take the first travellers from the Springs after the fourth of
July."

"And you are really looking up in the world again?"

"To be sure I be. I always told you that the world owed me a living,
and I believe I have at last struck upon the right track to find it.
[Come, bear a hand there, boys--Why don't you take hold of that
shackle-bar, Tom?"]

Saying which he applied his own shoulder to a huge cog-wheel, with the
alacrity, if not the power, of another Hercules.

I was alike surprised and gratified with this apparent change in the
Doctor's circumstances, as also at the unwonted industry and energy he
was now putting forth. It seemed as though by some rare chance, my
esteemed and hitherto unfortunate friend had at length become
associated in an enterprise for which he might be found very competent,
and which might one day prove valuable--at least to him, if not to the
stockholders. He was moreover taking hold of the work himself like one
who had at last been taught by the "sweet uses of adversity," that a
man is not always certain of obtaining a living by his wits, unless the
labors of his own hands are superadded. Fashionable travelling during
the summer months, was even then extensive; it was increasing from year
to year--and was sure to continue increasing, with the augmentation of
the national wealth and population. Carr, on his plantation near Jackson,
Leon County, many years ago."
When questioned concerning her life on this plantation, she
continues:
"Now honey, its been so long ago, I don' 'member ev'ything, but I
will tell you whut I kin as near right as possible; I kin 'member five
uf Marse Carr's chillun; Florida, Susan, 'Lijah, Willie and Tom;
cose Carr never 'lowed us to have a piece uf paper in our hands."
"Mr. Kilgo was de fust overseer I 'member; I was big enough to tote meat
an' stuff frum de smokehouse to de kitchen and to tote water in and
git wood for granny to cook de dinner and fur de sucklers who nu'sed
de babies, an' I carried dinners back to de hands."
"On dis plantation dere was 'bout a hunnerd head; cookin' was done
in de fireplace in iron pots and de meals was plenty of peas,
greens, cornbread burnt co'n for coffee--often de marster bought some
coffee fur us; we got water frum de open well. Jes 'fore de
big gun fiahed dey fotched my pa frum de bay whar he was makin'
salt; he had heerd dam say 'de Yankees is coming and wuz so glad."

"Dere wuz rice, cotton, co'n, tater fields to be tended to and cowhides
to be tanned, thread to be spinned, and thread wuz made into ropes for
plow lines."
"Ole Marse Carr fed us, but he did not care what an' whar, jes so you
made dat money and when yo' made five and six bales o' cotton,
said:
'Yo' ain don' nuthin'."
"When de big gun fiahed on a Sattidy me and Cabe and Minnie Howard
wuz settin' up co'n fur de plowers to come 'long and put dirt to
'em; Carr read de free papers to us on Sunday and de co'n and cotton
had to be tended to--he tole us he wuz goin' to gi' us de net
proceeds (here she chuckles), what turned out to be de co'n and
cotton stalks.

Den he asked dem whut would stay wid him to step off on de right and
dem dat wuz leavin' to step off on da left."
"My pa made soap frum ashes when cleaning new ground--he took a
hopper to put de ashes in, made a little stool side de house put
de ashes in and po'red water on it to drip; at night after gittin'
off frum work he'd put in de grease and make de soap--I made it
sometime and I make it now, myself."
"My step-pa useter make shoes frum cowhides fur de farm han's on
de plantation and fur eve'body on de plantation 'cept ole Marse and
his fambly; dey's wuz diffunt, fine."

"My grandma wus Pheobie Austin--my mother wuz name Rachel Jackson
and my pa wus name Edmund Jackson; my mother and uncle Robert and Joe
wus stol' frum Virginia and fetched here. I don' know no niggers
dat 'listed in de war; I don' 'member much 'bout de war only when de
started talking 'bout drillin' men fur de war, Joe Sanders was a
lieutenant. Marse Carr's sons, Tom and Willie went to de war."
"We didn' had no doctors, only de grannies; we mos'ly used hippecat
(ipecac) fur medicine."
"As I said, Kilgo was de fust overseer I ricollec', then Sanders
wuz nex' and Joe Sanders after him; John C. Haywood came in after
Sanders and when de big gun fiahed old man Brockington wus dere.

I never saw a nigger sold, but dey carried dem frum our house and I
never seen 'em no mo'."
"We had church wid de white preachers and dey tole us to mind our masters
and missus and we would be saved; if not, dey said we wouldn'.
Dey never tole us nothin' 'bout Jesus. On Sunday after workin' hard all
de week dey would lay down to sleep and be so tired; soon ez yo' git
sleep, de overseer would come an' wake you up an' make you go to church."

"When de big gun fiahed old man Carr had six sacks uf confederate
money whut he wuz carrying wid him to Athens Georgia an' all de time if
any uf us gals whar he wuz an' ax him 'Marse please gi us some money'
(here she raises her voice to a high, pitiful tone) he says' I aint got
a cent' and right den he would have a chis so full it would take a
whol' passle uv slaves to move it. He had plenty corn, taters,
pum'kins, hogs, cows ev'ything, but he didn' gi us nuthin but strong
plain close and plenty to eat; we slept in ole common beds and my
pa made up little cribs and put hay in dem fur de chillun."
"Now ef you wanted to keep in wid Marster Carr don' drap you shoes in
de field an' leave 'em--he'd beat you; you mus' tote you' shoes frum
one field to de tother, didn' a dog ud be bettern you. He'd say
'You gun-haided devil, drappin' you' shoes and eve'thin' over de
field'."
"Now jes lis'en, I wanna tell you all I kin, but I wants to tell it
right; wait now, I don' wanna make no mistakes and I don' wanna
lie on nobody--I ain' mad now and I know taint no use to lie, I
takin' my time.

I done prayed an' got all de malice out o' my heart and I ain' gonna
tell no lie fer um and I ain' gonna tell no lie on um. I ain'
never seed no slaves sold by Marster Carr, he wuz allus tellin' me he
wuz gonna sell me but he never did--he sold my pa's fust wife though."

"Dere wuz Uncle George Bull, he could read and write and, chile, de white
folks didn't lak no nigger whut could read and write. Carr's wife Miss
Jane useter teach us Sunday School but she did not 'low us to tech a
book wid us hands. So dey useter jes take uncle George Bull and beat
him fur nothin; dey would beat him and take him to de lake and put him
on a log and shev him in de lake, but he always swimmed out. When dey
didn' do dat dey would beat him tel de blood run outen him and den
trow him in de ditch in de field and kivver him up wid dirt, head
and years and den stick a stick up at his haid. I wuz a water
toter and had stood and seen um do him dat way more'n once and I stood
and looked at um tel dey went 'way to de other rows and den I grabbed
de dirt ofen him and he'd bresh de dirt off and say 'tank yo', git
his hoe and go on back to work. Dey beat him lak dat and he didn' do
a thin' to git dat sort uf treatment."
"I had a sister name Lytie Holly who didn' stand back on non' uv em;
when dey'd git behin' her, she'd git behin' dem; she wuz dat
stubbo'n and when dey would beat her she wouldn' holler and jes
take it and go on.

I got some whuppin's wid strops but I wanter tell you why I am cripple
today:

"I had to tote tater vines on my haid, me and Fred' rick and de han's
would be a callin fur em all over de field but you know honey, de two
uv us could' git to all uvum at once, so Joe Sanders would hurry
us up by beatin' us with strops and sticks and run us all over de tater
ridge; he cripple us both up and den we couldn' git to all uv em.
At night my pa would try to fix me up cose I had to go back to work nex'
day. I never walked straight frum dat day to dis and I have to set
here in dis chair now, but I don' feel mad none now. I feels good and
wants to go to he'ven--I ain' gonna tel no lie on white nor black cose
taint no use."
"Some uv de slaves run away, lots uv um. Some would be cot and when
dey ketched em dey put bells on em; fust dey would put a iron ban'
'round dey neck and anuder one 'round de waist and rivet um tegether
down de back; de bell would hang on de ban' round de neck so dat it
would ring when de slave walked and den dey wouldn' git 'way. Some
uv dem wore dese bells three and four mont'n and when dey time wuz up
dey would take em off 'em. Jake Overstreet, George Bull, John Green,
Ruben Golder, Jim Bradley and a hos' uv others wore dem bells. Dis is
whut I know, not whut somebody else say. I seen dis myself. En
missus, when de big gun fiahed, de runerway slaves comed out de woods
frum all directions. We wuz in de field when it fiahed, but I
'members dey wuz all very glad."
"After de war, we worked but we got pay fur it."
"Ole man Pierce and others would call some kin' of a perlitical
(political) meetin' but I could never understan' whut dey wuz talkin'
'bout.

We didn' had no kin' uv schools and all I knows but dem is dat I
sent my chillums in Leon and Gadsden Counties."
"I had lots uv sisters and brothers but I can't 'member de names of
none by Lytie, Mary, Patsy and Ella; my brothers, is Edmond and Cornelius
Jackson. Cornelius is livin' now somewhere I think but I don' never see
him."
"When de big gun fiahed I was a young missy totin' cotton to de scales
at de ginhouse; ef de ginhouse wuz close by, you had to tote de cotton
to it, but ef it wuz fur 'way wagins ud come to de fields and weigh
it up and take it to de ginhouse.

    I was still livin' near
    Lake Jackson and we went to Abram Bailey's place near Tallahassee.

      Carr turned us out without nuthin and Bailey gi'd us his
      hammoc' and we went dere fur a home. Fust we cut down saplin's
      fur we didn' had no house, and took de tops uv pines and put
      on de top; den we put dirt on top uv dese saplin's and
      slep' under dem. When de rain would come, it would wash all de
      dirt right down in our face and we'd hafter buil' us a house all
      over ag'in.
      We didn' had no body to buil' a house fur us, cose pa was gone and
ma jes had us gals and we cut de saplin's fer de man who would buil'
de house fer us.

We live on Bailey's place a long time and fin'lly buil' us a log
cabin and den we went frum dis cabin to Gadsden County to a place
name Concord and dere I stay tel I come here 'fore de fiah."

"I had twelve chillun but right now missus, I can only 'member dese
names: Robert, 'Lijah, Edward, Cornelius, Littie, Rachel and Sophie."

"I was converted in Leon County and after freedom I joined de Methodist
church and my membership is now in Mount Zion A.M.E.

Church in Jacksonville, Florida."
"My fust husban was Nelson Walker and de las' one was name Dave
Nickerson.

I don' think I was 20 years old when de big gun fiahed, but I was more'
17--I reckon I wuz a little older den Flossie May (a niece who is 17
years of age) is now." (1)
Mrs. Nickerson, according to her information must be about 89 or 90 years
of age, sees without glasses having never used them; she does not read
or write but speaks in a convincing manner. She has most of her
teeth and a splendid appetite. She spends her time sitting in a
wheel-chair sewing on quilts. She has several quilts that she has pieced,
some from very small scraps which she has cut without the use of any
particular pattern. She has a full head of beautiful snowy white hair
and has the use of her limbs, except her legs, and is able to do most
things for herself. (2)
She lives with her daughter at 1600 Myrtle Avenue, Jacksonville,
Florida.

REFERENCES
1. Personal interview with Margrett Nickerson, 1600 Myrtle Avenue,
Jacksonville, Florida
2. Sophia Nickerson Starke, 1600 Myrtle Avenue, daughter of Margrett
Nickerson, Jacksonville, Florida
[TR: References moved from beginning of interview.]

FEDERAL WRITERS' PROJECT American Guide, (Negro Writers' Unit)
Rachel A. Austin, Field Worker Monticello, Florida November 10, 1936

DOUGLAS PARISH

Douglas Parish was born in Monticello, Florida, May 7, 1850, to Charles
and Fannie Parish, slaves of Jim Parish. Fannie had been bought
from a family by the name of Palmer to be a "breeder", that is a
bearer of strong children who could bring high prices at the slave
markets. A "breeder" always fared better than the majority of female
slaves, and Fannie Parish was no exception. All she had to do was raise
children.
Charles Parish labored in the cotton fields, the chief product of the
Parish plantation.

As a small boy Douglas used to spend his time shooting marbles, playing
ball, racing and wrestling with the other boys.

The marbles were made from lumps of clay hardened in the fireplace.
He was a very good runner, and as it was a custom in those days for
one plantation owner to match his "nigger" against that of his
neighbor, he was a favorite with Parish because he seldom failed to
win the race. Parish trained his runners by having them race to the
boundary of his plantation and back again. He would reward the winner
with a jack-knife or a bag of marbles.

Just to be first was an honor in itself, for the fastest runner represented
his master in the Fourth of July races when runners from all over the
country competed for top honors, and the winner earned a bag of
silver for his master. If Parish didn't win the prize, he was hard to
get along with for several days, but gradually he would accept his
defeat with resolution. Prizes in less important races ranged from a
pair of fighting cocks to a slave, depending upon the seriousness of
the betting.

Douglas' first job was picking cotton seed from the cotton. When he was
about 12 years of age, he became the stable boy, and soon learned
about the care and grooming of horses from an old slave who had charge
of the Parish stables. He was also required to keep the
buggies, surreys, and spring-wagons clean. The buggies were light
four-wheeled carriages drawn by one horse. The surreys were covered
four-wheeled carriages, open at the sides, but having curtains that
may be rolled down. He liked this job very much because it gave him
an opportunity to ride on the horses, the desire of all the boys on
the plantation. They had to be content with chopping wood, running
errands, cleaning up the plantation, and similar tasks. Because of his
knowledge of horses, Douglas was permitted to travel to the coast with
his boss and other slaves for the purpose of securing salt from
the sea water. It was cheaper to secure salt by this method than
it was to purchase it otherwise.

Life in slavery was not all bad, according to Douglas. Parish fed his
slaves well, gave them comfortable quarters in which to live, looked
after them when they were sick, and worked them very moderately. The
food was cooked in the fireplace in large iron pots, pans and ovens.
The slaves had greens, potatoes, corn, rice, meat, peas, and corn
bread to eat. Occasionally the corn bread was replaced by flour bread.
The slaves drank an imitation coffee made from parched corn or meal.
Since there was no ice to preserve the left-over food, only enough for
each meal was prepared.

Parish seldom punished his slaves, and never did he permit his overseer
to do so.

If the slaves failed to do their work, they were reported to him.

He would warn them and show his black whip which was usually
sufficient.

He had seen overseers beat slaves to death, and he did not want to
risk losing the money he had invested in his.

After his death, his son managed the plantation in much the same manner
as his father.

But the war was destined to make the Parishes lose all their slaves by
giving them their freedom.

Even though they were free to go, many of the slaves elected to
remain with their mistress who had always been kind to them.

The war swept away much of the money which her husband had left her;
and although she would liked to have kept all of her slaves, she
found it impossible to do so.

She allowed the real old slaves to remain on the premises and kept
a few of the younger ones to work about the plantation.

Douglas and his parents were among those who remained on the plantation.
His father was a skilled bricklayer and carpenter, and he was
employed to make repairs to the property.

His mother cooked for the Parishes.

Many of the Negroes migrated North, and they wrote back stories of
the "new country" where "de white folks let you do jes as you
please."

These stories influenced a great number of other Negroes to go North and
begin life anew as servants, waiters, laborers and cooks. The Negroes
who remained in the South were forced to make their own living. At the
end of the war, foods and commodities had gone up to prices that
were impossible for the Negro to pay.

Ham, for example, cost 40¢ and 50¢ a pound; lard was 25¢; cotton was
two dollars a bushel.

Douglas' father taught him all that he knew about carpentry and
bricklaying, and the two were in demand to repair, remodel, or build
houses for the white people.

Although he never attended school, Charles Parish could calculate
very rapidly the number of bricks that it would take to build a
house.

After the establishing of schools by the Freedmen's Bureau, Douglas'
father made him go, but he did not like the confinement of school
and soon dropped out.

The teachers for the most part, were white, who were concerned
only with teaching the ex-slaves reading, writing, and arithmetic.

The few colored teachers went into the community in an effort to
elevate the standards of living.

They went into the churches where they were certain to reach the greatest
number of people and spoke to them of their mission.

    The Negro teachers were cordially received
      by the ex-slaves who were glad to
    welcome some "Yankee niggers" into
      their midst.

Whereas the white teachers did not bother with the Negroes except
in the classroom, other white men came who showed a decided interest
in them.

They were called "carpetbaggers" because of the type of traveling bag
which they usually carried, and this term later became synonymous with
"political adventurer."

These men sought to advance their political schemes by getting the
Negroes to vote for certain men who would be favorable to them.

They bought the Negro votes or put a Negro in some unimportant
office to obtain the goodwill of the ex-slaves.She
has a long row of housen in Dublin, and owns several housen, besides,
in one of the best streets in Liverpool."

Having communicated this agreeable intelligence, Mr. Wheelwright was
apparently about taking his departure, and moved to the door; but
suddenly turning round, as though some part of his errand had been
forgotten, he resumed:--

"So, you see, the small matter I am owing you will soon be paid;--but I
shall be obleeged to raise a little money--only a thousand dollars or
so--to pay a lawyer to investigate the titles, and I think it
like-enough I shall be obleeged to go to England before I get it all
settled."

"Oho! Then you are not quite so certain of the fortune, after all. The
titles are yet to be examined, eh?"

"But that won't amount to nothing serious though. I know all about it."

"Still, my good doctor, it would have been better had you looked well
to those titles before she obtained a title to you."

"But it's of no consequence. You see the case is just here: The
captain, d'ye see, had something to do with another woman, who now
claims the property for her children; but she wasn't his wife, and it
will all come right, as my lawyer tells me, if I can only get him a few
hundred dollars to carry it on."

By this time I began to see much more of the poor fellow's case than he
did himself. But as it was not particularly convenient for me to
accommodate him with another advance, we parted for that time--he to
live out his honey-moon in dreams of treasures shortly to be added to
the bliss of "wedded love"--and I to indulge in a variety of
reflections naturally arising upon the subject, which were doubtless
very good, though long since forgotten. The sagacious reader will,
perhaps, have no difficulty in arriving at the conclusion that my
reflections and Doctor Wheelwright's treasures proved, in the end, of
about equal value; and that neither would have been taken as good
security by any bank or broker to whom application might have been made
for a loan of the required funds. Whether such a conclusion, when
arrived at, would be correct or not, will be discovered in a succeeding
chapter.


CHAPTER XI.

PREPARES TO LIVE BY HIS LEARNING.

"For now sits Expectation in the air."--_Shakspeare._

"A man, to be the governor of an island, should know something of
grammar. 'Grammar?' replied Sancho, 'who the d----l is he?'"--_Don
Quixotte._


The mellifluous bard of Twickenham was egregiously mistaken when he
pronounced "a little learning" to be "a dangerous thing." Had it not
been for the modicum of letters, small as it was, acquired by Mr.
Wheelwright, at the school of which I had occasion to speak early in
the present history, to say nothing, as seems most meet, of the
university, his family would now have been rather short of bread and
butter. They had great possessions, of the which they were not yet
possessed. But these were a great way off; and, most unfortunately,
somebody else had obtained the occupancy, and held the titles. Nor,
from the existing state of Mr. Wheelwright's finances, according to the
report of his counsel, was there any immediate prospect of his soon
becoming master of what was now in the right of his wife unquestionably
his own. The consolation, however, was, that in the end, when those in
the unjust possession of the property should be ejected, they would be
compelled to disgorge the accumulating revenues from the rental, and
other sources of income. Meanwhile it was necessary that Mr.
Wheelwright should set about doing something "to make the pot boil."
Accordingly, after casting round for an occupation which promised to
produce the greatest income for the least bodily or mental exertion and
the smallest capital, it was determined by himself and lady to
establish a classical school for the instruction of young ladies and
gentlemen, in one of the most flourishing villages adjacent to the city
of New-York.

Mr. Wheelwright was too well acquainted with the way in which most
public objects for private advantage are managed now-a-days, not to
secure the countenance, and, if possible, the editorial assistance of
the conductor of a "happy folio of four pages," which once a week
poured forth its treasures of knowledge for the enlightenment of the
good people in the village, and the region round about, even to
New-Utrecht and Flatlands. He therefore, and that wisely, sought the
acquaintance of the gentleman of paste and scissors, with an
advertisement ready prepared--of somewhat formidable dimensions--and
for the composition of which he was indebted to a retired schoolmaster,
who had cheerfully rendered this little service for the occasion. Like
most of the conductors of the latter-day luminaries which dispense that
sound political wisdom and universal knowledge which render the people
of this nation "the most intelligent on earth," the editor was very
accessible and gracious. Indeed, he was truly desirous of testifying
the satisfaction he felt, on the accession to his village of an
institution which promised so many advantages, particularly to the
gentler sex of the rising generation; and which would offer another
inducement for people to do their eating, and sleeping, and tax-paying
on Long Island, and their business in New-York. His next publication,
therefore, contained the following article:--

    "_From the Longa Insula Astra, Dec. 10, 1822._

    "We take great pleasure in calling the attention of those of our
    citizens who are parents to the article which will be found
    immediately below. It was indeed handed in as an advertisement; but
    we feel so deeply interested in the object proposed, to say nothing
    of the classical and poetical beauty of the article itself, that we
    could not forbear awarding to it a greater conspicuity. Indeed we
    scarcely know when we have published an article with more
    heart-felt pleasure. The gentleman and lady, we understand, have
    been reduced by a succession of misfortunes, from a state of
    affluence to that of much humbler circumstances. But with that
    noble spirit of independence which, we are proud to say, is so
    peculiarly the indweller of American bosoms, they have determined
    to rise superior to their misfortunes, and win for themselves that
    patronage which they have heretofore had it in their power to
    dispense. We have had the pleasure of a personal interview with the
    gentleman who is to have the charge of the proposed institution. He
    appears to be well educated, modest, and unassuming--a master of
    the ancient languages, as his lady is of the modern; and from what
    we have heard, we doubt not their ample qualifications for the
    undertaking. Mrs. W. has enjoyed the advantages of foreign travel,
    which will enable her to form the manners of her pupils after the
    best models of the _salons_ of Paris, Vienna, and London; and
    we believe that by her judicious counsel she has been of great
    service to the most celebrated female seminaries in New-York, as
    also to the distinguished seminary in Troy--all of which, we trust,
    will soon be rivalled by that of our own village. It is the design
    of Mr. and Mrs. Wheelwright to extend their institute as rapidly as
    will be consistent with their means, and in the course of a year or
    two to obtain a charter for a college, with power to confer degrees
    upon their female as well as their male pupils. And why not? The
    intellectual equality of females with males has been fully
    established by the Edgeworths, and Hannah Mores, and Lady Morgans
    of Europe, and by females equally illustrious among our own fair
    countrywomen, only they do not occur to us just at this moment.
    Why, then, should not female proficients be entitled to degrees of
    merit, as well as nine-tenths of the blunder-heads who go through
    college, and come out no wiser than they went in? For our parts we
    shall stand up for female rights,--for, as the poet says:--

        "The world was sad, the garden was a wild,
        And man, the hermit, sighed, till woman smiled.

    "We therefore hope the college will go on, and when we obtain the
    South Ferry, we will look about to see what is to be done next. But
    we have not room to extend our remarks--of which, however, there is
    no occasion, since the eloquent article below will speak for
    itself.

        "EDUCATION.

        "'Tis education shows the way,
        Each latent beauty to display;
        Each happy genius brings to light,
        Conceal'd before in shades of night;--
        So diamonds from the gloomy mine,
        Taught by the workman's hand to shine,
        On Chloe's ivory bosom blaze,
        Or grace the crown with brilliant rays.

        "PHILOMATHIAN INSTITUTE.

    "Mr. and Mrs. Wheelwright beg leave to announce to parents and
    guardians in this village and its vicinity, that on the 1st of
    January now ensuing, they will open a literary and classical
    institution for the instruction of the rising generation--both of
    young gentlemen and ladies. The rising glories of this western
    hemisphere have scarcely yet begun to be developed; and as Mr. and
    Mrs. Wheelwright have been deeply impressed with the importance, in
    a young and rising republic, of having the youth of the land, of
    both sexes, reared in the paths of virtue and the intellectual
    flower-garden of knowledge, they have determined to devote their
    best faculties to the sacred cause of education,--fully believing,
    from the inexpressible interest they feel upon the subject, that
    they shall be enabled to exclaim with the immortal poet--

        "'Delightful task! to rear the tender thought,
        And teach the young idea _how to shoot_!'

    "From long and profound reflection upon the never-sufficiently-
    enough-to-be-estimated subject of education, Mr. and Mrs.
    Wheelwright have become entirely and unchangeably persuaded that
    all existing systems of instruction are essentially, and radically,
    as they may say, if not from the root, erroneous, and consequently
    defective as it were; and they trust that they shall be enabled to
    introduce such improvements and innovations in the science of
    teaching, as essentially to assist the spirit of a generous
    emulation in its efforts for noble rivalry; to aid the aspirations
    of a well-regulated ambition; and to encourage, in all possible and
    practicable ways, the desire of young genius to wing his eagle
    flight, as it were, on the pinions of intellectual corruscations.
    Every branch of human learning, either useful or ornamental, or of
    the least utility, will be taught at the Philomathian Institute,
    for which Mr. and Mrs. Wheelwright feel the utmost confidence in
    their own capacities and qualifications; since, in addition to
    being a graduate of one of the first universities of the age in
    which we live, Mr. W. has studied a learned profession, and Mrs. W.
    is possessed of the superior advantage of having been reared and
    educated in several of the leading European capitals. The utmost
    regard will be had to the morals and manners of such young
    aspirants as may be entrusted to their charge. To invigorate the
    constitutions of the pupils, a gymnasium will be provided for the
    boys of the male sex, and one hour per day will be devoted to
    callisthenics in the female department, to be occupied by the
    girls. In this department, the higher branches of instruction, both
    useful and ornamental, will be prosecuted under the immediate
    superintendence of Mrs. Wheelwright, who will spare no pains in the
    inoculation of the soundest lessons of virtue, while yet their
    young and youthful minds can be bent like the twig, and inclined
    like the tree, as the poet says. Those who desire it will receive
    instruction in the elements of moral philosophy, for which purpose
    they must be provided with Newtown's Principles, and other works of
    the kind. Mrs. Wheelwright has paid much attention to this sublime
    and beautiful study, which so enraptured the immortal Milton:--

        "'How charming is divine Philosophy!
        Not harsh and crabbed, as dull fools suppose,
        But musical as Apollo's lute,
        And a perpetual feast of nectar'd sweets,
        Where no rude surfeit reigns.'

    "It is to such a feast that the young ladies of this village will
    soon be invited. Great pains will moreover be taken to cultivate
    the domestic habits and affections, as the poet says:--

        "'Man may for wealth and glory roam,
        But woman must be bless'd at home;
        To this should all her studies tend,
        This her great object, and her end.'

    "At the same time no efforts will be spared to keep their young
    budding minds from vicious associations, and to render them as
    sweet as innocent, as innocent as gay, as gay as happy:--

        "'Vice is a monster of such frightful mien,
        As to be hated, needs but to be seen;
        But seen too oft, familiar with his face,
        We first endure, then pity, then embrace.'

    "Knowing this to be true from experience, the principal and
    vice-principal of the Philomathian Institute will do all in their
    power to keep their pupils in the paths of wisdom, and
    pleasantness, and peace, as Shakspeare, the sweet swan of Avon,
    says. In one word, it will be the object and aim of Mr. and Mrs.
    Wheelwright to qualify the young gentlemen to act nobly their part
    in this republican monarchy, and the young ladies whose education
    has been so long neglected--whose minds have so long been evolved
    in Siberian darkness--and as it were wasting their sweetness on the
    desert air--for the wives and mothers of freedom."

Added to this eloquent and promising proclamation, introduced as we
have already seen, by the editor, were the names of sundry presidents
of colleges, reverend doctors, editors, especially of the religious
papers, various public officers, among whom were the governor of the
state, the mayor and recorder, several classical teachers, and other
gentlemen, as references--most of whom when applied to, declared that
they had never heard of the concern before; others admitted that they
had allowed reference to be made to their names, because they knew
nothing against it; while a few assented to the high qualifications of
the teachers without scruple.

As to the morality of such an unauthorized use of great names, on the
one part, and the authorized use of them on the other, merely to avoid
the utterance of a monosyllable of two letters, when the effect is a
deception upon the public, it is not a subject for present discussion.
Both practices are abuses of the times, which have been carried to such
an extent that nothing can be more unmeaning than references of this
kind--in regard as well to schools, and "institutes," and "seminaries,"
as to the publication of books by subscription, and the superior merits
of patent blacking and razor-straps; as to which, by the way, it has
always been a subject of speculation to the writer, why a reverend
divine or an eminent physician should be supposed better qualified to
give an opinion than a boot-black or a barber. Here, therefore, "let us
breathe," as Shakspeare says, "and happily introduce a course of
learning and ingenious studies," in the next chapter.


CHAPTER XII.

OF THE MARCH OF MIND.

"_Smith._ The clerk of Chatham: he can write, and read, and cast
accompt.

_Cade._ O monstrous!

_Smith._ We took him setting of boys' copies.

_Cade._ Here's a villain!

_Smith._ H'as a book in his pocket with red letters in't.

_Cade._ Nay, then, he's a conjuror.

                    *      *      *      *      *

_Cade._ Dost thou use to write thy name? or hast thou a mark to
thyself, like an honest man?

_Clerk._ Sir, I thank God, I have been so well brought up that I
can write my name."--_Shakspeare._


"Hail, wedded love"--"and all that sort of thing."

                         _Milton and Matthews._


It may well be imagined that the appearance of such a flourishing
literary manifesto as that set forth in the preceding chapter, created
an uncommon sensation in the village. The ladies admired the distiches
of poetry with which the pompous proclamation was so plentifully
sprinkled, and the gentlemen, not being conversant with those
convenient _helps_, the "_Elegant Extracts_," supposed of course that
the advertisers must be persons of considerable erudition. Indeed,
the thing took wonderfully, and nothing was thought of, or talked of,
by ambitious mothers, and those opening rose-buds, their daughters,
for the full period of nine days, but the new "Institute," or
"Seminary"--the old-fashioned word "school" never being once mentioned.
Nor were the lords of creation unmindful of the good fortune in which
they were so soon to rejoice. Various situations were proposed and
discussed, for the site of a new edifice which would doubtless be
required within a twelve-month, and real estate rose exorbitantly in
every vicinity thus designated. A charter from the Legislature was
of course to be applied for, and several meetings of those who were
to form the Board of Trustees, were held to adjust the details.
The privileges of a college were to be obtained, with the power
of conferring the same degrees upon female students, as upon
males--forgetting, in their ardor, that the constitution of _female_
Bachelors and Masters of Arts would be a misnomer in any other country
than Ireland. In one word, there was to be no other classical
institution, in this country or any other, comparable with it--and to
it the nuns of Canada, the Moravians of Bethlehem, and the azure-hosed
professors of modern Ilium, would forever thereafter be compelled to
send for instructers.

It need not be added, that under all this excitement, and in view of
all these measures, on the opening of the institute, there was a rush
of pupils, promising golden returns to the accomplished and enterprising
teachers. As to its progress, and the moral and intellectual results,
the biographer has not been supplied with the materials for a minute
history. It is known, however, that the principals provided themselves
with the most modern, and consequently the best elementary "helps" to
be found in the bookstores. Justice also requires of the biographer to
say, that his friend Wheelwright did not enter upon his preceptorial
duties without many severe misgivings; and for some weeks previous to
the opening of the seminary, he applied himself to the work of
preparation with unwonted assiduity. But he was nevertheless sadly
deficient, as may well be supposed. Still, in his classes of geography
and rhetoric, he managed to get along for several weeks, by the aid of
those convenient instruments of instruction, which contain all
necessary questions and answers at the bottom of the pages--Kames and
Malte-Brun done over again by sciolists, so that the real authors would
be astonished to find how greatly they had been simplified. Alexander's
Virgil, also, reflecting the Latin of one page back in English from the
other, was of great assistance to him. But in arithmetic and grammar he
was completely at fault. He had never been able to repeat the whole
multiplication table; and he now found it utterly beyond his capacity
to work a common problem in the rule of three. In grammar, moreover, he
could never quite distinguish between a noun and a verb; and although
he almost committed the rules, and could enumerate the several parts of
speech, yet he could never apply the principles in parsing.

It was not long, therefore, before the most forward of his pupils began
to discover that they knew more than their instructer--and the natural
consequences--contempt and insubordination--speedily followed.

Meantime the qualifications and efforts of Mrs. Wheelwright, in the
other branch of the institute, were presently discovered to be equally,
even if not more, defective and profitless. She was an Irish lady by
birth--had resided for a time in Scotland, and likewise in
England--previous to her visit across the channel to complete her
education in the capital of _la grande nation_. When she left the
emerald isle, "her speech," to use a phrase of Lord Bacon, "was in the
full dialect of her nation." She had afterward conversed enough with
English and Scotch, to complete the union of the three kingdoms--to all
which was added such a smattering of French as was to be acquired by a
residence--as a _femme de chambre_, as it was afterward scandalously
reported--in Paris of a year or perhaps more. She had readily picked up
a good many French words, in the course of her sojourn; but her Gallic
pronunciation was blended with all the other dialects, among which the
brogue of her own mother tongue ludicrously enough predominated.

Mauritius has agave fibre, sugar, shells, coral and vanilla. The Seychelles
have large tortoise-shells and the famous _cocoa de mer_, the
three-lobed cocoanut peculiar to the island, and found on the coast
of India thrown up by the sea. It received its name from that
circumstance long before its home was discovered, from whence it
had been carried by the south-east monsoons. Trinity Island sends sugar,
cacao and rum; Trinidad presents sugar, asphaltum, cocoawood and leather;
Guiana has native pottery and baskets, arrow-root, sugar and coffee.

The pavilion next to the one described has the collection sent by the
maharajah of Kashmir, consisting largely of carpets, shawls and dresses,
which look very warm in the summer weather. It shows, besides,
some of the gemmed and enamelled work and parcel-gilt ware for which
that territory, hidden away among the Himalayas, is so
celebrated.

Next, as we travel along the Galérie d'Iéna, is the Ceylonese building,
of the same ruddy brown, with gilded domes, and gay with dresses, tissues
and robes of fine woven stuff made in their primitive looms, which
would seem to be incapable of turning out such textures. The addition
of blocks of graphite, some curiously carved into the shape of elephants,
and the more prosaic agricultural productions, such as cotton,
cinnamon, matting and baskets, tone down the color and exhibit the
fact that the English possession has the mercantile side.

Antlers of the Ceylon deer, tusks of elephants and boars, contrast
with the richness and the sobriety of the other contents of the overflowing
pavilion.

Another Indian kiosque, and we are at the end of the row. This
is filled by the Indian committee, which also exposes its collection
in twenty-nine glass cases arranged about the hall in the vicinity
of the pavilions.

[Illustration: THE CHINESE SECTION.]
The prince of Wales's collection of presents, received in his
character of heir-apparent of the empress of India, fills thirty-two
glass cases, besides six of textiles and robes.

Any tolerably full account of them would require a separate article.
The interest of them culminates in the arms. For variety, extent,
gorgeousness and ethnological and artistic value such a collection of
Indian arms has never before been brought together, not even in
India; and it fairly defies description.

No man was so poor but that he could present the prince with a bow and
arrow or spear or sword or battle-axe, and in fact every one who was
brought before the prince gave him a weapon of some sort. The collection
thus represents the armorer's art in every province of India, from
the rude spears of the Nicobar Islanders to the costly damascened,
chased and jewelled daggers, swords, shields and matchlocks of
Kashmir, Lahore, Gujerat, Cutch, Hyderabad, Singapore and Ceylon. The
highest interest centres upon two swords, which are by no means
the richest in their finish and settings.
One is the great sword of the famous Polygar Katabomma Naik, who
defeated the English early in the present century. It has a plain
iron hilt, and the etched blade has three holes near the point. The other
is a waved blade of splendid polish, its hilt heavily damascened
with gold and its guard closely set with diamonds and rubies.

It is the sword of Savaji, the founder of the Mahratta dominion in
India. It has been sacredly guarded at Kolhapur by two men with drawn
swords for a period of two hundred years, being a family and
national heirloom, and an object of superstitious reverence as the
emblem of sovereignty.

The delivery of it to the prince of Wales was regarded as a transfer of
political dominion, an admission that the latent hopes of the Bhonsla
family were now merged in loyalty to the crown of England.

The blades of the best weapons have been made for many ages of the magnetic
iron obtained twenty miles east of Nirmul, a few miles south of
the Shisla Hills, in a hornblende or schist formation.

The magnetic iron is melted with charcoal without any flux, and obtained
at once in a perfectly tough and malleable state. It is superior to
any English or Swedish iron.

It is perhaps unnecessary to remind readers that the famous blades of
Damascus were forged from Indian steel. Some of the blades are
watered, others chased in half relief with hunting-scenes--some serrated,
others flamboyant.

A very striking object is a suit of armor of the horny scales of the
Indian armadillo, ornamented with encrusted gold, turquoises and
garnets. Another suit is of Kashmir chain-armor almost as fine as lace.
Others have damascened breastplates, the gold wire being inserted
in undercut lines engraved in the steel, and incorporated therewith
by hammering.

Five cases are filled with the matchlocks of various tribes and
nations--one with its barrel superbly damascened in gold with
a poppy-flower pattern, another with a stock carved in ivory, with
hunting-scenes in cameo. Enamelled and jewelled mountings are seen,
with all the fanciful profusion of ornament with which the semi-barbarian
will deck his favorite weapon. The splendor of Indian arms is largely
due to the lavish use of diamonds, rubies, emeralds and other precious
stones, mainly introduced for their effect in color, few of them
being of great value as gems.

Stones with flaws, and others which are mere chips or scales, are
laid on like tinsel. Two cases are filled with gaudy trappings and
caparisons--horse and camel saddles with velvet and leather work, gold
embroidery and cut-cloth work (_appliqué_); an elephant howdah of
silver; chowries of yak tails with handles of sandal-wood, chased gold
or carved ivory; gold-embroidered holsters and elaborate whips
which will hold no more ornamentation than has been crowded upon
them.

The yak's-tail chowries, or fly-brushes, and the fans of peacocks'
feathers, are emblems of royalty throughout the East.

The metal ware of India, shown in eight of the glass cases--some of
them the prince's and others Lord Northbrook's--affords connoisseurs
great delight, and also arrests the attention of those who have
simply a delight in beautiful forms and colors, without technical
knowledge.

It might not, perhaps, occur to the casual visitor that a Jeypore
plate of _champlevé_ enamel represents the work of four years. In this
process the pattern is dug out of the metal and the recess filled
with enamel, while in the cheaper _cloisonné_ the pattern is raised
on the surface of the metal by welding on strips or wire and filling
in with enamel which is fused on to the metal.

A betel-leaf and perfume-service in the silver-gilt of Mysore
is accompanied by elaborately-chased goblets and rose-water sprinklers
in ruddy gold and parcel-gilt, the work of Kashmir and Lucknow. The
ruddy color is the taste of Kashmir and of Burmah, while a singular
olive-brown tint is peculiar to Scinde.

Other cases have the repoussé-work of Madras, Cutch, Lucknow, Dacca
and Burmah. From Hyderabad in the Deccan is a parcel-gilt vase,
an example of pierced-work, the _opus interassile_ of the Romans.

The chased parcel-gilt ware of Kashmir occupies three cases:
it is graven through the gold to the dead-white silver below, softening
the lustre of the gold to a pearly radiance.

Somewhat similar in method is the Mordarabad ware, in which tin soldered
upon brass is cut through to the lower metal, which gives a glow to the
white surface. Sometimes the engraving is filled with lac, after the
manner of niello-work.

Specimens are also shown in Bidiri ware, in which a vessel made of an
alloy of copper, lead and tin, blackened by dipping in an acidulous
solution, is covered with designs in beaten silver. A writing-case of
Jeypore enamel is perhaps the most dainty device of the kind ever
seen. It is shaped like an Indian gondola, the stern of which is
a peacock whose tail sweeps under half the length of the boat, irradiating
it with blue and green enamel.
The canopy of the ink-cup is colored with green and blue and ruby and
coral-red enamels laid on pure gold.

[Illustration: THE INDIAN COURT: THE PRINCE OF WALES EXHIBIT.]
To attempt to describe the jewelry for the person would extend to too
great a length the notice of this most remarkable and interesting
exhibit, which includes tiaras, aigrettes and pendent jewels for the
forehead; ear-rings, ear-chains and studs; nose-rings and studs;
necklaces of chains, pearls and gems; stomachers and tablets of
gold studded with gems or strung by chains of pearls and turquoises
with solitaire or enamelled pendants; armlets, bracelets, rings;
bangles, anklets and toe-rings of gold and all the jewels of the
East.

A Jeypore hair-comb shown in one of the cases has a setting of
emerald and ruby enamel on gold, surmounted by a curved row of large
pearls, all on a level and each tipped with a green bead.

Below is a row of small diamonds set among the green and red enamelled
gold leaves which support the pearls.

Below these again is a row of small pearls with an enamelled
scroll-work set with diamonds between it and a third row of pearls;
below which is a continuous row of small diamonds, forming the lower
edge of the comb just above the gold teeth.

England's colonies make a great show at the Exposition.

The Canadian pagoda, which occupies one of the domed apartments at the
corners of the Palais, rises from a base of forty feet square, and
consists of a series of stories of gradually-decreasing area,
surrounded by balconies from which extended views of the Salle d'Iéna
and the foreign machinery gallery are obtained. The pagoda itself is
occupied by Canadian exhibits, but around it are grouped specimens of
the mineral and vegetable wealth and manufacturing enterprise of Australia
and the Cape of Good Hope.
Australia, which is a continent in itself, has become of so much
importance that it is no longer content with a single or with a
collective exhibit, and the various colonies make separate displays in
another part of the building. That around the Canadian trophy is but
a contribution to a general colonial collection near the focus of the
British group, where the union jack waves above the united family.

In the Australian exhibits it is only fair to begin with New South
Wales, which is the oldest British colony on the island, and may be
said to be the mother of the others, as Victoria, Tasmania and Queensland
have been subdivided from time to time. It had a precarious political
existence and slow progress up to 1851, and the obloquy attaching to it
as the penal settlement of Botany Bay was not encouraging to
a good class of settlers.
In 1851 the whole island of 3,000,000 square miles had but 300,000
inhabitants, but the discovery of gold and the utilization of the land,
for sheep and wheat especially, have so far changed the aspect of
affairs that the aggregate of land under cultivation equals 3,500,000
acres, with 52,000,000 sheep, 6,700,000 cattle, 850,000 horses, 500,000
hogs, 2092 miles of railway and 21,000 miles of telegraph.

The collection from New South Wales contains a large exhibit of the
mineral, animal and vegetable productions of the land--auriferous
quartz and gold nuggets, tin ores and ingots, copper, coal, antimony
and fossils.

New South Wales prides herself especially on the surpassing quality of
her wools and on the extent of her pastoral husbandry, the number of
sheep being 25,269,755 in 1876, of cattle over 3,000,000, and of horses
366,000.
The exportation of wool in 1876 was alone equal to $28,000,000. Then,
again, she shows gums, furs, stuffed marsupials, wools, textiles, wheat
and tobacco, also many books, photographs, maps and other evidences
of the intellectual life of the people.

Victoria has so far progressed in riches and civilization that it has
turned its back upon the past, and shows principally its wheat,
skins, paraffine, wine, gold, antimony, lead, iron, tin, coal, timber,
cloth and a large range of productions which have little peculiar
about them, but are interesting in showing what a country of 88,198
square miles, with a population of 224 persons in 1836, can attain to
in forty years. It has now 840,300 inhabitants, and exports over $56,000,000
annually. Its total production of gold is about £200,000,000
sterling. Though one of the smallest colonies on the mainland, it
is about equal in population to three-fourths of the sum of all the
others, and its largest town, Melbourne, with a population of
265,000, is said to be the ninth city of the British world. Passing
by the evidences of prosperity and enterprise--which are, however, nothing
but what ordinary retail houses would show--we pause for a while at the
excellent collection of native tools and implements, and the weapons
employed in war and the chase by the aboriginal inhabitants--wooden
spears of the grass tree, and, among many others barbed for fishing
and variously notched for war, one which does not belong to Australia,
but has evidently been brought from the Philippines, and should not
have been included.

The same might be said of several Fijian clubs and a Marquesas spear
barbed with sharks' teeth, which are well enough in their way, but
not Victorian. The collection of shields, clubs and boomerangs is good
and is highly prized, as they are becoming scarce in the colony,
but the types prevail over the greater part of the island continent,
and no alarm need be felt about the speedy extirpation of
the natives when we think of Western Australia with 26,209 inhabitants
in a territory of 1,024,000 square miles, most of it fine forest,
and consequently fertile when subdued to the uses of civilization.

[Illustration: THE CANADIAN TROPHY.]
South Australia, with its 900,000 square miles of land, extending
over twenty-seven degrees of latitude from the Indian to the Southern
Ocean, and with a width of twelve degrees of longitude, is stated
to be the largest British colony, but has a population of only
225,000.

The appearance of the South Australian Court differs from the
Victorian in the greater predominance of raw materials and the
smaller proportion of manufactures.

Copper in the ore as malachite, and in metal and manufactured forms,
is one of the principal features of the court. Emeu eggs, of a greenish-blue
color and handsomely mounted in silver as goblets, vases and boxes,
are the most peculiar: they formed quite a striking feature at the
Centennial.

The resemblance of the climate to that of California is indicated
in the cultivation of wheat in immense fields, which is cut by the
header and threshed on the spot, also by the enormous size of the
French pears, which grow as large as upon our Pacific coast.

The olive also is becoming a staple, as in California, and the grape
is fully acclimated and makes a very alcoholic wine. The product in
1876 was 728,000 gallons.

Western Australia is among the latest settled, and has a territory
of 1280 by 800 miles, of which the so-called "settled" district
has an area about the size of France, with 26,209 inhabitants.

It can hardly be considered to be crowded yet. Its mineral exhibits are
lead, copper and tin ore; silks, whalebone; skins, those of the
numerous species of kangaroo and of the dingo or native dog
predominating.

The woods are principally eucalypti, as might be supposed, but
endogenous trees are found toward the north, and are shown.

Corals and large tortoise-shells show also that the land approaches the
tropics. The collection of native implements includes waddies
and boomerangs, war- and fishing-spears, shields of several
kinds--including one almost peculiar to the Australians, made very
narrow and used for parrying rather than intercepting a missile. The
netted bag of chewed bulrush-root is similar to that shown at the
Centennial, but the dugong fishing-net, made by the natives of the
north-west coast from the spinifex plant, I have not before observed.

Western Australia was not represented at the Centennial.

Queensland is the most recently established Australian colony, and
comprises the whole north-east corner--between a fourth and a
fifth--of the island.

As it extends twelve degrees within the tropics, its productions partake
of a different character from those of the older colonies, and
sugar, corn and cotton are staples.

The Tropic of Capricorn crosses the middle of the province. The southern
portion has 7,000,000 sheep, but the exports of the gold, copper and
tin mines exceed those of the animal and vegetable industries. The
colony has the finest series of landscapes in the Exhibition,
painted upon photographs, which may be recollected by those who
visited the Centennial.

The cases contain corals, shells--especially very fine ones of the
_huitre perlière--bêche-de-mer_, so great a favorite in China for
stews; dugong-hides, with the oil and soap made therefrom; silk,
tobacco, manioc, fossils, furs and wool.

New Zealand has but a small show, but it is very peculiar. The Maoris are
a very fine race of men, both physically and intellectually,
and have many arts. The robes of New Zealand flax (_Phormium tenax_),
and especially the feather robes, evince their aptitude and taste. They
are very expert workers of wood, and their spears, canoes,
feather-boxes and paddles are elaborately carved, and frequently
ornamented with grotesque faces with eyes of shell.

Their idols are peculiarly hideous, and have a remarkable similarity
in their postures and expression to those of British Columbia in
the National Museum at Washington.

The section occupied by the Cape of Good Hope is somewhat larger
than that at the Centennial, but is perhaps hardly as interesting.

The wars against the Kaffirs, and the want of harmony between the Dutch
settlers and the dominant English race, have produced an uneasy
feeling not compatible with a general interest in so distant a
matter as a European exposition.

The Cape, with its dependencies, has an area of 250,000 square miles
and a population of nearly 750,000.

Prominent in the collection are the elephants' tusks and horns of
the numerous species of antelope, which are found in greater variety
in South Africa than in any other part of the world.

Horns of bles-boks, spring-boks, water-boks, rooi-boks, koodoos, elands,
hartebeests and gnus ornament the walls, in company with those of
the native buffalo and the wide-reaching horns of the Cape oxen,
of which fourteen or sixteen yoke are sometimes hitched to the
ponderous Dutch wagons.

Hippopotamus-teeth and ostrich-feathers indicate clearly enough the
section we are in.

Maize has been fully acclimated in Africa, and mush and milk now form
the principal food of the whole Kaffir nation. It has spread nearly all
over Africa, but some central portions yet depend entirely for
farinaceous food upon the seed of the sorghum and dourra.

On the Zambesi corn in all stages of growth may be seen at all seasons
of the year.

The United States section, after all its troubles in getting under
weigh--the very appropriation itself not having been made until
after the English exhibit had all been selected, arranged on the
plan and the catalogue printed--is a collection to be proud of.

The arrangement is good, except for a little crowding. The space in the
Palais is forty thousand square feet, with thirty thousand additional
in an outside building. The latter has the agricultural implements,
mills, scales, wagons and engines, with the displays of oak and hickory
in the forms of wheels, spokes and tool-handles, which are exciting
so much interest in Europe at the present time. There is no good substitute
for hickory to be found in Europe, and it is the difference between
American hickory and English ash which causes the great disparity
between the proportions of American and English carriage-wheels. That
we should copy the latter for the sake of a fashion is marvellous.

It is not to be denied that the ingenuity and versatility of Americans
have caused them to excel other nations in many lines of manufacture.
The public opinion of Europe regards their triumphs in agricultural
implements as the most remarkable; but the nation which made
the machine-tools for the government manufactories of small-arms both
of England and Germany has established its right to the first rank in
that class of work also. The system of making by rule and gauge the
separate parts, which are afterward fitted, has come to be known as the
"American system," and is exemplified in the magnificent collection of
the American Watch Company of Waltham; the Wheeler & Wilson sewing-machine,
which is the only sewing-machine with interchangeable parts at the
Exposition; the Remington rifle and shot-gun, and the Colt
revolvers.

[Illustration: INDIANS MAKING KASHMIR SHAWLS.]
There is nothing in the building in better taste in its line than
the Tiffany gold and silver ware, and the carriages of Brewster
are generally admired.

Carriages are, however, such a matter of fashion that an exhibit of
that kind cannot suit all nations, and what one considers graceful
is to another strange and bizarre. There is no question of the fine
quality, however: of course a nation with elm for hubs and ash for
spokes wonders at American temerity in making wheels so light,
and the casual observer thinks our roads must be better than the
European to justify them. As one English builder has, however,
contracted lately with an American firm for five hundred sets of
wheels, they will have an opportunity soon of testing the quality
of our woods.

The exhibition of fine locks and of house-furnishing hardware is justly
considered as among our triumphs, the Yale, Wheeler-Mallory and Russell
& Erwin manufacturing companies being notable in this line. The saws
of Disston have no equals here: the axes of Collins & Douglas, the forks
and spades and other agricultural tools of Ames, Batcheller and
the Auburn Manufacturing Company are unapproached by the English and
French. The wood-working machine of Fay & Co. and the machine-tools of
Darling Browne & Sharpe challenge competition.

These are not a tithe of the objects in regard to which we are proud to
have comparisons instituted; and in some of the less ponderous
articles, such as Foley's gold pens and White's dental tools and dentures,
we have the same reason for national gratulation. Such being the
case, we feel reconciled to the comparative smallness of our space,
which has precluded as much repetition in most lines of manufacture
as we find in the exhibits of other nations.

Our agricultural machinery is well though not fully represented. Reapers
and mowers, horse-rakes, grain-drills and ploughs are abundantly or
sufficiently shown--harrows and rollers not at all; and if they had
been, they would have added nothing to the English and French
knowledge on the subject. Owing to the exigences of space, weighing-scales
and pumps are included in the agricultural building, and the
exhibition of Fairbanks & Co. deserves and receives cordial
approval.

The problem of the day in agricultural machinery is the automatic
binder, and eight efforts in that line are shown at the Exposition--six
from America and two from England. The subject of machinery, however,
is deferred for the present, but in speaking of general exhibits one
cannot avoid a slight reference to that feature which is so prominent
in the United States section.

    
    Where there is so much that is beautiful and
    admirably arranged it seems ungenerous to cite failures, but the
pavilion in the eastern corner of the Palais and the Salle de l'École
Militaire connecting it with the pavilion of the Netherlands colonies
are very disappointing.

The French exhibit of sheet-metal work in the eastern corner is quite
remarkable, but its merit in an industrial point of view scarcely
authorizes the prominence that is given to it in one of the four grand
positions for display which the building affords. Even the Galéries
d'Iéna and de l'École Militaire across the ends of the building,
although their ceilings are high and gorgeous with color, and their
sides one mass of windows in blue and white panes, do not afford
such striking positions as the four corner pavilions. One expected,
very naturally, that so admirable a position would be made the most of
by a people of fine artistic sense; and this has been done in two
of the other similar situations by the Netherlands colonies' trophy
and the Canadian pagoda.
--kilt his
hand, and I don't know where is like to be the end of it."

"But," I remarked, "surely, Mrs. Wheelwright, you could have found time
to do a little something--if no more than to buy a loaf of bread and a
few coals now and then, to mitigate your sufferings."

"Fait, your honor"--for if the woman had ever lost any portion of the
peculiar _patois_ of her own country, while living in Paris as a
_femme de chambre_, or with Capt. Scarlett as a mistress, it had
all returned with her more recent associations, and she was now a pure
Emerald--"fait, your honor," said she, "and how could I be afther
laving the poor body in his distress to go out afther work, when I love
him above the world and all that's in it? And then, your worship, I'd
no clothes that was dacent to go out in, and to go to jontlemen's
houses with such tatters as these, Mr. Wheelwright, says I, it would
not do by any manner of means, says I. And that's the rights of it from
end to end, if your worship will ounly hear to me."

Wheelwright himself was evidently bowed down by the severity of his
wants and the depth of his degradation.

If moral energy had ever been one of his characteristics, it was quite
clear that its fire had long since been extinguished; and more than
all, it was equally evident that he was the object of domestic tyranny.
But he uttered no complaint, and indeed scarcely opened his lips,
unless in reply to the interrogations put to him.

My first business was to rescue the unhappy sufferers from immediate
want. Had the woman alone been concerned, my solicitude would have been
hardly discernible. But whatever had been the defects in the character
of Wheelwright, or the errors which, for the most part, were the
consequence, the wide contrast between his present and past condition
was truly affecting. For his indiscretions, never involving moral
obliquity, he had most grievously answered. And, besides, was he not "a
man and a brother!" There is no more charitable people in the world
than those of New-York. Let any case of distress be presented--any call
of real suffering--which has actually been ascertained, and is vouched
for by a respectable citizen, the hearts of the New-Yorkers will
instantly respond to the appeal. Two or three hours of active exertion,
therefore, enabled me to obtain the means, and procure all the supplies
actually necessary; and in three days' time Wheelwright and his family
were comfortably furnished with bedding, clothing, fuel, and provisions
for the residue of the season of snows.

The next measure resolved upon, was the redemption of Wheelwright's
tools and other articles of furniture, clothing, &c., from the hands of
the pawn-brokers, for which purpose he accompanied me. The object was
accomplished after no little trouble, in visiting the principal
establishments doing business under the beautiful sign of the three
golden balls, in Chatham-street, and redeeming one or two articles
here, another there, and a third or fourth somewhere else. But although
this part of the labor was an irksome job, attended by scenes and
objects of a description exceedingly painful, yet I was enabled to read
some dark pages in the book of human nature, which will never be
forgotten.

I had previously imbibed a strong prejudice against those receptacles
of the goods, new and old, of the poor, the miserable, and the vicious.
I had been told of the system of universal cheatery upon which they
practised, and the enormous exactions made in grinding the faces of the
poor. I had heard described their dexterity in the substitution of
colored glass and crystals, for gems, while pretending to examine
articles of the latter description brought for pledges, and was
prepared to encounter all that was sinister and heartless. But the
one-half had not been told me, and I soon found that my previous
conceptions fell far short of the reality. As I have already remarked,
I had occasion to visit several of them, and was detained at each, by
the delays in finding the articles of which I was in search, and for
which the holders had doubtless flattered themselves no inquiries would
ever be made. The press of business at all, was another cause of delay.
It really seemed in my eyes the most fraudulent and oppressive business
in which man could engage. As I recovered Wheelwright's articles, one
by one, it appeared at once that the most outrageous system of
extortion had been practised in every instance. The sums advanced had
been pitiful in amount, and the rates of interest charged exorbitant
beyond belief. O how does avarice harden the heart, and dry up the
current of human sympathy! How lamentable this accursed thirst for gold!

    "Wide, wasting pest! that rages unconfined,
    And crowds with crimes the records of mankind.
    For gold, his sword the hireling ruffian draws;
    For gold, the hireling judge distorts the laws;
    Wealth heap'd on wealth, nor truth, nor safety buys;
    And dangers gather as the treasures rise."

And at every one of these dens, what a crowd of victims were collected!
"A motley company indeed--black-legs, and would-be-gentlemen--the
cheater and the cheated." The widow parting with her last trinkets, or,
perchance, her last disposable article of dress, to procure one more
meal for her famishing children! A poor consumptive girl, with the
hectic flush upon her wasting cheek, applying for the same purpose; and
the griping miser--very likely a woman too!--without a spark of
generosity, or an emotion of pity--reading the condition of the
sufferers from their countenances, with the coolest imaginable
calculation--thus ascertaining from their looks the urgency of their
respective cases, that the utmost possible advantage might be taken,
and the intended cheat be made the greater. The pick-pocket, moreover,
the thief, and the purloining servant, received with equal readiness,
and the spoils divided between them, with the fullest understanding
that no questions were to be asked! O 'tis monstrous! "The offence is
rank, and smells to heaven!"

But my visits to these establishments were fruitful of incidents, the
recollection of which is too vivid to be passed lightly over. And as
the present chapter is already of sufficient length, it is proposed to
appropriate a separate one as a record of some of those
reminiscences--one of which may better suffice as a temperance lecture,
than a sermon, while another may perhaps interest the reader from its
aspect of romance. If the reader chooses, he can pass it over
altogether.


CHAPTER XV.

SCENES IN THE LOMBARDS.

    "A stony adversary, an inhuman wretch,
    Uncapable of pity, void and empty
    From any dram of mercy."--_Shakspeare._

"----there, there, there! a diamond gone, cost me three thousand ducats
in Frankfort! The curse never fell on our nation till now."--_Idem._

"O sailor boy, sailor boy, peace to thy soul!"--_Dibdin._


To one who would study human nature, especially in its darker features,
there is no better field of observation than among these pawn-brokers'
shops.

In a frequented establishment, each day unfolds an ample catalogue of
sorrow, misery, and guilt, developed in forms and combinations almost
innumerable; and if the history of each customer could be known, the
result would be such a catalogue as would scarcely be surpassed even by
the records of a police-office or a prison. Even my brief stay while
arranging for the redemption of Dr. Wheelwright's personals, afforded
materials, as indicated in the last chapter, for much and painful
meditation.

I had scarcely made my business known, at the first of "my uncle's"
establishments to which I had been directed, when a middle-aged man
entered with a bundle, on which he asked a small advance, and which, on
being opened, was found to contain a shawl and two or three other
articles of female apparel. The man was stout and sturdy, and, as I
judged from his appearance, a mechanic; but the mark of the destroyer
was on his bloated countenance and in his heavy, stupid eyes.
Intemperance had marked him for his own. The pawn-broker was yet
examining the offered pledge, when a woman, whose pale face and
attenuated form bespoke long and intimate acquaintance with sorrow,
came hastily into the shop, and with the single exclamation, "O
Robert!" darted, rather than ran, to that part of the counter where the
man was standing. Words were not wanted to explain her story. Her
miserable husband, not satisfied with wasting his own earnings, and
leaving her to starve with her children, had descended to the meanness
of plundering even her scanty wardrobe, and the pittance for the
obtaining of which this robbery would furnish means, was destined to be
squandered at the tippling-house. A blush of shame arose even upon his
degraded face, but it quickly passed away; the brutal appetite
prevailed, and the better feeling that had apparently stirred within
him for the moment, soon gave way before its diseased and insatiate
cravings.

"Go home," was his harsh and angry exclamation; "what brings you here,
running after me with your everlasting scolding? go home, and mind your
own business."

"O Robert, dear Robert," answered the unhappy wife, "don't pawn my
shawl. Our children are crying for bread, and I have none to give them.
Or let me have the money; it is hard to part with that shawl, for it
was my mother's gift; but I will let it go, rather than see my children
starve. Give me the money, Robert, and don't leave us to perish."

I watched the face of the pawn-broker to see what effect this appeal
would have upon him, but I watched in vain. He was hardened to
distress, and had no sympathy to throw away. "Twelve shillings on these
things," he said, tossing them back to the drunkard, with a look of
perfect indifference.

"Only twelve shillings!" murmured the heart-broken wife, in a tone of
despair. "O Robert, don't let them go for twelve shillings. Let me try
somewhere else."

"Nonsense," answered the brute. "It's as much as they're worth, I
suppose. Here, Mr. Crimp, give us the change."

The money was placed before him, and the bundle consigned to a drawer.
The poor woman reached forth her hand toward the silver, but the
movement was anticipated by her husband. "There Mary," he said, giving
her half a dollar, "there, go home now, and don't make a fuss. I'm
going a little way up the street, and perhaps I'll bring you something
from market, when I come home."

The hopeless look of the poor woman, as she meekly turned to the door,
told plainly enough how little she trusted to this ambiguous promise.
They went on their way, she to her famishing children, and he to
squander the dollar he had retained, at the next den of intemperance.

While this little scene was in progress, another had been added to the
number of spectators. This was a young man, dressed in the height of
the fashion, that is to say, in a be-frogged and be-laced frock coat
with a standing collar, a pair of cossack pantaloons tapering down to
the foot with a notch cut in the front for the instep, and a hat about
twice as large at the crown as at the rim, much resembling in shape an
inverted sugar-loaf, with the smaller end cut away. He had a reckless,
dare-devil, good humored look, and very much the air of what is called
"a young man about town;" that is, one who rides out to Cato's every
afternoon, eats oyster suppers at Windust's every night after the play,
and spends the rest of his time and his money at billiards. I had cast
my eye upon him occasionally during the affair of the shawl, and saw
that he took a deep interest in its termination. The moment the poor
woman was gone, he twitched from his neck a gold chain, at the end of
which was a small gold watch, and placing it in the hands of the
pawn-broker, with whom he seemed to be on terms of acquaintance, he
exclaimed, "Quick now, Crimp; thirty dollars on that; you've had it
before, and needn't stop to examine it."

The money was instantly produced and paid over; and the young man of
fashion, crumpling the notes up in his hand, ran off at full speed,
first looking up and then down the street in a manner that gave me a
suspicion as to the cause of his haste. I took the liberty of following
him to the door, and was in abundant time to find my conjecture
verified by seeing him accost the poor woman who had just left the
shop, thrust into her hand either the whole or part of the sum he had
just received on the pledge of his watch and chain, and then hurry away
to the other side of the street, without stopping either for thanks or
for explanation.

The reverie of mingled surprise and admiration into which I was thrown
by this unexpected manifestation of benevolence, was interrupted by a
loud outcry from Mr. Crimp, the pawn-broker, and by seeing him, with a
look of wrath and horror, hurry round his counter and out through the
door, upon the sidewalk, where he stood for a moment straining his eyes
down the street, as if in search of the kind-hearted youth, who had by
this time disappeared up one of the cross streets.

"The villain," he exclaimed; "the swindling scoundrel! Which way did he
go, the ungrateful thief? Tell me," he continued, turning to me, "tell
me which way he went, and I'll give you any thing you've a mind to ask.
Yes, I'll give you--half a dollar, if you'll show me where he is."

I was not a little astonished at all this, but deferring the
gratification of my curiosity for the present, pointed out to Mr. Crimp
the course taken by his late customer, and mentioned also what I had
seen take place between him and the poor woman. The information, or
perhaps even the brief space employed in giving it, seemed to produce a
change of intention in the mind of the estimable gentleman.

"Ah it's no use," he said; "he's got off clear by this time, and my
thirty dollars is a case. But I'll find him yet, some day." And thus
soliloquizing, Mr. Crimp returned into his shop.

The explanation for which I was so curious, was now afforded me. The
young man had several times before deposited the watch in the hands of
Mr. Crimp, as the quid pro quo of certain needful advances, and as
often redeemed it, when accident or luck at the billiard table placed
the requisite funds at his disposal. Taking advantage of the
familiarity that had thus grown up between the broker and the trinket,
as a means of dispensing with the usual and requisite examination, a
gilt chain had been substituted for the gold one, which had been so
often deposited with the watch; and the deception had passed unnoticed
until it was too late. The watch itself was probably worth about the
sum advanced.

There was another case of a very touching description, which occurred
at the place of my next visit. It was that of an interesting female, of
about five and thirty, and in the garb of mourning. She entered the
place evidently with reluctance and timidity, and could hardly make the
object of her visit known, from very emotion. She was of a delicate
frame; of easy and rather graceful manners, and but for the ravages of
care upon her countenance, might yet have been beautiful. At length she
brought forth a ring from a pretty little morocco case, upon the pledge
of which she wished to realize such an amount of money as would sustain
herself and children through the winter. I saw that it was costing her
a pang to part with the gem; but necessity knows no law. The eyes of
the extortioner kindled, for the instant, and with evident exultation,
at the first glance of the jewel--but they fell in a twinkling as he
assumed the cold, hard aspect of his calling, took the ring in his
fingers, and holding it up to the window, pretended to examine
it--assuming, at the same time, an air of affected disappointment. He
thereupon began at once to depreciate the article--declaring that it
was nothing but a Brazilian crystal, and that he would hardly take it
at any price. I saw by the countenance, and the heaving bosom of the
lady--for such I was convinced she was, though in reduced
circumstances--that she was bitterly disappointed--having calculated
upon realizing a considerable sum from an article which she had
supposed of much higher value. But the miser was inexorable, and
peremptorily refused to advance more than four or five dollars. Her
appearance and manner at this moment were affecting to a degree.
"Well," said she: "'tis hard, but patience must endure. I have left my
babes a-crying, and I must do it; and when this is gone, I must depend
upon Him who feedeth the young ravens when they cry. But," she added,
with a heavy sigh, "_he_ said it was worth a great deal more than
that." There was a peculiar tenderness and affection in the manner in
which she, involuntarily perhaps, made this reference to some one who
was not present; and the rising tear trembled and glistened in her eye,
like the jewel in the miser's fingers.

I had seen, as the sordid wretch eyed the ring with secret satisfaction
by the window, from its brilliance, that it was a gem of value. It
glittered and sparkled in the light, with an intensity that nothing
equals but the diamond; and I was determined that the fair and
unfortunate owner should not be thus imposed upon. Just before the
bargain was completed, however, as I was about to interpose myself,
another gentleman, who had also been watching the procedure, stepped
forward and declared that that beautiful ring should not be thus
sacrificed to the rapacious Hebrew. The latter at once endeavored to
hasten matters, and declaring the bargain to have been completed, would
have succeeded in thrusting the jewel into the drawer, but for the
resolution of the gentleman, who seized and saved it. The wretch
muttered something about people's interfering in business that was
exclusively his own concern, but to no purpose. The poor widow was
rescued from his fangs; and although it was a struggle to part with the
ring, which indeed contained a choice brilliant, her heart was
gladdened by the receipt of seventy-five dollars, from one who was
willing to pay its value.

The tale of this poor lady in whose case my sympathies had been thus
enlisted, was not without interest. She was an orphan, daughter of a
Virginia planter who had been eaten into poverty by his own slaves, so
that his children were left portionless, and had been married when
young to one of those high-minded, gallant spirits, who bear their
country's flag so proudly on the wave--brave, and generous to a fault,
and in fact one of those who almost literally "spend half a crown out
of six-pence a day." She was adored by her husband, to whom she early
presented several cherub-looking sailor-boys, and while he lived to
supply her wants, though free-hearted and reckless of expenditure, she
had always enough for the present, and "a shot in the locker," to serve
while he was tossing upon the main. But alas! she had occasion too soon
to deplore the capricious uncertainty of all sublunary enjoyments.

Never was a more beautiful day, nor a more gallant spectacle, than when
the ship to which Lieutenant ---- was attached, got underway, and
departed for her last cruise in the West India seas. Every sail was
set, and so clear was the atmosphere, that the light tracery of her
rigging was seen against the sky, as she bore down through the Narrows.
Maria watched the ship intently until the last dark point of the
top-mast disappeared in the distance. How her bright eye sparkled, when
she heard the praises of her husband's carriage on deck as he assumed
his duties, spoken from the lips of friends who had with her witnessed
the departure of the ship!--But before she retired to rest, tears had
more than once usurped the features which were a few hours before
dimpled by joy. A strange sensation--some unusual and undefinable
apprehension of--she knew not what--had taken possession of her bosom,
and she closed her long, silken eye-lashes to sleep even while yet she
had scarce done weeping.

But the ship assumed her station in the squadron in due season, and
every return vessel brought letters from her Frederick, full of
affection for herself, and kisses and remembrances for Jack, Tom, and
the baby. Often, moreover, did they abound with glowing descriptions of
the scenery of those sunny West India climes, through which he had
strolled when occasionally on shore. It was summer, and the tropical
sun was reigning in his full glory. But his mind was enthusiastic and
poetical, and the nights, so transcendantly beautiful in those regions,
were his delight. After the sun, which had been blazing with
irresistible fierceness in an unclouded sky, through the day, had sunk
to rest, there was such a luxury in the enjoyment of a tropical
evening! The clearness and brilliancy of the heavens, the serenity and
soft tranquillity of the atmosphere, diffusing the most calm and
delightful sensations. The moon shines out with a greater radiance in
those heavens than in ours, and when she coquettishly turns her back
upon this side of our mundane sphere, her place is well supplied by the
superior brilliance of the stars. Such, in those clear skies, is their
glittering effulgence, that the visiter from other latitudes would
scarce suppose them to be the same luminaries that sparkle in their own
heavens. Venus--the bright and beautiful divinity of love--appears of
far greater magnitude than here,--shining with a much greater intensity
of brightness--so strong indeed as to cast a shadow from the trees.
These things were all described by Frederick to his Maria, with a
richness and a glow of language, such as sailors seldom use. And all
that was wanting to complete his happiness, was his Eve to stroll by
his side among the groves of citron and lemon--redolent with every
fruit that is inviting, and every flower that is beautiful. And how she
longed to be with him I need not tell!

While, however, the ship was yet in those seas, cruising in the gulf of
Mexico, autumn came on, and with it the season of storms. The lofty
peaks of the stupendous mountains, in some of the nearest islands, were
frequently in sight, perceptible often at a great distance, from the
peculiar transparency of the atmosphere. At length the experienced
navigators discerned celestial phenomena, which caused them to watch
the heavens with greater solicitude. Piles of massive clouds, fleecy,
and of a reddish hue, were observed in the morning, in the
south-eastern quarter of the heavens, and the crests of the mountains,
cloudless and yet of an azure cast, seemed nearer the ship than they
were wont. Soon the pillowy masses of vapor began to move lazily toward
the mountains--flashes which were but dimly discerned breaking from
them, followed by the hollow and distant roll of thunder--sometimes so
distinctly as to sound as if reverberating from peak to peak among the
mountains, though yet at a very great distance. The ocean, too, began
to heave as though in labor, and its roaring was borne along upon the
freshening breeze. These indications spoke but too clearly the approach
of one of those dreadful visitations in which the Almighty so
frequently displays his power in the West India seas, and proclaims his
judgments in such melancholy dispensations. The wind increased, the
roaring of the ocean deepened upon the ear, and all hands in every
craft upon the gulf were engaged in reefing their sails, and making
every thing snug for the onset.

Nothing can be more fierce, sudden, or uncontrollable, than the West
India hurricanes. Electrical in their origin, the moment the spark
produces a combination of oxygen and hydrogen, the sudden and terrible
fall of hail and rain pouring impetuously down, creates a vacuum into
which the air rushes from every direction with tremendous velocity.
Sometimes the air, by the meeting of opposite currents, assumes the
form of a whirlwind: a dark cloud preceding it, unrolling itself
suddenly, and mantling the whole heavens in gloom, lightened
occasionally by the flashings of lurid fire,--while if upon land,
houses, corn-stacks, cane-fields, and even whole forests, are whirled
aloft and scattered to fragments in an instant; or, if upon the deep,
the whole ocean is wrought into maddened and foaming fury; and woe to
the vessel, no matter for its strength or magnitude, that is brought
within the vortex of the tempest.

Such was the fact in regard to the hurricane of which I am speaking.
Some of the light craft then upon the gulf, escaped and came into the
harbor of New-York. They reported that never within the memory of man,
had that sea been the scene of so fearful a tempest. It commenced with
a tremendous crash from the heavens, and the gulf was almost instantly
lashed into a foam of contending currents. At the instant of its
commencement, apparently in the very focus of its fury, one of them saw
a dark object, resembling a ship of war, rise upon the ridge of a
towering wave, and then sink with a heavy roll into the trough of the
sea, whence she rose no more. It was a fearful night, that which
followed; the seas rushing and doubling onward, curling and foaming and
breaking with awful majesty. But the United States ship HORNET was
never heard of more. Her gallant officers and daring crew--full of high
health and hope but an hour before--were all--all, in that dread
moment--without one instant to bid adieu or breathe a prayer--hurried
to their doom!

But to return from this digression. Mr. and Mrs. Wheelwright's articles
were all redeemed, and their house comfortably warmed and supplied for
the winter, as I have already intimated. And in addition to such
present relief as was rendered imperatively necessary by his wounded
hand, the funds contributed for his benefit enabled me to lay in, for
his use and behoof, ample materials for sixty bedsteads--a stock in
trade rendering him a rich man, compared with what had been his
temporal condition for a long while before. His spirits in a good
measure revived at even _such_ a change in his circumstances--and his
wife poured forth an overwhelming torrent of Irish blessings, with
thanks to "his honor," and "his worship," without number.


CHAPTER XVI.

THE END OF THIS EVENTFUL HISTORY.

    O matrimony! thou art like
      To Jeremiah's figs;--
    The good were very good;--the bad--
      Too sour to give the pigs.--_Old Saw._

"Slender, I broke your head--what matter have you against
me?"--_Shakspeare._


One of the most amusing, and, indeed, one of the best pictures of Sir
Joshua Reynolds, is that of Garrick, between comedy and tragedy. On the
one side, with her mask in hand, stood the presiding divinity of comic
poetry, coaxing the immortal hero of the sock and buskin with her
archest smiles; while on the other stood Melpomene, rapt in solemn
thought, and with eyes upraised in gloomy grandeur, pointing the actor
to a loftier walk than that of her witching sister Thalia. The
situation of poor Garrick is most embarrassing--and appears the more so
from the powers of face at his command, as delineated by the artist,
whereby he is represented as doubting to which invitation he should
yield, while with one half of his face he looks the deepest tragedy,
and with the other, the merriest comedy.

Very much in the situation of Garrick, as thus described, does the
biographer find himself at the threshhold of this concluding chapter.
It is not his fault, however, that comic or rather farcical incidents
must follow so closely upon the pathetic. But "the course of true love
never did run smooth"--a fact of which, as the reader has already seen,
my unfortunate friend Wheelwright had had some knowledge, early in his
wedded life--and of which he was convinced over again, soon after the
events recorded in the last two chapters.

It was on a clear frosty morning in March, that one of the watchful
guardians of the peace and quiet of the city, connected with the police
establishment, did me the unexpected honor of a visit. He stated that a
poor but very decent sort of a man had fallen into the hands of the
watch during the preceding night, and had been committed to Bridewell
by the sitting magistrate, on a charge of assault and battery.
According to the report of Dogberry, the man was "quite
down-in-the-mouth about it, and," (he added,) "he contests that he is
entirely hinnocent. He also says he is acquainted with you, and he
thinks if you would be good enough to come up to the hall and see him,
no doubt that you would bail him out."

"How is that, my friend? A man taken up in a night-row, and now in
Bridewell, and says he is an acquaintance of mine--eh?"

"So he says, and he looks as though he might have seen better days. We
have to deal with many such--but then he don't act as though he was
often in such scrapes, no how."

"His name?"

"Doctor--Wheel--Wheelwright, I think they call him."

"O--ah--yes:" another incident, thinks-I-to-myself, in the chequered
life of my unhappy friend.

"And a _striking_ incident, too, according to the account of the
Irish woman who lodged the complaint."

"An _Irish_ woman! Mischief in her proper shape again. But, my word for
it, if it is my quondam friend Wheelwright, who is in the scrape, he
has not struck any body or thing--man, woman, or child."

"'Zactly so: that's just what he says; and as he has no friends, he
thinks you might stand by him in a pinch, if you knew as how he has
been in the lock-up half the night, and has now been walked off to
Bridewell."

This was a far less agreeable call upon my attention and services than
I had ever had the honor of receiving from him before; but still,
knowing the honesty of the man, and his pacific character, and fully
believing in his representations of innocence, I at once determined to
inquire into the circumstances of the case, and, if necessary, make
another effort in his behalf.

The investigation resulted as I had anticipated. The unfortunate
husband now opened his heart, and poured out all his domestic sorrows
and tribulations before me. He needed not to tell me that he had not
married a fortune, as he had supposed, when I first saw him in the
hey-day of his honey-moon; but from the simple tale now unfolded, it
seemed that, on the contrary, he had been wedded to Mis-fortune, and
all her progeny. The rather turbulent lady of Socrates--(unless Mrs.
Xantippe was scandalized by her neighbors)--was a sweet-tempered dame,
and "gentle as a sucking dove," in comparison with the vixen who had
been harassing his life and soul away for years. The only peaceable
hours of his existence were those in which she was too much fatigued
with liquor to annoy him. When awake and sober, her temper was little
better, and her tormenting tongue seemed to have been hung in the
middle, so that it might run at both ends. It is related of Foote, the
comedian, that when once suffering from the tongue of a shrew, he
replied--"I have heard of _Tartars_, and _Brimstones_, madam; and by
Jove you are the _cream_ of the one, and the _flour_ of the other." And
next to the Grecian lady above mentioned, the Tartar who bearded Foote,
seemed, in my view, to be the only parallel of Mistress Wheelwright, of
which the books give any account.

How few can bear prosperity! Indeed, although we all covet it so much,
the examples of those ruined by sudden reverses of fortune, would
probably present a greater number of those who have been raised from
poverty to wealth, than of those who have been cast down from a state
of affluence to that of penury. An illustration of this proposition was
afforded in the family of Mr. Wheelwright. It appeared that after the
change recorded in the last chapter, from a condition of the most
abject misery, to that of comparative comfort, the Doctor's lady,
elated by her prosperity, began to take airs upon herself, and her
carriage was such as to excite the jealousy of her neighbors up stairs.
The consequences were a speedy and open rupture, so that occasional
hostilities were waged between them; and the civil dudgeon ran so high
that all attempts of poor Wheelwright to keep the peace were abortive.
At last, on the night of my friend's arrest, one of the ladies from
above, remarkable for the dimensions of her facial organ, descended to
his apartment in a tempest, and insulted his wife. Like a true Amazon
as she was, the latter repelled the invader, pursued her in her flight,
and like Scipio carried the war into Africa. The tenants above made
common cause with Mistress Judy Pettit, and the gentle lady of Mr.
Wheelwright was in turn discomfitted, and compelled to descend headlong
down stairs, in rather too quick time for her comfort, with a cataract
of Irish women tumbling after her. Wheelwright ran to the rescue of his
help-meet, and pulling her through the door, endeavored to shut it on
the instant, to keep out the foe; in doing which the proboscis of
Mistress Pettit, which was truly of the Strasburgh order, was unhappily
and literally caught in the door crack, and beyond all question
somewhat injured thereby. In the language of the trumpeter's wife in
Tristram Shandy, it was truly "a noble nose," and the pinch it endured,
though transient, it must be confessed, was rather severe and biting.
Its fair possessor therefore ran into the street, smarting from the
pain, and vociferating alternately for the "watch," and "Och murther!
I'm kilt, I'm kilt," so pertinaciously and so obstreperously withal, as
to wake up several of the guardians of the night, who made a rally, and
carried the whole party to the watch-house, including an Irishman who
happened to be on a visit up stairs, by the name of Timothy Martin.

From all account, the morning examination before the sitting magistrate
must have afforded one of the most amusing scenes for the fancy that
have recently occurred this side of Bow-street. It was difficult to say
which of the ladies was the most clamorous, Mistress Pettit, the
complainant, or Mistress Wheelwright, or whether other females of the
party did not talk as loud and as fast as either. Mistress Pettit gave
an account of their neighborhood concerns for some time previous.

"Fait, your worship," says she, "we was always afther being kind to
them, when they had not a faggot to warm them, or a paratoe to ate; and
then she'd come to me sometime, and bring the childer, says she, for
she'd two of them at that same time--bad luck to her--and this, your
honor, is one of them," (for the eldest of Wheelwright's children had
been brought up in the medley;) "and says I to Mistress Wheelwright,
says I, plase your worship, you may come with your childer and warm ye,
and here's a drop of the crathur that Tim Martin brought to me. And
then whin she wint off a-begging as no dacent woman would, bekase I
pitied the childer, I tould Mrs. Wheelwright, says I, that they might
stay with me till ye come back yourself--and may-be ye'll come the
sooner, Mrs. Wheelwright, says I. And come she wouldn't by no manes,
but was out all night sometimes."

"Och deevil burn ye," interrupted Mistress Wheelwright, "if ye go on
at that rate, I'll tell his honor of the pig ye stole,--you and Tim
Martin, ye did."

"Och Murther," cried Mistress Pettit, "that a dacent woman like I
should be charged with staling along with such a spalpeen as Tim
Martin, your honor."

Whereupon up started Tim Martin, exclaiming--

"Botheration, and that's what I get for kindness," says he, "there's
grathitude your worship!--And fait, I'll tell his honor of the money
ye stole in the strong box that I left," says Tim Martin, says he.

"Yes," interposed Mistress Wheelwright, "when word com'd that she'd
gone off with a man that she had, and left her own childer for me to
care for, bad luck to her."

"Och!" Mistress Wheelwright, says Mistress Pettit, says she; "and you
and Tim Martin's lies will be the death of me, and he's selling whiskey
without a license, yer honor, that's Tim Martin, he is!"

But it is impossible to follow these precious parties through the
particulars of their examination disclosing the miseries of their
neighborhood, and in their own words, when they all talked together. I
must therefore content myself by informing the reader, that the
magistrate interposed as soon as he could, by stating that he did not
sit there to hear about their squabbles with each other and Tim Martin,
but to hear what they had to say against the accused.

Poor Wheelwright! During the whole of the scene just described, he sat
upon one of the benches, his eyes cast upon the floor, without uttering
a word. When called upon, however, to answer to the charge, he could
only deny, and try to explain--but Mistress Pettit and her associates
were too much for him. And besides, deny having molested her nose, as
he might, the aspect of the member itself bore abundant testimony of
rough usage and a narrow escape--to say nothing of the crimson drops,
that seemed to have oozed therefrom, and fallen upon good Mistress
Pettit's neck-handkerchief. The consequence was, that the magistrate
could do no less than commit him, although from Wheelwright's subdued
demeanor, he had strong doubts as to his intentional delinquencies.
Under these circumstances, I found but little difficulty, from my own
knowledge of the man, in persuading the magistrate to release him on
his own recognizance.

                    *      *      *      *      *

In a few weeks afterward, Wheelwright ascertained that the always
equivocal virtue of his wife had become of so little consequence in her
own eyes, as to release him from any farther obligation, in honor or in
law, to stand any longer as its nominal guardian and protector. He
divided the children, giving her the one to which she had a fair title
before he courted her fortune,--but which, poor thing!--proved to be
all she had,--and took the only one now living, which bore his own
name, to himself. He also at length assumed sufficient energy to divide
the house between them--giving her the _out_-side and retaining the
_in_-side for himself. Thus ends the history of Doctor Daniel
Wheelwright in New-York.

                    *      *      *      *      *

"It is the end," says the Bard of Avon, "that crowns all;" and bringing
these "passages" in the life of my friend to a close, from the position
in which I shall leave him, the reader may perhaps agree with the same
illustrious poet:--

    "More are men's ends mark'd than their lives before."

At all events, we will "let the end try the man." The latest
intelligence which I can furnish the reader respecting him, however, is
this. Having recently made a flying excursion through the valley of the
Mohawk--visited the old baronial castle of Sir William Johnson, and
from thence struck across to the south through the Schoharie-kill
valley, to explore the wonders of the great cavern of the Helderbergs,
an accident to the light vehicle drawn by my coal-black steed, on my
return, obliged me to call upon a coachmaker in the first city west of
Albany. On arriving at the shop, and inquiring for the principal of the
establishment, I was directed to an athletic man engaged with his whole
attention, in giving the finishing strokes to a substantial
coach-wheel. Judge of my astonishment, as he looked up, on beholding
none other than the hero of the present memoir, in his own proper
person! His sleeves were rolled up to his shoulders; his complexion was
ruddy; and a cheerful smile lighted up his countenance, such as I had
not seen playing there for many a year--never, in fact, since he became
acquainted with "that woman there." Every thing about him bore the
marks of industry and consequent thrift. "Ah, Mr. Doolittle! is that
you?" he exclaimed, as he wiped away the large drops of perspiration
that stood upon his face. Indeed, he was quite glad to see me; and
after interchanging a few remarks of mutual surprise at such an
unexpected though agreeable meeting, and after briefly relating what
had been his personal history since I had last seen him under the
cloud, he observed,--"You see I have gone clean round 'THE CIRCLE,' and
am at the old spot again--my father's shop. I have always told you that
'THE WORLD OWED ME A LIVING.' But the mischief on't was, I always went
the wrong way to work to obtain it. I believe, however, that I have got
about right at last."

                    *      *      *      *      *

The reader of the preceding narrative, may perhaps suppose that the
materials of which it is framed, are such unsubstantial stuff as dreams
are made of. I beg leave, however, at the close, to assure him of his
error. With the single abatement that names are changed, and places are
not precisely designated, every essential incident that I have
recorded, actually occurred, much as I have related it, to a person
who, if not now living, certainly was once, and most of them under my
own observation. As Scott remarks, at the close of the Bride of
Lammermoor, "it is AN OWER TRUE TALE."

The moral is briefly told. Let the young man remember that it requires
not actual vice to expose him to all that is humiliating and painful in
poverty. He may be assured of misery enough, if he merely neglects the
advantages which a kind Providence has placed within his power.

Let the parent learn, before he resolves to educate his son, the
importance of ascertaining whether his son was ever designed for
professional life. The weak vanity of a parent has frequently ruined
his son, and brought down his own gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.


THE END.


WORKS RECENTLY PUBLISHED

BY

LEAVITT, LORD & CO.

WITH SOME EXTRACTS FROM NOTICES OF THEM.

                    *      *      *      *      *

SHIP AND SHORE, or Leaves from the Journal of a Cruise to the
Levant--by an officer of the Navy.

Another contribution from a source, to which nobody would have thought
of turning, but a few years ago; but which is now beginning to yield
fruit abundantly and of an excellent flavor, sound, wholesome and
trustworthy; not those warm cheeked and golden pippins of the Red Sea,
which 'turn to ashes on the lips'--but something you may bite with all
your strength, of a grapy, and oftentimes of a peachy flavor. The
preface itself is a gem.--_New-England Galaxy._

This book is written with sprightliness and ease, and may justly claim
to be considered an agreeable as well as an instructive companion. It
is inscribed in a brief but modest dedication to Mrs. E. D. Reed--a
lady of uncommon refinement, of manners and intellectual accomplishments.
The descriptions of Madeira and Lisbon are the best we have read. The
pages are uniformly enriched with sentiment, or enlivened by incident.
The author, whoever he is, is a man of sentiment, taste and
feeling.--_Boston Courier._


MEMOIRS OF MRS. WINSLOW, late Missionary to India, by her husband, Rev.
Miron Winslow--in a neat 12mo, with a Portrait.

The book contains a good history of that mission, including the plan
and labors of the Missionaries, and the success attending them,
together with almost every important event connected with the mission.
It also presents much minute information on various topics which must
be interesting to the friends of missions, relating to the character,
customs and religion of the people--their manner of thinking and
living: and the scenery of their country and its climate. It also
describes the perplexities and encouragements of Missionaries in all
the departments of their labor, and throws open to inspection the whole
interior of a mission and a mission family, exhibiting to the reader
_what missionary work and missionary life are_, better perhaps
than any thing before published--_Missionary Herald._

Mrs. Winslow would have been a remarkable character under any
circumstances, and in any situation. Had she not possessed a mind of
unusual power and decision, she never could have triumphed over the
obstacles which were thrown in her way. We hope that in this memoir
many a pious young lady, will find incitements to prayerfulness and
zeal--and that our readers will enjoy the privilege of reading all the
pages of this interesting volume.His master was Doctor Miller and his mistress was Mrs.

Camilla Miller.
He does not know his master's given name as no other name was ever
heard around the plantation except Doctor Miller.

Randall was a small boy when the war between the states broke out, but
judging from what he remembers he must have been a boy around six
or seven years of age.

During the few years he spent in slavery, Randall had many experiences
which made such deep impressions upon his brain that the memory of
them still remains clear.

The one thing that causes one to believe that he must have been around
seven years of age is the statement that he was not old enough to have
tasks of any importance placed upon him, yet he was trusted along with
another boy about his own age, to carry butter from the plantation
dairy two miles to the 'big house.' No one would trust a child
younger than six years of age to handle butter for fear of it being
dropped into the dirt.

He must have at least reached the age when he was sent two miles
with a package and was expected to deliver the package intact. He must
have understood the necessity of not playing on the way.

He stated that he knew not to stop on the two-mile journey and not to
let the butter get dirty.

Randall had the pleasure of catching the pig for his father for
Doctor Miller gave each of his best Negro men a pig to raise for himself
and family. He was allowed to build a pen for it and raise and fatten
it for killing. When killing time came he was given time to butcher
it and grind all the sausage he could make to feed his family. By
that method it helped to solve the feeding problem and also satisfied
the slaves.

It was more like so many families living around a big house with a
boss looking over them, for they were allowed a privilege that very
few masters gave their slaves.

On the Miller plantation there was a cotton gin. Doctor Miller owned
the gin and it was operated by his slaves. He grew the cotton, picked
it, ginned it and wove it right there. He also had a baler and made
the bagging to bale it with.

He only had to buy the iron bands that held the bales intact.

Doctor Miller was a rich man and had a far reaching sight into how
to work slaves to the best advantage. He was kind to them and knew that
the best way to get the best out of men was to keep them well and
happy. His arrangement was very much the general way in that he
allowed the young men and women to work in the fields and the old
women and a few old men to work around the house, in the gin and
at the loom.

The old women mostly did the spinning of thread and weaving of cloth
although in some instances Doctor Miller found a man who was better
adapted to weaving than any of his women slaves.

Everyone kept his plantation under fence and men who were old but
strong and who had some knowledge of carpentry were sent out to keep the
fence in repair and often to build new ones. The fences were not like
those of today.

They were built of horizontal rails about six or seven feet long,
running zig-zag fashion. Instead of having straight line fences and posts
at regular points they did not use posts at all.

The bottom rails rested upon the ground and the zig-zag fashion in
which they were laid gave strength to the fence. No nails were
used to hold the rails in place. If stock was to be let in or out of the
places the planks were unlocked so to speak, and the stock
allowed to enter after which they were laid back as before.

Boys and girls under ten years of age were never sent into the field
to work on the Miller plantation but were required to mind the
smaller children of the family and do chores around the "big house"
for the mistress and her children.

Such work as mending was taught the domestic-minded children and tending
food on the pots was alloted others with inborn ability to cook.
They were treated well and taught 'manners' and later was used as
dining room girls and nurses.

Randall's father and mother were considered lucky. His father was
overseer and his mother was a waitress.

Doctor Miller was a kind and considerate owner; never believed in punishing
slaves unless in extreme cases. No overseer, white or colored could whip
his slaves without first bringing the slave before him and having
a full understanding as to what the offense was. If it warranted whipping
them it had to be given in his presence so he could see that it was not
given unmercifully. He indeed was a doctor and practised his profession
in the keeping of his slaves from bodily harm as well as keeping them
well. He gave them medicine when they did not feel well and
saw to it that they took needed rest if they were sick and tired.

Now, Robert Lee, Randall's father, was brought from Virginia and sold to
Doctor Miller when he was a young man. The one who sold him told Doctor
Miller, "Here's a nigger who wont take a whipping.

He knows his work and will do it and all you will need to do is
tell him what you want and its as good as done." Robert Lee never varied
from the recommendation his former master gave when he sold him.

The old tale of corn bread baked on the hearth covered with ashes
and sweet potatoes cooked in like manner are vivid memories
upon the mind of Randall. Syrup water and plenty of sweet and
butter milk, rice and crackling bread are other foods which were
plentiful around the cabin of Randall's parents.

Cows were numerous and the family of Doctor Miller did not need much
for their consumption. While they sold milk to neighboring plantations,
the Negroes were not denied the amount necessary to keep all
strong and healthy. None of the children on the plantation were
thin and scrawny nor did they ever complain of being
hungry.

The tanning yard was not far from the house Doctor Miller. His own
butcher shop was nearby. He had his cows butchered at intervals and when
one died of unnatural causes it was skinned and the hide tanned
on the place.

Randall as a child delighted in stopping around the tanning yard and
watching the men salt the hide. They, after salting it dug holes and
buried it for a number of days. After the salting process was finished
it was treated with a solution of water and oak bark. When the oak
bark solution had done its work it was ready for use. Shoes made of
leather were not dyed at that time but the natural color of the
finished hide was thought very beautiful and those who were lucky enough
to possess a pair were glad to get them in their natural color. To dye
shoes various colors is a new thing when the number of years leather
has been dyed is compared with the hundreds of years people knew
nothing about it, especially American people.

Randall's paternal grandparents were also owned by Doctor Miller and
were not sold after he bought them. Levi Lee was his grandfather's
name.
He was a fine worker in the field but was taken out of
it to be taught the shoe-makers trade.

The master placed him under a white shoemaker who taught him all the
fine points. If there were any, he knew about the trade. Dr. Miller had
an eye for business who could make shoes was a great saving to him.
Levi made all the shoes and boots the master, mistress and the
Miller family wore.

Besides, he made shoes for the slaves who wore them. Not all slaves
owned a pair of shoes. Boys and girls under eighteen went bare-footed
except in winter. Doctor Miller had compassion for them and did not
allow them to suffer from the cold by going bare-footed in
winter.

Another good thing to be remembered was the large number of chickens,
ducks and geese which the slaves raised for the doctor. Every slave
family could rest his tired body upon a feather bed for it was allowed
him after the members of the master's family were supplied. Moss
mattresses also were used under the feather beds and slaves did
not need to have as thick a feather bed on that account.

They were comfortable though and Randall remembers how he and the other
children used to fall down in the middle of the bed and become hidden
from view, so soft was the feather mattress. It was especially good
to get in bed in winter but not so pleasant to get up unless 'pappy'
had made the fire early enough for the large one-room cabin to get
warm.

The children called their own parents 'pappy' and 'mammy' in slavery
time.

Randall remembers how after a foot-washing in the old wooden tub,
(which, by the way, was simply a barrel cut in half and holes cut
in the two sides for fingers to catch a hold) he would sit a few minutes
with his feet held to the fire so they could dry. He also said his
'mammy' would rub grease under the soles of his feet to keep him from
taking cold.

It seemed to the child that he had just gone to bed when the old tallow
candle was lighted and his 'pappy' arose and fell upon his knees and
prayed aloud for God's blessings and thanked him for another day.
The field hands were to be in the field by five o'clock and it meant to
rise before day, summer and winter. Not so bad in summer for it was
soon day but in winter the weather was cold and darkness was
longer passing away.
When daylight came field hands had been working an hour or more. Robert
Lee, Randall's father was an overseer and it meant for him to be up
and out with the rest of the men so he could see if things were
going allright.

The Randall children were not forced up early because they did not eat
breakfast with their 'pappy'. Their mother was dining-room girl in
her mistress' house, so fed the children right from the Miller
table. There was no objection offered to this.

Doctor Miller was kind but he did not want his slaves enlightened
too much. Therefore, he did not allow much preaching in the church.

They could have prayer meeting all they wanted to, but instructions
from the Bible were thought dangerous for the slaves. He did not wish
them to become too wise and get it into their heads to ran away and get
free.

There was talk about freedom and Doctor Miller knew it would be only
a matter of time when he would loose all his slaves. He said to Randall's
mother one day, "Delhia you'll soon be as free as I am." She said.
"Sho' nuf massy?" and he answered. "You sure will." Nothing more was
said to any of the slaves until Sherman's army came through notifying
the slaves they were free.

The presence of the soldiers caused such a comotion around the plantation
that Randall's mind was indelibly impressed with their doings.

The northern soldiers took all the food they could get their hands
on and took possession of the cattle and horses and mules.

Levi, the brother of Randall, and who was named after his paternal
grandfather, was put on a mule and the mule loaded with provisions
and sent two miles to the soldier's camp. Levi liked that, for beside
being well treated he received several pieces of money. The federal
soldiers played with him and gave him all the food he wanted, although
the Miller slaves and their children were fed and there was no
reason for the child to be hungry.

Levi Lee, the grandfather of young Levi and Randall, had a dream
while the soldiers were encamped round about the place. He dreamed
that a pot of money was buried in a certain place; the person who
showed it to him told him to go dig for it on the first rainy night.
He kept the dream a secret and on the first rainy night he
went, dug, and found the pot of money right where his dream had
told him it would be.

He took the pot of money to his cabin and told no one anything
about it. He hid it as securely as possible, but when the soldiers were
searching for gold and silver money they did not leave the Negro's
cabin out of the search.
When they found the money they thought Levi's master had given him the
money to hide as they took it from him. Levi mourned a long time about
the loss of his money and often told his grandchildren that he
would have been well fixed when freedom came if he had not been
robbed of his money.

"Paddyroles" as the men were called who were sent by the Rebels to watch
the slaves to prevent their escaping during war times, were very active
after freedom. They intimidated the Negroes and threatened them with
loss of life if they did not stay and work for their former masters.
Doctor Miller did not want any of his slaves treated in such manner.
He told them they were free and could take whatever name they
desired.

Robert Lee, during slavery was Robert Miller, as were all of the
doctor's slaves.

After slavery was ended he chose the name Lee.

His brother Aaron took the name Alexander not thinking how it looked
for two brothers of the same parents to have different surnames.

There are sons of each brother living in Palatka now, one set Lees and
the others, Alexander.

Randall, as was formerly stated, spent a very little time in slavery.
Most of his knowledge concerning customs which long ago have been
abandoned and replaced by more modern ones, is of early reconstruction
days. Just after the Civil War, when his father began farming on his
own plantation, his mother remained home and cared for her house
and children.

She was of fair complexion, having been the daughter of a half-breed
Indian and Negro mother. Her father was white.

Her native state was Virginia and she bore some of the aristocratic traits
so common among those born in that state of such parentage. She often
boasted of her "blue blood Virginia stock."
Robert Lee, Randall's father was very prosperous in early reconstruction
days.

He owned horses, mules and a plow. The plow was made of point iron with
a wooden handle, not like plows of today for they are of cast iron and
steel.

Chickens, ducks and geese were raised in abundance and money began
accumulating rapidly for Robert and Delhia Lee. They began improving
their property and trying to give their children some education. It was
very hard for those living in small towns and out in the
country to go to school even though they had money to pay for their
education. The north sent teachers down but not every hamlet was favored
with such. (1)
Randall was taught to farm and he learned well. He saved his money as
he worked and grew to manhood.

Years after freedom he left South Carolina and went to Palatka,
Florida, where he is today. He bought some land and although most of
it is hammock land and not much good he has at intervals been
offered good prices for it. Some white people during the "boom" of 1925-26
offered him a few dollars an acre for it but he refused to sell thinking
a better price would be offered if he held on.
(2)
Today finds Randall Lee, an old man with fairly good health; he
stated that he had not had a doctor for years and his thinking
faculties are in good order. His eyesight is failing but he does
not allow that to handicap him in getting about. He talks fluently
about what he remembers concerning slavery and that which his parents
told him. He is between a mulatto and brown skin with good, mixed
gray and black hair. His features are regular, not showing much
Negro blood. He is tall and looks to weigh about one hundred and
sixty-five pounds. His wife lives with him in their two-story frame
house which shows that they have had better days financially. The
man and wife both show interest in the progress of the Negro race
and possess some books about the history of the Negro.
One book of particular interest, and of which the wife of Randall
Lee thinks a great deal, was written, according to her story, by
John Brown.
It is called "The History of the Colored Race in America." She could
not find but a few pages of it when interviewed but declared she
had owned the entire book for years. The pages she had and showed
with such pride were 415 to 449 inclusive. The book was written in
the year 1836 and the few pages produced by her gave information
concerning the Negro, Lovejoy of St.The letters are
interesting, from the numerous facts which they disclose; and are
deserving the careful attention of the citizens of these United States,
who should guard with vigilance the sacred trust which has been
confided to us by our fathers."--_N. Y. Weekly Messenger._

The work embodies a mass of facts, collected from authentic sources, of
the deepest interest to every friend of civil liberty and Protestant
Christianity. The efforts of despotic European sovereigns, to inoculate
our country with the religion of Rome, are fully proved. Could they
succeed in these efforts, and annihilate the spirit of liberty on our
shores, the march of free principles in our own dominions would cease.
They could then sit securely on their thrones, and rule with a rod of
iron over their abject vassals.--Ohio, _Cincinnati Journal_.
(Presbyterian.)


COMPREHENSIVE SYSTEM

OF

MODERN GEOGRAPHY AND HISTORY:

REVISED AND ENLARGED

From the London edition of "Pinnock's Modern Geography," and adapted to
the use of Academies and Schools in the United States, with an Atlas.

                    *      *      *      *      *

BY EDWIN WILLIAMS,

Author of the New Universal Gazetteer, New-York Annual Register, etc.

                    *      *      *      *      *

NEW-YORK:
LEAVITT, LORD & CO.,
180 Broadway.

                    *      *      *      *      *

Extracted critical remarks from the English Reviews of Pinnock's Modern
Geography and History.

"_Mr. Pinnock's_ Catechisms and other publications have made his
name universally known throughout the country, as one of the most
meritorious and successful authors in this department of literature,
who have ever directed their attention to inform the rising generation.
The present volume is, in all respects, worthy of his name; it is well
conceived, well arranged, diligently edited, and beautifully got up, at
a very moderate cost. By mingling the attractions of history with the
dry details of geographical science, the study is rendered pleasing and
interesting. Ample intelligence is produced, in the first instance, and
then the learner is judiciously exercised by questions on the subjects
as they occur."--_Literary Gazette._


"This is truly the age of intellectual improvement, and in every form
and manner exertions are multiplied to advance it. Daily the unwearied
press teems with new publications in aid of truth and knowledge.
Compendiums, abridgments, and compressments of scientific lore, rapidly
succeed each other in their pretensions to public favor; and it is now
a point of competition amongst authors and publishers to give the
greatest quantity of valuable information for the least money. It was,
however, it seems, reserved for the experienced author of the work
before us to excel all his predecessors in this particular; and we
cannot restrain our admiration when we observe the immense collection
of geographical and historical learning comprised in this little book.
It is impossible, in the limits to which this notice can extend, to
give a detailed account of the plan of _Mr. Pinnock's_ work: suffice
it, that its title is fully answered in the compilation, and that it
is, in our judgment, eminently calculated to supersede the use of those
elementary geographical works in present use, which, however useful
they may be, are utterly poor and meagre when compared to this. Within
three days after they were married she died and her death caused
much grief for Charles.

He was reluctant to bury her and wanted to continue to stand and
look at her face.

A white doctor and a school teacher whose names he does not remember,
told him to put his wife's body in alcohol to preserve it and he
could look at it all the time. At that time white people who had plenty
of money and wanted to see the faces of their deceased used this
method.

A glass casket was used and the dressed body of the deceased was placed
in alcohol inside the casket. Another casket made of wood held the
glass casket and the whole was placed in a vault made of stone or brick.
The walls of the vault were left about four feet above the ground and
a window and ledge were placed in front, so when the casket was placed
inside of the vault the bereaved could lean upon the ledge and look
in at the face of the deceased. The wooden casket was provided with
a glass top part of the way so that the face could easily be
seen.

Although the process of preserving the body in alcohol cost $160,
Charles did not regret the expense saying, "I had plenty of
money at that time."
After the death of his wife, Charles left with his mother and father,
Henrietta and Spencer Coates and went to Savannah, Georgia. He said
they were so glad to go, that they walked to within 30 miles of Savannah,
when they saw a man driving a horse and wagon who picked them up and
carried them into Savannah. It was in that city that he met his present
wife, Irene, and they were married about 1876.
There are nine grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren living
and in March of 1936, when a party was given in honor of Father
Coates' 108th birthday, one of each of the four generations of his
family were present.We are surprised, in looking through the book, to
observe what a vast quantity of instruction is comprised in its 446
pages."--_Sunday Times._


"We have just now before us a handsome and compact little volume, 'got
up' with great care, taste, and judgment: '_A Grammar of Modern
Geography and History_.' The quantity of really useful information
that it contains is astonishing."--_La Belle Assemblee._


"To _Mr. Pinnock_ belongs the merit of inventing those Catechisms
of Science and General Knowledge, which even a Lord Chancellor
condescended to read and to praise. Nothing more is necessary to be
said to recommend his book in every quarter."--_London Magazine._


"_Grammar of Geography and History._--Every person engaged in the
education of children, will be much pleased to turn over the pages of
one of the best, because most simplified, and at the same time
compendious works on geography that has ever yet appeared. The name of
_Pinnock_ stands at the head of modern pioneers in the march of
Juvenile Intellect; and the present volume is another exhibition of his
meritorious industry. It is announced among our advertisements, and we
are sure that our readers will be thankful for thus having specially
directed their attention to so useful, elegant, and withal _very cheap_
a publication."--_Taunton Courier._


"_Pinnock's Modern Geography.She added little of her own.

Even among those who could neither hear his lectures nor follow his
lessons, Delsarte had disciples. A great singing-teacher, whom I knew
at Florence, was eager to learn everything concerning
the method.

I often heard him ask a certain young girl, as he read a score: "You
were Delsarte's pupil; tell me if he would have read this as I have
done?"
Even the famous Jenny Lind made the journey from London to Paris, expressly
to hear the great singer.

At his lectures were seen from time to time: M. and Mme. Amand Chevé,
Mlle. Chaudesaigues, M. Mario Uchard--who, after his marriage, asked
for elocution lessons for his wife (Madeleine Brohan),--Mlle.
Rosalie Jacob, whose brilliant vocalization never won the
renown which it deserved, Mme. Carvalho, who was not one of the regular
attendants, but who trained her rare talent as a light singer, there,
before the very eyes of her fellow pupils,--Géraldon, who was
very successful in Italy, under the name of Géraldoni.

Then, there was Mme. de B----, who appeared at the opera under the name
of Betty; a beauty with a fine voice. This artist did not perfect
her talents, being in haste to join the theatre in Rue Lepelletier,
under the shield of another master. Although well received by the
public, she soon gave up the profession.
A memory haunts me, and I cannot deny it a few lines.
Mme. M. may have been eighteen when she began to study singing with
Delsarte, together with her husband, who was destined for a similar
career.To those whose time will not permit them to
turn to more ponderous sources of information, and to those who may
wish to refresh their memories by looking over an accurate summary of
facts already known, we heartily recommend this Geography as the best
elementary work we have seen."--_London Weekly Review._


_From the New-York Evening Post._

To the publishers, the public are indebted for an elementary work on
Geography, which, from a more attentive examination than we are usually
able to give to books of that description, we think will prove a very
useful volume in the education of young persons. The work we allude to
is a very neat and well printed edition of Pinnock's Modern Geography
and History, wholly revised and much enlarged by Edwin Williams, of
whose accuracy and research, as a statistical writer, the public have
already had various satisfactory evidences. The department of knowledge
in which the labors of Mr. Williams have been mainly exerted, have
necessarily furnished him with a copious store of materials highly
useful to be employed in a work like that which has now engaged his
pen. The original work of Mr. Pinnock bore a high reputation both in
England and this country, and its value is now very greatly increased
by the extensive and judicious improvements made by Mr. Williams. To
convey some idea of the superior excellence of the present edition over
any previous one, it needs only to be stated that the portion relating
to America, has been wholly rewritten and enlarged so as to extend
through more than a hundred additional pages. The recent changes in the
political divisions of South America are also carefully noted, and a
succinct and clear history of its various revolutions is given.
Numerous other improvements of the original work have been made by Mr.
Williams, but what we have stated, will serve to convey some idea of
the additional value he has imparted to a production which before
enjoyed a high reputation. The publishers deserve credit for the
exceedingly neat style in which they have published this useful
elementary work.


_From the Commercial Advertiser._

Pinnock has done very essential service to the cause of education, by
his excellent editions of established school books. To go no farther,
this is the best compendium of geography we have yet seen for schools.
After that first girl--no, I never did see her again--I never saw my
passengers. I would have to be the "black nights" of the moon when
I would carry them, and I would meet 'em out in the open or in a
house without a single light. The only way I knew who they were was
to ask them; "What you say?" And they would answer, "Menare."
I don't know what that word meant--it came from the Bible.

I only know that that was the password I used, and all of them that
I took over told it to me before I took them.

"I guess you wonder what I did with them after I got them over the
river. Well, there in Ripley was a man named Mr. Rankins; I think the
rest of his name was John. He had a regular station there on his place
for escaping slaves. You see, Ohio was a free state and once
they got over the river from Kentucky or Virginia. Mr. Rankins
could strut them all around town, and nobody would bother 'em. The
only reason we used to land quietly at night was so that whoever
brought 'em could go back for more, and because we had to be careful
that none of the owners had followed us.

Every once in a while they would follow a boat and catch their
slaves back.

Sometimes they would shoot at whoever was trying to save the poor
devils.

"Mr. Rankins had a regular 'station' for the slaves. He had a big lighthouse
in his yard, about thirty feet high and he kept it burnin' all night.
It always meant freedom for slave if he could get to this
light.

"Sometimes Mr. Rankins would have twenty or thirty slaves that had run
away on his place at the time. It must have cost him a whole lots to
keep them and feed 'em, but I think some of his friends helped
him.

"Those who wanted to stay around that part of Ohio could stay, but
didn't many of 'em do it, because there was too much danger that
you would be walking along free one night, feel a hand over your
mouth, and be back across the river and in slavery again in the
morning.

And nobody in the world ever got a chance to know as much misery
as a slave that had escaped and been caught.

"So a whole lot of 'em went on North to other parts of Ohio, or to New
York, Chicago or Canada; Canada was popular then because all of the
slaves thought it was the last gate before you got all the way _inside_
of heaven. I don't think there was much chance for a slave to
make a living in Canada, but didn't many of 'em come back. They seem
like they rather starve up there in the cold than to be back in
slavery.

"The Army soon started taking a lot of 'em, too. They could enlist
in the Union Army and get good wages, more food than they ever
had, and have all the little gals wavin' at 'em when they passed.

Them blue uniforms was a nice change, too.

"No, I never got anything from a single one of the people I carried
over the river to freedom.
Pinnock's original work is in some respects
one of the best to be found, but the labors of Mr. Williams have
rendered this edition exceedingly valuable. We have looked this book
through with considerable attention, and find a mass of _American
information_ there embodied far beyond our expectation. We question,
indeed, whether any other book in print contains as much; and we are
mistaken if it is not extensively made use of hereafter in our schools
and academies. Few men in the country have amassed more statistical
material than Mr. Williams, and none have spread it before the public
with more accuracy. This book alone is sufficient to entitle him to the
thanks of the community.


_From the New-Yorker._

_Pinnock's Geography._--Mr. Edwin Williams, favorably known as the
compiler of several statistical works of acknowledged merit, has just
submitted to the public an Americanized edition of Pinnock's
"Comprehensive System of Geography and History"--the part relating to
the United States having been entirely re-written and extended over one
hundred pages. The high reputation of the original author as a
geographer, affords a satisfactory guaranty for the character of the
work, which is adapted to the use of seminaries without forfeiting its
claims on the attention of the more abstract student of geography and
history.


_From the New-York Observer._

_Williams' Geography and History._--Mr. Edwin Williams, the publisher
and compiler of the New-York Annual Register, has prepared a new
geography for the use of schools, founded on Pinnock's work on modern
geography, which has been revised and extended. The plan is to combine
a summary of the history of each country with its geography, and to
adapt it to the use of schools and academies, by references to the
maps, and by questions. The part of the work relating to America has
been entirely rewritten, and copious additions have been made to other
parts of the volume. We have not found time to examine the work
critically, but we have no doubt, from what we know of the
qualifications of the author, that it is one of the most valuable
works of the kind in the market.


_From the Albany Argus._

_Modern Geography and History._--Mr. Edwin Williams, the publisher
and compiler of the New-York Annual Register, has added another to the
valuable publications for which the public are indebted to his industry
and enterprise, in a revision and extension of Pinnock's celebrated
work on modern geography. The plan of this geography is to combine a
summary of the history and present condition of each country with its
geography, and to adapt it to the use of schools and academies, by
references to the maps, and by questions designed to elicit from the
learner the facts stated in the historical and statistical parts of the
work. Numerous additions have been made in the revision, particularly
in that part relating to America, which, it appears, has been entirely
re-written and extended over one hundred pages. It gives also full
descriptions of the West India Islands, not particularly noticed in any
other geography; extended notices of the modern divisions and
revolutions in South America, and in Greece and Belgium, &c. &c. The
entire work appears to have been prepared with the usual care and
accuracy of the America editor: and his own additions are among the
most valuable of the many important and interesting facts with which
the book is replete. The character of both the American and the English
author must commend the work to the favorable notice of teachers and
all interested in facilitating the business of public instruction.


_Pinnock's Modern Geography and History_, revised by Edwin Williams, is
an excellent compendium of the branches on which it treats, and we
cheerfully recommend it for adoption by teachers and others. Were this
work in general use by the higher classes in academies and schools, the
labors of instruction would be greatly diminished and the youth of our
country, of both sexes, would exhibit a knowledge of Geography and
History which is far from being frequent at present.

JOHN F. JENKINS, Principal of } _Mechanics'
  the Male Department;        } Society
ARABELLA CLARK, Principal of  } School._
  the Female Department;      }

_February 22, 1836._


_Pinnock's Geography._--This is an excellent book, and not inferior in
value to any which have been put forth by this most industrious
compiler and author.

The work is of that terse, comprehensive character, which distinguishes
his former productions. replied the traveler.

"Oh, sir, I hope you will not!"
He thought he heard her mutter: "We read such things in the papers!"

The visitor at last perceived that she took him for a thief, and he
could not depart quickly enough.

One more anecdote:

François Delsarte called himself a bad citizen, because he disliked
to undertake the duties entailed by reason of the national guard--a
dignity long demanded by the advanced party of the day, but of which
they soon wearied.

I think that the artist's infractions were often overlooked, and his
reasons for exemption were never too closely scanned. And yet, the
soldier-citizen was one day arraigned before a council of discipline,
which, without regard for this representative of the highest
personages of fiction, condemned him to three days' imprisonment.

It was as if they had imprisoned saltpetre in company with a bunch of
matches--but he restrained his rebellious feelings; he would not
give his judges the satisfaction of knowing his torment.

He soon thought only of procuring consolation: he summoned his
friends, who visited him in throngs. Then he made the acquaintance
of his companions in misfortune.
There was one especially, who, alone, would have made up to him for
all the inconveniences of his forced arrest.

The first time that this prisoner entered the room where the other
prisoners were assembled, he looked at them with the most solemn air,
put his hand to his forehead, made a military salute, and in grave
tones, as if beginning a harangue, he uttered these words:
"Captives--I salute you!"

It was strangely pertinent. Delsarte was not behindhand in comic gravity.
This little scene enlivened him.

Another compensation fell to the lot of our _captive_. One of the prisoners
sang him a song, one stanza of which lingered in his memory. I transcribe
it:

"I was born in Finisterre, At Quimperlay I saw the light.
The sweetest air is my native air, My parish church is painted white!

Oh!

so I sang, I sighed, I said,-- How I love my native air, And parish
church so bright!"

    These lines, written by some Breton minstrel, inspired one of those
sweet, plaintive airs which the drawling voice of the drovers sing
as they return at nightfall; one of those airs which seem to follow
the brook down the valleys, and which repeat the echoes of the
mountains, in the far distance.

    Oh! how Delsarte used to murmur it; it made one homesick for
    Brittany!
    

    
    Chapter XIV.

    

        Delsarte's Scholars.
        

To get one's bearings in that floating population (where persistency and
fidelity are rare qualities) which haunts a singing-school, it is well
to make classifications. In Delsarte's case, the novelty of his
processes, his extraordinary reputation among the art-loving
public, the length of time which he insisted was necessary for
complete education, all combined to produce an incessant ebb and
flow of pupils.

Therefore, I must distinguish.
First, there were those, brought by Delsarte's generosity, whose
only resource was a vocation more or less favored by natural gifts.
He would say: "Come one, come all." But, of course, many were called,
and few were chosen, the majority only making a passing visit.
Then there were the finished artists..

"5. We should not envy the condition of the rich.

    "On slippery rocks I see them stand,
    And fiery billows roll below.

"6. We should strive for a better inheritance, than can be possessed in
this life.

    "'Now I esteem their mirth and wine.
    Too dear to purchase with my blood,
    Lord 'tis enough that _thou_ art mine.
    My life, my portion, and my God.'"

"7. The sufferings of the wicked in hell will be indescribably great.
Think what is represented by _torment_, by burning flame, by
insupportable thirst, by that state when a single drop of water would
afford relief. Remember that all this is but a representation of the
pains of the damned, and that this will have no relief, day nor night,
but will continue from year to year, and age to age, and without any
end, and you have a faint view of the sufferings of those who are in
hell.

"8. There is a place of suffering beyond the grave, a hell. If there
is not, then this parable has no meaning. It is impossible to make
anything of it unless it is designed to teach that.

"9. There will never be any escape from those gloomy regions. There is
a gulf fixed--_fixed_, not moveable. Nor can any of the damned beat a
pathway across this gulf, to the world of holiness.

"10. We see the amazing folly of those, who suppose there may be an
_end_ to the sufferings of the wicked, and who on that supposition
seem willing to go down to hell to suffer a long time, rather than go
at once to heaven. If man were to suffer but a thousand years, or even
_one_ year, why should he be so foolish as to choose that suffering,
rather than go at once to heaven, and be happy at once when he dies?

"11. God gives us warning sufficient to prepare for death. He has sent
his word, his servants, his son; he warns us by his Spirit and his
providence, by the entreaties of our friends, and by the death of
sinners. He offers us heaven, and he threatens hell. Vaux said:

The part which thee has been called to act, privately as well as publicly
and officially, in regard to the rights of mankind, and for the upholding
of the principles of justice and mercy toward a degraded and oppressed
portion of our fellow beings, ought to be regarded as a manifestation
of Providential power, concerning which we must always believe the same
Divine interposition will be extended in every exigency. I am altogether
satisfied that it is reserved for thee to witness the triumph of truth
and beneficence in the struggle to which thee has been exposed; and,
what is of infinitely greater value, as it respects thyself, to
reap a plentiful harvest in the most precious of all rewards, the
approbation of Heaven!

There is hardly any Christian in the land, who will
not find them an invaluable treasure.


_Extract of a Letter from a distinguished Divine of New England._

It (Barnes' Notes) supplies an important and much needed desideratum in
the means of Sabbath School and Bible Class instruction.

Without descending to minute criticism, or attempting a display of
learning, it embraces a wide range of general reading, and brings out
the results of an extended and careful investigation of the most
important sources of Biblical knowledge.

The style of the work is as it should be, plain, simple, direct; often
vigorous and striking; always serious and earnest.

It abounds in fine analyses of thought and trains of argument,
admirably adapted to aid Sabbath School Teachers in their responsible
duties: often too, very useful to Ministers when called suddenly to
prepare for religious meetings, and always helpful in conducting the
exercises of a Bible Class.

There is also another class among us who profess to be opposed to Slavery
and who rail much against it, but yet who are friendly to it, as
is fully evinced by their advocating every measure calculated to introduce
and tolerate it here.The theology taught in these volumes, drawn as it is from the pure
fountain of truth, is eminently common sense and practical.

Many of dem didn't had no idea where dey was goin' and told of
havin' good marsters.

But one and all dey had a good strong notion ter see what it was like
to own your own body."
"I felt worlds better when I reached Saint Augustine.
We would here say, once for all, we consider Barnes' Notes the best
commentary for families we have seen.--_N. E. Spectator.