Not many years ago, it is true, there was still a great deal of talk in
Germany about the desirability of a "dictatorship of the proletariat,"
the term "proletariat" being used in its narrow sense. That is, as soon
as the working class (in this sense) became a political majority, it was
to make the government embody its will without reference to other
classes--it being assumed that the manual laborers will only demand
justice for all men alike, and that it was neither safe nor necessary to
consult any of the middle classes. And even to-day in France much is
said by the "syndicalists" and others as to the power of well-organized
and determined minorities in the time of revolution--it being assumed,
again, that such minorities will be successful only in so far as they
stand for a new social principle, to the ultimate interest of all (see
Chapter V). It cannot be questioned that in these schemes the majority
is not to be consulted. But they are far less widely prevalent than
they were a generation ago.

The pioneer of "reformist" Socialism in Germany (Bernstein) correctly
defines democracy, not as the rule of the majority, but as "an absence
of class government." "This negative definition has," he says, "the
advantage that it gives less room than the phrase 'government by the
people' to the idea of oppression of the individual by the majority,
which is absolutely repugnant to the modern mind. To-day we find the
oppression of the minority by the majority 'undemocratic,' although it
was originally held up to be quite consistent with government by the
people.... Democracy is in _principle_ the suppression of class
government, though it is not yet the _actual_ suppression of
classes."[213]

Democracy, as we have hitherto known it, opposes class _government_, but
countenances the existence of classes. Socialism insists that as long as
social classes exist, class government will continue. The aim of
Socialism, "the end of class struggles and class rule," is not only
democratic, but the only means of giving democracy any real meaning.

"It is only the proletariat" (wage earners), writes Kautsky, "that has
created a great social ideal, the consummation of which will leave only
one source of income, _i.e._ labor, will abolish rent and profit, will
put an end to class and other conflicts, and put in the place of the
class struggle the solidarity of man. This is the final aim and goal of
the class struggle by the Socialist Party. The political representatives
of the class interests of the proletariat thus become representative of
the highest and most general interests of humanity."[214]

It is expected that nearly all social classes, though separated into
several groups to-day, will ultimately be thrown together by economic
evolution and common interests into two large groups, the capitalists
and their allies on the one side, and the anti-capitalists on the other.
The final and complete victory of the latter, it is believed, can alone
put an end to this great conflict. But in the meanwhile, even before our
capitalist society is overthrown and class divisions ended, the very
fusing together of the several classes that compose the anti-capitalist
party is bringing about a degree of social harmony not seen before.

Already the Socialists have succeeded in this way in harmonizing a large
number of conflicting class interests. The skilled workingmen were
united for the first time with the unskilled when the latter, having
been either ignored or subordinated in the early trade unions, were
admitted on equal terms into the Socialist parties. Then the often
extremely discontented salaried and professional men of small incomes,
having been won by Socialist philosophy, laid aside their sense of
superiority to the wage earners and were absorbed in large numbers.
Later, many agricultural laborers and even agriculturists who did all
their own work, and whose small capital brought them no return, began to
conquer their suspicion of the city wage workers. And, finally, many of
those small business men and independent farmers, the _larger part_ of
whose income is to be set down as the direct result of their own labor
and not a result of their ownership of a small capital, or who feel that
they are being reduced to such a condition, are commencing in many
instances to look upon themselves as non-capitalists rather than
capitalists--and to work for equality of opportunity through the
Socialist movement.

The process of building up a truly democratic society has two parts:
first, the organization and union in a single movement of all classes
that stand for the abolition of classes, and class rule; and second, the
overthrow of those social elements that stand in the way of this natural
evolution, their destruction and dissolution _as classes_, and the
absorption of their members by the new society as individuals.

It becomes of the utmost importance in such a vast struggle, on the one
hand, that no classes that are needed in the new society shall be marked
for destruction, and on the other that the movement shall not lean too
heavily or exclusively on classes which have very little or too little
constructive or combative power. What, then, is the leading principle by
which the two groups are to be made up and distinguished? Neither the
term "capitalist classes" nor the term "working classes" is entirely
clear or entirely satisfactory.

Mr. Roosevelt, for example, gives the common impression when he accuses
the Socialists of using the term "working class" in the narrow sense and
of taking the position that "all wealth is produced by manual workers,
that the entire product of labor should be handed over to the
laborer."[215] I shall show that Socialist writers and speakers, even
when they use the expression "working class," almost universally include
others than the manual laborers among those they expect to make up the
anti-capitalistic movement.

Kautsky's definition of the working class, for example, is: "Workers
who are divorced from their power of production to the extent that they
can produce nothing by their own efforts, and are therefore compelled in
order to escape starvation to sell the only commodity they
possess--their labor power." In present-day society, especially in a
rich country like America, it is as a rule not sheer "starvation" that
drives, but needs of other kinds that are almost as compelling. But the
point I am concerned with now is that this definition, widely accepted
by Socialists, draws no line whatever between manual and intellectual
workers. In another place Kautsky refers to the industrial working class
as being the recruiting ground for Socialism, which might seem to be
giving a preferred position to manual workers; but a few paragraphs
below he again qualifies his statement by adding that "to the working
class there belong, just as much as the wage earners, the members of the
new middle class," which I shall describe below.[216]

In other statements of their position, it is the context which makes the
Socialist meaning clear. The party Platform of Canada, for instance,
uses throughout the simple term "working class," without any
explanation, but it speaks of the struggle as taking place against the
"capitalists," and as it mentions no other classes, the reader is left
to divide all society between these two, which would evidently make it
necessary to classify many besides mere manual wage earners rather among
the anti-capitalist than among the capitalist forces.

The platform of the American Socialist Party in 1904 divided the
population between the "capitalists," and the "working or _producing
class_." "Between these two classes," says this platform, "there can be
no possible compromise ... except in the conscious and complete triumph
of the working class as the only class that has the right or _power_ to
be."

"By working people," said Liebknecht, "we do not understand merely the
manual workers, but _every one who does not live on the labor of
another_." His words should be memorized by all those who wish to
understand the first principles of Socialism:--


     "Some maintain, it is true, that the wage-earning proletariat is
     the only really revolutionary class, that it alone forms the
     Socialist army, and that we ought to regard with suspicion all
     adherents belonging to other classes or other conditions of life.
     Fortunately these senseless ideas have never taken hold of the
     German Social Democracy.

     "The wage-earning class is most directly affected by capitalist
     exploitation; it stands face to face with those who exploit it, and
     it has the especial advantage of being concentrated in the
     factories and yards, so that it is naturally led to think things
     out more energetically and finds itself automatically organized
     into 'battalions of workers.' This state of things gives it a
     revolutionary character which no other part of society has to the
     same degree. We must recognize this frankly.

     "Every wage earner is either a Socialist already, or he is on the
     high road to becoming one.

     "We must not limit our conception of the term 'working class' too
     narrowly. As we have explained in speeches, tracts, and articles,
     we include in the working class all those who live exclusively _or
     principally_ by means of their own labor, and who do not grow rich
     from the work of others.

     "Thus, besides the wage earners, we should include in the working
     class the small farmers and small shop keepers, who tend more and
     more to drop to the level of the proletariat--in other words, all
     those who suffer from our present system of production on a large
     scale." (My italics.)


The chief questions now confronting the Socialists are all connected,
directly or indirectly, with these producing middle classes, who, on the
whole, do not live on the labor of others and suffer from the present
system, yet often enjoy some modest social privilege.

While Liebknecht considered that the wage-earning class was more
revolutionary and Socialistic than any other, he did not allow this for
one moment to persuade him to give a subordinate position to other
classes in the movement, as he says:--


     "The unhappy situation of the small farmers almost all over Germany
     is as well known as that of the artisan movement. It is true that
     both small farmers and small shopkeepers are still in the camp of
     our adversaries, but only because they do not understand the
     profound causes that underlie their deplorable condition; it is of
     prime importance for our party to enlighten them and bring them
     over to our side. _This is the vital question for our party,
     because these two classes form the majority of the nation._... We
     ought not to ask, 'Are you a wage earner?' but, 'Are you a
     Socialist?'

     "If it is limited to the wage earners, Socialism cannot conquer. If
     it included all the workers and the moral and intellectual élite of
     the nation, its victory is certain.... Not to contract, but to
     expand, ought to be our motto. The circle of Socialism should
     widen more and more, _until we have converted most of our
     adversaries to being our friends_, or at least disarm their
     opposition.

     "And the indifferent mass, that in peaceful days has no weight in
     the political balance, but becomes the decisive force in times of
     agitation, ought to be so fully enlightened as to the aims and the
     essential ideas of our party, that it would cease to fear us and
     can be no longer used as a weapon against us."[217] (My italics.)


Karl Kautsky, though he takes a less broad view, also says that the
Socialist Party is "the only anti-capitalist party,"[218] and contends
in his recent pamphlet, "The Road to Power," that its recruiting ground
in Germany includes three fourths of the nation, and probably even more,
which (even in Germany) would include a considerable part of those
ordinarily listed with the middle class.

Kautsky's is probably the prevailing opinion among German Socialists.
Let us see how he proposes to compose a Socialist majority. Of course
his first reliance is on the manual laborers, skilled and unskilled.
Next come the professional classes, the salaried corporation employees,
and a large part of the office workers, which together constitute what
Kautsky and the other Continental Socialists call the _new_ middle
class. "Among these," Kautsky says, "a continually increasing sympathy
for the proletariat is evident, because they have no special class
interest, and owing to their professional, scientific point of view, are
easiest won for our party through scientific considerations. The
theoretical bankruptcy of bourgeois economics, and the theoretical
superiority of Socialism, must become clear to them. Through their
training, also, they must discover that the other social classes
continuously strive to debase art and science. Many others are impressed
by the fact of the irresistible advance of the Social Democracy. So it
is that friendship for labor becomes popular among the cultured classes,
until there is scarcely a parlor in which one does not stumble over one
or more 'Socialists.'"

It is difficult to understand how it can be said that these classes have
no special "class interest," unless it is meant that their interest is
neither that of the capitalists nor precisely that of the industrial
wage-earning class. And this, indeed, is Kautsky's meaning, for he seems
to minimize their value to the Socialists, because _as a class_ they
cannot be relied upon.


     "Heretofore, as long as Socialism was branded among all cultured
     classes as criminal or insane, capitalist elements could be brought
     into the Socialist movement only by a complete break with the
     whole capitalist world. Whoever came into the Socialist movement at
     that time from the capitalist element had need of great energy,
     revolutionary passion, and strong proletarian convictions. It was
     just this element which ordinarily constituted the most radical and
     revolutionary wing of the Socialist movement.

     "It is wholly different to-day, since Socialism has become a fad.
     It no longer demands any special energy, or any break with
     capitalist society to assume the name of Socialist. It is no
     wonder, then, that more and more these new Socialists remain
     entangled in their previous manner of thought and feeling.

     "The fighting tactics of the intellectuals are at any rate wholly
     different from those of the proletariat. To wealth and power of
     arms the latter opposes its overwhelming numbers and its thorough
     organization. The intellectuals are an ever diminishing minority,
     with no class organization whatever. Their only weapon is
     persuasion through speaking and writing, the battle with
     'intellectual weapons' and 'moral superiority,' and these 'parlor
     Socialists' would settle the proletarian class struggle also with
     these weapons. They declare themselves ready to grant the party
     their moral support, but only on condition that it renounces the
     idea of the application of force, and this not simply where force
     is hopeless,--there the proletariat has already renounced it,--but
     also in those places where it is still full of possibilities.
     Accordingly they seek to throw discredit on the idea of revolution,
     and to represent it as a useless means. They seek to separate off a
     social reform wing from the revolutionary proletariat, and they
     thereby divide and weaken the proletariat."[219]


In the last words Kautsky refers to the fact that although a large
number of "intellectuals" (meaning the educated classes) have come into
the Socialist Party and remain there, they constitute a separate wing of
the movement. We must remember, however, that this same wing embraces,
besides these "parlor Socialists," a great many trade unionists, and
that it has composed a very considerable portion of the German Party,
and a majority in some other countries of the Continent; and as Kautsky
himself admits that they succeed in "dividing the proletariat," they
cannot be very far removed politically from at least one of the
divisions they are said to have created. It is impossible to attribute
the kind of Socialism to which Kautsky objects to the adhesion of
certain educated classes to the movement (for reasons indicated in Part
II).

While many of the present spokesmen of Socialism are, like Kautsky,
somewhat skeptical as to the necessity of an alliance between the
working class and this section of the middle class, others accept it
without qualification. If, then, we consider at once the middle ground
taken by the former group of Socialists, and the very positive and
friendly attitude of the latter, it must be concluded that the Socialist
movement _as a whole_ is convinced that its success depends upon a
fusion of at least these two elements, the wage earners and "the new
middle class."

A few quotations from the well-known revolutionary Socialist, Anton
Pannekoek, will show the contrast between the narrower kind of
Socialism, which still survives in many quarters, and that of the
majority of the movement. He discriminates even against "the new middle
class," leaving nobody but the manual laborers as a fruitful soil for
real Socialism.


     "To be sure, in the economic sense of the term, then, the new
     middle class are proletarians; but they form a very special group
     of wage workers, a group that is so sharply divided from the _real_
     proletarians that they form a special class with a special position
     in the class struggle.... Immediate need does not _compel_ them as
     it does the real proletarians to attack the capitalist system.
     Their position may arouse discontent, but that of the workers is
     unendurable. For them Socialism has many advantages, for the
     workers it is an _absolute_ necessity." (My italics.)[220]

     The phrase "absolute necessity" is unintelligible. It is
     comparatively rarely that need arises to the height of actual
     compulsion, and when it does instances are certainly just as common
     among clerks as they are among bricklayers.

     Pannekoek introduces a variety of arguments to sustain his
     position. For instance, that "the higher strata among the new
     middle class have a definitely capitalistic character. The lower
     ones are more proletarian, but there is no sharp dividing line."
     This is true--but the high strata in every class are capitalistic.
     The statement applies equally well to railway conductors, to
     foremen, and to many classes of manual workers.

     "And then, too," Pannekoek continues, "they, the new middle class,
     have more to fear from the displeasure of their masters, and
     dismissal for them is a much more serious matter. The worker stands
     always on the verge of starvation, and so unemployment has few
     terrors for him. The high-class employee, on the contrary, has
     comparatively an easy life, and a new position is difficult to
     find."

     Now it is precisely the manual laborer who is most often
     blacklisted by the large corporations and trusts; and the
     brain-working employee is better able to adapt himself to some
     slightly different employment than is the skilled worker in any of
     the highly specialized trades.

     "For the cause of Socialism we can count on this new middle
     class," says Pannekoek, "even less than on the labor unions. For
     one thing, they have been set over the workers, as superintendents,
     overseers, bosses, etc. In these capacities they are supposed to
     speed up the workers to get the utmost out of them."

     Is it not even more common, we may ask, that one manual worker is
     set over another than that a brain worker is set over a manual
     laborer?

     "They [the new middle class] are divided," writes Pannekoek, "into
     numberless grades and ranks arranged one above the other; they do
     not meet as comrades, and so cannot develop the spirit of
     solidarity. Each individual does not make it a matter of personal
     pride to improve the condition of his entire class; the important
     thing is rather that he personally struggles up into the next
     higher rank."

     If we remember the more favorable hours and conditions under which
     the brain workers are employed, the fact that they are not so
     exhausted physically and that they have education, we may see that
     they have perhaps even greater chances "to develop their
     solidarity" and to understand their class interests than have the
     manual workers. It is true that they are more divided at the
     present time, but there is a tendency throughout all the highly
     organized industries to divide the manual laborers in the same way
     and to secure more work from them by a similar system of
     promotions.

     Pannekoek accuses the brain workers of having something to lose,
     again forgetting that there are innumerable groups of more or less
     privileged manual laborers who are in the same position. And
     finally, he contends that their superior schooling and education is
     a disadvantage when compared to the lack of education of the manual
     laborers:--

     "They have great notions of their own education and refinement,
     feel themselves above the masses; it naturally never occurs to them
     that the ideals of these masses may be scientifically correct and
     that the 'science' of their professors may be false. As theorizers
     seeing the world always with their minds, knowing little or nothing
     of material activities, they are fairly convinced that mind
     controls the world."

     On the contrary, nearly all influential Socialist thinkers agree
     that present-day science, _poorly as it is taught_, is not only an
     aid to Socialism, but the very best basis for it.

     Pannekoek is right, for instance, when he says that most of the
     brain workers in the Socialist movement come from the circles of
     the small capitalists and bring an anti-Socialist prejudice with
     them, but he forgets that, on the other side, the overwhelming
     majority of the world's working people are the children of farmers,
     peasants, or of absolutely unskilled and illiterate workers, whose
     views of life were even more prejudiced and whose minds were
     perhaps even more filled up with the ideas that the ruling classes
     have placed there.


The arguments of the American Socialist, Thomas Sladden, representing
as they do the views of _many thousands of revolutionary workingmen in
this country_, are also worthy of note. His bitterness, it will be seen,
is leveled less against capitalism itself than against what he considers
to be intrusion of certain middle-class elements into Socialist ranks.

