Produced by David Widger


THE MARCH OF THE WHITE GUARD

By Gilbert Parker


"Ask Mr. Hume to come here for a moment, Gosse," said Field, the chief
factor, as he turned from the frosty window of his office at Fort
Providence, one of the Hudson's Bay Company's posts. The servant, or more
properly, Orderly-Sergeant Gosse, late of the Scots Guards, departed on
his errand, glancing curiously at his master's face as he did so. The
chief factor, as he turned round, unclasped his hands from behind him,
took a few steps forward, then standing still in the centre of the room,
read carefully through a letter which he had held in the fingers of his
right hand for the last ten minutes as he scanned the wastes of snow
stretching away beyond Great Slave Lake to the arctic circle. He
meditated a moment, went back to the window, looked out again, shook his
head negatively, and with a sigh, walked over to the huge fireplace. He
stood thoughtfully considering the floor until the door opened and
sub-factor Jaspar Hume entered.

The factor looked up and said: "Hume, I've something here that's been
worrying me a bit. This letter came in the monthly batch this morning. It
is from a woman. The company sends another commending the cause of the
woman and urging us to do all that is possible to meet her wishes. It
seems that her husband is a civil engineer of considerable fame. He had a
commission to explore the Coppermine region and a portion of the Barren
Grounds. He was to be gone six months. He has been gone a year. He left
Fort Good Hope, skirted Great Bear Lake, and reached the Coppermine
River. Then he sent back all of the Indians who accompanied him but two,
they bearing the message that he would make the Great Fish River and come
down by Great Slave Lake to Fort Providence. That was nine months ago. He
has not come here, nor to any other of the forts, so far as is known, nor
has any word been received from him. His wife, backed by the H.B.C.,
urges that a relief party be sent to look for him. They and she forget
that this is the arctic region, and that the task is a well-nigh hopeless
one. He ought to have been here six months ago. Now how can we do
anything? Our fort is small, and there is always danger of trouble with
the Indians. We can't force men to join a relief party like this, and who
will volunteer? Who would lead such a party and who will make up the
party to be led?"

The brown face of Jaspar Hume was not mobile. It changed in expression
but seldom; it preserved a steady and satisfying character of
intelligence and force. The eyes, however, were of an inquiring, debating
kind, that moved from one thing to another as if to get a sense of
balance before opinion or judgment was expressed. The face had remained
impassive, but the eyes had kindled a little as the factor talked. To the
factor's despairing question there was not an immediate reply. The eyes
were debating. But they suddenly steadied and Jaspar Hume said
sententiously: "A relief party should go."

"Yes, yes, but who is to lead them?"

Again the eyes debated.

"Read her letter," said the factor, handing it over. Jaspar Hume took it
and mechanically scanned it. The factor had moved towards the table for
his pipe or he would have seen the other start, and his nostrils slightly
quiver, as his eyes grew conscious of what they were seeing. Turning
quickly, Hume walked towards the window as though for more light, and
with his back to the factor he read the letter. Then he turned and said:
"I think this thing should be done."

The factor shrugged his shoulders slightly. "Well, as to that, I think so
too, but thinking and doing are two different things, Hume."

"Will you leave the matter in my hands until the morning?"

"Yes, of course, and glad to do so. You are the only man who can arrange
the affair, if it is to be done at all. But I tell you, as you know, that
everything will depend upon a leader, even if you secure the men.... So
you had better keep the letter for to-night. It may help you to get the
men together. A woman's handwriting will do more than a man's word any
time."

Jaspar Hume's eyes had been looking at the factor, but they were studying
something else. His face seemed not quite so fresh as it was a few
minutes before.

"I will see you at ten o'clock to-morrow morning, Mr. Field," he said
quietly. "Will you let Gosse come to me in an hour?"

"Certainly. Good-night."

Jaspar Hume let himself out. He walked across a small square to a log
house and opened a door which creaked and shrieked with the frost. A dog
sprang upon him as he did so, and rubbed its head against his breast. He
touched the head as if it had been that of a child, and said: "Lie down,
Bouche."

It did so, but it watched him as he doffed his dogskin cap and buffalo
coat. He looked round the room slowly once as though he wished to fix it
clearly and deeply in his mind. Then he sat down and held near the
firelight the letter the factor had given him. His features grew stern
and set as he read it. Once he paused in the reading and looked into the
fire, drawing his breath sharply between his teeth. Then he read it to
the end without a sign. A pause, and he said aloud: "So this is how the
lines meet again, Varre Lepage!" He read the last sentence of the letter
aloud:

   In the hope that you may soon give me good news of my husband,
   I am, with all respect,

               Faithfully yours,

                       ROSE LEPAGE.

Again he repeated: "With all respect, faithfully yours, Rose Lepage."

The dog Bouche looked up. Perhaps it detected something unusual in the
voice. It rose, came over, and laid its head on its master's knee. Hume's
hand fell gently on the head, and he said to the fire: "Ah, Rose Lepage,
you can write to Factor Field what you dare not write to your husband if
you knew. You might say to him then, 'With all love,' but not 'With all
respect.'"

He folded the letter and put it in his pocket. Then he took the dog's
head between his hands and said: "Listen, Bouche, and I will tell you a
story." The dog blinked, and pushed its nose against his arm.

"Ten years ago two young men who had studied and graduated together at
the same college were struggling together in their profession as civil
engineers. One was Clive Lepage and the other was Jaspar Hume. The one
was brilliant and persuasive, the other, persistent and studious. Lepage
could have succeeded in any profession; Hume had only heart and mind for
one.

"Only for one, Bouche, you understand. He lived in it, he loved it, he
saw great things to be achieved in it. He had got an idea. He worked at
it night and day, he thought it out, he developed it, he perfected it, he
was ready to give it to the world. But he was seized with illness, became
blind, and was ordered to a warm climate for a year. He left his idea,
his invention, behind him--his complete idea. While he was gone his bosom
friend stole his perfected idea--yes, stole it, and sold it for twenty
thousand dollars. He was called a genius, a great inventor. And then he
married her. You don't know her, Bouche. You never saw beautiful Rose
Varcoe, who, liking two men, chose the one who was handsome and
brilliant, and whom the world called a genius. Why didn't Jaspar Hume
expose him, Bouche? Proof is not always easy, and then he had to think of
her. One has to think of a woman in such a case, Bouche. Even a dog can
see that."

He was silent for a moment, and then he said: "Come, Bouche. You will
keep secret what I show you."

He went to a large box in the corner, unlocked it, and took out a model
made of brass and copper and smooth but unpolished wood.

"After ten years of banishment, Bouche, Hume has worked out another idea,
you see. And I mean to do it, if I never accomplish another thing as long
as I'm at Miss Allen's!"

CHAPTER II
THE SOPHOMORE PRESIDENT

"Are you going to dress for Ruth's tea?" asked Doris Sands of Marjorie
Wilkinson, as the girls walked out of the dining-room together.

Marjorie pulled down the corners of her mouth at the question. It did
seem strange to her that Ruth Henry should have decided in such a
hurry to give a tea. There must be something behind it! Probably the
girl was making a play for popularity, so that she might be elected
to an office.

"I'm not going. It's just at the time of hockey practice, and, of
course, I couldn't miss that. Lily won't be there, either."
"I'm sorry!" murmured Doris. "Things never seem half so nice without
you, Marj!"
Marjorie smiled gratefully; Doris Sands not only said pleasant things,
but one knew that she meant them. It was too bad that the class
constitution prohibited a girl's re-election as president. The sophomore
class could never find anyone else so tactful, so universally popular
as Doris, Marjorie thought.

"Thanks, Doris," she said.

"But I don't see why Ruth couldn't give us more notice, so that we
might have arranged things to go. She never said a word about it at the
reception!"
"Ruth always does things on the spur of the moment, and for queer reasons,"
sighed Doris, for the intricacies of the workings of Ruth's mind
were too complicated for her simple, straightforward nature to
comprehend.

She and Ruth were exceptionally good friends; but then Doris Sands was the
sort of girl who could get along with anybody. She never thought of Ruth
as self-seeking; merely attributed the measure of success she
obtained to cleverness. She always looked for the best in everybody.

When Marjorie and Ruth had entered the seminary the previous fall,
there had been thirty-five girls in the class.

Now the membership had decreased to twenty-five, and they were all
on rather intimate terms.
Five of these were Girl Scouts: Anna Cane, Doris Sands, Lily Andrews,
Ruth and Marjorie. These were the envied few, the inner circle, the leaders
of the class. From their number everyone except, perhaps, Evelyn
Hopkins, who always coveted good things for herself, expected the class
president to be chosen.

Ruth had invited all twenty-five girls to her tea, although she and her
room-mate, Evelyn Hopkins, scarcely hoped to be able to pack that
number into their room. However, all did not accept the
invitation; only fifteen or sixteen finally appeared.

Doris and Evelyn were passing sandwiches and cakes, while Ruth poured
the cocoa. The conversation, which buzzed from groups in all parts of
the room, was suddenly silenced by the hostess's general remark,
"Girls," she said, still standing beside the wicker tea-table in the
corner, "I guess you wondered why I was in such a hurry to entertain
you, but the fact is, I thought it would be nice to have a little
informal discussion about class matters before the meeting
to-night.
Because we don't want to conduct our affairs just any old way, hit
or miss; we want to make ours the best class ever!"
"Hurray!" cheered Doris; "you've surely got the right spirit, Ruth."
Encouraged by the applause of the president, Ruth continued,
"We want a good strong organization, to keep those freshies from
getting their secret meeting, and electing a class president; we
want an efficient president ourselves--not that we can ever get one
as good as our last year's"--she smiled admiringly at Doris--"who
will systematize the whole thing!A few moments passed, and then Sergeant Gosse
entered, followed by Jeff Hyde, Gaspe Toujours, and Late Carscallen. Late
Carscallen had got his name "Late" from having been called "The Late Mr.
Carscallen" by the chief factor because of his slowness. Slow as he was,
however, the stout Scotsman had more than once proved himself a man of
rare merit according to Hume's ideas. He was, of course, the last to
enter.

The men grouped themselves about the fire, Late Carscallen getting the
coldest corner. Each man drew his tobacco from his pocket, and, cutting
it, waited for Hume to speak. His eyes were debating as they rested on
the four. Then he took out Mrs. Lepage's letter, and, with the group
looking at him, he read it aloud. When it was finished, Cloud-in-the-Sky
gave a guttural assent, and Gaspe Toujours, looking at Jeff Hyde, said:
"It is cold in the Barren Grounds. We shall need much tabac." These men
could read without difficulty Hume's reason for summoning them. To Gaspe
Toujours' remark Jeff Hyde nodded affirmatively, and then all looked at
Late Carscallen. He opened his heavy jaws once or twice with an
animal-like sound, and then he said, in a general kind of way:

"To the Barren Grounds. But who leads?"

Hume was writing on a slip of paper, and he did not reply. The faces of
three of them showed just a shade of anxiety. They guessed who it would
be, but they were not sure. Cloud-in-the-Sky, however, grunted at them,
and raised the bowl of his pipe towards the subfactor. The anxiety then
seemed to disappear.

For ten minutes more they sat so, all silent. Then Hume rose, handed the
slip of paper to Sergeant Gosse, and said: "Attend to that at once,
Gosse. Examine the food and blankets closely."

The five were left alone.

Then Hume spoke: "Jeff Hyde, Gaspe Toujours, Late Carscallen, and
Cloud-in-the-Sky, this man, alive or dead, is between here and the Barren
Grounds. He must be found--for his wife's sake."

He handed Jeff Hyde her letter. Jeff rubbed his fingers before he touched
the delicate and perfumed missive. Its delicacy seemed to bewilder him.
He said: in a rough but kindly way: "Hope to die if I don't," and passed
it on to Gaspe Toujours, who did not find it necessary to speak. His
comrade had answered for him. Late Carscallen held it inquisitively for a
moment, and then his jaws opened and shut as if he were about to speak.
But before he did so Hume said: "It is a long journey and a hard one.
Those who go may never come back. But this man was working for his
country, and he has got a wife--a good wife." He held up the letter.
"Late Carscallen wants to know who will lead you. Can't you trust me? I
will give you a leader that you will follow to the Barren Grounds.
To-morrow you will know who he is. Are you satisfied? Will you do it?"

The four rose, and Cloud-in-the-Sky nodded approvingly many times. Hume
held out his hand. Each man shook it, Jeff Hyde first. Then he said:
"Close up ranks for the H.B.C.!" (H.B.C. meaning, of course, Hudson's Bay
Company.)

With a good man to lead them, these four would have stormed, alone, the
Heights of Balaklava.

Once more Hume spoke. "Go to Gosse and get your outfits at nine to-morrow
morning. Cloud-in-the-Sky, have your sleds at the store at eight o'clock,
to be loaded. Then all meet me at 10.15 at the office of the chief
factor. Good night."

As they passed out into the semi-arctic night, Late Carscallen with an
unreal obstinacy said: "Slow march to the Barren Grounds--but who leads?"

Left alone Hume sat down to the pine table at one end of the room and
after a short hesitation began to write. For hours he sat there, rising
only to put wood on the fire. The result was three letters: the largest
addressed to a famous society in London, one to a solicitor in Montreal,
and one to Mr. Field, the chief factor. They were all sealed carefully.
Then he rose, took out his knife, and went over to the box as if to break
the red seal. He paused, however, sighed, and put the knife back again.
As he did so he felt something touch his leg. It was the dog.

Hume drew in a sharp breath and said: "It was all ready, Bouche; and in
another six months I should have been in London with it. But it will go
whether I go or not--whether I go or not, Bouche."

The dog sprang up and put his head against his master's breast.

"Good dog, good dog, it's all right, Bouche; however it goes, it's all
right," said Hume.

Then the dog lay down and watched his master until he drew the blankets
to his chin, and sleep drew oblivion over a fighting soul.


II

At ten o'clock next morning Jaspar Hume presented himself at the chief
factor's office. He bore with him the letters he had written the night
before.

The factor said: "Well, Hume, I am glad to see you. That woman's letter
was on my mind all night. Have you anything to propose? I suppose not,"
he added despairingly, as he looked closely into the face of the other.
"Yes, Mr. Field, I propose that the expedition start at noon to-day."

"Start-at noon-to-day?"

He has promised to equip the girls for a canoe trip this summer,
if they win the Pioneer badge!"

"A canoe trip!"

repeated Marjorie. "Oh, how wonderful!"

"It will be a nice change from regular camping," said Miss Phillips.

"But the pioneer test is a difficult one."

The girls discussed it for a while, and, after supper was over,
went up to their rooms.

They were too tired even to go to the movies, but Miss Phillips had brought
cards, and they played a rubber of bridge before seeking their beds.

They were up early the next morning to find the dining-room almost
empty. Again they had the fun of ordering "the things we don't get at
Miss Allen's," as they themselves put it, and the meal passed
pleasantly.

Most of the day was spent in sight-seeing. They visited the White House,
and the Capitol; stopped at the Smithsonian Institute and laughed
over the dresses the Presidents' wives had worn; took the elevator
to the top of Washington Monument; and, after luncheon, rode to Mt.

Vernon. It meant a great deal to them to see all the places they had
read so much about.

They came back to the hotel tired; but a bath, fifteen minutes' rest,
and fresh clothing, revived them; and at dinner they were as gay as
usual.

In the evening they went to the theater.

On Saturday they took a sight-seeing bus about the city and ended
up at the Girl Scout Headquarters.

All of the girls were tremendously excited as they walked into the office;
it was the first time they had ever met other officers, or visited
any Scout office.

Fortunately, Miss Phillips had insisted this time that
they all wear their Scout uniforms, and in these they felt more at
ease.

Instead of finding only one or two officials, the place was crowded
with them. The girls stepped back shyly, while Miss Phillips made
the advances.

"We are Girl Scouts from Miss Allen's Boarding School--in Pennsylvania,"
she explained; "we're seeing Washington, and, of course, we couldn't
miss the Girl Scout Headquarters."

The hostesses were most cordial, showing the girls everything, and
then inviting them to a big rally that afternoon.

"That reminds me," remarked one of the officers, who was evidently a
representative from National Headquarters in New York City, "I have a
list of Girl Scouts here, from all parts of the country, who want to
correspond with other Girl Scouts.

Would you girls, any of you, like to take some names?"
Marjorie was the first to accept the suggestion. "Oh, I would!" she cried.
"That would be lots of fun!"
The officer handed the list to her, and the girls all crowded about
to read the names, hoping that perhaps they might come across one
that they knew. But, recognizing none, they selected at random,
while Marjorie placed checks here and there in the list.Under the bronze of the sub-factor's face there spread a glow more red
than brown, and he said simply: "Thank you, men"--for they had all nodded
assent to Jeff Hyde's words--"come with me to the store. We will start at
noon."

At noon the White Guard stood in front of the store on which the British
flag was hoisted with another beneath it bearing the magic letters,
H.B.C.: magic, because they opened to the world regions that seemed
destined never to know the touch of civilisation. The few inhabitants of
the fort were gathered at the store; the dogs and loaded sleds were at
the door. It wanted but two minutes to twelve when Hume came from his
house, dressed also in the white blanket costume, and followed by his
dog, Bouche. In a moment more he had placed Bouche at the head of the
first team of dogs. They were to have their leader too. Punctually at
noon, Hume shook hands with the factor, said a quick good-bye to the
rest, called out a friendly "How!" to the Indians standing near, and to
the sound of a hearty cheer, heartier perhaps because none had a
confident hope that the five would come back, the march of the White
Guard began.


III

It was eighteen days after. In the shadow of a little island of pines,
that lies in a shivering waste of ice and snow, the White Guard were
camped. They were able to do this night what they had not done for
days--dig a great grave of snow, and building a fire of pine wood at each
end of this strange house, get protection and something like comfort.
They sat silent close to the fires. Jaspar Hume was writing with numbed
fingers. The extract that follows is taken from his diary. It tells that
day's life, and so gives an idea of harder, sterner days that they had
spent and must yet spend, on this weary journey.

   December 25th.--This is Christmas Day and Camp twenty-seven. We
   have marched only five miles to-day. We are eighty miles from Great
   Fish River, and the worst yet to do. We have discovered no signs.
   Jeff Hyde has had a bad two days with his frozen foot. Gaspe
   Toujours helps him nobly. One of the dogs died this morning.
   Bouche is a great leader. This night's shelter is a god-send.
   Cloud-in-the-Sky has a plan whereby some of us will sleep well. We
   are in latitude 63deg 47' and longitude 112deg 32' 14". Have worked
   out lunar observations. Have marked a tree JH/27 and raised cairn
   No. 3.

   We are able to celebrate Christmas Day with a good basin of tea and
   our stand-by of beans cooked in fat. I was right about them: they
   have great sustaining power. To-morrow we will start at ten
   o'clock.

The writing done, Jaspar Hume put his book away and turned towards the
rest. Cloud-in-the-Sky and Late Carscallen were smoking. Little could be
seen of their faces; they were snuffled to the eyes. Gaspe Toujours was
drinking a basin of tea, and Jeff Hyde was fitfully dozing by the fire.
The dogs were above in the tent--all but Bouche, who was permitted to be
near his master. Presently the sub-factor rose, took from a knapsack a
small tin pail, and put it near the fire. Then he took five little cups
that fitted snugly into each other, separated them, and put them also
near the fire. None of the party spoke. A change seemed to pass over the
faces of all except Cloud-in-the-Sky. He smoked on unmoved. At length
Hume spoke cheerily: "Now, men, before we turn in we'll do something in
honour of the day. Liquor we none of us have touched since we started;
but back there in the fort, and maybe in other places too, they will be
thinking of us; so we'll drink a health to them, though it's but a
spoonful, and to the day when we see them again!"

The cups were passed round. The sub-factor measured out a very small
portion to each. They were not men of uncommon sentiment; their lives
were rigid and isolated and severe. Fireside comforts under fortunate
conditions they saw but seldom, and they were not given to expressing
their feelings demonstratively. But each man then, save Cloud-in-the-Sky,
had some memory worth a resurrection.

Jaspar Hume raised his cup; the rest followed his example. "To absent
friends and the day when we see them again!" he said; and they all drank.
Gaspe Toujours drank solemnly, and, as though no one was near, made the
sign of the cross; for his memory was with a dark-eyed, soft-cheeked
habitant girl of the parish of Saint Gabrielle, whom he had left behind
seven years before, and had never seen since. Word had come from the
parish priest that she was dying, and though he wrote back in his homely
patois of his grief, and begged that the good father would write again,
no word had ever come. He thought of her now as one for whom the candles
had been lighted and masses had been said.

But Jeff Hyde's eyes were bright, and suffering as he was, the heart in
him was brave and hopeful. He was thinking of a glorious Christmas Day
upon the Madawaska River three years agone; of Adam Henry, the blind
fiddler; of bright, warm-hearted Pattie Chown, the belle of the ball, and
the long drive home in the frosty night.

Late Carscallen was thinking of a brother whom he had heard preach his
first sermon in Edinburgh twenty years before. And Late Carscallen, slow
of speech and thought, had been full of pride and love of that brilliant
brother. In the natural course of things, they had drifted apart, the
slow and uncouth one to make his home at last in the Far North, and to be
this night on his way to the Barren Grounds. But as he stood with the cup
to his lips he recalled the words of a newspaper paragraph of a few
months before. It stated that "the Reverend James Carscallen, D.D.,
preached before Her Majesty on Whitsunday, and had the honour of lunching
with Her Majesty afterwards." Remembering that, Late Carscallen rubbed
his left hand joyfully against his blanketed leg and drank.

Cloud-in-the-Sky's thoughts were with the present, and his "Ugh!" of
approval was one of the senses purely. Instead of drinking to absent
friends he looked at the sub-factor and said: "How!" He drank to the
subfactor.

Jaspar Hume had a memory of childhood; of a house beside a swift-flowing
river, where a gentle widowed mother braced her heart against misfortune
and denied herself and slaved that her son might be educated. He had said
to her that some day he would be a great man, and she would be paid back
a hundredfold. And he had worked hard at school, very hard. But one cold
day of spring a message came to the school, and he sped homewards to the
house beside the dark river down which the ice was floating,--he would
remember that floating ice to his last day, and entered a quiet room
where a white-faced woman was breathing away her life. And he fell at her
side and kissed her hand and called to her; and she waked for a moment
only and smiled on him, and said: "Be good, my boy, and God will make you
great." Then she said she was cold, and some one felt her feet--a kind
old soul who shook her head sadly at him; and a voice, rising out of a
strange smiling languor, murmured: "I'll away, I'll away to the Promised
Land--to the Promised Land. . . . It is cold--so cold--God keep my boy!"
Then the voice ceased, and the kind old soul who had looked at him,
pityingly folded her arms about him, and drawing his brown head to her
breast, kissed him with flowing eyes and whispered: "Come away, laddie,
come away."

"I seen it done onc't--I guess you fellers kin do it. Maybe not if you had
a bigger car--I dunno. Yer welcome to try. But you want to take a block
to stick underneath the axle when you get 'er raised."

Following his suggestion, the boys raised the beam to their shoulders, and
carried it back to the car, Ruth following with the smaller piece.
Placing one end of the timber beneath the axle and raising the other
end, they found that without effort they could lift the rear of the machine
sufficiently for Ruth to insert the block.

"Golly!" exclaimed Harold; "I believe we could lift a truck this
way.
Pretty smart of old Santa Claus to think of it."
In a short time the change was made, the tools put away; and resting the
improvised jack along one side of the car, across the mudguards, they
returned with it to its owner.

"The job's done, Mr. Slack!" announced Harold, as they flung the beam to
the ground. "I'm very much obliged to you for your help."
He slipped a coin into the old man's hand.

"That's all right!" was the answer. "I'm much obliged to you. I wouldn't
have no use for a real jack," he repeated.

Meanwhile, Ruth was carrying on an earnest conversation in undertones
with Jack.

She was directing his attention among the various small boats which filled
the long room, to a particular one in the far corner, which was
noticeable because of its bright green paint, and because it was the only
canoe among many row-boats.

"It certainly looks like Marjorie's," she was saying.

"Where did you get that canoe?" she demanded sharply, turning to the
boat-house keeper.

"I bought it from a young lady," he replied. "She paddled down the
river. I give twenty dollars for it."

"That canoe was stolen!" cried Ruth, indignantly, as if to accuse the old
man.

He thrust out his beard.

"How do you know?" he asked.

"I recognize it!" replied the girl.

He looked relieved and smiled.

"They's a good many models of the Oldtown canoe that looks like that one,
young lady."
The graceful craft was lying on its side so that the interior was
exposed more to their view than the sides.
"I'll identify it," said Ruth, undaunted. "There's a long scratch
in the paint, about an inch from the keel, near the middle--we got
stuck on a rock one day."
"You could find that on most any canoe," replied the man.
"Well--let me see--oh, there's candle grease on the inside, at each
end!
That's from the Japanese lanterns we had there, the night of the
water-picnic," she told the boys. "And the name was painted on it
in red letters--_The Scout_!"
At this, the old man's eyes opened wide.
"I guess you're right, lady," he said. "She's called _The Scout_,
all right; but I don't know about the scratch and the candle grease--I
never noticed that!"
"Will you sell it back to me, if you're convinced?" asked Jack.
"Gimme what I paid for it, and she's your'n. Never was much good
to me, anyhow; I never hired it onc't--mostly too rough for a canoe
in the river."
"Will it be all right if I pay you five dollars now, and return
with the rest, say to-morrow, and get the canoe?"
"Suits me," agreed the other.
So the bargain was struck, and they crossed the room to examine
_The Scout_. There, sure enough, were the evidences as Ruth had
given them.
At last, the canoe was found!
"I told you you were on the eve of a great discovery, didn't I?"
said Harold, as they were driving home.
"But you never would have found the canoe, if it hadn't been for
me," corrected Ruth.

"Marjorie certainly will be glad!"They knew they were getting nearer
to him than they had ever done; even Cloud-in-the-Sky appreciated that.
Hume spoke no word to them, but looked at them and stood up. They all did
the same, Jeff Hyde leaning on the shoulders of Gaspe Toujours. He read
first, four verses of the Thirty-first Psalm, then followed the prayer of
St. Chrysostom, and the beautiful collect which appeals to the Almighty
to mercifully look upon the infirmities of men, and to stretch forth His
hand to keep and defend them in all dangers and necessities. Late
Carscallen, after a long pause, said "Amen," and Jeff said in a whisper
to Gaspe Toujours: "That's to the point. Infirmities and dangers and
necessities is what troubles us."

Immediately after, at a sign from the sub-factor, Cloud-in-the-Sky began
to transfer the burning wood from one fire to the other until only hot
ashes were left where a great blaze had been. Over these ashes pine twigs
and branches were spread, and over them again blankets. The word was then
given to turn in, and Jeff Hyde, Gaspe Toujours, and Late Carscallen lay
down in this comfortable bed. Each wished to give way to their captain,
but he would not consent. He and Cloud-in-the-Sky wrapped themselves in
their blankets like mummies, covering the head completely, and under the
arctic sky they slept alone in an austere and tenantless world. They
never know how loftily sardonic Nature can be who have not seen that land
where the mercury freezes in the tubes, and there is light but no warmth
in the smile of the sun. Not Sturt in the heart of Australia with the
mercury bursting the fevered tubes, with the finger-nails breaking like
brittle glass, with the ink drying instantly on the pen, with the hair
fading and falling off, would, if he could, have exchanged his lot for
that of the White Guard. They were in a frozen endlessness that stretched
away to a world where never voice of man or clip of wing or tread of
animal is heard. It is the threshold to the undiscovered country, to that
untouched north whose fields of white are only furrowed by the giant
forces of the elements; on whose frigid hearthstone no fire is ever lit;
where the electric phantoms of a nightless land pass and repass, and are
never still; where the magic needle points not towards the north but
darkly downward; where the sun never stretches warm hands to him who
dares confront the terrors of eternal snow.

The White Guard slept.


IV

"No, Captain; leave me here and push on to Manitou Mountain. You ought to
make it in two days. I'm just as safe here as on the sleds, and less
trouble. A blind man's no good. I'll have a good rest while you're gone,
and then perhaps my eyes will come out right. My foot's nearly well now."

Jeff Hyde was snow-blind. The giant of the party had suffered most.

But Hume said in reply: "I won't leave you alone. The dogs can carry you
as they've done for the last ten days."

But Jeff replied: "I'm as safe here as marching, and safer. When the dogs
are not carrying me, nor any one leading me, you can get on faster; and
that means everything to us, now don't it?"

Hume met the eyes of Gaspe Toujours. He read them. Then he said to Jeff:
"It shall be as you wish. Late Carscallen, Cloud-in-the-Sky, and myself
will push on to Manitou Mountain. You and Gaspe Toujours will remain
here."

Jeff Hyde's blind eyes turned towards Gaspe Toujours, who said: "Yes. We
have plenty tabac."

A tent was set up, provisions were put in it, a spirit-lamp and matches
were added, and the simple menage was complete. Not quite. Jaspar Hume
looked round. There was not a tree in sight. He stooped and cut away a
pole that was used for strengthening the runners of the sleds, fastened
it firmly in the ground, and tied to it a red woollen scarf, used for
tightening his white blankets round him. Then he said: "Be sure and keep
that flying."

Jeff's face was turned towards the north. The blindman's instinct was
coming to him. Far off white eddying drifts were rising over long
hillocks of snow. When he turned round again his face was troubled. It
grew more troubled, then it brightened up again, and he said to Hume:
"Captain, would you leave that book with me till you come back--that
about infirmities, dangers, and necessities? I knew a river-boss who used
to carry an old spelling-book round with him for luck. It seems to me as
if that book of yours, Captain, would bring luck to this part of the
White Guard, that bein' out at heels like has to stay behind."

Hume had borne the sufferings of his life with courage; he had led this
terrible tramp with no tremor at his heart for himself; he was seeking to
perform a perilous act without any inward shrinking; but Jeff's request
was the greatest trial of this critical period in his life.

Jeff felt, if he could not see, the hesitation of his chief. His rough
but kind instincts told him something was wrong, and he hastened to add:
"Beg your pardon, Mr. Hume, it ain't no matter. I oughtn't have asked you
for it. But it's just like me. I've been a chain on the leg of the White
Guard this whole tramp."

The moment of hesitation had passed before Jeff had said half-a-dozen
words, and Hume put the book in his hands with the words: "No, Jeff, take
it. It will bring luck to the White Guard. Keep it safe until I come
back."

Jeff took the book, but hearing a guttural "Ugh" behind him, he turned
round defiantly. Cloud-in-the-Sky touched his arm and said: "Good!
Strong-back book--good!" Jeff was satisfied.

At this point they parted, Jeff and Gaspe Toujours remaining, and Hume
and his two followers going on towards Manitou Mountain. There seemed
little probability that Clive Lepage would be found. In their progress
eastward and northward they had covered wide areas of country, dividing
and meeting again after stated hours of travel, but not a sign had been
seen; neither cairn nor staff nor any mark of human presence.

Hume had noticed Jeff Hyde's face when it was turned to the eddying
drifts of the north, and he understood what was in the experienced
huntsman's mind. He knew that severe weather was before them, and that
the greatest danger of the journey was to be encountered.

That night they saw Manitou Mountain, cold, colossal, harshly calm; and
jointly with that sight there arose a shrieking, biting, fearful north
wind. It blew upon them in cruel menace of conquest, in piercing
inclemency. It struck a freezing terror to their hearts, and grew in
violent attack until, as if repenting that it had foregone its power to
save, the sun suddenly grew red and angry, and spread out a shield of
blood along the bastions of the west. The wind shrank back and grew less
murderous, and ere the last red arrow shot up behind the lonely western
wall of white, the three knew that the worst of the storm had passed and
that death had drawn back for a time. What Hume thought may be gathered
from his diary; for ere he crawled in among the dogs and stretched
himself out beside Bouche, he wrote these words with aching fingers:

   January 10th: Camp 39.--A bitter day. We are facing three fears
   now: the fate of those we left behind; Lepage's fate; and the going
   back. We are twenty miles from Manitou Mountain. If he is found,
   I should not fear the return journey; success gives hope. But we
   trust in God.

Another day passed and at night, after a hard march, they camped five
miles from Manitou Mountain. And not a sign! But Hume felt there was a
faint chance of Lepage being found at this mountain. His iron frame had
borne the hardships of this journey well; his strong heart better. But
this night an unaccountable weakness possessed him. Mind and body were on
the verge of helplessness. Bouche seemed to understand this, and when he
was unhitched from the team of dogs, now dwindled to seven, he leaped
upon his master's breast. It was as if some instinct of sympathy, of
prescience, was passing between the man and the dog. Hume bent his head
down to Bouche for an instant and rubbed his side kindly; then he said,
with a tired accent: "It's all right, old dog, it's all right."

Hume did not sleep well at first, but at length oblivion came. He waked
to feel Bouche tugging at his blankets. It was noon. Late Carscallen and
Cloud-in-the-Sky were still sleeping--inanimate bundles among the dogs.
In an hour they were on their way again, and towards sunset they had
reached the foot of Manitou Mountain. Abruptly from the plain rose this
mighty mound, blue and white upon a black base. A few straggling pines
grew near its foot, defying latitude, as the mountain itself defied the
calculations of geographers and geologists. A halt was called. Late
Carscallen and Cloud-in-the-Sky looked at the chief. His eyes were
scanning the mountain closely. Suddenly he motioned. A hundred feet up
there was a great round hole in the solid rock, and from this hole there
came a feeble cloud of smoke! The other two saw also. Cloud-in-the-Sky
gave a wild whoop, and from the mountain there came, a moment after, a
faint replica of the sound. It was not an echo, for there appeared at the
mouth of the cave an Indian, who made feeble signs for them to come. In a
little while they were at the cave. As Jaspar Hume entered,
Cloud-in-the-Sky and the stalwart but emaciated Indian who had beckoned
to them spoke to each other in the Chinook language, the jargon common to
all Indians of the West.

Jaspar Hume saw a form reclining on a great bundle of pine branches, and
he knew what Rose Lepage had prayed for was come to pass. By the
flickering light of a handful of fire he saw Lepage--rather what was left
of him--a shadow of energy, a heap of nerveless bones. His eyes were
shut, but as Hume, with a quiver of memory and sympathy at his heart,
stood for an instant, and looked at the man whom he had cherished as a
friend and found an enemy, Lepage's lips moved and a weak voice said:
"Who is there?"

"A friend."

"Come-near-me,--friend."

Hume made a motion to Late Carscallen, who was heating some liquor at the
fire, and then he stooped and lifted up the sick man's head, and took his
hand. "You have come--to save me!" whispered the weak voice again.

"Yes; I've come to save you." This voice was strong and clear and true.

"I seem--to have--heard--your voice before--somewhere before--I seem
to--have--"

But he had fainted.

Hume poured a little liquor down the sick man's throat, and Late
Carscallen chafed the delicate hand--delicate in health, it was like that
of a little child now. When breath came again Hume whispered to his
helper "Take Cloud-in-the-Sky and get wood; bring fresh branches. Then
clear one of the sleds, and we will start back with him in the early
morning."

Late Carscallen, looking at the skeleton-like figure, said: "He will
never get there."

"Yes, he will get there," was Hume's reply.

"But he is dying."

"He goes with me to Fort Providence."

"Ay, to Providence he goes, but not with you," said Late Carscallen,
doggedly.

Anger flashed in Hume's eye, but he said quietly "Get the wood,
Carscallen."

Hume was left alone with the starving Indian, who sat beside the fire
eating voraciously, and with the sufferer, who now was taking
mechanically a little biscuit sopped in brandy. For a few moments thus,
then his sunken eyes opened, and he looked dazedly at the man bending
above him. Suddenly there came into them a look of terror. "You--you--are
Jaspar Hume," his voice said in an awed whisper.

"Yes." The hands of the sub-factor chafed those of the other.

"But you said you were a friend, and come to save me."

"I have come to save you."

There was a shiver of the sufferer's body. This discovery would either
make him stronger or kill him. Hume knew this, and said: "Lepage, the
past is past and dead to me; let it be so to you."

There was a pause.

"How--did you know--about me?"

"I was at Fort Providence. There came letters from the Hudson's Bay
Company, and from your wife, saying that you were making this journey,
and were six months behind--"

"My wife--Rose!"

"I have a letter for you from her. She is on her way to Canada. We are to
take you to her."

"To take me--to her." Lepage shook his head sadly, but he pressed to his
lips the letter that Hume had given him.

"To take you to her, Lepage."

"No, I shall never see her again."

"I tell you, you shall. You can live if you will. You owe that to her--to
me--to God."

"To her--to you--to God. I have been true to none. I have been punished.
I shall die here."

"You shall go to Fort Providence. Do that in payment of your debt to me,
Lepage. I demand that." In this transgressor there was a latent spark of
honour, a sense of justice that might have been developed to great
causes, if some strong nature, seeing his weaknesses, had not condoned
them, but had appealed to the natural chivalry of an impressionable,
vain, and weak character. He struggled to meet Hume's eyes, and doing so,
he gained confidence and said: "I will try to live. I will do you
justice--yet."

"Your first duty is to eat and drink. We start for Fort Providence
to-morrow."

The sick man stretched out his hand. "Food! Food!" he said.

In tiny portions food and drink were given to him, and his strength
sensibly increased. "Jack 'er up!"
He jumped up from the running-board just in time to avoid the other's
clutches.

"Now, Harold!" protested Ruth. "As if this were not enough, you must
make it worse with bad puns."
"I won't do it again," promised Harold, with mock penitency. "But wait a
minute--I'm going with you."
He tossed the tools on the floor of the car and slammed the door.

"Jack, my boy," he resumed, "I really believe your idea is a good
one, an inspiration, a mark of genius; I verily believe we are on
the eve of a great discovery----" 
"Oh, you dry up!"

snorted Jack. "I don't really think we'll find one.
But it won't hurt to ask."
Upon closer inspection all of the boat-houses appeared to be deserted,
except the one farthest away. This was slightly removed from the others,
and more ramshackle looking; but someone was evidently there, for they
could hear the sound of hammering, which seemed to come from within.
Over the door hung a home-made sign, with the inscription:
JOHN SLACK, BOATS FOR HIRE.

"See anything funny about that name?" asked Harold.

The others examined it more closely.

"He's got the "N" printed upside-down."

"Sure enough!" laughed Ruth. "Well, of all things!"

"Judging from the noise he's making," continued Harold, "John's business
isn't very slack!"

"Are you commencing again?" groaned Jack.

"That will do, Harold! You've said quite enough!" warned Ruth.
They halted before the open doorway, through which they could see
an old man bending over an upturned boat which he was repairing.
"Good day, Mr. Slack!" called Harold.
The man paused with his hammer in mid-air, and raised his head; a
dirty white beard which seemed to start at his eyes, grew down over
his chest.

"Howdy! What can I do for you?"His strong heart quailed. Had he lost his
way? He looked at the sun. He was not sure. He consulted his compass, but
it quivered hesitatingly. For awhile that wild bewilderment which seizes
upon the minds of the strongest, when lost, mastered him, in spite of his
struggles against it. He moved in a maze of half-blindness,
half-delirium. He was lost in it, swayed by it. He began to wander about;
and there grew upon his senses strange delights and reeling agonies. He
heard church bells, he caught at butterflies, he tumbled in new-mown hay,
he wandered in a tropic garden. But in the hay a wasp stung him, and the
butterfly changed to a curling black snake that struck at him and glided
to a dark-flowing river full of floating ice, and up from the river a
white hand was thrust, and it beckoned him--beckoned him. He shut his
eyes and moved towards it, but a voice stopped him, and it said, "Come
away, come away," and two arms folded him round, and as he went back from
the shore he stumbled and fell, and . . . What is this? A yielding mass
at his feet--a mass that stirs! He clutches at it, he tears away the
snow, he calls aloud--and his voice has a faraway unnatural sound--"Gaspe
Toujours! Gaspe Toujours!" Then the figure of a man shakes itself in the
snow, and a voice says: "Ay, ay, sir!" Yes, it is Gaspe Toujours! And
beside him lies Jeff Hyde, and alive. "Ay, ay, sir, alive!"

Jaspar Hume's mind was itself again. It had but suffered for a moment the
agony of delirium.

Gaspe Toujours and Jeff Hyde had lain down in the tent the night of the
great wind, and had gone to sleep at once. The staff had been blown down,
the tent had fallen over them, the drift had covered them, and for three
days they had slept beneath the snow, never waking.

Jeff Hyde's sight was come again to him. "You've come back for the book,"
he said. "You couldn't go on without it. You ought to have taken it
yesterday."

He drew it from his pocket. He was dazed.

"No, Jeff, I've not come back for that, and I did not leave you
yesterday: it is three days and more since we parted. The book has
brought us luck, and the best. We have found our man; and they'll be here
to-night with him. I came on ahead to see how you fared."

In that frost-bitten world Jeff Hyde uncovered his head for a moment.
"Gaspe Toujours is a papist," he said, "but he read me some of that book
the day you left, and one thing we went to sleep on: it was that about
'Lightenin' the darkness, and defendin' us from all the perils and
dangers of this night.'" Here Gaspe Toujours made the sign of the cross.
Jeff Hyde continued half apologetically for his comrade: "That comes
natural to Gaspe Toujours--I guess it always does to papists. But I never
had any trainin' that way, and I had to turn the thing over and over, and
I fell asleep on it. And when I wake up three days after, here's my eyes
as fresh as daisies, and you back, sir, and the thing done that we come
to do."

He put the Book into Hume's hands and at that moment Gaspe Toujours said:
"See!" Far off, against the eastern horizon, appeared a group of moving
figures.

That night the broken segments of the White Guard were reunited, and
Clive Lepage slept by the side of Jaspar Hume.


VI

Napoleon might have marched back from Moscow with undecimated legions
safely enough, if the heart of those legions had not been crushed. "Stand
up, Frieda," commanded Miss Phillips, pleasantly, and the girl
shuffled to her feet, still keeping her eyes fixed on the piano.

"Mrs. Johnson, this is Frieda Hammer. Frieda, you are very lucky to
have such a lovely home, and such a kind, adopted mother! Won't you shake
hands?"

The girl thrust out her hand awkwardly, still avoiding the eyes of the
older woman. "A bad sign"--thought Mrs. Johnson, unconsciously--"she never
seems to look anyone in the eyes."
"I will take you to your room, my dear," she said. "Then you can come
down again and have something to eat!"
This last remark was made with a side glance at Miss Phillips, and
a twinkle in her eye.

But for once the latter did not respond; she was so discouraged and
mentally worn-out, that she had completely forgotten the surprise
party.

"Don't want nuthing!" protested Frieda, rudely. And, seizing her bag, she
followed Mrs. Johnson up the stairs.

As soon as she was out of sight, the girls began to move cautiously from
their hiding places. But suddenly they all stood perfectly still,
arrested by the unbelievable words they now heard, which Frieda literally
shouted at kind Mrs. Johnson.

"You ain't a-going to put me in the attic!" Her bag fell to the floor with
a bang. "I didn't come here to be no servant girl! I knew there was
a trick to it!"

"But, my dear----" Mrs. Johnson's soft voice pleaded in words that were
not distinguishable to the girls below.

By this time the Scouts were gathered about the piano. Frances sank on
the sofa and buried her face in her hands, and Miss Phillips sighed
deeply. Marjorie looked frightened, as if something dreadful were about
to happen. Ruth alone was unaffected; she had been right from the
first!

"Oh, Ruth!" cried Frances, forgetting all about the surprise party. "If
we only had taken your advice!" Her voice died in a wail.

"Sh!" cautioned Marjorie. "Oh, girls, don't let's give up! Please! Let's
try our song. Maybe that--and the ice-cream----"
But to her dismay, she received no word of encouragement from Miss
Phillips. Their Captain seemed to have reached the lowest depths
of despair.
Ethel, however, struck the chord, and the girls chimed in weakly.
Then, the music, strengthening their hopes as it progressed, made
them more cheerful. Loudly, they brought out the words of the
chorus:

"Frieda dear, Frieda dear, we're so glad you're here!
Frieda dear, Frieda dear, your Scout friends are near----"
and they fairly shouted the name in hope of evoking some response.
But none came; in five minutes Mrs. Johnson reappeared with wet
eyes.
She felt so sorry for the Scouts.
"It's no use, girls," she said, sadly; "she wouldn't come down. And
when I stepped out into the hall to show her the big closet for her
wraps, she locked the door in my face!"Without them I
couldn't have done anything."

"In our infirmities and in all our dangers and necessities," added Jeff
Hyde. "The luck of the world was in that book!"

In another half-hour the White Guard was at ease, and four of them were
gathered about the great stove in the store, Cloud-in-the-Sky smoking
placidly, and full of guttural emphasis; Late Carscallen moving his
animal-like jaws with a sense of satisfaction; Gaspe Toujours talking in
Chinook to the Indians, in patois to the French clerk, and in broken
English to them all; and Jeff Hyde exclaiming on the wonders of the
march, the finding of Lepage at Manitou Mountain, and of himself and
Gaspe Toujours buried in the snow.


VII

In Hume's house at midnight Lepage lay asleep with his wife's
letters--received through the factor--in his hand. The firelight played
upon a dark, disappointed face--a doomed, prematurely old face, as it
seemed to the factor.

"You knew him, then," the factor said, after a long silence, with a
gesture towards the bed.

"Yes, well, years ago," replied Hume.

Just then the sick man stirred in his sleep, and he said disjointedly:
"I'll make it all right to you, Hume." Then came a pause, and a quicker
utterance: "Forgive--forgive me, Rose." The factor got up, and turned to
go, and Hume, with a sorrowful gesture, went over to the bed.

Again the voice said: "Ten years--I have repented ten years--I dare not
speak--"

The factor touched Hume's arm. "He has fever. You and I must nurse him,
Hume. You can trust me--you understand."

"Yes, I can trust you," was the reply. "But I can tell you nothing."

"I do not want to know anything. If you can watch till two o'clock I will
relieve you. I'll send the medicine chest over. You know how to treat
him."

The factor passed out, and the other was left alone with the man who had
wronged him. The feeling most active in his mind was pity, and, as he
prepared a draught from his own stock of medicines, he thought the past
and the present all over. He knew that however much he had suffered, this
man had suffered more. In this silent night there was broken down any
barrier that may have stood between Lepage and his complete compassion.
Having effaced himself from the calculation, justice became forgiveness.

He moistened the sick man's lips, and bathed his forehead, and roused him
once to take a quieting powder. Then he sat down and wrote to Rose
Lepage. But he tore the letter up again and said to the dog: "No, Bouche,
I can't; the factor must do it. She needn't know yet that it was I who
saved him. It doesn't make any burden of gratitude, if my name is kept
out of it. The factor mustn't mention me, Bouche--not yet. When he is
well we will go to London with It, Bouche, and we needn't meet her. It
will be all right, Bouche, all right!"

The dog seemed to understand; for he went over to the box that held It;
and looked at his master. Then Jaspar Hume rose, broke the seal, unlocked
the box and opened it; but he heard the sick man moan, and he closed it
again and went over to the bed. The feeble voice said: "I must speak--I
cannot die so--not so." Hume moistened the lips once, put a cold cloth on
the fevered head, and then sat down by the fire again.

Lepage slept at last. The restless hands grew quiet, the breath became
more regular, the tortured mind found a short peace. With the old
debating look in his eyes, Hume sat there watching until the factor
relieved him.


VIII

February and March and April were past, and May was come. Lepage had had
a hard struggle for life, but he had survived. For weeks every night
there was a repetition of that first night after the return: delirious
self-condemnation, entreaty, appeal to his wife, and Hume's name
mentioned in shuddering remorse. With the help of the Indian who had
shared the sick man's sufferings in the Barren Grounds, the factor and
Hume nursed him back to life. After the first night no word had passed
between the two watchers regarding the substance of Lepage's delirium.
But one evening the factor was watching alone, and the repentant man from
his feverish sleep cried out: "Hush, hush! don't let them know--I stole
them both, and Rose did not know. Rose did not know!"

The factor rose and walked away. The dog was watching him. He said to
Bouche: "You have a good master, Bouche."


IX

In an arm-chair made of hickory and birch-bark by Cloud-in-the-Sky,
Lepage sat reading a letter from his wife. She was at Winnipeg, and was
coming west as far as Regina to meet him on his way down. He looked a
wreck; but a handsome wreck. His refined features, his soft black beard
and blue eyes, his graceful hand and gentle manners, seemed not to belong
to an evil-hearted man. He sat in the sunlight at the door, wrapped about
in moose and beaver skins. The world of plain and wood was glad. Not so
Lepage. He sat and thought of what was to come. He had hoped at times
that he would die, but twice Hume had said: "I demand your life. You owe
it to your wife--to me." He had pulled his heart up to this demand and
had lived. But what lay before him? He saw a stony track, and he
shuddered.

As he sat there facing the future, Hume came to him and said: "If you
feel up to it, Lepage, we will start for Edmonton on Monday. I think it
will be quite safe, and your wife is anxious. I shall accompany you as
far as Edmonton; you can then proceed by easy stages, in this pleasant
weather. Are you ready to go?"

"Quite ready," was the reply.


X

On a beautiful May evening Lepage, Hume, and the White Guard were
welcomed at Fort Edmonton by the officer in command of the Mounted
Police. They were to enjoy the hospitality of the fort for a couple of
days. Hume was to go back with Cloud-in-the-Sky and Late Carscallen, and
a number of Indian carriers; for this was a journey of business too.
Gaspe Toujours and Jeff Hyde were to press on with Lepage, who was now
much stronger and better. One day passed, and on the following morning
Hume gave instructions to Gaspe Toujours and Jeff Hyde, and made
preparations for his going back. He was standing in the Barracks Square,
when a horseman rode in and made inquiry of a sergeant standing near, if
Lepage had arrived at the fort. A few words brought out the fact that
Rose Lepage was nearing the fort from the south. The trooper had been
sent on ahead the day before, but his horse having met with a slight
accident, he had been delayed. He had seen the party, however, a long
distance back in the early morning. Confused by the crowd, dazzled by the
vastness of the station, unable to tell one direction from another,
she stood bewildered, seeing steps on all sides.

What should she do? She hesitated; turned around, and bumped into this
good friend.Entering the room
where Lepage sat alone, he said: "Lepage, the time has come for good-bye.
I am starting for Fort Providence."

But the other replied: "You will wait until my wife comes. You must."
There was trouble in his voice. "I must not."

Lepage braced himself for a heavy task and said: "Hume, if the time has
come to say good-bye, it has also come when we should speak together for
once openly: to settle, in so far as can be done, a long account. You
have not let my wife know who saved me. That appears from her letters.
She asks the name of my rescuer. I have not yet told her. But she will
know that to-day when I tell her all."

"When you tell her all?"

"When I tell her all."

"But you shall not do that."

"I will. It will be the beginning of the confession which I shall
afterwards make to the world."

"By Heaven you shall not do it. Do you want to wreck her life?"

Jaspar Hume's face was wrathful, and remained so till the other sank back
in the chair with his forehead in his hands; but it softened as he saw
this remorse and shame. He began to see that Lepage had not clearly
grasped the whole situation. He said in quieter but still firm tones:
"No, Lepage, that matter is between us two, and us alone. She must never
know--the world therefore must never know. You did an unmanly thing; you
are suffering a manly remorse. Now let it end here--but I swear it
shall," he said in sharp tones, as the other shook his head negatively:
"I would have let you die at Manitou Mountain, if I had thought you would
dare to take away your wife's peace--your children's respect."

"I have no children; our baby died."

Hume softened again. "Can you not see, Lepage? The thing cannot be
mended. I bury it all, and so must you. You will begin the world again,
and so shall I. Keep your wife's love. Henceforth you will deserve it."

Lepage raised moist eyes to the other and said: "But you will take back
the money I got for that?"

There was a pause, then Hume replied: "Yes, upon such terms, times, and
conditions as I shall hereafter fix. You have no child, Lepage?" he
gently added.

"We have no child; it died with my fame."

Hume looked steadily into the eyes of the man who had wronged him.
"Remember, Lepage, you begin the world again. I am going now. By the
memory of old days, good-bye." He held out his hand. Lepage took it, rose
tremblingly to his feet, and said, "You are a good man, Hume. Good-bye."

The sub-factor turned at the door. "If it will please you, tell your wife
that I saved you. Some one will tell her; perhaps I would rather--at
least it would be more natural, if you did it."

He passed out into the sunshine that streamed into the room and fell
across the figure of Lepage, who murmured dreamily: "And begin the world
again."

Time passed. A shadow fell across the sunlight that streamed upon Lepage.
He looked up. There was a startled cry of joy, an answering exclamation
of love, and Rose was clasped in her husband's arms.

A few moments afterwards the sweet-faced woman said: "Who was that man
who rode away to the north as I came up, Clive? He reminded me of some
one."

"That was the leader of the White Guard, the man who saved me, Rose." He
paused a moment and then solemnly said: "It was Jaspar Hume."

The wife came to her feet with a spring. "He saved you--Jaspar Hume! Oh,
Clive!"

"He saved me, Rose."

Her eyes were wet: "And he would not stay and let me thank him! Poor
fellow, poor Jaspar Hume! Has he been up here all these years?"

Her face was flushed, and pain was struggling with the joy she felt in
seeing her husband again.

"Yes, he has been here all the time."

"Then he has not succeeded in life, Clive!" Her thoughts went back to the
days when, blind and ill, Hume went away for health's sake, and she
remembered how sorry then she felt for him, and how grieved she was that
when he came back strong and well, he did not come near her or her
husband, and offered no congratulations. She had not deliberately wronged
him. She knew he cared for her: but so did Lepage. A promise had been
given to neither when Jaspar Hume went away; and after that she grew to
love the successful, kind-mannered genius who became her husband. No real
pledge had been broken. Even in this happiness of hers, sitting once
again at her husband's feet, she thought with tender kindness of the man
who had cared for her eleven years ago; and who had but now saved her
husband.

"He has not succeeded in life," she repeated softly. Looking down at her,
his brow burning with a white heat, Lepage said: "He is a great man,
Rose."

"I am sure he is a good man," she added.

Perhaps Lepage had borrowed some strength not all his own, for he said
almost sternly: "He is a great man."

His wife looked up half-startled and said: "Very well, dear; he is a good
man--and a great man."

The sunlight still came in through the open door. The Saskatchewan flowed
swiftly between its verdant banks, an eagle went floating away to the
west, robins made vocal a solitary tree a few yards away, troopers moved
backwards and forwards across the square, and a hen and her chickens came
fluttering to the threshold. The wife looked at the yellow brood drawing
close to their mother, and her eyes grew wistful. She thought of their
one baby asleep in an English grave. But thinking of the words of the
captain of the White Guard, Lepage said firmly: "We will begin the world
again."

She smiled, and rose to kiss him as the hen and chickens hastened away
from the door, and a clear bugle call sounded in the square.


XI

Eleven years have gone since that scene was enacted at Edmonton.

A great gathering is dispersing from a hall in Piccadilly. It has been
drawn together to do honour to a man who has achieved a triumph in
engineering science. As he steps from the platform to go, he is greeted
by a fusilade of cheers. What had Marjorie been doing all this time?
Had another fellow cut him out? They had exchanged only two or three
letters during the whole year, and all of these had been very impersonal.

"If you don't mind," said Marjorie, turning to Harold, "I'd like to go
see mother. For I'll be with you people all afternoon and evening."
"Certainly," assented Harold; and John flushed at his own egotism in
expecting Marjorie to prefer his society to that of her own family.

A little after two o'clock the Ford sedan again drove up to Wilkinsons',
and Marjorie, with her little bag in her hand, appeared. Ruth was
already in the front seat with Harold, and John got out and assisted
Marjorie into the back seat beside him.

If John Hadley hoped for a tete-a-tete with Marjorie, he was greatly
disappointed, for both girls seemed to be plotting to keep the
conversation general.

They asked all about college, and the club, and the dance; Marjorie
wanted to hear something about the towns of Trenton and Princeton; and
both girls talked animatedly about the summer's canoe trip.

   "And we both passed the Pioneer test!" explained Ruth, triumphantly.
   
   "Great!" exclaimed John; and a minute description of the hike and
   the test followed.
   
   It was not long before they reached Trenton, but before the
   machine crossed the bridge, it passed a certain dingy little
   boat-house, and Ruth and Harold exchanged significant glances,
   unobserved by the occupants of the back seat.
   
   As the car continued along the principal business street, slowing
   down for traffic, Marjorie noticed a big building at the corner,
from which a great crowd of girls were pouring. As they approached,
she realized that some of the costumes were strangely familiar;
then in a moment it dawned upon her that they were Girl Scouts!
"Oh, wait, wait!" she demanded, greatly excited. "Please stop!
They're Girl Scouts!"
"What if they are?" asked Ruth, coolly, regarding her in disdain.
Was Marjorie crazy?

"I want to get out! Oh, please stop!"In the summer, as I said, I will bring him over to you.
   There is nothing more to say to-night except that I am as always,

          Your faithful and loving friend,
                            JASPAR HUME.

A moment after the letter was finished, the servant entered and announced
"Mr. Late Carscallen." With a smile and hearty greeting the great man and
this member of the White Guard met. It was to entertain his old arctic
comrade that Jaspar Hume had declined to be entertained by society or
club. A little while after, seated at the table, the ex-sub-factor said:
"You found your brother well, Carscallen?"

The jaws moved slowly as of old. "Ay, that, and a grand meenister, sir."

"He wanted you to stay in Scotland, I suppose?"

"Ay, that, but there's no place for me like Fort Providence."

"Try this pheasant. "The other direction--out the Main street."

In a second, he was inside the car, and Harold stepped on the starter and
released the emergency.

"How long ago?" he asked, as the machine began to move forward.
"Just long enough for me to get my things on and run over here."He went away three years ago, and he said he'd come back. He never did
though. Jeff Hyde believes he will. He says to me a hundred times,
'Carscallen, he made the sign of the cross that he'd come back from Saint
Gabrielle; and that's next to the Book with a papist. If he's alive he'll
come.'"

"Perhaps he will, Carscallen. And Cloud-in-the-Sky?"

"He's still there, and comes in and smokes with Jeff Hyde and me, as he
used to do with you; but he doesn't obey our orders as he did yours, sir.
He said to me when I left: 'You see Strong-back, tell him
Cloud-in-the-Sky good Injun--he never forget. How!'"

Jaspar Hume raised his glass with smiling and thoughtful eyes: "To
Cloud-in-the-Sky and all who never forget!" he said.