Mr. Yeizer, the mate, rushed forward to obtain a view of the
vessel, and on stepping forward of the windlass, was felled to the
deck by a murderous blow from a handspike in the hands of one of
the mutineers.  His body was instantly seized upon and thrown
overboard.  The second mate, who had just been called, hearing the
cry of "a sail," hastened on deck and was going forward, when he
was struck a violent blow, and grappled by Williams, who
exclaimed, "Here is one of the rascals!  Overboard with him!" But
the captain, alarmed by the cries and trampling on deck, now made
his appearance, and Williams released his grasp on Onion and
attacked the captain, who, unsuspicious of any mutinous
intentions, was unarmed.  He was summarily disposed of, being
brained by a handspike or heaver, and thrown into the sea.  Onion,
greatly terrified, escaped down the companion-way, and concealed
himself in the bread locker.

The mutineers now called upon Mr. Baynard, the supercargo, to show
himself on deck.  He hesitated, but on being assured that no harm
was intended, and threatened with instant death if he did not make
his appearance at once, he passed up the companion-way, and while
conversing with Williams, was mercilessly murdered by Stromer and
Rog.

Three of the pirates now entered the cabin in search of the second
mate, and the question was raised whether his life should be
spared.  After some debate it was determined that he should not be
killed, provided he would take an oath to be faithful to their
interests and aid them in their future proceedings.  Onion, on
hearing the decision, came out of his hiding-place, took the
prescribed oath of fidelity, and was admitted a member of the
fraternity.  As some proper organization for the management of the
vessel was considered necessary, Stromer was chosen captain,
Williams's chief mate, and Onion retained his position as second
mate.

On the morning succeeding this terrible crime, the specie was
taken from "the run" beneath the cabin and brought on deck.  Each
man   including Onion and Samberson, the cook, who took no part in
the outrage   received a share of the money, which was measured
out in hats and tin pots,   a single share amounting to about five
thousand dollars.

There are two free-schools there, both on the Madras system, one
for boys, the other for girls; and thirty of the poorest girls
are clothed, lodged, and boarded, till, at the age of sixteen,
they are put out to service, with a good stock of clothing, and
a present of 2_l_.
12_s_. 6_d_. each; and at the end of the first year, if the girl
has behaved well, another guinea is given her, with a Bible, a
Prayer-book, the Whole Duty of Man, and Secker's Lectures on the
Catechism. There is a library in the castle, to which Dr. Sharp,
one of the trustees, bequeathed, in 1792, the whole of his own
collection, valued at more than 800_l_.; the books are lent
gratuitously to any householder, of good report, residing within
twenty miles of Bamborough, and to any clergyman, Roman Catholic
priest, or dissenting minister within the said distance.

There is an infirmary also in the castle, of which the average
annual number of in-patients is about thirty-five--of out-patients
above one thousand. There is an ample granary, from whence, in
time of scarcity, the poor are supplied on low terms. Twice a
week the poor are supplied with meal, at reduced prices, and
with groceries at prime cost; and the average number of persons
who partake this benefit is about one thousand three hundred in
ordinary times, in years of scarcity very many more. To sailors
on that perilous coast Bamborough Castle is what the Convent of
St. Bernard is to travellers in the Alps. Thirty beds are kept
for shipwrecked sailors; a patrol for above eight miles (being
the length of the manor) is kept along the coast every stormy
night; signals are made; a life-boat is in readiness at Holy Island,
and apparatus of every kind is ready for assisting seamen in
distress;--wrecked goods are secured and stored, the survivors are
relieved, the bodies that are cast on shore are decently interred.

_Quarterly Review._

* * * * *
FINE ARTS

THE DIORAMA.

On the day of the unfortunate destruction of the Oxford Street
Diorama and Bazaar, by fire, two new views were opened at
the Diorama in the Regent's Park.

These are the _Interior of St. Peter's at Rome_, and the
_Village of Thiers_.

We have so often spoken in terms of the highest commendation of
the Regent's Park Diorama, that we hardly know in what set
of words to point out the beauties of these new views, the merits
of which must not alter our meed of praise, however the subjects
may its details. The Interior of St. Peter's is by M. Bouton.
The point of view is at the east entry, opposite to the choir;
the reader, perhaps, not being aware that the choir in this cathedral
is situated differently from all others, being at the west end.
So beautiful are the proportions of the cathedral itself, that its
vastness does not strike at first sight, and this effect is
admirably preserved in the Diorama. We think we could point out a
few inaccuracies in the drawing; but the projections, capitals of
the columns, and some of the medallion portraits which ornament
them, are so well painted, that we can scarcely believe ourselves
looking on a flat surface.Chapter XXXVII
RETURN OF THE WANDERER

We sailed from Gottenburg one morning about the first of
September, 1817, bound to Boston.  Having been long absent from my
home without intercourse of any description with my friends and
relations, and having seen during that period striking
exemplifications of the caprices of fortune, having experienced
"many ups and downs," the downs, however, being decidedly in the
majority, I felt a strong desire, a yearning, to return once more
to my friends in New England.  I was convinced there were worse
places in the world than my own dear native land, and far worse
people than those among whom my lot had been cast in childhood.

It was on a Saturday we sailed from Gottenburg.  It had been
Captain Allen's intention to sail on the previous Thursday, but he
was unexpectedly detained.  On Friday morning all the arrangements
were completed; the brig was ready for sea, the wind was fresh and
fair, but not a step was taken towards getting under weigh.
Indeed our worthy captain plumply told Mr. Bowen that NO
CONSIDERATION COULD INDUCE HIM TO GO TO SEA ON A FRIDAY!  The
crew, one and all, as well as the mate, were amused at this
exhibition of weakness, which did not increase the respect for his
character; for ALL sailors are not superstitious, although they
are proverbially regarded as such.

Petersen, the prisoner, who was brought on board in irons, bore no
resemblance in personal appearance to the ferocious, ill-looking,
big-whiskered ruffian, whose image is conjured up by the mention
of the word "pirate."  On the contrary he was a gentle-looking
youth, only nineteen years of age, of a slight figure, pale
complexion, and a pleasant, prepossessing countenance.  He spoke
English fluently, and by his conduct, intelligence, and plausible
representations, soon won the favor of every man on board.  He
declared that he did not participate in the mutiny; that it was
planned without his knowledge; that when the murders were
committed he was asleep in the forecastle, and fear for his own
life induced him to accept a share of the money and endeavor to
conceal the crime.

His story was believed by Captain Allen and others, and he was
relieved from his handcuffs every morning, and allowed to leave
his quarters in the half-deck and range the vessel, mix with the
sailors and assist in the performance of the various duties; and
he showed himself an active, obedient, and intelligent seaman.  He
often expressed a wish that his trial should take place; he was
confident of an acquittal, and longed to be once more at liberty.

I may as well state here that the trial of the mutineers of the
Plattsburg, viz., Williams, Rog, Frederick, Petersen, and White
took place on the 28th of December, 1818, before the U.S. Circuit
Court, in session at Boston, Justice Story presiding.  They were
defended by able counsel, but convicted on circumstantial
evidence, corroborated by the direct testimony of Samberson and
Onion.  It appeared on the trial that the mild and amiable-looking
Petersen was one of the most forward and active of the mutineers.
It was he who gave the signal for action by crying "Sail, ho!" and
he subsequently assisted in throwing overboard the mate and
murdering the captain.

The execution of these pirates was appointed for the 21st of
January, 1819, but on the ground that the time between the
sentence and execution, twenty-four days, was too short to allow
the criminals to make their peace with God, a respite was granted
until the 18th of February.  On that day they were placed in a
wagon, and a procession was formed of an imposing character,
which, after passing through Court Street, State Street, India
Street, and Milk Street to the Main street, now Washington street,
proceeded to "the town land on boston Neck," where the execution
took place in presence of twenty thousand people.

These men died a terrible death, in a strange land, far from their
homes and kindred.  Although such number witnessed the execution,
few sympathized with them in their sufferings, for all
acknowledged that their sentence was just.  Their execution,
doubtless, acted as an impressive warning to others, and
restrained desperate ruffians from the commission of desperate
deeds.

In all ages, crimes of a dark dye when committed on the ocean,
have been regarded as exhibiting a more depraved character in the
criminal than crimes of a similar description committed on the
land.  At sea there are no constables or police officers, no
magistrates or good citizens ready and willing to aid in
preserving the peace of society, protecting life and property when
endangered, and in arresting a rogue or murderer.  For this reason
laws relating to mutiny, piracy, and murder on the seas are
punishable with death.  In many atrocious cases it is difficult,
perhaps impossible, to obtain proof sufficient to convict the
offender; but whenever a violator of those laws, whether a
principal or accessory, is arrested, tried, and convicted, THE
PUNISHMENT SHOULD BE SURE TO FOLLOW.  The certainty of punishment
is a mighty preventive to crime.  The impulses of that false
philanthropy which seems to flourish in the present age, can never
be more injuriously indulged than by persevering and unscrupulous
efforts to influence the press and rouse public opinion in favor
of setting aside the verdict of a jury, and snatching a red-handed
murderer on the high seas from the gallows.

Nothing particularly remarkable occurred during our passage home.
It was in the season of the year when severe gales are met with on
the Atlantic, but the brig Joseph proved a good sea boat, tight as
a drum, and could lie to or scud without danger of being
overwhelmed by the combing waves.  On this passage a little
incident occurred off the Orkney Islands, that will convey some
idea of the dangers to which those are subjected whose home is on
the ocean.

We were lying to in a gale.  The wind blew fiercely in flaws, and
there was a high and turbulent sea running.  The brig was at times
uneasy, and in the pauses of the gale rolled heavily to windward
as well as to leeward.  Orders were given to send down the fore-
top-gallant mast.  I hastened with alacrity aloft for that
purpose, and had reached the cross-trees, when in a lull of the
tempest, the brig, lying in the trough of the sea, lurched
fearfully to windward.  I grasped firmly one of the top-gallant
shrouds above the cross-trees, but the rope being old and decayed,
parted in the horn of the cross-trees BENEATH MY HANDS.

I clung, with a desperate grasp, to the rope, but was thrown out
with a jerk in an angle of forty-five degrees with the horizon,
and when the brig suddenly righted I attained for a few seconds a
horizontal position, and to an observer on deck must have looked
not unlike a spread eagle burgee at half-mast.  If I had
relinquished my grasp at that moment I should have been thrown
into the sea some thirty feet from the vessel's side, and a full
period would have been put to the adventures of Hawser Martingale.
But, notwithstanding the muscles of my arms were severely
wrenched, I was fortunately able to retain my grasp.  The next
moment the action of gravitation, together with the roll to
leeward, threw me back with terrific force against the topmast
rigging, which I eagerly seized, and then rejoicing at my lucky
escape from a great danger, and regardless of the bruises I had
received, I went on with my work.

On the passage homeward I often indulged in reflections in regard
to my future position in life; and while walking the deck at night
loved to let my fancy roam and picture castles in the air, which,
I fondly hoped, might at some future day be actually constructed.
She scarce gave me time to return her Salute, before she
quitted the Shop with an easie Scuttle, and stepped again into
her Coach, giving the Footman Directions to drive where they were
bid. Upon her Departure, my Bookseller gave me a Letter, superscribed,
_To the ingenious Spectator_, which the young Lady had desired him
to deliver into my own Hands, and to tell me that the speedy
Publication of it would not only oblige her self, but a whole
Tea-Table of my Friends.
This was not an extravagant dream.  Yet the chances were at times
terribly against its fulfilment.  But I never despaired, and fully
believed that if Providence should grant me life and continued
health, THE CASTLE WOULD BE BUILT.  In the darkest hours I kept a
bright lookout ahead, far ahead for the cheerful and safe harbor
which imagination had so often portrayed.  And the dream has been
realized almost precisely as it appeared to me in my youthful
days; and I have  enjoyed for many years, in the retirement which
my fancy painted, as much happiness as usually falls to the lot of
man in this checkered life, with a strong hope,

"When the brief voyage in safety is o'er,
To meet with loved friends on the far distant shore."

Cæsar would have put him among those well dressed and perfumed
heads of which he was not afraid." But this mixture of prodigality
and profligacy was not to go unpunished, even on its own soil. Bruhl
involved Saxony in a war with Frederick.
When on the centre of the bank, the fog which
had previously obscured objects at a distance, was suddenly swept
away, and we counted from the deck seventy-four schooners at
anchor, besides several which were under sail.

