Tim was in high good humor at his cleverness in solving the riddle,
and he hurried Sunny Boy down the street as fast as he could go.
Presently they came to a smaller street and turned the corner. The
houses were very close together, and it seemed to Sunny that at least
three people were hanging out of every window. Babies toddled all over
the sidewalk, and in one place, where a pushcart had broken down, a
swarm of little children quarreled over a heap of half-rotten pears.

"Here we are," announced Tim, steering Sunny Boy up the rickety steps
of a sagging brick house. "Go careful, 'cause you're not used to the
stairs. And don't take hold of the railing--it's weak."

Sunny Boy felt his way up three pairs of dark stairs behind Tim, and
when they reached the third floor a door opened to let a flood of
light out on them.

"That you, Tim?" some one called. "You're late. I set the stew back to
keep it hot. Glory be, and who is it you're bringing home with you?"

Sunny Boy blinked. The room was hot and the glaring light blinded him.
He was dizzily aware that a great many people stood around staring at
him.

Tim pulled his hand free.

"The rest of you get back," he commanded his family sternly. "Where's
Ma? This kid's lost, and if you don't want him crying again, keep away
till Ma's had a chance to tell him what's what."

Then from out another room stepped a large woman with a great kind red
face. She was drying her hands on her apron, and she had evidently
been washing, for her purple wrapper was splashed with soap-suds. But
her voice went right to Sunny's heart.

"Lost, is it?" she said tenderly. "Saints above, what a baby to be out
alone in this city! An' his poor mother, the saints pity her she'll be
that wild. There, there, dearie, you're all right. A bit of supper's
what you're needin'. And then 'tis Timmie himself who shall be taking
ye home."

She gathered Sunny Boy into her capacious lap and crooned over him in
the deep rich voice that her own six children knew and loved without
realizing its charm.

"'Tis a cruel city to the babies," she sighed, smoothing Sunny Boy's
hair with a touch as gentle as that of his own mother's. "But your
poor mother--the saints help her. Timmie, ye must not be waiting a
minute. Come, Theresa, give him a sup of stew. We must be taking him
home before the heart of the mother is broke entirely."

Tim, who had been noisily washing at the sink, was frowning into the
cracked mirror above it as he tried to part his hair exactly in the
center.

"I want to telephone first," he explained. "He's after giving me such
a crazy name--Sunny Boy, I've doped it out that he belongs at the
McAlpin Hotel, but there's no reason why I should make a fool of
myself by taking him 'way down there and then being told that no child
is lost from there."

A pretty, dark-haired girl, Sunny Boy called her a young lady in his
mind, was stirring something at the stove. She wore a pink blouse and
was smiling.

"I'll bring him some stew over there, Ma," she suggested. "The
children have mussed up the table pretty well, and they'd take his
appetite away with their eyes. Can't you stand back a bit?" she
demanded of the four children, three little boys and a girl, who stood
in a ring about Sunny Boy and their mother, gazing fixedly at the
stranger.

"I'll eat first, I guess," decided Timmie. "I didn't get me a crumb of
lunch, and after I've told his folks he's safe they'll be wanting to
see him the next minute. Just give me a taste of the stew on some
bread, Theresa."

Theresa had already taken her mother a plate for Sunny, and now she
gave her brother his supper. The stew was hot and really delicious,
and Sunny Boy was sure he had never tasted anything so good. Mrs.
Harrity held the plate for him and patted him now and then as he ate.
The Harrity children edged nearer and nearer, till a frown from their
mother drove them back.

"Going now," announced Tim, seizing his cap.

He slammed the door with such force that the plates on the table
rattled, but no one seemed to mind it. They could hear him cheerfully
whistling as he clattered downstairs.

Theresa put some water on to heat for the dishes, and came over near
her mother and Sunny Boy. She took the little girl on her lap.

"Timmie will help you all right," she assured Sunny Boy, nodding and
smiling at him encouragingly. "Tim's a great lad for seeing things
through. How did he come to find you?"

Sunny Boy explained.

"Well, well," said Mrs. Harrity. "If you're not used to it, the
subway's built for confusin' ye. But Marty there, he's seven next
birthday, he can get about as well as the next one."

Marty grinned and wriggled uneasily.

"I'm five," said Sunny Boy conversationally.

"Five now, well, well," repeated Mrs. Harrity. "Rose over there is
five. Jim's eight and Thomas, he that's licking the gravy spoon, is
nine. An' a fine, noisy bunch they do be. The kettle is boilin',
Theresa."

Theresa put her little sister down, and rolling back the sleeves of
her pink waist, began to gather up the dishes. Thomas had to be made
to give up the gravy spoon, which he was apparently enjoying very
much.

Theresa had just poured the water over the dishes in the pan and was
folding up the tablecloth, when the noise of some one falling upstairs
startled them.

"That's Timmie," declared Mrs. Harrity excitedly. "The boy's in such a
hurry to tell his news he can't wait to walk. He'll be prayin' for
wings. Open the door, Marty."

Tim dashed in, so out of breath that for several seconds he couldn't
tell them the news. When he could speak, he fairly danced up and down,
snapping his fingers at Sunny Boy to emphasize his words.

"It's all right!" he gasped. "I found 'em, Ma. They want me to bring
Sunny Boy right down. They were just going to the police--seems they
spent an hour or two riding up an' down in the subway looking for him
and asking all the guards."

The Harritys had all gathered in a circle again.

"Let the kid breathe," protested Tim. "Say, Ma, I had a great time
getting 'em. I called the hotel, and the switchboard operator thought
I was stringing her. I knew that 'Sunny Boy' was a fool name to tell
anybody, but when she got fresh I made her give me the clerk.

"'Has anybody down there lost a child?' I asks. 'There's a boy at my
house says his name's Sunny Boy and he's lost.'"

"'Well, find out the rest of his name,' snaps the clerk. And say,
young feller," Tim pretended to glare at Sunny Boy, "next time you get
lost you want to have a name folks can get quicker than the one you're
wearing now."

"Hurry up," urged Theresa impatiently. "Did you find his mother?"

"I'm hurrying," retorted Tim. "Leave a feller alone, can't you? I
heard the clerk say to some one. 'Here's a nut says he has a lost
child; you don't know anything about it, do you?'"

"I couldn't hear what the other one said, and then, all of a sudden,
some one shouts. 'For the love of Pete, hold that wire! Are you dumb?
The Hortons lost their kid in the subway coming down this afternoon.'"

"Then what happened?" asked Theresa.

"Nothing much," answered Tim, who like some other story tellers always
stopped short when the story got exciting. "The clerk told me to hold
the call, and I heard him ordering the girl to put me on another wire.
A man answered, an' he didn't give me time to say more than 'Sunny
Boy' when he sang out; 'All right, Mother, the boy's been found.' Then
I told him where we were, and he says should he send a taxi, but I
told him the subway'd make better time. We can take an express. And
that's about all, I guess."

"Well you must be hurrying off," said Mrs. Harrity. "Let me polish his
face a bit, so they won't think he's been neglected entirely, an' then
the two of yese must be goin'. 'Tis glad I am that his mother won't
have to live through a night wondering if harm's come to him."

Mrs. Harrity washed Sunny Boy's face and hands carefully and brushed
his hair with a brush that was probably the family hairbrush and
certainly showed signs of much use. She kissed him heartily when he
was ready, and he put his arms about her neck and hugged her.

"Hurry up," urged Tim, pulling him toward the door. "Cut the good-byes
short, for I can't be accused of wasting time on this trip."

"Tim," whispered Theresa, "Timmie, you sure you have enough?"

Tim rattled the change in his pockets by way of answer.

"Plenty," he said proudly. "I wasn't after giving Ma any to-night.
When I come back I'll fix it up with her. We're off now--watch your
step."

The whole Harrity family stood at the top of the stairs and watched
them go down.

"Good-bye!" cried the children, losing their shyness as Sunny Boy went
further away. "Good-bye, Sunny Boy!"

Sunny Boy waved his hand. Tim was hurrying him down so fast that he
was in danger of tripping if he turned. At the very foot of the stairs
he stopped and looked up. Mrs. Harrity was leaning over the railing.

"A blessin' on ye, darlin'," she called. "Good-bye."


CHAPTER XIII

HELPING THE HARRITYS


"Now you hang on to me," commanded Tim, as he and Sunny Boy went down
the subway steps into the warm, moist air of the station. "I don't aim
to lose you changing, and we have to change, 'cause this ain't an
express station."

Sunny Boy obediently "hung on to" Tim, keeping so close beside him
that several times it was inconvenient, as when people tried to get
past them at the door of the car. The train was crowded, and the two
boys had to stand.

"We change here," warned Tim, when they reached the express station.
"Look sharp!"

Sunny Boy breathed a sigh of relief when they were safely on the
express train; he didn't trust himself to change cars.

"You look kind of beat out," commented Tim, eyeing his charge
critically when they were near their last stop. "I s'pose you've done
more going to-day than you're used to. Never mind, we're most there
now.

"I wonder," Tim said, when they reached the entrance of the McAlpin
Hotel a few minutes later, "will I have to go in and let that bunch
look me over? I didn't bring my dress suit, and I ain't exactly crazy
about giving 'em something to stare at."

Sunny Boy's little heart understood. Tim was ashamed of his shabby
clothes, and he knew that the bright lights would make his worn coat
reveal every spot and hole.

"Mother won't care," Sunny assured him. "Come on, Tim, I'll show you."

So it was Sunny Boy who pulled Tim into the foyer, and even then Tim
would have backed out if, almost the instant they entered the door,
some one had not come running to them.

"Oh, my baby!" cried Sunny Boy's mother, gathering him up and hugging
him.

Tim felt a hand on his shoulder, and looked up to find Sunny Boy's
father smiling down at him.

"You look as if you might cut and run," said Mr. Horton cheerfully.
"And you and I must have a little talk first. Olive, here's the chap
who found Sunny Boy."

Mrs. Horton, still holding Sunny Boy in her arms, smiled with wet dark
eyes at Tim.

"She certainly was pretty," said Tim afterward to his mother. "Tall as
Theresa, and young and dressed up nice and all. But she shook hands
with me just as if I was a friend of hers. I guess all mothers are
nice and friendly."

By this time a little crowd had gathered about the Hortons, for many
of the guests at the hotel had heard that Sunny Boy was lost and they
wanted to tell his father and mother how glad they were that he was
safely found. Tim began to get decidedly restless.

"I got to go," he whispered to Mr. Horton. "Ma won't know what's
keeping me. 'Sides I have to be up at five in the morning to cover my
paper route."

"Olive," said Mr. Horton to his wife, "suppose you take the boy up. I
want to have a little talk with Tim" (for Sunny of course had told
them his name) "and we're going into the grill room where there won't
be so many people. I guess we can have a bite to eat if we have had
supper."

"And we had Welsh rabbit and coffee," Tim recounted to his admiring
family later that night. "The grill room's just a restaurant. I'll bet
that waiter didn't want me coming in there looking like a tramp, but
Mr. Horton never let on I looked any different from the rest of 'em."

Sunny Boy and his mother went up in the elevator, and after they were
in their room, while she undressed him, "for," she said, "I'm so glad
to have my baby back I must undress him and put him to bed just as I
used to when he was really a baby," he told her about the Harritys and
how he had met Tim.

"We rode up and down in the subway, hunting for you," explained Mrs.
Horton. "Daddy asked every guard, and I even asked the ticket sellers
if they had seen a little boy in a blue suit. Then we thought you
might have remembered the name of the hotel, and we hurried back here
in case you should manage to get here before we did."

"Did you cry?" asked Sunny Boy, patting her cheek, as he lay in her
lap.

"Yes, I did," admitted Mother softly. "Poor Daddy had a hard time of
it. But, darling, we won't talk of it any more--you're all right and
Mother is very happy. I'll lie down beside you here on the bed till
you go to sleep." And going to sleep did not take long.

"Where's Tim?" asked Sunny Boy when he woke up the next morning.

He had slept later than usual, after his exciting day, and Mother was
up and dressed and sewing fresh ruffles in her coat over by the
window. Daddy was not in the room.

"Good morning, precious," Mrs. Horton greeted him. "You've had a fine
long sleep. Daddy has been gone an hour--he had a telephone call
before breakfast."

"Did Tim stay all night? Is he here now?" asked Sunny Boy, slipping
out of bed and beginning to hunt for his socks and shoes. "Do I have
to take a bath, Mother?"

"Yes indeed you do," said Mother. "We are going down town, you and I,
on a very important shopping trip, and I want you to be as clean and
as fresh as a rose when we start. And if you hurry, I'll tell you
about Tim while you are eating your breakfast."

Sunny Boy hurried, and in less than half an hour he was sitting at the
table in the big dining room eating breakfast with Mother, who had
waited for him.

"Tell me about Tim," begged Sunny Boy when the waiter had brought him
his orange and asked him how he felt; the waiter knew he had been
lost.

"Well, Daddy had a long talk with Tim last night," said Mrs. Horton.
"We wanted to reward him in some way for his kindness to you and his
good sense in going about to find where you lived. But Tim wouldn't
take any money. He said his mother wouldn't let him."

"Then can't Daddy 'ward him?" asked Sunny Boy disappointedly.

"Listen," said Mrs. Horton. "Daddy got Tim to tell about his family.
His mother is a widow with six children, and, dear, she takes in
washing. She was washing last night when you were there, clothes for
her own children, after having done two big washes at other houses
that day. Theresa, who is sixteen, works in a department store, and
Tim sells papers before and after school, and sometimes, I am afraid,
when he plays hooky. He can't leave school till he is at least
fourteen and he is only thirteen now. Of course the other children are
too young to help."

"Theresa can cook," announced Sunny Boy. "She made stew."

"Theresa does most everything," returned his mother. "But what she
wants to do is to be a dressmaker. And Daddy has prevailed on Tim to
let him send her to a trade school where she can learn to sew. After
she has graduated, if she wishes, she can pay him back the money.
Daddy had to arrange it that way because the Harritys are proud and
independent."

"And Tim?" urged Sunny Boy, forgetting to eat his egg.

"Oh, Tim is to go to school, too," said Mrs. Horton. "Daddy knows a
man who has a school for boys like Tim where they can work and pay for
their education, and if Tim can have three or four years there he will
be able to help his mother much more than if he got 'working papers'
at fourteen and left school."

"Why didn't he go there before?" demanded Sunny Boy. "If he can pay
for it himself, he wouldn't be too poor, would he, Mother?"

"Well, you see, he didn't know about this school," said Mrs. Horton.
"And then you must remember that he has been helping his mother. Even
the little he earned was sorely needed by Mrs. Harrity. So Daddy had
to plan for her, too."

"So she won't have to wash?" suggested Sunny Boy eagerly.

"So she won't have to wash," assented Mrs. Horton. "She is to have an
apartment rent-free in exchange for janitor work. A man does the
heavier work and has four or five apartment houses to take care of,
but they want some one to clean the halls, and so on. Tim said it was
what his mother often planned. And then she wants to take in a boarder
or two. I told Daddy I didn't see that she was having it any easier,
but at least she will have a warm, comfortable home this winter. And
Daddy is going to keep an eye on them this winter through New York
friends. She must be willing to let us help her till her children are
old enough."

Sunny Boy finished his breakfast rather soberly. He was learning that
all little boys didn't have the many nice things he had. Marty and
Thomas, for instance, had they had the kind of breakfast he had just
had?

"And we're going shopping," Mother reminded him, as she led the way
out of the dining room. Perhaps she guessed what he was thinking. "You
see, Daddy did all this for you and for me, but we want to give the
Harritys something, don't we?"

"Oh, yes!" Sunny Boy was all smiles. "Let's, Mother! But what shall we
buy?"

"I thought I'd send something nice to Mrs. Harrity and Theresa, and
you would choose something for each of the children," explained Mrs.
Horton. "We'll go right out now and see what we can find."

When they reached the corner Mrs. Horton was confused for a moment.
She couldn't remember whether to turn up or down to get to the
particular shop she wanted.

"I'll find out," said Sunny Boy.

Before she could stop him, he had dashed out into the middle of the
street and was speaking to the tall policeman who directed traffic
from the center of the street. He was so tall that he had to bend down
to hear what Sunny Boy was saying.

Mrs. Horton, on the curb, saw him laugh, then point up the street and,
as Sunny Boy started back to her, the policeman blew his whistle and
stopped the traffic till Sunny Boy was safely across.

"What made you do that?" demanded Mrs. Horton. "It's never safe to run
out into the street like that. I didn't know you were even going."

"Daddy and I know that p'liceman," said Sunny Boy calmly. "He s'lutes
us--sometimes. I asked him which way to go, and he showed me. That's
why they stand in the middle of the street, Mother; to show people
where to go."

"What did you say that made him laugh?" Mrs. Horton asked, as she and
Sunny Boy started to walk in the direction the policeman had pointed.
"You were so little, Sunny, and he was so tall, I don't see how you
ever heard each other."

Sunny Boy was puzzled for a minute.

"Did he laugh?" he said. "Oh, yes, I 'member. I asked him please not
to step on me. His feet are pretty big when you're close to him."

"And here is the store," smiled Mrs. Horton. "Your policeman knew
where we wanted to go, didn't he? Begin now and think what you would
want most if you were Tim Harrity."


CHAPTER XIV

JOE BROWN GOES BACK


Sunny Boy thought about what Tim would like all the while Mrs. Horton
was buying things for Mrs. Harrity. He wondered, too, why she bought
such queer articles--sheets and towels and pillow cases.

"Because, precious," she explained when he asked her, "I know Mrs.
Harrity will want to have things clean and comfortable in the new
home. And she can not have two or three boarders unless she has bed
and table linen. You're not a housekeeper, but she and I understand.
And for her very own present, something just for her own use, I'm
going to send her this pretty gray bathrobe and slippers."

"And Theresa?" said Sunny Boy, forgetting Tim for the moment.

"Theresa shall have regular shoes and stockings and also a pair of
silk stockings and slippers to match," announced Mrs. Horton. "I know
what it is to be poor and young and pretty and not have the right
things to wear to a party. She can bring the slippers back if they're
not the right size."

"How can she go to parties if they're poor?" questioned Sunny Boy
curiously.

"Oh, poor people often have the best parties," said his mother. "They
always manage to have a good time. And Theresa is going to school, you
know, and there will be little affairs now and then to which she'll
want to go. Anyway, Son, girls like to have pretty clothes if only to
look at."

Sunny Boy didn't know much about girls' clothes, but he liked his
mother's pretty dresses. He thought it was nice if Theresa could have
some, too.

"I've thought ever so hard," he complained, "but I can't think of a
thing to send Tim."

"Let me put on my thinking cap," mused Mrs. Horton. "Tim is thirteen,
isn't he? Daddy will see that he has a new suit for school, but
wouldn't you like to send him hockey skates? Boys with fathers and
mothers and good homes have those things, but I'm sure Tim hasn't; he
hasn't even had time to play very much. We'll get him skates, and then
he can try for the hockey team at school."

Sunny Boy thought this a fine selection, and he and Mother went
upstairs and chose a pair of skates.

"Now there's only Marty and Thomas and Rose and Jim," declared Sunny
Boy, when the skates had been ordered and paid for.

Mrs. Horton laughed.

"I should say that was a great many," she said. "I don't see how you
remember their names. Well, now let's see--Rose must have a new doll
and a couple of pretty dresses I think; and for the boys suppose we
say good warm school gloves and sweaters and a game apiece, so they
won't think you and I choose too useful gifts?"

The gloves and sweaters were bought, and then Sunny Boy picked out
three games he thought the boys would like and helped Mother decide
about a doll for Rose and a pink dress and a blue one. Then they were
through for the morning.

"We'll go back to the hotel for lunch," decided Mrs. Horton. "Daddy
may come in. And I must write a note to Harriet this afternoon."

Mr. Horton was waiting for them, and he had great news.

"How would you like to go home day after to-morrow?" he asked.

"Home?" repeated Mrs. Horton. "Why, Harry!"

"Haven't you seen enough of New York?" Mr. Horton asked Sunny Boy,
tilting up his chin.

"We-ll," hesitated Sunny, "I guess so. But I did want to see the
stuffed birds."

"Stuffed birds?" echoed his father.

"I promised to take him over to the Museum of Natural History," Mrs.
Horton explained. "But of course, Daddy, if you are ready to go, we
are."

"Well, I'm through a week earlier than I expected," said Mr. Horton.
"And if you can be ready by Friday, there's no reason why we should
stay longer."

"I'm anxious to get Sunny Boy started in school," answered Mrs. Horton
thoughtfully. "We'll wire Bessie to have Harriet open the house, and I
have very little packing to do. Yes, we'll be ready easily by Friday."

Mr. Horton was consulting a time table.

"I'd like to go down to the station this afternoon," he said, "and
see about reservations. The hotel will do it, of course, but I like to
attend to such matters myself. Suppose you and Sunny Boy go with me
and then go on to the Museum."

So after lunch Sunny Boy and his mother went over to the big
Pennsylvania Station with Daddy and waited for him to get their
tickets for Centronia.

"It's the biggest place," observed Sunny Boy. "And such lots and lots
of people!"

"I dare say we could stand here all day, or a week for that matter,
and never see a soul we knew," returned Mrs. Horton.

"Why Mother!" Sunny Boy almost shouted in his excitement, "there's
somebody we know this minute--over there by that window. It's Joe
Brown!"

"We'll go over and speak to him," said Mrs. Horton.

As they came up to the window they heard the ticket agent speaking to
the boy.

"Seven sixty-five, one way to Centronia," said the agent.

"But I don't want a parlor car seat or nothing," protested Joe Brown.

"That doesn't count in a Pullman," retorted the agent. "Seven
sixty-five one way, I tell you."

Joe Brown shuffled his shabby feet uneasily.

"How--how--how little do you have to be to get half-fare?" he blurted.

"A sight smaller than you are," snapped the agent. "Do you want a
ticket or not?"

Joe Brown looked at the crumpled wad of dirty bills and loose change
in his hand.

"I guess I won't take it just now," he mumbled, and turned away.

"Hello, Joe!" Sunny Boy pounced upon him gleefully, having waited till
this minute only because his mother had held him back. "How are you?"

"Pretty well, thank you," answered Joe politely, flushing a little.

"Joe, do you want to go home?" asked Mrs. Horton gravely. "I overheard
you talking with the ticket agent. Haven't you enough money?"

Joe Brown looked at her quickly, then away again.

"I would kinda like to go home," he admitted.

"Oh, Joe!" Mrs. Horton cried half impatiently, half laughing. "Come
over here and sit down a minute. Now tell me truly. Did you run away,
and do you want to go back?"

Joe sat down on one side of her, and Sunny Boy scrambled into the seat
on the other side. He leaned over her shoulder to listen.

"Well, yes, I did run away," confessed Joe humbly. "That is, I meant
to go see my Aunt Annabell, and write the folks from her house. But
she had moved, honest she had; I couldn't locate her nowhere. And then
I thought I'd get me a job and wear new clothes home. But New York
isn't such an easy place to get along in. These don't look much like
new clothes."

Mrs. Horton glanced at the shabby suit.

"But your mother, Joe?" she urged. "Haven't you written to her?"

"I sent her postals telling her not to worry," answered Joe.

"And now you want to go home?" asked Mrs. Horton.

Sunny Boy, watching the careless, slouching Joe, was surprised to see
great tears come into his eyes suddenly. He tried to wipe them away
with his coat sleeve.

"I want to go home!" he choked. "It's been an awful long time, and I'm
so lonesome--and there's my mother!"

Sunny Boy's mother tucked a clean little white handkerchief into Joe's
hand.

"Don't cry," she said kindly. "We'll see that you get home. Here comes
Mr. Horton. He'll make it all right."

When Mr. Horton heard that Joe wanted to go home, he said it was the
"easiest thing in the world."

"I'll get your ticket and see you on the train," he promised. "There's
a local leaving in half an hour. You'll be in Centronia by eight
o'clock to-night."

"But I haven't enough money," faltered Joe.

"I'll lend it to you," said Mr. Horton, just as he would speak to a
business friend. "Then next week you come down to the office and we'll
talk things over. How will that do?"

Joe said he guessed it was all right, and while he and Mr. Horton went
off to buy the ticket, Mrs. Horton and Sunny Boy bought a bag of fruit
and sandwiches for Joe to have on the train.

"He looks half starved," commented Mrs. Horton. "Won't his mother
enjoy getting him a good meal!"

