Then, for nearly two hours, there was absolute stillness once more in
this miserable house.  Bessie had sunk, half fainting, on a chair by
the bed, and lay there, her head lying against the pillow.

But in a very short time the blessed numbness was gone, and
consciousness became once more a torture, the medium of terrors not to
be borne.  Isaac hated her--she would be taken from her children--she
felt Watson's grip upon her arm--she saw the jeering faces at the
village doors.

At times a wave of sheer bewilderment swept across her.  How had it
come about that she was sitting there like this?  Only two days before
she had been everybody's friend.  Life had been perpetually gay and
exciting.  On the occasion of a public ceremony at the Mansion
House, the Queen asked Mrs. Fry to be present, and paid particular
attention to her. The pencil of the artist has left a record of this
scene, as well as of the meetings in Newgate, where she is addressing
the prisoners. Some years later she was introduced to Queen Adelaide by
the Duke of Sussex, and it was the beginning of profitable intercourse
with one whom she esteemed on account of her true piety and unbounded
charity.Her nature, indeed, had never gauged its own capacities for pleasure
till within the last few months.  Excitement, amusement, society--she
had grown to them; they had evoked in her a richer and fuller life,
expanded and quickened all the currents of her blood.  As she sat
shivering in the darkness and solitude, she thought, with a sick
longing, of the hours in the public-house--the lights, the talk, the
warmth within and without.  The drink-thirst was upon her at this
moment.  It had driven her down to the village that afternoon at the
moment of John's arrival.  But she had no money.  [Illustration: THE
DWARFS BRING TO LOKI THE SHIP, THE SPEAR AND THE CROWN OF HAIR.]
Loki took the things up to Asgard, where the gods all lived.

Then the gods all came up to him. He showed them the things.
The gods said, "They are very wonderful."But she must find a light, for
she must write a letter.  By much groping, she found some matches, and
then lit one after another while she searched in her untidy drawers for
an ink-bottle and a pen she knew must be there.

She found them, and with infinite difficulty--holding match after match
in her left hand--she scrawled a few blotted lines on a torn piece of
paper.  She was a poor scholar, and the toil was great.  When it was
done, she propped the paper up against the looking-glass.

Then she felt for her dress, and deliberately put it on again, in the
dark, though her hands were so numb with cold that she could scarcely
hook the fastenings.  And Loki said, "Oh, nobody else can make such
things as my little dwarfs."

A little dwarf, named Brok, was standing near by. He heard Loki say that.
Then he stepped up and said, "My brother can make just as good things
as these."
Her heart contracted with an awful sense  of loneliness.  Her husband
slept--her children slept--while she----

Then the wave of a strange, a just passion mounted within her.  She
stepped into the kitchen, and, walking up to her husband's chair, she
stood still a moment looking at him.  The lamp was dying away, but she
could still see him plainly.  She held herself steadily erect; a frown
was on her brow, a flame in her eyes.

"Well, good-bye, Isaac," she said, in a low but firm voice.

Then she walked to the back door and opened it, taking no heed of
noise; the latch fell heavily, the hinges creaked.

"Isaac!" she cried, her tones loud and ringing, "_Isaac!_"

There was a sudden sound in the kitchen.  She slipped through the door,
and ran along the snow-covered garden.

Isaac, roused by her call from the deep trance of exhaustion which only
a few minutes before had fallen upon his misery, stood up, felt the
blast rushing in through the open door at the back, and ran blindly.

They wanted to spoil everything.

The Frost Giants wanted to get into Asgard. But they did not know
how.

They were afraid of Thor and his hammer. They said, "If we can only get
the hammer, we can get into Asgard."
They talked and planned all night. At last one Frost Giant said,
"I know how we can get the hammer. I will dress in a bird suit.
Then I will fly up to Thor's house and get the hammer."
[Illustration: THE FROST GIANTS TALKED AND PLANNED ALL NIGHT.Isaac's shouts for help attracted the notice of a neighbour who was
sitting up with her daughter and a new-born child.  She roused her
son-in-law and his boy, and, through them, a score of others, deep
night though it was.

Watson was among the first of those who gathered round the well.  He
and others lowered Isaac with ropes into its icy depths, and drew him
up again, while the snow beat upon them all--the straining men--the two
dripping shapes emerging from the earth.  A murmur of horror greeted
the first sight of that marred face on Isaac's arm, as the lanterns
fell upon it.  One day they were playing in the garden.

"Oh, Helle, look!"

said the boy.

There on the grass was a fine large sheep. This sheep had a fleece
of gold and his horns were gold, too.
[Illustration: THE KING AND HIS TWO CHILDREN.]The
new wound had effaced all the traces of Timothy's blow.  How long was
it since she had stood there before him pointing to it?  The features
were already rigid.  No one felt the smallest hope.  Yet, with that
futile tenderness all can show to the dead, everything was tried.  Mary
Anne Waller came--white and speechless--and her deft, gentle hands did
whatever the village doctor told her.  And there were many other women,
too, who did their best.  Some of them, had Bessie dared to live, would
have helped with all their might to fill her cup of punishment to the
brim.  Now that she had thrown herself on death as her only friend,
they were dissolved in pity.

Everything failed.  Bessie had meant to die, and she had not missed her
aim.  There came a moment when the doctor, laying his ear for the last
time to her cold breast, raised himself to bid the useless effort cease.

"Send them all away," he said to the little widow, "and you stay."

Watson helped to clear the room, then he and Isaac carried the dead
woman upstairs.  An old man followed them, a bent and broken being, who
dragged himself up the steps with his stick; Watson out of compassion
came back to help him.

"John--yer'd better go home, an' to yer bed--yer can't do no good."

Go and get it and put it in the bride's lap."
As soon as the hammer was in his lap, Thor tore off the vail.

He took the hammer and whirled it around. Fire flew from it. The
fire burned the house and the Frost Giants ran away.

So Thor got his hammer back.

The following stories by Miss Smythe were originally published under
the title of "The Golden Fleece." They have been carefully revised
and illustrated for this book.

THE STORY OF THE SHEEP.At that moment Watson, throwing a last professional glance round the
room, perceived the piece of torn paper propped against the glass.  Ah!
there was the letter.  There was always a letter.

He walked forward, glanced at it, and handed it to Isaac.  Isaac drew
his hand across his brow in bewilderment, then seemed to recognise the
handwriting, and thrust it into his pocket without a word.  Watson
touched his arm.  "Don't you destroy it," he said in warning; "it'll be
asked for at the inquest."

