"In the first place, their ears are so short they never heard quickly
like some others of that family, and then those tails--why they can be
seen for yards and yards.  I should have known better than to ask them.

"And everyone knows they have no sense.  The Cottontails run into the
first opening they see and never keep on running as their cousins do.
I have had my lesson.  I shall cut them off my visiting list from now
on."

And that is the reason the Cottontail family are never invited to any
dinners that the wood folk give--their trails can be too easily
followed by Mr. Dog.


LITTLE NEVER-UPSET

[Illustration: Little Never-upset]

Little Never-upset was a roly-poly fellow, with weights in his little
body so placed that no matter how he was treated or tumbled about he
always bobbed up smiling.

His face was a jolly little round one, with a smile that could not be
rubbed off, and no matter how the other toys fussed or disputed among
themselves, Little Never-upset did not take a part.

One night when the clock struck the midnight hour Miss French Doll and
Miss Calico Doll began to fuss.

"You treated me very badly," said Miss Calico Doll.  "When we were in
the carriage riding in the park one would have thought we did not live
in the same playroom."

"Why do you not have something to wear besides that old calico dress?"
asked Miss French Doll.  "I never was so disgraced as when we met Miss
Marie Doll in her beautiful clothes.  I am sure she wondered who you
were."

"Anyone would think you never had a broken arm and had to go to the
hospital," replied Miss Calico Doll.  "You were a sorry-looking sight
without your hand and part of your arm, but I did not feel ashamed of
you when we sat in our chairs on the front porch."

"That is a very different thing," said Miss French Doll, with a toss of
her head.  "I could not help having an accident."

"I cannot help wearing this calico dress," said Miss Calico Doll.  "It
is painted on me just like my face."

"My goodness!" exclaimed Jack-in-a-box, jumping up with a spring,
"whatever is all the trouble?  A body cannot get an extra wink for you
two fussing."

"Bow-wow-wow!" barked little Dog-on-wheels, "why don't you scare a body
right out of his skin, Jack?  I was asleep right beside your box."

Teddy Bear began to growl.  "Anyone would think this was a menagerie
instead of a playroom," he said.

"Yes, they would," said Calico Cat, with a spiteful twist of her tail.
"Your growl helps me to make it real."

Calico Cat humped her back ready to spring at Teddy if he answered, and
Little Dog-on-wheels barked, ready to jump at any one who gave him the
least cause.

Jack-in-a-box quivered on his spring with anger because French Doll
told him he had no legs and he better keep quiet, while Miss Calico
Doll tried to think of something spiteful to say to Miss French Doll.

It was this very moment that Little Never-upset, who was listening to
all the fussing from the shelf where he was sitting, set a good example
to the playroom toys.

"Get off my shelf!" said old Elephant, who always stood there and
thought he owned it, and as he spoke he gave Little Never-upset a bang
with his trunk and over he went on the floor, right on his head!

All the toys stopped fussing to watch, and quick as a flash up jumped
Little Never-upset on his feet and rolled from side to side with
laughter.

"You are the best-natured fellow I ever saw," said Teddy Bear.  "Don't
you feel like paying Elephant back for doing that?"

"Not a bit," answered Little Never-upset; "life is too short to
quarrel.  Think of all the fun you lose taking time to wrangle."

"You are right," said Teddy Bear.  "What was all the fuss about,
anyway?"

No one could say just what began it, and in a few minutes everybody was
laughing and having a good time, and all because Little Never-upset had
bobbed up smiling.

