Produced by Roger Frank and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


KATIE ROBERTSON

A GIRLS STORY OF FACTORY LIFE

By MARGARET E. WINSLOW
Author of "Miss Malcolm's Ten," "Three Years at Glenwood," etc.

A. L. BURT COMPANY, PUBLISHERS
NEW YORK

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright, 1885,
By Congregational Sunday School and Publishing Society.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

To the many boys and girls who are in early years earning an honorable
support for themselves, or else assisting their parents by working in
factories; to the multitudes of young church members, who may be glad of
some practically helpful suggestions in surmounting the difficulties and
resisting the temptations incident to their new lives; to mill-owners,
who feel their solemn responsibility, as in the sight of God, for the
intellectual and spiritual welfare of their operatives; and chiefly to
the young Christian manufacturer who has been the model from which the
picture of "Mr. James" has been copied,--this story, whose incidents are
mostly true ones, is dedicated.

That the Holy Spirit may make use of it to inculcate in young hearts a
sense of honorable independence, a conviction of the dignity of
faithfully performed work, and, above all, an earnest and irrevocable
choice of God's blessed service and an entire committal of their ways to
him, is the sincere prayer of

                                                            THE AUTHOR.

SAUGERTIES, July 1, 1885.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


KATIE ROBERTSON.

CHAPTER I.

A NEW DEPARTURE.


"But, mother, it isn't as if I were going away from home, like the Lloyd
girls; you might have a right to cry if that were the case."

"I know, dear; it's all right, and I ought to be very thankful; but I'm
a foolish woman. I can't bear to think of _my_ little girl, whom I have
guarded so tenderly, going among all those girls and men, and fighting
her way in life."

"I don't think I shall be much of a fighter," laughed Katie, looking at
her diminutive hands; "and why is it any worse to go among the boys and
girls in the factory than among the boys and girls in school? You never
minded that."

"That was different--you weren't doing it for money. O me! what would I
have thought when I married your father if any one had told me that his
child, his _girl_ child, would ever have to earn her bread!"

"Well, mother, I won't go," said the girl, her bright looks fading away,
"if you don't want me to; but I don't know what Mr. Sanderson will
think, he tried so hard to get me into the mill, and it was such a favor
from Mr. Mountjoy. You _said_ you were very thankful."

"So I was, so I am; but--but you don't understand, and perhaps it's
better you should not. I'll try not to grumble."

This was promising more than Mrs. Robertson was able to perform perhaps,
for she was a chronic and inveterate grumbler. But she had some excuse
in the present circumstances, for Katie was, as she said, her baby, and
the "apple of her eye." Married when quite young to the handsome and
intelligent young village doctor, she certainly had not expected ever to
be placed in a position where her children, her girls at least, would
need to earn their own bread. But in a few short years the doctor died
of a contagious disease he had taken from one of his patients, and as he
had not yet begun to accumulate anything, his young widow was left with
her three children to struggle along as best she could. How she had done
it God and herself only knew. The little house was her own, the sole
patrimony left by her own father. The horse and buggy, the medical
library and valuable professional instruments, medicines, etc., were
sold at a fair valuation; and the money thus secured, deposited in the
bank, had served as a last resource whenever the barrel of meal failed
or the cruse of oil ran dry. For the rest, Mrs. Robertson was employed
by her neighbors to help turn and put down carpets, cover furniture,
etc. etc., light jobs requiring judgment and skill rather than strength,
for which her friends, who never placed her in a menial capacity, gladly
paid double the sum they would to any one else. She was also a capital
nurse, and in this position rendered herself very valuable in many
households, and for such services she was even more generously
remunerated; so that somehow she managed to keep her head above water
while her children were small, and feed, clothe, and send them to school
as they grew older.

Her children were, of course, the one source of consolation left to the
poor widow, and many a long evening's work was both shortened and
lightened by golden dreams of their future prosperity and success.

When her eldest boy Eric was twelve, and when Alfred, the second child,
was only ten, a friend made interest with Mr. Sanderson, superintendent
of the bookbindery, auxiliary to the Squantown Paper Mills, to give the
two boys steady employment, and since that time, four years ago, their
earnings, small but certain, had greatly helped in the family expenses.
Both were noble, manly fellows, with, as yet, no bad habits. They
brought their mother all that they earned, and were quite content to
pass their evenings with her and their little sister. Katie, who was now
thirteen, had always attended the public school in the village, of
course helping her mother with the housework and sewing. She was a
delicate little creature, small for her years, but bright and
intelligent, a general favorite with the village children as well as
with her Sunday-school teacher, Miss Etta Mountjoy, who was not so
very many years older than herself.

Katie was a very lady-like looking girl, and did not seem fitted to do
very hard work, nor to mix among rough people, but she was an
independent little thing who knew very well how poor her mother was and
how hard both she and her brothers had to work. She knew that her
breakfasts, dinners, and suppers cost something, and that it took money
to buy the good shoes and neat, whole dresses in which her mother always
kept her dressed, and she resolved in her own wise little head to find
some way of contributing to the family stock. It was some time before
she saw her way clear to do this, but at last she took counsel of a
school-fellow whose sister worked in the folding-room of the Squantown
Paper Mills and found that even a young girl might earn considerable in
this way. So, without telling any one at home of her plans, she, one
evening, presented herself before Mr. Sanderson and requested to be
taken into the bindery.

"What can you do, little puss?" said this gentleman, quite surprised.
"You look about large enough to play with dolls, like my Nina."

"I'm almost fourteen," said Katie, drawing herself up to her full height
and trying to look sedate. "I'm two years older than Nina; I'm as old as
your Bertie, Mr. Sanderson, and I _must_ make some money."

"Must you, indeed?" said he, beginning to be more interested. "Don't I
know your face? Let me see. Why, it can't be--yes, it is Katie
Robertson! How time flies! It seems to me only yesterday that your
father died, and you were a baby; but Bertie was one, too, then, that's
a fact. How time does fly, to be sure! So you want to get into the
bindery where your brothers are, I suppose?" Katie nodded. "Well, now,"
continued he, "it's most unfortunate, but there isn't a vacancy
anywhere; we have five or six applicants now waiting for a chance. Why
don't you try the mill?"

"The mill!" said Katie, "the paper-mill? But I don't know any one there;
how could I go and ask strangers?"

"I think you're brave enough to ask any one," said Mr. Sanderson. "I
suppose you'd find it hard, though, and perhaps no one would believe
that you were old enough or strong enough to work. Your looks are
against you, little one; and then, Mr. Mountjoy did not know your father
as I did; he came here afterward. Let me see. Perhaps I might have some
influence. Will you trust your case in my hands?" And, as the girl
nodded, he continued: "Come here about this time to-morrow evening, and
I will report progress. Perhaps I may have some good news for you, but
don't be too sure. It isn't so easy to get into the mill either; there
are always a great many applicants. You'll come?"

"Yes, sir," said Katie, and went away in a state of disappointed
uncertainty. It was not quite so easy to earn money as she had supposed.

The little girl looked very mysterious all teatime, and threw out
several hints that quite mystified her brothers about Mr. Sanderson and
the bindery. But no one guessed her secret, and the next afternoon, just
as she was beginning to think of putting on her hat and running down to
get her answer, who should come into the gate but Mr. Sanderson himself.

Mrs. Robertson was greatly frightened when she saw him. She was one of
those persons who always look on the dark side of things, and she feared
her boys had got into trouble and would perhaps lose their situations.
She trembled so that she could hardly put on the widow's cap, in which
she always appeared before strangers (although it was now six years
since the doctor had left her and gone home to heaven), and said to her
daughter:--

"That's always our luck! Just as soon as things seem to be going
straight with us, some terrible misfortune is sure to happen; we're the
most unfortunate family in the world."

The poor lady forgot that, with the one exception of her husband's
death, her life had been one of unmingled, as well as undeserved,
happiness; and even in that loss her three children had been spared to
her, friends had been raised up to help her, and there had never been a
day when she and her children had not had enough plain food to eat and
plain clothes to wear. It is thus that we are all apt to dishonor God by
dwelling upon the one thing which in his providence he has seen fit to
take away, and forgetting to thank him for all the many other blessings
he has given us.

But Katie was full of expectation and suppressed delight. She was the
opposite of her mother, and always expected good news, and she felt sure
that Mr. Sanderson would not have taken the trouble to come himself,
except to tell her that he had secured a place for her. Her eyes danced
as she let him in, and she looked inquiringly in his face. But he said
nothing, except:--

"Good-evening, Katie. I would like to see your mother a few moments." So
she ushered him into the "front room," so seldom used, and went to
summon her mother, waiting outside the door till she should herself be
called in to the consultation.

When Mr. Sanderson told Mrs. Robertson that he had called to say that he
had been successful in his application to Mr. Mountjoy, who had agreed
to take Katie into the "rag-room" of the paper-mill, in consideration of
his interest in her mother, she was completely taken by surprise and
inclined to be offended with both gentlemen for their interference, as
she thought it, with her business; but when she heard that the
application came from the child herself, while greatly surprised, she
could not but feel grateful to them for their trouble, and expressed
herself so, while she nevertheless decidedly declined to allow Katie to
accept the position, saying she was altogether too young and too
delicate, and that she would not have her daughter disgraced by working
for her living.

"For the matter of that," said Mr. Sanderson, "I shall be glad to have
my Bertie take the place if you don't want it for Katie. I have a large
family to bring up, and I want my girls and boys both to be independent.
I hadn't thought of it for Bertie quite yet, but your Katie reminded me
last night of how old she is; and I see she is none too young to begin."

This put a little different face on the matter, for Mrs. Sanderson and
Mrs. Robertson had been intimate friends when girls, in precisely the
same rank in life, although one had married a doctor and the other the
overseer of the bookbindery. Moreover, Mr. Sanderson was known to be
very well off and quite able--had he judged it best--to bring up his
girls in idleness, as useless fine ladies. Perhaps it would not be such
a disgrace, after all, and they did sorely need the money. Katie was not
dressed as her father's child should be, and toil as she might, even
with the boys' wages the widow could not make more than sufficed to keep
up the little home. Then, too, her child would have to do something for
herself when she grew up; she would have no one to look to but herself,
and though teaching would be perhaps a more genteel way of support, it
was a very laborious one, and would make it necessary to go away from
home, as the Lloyd girls were going to do, and to remain away for
several years, first at some higher institution of learning and then at
the Normal School, and where would the money come from to pay the
tuition fees, traveling expenses, and board bills?

All this passed through Mrs. Robertson's mind as Mr. Sanderson reasoned
with her and showed her the foolishness of her objections, and finally
the impatient Katie was called in, and informed that she might "try it
for a while"; and then the visitor was thanked for his trouble, and
took his leave.

This all happened a week ago. The intervening time had been spent in
putting Katie's simple wardrobe in order and in making home arrangements
by which Mrs. Robertson would not miss her daughter more than she could
help, in those various little services which she had been wont to
render. The last day had now come; to-morrow the new life was to begin,
and Katie was clearing up the breakfast things for the last time when
the conversation with which our story commences took place.

"I wish it was not in the rag-room," said Mrs. Robertson, by-and-by,
when Katie, having finished her dishes and swept up the room, drew her
seat to her mother's side and took up her work--the ruffle of the last
of the six mob-caps she was to wear at her work.

"Why?" said her daughter, to whom the factory was just now a sort of
enchanted palace, any one of whose rooms was delightful to contemplate.

"It's such a low, dirty place, I'm told, and there's so many common
women and girls there."

"Well, I needn't talk to them, I suppose. I needn't be common, at any
rate, and I can't get dirty in those great long-sleeved aprons and these
nice little caps. You don't know how smart I'm going to be, and won't
you be proud of your big girl when she brings home her first
three-dollar bill, all earned in one week? Eric will see that a girl's
worth something, after all, and Alfred sha'n't make fun of me any more."

Mrs. Robertson did not say anything else just now; she did not like to
be always checking the exuberance of her child's spirits with the dull
forebodings of her own, but she could not see the paper-mill through the
same halo that invested it in Katie's eyes. She knew there were snares
and temptations, besides disagreeable and hard work to be met and
encountered there, and she feared that the child's future disappointment
would be proportioned to the brightness of her present hopes. Still, as
the matter was determined upon, she knew it was right to make the best
of it, and she tried to talk pleasantly and at least seem to sympathize
with her daughter's enthusiasm.

So passed the day, and at night when the boys came home they were
called upon to listen for the hundredth time to all the rose-colored
plans, and were pressed to declare that there could be nothing in the
world more delightful than working in a factory.

But the boys could not see it in that light any more than their mother.
They were as content to work as are most men and boys who seem to take
it for granted that it is in the course of nature for them to earn their
bread by the sweat of their brow, but they had been at it long enough to
have lost the sense of novelty and to understand that it was work and
not play which their sister was undertaking.

"Won't you be sick of it!" said Alfred, in answer to one of Katie's
outbursts, "and long, when Saturday comes, to go out nutting with the
girls, or off on a hay-ride, or something! You'll wish you were free
before you've been a slave many months, or I'm no prophet."

"Well, she shall be free if she wants to," said Eric, kindly. "Our only
little sister sha'n't work if she don't want to; we can take care of
her, Alfred, can't we?"

"But I do want to work," said Katie; "I know I sha'n't get tired, or if
I do get tired of the work, I sha'n't of getting the money; for, boys, I
mean to be a rich, independent woman, and help take care of mother. You
needn't suppose that I'm going to be dependent upon you."

"All right, young lady," said Alfred, "only I think you'll sing a
different tune before many months are over."

"The tune you ought to sing just now, children," said Mrs. Robertson,
"is 'Good-night.' You all have to go to work very early, and Katie is
not used to it. Good-night, darling, and don't forget to ask God to
bless you and shield you in your new undertaking."

"I asked him that night to make Mr. Mountjoy listen to Mr. Sanderson and
give me the place," said Katie, with a rising color; "don't you think he
heard me and answered my prayer? It seems as though he had just made it
all straight and plain. I feel just like thanking him to-night; and,
mother, don't you worry so much. Don't you think Jesus is strong enough
to take care of me anywhere if I ask him to?"

"Yes, indeed," said the mother, almost ashamed of her forebodings, and
rebuked, as she had many a time been, by the bright, hopeful faith of
her child. Surely when she looked at the bright, happy, healthy faces of
her children, she too had ample cause for thankfulness, and for
continued trust in the divine love which had carried her safely through
so many emergencies and had promised never to leave or forsake her or
hers.


CHAPTER II.

ENTERING.


"Hallo, Katie, wake up, wake up!" and Eric rattled the knob of his
sister's door. But he was compelled to do so many times before he heard
a sleepy "What's the matter?"

"Matter? Why, it's high time you were up if you mean to get to the
factory this morning."

"It's the middle of the night," said Katie, yawning.

"Indeed, it is not. It's after five o'clock, and work begins at
half-past six. You haven't a moment to spare if you want to dress
yourself, get your breakfast, and get to the mill in time; it's farther
off than the bindery. Come, be a brave girl, and jump up quickly."

Thus adjured, the little girl jumped out of bed--but how cold and dark
it was! although Eric had left the lamp in the hall outside. One of
Katie's failings--not an uncommon one among girls and boys--was a great
dislike to getting up early in the morning, and her mother had always
humored her in the matter, getting up herself and giving the boys their
breakfast early, and then waking her little girl just in time to eat her
own and get to school at nine o'clock. Even then it was sometimes a
difficult task.

The young work-woman had not included the necessity of getting up so
very early in the morning as one of the many anticipated delights of her
new position. This first taste of it seemed, on the contrary, quite a
hardship. Still, when she was once out of bed, there was a certain
romance in dressing by lamplight, and she knelt down by her bedside to
offer her morning prayer, with a strange feeling of mingled awe and
thankfulness.

Katie Robertson was a Christian girl, and was really desirous to please
the blessed Saviour who had done so much for her. She could not remember
the time when she did not love him; but for the last few years, since
she had grown older and begun to understand things better, she had felt
a longing desire to be like him and to please him in her life and
actions. She found time to open her little Bible this morning and read
one or two verses by the light of the lamp. They were these:--

"In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths";
"Whether, therefore, ye eat or drink, or _whatsoever_ ye do, do all to
the glory of God," and "I can do all things through Christ who
strengthens me."

And then she prayed earnestly that she might in these "ways" upon which
she was entering always "acknowledge" God, be faithful to her work, do
it "to the glory of God," and have the strength which the Lord Jesus
Christ has promised to give to those who ask him, to resist temptation
and stand up for truth and righteousness in the new life which lay
before her. She prayed, also, that her heavenly Father would give her
some work to do for him among her companions in the mill, and then she
went downstairs.

Breakfast was all ready, and it seemed quite funny to eat it by
lamplight; but by the time it was over it was pretty light outside, and
when, warmly wrapped up, Katie left the house with her brothers there
was a rosy flush over the snow which sparkled and glistened, and the
young factory-girl set out in high spirits for her first day's work.
The boys escorted her as far as the great gates, where a good many other
girls and boys were waiting among a crowd of men and women, and then ran
back to be in time at the bindery, which was a little nearer home.

It was rather cold waiting outside, and, if the truth must be told, our
little girl felt just a trifle homesick among so many strangers, for as
yet she had not seen a familiar face, and something seemed to rise in
her throat that she found hard to swallow; but just as she felt that she
_must_ have a good cry, and at the same time resolved that she wouldn't,
the great steam-whistle shrieked, the bell in the tower rang, the gates
opened from the inside, the gathered crowd rushed in, and all along the
road might be seen flying figures of men, women, boys, and girls,
hurrying to be in their places at the commencement of work and thus
avoid the fine imposed upon stragglers. There was a pause of a few
moments in the paved inside court while the inner doors of the great
brick building were opened, and then the incoming crowd entering in
various directions, scattered among the different corridors and left the
"new girl" standing alone and bewildered at the entrance.

In front of her stretched a long, narrow hall, clean and fresh
(Squantown Paper Mills were new and built after the most approved
models), with doors opening from it at intervals on both sides. Some of
these doors were open and some were shut; into some the work-people were
constantly disappearing, as though the doors were mouths that opened
suddenly and swallowed them up, and into some of the open ones Katie
peeped timidly and turned back disconsolately as she discovered that
they only afforded entrance to similar corridors, pierced by similar
rows of doors.

At length the last straggler had entered, gone his way, and disappeared,
and dead silence reigned. Katie felt as though she were alone in the
universe, and almost wondered if she were to be left there forever, when
a short, sharp, deafening whistle echoed through the hall, and at the
same instant the great building vibrated from top to bottom, the roar of
machinery swallowed up the silence, and the day's work began.

Immediately afterward a side door, close to where our little girl was
standing, opened, and out of it came the foreman of the mill, who had
been up to this moment in the office, receiving his orders for the day.

"Hallo, you!" he said crossly, seeing a girl standing idle in the hall;
"why don't you go about your business? Go to work if you belong here; go
home if you don't! No idlers or beggars allowed here, so close to the
office door, too. Come, run away quickly."

"If you please, Mr. Thornton, I've come to work in the mill, in the
rag-room, but I don't know which way to go."

"Oh!" said the foreman, "you're a new hand, eh? Rather a small one. It
seems to me Mr. Mountjoy will end by having a nursery rather than a
mill, but he knows his own business best, I suppose. New hands are not
in my department, however. Mr. James," he called, reopening the office
door and putting his head in again, "here's some work for you."

The "new hand" expected now to have an interview with the awful Mr.
Mountjoy, Miss Etta's father, of whom she had heard so much, but had
never yet seen, and began to tremble a little in anticipation. But,
instead, a rosy-faced, light-haired young man appeared, to whom the
foreman made a slight bow, and then went away. This was Mr. James
Mountjoy, Miss Etta's brother, and the only son of the proprietor of the
mill. Katie had heard her brothers, who were in his Sunday-school class,
talk about him, but had never seen him before.

"Your name, little girl," he said pleasantly, as he ushered her into the
office.

"Katie Robertson, sir. Mr. Sanderson"--

"Oh, I know; Mr. Sanderson recommended you to my father. You look almost
too small to work. Can you do anything?"

"I can cook, and wash dishes, and help mother, and sew; I was in the
first class at school"--

"That is not any of it precisely the kind of work we do here," said the
young gentleman, pleasantly; "but no doubt you are a quick little girl,
and if you are used to doing some kinds of work others will not come so
hard to you. But you must understand in the beginning that work in a
factory is work, not play; work that cannot be laid aside when one is
tired of it, or when one wants to go on an excursion or to do something
else. It is work, too, for which you are to be paid, and it would be
dishonesty not to do it faithfully as in the sight of God. Our rules are
no stricter than they must be for the best good of the work and the
comfort and protection of all, but we _expect_ them to be obeyed. You
will remember that. There must be no playing or whispering in work
hours, and you must always be on time. We want all our work-people to be
happy, and I am sure that the best kind of happiness comes from fidelity
to duty. Can you be a _faithful_ little girl?"

"Yes, sir," said Katie, with a slight blush, though she did not feel at
all afraid of him; "I am trying to please God everywhere, and I am sure
he will help me to do so here."

"I am glad to hear you say that," said the young man, with a smile. "If
every man, woman, and child in this factory were really trusting in God
and trying to please him, we wouldn't need so many rules and the work
would not be so hard. One thing more: I believe you are to be in the
rag-room; that is a dirty place, in spite of all our efforts to keep it
clean and well ventilated; you won't find it very pleasant there always,
but perhaps you can learn to _endure_ for Christ's and duty's sake; and
every one has to begin at the bottom, you know, who means to climb to
the top of the ladder."

During the latter part of this talk the gentleman and the child had been
ascending flight after flight of broad, open staircases, as well as
several narrow, spiral ones, crossing machinery-rooms, where great arms
and wheels and screws, in constant motion, made the little girl shudder,
and threading narrow passages and outside balconies, where the broad
raceway foamed and roared fifty or sixty feet beneath them. Katie had
never been inside of the great paper-mill before, though she had always
admired its fine proportions and handsome architecture from the outside.
She was surprised now to see how really beautiful everything was. The
floors were laid in wood of two contrasting colors; the balusters were
of solid black walnut; there were rows and rows of clear glass windows
in the rooms and corridors, while the machinery was either of shining
steel or polished brass. In some of the rooms were girls tending the
ruling and cutting and folding machines, and occasionally one would nod
to Katie, but no one spoke except where the work rendered it necessary.

At last the room next to the top of the vast building was reached, and
there Mr. James opened a door and ushered Katie into a room which
extended the whole length of one side of the building. The windows, of
which there were fifteen, were wide open, but for all that the air was
so thick with dust that at first Katie drew back with a sense of
suffocation.

"I told you it would not be pleasant," said Mr. James, "but this is your
appointed place. Be a brave girl, and when you are used to it it won't
seem so bad."

The sense of suffocation was caused by the particles of dust with which
the air was heavily laden, and which flew from the piles of rags which
over fifty girls were busily engaged in sorting, putting the
dark-colored ones by themselves, the medium-colored by themselves, and
the white ones--or those that had been white--into large boxes. As soon
as these boxes were filled they were placed on wheelbarrows and emptied
into long slides by men who waited for them and returned the boxes. Mr.
James explained to his young companion that these slides emptied their
contents into great vats in the room below, where after lying some days
in a certain purifying solution they were boiled with soda to loosen the
dirt, thoroughly washed by machinery, and passed into great copper
kettles, where they were boiled to a pulp and ground at the same time,
horizontal grindstones reducing them to the finest powder. He also
showed her that the dust was rendered much less hurtful than it would
otherwise have been by a great fan kept constantly at work on one side
of the room, which drove it out of the windows in front of the girls,
who were thus not compelled to breathe it unless they turned directly
around facing the blast, as Katie had done on entering the room. He then
put her under the care of a pleasant-faced woman, whose duty it was to
oversee the little girls, saw that she had a comfortable seat, shook
hands with her, and went away.

Mr. James was by no means called upon to be so polite to a "new hand";
most employers would have told the child which way to go and then left
her to shift for herself, or at best have sent a man or boy to show her
the way. Perhaps he would have done so with some girls, but he saw that
the child was timid and homesick, and knew that a few kind words would
go a great way toward making her feel at home and happy, and would serve
as an offset against the disagreeable first impressions of the rag-room,
and the weariness of regular work undertaken for the first time.

Why should he care to have one of his factory girls "feel at home and
happy"? some one will say; his relations with them are only those of
business: so much work for so much money; it was nothing to him what
they thought or felt. Mr. James Mountjoy did not feel so. He thought
that his father and he were placed in this responsible position and
given the care of several hundred human souls expressly that some good
work might be done for them. He felt that human beings are more
precious than machinery, and that happiness is an important factor in
goodness. He looked upon his work-people as those for whom he must give
account, and tried to act in all his dealings with them "to the glory of
God." Had he been actuated by the purest selfishness and the most
approved business principles, he could not have chosen a wiser course;
for men and women treated as friends become almost of necessity
friendly, and seeing their own interests cared for were all the more
likely to care for those of their employer. Katie Robertson certainly
never forgot Mr. James's judicious kindness on the morning of her
entrance into the mill; he was to her the kindest, sweetest, and most
lovable of gentlemen. She felt ready to do anything he should tell her
and to keep every rule he might make. Then, too, he was a Christian, and
understood all about what she meant when she had said God would help
her; surely it must be very easy to be good and resist temptation in a
place with such a master, and she felt like thanking God that, in spite
of the suffocating dust, "the lines had fallen to her in such very
pleasant places."


CHAPTER III.

THE FIRST DAY.


Left to herself Katie looked timidly round. It is always an ordeal to
meet so many strangers for the first time, and our little friend was
beginning to feel quite forlorn, when Miss Peters, the superintendent of
the rag-room, came to her and began to show her about the work to be
done; how, besides the rags being sorted, the buttons were to be taken
off and the larger pieces cut into small ones by pulling them
dexterously along and between two great sharp knives set on end for the
purpose. Katie had already covered her clean dress with the long-sleeved
blue apron and her hair with the little mob-cap her mother had provided,
and at once commenced her work, not at all seeing or noticing the
scornful looks that passed between some of the girls whose ragged finery
and dirty hair-ribbons full of dust and "_flue_" presented a lively
contrast to her own neat and suitable equipment. We may observe, in
passing, that before long this simple method of protection so commended
itself to some of the more sensible girls and their parents that many of
them adopted it and mob-caps and overalls became quite the fashion in
the mill.

Katie was a smart little girl and could work very quickly when she set
about it; of course to-day she was anxious to show how much she could
do, and her piles and boxes were fuller than those of any girls near her
by the time of the warning whistle, which indicated that in half an hour
the dinner-bell would sound. Then there was a bustle in the room. The
piles were taken away in long and deep barrows which men wheeled into
the room, the boxes were carried off, emptied into the vats, and brought
back again; some of the girls swept the floor and tables by which they
stood; talking was permitted in this half-hour, and such a Babel as the
tongues of forty or fifty girls suddenly unloosed can make may be better
imagined than described. The "new hand" took advantage of the interval
to divest herself of her cap and apron, and putting on her hat, after
washing her hands in one of the row of basins provided for the purpose,
appeared as neat and nice for her homeward walk as she had done in the
morning when she came.

Such was not the case with most of the girls, whose fluffy, disordered
appearance as they issued from the rag-room was proverbial.

At precisely twelve o'clock the great bells began to clang and the
steam-whistle to shriek, and the long corridors and stairs echoed to the
tramp of many feet as the hundreds of men, women, boys, and girls rushed
down and out, and scattered in every direction toward the many homes
where dinner was awaiting them.

Eric and Alfred met their sister just outside of the door, and the three
were soon at home, Katie talking so much and so fast all the way, that
her brothers, as they said, "could hardly get in a word edgewise." Many
of the mill operatives carried their dinner with them and spent the noon
hour in gossip with each other, but Mrs. Robertson was careful both of
the bodies and souls of her children. She knew that the former would be
much more vigorous if every day they had a warm, comfortable, if
frugal, meal at noontide, and thought that the latter would be kept pure
and unsullied much longer if not exposed to the kind of talk apt to pass
between idle men and women of all grades and associations in society. So
ever since they first went into the bindery, the boys had regularly come
home to dinner, and were much the better, not only for it, but also for
the quick walk in the open fresh air.

Poor Mrs. Robertson had passed a lonely morning. She was used to being
alone while her daughter was at school, but that was different; she had
conjured up all sorts of dangers and disagreeables that the girl might
have to encounter, and she rather expected to see her brought in on a
board bruised and maimed from some part of the machinery into which she
had fallen or been entangled. But when Katie came rushing in like a
whirlwind, in high spirits, with glowing cheeks and a splendid appetite,
which yet she could scarcely take time to gratify, so full was she of
enthusiastic talk concerning the beauty and grandeur of the mill and the
kindness of Mr. James, her mother felt rather ashamed of her
forebodings.

Never had a dinner tasted so nicely; never had the little girl, to her
remembrance, eaten so much. She was in such a hurry to be off again, so
as not to be late, that the boys declared she would not give them any
time to eat at all, and again predicted that in a month's time things
would not be so rose-colored.

In the afternoon a surprise awaited the little factory-girl. Hardly had
work recommenced as the silence of voices and the noise of machinery
followed upon the long steam-whistle, than Mr. James again appeared,
followed by another "new hand." She was a tall, stout girl; in reality
just about Katie's age, but looking several years older, dressed in a
light-blue cashmere, considerably soiled and frayed. Her hair, which was
"banged" low over her forehead, was braided in a long tail behind, and
tied with a bunch of tumbled red ribbons, and around her neck was a
chain and locket intended to resemble gold. The girls all looked at her
inappropriate costume, most of them with envy and admiration, a few with
pity for a girl who knew no better than to come to factory work in so
very unsuitable a dress, and Katie looked up in some surprise to find
that the new comer, who had been placed next to her, was her old school
companion, Bertie Sanderson.

Miss Peters came forward pleasantly, showed the new girl how to do her
work just as she had showed Katie in the morning, and glancing at her
dress, suggested that another time a similar protection to that of her
companion would be advisable, and then left her to herself.

Scarcely was her back turned than Bertie, looking round the room with
great disgust, turned to Katie and said:--

"Isn't it hateful? Just think of _us_ made to work among factory-girls.
I don't see what my father could have been thinking of!"

Katie made no answer, but pointed to Miss Peters, and then to the rule
for silence which was hung up conspicuously on the wall.

"Nonsense!" said Bertie, "that don't mean me. I'm daughter of Mr
Sanderson, the overseer of the bindery, don't you know? It's kind of
funny that I should be in the rag-room among all the common girls,
anyhow; but father said I'd got to begin work, and he guessed what
wouldn't hurt you wouldn't hurt me. But for the thought that you were
here I wouldn't have come at all, no matter what pa said. Ma don't think
it genteel. I don't see what made you come; don't you think it's
disgusting?"

"No," said Katie, "I wanted to come, and I think the factory is
magnificent; besides, I want the money."

