EXPERIENCE***


Transcribed from the 1901 R. Brimley Johnson edition by David Price,
email ccx074@pglaf.org

          [Picture: Image of Blake's original page of The Tyger]


                            SONGS OF INNOCENCE
                                   AND
                           SONGS OF EXPERIENCE


                             BY WILLIAM BLAKE

                 [Picture: The Astolaf Press, Guildford]

                       LONDON: R. BRIMLEY JOHNSON.
                         GUILDFORD: A. C. CURTIS.

                                 MDCCCCI.


Prout, who accused Tom Moore of a similar _version_ of his celebrated
papers.

             A.E.B.

                                         

_First Paper-mill in England_ (Vol. ii., p.
473).--The birthplace of the "High Germaine
Spilman" (_Spielmann_), celebrated by Churchyard,
your English readers may not easily discover
by his description as quoted by DR.
RIMBAULT.

"Lyndoam Bodenze" is _Lindau am Boden-see_, on
the Lake of Constance (in German, _Bodensee_),
once a free imperial city, called, from its
site on three islets in the lake, "the Swabian
Venice," now a pretty little town belonging
to the kingdom of _Bavaria_.

V.

"_Torn by Horses_" (Vol. ii., p. 480.).

             --This cruel death was suffered by _Ravaillac_, who accomplished
what Jean Châtel failed in doing.

The execution took place on the 27th of May,
1610, with the most atrocious severities of
torture, of which the drawing by horses was
but the last out of a scene that continued for
many hours. The day before he had been racked
to the very extremity of human suffering. The
horses dragged at the wretch's body for an
hour in vain; at length a nobleman present
sent one of his own, which was stronger; but
this even would not suffice. The executioner
had to sever the mangled body with his knife,
before the limbs would give way. I could add
more of these details, but the subject is
intolerable.

The execution of _Ravaillac_ was followed with
the utmost exactness, but with more cruelty,
if possible, in the case of _Damiens_ (sentenced
for the attempt on Louis le Bien-Aimé), who
suffered on the Place de Grève, March 28. 1757.
The frightful business lasted from morning
till dusk!
Here again the knife was used before the body
gave way, the horses having dragged at it for
more than an hour first; the poor wretch living,
it is said, all the while!

I believe this was the last instance of the punishment in France,
if not in Europe.

A concise summary of the trials of these men, and all the hideous
details of their tortures and execution, will be found, by those
who have a taste for such things, in the third volume of the new
series of the _Neuer Pitaval_, edited by Hitzig and Haring (Leipzig,
Brockhaus),--a collection of _causes célèbres_ which has been in
course of publication at intervals since 1842.

The volume in question appeared in the present year (1850).

V.
   
Belgravia.
   

   _Vineyards_ (Vol. ii., p.
392.).--At Ingatestone Hall,
   in Essex, one of the seats of Lord Petre, a part of the ground on
the south side of the house still goes by the name of "the Vineyard."

And this autumn grapes came to
   great perfection on the south
wall.
   

J.A.D.
   

   _Cardinal_ (Vol. ii., p. 424.).

--The expression referred
   to by O.P.Q.
was in some degree illustrated
   at the coronation of Edward II., 1308, when the Pope, wishing the
ceremony to be performed by a cardinal, whom he offered to send for
the purpose, was strenuously opposed by the king, and compelled to
withdraw his pretensions.

(See Curtis's _History of England_, vol. ii. p. 309.)

C.H.

St. Catherine's Hall, Cambridge.

_Weights for weighing Coins_ (Vol.
ii., p. 326.).--If the question of your
correspondent, who wishes to know at what period weights were
introduced {523} for weighing coins, is intended to have a general
reference, he will find many passages alluding to the practice
amongst the ancient Romans, who manufactured balances of various
kinds for that purpose: one for gold (_statera auraria_, Varro _Ap.

Non._, p. 455., ed.

Mercer.; Cic. _Or._
ii. 38.); another for
silver (Varro _De
Vit. P.R._ lib. ii.);
and another for small
pieces of money (_trutina
momentana pro parva
modicaque pecunia._ Isidor.
_Orig._, xvi. 25. 4.). The mint
is represented on the reverse of numerous imperial coins and medals
by three female figures, each of whom holds a pair of scales, one
for each of the three metals; and in Rich's _Illustrated Companion
to the Latin Dictionary_, under the word LIBRA, there is exhibited
a balance of very peculiar construction, from an original in the
cabinet of the Grand Duke at Florence, which has a scale at one end
of the beam, and a fixed weight at the opposite extremity, "to test
the just weight of a given quantity, and supposed to have been
employed at the mint for estimating the proper weight of coinage."

MONETA.

_Umbrellas_ (Vol. i.,
p. 414. etc.).--To the
extensive exhibition
of _umbrellas_ formed
through the exertions of the
right worthy editor of the
"NOTES AND QUERIES" and his very numerous friends, I am happy to
have it in my power to make an addition of considerable curiosity,
it being of much earlier date than any specimen at present in the
collection:--
"Of doues I haue a dainty paire Which, when you please to take the
aier, About your head shall gently houer, Your cleere browe from
the sunne to couer, And with their nimble wings shall fan you That
neither cold nor heate shall tan you, And, like _vmbrellas_, with
their feathers _Sheeld you in all sorts of weathers._" _Michael
Drayton, 1630_.

My mother taught me underneath a tree,
   And, sitting down before the heat of day,
She took me on her lap and kissed me,
   And, pointing to the East, began to say:

'Look on the rising sun: there God does live,
   And gives His light, and gives His heat away,
And flowers and trees and beasts and men receive
   Comfort in morning, joy in the noonday.

'And we are put on earth a little space,
   That we may learn to bear the beams of love;
And these black bodies and this sunburnt face
   Are but a cloud, and like a shady grove.

'For, when our souls have learned the heat to bear,
   The cloud will vanish, we shall hear His voice,
Saying, "Come out from the grove, my love and care,
   And round my golden tent like lambs rejoice."'

Thus did my mother say, and kissed me,
   And thus I say to little English boy.
When I from black, and he from white cloud free,
   And round the tent of God like lambs we joy,

I'll shade him from the heat till he can bear
   To lean in joy upon our Father's knee;
And then I'll stand and stroke his silver hair,
   And be like him, and he will then love me.


THE BLOSSOM


Merry, merry sparrow!
Under leaves so green
A happy blossom
Sees you, swift as arrow,
Seek your cradle narrow,
Near my bosom.
Pretty, pretty robin!
Under leaves so green
A happy blossom
Hears you sobbing, sobbing,
Pretty, pretty robin,
Near my bosom.


THE CHIMNEY-SWEEPER


When my mother died I was very young,
And my father sold me while yet my tongue
Could scarcely cry 'Weep! weep! weep! weep!'
So your chimneys I sweep, and in soot I sleep.

There's little Tom Dacre, who cried when his head,
That curled like a lamb's back, was shaved; so I said,
'Hush, Tom! never mind it, for, when your head's bare,
You know that the soot cannot spoil your white hair.'

And so he was quiet, and that very night,
As Tom was a-sleeping, he had such a sight!--
That thousands of sweepers, Dick, Joe, Ned, and Jack,
Were all of them locked up in coffins of black.

And by came an angel, who had a bright key,
And he opened the coffins, and set them all free;
Then down a green plain, leaping, laughing, they run
And wash in a river, and shine in the sun.

Then naked and white, all their bags left behind,
They rise upon clouds, and sport in the wind:
And the angel told Tom, if he'd be a good boy,
He'd have God for his father, and never want joy.

And so Tom awoke, and we rose in the dark,
And got with our bags and our brushes to work.
Though the morning was cold, Tom was happy and warm:
So, if all do their duty, they need not fear harm.


THE LITTLE BOY LOST


'Father, father, where are you going?
   O do not walk so fast!
   Speak, father, speak to your little boy,
Or else I shall be lost.'

The night was dark, no father was there,
   The child was wet with dew;
The mire was deep, and the child did weep,
   And away the vapour flew.


THE LITTLE BOY FOUND


The little boy lost in the lonely fen,
   Led by the wandering light,
   Began to cry, but God, ever nigh,
Appeared like his father, in white.

He kissed the child, and by the hand led,
   And to his mother brought,
Who in sorrow pale, through the lonely dale,
   Her little boy weeping sought.


LAUGHING SONG


When the green woods laugh with the voice of joy,
And the dimpling stream runs laughing by;
When the air does laugh with our merry wit,
And the green hill laughs with the noise of it;

When the meadows laugh with lively green,
And the grasshopper laughs in the merry scene;
When Mary and Susan and Emily
With their sweet round mouths sing 'Ha ha he!'

When the painted birds laugh in the shade,
Where our table with cherries and nuts is spread:
Come live, and be merry, and join with me,
To sing the sweet chorus of 'Ha ha he!'


A CRADLE SONG


Sweet dreams, form a shade
O'er my lovely infant's head!
Sweet dreams of pleasant streams
By happy, silent, moony beams!

Sweet Sleep, with soft down
Weave thy brows an infant crown!
Sweet Sleep, angel mild,
Hover o'er my happy child!

Sweet smiles, in the night
Hover over my delight!
Sweet smiles, mother's smiles,
All the livelong night beguiles.

Sweet moans, dovelike sighs,
Chase not slumber from thy eyes!
Sweet moans, sweeter smiles,
All the dovelike moans beguiles.

Sleep, sleep, happy child!
All creation slept and smiled.
Sleep, sleep, happy sleep,
While o'er thee thy mother weep.

Sweet babe, in thy face
Holy image I can trace;
Sweet babe, once like thee
Thy Maker lay, and wept for me:

Wept for me, for thee, for all,
When He was an infant small.
Thou His image ever see,
Heavenly face that smiles on thee!

Smiles on thee, on me, on all,
Who became an infant small;
Infant smiles are His own smiles;
Heaven and earth to peace beguiles.


THE DIVINE IMAGE


To Mercy, Pity, Peace, and Love,
   All pray in their distress,
   And to these virtues of delight
Return their thankfulness.

For Mercy, Pity, Peace, and Love,
   Is God our Father dear;
And Mercy, Pity, Peace, and Love,
   Is man, His child and care.

For Mercy has a human heart;
   Pity, a human face;
And Love, the human form divine:
   And Peace the human dress.

Then every man, of every clime,
   That prays in his distress,
Prays to the human form divine:
   Love, Mercy, Pity, Peace.

And all must love the human form,
   In heathen, Turk, or Jew.
Where Mercy, Love, and Pity dwell,
   There God is dwelling too.


HOLY THURSDAY


'Twas on a holy Thursday, their innocent faces clean,
The children walking two and two, in red, and blue, and green:
Grey-headed beadles walked before, with wands as white as snow,
Till into the high dome of Paul's they like Thames waters flow.

O what a multitude they seemed, these flowers of London town!
Seated in companies they sit, with radiance all their own.
The hum of multitudes was there, but multitudes of lambs,
Thousands of little boys and girls raising their innocent hands.

Now like a mighty wind they raise to heaven the voice of song,
Or like harmonious thunderings the seats of heaven among:
Beneath them sit the aged men, wise guardians of the poor.
Then cherish pity, lest you drive an angel from your door.


NIGHT


The sun descending in the West,
The evening star does shine;
The birds are silent in their nest,
And I must seek for mine.
   The moon, like a flower
   In heaven's high bower,
   With silent delight,
   Sits and smiles on the night.

Farewell, green fields and happy groves,
Where flocks have took delight,
Where lambs have nibbled, silent moves
The feet of angels bright;
   Unseen, they pour blessing,
   And joy without ceasing,
   On each bud and blossom,
   And each sleeping bosom.

They look in every thoughtless nest
Where birds are covered warm;
They visit caves of every beast,
To keep them all from harm:
   If they see any weeping
   That should have been sleeping,
   They pour sleep on their head,
   And sit down by their bed.

When wolves and tigers howl for prey,
They pitying stand and weep;
Seeking to drive their thirst away,
And keep them from the sheep.
   But, if they rush dreadful,
   The angels, most heedful,
   Receive each mild spirit,
   New worlds to inherit.

And there the lion's ruddy eyes
Shall flow with tears of gold:
And pitying the tender cries,
And walking round the fold:
   Saying: 'Wrath by His meekness,
   And, by His health, sickness,
   Is driven away
   From our immortal day.

'And now beside thee, bleating lamb,
I can lie down and sleep,
Or think on Him who bore thy name,
Graze after thee, and weep.
   For, washed in life's river,
   My bright mane for ever
   Shall shine like the gold,
   As I guard o'er the fold.'


SPRING


      Sound the flute!
      Now it's mute!
      Birds delight,
      Day and night,
      Nightingale,
      In the dale,
      Lark in sky,--
      Merrily,
Merrily, merrily to welcome in the year.

      Little boy,
      Full of joy;
      Little girl,
      Sweet and small;
      Cock does crow,
      So do you;
      Merry voice,
      Infant noise;
Merrily, merrily to welcome in the year.

      Little lamb,
      Here I am;
      Come and lick
      My white neck;
      Let me pull
      Your soft wool;
      Let me kiss
      Your soft face;
Merrily, merrily we welcome in the year.


Never did writer pen a sweeter tale than that which the author of
_Mary Barton_ has just produced under the title of _The Moorland
Cottage_.

It is a purely English story, true to nature as
   a daguerreotype, without one touch
of exaggeration, without the smallest
   striving after effect, yet so
skilfully is it told, so effectually does it tell,
   so strongly do Maggie's trials
and single-mindedness excite our sympathies,
   that it were hard to decide whether our tears are disposed to flow
the more readily at those trials, or at her quiet heroic perseverance
in doing right by which they are eventually surmounted.

_The Moorland Cottage_ with its skilful
   and characteristic woodcut
illustrations by Birket Foster, will be a
   favourite for many and many a Christmas yet
to come.
   'I happy am,
Joy is my name.'
Sweet joy befall thee!

Pretty joy!
Sweet joy, but two days old.
Sweet joy I call thee:
Thou dost smile,
I sing the while;
Sweet joy befall thee!


A DREAM


Once a dream did weave a shade
O'er my angel-guarded bed,
That an emmet lost its way
Where on grass methought I lay.

Troubled, wildered, and forlorn,
Dark, benighted, travel-worn,
Over many a tangled spray,
All heart-broke, I heard her say:

'O my children! do they cry,
Do they hear their father sigh?
Now they look abroad to see,
Now return and weep for me.'

Pitying, I dropped a tear:
But I saw a glow-worm near,
Who replied, 'What wailing wight
Calls the watchman of the night?'

'I am set to light the ground,
While the beetle goes his round:
Follow now the beetle's hum;
Little wanderer, hie thee home!'


ON ANOTHER'S SORROW


Can I see another's woe,
And not be in sorrow too?
Can I see another's grief,
And not seek for kind relief?

Can I see a falling tear,
And not feel my sorrow's share?
Can a father see his child
Weep, nor be with sorrow filled?

Can a mother sit and hear
An infant groan, an infant fear?
No, no! never can it be!
Never, never can it be!

And can He who smiles on all
Hear the wren with sorrows small,
Hear the small bird's grief and care,
Hear the woes that infants bear--

And not sit beside the nest,
Pouring pity in their breast,
And not sit the cradle near,
Weeping tear on infant's tear?

And not sit both night and day,
Wiping all our tears away?
O no! never can it be!
Never, never can it be!

He doth give His joy to all:
He becomes an infant small,
He becomes a man of woe,
He doth feel the sorrow too.

Think not thou canst sigh a sigh,
And thy Maker is not by:
Think not thou canst weep a tear,
And thy Maker is not near.

O He gives to us His joy,
That our grief He may destroy:
Till our grief is fled and gone
He doth sit by us and moan.


SONGS OF EXPERIENCE


INTRODUCTION


Hear the voice of the Bard,
Who present, past, and future, sees;
Whose ears have heard
The Holy Word
That walked among the ancient trees;

Calling the lapsed soul,
And weeping in the evening dew;
That might control
The starry pole,
And fallen, fallen light renew!

'O Earth, O Earth, return!
Arise from out the dewy grass!
Night is worn,
And the morn
Rises from the slumbrous mass.

'Turn away no more;
Why wilt thou turn away?
The starry floor,
The watery shore,
Is given thee till the break of day.'


EARTH'S ANSWER


Earth raised up her head
From the darkness dread and drear,
Her light fled,
Stony, dread,
And her locks covered with grey despair.

'Prisoned on watery shore,
Starry jealousy does keep my den
Cold and hoar;
Weeping o'er,
I hear the father of the ancient men.

'Selfish father of men!
Cruel, jealous, selfish fear!
Can delight,
Chained in night,
The virgins of youth and morning bear.

'Does spring hide its joy,
When buds and blossoms grow?
Does the sower
Sow by night,
Or the ploughman in darkness plough?

'Break this heavy chain,
That does freeze my bones around!
Selfish, vain,
Eternal bane,
That free love with bondage bound.'


THE CLOD AND THE PEBBLE


'Love seeketh not itself to please,
   Nor for itself hath any care,
But for another gives its ease,
   And builds a heaven in hell's despair.'

So sung a little clod of clay,
   Trodden with the cattle's feet,
But a pebble of the brook
   Warbled out these metres meet:

'Love seeketh only Self to please,
   To bind another to its delight,
Joys in another's loss of ease,
   And builds a hell in heaven's despite.'


When others were sycophants thou wert never a flatterer!"

Struck with this singular
   exhibition of sorrow, the good
Augustine, who, until
   now, like all the others, had been looking to his own safety, or
employed in restoring the exhausted, took advantage of the favorable
change in the weather, and advanced with the language of
consolation.

"Thou hast saved all our lives,
   bold mariner," he said;
"and there are those in the
   bark who will know how to reward thy courage and skill, Forget,
then, thy dog, and indulge in a grateful heart to Maria and the
saints, that they have been our friends and thine in this exceeding
jeopardy."

"Father, I have eaten with the
   animal--slept with the animal--fought,
swum, and made merry with him, and I
   could now drown with him!

What are thy nobles and their gold
   to me, without my dog? The gallant
brute will die the death of
   despair, swimming about in search of the bark in the midst of the
darkness, until even one of his high breed and courage must suffer
his heart to burst."

"Christians have been called into the dread presence, unconfessed
and unshrived, to-night; and we should bethink us of their souls,
rather than indulge in this grief in behalf of one that, however
faithful, ends but an unreasoning and irresponsible existence."

All this was
thrown away
upon Maso, who crossed
himself habitually at the allusion to the drowned, but who did not
the less bewail the loss of his dog, whom he seemed to love, like
the affection that David bore for Jonathan, with a love surpassing
that of women.

Perceiving that his
counsel was useless,
the good Augustine
turned away, to knee and offer up his own orisons of gratitude,
and to bethink him of the dead.

"Nettuno! _povera,
carissima bestia!_"
continued Maso,
"whither art thou swimming, in this infernal quarrel between the
air and water?

Would I were with
thee, dog! No
mortal shall ever share
the love I bore thee, _povero Nettuno!

_--I will never take another
to my heart, like
thee!"
The outbreaking of Maso's grief was sudden, and it was brief in its
duration.

In this respect it
might be likened to
the hurricane that
had just passed.

Excessive violence, in
both cases, appeared
to bring its own
remedy, for the irregular fitful gusts from the mountains had
already ceased, and were succeeded by a strong but steady gale from
the north; and the sorrow of Maso soon ended its characteristic
plaints, to take a more continued and even character.

During the whole of the
foregoing scenes, the
Common passengers
had crouched to the deck, partly in stupor, partly in superstitious
dread, and much of the time, from a positive inability to move
without incurring the risk of being driven from the defenceless
vessel into the lake.

But, as the wind
diminished in force, and
the motion of the bark
became more regular, they rallied their senses, like men who had
been in a trance, and one by one they rose to their feet.

About this time Adelheid
heard the sound of her
father's voice, blessing
her care, and consoling her sorrow.

The north wind blew away
the canopy of clouds,
and the stars shone
upon the angry Leman, bringing with them some such promise of
divine aid as the pillar of fire afforded to the Israelites in their
passage of the Red Sea.

Such an evidence of
returning peace
brought renewed confidence.
All in the bark, passengers as well as crew, took courage at the
benignant signs, while Adelheid wept, in gratitude and joy, over
the gray hairs of her father.

Maso had now obtained
complete command of the
Winkelried, as much by
the necessity of the case, as by the unrivalled skill and courage
he had manifested during the fearful minutes of their extreme
jeopardy.

No sooner did he succeed in staying his own grief, than he called
the people about him, and issued his orders for the new measures
that had become necessary.

All who have ever been
subject to their
influence know that
there is nothing more uncertain than the winds.

Their fickleness has
passed into a proverb;
but their inconstancy,
as well as their power, from the fanning air to the destructive
tornado, are to be traced to causes that are sufficiently clear,
though hid in their nature from the calculations of our forethought.

The tempest of the night
was owing to the
simple fact, that a condensed
and chilled column of the mountains had pressed upon the heated
substratum of the lake, and the latter, after a long resistance,
suddenly finding vent for its escape, had been obliged to let in
the cataract from above.

As in all extraordinary
efforts, whether physical
or moral, reaction would
seem to be a consequence of excessive action, the currents of air,
pushed beyond their proper limits, were now setting back again,
like a tide on its reflux.

This cause produced
the northern gale that
succeeded the hurricane.

The wind that came
from off the shores of Vaud
was steady and fresh.
The barks of the Leman are not constructed for beating to windward,
and it might even have been questioned, whether the Winkelried would
have borne her canvass against so heavy a breeze.

In what distant deeps or skies
Burnt the fire of thine eyes?
On what wings dare he aspire?
What the hand dare seize the fire?

And what shoulder and what art
Could twist the sinews of thy heart?
And, when thy heart began to beat,
What dread hand and what dread feet?

What the hammer? what the chain?
In what furnace was thy brain?
What the anvil? what dread grasp
Dare its deadly terrors clasp?

When the stars threw down their spears,
And watered heaven with their tears,
Did He smile His work to see?
Did He who made the lamb make thee?

Tiger, tiger, burning bright
In the forests of the night,
What immortal hand or eye
Dare frame thy fearful symmetry?


MY PRETTY ROSE TREE


A flower was offered to me,
   Such a flower as May never bore;
But I said, 'I've a pretty rose tree,'
   And I passed the sweet flower o'er.

Then I went to my pretty rose tree,
   To tend her by day and by night;
But my rose turned away with jealousy,
   And her thorns were my only delight.


AH, SUNFLOWER


Ah, sunflower, weary of time,
   Who countest the steps of the sun;
Seeking after that sweet golden clime
   Where the traveller's journey is done;

Where the Youth pined away with desire,
   And the pale virgin shrouded in snow,
Arise from their graves, and aspire
   Where my Sunflower wishes to go!


THE LILY


The modest Rose puts forth a thorn,
The humble sheep a threat'ning horn:
While the Lily white shall in love delight,
Nor a thorn nor a threat stain her beauty bright.


THE GARDEN OF LOVE


I went to the Garden of Love,
   And saw what I never had seen;
A Chapel was built in the midst,
   Where I used to play on the green.

And the gates of this Chapel were shut,
   And 'Thou shalt not' writ over the door;
So I turned to the Garden of Love
   That so many sweet flowers bore.

And I saw it was filled with graves,
   And tombstones where flowers should be;
And priests in black gowns were walking their rounds,
   And binding with briars my joys and desires.


THE LITTLE VAGABOND


Dear mother, dear mother, the Church is cold;
But the Alehouse is healthy, and pleasant, and warm.
Besides, I can tell where I am used well;
Such usage in heaven will never do well.

But, if at the Church they would give us some ale,
And a pleasant fire our souls to regale,
We'd sing and we'd pray all the livelong day,
Nor ever once wish from the Church to stray.

Then the Parson might preach, and drink, and sing,
And we'd be as happy as birds in the spring;
And modest Dame Lurch, who is always at church,
Would not have bandy children, nor fasting, nor birch.

And God, like a father, rejoicing to see
His children as pleasant and happy as He,
Would have no more quarrel with the Devil or the barrel,
But kiss him, and give him both drink and apparel.


LONDON


I wander through each chartered street,
   Near where the chartered Thames does flow,
A mark in every face I meet,
   Marks of weakness, marks of woe.

In every cry of every man,
   In every infant's cry of fear,
In every voice, in every ban,
   The mind-forged manacles I hear:

How the chimney-sweeper's cry
   Every blackening church appals,
And the hapless soldier's sigh
   Runs in blood down palace-walls.

But most, through midnight streets I hear
   How the youthful harlot's curse
Blasts the new-born infant's tear,
   And blights with plagues the marriage hearse.


THE HUMAN ABSTRACT


Pity would be no more
If we did not make somebody poor,
And Mercy no more could be
If all were as happy as we.

And mutual fear brings Peace,
Till the selfish loves increase;
Then Cruelty knits a snare,
And spreads his baits with care.

He sits down with holy fears,
And waters the ground with tears;
Then Humility takes its root
Underneath his foot.

Soon spreads the dismal shade
Of Mystery over his head,
And the caterpillar and fly
Feed on the Mystery.

And it bears the fruit of Deceit,
Ruddy and sweet to eat,
And the raven his nest has made
In its thickest shade.

The gods of the earth and sea
Sought through nature to find this tree,
But their search was all in vain:
There grows one in the human Brain.


INFANT SORROW


My mother groaned, my father wept:
Into the dangerous world I leapt,
Helpless, naked, piping loud,
Like a fiend hid in a cloud.

Struggling in my father's hands,
Striving against my swaddling bands,
Bound and weary, I thought best
To sulk upon my mother's breast.


A POISON TREE


I was angry with my friend:
I told my wrath, my wrath did end.
I was angry with my foe:
I told it not, my wrath did grow.

And I watered it in fears
Night and morning with my tears,
And I sunned it with smiles
And with soft deceitful wiles.

And it grew both day and night,
Till it bore an apple bright,
And my foe beheld it shine,
And he knew that it was mine,--

And into my garden stole
When the night had veiled the pole;
In the morning, glad, I see
My foe outstretched beneath the tree.


Then to-morrow I shall advertise in the papers that the committee,
having received applications for ten times the amount of stock,
have been compelled, unwillingly, to close the lists.

That will be a slap in the face
   to the dilatory gentlemen,
and send up the shares like
   wildfire."

Bob was right. No sooner did the
   advertisement appear than a
simultaneous groan was uttered
   by some hundreds of disappointed speculators, who, with unwonted
and unnecessary caution, had been anxious to see their way a little
before committing themselves to our splendid enterprise.

In consequence, they rushed into the
   market, with intense anxiety to make
what terms they could at the
   earliest stage, and the seven and sixpence of premium was doubled
in the course of a forenoon.

The allocation passed over very
   peaceably. Sawley, Heckles, Jobson,
Grabbie, and the Captain of
   M'Alcohol, besides myself, attended, and took part in the business.

We were also threatened with the presence
   of the M'Closkie and Vich-Induibh;
but M'Corkindale, entertaining some
   reasonable doubts as to the effect which their corporeal appearance
might have upon the representatives of the dissenting interest, had
taken the precaution to get them snugly housed in a tavern, where
an unbounded supply of gratuitous Ferintosh deprived us of the
benefit of their experience.

We, however, allotted them twenty
   shares apiece. Sir Polloxfen Tremens
sent a handsome, though rather
   illegible, letter of apology, dated from an island in Loch Lomond,
where he was said to be detained on particular business.

Mr.

Sawley, who officiated as our
chairman, was kind enough,
before parting, to pass a
very flattering eulogium upon the excellence and candour of all
the preliminary arrangements.

O the dismal care
That shakes the blossoms of my hoary hair!'


A DIVINE IMAGE


Cruelty has a human heart,
   And Jealousy a human face;
Terror the human form divine,
   And Secrecy the human dress.

The human dress is forged iron,
   The human form a fiery forge,
The human face a furnace sealed,
   The human heart its hungry gorge.


A CRADLE SONG


Sleep, sleep, beauty bright,
Dreaming in the joys of night;
Sleep, sleep; in thy sleep
Little sorrows sit and weep.

Sweet babe, in thy face
Soft desires I can trace,
Secret joys and secret smiles,
Little pretty infant wiles.

As thy softest limbs I feel,
Smiles as of the morning steal
O'er thy cheek, and o'er thy breast
Where thy little heart doth rest.

O the cunning wiles that creep
In thy little heart asleep!
When thy little heart doth wake,
Then the dreadful light shall break.


THE SCHOOLBOY


I love to rise in a summer morn,
   When the birds sing on every tree;
The distant huntsman winds his horn,
   And the skylark sings with me:
   O what sweet company!

But to go to school in a summer morn,--
   O it drives all joy away!
Under a cruel eye outworn,
   The little ones spend the day
   In sighing and dismay.

Ah then at times I drooping sit,
   And spend many an anxious hour;
Nor in my book can I take delight,
   Nor sit in learning's bower,
   Worn through with the dreary shower.

How can the bird that is born for joy
   Sit in a cage and sing?
How can a child, when fears annoy,
   But droop his tender wing,
   And forget his youthful spring!

O father and mother if buds are nipped,
   And blossoms blown away;
And if the tender plants are stripped
   Of their joy in the springing day,
   By sorrow and care's dismay,--

How shall the summer arise in joy,
   Or the summer fruits appear?
Or how shall we gather what griefs destroy,
   Or bless the mellowing year,
   When the blasts of winter appear?



TO TIRZAH


Whate'er is born of mortal birth
Must be consumed with the earth,
To rise from generation free:
Then what have I to do with thee?

The sexes sprung from shame and pride,
Blowed in the morn, in evening died;
But mercy changed death into sleep;
The sexes rose to work and weep.

Thou, mother of my mortal part,
With cruelty didst mould my heart,
And with false self-deceiving tears
Didst blind my nostrils, eyes, and ears,

Didst close my tongue in senseless clay,
And me to mortal life betray.
Had not the exhibition been limited
to umbrellas used in England, I could have produced oriental
specimens, very like those now in fashion here, of the latter part
of the sixteenth century.

BOLTON CORNEY.

_Croziers and Pastoral
Staves_ (Vol. ii., p. 412.).
Folly is an endless maze;
Tangled roots perplex her ways;
How many have fallen there!
They stumble all night over bones of the dead;
And feel--they know not what but care;
And wish to lead others, when they should be led.