When the cavalcade entered the narrow streets of Loudun, they heard
strange noises all around them.  The streets were filled with agitated
masses; the bells of the church and of the convent were ringing
furiously, as if the town was in flames; and the whole population,
without paying any attention to the travellers, was pressing tumultuously
toward a large edifice that adjoined the church.  Here and there dense
crowds were collected, listening in silence to some voice that seemed
raised in exhortation, or engaged in emphatic reading; then, furious
cries, mingled with pious exclamations, arose from the crowd, which,
dispersing, showed the travellers that the orator was some Capuchin or
Franciscan friar, who, holding a wooden crucifix in one hand, pointed
with the other to the large building which was attracting such universal
interest.

"Jesu Maria!"  exclaimed an old woman, "who would ever have thought that
the Evil Spirit would choose our old town for his abode?"

"Ay, or that the pious Ursulines should be possessed?"  said another.

"They say that the demon who torments the Superior is called Legion,"
cried a third:

"One demon, say you?"  interrupted a nun; "there were seven in her poor
body, whereunto, doubtless, she had attached too much importance, by
reason of its great beauty, though now 'tis but the receptacle of evil
spirits.  The prior of the Carmelites yesterday expelled the demon Eazas
through her mouth; and the reverend Father Lactantius has driven out in
like manner the demon Beherit.  But the other five will not depart, and
when the holy exorcists (whom Heaven support!) summoned them in Latin to
withdraw, they replied insolently that they would not go till they had
proved their power, to the conviction even of the Huguenots and heretics,
who, misbelieving wretches!  seem to doubt it.  The demon Elimi, the
worst of them all, as you know, has threatened to take off Monsieur de
Laubardemont's skull-cap to-day, and to dangle it in the air at
Miserere."

"Holy Virgin!"  rejoined the first speaker, "I'm all of a tremble!  And
to think that many times I have got this magician Urbain to say masses
for me!"

"For myself," exclaimed a girl, crossing herself; "I too confessed to him
ten months ago!  No doubt I should have been possessed myself, but for
the relic of Saint-Genevieve I luckily had about me, and--"

"Luckily, indeed, Martine," interposed a fat gossip; "for--no offence!--
you, as I remember, were long enough with the handsome sorcerer."

"Pshaw!"  said a young soldier, who had joined the group, smoking his
pipe, "don't you know that pretty Martine was dispossessed a month ago."

The girl blushed, and drew the hood of her black cloak over her face.
The elder gossips cast a glance of indignation at the reckless trooper,
and finding themselves now close to the door of the building, and thus
sure of making their way in among the first when it should be thrown
open, sat down upon the stone bench at the side, and, talking of the
latest wonders, raised the expectations of all as to the delight they
were about to have in being spectators of something marvellous--an
apparition, perhaps, but at the very least, an administration of the
torture.

"Is it true, aunt," asked Martine of the eldest gossip, "that you have
heard the demons speak?"

"Yes, child, true as I see you; many and many can say the same; and it
was to convince you of it I brought you with me here, that you may see
the power of the Evil One."

"What kind of voice has he?"  continued the girl, glad to encourage a
conversation which diverted from herself the invidious attention procured
her by the soldier's raillery.

"Oh, he speaks with a voice like that of the Superior herself, to whom
Our Lady be gracious!  Poor young woman!  I was with her yesterday a long
time; it was sad to see her tearing her breast, turning her arms and her
legs first one way and then another, and then, all of a sudden, twisting
them together behind her back.  When the holy Father Lactantius
pronounced the name of Urbain Grandier, foam came out of her mouth, and
she talked Latin for all the world as if she were reading the Bible.  Of
course, I did not understand what she said, and all I can remember of it
now is, 'Urbanus Magicus rosas diabolica,' which they tell me means that
the magician Urbain had bewitched her with some roses the Devil had given
him; and so it must have been, for while Father Lactantius spoke, out of
her ears and neck came a quantity of flame-colored roses, all smelling of
sulphur so strongly that the judge-Advocate called out for every one
present to stop their noses and eyes, for that the demons were about to
come out."

"Ah, look there now!"  exclaimed with shrill voices and a triumphant air
the whole bevy of assembled women, turning toward the crowd, and more
particularly toward a group of men attired in black, among whom was
standing the young soldier who had cut his joke just before so
unceremoniously.

"Listen to the noisy old idiots!"  exclaimed the soldier.  "They think
they're at the witches' Sabbath, but I don't see their broomsticks."

"Young man, young man!"  said a citizen, with a sad air, "jest not upon
such subjects in the open air, or, in such a time as this, the wind may
become gushing flames and destroy you."

"Pooh!  I laugh at your exorcists!"  returned the soldier; "my name is
Grand-Ferre, and I've got here a better exorciser than any of you can
show."

And significantly grasping the handle of his rapier in one hand, with the
other he twisted up his blond moustache, as he looked fiercely around;
but meeting no glance which returned the defiance of his own, he slowly
withdrew, left foot foremost, and strolled along the dark, narrow streets
with all the reckless nonchalance of a young soldier who has just donned
his uniform, and a profound contempt for all who wear not a military
coat.

In the meantime eight or ten of the more substantial and rational
inhabitants traversed in a body, slowly and silently, the agitated
throng; they seemed overwhelmed with amazement and distress at the
agitation and excitement they witnessed everywhere, and as each new
instance of the popular frenzy appeared, they exchanged glances of wonder
and apprehension.  Their mute depression communicated itself to the
working-people, and to the peasants who had flocked in from the adjacent
country, and who, all sought a guide for their opinions in the faces of
the principal townsmen, also for the most part proprietors of the
surrounding districts.  They saw that something calamitous was on foot,
and resorted accordingly to the only remedy open to the ignorant and the
beguiled--apathetic resignation.

Yet, in the character of the French peasant is a certain scoffing finesse
of which he makes effective use, sometimes with his equals, and almost
invariably with his superiors.  He puts questions to power as
embarrassing as are those which infancy puts to mature age.  He affects
excessive humility, in order to confuse him whom he addresses with the
very height of his isolated elevation.  He exaggerates the awkwardness of
his manner and the rudeness of his speech, as a means of covering his
real thoughts under the appearance of mere uncouthness; yet, despite all
his self-command, there is something in his air, certain fierce
expressions which betray him to the close observer, who discerns in his
sardonic smile, and in the marked emphasis with which he leans on his
long staff, the hopes that secretly nourish his soul, and the aid upon
which he ultimately relies.

One of the oldest of the peasants whom we have indicated came on
vigorously, followed by ten or twelve young men, his sons and nephews,
all wearing the broad-brimmed hat and the blue frock or blouse of the
ancient Gauls, which the peasants of France still wear over their other
garments, as peculiarly adapted to their humid climate and their
laborious habits.

When the old man had reached the group of personages of whom we have just
spoken, he took off his hat--an example immediately followed by his whole
family--and showed a face tanned with exposure to the weather, a forehead
bald and wrinkled with age, and long, white hair.  His shoulders were
bent with years and labor, but he was still a hale and sturdy man.  He
was received with an air of welcome, and even of respect, by one of the
gravest of the grave group he had approached, who, without uncovering,
however, extended to him his hand.

"What!  good Father Guillaume Leroux!" said he, "and have you, too, left
our farm of La Chenaie to visit the town, when it's not market-day?  "Perhaps
I am ungenerous," said Deronda, not apologetically, however. "Yet it can't
be ungenerous to warn you that you are indulging mad, Quixotic
expectations."

"Who will be hurt but myself, then?" said Hans, putting out his lip. "I am
not going to say anything to her unless I felt sure of the answer. I dare
not ask the oracles: I prefer a cheerful caliginosity, as Sir Thomas
Browne might say.

I would rather run my chance there and lose, than be sure of winning
anywhere else. And I don't mean to swallow the poison of despair,
though you are disposed to thrust it on me. I am giving up wine,
so let me get a little drunk on hope and vanity."
"With all my heart, if it will do you any good," said Deronda, loosing
Hans's shoulder, with a little push.

He made his tone kindly, but his words were from the lip only. As to his
real feeling he was silenced.

He was conscious of that peculiar irritation which will sometimes befall
the man whom others are inclined to trust as a mentor--the irritation of
perceiving that he is supposed to be entirely off the same plane of
desire and temptation as those who confess to him. Our guides, we
pretend, must be sinless: as if those were not often the best
teachers who only yesterday got corrected for their mistakes. Throughout
their friendship Deronda had been used to Hans's egotism, but he had
never before felt intolerant of it: when Hans, habitually pouring
out his own feelings and affairs, had never cared for any detail in
return, and, if he chanced to know any, and soon forgotten it. Deronda
had been inwardly as well as outwardly indulgent--nay, satisfied. But
now he had noted with some indignation, all the stronger because
it must not be betrayed, Hans's evident assumption that for any
danger of rivalry or jealousy in relation to Mirah, Deronda was not
as much out of the question as the angel Gabriel.

It is one thing to be resolute in placing one's self out of the question,
and another to endure that others should perform that exclusion
for us.

He had expected that Hans would give him trouble: what he had not expected
was that the trouble would have a strong element of personal feeling.
And he was rather ashamed that Hans's hopes caused him uneasiness
in spite of his well-warranted conviction that they would never be
fulfilled.

They had raised an image of Mirah changing; and however he might
protest that the change would not happen, the protest kept up the
unpleasant image.

Altogether poor Hans seemed to be entering into Deronda's experience
in a disproportionate manner--going beyond his part of rescued prodigal,
and rousing a feeling quite distinct from compassionate affection.

When Deronda went to Chelsea he was not made as comfortable as he ought
to have been by Mrs. Meyrick's evident release from anxiety about
the beloved but incalculable son.

Mirah seemed livelier than before, and for the first time he' saw her
laugh. It was when they were talking of Hans, he being naturally the
mother's first topic. Mirah wished to know if Deronda had seen Mr.
Hans going through a sort of character piece without changing his
dress.

"He passes from one figure to another as if he were a bit of flame
where you fancied the figures without seeing them," said Mirah, full
of her subject; "he is so wonderfully quick.

I used never to like comic things on the stage--they were dwelt on too long;
but all in one minute Mr. Hans makes himself a blind bard, and then
Rienzi addressing the Romans, and then an opera-dancer, and then a
desponding young gentleman--I am sorry for them all, and yet I laugh,
all in one"--here Mirah gave a little laugh that might have entered into
a song.

"We hardly thought that Mirah could laugh till Hans came," said Mrs.
Meyrick, seeing that Deronda, like herself, was observing the pretty
picture.

"Hans seems in great force just now," said Deronda in a tone of
congratulation.

"I don't wonder at his enlivening you."
"He's been just perfect ever since he came back," said Mrs. Meyrick,
keeping to herself the next clause--"if it will but last."
"It is a great happiness," said Mirah, "to see the son and brother
come into this dear home. And I hear them all talk about what they
did together when they were little."Ay, and with a face uglier than the mask itself," added a young man.

"They make me afraid," tremulously exclaimed a girl.

"I'm only afraid for my purse," said the first speaker.

"Ah, heaven!  there are our holy brethren, the Penitents," cried an old
woman, throwing back her hood, the better to look at them.  "See the
banner they bear!  Ah, neighbors, 'tis a joyful thing to have it among
us!  Beyond a doubt it will save us; see, it shows the devil in flames,
and a monk fastening a chain round his neck, to keep him in hell.  Ah,
here come the judges--noble gentlemen!  dear gentlemen!  Look at their
red robes; how beautiful!  Blessed be the Virgin, they've been well
chosen!"

"Every man of them is a personal enemy of the Cure," whispered the Count
du Lude to the advocate Fournier, who took a note of the information.

"Don't you know them, neighbors?"  pursued the shrill, sharp voice of the
old woman, as she elbowed one and pinched another of those near her to
attract their attention to the objects of her admiration; "see, there's
excellent Monsieur Mignon, whispering to Messieurs the Counsellors of the
Court of Poitiers; Heaven bless them all, say I!"

"Yes, there are Roatin, Richard, and Chevalier--the very men who tried to
have him dismissed a year ago," continued M. du Lude, in undertones, to
the young advocate, who, surrounded and hidden from public observation by
the group of dark-clad citizens, was writing down his observations in a
note-book under his cloak.

"Here; look, look!"  screamed the woman.  "Make way!  here's Monsieur
Barre, the Cure of Saint-Jacques at Chinon."

"A saint!"  murmured one bystander.

"A hypocrite!"  exclaimed a manly voice.

"See how thin he is with fasting!"

"See how pale he is with remorse!"

"He's the man to drive away devils!"

"Yes, but not till he's done with them for his own purposes."

The dialogue was interrupted by the general exclamation, "How beautiful
she is!"

The Superior of the Ursulines advanced, followed by all her nuns.  Her
white veil was raised; in order that the people might see the features of
the possessed ones, it had been ordered that it should be thus with her
and six of the sisterhood.  Her attire had no distinguishing feature,
except a large rosary extending from her neck nearly to her feet, from
which hung a gold cross; but the dazzling pallor of her face, rendered
still more conspicuous by the dark hue of her capuchon, at once fixed the
general gaze upon her.  Her brilliant, dark eyes, which bore the impress
of some deep and burning passion, were crowned with eyebrows so perfectly
arched that Nature herself seemed to have taken as much pains to form
them as the Circassian women to pencil theirs artistically; but between
them a slight fold revealed the powerful agitation within.  In her
movements, however, and throughout her whole bearing, she affected
perfect calm; her steps were slow and measured, and her beautiful hands
were crossed on her bosom, as white and motionless as those of the marble
statues joined in eternal prayer.

"See, aunt," ejaculated Martine, "see how Sister Agnes and Sister Claire
are weeping, next to the Superior!"

"Ay, niece, they weep because they are the prey of the demon."

"Or rather," interposed the same manly voice that spoke before, "because
they repent of having mocked Heaven."

A deep silence now pervaded the multitude; not a word was heard, not a
movement, hardly a breath.  Every one seemed paralyzed by some sudden
enchantment, when, following the nuns, among four Penitents who held him
in chains, appeared the Cure of the Church of Ste. Croix, attired in his
pastor's robe.  His was a noble, fine face, with grandeur in its whole
expression, and gentleness in every feature.  Affecting no scornful
indifference to his position, he looked calmly and kindly around, as if
he sought on his dark path the affectionate glances of those who loved
him.  Nor did he seek in vain; here and there he encountered those
glances, and joyfully returned them.  He even heard sobs, and he saw
hands extended toward him, many of which grasped weapons.  But no gesture
of his encouraged these mute offers of aid; he lowered his eyes and went
on, careful not to compromise those who so trusted in him, or to involve
them in his own misfortunes.  "I was not asleep, darling."

"It seemed not real that you were with me. I wanted to make it real. I can
bear things if you are with me. But you must not lie awake, anxious
about me. You must be happy now. You must let me make you happy now at
last-- else what shall I do?"He motioned the guards
to surround him more closely, when he saw with affright the dark group we
have mentioned, and the strong-limbed and resolute peasants who seemed in
attendance upon them.  Then, advancing somewhat before the Canons and
Capuchins who were with him, he pronounced, in a shrill voice, this
singular decree:

     "We, Sieur de Laubardemont, referendary, being delegated and
     invested with discretionary power in the matter of the trial of the
     magician Urbain Grandier, upon the various articles of accusation
     brought against him, assisted by the reverend Fathers Mignon, canon,
     Barre, cure of St. said Deronda, much relieved by this unwavering
     compliance.
     

     "Yes; let us not defer it. It must be done," said Mordecai, rising
     with the air of a man who has to perform a painful duty. Then
     came, as an afterthought, "But do not dwell on my sister more than
     is needful."
     When they entered the parlor he said to the alert Jacob, "Ask
     your father to come, and tell Sarah to mind the shop. My friend
has something to say," he continued, turning to the elder Mrs. Cohen."Secundo: it is forbidden to say, publicly or in private, that the
     said nuns are not possessed by the Evil Spirit, or to doubt of the
     power of the exorcists, under pain of a fine of twenty thousand
     livres, and corporal punishment.

     "Let the bailiffs and sheriffs obey this.  Given the eighteenth of
     June, in the year of grace 1639."

