The 'bus rumbled along as that vehicle of the middle ages does, making a
prodigious screaming in the ears, filling one with horrible electric
thrills as the brake was jammed down. Neither conversation nor thinking
was possible. Nelly closed her eyes a little wearily in her corner. He
knows that none of not all frey weakness, and he as good as
those and sündlich sey. * * * The man the stupid animal, Neukirch writes
clever fingers. Man, the stupid cattle? How? Will his low state? What?

"Dear me!" she thought to herself. "It isn't the Nelly Drummond I knew.
What has she been doing to herself? She must have been racketting a
deal. She doesn't look in the least like a happy bride should. Poor
child! I wonder if she is marrying against her will?"

Arrived at Sherwood Square the lamb was brought down and displayed to
Bunny's delighted mother. Pat whistled for a hansom, and when the two
ladies were in he carried out the animal and placed it in front of them,
where it created some excitement in its passage through the street.

Behold Nelly, then, presently seated on the nursery floor, winding up
the lamb for Bunny and forgetting all about her beautiful lavender
muslin frock. The mother and nurse stood by as eager as Nelly herself.
Bunny, indeed, was the least interested of the party. To be sure in the
wonder-world of Bunny's mind baa-lambs that went of themselves and
bleated were no great wonder, even though it was a pleasing novelty to
find one in his nursery. He was more excited over the reappearance of
Nelly herself and stood by her with one fat affectionate arm about her
neck in a contented silence. In vain his mother asked him if he wasn't
pleased.

"He is always like that," she said at last. "We took him to the
Hippodrome and he only yawned, even when Seeth's lions came on. He
didn't take the smallest interest."

"Begging your pardon, ma'am, that he did," the nurse interposed. "He
were flinging 'imself on his precious 'ead twenty times a day for a week
after. 'Twas a wonder he had any 'ead left, the precious lamb. Them
there dratted clowns, I don't 'old with them nohow!"

The reconciliation between Bunny's mother and Bunny's friend and admirer
was complete by the time they went down to lunch. Nelly had begged for
Bunny's presence at the meal, and so the young monarch of all he
surveyed was seated opposite to her in his high chair, with a napkin
tucked under his chin, playing a fandango with a spoon and fork on the
little table in front of him. Bunny filled the lunch-hour, Bunny's
sayings and doings--there were not many of the former, but his mother
managed to extract gems of wit and wisdom from his taciturnity--Bunny's
likes and dislikes, Bunny's amazing development.

Only once was Langrishe's name mentioned. He had sent home a beautiful
mug of beaten silver for Bunny. At the sound of his name Nelly's eyes
were suddenly startled: she caught her breath; the colour swept over her
face and ebbed away, leaving her paler than before.

Presently the luncheon-hour was over and Bunny had been carried off for
his afternoon's outing. The half-hour or so in the drawing-room was
over. Nelly was drawing on her gloves, standing by the window which
over-looked the narrow slip of square, invisible now for the flowers on
the balcony. The fateful visit was nearly at an end and Godfrey
Langrishe's name had been mentioned only once.

She had a wild thought that her one opportunity was slipping out of her
grasp. She had come here to have news of him. She must not come again.
She must try and forget that he existed till such time at least as she
could think of him calmly. Now she _must_ know, she _must_ hear, what
was happening to him away there at the end of the world.

