Though the Jamestown people had easy access to some 3,000 square miles
of inland tidal water and were only a little way from the open sea,
they never developed their marine riches. One good reason was that
their original aims were in other directions. When the first intentions
to colonize New England came to the King's notice, he asked the leaders
what drew them there. The one-word answer: "Fishing." If the Virginians
had been similarly queried they would have given various replies, but
certainly not that one.

In describing the fisheries of New England, John Smith had enthused:

    Let not the meanness of the word fish distaste you, for it will
    afford us good gold as the mines of Guiana or Tumbata, with less
    hazard and charge, and more certainty and facility.

The need for fishermen in Virginia was officially recognized to only a
slight degree. A 1610 memorandum from the Virginia Council to the
authorities in London asked that an effort be made to include among the
next immigrants 20 fishermen and 6 net makers. Select them with care
was the word sent out in England by means of a broadside issued by the
Council of Virginia, December, 1610:

    Whereas the good ship called the _Hercules_ is now preparing and
    almost in a readiness with necessary provisions to make a supply to
    the Lord Governor and the Colony in Virginia, it is thought meet,
    for the avoiding of such vagrant and unnecessary persons as do
    commonly proffer themselves being altogether unserviceable, that
    none but honest sufficient artificers, as carpenters, smiths,
    coopers, fishermen, brickmen, and such like, shall be entertained
    into this voyage. Of whom so many as will in due time repair to the
    house of Sir Thomas Smith in Philpot Lane, with sufficient
    testimony to their skill and good behavior, they shall receive
    entertainment accordingly.

It was only a question of time before the Virginia colonists would,
though surrounded all the while by their own huge marine resources,
subsist on salt fish from the North. Sir Thomas Dale, governor from
1611 to 1616, perceived the trend. One of his first moves was to ask
the President of the Virginia Company to provide men trained enough to
build a coastal trade in furs, corn and fish:

    Let me intreat that we may have both an admiral and hired mariners,
    to be all times resident here. The benefit will quickly make good
    the charge as well by a trade of furs to be obtained with the
    savages in the northern rivers to be returned home as also to
    furnish us here with corn and fish. The waste of such men all this
    time whom we might trust with our pinnaces leaves us destitute this
    season of so great a quantity of fish as not far from our own bay
    would sufficiently satisfy the whole Colony for a whole year.

There were no boats available even for simple oystering. During the
term of the stringent Governor Dale some disaffected colonists tried to
escape in a shallop and a barge, which were "all the boats that were
then in the Colony."

Ironically punctuating the sagas of hardship were the marveling
descriptions publicized in England. Corroborating the mouth-watering
tales of Smith, William Strachey wrote in 1612:

    To the natural commodities which the country has of fruit, beasts,
    and fowl, we may also add the no mean commodity of fish, of which,
    in March and April, are great shoals of herrings, sturgeon, great
    store commonly in May if the year be forward. I have been at the
    taking of some before Algernoone fort and in Southampton river in
    the middle of March, and they remain with us June, July, and August
    and in that plenty as before expressed.

    Shad, great store, of a yard long and for sweetness and fatness a
    reasonable food fish; he is only full of small bones, like our
    barbels in England. There is the garfish, some of which are a yard
    long, small and round like an eel and as big as a mare's leg,
    having a long snout full of sharp teeth.

    Oysters there be in whole banks and beds, and those of the best. I
    have seen some thirteen inches long. The savages use to boil
    oysters and mussels together and with the broth they make a good
    spoon meat, thickened with the flour of their wheat and it is a
    great thrift and husbandry with them to hang the oysters upon
    strings ... and dried in the smoke, thereby to preserve them all
    the year.

    There be two sorts of sea crabs. One our people call a king crab
    and they are taken in shoal waters from off the shore a dozen at a
    time hanging one upon another's tail; they are of a foot in length
    and half a foot in breadth, having legs and a long tail. The
    Indians seldom eat of this kind. There is a shellfish of the
    proportion of a cockle but far greater [conch]. It has a smooth
    shell, not ragged as our cockles; 'tis good meat though somewhat
    tough.

And, according to Alexander Whitaker in 1613:

    The rivers abound with fish both small and great. The sea-fish come
    into our rivers in March and continue the end of September. Great
    schools of herrings come in first; shads of a great bigness and the
    rockfish follow them. Trout, bass, flounders, and other dainty fish
    come in before the others be gone. Then come multitudes of great
    sturgeons, whereof we catch many and should do more, but that we
    want good nets answerable to the breadth and depth of our rivers.
    Besides our channels are so foul in the bottom with great logs and
    trees that we often break our nets upon them. I cannot reckon nor
    give proper names to the divers kinds of fresh fish in our rivers.
    I have caught with mine angle, carp, pike, eel, perches of six
    several kinds, crayfish and the torope or little turtle, besides
    many small kinds.

When Whitaker penned the word "torope," he was giving the
English-speaking world a new term, new because the animal it defined
was unknown in Europe. Later spelled "terrapin," it meant the
diamond-back, the esoteric little creature that spread the fame of the
Chesapeake bay around the world and became an indispensable course on
menus designed for the entertainment of royalty and the discriminating
elect. The colonists probably ate it prepared Indian fashion, that is,
roasted whole in live coals and opened at table where the savory meat
was extracted by appreciative fingers. Over generations of
terrapin-fanciers it evolved into one of the stars of the gastronomic
firmament. It is a wholly American dish and it was born at Jamestown.

Contemporary Historian Ralph Hamor added his testimony in 1614:

    For fish, the rivers are plentifully stored with sturgeon, porpoise,
    bass, rockfish, carp, shad, herring, eel, catfish, perch, flat-fish,
    trout, sheepshead, drummers, jewfish, crevises, crabs, oysters, and
    divers other kinds. Of all which myself has seen great quantity
    taken, especially the last summer at Smith's Island at one haul a
    frigate's lading of sturgeon, bass, and other great fish in Captain
    Argall's seine, and even at the very place which is not above
    fifteen miles from Point Comfort. If we had been furnished with
    salt to have saved it, we might have taken as much fish as would
    have served us that whole year.

