"My dear Major, I am pa'alized to think I kep' you waitin'. Just up
from my office. Been workin' like a slave, suh. Only five minutes to
dress befo' dinner. Have a drop of sherry and a dash of bitters, or
shall we wait for Fitzpatrick? No? All right! He should have been here
befo' this. You don't know Fitz? Most extraord'nary man; a great mind,
suh; literature, science, politics, finance, everything at his fingers'
ends. He has been of the greatest service to me since I have been in
New York in this railroad enterprise, which I am happy to say is now
reachin' a culmination. You shall hear all about it after dinner. Put
yo' body in that chair and yo' feet on the fender--my fire and yo'
fender! No, Fitz's fender and yo' andirons! Charmin' combination!"

It is always one of my delights to watch the colonel as he busies
himself about the room, warming a big chair for his guests, punching
the fire, brushing the sparks from the pile of plates, and testing the
temperature of the claret lovingly with the palms of his hands.

He is perhaps fifty years of age, tall and slightly built. His iron
gray hair is brushed straight back from his forehead, overlapping his
collar behind. His eyes are deep-set and twinkling; nose prominent;
cheeks slightly sunken; brow wide and high; and chin and jaw strong
and marked. His moustache droops over a firm, well-cut mouth and unites
at its ends with a gray goatee which rests on his shirt front.

Like most Southerners living away from great cities his voice is soft
and low, and tempered with a cadence that is delicious.

He wears a black broadcloth coat,--a double-breasted garment,--with
similar colored waistcoat and trousers, a turn-down collar, a shirt
of many plaits which is under-starched and over-wrinkled but always
clean, large cuffs very much frayed, a narrow black or white tie, and
low shoes with white cotton stockings.

This black broadcloth coat, by the way, is quite the most interesting
feature of the colonel's costume. So many changes are constantly made
in its general make-up that you never quite believe it is the same
ill-buttoned, shiny garment until you become familiar with its
possibilities.

When the colonel has a funeral or other serious matter on his mind,
this coat is buttoned close up under his chin showing only the upper
edge of his white collar, his gaunt throat and the stray end of a black
cravat. When he is invited to dinner he buttons it lower down, revealing
as well a bit of his plaited shirt, and when it is a wedding this old
stand-by is thrown wide open discovering a stiff, starched, white
waistcoat with ivory buttons and snowy neck-cloth.

These several make-ups used once to surprise me, and I often found
myself insisting that the looseness and grace with which this garment
flapped about the colonel's thin legs was only possible in a brand-new
coat having all the spring and lightness of youth in its seams. I was
always mistaken. I had only to look at the mis-mated buttons and the
raveled edge of the lining fringing the tails. It was the same coat.

The colonel wore to-night the lower-button style with the white tie.
It was indeed the adjustment of this necessary article which had
consumed the five minutes passed in his dressing-room, slightly
lengthened by the time necessary to trim his cuffs--a little nicety
which he rarely overlooked and which it mortified him to forget.

What a frank, generous, tender-hearted fellow he is: happy as a boy;
hospitable to the verge of beggary; enthusiastic as he is visionary;
simple as he is genuine. A Virginian of good birth, fair education,
and limited knowledge of the world and of men, proud of his ancestry,
proud of his State, and proud of himself; believing in states' rights,
slavery, and the Confederacy; and away down in the bottom of his soul
still clinging to the belief that the poor white trash of the earth
includes about everybody outside of Fairfax County.

With these antecedents it is easy to see that his "reconstruction" is
as hopeless as that of the famous Greek frieze, outwardly whole andyet
always a patchwork. So he chafes continually under what he believes
to be the tyranny and despotism of an undefined autocracy, which, in
a general way, he calls "the Government," but which really refers to
the distribution of certain local offices in his own immediate vicinity.

When he hands you his card it bears this unabridged inscription:--

    Colonel George Fairfax Carter,
    of Carter Hall,
    Cartersville, Virginia.

He omits "United States of America," simply because it would add nothing
to his identity or his dignity.

       *        *        *        *        *

"There's Fitz," said the colonel as a sharp double knock sounded at
the outer gate; and the next instant a stout, thick-set, round-faced
man of forty, with merry, bead-like eyes protected by big-bowed
spectacles, pushed open the door, and peered in good-humoredly.

The colonel sprang forward and seized him by both shoulders.

"What the devil do you mean, Fitz, by comin' ten minutes late? Don't
you know, suh, that the burnin' of a canvasback is a crime?

"Stuck in the snow? Well, I'll forgive you this once, but Chad won't.
Give me yo' coat--bless me! it is as wet as a setter dog. Now put yo'
belated carcass into this chair which I have been warmin' for you,
right next to my dearest old friend, the Major. Major, Fitz!--Fitz,
the Major! Take hold of each other. Does my heart good to get you both
together. Have you brought a copy of the prospectus of our railroad?
You know I want the Major in with us on the groun' flo'. But after
dinner--not a word befo'."

This railroad was the colonel's only hope for the impoverished acres
of Carter Hall, but lately saved from foreclosure by the generosity
of his aunt, Miss Nancy Carter, who had redeemed it with almost all
her savings, the house and half of the outlying lands being, thereupon,
deeded to her. The other half reverted to the colonel.

I explained to Fitz immediately after his hearty greeting that I was
a humble landscape painter, and not a major at all, having not the
remotest connection with any military organization whatever; but that
the colonel always insisted upon surrounding himself with a staff, and
that my promotion was in conformity with this habit.

The colonel laughed, seized the poker, and rapped three times on the
floor. A voice from the kitchen rumbled up:--

"Comin', sah!"

It was Chad "dishin' the dinner" below, his explanations increasing
in distinctness as he pushed the rear door open with his foot,--both
hands being occupied with the soup tureen which he bore aloft and
placed at the head of the table.

[Illustration]

In a moment more he retired to the outer hall and reappeared brilliant
in white jacket and apron. Then he ranged himself behind the colonel's
chair and with great dignity announced that dinner was served.

"Come, Major! Fitz, sit where you can warm yo' back--you are not thawed
out yet. One minute, gentlemen,--an old custom of my ancestors which
I never omit."

The blessing was asked with becoming reverence; there was a slight
pause, and then the colonel lifted the cover of the tureen and sent
a savory cloud of incense to the ceiling.

The soup was a cream of something with baby crabs. There was also a
fish,--boiled,--with slices of hard boiled eggs fringing the dish,
ovaled by a hedge of parsley and supplemented by a pyramid of potatoes
with their jackets ragged as tramps. Then a ham, brown and crisp, and
bristling all over with cloves.

Then the ducks!

It was beautiful to see the colonel's face when Chad, with a bow like
a folding jack-knife, held this dish before him.

"Lay 'em here, Chad--right under my nose. Now hand me that pile of
plates sizzlin' hot, and give that carvin' knife a turn or two across
the hearth. Major, dip a bit of celery in the salt and follow it with
a mou'ful of claret. It will prepare yo' palate for the kind of food
we raise gentlemen on down my way. See that red blood, suh, followin'
the knife!"

"Suit you, marsa?" Chad never forgot his slave days.
"To a turn, Chad,--I wouldn't take a thousand dollars for you," replied
the colonel, relapsing as unconsciously into an old habit.

It was not to be wondered at that the colonel loved a good dinner. To
dine well was with him an inherited instinct; one of the necessary
preliminaries to all the important duties in life. To share with you
his last crust was a part of his religion; to eat alone, a crime.

"There, Major," said the colonel as Chad laid the smoking plate before
me, "is the breast of a bird that fo' days ago was divin' for wild
celery within fo'ty miles of Caarter Hall. My dear old aunt Nancy sends
me a pair every week, bless her sweet soul! Fill yo' glasses and let
us drink to her health and happiness." Here the colonel rose from his
chair: "Gentlemen, the best thing on this earth--a true Southern lady!

"Now, Chad, the red pepper."

[Illustration]

"No jelly, Colonel?" said Fitz, with an eye on the sideboard.

"Jelly? No, suh; not a suspicion of it. A pinch of salt, a dust
ofcayenne, then shut yo' eyes and mouth, and don't open them 'cept for
a drop of good red wine. It is the salt marsh in the early mornin'
that you are tastin', suh,--not molasses candy. You Nawtherners don't
really treat a canvasback with any degree of respect. You ought never
to come into his presence when he lies in state without takin' off yo'
hats. That may be one reason why he skips over the Nawthern States
when he takes his annual fall outin'." And he laughed heartily.

"But you use it on venison?" argued Fitz.

"Venison is diff'ent, suh. That game lives on moose buds, the soft
inner bark of the sugar maple, and the tufts of sweet grass. There is
a propriety and justice in his endin' his days smothered in sweets; but
the wild duck, suh, is bawn of the salt ice, braves the storm, and
lives a life of peyil and hardship. You don't degrade a' oyster, a
soft shell crab, or a clam with confectionery; why a canvasback duck?

"Now, Chad, serve coffee."

The colonel pushed back his chair, and opened a drawer in a table on
his right, producing three small clay pipes with reed stems and a
buckskin bag of tobacco. This he poured out on a plate, breaking the
coarser grains with the palms of his hands, and filling the pipes with
the greatest care.

Fitz watched him curiously, and when he reached for the third pipe,
said:--

"No, Colonel, none for me; smoke a cigar--got a pocketful."

"Smoke yo' own cigars, will you, and in the presence of a Virginian?
I don't believe you have got a drop of Irish blood left in yo' veins,
or you would take this pipe."

"Too strong for me," remonstrated Fitz.

"Throw that villainous device away, I say, Fitz, and surprise yo'
nostrils with a whiff of this. Virginia tobacco, suh,--raised at
Cartersville,--cured by my own servants. No? Well, you will, Major.
Here, try that; every breath of it is a nosegay," said the colonel,
turning to me.

"But, Colonel," continued Fitz, with a sly twinkle in his eye, "your
tobacco pays no tax. With a debt like ours it is the duty of every
good citizen to pay his share of it. Half the cost of this cigar goes
to the Government."

It was a red flag to the colonel, and he laid down his pipe and faced
Fitz squarely.

"Tax! On our own productions, suh! Raised on our own land! Are you
again forgettin' that you are an Irishman and becomin' one of these
money-makin' Yankees? Haven't we suffe'd enough--robbed of our
property, our lands confiscated, our slaves torn from us; nothin' left
but our honor and the shoes we stand in!"

[Illustration]

The colonel on cross-examination could not locate any particular
wholesale robbery, but it did not check the flow of his indignation.

"Take, for instance, the town of Caartersville: look at that peaceful
village which for mo' than a hundred years has enjoyed the privileges
of free government; and not only Caartersville, but all our section
of the State."

"Well, what's the matter with Cartersville?" asked Fitz, lighting his
cigar.

"Mattah, suh! Just look at the degradation it fell into hardly ten
years ago. A Yankee jedge jurisdictin' our laws, a Yankee sheriff
enfo'cin' 'em, and a Yankee postmaster distributin' letters and sellin'
postage stamps."

"But they were elected all right, Colonel, and represented the will
of the people."

"What people? Yo' people, not mine. No, my dear Fitz; the Administration
succeeding the war treated us shamefully, and will go down to postehity
as infamous."

The colonel here left his chair and began pacing the floor, his
indignation rising at every step.

"To give you an idea, suh," he continued, "of what we Southern people
suffe'd immediately after the fall of the Confederacy, let me state
a case that came under my own observation.

"Colonel Temple Talcott of F'okeer County, Virginia, came into
Talcottville one mornin', suh,--a town settled by his ancestors,--ridin'
upon his horse--or rather a mule belongin' to his overseer. Colonel
Talcott, suh, belonged to one of the vehy fust families in Virginia.
He was a son of Jedge Thaxton Talcott, and grandson of General Snowden
Stafford Talcott of the Revolutionary War. Now, suh, let me tell you
right here that the Talcott blood is as blue as the sky, and that every
gentleman bearin' the name is known all over the county as a man whose
honor is dearer to him than his life, and whose word is as good as his
bond. Well, suh, on this mornin' Colonel Talcott left his plantation
in charge of his overseer,--he was workin' it on shares,--and rode
through his estates to his ancestral town, some five miles distant.
It is true, suh, these estates were no longer in his name, but that
had no bearin' on the events that followed; he ought to have owned
them, and would have done so but for some vehy ungentlemanly fo'closure
proceedin's which occurred immediately after the war.

"On arriving at Talcottville the colonel dismounted, handed the reins
to his servant,--or perhaps one of the niggers around the do',--and
entered the post-office. Now, suh, let me tell you that one month
befo', the Government, contrary to the express wishes of a great many
of our leadin' citizens, had sent a Yankee postmaster to Talcottville
to administer the postal affairs of that town. No sooner had this man
taken possession than he began to be exclusive, suh, and to put on
airs. The vehy fust air he put on was to build a fence in his office
and compel our people to transact their business through a hole. This
in itself was vehy gallin', suh, for up to that time the mail had
always been dumped out on the table in the stage office and every
gentleman had he'ped himself. The next thing was the closin' of his
mail bags at a' hour fixed by himself. This became a great inconvenience
to our citizens, who were often late in finishin' their correspondence,
and who had always found our former postmaster willin' either to hold
the bag over until the next day, or to send it across to Drummondtown
by a boy to catch a later train.

"Well, suh, Colonel Talcott's mission to the post-office was to mail
a letter to his factor in Richmond, Virginia, on business of the utmost
importance to himself,--namely, the raisin' of a small loan upon his
share of the crop. Not the crop that was planted, suh, but the crop
that he expected to plant.
"Colonel Talcott approached the hole, and with that Chesterfieldian
manner which has distinguished the Talcotts for mo' than two centuries
asked the postmaster for the loan of a three-cent postage stamp.

"To his astonishment, suh, he was refused.

"Think of a Talcott in his own county town bein' refused a three-cent
postage stamp by a low-lived Yankee, who had never known a gentleman
in his life! The colonel's first impulse was to haul the scoundrel
through the hole and caarve him; but then he remembered that he was
a Talcott and could not demean himself, and drawin' himself up again
with that manner which was grace itself he requested the loan of a
three-cent postage stamp until he should communicate with his factor
in Richmond, Virginia; and again he was refused. Well, suh, what was
there left for a high-toned Southern gentleman to do? Colonel Talcott
drew his revolver and shot that Yankee scoundrel through the heart,
and killed him on the spot.

"And now, suh, comes the most remarkable part of this story. If it had
not been for Major Tom Yancey, Jedge Kerfoot, and myself there would
have been a lawsuit."

Fitz lay back in his chair and roared.

"And they did not hang the colonel?"

"Hang a Talcott! No, suh; we don't hang gentlemen down our way. Jedge
Kerfoot vehy properly charged the coroner's jury that it was a matter
of self-defense, and Colonel Talcott was not detained mo' than haalf
an hour."

The colonel stopped, unlocked a closet in the sideboard, and produced
a black bottle labeled in ink, "Old Cherry Bounce, 1848."

"You must excuse me, gentlemen, but the discussion of these topics has
quite unnerved me. Allow me to share with you a thimbleful." Fitz
drained his glass, cast his eyes upward, and said solemnly, "To the
repose of the postmaster's soul."


CHAPTER II

_The Garden Spot of Virginia seeks an Outlet to the Sea_


Chad was just entering the small gate which shut off the underground
passage when I arrived opposite the colonel's cozy quarters. I had
come to listen to the details of that booming enterprise with the
epidemic proclivities, the discussion of which had been cut short by
the length of time it had taken to kill the postmaster the night before.

It was quite evident that the colonel expected guests, for Chad was
groaning under a square wicker basket, containing, among other luxuries
and necessities, half a dozen bottles of claret, a segment of cheese,
and some heads of lettuce; the whole surmounted by a clean
leather-covered pass-book inscribed with the name and avenue number
of the confiding and accommodating grocer who supplied the colonel's
daily wants.

"De colonel an' Misser Fizpat'ic bofe waitin' for you, sah," said that
obsequious darky, preceding me through the dark passage. I followed,
mounted the old-fashioned wooden steps, and fell into the outstretched
arms of the colonel before I could touch the knocker.

[Illustration]

"Here he is, Fitz!" and the next instant I was sharing with that genial
gentleman the warmth of the colonel's fire.

"Now then, Chad," called out the colonel, "take this lettuce and give
it a dip in the snow for five minutes; and here, Chad, befo' you go
hand me that claret. Bless my soul! it is as cold as a dog's nose;
Fitz, set it on the mantel. And hurry down to that mutton, Chad. Never
mind the basket. Leave it where it is."

Chad chuckled out to me as he closed the door: "'Spec' I know mo' 'bout
dat saddle den de colonel. It ain't a-burnin' none." And the colonel,
satisfied now that Chad's hand had reached the oven door below, made
a vigorous attack on the blazing logs with the tongs, and sent a flight
of sparks scurrying up the chimney.

There was always a glow and breeze and sparkle about the colonel's
fire that I found nowhere else. It partook to a certain extent of his
personality--open, bright, and with a great draft of enthusiasm always
rushing up a chimney of difficulties, buoyed up with the hope of the
broad clear of the heaven of success above.

"My fire," he once said to me, "is my friend; and sometimes, my dear
boy, when you are all away and Chad is out, it seems my only friend.
After it talks to me for hours we both get sleepy together, and I cover
it up with its gray blanket of ashes and then go to bed myself. Ah,
Major! when you are gettin' old and have no wife to love you and no
children to make yo' heart glad, a wood fire full of honest old logs,
every one of which is doing its best to please you, is a great comfort."

"Draw closer, Major; vehy cold night, gentlemen. We do not have any
such weather in my State. Fitz, have you thawed out yet?"

Fitz looked up from a pile of documents spread out on his lap, his
round face aglow with the firelight, and compared himself to half a
slice of toast well browned on both sides.

"I am glad of it. I was worried about you when you came in. You were
chilled through."

Then turning to me: "Fact is, Fitz is a little overworked. Enormous
strain, suh, on a man solving the vast commercial problems that he is
called upon to do every day."

After which outburst the colonel crossed the room and finished unpacking
the basket, placing the cheese in one of the empty plates on the table,
and the various other commodities on the sideboard. When he reached
the pass-book he straightened himself up, held it off admiringly,
turned the leaves slowly, his face lighting up at the goodly number
of clean pages still between its covers, and said thoughtfully:--

"Very beautiful custom, this pass-book system, gentlemen, and quite
new to me. One of the most co'teous attentions I have received since
I have taken up my residence Nawth. See how simple it is. I send my
servant to the sto' for my supplies. He returns in haalf an hour with
everything I need, and brings back this book which I keep,--remember,
gentlemen, which I _keep_,--a mark of confidence which in this
degen'rate age is refreshin'. No vulgar bargaining suh; no disagreeable
remarks about any former unsettled account. It certainly is delightful."
"When are the accounts under this system generally paid, Colonel,"
asked Fitz.

With the exception of a slight tremor around the corners of his mouth
Fitz's face expressed nothing but the idlest interest.

"I have never inquired, suh, and would not hurt the gentleman's feelin's
by doin' so for the world," he replied with dignity. "I presume, when
the book is full."

Whatever might have been Fitz's mental workings, there was no mistaking
the colonel's. He believed every word he said.

"What a dear old trump the colonel is," said Fitz, turning to me, his
face wrinkling all over with suppressed laughter.

All this time Chad was passing in and out, bearing dishes and viands,
and when all was ready and the table candles were lighted, he announced
that fact softly to his master and took his customary place behind his
chair.

The colonel was as delightful as ever, his talk ranging from politics
and family blood to possum hunts and modern literature, while the
mutton and its accessories did full credit to Chad's culinary skill.

In fact the head of the colonel's table was his throne. Nowhere else
was he so charming, and nowhere else did the many sides to his
delightful nature give out such varied hues.

Fitz, practical business man as he was, would listen to his many schemes
by the hour, charmed into silence and attentive appreciation by the
sublime faith that sustained his host, and the perfect honesty and
sincerity underlying everything he did. But it was not until the cheese
had completely lost its geometrical form, the coffee served, and the
pipes lighted, that the subject which of all others absorbed him was
broached. Indeed, it was a rule of the colonel's, never infringed upon,
that, no matter how urgent the business, the dinner-hour was to be
kept sacred.

