The mourners returned to the tower, there, according to a custom but
recently abolished in Scotland, to carouse deep healths to the memory of
the deceased, to make the house of sorrow ring with sounds of joviality
and debauch, and to diminish, by the expense of a large and profuse
entertainment, the limited revenues of the heir of him whose funeral
they thus strangely honoured. It was the custom, however, and on the
present occasion it was fully observed. The tables swam in wine,
the populace feasted in the courtyard, the yeomen in the kitchen and
buttery; and two years' rent of Ravenswood's remaining property hardly
defrayed the charge of the funeral revel. The wine did its office on all
but the Master of Ravenswood, a title which he still retained, though
forfeiture had attached to that of his father. He, while passing around
the cup which he himself did not taste, soon listened to a thousand
exclamations against the Lord Keeper, and passionate protestations of
attachment to himself, and to the honour of his house. He listened
with dark and sullen brow to ebullitions which he considered justly as
equally evanescent with the crimson bubbles on the brink of the goblet,
or at least with the vapours which its contents excited in the brains of
the revellers around him.

When the last flask was emptied, they took their leave with deep
protestations--to be forgotten on the morrow, if, indeed, those who
made them should not think it necessary for their safety to make a more
solemn retractation.

Accepting their adieus with an air of contempt which he could scarce
conceal, Ravenswood at length beheld his ruinous habitation cleared of
their confluence of riotous guests, and returned to the deserted hall,
which now appeared doubly lonely from the cessation of that clamour to
which it had so lately echoed. But its space was peopled by phantoms
which the imagination of the young heir conjured up before him--the
tarnished honour and degraded fortunes of his house, the destruction
of his own hopes, and the triumph of that family by whom they had been
ruined. To a mind naturally of a gloomy cast here was ample room
for meditation, and the musings of young Ravenswood were deep and
unwitnessed.

The peasant who shows the ruins of the tower, which still crown the
beetling cliff and behold the war of the waves, though no mroe tenanted
saved by the sea-mew and cormorant, even yet affirms that on this
fatal night the Master of Ravenswood, by the bitter exclamations of his
despair, evoked some evil fiend, under whose malignant influence the
future tissue of incidents was woven. Alas! what fiend can suggest more
desperate counsels than those adopted under the guidance of our own
violent and unresisted passions?


CHAPTER III.

     Over Gods forebode, then said the King,
     That thou shouldst shoot at me.

     William Bell, Clim 'o the Cleugh, etc.

On the morning after the funeral, the legal officer whose authority
had been found insufficient to effect an interruption of the funeral
solemnities of the late Lord Ravenswood, hastened to state before the
Keeper the resistance which he had met with in the execution of his
office.

The statesman was seated in a spacious library, once a banqueting-room
in the old Castle of Ravenswood, as was evident from the armorial
insignia still displayed on the carved roof, which was vaulted with
Spanish chestnut, and on the stained glass of the casement, through
which gleamed a dim yet rich light on the long rows of shelves, bending
under the weight of legal commentators and monkish historians, whose
ponderous volumes formed the chief and most valued contents of a
Scottish historian [library] of the period. On the massive oaken
table and reading-desk lay a confused mass of letters, petitions, and
parchments; to toil amongst which was the pleasure at once and the
plague of Sir William Ashton's life. His appearance was grave and even
noble, well becoming one who held an high office in the state; and it
was not save after long and intimate conversation with him upon topics
of pressing and personal interest, that a stranger could have discovered
something vacillating and uncertain in his resolutions; an infirmity of
purpose, arising from a cautious and timid disposition, which, as he was
conscious of its internal influence on his mind, he was, from pride as
well as policy, most anxious to conceal from others. He listened with
great apparent composure to an exaggerated account of the tumult which
had taken place at the funeral, of the contempt thrown on his own
authority and that of the church and state; nor did he seem moved even
by the faithful report of the insulting and threatening language which
had been uttered by young Ravenswood and others, and obviously directed
against himself. He heard, also, what the man had been able to collect,
in a very distorted and aggravated shape, of the toasts which had been
drunk, and the menaces uttered, at the subsequent entertainment. In fine,
he made careful notes of all these particulars, and of the names of
the persons by whom, in case of need, an accusation, founded upon these
violent proceedings, could be witnessed and made good, and dismissed his
informer, secure that he was now master of the remaining fortune, and
even of the personal liberty, of young Ravenswood.

When the door had closed upon the officer of the law, the Lord Keeper
remained for a moment in deep meditation; then, starting from his
seat, paced the apartment as one about to take a sudden and energetic
resolution. "Young Ravenswood," he muttered, "is now mine--he is my own;
he has placed himself in my hand, and he shall bend or break. I have not
forgot the determined and dogged obstinacy with which his father fought
every point to the last, resisted every effort at compromise, embroiled
me in lawsuits, and attempted to assail my character when he could
not otherwise impugn my rights. This boy he has left behind him--this
Edgar--this hot-headed, hare-brained fool, has wrecked his vessel before
she has cleared the harbor. I must see that he gains no advantage
of some turning tide which may again float him off. These memoranda,
properly stated to the privy council, cannot but be construed into
an aggravated riot, in which the dignity both of the civil and
ecclesiastical authorities stands committed. A heavy fine might be
imposed; an order for committing him to Edinburgh or Blackness Castle
seems not improper; even a charge of treason might be laid on many of
these words and expressions, though God forbid I should prosecute the
matter to that extent. No, I will not; I will not touch his life, even
if it should be in my power; and yet, if he lives till a change of
times, what follows? Restitution--perhaps revenge. I know Athole
promised his interest to old Ravenswood, and here is his son already
bandying and making a faction by his own contemptible influence. What
a ready tool he would be for the use of those who are watching the
downfall of our administration!"

While these thoughts were agitating the mind of the wily statesman, and
while he was persuading himself that his own interest and safety, as
well as those of his friends and party, depended on using the present
advantage to the uttermost against young Ravenswood, the Lord Keeper
sate down to his desk, and proceeded to draw up, for the information of
the privy council, an account of the disorderly proceedings which,
in contempt of his warrant, had taken place at the funeral of Lord
Ravenswood. The names of most of the parties concerned, as well as the
fact itself, would, he was well aware, sound odiously in the ears of his
colleagues in administration, and most likely instigate them to make an
example of young Ravenswood, at least, in terrorem.

It was a point of delicacy, however, to select such expressions as might
infer the young man's culpability, without seeming directly to urge
it, which, on the part of Sir William Ashton, his father's ancient
antagonist, could not but appear odious and invidious. While he was in
the act of composition, labouring to find words which might indicate
Edgar Ravenswood to be the cause of the uproar, without specifically
making such a charge, Sir William, in a pause of his task, chanced, in
looking upward, to see the crest of the family for whose heir he was
whetting the arrows and disposing the toils of the law carved upon one
of the corbeilles from which the vaulted roof of the apartment sprung.
It was a black bull's head, with the legend, "I bide my time"; and
the occasion upon which it was adopted mingled itself singularly and
impressively with the subject of his present reflections.

It was said by a constant tradition that a Malisius de Ravenswood had,
in the 13th century, been deprived of his castle and lands by a powerful
usurper, who had for a while enjoyed his spoils in quiet. At length,
on the eve of a costly banquet, Ravenswood, who had watched his
opportunity, introduced himself into the castle with a small band of
faithful retainers. Well, the other day we happened to meet the Colonel,
and he speedily contrived to discover that we were on the point of
going to dine, and so invited him to share our humble meal, as a
graceful way of making a virtue of necessity, for had we not done so,
he would have had no hesitation in inviting himself. During dinner,
conversation, of course, turned upon one all-engrossing subject, the
war, and the Colonel proceeded to give us his experiences of former wars,
including his adventures in the Crimea, and the miraculous escape he
owed to an Umbrella.

It appeared that he had gone out with his friend, Lord Levant, on a
yachting excursion in the Mediterranean, and they eventually
found their way into the Black Sea. Stress of weather compelled
them to put into the little port of Yalta, on the north coast, where they
went on shore.

The Colonel, on the Lucretian principle of "Suave mari magno," &c.,
proceeded the next morning to the verge of the precipice to observe
the magnificent prospect of a sea running mountains high. As it
was raining at the time, he put up a huge gingham Umbrella he happened
to find in the hotel. Suddenly, however, a furious blast of wind
drove across the cliff, and lifted the Colonel bodily in the air.
Away he flew far out to sea, the Umbrella acting as a Parachute to let
him fall easy.

     Now to most men this would only have
     been a choice of evils, a progress
     from Scylla to Charybdis: not so to
     our Colonel. On coming up to the
     surface after his first dip, he
     found that swimming would not save
     him; so he quietly emptied out
     the water contained in the Umbrella, seated himself upon it, and
sailed triumphantly into the harbour, like Arion on his dolphin.

Our face, on hearing this anecdote, must have betrayed the scepticism
we felt, for the Colonel proceeded to a corner of the room, and
produced the identical Umbrella.

Of course, such a proof was irresistible, and we were compelled to do
penance for our unbelief by lending the gallant Colonel a sovereign,
for "the Bank was closed." We thought the anecdote cheap at the
price.

There is a story told of one of our City bankers, that he owed an excellent
wife to the interposition of an Umbrella. It appears that on returning
home one day in a heavy shower of rain, he found a young lady standing
in his doorway. Politeness induced him to invite her to take shelter
under his roof, and eventually to offer her the loan of an Umbrella.
Of course, the gallant banker called for it the next day, and the
acquaintance thus accidentally made, soon ripened into mutual
affection.

This species of Umbrella courtship has been immortalised in more
than one song, none of which, however, are quite worth quoting.

A worthy little Frenchman of our acquaintance was ordered by his
medical man to take a course of shower-baths. Such things being unknown
to him in his fatherland, he of course found the first essay
remarkably unpleasant, but with native ingenuity he soon discovered a
remedy. On our asking him how he liked the hydropathic system,
he replied, "Oh, mais c'est charmant, mon ami; I always take my
parapluie wid me into de bath."
Douglas Jerrold, in his well-known "Punch's Letters to his Son," gives
an anecdote of which we can only say, si non _è vero, è ben trovato_.
It at all events illustrates the frightful morality that exists
with regard to borrowing Umbrellas.

"Hopkins once lent Simpson, his next-door neighbour, an Umbrella. You
will judge of the intellect of Hopkins, not so much from the act of
lending an Umbrella, but from his insane endeavour to get it back
again.

"It poured in torrents, Hopkins had an urgent call. Hopkins knocked at
Simpson's door. 'I want my Umbrella.' Now Simpson had also a call in a
directly opposite way to Hopkins; and with the borrowed Umbrella in his
hand, was advancing to the threshold. 'I tell you,' roared Hopkins, 'I
want my Umbrella.' 'Can't have it,' said Simpson. 'Why, I want to go
to the East-end; it rains in torrents; what'--screamed Hopkins--'what
am I to do for an Umbrella?'
"'Do!' answered Simpson, darting from the door, 'do as I did--BORROW
ONE.'"
The Umbrella has been most successfully introduced on the stage.
What, for instance, would Paul Pry have been without that valuable implement
for which to inquire with his stereotyped "Hope I don't intrude?" Or
his French successor, the nobleman in "The Grand Duchess," who inquires,
in plaintive accents, for "Le parapluie de ma mere," just after Schneider
has been declaiming about her father's sabre? Merely to bring a big
Umbrella on the stage is an acknowledged way of raising a laugh. Mrs.
Gamp again, with her receptacle for unconsidered trifles, cannot be
realised apart from her Umbrella. And then, those hired waiters who
come into our houses with an Umbrella of graceful proportions, and
emerge towards the small hours with a most plethoric parapluie,
which looks as if it had been regaling on the good things as well
as its master!

It used to appear to us a comical sight, years back, in the old city
of Paris, to see the National Guard going to exercise with a musket in
one hand and an Umbrella in the other, and we dare say it was a very
sensible plan after all, and might have been imitated with success before
Sebastopol. A stout steel Umbrella would offer no contemptible shelter
to a rifleman. This circumstance, too, may throw a light on a hitherto
obscure passage in "Macbeth," where Birnam Wood moves to Dunsinane--for
it is just possible that the soldiers cut down the branches to serve them
as a protection from the rain. We throw out this as a hint to any
enterprising manager.

In Germany, on the other hand, a soldier is--or used to be--strictly
forbidden from carrying an open Umbrella, unless he is accompanied by
a civilian or a lady. A worthy corporal, on one occasion, was sent
to fetch an Umbrella his Major's lady had left at a friend's house, and
at the same time took her lapdog for an airing. On the road home a violent
shower came on, and, to avoid committing a breach of the regulations,
under his arm he tucked the dog, which was contained, according to his
ideas, in both the above categories, put up the Umbrella, and marched
very comfortably to barracks.

With one more characteristic anecdote we will close our budget. One
evening, while Rowland Hill was preaching, a shower came on, and his
chapel was speedily filled with devotees. With that peculiar sarcastic
intonation which none could assume so successfully as himself, he quietly
remarked, "My brethren, I have often heard that religion can be made
a _cloak_, but this is the first occasion on which I ever knew it could
be converted into an _Umbrella_."

CHAPTER VI.

THE REGENERATION OF THE UMBRELLA.

Our task is now nearly completed: we have described the history of
the Parasol, and its near relation the Umbrella, as far as our space
permits us to treat of this interesting subject.

All that remains for us to do is to give an account of the principal
improvements effected in the Umbrella during later years.

It is certain that France was some way ahead of us with regard to the use
of Umbrellas, for they were comparatively common there before they were
at all known _l'autre côté 'de la Manche_. This was but natural,
considering that they were, as we have seen, used in Italy, and
consequently the folk of southern France would not be likely to be far
behind their neighbours in availing themselves of the protection
from the sun, whether or no they had sufficient genius to shelter
themselves from the rain by the aid of an Umbrella.

In France Parasols and Umbrellas used to be amongst the articles
made by the corporate body of Boursiers. M. Natalis Rondot quotes
from the _Journal du Citoyen_, of 1754, the price of Parasols.
It ranged from 7s. 3_d_. to 17s. 6_d_., according to the construction,
and to whether they were made to fold up or not.

In Diderot and D'Alembert's Encyclopédic, is figured an Umbrella,
which is described as follows, in the excellent introduction to the
"Abridgements of Specifications relating to Umbrellas," lately
published by the Commissioners of Patents:--
"The ribs bear about the same proportion (as in modern umbrellas) as
regards length, to the stick, but the stretchers are much shorter, being
less than a quarter of the length of the ribs. They are double, each
rib having a pair joined, one on each side of the rib, at the
same point. The ribs are joined at the top by being strung on a ring,
as in old English umbrellas, but the runner is made of precisely
similar construction to the modern runner, and seems almost identical
with that described in Caney's Specification (patent No. 5761, A.D.
1829).

Ribs and sticks are jointed, the latter in two places. There is no catch
to hold the umbrella closed, but this upper catch is the ordinary
bent wire one.

The upper joint of the stick is made with a screw, the lower of a
hinge with a slide, as in a modern parasol.

The slide has a catch, resembling the ordinary runner catch. At the top
is a ring for carrying or suspending the umbrella."
Such was the old French Umbrella, and that used in England was of much
the same sort.

The old French folding Parasol is thus described in the "Report of the
Jurors for the Exhibition of 1851:"--
"The folding parasol was constructed with jointed ribs so as to fold
back, and was likewise self-opening. The rod was a metallic tube, and
contained a spiral spring which acted upon and pressed upwards an inner
rod. To this inner rod were jointed the stretchers, which in this
construction were placed above the ribs instead of below, as in the
ordinary form, beside which they were much shorter, so as to admit
of their being concealed by the covering. By the elasticity of the
spiral spring contained in the hollow stem, the inner rod was pressed
outwards and lifted the stretchers, and by their means raised the ribs
also, so that in its ordinary or natural state the umbrella was always
open, and would continue so unless constrained to remain closed by a
catch.

On releasing the catch it consequently sprang open. In order that it might
be easily closed, four cords were attached to four of the ribs and
passed to the handle; and a loop embracing these cords passed down by
the side of the handle, and enabled the possessor to close his
umbrella without difficulty. From the authority already quoted, we learn
that whalebone was employed for the ribs, and that their number varied
with their length; for example, when 24 inches long the number employed
was 8; when 25 inches, 9; and when 26, 28 and 30 inches, 10 were used.
Calico was employed to cover umbrellas, and silk to cover parasols. The
use of parasols was common in Lyons at that period (1786); they were
carried by men as well as women; they were rose-coloured, white, and
of other colours, and were so light as to be carried without inconvenience."

The "Encyclopedic Méthodique" gives some interesting particulars as to
the manufacture of Parasols and Umbrellas at the end of the
eighteenth century.

From it, it appears that the ribs were occasionally made of metal. "On
étend cette couverture portative par le moyen de quelques brins
de baleine, ou de fils de cuivre ou de fer qui la soutiennent."

This is interesting, as showing that metal ribs are not a very modern
invention.

The following statement of the comparative weights and sizes of
Umbrellas was prepared by M.

Farge for the French Exposition of 1849:--
Umbrellas Length of ribs. Weight, of inches. Lb. oz.

1645 31 1/2 3 8 1/2 1740 29 1 13 1780 28 3/4 1 8 1/2 1840 27 1/2 0 13
1/4 1849 27 0 8 3/4

From 1808 to 1848, eighty patents were taken out in France for inventions,
three of importation, and forty-one for improvements in Umbrellas.

In England, after their first introduction, the manufacture of Umbrellas
increased rapidly.

The first patent is dated 1780, and was taken up by Mark Bull for
"A machine for supporting an Umbrella, which may be fixt to any
saddle or wheel'd carriage, being far more compleat than any hitherto
invented."

The invention is described in the following words :--
"There is a ball and socket of steel or iron, or any other metal or
composition. The ball moves in any direction, and is fixed by one, two,
three, or more points, which are forced against it either by a screw
or spring, The ball is made with small cavities to receive the
points which press against it.

In order to secure it the more effectually in the ball, there is a
hole which receives the one end of the staff of the umbrella, which
is secured in it either by a spring or screw, or a sliding or a
spring bolt.

     The umbrella may be taken away from the
     staff; and either put under the seat
     of the saddle, or fix'd before the rider. The
     staff may be made whole or in two pieces, the one to slide within
the other, in order to raise or lower the umbrella, and be fix'd
either by a spring or screw.

     They are fix'd in the head of the saddle
     and cover'd by a top, without
     making the saddle appear in the least
     different to what they are now made."

The next is of the date of 1786, and was taken out by John Beale for "An
umbrella with joints, flat springs, and stops, worm springs and bolts,
slip bolts, screws, slip rivet, and cross stop and square slips, and
the manner in which the same are performed is particularly described
in the several plans, figures, or drawings annexed."

The drawings referred to are not easily intelligible, from the
briefness of the explanation attached, but show an Umbrella with a jointed
handle, opening by a spring.

In the next year (1787) we find an advertisement put out by Thomas
Folgham, of Cheapside, stating that he has "a great assortment of
his much-approved pocket and portable umbrellas, which for lightness,
elegance, and strength, far exceed anything of the kind ever imported
or manufactured in this kingdom.

All kinds of common umbrellas prepared in a particular way, that will
never stick together."

A description of the Umbrellas which, in all probability, Mr. Thomas
Folgham made, we extract from the source mentioned above.

"The early Umbrellas were made of oiled silk, or glazed cotton cloth, and
were very cumbrous and inconvenient. To judge from a picture of
Hanway, and from the other old pictures mentioned above, they were
small, with a very long handle. They were not used for walking, and
consequently instead of the ferrule had a ring at the top, by which they
were hung up. The stretchers were of cane, and the ribs of cane or
whalebone. Instead of the present top-notch and runner, both ribs and
stretchers were simply strung on a ring of wire, and the inequality of
the friction and the weakness of such an arrangement cause the Umbrella
to be always getting out of order.

The ribs and stretchers were jointed together very roughly, by
a pin passing through the rib, on which the forked end of the stretcher
hinged.

The first improvement in this respect was by Caney (patent No. 5761,
A.D. 1829), who invented a top-notch and runner in which each rib or
stretcher has a separate hinge. The top-notch was made of a notched
wheel or disc, into each slot of which an axis fixed on the top
of the stretchers worked.

The runner was made on a similar principle. At the point of the rib where
the stretcher joined it, Caney fixed a middle bit, consisting of a
small fork, in which the end of the stretcher was hinged. This construction
was much stronger, and the forked ends of the stretchers were thus
prevented from wearing out the cover, as before.

With modifications, more or less important, this construction is
the same as that now in general use."
The principal object of all those who have devoted their attention
to the task has been to reduce the weight of the Umbrella without,
at the same time, diminishing its strength. In its primitive form the
ribs were formed of whalebone, which possessed very grave inconveniences;
in the first place, it was cumbersome to a degree, lost its elasticity
after any continuous exposure to rain, and if dried without very great
care, was extremely liable to crack.

In the next place, the price was very high, and, consequently, the masses
remained unrepresented in the Umbrella market.

The most important improvement dates from the introduction of steel
instead of whalebone, which took place about thirty years ago, for
although a few Umbrellas were occasionally made and used of this
material prior to that time, it had not come into general use.

     Amongst other improvements have been the
     following:--
     The tips are now made in one piece
     with the rib, instead of being made of bone,
     japanned metal or other material, and then fastened on.

     The long six-inch runners have given way to the short one two inches
long, and the ferrules are also much shorter than formerly.

To keep the Umbrella closed the old-fashioned plan was a ring fastened by
a string. A tape and cotton superseded this, and in its turn gave way
to the elastic now in use. Sliding caps to fit over the ends of the
ribs and hold the Umbrella closed, have been invented, but until quite
recently do not seem to have come much into use.

Simple as the construction of an Umbrella may appear, there have
been altogether upwards of three hundred patents taken out for
various improvements in their manufacture, in addition to numerous
alterations which have been registered according to the Act, Vic.
6 & 7, Cap. 65.

     With very few exceptions the inventors have not been repaid the
cost of their patents.

This has arisen, partly from the delicacy of their mechanical construction,
unfitted for the rough usage to which Umbrellas are exposed; but chiefly
in consequence of the increased cost of manufacture not being compensated
by the improvements effected.

The introduction of steel vice whalebone, was opposed by the trade and
the public in general, like many other great improvements; and it required
several years in order to convince purchasers that steel would not
only last much longer than whalebone, but would not be so liable
to break, provided it was properly made and tempered.

The misfortune was that, at the outset, a great number of inferior
articles were introduced, and consequently the public naturally lost
confidence, and it demanded great exertions on the part of the more
respectable members of the trade, ere the merits of the new invention
were recognised. At present, it is generally allowed that a good
steel-rib Umbrella can be as easily procured as a carefully tempered
razor or sword.

A Swiss watch-spring maker, named Sanguinede, had discovered a secret
of tempering steel which gave it great strength, and he had made some,
very light umbrellas, but they were immensely dear. On his death the
secret died with him, and Mr. Fox set to work to discover a method which
should combine strength and lightness.

Mr. Fox's Paragon frame, simple in its construction, half the weight
of whalebone, but equally strong, is admitted to be the greatest
improvement yet introduced in the manufacture of an Umbrella. The ribs
are made in the form of a trough with flat sides, by which shape
the greatest amount of strength is obtained.

The same principle, as is well known, has been successfully applied in
the construction of the Great Tubular Bridge over the Menai Straits,
from which Mr. Fox took the idea.

The weight of the Umbrella having been thus reduced, the next
question was, whether some amendment could not be made in the covering
material. For a long time, Umbrellas were only covered with two
materials--silk and cotton, and the want of some substance, which
would resist the greater friction and consequent wear than an Umbrella
invariably undergoes, formed a subject of anxious attention to the writer
of this little book. Several materials were tried without success,
until a fabric called Alpaca, made of the wool of the Chilian and
Peruvian sheep, presented itself, and for this a patent was immediately
taken out. Of its merits it becomes us not to speak, but we may be
permitted to quote the following remarks from the Grand Jury Report
of the Great Exhibition of 1851:-- 
"SANGSTER, WILLIAM AND JOHN.But it was
her expression of countenance which chiefly struck the spectator, and
induced most persons to address her with a degree of deference and
civility very inconsistent with the miserable state of her dwelling, and
which, nevertheless, she received with that easy composure which showed
she felt it to be her due. She had once been beautiful, but her beauty
had been of a bold and masculine cast, such as does not survive the
bloom of youth; yet her features continued to express strong sense, deep
reflection, and a character of sober pride, which, as we have already
said of her dress, appeared to argue a conscious superiority to those
of her own rank. It scarce seemed possible that a face, deprived of the
advantage of sight, could have expressed character so strongly; but her
eyes, which were almost totally closed, did not, by the display of their
sightless orbs, mar the countenance to which they could add nothing. She
seemed in a ruminating posture, soothed, perhaps, by the murmurs of the
busy tribe around her to abstraction, though not to slumber.

Lucy undid the latch of the little garden gate, and solicited the old
woman's attention. "My father, Alice, is come to see you."

"He is welcome, Miss Ashton, and so are you," said the old woman,
turning and inclining her head towards her visitors.

"This is a fine morning for your beehives, mother," said the Lord
Keeper, who, struck with the outward appearance of Alice, was somewhat
curious to know if her conversation would correspond with it.

"I believe so, my lord," she replied; "I feel the air breathe milder
than of late."

"You do not," resumed the statesman, "take charge of these bees
yourself, mother? How do you manage them?"

"By delegates, as kings do their subjects," resumed Alice; "and I am
fortunate in a prime minister. Here, Babie."

She whistled on a small silver call which ung around her neck, and which
at that time was sometimes used to summon domestics, and Babie, a girl
of fifteen, made her appearance from the hut, not altogether so cleanly
arrayed as she would probably have been had Alice had the use of her
yees, but with a greater air of neatness than was upon the whole to have
been expected.

"Babie," said her mistress, "offer some bread and honey to the Lord
Keeper and Miss Ashton; they will excuse your awkwardness if you use
cleanliness and despatch."

Babie performed her mistress's command with the grace which was
naturally to have been expected, moving to and fro with a lobster-like
gesture, her feet and legs tending one way, while her head, turned in
a different direction, was fixed in wonder upon the laird, who was more
frequently heard of than seen by his tenants and dependants. The bread
and honey, however, deposited on a plantain leaf, was offered and
accepted in all due courtesy. The Lord Keeper, still retaining the place
which he had occupied on the decayed trunk of a fallen tree, looked
as if he wished to prolong the interview, but was at a loss how to
introduce a suitable subject.

"You have been long a resident on this property?" he said, after a
pause.

"It is now nearly sixty years since I first knew Ravenswood," answered
the old dame, whose conversation, though perfectly civil and respectful,
seemed cautiously limited to the unavoidable and necessary task of
replying to Sir William.

"You are not, I should judge by your accent, of this country
originally?" said the Lord Keeper, in continuation.

"No; I am by birth an Englishwoman." "Yet you seem attached to this
country as if it were your own."

"It is here," replied the blind woman, "that I have drank the cup of joy
and of sorrow which Heaven destined for me. I was here the wife of an
upright and affectionate husband for more than twenty years; I was here
the mother of six promising children; it was here that God deprived me
of all these blessings; it was here they died, and yonder, by yon ruined
chapel, they lie all buried. I had no country but theirs while they
lived; I have none but theirs now they are no more."

"But your house," said the Lord Keeper, looking at it, "is miserably
ruinous?"

"Do, my dear father," said Lucy, eagerly, yet bashfully, catching at the
hint, "give orders to make it better; that is, if you think it proper."

"It will last my time, my dear Miss Lucy," said the blind woman; "I
would not have my lord give himself the least trouble about it."

"But," said Lucy, "you once had a much better house, and were rich, and
now in your old age to live in this hovel!"

"It is as good as I deserve, Miss Lucy; if my heart has not broke with
what I have suffered, and seen others suffer, it must have been strong
enough, adn the rest of this old frame has no right to call itself
weaker."

"You have probably witnessed many changes," said the Lord Keeper; "but
your experience must have taught you to expect them."

"It has taught me to endure them, my lord," was the reply.

"Yet you knew that they must needs arrive in the course of years?" said
the statesman.

"Ay; as I knew that the stump, on or beside which you sit, once a tall
and lofty tree, must needs one day fall by decay, or by the axe; yet
I hoped my eyes might not witness the downfall of the tree which
overshadowed my dwelling."

"Do not suppose," said the Lord Keeper, "that you will lose any interest
with me for looking back with regret to the days when another family
possessed my estates. You had reason, doubtless, to love them, and I
respect your gratitude. I will order some repairs in your cottage, and I
hope we shall live to be friends when we know each other better." "Those
of my age," returned the dame, "make no new friends. I thank you for
your bounty, it is well intended undoubtedly; but I have all I want, and
I cannot accept more at your lordship's hand."

"Well, then," continued the Lord Keeper, "at least allow me to say,
that I look upon you as a woman of sense and education beyond your
appearance, and that I hope you will continue to reside on this property
of mine rent-free for your life."

"I hope I shall," said the old dame, composedly; "I believe that was
made an article in the sale of Ravenswood to your lordship, though such
a trifling circumstance may have escaped your recollection."

"I remember--I recollect," said his lordship, somewhat confused. "I
perceive you are too much attached to your old friends to accept any
benefit from their successor."

"Far from it, my lord; I am grateful for the benefits which I decline,
and I wish I could pay you for offering them, better than what I am now
about to say." The Lord Keeper looked at her in some surprise, but said
not a word. "My lord," she continued, in an impressive and solemn tone,
"take care what you do; you are on the brink of a precipice."

"Indeed?" said the Lord Keeper, his mind reverting to the political
circumstances of the country. "Has anything come to your knowledge--any
plot or conspiracy?"

"No, my lord; those who traffic in such commodities do not call to their
councils the old, blind, and infirm. My warning is of another kind. You
have driven matters hard with the house of Ravenswood. Believe a true
tale: they are a fierce house, and there is danger in dealing with men
when they become desperate."

"Tush," answered the Keeper; "what has been between us has been the work
of the law, not my doing; and to the law they must look, if they would
impugn my proceedings."

"Ay, but they may think otherwise, and take the law into their own hand,
when they fail of other means of redress."

"What mean you?" said the Lord Keeper. "Young Ravenswood would not have
recourse to personal violence?"

"God forbid I should say so! I know nothing of the youth but what is
honourable and open. Honourable and open, said I? I should have added,
free, generous, noble. But he is still a Ravenswood, and may bide his
time. Remember the fate of Sir George Lockhart."

The Lord Keeper started as she called to his recollection a tragedy
so deep and so recent. The old woman proceeded: "Chiesley, who did the
deed, was a relative of Lord Ravenswood. In the hall of Ravenswood, in
my presence and in that of others, he avowed publicly his determination
to do the cruelty which he afterwards committed. I could not keep
silence, though to speak it ill became my station. 'You are devising a
dreadful crime,' I said, 'for which you must reckon before the judgment
seat.' Never shall I forget his look, as he replied, 'I must reckon then
for many things, and will reckon for this also.' Therefore I may well
say, beware of pressing a desperate man with the hand of authority.
There is blood of Chiesley in the veins of Ravenswood, and one drop of
it were enough to fire him in the circumstances in which he is placed. I
say, beware of him."

The old dame had, either intentionally or by accident, harped aright
the fear of the Lord Keeper. The desperate and dark resource of private
assassination, so familiar to a Scottish baron in former times, had even
in the present age been too frequently resorted to under the pressure of
unusual temptation, or where the mind of the actor was prepared for
such a crime. Sir William Ashton was aware of this; as also that young
Ravenswood had received injuries sufficient to prompt him to that sort
of revenge, which becomes a frequent though fearful consequence of the
partial administration of justice. He endeavoured to disguise from
Alice the nature of the apprehensions which he entertained; but so
ineffectually, that a person even of less penetration than nature had
endowed her with must necessarily have been aware that the subject lay
near his bosom. His voice was changed in its accent as he replied to
her, "That the Master of Ravenswood was a man of honour; and, were it
otherwise, that the fate of Chiesley of Dalry was a sufficient warning
to any one who should dare to assume the office of avenger of his own
imaginary wrongs." And having hastily uttered these expressions, he rose
and left the place without waiting for a reply.


CHAPTER V.

     Is she a Capulet?
     O dear account! my life is my foe's debt.

     SHAKESPEARE

THE Lord Keeper walked for nearly a quarter of a mile in profound
silence. His daughter, naturally timid, and bred up in those ideas of
filial awe and implicit obedience which were inculcated upon the youth
of that period, did not venture to interrupt his meditations.

"Why do you look so pale, Lucy?" said her father, turning suddenly round
and breaking silence.

According to the ideas of the time, which did not permit a young woman
to offer her sentiments on any subject of importance unless required to
do so, Lucy was bound to appear ignorant of the meaning of all that
had passed betwixt Alice and her father, and imputed the emotion he had
observed to the fear of the wild cattle which grazed in that part of the
extensive chase through which they were now walking.

Of these animals, the descendants of the savage herds which anciently
roamed free in the Caledonian forests, it was formerly a point of
state to preserve a few in the parks of the Scottish nobility. Specimens
continued within the memory of man to be kept at least at three houses
of distinction--Hamilton, namely, Drumlanrig, and Cumbernauld. They had
degenerated from the ancient race in size and strength, if we are to
judge from the accounts of old chronicles, and from the formidable
remains frequently discovered in bogs and morasses when drained and laid
open. The bull had lost the shaggy honours of his mane, and the race was
small and light made, in colour a dingy white, or rather a pale yellow,
with black horns and hoofs. They retained, however, in some measure,
the ferocity of their ancestry, could not be domesticated on account
of their antipathy to the human race, and were often dangerous if
approached unguardedly, or wantonly disturbed. It was this last reason
which has occasioned their being extirpated at the places we have
mentioned, where probably they would otherwise have been retained as
appropriate inhabitants of a Scottish woodland, and fit tenants for
a baronial forest. A few, if I mistake not, are still preserved
at Chillingham Castle, in Northumberland, the seat of the Earl of
Tankerville.

It was to her finding herself in the vicinity of a group of three or
four of these animals, that Lucy thought proper to impute those signs of
fear which had arisen in her countenance for a different reason. For she
had been familiarised with the appearance of the wil cattle during her
walks in the chase; and it was not then, as it may be now, a necessary
part of a young lady's demeanour to indulge in causeless tremors of the
nerves. On the present occasion, however, she speedily found cause for
real terror.

Lucy had scarcely replied to her father in the words we have mentioned,
and he was just about to rebuke her supposed timidity, when a bull,
stimulated either by the scarlet colour of Miss Ashton's mantle, or by
one of those fits of capricious ferocity to which their dispositions are
liable, detached himself suddenly from the group which was feeding at
the upper extremity of a grassy glade, that seemed to lose itself among
the crossing and entangled boughs. The animal approached the intruders
on his pasture ground, at first slowly, pawing the ground with his hoof,
bellowing from time to time, and tearing up the sand with his horns, as
if to lash himself up to rage and violence.

The Lord Keeper, who observed the animal's demeanour, was aware that he
was about to become mischievous, and, drawing his daughter's arm under
his own, began to walk fast along the avenue, in hopes to get out of his
sight and his reach. This was the most injudicious course he could have
adopted, for, encouraged by the appearance of flight, the bull began
to pursue them at full speed. Assailed by a danger so imminent, firmer
courage than that of the Lord Keeper might have given way. But paternal
tenderness, "love strong as death," sustained him. He continued to
support and drag onward his daughter, until her fears altogether
depriving her of the power of flight, she sunk down by his side; and
when he could no longer assist her to escape, he turned round and placed
himself betwixt her and the raging animal, which, advancing in full
career, its brutal fury enhanced by the rapidity of the pursuit, was now
within a few yards of them. The Lord Keeper had no weapons; his age
and gravity dispensed even with the usual appendage of a walking
sword--could such appendage have availed him anything.

It seemed inevitable that the father or daughter, or both, should
have fallen victims to the impending danger, when a shot from the
neighbouring thicket arrested the progress of the animal. He was so
truly struck between the junction of the spine with the skull, that the
wound, which in any other part of his body might scarce have impeded his
career, proved instantly fatal. Stumbling forward with a hideous bellow,
the progressive force of his previous motion, rather than any operation
of his limbs, carried him up to within three yards of the astonished
Lord Keeper, where he rolled on the ground, his limbs darkened with the
black death-sweat, and quivering with the last convulsions of muscular
motion.

Lucy lay senseless on the ground, insensible of the wonderful
deliverance which she had experience. Her father was almost equally
stupified, so rapid and unexpected had been the transition from the
horrid death which seemed inevitable to perfect security. He gazed on
the animal, terrible even in death, with a species of mute and confused
astonishment, which did not permit him distinctly to understand what had
taken place; and so inaccurate was his consciousness of what had passed,
that he might have supposed the bull had been arrested in its career by
a thunderbolt, had he not observed among the branches of the thicket the
figure of a man, with a short gun or musquetoon in his hand.

This instantly recalled him to a sense of their situation: a glance at
his daughter reminded him of the necessity of procuring her assistance.
He called to the man, whom he concluded to be one of his foresters, to
give immediate attention to Miss Ashton, while he himself hastened to
call assistance. The huntsman approached them accordingly, and the Lord
Keeper saw he was a stranger, but was too much agitated to make any
farther remarks. In a few hurried words he directed the shooter, as
stronger and more active than himself, to carry the young lady to a
neighbouring fountain, while he went back to Alice's hut to procure more
aid.

The man to whose timely interference they had been so much indebted did
not seem inclined to leave his good work half finished. He raised Lucy
from the ground in his arms, and conveying her through the glades of
the forest by paths with which he seemed well acquainted, stopped not
until he laid her in safety by the side of a plentiful and pellucid
fountain, which had been once covered in, screened and decorated with
architectural ornaments of a Gothic character. But now the vault which
had covered it being broken down and riven, and the Gothic font ruined
and demolished, the stream burst forth from the recess of the earth in
open day, and winded its way among the broken sculpture and moss-grown
stones which lay in confusion around its source.

Tradition, always busy, at least in Scotland, to grace with a legendary
tale a spot in itself interesting, had ascribed a cause of peculiar
veneration to this fountain. A beautiful young lady met one of the Lords
of Ravenswood while hunting near this spot, and, like a second Egeria,
had captivated the affections of the feudal Numa. They met frequently
afterwards, and always at sunset, the charms of the nymph's mind
completing the conquest which her beauty had begun, and the mystery of
the intrigue adding zest to both. She always appeared and disappeared
close by the fountain, with which, therefore, her lover judged she had
some inexplicable connexion. She placed certain restrictions on their
intercourse, which also savoured of mystery. They met only once a
week--Friday was the appointed day--and she explained to the Lord of
Ravenswood that they were under the necessity of separating so soon as
the bell of a chapel, belonging to a hermitage in the adjoining wood,
now long ruinous, should toll the hour of vespers. In the course of his
confession, the Baron of Ravenswood entrusted the hermit with the
secret of this singular amour, and Father Zachary drew the necessary and
obvious consequence that his patron was enveloped in the toils of Satan,
and in danger of destruction, both to body and soul. He urged these
perils to the Baron with all the force of monkish rhetoric, and
described, in the most frightful colours, the real character and person
of the apparently lovely Naiad, whom he hesitated not to denounce as
a limb of the kingdom of darkness. The lover listened with obstinate
incredulity; and it was not until worn out by the obstinacy of the
anchoret that he consented to put the state and condition of his
mistress to a certain trial, and for that purpose acquiesced in
Zachary's proposal that on their next interview the vespers bell
should be rung half an hour later than usual. The hermit maintained
and bucklered his opinion, by quotations from Malleus Malificarum,
Sprengerus, Remigius, and other learned demonologists, that the Evil
One, thus seduced to remain behind the appointed hour, would assume her
true shape, and, having appeared to her terrified lover as a fiend of
hell, would vanish from him in a flash of sulphurous lightning. Raymond
of Ravenswood acquiesced in the experiment, not incurious concerning
the issue, though confident it would disappoint the expectations of the
hermit.

At the appointed hour the lovers met, and their interview was protracted
beyond that at which they usually parted, by the delay of the priest
to ring his usual curfew. No change took place upon the nymph's outward
form; but as soon as the lengthening shadows made her aware that the
usual hour of the vespers chime was passed, she tore herself from her
lover's arms with a shriek of despair, bid him adieu for ever, and,
plunging into the fountain, disappeared from his eyes. The bubbles
occasioned by her descent were crimsoned with blood as they arose,
leading the distracted Baron to infer that his ill-judged curiosity
had occasioned the death of this interesting and mysterious being. The
remorse which he felt, as well as the recollection of her charms, proved
the penance of his future life, which he lost in the battle of Flodden
not many months after. But, in memory of his Naiad, he had previously
ornamented the fountain in which she appeared to reside, and secured its
waters from profanation or pollution by the small vaulted building of
which the fragments still remained scattered around it. From this period
the house of Ravenswood was supposed to have dated its decay.

Such was the generally-received legend, which some, who would seem
wiser than the vulgar, explained as obscurely intimating the fate of a
beautiful maid of plebeian rank, the mistress of this Raymond, whom he
slew in a fit of jealousy, and whose blood was mingled with the waters
of the locked fountain, as it was commonly called. Others imagined
that the tale had a more remote origin in the ancient heathen mythology.
All, however, agreed that the spot was fatal to the Ravenswood family;
and that to drink of the waters of the well, or even approach its brink,
was as ominous to a descendant of that house as for a Grahame to wear
green, a Bruce to kill a spider, or a St. Clair to cross the Ord on a
Monday.

It was on this ominous spot that Lucy Ashton first drew breath after her
long and almost deadly swoon. Beautiful and pale as the fabulous Naiad
in the last agony of separation from her lover, she was seated so as to
rest with her back against a part of the ruined wall, while her mantle,
dripping with the water which her protector had used profusely to recall
her senses, clung to her slender and beautifully proportioned form.

The first moment of recollection brought to her mind the danger which
had overpowered her senses; the next called to remembrance that of her
father. She looked around; he was nowhere to be seen. "My father, my
father!" was all that she could ejaculate.

"Sir William is safe," answered the voice of a stranger--"perfectly
safe, adn will be with you instantly."

"Are you sure of that?" exclaimed Lucy. "The bull was close by us. Do
not stop me: I must go to seek my father!"

And she rose with that purpose; but her strength was so much exhausted
that, far from possessing the power to execute her purpose, she must
have fallen against the stone on which she had leant, probably not
without sustaining serious injury.

The stranger was so near to her that, without actually suffering her to
fall, he could not avoid catching her in his arms, which, however, he
did with a momentary reluctance, very unusual when youth interposes to
prevent beauty from danger. It seemed as if her weight, slight as it
was, proved too heavy for her young and athletic assistant, for, without
feeling the temptation of detaining her in his arms even for a single
instant, he again placed her on the stone from which she had risen,
and retreating a few steps, repeated hastily "Sir William Ashton is
perfectly safe and will be here instantly. Do not make yourself anxious
on his account: Fate has singularly preserved him. You, madam, are
exhausted, and must not think of rising until you have some assistance
more suitable than mine."

Lucy, whose senses were by this time more effectually collected, was
naturally led to look at the stranger with attention. There was nothing
in his appearance which should have rendered him unwilling to offer his
arm to a young lady who required support, or which could have induced
her to refuse his assistance; and she could not help thinking, even
in that moment, that he seemed cold and reluctant to offer it. A
shooting-dress of dark cloth intimated the rank of the wearer, though
concealed in part by a large and loose cloak of a dark brown colour.
A montero cap and a black feather drooped over the wearer's brow,
and partly concealed his features, which, so far as seen, were dark,
regular, adn full of majestic, though somewhat sullen, expression.
Some secret sorrow, or the brooding spirit of some moody passion, had
quenched the light and ingenuous vivacity of youth in a countenance
singularly fitted to display both, and it was not easy to gaze on the
stranger without a secret impression either of pity or awe, or at least
of doubt and curiosity allied to both.

The impression which we have necessarily been long in describing, Lucy
felt in the glance of a moment, and had no sooner encountered the keen
black eyes of the stranger than her own were bent on the ground with a
mixture of bashful embarrassment and fear. Yet there was a necessity to
speak, or at last she thought so, and in a fluttered accent she began
to mention her wonderful escape, in which she was sure that the stranger
must, under Heaven, have been her father's protector and her own.

He seemed to shrink from her expressions of gratitude, while he replied
abruptly, "I leave you, madam," the deep melody of his voice rendered
powerful, but not harsh, by something like a severity of tone--"I leave
you to the protection of those to whom it is possible you may have this
day been a guardian angel."

Lucy was surprised at the ambiguity of his language, and, with a feeling
of artless and unaffected gratitude, began to deprecate the idea of
having intended to give her deliverer any offence, as if such a thing
had been possible. "I have been unfortunate," she said, "in endeavouring
to express my thanks--I am sure it must be so, though I cannot recollect
what I said; but would you but stay till my father--till the Lord Keeper
comes; would you only permit him to pay you his thanks, and to inquire
your name?"

"My name is unnecessary," answered the stranger; "your father--I would
rather say Sir William Ashton--will learn it soon enough, for all the
pleasure it is likely to afford him."

"You mistake him," said Lucy, earnestly; "he will be grateful for my
sake and for his own. You do not know my father, or you are deceiving me
with a story of his safety, when he has already fallen a victim to the
fury of that animal."

When she had caught this idea, she started from the ground and
endeavoured to press towards the avenue in which the accident had taken
place, while the stranger, though he seemed to hesitate between the
desire to assist and the wish to leave her, was obliged, in common
humanity, to oppose her both by entreaty and action.

"On the word of a gentleman, madam, I tell you the truth; your father
is in perfect safety; you will expose yourself to injury if you venture
back where the herd of wild cattle grazed. If you will go"--for, having
once adopted the idea that her father was still in danger, she pressed
forward in spite of him--"if you WILL go, accept my arm, though I am not
perhaps the person who can with most propriety offer you support."

But, without heeding this intimation, Lucy took him at his word. "Oh,
if you be a man," she said--"if you be a gentleman, assist me to find my
father! You shall not leave me--you must go with me; he is dying perhaps
while we are talking here!"

Then, without listening to excuse or apology, and holding fast by the
stranger's arm, though unconscious of anything save the support which
it gave, and without which she could not have moved, mixed with a vague
feeling of preventing his escape from her, she was urging, and almost
dragging, him forward when Sir William Ashton came up, followed by the
female attendant of blind Alice, and by two woodcutters, whom he had
summoned from their occupation to his assistance. His joy at seeing his
daughter safe overcame the surprise with which he would at another time
have beheld her hanging as familiarly on the arm of a stranger as she
might have done upon his own.

"Lucy, my dear Lucy, are you safe?--are you well?" were the only words
that broke from him as he embraced her in ecstasy.

"I am well, sir, thank God! and still more that I see you so; but this
gentleman," she said, quitting his arm and shrinking from him, "what
must he think of me?" and her eloquent blood, flushing over neck and
brow, spoke how much she was ashamed of the freedom with which she had
craved, and even compelled, his assistance.

"This gentleman," said Sir William Ashton, "will, I trust, not regret
the trouble we have given him, when I assure him of the gratitude of
the Lord Keeper for the greatest service which one man ever rendered to
another--for the life of my child--for my own life, which he has saved
by his bravery and presence of mind. He will, I am sure, permit us to
request----" "Request nothing of ME, my lord," said the stranger, in a
stern and peremptory tone; "I am the Master of Ravenswood."

There was a dead pause of surprise, not unmixed with less pleasant
feelings. The Master wrapt himself in his cloak, made a haughty
inclination toward Lucy, muttering a few words of courtesy, as
indistinctly heard as they seemed to be reluctantly uttered, and,
turning from them, was immediately lost in the thicket.

"The Master of Ravenswood!" said the Lord Keeper, when he had recovered
his momentary astonishment. "Hasten after him--stop him--beg him to
speak to me for a single moment."

The two foresters accordingly set off in pursuit of the stranger. They
speedily reappeared, and, in an embarrassed and awkward manner, said the
gentleman would not return.

The Lord Keeper took one of the fellows aside, and questioned him more
closely what the Master of Ravenswood had said.

"He just said he wadna come back," said the man, with the caution of
a prudent Scotchman, who cared not to be the bearer of an unpleasant
errand.

"He said something more, sir," said the Lord Keeper, "and I insist on
knowing what it was."

"Why, then, my lord," said the man, looking down, "he said--But it wad
be nae pleasure to your lordship to hear it, for I dare say the Master
meant nae ill."

"That's none of your concern, sir; I desire to hear the very words."

"Weel, then," replied the man, "he said, 'Tell Sir William Ashton that
the next time he and I forgather, he will nto be half sae blythe of our
meeting as of our parting.'"

"Very well, sir," said the Lord Keeper, "I believe he alludes to a wager
we have on our hawks; it is a matter of no consequence."

He turned to his daughter, who was by this time so much recovered as to
be able to walk home. But the effect, which the various recollections
connected with a scene so terrific made upon a mind which was
susceptible in an extreme degree, was more permanent than the injury
which her nerves had sustained. Visions of terror, both in sleep and in
waking reveries, recalled to her the form of the furious animal, and the
dreadful bellow with which he accompanied his career; and it was always
the image of the Master of Ravenswood, with his native nobleness of
countenance and form, that seemed to interpose betwixt her and assured
death. It is, perhaps, at all times dangerous for a young person to
suffer recollection to dwell repeatedly, and with too much complacency,
on the same individual; but in Lucy's situation it was almost
unavoidable. She had never happened to see a young man of mien and
features so romantic and so striking as young Ravenswood; but had she
seen an hundred his equals or his superiors in those particulars, no one
else would have been linked to her heart by the strong associations of
remembered danger and escape, of gratitude, wonder, and curiosity. I
say curiosity, for it is likely that the singularly restrained and
unaccommodating manners of the Master of Ravenswood, so much at variance
with the natural expression of his features and grace of his deportment,
as they excited wonder by the contrast, had their effect in riveting her
attention to the recollections. She knew little of Ravenswood, or the
disputes which had existed betwixt her father and his, and perhaps could
in her gentleness of mind hardly have comprehended the angry and bitter
passions which they had engendered. But she knew that he was come of
noble stem; was poor, though descended from the noble and the wealthy;
and she felt that she could sympathise with the feelings of a proud
mind, which urged him to recoil from the proffered gratitude of the new
proprietors of his father's house and domains. Would he have equally
shunned their acknowledgments and avoided their intimacy, had her
father's request been urged more mildly, less abruptly, and softened
with the grace which women so well know how to throw into their manner,
when they mean to mediate betwixt the headlong passions of the ruder
sex? This was a perilous question to ask her own mind--perilous both in
the idea and its consequences.

Lucy Ashton, in short, was involved in those mazes of the imagination
which are most dangerous to the young and the sensitive. Time, it
is true, absence, change of scene and new faces, might probably have
destroyed the illusion in her instance, as it has done in many others;
but her residence remained solitary, and her mind without those means of
dissipating her pleasing visions. This solitude was chiefly owing to the
absence of Lady Ashton, who was at this time in Edinburgh, watching the
progress of some state-intrigue; the Lord Keeper only received society
out of policy or ostentation, and was by nature rather reserved and
unsociable; and thus no cavalier appeared to rival or to obscure the
ideal picture of chivalrous excellence which Lucy had pictured to
herself in the Master of Ravenswood.

While Lucy indulged in these dreams, she made frequent visits to old
blind Alice, hoping it would be easy to lead her to talk on the subject
which at present she had so imprudently admitted to occupy so large a
portion of her thoughts. But Alice did not in this particular gratify
her wishes and expectations. She spoke readily, and with pathetic
feeling, concerning the family in general, but seemed to observe
an especial and cautious silence on the subject of the present
representative. The little she said of him was not altogether so
favourable as Lucy had anticipated. She hinted that he was of a stern
and unforgiving character, more ready to resent than to pardon injuries;
and Lucy combined, with great alarm, the hints which she now dropped
of these dangerous qualities with Alice's advice to her father, so
emphatically given, "to beware of Ravenswood."

But that very Ravenswood, of whom such unjust suspicions had been
entertained, had, almost immediately after they had been uttered,
confuted them by saving at once her father's life and her own. Had he
nourished such black revenge as Alice's dark hints seemed to indicate,
no deed of active guilt was necessary to the full gratification of
that evil passion. He needed but to have withheld for an instant his
indispensable and effective assistance, and the object of his resentment
must have perished, without any direct aggression on his part, by a
death equally fearful and certain. She conceived, therefore, that some
secret prejudice, or the suspicions incident to age and misfortune,
had led Alice to form conclusions injurious to the character, and
irreconcilable both with the generous conduct and noble features, of the
Master of Ravenswood. And in this belief Lucy reposed her hope, and went
on weaving her enchanted web of fairy tissue, as beautiful and transient
as the film of the gossamer when it is pearled with the morning dew and
glimmering to the sun.

Her father, in the mean while, as well as the Master of Ravenswood, were
making reflections, as frequent though more solid than those of Lucy,
upon the singular event which had taken place. The Lord Keeper's first
task, when he returned home, was to ascertain by medical advice that
his daughter had sustained no injury from the dangerous and alarming
situation in which she had been placed. Satisfied on this topic, he
proceeded to revise the memoranda which he had taken down from the mouth
of the person employed to interrupt the funeral service of the late
Lord Ravenswood. Bred to casuistry, and well accustomed to practise the
ambidexter ingenuity of the bar, it cost him little trouble to soften
the features of the tumult which he had been at first so anxious to
exaggerate. He preached to his colleagues of the privy council the
necessity of using conciliatory measures with young men, whose blood
and temper were hot, and their experience of life limited. He did not
hesitate to attribute some censure to the conduct of the officer, as
having been unnecessarily irritating.

These were the contents of his public despatches. The letters which
he wrote to those private friends into whose management the matter was
likely to fall were of a yet more favourable tenor. He represented
that lenity in this case would be equally politic and popular, whereas,
considering the high respect with which the rites of interment are
regarded in Scotland, any severity exercised against the Master of
Ravenswood for protecting those of his father from interruption, would
be on all sides most unfavourably construed. And, finally, assuming the
language of a generous and high-spirited man, he made it his particular
request that this affair should be passed over without severe notice. He
alluded with delicacy to the predicament in which he himself stood with
young Ravenswood, as having succeeded in the long train of litigation
by which the fortunes of that noble house had been so much reduced, and
confessed it would be most peculiarly acceptable to his own feelings,
could he find in some sort to counterbalance the disadvantages which he
had occasioned the family, though only in the prosecution of his just
and lawful rights. He therefore made it his particular and personal
request that the matter should have no farther consequences, an
insinuated a desire that he himself should have the merit of having
put a stop to it by his favourable report and intercession. It was
particularly remarkable that, contrary to his uniform practice, he made
no special communication to Lady Ashton upon the subject of the tumult;
and although he mentioned the alarm which Lucy had received from one
of the wild cattle, yet he gave no detailed account of an incident so
interesting and terrible.

There was much surprise among Sir William Ashton's political friends and
colleagues on receiving letters of a tenor so unexpected. On comparing
notes together, one smiled, one put up his eyebrows, a third nodded
acquiescence in the general wonder, and a fourth asked if they were sure
these were ALL the letters the Lord Keeper had written on the subject.
"It runs strangely in my mind, my lords, that none of these advices
contain the root of the matter."

But no secret letters of a contrary nature had been received, although
the question seemed to imply the possibility of their existence.

"Well," said an old grey-headed statesman, who had contrived, by
shifting and trimming, to maintain his post at the steerage through all
the changes of course which the vessel had held for thirty years, "I
thought Sir William would hae verified the auld Scottish saying, 'As
soon comes the lamb's skin to market as the auld tup's'."

"We must please him after his own fashion," said another, "though it be
an unlooked-for one."

"A wilful man maun hae his way," answered the old counsellor.

"The Keeper will rue this before year and day are out," said a third;
"the Master of Ravenswood is the lad to wind him a pirn."

"Why, what would you do, my lords, with the poor young fellow?" said a
noble Marquis present. "The Lord Keeper has got all his estates; he has
not a cross to bless himself with."

On which the ancient Lord Turntippet replied,

     "If he hasna gear to fine,
     He ha shins to pine.

"And that was our way before the Revolution: Lucitur cum persona, qui
luere non potest cum crumena. Hegh, my lords, that's gude law Latin."

"I can see no motive," replied the Marquis, "that any noble lord can
have for urging this matter farther; let the Lord Keeper have the power
to deal in it as he pleases."

"Agree, agree--remit to the Lord Keeper, with any other person for
fashion's sake--Lord Hirplehooly, who is bed-ridden--one to be a quorum.
Make your entry in the minutes, Mr. Clerk. And now, my lords, there is
that young scattergood the Laird of Bucklaw's fine to be disposed upon.
I suppose it goes to my Lord Treasurer?"

"Shame be in my meal-poke, then," exclaimed the Lord Turntippet, "and
your hand aye in the nook of it! I had set that down for a bye-bit
between meals for mysell."

"To use one of your favourite saws, my lord," replied the Marquis, "you
are like the miller's dog, that licks his lips before the bag is untied:
the man is not fined yet."

"But that costs but twa skarts of a pen," said Lord Turntippet; "and
surely there is nae noble lord that will presume to say that I, wha hae
complied wi' a' compliances, taen all manner of tests, adjured all that
was to be abjured, and sworn a' that was to be sworn, for these thirty
years bye-past, sticking fast by my duty to the state through good
report and bad report, shouldna hae something now and then to synd my
mouth wi' after sic drouthy wark? Eh?"

"It would be very unreasonable indeed, my lord," replied the Marquis,
"had we either thought that your lordship's drought was quenchable, or
observed anything stick in your throat that required washing down."

And so we close the scene on the privy council of that period.


CHAPTER VI.

     For this are all these warriors come,
     To hear an idle tale;
     And o'er our death-accustom'd arms
     Shall silly tears prevail?

     HENRY MACKENZIE.

ON the evening of the day when the Lord Keeper and his daughter were
saved from such imminent peril, two strangers were seated in the most
private apartment of a small obscure inn, or rather alehouse, called
the Tod's Den [Hole], about three or four [five or six] miles from the
Castle of Ravenswood and as far from the ruinous tower of Wolf's Crag,
betwixt which two places it was situated.

One of these strangers was about forty years of age, tall, and thin in
the flanks, with an aquiline nose, dark penetrating eyes, and a shrewd
but sinister cast of countenance. The other was about fifteen years
younger, short, stout, ruddy-faced, and red-haired, with an open,
resolute, and cheerful eye, to which careless and fearless freedom and
inward daring gave fire and expression, notwithstanding its light grey
colour. A stoup of wine (for in those days it was erved out from the
cask in pewter flagons) was placed on the table, and each had his quaigh
or bicker before him. The same sorts of varieties have been noticed in
many other stamps printed by the line engraved process, notably in such
stamps as the "pence" Ceylons, and proper investigation finally proved
beyond a shadow of doubt that these differences in size were due to
nothing more than uneven contraction of the paper after printing.
It must be understood that in printing stamps by the line-engraved
method the paper usually has to be slightly wetted (this was an
invariable rule at the time these early Canada stamps were printed)
and it can be easily seen that the wetting would have quite different
results on different qualities of paper.

Some would be more absorbent than others and would stretch while damp
and contract again when drying. The amount of wetting administered
would, also, result in differences even in the same qualify of
paper.

These variations in the size of the design, therefore, while interesting
in themselves as examples of paper vagaries, are of little, if any,
philatelic importance.

Bi-sected stamps were not used in Canada to anything like the same
extent that similar varieties were used in the other British North
American provinces.

The 6d is catalogued as having been divided diagonally and the
halves used as 3d stamps, though there can have been no real necessity
for such bi-section.

A bi-sected stamp of quite another character was mentioned in the _Monthly
Journal_ for April, 1898, as follows:--
The _Post Office_ describes a so-called "split provisional" of the
early 3d stamp, which is described as consisting of one and a half
of the unperforated 3d on wove, upon an entire envelope postmarked
"Port Hope, July 16th, 1855, Canada, Paid 10c."

Our contemporary does not appear to perceive that the postmark plainly
indicates that the supposed half stamp is really only a badly cut copy;
the 3d of Canada passed for 5 cents, and as this letter is plainly
marked "Paid 10c", the stamps upon it evidently passed as two 3d, not as
one and a half, which would have corresponded to no rate of
postage.

The same journal, two months later, made more extended reference
to this variety and while its bona-fides as a "split" is established
its use as a half stamp is as much a mystery as ever.

We cannot do better than give the paragraph in full:--
In the New Issues column of our number for April, we called in question
the character of a supposed "split" _three pence_ stamp of Canada, which
had been chronicled in the _Post Office_, New York.

In reply to our criticism, Messrs. Morgenthau & Co., the
publishers of that magazine, have most kindly forwarded to us the
letter bearing the divided stamp, and have requested our opinion upon
it.
The specimen is such a curious one and presents, we think, such a puzzle
for philatelists, that we have taken the liberty--which we hope its
owner will pardon--of having a photographic block made from it, and we
give a full size illustration, showing both the stamps and the postmarks,
herewith. As our readers may perceive, we were quite wrong in
suggesting that the "split" stamp was merely a badly cut copy, as
it appears to have been carefully bi-sected diagonally and to have
been intended to pass as a half stamp, making up, with the entire
stamp to which it is attached, a rate of 4-1/2d.

If this were all, though the specimen would be a great rarity--indeed,
we believe it to be unique--it would not be necessarily a great puzzle
to us.
He has parts and address,
as well as courage and talents, and will present himself abroad like a
young man of head as well as heart, who knows something more than the
speed of a horse or the flight of a hawk. I have lost credit of late, by
bringing over no one that had sense to know more than how to unharbour a
stag, or take and reclaim an eyas. The Master has education, sense, and
penetration."

"And yet is not wise enough to escape the tricks of a kidnapper,
Craigengelt?" replied the younger man. "But don't be angry; you know
you will nto fight, and so it is as well to leave your hilt in peace
andquiet, and tell me in sober guise how you drew the Master into your
confidence?"

"By flattering his love of vengeance, Bucklaw," answered Craigengelt.
"He has always distrusted me; but I watched my time, and struck while
his temper was red-hot with the sense of insult and of wrong. He goes
now to expostulate, as he says, and perhaps thinks, with Sir William
Ashton. I say, that if they meet, and the lawyer puts him to his
defence, the Master will kill him; for he had that sparkle in his eye
which never deceives you when you would read a man's purpose. At any
rate, he will give him such a bullying as will be construed into an
assault on a privy councillor; so there will be a total breach betwixt
him and government. Scotland will be too hot for him; France will gain
him; and we will all set sail together in the French brig 'L'Espoir,'
which is hovering for us off Eyemouth."

"Content am I," said Bucklaw; "Scotland has little left that I care
about; and if carrying the Master with us will get us a better reception
in France, why, so be it, a God's name. I doubt our own merits will
procure us slender preferment; and I trust he will send a ball through
the Keeper's head before he joins us. One or two of these scoundrel
statesmen should be shot once a year, just to keep the others on their
good behaviour."

"That is very true," replied Craigengelt; "and it reminds me that I
must go and see that our horses have been fed and are in readiness; for,
should such deed be done, it will be no time for grass to grow beneath
their heels." He proceeded as far as the door, then turned back with a
look of earnestness, and said to Bucklaw: "Whatever should come of this
business, I am sure you will do me the justice to remember that I said
nothing to the Master which could imply my accession to any act of
violence which he may take it into his head to commit."

"No, no, not a single word like accession," replied Bucklaw; "you
know too well the risk belonging to these two terrible words, 'art and
part.'" Then, as if to himself, he recited the following lines:

"The dial spoke not, but it made shrewd signs, And pointed full upon the
stroke of murder.

"What is that you are talking to yourself?" said Craigengelt, turning
back with some anxiety.

"Nothing, only two lines I have heard upon the stage," replied his
companion.

"Bucklaw," said Craigengelt, "I sometimes think you should have been a
stage-player yourself; all is fancy and frolic with you."

"I have often thought so myself," said Bucklaw. "I believe it would be
safer than acting with you in the Fatal Conspiracy. But away, play
your own part, and look after the horses like a groom as you are. A
play-actor--a stage-player!" he repeated to himself; "that would have
deserved a stab, but that Craigengelt's a coward. And yet I should like
the profession well enough. Stay, let me see; ay, I would come out in
Alexander:

     Thus from the grave I rise to save my love,
     Draw all your swords, and quick as lightning move.
     When I rush on, sure none will dare to stay:
     'Tis love commands, and glory leads the way."

As with a voice of thunder, and his hand upon his sword, Bucklaw
repeated the ranting couplets of poor Lee, Craigengelt re-entered with a
face of alarm.

"We are undone, Bucklaw! The Master's led horse has cast himself over
his halter in the stable, and is dead lame. His hackney will be set up
with the day's work, and now he has no fresh horse; he will never get
off."

--_The Diamond Jubilee Issue._

The year 1897 was an eventful one in the history of the British
Empire, for on June 20th the greatly revered Queen Victoria
celebrated the sixtieth anniversary of her accession to the throne."Why," replied Bucklaw, "if the Lord Keeper should have met with a
mischance, which for my part I cannot suppose, for the Master is not
the lad to shoot an old and unarmed man--but IF there should have been
a fray at the Castle, you are neither art not part in it, you know, so
have nothing to fear."

"True, true," answered the other, with embarrassment; "but consider my
commission from Saint Germains."

"Which many men think is a commission of your own making, noble Captain.
Well, if you will not give him your horse, why, d----n it, he must have
mine."

"Yours?" said Craigengelt.

"Ay, mine," repeated Bucklaw; "it shall never be said that I agreed to
back a gentleman in a little affair of honour, and neither helped him on
with it nor off from it."

"You will give him your horse? and have you considered the loss?"

"Loss! why, Grey Gilbert cost me twenty Jacobuses, that's true; but then
his hackney is worth something, and his Black Moor is worth twice as
much were he sound, and I know how to handle him. Take a fat sucking
mastiff whelp, flay and bowel him, stuff the body full of black and
grey snails, roast a reasonable time, and baste with oil of spikenard,
saffron, cinnamon, and honey, anoint with the dripping, working it
in----"

"Yes, Bucklaw; but in the mean while, before the sprain is cured, nay,
before the whelp is roasted, you will be caught and hung. Depend on it,
the chase will be hard after Ravenswood. I wish we had made our place of
rendezvous nearer to the coast."

"On my faith, then," said Bucklaw, "I had best go off just now, and
leave my horse for him. Stay--stay, he comes: I hear a horse's feet."

"Are you sure there is only one?" said Craigengelt. "I fear there is a
chase; I think I hear three or four galloping together. I am sure I hear
more horses than one."

"Pooh, pooh, it is the wench of the house clattering to the well in her
pattens. By my faith, Captain, you should give up both your captainship
and your secret service, for you are as easily scared as a wild goose.
But here comes the Master alone, and looking as gloomy as a night in
November."

The Master of Ravenswood entered the room accordingly, his cloak muffled
around him, his arms folded, his looks stern, and at the same time
dejected. He flung his cloak from him as he entered, threw himself upon
a chair, and appeared sunk in a profound reverie.

"What has happened? What have you done?" was hastily demanded by
Craigengelt and Bucklaw in the same moment.

"Nothing!" was the short and sullen answer.

"Nothing! and left us, determined to call the old villain to account
for all the injuries that you, we, and the country have received at his
hand? Have you seen him?" "I have," replied the Master of Ravenswood.

"Seen him--and come away without settling scores which have been so long
due?" said Bucklaw; "I would not have expected that at the hand of the
Master of Ravenswood."

"No matter what you expected," replied Ravenswood; "it is not to you,
sir, that I shall be disposed to render any reason for my conduct."

"Patience, Bucklaw," said Craigengelt, interrupting his companion, who
seemed about to make an angry reply. "The Master has been interrupted in
his purpose by some accident; but he must excuse the anxious curiosity
of friends who are devoted to his cause like you and me."

"Friends, Captain Craigengelt!" retorted Ravenswood, haughtily; "I am
ignorant what familiarity passed betwixt us to entitle you to use that
expression. I think our friendship amounts to this, that we agreed to
leave Scotland together so soon as I should have visited the
alienated mansion of my fathers, and had an interview with its present
possessor--I will not call him proprietor."

"Very true, Master," answered Bucklaw; "and as we thought you had in
mind to do something to put your neck in jeopardy, Craigie and I very
courteously agreed to tarry for you, although ours might run some risk
in consequence. As to Craigie, indeed, it does not very much signify: he
had gallows written on his brow in the hour of his birth; but I should
not like to discredit my parentage by coming to such an end in another
man's cause."

"Gentlemen," said the Master of Ravenswood, "I am sorry if I have
occasioned you any inconvenience, but I must claim the right of judging
what is best for my own affairs, without rendering explanations to any
one. I have altered my mind, and do not design to leave the country this
season."

"Not to leave the country, Master!" exclaimed Craigengelt. "Not to go
over, after all the trouble and expense I have incurred--after all the
risk of discovery, and the expense of freight and demurrage!"

"Sir," replied the Master of Ravenswood, "when I designed to leave this
country in this haste, I made use of your obliging offer to procure me
means of conveyance; but I do not recollect that I pledged myself to
go off, if I found occasion to alter my mind. For your trouble on my
account, I am sorry, and I thank you; your expense," he added, putting
his hand into his pocket, "admits a more solid compensation: freight and
demurrage are matters with which I am unacquainted, Captain Craigengelt,
but take my purse and pay yourself according to your own conscience."
And accordingly he tendered a purse with some gold in it to the
soi-disant captain.

But here Bucklaw interposed in his turn. "Your fingers, Craigie, seem to
itch for that same piece of green network," said he; "but I make my vow
to God, that if they offer to close upon it, I will chop them off with
my whinger. Since the Master has changed his mind, I suppose we need
stay here no longer; but in the first place I beg leave to tell him----"

"Tell him anything you will," said Craigengelt, "if you will first
allow me to state the inconveniences to which he will expose himself by
quitting our society, to remind him of the obstacles to his remaining
here, and of the difficulties attending his proper introduction at
Versailles and Saint Germains without the countenance of those who have
established useful connexions."

"Besides forfeiting the friendship," said Bucklaw, "of at least one man
of spirit and honour."

"Gentlemen," said Ravenswood, "permit me once more to assure you
that you have been pleased to attach to our temporary connexion more
importance than I ever meant that it should have. When I repair to
foreign courts, I shall not need the introduction of an intriguing
adventurer, nor is it necessary for me to set value on the friendship
of a hot-headed bully." With these words, and without waiting for an
answer, he left the apartment, remounted his horse, and was heard to
ride off.

"Mortbleu!" said Captain Craigengelt, "my recruit is lost!"

"Ay, Captain," said Bucklaw, "the salmon is off with hook and all. But
I will after him, for I have had more of his insolence than I can well
digest."

Craigengelt offered to accompany him; but Bucklaw replied: "No, no,
Captain, keep you the check of the chimney-nook till I come back; it's
good sleeping in a haill skin.

     Little kens the auld wife that sits by the fire,
     How cauld the wind blaws in hurle-burle swire."

And singing as he went, he left the apartment.


CHAPTER VII.

     Now, Billy Berwick, keep good heart,
     And of they talking let me be;
     But if thou art a man, as I am sure thou art,
     Come over the dike and fight with me.

     Old Ballad.

THE Master of Ravenswood had mounted the ambling hackney which he before
rode, on finding the accident which had happened to his led horse, and,
for the animal's ease, was proceeding at a slow pace from the Tod's Den
towards his old tower of Wolf's Crag, when he heard the galloping of a
horse behind him, and, looking back, perceived that he was pursued by
young Bucklaw, who had been delayed a few minutes in the pursuit by
the irresistable temptation of giving the hostler at the Tod's Den some
recipe for treating the lame horse. This brief delay he had made up by
hard galloping, and now overtook the Master where the road traversed
a waste moor. "Halt, sir," cried Bucklaw; "I am no political agent--no
Captain Craigengelt, whose life is too important to be hazarded in
defence of his honour. I am Frank Hayston of Bucklaw, and no man injures
me by word, deed, sign, or look, but he must render me an account of
it."

"This is all very well, Mr. Hayston of Bucklaw," replied the Master
of Ravenswood, in a tone the most calm and indifferent; "but I have no
quarrel with you, and desire to have none. Our roads homeward, as well
as our roads through life, lie in different directions; there is no
occasion for us crossing each other."

"Is there not?" said Bucklaw, impetuously. "By Heaven! but I say that
there is, though: you called us intriguing adventurers."

"Be correct in your recollection, Mr. Hayston; it was to your companion
only I applied that epithet, and you know him to be no better."

"And what then? He was my companion for the time, and no man shall
insult my companion, right or wrong, while he is in my company."

"Then, Mr. Hayston," replied Ravenswood, with the same composure, "you
should choose your society better, or you are like to have much work
in your capacity of their champion. Go home, sir; sleep, and have more
reason in your wrath to-morrow."

"Not so, Master, you have mistaken your man; high airs and wise saws
shall not carry it off thus. Besides, you termed me bully, and you shall
retract the word before we part."

"Faith, scarcely," said Ravenswood, "unless you show me better reason
for thinking myself mistaken than you are now producing."

"Then, Master," said Bucklaw, "though I should be sorry to offer it to a
man of your quality, if you will not justify your incivility, or retract
it, or name a place of meeting, you must here undergo the hard word and
the hard blow."

"Neither will be necessary," said Ravenswood; "I am satisfied with what
I have done to avoid an affair with you. If you are serious, this place
will serve as well as another."

"Dismount then, and draw," said Bucklaw, setting him an example. "I
always thought and said you were a pretty man; I should be sorry to
report you otherwise."

"You shall have no reason, sir," said Ravenswood, alighting, and putting
himself into a posture of defence.

Their swords crossed, and the combat commenced with great spirit on the
part of Bucklaw, who was well accustomed to affairs of the kind, and
distinguished by address and dexterity at his weapon. In the present
case, however, he did not use his skill to advantage; for, having
lost temper at the cool and contemptuous manner in which the Master of
Ravenswood had long refused, and at length granted, him satisfaction,
and urged by his impatience, he adopted the part of an assailant with
inconsiderate eagerness. The Master, with equal skill, and much greater
composure, remained chiefly on the defensive, and even declined to avail
himself of one or two advantages afforded him by the eagerness of his
adversary. At length, in a desperate lunge, which he followed with
an attempt to close, Bucklaw's foot slipped, and he fell on the short
grassy turf on which they were fighting. "Take your life, sir," said the
Master of Ravenswood, "and mend it if you can."

"It would be but a cobbled piece of work, I fear," said Bucklaw, rising
slowly and gathering up his sword, much less disconcerted with the issue
of the combat than could have been expected from the impetuosity of
his temper. "I thank you for my life, Master," he pursued. "There is my
hand; I bear no ill-will to you, either for my bad luck or your better
swordsmanship."

The Master looked steadily at him for an instant, then extended his hand
to him. "Bucklaw," he said, "you are a generous fellow, and I have done
you wrong. I heartily ask your pardon for the expression which offended
you; it was hastily and incautiously uttered, and I am convinced it is
totally misapplied."

"Are you indeed, Master?" said Bucklaw, his face resuming at once its
natural expression of light-hearted carelessness and audacity; "that is
more than I expected of you; for, Master, men say you are not ready to
retract your opinion and your language."

"Not when I have well considered them," said the Master.

"Then you are a little wiser than I am, for I always give my friend
satisfaction first, and explanation afterwards. If one of us falls, all
accounts are settled; if not, men are never so ready for peace as after
war. But what does that bawling brat of a boy want?" said Bucklaw. "I
wish to Heaven he had come a few minutes sooner! and yet it must have
been ended some time, and perhaps this way is as well as any other."

As he spoke, the boy he mentioned came up, cudgelling an ass, on which
he was mounted, to the top of its speed, and sending, like one of
Ossian's heroes, his voice before him: "Gentlemen--gentlemen, save
yourselves! for the gudewife bade us tell ye there were folk in her
house had taen Captain Craigengelt, and were seeking for Bucklaw, and
that ye behoved to ride for it." "By my faith, and that's very true, my
man" said Bucklaw; "and there's a silver sixpence for your news, and I
would give any man twice as much would tell me which way I should ride."

"That will I, Bucklaw," said Ravenswood; "ride home to Wolf's Crag with
me. There are places in the old tower where you might lie hid, were a
thousand men to seek you."

The exact date at which this change took place is not known, but in the
_Stamp Collector's Magazine_ for March 1st, 1869, we read:--
We have just received copies of the one cent printed in brilliant
orange.

No doubt this colour has been adopted in order better to distinguish
it from the 3 cents, which it has hitherto too nearly approached.

From the above extract it would seem that the orange colored stamps
were in use at least as early as February and though it has been asserted
that the change took place on January 1st, 1869, we believe there are
no official documents or early dated specimens in existence that
would substantiate this statement.

These 1c stamps may be found in both orange and yellow shades as
well as a combination of both. So far as is known they were printed from
the same plate or plates as the earlier brown-red stamps.

The paper is the same as that used for the other denominations, _i.e._
wove, and the fact that this variety is not known with the watermark
of the papermaker's trade mark is generally adduced as the strongest
evidence in support of the theory that this watermarked paper was only
of a provisional nature and was used some time during 1868.

The perforation is the usual 12 and specimens are known entirely
imperforate.

_Reference List._
1869. Change of color. Wove Paper. Perf. 12.

24. 1c orange, Scott's No. 31.

CHAPTER IX.

--_The Large 5c Stamp._

Although it somewhat interrupts the chronological sequence of our
narrative, before dealing with the small "cents" stamps, first
appearing in 1870, it will be as well to give the history of the
large 5c stamp which, though not issued until 1875, really belongs
by virtue of its type and general appearance to the series of 1868.

It is known that the die for this 5c stamp was engraved in 1867 at
the same time the dies for the 1/2, 1c, 2c, 3c, 6c, 12-1/2c and 15c
values were prepared for, in the _American Journal of Philately_ for June,
1868, it is stated:--
The Canadian Government have had a 5 cent stamp prepared, engraved of
the same type as the present set, the most noticeable difference being
the circle round the head which is corded. The specimen sent us is printed
in brown on India paper, bearing the Company's imprint underneath.

Though the die was all ready, as amply proved by the above extract,
no plate was made as there was then no postal rate which required
such a denomination.

In 1875, however, the single letter rate between Canada and Great
Britain was reduced to 5c as stated in the Postmaster-General's
Report for 1875, viz.:--
A treaty for the formation of a General Postal Union, and for the
adoption of uniform postal rates and regulations for International
correspondence, was arranged and signed at Berne, Switzerland, in
October, 1874, by the representatives of the Post Offices of the
chief Nations of the world.

This agreement took effect between all the countries which were directly
parties to the Treaty in July last. The Treaty did not include
the British Possessions beyond the sea, but Canada has, with the
concurrence of the Imperial Government, applied for admission as a
member of this Postal Union.

Meanwhile the letter rate of postage between Canada and the United
Kingdom has, by arrangement with the Imperial Post Office, been reduced
to the International rate of 2-1/2 pence sterling--5 cents currency--established
by the Union Regulations; and this reduction has also been made
applicable to correspondence passing by way of New York, making the
rate between Canada and the United Kingdom uniform at 5 cents by
whatever route conveyed.

Although the Report alluded to above is dated June 30th, it must have
been published at a later date as the "July last" mentioned refers to
July, 1875, and when the 5 cent rate came into operation stamps to fit
this new rate were wanted in such a hurry that, as a temporary
expedient, a plate was made from the die engraved in 1867 pending
the preparation of a die conforming to the small sized stamps then
in general use.

There was only one printing and the total number issued is believed to
have been about one million. Mr. Howes says it was issued on October
1st, 1875.

In 1877 the 5c single letter rate was, by treaty, extended to embrace
the German states of Prussia, Baden, Bavaria, Hanover, Saxony and
Wurtemberg and in the same year the rate on a single letter to
Newfoundland was reduced from 6c to 5c.

At this time, of course, the small sized 5c stamps were in use but
it will better preserve the continuity of our study of the postal rates
to make one more extract from the Postmaster-General's Reports--that
for 1878,--viz.:
At the meeting of the International Postal Congress, which, under
the provisions of the Postal Treaty of Berne, concluded in October,
1874, took place at Paris in May, 1878, Canada was admitted to be
a member of the General Postal Union from the 1st July, 1878, and
in consequence the rate of letter postage between Canada and all
Europe became one uniform charge of 5 cents per half ounce.

Newspapers and other printed matter, and samples and patterns of merchandise
also became subject to uniform postage rates and regulations for all
destinations in Europe.

The 5c rate was, thus, now well established, and Canada had obtained
membership in the Universal Postal Union, for which she had been
striving since 1875.

This large 5c stamp was printed by the line-engraved process, like the
other denominations of similar designs. The portrait forming the
centrepiece is like that on the values of 1868 though the medallion is
enclosed within a "corded" circle instead of an ordinary plain line.
"CANADA POSTAGE" is curved above the portrait, as usual, while below is
"FIVE CENTS".

The numerals, shown in the lower corners, are somewhat smaller than
those on the other denominations of this type.

The stamps were printed in sheets of 100, in ten rows of ten, and with
regard to the marginal imprints Mr. Howes tells us that "The sheet
bore four marginal imprints, arranged as before, but of a slightly
different type for the 1868 issue.

This new imprint is in capitals and lower case letters on a colored
strip 56 mm. long and 2-1/2 mm. wide, with a border of pearls, and
reads: 'British American Bank Note Co.

Montreal'.
Doubtless the words FIVE CENTS in shaded Roman capitals would be found
over the second and third stamps of the top row if one were fortunate
enough to possess this portion of a sheet."

The stamps were printed on the wove paper then in use and perforated 12
in the usual manner.

_Reference List._
1875. Engraved and Printed by the British American Bank Note Co., Montreal.
Wove paper.

Perf. 12.

25. 5c olive green, Scott's No. 37.

CHAPTER X.--_The Small "Cents" Stamps._

In the _American Journal of Philately_ for August, 1869, we read
"Canada is shortly to have a new set of stamps.

Taking lessons in economy from our own country, it seems they are about
altering their stamps to make them smaller, so as to save paper. The head
will still remain exactly the same as now, but the frame and the margin
around the head will be considerably less. We cannot see how this can
be done without spoiling the beauty of the stamp. As to whether they
are to retain the same colors we are unable to say." The 1869 issue
of the United States was in use at that time and though this series is
now generally popular it was regarded with very mixed feelings then as
may be imagined from the _Stamp Collector's Magazine_ comments on the
above statement, viz.:--"We trust this intelligence is incorrect; that
the example of the new United States stamps can have any attractive
influence on the Canadian authorities is hardly possible."
The new issues do not seem to have formed the subject of any special
official document or notice, nor does the reduction in the size
of the labels seem to have been considered worthy of special mention
in any of the Reports issued by the Postmaster-General.

These smaller sized stamps were issued as the stocks of the earlier issues
became exhausted or, in some cases, presumably as the old plates were
discarded owing to wear, but it appears very probable that the
dies for the 1c, 2c, 3c, 6c and 10c denominations were all engraved
at the same period and, as regards the 2c, 6c and 10c, it is very
possible that supplies were printed and held in stock long before
it became necessary to issue them to the public.

The 3c was the first value to appear and was probably on sale some
time in January, 1870. The _Stamp Collector's Magazine_ for March
1st of that year chronicled this new stamp as follows:--
It appears that the reduction in the size of the Dominion postage
stamps, to which reference was made some months ago, is really to
be carried out, and as an earnest of the execution of the project,
we receive the three cents red, cut down to the size of the half
cent, and with the design made to resemble that of the latter.

The numerals in the upper corners are absent; the inscription, CANADA
POSTAGE, is in almost microscopic lettering, and in lieu of the full
denomination--THREE CENTS--in the lower margin, the word CENTS alone
appears, flanked by the figure on each side.

The cause of the change is not to be sought in any desire to economise
paper; it lies in the simple fact that the smaller size is found the more
convenient. The design certainly is not improved by it, and we
might call upon these little stamps to "hide their diminished heads,"
were it not that the head, and that alone, remains as large as ever.

The stamps, though in a fair way to become small by degrees as the Canadian
idea of convenience increases, are not likely to become "_beautifully_
less." A new value, however, made up from the parings of the old ones--an
8 cents--is said to be in preparation, and will help to make up in
quantity, for any deterioration in the quality.

The next value to appear was the 1 cent, which was recorded in the
journal referred to above in its issue for April 1st, so that it
was no doubt on sale some time in March, 1869.

In design it is similar to the 3c, the main difference being in the
inscription at base.

The denomination is given in full--ONE CENT--and this follows the
curve of the medallion instead of curving in the reverse direction
as CENTS does on the 3c.

[Illustration]
Evidently there were large stocks on hand of some of the values of the
1868 issue for two years elapsed before any more of the small stamps
appeared. Then in the _Stamp Collector's Magazine_ for February, 1872,
we read:--"We have received by the last mail specimens of a new 6
cents brown of the small size.

It is printed of a warm tint, and is as effective as its congeners." The
design follows that of the 3c very closely with, of course, the
numerals "6" instead of "3" in the lower angles.

In the following month the 2c was chronicled, its color being given as
"a delicate chrome-green." The design differs from the 3c and 6c
chiefly in the direction of the curve of the word CENTS, which is
reversed, as compared with those denominations, and much less pronounced.

The 10c was the next value to appear and it was not on sale until
quite late in 1874, probably about November 1st.

The design follows the general effect of the 2c but at the same time
illustrates a new departure, inasmuch as the numerals of value are
repeated in the upper corners in a smaller form. For what particular
purpose this value was intended is not clear for there was, apparently,
no regular rate at that time which required such a denomination.

The next value placed on sale was the 5c, which was issued in February,
1876, and superseded the large 5c design after it had been in use for
only about four months. Though the portrait is the same as that on the
other values the frame is of a distinctly different style and CENTS
is in much larger letters than before, showing that the previous
values, following as they do a general pattern, were engraved much about
the same time though many years elapsed before all were actually in
use.

[Illustration]
Finally in July, 1882, the 1/2c value appeared and was recorded in the
_Philatelic Record_ for July of that year in the following words:--
That "history repeats itself" is a proverb that is curiously illustrated
by the latest issue of this colony. We all remember that in 1868 a 1/2c
stamp of smaller size than the other values of the series was
emitted. A few years later, some say for economical reasons, the other
values were reduced to the smaller size.
Recently it seems to have struck the Canadian authorities that
their idea of fourteen years ago was a happy one, and the 1/2c has
been proportionately cut down.

The general arrangements of the design remain the same, but the
ornamentation is simpler. The head and circle containing it are miniatures
of the former, and the result is what the ladies would call "a
dear little stamp," about the size of our lately defunct "Halfpenny,"
but an upright instead of an oblong rectangle.

We trust the price of paper will not again cause a general reduction;
for if the Canadian stamps go on growing "small by degrees, and beautifully
less," they will in time become too microscopic to be collectible.

After the issue of the 1/2c value the only denominations of the 1868
series not provided with successors in the issue under notice were the
12-1/2c and 15c. Regarding the former value the _Stamp Collector's
Magazine_ for May, 1872, says, on the authority of a Canadian
journal:--"It is unlikely that the 12-1/2c small size will be issued,
as the large ones are very little used, and can now be bought at the
post-office for 12 cents." But some three years later the _American Journal
of Philately_ asserted that "Canada will shortly issue the 12-1/2c
and 15c values of postals in small size, to correspond with the
others of the series."

These stamps, however, never materialised though that dies and plates were
made and stamps printed from them is evident from the existence of
perforated essays of these two values.

The portrait is exactly like that of the other denominations, and the
borders are, on general lines, so like the 1c, 2c, 3c, 6c and 10c as
to give considerable support to the belief that these unissued
varieties were prepared for use at quite an early date.

The stamps of this series were all produced by the line-engraved process
and all values, with the exception of the 1/2c, were at first printed
in sheets of 100, arranged in ten horizontal rows of ten.

The 1/2c was printed in sheets of 200, arranged in two panes of 100 each,
placed side by side. A space of about 11 mm. separated the two panels
and these large sheets were cut into halves before leaving the printing
establishment, thus making "post-office" sheets of 100 stamps. In
the later months of 1892 or early in 1893 the 1c, 2c and 3c values--the
ones in most general demand--were printed in large sheets of 200
arranged in ten horizontal rows of twenty stamps each.

A close study of a large quantity of these stamps would probably
result in the discovery of many interesting varieties in the way
of double transfers.

In the few stamps at our disposal we have found but one of any prominence.
This occurs on the 3c denomination the top portion of the design
having plainly been applied to the plate twice, the doubling being
especially noticeable in the inscription CANADA POSTAGE.

As these stamps were in use for a fairly lengthy period--nearly thirty
years in the case of the 3c--it is obvious that a large number of
plates must have been made, especially for those denominations which
were generally used.

At different times different marginal imprints or arrangements of the
imprints were used, and given sufficient material a study of these
marginal varieties should reveal much of interest.

Mr.
Howes has paid particular attention to these varieties and the
following notes are chiefly based on his investigations.

The earliest plates of the 1c, 2c, 3c, 5c and 6c, and probably the 10c as
well (as this value was in use before the 5c), had the denomination in
words above the second and third stamps on the top row of each
sheet.
These inscriptions, "ONE CENT", etc., were in large shaded Roman
capitals 4 mm. high.

In the centre of each of the four margins is the manufacturer's imprint,
BRITISH AMERICAN BANK NOTE CO. MONTREAL & OTTAWA, in colorless Roman
capitals on a narrow strip of color 1 mm.
wide and 51 mm. long; this imprint being, in fact, exactly like
that found on the sheets of the 1868 issue.

These remarks apply to the 1c, 2c, 3c and 6c (and probably to the 10c
also), but not to the 5c.

The 5c, which was not issued until 1876, has the denomination shown
in the upper margin in large shaded Roman capitals, as in the case of the
others, but the imprint is different, being like that found on the sheets
of the large 5c stamp, _i.e._ "British American Bank Note Co.
Montreal", in capitals and lower case letters on a strip of solid color
56 mm. long by 2-1/2 mm. wide, with a pearled border. This imprint was
shown on each of the four margins.

About this time new plates made for the other denominations also had
this new style of imprint.

Sheets of the 1c and 3c show the imprint on top and bottom margins only,
but whether other plates were used for these denominations with
imprints on all four sides is not known for certain, though this
is highly probable.

The 6c and 10c values of this series have large numerals, "6" or "10" as
the case may be, above the second stamp in the top row, while above
the ninth stamp of the same row is "SIX" or "TEN" in shaded Roman
capitals. The numerals are very thick and 6 mm. in height, while the
letters are 4 mm. high as on the earlier plates, though the word
"CENTS" has now been dispensed with. This arrangement has not been
noted on other denominations as yet, though there is no reason
why it should not be found in connection with the 1c, 2c and 3c.

A sheet of the 3c value, with two marginal imprints, is noted with "THREE"
in shaded Roman capitals above the first two stamps of the top row,
while the 1c is recorded without any marginal designation of value and
with but two of the "Montreal" imprints.

The printing establishment of the British American Bank Note Company
was removed from Montreal to Ottawa in 1888 and plates made after
that date show a new style of imprint viz:--"BRITISH AMERICAN BANK
NOTE CO.
OTTAWA", in white Roman capitals on a strip of solid color measuring
40 mm. long by 1-1/2 mm. wide. This, it will be noted, is like the
first type of imprint but with the words "MONTREAL &" removed. On the
2c this is known 49 mm. long and nearly 2 mm. wide, this being from a
sheet in the 100 arrangement.

The smaller style of imprint seems to have been characteristic of the
sheets printed in the 200 size, and writing with regard to these Mr.
Howes says:--
The "Ottawa" imprint appears three times, once in the middle of the top
margin, over stamps 10 and 11, and twice in the bottom margin, beneath
stamps 5 and 6, and again beneath stamps 15 and 16. There are no imprints
at the sides. The denomination appears in the top margin at both right
and left and in a new style of lettering on these larger plates. Thus
we find ONE CENT or TWO CENT over stamps 2 and 3 as well as 18 and
19, or THREE CENT over the first four and last four stamps in plain
Egyptian capitals.

[Illustration]

The 1/2c value, which we have left until last on account of its
different sheet arrangement, had the "Montreal" imprint, described in
connection with the other values, arranged six times on the margins--above
and below each pane, at the right of the right hand pane, and at the
left of the left hand pane--so that there were three imprints on each
of the "post-office" sheets of 100 stamps.

In addition, to quote Mr.
Chance of supper, indeed! But
ye'll no be for butcher-meat? There's walth o' fat poultry, ready either
for spit or brander. The fat capon, Mysie!" he added, calling out as
boldly as if such a thing had been in existence.

"Quite unnecessary," said Bucklaw, who deemed himself bound in courtesy
to relieve some part of the anxious butler's perplexity, "if you have
anything cold, or a morsel of bread."

"The best of bannocks!" exclaimed Caleb, much relieve; "and, for cauld
meat, a' that we hae is cauld eneugh,--how-beit, maist of the cauld meat
and pastry was gien to the poor folk after the ceremony of interment, as
gude reason was; nevertheless----"

"Come, Caleb," said the Master of Ravenswood, "I must cut this matter
short. This is the young Laird of Bucklaw; he is under hiding, and
therefore, you know----"

"He'll be nae nicer than your lordship's honour, I'se warrant," answered
Caleb, cheerfully, with a nod of intelligence; "I am sorry that the
gentleman is under distress, but I am blythe that he canna say muckle
agane our housekeeping, for I believe his ain pinches may matach ours;
no that we are pinched, thank God," he added, retracting the admission
which he had made in his first burst of joy, "but nae doubt we are waur
aff than we hae been, or suld be. And for eating--what signifies telling
a lee? there's just the hinder end of the mutton-ham that has been but
three times on the table, and the nearer the bane the sweeter, as your
honours weel ken; and--there's the heel of the ewe-milk kebbuck, wi' a
bit of nice butter, and--and--that's a' that's to trust to." And with
great alacrity he produced his slender stock of provisions, and placed
them with much formality upon a small round table betwixt the two
gentlemen, who were not deterred either by the homely quality or limited
quantity of the repast from doing it full justice. Caleb in the mean
while waited on them with grave officiousness, as if anxious to make up,
by his own respectful assiduity, for the want of all other attendance.

But, alas! how little on such occasions can form, however anxiously and
scrupulously observed, supply the lack of substantial fare! Bucklaw,
who had eagerly eaten a considerable portion of the thrice-sacked
mutton-ham, now began to demand ale.

"I wadna just presume to recommend our ale," said Caleb; "the maut was
ill made, and there was awfu' thunner last week; but siccan water as the
Tower well has ye'll seldome see, Bucklaw, and that I'se engage for."

"But if your ale is bad, you can let us have some wine," said Bucklaw,
making a grimace at the mention of the pure element which Caleb so
earnestly recommended.

"Wine!" answered Caleb, undauntedly, "eneugh of wine! It was but twa
days syne--wae's me for the cause--there was as much wine drunk in this
house as would have floated a pinnace. There never was lack of wine at
Wolf's Crag."

"Do fetch us some then," said the master, "instead of talking about it."
And Caleb boldly departed.

Every expended butt in the old cellar did he set a-tilt, and shake with
the desperate expectation of collecting enough of the grounds of claret
to fill the large pewter measure which he carred in his hand. Alas!
each had been too devoutly drained; and, with all the squeezing and
manoeuvring which his craft as a butler suggested, he could only collect
about half a quart that seemed presentable. Still, however, Caleb was
too good a general to renounce the field without a strategem to cover
his retreat. He undauntedly threw down an empty flagon, as if he had
stumbled at the entrance of the apartment, called upon Mysie to wipe up
the wine that had never been spilt, and placing the other vessel on the
table, hoped there was still enough left for their honours. There
was indeed; for even Bucklaw, a sworn friend to the grape, found no
encouragement to renew his first attack upon the vintage of Wolf's
Crag, but contented himself, however reluctantly, with a draught of
fair water. Arrangements were now made for his repose; and as the
secret chamber was assigned for this purpose, it furnished Caleb with a
first-rate and most plausible apology for all deficiencies of furniture,
bedding, etc.

"For wha," said he, "would have thought of the secret chaumer being
needed? It has not been used since the time of the Gowrie Conspiracy,
and I durst never let a woman ken of the entrance to it, or your honour
will allow that it wad not hae been a secret chaumer lang."


CHAPTER VIII.

     The hearth in hall was black and dead,
     No board was dight in bower within,
     Nor merry bowl nor welcome bed;
     "Here's sorry cheer," quoth the Heir of Linne.

     Old Ballad

THE feelings of the prodigal Heir of Linne, as expressed in that
excellent old song, when, after dissipating his whole fortune, he found
himself the deserted inhabitant of "the lonely lodge," might perhaps
have some resemblance to those of the Master of Ravenswood in his
deserted mansion of Wolf's Crag. The Master, however, had this advantage
over the spendthrift in the legend, that, if he was in similar distress,
he could not impute it to his own imprudence. His misery had been
bequeathed to him by his father, and, joined to his high blood, and to
a title which the courteous might give or the churlish withhold at their
pleasure, it was the whole inheritance he had derived from his ancestry.
Perhaps this melancholy yet consolatory reflection crossed the mind of
the unfortunate young nobleman with a breathing of comfort. Favourable
to calm reflection, as well as to the Muses, the morning, while it
dispelled the shades of night, had a composing and sedative effect upon
the stormy passions by which the Master of Ravenswood had been agitated
on the preceding day. He now felt himself able to analyse the different
feelings by which he was agitated, and much resolved to combat and
to subdue them. The morning, which had arisen calm and bright, gave a
pleasant effect even to the waste moorland view which was seen from the
castle on looking to the landward; and the glorious ocean, crisped with
a thousand rippling waves of silver, extended on the other side, in
awful yet complacent majesty, to the verge of the horizon. With such
scenes of calm sublimity the human heart sympathises even in its most
disturbed moods, and deeds of honour and virtue are inspired by their
majestic influence. To seek out Bucklaw in the retreat which he had
afforded him, was the first occupation of the Master, after he had
performed, with a scrutiny unusually severe, the important task of
self-examination. "How now, Bucklaw?" was his morning's salutation--"how
like you the couch in which the exiled Earl of Angus once slept
in security, when he was pursued by the full energy of a king's
resentment?"

"Umph!" returned the sleeper awakened; "I have little to complain of
where so great a man was quartered before me, only the mattress was of
the hardest, the vault somewhat damp, the rats rather more mutinous than
I would have expected from the state of Caleb's larder; and if there had
been shutters to that grated window, or a curtain to the bed, I should
think it, upon the whole, an improvement in your accommodations."

"It is, to be sure, forlorn enough," said the Master, looking around the
small vault; "but if you will rise and leave it, Caleb will endeavour to
find you a better breakfast than your supper of last night."

"Pray, let it be no better," said Bucklaw, getting up, and endeavouring
to dress himself as well as the obscurity of the place would
permit--"let it, I say, be no better, if you mean me to preserve in my
proposed reformation. The very recollection of Caleb's beverage has done
more to suppress my longing to open the day with a morning draught than
twenty sermons would have done. And you, master, have you been able to
give battle valiantly to your bosom-snake? You see I am in the way of
smothering my vipers one by one."

"I have commenced the battle, at least, Bucklaw, adn I have had a fair
vision of an angel who descended to my assistance," replied the Master.

"Woe's me!" said his guest, "no vision can I expect, unless my aunt,
Lady Grinington, should betake herself to the tomb; and then it would be
the substance of her heritage rather than the appearance of her phantom
that I should consider as the support of my good resolutions. But this
same breakfast, Master--does the deer that is to make the pasty run yet
on foot, as the ballad has it?"

"I will inquire into that matter," said his entertainer; and, leaving
the apartment, he went in search of Caleb, whom, after some difficulty,
he found in an obscure sort of dungeon, which had been in former times
the buttery of the castle. Here the old man was employed busily in the
doubtful task of burnishing a pewter flagon until it should take the
hue and semblance of silver-plate. "I think it may do--I think it might
pass, if they winna bring it ower muckle in the light o' the window!"
were the ejaculations which he muttered from time to time, as if to
encourage himself in his undertaking, when he was interrupted by the
voice of his master.

"Take this," said the Master of Ravenswood, "and get what is necessary
for the family." And with these words he gave to the old butler the
purse which had on the preceding evening so narrowly escaped the fangs
of Craigengelt.

The old man shook his silvery and thin locks, and looked with an
expression of the most heartfelt anguish at his master as he weighed in
his hand the slender treasure, and said in a sorrowful voice, "And is
this a' that's left?"

"All that is left at present," said the Master, affecting more
cheerfulness than perhaps he really felt, "is just the green purse and
the wee pickle gowd, as the old song says; but we shall do better one
day, Caleb."

"Before that day domes," said Caleb, "I doubt there will be an end of
an auld sang, and an auld serving-man to boot. But it disna become me to
speak that gate to your honour, adn you looking sae pale. Tak back
the purse, and keep it to be making a show before company; for if your
honour would just take a bidding, adn be whiles taking it out afore folk
and putting it up again, there's naebody would refuse us trust, for a'
that's come and gane yet."

"But, Caleb," said the Master, "I still intend to leave this country
very soon, and desire to do so with the reputation of an honest man,
leaving no debty behind me, at last of my own contracting."

"And gude right ye suld gang away as a true man, and so ye shall; for
auld Caleb can tak the wyte of whatever is taen on for the house, and
then it will be a' just ae man's burden; and I will live just as weel in
the tolbooth as out of it, and the credit of the family will be a' safe
and sound."

The Master endeavoured, in vain, to make Caleb comprehend that the
butler's incurring the responsibility of debts in his own person would
rather add to than remove the objections which he had to their being
contracted. He spoke to a premier too busy in devising ways and means to
puzzle himself with refuting the arguments offered against their justice
or expediency.

"There's Eppie Sma'trash will trust us for ale," said Caleb to
himself--"she has lived a' her life under the family--and maybe wi' a
soup brandy; I canna say for wine--she is but a lone woman, and gets
her claret by a runlet at a time; but I'll work a wee drap out o' her by
fair means or foul. For doos, there's the doocot; there will be poultry
amang the tenants, though Luckie Chirnside says she has paid the kain
twice ower. We'll mak shift, an it like your honour--we'll mak shift;
keep your heart abune, for the house sall haud its credit as lang as
auld Caleb is to the fore."

The entertainment which the old man's exertions of various kinds
enabled him to present to the young gentlemen for three or four days was
certainly of no splendid description, but it may readily be believed
it was set before no critical guests; and even the distresses, excuses,
evasions, and shifts of Caleb afforded amusement to the young men, and
added a sort fo interest to the scrambling and irregular style of their
table. They had indeed occasion to seize on every circumstance that
might serve to diversify or enliven time, which otherwise passed away so
heavily.

Bucklaw, shut out from his usual field-sports and joyous carouses by the
necessity of remaining concealed within the walls of the castle, became
a joyless and uninteresting companion. When the Master of Ravenswood
would no longer fence or play at shovel-board; when he himself had
polished to the extremity the coat of his palfrey with brush, curry
comb, and hair-cloth; when he had seen him eat his provender, and
gently lie down in his stall, he could hardly help envying the animal's
apparent acquiescence in a life so monotonous. "The stupid brute," he
said, "thinks neither of the race-ground or the hunting-field, or
his green paddock at Bucklaw, but enjoys himself as comfortably when
haltered to the rack in this ruinous vault, as if he had been foaled
in it; and, I who have the freedom of a prisoner at large, to range
through the dungeons of this wretched old tower, can hardly,
betwixt whistling and sleeping, contrive to pass away the hour till
dinner-time."

And with this disconsolate reflection, he wended his way to the bartizan
or battlements of the tower, to watch what objects might appear on the
distant moor, or to pelt, with pebbles and pieces of lime, the sea-mews
and cormorants which established themselves incautiously within the
reach of an idle young man.

Ravenswood, with a mind incalculably deeper and more powerful than that
of his companion, had his own anxious subjects of reflection, which
wrought for him the same unhappiness that sheer enui and want of
occupation inflicted on his companion. The first sight of Lucy Ashton
had been less impressive than her image proved to be upon reflection. As
the depth and violence of that revengeful passion by which he had been
actuated in seeking an interview with the father began to abate by
degrees, he looked back on his conduct towards the daughter as harsh
and unworthy towards a female of rank and beauty. Her looks of grateful
acknowledgment, her words of affectionate courtesy, had been repelled
with something which approached to disdain; and if the Master of
Ravenswood had sustained wrongs at the hand of Sir William Ashton, his
conscience told him they had been unhandsomely resented towards his
daughter. When his thoughts took this turn of self-reproach, the
recollection of Lucy Ashton's beautiful features, rendered yet more
interesting by the circumstances in which their meeting had taken place,
made an impression upon his mind at once soothing and painful. The
sweetness of her voice, the delicacy of her expressions, the vivid glow
of her filial affection, embittered his regret at having repulsed her
gratitude with rudeness, while, at the same time, they placed before his
imagination a picture of the most seducing sweetness.

Even young Ravenswood's strength of moral feeling and rectitude of
purpose at once increased the danger of cherishing these recollections,
and the propensity to entertain them. Firmly resolved as he was to
subdue, if possible, the predominating vice in his character, he
admitted with willingness--nay, he summoned up in his imagination--the
ideas by which it could be most powerfully counteracted; and, while he
did so, a sense of his own harsh conduct towards the daughter of his
enemy naturally induced him, as if by way of recompense, to invest her
with more of grace and beauty than perhaps she could actually claim.

Had any one at this period told the Master of Ravenswood that he had
so lately vowed vengeance against the whole lineage of him whom he
considered, not unjustly, as author of his father's ruin and death, he
might at first have repelled the charge as a foul calumny; yet, upon
serious self-examination, he would have been compelled to admit that it
had, at one period, some foundation in truth, though, according to the
present tone of his sentiments, it was difficult to believe that this
had really been the case.

There already existed in his bosom two contradictory passions--a desire
to revenge the death of his father, strangely qualified by admiration of
his enemy's daughter. Against the former feeling he had struggled, until
it seemed to him upon the wane; against the latter he used no means of
resistance, for he did not suspect its existence. That this was actually
the case was chiefly evinced by his resuming his resolution to leave
Scotland. Yet, though such was his purpose, he remained day after day at
Wolf's Crag, without taking measures for carrying it into execution.
It is true, that he had written to one or two kinsmen who resided in a
distant quarter of Scotland, and particularly to the Marquis of A----,
intimating his purpose; and when pressed upon the subject by Bucklaw, he
was wont to allege the necessity of waiting for their reply, especially
that of the Marquis, before taking so decisive a measure.

The Marquis was rich and powerful; and although he was suspected to
entertain sentiments unfavourable to the government established at the
Revolution, he had nevertheless address enough to head a party in
the Scottish privy council, connected with the High Church faction in
England, and powerful enough to menace those to whom the Lord Keeper
adhered with a probable subversion of their power. The consulting with
a personage of such importance was a plausible excise, which Ravenswood
used to Bucklaw, and probably to himself, for continuing his residence
at Wolf's Crag; and it was rendered yet more so by a general report
which began to be current of a probable change of ministers and measures
in the Scottish administration. The rumours, strongly asserted by
some, and as resolutely denied by others, as their wishes or interest
dictated, found their way even to the ruinous Tower of Wolf's Crag,
chiefly through the medium of Caleb, the butler, who, among his other
excellences, was an ardent politician, and seldom made an excursion
from the old fortress to the neighbouring village of Wolf's Hope without
bringing back what tidings were current in the vicinity.

But if Bucklaw could not offer any satisfactory objections to the delay
of the Master in leaving Scotland, he did not the less suffer with
impatience the state of inaction to which it confined him; and it was
only the ascendency which his new companion had acquired over him that
induced him to submit to a course of life so alien to his habits and
inclinations.

"You were wont to be thought a stirring active young fellow, Master,"
was his frequent remonstrance; "yet here you seem determined to live
on and on like a rat in a hole, with this trifling difference, that the
wiser vermin chooses a hermitage where he can find food at least; but as
for us, Caleb's excuses become longer as his diet turns more spare, and
I fear we shall realise the stories they tell of the slother: we have
almost eat up the last green leaf on the plant, and have nothing left
for it but to drop from the tree and break our necks."

"Do not fear it," said Ravenswood; "there is a fate watches for us, and
we too have a stake in the revolution that is now impending, and which
already has alarmed many a bosom."

"What fate--what revolution?" inquired his companion. "We have had one
revolution too much already, I think."

Ravenswood interrupted him by putting into his hands a letter.

"Oh," answered Bucklaw, "my dream's out. I thought I heard Caleb this
morning pressing some unfortunate fellow to a drink of cold water, and
assuring him it was better for his stomach in the morning than ale or
brandy."

"It was my Lord of A----'s courier," said Ravenswood, "who was doomed to
experience his ostentatious hospitality, which I believe ended in sour
beer and herrings. Read, and you will see the news he has brought us."
"I will as fast as I can," said Bucklaw; "but I am no great clerk, nor
does his lordship seem to be the first of scribes."

The reader will peruse in, a few seconds, by the aid our friend
Ballantyne's types, what took Bucklaw a good half hour in perusal,
though assisted by the Master of Ravenswood. The tenor was as follows:


"RIGHT HONOURABLE OUR COUSIN:

"Our hearty commendations premised, these come to assure you of the
interest which we take in your welfare, and in your purpose towards its
augmentation. If we have been less active in showing forth our effective
good-will towards you than, as a loving kinsman and blood-relative, we
would willingly have desired, we request that you will impute it to lack
fo opportunity to show our good-liking, not to any coldness of our will.
Touching your resolution to travel in foreign parts, as at this time we
hold the same little advisable, in respect that your ill-willers may,
according to the custom of such persons, impute motives for your
journey, whereof, although we know and believe you to be as clear as
ourselves, yet natheless their words may find credence in places where
the belief in them may much prejudice you, and which we should see with
more unwillingness and displeasure than with means of remedy.

"Having thus, as becometh our kindred, given you our poor mind on the
subject of your journeying forth of Scotland, we would willingly
add reasons of weight, which might materially advantage you and your
father's house, thereby to determine you to abide at Wolf's Crag, until
this harvest season shall be passed over. But what sayeth the proverb,
verbum sapienti--a word is more to him that hath wisdom than a sermon to
a fool. And albeit we have written this poor scroll with our own hand,
and are well assured of the fidelity of our messenger, as him that is
many ways bounden to us, yet so it is, that sliddery ways crave wary
walking, and that we may not peril upon paper matters which we would
gladly impart to you by word of mouth. Wherefore, it was our purpose to
have prayed you heartily to come to this our barren Highland country to
kill a stag, and to treat of the matters which we are now more painfully
inditing to you anent. But commodity does not serve at present for such
our meeting, which, therefore, shall be deferred until sic time as we
may in all mirth rehearse those things whereof we now keep silence.
Meantime, we pray you to think that we are, and will still be, your good
kinsman and well-wisher, waiting but for times of whilk we do, as it
were, entertain a twilight prospect, and appear and hope to be also your
effectual well-doer. And in which hope we heartily write ourself,

"Right Honourable,

"Your loving cousin,

"A----.
"Given from our poor house of B----," etc.


Superscribed--"For the right honourable, and our honoured kinsman, the
Master of Ravenswood--These, with haste, haste, post haste--ride and run
until these be delivered."

"What think you of this epistle, Bucklaw?" said the Master, when his
companion had hammered out all the sense, and almost all the words of
which it consisted.

"Truly, that the Marquis's meaning is as great a riddle as his
manuscript. He is really in much need of _Wit's Interpreter_, or the
_Complete Letter-Writer_, and were I you, I would send him a copy by the
bearer. He writes you very kindly to remain wasting your time and
your money in this vile, stupid, oppressed country, without so much as
offering you the countenance and shelter of his house. In my opinion, he
has some scheme in view in which he supposes you can be useful, and he
wishes to keep you at hand, to make use of you when it ripens,
reserving the power of turning you adrift, should his plot fail in the
concoction."

"His plot! Then you suppose it is a treasonable business," answered
Ravenswood.

"What else can it be?" replied Bucklaw; "the Marquis has been long
suspected to have an eye to Saint Germains."

"He should not engage me rashly in such an adventure," said Ravenswood;
"when I recollect the times of the first and second Charles, and of the
last James, truly I see little reason that, as a man or a patriot, I
should draw my sword for their descendants."

"Humph!" replied Bucklaw; "so you have set yourself down to mourn over
the crop-eared dogs whom honest Claver'se treated as they deserved?"

"They first gave the dogs an ill name, and then hanged them," replied
Ravenswood. "I hope to see the day when justice shall be open to Whig
and Tory, and when these nicknames shall only be used among coffee-house
politicians, as 'slut' and 'jade' are among apple-women, as cant terms
of idle spite and rancour."

"That will nto be in our days, Master: the iron has entered too deeply
into our sides and our souls."

"It will be, however, one day," replied the Master; "men will not always
start at these nicknames as at a trumpet-sound. As social life is better
protected, its comforts will become too dear to be hazarded without some
better reasons than speculative politics."

"It is fine talking," answered Bucklaw; "but my heart is with the old
song--

     To see good corn upon the rigs,
     And a gallow built to hang the Whigs,
     And the right restored where the right should be.
     Oh, that is the thing that would wanton me."

"You may sing as loudly as you will, cantabit vacuus----," answered the
Master; "but I believe the Marquis is too wise, at least too wary, to
join you in such a burden. I suspect he alludes to a revolution in the
Scottish privy council, rather than in the British kingdoms."

"Oh, confusion to your state tricks!" exclaimed Bucklaw--"your cold
calculating manoeuvres, which old gentlemen in wrought nightcaps
and furred gowns execute like so many games at chess, and displace a
treasurer or lord commissioner as they would take a rook or a pawn.
Tennis for my sport, and battle for my earnest! And you, Master, so dep
and considerate as you would seem, you have that within you makes
the blood boil faster than suits your present humour of moralising on
political truths. You are one of those wise men who see everything with
great composure till their blood is up, and then--woe to any one who
should put them in mind of their own prudential maxims!" "Perhaps," said
Ravenswood, "you read me more rightly than I can myself. But to think
justly will certainly go some length in helping me to act so. But hark!
I hear Caleb tolling the dinner-bell."

"Which he always does with the more sonorous grace in proportion to the
meagreness of the cheer which he has provided," said Bucklaw; "as if
that infernal clang and jangle, which will one day bring the belfry
down the cliff, could convert a starved hen into a fat capon, and a
blade-bone of mutton into a haunch of venison."

"I wish we may be so well off as your worst conjectures surmise,
Bucklaw, from the extreme solemnity and ceremony with which Caleb seems
to place on the table that solitary covered dish."

"Uncover, Caleb! uncover, for Heaven's sake!" said Bucklaw; "let us have
what you can give us without preface. Why, it stands well enough, man,"
he continued, addressing impatiently the ancient butler, who, without
reply, kept shifting the dish, until he had at length placed it with
mathematical precision in the very midst of the table.

"What have we got here, Caleb?" inquired the Master in his turn.

"Ahem! sir, ye suld have known before; but his honour the Laird of
Bucklaw is so impatient," answered Caleb, still holding the dish with
one hand and the cover with the other, with evident reluctance to
disclose the contents.

"But what is it, a God's name--not a pair of clean spurs, I hope, in the
Border fashion of old times?"

"Ahem! ahem!" reiterated Caleb, "your honour is pleased to be facetious;
natheless, I might presume to say it was a convenient fashion, and used,
as I have heard, in an honourable and thriving family. But touching your
present dinner, I judged that this being St. Magdalen's [Margaret's]
Eve, who was a worthy queen of Scotland in her day, your honours might
judge it decorous, if not altogether to fast, yet only to sustain nature
with some slight refection, as ane saulted herring or the like." And,
uncovering the dish, he displayed four of the savoury fishes which he
mentioned, adding, in a subdued tone, "that they were no just common
herring neither, being every ane melters, and sauted with uncommon care
by the housekeeper (poor Mysie) for his honour's especial use."

"Out upon all apologies!" said the Master, "let us eat the herrings,
since there is nothing better to be had; but I begin to think with you,
Bucklaw, that we are consuming the last green leaf, and that, in spite
of the Marquis's political machinations, we must positively shift camp
for want of forage, without waiting the issue of them."


CHAPTER IX.

     Ay, and when huntsmen wind the merry horn,
     And from its covert starts the fearful prey,
     Who, warm'd with youth's blood in his swelling veins,
     Would, like a lifeless clod, outstretched lie,
     Shut out from all the fair creation offers?

     Ethwald, Act I. Scene 1.

LIGHT meals procure light slumbers; and therefore it is not surprising
that, considering the fare which Caleb's conscience, or his necessity,
assuming, as will sometimes happen, that disguise, had assigned to the
guests of Wolf's Crag, their slumbers should have been short.

In the morning Bucklaw rushed into his host's apartment with a loud
halloo, which might have awaked the dead.

"Up! up! in the name of Heaven! The hunters are out, the only piece of
sport I have seen this month; and you lie here, Master, on a bed that
has little to recommend it, except that it may be something softer than
the stone floor of your ancestor's vault."

"I wish," said Ravenswood, raising his head peevishly, "you had forborne
so early a jest, Mr. Hayston; it is really no pleasure to lose the very
short repose which I had just begun to enjoy, after a night spent in
thoughts upon fortune far harder than my couch, Bucklaw."

"Pschaw, pshaw!" replied his guest; "get up--get up; the hounds are
abroad. I have saddled the horses myself, for old Caleb was calling for
grooms and lackeys, and would never have proceeded without two hours'
apology for the absence of men that were a hundred miles off. Get up,
Master; I say the hounds are out--get up, I say; the hunt is up." And
off ran Bucklaw.

"And I say," said the Master, rising slowly, "that nothing can concern
me less. Whose hounds come so near to us?"

"The Honourable Lord Brittlebrains's," answered Caleb, who had followed
the impatient Laird of Bucklaw into his master's bedroom, "and truly I
ken nae title they have to be yowling and howling within the freedoms
and immunities of your lordship's right of free forestry."

"Nor I, Caleb," replied Ravenswood, "excepting that they have bought
both the lands and the right of forestry, and may think themselves
entitled to exercise the rights they have paid their money for."

"It may be sae, my lord," replied Caleb; "but it's no gentleman's deed
of them to come here and exercise such-like right, and your lordship
living at your ain castle of Wolf's Crag. Lord Brittlebrains would weel
to remember what his folk have been."

"And what we now are," said the Master, with suppressed bitterness of
feeling. "But reach me my cloak, Caleb, and I will indulge Bucklaw with
a sight of this chase. It is selfish to sacrifice my guest's pleasure to
my own."

"Sacrifice!" echoed Caleb, in a tone which seemed to imply the total
absurdity of his master making the least concession in deference to any
one--"sacrifice, indeed!--but I crave your honour's pardon, and whilk
doublet is it your pleasure to wear?"

"Any one you will, Caleb; my wardrobe, I suppose, is not very
extensive."

"Not extensive!" echoed his assistant; "when there is the grey and
silver that your lordship bestowed on Hew Hildebrand, your outrider;
and the French velvet that went with my lord your father--be gracious
to him!--my lord your father's auld wardrobe to the puir friends of the
family; and the drap-de-Berry----"

"Which I gave to you, Caleb, and which, I suppose, is the only dress we
have any chance to come at, except that I wore yesterday; pray, hand me
that, and say no more about it."

"If your honour has a fancy," replied Caleb, "and doubtless it's a
sad-coloured suit, and you are in mourning; nevertheless, I have never
tried on the drap-de-Berry--ill wad it become me--and your honour having
no change of claiths at this present--and it's weel brushed, and as
there are leddies down yonder----"

"Ladies!" said Ravenswood; "and what ladies, pray?"

"What do I ken, your lordship? Looking down at them from the Warden's
Tower, I could but see them glent by wi' their bridles ringing and their
feathers fluttering, like the court of Elfland."

"Well, well, Caleb," replied the Master, "help me on with my cloak, and
hand me my sword-belt. What clatter is that in the courtyard?"

"Just Bucklaw bringing out the horses," said Caleb, after a glance
through the window, "as if there werena men eneugh in the castle, or as
if I couldna serve the turn of ony o' them that are out o' the gate."

"Alas! Caleb, we should want little if your ability were equal to your
will," replied the Master.

"And I hope your lordship disna want that muckle," said Caleb; "for,
considering a' things, I trust we support the credit of the family as
weel as things will permit of,--only Bucklaw is aye sae frank and sae
forward. And there he has brought out your lordship's palfrey, without
the saddle being decored wi' the broidered sumpter-cloth! and I could
have brushed it in a minute."

"It is all very well," said his master, escaping from him and descending
the narrow and steep winding staircase which led to the courtyard.

"It MAY be a' very weel," said Caleb, somewhat peevishly; "but if your
lordship wad tarry a bit, I will tell you what will NOT be very weel."

"And what is that?" said Ravenswood, impatiently, but stopping at the
same time.

"Why, just that ye suld speer ony gentleman hame to dinner; for I canna
mak anither fast on a feast day, as when I cam ower Bucklaw wi' Queen
Margaret; and, to speak truth, if your lordship wad but please to cast
yoursell in the way of dining wi' Lord Bittlebrains, I'se warrand I wad
cast about brawly for the morn; or if, stead o' that, ye wad but dine
wi' them at the change-house, ye might mak your shift for the awing: ye
might say ye had forgot your purse, or that the carline awed ye rent,
and that ye wad allow it in the settlement."

"Or any other lie that cam uppermost, I suppose?" said his master.
"Good-bye, Caleb; I commend your care for the honour of the family."
And, throwing himself on his horse, he followed Bucklaw, who, at the
manifest risk of his neck, had begun to gallop down the steep path which
led from the Tower as soon as he saw Ravenswood have his foot in the
stirrup.

Caleb Balderstone looked anxiously after them, and shook his thin grey
locks: "And I trust they will come to no evil; but they have reached
the plain, and folk cannot say but that the horse are hearty and in
spirits." Animated by the natural impetuosity and fire of his temper,
young Bucklaw rushed on with the careless speed of a whirlwind.
Ravenswood was scarce more moderate in his pace, for his was a mind
unwillingly roused from contemplative inactivity, but which, when once
put into motion, acquired a spirit of forcible and violent progression.
Neither was his eagerness proportioned in all cases to the motive of
impulse, but might be compared to the sped of a stone, which rushes with
like fury down the hill whether it was first put in motion by the arm of
a giant or the hand of a boy. He felt, therefore, in no ordinary degree,
the headlong impulse of the chase, a pastime so natural to youth of
all ranks, that it seems rather to be an inherent passion in our animal
nature, which levels all differences of rank and education, than an
acquired habit of rapid exercise.

In the case of the 6d there are 70,000, less 17,500 remainders, or 52,500.
This is approximately one-eighth the total issue of 400,000, or again a
ratio of one in seven.
The inverse ratio of seven to one for a catalogue value would make the
perforated stamp list $42 with the imperforate at $6. But both laid
and wove paper 6d stamps list at approximately $6, whereas, if all had
been issued on but one variety of paper, we might find, perhaps, a single
list price of, say $4. With this as a basis, the catalogue value of $30
for the perforated 6d is in as close agreement with our supposition
as are the others. And, best of all, the second supply of the 10d stamp
is disposed of without any difficulty whatever under this hypothesis!

It may be argued that reasoning thus from catalogue prices is too
uncertain to prove of value. Granted in many cases. But here is
an issue from fifty to sixty years old; the stamps were regularly
used in increasing numbers during their years of issue; they have
always been popular and eagerly collected, so that the stock in
existence has been pretty well handled and pretty well distributed.

Under these conditions the catalogue prices should by this time reflect
fairly accurately the _relative_ rarity of the main varieties of
each stamp at least; and it is this relative rarity that we are
after in order to approximate the original supplies of the main
varieties.

The result is certainly of more than mere interest, the agreement being
such that we are tempted to lay down the following propositions in
regard to the perforated stamps for further proof or disproof:--

_First._ The regular perforation (gauge 12) was done by the
manufacturers and applied to the last requisitions previous to the
change to decimal stamps.

_Second._ The date of the supposed issue of the perforated stamps should
be changed from January, 1858, to November, 1858, or January,
1859.

_Third._ The quantities of perforated stamps issued are placed approximately
at:--1/2d, 789,440; 3d, 428,200; 6d. 52,422. In further support of the
above postulates, we must say that every cover bearing any one of
the three perforated stamps which we have been able to get a
satisfactory date from has been postmarked in _1859!

_ Not one has yet been seen which bore a date in 1858 even, and one 6d
from the Seybold collection, which was dated at Brantford, December
29, 1857, turned out to be bad. Of course, perforated stamps are hard
to find on original covers, but it is curious that so far not one
has upset the theory we have laid down.

These three perforated stamps do not provide much variation in the
quality of the paper. Most of the stamps are found on a hard wove
paper, varying slightly in thickness, and though the 1/2d and 3d
are listed on ribbed paper, we venture to doubt that this is a true
ribbed paper for the reasons set forth in our last chapter.

Mr.

King records the 6d bi-sected diagonally and the halves used as 3d
stamps, but, as in the case of the similar variety in the imperforate
issues, there could have been no real need for such bi-section.

_Reference List._
1858-9. Stamps of preceding issues perforated 12.

7. 1/2d pink, Scott's No. 11.
8. 3d red, Scott's No. 12.
9. 6d violet, Scott's No. 13.

CHAPTER VI.--_The First "Cents" Issue._

While the somewhat cumbrous English currency of pounds, shillings and
pence has presented little or no difficulty in those parts of the
Empire where it has always been on the same basis as in the Mother
country, the fact that in Canada it had two valuations--"currency" and
"sterling"--made it an inevitable conclusion that a change would
have to be made sooner or later. The close proximity of Canada to
the United States gave it a very practical illustration of the advantages
of a decimal system of money; the American currency of dollars and cents
was legalised in the Province of Canada in 1853; and it is, therefore,
small matter for wonder that ultimately a decimal system of currency
similar to that in vogue in the United States was adopted. This change
took place in 1859 and the Postmaster-General's Report for that year
alluded to the necessary changes in the postage stamps as follows:

The Law of last Session directing the conversion of all postage rates
into decimals, and the collection of postage in the new decimal currency,
was put in operation on the 1st July. Decimal stamps of the value of
1 cent, 5 cents, and 10 cents for ordinary correspondence, and of
12-1/2 cents for Canadian, and of 17 cents for British Packet Postage
Rates were obtained in readiness for the commencement of the Decimal
Postage Law in July, 1859, and have from that date been issued in
lieu of the stamps previously in use.

The Law referred to on the above mentioned Report was assented to on
May 4th, 1859, and as some of the provisions are of philatelic interest
we reproduce them as follows:--
1.--There shall be payable on all Newspapers sent by Post in Canada,
except "Exchange Papers" addressed to Editors and Publishers of Newspapers,
such rate of Postage, not exceeding one cent on each such Newspaper, as
the Governor in Council shall from time to time direct by regulation
and such rate shall be payable on all such Newspapers, posted on or
after the first day of July next.

2.--So much of any Act as provides that Newspapers posted within
this Province shall pass free of postage, in cases other than those
in which they will be free under this Act is hereby repealed.

3.--In order to adapt the operations of the Post Office to the Decimal
Currency, the internal letter postage rate shall be changed from
three pence to its equivalent of five cents, per half ounce--the charge
for advertising a dead letter from three farthings to two cents--the
charge for returning a dead letter to the writer, from one penny
to three cents; and in all cases where a one halfpenny or penny
rate of Postage is chargeable, these rates shall be changed to one
cent and two cents respectively.

4.

--To promote simplicity and economy in the business of the Post Office,
all letters posted in Canada for any place within the Province, and not
prepaid, shall be charged seven instead of five cents per half ounce
on delivery; and on letters posted for the British Mails, for the other
British North American Provinces, or for the United States, when not
prepaid, there shall be charged such addition to the ordinary rate,
not in any case exceeding a double rate, as the Post Master General
may agree upon with the Post Office Authorities of those Countries,
for the purpose of enforcing prepayment.

5.

--The Post Master General may establish a Parcel Post and parcels other
than letters and not containing letters, may be sent by such Parcel Post,
and when so sent shall be liable to such charges for conveyance and to
such regulations as the Governor in Council shall from time to time see
fit to make.

It will be noted that the above Act, aside from showing the rates in the
new currency as compared with the old, provides for a greater limitation
of the privilege of free transmission of newspapers, and also
provides for the establishment of a Parcel Post.

No further reference seems to have been made to the parcel post
until the Postmaster-General's Report for June 30th, 1864, where
it is stated:--
By means of the Parcel Post a parcel may be sent within the Province
to or from any place, however remote from the ordinary lines of
traffic conveyance, on prepayment of a postage rate of 25 cents per
lb., provided that the weight or size of the parcel does not exceed
the carrying capacity of an ordinary mail bag; and provided that
the contents of the parcel are not of a character to injure the
rest of the mail.

Later the parcel post system was extended so that it embraced the
sister Provinces of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, the rate remaining
at 25c per lb. Apparently the weight and size of a parcel acceptable by
the postal authorities still remained delightfully vague and indefinite
and was simply limited by "the carrying capacity of an ordinary
mail bag."

     [Illustration]
     [Illustration]

[Illustration]
[Illustration]
As we have seen from the Postmaster-General's Report for 1859 the first
"cents" stamps were placed in use on July 1st of that year. The series
comprised the values 1c, 5c, 10c, 12-1/2c and 17c these corresponding
to the 1/2d, 3d, 6d, 7-1/2d and 10d denominations previously in use.
The designs of the new stamps were adapted from those of the
corresponding values of the old issue as a comparison of the two
series will amply demonstrate.

The 1c differs from the 1/2d only in the words denoting the value below
the portrait. The 5c differs from the 3d not only as regards the new
inscription of value but has small ornaments on the oval band
dividing CANADA POSTAGE from FIVE CENTS.

In the corners the numerals "5," replacing "3," are placed in an oblique
position on a ground of crossed lines. The 10c differs from the 6d in
having the corner numerals (represented by the Roman "X") placed obliquely
on a cross hatched ground instead of upright on a ground of foliate
ornamentation, while TEN CENTS replaces SIX PENCE under the portrait.

The 12-1/2c differs from the 7-1/2d only as regards the corners where
"12-1/2c" replaces the former values of "6d. stg" and "7-1/2d cy". On
the new 17c the words of value required so much more room than the TEN
PENCE on the old denomination that the emblems between the upper and
lower inscriptions on the oval were retired in favor of small elliptical
ornaments. The upper corners were unaltered but in the lower ones
"10cy" was removed and "17" substituted.

[Illustration]
It is obvious that the original dies were made use of in each case, the
central portions being retained and new orders engraved.

The stamps were manufactured by the American Bank Note Company, of New
York, which firm had succeeded to the business established by
Messrs.
Rawdon, Wright, Hatch and Edson. The new firm name came into effect on May
1st, 1858.

The stamps were printed in sheets of 100 by the line-engraved process
the manufacturers' imprint, "American Bank Note Co., New York"
appearing twice in each margin in very small letters. For some reason
or other no imprint was applied to the plate for the 17c value.

In the Law relating to the adoption of decimal currency, reproduced above,
we read in section 3 that "in all cases where a one-half penny or
penny rate of Postage is chargeable, these rates shall be changed to
one cent and two cents respectively." Yet, though a 1c stamp was
included in the series in 1859 no 2c made its appearance until 1864.
This new value was issued on August 1st, 1864, according to the
Postmaster-General's Report for that year while the Report for the
following year states that "A provision has been made for the transmission
and delivery of Canadian periodicals, addressed to the United Kingdom,
at the reduced rate of two cents each" and it is probably due to the
increased demand for the 2c denomination under this new rate that the
stamp made its appearance.

[Illustration]
The design was evidently copied from the 1c though the addition of
numerals in each of the lower corners gives it a strikingly different
appearance from that of the lower value. Curiously enough the 2c was
printed in almost the same color as the 1c and in commenting on this
fact the _Stamp Collectors' Magazine_ for October 1st, 1864, stated:--

We are surprised that a different hue was not chosen for the 2
cents, and should imagine its great similarity to the 1 cent, should
the latter not be withdrawn from circulation, would tend to create
confusion.

This new denomination was printed in sheets of 100 like the others of
the series, and also had eight imprints in the margins.

A close study of these stamps should reveal many points of interest. For
many years a double transfer of the 5c, of a similar character to that
found on its predecessor the 3d has been known. This is recorded
in Scott's catalogue as a "double transfer" while Gibbons notes
it as a variety "with extra line in outer oval at left".

This variety, which is simply the most prominent of many double transfers
found in connection with this 5c stamp, shows the outer line of
the oval at left distinctly doubled, and the frame lines above are
also double.

Other varieties which, though not so prominent, are of equal philatelic
importance are found. We have seen the following and have no doubt
many others exist:--
(1) There are distinct traces of doubling in the letters ADA and
POST of CANADA POSTAGE, in the numerals in the upper angles, and of
the lines of the oval band.

(2) There is a faint doubling of the outer frame lines at the top right
hand corner.

(3) There is a similar doubling of the outer frame lines affecting
the lower right hand corner.

(4) The lines of the oval band are faintly doubled at the lower left.

(5) The letters POST of POSTAGE, the "5" above, and the lines of oval and
frame all show distinct signs of double transferring.

(6) This double transfer affects the lines, numeral, and letters NADA of
CANADA at the upper left corner and while not so distinct as No.
5 is nevertheless a true plate variety.

We have found no traces of double transfers in the other denominations
except a slight one on the 12-1/2c. This shows a slight doubling of
the frame lines in the top left corner, as well as traces of colored lines
in the adjacent "12-1/2c".

It is quite probable that any collector having sufficient material would
find "doubles" in all of these values.

In laying down the impressions on the plate or plates for the 5c value
a guide dot was applied to the transfer roll. This occupied such a
position that as each succeeding impression was applied to the
plate it fell so that the guide dot would fall about the centre
of the C of CENTS. Consequently, the vast majority of these stamps
show a conspicuous dot of color in the position indicated. The stamps
without the colored dot are, usually, those from the extreme left vertical
row of the sheet.

On this same value--the 5c--we have seen specimens with colored dots
outside and slightly to the left of the lower left corner.
These are possibly plate dots marked to indicate where each row
should commence. Varieties with broken frame lines are not uncommon
and these may be due in part to defective transfers and in part to
wear.

Extreme wear is also shown, in some instances, by the numerals appearing
on an almost plain ground.

Whether guide dots were used for the other denominations or not we cannot
say. At any rate if they were used they were applied in such a position
as to be completely hidden by some part or other of the designs.

A small peculiarity in the 10c is worth noting. On the majority of
specimens there is a slight defect or break in the outer line of the
oval band above and to the right of the O of POSTAGE.

     This is probably due to a minute defect on the
     transfer-roll impression. Many specimens of the
     12-1/2c value show the tongue of the E of POSTAGE the same length
as the upper and lower arms though the end is generally covered
with a colored smudge.

We are at a loss to account for the cause of this variety but that it
is a "constant" one we have satisfied ourselves by the examination of a
number of identical specimens.

The 17c also exhibits a small peculiarity of engraving. A colored
line projects upwards into the uncolored oval band above the space
between OS of POSTAGE.

This was evidently caused by an accidental touch of the engraver's
tool on the die for it is quite distinct on every specimen we have
examined.

The paper upon which the stamps of this series were printed does not
provide so much variation as that of the earlier emissions. Mr. D.
A.
King in his article in the _Monthly Journal_ says:

The papers upon which these stamps are printed may be divided into five
classes:

I.--Ordinary, coarse, white wove paper.

II.

--Similar paper, of a yellowish tint, and slightly ribbed.

III.--A hard greyish paper, very slightly ribbed.

IV.--White wove paper, very slightly ribbed.

V.--A white paper, very hard and closely ribbed.

In addition we are told that all the above varieties come in at least two
thicknesses. Scott's catalogue is content with a classification of
"wove" paper with a sub-variety of "ribbed" for the 1c and 5c denominations.
Mr. Howes extends the "ribbed" variety to all values but, as we have
pointed out in earlier chapters, it is extremely unlikely that any such
variety as a real ribbed paper was used, the ribbed lines being
simply due to some idiosyncrasy of manufacture. To again quote Mr.
King:

The best way to distinguish this paper from the others that have the
appearance of ribbing, is to hold the stamp before a strong light, when
the ribbing will appear like fine horizontal laid lines on the 5c, and
vertical laid lines in the other values. Looking through the paper is the
only sure test, as many of the stamps on the other papers have the
appearance of being ribbed.

To differentiate between stamps on ribbed paper and those having
the "appearance" of being ribbed is surely getting very close to
the ridiculous.

With the exception of the 10c the stamps of this issue provide
but little variation in shade but the 10c more than makes up for this
lack in the others for it exists in almost every conceivable tint from
bright red-lilac through shades of violet and brown to a brown so intense
as to be catalogued as a distinct variety described as "black-brown".

All the stamps of this series were normally perforated 12 by single
line machines. All values are known entirely imperforate and it
would seem that these, or most of them, are perfectly legitimate
errors. The _Philatelic Record_ for October, 1882, says:--"We have seen
a used _imperforate_ copy of the 5 cents, 1859, which is beyond challenge".
Mr.
King states:--"The imperforate varieties are all legitimate, and
undoubtedly genuine, having been seen in pairs, or in single copies
with margins beyond cavil". Mr. Charles L. Pack writing in the _London
Philatelist_ regarding these varieties says:--
I have the 1c and 5c postmarked in 1860 and 1861 at Toronto and
Prescott, Canada West. I also believe that these varieties were on sale
at Kingston, Canada West, at about that time. I have also the 2c and 10c
in undoubtedly early used condition.

Bi-sected varieties of the 5c and 10c of this issue are known though,
as Mr.

Howes states of these varieties, they "were never authorised and
seldom used". The _Philatelic Record_ for October, 1888, mentions a
part of a cover with a 10c and half of a 5c side by side which were
evidently used in prepayment of the 12-1/2c rate, while Mr. Howes
records the existence of a pair of the 5c used with a half stamp of
the same denomination to make up the 12-1/2c packet rate. The same
writer records a diagonal half of the 10c used as a 5c stamp from
Bowmanville, Upper Canada, on February 15th, 1860. Whether these "splits"
were the work of private parties or were made by postal officials to
fill a temporary shortage of certain values will probably never be
known.

_Reference List._
1859-64. Engraved and Printed by the American Bank Note Co., New
York, on white wove paper. Perforated 12.

10. 1c pink, Scott's No. 14.
11. 2c rose, Scott's No. 18.
12. 5c vermilion, Scott's No. 15.
13. 10c lilac, Scott's No. 16.
14. 12-1/2c green, Scott's No. 19.
15. 17c blue, Scott's No. 20.

CHAPTER VII.--_The First Dominion Issue._

The steady growth of Upper Canada, chiefly due to immigration, until it
had twice the population of its sister Province, Lower Canada, aroused
cries for a readjusted representation, which threatened the French with
a hopeless minority in Parliament and the country with another
impasse.
The federation of all the provinces under something like the American
system was the only solution; and with, for the most part, the
cordial coöperation of the maritime provinces, the great scheme was
carried through, and the new dominion launched in 1867.

Each province retained its local autonomy and separate legislature under
a lieutenant-governor, always a Canadian, nominated by the federal
executive.

To the latter was reserved all great affairs, such as defense, customs,
Crown lands, Indians, and the organisation of the vast western
territories then just beginning to open up.

The famous Sir John Macdonald, the most illustrious of Canadian
statesmen, was prominent in the federal movement, as also was Sir Charles
Tupper. A final meeting was held in London, and early in 1867 the British
North America Act was passed through the Imperial Parliament.

The new capital was fixed at Bytown, a small town up the Ottawa well
removed from the frontier, fairly central to all the provinces,
and felicitously rechristened Ottawa. Here were erected the stately
houses of parliament for senate, commons, and the entire government
staff, familiar to all travellers, and there, too, the governor-general
of all British North America took up his residence, Lord Monck being
the first to hold this high office, and Sir John Macdonald the first
premier.
The British North America Act, referred to above, provided for the
division of the Dominion of Canada into four provinces named Ontario,
Quebec, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick and also made provision for
the admission of Newfoundland, Prince Edward Island, British Columbia,
etc., when such admission should be deemed advisable. The Act went
into force on July 1st, 1867, and as a mark of the importance of
this event the first day of July is now a national holiday known
as "Dominion Day".
It only remains to say that Prince Edward Island, British Columbia
and Manitoba (not then organised) came into the federation shortly
afterwards.
One of the chief duties of the first Parliament, which met at Ottawa
on November 6th, 1867, was the revision and consolidation of the
laws of the various provinces now federated, and amongst these were,
of course, the laws relating to the Post Office. The Act passed for
the regulation of the postal service is a lengthy one and the only
provisions of special interest to us as philatelists, those relating
to the rates of postage,--are more clearly and definitely tabulated
in a Department Order issued from Ottawa on March 1st, 1868, to
which we shall make reference later.But I trow, could I get rid of thae
gaping gowks of flunkies that hae won into the courtyard at the back
of their betters, as mony a man gets preferment, I could make a' right
yet."

The measures which he took to execute this dauntless resolution, the
reader shall learn in the next chapter.


CHAPTER X.

     With throat unslaked, with black lips baked,
     Agape they heard him call;
     Gramercy they for joy did grin,
     And all at once their breath drew in,
     As they had been drinking all!

     COLERIDGE'S Rime of the Ancient Mariner.

HAYSTON of Bucklaw was one of the thoughtless class who never hesitate
between their friend and their jest. When it was announced that the
principal persons of the chase had taken their route towards Wolf's
Crag, the huntsmen, as a point of civility, offered to transfer the
venison to that mansion; a proffer which was readily accepted by
Bucklaw, who thought much of the astonishment which their arrival in
full body would occasion poor old Caleb Balderstone, and very little of
the dilemma to which he was about to expose his friend the Master, so
ill circumstanced to receive such a party. But in old Caleb he had to
do with a crafty and alert antagonist, prompt at supplying, upon all
emergencies, evasions and excuses suitable, as he thought, to the
dignity of the family.

"Praise be blest!" said Caleb to himself, "ae leaf of the muckle gate
has been swung to wi' yestreen's wind, and I think I can manage to shut
the ither."

But he was desirous, like a prudent governor, at the same time to get
rid, if possible, of the internal enemy, in which light he considered
almost every one who eat and drank, ere he took measures to exclude
those whom their jocund noise now pronounced to be near at hand. He
waited, therefore, with impatience until his master had shown his two
principal guests into the Tower, and then commenced his operations.

"I think," he said to the stranger menials, "that, as they are bringing
the stag's head to the castle in all honour, we, who are indwellers,
should receive them at the gate."

The unwary grooms had no sooner hurried out, in compliance with this
insidious hint, than, one folding-door of the ancient gate being already
closed by the wind, as has been already intimated, honest Caleb lost
no time in shutting the other with a clang, which resounded from
donjon-vault to battlement. Having thus secured the pass, he forthwith
indulged the excluded huntsmen in brief parley, from a small projecting
window, or shot-hole, through which, in former days, the warders were
wont to reconnoitre those who presented themselves before the gates. He
gave them to understand, in a short and pity speech, that the gate of
the castle was never on any account opened during meal-times; that his
honour, the Master of Ravenswood, and some guests of quality, had
just sat down to dinner; that there was excellent brandy at the
hostler-wife's at Wolf's Hope down below; and he held out some obscure
hint that the reckoning would be discharged by the Master; but this was
uttered in a very dubious and oracular strain, for, like Louis XIV.,
Caleb Balderstone hesitated to carry finesse so far as direct falsehood,
and was content to deceive, if possible, without directly lying.

This annunciation was received with surprise by some, with laughter
by others, and with dismay by the expelled lackeys, who endeavoured to
demonstrate that their right of readmission, for the purpose of waiting
upon their master and mistress, was at least indisputable. But Caleb was
not in a humour to understand or admit any distinctions. He stuck to his
original proposition with that dogged but convenient pertinacity which
is armed against all conviction, and deaf to all reasoning. Bucklaw now
came from the rear of the party, and demanded admittance in a very angry
tone. But the resolution of Caleb was immovable.

"If the king on the throne were at the gate," he declared, "his ten
fingers should never open it contrair to the established use and wont of
the family of Ravenswood, and his duty as their head-servant."

Bucklaw was now extremely incensed, and with more oaths and curses
than we care to repeat, declared himself most unworthily treated, and
demanded peremptorily to speak with the Master of Ravenswood himself.

But to this also Caleb turned a deaf ear. "He's as soon a-bleeze as a
tap of tow, the lad Bucklaw," he said; "but the deil of ony master's
face he shall see till he has sleepit and waken'd on't. He'll ken
himsell better the morn's morning. It sets the like o' him, to be
bringing a crew of drunken hunters here, when he kens there is but
little preparation to sloken his ain drought." And he disappeared from
the window, leaving them all to digest their exclusion as they best
might.

But another person, of whose presence Caleb, in the animation of the
debate, was not aware, had listened in silence to its progress. This
was the principal domestic of the stranger--a man of trust and
consequence--the same who, in the hunting-field, had accommodated
Bucklaw with the use of his horse. He was in the stable when Caleb had
contrived the expulsion of his fellow-servants, and thus avoided sharing
the same fate, from which his personal importance would certainly not
have otherwise saved him.

This personage perceived the manoeuvre of Caleb, easily appreciated the
motive of his conduct, and knowing his master's intentions towards the
family of Ravenswood, had no difficulty as to the line of conduct he
ought to adopt. He took the place of Caleb (unperceived by the latter)
at the post of audience which he had just left, and announced to the
assembled domestics, "That it was his master's pleasure that Lord
Bittlebrain's retinue and his own should go down to the adjacent
change-house and call for what refreshments they might have occasion
for, and he should take care to discharge the lawing."

The jolly troop of huntsmen retired from the inhospitable gate of Wolf's
Crag, execrating, as they descended the steep pathway, the niggard and
unworthy disposition of the proprietor, and damning, with more than
silvan license, both the castle and its inhabitants. Bucklaw, with many
qualities which would have made him a man of worth and judgment in more
favourable circumstances, had been so utterly neglected in point of
education, that he was apt to think and feel according to the ideas of
the companions of his pleasures. The praises which had recently been
heaped upon himself he contrasted with the general abuse now levelled
against Ravenswood; he recalled to his mind the dull and monotonous days
he had spent in the Tower of Wolf's Crag, compared with the joviality
of his usual life; he felt with great indignation his exclusion from
the castle, which he considered as a gross affront, and every mingled
feeling led him to break off the union which he had formed with the
Master of Ravenswood.

On arriving at the change-house of the village of Wolf's Hope, he
unexpectedly met with an acquaintance just alighting from his horse.
This was no other than the very respectable Captain Craigengelt,
who immediately came up to him, and, without appearing to retain any
recollection of the indifferent terms on which they had parted, shook
him by the hand in the warmest manner possible. A warm grasp of the
hand was what Bucklaw could never help returning with cordiality, and no
sooner had Craigengelt felt the pressure of his fingers than he knew the
terms on which he stood with him.

"Long life to you, Bucklaw!" he exclaimed; "there's life for honest folk
in this bad world yet!"

The Jacobites at this period, with what propriety I know not, used, it
must be noticed, the term of HONEST MEN as peculiarly descriptive of
their own party.

"Ay, and for others besides, it seems," answered Bucklaw; "otherways,
how came you to venture hither, noble Captain?"

"Who--I? I am as free as the wind at Martinmas, that pays neither
land-rent nor annual; all is explained--all settled with the honest old
drivellers yonder of Auld Reekie. Pooh! pooh! they dared not keep me a
week of days in durance. A certain person has better friends among them
than you wot of, and can serve a friend when it is least likely."

"Pshaw!" answered Hayston, who perfectly knew and thoroughly despised
the character of this man, "none of your cogging gibberish; tell me
truly, are you at liberty and in safety?"

"Free and safe as a Whig bailie on the causeway of his own borough, or a
canting Presbyterian minister in his own pulpit; and I came to tell you
that you need not remain in hiding any longer."

"Then I suppose you call yourself my friend, Captain Craigengelt?" said
Bucklaw.

"Friend!" replied Craigengelt, "my cock of the pit! why, I am thy very
Achates, man, as I have heard scholars say--hand and glove--bark and
tree--thine to life and death!"

"I'll try that in a moment," answered Bucklaw. "Thou art never without
money, however thou comest by it. Lend me two pieces to wash the dust
out of these honest fellows' throats in the first place, and then----"

"Two pieces! Twenty are at thy service, my lad, and twenty to back
them."

"Ay, say you so?" said Bucklaw, pausing, for his natural penetration led
him to suspect some extraordinary motive lay couched under an excess of
generosity. "Craigengelt, you are either an honest fellow in right good
earnest, and I scarce know how to believe that; or you are cleverer than
I took you for, and I scarce know how to believe that either."

"L'un n'empeche pas l'autre," said Craigengelt. "Touch and try; the gold
is good as ever was weighed."

He put a quantity of gold pieces into Bucklaw's hand, which he thrust
into his pocket without either counting or looking at them, only
observing, "That he was so circumstanced that he must enlist, though
the devil offered the press-money"; and then turning to the huntsmen, he
called out, "Come along, my lads; all is at my cost."

"Long life to Bucklaw!" shouted the men of the chase.

"And confusion to him that takes his share of the sport, and leaves the
hunters as dry as a drumhead," added another, by way of corollary.

"The house of Ravenswood was ance a gude and an honourable house in
this land," said an old man; "but it's lost its credit this day, and the
Master has shown himself no better than a greedy cullion."

And with this conclusion, which was unanimously agreed to by all who
heard it, they rushed tumultuously into the house of entertainment,
where they revelled till a late hour. The jovial temper of Bucklaw
seldom permitted him to be nice in the choice of his associates; and on
the present occasion, when his joyous debauch received additional
zest from the intervention of an unusual space of sobriety, and almost
abstinence, he was as happy in leading the revels as if his comrades had
been sons of princes. Craigengelt had his own purposes in fooling him up
to the top of his bent; and having some low humour, much impudence, and
the power of singing a good song, understanding besides thoroughly the
disposition of his regained associate, he headily succeeded in involving
him bumper-deep in the festivity of the meeting.


A very different scene was in the mean time passing in the Tower of
Wolf's Crag. When the Master of Ravenswood left the courtyard, too
much busied with his own perplexed reflections to pay attention to the
manoeuvre of Caleb, he ushered his guests into the great hall of the
castle.

The indefatigable Balderstone, who, from choice or habit, worked on from
morning to night, had by degrees cleared this desolate apartment of the
confused relics of the funeral banquet, and restored it to some order.
But not all his skill and labour, in disposing to advantage the little
furniture which remained, could remove the dark and disconsolate
appearance of those ancient and disfurnished walls. The narrow windows,
flanked by deep indentures into the walls, seemed formed rather to
exclude than to admit the cheerful light; and the heavy and gloomy
appearance of the thunder-sky added still farther to the obscurity.

As Ravenswood, with the grace of a gallant of that period, but not
without a certain stiffness and embarrassment of manner, handed the
young lady to the upper end of the apartment, her father remained
standing more near to the door, as if about to disengage himself from
his hat and cloak. At this moment the clang of the portal was heard, a
sound at which the stranger started, stepped hastily to the window, and
looked with an air of alarm at Ravenswood, when he saw that the gate of
the court was shut, and his domestics excluded.

"You have nothing to fear, sir," said Ravenswood, gravely; "this roof
retains the means of giving protection, though not welcome. Methinks,"
he added, "it is time that I should know who they are that have thus
highly honoured my ruined dwelling!" The young lady remained silent
and motionless, and the father, to whom the question was more directly
addressed, seemed in the situation of a performer who has ventured to
take upon himself a part which he finds himself unable to present,
and who comes to a pause when it is most to be expected that he should
speak. While he endeavoured to cover his embarrassment with the exterior
ceremonials of a well-bred demeanour, it was obvious that, in making his
bow, one foot shuffled forward, as if to advance, the other backward, as
if with the purpose of escape; and as he undid the cape of his coat, and
raised his beaver from his face, his fingers fumbled as if the one had
been linked with rusted iron, or the other had weighed equal with a
stone of lead. The darkness of the sky seemed to increase, as if to
supply the want of those mufflings which he laid aside with such evident
reluctance. The impatience of Ravenswood increased also in proportion to
the delay of the stranger, and he appeared to struggle under agitation,
though probably from a very different cause. He laboured to restrain his
desire to speak, while the stranger, to all appearance, was at a loss
for words to express what he felt necessary to say.

At length Ravenswood's impatience broke the bounds he had imposed upon
it. "I perceive," he said, "that Sir William Ashton is unwilling to
announced himself in the Castle of Wolf's Crag."

"I had hoped it was unnecessary," said the Lord Keeper, relieved from
his silence, as a spectre by the voice of the exorcist, "and I am
obliged to you, Master of Ravenswood, for breaking the ice at once,
where circumstances--unhappy circumstances, let me call them--rendered
self-introduction peculiarly awkward."

"And I am not then," said the Master of Ravenswood, gravely, "to
consider the honour of this visit as purely accidental?"

"Let us distinguish a little," said the Keeper, assuming an appearance
of ease which perhaps his heart was a stranger to; "this is an honour
which I have eagerly desired for some time, but which I might never
have obtained, save for the accident of the storm. My daughter and I are
alike grateful for this opportunity of thanking the brave man to whom
she owes her life and I mine."

The hatred which divided the great families in the feudal times had lost
little of its bitterness, though it no longer expressed itself in
deeds of open violence. Not the feelings which Ravenswood had begun to
entertain towards Lucy Ashton, not the hospitality due to his guests,
were able entirely to subdue, though they warmly combated, the deep
passions which arose within him at beholding his father's foe standing
in the hall of the family of which he had in a great measure accelerated
the ruin. His looks glanced from the father to the daughter with an
irresolution of which Sir William Ashton did not think it proper
to await the conclusion. He had now disembarrassed himself of his
riding-dress, and walking up to his daughter, he undid the fastening of
her mask.

"Lucy, my love," he said, raising her and leading her towards
Ravenswood, "lay aside your mask, and let us express our gratitude to
the Master openly and barefaced."

"If he will condescend to accept it," was all that Lucy uttered; but in
a tone so sweetly modulated, and which seemed to imply at once a feeling
and a forgiving of the cold reception to which they were exposed,
that, coming from a creature so innocent and so beautiful, her words cut
Ravenswood to the very heart for his harshness. He muttered something
of surprise, something of confusion, and, ending with a warm and eager
expression of his happiness at being able to afford her shelter under
his roof, he saluted her, as the ceremonial of the time enjoined upon
such occasions. Their cheeks had touched and were withdrawn from each
other; Ravenswood had not quitted the hand which he had taken in kindly
courtesy; a blush, which attached more consequence by far than was usual
to such ceremony, still mantled on Lucy Ashton's beautiful cheek, when
the apartment was suddenly illuminated by a flash of lightning, which
seemed absolutely to swallow the darkness of the hall. Every object
might have been for an instant seen distinctly. The slight and
half-sinking form of Lucy Ashton; the well-proportioned and stately
figure of Ravenswood, his dark features, and the fiery yet irresolute
expression of his eyes; the old arms and scutcheons which hung on the
walls of the apartment, were for an instant distinctly visible to the
Keeper by a strong red brilliant glare of light. Its disappearance was
almost instantly followed by a burst of thunder, for the storm-cloud was
very near the castle; and the peal was so sudden and dreadful, that the
old tower rocked to its foundation, and every inmate concluded it was
falling upon them. The soot, which had not been disturbed for centuries,
showered down the huge tunnelled chimneys; lime and dust flew in clouds
from the wall; and, whether the lightning had actually struck the castle
or whether through the violent concussion of the air, several heavy
stones were hurled from the mouldering battlements into the roaring
sea beneath. It might seem as if the ancient founder of the castle were
bestriding the thunderstorm, and proclaiming his displeasure at the
reconciliation of his descendant with the enemy of his house.

The consternation was general, and it required the efforts of both the
Lord Keeper and Ravenswood to keep Lucy from fainting. Thus was the
Master a second time engaged in the most delicate and dangerous of
all tasks, that of affording support and assistance to a beautiful and
helpless being, who, as seen before in a similar situation, had
already become a favourite of his imagination, both when awake and when
slumbering. If the genius of the house really condemned a union betwixt
the Master and his fair guest, the means by which he expressed his
sentiments were as unhappily chosen as if he had been a mere mortal.
The train of little attentions, absolutely necessary to soothe the young
lady's mind, and aid her in composing her spirits, necessarily threw
the Master of Ravenswood into such an intercourse with her father as was
calculated, for the moment at least, to break down the barrier of feudal
enmity which divided them. To express himself churlishly, or even
coldly, towards an old man whose daughter (and SUCH a daughter) lay
before them, overpowered with natural terror--and all this under his own
roof, the thing was impossible; and by the time that Lucy, extending a
hand to each, was able to thank them for their kindness, the Master
felt that his sentiments of hostility towards the Lord Keeper were by no
means those most predominant in his bosom.

The weather, her state of health, the absence of her attendants,
all prevented the possibility of Lucy Ashton renewing her journey to
Bittlebrains House, which was full five miles distant; and the Master of
Ravenswood could not but, in common courtesy, offer the shelter of his
roof for the rest of the day and for the night. But a flush of less
soft expression, a look much more habitual to his features, resumed
predominance when he mentioned how meanly he was provided for the
entertainment of his guests.

"Do not mention deficiencies," said the Lord Keeper, eager to interrupt
him and prevent his resuming an alarming topic; "you are preparing to
set out for the Continent, and your house is probably for the present
unfurnished. All this we understand; but if you mention inconvenience,
you will oblige us to seek accommodations in the hamlet."

As the Master of Ravenswood was about to reply, the door of the hall
opened, and Caleb Balderstone rushed in.


CHAPTER XI.

     Let them have meat enough, woman--half a hen;
     There be old rotten pilchards--put them off too;
     'Tis but a little new anointing of them,
     And a strong onion, that confounds the savour.

     Love's Pilgrimage.

THE thunderbolt, which had stunned all who were within hearing of it,
had only served to awaken the bold and inventive genius of the flower of
majors-domo. Almost before the clatter had ceased, and while there was
yet scarce an assurance whether the castle was standing or falling,
Caleb exclaimed, "Heaven be praised! this comes to hand like the boul of
a pint-stoup." He then barred the kitchen door in the face of the Lord
Keeper's servant, whom he perceived returning from the party at the
gate, and muttering, "How the deil cam he in?--but deil may care. Mysie,
what are ye sitting shaking and greeting in the chimney-neuk for? Come
here--or stay where ye are, and skirl as loud as ye can; it's a' ye're
gude for. I say, ye auld deevil, skirl--skirl--louder--louder, woman;
gar the gentles hear ye in the ha'. I have heard ye as far off as the
Bass for a less matter. And stay--down wi' that crockery----"

And with a sweeping blow, he threw down from a shelf some articles of
pewter and earthenware. He exalted his voice amid the clatter, shouting
and roaring in a manner which changed Mysie's hysterical terrors of the
thunder into fears that her old fellow-servant was gone distracted. "He
has dung down a' the bits o' pigs, too--the only thing we had left
to haud a soup milk--and he has spilt the hatted hit that was for the
Master's dinner. Mercy save us, the auld man's gaen clean and clear wud
wi' the thunner!"

"Haud your tongue, ye b----!" said Caleb, in the impetuous and
overbearing triumph of successful invention, "a's provided now--dinner
and a'thing; the thunner's done a' in a clap of a hand!"

"Puir man, he's muckle astray," said Mysie, looking at him with a
mixture of pity and alarm; "I wish he may ever come come hame to himsell
again."

"Here, ye auld doited deevil," said Caleb, still exulting
in his extrication from a dilemma which had seemed insurmountable;
"keep the strange man out of the kitchen; swear the thunner
came down the chimney and spoiled the best dinner ye ever
dressed--beef--bacon--kid--lark--leveret--wild-fowl--venison, and what
not. Lay it on thick, and never mind expenses. I'll awa' up to the
la'. Make a' the confusion ye can; but be sure ye keep out the strange
servant."

With these charges to his ally, Caleb posted up to the hall, but
stopping to reconnoitre through an aperture, which time, for the
convenience of many a domestic in succession, had made in the door, and
perceiving the situation of Miss Ashton, he had prudence enough to
make a pause, both to avoid adding to her alarm and in order to secure
attention to his account of the disastrous effects of the thunder.

But when he perceived that the lady was recovered, and heard the
conversation turn upon the accommodation and refreshment which the
castle afforded, he thought it time to burst into the room in the manner
announced in the last chapter.

"Willawins!--willawins! Such a misfortune to befa' the house of
Ravenswood, and I to live to see it."

"What is the matter, Caleb?" said his master, somewhat alarmed in his
turn; "has any part of the castle fallen?"

"Castle fa'an! na, but the sute's fa'an, and the thunner's come right
down the kitchen-lum, and the things are a' lying here awa', there awa',
like the Laird o' Hotchpotch's lands; and wi' brave guests of honour
and quality to entertain (a low bow here to Sir William Ashton and his
daughter), and naething left in the house fit to present for dinner, or
for supper either, for aught that I can see!"

"I very believe you, Caleb," said Ravenswood, drily. Balderstone here
turned to his master a half-upbraiding, half-imploring countenance,
and edged towards him as he repeated, "It was nae great matter of
preparation; but just something added to your honour's ordinary course
of fare--petty cover, as they say at the Louvre--three courses and the
fruit."

"Keep your intolerable nonsense to yourself, you old fool!" said
Ravenswood, mortified at his officiousness, yet not knowing how to
contradict him, without the risk of giving rise to scenes yet more
ridiculous.

Caleb saw his advantage, and resolved to improve it. But first,
observing that the Lord Keeper's servant entered the apartment and spoke
apart with his master, he took the same opportunity to whisper a few
words into Ravenswood's ear: "Haud your tongue, for heaven's sake, sir;
if it's my pleasure to hazard my soul in telling lees for the honour
of the family, it's nae business o' yours; and if ye let me gang on
quietly, I'se be moderate in my banquet; but if ye contradict me, deil
but I dress ye a dinner fit for a duke!"

Ravenswood, in fact, thought it would be best to let his officious
butler run on, who proceeded to enumerate upon his fingers--"No muckle
provision--might hae served four persons of honour,--first course,
capons in white broth--roast kid--bacon with reverence; second course,
roasted leveret--butter crabs--a veal florentine; third course,
blackcock--it's black eneugh now wi' the sute--plumdamas--a tart--a
flam--and some nonsense sweet things, adn comfits--and that's a',"
he said, seeing the impatience of his master--"that's just a' was
o't--forbye the apples and pears."

Miss Ashton had by degrees gathered her spirits, so far as to pay some
attention to what was going on; and observing the restrained impatience
of Ravenswood, contrasted with the peculiar determination of manner with
which Caleb detailed his imaginary banquet, the whole struck her as so
ridiculous that, despite every effort to the contrary, she burst into a
fit of incontrollable laughter, in which she was joined by her father,
though with more moderation, and finally by the Master of Ravenswood
himself, though conscious that the jest was at his own expense. Their
mirth--for a scene which we read with little emotion often appears
extremely ludicrous to the spectators--made the old vault ring again.
They ceased--they renewed--they ceased--they renewed again their shouts
of laughter! Caleb, in the mean time, stood his ground with a grave,
angry, and scornful dignity, which greatly enhanced the ridicule of the
scene and mirth of the spectators.

At length, when the voices, and nearly the strength, of the laughers
were exhausted, he exclaimed, with very little ceremony: "The deil's in
the gentles! they breakfast sae lordly, that the loss of the best dinner
ever cook pat fingers to makes them as merry as if it were the best
jeest in a' George Buchanan. If there was as little in your honours'
wames as there is in Caleb Balderstone's, less caickling wad serve ye on
sic a gravaminous subject."

Caleb's blunt expression of resentment again awakened the mirth of the
company, which, by the way, he regarded not only as an aggression upon
the dignity of the family, but a special contempt of the eloquence with
which he himself had summed up the extent of their supposed losses. "A
description of a dinner," as he said afterwards to Mysie, "that wad hae
made a fu' man hungry, and them to sit there laughing at it!"

"But," said Miss Ashton, composing her countenance as well as she could,
"are all these delicacies so totally destroyed that no scrap can be
collected?"

"Collected, my leddy! what wad ye collect out of the sute and the ass?
Ye may gang down yoursell, and look into our kitchen--the cookmaid in
the trembling exies--the gude vivers lying a' about--beef, capons, and
white broth--florentine and flams--bacon wi' reverence--and a' the sweet
confections and whim-whams--ye'll see them a', my leddy--that is," said
he, correcting himself, "ye'll no see ony of them now, for the cook
has soopit them up, as was weel her part; but ye'll see the white broth
where it was spilt. I pat my fingers in it, and it tastes as like sour
milk as ony thing else; if that isna the effect of thunner, I kenna what
is. This gentleman here couldna but hear the clash of our haill dishes,
china and silver thegither?"

The Lord Keeper's domestic, though a statesman's attendant, and of
course trained to command his countenance upon all occasions, was
somewhat discomposed by this appeal, to which he only answered by a bow.

"I think, Mr. Butler," said the Lord Keeper, who began to be afraid lest
the prolongation of this scene should at length displease Ravenswood--"I
think that, were you to retire with my servant Lockhard--he has
travelled, and is quite accustomed to accidents and contingencies of
every kind, and I hope betwixt you, you may find out some mode of supply
at this emergency."

"His honour kens," said Caleb, who, however hopeless of himself
of accomplishing what was desirable, would, like the high-spirited
elephant, rather have died in the effort than brooked the aid of a
brother in commission--"his honour kens weel I need nae counsellor, when
the honour of the house is concerned."

"I should be unjust if I denied it, Caleb," said his master; "but your
art lies chiefly in making apologies, upon which we can no more dine
than upon the bill of fare of our thunder-blasted dinner. Now, possibly
Mr. Lockhard's talent may consist in finding some substitute for that
which certainly is not, and has in all probability never been."

"Your honour is pleased to be facetious," said Caleb, "but I am sure
that, for the warst, for a walk as far as Wolf's Hope, I could dine
forty men--no that the folk there deserve your honour's custom. They hae
been ill advised in the matter of the duty eggs and butter, I winna deny
that."

"Do go consult together," said the Master; "go down to the village,
and do the best you can. We must not let our guests remain without
refreshment, to save the honour of a ruined family. And here, Caleb,
take my purse; I believe that will prove your best ally."

"Purse! purse, indeed!" quoth Caleb, indignantly flinging out of the
room; "what suld I do wi' your honour's purse, on your ain grund? I
trust we are no to pay for our ain?"

The servants left the hall; and the door was no sooner shut than the
Lord Keeper began to apologise for the rudeness of his mirth; and Lucy
to hope she had given no pain or offence to the kind-hearted faithful
old man.

"Caleb and I must both learn, madam, to undergo with good humour, or at
least with patience, the ridicule which everywhere attaches itself to
poverty."

"You do yourself injustice, Master of Ravenswood, on my word of honour,"
answered his elder guest. "I believe I know more of your affairs than
you do yourself, and I hope to show you that I am interested in them;
and that--in short, that your prospects are better than you apprehend.
In the mean time, I can conceive nothing so respectable as the spirit
which rises above misfortune, and prefers honourable privations to debt
or dependence."

Whether from fear of offending the delicacy or awakening the pride of
the Master, the Lord Keeper made these allusions with an appearance
of fearful and hesitating reserve, and seemed to be afraid that he was
intruding too far, in venturing to touch, however lightly, upon such a
topic, even when the Master had led to it. In short, he appeared at once
pushed on by his desire of appearing friendly, and held back by the fear
of intrusion. It was no wonder that the Master of Ravenswood, little
acquainted as he then was with life, should have given this consummate
courtier credit for more sincerity than was probably to be found in
a score of his cast. He answered, however, with reserve, that he was
indebted to all who might think well of him; and, apologising to his
guests, he left the hall, in order to make such arrangements for their
entertainment as circumstances admitted.

Upon consulting with old Mysie, the accommodations for the night were
easily completed, as indeed they admitted of little choice. The Master
surrendered his apartment for the use of Miss Ashton, and Mysie, once a
person of consequence, dressed in a black satin gown which had belonged
of yore to the Master's grandmother, and had figured in the court-balls
of Henrietta Maria, went to attend her as lady's-maid. He next inquired
after Bucklaw, and understanding he was at the change-house with the
huntsmen and some companions, he desired Caleb to call there, and
acquaint him how he was circumstanced at Wolf's Crag; to intimate to him
that it would be most convenient if he could find a bed in the hamlet,
as the elder guest must necessarily be quartered in the secret chamber,
the only spare bedroom which could be made fit to receive him. The
Master saw no hardship in passing the night by the hall fire, wrapt in
his campaign-cloak; and to Scottish domestics of the day, even of the
highest rank, nay, to young men of family or fashion, on any pinch,
clean straw, or a dry hayloft, was always held good night-quarters.

For the rest, Lockhard had his master's orders to bring some venison
from the inn, and Caleb was to trust to his wits for the honour of his
family. The Master, indeed, a second time held out his purse; but, as it
was in sight of the strange servant, the butler thought himself obliged
to decline what his fingers itched to clutch. "Couldna he hae slippit it
gently into my hand?" said Caleb; "but his honour will never learn how
to bear himsell in siccan cases."

Mysie, in the mean time, according to a uniform custom in remote places
in Scotland, offered the strangers the produce of her little dairy,
"while better meat was getting ready." And according to another custom,
not yet wholly in desuetude, as the storm was now drifting off to
leeward, the Master carried the Keeper to the top of his highest
tower to admire a wide and waste extent of view, and to "weary for his
dinner."


CHAPTER XII.

     "Now dame," quoth he, "Je vous dis sans doute,
     Had I nought of a capon but the liver,
     And of your white bread nought but a shiver,
     And after that a roasted pigge's head
     (But I ne wold for me no beast were dead),
     Then had I with you homely sufferaunce."

     CHAUCER, Summer's Tale.

IT was not without some secret misgivings that Caleb set out upon
his exploratory expedition. In fact, it was attended with a treble
difficulty. He dared not tell his mast the offence which he had that
morning given to Bucklaw, just for the honour of the family; he dared
not acknowledge he had been too hasty in refusing the purse; and,
thirdly, he was somewhat apprehensive of unpleasant consequences upon
his meeting Hayston under the impression of an affront, and probably by
this time under the influence also of no small quantity of brandy.

Caleb, to do him justice, was as bold as any lion where the honour of
the family of Ravenswood was concerned; but his was that considerate
valour which does not delight in unnecessary risks. This, however, was a
secondary consideration; the main point was to veil the indigence of
the housekeeping at the castle, and to make good his vaunt of the cheer
which his resources could procure, without Lockhard's assistance, and
without supplies from his master. This was as prime a point of honour
with him as with the generous elephant with whom we have already
compared him, who, being overtasked, broke his skull through the
desperate exertions which he made to discharge his duty, when he
perceived they were bringing up another to his assistance.

The village which they now approached had frequently afforded the
distressed butler resources upon similar emergencies; but his relations
with it had been of late much altered.

It was a little hamlet which straggled along the side of a creek formed
by the discharge of a small brook into the sea, and was hidden from
the castle, to which it had been in former times an appendage, by the
intervention of the shoulder of a hill forming a projecting headland.
It was called Wolf's Hope (i.e. Wolf's Haven), and the few inhabitants
gained a precarious subsistence by manning two or three fishing-boats
in the herring season, and smuggling gin and brandy during the
winter months. They paid a kind of hereditary respect to the Lords
of Ravenswood; but, in the difficulties of the family, most of the
inhabitants of Wolf's Hope had contrived to get feu-rights to their
little possessions, their huts, kail-yards, and rights of commonty, so
that they were emancipated from the chains of feudal dependence,
and free from the various exactions with which, under every possible
pretext, or without any pretext at all, the Scottish landlords of the
period, themselves in great poverty, were wont to harass their still
poorer tenants at will. They might be, on the whole, termed independent,
a circumstance peculiarly galling to Caleb, who had been wont to
exercise over them the same sweeping authority in levying contributions
which was exercised in former times in England, when "the royal
purveyors, sallying forth from under the Gothic portcullis to purchase
provisions with power and prerogative, instead of money, brought home
the plunder of an hundred markets, and all that could be seized from
a flying and hiding country, and deposited their spoil in an hundred
caverns."

Caleb loved the memory and resented the downfall of that authority,
which mimicked, on a petty scale, the grand contributions exacted by
the feudal sovereigns. And as he fondly flattered himself that the awful
rule and right supremacy, which assigned to the Barons of Ravenswood the
first and most effective interest in all productions of nature within
five miles of their castle, only slumbered, and was not departed
for ever, he used every now and then to give the recollection of the
inhabitants a little jog by some petty exaction. These were at first
submitted to, with more or less readiness, by the inhabitants of the
hamlet; for they had been so long used to consider the wants of the
Baron and his family as having a title to be preferred to their own,
that their actual independence did not convey to them an immediate sense
of freedom. They resembled a man that has been long fettered, who,
even at liberty, feels in imagination the grasp of the handcuffs still
binding his wrists. But the exercise of freedom is quickly followed with
the natural consciousness of its immunities, as the enlarged prisoner,
by the free use of his limbs, soon dispels the cramped feeling they had
acquired when bound.

The inhabitants of Wolf's Hope began to grumble, to resist, and at
length positively to refuse compliance with the exactions of Caleb
Balderstone. It was in vain he reminded them, that when the eleventh
Lord Ravenswood, called the Skipper, from his delight in naval matters,
had encouraged the trade of their port by building the pier (a bulwark
of stones rudely piled together), which protected the fishing-boats from
the weather, it had been matter of understanding that he was to have
the first stone of butter after the calving of every cow within the
barony, and the first egg, thence called the Monday's egg, laid by every
hen on every Monday in the year.

The feuars heard and scratched their heads, coughed, sneezed, and being
pressed for answer, rejoined with one voice, "They could not say"--the
universal refuge of a Scottish peasant when pressed to admit a claim
which his conscience owns, or perhaps his feelings, and his interest
inclines him to deny.

Caleb, however, furnished the notables of Wolf's Hope with a note of
the requisition of butter and eggs, which he claimed as arrears of the
aforesaid subsidy, or kindly aid, payable as above mentioned; and having
intimated that he would not be averse to compound the same for goods or
money, if it was inconvenient to them to pay in kind, left them, as he
hoped, to debate the mode of assessing themselves for that purpose.
On the contrary, they met with a determined purpose of resisting the
exaction, and were only undecided as to the mode of grounding
their opposition, when the cooper, a very important person on a
fishing-station, and one of the conscript fathers of the village,
observed, "That their hens had caickled mony a day for the Lords of
Ravenswood, and it was time they suld caickle for those that gave
them roosts and barley." An unanimous grin intimated the assent of the
assembly. "And," continued the orator, "if it's your wull, I'll just tak
a step as far as Dunse for Davie Dingwall, the writer, that's come frae
the North to settle amang us, and he'll pit this job to rights, I'se
warrant him."

A day was accordingly fixed for holding a grand palaver at Wolf's Hope
on the subject of Caleb's requisitions, and he was invited to attend at
the hamlet for that purpose.

He went with open hands and empty stomach, trusting to fill the one on
his master's account and the other on his own score, at the expense of
the feuars of Wolf's Hope. But, death to his hopes! as he entered the
eastern end of the straggling village, the awful form of Davie Dingwall,
a sly, dry, hard-fisted, shrewd country attorney, who had already acted
against the family of Ravenswood, and was a principal agent of Sir
William Ashton, trotted in at the western extremity, bestriding a
leathern portmanteau stuffed with the feu-charters of the hamlet, and
hoping he had not kept Mr. Balderstone waiting, "as he was instructed
and fully empowered to pay or receive, compound or compensate, and,
in fine, to age as accords respecting all mutual and unsettled claims
whatsoever, belonging or competent to the Honourable Edgar Ravenswood,
commonly called the Master of Ravenswood----"

"The RIGHT Honourable Edgar LORD RAVENSWOOD," said Caleb, with great
emphasis; for, though conscious he had little chance of advantage in the
conflict to ensue, he was resolved not to sacrifice one jot of honour.

"Lord Ravenswood, then," said the man of business--"we shall not quarrel
with you about titles of courtesy--commonly called Lord Ravenswood, or
Master of Ravenswood, heritable proprietor of the lands and barony of
Wolf's Crag, on othe ne part, and to John Whitefish and others, feuars
in the town of Wolf's Hope, within the barony aforesaid, on the other
part."

Caleb was conscious, from sad experience, that he would wage a very
different strife with this mercenary champion than with the individual
feuars themselves, upon whose old recollections, predilections,
and habits of thinking he might have wrought by an hundred indirect
arguments, to which their deputy-representative was totally insensible.
The issue of the debate proved the reality of his apprehensions. It was
in vain he strained his eloquence and ingenuity, and collected into one
mass all arguments arising from antique custom and hereditary respect,
from the good deeds done by the Lords of Ravenswood to the community of
Wolf's Hope in former days, and from what might be expected from them in
future. The writer stuck to the contents of his feu-charters; he could
not see it: 'twas not in the bond. And when Caleb, determined to try
what a little spirit would do, deprecated the consequences of Lord
Ravenswood's withdrawing his protection from the burgh, and even hinted
in his using active measures of resentment, the man of law sneered in
his face.

"His clients," he said, "had determined to do the best they could for
their own town, and he thought Lord Ravenswood, since he was a lord,
might have enough to do to look after his own castle. As to any threats
of stouthrief oppression, by rule of thumb, or via facti, as the law
termed it, he would have Mr. Balderstone recollect, that new times were
not as old times; that they lived on the south of the Forth, and far
from the Highlands; that his clients thought they were able to protect
themselves; but should they find themselves mistaken, they would apply
to the government for the protection of a corporal and four red-coats,
who," said Mr. Dingwall, with a grin, "would be perfectly able to secure
them against Lord Ravenswood, and all that he or his followers could do
by the strong hand."

If Caleb could have concentrated all the lightnings of aristocracy in
his eye, to have struck dead this contemner of allegiance and privilege,
he would have launched them at his head, without respect to the
consequences. As it was, he was compelled to turn his course backward
to the castle; and there he remained for full half a day invisible and
inaccessible even to Mysie, sequestered in his own peculiar dungeon,
where he sat burnishing a single pewter plate and whistling "Maggie
Lauder" six hours without intermission.

The issue of this unfortunate requisition had shut against Caleb all
resources which could be derived from Wolf's Hope and its purlieus, the
El Dorado, or Peru, from which, in all former cases of exigence, he had
been able to extract some assistance. He had, indeed, in a manner vowed
that the deil should have him, if ever he put the print of his foot
within its causeway again. He had hitherto kept his word; and, strange
to tell, this secession had, as he intended, in some degree, the effect
of a punishment upon the refractory feuars. Mr. Balderstone had been a
person in their eyes connected with a superior order of beings, whose
presence used to grace their little festivities, whose advice they found
useful on many occasions, and whose communications gave a sort of credit
to their village. The place, they acknowledged, "didna look as it used
to do, and should do, since Mr. Caleb keepit the castle sae closely;
but doubtless, touching the eggs and butter, it was a most unreasonable
demand, as Mr. Dingwall had justly made manifest."

Thus stood matters betwixt the parties, when the old butler, though it
was gall and wormwood to him, found himself obliged either to ackowledge
before a strange man of quality, and, what was much worse, before that
stranger's servant, the total inability of Wolf's Crag to produce a
dinner, or he must trust to the compassion of the feuars of Wofl's Hope.
It was a dreadful degradation; but necessity was equally imperious and
lawless. With these feelings he entered the street of the village.

Willing to shake himself from his companion as soon as possible, he
directed Mr. Lockhard to Luckie Sma-trash's change-house, where a din,
proceeding from the revels of Bucklaw, Craigengelt, and their party,
sounded half-way down the street, while the red glare from the window
overpowered the grey twilight which was now settling down, and glimmered
against a parcel of old tubs, kegs, and barrels, piled up in the
cooper's yard, on the other side of the way.

"If you, Mr. Lockhard," said the old butler to his companion, "will be
pleased to step to the change-house where that light comes from, and
where, as I judge, they are now singing 'Cauld Kail in Aberdeen,' ye
may do your master's errand about the venison, and I will do mine about
Bucklaw's bed, as I return frae getting the rest of the vivers. It's no
that the venison is actually needfu'," he added, detaining his colleague
by the button, "to make up the dinner; but as a compliment to the
hunters, ye ken; and, Mr. Lockhard, if they offer ye a drink o' yill, or
a cup o' wine, or a glass o' brandy, ye'll be a wise man to take it,
in case the thunner should hae soured ours at the castle, whilk is ower
muckle to be dreaded."

He then permitted Lockhard to depart; and with foot heavy as lead, and
yet far lighter than his heart, stepped on through the unequal street
of the straggling village, meditating on whom he ought to make his
first attack. It was necessary he should find some one with whom old
acknowledged greatness should weigh more than recent independence, and
to whom his application might appear an act of high dignity, relenting
at once and soothing. But he could not recollect an inhabitant of a mind
so constructed. "Our kail is like to be cauld eneugh too," he reflected,
as the chorus of "Cauld Kail in Aberdeen" again reached his ears. The
minister--he had got his presentation from the late lord, but they had
quarrelled about teinds; the brewster's wife--she had trusted long, and
the bill was aye scored up, and unless the dignity of the family should
actually require it, it would be a sin to distress a widow woman.
None was so able--but, on the other hand, none was likely to be less
willing--to stand his friend upon the present occasion, than Gibbie
Girder, the man of tubs and barrels already mentioned, who had headed
the insurrection in the matter of the egg and butter subsidy. "But
a' comes o' taking folk on the right side, I trow," quoted Caleb to
himself; "and I had ance the ill hap to say he was but a Johnny New-come
in our town, and the carle bore the family an ill-will ever since.
But he married a bonny young quean, Jean Lightbody, auld Lightbody's
daughter, him that was in the steading of Loup-the-Dyke; and auld
Lightbody was married himsell to Marion, that was about my lady in
the family forty years syne. I hae had mony a day's daffing wi' Jean's
mither, and they say she bides on wi' them. The carle has Jacobuses and
Georgiuses baith, an ane could get at them; and sure I am, it's doing
him an honour him or his never deserved at our hand, the ungracious
sumph; and if he loses by us a'thegither, he is e'en cheap o't: he can
spare it brawly." Shaking off irresolution, therefore, and turning at
once upon his heel, Caleb walked hastily back to the cooper's house,
lifted the latch withotu ceremony, and, in a moment, found himself
behind the "hallan," or partition, from which position he could, himself
unseen, reconnoitre the interior of the "but," or kitchen apartment, of
the mansion.

Reverse of the sad menage at the Castle of Wolf's Crag, a bickering
fire roared up the cooper's chimney. His wife, on the one side, in
her pearlings and pudding-sleeves, put the last finishing touch to
her holiday's apparel, while she contemplated a very handsome and
good-humoured face in a broken mirror, raised upon the "bink" (the
shelves on which the plates are disposed) for her special accommodation.
Her mother, old Luckie Loup-the-Dyke, "a canty carline" as was within
twenty miles of her, according to the unanimous report of the "cummers,"
or gossips, sat by the fire in the full glory of a grogram gown, lammer
beads, and a clean cockernony, whiffing a snug pipe of tobacco, and
superintending the affairs of the kitchen; for--sight more interesting
to the anxious heart and craving entrails of the desponding seneschal
than either buxom dame or canty cummer--there bubbled on the aforesaid
bickering fire a huge pot, or rather cauldron, steaming with beef and
brewis; while before it revolved two spits, turned each by one of the
cooper's apprentices, seated in the opposite corners of the chimney, the
one loaded with a quarter of mutton, while the other was graced with a
fat goose and a brace of wild ducks. The sight and scent of such a
land of plenty almost wholly overcame the drooping spirits of Caleb. He
turned, for a moment's space to reconnoitre the "ben," or parlour end
of the house, and there saw a sight scarce less affecting to his
feelings--a large round table, covered for ten or twelve persons,
decored (according to his own favourite terms) with napery as white as
snow, grand flagons of pewter, intermixed with one or two silver cups,
containing, as was probable, something worthy the brilliancy of their
outward appearance, clean trenchers, cutty spoons, knives and forks,
sharp, burnished, and prompt for action, which lay all displayed as for
an especial festival.

"The devil's in the peddling tub-coopering carl!" muttered Caleb, in all
the envy of astonishment; "it's a shame to see the like o' them gusting
their gabs at sic a rate. But if some o' that gude cheer does not find
its way to Wolf's Crag this night, my name is not Caleb Balderstone."

So resolving, he entered the apartment, and, in all courteous greeting,
saluted both the mother and the daughter. Wolf's Crag was the court of
the barony, Caleb prime minister at Wolf's Crag; and it has ever been
remarked that, though the masculine subject who pays the taxes sometimes
growls at the courtiers by whom they are imposed, the said courtiers
continue, nevertheless, welcome to the fair sex, to whom they furnish
the newest small-talk and the earliest fashions. Both the dames were,
therefore, at once about old Caleb's neck, setting up their throats
together by way of welcome.

"Ay, sirs, Mr. Balderstone, and is this you? A sight of you is gude for
sair een. Sit down--sit down; the gudeman will be blythe to see you--ye
nar saw him sae cadgy in your life; but we are to christen our bit wean
the night, as ye will hae heard, and doubtless ye will stay and see the
ordinance. We hae killed a wether, and ane o' our lads has been out wi'
his gun at the moss; ye used to like wild-fowl."

"Na, na, gudewife," said Caleb; "I just keekit in to wish ye joy, and I
wad be glad to hae spoken wi' the gudeman, but----" moving, as if to go
away.

"The ne'er a fit ye's gang," said the elder dame, laughing and holding
him fast, with a freedom which belonged to their old acquaintance;
"wha kens what ill it may bring to the bairn, if ye owerlook it in that
gate?"

"But I'm in a preceese hurry, gudewife," said the butler, suffering
himself to be dragged to a seat without much resistance; "and as to
eating," for he observed the mistress of the dwelling bustling about to
place a trencher for him--"as for eating--lack-a-day, we are just killed
up yonder wi' eating frae morning to night! It's shamefu' epicurism; but
that's what we hae gotten frae the English pock-puddings." "Hout,
never mind the English pock-puddings," said Luckie Lightbody; "try our
puddings, Mr. Balderstone; there is black pudding and white-hass; try
whilk ye like best."

"Baith gude--baith excellent--canna be better; but the very smell is
eneugh for me that hae dined sae lately (the faithful wretch had fasted
since daybreak). But I wadna affront your housewifeskep, gudewife; and,
with your permission, I'se e'en pit them in my napkin, and eat them to
my supper at e'en, for I am wearied of Mysie's pastry and nonsense; ye
ken landward dainties aye pleased me best, Marion, and landward lasses
too (looking at the cooper's wife). Ne'er a bit but she looks far better
than when she married Gilbert, and then she was the bonniest lass in our
parochine and the neist till't. But gawsie cow, goodly calf."

The women smiled at the compliment each to herself, and they smiled
again to each other as Caleb wrapt up the puddings in a towel which he
had brought with him, as a dragoon carries his foraging bag to receive
what my fall in his way.

"And what news at the castle?" quo' the gudewife.

"News! The bravest news ye ever heard--the Lord Keeper's up yonder wi'
his fair daughter, just ready to fling her at my lord's head, if he
winna tak her out o' his arms; and I'se warrant he'll stitch our auld
lands of Ravenswood to her petticoat tail."

"Eh! sirs--ay!--and will hae her? and is she weel-favoured? and what's
the colour o' her hair? and does she wear a habit or a railly?" were the
questions which the females showered upon the butler.

"Hout tout! it wad tak a man a day to answer a' your questions, and I
hae hardly a minute. Where's the gudeman?"

"Awa' to fetch the minister," said Mrs. Girder, "precious Mr. Peter
Bide-the-Bent, frae the Mosshead; the honest man has the rheumatism wi'
lying in the hills in the persecution."

"Ay! Whig and a mountain-man, nae less!" said Caleb, with a peevishness
he could not suppress. "I hae seen the day, Luckie, when worthy Mr.
Cuffcushion and the service-book would hae served your turn (to the
elder dame), or ony honest woman in like circumstances."

"And that's true too," said Mrs. Lightbody, "but what can a body do?
Jean maun baith sing her psalms and busk her cockernony the gate the
gudeman likes, and nae ither gate; for he's maister and mair at hame, I
can tell ye, Mr. Balderstone."

"Ay, ay, and does he guide the gear too?" said Caleb, to whose projects
masculine rule boded little good. "Ilka penny on't; but he'll dress her
as dink as a daisy, as ye see; sae she has little reason to complain:
where there's ane better aff there's ten waur."

"Aweel, gudewife," said Caleb, crestfallen, but not beaten off, "that
wasna the way ye guided your gudeman; bt ilka land has its ain lauch.
I maun be ganging. I just wanted to round in the gudeman's lug, that I
heard them say up-bye yonder that Peter Puncheon, that was cooper to the
Queen's stores at the Timmer Burse at Leith, is dead; sae I though that
maybe a word frae my lord to the Lord Keeper might hae served Gilbert;
but since he's frae hame----"

"O, but ye maun stay his hame-coming," said the dame. "I aye telled
the gudeman ye meant weel to him; but he taks the tout at every bit
lippening word."

"Aweel, I'll stay the last minute I can."

"And so," said the handsome young spouse of Mr. Girder, "ye think this
Miss Ashton is weel-favoured? Troth, and sae should she, to set up for
our young lord, with a face and a hand, and a seat on his horse, that
might become a king's son. D'ye ken that he aye glowers up at my window,
Mr. Balderstone, when he chaunces to ride thro' the town? Sae I hae a
right to ken what like he is, as weel as ony body."

"I ken that brawly," said Caleb, "for I hae heard his lordship say the
cooper's wife had the blackest ee in the barony; and I said, 'Weel may
that be, my lord, for it was her mither's afore her, as I ken to my
cost.' Eh, Marion? Ha, ha, ha! Ah! these were merry days!"

"Hout awa', auld carle," said the old dame, "to speak sic daffing to
young folk. But, Jean--fie, woman, dinna ye hear the bairn greet? I'se
warrant it's that dreary weid has come ower't again."

Up got mother and grandmother, and scoured away, jostling each other as
they ran, into some remote corner of the tenement, where the young hero
of the evening was deposited. When Caleb saw the coast fairly clear,
he took an invigorating pinch of snuff, to sharpen and confirm his
resolution.

"Cauld be my cast," thought he, "if either Bide-the-Bent or Girder taste
that broach of wild-fowl this evening"; and then addressing the eldest
turnspit, a boy of about eleven years old, and putting a penny into his
hand, he said, "Here is twal pennies, my man; carry that ower to Mrs.
Sma'trash, and bid her fill my mill wi' snishing, and I'll turn the
broche for ye in the mean time; and she will gie ye a ginge-bread snap
for your pains."

No sooner was the elder boy departed on this mission than Caleb, looking
the remaining turnspit gravely and steadily in the face, removed from
the fire the spit bearing the wild-fowl of which he had undertaken the
charge, clapped his hat on his head, and fairly marched off with it.
he stopped at the door of the change-house only to say, in a few brief
words, that Mr. Hayston of Bucklaw was not to expect a bed that evening
in the castle.

If this message was too briefly delivered by Caleb, it became absolute
rudeness when conveyed through the medium of a suburb landlady; and
Bucklaw was, as a more calm and temperate man might have been, highly
incensed. Captain Craigengelt proposed, with the unanimous applause of
all present, that they should course the old fox (meaning Caleb) ere he
got to cover, and toss him in a blanket. But Lockhard intimated to
his master's servants and those of Lord Bittlebrains, in a tone of
authority, that the slightest impertinence to the Master of Ravenswood's
domestic would give Sir William Ashton the highest offence. And having
so said, in a manner sufficient to prevent any aggression on their part,
he left the public-house, taking along with him two servants loaded with
such provisions as he had been able to procure, and overtook Caleb just
when he had cleared the village.


CHAPTER XIII.

     Should I take aught of you?  'Tis true I begged now;
     And what is worse than that, I stole a kindness;
     And, what is worst of all, I lost my way in't.

     Wit Without Money.

THE face of the little boy, sole witness of Caleb's infringement upon
the laws at once of property and hospitality, would have made a good
picture. He sat motionless, as if he had witnessed some of the spectral
appearances which he had heard told of in a winter's evening; and as he
forgot his own duty, and allowed his spit to stand still, he added to
the misfortunes of the evening by suffering the mutton to burn as black
as a coal. He was first recalled from his trance of astonishment by
a hearty cuff administered by Dame Lightbody, who, in whatever other
respects she might conform to her name, was a woman strong of person,
and expert in the use of her hands, as some say her deceased husband had
known to his cost.

"What garr'd ye let the roast burn, ye ill-clerkit gude-for-nought?"

"I dinna ken," said the boy.

"And where's that ill-deedy gett, Giles?"

"I dinna ken," blubbered the astonished declarant.

"And where's Mr. Balderstone?--and abune a', and in the name of council
and kirk-session, that I suld say sae, where's the broche wi' the
wild-fowl?" As Mrs. Girder here entered, and joined her mother's
exclamations, screaming into one ear while the old lady deafened the
other, they succeeded in so utterly confounding the unhappy urchin, that
he could not for some time tell his story at all, and it was only when
the elder boy returned that the truth began to dawn on their minds.

"Weel, sirs!" said Mrs. Lightbody, "wha wad hae thought o' Caleb
Balderstone playing an auld acquaintance sic a pliskie!"

"Oh, weary on him!" said the spouse of Mr. Girder; "and what am I to
say to the gudeman? He'll brain me, if there wasna anither woman in a'
Wolf''s Hope."

"Hout tout, silly quean," said the mother; "na, na, it's come to muckle,
but it's no come to that neither; for an he brain you he maun brain me,
and I have garr'd his betters stand back. Hands aff is fair play; we
maunna heed a bit flyting."

The tramp of horses now announced the arrival of the cooper, with the
minister. They had no sooner dismounted than they made for the kitchen
fire, for the evening was cool after the thunderstorm, and the woods wet
and dirty. The young gudewife, strong in the charms of her Sunday gown
and biggonets, threw herself in the way of receiving the first attack,
while her mother, like the veteran division of the Roman legion,
remained in the rear, ready to support her in case of necessity. Both
hoped to protract the discovery of what had happened--the mother, by
interposing her bustling person betwixt Mr. Girder and the fire, and the
daughter, by the extreme cordiality with which she received the minister
and her husband, and the anxious fears which she expressed lest they
should have "gotten cauld." "Cauld!" quoted the husband, surlily, for he
was not of that class of lords and masters whose wives are viceroys
over them, "we'll be cauld eneugh, I think, if ye dinna let us in to the
fire."

And so saying, he burst his way through both lines of defence; and, as
he had a careful eye over his property of every kind, he perceived at
one glance the absence of the spit with its savoury burden. "What the
deil, woman----"

"Fie for shame!" exclaimed both the women; "and before Mr.
Bide-the-Bent!"

"I stand reproved," said the cooper; "but--"

"The taking in our mouths the name of the great enemy of our souls,"
said Mr. Bide-the-Bent--

"I stand reproved," said the cooper.

"--Is an exposing ourselves to his temptations," continued the reverend
monitor, "and in inviting, or, in some sort, a compelling, of him to lay
aside his other trafficking with unhappy persons, and wait upon those in
whose speech his name is frequent."

"Weel, weel, Mr. Bide-the-Bent, can a man do mair than stand reproved?"
said the cooper; "but jest let me ask the women what for they hae dished
the wild-fowl before we came."

"They arena dished, Gilbert," said his wife; "but--but an accident----"

"What accident?" said Girder, with flashing eyes. "Nae ill come ower
them, I trust? Uh?"

His wife, who stood much in awe of him, durst not reply, but her mother
bustled up to her support, with arms disposed as if they were about to
be a-kimbo at the next reply.--"I gied them to an acquaintance of mine,
Gibbie Girder; and what about it now?"

Her excess of assurance struck Girder mute for an instant. "And YE gied
the wild-fowl, the best end of our christening dinner, to a friend of
yours, ye auld rudas! And what might HIS name be, I pray ye?"

"Just worthy Mr. Caleb Balderstone--frae Wolf's Crag," answered Marion,
prompt and prepared for battle.

Girder's wrath foamed over all restraint. If there was a circumstance
which could have added to the resentment he felt, it was that this
extravagant donation had been made in favour of our friend Caleb,
towards whom, for reasons to which the reader is no stranger, he
nourished a decided resentment. He raised his riding-wand against the
elder matron, but she stood firm, collected in herself, and undauntedly
brandished the iron ladle with which she had just been "flambing"
(Anglice, basting) the roast of mutton. Her weapon was certainly the
better, and her arm not the weakest of the two; so that Gilbert thought
it safest to turn short off upon his wife, who had by this time hatched
a sort of hysterical whine, which greatly moved the minister, who was in
fact as simple and kind-hearted a creature as ever breathed. "And you,
ye thowless jade, to sit still and see my substance disponed upon to
an idle, drunken, reprobate, worm-eaten serving-man, just because he
kittles the lugs o' a silly auld wife wi' useless clavers, and every twa
words a lee? I'll gar you as gude----"

Here the minister interposed, both by voice and action, while Dame
Lightbody threw herself in front of her daughter, and flourished her
ladle.

"Am I no to chastise my ain wife?" exclaimed the cooper very
indignantly.

"Ye may chastise your ain wife if ye like," answered Dame Lightbody;
"but ye shall never lay finger on my daughter, and that ye may found
upon." "For shame, Mr. Girder!" said the clergyman; "this is what I
little expected to have seen of you, that you suld give rein to your
sinful passions against your nearest and your dearest, and this night
too, when ye are called to the most solemn duty of a Christian parent;
and a' for what? For a redundancy of creature-comforts, as worthless as
they are unneedful."

"Worthless!" exclaimed the cooper. "A better guse never walkit on
stubble; two finer, dentier wild ducks never wat a feather."

"Be it sae, neighbour," rejoined the minister; "but see what
superfluities are yet revolving before your fire. I have seen the day
when ten of the bannocks which stand upon that board would have been an
acceptable dainty to as many men, that were starving on hills and bogs,
and in caves of the earth, for the Gospel's sake."

"And that's what vexes me maist of a'," said the cooper, anxious to get
some one to sympathise with his not altogether causeless anger; "an the
quean had gien it to ony suffering sant, or to ony body ava but that
reaving, lying, oppressing Tory villain, that rade in the wicked troop
of militia when it was commanded out against the sants at Bothwell Brig
by the auld tyrant Allan Ravenswood, that is gane to his place, I wad
the less hae minded it. But to gie the principal parts o' the feast to
the like o' him----!"

"Aweel, Gilbert," said the minister, "and dinna ye see a high judgment
in this? The seed of the righteous are not seen begging their bread:
think of the son of a powerful oppressor being brought to the pass of
supporting his household from your fulness."

"And, besides," said the wife, "it wasna for Lord Ravenswood neither,
an he wad hear but a body speak: it was to help to entertain the Lord
Keeper, as they ca' him, that's up yonder at Wolf's Crag."

"Sir William Ashton at Wolf's Crag!" ejaculated the astonished man of
hoops and staves.

"And hand and glove wi' Lord Ravenswood," added Dame Lightbody.

"Doited idiot! that auld, clavering sneckdrawer wad gar ye trow the moon
is made of green cheese. The Lord Keeper and Ravenswood! they are cat
and dog, hare and hound."

"I tell ye they are man and wife, and gree better than some others that
are sae," retorted the mother-in-law; "forbye, Peter Puncheon, that's
cooper the Queen's stores, is dead, and the place is to fill, and----"

"Od guide us, wull ye haud your skirling tongues!" said Girder,--for
we are to remark, that this explanation was given like a catch for two
voices, the younger dame, much encouraged by the turn of the debate,
taking up and repeating in a higher tone the words as fast as they were
uttered by her mother.

"The gudewife says naething but what's true, maister," said Girder's
foreman, who had come in during the fray. "I saw the Lord Keeper's
servants drinking and driving ower at Luckie Sma'trash's, ower-bye
yonder."

"And is their maister up at Wolf's Crag?" said Girder.

"Ay, troth is he," replied his man of confidence.

"And friends wi' Ravenswood?"

"It's like sae," answered the foreman, "since he is putting up wi' him."

"And Peter Puncheon's dead?"

"Ay, ay, Puncheon has leaked out at last, the auld carle," said the
foreman; "mony a dribble o' brandy has gaen through him in his day. But
as for the broche and the wild-fowl, the saddle's no aff your mare yet,
maister, and I could follow and bring it back, for Mr. Balderstone's no
far aff the town yet."

"Do sae, Will; and come here, I'll tell ye what to do when ye owertake
him."

He relieved the females of his presence, and gave Will his private
instructions.

"A bonny-like thing," said the mother-in-law, as the cooper re-entered
the apartment, "to send the innocent lad after an armed man, when ye ken
Mr. Balderstone aye wears a rapier, and whiles a dirk into the bargain."

"I trust," said the minister, "ye have reflected weel on what ye have
done, lest you should minister cause of strife, of which it is my duty
to say, he who affordeth matter, albeit he himself striketh not, is in
no manner guiltless."

"Never fash your beard, Mr. Bide-the-Bent," replied Girder; "ane canna
get their breath out here between wives and ministers. I ken best how to
turn my ain cake. Jean, serve up the dinner, and nae mair about it."

Nor did he again allude to the deficiency in the course of the evening.

Meantime, the foreman, mounted on his master's steed, and charged with
his special orders, pricked swiftly forth in pursuit of the marauder
Caleb. That personage, it may be imagined, did not linger by the way. He
intermitted even his dearly-beloved chatter, for the purpose of making
more haste, only assuring Mr. Lockhard that he had made the purveyor's
wife give the wild-fowl a few turns before the fire, in case that
Mysie, who had been so much alarmed by the thunder, should not have her
kitchen-grate in full splendour. Meanwhile, alleging the necessity of
being at Wolf's Crag as soon as possible, he pushed on so fast that his
companions could scarce keep up with him. He began already to think he
was safe from pursuit, having gained the summit of the swelling eminence
which divides Wolf's Crag from the village, when he heard the distant
tread of a horse, and a voice which shouted at intervals, "Mr.
Caleb--Mr. Balderstone--Mr. Caleb Balderstone--hollo--bide a wee!"

Caleb, it may be well believed, was in no hurry to acknowledge the
summons. First, he would not heart it, and faced his companions down,
that it was the echo of the wind; then he said it was not worth stopping
for; and, at length, halting reluctantly, as the figure of the horseman
appeared through the shades of the evening, he bent up his whole soul
to the task of defending his prey, threw himself into an attitude of
dignity, advanced the spit, which is his grasp might with its burden
seem both spear and shield, and firmly resolved to die rather than
surrender it.

What was his astonishment, when the cooper's foreman, riding up and
addressing him with respect, told him: "His master was very sorry he was
absent when he came to his dwelling, and grieved that he could not tarry
the christening dinner; and that he had taen the freedom to send a sma'
runlet of sack, and ane anker of brandy, as he understood there were
guests at the castle, and that they were short of preparation."

I have heard somewhere a story of an elderly gentleman who was pursued
by a bear that had gotten loose from its muzzle, until completely
exhausted. In a fit of desperation, he faced round upon Bruin and lifted
his cane; at the sight of which the instinct of discipline prevailed,
and the animal, instead of tearing him to pieces, rose up upon his
hind-legs and instantly began to shuffle a saraband. Not less than the
joyful surprise of the senior, who had supposed himself in the extremity
of peril from which he was thus unexpectedly relieved, was that of our
excellent friend Caleb, when he found the pursuer intended to add to
his prize, instead of bereaving him of it. He recovered his latitude,
however, instantly, so soon as the foreman, stooping from his nag, where
he sate perched betwixt the two barrels, whispered in his ear: "If
ony thing about Peter Puncheon's place could be airted their way, John
[Gibbie] Girder wad mak it better to the Master of Ravenswood than
a pair of new gloves; and that he wad be blythe to speak wi' Maister
Balderstone on that head, and he wad find him as pliant as a hoop-willow
in a' that he could wish of him."

Caleb heard all this without rendering any answer, except that of all
great men from Louis XIV. downwards, namely, "We will see about it"; and
then added aloud, for the edification of Mr. Lockhard: "Your master has
acted with becoming civility and attention in forwarding the liquors,
and I will not fail to represent it properly to my Lord Ravenswood. And,
my lad," he said, "you may ride on to the castle, and if none of the
servants are returned, whilk is to be dreaded, as they make day and
night of it when they are out of sight, ye may put them into the
porter's lodge, whilk is on the right hand of the great entry; the
porter has got leave to go to see his friends, sae ye will met no ane to
steer ye."

The foreman, having received his orders, rode on; and having deposited
the casks in the deserted and ruinous porter's lodge, he returned
unquestioned by any one. Having thus executed his master's commission,
and doffed his bonnet to Caleb and his company as he repassed them in
his way to the village, he returned to have his share of the christening
festivity.


CHAPTER XIV.

     As, to the Autumn breeze's bugle sound,
     Various and vague the dry leaves dance their round;
     Or, from the garner-door, on ether borne,
     The chaff flies devious from the winnow'd corn;
     So vague, so devious, at the breath of heaven,
     From their fix'd aim are mortal counsels driv'n.

     Anonymous.

WE left Caleb Balderstone in the extremity of triumph at the success of
his various achievements for the honour of the house of Ravenswood. When
he had mustered and marshalled his dishes of divers kinds, a more royal
provision had not been seen in Wolf's Crag since the funeral feast
of its deceased lord. Great was the glory of the serving-man, as he
"decored" the old oaken table with a clean cloth, and arranged upon it
carbonaded venison and roasted wild-fowl, with a glance, every now and
then, as if to upbraid the incredulity of his master and his guests; and
with many a story, more or less true, was Lockhard that evening regaled
concerning the ancient grandeur of Wolf's Crag, and the sway of its
barons over the country in their neighbourhood.

"A vassal scarce held a calf or a lamb his ain, till he had first
asked if the Lord of Ravenswood was pleased to accept it; and they were
obliged to ask the lord's consent before they married in these days,
and mony a merry tale they tell about that right as weel as others. And
although," said Caleb, "these times are not like the gude auld times,
when authority had its right, yet true it is, Mr. Lockhard, and you
yoursell may partly have remarked, that we of the house of Ravenswood
do our endeavour in keeping up, by all just and lawful exertion of our
baronial authority, that due and fitting connexion betwixt superior and
vassal, whilk is in some danger of falling into desuetude, owing to the
general license and misrule of these present unhappy times."

"Umph!" said Mr. Lockhard; "and if I may inquire, Mr. Balderstone, pray
do you find your people at the village yonder amenable? for I must needs
say, that at Ravenswood Castle, now pertaining to my master the Lord
Keeper, ye have not left behind ye the most compliant set of tenantry."

"Ah! but Mr. Lockhard," replied Caleb, "ye must consider there has been
a change of hands, and the auld lord might expect twa turns frae them,
when the new-comer canna get ane. A dour and fractious set they were,
thae tenants of Ravenswood, and ill to live wi' when they dinna ken
their master; and if your master put them mad ance, the whole country
will not put them down."

"Troth," said Mr. Lockhard, "an such be the case, I think the wisest
thing for us a' wad be to hammer up a match between your young lord and
our winsome young leddy up-bye there; and Sir William might just stitch
your auld barony to her gown-sleeve, and he wad sune cuitle another out
o' somebody else, sic a lang head as he has."

Caleb shook his head. "I wish," he said--"I wish that may answer, Mr.
Lockhard. There are auld prophecies about this house I wad like ill to
see fulfilled wi' my auld een, that has seen evil eneugh already."

"Pshaw! never mind freits," said his brother butler; "if the young folk
liked ane anither, they wad make a winsome couple. But, to say truth,
there is a leddy sits in our hall-neuk, maun have her hand in that as
weel as in every other job. But there's no harm in drinking to their
healths, and I will fill Mrs. Mysie a cup of Mr. Girder's canary."


While they thus enjoyed themselves in the kitchen, the company in
the hall were not less pleasantly engaged. So soon as Ravenswood had
determined upon giving the Lord Keeper such hospitality as he had to
offer, he deemed it incumbent on him to assume the open and courteous
brow of a well-pleased host. It has been often remarked, that when a man
commences by acting a character, he frequently ends by adopting it in
good earnest. In the course of an hour or two, Ravenswood, to his own
surprise, found himself in the situation of one who frankly does his
best to entertain welcome and honoured guests. How much of this change
in his disposition was to be ascribed to the beauty and simplicity of
Miss Ashton, to the readiness with which she accommodated herself to the
inconveniences of her situation; how much to the smooth and plausible
conversation of the Lord Keeper, remarkably gifted with those words
which win the ear, must be left to the reader's ingenuity to conjecture.
--On Saturday last, the Upper Canada line of stages performed the
journey from Prescott to this city in about 17 hours, leaving the
former place at a little before 3 a. m., and arriving here a few
minutes before 8 in the evening.

Not many years ago this journey occupied two, and sometimes three days,
but owing to the great improvements made by Mr. Dickinson, the enterprising
proprietor, by putting steamboats on the lakes St. Francis and St.
Louis, and keeping his horses in excellent condition, it is now performed
in little more than one-third of the time.

Even so late as 1833, newspaper proprietors found it (particularly
in the Upper Province) better to employ their own couriers. As a proof
of this we transcribe from the _Queenston_ (Niagara) _Colonial Advocate_,
of that year the following advertisement:--
POST-RIDER WANTED IMMEDIATELY.

The proprietor of this newspaper wishes to contract with a steady man
(who can find and uphold his own horse) to deliver it to the subscribers
once a week during the winter, on the route between York and Niagara,
_via_ Ancaster.

Mr. Thomas A. Stayner was postmaster in 1841, and through his recommendation
a uniform rate of 1s 2d sterling, per half ounce, was adopted between
any place in Canada and the mother country. About this time regular
steam communication across the Atlantic was established.

The transfer of the Canadian post-office from the control of the
imperial authorities to the Colonial government, was effected April
6th, 1851. Mr. Stayner then resigned, and the office was filled by
the Hon.
James Morris, who was the first Postmaster-General. This may be
termed the red-letter year of the Canadian post-office. In the first
place, the postage, which had hitherto been according to distance and
had averaged 15 cents on each letter, was reduced to a uniform rate of
5 cents per half ounce.

The newspaper charge was also considerably reduced. Within a year after,
the number of letters transmitted through the post had increased 75
per cent. The operation of the department was greatly extended, and
last, but most decidedly not least, was the introduction of postage stamps.
In February, 1855, the money-order system was first begun, and has within
the last few years been greatly extended. Letters seem to have been first
registered in 1856. In October of that year the Grand Trunk Railway was
completed as far as Toronto so that, in connection with the Great
Western, an unbroken line of postal communication was established
between Quebec in the east and Windsor in the west.

The decimal system of coinage was introduced in 1859; this, of course,
as is well known, necessitated a new issue of postal labels.

We now arrive at the issue of labels for the new Dominion. The post-office
act was passed on the 21st of December, 1867, and came into operation
the 1st of April last. The internal rate is reduced from 5 cents to 3
cents the half ounce; but the postage to this country remains
unchanged.

The following is the order for the issue of the new labels:--
POSTAGE STAMPS.

To enable the public to prepay conveniently by postage stamp the foregoing
rates, the following denominations of postage stamps for use throughout
the Dominion, have been prepared, and will be supplied to postmasters
for sale:--
Half-cent stamps, one-cent ditto, two-cent ditto, three-cent ditto,
six-cent ditto, twelve-and-a-half-cent ditto, fifteen-cent ditto,
all bearing as a device the effigy of Her Majesty.

The postage stamps now in use in the several provinces may be accepted,
as at present, in prepayment of letters, etc., for a reasonable
time after the 1st of April; but from and after that date all issues
and sales to the public will be of the new denomination.

Continuing the postal history from where the article in the _Stamp
Collector's Magazine_ concludes we find that in 1869 the color of
the 1c value was changed to yellow as it was found that the brown-red
color was too easily confused with the red of the 3c.

Early in the following year the 3c denomination appeared in a reduced
size to be followed about April by the 1c and it was, naturally,
presumed that the whole set would appear in this form.

Two years elapsed, however, before further additions were made for it
was not until 1872 that the 2c and 6c values appeared.

In 1874, an entirely new value--10 cents--was issued and in 1875 a
5c stamp made its appearance in the large size of the 1868 series.
Mr. C.
A. Howes, in his admirable monograph on the stamps of Canada, explains
the belated appearance of this label as follows:--"The die of this
large 5 cent stamp had been engraved in 1867 with the other values
of the first Dominion series, but as there were no rates requiring
such a denomination in the set, it was not issued.

When in 1875 the need for a 5 cent value arose, the unused die was
employed to make a plate for temporary use, until a new die conforming
in size and design with the small stamps could be prepared."

This large 5 cent stamp had a short life of about four months when it was
superseded by the 5c value in the same size as the other denominations
of 1869-73.

In 1882, the 1/2c value was reduced in size so that this stamp, as
in the case of its predecessor of 1868, was smaller than the other
denominations.

From that date until 1892 no further changes were made so far as new
designs or values were concerned though some striking alterations
in shade took place, notably in the case of the 6c and 10c values.

In 1892, 20c and 50c stamps were issued for use on heavy packages.
These not only differed in design from the other stamps of the series
then current but were also very much larger. In 1893 an 8c stamp
was issued which was used for prepayment of postage and the
registration fee and upon its advent the special registration stamps
ceased to be printed though existing stocks were, presumably, used
up.

In 1897, the Diamond Jubilee of Queen Victoria was celebrated by
the issue of a special series of stamps comprising no less than sixteen
values ranging all the way from 1/2c to $5.

As to the utility, to say nothing of the necessity, of some of the higher
denominations perhaps the less said the better for before and since
Canada has managed to get along very well with a highest regular
denomination of 50c.

In the latter months of the same year, and early in 1898 a new set
was issued in a uniform design showing the jubilee portrait of the
Queen.

This is known as the maple leaf issue from the fact that the lower
angles are ornamented with maple leaves and in contradistinction
to a modified design which almost immediately replaced it which had
numerals in the lower corners.

The Christmas of 1898 was marked by the issuance of the celebrated 2c map
stamp with its proud motto "We hold a vaster Empire than has been".

This stamp was issued to mark the introduction of Imperial Penny Postage,
and one consequence of the reduction in the postal rate was so to
reduce the demand for the 3c value that in order to use up existing
supplies more quickly they were overprinted "2 cents".

In 1899, the color of the 2c stamp was changed from purple to carmine,
thus conforming to Postal Union regulations, in December, 1900, a 20c
stamp of the type of 1898 was issued on the final exhaustion of the
stock of the 1893 type; and in 1902 a 7c value was issued in place
of the 8c for combined use in payment of registration and postage.

In 1903, 1c, 2c, 5c, 7c, and 10c values were issued bearing King
Edward's portrait, a year later the 20c value in the same type was
placed on sale, and in 1908, the stock of the old 50c stamps of
1893 having at last been used up, a King Edward stamp of that value
was issued.

In the same year the three hundredth anniversary of the founding of
Quebec by Champlain was celebrated by the issue of a special set
of stamps these being of the same large size as the Jubilee series
of 1897, but with a different design for each denomination, while in
1912 a new series bearing the portrait of King George V made its
bow and this completes Canada's postal history to date.

CHAPTER II.--_A Postmaster's Provisional._

Postage stamps were first placed on sale to the public in Canada on
April 23rd, 1851, as we shall show later, but, according to an
interesting article which appeared in the _London Philatelist_ for
June, 1904, it seems possible that at least one postmaster anticipated
events slightly by issuing a stamped envelope of his own shortly
before the regular governmental stamps were ready.

It will perhaps simplify matters to reproduce the article in its original
form, viz.:--
CANADA: HAND-STAMPED 3D ENVELOPE OF 1851.

We are indebted to Mr. E. B.

Greenshields, of Montreal, for the following very interesting
information:--
The following facts may be of interest to collectors of the stamps of
British North America. Some time ago a cover was offered to me, which
seemed to me to be absolutely genuine, yet I had never, up to that
time, heard of such envelopes being in existence. This letter was posted
in New Carlisle, Gaspé, Lower Canada, on April 7th, 1851, and was stamped
"Three Pence" in two lines, inside a square, with a black border
of neat design around the sides. Across this was written, "Letter
R. W. Kelly Apl. 1851".

The letter was addressed to Toronto, C. W., and on the other side was
stamped the date the letter was received, "Apl. 16 1851". I sent the
envelope to Mr. Donald A. King, of Halifax, and received the following
reply from him:--
HALIFAX, N. S., February 22nd, 1904.

"Dear Sir,--I have yours of 19th inst. with cover, and am much obliged
for your kindness in permitting me to have a look at it. It is new
to me. I have no doubt it is absolutely genuine, and probably was
made by the Postmaster at New Carlisle to save trouble in stamping
the letter '3d' as was then the custom. It is just possible that
the writer (whose name appears to be endorsed on the envelope) was
the Postmaster there. A reference to the Postmaster-General's report for
that year would give his name.

As far as my memory serves me, the Canadian stamps were not then in issue,
though an advance circular may have been sent out. I have shown the
cover to a friend of mine who is an expert in typography, and he
assures me that the printing is as old as dated, and that such type
and border could not be procured now at any cost. The only thing that I
have seen that resembles it in any way was a cover from Prince Edward
Island, prepaid with a square of white paper stamped 3d and cancelled.
This was an adhesive, and used some years after stamps were in use.
As in your case, it had been recognised as paying postage. As to the
value of your cover, it is impossible for me to say, but very considerable
to any collector of British North America.

"Yours faithfully,
"DONALD A. KING."

Following up the clue given to me by Mr.

     King, I wrote to the Post Office Department at
     Ottawa, and received the following courteous
     answer:--
     OTTAWA, 2nd March, 1904.
     
     "Sir,--I am directed to acknowledge
     receipt of your communication of the 26th ultimo, inquiring whether
R.

     W. Kelly was Postmaster of New Carlisle, Co.

Gaspé, Quebec, in 1851, and in reply am directed to inform you
that R. W. Kelly, doubtless the same man, was Postmaster of New
Carlisle in 1851. Owing to the incompleteness of the early records of the
department, which was then under the direction of the British Office,
the date of Mr. Kelly's appointment cannot be ascertained. He appears
to have been Postmaster from 1851, however, until his resignation on the
9th April, 1855.

"As regards your inquiry as to whether postage stamps were used on the
7th April, 1851, and your statement that you have an envelope sent
on that date from New Carlisle to Toronto with 'Three Pence' printed on
it, inside a fancy border, I have to say that postage stamps were issued
to the public for the first time on the 23rd April, 1851, and that
stamped envelopes were not issued until some years later. The stamped
envelope to which you refer may have been an envelope so stamped on the
prepayment in the New Carlisle Post Office, of three pence, the required
charge for postage.

"I am, sir, your obedient servant,
"WILLIAM SMITH, Secretary."
It will be noted from the conclusion of this letter that, according
to the department at Ottawa, one might infer that the use of such
a stamp would not be irregular.

This is confirmed by the following extract from a reply to a letter a
friend of mine wrote to Ottawa at my request:--
OTTAWA, March 2nd, 1904.

"I took those questions of Mr. Greenshields over to Mr. ---- of the Post
Office Department. He tells me that before the first issue of stamps,
which took place on the 23rd of April, 1851, each Postmaster had a
steel stamp which he used to mark the amount prepaid on the letter.

These stamps were of different patterns, and it is probably the impression
of one of them that appears on Mr.
Greenshield's envelope. In some of the smaller post-offices they
continued to use these stamps as late as 1875.

"It is rather a singular coincidence that if the inquiry had been,
regarding the position of Postmaster, more than one day earlier, the
Canadian records would not have shown whether the man named had held
office or not, the reason being that it was on the 6th of April,
1851, that the Post Office Department was transferred from the
Imperial Government, and all records prior to that date are in the
possession of the Imperial authorities."

It seems strange that more of these covers have not been found.
Such well-known authorities on the stamps of British North America
as Mr. Lachlan Gibb and Mr. William Patterson, of Montreal, and Mr.
Donald A. King, of Halifax, had not seen any until I consulted them about
this one. I think it is very interesting to hear of a stamped envelope
like this being used by the Post Office just before the issue
of postage stamps.

So far as we have been able to find out the above constitutes all that
has been published regarding this envelope. We can find no further
mention of it in the columns of the _London Philatelist_ or of any
other journal published since 1904 nor does Mr. Howes so much as
refer to it in his recently published monograph on Canada's postal
issues.

Yet, on the face of it, the matter seems one worthy of extended
investigation by some Canada specialist or other. Its history, as
given above, is similar in many respects to the history of many of the
much sought after Postmaster's provisional stamps of the United
States and there is a possibility that this envelope may represent
a legitimate postmaster's provisional.

CHAPTER III.--_The First Issue._

In common with the other Colonies of British North America Canada
was granted the privilege of administrating its own postal service
in 1850, and in the same year an Act was passed providing for the
change.

It is hardly necessary to quote this Act in full though the following
extracts are of interest:-- 
CAP.

VII.

An Act to provide for the transfer of the management of the Inland Posts
to the Provincial Government, and for the Regulation of the said
department.

II.--And be it enacted, that the Inland Posts and Post Communications in
this Province shall, so far as may be consistent with the Acts of
the Parliament of the United Kingdom in force in this Province, be
exclusively under Provincial management and control; the revenues
arising from the duties and postage dues receivable by the officers
employed in managing such Posts and Post Communications shall form
part of the Provincial Revenue, unless such monies belong of right
to the United Kingdom, or to some other Colony, or to some Foreign
State, and the expenses of management shall be defrayed out of
Provincial Funds, and that the Act passed in the Eighth year of Her
Majesty's Reign, and entitled An Act to provide for the management
of the Customs, and of matter relative to the collection of the
Provincial Revenue, shall apply to the said Posts and Post
Communications, and to the officers and persons employed in managing
the same, or in collecting or accounting for the duties and dues
aforesaid, except in so far as any provision of the said Act may
be insusceptible of such application, or may be inconsistent with
any provision of this Act.

VIII.--And in conformity to the agreement made as aforesaid between the
Local Governments of the several Colonies of British North America, be
it enacted that the Provincial Postage on letters and packets not being
newspapers, printed pamphlets, magazines or books, entitled to pass
at a lower rate, shall not exceed Threepence currency per half-ounce,
for any distance whatsoever within this Province, any fraction of
a half-ounce being chargeable as a half-ounce; that no transit
postage shall be charged on any letter or packet passing through
this Province, or any part thereof, to any other Colony in British
North America, unless it be posted in this Province, and the sender
choose to prepay it; nor on any letter or packet from any such
Colony, if prepaid there; that Twopence sterling the half-ounce
shall remain as the rate in operation as regards letter by British
mails, to be extended to countries having Postal Conventions with
the United Kingdom, unless Her Majesty's Government in the United
Kingdom shall see fit to allow this rate to be changed to Threepence
currency; that the prepayment of Provincial Postage shall be
optional.

That all Provincial Postage received within the Province shall be
retained as belonging to it, and that all Provincial Postage received
within any other Colony of the British North American Colonies may
be retained, as belonging to such Colony. That no privilege of
franking shall be allowed as regards the Provincial Postage. That
Provincial Stamps for the prepayment of postage may be prepared under
the orders of the Governor in Council, which stamps shall be evidence
of the prepayment of Provincial Postage to the amount mentioned on such
stamps; and that such stamps, prepared under the direction of the
proper authorities in the other British North American Colonies,
shall be allowed in this Province as evidence of the prepayment of
Provincial Postage in such other Colonies respectively, on the letters
or packets to which they are affixed and which have been mailed there.

The business which had long detained her
in Edinburgh had afterwards induced her to travel to London, not without
the hope that she might contribute her share to disconcert the
intrigues of the Marquis at court; for she stood high in favour with
the celebrated Sarah Duchesss of Marlborough, to whom, in point of
character, she bore considerable resemblance. It was necessary to press
her husband hard before her return; and, as a preparatory step, the
Marquis wrote to the Master of Ravenswood the letter which we rehearsed
in a former chapter. It was cautiously worded, so as to leave it in the
power of the writer hereafter to take as deep or as slight an interest
in the fortunes of his kinsmen as the progress of his own schemes might
require. But however unwilling, as a statesman, the Marquis might be
to commit himself, or assume the character of a patron, while he had
nothing to give away, it must be said to his honour that he felt a
strong inclination effectually to befriend the Master of Ravenswood, as
well as to use his name as a means of alarming the terrors of the Lord
Keeper.

As the messenger who carried this letter was to pass near the house of
the Lord Keeper, he had it in direction that, in the village adjoining
to the park-gate of the castle, his horse should lose a shoe, and that,
while it was replaced by the smith of the place, he should express the
utmost regret for the necessary loss of time, and in the vehemence of
his impatience give it to be understood that he was bearing a message
from the Marquis of A---- to the Master of Ravenswood upon a matter of
life and death.

This news, with exaggerations, was speedily carried from various
quarters to the ears of the Lord Keeper, and each reporter dwelt upon
the extreme impatience of the courier, and the surprising short time
in which he had executed his journey. The anxious statesman heard in
silence; but in private Lockhard received orders to watch the courier
on his return, to waylay him in the village, to ply him with liquor, if
possible, and to use all means, fair or foul, to learn the contents
of the letter of which he was the bearer. But as this plot had been
foreseen, the messenger returned by a different and distant road, and
thus escaped the snare that was laid for him.

After he had been in vain expected for some time, Mr. Dingwall had
orders to made especial inquiry among his clients of Wolf's Hope,
whether such a domestic belonging to the Marquis of A----had actually
arrived at the neighbouring castle. This was easily ascertained; for
Caleb had been in the village one morning by five o'clock, to borrow
"twa chappins of ale and a kipper" for the messenger's refreshment,
and the poor fellow had been ill for twenty-four hours at Luckie
Sma'trash's, in consequence of dining upon "saut saumon and sour drink."
So that the existence of a correspondence betwixt the Marquis and his
distressed kinsman, which Sir William Ashton had sometimes treated as a
bugbear, was proved beyond the possibility of further doubt.

The alarm of the Lord Keeper became very serious; since the Claim of
Right, the power of appealing from the decisions of the civil court to
the Estates of Parliament, which had formerly been held incompetent, had
in many instances been claimed, and in some allowed, and he had no small
reason to apprehend the issue, if the English House of Lords should be
disposed to act upon an appeal from the Master of Ravenswood "for remeid
in law." It would resolve into an equitable claim, and be decided,
perhaps, upon the broad principles of justice, which were not quite so
favourable to the Lord Keeper as those of strict law. Besides, judging,
though most inaccurately, from courts which he had himself known in the
unhappy times preceding the Scottish Union, the Keeper might have too
much right to think that, in the House to which his lawsuits were to be
transferred, the old maxim might prevail which was too well recognised
in Scotland in former times: "Show me the man, and I'll show you the
law." The high and unbiased character of English judicial proceedings
was then little known in Scotland, and the extension of them to that
country was one of the most valuable advantages which it gained by the
Union. But this was a blessing which the Lord Keeper, who had lived
under another system, could not have the means of foreseeing. In the
loss of his political consequence, he anticipated the loss of his
lawsuit. Meanwhile, every report which reached him served to render
the success of the Marquis's intrigues the more probable, and the Lord
Keeper began to think it indispensable that he should look round for
some kind of protection against the coming storm. The timidity of his
temper induced him to adopt measures of compromise and conciliation. The
affair of the wild bull, properly managed, might, he thought, be made
to facilitate a personal communication and reconciliation betwixt the
Master and himself. He would then learn, if possible, what his own ideas
were of the extent of his rights, and the means of enforcing them; and
perhaps matters might be brought to a compromise, where one party was
wealthy and the other so very poor. A reconciliation with Ravenswood was
likely to give him an opportunity to play his own game with the Marquis
of A----. "And besides," said he to himself, "it will be an act of
generosity to raise up the heir of this distressed family; and if he is
to be warmly and effectually befriended by the new government, who knows
but my virtue may prove its own reward?"

Thus thought Sir William Ashton, covering with no unusual self-delusion
his interested views with a hue of virtue; and having attained this
point, his fancy strayed still farther. He began to bethink himself,
"That if Ravenswood was to have a distinguished place of power and
trust, and if such a union would sopite the heavier part of his
unadjusted claims, there might be worse matches for his daughter Lucy:
the Master might be reponed against the attainder. Lord Ravenswood was
an ancient title, and the alliance would, in some measure, legitimate
his own possession of the greater part of the Master's spoils, and make
the surrender of the rest a subject of less bitter regret."

With these mingled and multifarious plans occupying his head, the Lord
Keeper availed himself of my Lord Bittlebrains's repeated invitation
to his residence, and thus came within a very few miles of Wolf's
Crag. Here he found the lord of the mansion absent, but was courteously
received by the lady, who expected her husband's immediate return. She
expressed her particular delight at seeing Miss Ashton, and appointed
the hounds to be taken out for the Lord Keeper's special amusement.
He readily entered into the proposal, as giving him an opportunity to
reconnoitre Wolf's Crag, and perhaps to make some acquaintance with the
owner, if he should be tempted from his desolate mansion by the
chase. Lockhard had his orders to endeavour on his part to make some
acquaintance with the inmates of the castle, and we have seen how he
played his part.

The accidental storm did more to further the Lord Keeper's plan of
forming a personal acquaintance with young Ravenswood than his most
sanguine expectations could have anticipated. His fear of the young
nobleman's personal resentment had greatly decreased since he considered
him as formidable from his legal claims and the means he might have of
enforcing them. But although he thought, not unreasonably, that only
desperate circumstances drove men on desperate measures, it was not
without a secret terror, which shook his heart within him, that he first
felt himself inclosed within the desolate Tower of Wolf's Crag; a place
so well fitted, from solitude and strength, to be a scene of violence
and vengeance. The stern reception at first given to them by the Master
of Ravenswood, and the difficulty he felt in explaining to that injured
nobleman what guests were under the shelter of his roof, did not soothe
these alarms; so that when Sir William Ashton heard the door of the
courtyard shut behind him with violence, the words of Alice rung in his
ears, "That he had drawn on matters too hardly with so fierce a race as
those of Ravenswood, and that they would bide their time to be avenged."

The subsequent frankness of the Master's hospitality, as their
acquaintance increased, abated the apprehensions these recollections
were calculated to excite; and it did not escape Sir William Ashton,
that it was to Lucy's grace and beauty he owed the change in their
host's behavior.

All these thoughts thronged upon him when he took possession of
the secret chamber. The iron lamp, the unfurnished apartment, more
resembling a prison than a place of ordinary repose, the hoarse and
ceaseless sound of the waves rushing against the base of the rock on
which the castle was founded, saddened and perplexed his mind. To his
own successful machinations, the ruin of the family had been in a great
measure owing, but his disposition was crafty, and not cruel; so
that actually to witness the desolation and distress he had himself
occasioned was as painful to him as it would be to the humane mistress
of a family to superintend in person the execution of the lambs and
poultry which are killed by her own directions. At the same time,
when he thought of the alternative of restoring to Ravenswood a large
proportion of his spoils, or of adopting, as an ally and member of his
own family, the heir of this impoverished house, he felt as the spider
may be supposed to do when his whole web, the intricacies of which had
been planned with so much art, is destroyed by the chance sweep of a
broom. And then, if he should commit himself too far in this matter, it
gave rise to a perilous question, which many a good husband, when under
temptation to act as a free agent, has asked himself without being able
to return a satisfactory answer: "What will my wife--what will Lady
Ashton say?" On the whole, he came at length to the resolution in
which minds of a weaker cast so often take refuge. He resolved to
watch events, to take advantage of circumstances as they occurred, and
regulate his conduct accordingly. In this spirit of temporising policy,
he at length composed his mind to rest.


CHAPTER XVI.

     A slight note I have about me for you, for the delivery of which
     you must excuse me.  It is an offer that friendship calls upon me
     to do, and no way offensive to you, since I desire nothing but
     right upon both sides.

     King and no King.

WHEN Ravenswood and his guest met in the morning, the gloom of the
Master's spirit had in part returned. He, also, had passed a night
rather of reflection that of slumber; and the feelings which he could
not but entertain towards Lucy Ashton had to support a severe conflict
against those which he had so long nourished against her father. To
clasp in friendship the hand of the enemy of his house, to entertain him
under his roof, to exchange with him the courtesies and the kindness of
domestic familiarity, was a degradation which his proud spirit could not
be bent to without a struggle.

But the ice being once broken, the Lord Keeper was resolved it should
not have time against to freeze. It had been part of his plan to stun
and confuse Ravenswood's ideas, by a complicated and technical statement
of the matters which had been in debate betwixt their families, justly
thinking that it would be difficult for a youth of his age to follow
the expositions of a practical lawyer, concerning actions of compt and
reckoning, and of multiplepoindings, and adjudications and wadsets,
proper and improper, and poindings of the ground, and declarations of
the expiry of the legal. "Thus," thought Sir William, "I shall have
all the grace of appearing perfectly communicative, while my party will
derive very little advantage from anything I may tell him." He therefore
took Ravenswood aside into the deep recess of a window in the hall, and
resuming the discourse of the proceeding evening, expressed a hope that
his young friend would assume some patience, in order to hear him enter
in a minute and explanatory detail of those unfortunate circumstances
in which his late honourable father had stood at variance with the Lord
Keeper. The Master of Ravenswood coloured highly, but was silent; and
the Lord Keeper, though not greatly approving the sudden heightening
of his auditor's complexion, commenced the history of a bond for twenty
thousand merks, advanced by his father to the father of Allan Lord
Ravenswood, and was proceeding to detail the executorial proceedings
by which this large sum had been rendered a debitum fundi, when he was
interrupted by the Master.

"It is not in this place," he said, "that I can hear Sir William
Ashton's explanation of the matters in question between us. It is not
here, where my father died of a broken heart, that I can with decency
or temper investigate the cause of his distress. I might remember that I
was a son, and forget the duties of a host. A time, however, there must
come, when these things shall be discussed, in a place and in a presence
where both of us will have equal freedom to speak and to hear."

"Any time," the Lord Keeper said, "any place, was alike to those who
sought nothing but justice. Yet it would seem he was, in fairness,
entitled to some premonition respecting the grounds upon which the
Master proposed to impugn the whole train of legal proceedings, which
had been so well and ripely advised in the only courts competent."

"Sir William Ashton," answered the Master, with warmth, "the lands which
you now occupy were granted to my remote ancestor for services done with
his sword against the English invaders. How they have glided from us by
a train of proceedings that seem to be neither sale, nor mortgage, nor
adjudication for debt, but a nondescript and entangled mixture of all
these rights; how annual rent has been accumulated upon principal, and
no nook or coign of legal advantage left unoccupied, until our interest
in our hereditary property seems to have melted away like an icicle in
thaw--all this you understand better than I do. I am willing, however,
to suppose, from the frankness of your conduct towards me, that I may in
a great measure have mistaken your personal character, and that things
may have appeared right and fitting to you, a skilful and practised
lawyer, which to my ignorant understanding seem very little short of
injustice and gross oppression."

"And you, my dear Master," answered Sir William--"you, permit me to say,
have been equally misrepresented to me. I was taught to believe you
a fierce, imperious, hot-headed youth, ready, at the slightest
provocation, to throw your sword into the scales of justice, and to
appeal to those rude and forcible measures from which civil polity has
long protected the people of Scotland. Then, since we were mutually
mistaken in each other, why should not the young nobleman be willing
to listen to the old lawyer, while, at least, he explains the points of
difference betwixt them?"

"No, my lord," answered Ravenswood; "it is in the House of British
Peers, whose honour must be equal to their rank--it is in the court of
last resort that we must parley together. The belted lords of Britain,
her ancient peers, must decide, if it is their will that a house,
not the least noble of their members, shall be stripped of their
possessions, the reward of the patriotism of generations, as the pawn of
a wretched mechanic becomes forfeit to the usurer the instant the hour
of redemption has passed away. If they yield to the grasping severity of
the creditor, and to the gnawing usury that eats into our lands as moths
into a raiment, it will be of more evil consequence to them and their
posterity than to Edgar Ravenswood. I shall still have my sword and my
cloak, and can follow the profession of arms wherever a trumpet shall
sound."

As he pronounced these words, in a firm yet melancholy tone, he raised
his eyes, and suddenly encountered those of Lucy Ashton, who had stolen
unawares on their interview, and observed her looks fastened on them
with an expression of enthusiastic interest and admiration, which had
wrapt her for the moment beyond the fear of discovery. The noble form
and fine features of Ravenswood, fired with the pride of birth and sense
of internal dignity, the mellow and expressive tones of his voice,
the desolate state of his fortunes, and the indifference with which he
seemed to endure and to dare the worst that might befall, rendered him a
dangerous object of contemplation for a maiden already too much
disposed to dwell upon recollections connected with him. When their eyes
encountered each other, both blushed deeply, conscious of some strong
internal emotion, an shunned again to meet each other's looks. Sir
William Ashton had, of course, closely watched the expression of their
countenances. "I need fear," said he internally, "neither Parliament nor
protestation; I have an effectual mode of reconciling myself with this
hot-tempered young fellow, in case he shall become formidable. The
present object is, at all events, to avoid committing ourselves. The
hook is fixed; we will nto strain the line too soon: it is as well to
reserve the privilege of slipping it loose, if we do not find the fish
worth landing."

In this selfish and cruel calculation upon the supposed attachment of
Ravenswood to Lucy, he was so far from considering the pain he might
give to the former, by thus dallying with his affections, that he even
did not think upon the risk of involving his own daughter in the perils
of an unfortunate passion; as if her predilection, which could not
escape his attention, were like the flame of a taper which might be
lighted or extinguished at pleasure. Two cents on all bank checks,
receipts and bills of exchange, express and post-office orders.

One cent on postal notes.

One cent (war stamp) on each letter and postcard.

Five cents per quart on non-sparkling wines sold in Canada, and
twenty-five cents per pint on champagne and sparkling wines.

One cent on each twenty-five cents retail price of proprietary articles.

The only tax that has interest to us as philatelists is the one cent
impost on all letters and postcards.

This came into effect on April 15th, 1915, and special stamps were
issued for the purpose. These are the regular 1c postage stamps of the
King George series with the words "WAR TAX", in two lines, in large
colorless block capitals between the portrait and the value.

As this stamp collected a tax on letters and postcards it will
undoubtedly be considered collectible by the most advanced of the
philatelic purists.

A 2c value was also issued in this type and while this was primarily
intended for use on money orders, checks, etc., it was also quite
frequently used for postage.

In fact there seems to have been no necessity for these special stamps,
for so long as a letter had 3c postage on it (or 2c in the case
of drop letters) the law was fully complied with.

That both the 1c and 2c values were good for postage is proved by the
following letter addressed to Mr.However, he
whispered in his ear, as he followed him out, "I would be loth to do ony
decent man a prejudice in your honour's gude opinion; but I would tak
twa looks o' that chield before I let him within these walls."

He was not an officer of the law, however; being no less a person than
Captain Craigengelt, with his nose as red as a comfortable cup of brandy
could make it, his laced cocked hat set a little aside upon the top
of his black riding periwig, a sword by his side and pistols at his
holsters, and his person arrayed in a riding suit, laid over with
tarnished lace--the very moral of one who would say, "Stand to a true
man."

When the Master had recognised him, he ordered the gates to be opened.
"I suppose," he said, "Captain Craigengelt, there are no such weighty
matters betwixt you and me, but may be discussed in this place. I have
company in the castle at present, and the terms upon which we last
parted must excuse my asking you to make part of them."

Craigengelt, although possessing the very perfection of impudence, was
somewhat abashed by this unfavourable reception. "He had no intention,"
he said, "to force himself upon the Master of Ravenswood's hospitality;
he was in the honourable service of bearing a message to him from a
friend, otherwise the Master of Ravenswood should not have had reason to
complain of this intrusion."

"Let it be short, sir," said the Master, "for that will be the best
apology. Who is the gentleman who is so fortunate as to have your
services as a messenger?"

"My friend, Mr. Hayston of Bucklaw," answered Craigengelt, with
conscious importance, and that confidence which the acknowledged courage
of his principal inspired, "who conceives himself to have been treated
by you with something much short of the respect which he had reason to
demand, and, therefore is resolved to exact satisfaction. I bring with
me," said he, taking a piece of paper out of his pocket, "the precise
length of his sword; and he requests you will meet him, accompanied by
a friend, and equally armed, at any place within a mile of the castle,
when I shall give attendance as umpire, or second, on his behoof."

"Satisfaction! and equal arms!" repeated Ravenswood, who, the reader
will recollect, had no reason to suppose he had given the slightest
offence to his late intimate; "upon my word, Captain Craigengelt, either
you have invented the most improbable falsehood that ever came into the
mind of such a person, or your morning draught has been somewhat of the
strongest. What could persuade Bucklaw to send me such a message?"

"For that, sir," replied Craigengelt, "I am desired to refer you to
what, in duty to my friend, I am to term your inhospitality in excluding
him from your house, without reasons assigned."

"It is impossible," replied the Master; "he cannot be such a fool as to
interpret actual necessity as an insult. Nor do I believe that, knowing
my opinion of you, Captain, he would have employed the services of so
slight and inconsiderable a person as yourself upon such an errand, as I
certainly could expect no man of honour to act with you in the office of
umpire."

"I slight and inconsiderable?" said Craigengelt, raising his voice, and
laying his hand on his cutlass; "if it were not that the quarrel of
my friend craves the precedence, and is in dependence before my own, I
would give you to understand----"

"I can understand nothing upon your explanation, Captain Craigengelt. Be
satisfied of that, and oblige me with your departure."

"D----n!" muttered the bully; "and is this the answer which I am to
carry back to an honourable message?"

This is, of course, a plate variety caused like all similar ones by a
faulty or incorrect rocking of the roller impression on the plate and
a correction on top of this impression which did not always entirely
obliterate the first impression. Mr."Then, Master, you will at least cause to be returned to Hayston, by my
hands, his property which is remaining in your possession."

"Whatever property Bucklaw may have left behind him, sir," replied the
Master, "shall be returned to him by my servant, as you do not show me
any credentials from him which entitle you to receive it."

"Well, Master," said Captain Craigengelt, with malice which even his
fear of the consequences could not suppress, "you have this morning done
me an egregious wrong adn dishonour, but far more to yourself. Though the
material is in some respects inferior to silk, it has been found to
wear so much longer, and to cost so much less, that its use is now
becoming general among that numerous class with whom economy and
an Umbrella are equally indispensable.

The sale of Alpaca Umbrellas, in the year 1854, amounted to upwards of
45,000."
Since this time W. & J.

S. have sold, under their patent, Umbrellas to the number of nearly
four millions.

These facts we will leave to our readers to draw their own inference
from; but the very kind reception which the Alpaca Umbrellas have
hitherto received, justifies us in asserting, that no material has
yet been brought forward which has so thoroughly fulfilled the
required conditions.

The weight of the Umbrella has also been diminished, and, last not least,
the price has decreased in a corresponding ratio. This latter
fact is of the very greatest importance, when we remember the
immense quantity of Parasols and Umbrellas manufactured during the
year in London, and estimated at the enormous value of 500,000
Pounds.

In addition, a very great number are made in Manchester and Birmingham.

To those who wish to keep their Umbrellas safe and sound, we may commend
the following extract from Cassell's _Household Guide_:--
"Umbrellas are articles which generally suffer more from careless
treatment than from legitimate wear and tear; an Umbrella, when
properly treated, will last twice as long as one that is not so used.

When wet, an Umbrella should neither be distended to dry, which will
strain the ribs and covering, and prevent its ever afterwards folding
up neatly, nor at once rolled and tied up, which would tend to rust
the frame and rot the textile fabric; neither should it, if of silk, be
carelessly thrust into an Umbrella-stand, nor allowed to rest
against a wall, which would probably discolour, and certainly crease
the silk injuriously.

Craigengelt,
or whatever is his name, undergo a severe examination before the privy
council."

"Upon what account?" said the Master of Ravenswood, with some interest.

The question led immediately to a tale which the Lord Keeper had been
very anxious to introduce, when he could find a graceful and fitting
opportunity. He took hold of the Master's arm, and led him back towards
the hall. "The answer to your question," he said, "though it is a
ridiculous business, is only fit for your own ear."

As they entered the hall, he again took the Master apart into one of
the recesses of the window, where it will be easily believed that Miss
Ashton did not venture again to intrude upon their conference.


CHAPTER XVII.

     Here is a father now,
     Will truck his daughter for a foreign venture,
     Make her the stop-gap to some canker'd feud,
     Or fling her o'er, like Jonah, to the fishes,
     To appease the sea at highest.

     Anonymous.

THE Lord Keeper opened his discourse with an appearance of unconcern,
marking, however, very carefully, the effect of his communication upon
young Ravenswood.

"You are aware," he said, "my young friend, that suspicion is the
natural vice of our unsettled times, and exposes the best and wisest of
us to the imposition of artful rascals. If I had been disposed to listen
to such the other day, or even if I had been the wily politicians which
you have been taught to believe me, you, Master of Ravenswood, instead
of being at freedom, and with fully liberty to solicit and act against
me as you please, in defence of what you suppose to be your rights,
would have been in the Castle of Edinburgh, or some other state prison;
or, if you had escaped that destiny, it must have been by flight to a
foreign country, and at the risk of a sentence of fugitation."

"My Lord Keeper," said the Master, "I think you would not jest on such a
subject; yet it seems impossible you can be in earnest."

"Innocence," said the Lord Keeper, "is also confident, and sometimes,
though very excusably, presumptuously so."

"I do not understand," said Ravenswood, "how a consciousess of innocence
can be, in any case, accounted presumptuous."

"Imprudent, at least, it may be called," said Sir William Ashton, "since
it is apt to lead us into the mistake of supposing that sufficiently
evident to others of which, in fact, we are only conscious ourselves. I
have known a rogue, for this very reason, make a better defence than
an innocent man could have done in the same circumstances of suspicion.
Having no consciousness of innocence to support him, such a fellow
applies himself to all the advantages which the law will afford him, and
sometimes--if his counsel be men of talent--succeeds in compelling his
judges to receive him as innocent. I remember the celebrated case of Sir
Coolie Condiddle of Condiddle, who was tried for theft under trust, of
which all the world knew him guilty, and yet was not only acquitted, but
lived to sit in judgment on honester folk."

"Allow me to beg you will return to the point," said the Master; "you
seemed to say that I had suffered under some suspicion."

"Suspicion, Master! Ay, truly, and I can show you the proofs of it; if
I happen only to have them with me. Here, Lockhard." His attendant came.
"Fetch me the little private mail with the padlocks, that I recommended
to your particular charge, d'ye hear?"

"Yes, my lord." Lockhard vanished; and the Keeper continued, as if half
speaking to himself.

"I think the papers are with me--I think so, for, as I was to be in
this country, it was natural for me to bring them with me. The next story
relates to the early history of the Umbrella in Scotland, and may
probably be referred to the time when good Dr.

Jamieson was walking about Glasgow with his new-fangled sheltering
apparatus, which he had brought with him on his return from Paris.The Keeper produced one or two papers, respecting the
information laid before the privy council concerning the riot, as it was
termed, at the funeral of Allan Lord Ravenswood, and the active share he
had himself taken in quashing the proceedings against the Master. These
documents had been selected with care, so as to irritate the natural
curiosity of Ravenswood upon such a subject, without gratifying it, yet
to show that Sir William Ashton had acted upon that trying occasion
the part of an advocate and peacemaker betwixt him and the jealous
authorities of the day. Having furnished his host with such subjects for
examination, the Lord Keeper went to the breakfast-table, and entered
into light conversation, addressed partly to old Caleb, whose resentment
against the usurper of the Castle of Ravenswood began to be softened by
his familiarity, and partly to his daughter.

After perusing these papers, the Master of Ravenswood remained for
a minute or two with his hand pressed against his brow, in deep and
profound meditation. Scott's catalogue lists a sub-variety of all values
except the 1/2c on "watermarked" paper. The watermarked letters found
in these stamps were known at least as early as 1870 and much
speculation was rife as to their meaning. Mr. John N.Apparently the
second reading confirmed the opinion which had pressed upon him at the
first, for he started from the stone bench on which he was sitting,
and, going to the Lord Keeper, took his hand, and, strongly pressing it,
asked his pardon repeatedly for the injustice he had done him, when it
appeared he was experiencing, at his hands, the benefit of protection to
his person and vindication to his character.

The statesman received these acknowledgments at first with well-feigned
surprise, and then with an affectation of frank cordiality. The tears
began already to start from Lucy's blue eyes at viewing this unexpected
and moving scene. To see the Master, late so haughty and reserved, and
whom she had always supposed the injured person, supplicating her
father for forgiveness, was a change at once surprising, flattering, and
affecting.

"Dry your eyes, Lucy," said her father; "why should you weep, because
your father, though a lawyer, is discovered to be a fair and honourable
man? What have you to thank me for, my dear Master," he continued,
addressing Ravenswood, "that you would not have done in my case? 'Suum
cuique tribuito,' was the Roman justice, and I learned it when I studied
Justinian. Besides, have you not overpaid me a thousand times, in saving
the life of this dear child?"

"Yes," answered the Master, in all the remorse of self-accusation; "but
the little service _I_ did was an act of mere brutal instinct; YOUR
defence of my cause, when you knew how ill I thought of you, and how
much I was disposed to be your enemy, was an act of generous, manly, and
considerate wisdom."

Above the beaver is an Imperial crown which breaks into the oval band and
divides the words "CANADA" and "POSTAGE." This crown rests on a rose,
shamrock, and thistle (emblematic of the United Kingdom) and on either
side are the letters "V R" (_Victoria Regina_, i.e. Queen Victoria).
In each of the angles is a large uncolored numeral "3". Mr. Howes tells
us that this stamp was designed by Sir Stanford Fleming, a civil
engineer and draughtsman.

[Illustration]
The beaver, depicted on this stamp, rejoices in the scientific name of
_Castor fiber_. It is a rodent of social habits and was at one time
widely distributed over Europe and North America. It is now practically
extinct except in Canada and even there it is said to be in great
danger of extermination.His
prepossessions accordingly, however obstinate, were of a nature to give
way before love and gratitude; and the real charms of the daughter,
joined to the supposed services of the father, cancelled in his memory
the vows of vengeance which he had taken so deeply on the eve of his
father's funeral. But they had been heard and registered in the book of
fate.

