'We met on board the steamer. He had been obliged to leave Boulogne
without finishing his business there, and I went back to settle it for
him.'

'And the papers he had lost?'

'I had them: it is all right.'

'And his mind relieved?'

'I hope it is.'

'Oh! then, we may dare to hope!' cried she, breathing freely.

'I trust so; but I must go. Perhaps I may meet Lord Martindale.'

With a great effort, and a 'now-or-never' feeling, she abruptly said, 'I
hope Jane is well.'

He did not seem to understand; and confused, as if she had committed an
over familiarity of title, she added, 'Mrs. Fotheringham.'

She was startled and hurt at his unconstrained manner.

'Very well, I believe. I shall see her this evening at Worthbourne.'

'Has she been staying there long?' said Theodora, going on valiantly
after the first plunge.

'Ever since the summer. They went home very soon after the marriage.'

A new light broke in on Theodora. She was tingling in every limb, but
she kept her own counsel, and he proceeded. 'I saw them at Paris, and
thought it did very well. She is very kind to him, keeps him in capital
order, and has cured him of some of his ungainly tricks.'

'How did it happen? I have heard no particulars.'

'After his mother's death poor Pelham was less easily controlled: he
grew restless and discontented, and both he and my uncle fell under the
influence of an underbred idle youth in the neighbourhood, who contrived
at last to get Sir Antony's consent to his taking Pelham abroad with him
as his pupil. At Florence they met with these ladies, who made much of
their cousin, and cajoled the tutor, till this marriage was effected.'

'She must be nearly double his age.'

'She will manage him the better for it. There was great excuse for her.
The life she was obliged to lead was almost an apology for any way of
escape. If only it had been done openly, and with my uncle's consent, no
one could have had any right to object, and I honestly believe it is a
very good thing for all parties.'

'Would Sir Antony have consented?'

'I have little doubt of it. He was hurt at first, but he was always
fond of Jane. She is very attentive to him, and I hope makes him quite
comfortable. He wrote to ask me to come and see them at Worthbourne, and
I am on my way. I see it is getting late. Good-bye.'

Theodora's heart had been bounding all this time. Her first impulse was
to rush up to tell Violet; but as this could not be, she snatched up
a bulky red volume, and throwing over the leaves till she came to
F.--Fotheringham, Sir Antony, of Worthbourne, looked down the list of
his children's names, and beheld that the only one not followed by the
fatal word "died" was Antony Pelham.

What had they all been doing not to have thought of this before?
However, she recollected that it would have seemed as impossible
that the half-witted youth should marry as that he should be on the
Continent. The escape from the certainty that had so long weighed
on her, taught her what the pain had been; and yet, when she came to
analyze her gladness, it seemed to melt away.

She dwelt on her period of madness--her wilful, repeated rejection of
warning; she thought of the unhappy Derby day--of her own cold 'Very
well'--her flirtation with Lord St. Erme. She recollected the passage
with Annette Moss: and then, for her present person, it was changed
beyond recognition, as had just been proved; nor could she wonder, as,
turning to the mirror, she surveyed the figure in black silk and plain
cap, beyond which the hair scarcely yet peeped out--the clearness and
delicacy of skin destroyed, the face haggard with care and sorrow, the
eyelids swollen by watchful nights. She almost smiled at the contrast
to the brilliant, flashing-eyed, nut-brown maid in the scarlet-wreathed
coronal of raven hair, whom she had seen the last time she cared to cast
a look in that glass.

'I am glad I am altered,' said she, sternly. 'It is well that I should
not remind him of her on whom he wasted his hope and affection. It is
plain that I shall never marry, and this is a mask under which I
can meet him with indifference like his own. Yes, it was absolute
indifference--nothing but his ordinary kindliness and humanity; neither
embarrassment nor confusion--just as he would have met any old woman at
Brogden.

If he remembers that time at all, it is as a past delusion, and there
is nothing in me to recall what he once liked. He did not know me!
Nonsense! I thought I was content only to know him safe from Jane--still
his real self. I am. That is joy! All the rest is folly and selfishness.
That marriage! How disgusting--and what crooked ways! But what is that
to me? Jane may marry the whole world, so that Percy is Percy!'

The children were heard on the stairs, and Helen rushed in, shouting,
in spite of the silencing finger, 'Aunt, it is the owl man!' and Johnnie
himself, eager and joyous, 'It is the man who came with papa.'

'He met us,' said Helen. 'He knew my name, and he asked Annie's, and
carried her to our door.'

'He said he had been into papa's room,' said Johnnie, 'and had seen
baby. He is a very good-natured gentleman. Don't you like him, Aunt
Theodora?'

'And oh! aunt, he asked me whether we ever went to Brogden; and when he
heard that we had been at the parsonage, he said he lived there when
he was a little boy, and our nursery was his;' chattered on Helen. 'He
asked if we were in the fire; and you know Johnnie can't bear to hear of
that; so I told him how funny it was when you came and pulled me out
of bed, and we went down the garden with no shoes. And he asked whether
that was the way you had grown so ugly, Aunt Theodora.'

'No, Helen, he did not say that; for he was a gentleman,' interposed
Johnnie; 'he only said he was afraid our aunt had been a sufferer, and
Sarah told--'

'And I told,' again broke in Helen, 'how Cousin Hugh said it was an
honour and a glory to be burnt like you; and I told him how I got the
water and should have put out the fire, if that horrid Simmonds had not
carried me away, and I wish he had not. So long as I had not my curls
burnt off,' said Miss Helen, pulling one of the glossy chestnut rings
into her sight, like a conscious beauty as she was.

'He asked Sarah all about it,' said Johnnie; 'and he said we had a very
good aunt; and, indeed, we have!' climbing carelessly into her lap.
'Then he met grandpapa, and they are walking in the square together.'

So Mr. Fotheringham could be in no real haste to be gone, and had only
hurried away to avoid Theodora. However, there was no more musing time,
the children's dinner was ready, and she was going down with the little
girls, when her father entered. 'How is Arthur?'

It was answered by Johnnie, who was flying down-stairs with joyous
though noiseless bounds, his whole person radiant with good tidings.
'Papa is asleep! grandpapa. Papa is fast asleep!'

'Have you been in the room?'

'No; mamma came to the door and told me. Baby is gone up to our nursery,
and nobody is to make the least noise, for papa is gone to sleep so
comfortably!'

The boy had caught so much gladness from his mother's look, that he
almost seemed to understand the importance of that first rest. His
grandfather stroked his hair, and in the same breath with Theodora,
exclaimed, 'It is owing to Percy!'

'Has he told you about it?' said Theodora.

'So much as that there is a final break with that fellow Gardner--a
comfort at least. Percy said they had got their affairs into a mess;
Arthur had been trying to free himself, but Gardner had taken advantage
of him, and used him shamefully, and his illness had forced him to come
away, leaving things more complicated than ever. There was a feeling of
revenge, it seems, at Arthur not having consented to some disgraceful
scheme of his; but Percy did not give me the particulars. Meeting him in
the steamer, ill and desperate--poor fellow--Percy heard the story, took
care of him, and saw him home; then, finding next morning what a state
he was in, and thinking there might be immediate demands--'

'Oh! that was the terrible dread and anxiety!'

'He did what not one man in a million would have done. He went off, and
on his own responsibility adjusted the matter, and brought Gardner to
consent. He said it had been a great liberty, and that he was glad to
find he had not gone too far, and that Arthur approved.'

'Do you know what it was?'

'No; he assured me all was right, and that there was no occasion to
trouble me with the detail. I asked if any advance was needed, and he
said no, which is lucky, for I cannot tell how I could have raised
it. For the rest, I could ask him no questions. No doubt it is the old
story, and, as Arthur's friend, he could not be willing to explain it to
me. I am only glad it is in such safe hands. As to its being a liberty,
I told him it was one which only a brave thorough-going friend would
have taken. I feel as if it might be the saving of his life.'

The respectable Christian detests his vicious and ill-conditioned
neighbors as heartily as the Israelite did the publicans and sinners
of his day.

He folds his robe of self-righteousness closely about him, and denounces
as little better than sinful weakness all commiseration for the guilty;
and all attempts to restore and reclaim the erring violators of human
law otherwise than by pains and penalties as wicked collusion with crime,
dangerous to the stability and safety of society, and offensive
in the sight of God.

And yet nothing is more certain than that, just in proportion as the
example of our Lord has been followed in respect to the outcast and
criminal, the effect has been to reform and elevate,--to snatch
as brands from the burning souls not yet wholly given over to the
service of evil.

The wonderful influence for good exerted over the most degraded and
reckless criminals of London by the excellent and self-denying Elizabeth
Fry, the happy results of the establishment of houses of refuge,
and reformation, and Magdalen asylums, all illustrate the wisdom
of Him who went about doing good, in pointing out the morally
diseased as the appropriate subjects of the benevolent labors of
His disciples.

No one is to be despaired of.

We have no warrant to pass by any of our fellow-creatures as beyond
the reach of God's grace and mercy; for, beneath the most repulsive
and hateful outward manifestation, there is always a consciousness
of the beauty of goodness and purity, and of the loathsomeness of
sin,--one chamber of the heart as yet not wholly profaned, whence
at times arises the prayer of a burdened and miserable spirit for
deliverance.

Deep down under the squalid exterior, unparticipative in the hideous
merriment and recklessness of the criminal, there is another self,--a
chained and suffering inner man,-- crying out, in the intervals of
intoxication and brutal excesses, like Jonah from the bosom of hell.

To this lingering consciousness the sympathy and kindness of benevolent
and humane spirits seldom appeal in vain; for, whatever may be outward
appearances, it remains true that the way of the transgressor is hard,
and that sin and suffering are inseparable.

Crime is seldom loved or persevered in for its own sake; but, when
once the evil path is entered upon, a return is in reality extremely
difficult to the unhappy wanderer, and often seems as well nigh
impossible.

The laws of social life rise up like insurmountable barriers between
him and escape.

As he turns towards the society whose rights he has outraged, its
frown settles upon him; the penalties of the laws he has violated
await him; and he falls back despairing, and suffers the fetters
of the evil habit to whose power he has yielded himself to be
fastened closer and heavier upon him.

O for some good angel, in the form of a brother-man and touched with a
feeling of his sins and infirmities, to reassure his better nature and
to point out a way of escape from its body of death!

We have been led into these remarks by an account, given in the London
Weekly Chronicle, of a most remarkable interview between the
professional thieves of London and Lord Ashley,--a gentleman whose
best patent of nobility is to be found in his generous and untiring
devotion to the interests of his fellow-men.

It appears that a philanthropic gentleman in London had been applied
to by two young thieves, who had relinquished their evil practices and
were obtaining a precarious but honest livelihood by picking up bones
and rags in the streets, their loss of character closing against
them all other employments. He had just been reading an address of Lord
Ashley's in favor of colonial emigration, and he was led to ask one
of the young men how he would like to emigrate.

"I should jump at the chance!" was the reply. Not long after the
gentleman was sent for to visit one of those obscure and ruinous
courts of the great metropolis where crime and poverty lie down
together,-- localities which Dickens has pictured with such painful
distinctness.

Here, to his surprise, he met a number of thieves and outlaws, who declared
themselves extremely anxious to know whether any hope could be held
out to them of obtaining an honest living, however humble, in the
colonies, as their only reason for continuing in their criminal course
was the impossibility of extricating themselves. He gave them such
advice and encouragement as he was able, and invited them to assemble
again, with such of their companions as they could persuade to do
so, at the room of the Irish Free School, for the purpose of meeting
Lord Ashley.

On the 27th of the seventh month last the meeting took place.
At the hour appointed, Lord Ashley and five or six other benevolent
gentlemen, interested in emigration as a means of relief and reformation
to the criminal poor, entered the room, which was already well-nigh filled.
Two hundred and seven professed thieves were present. "Several
of the most experienced thieves were stationed at the door to
prevent the admission of any but thieves.

Some four or five individuals, who were not at first known, were subjected
to examination, and only allowed to remain on stating that they were,
and being recognized as, members of the dishonest fraternity; and
before the proceedings of the evening commenced the question was
very carefully put, and repeated several times, whether any one was
in the room of whom others entertained doubts as to who he was.

The object of this care was, as so many of them were in danger of 'getting
into trouble,' or, in other words, of being taken up for their
crimes, to ascertain if any who might betray them were present; and
another intention of this scrutiny was, to give those assembled,
who naturally would feel considerable fear, a fuller confidence in
opening their minds."

What a novel conference between the extremes of modern society!

All that is beautiful in refinement and education, moral symmetry and
Christian grace, contrasting with the squalor, the ignorance, the
lifelong depravity of men living "without God in the world,"--the
pariahs of civilization,--the moral lepers, at the sight of whom
decency covers its face, and cries out, "Unclean!"

After a prayer had been offered, Lord Ashley spoke at considerable
length, making a profound impression on his strange auditory as
they listened to his plans of emigration, which offered them an
opportunity to escape from their miserable condition and enter upon
a respectable course of life.

The hard heart melted and the cold and cruel eye moistened. With
one accord the wretched felons responded to the language of
Christian love and good-will, and declared their readiness to
follow the advice of their true friend.

They looked up to him as to an angel of mercy, and felt the malignant
spirits which had so long tormented them disarmed of all power of
evil in the presence of simple goodness.

He stood in that felon audience like Spenser's Una amidst the satyrs;
unassailable and secure in the "unresistible might of meekness,"
and panoplied in that "noble grace which dashed brute violence with
sudden adoration and mute awe."

Twenty years ago, when Elizabeth Fry ventured to visit those "spirits
in prison,"--the female tenants of Newgate,--her temerity was regarded
with astonishment, and her hope of effecting a reformation in the
miserable objects of her sympathy was held to be wholly visionary.

Her personal safety and the blessed fruits of her labors, nevertheless,
confirmed the language of her Divine Master to His disciples when
He sent them forth as lambs among wolves: "Behold, I give unto you
power over all the power of the enemy."

The still more unpromising experiment of Lord Ashley, thus far, has been
equally successful; and we hail it as the introduction of a new
and more humane method of dealing with the victims of sin and
ignorance, and the temptations growing out of the inequalities and
vices of civilization.

WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

Letter to the Newport Convention.

AMESBURY, MASS., 12th, 8th Month, 1869.

I HAVE received thy letter inviting me to attend the Convention in behalf
of Woman's Suffrage, at Newport, R. I., on the 25th inst. I do not
see how it is possible for me to accept the invitation; and, were I to
do so, the state of my health would prevent me from taking such a
part in the meeting as would relieve me from the responsibility of seeming
to sanction anything in its action which might conflict with my own views
of duty or policy.

Yet I should do myself great injustice if I did not embrace this occasion
to express my general sympathy with the movement.
I have seen no good reason why mothers, wives, and daughters should not
have the same right of person, property, and citizenship which fathers,
husbands, and brothers have.

The sacred memory of mother and sister; the wisdom and dignity of women
of my own religious communion who have been accustomed to something
like equality in rights as well as duties; my experience as a co-worker
with noble and self-sacrificing women, as graceful and helpful in their
household duties as firm and courageous in their public advocacy
of unpopular truth; the steady friendships which have inspired and
strengthened me, and the reverence and respect which I feel for human
nature, irrespective of sex, compel me to look with something more
than acquiescence on the efforts you are making. I frankly confess
that I am not able to forsee all the consequences of the great social and
political change proposed, but of this I am, at least, sure, it is
always safe to do right, and the truest expediency is simple justice.
I can understand, without sharing, the misgivings of those who fear
that, when the vote drops from woman's hand into the ballot-box,
the beauty and sentiment, the bloom and sweetness, of womankind
will go with it.

But in this matter it seems to me that we can trust Nature. Stronger
than statutes or conventions, she will be conservative of all that the
true man loves and honors in woman. Here and there may be found an
equivocal, unsexed Chevalier D'Eon, but the eternal order and
fitness of things will remain.
I have no fear that man will be less manly or woman less womanly when
they meet on terms of equality before the law.

On the other hand, I do not see that the exercise of the ballot by woman
will prove a remedy for all the evils of which she justly complains.

It is her right as truly as mine, and when she asks for it, it is
something less than manhood to withhold it. But, unsupported by a
more practical education, higher aims, and a deeper sense of the
responsibilities of life and duty, it is not likely to prove a blessing
in her hands any more than in man's.

With great respect and hearty sympathy, I am very truly thy
friend.

ITALIAN UNITY
AMESBURY, MASS., 1st Mo., 4th, 1871.

Read at the great meeting in New York, January, 1871, in celebration of
the freedom of Rome and complete unity of Italy.

IT would give me more than ordinary satisfaction to attend the
meeting on the 12th instant for the celebration of Italian Unity,
the emancipation of Rome, and its occupation as the permanent capital
of the nation.

For many years I have watched with deep interest and sympathy the popular
movement on the Italian peninsula, and especially every effort for the
deliverance of Rome from a despotism counting its age by centuries.

I looked at these struggles of the people with little reference to their
ecclesiastical or sectarian bearings.

Had I been a Catholic instead of a Protestant, I should have hailed
every symptom of Roman deliverance from Papal rule, occupying, as
I have, the standpoint of a republican radical, desirous that all
men, of all creeds, should enjoy the civil liberty which I prized
so highly for myself.

I lost all confidence in the French republic of 1849, when it forfeited
its own right to exist by crushing out the newly formed Roman republic
under Mazzini and Garibaldi. From that hour it was doomed, and the
expiation of its monstrous crime is still going on.

My sympathies are with Jules Favre and Leon Gambetta in their efforts
to establish and sustain a republic in France, but I confess that the
investment of Paris by King William seems to me the logical sequence
of the bombardment of Rome by Oudinot.

And is it not a significant fact that the terrible chassepot, which made
its first bloody experiment upon the halfarmed Italian patriots without
the walls of Rome, has failed in the hands of French republicans
against the inferior needle-gun of Prussia?

It was said of a fierce actor in the old French Revolution that he
demoralized the guillotine. The massacre at Mentana demoralized
the chassepot.

It is a matter of congratulation that the redemption of Rome has
been effected so easily and bloodlessly.

The despotism of a thousand years fell at a touch in noiseless
rottenness.

The people of Rome, fifty to one, cast their ballots of condemnation
like so many shovelfuls of earth upon its grave.

Outside of Rome there seems to be a very general acquiescence in its
downfall.

No Peter the Hermit preaches a crusade in its behalf.

     No one of the great Catholic powers
     of Europe lifts a finger for
     it. Whatever may be the feelings
     of Isabella of Spain and the fugitive son of King Bomba, they are
in no condition to come to its rescue.

     It is reserved for American ecclesiastics, loud-mouthed in professions
of democracy, to make solemn protest against what they call an
"outrage," which gives the people of Rome the right of choosing
their own government, and denies the divine right of kings in the
person of Pio Nono.

The withdrawal of the temporal power of the Pope will prove a blessing
to the Catholic Church, as well as to the world. Many of its most
learned and devout priests and laymen have long seen the necessity of
such a change, which takes from it a reproach and scandal that could no
longer be excused or tolerated. A century hence it will have as few
apologists as the Inquisition or the massacre of St. Bartholomew.

In this hour of congratulation let us not forget those whose suffering
and self-sacrifice, in the inscrutable wisdom of Providence, prepared
the way for the triumph which we celebrate.

As we call the long, illustrious roll of Italian patriotism--the young,
the brave, and beautiful; the gray-haired, saintly confessors; the
scholars, poets, artists, who, shut out from human sympathy, gave their
lives for God and country in the slow, dumb agony of prison martyrdom--let
us hope that they also rejoice with us, and, inaudible to earthly
ears, unite in our thanksgiving:
"Alleluia! for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth! He hath avenged
the blood of his servants!"
In the belief that the unity of Italy and the overthrow of Papal rule will
strengthen the cause of liberty throughout the civilized' world, I am
very truly thy friend.

INDIAN CIVILIZATION.

Mark Gardner?'

'Yes,' said Theodora, surprised.

'I suppose you have not heard him say how he is conducting himself?'

'Have you heard that he is going to be married to Mrs. Finch?'

Theodora was astonished at the effect of this communication on her sober
staid old friend. She started, made an incredulous outcry, caused it to
be repeated, with its authority, then rose up, exclaiming, 'The wretch!
My poor Emma! I never was more rejoiced. But Emma!'

The sight of Theodora's surprise recalled her to herself. 'Ah! you do
not know?' she said; and having gone so far, was obliged to explain,
with expressions of gratitude to Arthur and Violet for having so well
guarded a secret that now might continue hidden for ever.

Theodora was slow in comprehending, so monstrous was the idea of Emma
Brandon engaged to Mark Gardner! She put her hands before her eyes,
and said she must be dreaming--she could not credit it. When convinced,
there was something in her manner that pleased and comforted Lady
Elizabeth by the kind feeling and high esteem it showed.

'Let me ask you one question, my dear,' she said, 'just to set my mind
at rest. I was told that your brother's affairs were involved with those
of that unhappy man. I trust it is no longer so.'

Theodora explained, as far as she understood, how Percy had extricated
him.

'Ah!' said Lady Elizabeth, 'I fear we are in some degree the cause. My
poor Emma was imprudent enough to quote Colonel Martindale; and she has
told me that she was frightened by a pale look of anger that crossed his
face, and something which he muttered between his teeth. But he made her
believe Arthur his seducer!'

'Poor Arthur! If you knew all!' said Theodora; 'and who--' then breaking
off, 'Percy did tell papa that it was all Mr. Gardner's revenge for
Arthur's not consenting to some nefarious transaction. Depend upon
it, that was it! You asked Violet, you say. Percy said that, among the
sentences he overheard on the quay, there was something about a wife
who had crossed him, and who should suffer for it. He said it was spoken
with a hard-hearted wickedness that, even when he did not know who it
was, made him long to crush him like a reptile; and when he had seen
Violet and the children, though it might be interference, he said he
could as soon have left them in the folds of a serpent!'

'Ah! my poor girl!'

'But this frees her. Oh! she cannot grieve for such a wretch!'

'I fear her attachment is so strong that she will not see it in this
light.'

'When he gives her up without a word, she ought to be too angry to
grieve.'

'I do not think that is in her nature.'

'So much the better. Anger and comfort cannot go together. Oh, one so
good and gentle must be helped! How I wish I could do anything for her;
but she will be better at home. It is lucky there are no associations
with him there.'

'I wish she was at home. Theresa Marstone is staying with her brother in
London, and I left her with Emma at the hotel.'

'Fortunately there cannot be two ways of thinking on this matter,' said
Theodora.

Lady Elizabeth was too anxious to break the tidings to her daughter to
wait at that time to see Violet; and went, promising to come to-morrow
to report how the blow should have been borne.

Theodora was glad when she had a little space in which to think over the
events of the day.

Ever since she had embraced the lesson of humility, the once despised
Emma Brandon had been rising in her estimation. The lowliness of her
manners, and the heart-whole consistency of her self-devotion, had far
outweighed her little follies, and, together with remorse for having
depreciated and neglected her, had established her claim to respect and
admiration.

And now to find the old prediction verified, and Emma led away by so
absurd a delusion, might have seemed a triumph, had not Theodora been
thoroughly humbled. She only saw a humiliating contrast between the true
pure heart that blindly gave its full affections, and that which could
pretend to have given itself away, and then, out of mere impatience of
restraint, play with and torture the love it had excited, and, still
worse, foster an attachment it never meant to requite!

She was the more sensible of this latter delinquency now that Lord St.
Erme had just been brought before her, deserving all that man could
deserve; having more than achieved all to which she had incited him, and
showing a constancy unchecked by the loss of her personal attractions.
His blushing homage came almost as a compensating contrast after her
severe mortification at Percy's surprise and subsequent cool composure.

While reproaching herself for this feeling, her father came home, and
with him the Earl. They had been occupied all the afternoon, and had
fallen into conversation on county business. Lord Martindale, finding
his young friend was alone at his hotel, thought he had better dine
with them, since Violet need not be troubled about it. Theodora wondered
whether it had occurred to her father that some one else might be
troubled, and that it might seem like a renewal of encouragement; but
the fact was, that after ten days of the sick-room, his society was a
positive treat to Lord Martindale, and in advising him on magistrate's
business, he forgot everything else.

The dinner went off without embarrassment. Lord St. Erme did indeed
blush when he offered his arm to her; but with consideration that
seemed to understand her, he kept up the conversation chiefly with Lord
Martindale on rates, police, and committees.

She thought of the horror he had been wont to express of the English
squirearchy, 'whose arena is the quarter sessions;' and she remembered
standing up for them, and declaring there was far more honest, sturdy,
chivalrous maintenance of right and freedom in their history than in
all his beloved Lombardic republics. And now, what was he but a
thorough-going country gentleman, full of plans of usefulness, sparing
neither thought, time, nor means; and though some of his views were
treated by Lord Martindale as wild and theoretical, yet, at any rate,
they proved that he had found living men a more interesting study than
the Apollo Belvedere.

Theodora was resolved that Violet should see him, and now that the
dinner was eaten and beyond anxiety, went up to disclose his presence,
and persuade her to go down to tea and leave her with the patient.
She found it was well she had kept her counsel; Violet took it quietly
enough; but Arthur chose to concern himself as to what wine had been
produced, and would have sent a message to James if his sister had not
assured him that it was too late.

He insisted on Violet's going down to the drawing-room, and would not
hear of Theodora's remaining with him. The nurse was in the outer room,
and Johnnie was made supremely happy by being allowed to sit up an hour
longer to be his companion; and thus with Lord Martindale and Theodora
making frequent expeditions to visit him, Violet was sufficiently
tranquil to remain as long in the drawing-room as was worth the fatigue
of the transit.

She could enjoy her talk with the Earl; and, indeed, since Annette's
visit, she had heard no tidings so full and satisfactory. He knew
the name of every one at Wrangerton; he seemed to have learnt to love
Helvellyn; he spoke very highly of Olivia's husband, Mr. Hunt, declaring
that he liked nothing better than a visit to his most beautiful place,
Lassonthwayte, a farm fit for the poets, and had learnt a great deal
from him; and of Mrs. Moss he talked with affectionate gratitude that
brought the tears into Violet's eyes, especially when he promised to
go and call on her immediately on his return, to tell her how Colonel
Martindale was going on, and describe to her her grandchildren. He
repeated to Violet how kind her mother had been to his sister, and how
beautifully she had nursed him. Lord Martindale began to ask questions,
which brought out a narration of his adventures in the coal-pit, given
very simply, as if his being there had been a mere chance.

He allowed that he knew it to be dangerous, but added, that it was
impossible to get things done by deputy, and that he had no choice but
to see about it himself, and he dwelt much on the behaviour of the men.

'Did you give up hope?' asked Lord Martindale.

'For myself I did. The confined air oppressed me so much, even before
the sense of hunger came on, that it seemed to take away all power of
thought and action.'

'Yet you did think?' said Violet.

'I was obliged, for the men were more confounded and helpless at
first, though, when once directed, nothing could be more resolute and
persevering! Brave fellows! I would not but have had it happen! One
seldom has such a chance of seeing the Englishman's gallant heart
of obedient endurance. It was curious to observe the instinctive
submission. Some were men who would not for worlds have touched their
hats to me above ground; yet, as soon as I tried to take the lead, and
make them think what could yet be done, they obeyed instantly, though I
knew almost nothing compared to them, and while they worked like giants,
I could hardly move.'

'Was it very acute suffering?'

'For the last two days it was, but it was worse for those who had to
work. I was generally faint and drowsy, and could hardly rouse myself to
speak a word of encouragement, which was what they wanted. They fancied
it was vain to work towards the old shaft, but I was sure none of them
could live to be dug out from above, and that it would be wrong to let
them cease. I think, as well as I recollect, that speaking was the worst
pain of all. But it is no harm to know what the poor undergo.'

'Hardly to such extremity,' said Violet.

'Well, I know I shall never turn indifferently away again when I hear,
"We are starving." A man feels little for what he has not experienced.'

'I suppose,' said Lord Martindale, 'that it has put an extinguisher on
Chartism?'

'There are some determined village Hampdens still, but I think the
fellow-feeling it has excited has done good. I have not been able to go
among them since, but they have indefatigably come to inquire for me.
The first Sunday I was able to come down-stairs, I found the hall
door beset with them in their best, looking like a synod of Methodist
preachers. Poor Lucy shocked my aunt by running about crying, and
shaking hands with their great horny fists. I fancy "our young lady," as
they call her, is the strongest anti-chartist argument.'

Though talking in this animated manner he was far from strong, and
went away early, looking thoroughly tired. Theodora had stitched away
throughout the conversation in silence; but Violet knew, by the
very fixity of her eye, that she was feeling it deeply and there was
consciousness in the absence of word or look, with which she let the
Earl bid her good night. It was a strange thing to have been in part the
means of forming so noble a character, and yet to regard her share in it
with nothing but shame.

Self-reproachful and unhappy, Theodora went to take her turn of watching
her brother for the first part of the night. She could not have borne
to be told, what was in fact the case, that he was generally more
uncomfortable under her care than that of any one else, chiefly because
there was not the restraint either of consideration for his wife, or of
the authority of his father. Besides, she was too visibly anxious,
too grave and sad, to find anything cheerful with which to divert his
attention; and he was sure to become restless and exacting, or else
depressed, either as to his illness or his affairs.

To-night he had discovered Lady Elizabeth's visit, and was anxious to
know whether Gardner had broken with Miss Brandon. Theodora would not
encourage his talking; and this teased him, only making him say more
till she had told all, adding, 'O Arthur! what a comfort it must be that
this is brought upon you by your having tried to save Emma!'

'Not much of that. It was Violet. I would have stopped her writing if I
could.'

Perhaps this downfall of the heroism with which she had been endowing
his resistance, was one of the most cruel blows of all.

'If he marries Mrs. Finch, he must at least pay off what he owes me;'
and he began perplexing himself with reckonings. Theodora saw his brow
drawn together, and his lips moving, and begged him to desist and try to
sleep.

'You have interrupted me--I have lost it!' and he tried again. 'No, I
can't get it right. There is a lot of papers in my writing-case. You'll
see to it. It will be something for Violet and the children. Mind the
claim is sent in;' and again he strove to explain, while she entreated
him to put such things out of his mind; and it ended in such violent
coughing, that Lord Martindale heard, came in, and with a look that told
her how ill she managed, sent her to bed, where she vexed herself for
hours at Arthur's seeming to dwell only on his gaming debts, instead of
on what she longed to see occupying his mind. Her elasticity seemed to
have been destroyed by her illness, and she had lost the vigour which
once would have made her rise against depression. The reappearance of
Percy and of Lord St. Erme seemed only to have wearied and perplexed
her; and she lay awake, feeling worn, confused, and harassed, and only
wishing to hide her head and be at rest.

Arthur had a bad night, and was not so well in the morning, and while
Lord Martindale was wondering why Theodora could not have been more
cautious, the letters came in--one from Brogden--making it evident that
Lady Martindale was so unwell and dispirited, that she ought not to be
left alone any longer. Lord Martindale, therefore, decreed that Theodora
should return, taking with her the three eldest children. And she could
make no objection; she ought to submit to be passively disposed of;
and, grievous as it was to leave her brother and Violet, there was
compensation in avoiding her former suitors.

Lady Elizabeth came in almost at the same time as Lord Martindale went
out, after breakfast. She was in great distress. Poor Emma treated the
whole as a calumny; and when shown the absolute certainty that Mark
was at Paris, daily calling on Mrs. Finch, remained persuaded that his
cousin had perverted him from the first, and was now trying to revive
her pernicious influence when he might have been saved; or that perhaps
he was driven to an immediate wealthy marriage by his honourable feeling
and his necessities. It was all her own fault for not having taken him
at once. Lady Elizabeth had hardly been able to prevent her from writing
to revoke the year's probation, and offer him all that was needed to
satisfy his creditors.

Theodora could not help exclaiming, that she thought Emma would have had
more dignity.

'So I told her, my dear; but it seemed to be no consolation. I do not
feel secure that, though she has promised me not to write, Theresa
Marstone may not.'

'Is Miss Marstone still in his favour?'

'I can still less understand her view,' said Lady Elizabeth, with a
grave, sad simplicity, almost like satire; 'she says it only convinces
her that the Church of England does not know how to treat penitents.'

Theodora could not help laughing, and Lady Elizabeth nearly joined her,
though sighing and saying that such talk gave her other fears for Emma.
She dreaded that Miss Marstone was unsettled in her allegiance to her
Church, and that her power over Emma was infusing into her her own
doubts.

'It is very sad--very strange! I cannot understand it,' said Theodora.
'I had always believed that such innocence and lowliness as Emma and
Violet have was a guard against all snares; yet here is Emma led astray
by these very excellences!'

'My dear,' said Lady Elizabeth, 'I think it is the want of that
lowliness that is at the root with my poor child. It is a dangerous
thing for a girl to throw herself into an exclusive friendship,
especially when the disapproval of her own family is felt. I tried, but
I never could like Theresa Marstone; and now I see that she liked to
govern Emma, and depreciated my judgment--very justly, perhaps; but
still I was her mother, and it was not kind to teach her to think doing
as I wished a condescension.'

'So Emma sold all her senses to her friend?'

'Yes, and Miss Marstone keeps them still. Theresa taught her to think
herself wiser than all, and their own way of talking the proof of
goodness.'

'Ay! their passwords.'

'Just so, and I do believe it was that kind of vanity that took from her
her power of discerning and the instinctive shrinking from evil.'

'It is very easy to make simplicity silliness,' said Theodora. 'I beg
your pardon, Lady Elizabeth, I did not mean to blame her, but I was
thinking how truly you spoke.'

'And now, may I ask to see Mrs. Martindale; or will it be too much for
her?'

'She will be glad, but she was tired with coming down to Lord St. Erme.
And now, Arthur's bad night! Oh! Lady Elizabeth, you come from your
griefs to ours. It is a shame to make you share them!'

'I do not think so,' said Lady Elizabeth. 'There is a tract of Hannah
More's showing that to bear another's burden lightens our own; and all
old people will tell you that many troubles together weigh less heavily
than a single one.'

Theodora could not think so; each of her cares seemed to make the
others worse, till the mere toil and vexation of Helen's lessons became
serious; and yet, when the children were dismissed for their walk, she
felt unable to profit by her leisure, otherwise than by sighing at the
prospect of missing the power of looking in at Arthur from hour to hour.
She had not roused herself to occupation, when, to her dismay, Lord St.
Erme was admitted. She began to say her father was not at home.

'Yes,' he said, 'I met him.'

He means mischief! thought Theodora.

'He tells me that you are going away!'

'I believe so,' said Theodora. 'My mother is not well, and we cannot
both be spared from home.'

'Will you forgive me?' said the Earl, still standing, and with downcast
eyes, and heightened complexion. 'I know this is no fit time, but I
could not part without one allusion. I would not harass you for worlds.
A word from you, and I drop the subject.'

'Oh! pray, then, say no more!' was her breathless entreaty.

He turned in silence, with a mournful gesture of farewell, and laid
his hand on the door. She perceived her unkindness to one who had
every claim to honour and consideration--one who had remembered her in
well-nigh the hour of death.

'Stay,' she said; 'I did not speak as I ought.'

'I know I presumed too far,' said Lord St. Erme, pausing; 'I ask your
pardon for disturbing you. It was selfish; but I could not let you go
without once adverting to the subject--'

There was a tremor of voice, an eager look, that made her fear that
the crushed hope was reviving, and she hastened to say, 'The best thing
would be that you should think no more about me.'

'Impossible!' he vehemently cried; then, catching himself up, and
speaking in the same deferential tone as at first, 'I owe you far too
much to cease to think of you.'

'It is a great pity,' said Theodora; 'I never deserved such feelings,
and they make me wish more and more that all could be undone.'

'No! no!' exclaimed Lord St. Erme, his eyes lighting and his cheek
glowing, while his fair young features wore a look that was all poet and
knight. 'Would I see what is past undone? It was the turning-point of
my life--the call to arms. Hitherto, life had been to me a dream in an
enchanted garden, with the same secret weariness and dissatisfaction!
I dread the thought of the time and means I lavished away, fancying
because it was not vice it was not dissipation. It was then that I
became unworthy of you. It was you who taught me where lies modern
chivalry, and made my folly and conceit cease to despise the practical;
showed me--may I quote German to you once more?--that "Das Leben ist
keine Lustfahrt sondern theils eine kampfes, theils eine Pilger-weise."
I took up my staff, at first, I own, in hopes of winning you--'

'You did not persevere merely for that reason?'

'No; when my eyes were once opened to the festering sin and misery
around, when I saw the evil nourished at my own door by my neglect,
and perceived that those dependent on me were doomed to degradation and
oppression that I might gratify my craving for art,--then, indeed, I was
appalled! Those paintings and statues seemed to cry out to me that human
souls had been sacrificed to them! The toil and devotion of a life would
be too little to atone! Oh! that it were more able and effective. Means
and judgment go but a little way!'

'Your heart and happiness are in the work,' said Theodora, seeing how he
was carried away by his feelings.

'Yes. There is a sense like the labourer's at his daily task, and though
there is the mountain of things undone, there is the hope that all are
not wilfully neglected. It is for this that I longed to thank you. When
I was in danger, I knew what it would have been to wait for death before
I thought of--of the way of peace. I blessed you in my heart then--I
thank you now.'

'Thank Him who has brought good out of evil, was all Theodora could say.

He bowed his head gravely, and continued: 'Now, thank you again for
having listened. It has been a great satisfaction to me to acknowledge
my obligations. Do not suppose I came to London intending to distress
you with my pertinacity, or with any idea of having earned your favour.
I was obliged to come; and when once near you, I could not bear to
separate without, at least, entreating to know whether the former
obstacle exists.'

'It does,' said Theodora, looking down; 'I believe it always will. I
lament more than I can express, my conduct towards you; and what you
have told me grieves me more in one way, though in another it is most
consoling. You have the true secret of peace, and I know all must be
well with you. If you had done otherwise, it would have been far worse
for me. Tell Lucy I have not forgotten her. I am sure she has the true
light-hearted sort of happiness.'

'She has, indeed,' said Lord St. Erme; and he entered into a description
of his sister's doings; her perfect content with their seclusion, and
her influence over the dependants. So eager did he grow in his favourite
subject, the welfare of his people, that he seemed to have forgotten
what had brought him to Cadogan-place, and Theodora was convinced that
though the being brought into contact with her had for the time renewed
the former attachment, it was in reality by no means the prominent
thought of his life. His duties and the benefit of his colliers were
what engrossed his mind; and with his sister to render his home happy,
everything else was secondary. When it did occur to him to think of
love, it was for Theodora; but he had no more time for such thoughts
than most other busy practical men.

He discoursed upon his schools and reading-rooms till the children came
in, and then bade her good-bye, quite as if he had talked himself back
into an every-day state of feeling.

Was Theodora mortified? She went to her own room to analyze her
sensations, but was almost immediately followed by Johnnie, coming to
tell her that the owl-man was in the drawing-room.

'Another who is consoled!' thought she. 'Humiliating, indeed, it is to
see such complete cures. There is no need to be absurd and conscious
at this meeting! But here I do, indeed, need forgiveness--how my heart
aches to ask it--his mere pardon for my offences! If I could only have
it out with him without compromising womanly proprieties! That can't be;
I must bear it!'

On the stairs she heard Helen's voice. 'He came yesterday, to the
evening dinner, but I don't like him.'

'Why not?' asked Percy.

'Because he says I am just like Aunt Theodora, and I am not.'

Theodora knew whom she meant. Lord St. Erme had been much struck by
her little niece's resemblance, and Helen resented the comparison as an
indignity to her beauty. She felt extremely annoyed at Percy's hearing
this; then recollected it did not signify to him, and entered just as
he was telling little Miss Vanity that she was the silliest child he had
ever the honour of meeting.

There was some constraint, on her part, in the short conversation on
Arthur's health that ensued, before he went up; and he only returned to
the drawing-room for a moment, to assure her that he thought Arthur much
better than when he had last seen him.

'He avoids me! he cannot endure me!' she thought, and yet she felt
doubly averse to the idea of returning to Brogden.

Lord Martindale came in with a look of expectation on his face which
grieved Theodora, for she knew her refusal would be a disappointment
to him. He sent the children away, paused for her to begin, and at last
asked: 'Well, my dear, has Lord St. Erme been here?'

'Yes papa;' and it was plain enough how it had been. Lord Martindale
sighed. The rest being equal, it was not in human nature not to prefer
an Earl to an almost penniless author. 'I would not urge you on any
account,' he said; 'but I wish it could have been otherwise.'

'So do I, most heartily,' said Theodora.

'It is very different now,' said Lord Martindale. Four years ago I could
hardly have wished it. Now, I think most highly of him, and I should
have been rejoiced to have seen his constancy rewarded.'

'I am ashamed and grieved,' said Theodora. 'He did, indeed, deserve
better things. He is a noble character; and I cannot honour or esteem
him enough, nor sufficiently regret the way I treated him. But, indeed,
papa, it would not be right. I cannot help it.'

'Well, there is no more to be said,' sighed Lord Martindale. 'I know you
will do right.'

Something was won since her former dismissal of the Earl! Her father
gave her a look full of confidence and affection; and made happy by it,
she rallied her spirits and said, 'Besides, what a pair it would be! We
should be taken for a pretty little under-graduate and his mother!'

'That will not last, my dear,' said Lord Martindale, vexed though
smiling at her droll manner. 'You are younger than he.'

'In years, but not in mind,' said Theodora. 'No, no, papa; you have me
for life, and it is hard you should be so anxious to get rid of me!'

'I only wish to consult your happiness, my dear child.'

'And that always was in fancying myself necessary,' said Theodora,
gaily, though there was a trembling in her voice; and when she went up
to her own room, she hid her face in her hands, and felt as if life was
very dreary and uninteresting, and as if it was a miserable exile to be
sent into the country just now, to have to force cheerful conversation
for her mother, and to be wearied with Helen's wild spirits. 'But have
I not deserved everything? And after my brother has been spared so far,
how can I repine at any selfish trouble?'


CHAPTER 12


     Herself, almost heartbroken now,
     Was bent to take the vestal vow,
     And shroud, within St. Hilda's gloom,
     Her wasted hopes and withered bloom.

     --SCOTT


Violet, when called to consult with her father-in-law in the outer room,
felt a sort of blank apprehension and consternation at the idea of being
separated from her children; and a moment's reflection satisfied her
that in one case at least she might rightly follow the dictates of her
own heart. She said that she thought Johnnie could not be spared by his
papa.

Lord Martindale's eye followed hers, and through the half-closed door
saw Johnnie, sitting on the bed, reading to his father, who listened
with amused, though languid attention.

'I believe you are right,' he said; 'though I wish I had the boy in the
country doing no lessons. He puts me more in mind of his uncle every
day.'

'One of the highest compliments Johnnie has ever had,' said Violet,
colouring with pleasure; 'but I am afraid to trust him away from me and
Mr. Harding in the winter because of his croup.'

'Ah! then it cannot be,' he answered; 'and I do not think I would take
him from his father now, but his sisters must come; they would be too
much for you without Theodora.'

Violet could only be mournfully thankful, and the project was in time
laid before Arthur.

'Send my little girls away!' said he, looking discomfited. 'Oh! if you
wish to keep them'--joyfully exclaimed Violet.

'I thought that if Theodora went home, Violet would hardly be able to
manage them,' said Lord Martindale.

'If they are in her way,' said Arthur, and his eyes smiled at her,
knowing what her decision would be.

'Oh! no, no! It was their grandpapa's kindness.' Johnnie and Helen here
peeped into the room; Arthur beckoned to them, and said, 'How should you
like to go into the country with Aunt Theodora?'

'To see grandmamma and the peacock?' said Lord Martindale. Johnnie clung
to his mother's hand, piteously whispering, 'Oh! don't send me away,
mamma--I would try to bear it if I ought.'

Helen climbed the bed, and sturdily seated herself close to her papa.
'I shall not desert my father and mother,' said she, with great dignity,
drawing up her head.

'No more you shall, my little heroine!' said Arthur, throwing his arm
round her, while she glanced with saucy triumph at her grandfather.

In the silence of night, when Arthur was alone with his father, he said,
'If those little girls go away now, they will never remember me.'

To this plea there could be no reply; for though the danger was no
longer imminent, it was still extremely doubtful whether he would ever
leave his room again.

His wish to keep the children made Lord Martindale reconsider of sending
Theodora home, and he desired Violet to choose between her and himself.
She thought Theodora the most effective, and Arthur seemed to prefer
her remaining, so that she found herself disposed of according to her
wishes, her father only stipulating that she should not neglect rest,
air, or exercise, of which she stood in evident need.

Every one observed her haggard looks on the day when they met for the
baptism of 'Arthur Fotheringham.' It was a melancholy christening,
without the presence of either parent; and so all the little party felt
it, and yet, if they could have seen into the recesses of the mother's
heart, they would have found there were causes which made this baptism
day better to her than any of the former ones.

The godfather came afterwards to see Arthur, who believed him more than
all the doctors when he assured him he was making progress. Arthur
began to speak of the debt; he wished before his father went to have
a settlement of accounts, take steps for selling his commission, and
repaying Percy.

'No,' said Percy, 'wait till you are better and can look about you.
Sell your commission indeed, and take the bread out of your children's
mouths! No, if you did choose to do that, it must in honour and justice
be divided among all your creditors.'



* * * * *
VOL. XLIV. MARCH, 1890. No. 3.

* * * * *
American Missionary Association.

* * * * *
REMOVAL.

The Rooms of the American Missionary Association are now in the
Bible House, New York City.

Correspondents will please address us accordingly.

Visitors will find our Rooms on the sixth floor of the Bible House,
corner Ninth Street and Fourth Avenue; entrance by elevator on Ninth
Street.

* * * * *

The Association opened its office first in humble quarters in Spruce
street, and since then it has occupied rooms in Beekman, John and Reade
streets. These down-town locations have served some valuable purposes.

They were accessible to the teachers and workers in passing to and
from the South, and in the shipment of goods to the South and to
Africa--once a large item in our business. In the change now made,
we shall gain the advantage of more convenient rooms, of association
with our brethren of the other missionary societies and more
frequent opportunities of fraternal greetings with pastors and
friends coming to the city

.

* * * * *
"KEEP PEGGING AWAY."

Abraham Lincoln packed into these homely words the expression of his
heroic faith and indomitable perseverance. When victory forsook our armies,
when elections at the North pronounced against the administration,
and when timid and disloyal people were clamoring for "peace at any
price," this great man, discerning clearly that only by arms could
the rebellion be crushed, acted upon this motto.

He did not mean by this that a mere idle pretense of doing something should
be kept up; he meant a steady pressure growing constantly more intense
and effective; when volunteering flagged, he offered bounties;
when bounties failed, he resorted to drafting. The army _must be_ kept
up and it must be fully equipped, and never did a more splendid army
tread the earth, and never was money poured out with so lavish a hand.
The end came, and it was worth all it cost.

The war settled two things--the unity of the nation and the freedom
of the slave.

One thing it did not settle--the future of the Negro. That question
must be settled by his Christian education. This is just as plain
to thoughtful men as it was to Lincoln that military force only could
save the nation. But now as then, there are men who are discouraged
and who say that this process of education will take a long time,
and so, once more, the air is full of impracticable remedies--to take
the ballot from the Negro--to transport him to Africa, to the West,
to the North! The cry is, "the white man's supremacy" at any price.
Now, again, is the time for Lincoln's motto, "keep pegging away," and
that not merely in a perfunctory way, but by pushing more and more
vigorously.

In this moral warfare, volunteers must be encouraged.

There is no need of special bounties, nor of drafting; only furnish
the means to meet the meagre salaries, and the recruits will crowd
to the field in abundance, but their numbers _must be_ greatly
enlarged.

Hence the great need, as in the dark days of the war, of multiplying
the means of equipment. The money should be poured out with a lavish
hand to sustain a vastly enlarged working force.

Money can never be spent at a better time, nor for a better purpose

.

* * * * *
$500,000.

This is the sum recommended for the use of this Association by the National
Council, and by our own Annual Meeting.

These figures have not only these indorsements, but also the far greater
one of the needs of the field. Some of our schools are packed to
overflowing and scholars are turned away because there is no room,
places are opening for enlarged church work which we ought to have
the means of entering, and industrial facilities should be increased.

The need for such enlargement is illustrated in part by the items
which follow

.

* * * * *
CALLS FOR ENLARGEMENT.

Our schools, with scarcely an exception, are asking for more teachers
for their over-crowded rooms, and two or three pulpits stand vacant
because we have not suitable pastors for them.

We are able to report great enthusiasm along every line of our
work and a spirit of uncommon consecration among all our teachers
this year. We are having a noble year of thorough work.

From Greenwood, S.C., comes this word: "For the last month we have
had over two hundred and thirty students, and have refused between
seventy-five and one hundred applications for admission because
there was not one inch of room for them."

Our school at Meridian has outgrown the building erected for it, and has
overflowed into the church. It is another illustration of the fact that
the children of the emancipated freedmen are as earnest for education
as were their fathers and mothers when they swarmed into the temporary
schools provided for them.

A letter from Wilmington, N.C., says: "Without another teacher, I do not
know what to do, unless it be to send away about twenty-five pupils.

This I would be very sorry to do, as I would hardly know which ones
to send and there would be no school for them to re-enter, as the public
schools are full to overflowing; besides, many would consider it a
calamity to be thus dropped out."
We have just opened anew the Storrs school, which was not re-opened
in October with the other schools. The Principal writes us: "The joy
of the people at witnessing the preparations is extravagant.

One old man said to-night, 'There will be seven hundred scholars
there when you open.'

These are not 'the words of soberness,' probably, but the enthusiasm
with respect to the re-opening of school is beyond all expectation."
Five teachers have been sent and more are called for.

Our teachers in Troy, N.C., write us: "Can you not send us a
pastor?
There is such an earnest need of one. We really do not think the work
here can prosper unless we have a pastor.

We do the best we can. The prayer meetings are all well attended,
but it makes one's heart fail, to think of these 'sheep without a
shepherd.'

The work is very absorbing.

Is there no one you could send here, if only for a time?"

Through certain interferences with one of our schools at the South,
on the part of some ambitious people there, it seemed at one time
that we should feel it a necessity to reduce the grades and place
two or three teachers in some other schools which are calling on
us for help.

We telegraphed them to remain, however, and the result is thus
given: "Your telegram came this afternoon and the children were
half wild when they got out of the school-house, running up and
down the streets to tell the good news.

A company of them met the chairman of the local school board, whom
they did not regard as altogether friendly, and they shouted to
him, 'We have got our teachers!

We have got our teachers! The man says they can stay.' One old auntie
came this afternoon to say, 'I'se heerd how they is trying to get the
teachers away and I prayed and prayed to the good Lord to keep 'em.'
Some of the boys are waist-deep in the water after clams to get
their fifty cents for their week's tuition.

It has been a great joy to me to see the character of the people when
the unfriendly ones tried to break us up.

They have shown much thought and ability, and they win our hearts
by their faith in God

."

* * * * *
NOTES FROM NEW ENGLAND.

BY REV. C.J. RYDER, DISTRICT SECRETARY.

An exceedingly good plan for increasing the collections for benevolent
objects has been hit upon by some members of a Boston church.

They have what they call an "Extra Cent-a-Day Band." Each member pledges
himself to lay aside one cent each day for some benevolent object. They
elect a treasurer and put into his hands this "Cent-a-Day" fund, as
they please, some paying frequently, others waiting until considerable
has accumulated. At a given time each month they divide the accumulated
contributions among the different societies as they may elect. The
American Missionary Association has occasion to be grateful for
this "Extra Cent-a-Day" plan in the pledge of about thirty dollars
to its treasury.

I pass it along in these "Notes," as these friends hold no patent right
upon the method, and would gladly see it adopted in many churches

.

* * * * *
There seems to be a great localization of patriotic Christian thought in
New England upon the Southern problem now, as there has not been
since the war closed.

I bought recently one of the leading magazines on the train, and
the leading article in it was on the Southern problem.

I picked up the _Forum_, and the leading article was on the Southern
problem. Mr.

Grady comes from the South to address the business men of Boston,
and turns aside from questions which would naturally be discussed to
speak of the Southern problem. At a recent meeting of the Old Colony
Congregational Club at Brockton, Massachusetts, they invited two
Secretaries to speak upon this Southern problem, and listened with
patience to two long addresses.

The discussion which followed indicated that the churches represented
in that large and intelligent club were most earnestly pondering
this Southern problem.

In its importance, it overtops every other consideration before the
citizens and churches of America to-day!

Thoughtful people are coming more than ever to realize this. The processes
of thought through which they have passed already, and the facts they
have settled in their own minds, indicate a very hopeful condition
of things.

In the first place, they are sure that this is not a local or sectional
question.

It is a National question, and will involve the whole country in anarchy
and misrule, unless the anarchy and misrule of the Southern whites are
stopped.

New England's voice will be heard in solemn and earnest protest,
unless there is a radical change in the conduct of the dominant
race of the South very soon.

Such outrages as those at Barnwell, S.C., and Jackson, Miss., which
are only types of many such, must be stopped.

Another fact that has been settled in the minds of the people here,
is that the education and moral elevation of the Negroes is a matter
of painful exigency; that the forces employed by the American Missionary
Association in that field must be largely multiplied. The President of
the Old Colony Club summed up the discussion of the evening by saying
most earnestly that all this meant that the contributions to the American
Missionary Association must be largely increased among the churches
represented in that Club, if we would solve this terrible Southern
problem, and save our country from this threatened danger

.

* * * * *
In this connection I was interested the other day in making an investigation
as to the per cent. of church membership in the South and North.

I discovered the following rather surprising comparison.

The per cent. of church membership in some of the New England States
as compared with that in the Southern States is as follows, not
including the Roman Catholics: Massachusetts, 13 per cent.; Connecticut,
20 per cent.; New Hampshire, 19 per cent.; South Carolina, 32 per
cent.; Georgia, 28 per cent.; Florida, 25 per cent.

It is evident from the comparisons that a larger percentage of the
population in these Southern States are members of Protestant churches
than in the Northern States. Notwithstanding this, this horrible system
of persecution goes on. There are noble and true men who protest
against it, but if the churches united in condemning it, we all know
it would be stopped. What they need is not more churches, but better
churches, those who emphasize the brotherhood of man as well as the
fatherhood of God in this Southern portion of the land.

* * * * *
The stereopticon lectures which are being delivered by Rev.

S.E.

Lathrop, are attracting much attention and receiving general
commendation.

Last Sunday, at Peabody, the people were so enthusiastic that they
took a special collection of nearly one hundred dollars.

Many churches in New England have enjoyed this treat, and receive the
inspiration which the facts of the American Missionary Association
must always give when really known and understood.

Brother Lathrop is on his way into New Hampshire and Maine, where
arrangements have been made in many churches

.

* * * * *

Some benevolent New England friends who have been in Florida, and
have seen the destitution of the colored people there, have put
into our hands five thousand dollars for the establishment of anew
school in one of the destitute regions of that State.

The good friends who are interested so largely in this move
desired that the Secretary should go from New England with Secretary
Beard, to determine just where this school should be located

.

* * * * *
THE SOUTH

* * * * *

REVIVALS.

A gracious revival in Straight University, New Orleans, brings us glad
tidings of the hopeful conversion of about fifty students.

Interesting reports from Talladega College give us information of
a revival of religious interest in the school and church there.

The college is looking forward to an enlargement of its theological study
and Faculty.

Rev. Sterling N. Brown writes from Washington, D.C.: "We are in the
midst of a most precious awakening.

Forty-six souls have accepted the Saviour.

Our meetings have been quiet, orderly and heart-searching. The Master is
leading us."

Professor Payson E.

Little, of McIntosh, Ga., reports an interesting work of grace in
connection with the church and school at McIntosh. This is the place
where the pretended Christ last summer appealed to the superstitions of
the Negroes advanced in age and ignorant.

It is pleasant to know that nearly all of those who were brought under
the influence of this crazy fanatic, have now returned to their
churches thoroughly ashamed of their experience

.

* * * * *
A WATCH-NIGHT MEETING.

The very interesting sketch given below shows that the "old-time religion"
in the South has not passed away, for this scene took place in one
of the large cities and where schools have been sustained for years.

The picture of the honored and worthy old preacher stands out
conspicuously in the midst of this confused worship.

After the New Year's entertainment in our own church, we thought it
would be interesting to some of the new teachers on our force to
attend a watch-meeting at one of the churches near, so we started
for a large barn-like structure bearing the imposing name of ----.
We found the building filled to its utmost, and instead of slipping
into some seats in the rear unnoticed, as we had hoped, we found
ourselves forced to the front bench where the stewards held posts
of honor, which were immediately vacated for the "teachers."

Many of these men then went behind the railing and stood in solemn
state around the pastor as he exhorted the people in most earnest
words to get their records clean before the opening of the new year.

I wish I could picture him to you as he stood before us that night,
his hair just turning gray, indicating in one of this race extreme
old age; a real "Uncle Tom" in appearance, and in character, I think; his
history taking in much of slavery and of life as Presiding Elder. Many
times has he stood on guard between Northern teachers and Ku Klux
Klans.

He told us that night that the grace of God in a man's heart would
make him shine all over; he had seen it make a man who had not
combed his hair for a year, grease his boots and his hair too, and
then what a shining!

And so on through his talk were the most earnest exhortations with his
striking illustrations.

One of the members there once in praising a sister to me spoke of her
having the ability to "groan so beautifully," and that night it
seemed a special gift bestowed upon all. All through the pastor's
exhortation the audience were keeping up a sort of rhythmic
accompaniment with both body and intonations.

Their responses during the prayers certainly have the virtue of
fervency, if not of intelligence.

At some times so great was the noise it was almost impossible to
distinguish any leader whatever.

One old "Father in Israel" seemed to be specially delegated to
encourage the praying ones by calling out above all the din, "Come
on, son, come on," right in the midst of the prayer.

One woman near us "got the power" and went off into spasms. Then the pastor
gave the invitation for all "mourning ones" to come to the altar, and
about sixty answered the call.
Then the groans and ejaculations became more intense, until at least
three whom we could see were in religious spasms or frenzies.

I know not how many others had the "power," that is, were able to scream
above all the groaning at certain intervals.

At midnight a hush fell upon all, and the pastor's prayer told us a
new year had begun. Then all started up an old-time plantation song,
the only words being "A Happy New Year" in all its changes, and we found
we were expected to shake hands with everyone, and not any ordinary
shaking hands was it, but the tighter our hands were clasped, the better
did it show the individual's religious zeal. Before this, it had seemed
as though some of our teachers would get struck by the mourning
ones as they threw their arms around in their frenzy, but when the
hand-shaking began and each one danced up to us, keeping time with
the music and shook our hands in time, until the measure changed
and they passed on to the next, we realized that we had, indeed,
been taken right in.

Thus the meeting closed, and many left--two, rigid in their spasms,
lying on the benches.

But we found that the more devoted ones were to stay longer still, and
as one of the sisters came up and asked me to stay and see them get real
happy shouting, we did so.

And now commenced a religious dance, perfectly indescribable, and as
long as I have been in the South it was perfectly new to me. The
leader started down one of the aisles chanting a weird plantation song,
and every joint in his body moving in time with the measure; the sisters
took it up and followed two by two until there was a complete circle
all around the church, all dancing in time with the music.

We were told that they would keep that up until morning.

It is rarely that we attend anything of this kind, but I think we
had enough of the old-time religion to last us through 1890 at least.
We have a number of scholars from this church, and it makes my heart sad
when I think how hard it will be for them to put what they are taught
in school with the example of their parents in this church.

We have had many inquiring ones in school lately, and it is difficult
for them to see how simple is the entrance to the narrow way
contrasted with all the excitement in their church religio

n
Lady Elizabeth did as she had not done since Theodora was a little
child; she put her arm round her neck and kissed her affectionately,
murmuring, 'Thank you, my dear.'

This little scene seemed to brace Theodora for the trial of the evening.
Percy had offered to sit up that night with Arthur, and she had to
receive him, and wait with him in the drawing-room till he should be
summoned. It was a hard thing to see him so distant and reserved, and
the mere awkwardness was unpleasant enough. She could devise nothing to
say that did not touch on old times, and he sat engrossed with a book
the reviewal of which was to be his night's employment.


CHAPTER 13


     Should this new-blossomed hope be coldly nipped,
     Then were I desolate indeed.

     --Philip van Artevelde--H. TAYLOR


The night was apt to be the worst time with Arthur; and Violet
generally found him in the morning in a state of feverish discomfort
and despondency that was not easily soothed. Anxious to know how he had
fared with his new attendant, she came in as early as possible, and was
rejoiced to find that he had passed an unusually comfortable night, had
been interested and cheered by Percy's conversation, and had slept some
hours.

Percy's occupation, in the meantime, was shown by some sheets of
manuscript on the table near the fire.

'I see you have not been losing time,' said Violet.

'I fear--I fear I have,' he answered, as rather nervously he began to
gather up some abortive commencements and throw them into the fire.

'Take care, that is mine,' exclaimed she, seeing the words 'Mrs.
Martindale,' and thinking he had seized upon a letter which he had
written to her from Worthbourne on Arthur's business. She held out
her hand for it, and he yielded it, but the next moment she saw it was
freshly written; before she could speak she heard the door closed, and
Arthur sleepily muttered, 'Gone already.' Dreading some new branch of
the Boulogne affair, she sat down, and with a beating heart read by the
firelight:--

'I can bear it no longer! Long ago I committed one great folly, and
should have been guilty of a greater, if you had not judged more wisely
for me than I for myself. You did, indeed, act "kindly as ever"; and I
have thanked you for it a thousand times, since I came to my senses in
the dismal altitude of my "sixieme etage" at Paris.

'No disrespect to your sister, to whom I did greater injustice than I
knew, in asking her to seal my mistake. I threw away a rough diamond
because its sharp edges scratched my fingers, and, in my fit of passion,
tried to fill up its place with another jewel. Happily you and she knew
better! Now I see the diamond sparkling, refined, transcendent, with
such chastened lustre as even I scarce dared to expect!

'These solitary years of disappointment have brought me to a sense of
the harshness and arrogance of my dealings with the high nature that
had so generously intrusted itself to me. There was presumption from the
first in undertaking to mould her, rudeness in my attempts to control
her, and precipitate passion and jealousy in resenting the displeasure
I had provoked; and all was crowned by the absurd notion that pique with
her was love of your sister!

'I see it all now, or rather I have seen it ever since it was too late;
I have brooded over it till I have been half distracted, night after
night! And now I can hardly speak, or raise my head in her presence.
I must have her pardon, whether I dare or not to ask one thing more. I
never was sure that her heart was mine; my conduct did not deserve it,
whatever my feelings did. If she accepted me from romance, I did enough
to open her eyes! I am told she accepts Lord St. Erme--fit retribution
on me, who used to look down on him in my arrogant folly, and have to
own that he has merited her, while I--

'But, at least, I trust to your goodness to obtain some word of
forgiveness for me without disturbing her peace of mind. I would not
expose her to one distressing scene! She has gone through a great deal,
and the traces of grief and care on that noble countenance almost break
my heart. I would not give her the useless pain of having to reject me,
and of perceiving the pain I should not be able to conceal.

'I commit myself to your kindness, then, and entreat of you, if the
feeling for me was a delusion, or if it is extinct, to let me know in
the manner least painful to you; and, when she can endure the subject,
to tell her how bitterly I have repented of having tried to force
humility on her, when I stood in still greater need of the lesson, and
of having flown off in anger when she revolted at my dictation. One
word of forgiveness would be solace in a life of deserved loneliness and
disappointment.'

Trembling with gladness, Violet could hardly refrain from rousing Arthur
to hear the good news! She hastily wrote the word 'Try!' twisted it into
a note, and sent it down in case Mr. Fotheringham should still be in the
house. The missive returned not, and she sat down to enjoy her gladness
as a Sunday morning's gift.

For Violet, though weak, anxious, and overworked, was capable of
receiving and being cheered by each sunbeam that shone on herself or on
her loved ones. Perhaps it was the reward of her resignation and trust,
that even the participation (as it might almost be called) of her
husband's suffering, and the constantly hearing his despondence, could
not deprive her of her hopefulness. Ever since the first two days she
had been buoyed up by a persuasion of his recovery, which found food in
each token of improvement; and, above all, there was something in Arthur
that relieved the secret burden that had so long oppressed her.

She was free to receive solace and rejoice in the joy of others; and
when Theodora met her in the morning, eye and lip were beaming with a
suppressed smile of congratulation, that hardly suited with the thin,
white face.

'Arthur's comfortable night has done you both good,' said Theodora.
'Percy is a better nurse than I.'

'Oh, yes! it is all Percy's doing!' said Violet, there checking herself;
but laughing and blushing, so that for a moment she looked quite
girlishly pretty.

No more was heard of Mr. Fotheringham till Johnnie came home from
the afternoon's service, and reported that the owl-man was in the
drawing-room with Aunt Theodora.

At church Johnnie had seen his papa's good-natured friend in the aisle,
and with his hand on the door of the seat and his engaging face lifted
up, had invited him in.

Innocent Johnnie! he little knew what tumultuous thoughts were set
whirling through his aunt's mind. The last time Percy had joined her
at church, the whole time of the service had been spent in the conflict
between pride and affection. Now there was shame for this fresh swarm of
long-forgotten sins, and as the recollection saddened her voice in
the confession, foremost was the sense of sacrilege in having there
cherished them, and turned her prayer into sin. No wonder she had been
for a time yielded up to her pride and self-will!

As silently as usual they walked home from church, and she would at once
have gone up-stairs, but he said, in a low, hoarse voice, as her foot
was on the step, 'May I speak to you?'

She turned. It was so strangely like that former occasion that she had a
curious bewildered feeling of having passed through the same before; and
perhaps she had, in her dreams. Scarcely conscious, she walked towards
the fire.

'Can you forgive me?' said the same husky voice.

She raised her eyes to his face. 'Oh, Percy!'--but she could say no
more, cut short by rising sobs; and she could only hide her face, and
burst into tears.

He was perfectly overwhelmed. 'Theodora, dearest! do not! I have been
too hasty,' he exclaimed, almost beside himself with distress, and
calling her by every affectionate name.

'Never mind! It is only because I have become such a poor creature!'
said she, looking up with a smile, lost the next moment in the
uncontrollable weeping.

'It is my fault!--my want of consideration! I will go--I will call Mrs.
Martindale.'

'No, no, don't, don't go!' said Theodora, eagerly--her tears driven
back. 'It was only that I am so foolish now.'

'It was very wrong to be so abrupt--'

'No! Oh! it was the relief!' said Theodora, throwing off her shawl, as
if to free herself from oppression. Percy took it from her, placed her
in the arm-chair, and rendered her all the little attentions in his
power with a sort of trembling eagerness, still silent; for she was very
much exhausted,--not so much from present agitation as from the previous
strain on mind and body.

It seemed to give a softness and tenderness to their reunion, such
as there never had been between them before, as she leant back on the
cushions he placed for her, and gazed up in his face as he stood by her,
while she rested, as if unwilling to disturb the peace and tranquillity.

At last she said, 'Did I hear you say you had forgiven me?'

'I asked if you could forgive me?'

'I!' she exclaimed, rousing herself and sitting up,--'I have nothing to
forgive! What are you thinking of?'

'And is it thus you overlook the presumption and harshness that--'

'Hush!' said Theodora; 'I was unbearable. No man of sense or spirit
could be expected to endure such treatment. But, Percy, I have been very
unhappy about it, and I do hope I am tamer at last, if you will try me
again.'

'Theodora!' cried Percy, hardly knowing what he said. 'Can you mean it?
After all that is past, may I believe what I dared not feel assured of
even in former days?'

'Did you not?' said Theodora, sorrowfully. 'Then my pride must have been
even worse than I supposed.'

'Only let me hear the word from you. You do not know what it would be to
me!'

'And did you really think I did not care for you? I, whose affection
for you has been a part of my very self! I am more grieved than ever.
I would never have tormented you if I had not thought you knew my heart
was right all the time.'

'It was my fault; my anger and impatience! And you let me hope that
this--this undeserved feeling has survived even my usage!'

'Nay, it was that which taught me its power. Your rejection was the
making of me; thanks to Violet, who would not let me harden myself, and
ruin all.'

'Violet! I could almost call her our presiding spirit, sent to save us
from ourselves!'

'Dear Violet! how glad she will be.'

'Then,' said Percy, as if he had only room for one thought, 'are we
indeed to begin anew?'

'I will try to be less unbearable,' was the stifled answer.

'We have both had lessons enough to teach us to be more humble and
forbearing,' said Percy, now first venturing to take her hand. 'Let
us hope that since this blessing has been granted us, that we shall be
aided in our endeavours to help each other.'

There was a grave and chastened tone about the meeting of these two
lovers: Theodora almost terrified at realizing that the bliss she
had once forfeited was restored to her, and Percy peculiarly
respectful--almost diffident in manner, feeling even more guilty towards
her than she did towards him. Neither could be content without a
full confession of their wrongs towards each other, and the unjust
impressions that had actuated them; and in the retrospect time passed so
quickly away, that they were taken by surprise when the candles came in.

'I need not go?' entreated Percy.

'No, indeed; but you have had no dinner.'

'Never mind--I want nothing.'

Theodora ran up-stairs. Violet understood the suppressed call in the
dressing-room, and met her with outstretched arms.

The children never forgot that evening, so delightful did the owl-man
make himself. Helen even offered him a kiss, and wished him good night,
saucily calling him Percy; and Johnnie set his aunt's cheeks in a glow
by saying, 'It ought to be Uncle Percy, if he belonged to Aunt Helen.'

'What do you know of Aunt Helen?' said Percy, lifting him on his knee,
with a sudden change of manner.

Johnnie's face was deeply tinged; he bent down his head and did not
answer, till, when the inquiry was repeated, he whispered, 'Mamma said
Aunt Helen was so very good. Mamma read to me about the dew-drops,
in her written book. She told me about her when I had the blister on,
because, she said, her thoughts helped one to be patient and good.'

Percy put his arm round him, and his sigh or movement surprised Johnnie,
who uneasily looked at his aunt. 'Ought I not to have said it?'

'Yes, indeed, Johnnie, boy. There is nothing so pleasant to me to hear,'
said Percy. 'Good night; I shall like you all the better for caring for
my dear sister Helen.'

'Being dead, she yet speaketh,' murmured he, as the children went.
'Strange how one such tranquil, hidden life, which seemed lost and
wasted, has told and is telling on so many!'

Even the peace and happiness of that evening could not remove the
effects of over-fatigue, and Percy insisted on Theodora's going early
to rest, undertaking again to watch by Arthur. She objected, that he had
been up all last night.

'I cannot go home to bed. If you sent me away, I should wander in the
Square, apostrophizing the gas-lamps, and be found to-morrow in the
station, as a disorderly character. You had better make my superfluous
energies available in Arthur's service. Ask if I may come in.'

Theodora thought the sick-room had acquired quite a new aspect. A Sunday
air pervaded the whole, seeming to radiate from Violet, as she sat by
the fire; the baby asleep, in his little pink-lined cradle, by her side.
The patient himself partook of the freshened appearance, as the bright
glow of firelight played over his white pillows, his hair smooth and
shining, and his face where repose and cheerfulness had taken the place
of the worn, harassed expression of suffering. Of the welcome there
could be no doubt. Arthur's hands were both held out, and did not let
her go, after they had drawn her down to kiss him and sit beside him on
the bed.

'Well done! Theodora,' he said; 'I am glad it is made up. He is the best
fellow living, and well you deserve--'

'O, don't say so!'

'Not that he is the best?' said Arthur, squeezing hard both her hands,
as he used to do in fond, teasing schoolboy days. 'I shall not say one
without the other. Such a pair is not to be found in a hurry. You only
wanted breaking-in to be first-rate, and now you have done it.'

'No, it was your own dear little wife!' was whispered in his ear. He
pinched her again, and, still holding her fast, said, 'Is Percy there?
Come in,' and, as he entered, 'Percy, I once warned you to kill the cat
on the wedding-day. I testify that she is dead. This sister of mine is a
good girl now. Ask Violet.'

'Violet--or, rather, our Heartsease'--said Percy, as his grasp nearly
crushed Violet's soft fingers: 'thank you; yours was the most admirable
note ever composed! Never was more perfect "eloquence du billet!"'

'Eh! what was it?'

Percy held up the little note before Arthur's eyes: he laughed. 'Ay!
Violet is the only woman I ever knew who never said more than was to
the purpose. But now, Mrs. Heartsease, if that is your name, go and put
Theodora to bed; Percy will stay with me.'

'The baby,' objected Violet.

'Never mind, I want you very much,' said Theodora; 'and as Percy says he
has so much superfluous energy, he can take care of two Arthurs at once.
I am only afraid of his making the great one talk.'

'The great one' was at first as silent as the little one; his
countenance became very grave and thoughtful; and at last he said, 'Now,
Percy, you must consent to my selling out and paying you.'

'If you do, it must be share and share alike with the rest of the
creditors.'

'And that would be no good,' said Arthur, 'with all the harpies to
share. I wish you would consent, Percy. Think what it is to me to lie
here, feeling that I have ruined not only myself, but all my sister's
hopes of happiness!'

'Nay, you have been the means of bringing us together again. And as to
your wife--'

'I must not have her good deeds reckoned to me,' said Arthur, sadly.
'But what can you do? My father cannot pay down Theodora's fortune.'

'We must wait,' interrupted Percy, cheerfully.

Arthur proceeded. 'Wait! what for? Now you are cut out of Worthbourne,
and my aunt's money might as well be at the bottom of the sea, and--'

'I can hear no croaking on such a day as this,' broke in Percy. 'As to
Worthbourne, it is ill waiting for dead men's shoon. I always thought
Pelham's as good a life as my own, and I never fancied Mrs. Nesbit's
hoards. If I made three thousand pounds in five years, why may I not do
so again? I'll turn rapacious--give away no more articles to benighted
editors on their last legs. I can finish off my Byzantine history, and
coin it into bezants.'

'And these were your hard-earned savings, that should have forwarded
your marriage!'

'They have,' said Percy, smiling. 'They will come back some way or
other. I shall work with a will now! I am twice the man I was yesterday.
It was heartless work before. Now, "some achieve greatness," you know.'

Arthur would have said more, but Percy stopped him. 'If you gave it me
to-morrow, we could not marry on it. Let things alone till you are about
again, and John comes home. Meantime, trust her and me for being happy.
A fico for the world and worldlings base.'

He attained his object in making Arthur smile; and Violet presently
returning, they sat on opposite sides of the fire, and held one of the
happiest conversations of their lives. Violet told the whole story of
the fire, which seemed as new to Arthur as to Percy.

'Why did I never hear this before?' he asked.

'You heard it at the time,' said Violet.

Recollections came across Arthur, and he turned away his head,
self-convicted of having thought the women made a tedious history,
and that he could not be bored by attending. Percy's way of listening,
meanwhile, was with his foot on the fender, his elbow on his knee, his
chin resting on his hand, his bright gray eyes fixed full on Violet,
with a beaming look of gladness, and now and then a nod of assent, as
if no heroism on Theodora's part could surpass his expectations, for he
could have told it all beforehand. However, his turn came, when Violet
described her last expedition after the chess-board, and the injury it
had entailed.

'Now, now, you don't say so!' said he, stammering with eagerness, and
starting up.

'Poor dear, she hardly knew what she did,' said Violet.

'I remember,' said Arthur. 'That was the time of the delusion that Percy
had taken up with his present cousin-in-law.'

Violet blushed. She was too much ashamed of ever having had the idea
to bear to recall it; and when Arthur explained, Percy shuddered, and
exclaimed, 'No, I thank you, Violet! you knew enough against me; but you
need not have thought me quite come to that!'

On the morrow, Percy came in as the children's lessons were concluded.
He studied Theodora's face tenderly, and hoped that she had rested. She
laughed, and called herself perfectly well; and, indeed, her eyes were
as large and as bright as they ought to me, and she had discovered, that
morning, that her black locks would make a much more respectable show
if properly managed. He would not have mistaken her if she had looked as
she did now three weeks ago.

After they had talked for some time, Theodora said, 'We must not talk
away the whole morning; I must write to papa.'

'Yes,' said Percy, 'I came to speak of that. Theodora, perhaps it was
wrong to say what I did last night.'

'How?' said she, frightened.

'You ought to have been told how much worse my position is than before.'

'Oh! is that all?'

'It is a very serious all,' he answered. 'When I spoke before, and was
cool enough to treat it as if I was conferring a favour on you, it
was wonderful that your father consented. Now, you see, Worthbourne is
gone--'

'How can you care for that?'

'I did not, till I began to look at it from your father's point of view.
Besides, I ought to tell you, that there is no chance even of a
legacy. I find that Mrs. Fotheringham rules the house, and has tried
to prejudice my uncle against me. On the marriage, there were fresh
arrangements; my uncle was to alter his will, and it was on that
occasion that Sir Antony sent for me to keep up the balance, and save
him from her influence. Mrs. Martindale was right about her. What a
mischief-maker she is! My delay gave great offence.'

'Your delay on Arthur's account?'

'Yes, she managed to turn it against me. Imagine her having persuaded
them that I reckoned on Pelham's being set aside to make room for me.
She says it was named in this house!'

'Yes, by Jane herself.'

'She represented me as so disgusted at the marriage that I would pay no
attention to Sir Antony. I saw how it was when she received me, purring
and coaxing, and seeming to be making my peace with my uncle. By and by,
Pelham, when we grew intimate again, blundered out the whole,--that
his father wished to have settled something on me; but that Jane had
persuaded him that the whole might be wanted as a provision for their
family. I cared not one rush then, but it makes a difference now. As for
my former line, I am forgotten or worse. I have said blunt things
that there was no call for me to say. No one chooses to have me for an
underling, and there is no more chance of my getting an appointment than
of being made Khan of Tartary. Authorship is all that is left to me.'

'You have done great things in that way,' said Theodora.

'I had made something, but I was obliged to advance it the other day to
get Arthur out of this scrape, and there is no chance of his being able
to pay it, poor fellow!'

'Oh, Percy! thank you more for this than for all. If the pressure had
come, I believe it would have killed him. If you had seen the misery of
those days!'

'And now,' continued Percy, 'poor Arthur is most anxious it should be
paid; but I ought not to consent. If he were to sell out now, he would
be almost destitute. I have persuaded him to let all rest in silence
till John comes.'

'I am glad you have,' said Theodora. 'I am afraid papa is a good deal
pressed for money. The rents have had to be reduced; and John wants all
the Barbuda income to spend on the estate there. Even before the fire,
papa talked of bringing John home to cut off the entail, and sell some
land; and the house was insured far short of its value. He wants to get
rid of Armstrong and all the finery of the garden; but he is afraid of
vexing mamma, and in the meantime he is very glad that we are living
more cheaply in the cottage. I really do not think he could conveniently
pay such a sum; and just at present, too, I had rather poor Arthur's
faults were not brought before him.'

'It comes to this, then;--Is it for your happiness to enter upon an
indefinite engagement, and wait for the chance of my working myself up
into such a competency as may make our marriage not too imprudent? It
cannot, as far as I can see, be for years; it may be never.'

'When I thought you would not have me, I meant to be an old maid,' said
Theodora; 'and, Percy, this time you shall not think I do not care
for you. If we have to wait for our whole lives, let it be with the
knowledge that we belong to each other. I could not give up that now,
and'--as he pressed her hand--'mind, I am old enough to be trusted to
choose poverty. I know I can live on a little: I trust to you to tell me
whenever there is enough.'

'And your father?'

'He will not object--he will rejoice. The way I regarded that dear
father was one of the worst sins of that time! It is better it should be
as it is. Mamma could not well do without me now; I should be in doubt
about leaving her, even if the rest were plain. So that is trouble
saved,' she added with a smile.

'If they will see it in the same light! If they will forgive as readily
as you do one of the greatest injuries to a young lady.'

'Hush--nonsense. Papa always considered that it served me right.
And really this is such perfect content, that I do not know how to
understand it. You had always the power of reconciliation in your hands;
but, you know, I had not; and, apart from all other feelings, the mere
craving for pardon was so painful! It was only yesterday morning that I
was thinking it might, at least, come in the other world.'

'The pardon I was begging Violet to seek for me!--I trusted to obtain
that, though I little hoped--'

'But indeed, Percy, we must write our letters, or the children will be
upon us again.'

Her letter was more easily written than Percy's. He wrote, and tore up,
and considered, and talked to her, and wished John was at home, and said
that Lord Martindale would be perfectly justified in withdrawing his
consent, and declaring him a presumptuous wretch.

'What! when you have rescued his son? No, indeed, papa knows you too
well! I have no fears: for though he is not aware of the cost of what
you did for Arthur, he is most grateful for what he does know of; he
thinks you saved his life, and even without that, he is too kind to me
to do what--I could not bear.'

'I will try to believe you.'

'I was thinking that this is just retribution on me, that whereas I led
Arthur into temptation, this debt should be the obstacle.'

Perhaps nothing gratified him more than to hear her speak of the loan
as if she participated in the loss, not as if she viewed it from the
Martindale side of the question, and felt it too much of an obligation.

His letter was not written till just in time for the post, and it
travelled in the same cover with hers. Till the answer arrived he was
very anxious, came little to the house, and only put on his cheerful air
before Arthur, whose spirits could not afford to be lowered.
Theodora was secure. She knew that she deserved that there should be
difficulties; but at the same time she had the sense that the tide
had turned. Pardon had come, and with it hope; and though she tried to
school herself to submit to disappointment, she could not expect it. She
knew she might trust to her father's kind unworldly temper and sense
of justice, now that he was left to himself. And when the letter came,
Percy brought it in triumph under the shade of the old green umbrella,
which hitherto he had not dared to produce.

Lord Martindale said everything affectionate and cordial. If he grieved
at the unpromising prospect, he was wise enough to know it was too late
to try to thwart an attachment which had survived such shocks; and he
only dwelt on his rejoicing that, after all her trials, his daughter
should have merited the restoration of the affection of one whom he
esteemed so highly.

He fully forgave the former rejection, and declared that it was with
far more hope and confidence of their happiness that he now accorded
his sanction than when last it had been asked; and the terms in which he
spoke of his daughter seemed to deepen her humility by the strength of
their commendation.

Happy days succeeded; the lodgings in Piccadilly were nearly deserted,
Percy was always either nursing Arthur, playing with the children,
or bringing sheets of Byzantine history for revision; and he was much
slower in looking over Theodora's copies of them than in writing them
himself. There was much grave quiet talk between the lovers when
alone together. They were much altered since the time when their chief
satisfaction seemed to lie in teasing and triumphing over one another;
past troubles and vague prospects had a sobering influence; and they
felt that while they enjoyed their present union as an unlooked-for
blessing, it might be only a resting point before a long period of
trial, separation, and disappointment. It gave a resigned tone to their
happiness, even while its uncertainty rendered it more precious.

All mirthfulness, except what the children called forth, was reserved
for Arthur's room; but he thought Percy as gay and light-hearted as
ever, and his sister not much less so. Percy would not bring their
anxieties to depress the fluctuating spirits, which, wearied with the
sameness of a sick-room, varied with every change of weather, every
sensation of the hour.

Theodora almost wondered at Percy's talking away every desponding fit of
Arthur's, whether about his health, his money matters, or their hopes.
She said, though it was most trying to hear him talk of never coming
down again, of not living to see the children grow up, and never
allowing that he felt better, that she thought, considering how much
depended on the impression now made, it might be false kindness to talk
away his low spirits. Were they not repentance? Perhaps Percy was right,
but she should not have dared to do so.

'Theodora, you do not know the difference between reflection and
dejection. Arthur's repentance is too deep a thing for surface talk. It
does not depend on my making him laugh or not.'

'If anxiety about himself keeps it up--'

'If I let him believe that I do not think he will recover, for the sake
of encouraging his repentance, I should be leaving him in a delusion,
and that I have no right to do. Better let him feel himself repenting as
having to redeem what is past, than merely out of terror, thinking the
temptations have given him up, not that he gives them up. Why, when
he told me to sell his saddle-horses the other day, and that he should
never ride again, it was nothing, and I only roused him up to hope to be
out in the spring. Then he began to lament over his beautiful mare,--but
when it came to his saying he had sacrificed Violet's drives for her,
and that he had been a selfish wretch, who never deserved to mount a
horse again, and ending with a deep sigh, and "Let her go, I ought to
give her up," there was reality and sincerity, and I acted on it. No,
if Arthur comes out of his room a changed character, it must be by
strengthening his resolution, not by weakening his mind, by letting him
give way to the mere depression of illness.'

'You believe the change real? Oh, you don't know what the doubt is to
me! after my share in the evil, the anxiety is doubly intense! and I
cannot see much demonstration except in his sadness, which you call
bodily weakness.'

'We cannot pry into hidden things,' Percy answered. 'Watch his wife, and
you will see that she is satisfied. You may trust him to her, and to
Him in whose hands he is. Of this I am sure, that there is a patient
consideration for others, and readiness to make sacrifices that are not
like what he used to be. You are not satisfied? It is not as you
would repent; but you must remember that Arthur's is after all a boy's
character; he has felt his errors as acutely as I think he can feel
them, and if he is turning from them, that is all we can justly expect.
They were more weakness than wilfulness.'

'Not like mine!' said Theodora; 'but one thing more, Percy--can it be
right for him to see no clergyman?'

'Wait,' said Percy again. 'Violet can judge and influence him better
than you or I. Depend upon it, she will do the right thing at the right
time. Letting him alone to learn from his children seems to me the
safest course.'

Theodora acquiesced, somewhat comforted by the conversation, though it
was one of those matters in which the most loving heart must submit to
uncertainty, in patient hope and prayer.

Just before Christmas, Theodora was summoned home; for her mother was
too unwell and dispirited to do without her any longer. Her father
offered to come and take her place, but Arthur and Violet decided that
it would be a pity to unsettle him from home again. Arthur was now able
to sit up for some hours each day, and Percy undertook to be always at
hand. He was invited to Brogden for Christmas; but it was agreed between
him and Theodora that they must deny themselves the pleasure of spending
it together; they thought it unfit to leave Violet even for a few days
entirely unassisted.

Mr. Hugh Martindale came to fetch Theodora home. He brought a more
satisfactory account of poor Emma, who had never forwarded the promised
explanation to Theodora. Lady Elizabeth had applied to him to clear
Emma's mind from some of the doubts and difficulties inspired by
her friend, and at present, though her spirits were very low, they
considered that one great step had been gained, for she had ceased every
day to write to Miss Marstone.

Theodora had fixed many hopes on her cousin's interview with Arthur,
but they only talked of Brogden news; however, she heard afterwards
that Hugh was well satisfied with what he had seen of him, and that he
thought Percy's view the safest. It was better to force nothing upon
him. It was a sad struggle to resolve to depart, but it was made in
thankfulness, when Theodora remembered the feelings with which she had
entered that house. She went up in the early morning to wish Arthur
good-bye. He raised himself and embraced her fondly.

'Thank you, Theodora,' he said; 'you have been a good sister to me.'

'Oh, Arthur, Arthur!' as the dark remembrance came, but he did not
perceive it.

'I have been an ungrateful wretch, but I never understood it till
lately,' said he again. 'The fire,--those children--'

'Hush, hush! you are hurting yourself,' for he was choked with excess of
feeling.

'I can't say more;--but, oh! if I could help keeping you from
happiness!' and he was here overpowered by cough and emotion so much
as to alarm her, and she was forced to keep silence, and only kiss
him again. He returned it with a squeeze of the hand and a look of
affection. He had never given her such an one in the days when she
deemed his love a thing exclusively her own, she had now gained
something far better than his heart had then to offer. The best spot in
it then had nothing half so deep, fond, and unselfish as what he gave
her now.

She had ceased her wilful struggle, and besides all the rest, even this
was added unto her.


CHAPTER 14


     A calm stream flowing with a muddy one,
     Till, in its onward current, it absorbs
     With swifter movement and in purer light
     The vexed eddies of its wayward brother,
     A leaning and upbearing parasite,
     Clothing the stem, which else had fallen quite.
     Shadow forth thee; the world hath not another
     Of such refined and chastened purity.

     --TENNYSON


Patience and prayer brought their fruit in due season.

'Violet, you will not be able to go to church on Christmas-day.'

'No, I am not strong enough, even if you could spare me.'

'Do you think Mr. Rivers could come to us?'

'O, thank you!'

Those were the words, but the flush that gave colour to Arthur's face
showed the effort which they cost, and his wife's brief answer was cut
short by the sweetest tears she had ever shed.

She wrote a note to the clergyman, which was answered by a call the same
afternoon. It took Arthur by surprise; but his mind was made up, and
colouring deeply, he desired that Mr. Rivers should be shown up. Violet
left them alone together, her heart throbbing with grateful hope and
supplication.

Arthur's honest though faltering avowal, 'I have never thought enough of
these things,' was his whole history.

It had been grace missed and neglected, rather than wilfully abused.
There had of course been opportunities, but there had been little
culture or guidance in his early days; his confirmation had taken place
as a matter of form, and he had never been a communicant, withheld at
once by ignorance and dread of strictness, as well as by a species of
awe. Even his better and more conscientious feelings had been aroused
merely by his affections instead of by the higher sense of duty; and now
it was through these that the true voice had at length reached him.

He had learnt more from his little boy's devotions than all the years of
his life had taught him. The ever-present influence under which his wife
and that child lived and acted, impressed itself on him as a truth and
reality, and the consciousness of his full responsibility dawned upon
him. In the early part of his illness, his despair had been at the
thought of his failures as husband, father, and son. Now there came
on him the perception that not merely in his human relations had
he transgressed, but that far more had he slighted the Almighty and
Long-suffering Father. He looked back on his life of disregard, his dire
offences--

Thus awakened, he watched each word from his little unconscious teacher,
to gather from them clearer hopes of mercy and pardon. Happily, Johnnie,
in his daily lessons, was going through the ground-work, and those
words of mighty signification conveyed meanings to the father, which the
innocent child had as yet no need to unfold. The long silent hours gave
time for thought, and often when the watchers deemed that the stifled
groan or restless movement arose from pain or oppression, it was in fact
drawn forth by the weight on his mind.

So it had gone on; while mingled feelings of shame, reserve, and
reluctance to show himself in a new light, kept his lips closed, and
days and weeks passed before he brought himself to speak the word even
to his wife. When it was spoken, her silent intense gladness was at
once a reward and a rebuke. Though she scarcely spoke, he knew her well
enough to perceive more perfect joy than even at the moment when she
first made him smile on their first-born son.

He raised his eyes to meet that look again, when, after his interview
with the clergyman, she came back to join in fixing the hour.
Contrition, dread, shame, penitence, all seemed to be soothed, and yet
rendered deeper, by meeting those eyes of serene and perfect content and
thankfulness.

That evening Johnnie was turning over prints by his side.

'There is the Good Shepherd, papa. Do you see the poor sheep, who
wandered out of the fold, away into the wilderness among the rocks and
deserts--that is doing wrong, you know, papa. And it lost its way, and
the wolf was watching to tear it to pieces, that is Satan; but the Good
Shepherd,' and the child bent his head reverently, 'He went after it.
Mamma said that means that He touches our hearts and makes us sorry, and
it looked up and was ready--as we pray to be made good again. So then
He laid it on His shoulders, and carried it safe home to be happy in
the fold again. Is He not very good, papa? And only think! There is joy
among the Holy Angels in Heaven when one sinner grieves and comes back.'

Johnnie was wont to go on in this dreamy way without expecting an
answer; but he was startled to see his father's face hidden by the
shadowy fingers that propped his forehead.

'Has it made your head ache, papa? Must I go away?'

'Say that again, Johnnie.'

'I cannot say it quite right,' answered the boy; 'I only know it says
that the Angels in Heaven rejoice and are glad over one sinner that
repenteth. I thought about it that night after I had been naughty.'

'You, Johnnie?' Arthur could hardly believe that child capable of a
fault.

'Yes,' said Johnnie, with a trembling lip; 'I was cross at doing my
lessons with Aunt Theodora instead of mamma, and I was so sorry. But at
night, something seemed to bring that verse, and I thought the Angels
must have faces like mamma.'

Certainly his father thought so too.

Theodora's Christmas morning was cheered by a letter from Percy, to tell
her that he was to be with Arthur and Violet on this occasion. It was
greater happiness to her than it would even have been to have had him at
Brogden.

It was a very quiet day in Cadogan-place. The full freshness of awe and
reverence was upon Arthur, and though he hardly spoke, and made almost
no demonstration, the strength of his feeling was attested by the
fatigue that ensued, partly, perhaps, from the unwonted effort of fixing
his attention. All the rest of the day he lay on the sofa, silent and
dozing, till in the evening, when left alone with Johnnie, he only
roused himself to ask to have a Bible placed within his reach, and there
losing his way in searching for the parable of the strayed sheep, he
wandered about in the sayings of St. John's Gospel.

Johnnie's delight had been the dressing the cathedral cup with a spray
of holly sent to him from Brogden by his aunt, and now he sat conning
the hymns he had heard in church, and musing over his prints in silence,
till his brow caught an expression that strangely blended with those
dreamy impressions of his father.

'Poor children! they have had a dull Christmas-day!' said Arthur, as
they came to bid him good night.

'No, no, papa; the owl-man has had such a game at play with us in the
dining-room!' cried Helen.

'Yes,' said Johnnie; 'and you know, papa, I never said my hymn to you on
a Christmas-day before. I like to-day the best of all I remember.'

The next day he was glad to find that Johnnie would, after all, have his
share of the festivities of the season. Colonel Harrington came to see
Arthur, and begged to have his little godson at a New Year's party at
his house.

Violet was perplexed. She could not send her little, shy boy alone, yet
she did not like to let his father know that it had been a mistake to
accept the invitation. Percy came to her aid. 'There is no such fun as
a children's party. I wish you would smuggle me in as Johnnie's nursery
governess.'

'You know, Mrs. Harrington, don't you?' said Arthur; 'as a general rule,
you know every one, and every one knows you.'

'Yes, I know her. Come, Violet, can't you get me in, in Johnnie's train?
If you will let me take charge or him, I will keep an eye over the cake,
and you shall see how I will muffle him up to come home.'

It was too good an offer to be refused, though Violet had doubts whether
it would be perfect happiness, for Johnnie was apt to shrink from
strange children, and was unusually shy and timid. However, his spirits
had risen of late. Ever since he had found his place in his father's
heart, the drooping unchild-like sadness had passed away, and though
still grave and thoughtful, there was a life and animation about him at
times that cheered and delighted her.

There was a great friendship between him and 'Uncle Percy'; they took
walks together, fed the ducks in St. James's Park, had many interesting
conversations on Brogden affairs, and Johnnie had been several times at
the rooms over the toy-shop, and was on intimate terms with old Puss.
Violet knew that he would be safe, and was willing to think it right he
should be made more of a man.

She felt her Johnnie's value more than ever that evening, when she saw
how his father missed him. After the pleasure of seeing him ready to set
off, looking so fair and bright and delicate, Arthur flagged very much.

It had been a trying day. The experiment of a more strengthening diet
had resulted in heightened pulse and increased cough, and the medical
men had been obliged to own that though the acute inflammation had been
subdued, the original evil still remained, and that he was farther from
complete recovery than they had lately been hoping. Besides, he had sent
in his claim on Mr. Gardner, on hearing of his marriage, and the answer,
now due, did not come.

Nothing but the company of the children seemed likely to divert his
thoughts, and Helen was too much for him. She was exalted at her own
magnanimity in rejoicing that Johnnie should have the treat without
her, and was in a boisterous state that led to an edict of banishment,
vehemently resisted. It was the first time that anything had gone wrong
in Arthur's presence, and Violet was much concerned, and fearful of
the effect, when, after the conquest had been achieved, she left Helen
sobbing in the nursery, and came down to his room.

There was not the annoyance she had dreaded; but the dejection had been
deepened, and he did not respond to the somewhat forced cheerfulness
with which she tried to speak of the generosity united in Helen with a
hasty temper. It seemed to hurt and pain him so much to have the little
girl punished, that there was nothing to be done but to try to turn away
his attention.

Those weary times were perhaps harder to bear than periods of more
evident trial and excitement. Violet, as she strove to rally her spirits
and sustain his, could not help so feeling it--and then she thought of
Helen Fotheringham, and recollected that she had been intending to read
to Arthur an affectionate letter she had received from his brother on
hearing of his illness. Arthur was greatly touched by the tone in which
he was mentioned in it, and began eagerly to talk over John's many
proofs of affection, among which he now ranked his disregarded warnings.

'I have not forgotten his saying I must make you happy. I little
understood him then!'

There was happiness enough in the caress that would fain have silenced
him.

'Well! I have been thinking! Our marriage was the best and worst thing I
ever did. It was unjust to you, and as bad as possible towards them; but
that is what I can't be as sorry for as it deserves,' and he looked up
with a sweet smile, fading at once--'except when I look at you and the
children, and think what is to become of you.'

'Oh, don't, dear Arthur! Why look forward! There has been great mercy so
far. Let us rest in it.'

'You may; it was not your fault,' said Arthur; 'but how can I? I took
you in your ignorance; I let your father deceive himself about my
expectations, then, when my own people were far kinder to me than I
deserved, and I ought to have done everything myself to make up for my
imprudence, I go and let you pinch yourself, while I squander everything
on my own abominable follies! And now, here am I leaving you with all
these poor children, and nothing on earth--nothing but a huge debt? What
are you to do, I say?'

He was almost angry that she did not partake his apprehension for her
welfare.

'This is only a casual drawback. Dr. L---- said so!'

'That's nothing to the purpose. My health is done for. There is nothing
before me but decline. I have felt that all along, whatever doctors may
say. And how can you expect me not to feel what I have brought on you?'

'I am sure you need not be afraid for us. Is it not unkind to doubt your
father and John?'

'Suppose they should die before Johnnie comes of age--suppose John
should marry!'

Oh, Arthur, I cannot suppose anything! I am only quite sure that there
is a Father who will take care of our children. I do not know how, but
I am certain we shall not be forsaken. Do not grieve for us. I am not
afraid.'

'Not of poverty, even for the children?'

'No!' said Violet. 'I know it will not come, unless it is the best thing
for them.'

He did not entirely comprehend her, but he liked to watch her face,
it looked so beautiful in its perfect trust. He could not share that
peaceful confidence for the future, the harvest of his past recklessness
was present poignant dread and anxiety for the innocent ones on whom the
penalty must fall. He relapsed into silence, and perhaps his meditations
were as much perplexed by the nine Arabic figures as those of Violet's
convalescence had once been, only where hers were units, his were
hundreds.

She interrupted him with more of John's letters, and the amusing detail
of the West Indian life stood her in good stead till the sounds of
return brightened his face; and Johnnie sprang into the room loaded with
treasures from a Christmas tree. Never had she seen the little fellow's
face so merry, or heard his tongue go so fast, as he threw everything
into her lap, and then sprang about from her to his papa, showing his
prizes and presenting them. Here were some lemon-drops for papa, and
here a beautiful box for mamma, and a gutta-percha frog for Helen, and
a flag for Annie, and bon-bons for both, and for Sarah too, and a
delightful story about a little Arthur, that nobody could have but the
baby--Johnnie would keep it for him till he could read it.

'And what have you got for yourself, Johnnie!' said his father.

'I have the giving it!' said Johnnie.

'You are your mother's own boy, Johnnie,' said Arthur, with a sort of
fond deep sadness, as the child mounted his footstool to put one of the
lemon-drops into his mouth, watching to be told that it was good.

He went off to the nursery to feed Sarah on sugar-plums, and dispose
the frog and banner on his sisters' beds to delight them in the morning;
while Percy, coming in, declared that this had been the little boy's
happiest time. He had been far too shy for enjoyment, perfectly well
behaved, but not stirring a step from his protector, only holding his
hand, and looking piteously at him if invited away; and Percy declared,
he was as much courted as a young lady in her teens. Sitting down with
him at a table surrounded by small elves, Percy had of course kept
them in a roar of laughter, throughout which Johnnie had preserved his
gravity, only once volunteering a whisper, that he wished Helen was
there; but Percy thought that when unmolested by attention, he had
seemed quietly amused. When admitted to the Christmas tree in its
glory, he had been slightly afraid of it at first, as of an unexpected
phenomenon, and had squeezed his friend's hand very tight; but as he
perceived how things were going, his alarm had given place to silent
joyous whispers, appropriating his gifts to those at home. He had no
idea of keeping anything for himself; and Percy had distressed him by a
doubt whether the book, as a godfather's gift, ought to be transferred.
On this Johnnie was scrupulous, and Percy had been obliged to relieve
his mind by repeating the question for him to Colonel Harrington,
whether he might give the book to his little brother. This settled,
Johnnie's happiness had been complete, and his ecstasy during their
return, at having a present for everybody, was, said Percy, the
prettiest comment he had ever known on the blessedness of giving.

It evidently struck Arthur. At night, Violet, from her sofa, heard him
murmur to himself, 'My boy! my unselfish boy, what will you think of
your father?' and then stifle a groan.

The next afternoon, Johnnie, having as a preliminary inscribed his
brother's unwieldy name all over the fly-leaf, was proceeding most
happily to read the book aloud, lying on the hearth-rug, with his heels
in the air. He read his mamma into a slumber, his papa into a deep
reverie, which resulted in his dragging himself up from his chair, by
the help of the chimney-piece, and reaching pen and writing-case from
Violet's table.

'Oh! papa!' whispered Johnnie, in an injured tone, at not having been
asked to do the little service.

'I thought it would disturb mamma less,' returned Arthur, sinking back;
'but you may give me the ink. And now, my dear, go on to yourself.'

'Are you going to write, papa? That is being much better.'

'I am going to try to write to your uncle. Johnnie, supposing you lose
me, I look to your uncle and you for care of the little ones.'

Johnnie gave a great sigh, and looked at his father, but made no answer.
Papa's writing was a matter of curiosity, and he stood watching in
silence.

'You must not watch me, Johnnie,' said Arthur, presently, for whether
his son could read his writing or not, he could not bear his eyes upon
it. The boy had dropped into his place on the carpet in a moment.

It was a full confession and outpouring of his troubles. It cost him
much, for there was shame at his own folly and selfishness, and he
had to disclose extravagance that he well knew to be, in John's eyes,
especially inexcusable. So painful was the effort, that even his fears
for his family would not alone have determined him on making it, if it
had not been for his new resolution to face the worst, and to have no
more shufflings or concealments. He could bear to tell John better than
his father, and Percy had bound him to silence towards Lord Martindale.
The whole was explained to the best of his powers, which were not at
present great. His debts, including that to Percy, he believed to exceed
ten thousand, his resources were limited to the sale of his commission,
and the improbable recovery of the debt from Gardner--his wife and
children were entirely unprovided for. 'I can only trust to your
kindness,' he wrote. 'If I could see you, I could die in peace. I know
that while you live, you will never see Violet distressed. I have no
right to ask anything, but this much I will and must beg may be looked
on as my last wish. Never let the children be taken from their mother's
charge. If they are to be better than I, it must be her doing. And
though this is more than I should dare to ask, if you can help me, do
not, when I am gone, let my boys grow up to find their father's memory
loaded with these hateful debts, hanging round their necks like a
burden. I know Johnnie's sense of honour would never let him rest
till they were cleared; but I cannot look at his face and think of his
hearing how I have served his mother. He does love me now, Heaven
knows, undeservedly enough. I cannot bear to think of a cloud on his
remembrance of me.'


CHAPTER 15


     Either grief will not come, or if it must,
       Do not forecast.
     And while it cometh, it is almost past.
       Away distrust,
     My God hath promised, He is just.

     --G. HERBERT


'Arthur, the landlady has been to ask how much longer we shall want the
rooms!'

'How long have we been here?'

'We came on the 20th of April, and this is the 3rd of June. What a
difference it has made in you!'

'And in you; Ventnor is a grand doctor.'

'And Johnnie is really beginning to have a colour. How pleased his
grandpapa will be to see him so much stronger and more spirited. I do
not think Lord Martindale could have done anything kinder by us than
sending us here.'

'How does the purse hold out?'

'I have been reckoning that we could stay on three weeks more before
going to Brogden; and, if you like it, I should wish to spend our
wedding-day here,' said Violet, in the shy diffident way in which she
was wont to proffer any request for her own gratification.

'I had another scheme for our wedding-day. What do you say to spending
it at Wrangerton?'

She looked up in his face as if to see if he really meant it, then the
glad flush darted into her cheeks, and with a cry of joy like a child,
she almost sobbed out, 'Oh, Arthur, Arthur! thank you.'

He looked at her, amused, and enjoying her ecstasy. 'So you approve,
Mrs. Martindale?'

'O, to go to mamma! to show mamma the children! Annette! home!--Johnnie
to see Helvellyn!--my sisters!--Olivia's baby!' cried Violet, in
incoherent exclamations, almost choked with joy.

'My poor Violet,' said Arthur, surprised and almost remorseful; 'I did
not know you wished it so very much.'

'I believe I had left off thinking about it,' said Violet; 'but I am so
very much obliged to you, dear Arthur--how very kind it is.'

It never occurred to her, as it did to him, that the kindness might have
come sooner. 'I only hope you like it,' she added, after a pause.

'Don't I like what makes you look as you do now?' said he, smiling.
'I shall enjoy looking up our old quarters. Besides,' he added, more
gravely, 'it is your turn now; and liking apart, I know I have not used
Mrs. Moss well, in keeping you so long from her. You must let her know
it was not your fault.'

'May I write, then? Oh, Arthur, dearest! if I could but find words to
tell you how happy you have made me!'

It was no sudden determination, for he brought a 'Bradshaw' out of his
pocket, with all the various railways and trains underscored in pencil
in a most knowing way, and a calculation of expenses on the cover, all
wrong--for Arthur had never done an addition sum right in his life.

Violet was to write as soon as she pleased, and fix the day and hour.

Perhaps Violet had never been so happy in her life as when, in the
afternoon, she wandered a little apart on the beach, to realize and
feed on her new treasure of delight. Arthur and the children were
felicitously dabbling in sand and sea-water, reducing the frocks to a
condition that would have been Sarah's daily distraction, if she had not
reconciled herself to it by observing, 'it did her heart good to see the
Colonel take to the children, though he was no more to be trusted with
them than a sea-mew; and if it was not for Master John, she believed
they would all come home some day drownded.'

As soon as the spring was sufficiently advanced, Lord Martindale had
sent the whole party to recruit by the sea-side, at their own dear
Ventnor, and there the last six weeks had been spent in the daily joy
of watching Arthur's progress in recovery;--until now a slight degree
of weakness and languor, an occasional cough, and his greatly altered
appearance, were the only evident remains of his illness; and though she
could not feel that his health was absolutely re-established, there was
such abundant cause for hope and thankfulness, as filled her heart to
overflowing, especially when she was rejoiced by tokens of that more
blessed change within.

His spirits had returned with his health. Perhaps it was part of his
boyish nature, that his sorrow for his errors, though sincere and
earnest, did not permanently depress him, when not brought before his
mind; but rather the sense of behaving well added to his brightness.
There was nothing to conceal; the guilty consciousness was gone, and
the fear for the future was distant. His manners had a sweetness more
engaging than ever. To his wife, who had, as he recovered, suffered from
the effects of her exertions, he was most affectionately attentive, and
his children were his delight, while little Johnnie throve and expanded
into spirit and mirth, like a plant reviving in sunshine.

He had gone over Violet's old haunts with her, and she had enjoyed
making him enter into the feelings associated with the scenes she had
visited with his brother. John was expected to return in the summer, but
even this anticipation paled in comparison with the present felicity.
That longing for her own home had been forced into such a remote cell,
that she had had no idea of its strength till now, when it was allowed
to spring up and colour everything.

She walked along the shore within sight of the cottage, where she had
been with John, too small and expensive for their present numbers and
means, and looking up at its bowery wicket, gathered up the remembrances
associated with it.

She had come thither a mere child, a wife and mother, before strength,
spirits, or judgment were equal to her tasks,--terrified at her
responsibility, perceiving her failures, sinking under the load too
early laid on her. There had she been guided to comfort,--there had
her hand been taught to clasp the rod and staff, that had led her safe
through the shadow, well-nigh of death. How would her heart have fainted
if she could have guessed what had awaited her! But these things were
past, and their memory was sweetened by thankfulness. And now, where
once stood the self-torturing, pining girl, was now the calm trustful
woman,--serene beneath the overshadowing Wings, resting on the
everlasting Arms,--relying, least of all, upon herself. Further trouble
might be in store; the clouds might return after the rain; but her peace
was not mere freedom from storms, it was the security that there was One
who would be with her and her loved ones through all, and thus could she
freely rejoice in present sunshine, without scanning each distant cloud,
or marring present bliss by future dread.

It was complete gladness. There was not a misgiving whether home might
be exactly as it stood in her memory, or in Johnnie's imagination; and
she filled the children's heads so much with what they were to see, that
their papa declared he had found Annie under the belief that Helvellyn
was her grandfather.

Arthur was so much charmed with seeing his wife so happy, that,
forgetting all his fears of tediousness, he partook the enjoyment of her
anticipations. He was the first, when they came in sight of a mountain,
to lift Johnnie on his knee and tell him it was Helvellyn; and mamma's
resentment at the grievous error was one of the prettiest and merriest
things imaginable.

However, when Helvellyn actually appeared, and she felt herself really
coming home, she was silent, in anxiety and doubt. She must be very
different from the Violet who had gone away. Would her mother and
Matilda think she had improved according to her opportunities?

She could hardly reply when Arthur recognized the High-street, so much
wider in her imagination, and her heart beat as the garden wall and the
lawn were before her. At the door--yes!--it was, it was the mother for
whose embrace, she had so often longed! Timidly affectionate and hastily
nervous, she could hardly afford one moment to her daughter in her
frightened haste to greet her son-in-law, before he was ready, as he
was lifting the children out. Here, too, were Annette and Mr. Moss,
the young ladies were in the drawing-room, detained by etiquettes of
Matilda's; but Violet hardly knew who spoke to her, the joy was to see a
baby of hers at last in her mothers arms.

She could hardly see any one but the slight worn-looking mother, whose
low, sad-toned voice awoke such endless recollections, and made her
realize that she was once more beside mamma. Let him not enter the
world, lest he learn to partake of its follies, or perhaps of its vices.
In short, preserve him as far as possible from all sin, save that
of which too great a portion belongs to all the fallen race of Adam.

With the approach of his twenty-first birth-day comes the crisis of his
fate. If he survive it, he will be happy and prosperous on earth, and
a chosen vessel among those elected for heaven. But if it be otherwise"----The
astrologer stopped and sighed deeply. "Sir," replied the parent, still
more alarmed than before, "your words are so kind, your advice so
serious, that I will pay the deepest attention to your behests; but can
you not aid me farther in this most important concern.

Believe me, I will not be ungrateful." "I require and deserve no gratitude
for doing a good action," said the stranger; "in especial for
contributing all that lies in my power, to save from an abhorred fate
the harmless infant to whom, under a singular conjunction of planets,
last night gave life. There is my address; you may write to me from time
to time concerning the progress of the boy in religious knowledge.
If he be bred up as I advise, I think it will be best that he come
to my house at the time when the fatal and decisive period approaches,
that is, before he has attained his twenty-first year complete.

If you send him such as I desire, I humbly trust that God will protect
his own, through whatever strong temptation his fate may subject
him to."

He then gave his host his address, which was a country-seat near a post
town in the south of England, and bid him an affectionate farewell.

The mysterious stranger departed; but his words remained impressed
upon the mind of the anxious parent.

He lost his lady while his boy was still in infancy.

This calamity, I think, had been predicted by the astrologer; and
thus his confidence, which, like most people of the period, he had freely
given to the science, was riveted and confirmed.

The utmost care, therefore, was taken to carry into effect the
severe and almost ascetic plan of education which the sage had
enjoined.

A tutor of the strictest principles was employed to superintend the
youth's education; he was surrounded by domestics of the most established
character, and closely watched and looked after by the anxious father
himself. The years of infancy, childhood, and boyhood, passed as the
father could have wished. A young Nazarene could not have been bred up
with more rigour.

All that was evil was withheld from his observation--he only heard what
was pure in precept--he only witnessed what was worthy in practice. But
when the boy began to be lost in youth, the attentive father saw
cause for alarm.

Shades of sadness, which gradually assumed a darker character, began
to overcloud the young man's temper. Tears, which seemed involuntary,
broken sleep, moonlight wanderings, and a melancholy for which he
could assign no reason, seemed to threaten at once his bodily health and
the stability of his mind. The astrologer was consulted by letter, and
returned for answer, that this fitful state of mind was but the
commencement of his trial, and that the poor youth must undergo more
and more desperate struggles with the evil that assailed him. There was
no hope of remedy, save that he showed steadiness of mind in the study
of the Scriptures. "He suffers," continued the letter of the sage, "from
the awakening of these harpies, the passions, which have slept with
him as with others, till the period of life which he has now attained.
Better, far better, that they torment him by ungrateful cravings, than
that he should have to repent having satiated them by criminal
indulgence." The dispositions of the young man were so excellent, that
he combated, by reason and religion, the fits of gloom which at
times overcast his mind; and it was not till he attained the
commencement of his twenty-first year, that they assumed a character
which made his father tremble for the consequences.

It seemed as if the gloomiest and most hideous of mental maladies were
taking the form of religious despair. Still the youth was gentle,
courteous, affectionate, and submissive to his father's will, and
resisted with all his power the dark suggestions which were
breathed into his mind, as it seemed, by some emanation of the
Evil Principle, exhorting him, like the wicked wife of Job, to curse
God and die.

The time at length arrived when he was to perform what was then
thought a long and somewhat perilous journey, to the mansion of the
early friend who had calculated his nativity. His road lay through several
places of interest, and he enjoyed the amusement of travelling more
than he himself thought would have been possible.

Thus he did not reach the place of his destination till noon, on the
day preceding his birthday.
It seemed as if he had been carried away with an unwonted tide of
pleasurable sensation, so as to forget, in some degree, what his father
had communicated concerning the purpose of his journey.

He halted at length before a respectable but solitary old mansion, to
which he was directed as the abode of his father's friend. The servants
who came to take his horse, told him he had been expected for two days.
He was led into a study, where the stranger, now a venerable old man,
who had been his father's guest, met him with a shade of displeasure
as well as gravity on his brow. "Young man," said he, "wherefore so
slow on a journey of such importance?" "I thought," replied the
guest, blushing and looking downwards, "that there was no harm in
travelling slowly and satisfying my curiosity, providing I could reach
your residence by this day; for such was my father's charge." "You
were to blame," replied the sage, "in lingering, considering that the
avenger of blood was pressing on your footsteps. But you are come at last,
and we will hope for the best, though the conflict in which you
are to be engaged will be found more dreadful the longer it is
postponed.

But first accept of such refreshments as nature requires to satisfy,
but not to pamper, the appetite." The old man led the way into a
summer parlour, where a frugal meal was placed on the table. As they sat
down to the board, they were joined by a young lady about eighteen
years of age, and so lovely, that the sight of her carried off the
feelings of the "young stranger" from the peculiarity and mystery
of his own lot, and riveted his attention to every thing she did
or said.

She spoke little, and it was on the most serious subjects. She played
on the harpsichord at her father's command, but it was hymns with which
she accompanied the instrument. At length, on a sign from the sage, she
left the room, turning on the young stranger, as she departed, a look
of inexpressible anxiety and interest.
The old man then conducted the youth to his study, and conversed
with him upon the most important points of religion, to satisfy
himself that he could render a reason for the faith that was in him.

During the examination, the youth, in spite of himself, felt his
mind occasionally wander, and his recollections go in quest of the
beautiful vision who had shared their meal at noon.

On such occasions, the astrologer looked grave, and shook his head at this
relaxation of attention; yet, on the whole, he was pleased with the
youth's replies. At sunset the young man was made to take the bath;
and, having done so, he was directed to attire himself in a robe,
somewhat like that worn by Armenians, having his long hair combed
down on his shoulders, and his neck, hands, and feet bare.

In this guise he was conducted into a remote chamber totally devoid of
furniture, excepting a lamp, a chair, and a table, on which lay a
Bible.

"Here," said the astrologer, "I must leave you alone, to pass the
most critical period of your life.

If you can, by recollection of the great truths of which we have
spoken, repel the attacks which will be made on your courage and
your principles, you have nothing to apprehend.

But the trial will be severe and arduous." His features then assumed a
pathetic solemnity, the tears stood in his eyes, and his voice
faltered with emotion as he said, "Dear child, at whose coming into
the world I foresaw this fatal trial, may God give thee grace to
support it with firmness!"

The young man was left alone; and hardly did he find himself so, when,
like a swarm of demons, the recollection of all his sins of omission and
commission, rendered even more terrible by the scrupulousness with
which he had been educated, rushed on his mind, and, like furies armed
with fiery scourges, seemed determined to drive him to despair. As he
combated these horrible recollections with distracted feelings, but
with a resolved mind, he became aware that his arguments were answered
by the sophistry of another, and that the dispute was no longer confined
to his own thoughts.

The Author of Evil was present in the room with him in bodily shape,
and, potent with spirits of a melancholy cast, was impressing upon him
the desperation of his state, and urging suicide as the readiest mode
to put an end to his sinful career.

Amid his errors, the pleasure he had taken in prolonging his journey
unnecessarily, and the attention which he had bestowed on the beauty of
the fair female, when his thoughts ought to have been dedicated
to the religious discourse of her father, were set before him in the
darkest colours; and he was treated as one who, having sinned against
light, was, therefore, deservedly left a prey to the Prince of Darkness.
As the fated and influential hour rolled on, the terrors of the
hateful Presence grew more confounding to the mortal senses of the
victim, and the knot of the accursed sophistry became more inextricable
in appearance, at least to the prey whom its meshes surrounded.

He had not power to explain the assurance of pardon which he continued
to assert, or to name the victorious name in which he trusted. But his
faith did not abandon him, though he lacked for a time the power
of expressing it.

"Say what you will," was his answer to the Tempter; "I know there
is as much betwixt the two boards of this Book as can insure me
forgiveness for my transgressions, and safety for my soul." As he spoke,
the clock, which announced the lapse of the fatal hour, was heard to
strike. The speech and intellectual powers of the youth were instantly
and fully restored; he burst forth into prayer, and expressed, in the
most glowing terms, his reliance on the truth, and on the Author, of the
gospel. The demon retired, yelling and discomfited; and the old man,
entering the apartment, with tears congratulated his guest on his
victory in the fated struggle. The young man was afterwards married to
the beautiful maiden, the first sight of whom had made such an impression
on him, and they were consigned over at the close of the story to domestic
happiness.

--So ended John MacKinlay's legend.

The author of Waverley had imagined a possibility of framing an
interesting, and perhaps not an unedifying, tale, out of the incidents
of the life of a doomed individual, whose efforts at good and
virtuous conduct were to be for ever disappointed by the intervention,
as it were, of some malevolent being, and who was at last to come
off victorious from the fearful struggle.

In short, something was meditated upon a plan resembling the imaginative
tale of Sintram and his Companions, by Mons. Le Baron de la Motte Fouqué,
although, if it then existed, the author had not seen it. The scheme
projected may be traced in the first three or four chapters of the work,
but farther consideration induced the author to lay his purpose
aside.

In changing his plan, however, which was done in the course of
printing, the early sheets retained the vestiges of the original
tenor of the story, although they now hang upon it as an unnecessary
and unnatural encumbrance.

* * * * *
Sir Walter then points out his departures from this rude sketch, and
mentions the prototypes of several of his principal characters;
such as Jean (and her granddaughter Madge) Gordon, of Kirk Yetholm,
for Meg Merrilies; and a nameless individual for Dominie Sampson.

"Such a preceptor as Mr. Sampson," says he, "is supposed to have been,
was actually tutor in the family of a gentleman of considerable
property.

The young lads, his pupils, grew up and went out in the world, but
the tutor continued to reside in the family, no uncommon circumstance
in Scotland (in former days), where food and shelter were readily afforded
to humble friends and dependents. The laird's predecessors had been
imprudent, he himself was passive and unfortunate. Death swept away
his sons, whose success in life might have balanced his own bad luck
and incapacity. Debts increased and funds diminished, until ruin came.
The estate was sold; and the old man was about to remove from the house
of his fathers, to go he knew not whither, when, like an old piece of
furniture, which, left alone in its wonted corner, may hold together
for a long while, but breaks to pieces on an attempt to move it,
he fell down on his own threshold under a paralytic affection.

The tutor awakened as from a dream. He saw his patron dead, and that his
patron's only remaining child, an elderly woman, now neither graceful
nor beautiful, if she had ever been either the one or the other, had
by this calamity become a homeless and penniless orphan. He addressed
her nearly in the words which Dominie Sampson uses to Miss Bertram, and
professed his determination not to leave her. Accordingly, roused to
the exercise of talents which had long slumbered, he opened a little
school, and supported his patron's child for the rest of her life,
treating her with the same humble observance and devoted attention which
he had used towards her in the days of her prosperity."
* * * * *

NOTES OF A READER
* * * * *
JOHN KEMBLE AND MISS OWENSON.

There is more of the patter and fun of fashion in Lady Morgan's books than
in any other chronicles of the _ton_.

Her last work, the _Book of the Boudoir_, to use an Hibernicism, is not
yet published; but from one of its scenes shifted into the _Court
Journal_, we pick the following anecdote of John Kemble and her ladyship,
(then Miss Owenson), about twenty years since.

All the town were then running mad after her "wild Irish girl," and
Miss O. was invited to a blue-stocking party, at the mansion of the Dowager
Countess of Cork, in New Burlington Street.

"Mr. Kemble was announced. Lady C----k reproached him as 'the late Mr.
Kemble;' and then, looking significantly at me, told him who I was.
Kemble, to whom I had been already presented by Mrs. Lefanu, acknowledged
me by a kindly nod; but the intense stare which succeeded, was not one
of mere recognition. It was the glazed, fixed look, so common to those
who have been making libations to altars which rarely qualify them for
ladies' society. Mr.

Kemble was evidently much pre-occupied, and a little exalted; and
he appeared actuated by some intention, which he had the will, but
not the power, to execute.

He was seated _vis-à-vis_, and had repeatedly raised his arm, and stretched
it across the table, for the purpose, as I supposed, of helping himself
to some boar's head in jelly. Alas, no!--the _bore_ was, that my head
happened to be the object which fixed his tenacious attention; and
which being a true Irish _cathah_ head, dark, cropped, and curly, and
struck him as a particularly well organized Brutus, and better than
any in his _repertoire_ of theatrical perukes. Succeeding at last in his
feline and fixed purpose, he actually struck his claws in my locks,
and addressing me in the deepest sepulchral tones, asked--"Little
girl, where did you buy your wig?"

Lord Erskine "came to the rescue," and liberated my head.

Lord Carysfort exclaimed, to relieve the awkwardness of the scene,
"_les serpents de l'envie ont sifflés dans son coeur_;" on every side--

"Some did laugh, And some did say, God bless us,"
--while I, like Macbeth--

"Could not say, Amen."
Meantime Kemble, peevish, as half-tipsy people generally are, and
ill brooking the interference of the two peers, drew back, muttering
and fumbling in his coat-pocket, evidently with some dire intent
lowering in his eyes.

To the amusement of all, and to my increased consternation, he drew
forth a volume of the "Wild Irish Girl," (which he had brought to return
to Lady C----k) and, reading, with his deep, emphatic voice, one
of the most high-flown of its passages, he paused, and patting the
page with his forefinger, with the look of Hamlet addressing Polonius,
he said, "Little girl, why did you write such nonsense?

And where did you get all these d--d hard words?"

     Thus taken by surprise, and "smarting
     with my wounds" or mortified
     authorship, I answered, unwittingly
     and witlessly, the truth: "Sir, I wrote as well as I could, and I
got the hard words out of Johnson's Dictionary."

     The eloquence of Erskine himself would have pleaded my cause with
less effect; and the "_J'y allois_" of _La Fontaine_ was not quoted
with more approbation in the circles of Paris, than the _naïveté_
of my equally veracious and spontaneous reply.

The triumph of my simplicity did not increase Kemble's good humour; and,
shortly after, Mr. Spenser carried him off in his carriage, to prevent
any further attacks on my unfortunate head--inside or out.

* * * * *

WOMAN.

There is no doubt that the proper study of mankind is WOMAN; and Mr.

Pope was wrong; for the endless variety of character among the
sex is of itself a mine, endless and inexhaustible; but to
study them in their domestic capacity, is the sweetest of all--
Man may for wealth or glory roam, But woman must be blest at home.
To this her efforts ever tend, 'Tis her great object and her end.

So says one poet, I have forgot his name. Another hath this expression--

O woman! lovely woman! Nature form'd thee To temper man; we had been
brutes without thee.

But the sweetest thing that ever was said of woman in this amiable
capacity, or ever will be said again, is by a contemporary:--"A woman's
whole life is a history of the affections. The heart is her world; it
is there her ambition strives for empire; it is there her avarice seeks
for hidden treasures. She sends forth her sympathies in adventure;
she embarks her whole soul in the traffic of affection; and if
shipwrecked, her case is hopeless, for it is a bankruptcy of the
heart!"--_The Ettrick Shepherd._
* * * * *

BURMESE TEMPLES.

In the Burman towns and villages the number of temples seem to exceed
the number of dwellings, which is not unusual. The former are as splendid
as gilding can make them, and the latter as humble as can be conceived
from the frail materials of which they are constructed--bamboos,
palm leaves, and grass.

The wealth of a Burman, always insecure, is very generally expended
on the luxury of temple-building. Religious merit, indeed, consists
mainly in the construction of one of these huge, costly, and showy
edifices; and is not considered as increased by building a durable
one. No one ever thinks of repairing or restoring an old temple; and
the consequence is, that in every part of the country may be seen
half-finished structures of enormous magnitude--the respective founders
having died before they were completed.--_Crawfurd's Embassy to Ava._

* * * * *
Valmontone, on the road from Naples to Rome, is a strange but
enchanting spot, enveloped in shade, with magnificent rocks
(agglomerated volcanic ashes) hollowed into caverns, which afford
coolness in this burning climate, and where an incredible number
of nightingales make the whole air musical.

The little town rose picturesquely on its rocky pedestal, with a large
building like a monastery inhabited by myriads of swallows, darting in
and out at its sashless windows. A solitary guardian eyed us through
a door a-jar, but did not come out, while we went round the church, and
admired some good pictures remaining on its walls. The stillness of death
prevailed in the town--a sort of unburied Pompeii through its narrow
lanes, up and down zig-zag stairs cut in the rock, we sauntered alone,
and the noise of our iron-shod heels on the pavement, was the only sound
we heard. The rich abbey, it was evident, had formerly fed the town
clustering round it, the inhabitants of which cultivated its vast
domains under a paternal administration.

These domains, it was also evident, had passed into the hands of upstart
speculators, strangers to the people, and indifferent to their
welfare, who did not even know how to make their wealth productive
to themselves.

--_Simond's Tour._
* * * * *

ENGLISH AND FRENCH MURDERS.

When will the French nation be able to afford a Thurtell--a man who could
turn his pistol round in his _friend's_ brains; not in any insane
paroxysm of jealousy, or hatred, or revenge, but merely to ascertain
_satisfactorily_ that he had completely effected his business--who
could then walk in to his supper of pork chops, with the same
composure as if he had come from giving a feed of oats to his
horse--a clever and acute man, too, without any stupid insensibility
of mind--a man who, when seized and put on his trial, gets off by
heart a long and eloquent speech, full of the most solemn and false
asseverations of his innocence; not that he clung with desperate
eagerness to the hope of escaping, but that, as there was a chance,
it was prudent not to throw it away--who, when condemned displayed
neither terror nor indifference, neither exquisite sensibility nor
sullen brutality, and at the last swung out of life from the gallows
with the settled air of a man who feels he has lost the game at
which he played, and that he may as well pay the stake calmly?

There was a true British composure about the unutterable atrocity of
this villain--murderer he was, and a most detestable murderer
too--but his character belongs to our country as fully as that of
our heroes.

Hunt and Probert were pitiful wretches, fit for the Bicêtre. Doubtless
the agony of Hunt's feelings until his reprieve came, would, if properly
divided into chapters, make a good romance.

--_Blackwood's Mag._

* * * * *

PETROLEUM.

Petroleum wells supply the whole Burman empire with oil for lamps,
and also for smearing timber, to protect it against insects, and
particularly the white ant.

Its consumption for burning is stated to be universal, until its price
reaches that of sesamum oil, the only other kind used for lamps. The
wells, which occupy a space of about sixteen square miles, vary in depth
from two hundred to two hundred and fifty feet; the shaft is square,
not more than four feet each side, and is formed by sinking a frame
of wood. The oil, on coming up, is about the temperature of ninety
degrees of Fahrenheit.

It is thrown into a large cistern, in the bottom of which are small
apertures for the aqueous part to drain off, when the oil is left for
some time to thicken. It is then put into large earthen jars, placed in
rude carts drawn by oxen, and carried to the banks of the river,
from whence it is sent by water-carriage to every part of the empire.

By the number and burden of the boats employed in this trade, and the
number of voyages they are supposed to make in the course of a year, the
exportation from the wells is estimated to amount to 17,568,000 _vis_,
of twenty-six pounds and a half each.

Thirty _vis_ a-year is reckoned to be the average consumption of a family
of five persons and a half; and about two-thirds of the oil are supposed
to be employed for burning.--_Crawfurd's Embassy to Ava._
* * * * *

SIGNS OF THE TIMES.

Violet wished Theodora could but see, and wondered whether she would
ever venture to make a visit at Lassonthwayte; hardly, she supposed,
before her marriage.

Lady Lucy one day asked when Miss Martindale was to be married, and on
hearing that no period could be fixed, said she was grieved to find it
so; it would be better for her brother that it should be over. Violet
ventured to express her hopes that he had at last found peace and
happiness.

'Yes,' said Lucy, 'he is very busy and happy. I do not think it dwells
on his spirits, but it is the disappointment of his life, and he will
never get over it.'

'I hope he will find some one to make him forget it.'

'I do not think he will. No one can ever be like Miss Martindale, and I
believe he had rather cling to the former vision, though not repining.
He is quite content, and says it is a good thing to meet with a great
disappointment early in life.'

Violet doubted not of his contentment when she had looked into his adult
school, and seen how happily he was teaching a class of great boys to
write; nor when she heard him discussing prices, rents, and wages with
Mr. Hunt.

Lord St. Erme and Lady Lucy had come to an early dinner at
Lassonthwayte, thus causing great jealousy on the part of Mrs. Albert
Moss, and despair on Matilda's, lest Olivia should do something
extremely amiss without her supervision. Little did she guess that Lucy
had been reckoning on the pleasure of meeting her dear Mrs. Moss for
once without those daughters.

After dinner, all the party were on the lawn, watching the tints on
the mountains, when Lord St. Erme, coming to walk with Mrs. Martindale,
asked her, with a smile, if she remembered that she had been the first
person who ever hinted that the Westmoreland hills might be more to him
than the Alps.

'I have not forgotten that evening,' he said. 'It was then that I first
saw Mr. Fotheringham;' and he proceeded to ask many questions about
Percy's former appointment at Constantinople, his length of service, and
reason for giving it up, which she much enjoyed telling. He spoke too of
his books, praising them highly, and guessing which were his articles
in reviews, coming at last to that in which, as he said, he had had the
honour of being dissected.

'Poor Lucy has hardly yet forgiven it,' he said; 'but it was one of the
best things that ever befell me.'

'I wonder it did not make you too angry to heed it.'

'Perhaps I was at first, but it was too candid to be offensive. The
arrow had no venom, and was the first independent criticism I had
met with. Nobody had cared for me enough to take me to task for my
absurdities. I am obliged to Mr. Fotheringham.'

Violet treasured this up for Percy's benefit.

This festivity was their last in the north. Their visit at Lassonthwayte
had been lengthened from a week to a fortnight, and Lady Martindale
wrote piteous letters, entreating them to come to Brogden, where she
had made every arrangement for their comfort, even relinquishing her own
dressing-room. They bade farewell to Wrangerton, Arthur assuring Mrs.
Moss that he would soon bring Violet back again; and Mrs. Moss and
Violet agreeing that they were grateful for their happy meeting, and
would not be too sorry were the delightful vision not to be fulfilled.

At the beginning of their journey, Arthur's talk was all of the horses
at Lassonthwayte and the friendship that would soon be struck up between
Percy and Mr. Hunt. The railway passed by the village of Worthbourne,
and he called Violet to look out at what might yet be Theodora's home.

'For the sake of John and Helen too,' said Violet; while the children,
eager for anything approaching to a sight, peeped out at the window, and
exclaimed that there was a flag flying on the top of the church steeple.

'The village wake, I suppose,' said Arthur. 'Ha! Helen, we will surprise
Uncle Percy by knowing all about it!'

At the halt at the Worthbourne station, he accordingly put out his head
to ask the meaning of the flag.

'It is for the son and heir, sir. Old Sir Antony's grandson.'

Arthur drew in his head faster than he had put it out, making mutterings
to himself that a good deal surprised the children. After their long
pleasuring, Cadogan-place looked dingy, and Violet as she went up to the
drawing-room in the gray twilight, could not help being glad that only
three months of Arthur's sick leave had expired, and that they were
to be there for no more than one night. In spite of many precious
associations, she could not love a London house, and the Lassonthwayte
cottage seemed the prettier in remembrance.

Arthur had fetched his papers, and had been sitting thoughtful for some
time after Johnnie had gone to bed, when he suddenly looked up and said,
'Violet, would it be a great vexation to you if we gave up this scheme?'

'Don't think of me. I always thought you might view it differently from
a distance.'

'It is not that,' said Arthur; 'I never liked any one better than Hunt,
and it is nine if not ten miles from the town. But, Violet, I find we
are in worse plight than I thought. Here are bills that must be renewed,
and one or two things I had forgotten, and while I owe the money and
more too, I could hardly in honesty speculate with the price of my
commission.'

'No!--oh! You could never be comfortable in doing so.'

'If it was only Percy that was concerned, I might get him to risk it,
and then double it, and set him and Theodora going handsomely; but--No,
it is of no use to think about it. I wish it could be--'

'You are quite right, I am sure.'

'The thing that settles it with me is this,' continued Arthur. 'It is
a way of business that would throw me with the old set, and there is no
safety but in keeping clear of them. I might have been saved all this
if I had not been ass enough to put my neck into Gardner's noose that
unlucky Derby-day. I had promised never to bet again after I married,
and this is the end of it! So I think I have no right to run into
temptation again, even for the chance of getting clear. Do you?'

'You are quite right,' she repeated. 'If the money is not our own, it
would only be another sort--'

'Of gambling. Ay! And though in those days I did not see things as I
do now, and Hunt is another sort of fellow, I fancy you had rather not
trust me, mamma?' said he, looking with a rather sad though arch smile
into her face.

'Dear Arthur, you know--'

'I know I won't trust myself,' he answered, trying to laugh it off. 'And
you'll be a good child, and not cry for the cottage?'

'Oh, no! Mamma and I both thought there might possibly be considerations
against it, especially as the girls grow up.'

'That's right. I could not bear giving up what you seemed to fancy.
but we will visit them when we want a mouthful of air, and Annette and
Octavia shall come and stay with us. I should like to show Octavia a
little of the world.'

'Then, we shall go on as we are?'

'Yes; spend as little as may be, and pay off so much a year. If we keep
no horses, that is so much clear gain.'

'That seems the best way; but I almost fear your being well without
riding.'

'No fear of that! I don't want to go out, and you never do. We will take
our long walks, and, as Percy says, I will read and be rational. I mean
to begin Johnnie's Latin as soon as we are settled in. Why, I quite look
forward to it.'

'How delighted Johnnie will be!'

'We shall do famously!' repeated Arthur. 'Nothing like home, after all.'

Violet did not think he quite knew what he undertook, and her heart sank
at the idea of a London winter, with his health and spirits failing for
want of his usual resources. He imagined himself perfectly recovered;
but when he went the next day to show himself to the doctor, the
stethoscope revealed that the damage was not so entirely removed but
that the greatest care would be necessary for some time to come. It sat
lightly on him; his spirits depended on his sensations, and he had no
fears but that a few months would remove all danger; and Violet would
say no word of misgiving. She would have felt that to remonstrate would
have been to draw him back, after his first step in the path of resolute
self-denial.


CHAPTER 17


     On Sunday, Heaven's gate stands ope,
     Blessings are plentiful and rife,
                More plentiful than hope.

     --G. HERBERT


'Five years! How little can letters convey the true state of affairs!
They can but record events--not their effects nor the insensible changes
that may have taken place. My aunt's death I know, but not what my
mother is without her. I have heard of my father's cares, but I have
yet to see whether he is aged or broken. And Theodora, she has had many
trials, but what can she be--tamed and refined as they tell me she is?
I wish I could have gone through London to see Arthur and Violet. There
again is the anxious question, whether his repentance is really such
as his touching letter led me to hope. One at least I trust to see
unchanged--my sweet sister, my best correspondent! Foolish it is
to cling to the hope of meeting her again, as that vision of
loveliness--that creature of affection and simplicity, that first awoke
me to a return of cheerfulness! The boy, too--my godson, my child! he
has been the dream of my solitude. At last, here is the village. How
bright its welcome, this summer evening! Old faces!--may those at home
be as unchanged. Alteration enough here! Even at this distance I see the
ruin; but how richly green the park! How fresh the trees, and the shade
of the avenue! This is home, thanks to Him who has led me safely back.
Whom do I see yonder in the avenue? A gentleman leading a pony, and a
little boy on it! Can it be?--impossible! Yet the step and manner are
just as he used to lead Violet's horse, Surely, it must be he! I must
meet him and hear all before going up to the house, it will prepare
them. Stop here.

He was out of the carriage in a moment, and walking down the avenue,
feeling as if he only now was in the right way home; but a misgiving
crossing him as he came nearer the two figures that had attracted
him--there was less resemblance on a nearer view than in the general air
when further off.

A shout--'Hollo, John!' settled all doubts.

'Arthur! is it you?' and the brothers' hands were locked together.

'Here is a gentleman you know something of, and who has thought very
much of you,' continued Arthur, proudly. 'There, is not he like her?' as
he tried to give a cock-up to the limp, flapping straw hat, under shade
of which Johnnie was glowing up to his curls.

'Her very look!' said John. 'How is she, Arthur, and all of them?'

'All well. Have you not been at home yet!'

'No; I saw you here, and I could not help coming to meet you, that I
might know if all was right.'

'You would have found no one at home, unless my mother and Violet are
come in. They are always creeping about together.'

'Where is my father?'

'Looking after the workmen at the farm. We left him there because it
was Johnnie's supper-time. Why, John, what a hale, middle-aged looking
subject you are grown! Was it not wonderful sagacity in me to know you?'

'Greater than mine,' said John. 'My instinct was failing as I came near.
Are you really well?'

'Never better. Johnnie and his mamma nursed me well again, and Helvellyn
breezes blew away the remainder. When did you land?'

'This morning. We put in at Liverpool, and I came on at once. How is my
mother? She had not been well.'

'She was ailing all the winter, but a house full of grandchildren seems
to have cured her completely. You will stare to see her a perfect slave
to--our eldest girl,' said Arthur, checking himself as he was about to
speak the name, and John turned to the child.

'Well, Johnnie, and are you fond of riding?'

'With papa holding the rein,' and Johnnie edged closer to his father.

'Ay! I hope your uncle did not expect a godson like your dear Coeur de
Lion, whom you have been romancing about all the way home. What is the
country your uncle has seen, and you want to see, Johnnie?'

'Please, don't now, papa,' whispered Johnnie, colouring deeply.

'Yes, yes, you shall have it out when you are better acquainted,' said
Arthur, patting both boy and pony. 'Well, John, is this the fellow you
expected?'

John smiled, but before he could answer, a voice from behind, shouting
to them to wait, caused him to turn, exclaiming, 'Percy! I did not know
he was here! And Theodora!'

'He came a day or two ago--'

Theodora blushed crimson, and all the glad words of welcome were
spoken by Percy; but he then fell into the background, taking charge of
Johnnie, while the other three walked on together, Theodora's arm within
that of her eldest brother.

'Thank you for your letter,' said Arthur. 'It did me great good.'

'My impulse was to have set out at once on receiving yours, but I was
obliged to wait to get things into train for going on without me; and
since that there have been delays of steamers.'

'You could not have come at a better time. We only wanted you to make us
complete--'

Arthur was interrupted by a joyous outcry of 'Papa! papa!' from a little
group on the other side of the road into which they were emerging.

'Ay! and who else! Look at this fellow!' cried he, catching from Sarah's
arm, and holding aloft an elf, whose round mouth and eyes were all
laughter, and sturdy limbs all movement, the moment he appeared. 'There!
have we not improved in babies since your time! And here is a round
dumpling that calls itself Anna. And that piece of mischief is
grandmamma's girl, Aunt Theodora's double.'

Those flashing black eyes were not the ideal John had attached to the
name which Arthur had paused to speak; but it would have been hard to be
disappointed by the bright creature, who stood on the raised foot-path,
pretending to hide her face with a bunch of tall foxgloves, and peeping
out behind them to see whether she was noticed.

'The introduction is all on one side,' said Percy. 'Do you know who it
is, Helen?'

Helen stuck her chin into her neck. She would tell her surmise to no
one but Johnnie, who had persuaded Mr. Fotheringham to lift him from
horseback, where he was never at ease with any one but papa. He looked
up smiling: 'Helen thinks it must be Uncle Martindale, because papa is
so glad.'

Helen ran away, but returned for a ride; and when the party, that had
gathered like a snow-ball, came in front of the cottage, Percy was
holding both little sisters on the pony at once, Theodora still leaning
on her eldest brother's arm, Johnnie gravely walking on the foot-path,
studying his uncle, and Arthur, with the young Arthur pulling his
whiskers all the time, was walking forwards and backwards, round and
about his brother, somewhat in the ecstatic aimless fashion of a dog who
meets his master.

He was the first to exclaim, 'There she is! Run on, Johnnie, tell mamma
and grandmamma whom we have here.'

The first greeting was left exclusively to Lady Martindale. When John's
attention was again at liberty, Violet was standing by her husband,
saying, with a sweet smile of playful complaint, 'And you have shown him
all the children and I was not there!'

'Never mind. They will show off much better with you, you jealous woman.
What does John think to hear you scolding?'

'Has he seen all the children?' said Lady Martindale, taking up the
note. 'Oh! what is Mr. Fotheringham doing with Helen and Annie? It is
very dangerous!'

And Lady Martindale hastened to watch over the little girls, who, of
course, were anything but grateful for her care, while Violet was asking
John about his voyage, and inquiring after the interests he had left in
Barbuda.

The first sight of her was a shock. The fragile roses that had dwelt
on his imagination had faded away, and she was now, indeed, a beautiful
woman,--but not the creature of smiles and tears whom he remembered.
The pensive expression, the stamp of anxiety, and the traces of
long-continued over-exertion, were visible enough to prove to him that
his fears had been fulfilled, and that she had suffered too deeply ever
to return to what she had once been.

Yet never had John so enjoyed an arrival, nor felt so thoroughly at
home, as when his father had joined them, full of quiet and heartfelt
gladness. Stiffness and formality seemed to have vanished with the state
rooms; and there was no longer the circle on company terms, for Lady
Martindale herself was almost easy, and Theodora's words, though few,
were devoid of the sullen dignity of old times. Violet's timidity, too,
was gone, and the agitated wistful glances she used to steal towards
her husband, had now become looks of perfect, confiding, yet fostering
affection. John saw her appealed to, consulted, and put forward as
important to each and all of the family party, as if every one of them
depended on her as he had been wont to do, while she still looked as
retiring as ever, and taken up by watching that the children behaved
well.

The occupation of the evening was the looking over plans for the new
house. Lord Martindale had them all ready, and John soon perceived that
his father's wishes were that he should prefer those which most nearly
reproduced the original building, pulled down to please Mrs. Nesbit.
Lady Martindale had surprised them by making from memory a beautiful
sketch of the former house; and her husband, to whom each line produced
a fresh hoard of reminiscences, was almost disappointed that John's
recollection did not go back far enough to recognize the likeness,
though he was obliged to confess that not a wall of it was standing when
he was two years old.

The general vote was, of course, that Old Martindale should be
renewed,--and it was to be begun--when?

'When ways and means are found,' said Lord Martindale. 'We must talk
over that another time, John.'

John, as he bade Theodora good night, murmured thanks for the safety
of all the properties which he had been surprised to find in the room
prepared for him. Her eyes were liquid as she faltered her answer.

'O, John, it was such a pleasure! How much you have to forgive! How
right you were, and how wrong I was!'

'Hush! not now,' said John, kindly.

'Yes, now, I cannot look at you till I have said it. I have felt the
truth of every word you said, and I beg your pardon for all that has
passed.'

He pressed her hand in answer, saying, 'It was my fault. But all is well
now, and you know how I rejoice.'

'Everything is everybody's fault,' said Percy, joining him; 'but we must
not stop to battle the point, or Mr. Hugh Martindale's housekeeper will
be irate. Good night, Theodora.'

Percy and John were quartered at the Vicarage, and walked thither, at
first in silence, till the former said, 'Well, what do you think of it?'

'The best coming home I ever had, and the most surprising. I have seen
so much that is unexpected, that I don't know how to realize it.'

'Heartsease,' was Percy's brief reply.

'Violet? You don't mean it!'

'The history of these years is this,' said Percy, making an emphatic
mark on the gravel with his stick. 'Every one else has acted, more or
less, idiotically. She has gone about softening, healing, guarding,
stirring up the saving part of each one's disposition. If, as she avers,
you and Helen formed her, you gave a blessing to all of us.'

'How can this be? No one has spoken of her power.'

'It is too feminine to be recognized. When you talk to the others you
will see I am right. I will speak for myself. I verily believe that
but for her I should have been by this time an unbearable disappointed
misanthrope.'

'A likely subject,' said John, laughing.

'You cannot estimate the shock our rupture gave me, nor tell how I
tried to say "don't care," and never saw my savage spite till her gentle
rebuke showed it to me. Her rectitude and unselfishness kept up my faith
in woman, and saved me from souring and hardening. On the other hand,
her firmness won Theodora's respect, her softness, her affection. She
led where I drove, acted the sun where I acted Boreas; and it is she who
has restored us to each other.'

'Highly as I esteemed Violet, I little thought to hear this! My father
wrote that he regretted Theodora's having been left to one so little
capable of controlling her.'

'Lord Martindale is a very good man, but he has no more discrimination
of character than my old cat!' cried Percy. 'I beg your pardon, John,
but the fact was patent. Mrs. Martindale is the only person who has ever
been a match for Theodora. She conquered her, made her proud to submit,
and then handed her over to the lawful authorities. If Lord Martindale
has an unrivalled daughter, he ought to know whom to thank for it.'

'I hope he appreciates Violet.'

'In a sort he does. He fully appreciates her in her primary vocation,
as who would not, who had watched her last winter, and who sees what she
has made her husband.'

'Then you are satisfied about Arthur?'

'Better than I ever thought to be.'

'And, Percy, what is this that he tells me of your having rescued him at
your own expense?'

'Has he told you all that?' exclaimed Percy.

'He wished me to know it in case of his death.'

'I could not help it, John,' said Percy, in apology. 'If you had seen
her and her babies, and had to leave him in that condition on her hands,
you would have seen there was nothing for it but to throw a sop to the
hounds, so that at least they might leave him to die in peace.'

'It saved him! But why did you object to my father's hearing of it?'

'Because I knew he would dislike any sense of obligation, and that he
could not conveniently pay it off. Besides, we had to keep Arthur's
mouth shut out of consideration for the blood-vessel, so I told him to
let it rest till you should come. I fancy we have all been watching
for you as a sort of "Deus ex Machina" to clear up the last act of the
drama, though how you are to do so, I cannot conceive.'

The next day was Sunday, almost the first truly homelike Sunday of
John's life. Not only was there the churchgoing among friends and
kindred after long separation, but the whole family walked thither
together, as John had never known them do before; and with his mother
on his arm, his little godson holding Lord Martindale's hand, Helen
skipping between her father and mother, Theodora gentle and subdued, it
seemed as if now, for the first time, they had become a household of the
same mind.

It was one of the most brilliant days of summer--a cloudless sky of deep
blue sunshine, in which the trees seemed to bask, and the air, though
too fresh to be sultry, disposing to inaction. After the second service,
there was a lingering on the lawn, and desultory talk about the contrast
to the West Indian Sundays, and the black woolly-headed congregation
responding and singing so heartily, and so uncontrollably gay and merry.

At length, when Johnnie and Helen, who had an insatiable appetite for
picaninny stories, had been summoned to supper, John and Violet found
that the rest of their companions had dispersed, and that they were
alone.

'I told you that Fanshawe came home with me,' said John. 'The new
arrangements have increased his income;' then, as Violet looked up
eagerly and hopefully,--'he made me a confidence, at which I see you
guess.'

'I only hope mamma will not be anxious about the climate. I must tell
her how well it has agreed with you.'

'I am glad that you think there are hopes for him. It has been a long
attachment, but he thought it wrong to engage her affections while he
had no prospect of being able to marry.'

'It is what we guessed!' said Violet. 'Dear Annette! If he is what I
remember him, she must be happy.'

'I can hardly speak highly enough of him. I have found him a most
valuable friend, and am sincerely glad to be connected with him; but,
tell me, is not this the sister about whom Percy made a slight mistake!'

'Oh! do you know that story? Yes, it was dear Annette! Otherwise
I should never have known about Mr. Fanshawe. It was only a vague
preference, but it was very fortunate that it prevented any attachment
to Percy, or it would have been hard to decide what would be right.'

'Percy was much obliged to you.'

'He was very kind not to be angry. I could have wished it exceedingly,
but I am so glad that I did not persuade Annette, and particularly glad
of this, for she has been out of spirits, and rather wasting her bloom
at home, without much definite employment.'

'I understand. And did you never wish that you had influenced her
otherwise?'

'If Percy and Theodora had not been reconciled, I thought I might have
done so. It did seem a long time to go on in doubt whether I had acted
for her happiness.'

'But you acted in faith that the straightforward path was the safest.'

'And now I am so thankful.' She paused, they were passing the
drawing-room, and saw Arthur lying asleep on the sofa. She stepped in
at the French window, threw a light shawl over him, and closed the door.
'He did not sleep till daylight this morning,' she said, returning to
John. 'Any excitement gives him restless nights.'

'So I feared when I saw those two red spots on his cheeks in the
evening. I know them well! But how white and thin he looks! I want to
hear what you think of him. My father considers him fully recovered. Do
you?'

Violet shook her head. 'He is as well as could be hoped after such an
illness,' she said; 'and Dr. L. tells him there is no confirmed disease,
but that his chest is in a very tender state, and he must take the
utmost care. That delightful mountain air at Lassonthwayte entirely took
away his cough, and it has not returned, though he is more languid and
tired than he was in the north, but he will not allow it, his spirits
are so high.'

'I should like you to spend the winter abroad.'

'That cannot be. If he is able in October, he must join, and the
regiment is likely to be in London all the winter,' said Violet, with a
sigh.

'Then he does not mean to sell out?'

'No, we cannot afford it. We must live as little expensively as we can,
to get clear of the difficulties. Indeed, now the horses are gone, it is
such a saving that we have paid off some bills already.'

'Has Arthur really parted with his horses?'

'With all of them, even that beautiful mare. I am afraid he will miss
her very much, but I cannot say a word against it, for I am sure it is
right.'

'ALL the horses?' repeated John. 'What are you to do without a carriage
horse?'

'Oh! that is nothing new. We have not had one fit for me to use, since
the old bay fell lame three years ago. That does not signify at all, for
walking with the children suits me much better.'

John was confounded. He had little notion of existence without carriages
and horses.

'I shall have Arthur to walk with now. He promises Johnnie and me
delightful walks in the park,' said Violet, cheerfully, 'if he is but
well.'

'Ah! I see you dread that winter.'

'I do!' came from the bottom of Violet's heart, spoken under her breath;
then, as if regretting her admission, she smiled and said, 'Perhaps
there is no need! He has no fears, and it will be only too pleasant to
have him at home. I don't think about it,' added she, replying to the
anxious eyes that sought to read her fears. 'This summer is too happy to
be spoilt with what may be only fancies, and after the great mercies
we have received, it would be too bad to distrust and grieve over the
future. I have so often thanked you for teaching me the lesson of the
lilies.'

'I fear you have had too much occasion to practise it.'

'It could not be too much!' said Violet. 'But often I do not know what
would have become of me, if I had not been obliged, as a duty, to put
aside fretting thoughts, and been allowed to cast the shadow of the
cross on my vexations.'

His eye fell on a few bright links of gold peeping out round her
neck--'You have THAT still. May I see it?'

She took off the chain and placed it in his hand. 'Thanks for it, more
than ever!' she said. 'My friend and preacher in time of need it has
often been, and Johnnie's too.'

'Johnnie?'

'Yes, you know the poor little man has had a great deal of illness. This
is the first spring he has been free from croup; and you would hardly
believe what a comfort that cross has been to him. He always feels for
the chain, that he may squeeze Aunt Helen's cross. At one time I was
almost afraid that it was a superstition, he was such a very little
fellow; but when I talked to him, he said, "I like it because of our
Blessed Saviour. It makes me not mind the pain so much, because you said
that was like Him, and would help to make me good if I was patient."
Then I remembered what I little understood, when you told me that the
cross was his baptismal gift to sweeten his heritage of pain.'

John was much affected. 'Helen's cross has indeed borne abundant fruit!'
said he.

'I told you how even I forgot it at first in the fire, and how it was
saved by Johnnie's habit of grasping it in his troubles.'

'I am glad it was he!'

'Theodora said that he alone was worthy. But I am afraid to hear such
things said of him; I am too ready without them to think too much of my
boy.'

'It would be difficult,' began John; then smiling, 'perhaps I ought to
take to myself the same caution; the thought of Johnnie has been so much
to me, and now I see him he is so unlike my expectations, and yet so far
beyond them. I feel as if I wanted a larger share of him than you and
his father can afford me.'

'I don't think we shall be jealous,' was the happy answer. 'Arthur is
very proud of your admiration of Master Johnnie. You know we have always
felt as if you had a right in him.'

Percy and Theodora here returned from the park, rejoicing to find others
as tardy in going in as themselves; Arthur, awakened by the voices, came
out, and as the others hurried in, asked John what they had been talking
about.

'Of many things,' said John; 'much of my godson.'

'Ay!' said Arthur; 'did you not wonder how anything so good can belong
to me?'

John smiled, and said, 'His goodness belongs to nothing here.'

'Nay, it is no time to say that after talking to his mother,' said
Arthur; 'though I know what you mean, and she would not let me say so.
Well, I am glad you are come, for talks with you are the greatest treat
to her. She seemed to be gathering them up again at Ventnor, and was
always telling me of them. She declares they taught her everything good;
though that, of course, I don't believe, you know,' he added, smiling.

'No; there was much in which she needed no teaching, and a few hints
here and there do not deserve what she ascribes to them.'

'John,' said Arthur, coming nearer to him, and speaking low, 'she and
her boy are more perfect creatures than you can guess, without knowing
the worst of me. You warned me that I must make her happy, and you
saw how it was the first year. It has been worse since that. I have
neglected them, let them deny themselves, ruined them, been positively
harsh to that angel of a boy; and how they could love me, and be patient
with me throughout, is what I cannot understand, though--though I can
feel it.'

'Truly,' thought John, as Arthur hastily quitted him, ashamed of his
emotion, 'if Violet be my scholar, she has far surpassed her teacher!
Strange that so much should have arisen apparently from my attempt to
help and cheer the poor dispirited girl, in that one visit to
Ventnor, which I deemed so rash a venture of my own comfort--useless,
self-indulgent wretch that I was. She has done the very deeds that I had
neglected. My brother and sister, even my mother and Helen's brother,
all have come under her power of firm meekness--all, with one voice, are
ready to "rise up and call her blessed!" Nay, are not these what Helen
would have most wished to effect, and is it not her memorials that have
been the instruments of infusing that spirit into Violet? These are
among the works that follow her, or, as they sung this evening--

     "For seeds are sown of glorious light,
       A future harvest for the just,
     And gladness for the heart that's right
       To recompense its pious trust."'

And in gladness did he stand before the house that had been destined as
the scene of his married life, and look forth on the churchyard where
Helen slept. He was no longer solitary, since he had begun to bear the
burdens of others; for no sooner did he begin to work, than he felt that
he worked with her.


CHAPTER 18


     That we, whose work commenced in tears,
       May see our labours thrive,
     Till finished with success, to make
       Our drooping hearts revive.
     Though he despond that sows his grain,
       Yet, doubtless, he shall come
     To bind his full-ear'd sheaves, and bring
       The joyful harvest home.

     --Psalm 126.  New Version


Business cares soon began. Arthur consented to allow his brother to lay
his embarrassments before his father. 'Do as you please,' he said;
'but make him understand that I am not asking him to help me out of the
scrape. He does all he can for me, and cannot afford more; or, if
he could, Theodora ought to be thought of first. All I wish is, that
something should be secured to Violet and the children, and that, if I
don't get clear in my lifetime, these debts may not be left for Johnnie.

'That you may rely on,' said John. 'I wish I could help you; but there
were many things at Barbuda that seemed so like fancies of my own, that
I could not ask my father to pay for them, and I have not much at my
disposal just now.'

'It is a good one to hear you apologizing to me!' said Arthur, laughing,
but rather sadly, as John carried off the ominous pocket-book to the
study, hoping to effect great things for his brother; and, as the best
introduction, he began by producing the letter written at Christmas.
Lord Martindale was touched by the commencement, but was presently lost
in surprise on discovering Percy's advance.

'Why could he not have written to me? Did he think I was not ready to
help my own son?'

'It was necessary to act without loss of time.'

'If it were necessary to pay down the sum, why not tell me of it,
instead of letting poor Arthur give him a bond that is worth nothing?'

'I fancy, if he had any notion of regaining Theodora, he was unwilling
you or she should know the extent of the obligation.'

'It is well I do know it. I thought it unsatisfactory to hear of no
profit, after all the talk there has been about his books. I feared it
was an empty trade: but this is something like. Five thousand! He is a
clever fellow after all!'

'I hope he may soon double it,' said John, amused at this way of
estimating Percy's powers.

'Well, it was a friendly act,' continued Lord Martindale. 'A little
misjudged in the manner, perhaps; but if you had seen the state Arthur
was in--'

'I should have forgiven Percy?' said John, with a slightly ironical
smile, that made his father laugh.

'Not that I am blaming him,' he said; 'but it shall be paid him at
once if it comes to selling Wyelands. You know one cannot be under
an obligation of this sort to a lad whom one has seen grow up in the
village.'

'Perhaps he wishes it to be considered as all in the family.'

'So it is. That is the worst of it. It is so much out of what he would
have had with Theodora, and little enough there is for her. A dead loss!
Could not Arthur have had more sense, at his age, and with all those
children! What's all this?' reading on in dismay. 'Seven thousand more
at least! I'll have nothing to do with it!'

An hour after, John came out into the verandah, where Percy was reading,
and asked if he knew where Arthur was.

'He got into a ferment of anxiety, and Violet persuaded him to walk it
off. He is gone out with Johnnie and Helen. Well, how has he fared?'

'Not as well as I could wish. My father will not do more towards the
debts than paying you.'

'Ho! I hope he does not think I acted very impertinently towards him?'
John laughed, and Percy continued,

'Seriously, I believe it is the impertinence hardest to forgive, and I
shall be glad when the subject is done with. That will be so much off
Arthur's mind.'

'I wish more was; but I had no idea that there was so little available
money amongst us. All I can gain in his favour is, that the estate is
to be charged with five hundred pounds a year for Violet in case of his
death; and there's his five thousand pounds for the children; but, for
the present debts, my father will only say that, perhaps he may help, if
he sees that Arthur is exerting himself to economize and pay them off.'

'Quite as much as could reasonably be expected. The discipline will be
very good for him.'

'If it does not kill him,' said John, sighing. 'My father does not
realize the shock to his health. He is in the state now that I was in
when we went abroad, and--'

'And I firmly believe that if you had had anything to do but nurse your
cough, you would have been in much better health.'

'But it is not only for Arthur that I am troubled. What can be worse
than economizing in London, in their position? What is to become of
Violet, without carriage, without--'

Percy laughed. 'Without court-dresses and powdered footmen? No, no,
John. Depend upon it, as long as Violet has her husband safe at home,
she wants much fewer necessaries of life than you do.'

'Well, I will try to believe it right. I see it cannot be otherwise.'

Arthur was not of this mind. He was grateful for his father's
forgiveness and assistance, and doubly so for the provision for
his wife, hailing it as an unexpected and undeserved kindness. Lord
Martindale was more pleased by his manner in their interview than ever
he had been before. Still there were many difficulties: money was to
be raised; and the choice between selling, mortgaging, or cutting down
timber, seemed to go to Lord Martindale's heart. He had taken such pride
in the well-doing of his estate! He wished to make further retrenchments
in the stable and garden arrangements; but, as he told John, he knew
not how to reduce the enormous expense of the latter without giving more
pain to Lady Martindale than he could bear to inflict.

John offered to sound her, and discover whether the notion of dismissing
Armstrong and his crew would be really so dreadful. He found that
she winced at the mention of her orchids and ferns, they recalled
the thought of her aunt's love for them, and she had not been in the
conservatories for months. John said a word or two on the cost of
keeping them up, and the need of prudence, with a view to providing for
Arthur's children. It was the right chord. She looked up, puzzled: her
mathematical knowledge had never descended to £.s.d.

'Is there a difficulty? I thought my dear aunt had settled all her
property on dear little Johnnie.'

'Yes, but only when he comes to the title; and for the others there is
absolutely nothing but Arthur's five thousand pounds to be divided among
them all.'

'You don't say so, John? Poor little dears! there is scarcely more than
a thousand a-piece. Surely, there is my own property--'

'I am sorry to say it was settled so as to go with the title. The only
chance for them is what can be saved--'

'Save everything, then,' exclaimed Lady Martindale. 'I am sure I would
give up anything, if I did but know what. We have not had leaders for
a long time past, and Theodora's dumb boy does as well as the second
footman; Standaloft left me because she could not bear to live in a
cottage; Grimes suits me very well; and I do not think I could do quite
without a maid.'

'No, indeed, my dear mother,' said John, smiling; 'that is the last
thing to be thought of. All my father wished to know was, whether it
would grieve you if we gave the care of the gardens to somewhat less of
a first-rate genius?'

'Not in the least,' said Lady Martindale, emphatically. 'I shall never
bear to return to those botanical pursuits. It was for her sake. Dear
little Helen and the rest must be the first consideration. Look here!
she really has a very good notion of drawing.'

John perceived that his mother was happier than she had ever been, in
waiting upon the children, and enjoying the company of Violet, whose
softness exactly suited her; while her decision was a comfortable
support to one who had all her life been trained round a stake. They
drove and walked together; and Lady Martindale, for the first time, was
on foot in the pretty lanes of her own village; she had even stopped at
cottage doors, when Violet had undertaken a message while Theodora was
out with Percy, and one evening she appeared busy with a small lilac
frock that Helen imagined herself to be making. Lady Martindale was much
too busy with the four black-eyed living blossoms to set her heart on
any griffin-headed or monkey-faced orchids; and her lord found that she
was one of those who would least be sensible of his reductions. Theodora
was continually surprised to see how much more successful than herself
Violet was in interesting her, and keeping her cheerful. Perhaps it was
owing to her own vehemence; but with the best intentions she had failed
in producing anything like the present contentment. And, somehow, Lord
and Lady Martindale seemed so much more at ease together, and to have so
much more to say to each other, that their Cousin Hugh one day observed,
it was their honeymoon.


'I say, John,' said Percy, one night, as they were walking to the
vicarage, 'I wish you could find me something to do in the West Indies.'

'I should be very sorry to export you--'

'I must do something!' exclaimed Percy. 'I was thinking of emigration;
but your sister could not go in the present state of things here; and
she will not hear of my going and returning when I have built a nest for
her.'

'No, indeed!' said John. 'Your powers were not given for the hewing down
of forests.'

'Were not they?' said Percy, stretching and clenching a hard muscular
wrist and hand.

      '"A man's a man for a' that!"

I tell you, John, I am wearying for want of work--hard, downright,
substantial work!'

'Well, you have it, have you not?'

'Pshaw! Pegasus won't let himself out on hire. I can't turn my sport
into my trade. When I find myself writing for the lucre of gain, the
whole spirit leaves me.'

'That is what you have been doing for some time.'

'No such thing. Literature was my holiday friend at first; and if she
put a gold piece or two into my pocket, it was not what I sought her
for. Then she came to my help to beguile what I thought was an interval
of waiting for the serious task of life. I wrote what I thought was
wanted. I sent it forth as my way of trying what service I could do
in my generation. But now, when I call it my profession, when I think
avowedly, what am I to get by it?--Faugh! the Muse is disgusted;
and when I go to church, I hang my head at "Lay not up to yourselves
treasures upon earth--"'

'A fine way you found of laying them up!'

'It proved the way to get them back.'

'I do not understand your objection. You had laid up that sum--your fair
earning.'

'There it was: it had accumulated without positive intention on my part;
I mean that I had of course taken my due, and not found occasion to
spend it. It is the writing solely for gain, with malice prepense
to save it,--that is the stumbling-block. I don't feel as if I was
justified in it, nay, I cannot do it; my ideas do not flow even on
matters wont to interest me most. It was all very well when waiting on
Arthur was an object; but after he was gone, I found it out. I could not
turn to writing, and if I did, out came things I was ashamed of. No! an
able-bodied man of five-and-thirty is meant for tougher work than review
and history-mongering! I have been teaching a ragged school, helping at
any charities that needed a hand; but it seems amateur work, and I want
to be in the stream of life again!'

'I will not say what most would--it was a pity you resigned your former
post.'

'No pity at all. That has made a pair of good folks very happy. If I had
kept certain hasty judgments to myself, I should not have been laid on
the shelf. It is no more than I deserve, and no doubt it is good for me
to be humbled and set aside; but work I will get of some kind! I
looked in at a great factory the other day, and longed to apply for a
superintendent's place, only I thought it might not be congruous with an
Honourable for a wife.'

'You don't mean to give up writing?'

'No, to make it my play. I feel like little Annie, when she called
herself puss without a corner. I have serious thoughts of the law. Heigh
ho! Good night.'

John grieved over the disappointed tone so unusual in the buoyant Percy,
and revolved various devices for finding employment for him; but was
obliged to own that a man of his age, whatever his powers, when once
set aside from the active world, finds it difficult to make for himself
another career. It accounted to John for the degree of depression which
he detected in Theodora's manner, which, at all times rather grave, did
not often light up into animation, and never into her quaint moods of
eccentric determination; she was helpful and kind, but submissive and
indifferent to what passed around her.

In fact, Theodora felt the disappointment of which Percy complained,
more uniformly than he did himself. He thought no more of it when
conversation was going on, when a service was to be done to any living
creature, or when he was playing with the children; but the sense of his
vexation always hung upon her; perhaps the more because she felt that
her own former conduct deserved no happiness, and that his future was
involved in hers. She tried to be patient, but she could not be gay.

Her scheme had been for Percy to take a farm, but he answered that he
had lived too much abroad, and in towns, to make agriculture succeed in
England. In the colonies perhaps,--but her involuntary exclamation of
dismay at the idea of letting him go alone, had made him at once abandon
the project. When, however, she saw how enforced idleness preyed on him,
and with how little spirit he turned to his literary pursuits, she began
to think it her duty to persuade him to go; and to this she had on this
very night, with a great effort, made up her mind.

'There is space in his composition for more happiness than depends on
me,' said she to Violet. 'Exertion, hope, trust in me will make him
happy; and he shall not waste his life in loitering here for my sake.'

'Dear Theodora, I fear it will cost you a great deal.'

'Never mind,' said Theodora; 'I am more at peace than I have been for
years. Percy has suffered enough through me already.'

Violet looked up affectionately at her fine countenance, and gave one
of the mute caresses that Theodora liked from her, though she could have
borne them from no one else.

Theodora smiled, sighed, and then, shaking off the dejected tone, said,
'Well, I suppose you will have a letter from Wrangerton to tell you it
is settled. I wonder if you will go to the wedding. Oh! Violet, if
you had had one particle of selfishness or pettiness, how many unhappy
people you would have made!'

Violet's last letter from home had announced that Mr. Fanshawe had come
to stay with Mr. Jones, and she was watching eagerly for the next
news. She went down-stairs quickly, in the morning, to seek for her own
letters among the array spread on the sideboard.

Percy was alone in the room, standing by the window. He started at her
entrance, and hardly gave time for a good morning, before he asked where
Theodora was.

'I think she is not come in. I have not seen her.'

He made a step to the door as if to go and meet her.

'There is nothing wrong, I hope.'

'I hope not! I hope there is no mistake. Look here.'

He held up, with an agitated grasp, a long envelope with the mighty
words, 'On her Majesty's service;' and before Violet's eyes he laid a
letter offering him a diplomatic appointment in Italy.

Because wife says she shall certainly accompany me.

_Barmaid_. Because I've just been ill for a fortnight from overwork,
and the Company say they can't give any more leave.

_Eastend Clergyman_ (_of any church._) Because there are hundreds who
want it more than I do, and I must help them to get a change first.

_Major Hornblower_. Because MACCRACSHOTT (the only man who has asked
me) was in the smoking-room the night I was fool enough to tell
that Snipe and Rhinoceros Story of PEYTON's in the first person.

_Quiverful_. Because there's another pair.

* * * * *
EPITAPH ON AN OLD CRICKETER'S TOMBSTONE.

--"Out at 70."
* * * * *

MUSICAL NOTES.

_Popping a Question._--The _Daily News_, in its last week's "Music and
Musicians," informs us that "Mr.

CHAPPELL has now definitely decided that the season of Monday Popular
Concerts shall this year commence on a Tuesday." Sure then it must
be Mister O'CHAPPELL, the CHAPPELL by the hill-side, who arranges
to have his first "Monday Pop" on a Tuesday? If he be going out
shooting on his own native heath, his name O'CHAPPELL, then there's
no reason why he shouldn't have his first pop on a Tuesday, only it
couldn't be his Monday Pop, could it now? Or if he drinks _Mr. P.'s_
health in Pommery '80 (_grand vin!_), or let's say Poppery '80, he
could do so on a Tuesday, only it would no longer be the "Monday
Pop."

That's all. Sure 'tis mighty confusing and upsets the week entirely.
If Tuesday is to have all the Pop, what's to become of Monday? For further
particulars inquire at the Pop-shop, Bond Street.

The next great Musical Event is at the Gloucester Festival--it is Dr.
HUBERT PARRY "on the Job."

This, though the work of a thoroughly English Composer, may yet be
considered as an "_Article de Parry_."

* * * * *

"MARS IN OPPOSITION."--"Mother says I mustn't.

"
* * * * *
THIS PICTURE AND THAT.

(_EXTRACTS FROM THE DIARY OF A LOVER OF THE BEAUTIFUL._)
_First Extract_.

--Really an excellent notion to buy an estate, instead of picking up what
Mr. RUDYARD KIPLING calls a "smeared thing." Got one, too, pretty
cheap.

Twenty miles from a railway station, but so much the better. RUSKIN
hates railway stations, and so do I.

Never can make them look picturesque. The Agent tells me my place is
famous for its sunsets; also good moonlight effects on occasions. Pretty
village, too, in the background. Altogether, most satisfactory. After
all, Nature is much better than Art.

_Second Extract_.--Dullerton-on-the-Slush is a charming spot, but it
has its drawbacks. Pretty, but damp.

Fog interferes a good deal with the sunsets, and hides the moon at
the wrong moment.

Village deliciously out of repair. But tenants unreasonable. Offered to
put up some red brick roofs for them, which would have looked charming,
but they insist upon having slates. Wish they would consent to having
a few cows in the fields, but they say they prefer pigstyes. Have
consulted a builder and a gardener, and they think that they could "run
up" a stye between them, and cover it over with shrubs. Tenants object.
They say the pigs would not like it, and might eat the shrubs with
fatal results.

All this annoying, but still the view from my dining-room window
charming. It reminds me not a little of CONSTABLE, LINNELL, not to say
Old CROME.

_Third Extract_.--Further troubles.

Tenants are really very disagreeable, and they have no feeling for
Art. They have cut down a lot of ornamental trees, and they won't
grow the right sort of crops,--I mean from a picturesque point of
view.

As agriculturists they may be all right, but that's not my point.

I did not buy the estate to try how "roots" would thrive. Then they will
burn weeds, and hang out clothes to dry--clothes without any regard
to contrast of colour.

Eyesores meet me everywhere.

I am really not sure whether I acted wisely in trusting to a House-agent
instead of a Picture-dealer.

"Pictures by Nature" are not as reliable as they should be.

_Fourth Extract_.--This is really too bad! A perambulating Circus
has pitched its tent on the Village Green! When I say tent, I make
a mistake; it is a beastly ugly iron thing, that looks simply
hideous, and from the durable stoutness of its construction, it
evidently is going to be a fixture for some time. My tenants support
the Circus people, and my Agent tells me, that if I interfere, my
life will be made a burden to me. It appears my tenants are "a very
unruly lot when they are irritated." Pleasant!
_Fifth Extract_.--The Circus won't go. And now I find I can't get
any of my rents. My agent tells me, that my tenants never would
settle with their last landlord.I found he had
taken a great deal of trouble about me, recommended me strenuously,
brought forward my papers on foreign policy, and been at much pains
to confute that report that was afloat against me. He treated my
appointment as a personal favour; and he is a man of weight now. You
were right, Theodora; it would have been abominable to sulk in
our corner, because we had behaved ill ourselves, and to meet such
noble-spirited kindness as an offence.'

'I am very glad that you feel it so,' returned Theodora.

'Now that I have seen him I do so completely. And another thing I
have to thank you for, Violet, that you saved me from laying it on any
thicker in that criticism of his poetry.'

'I told you how he said that you had done him a great deal of good.'

'A signal instance--almost a single instance of candour. But there is
a nobility of mind in him above small resentments and jealousies. Ay!
there never will be anybody fit for him but Helen!'

'And Helen brought up to be much better than her aunt,' said Theodora.

'It won't be my mother's fault if she is,' said Arthur. --The
date on the "address label," indicates the time to which the subscription
is paid. Changes are made in date on label to the 10th of each month. If
payment of subscription be made afterward, the change on the label will
appear a month later. Please send early notice of change in post-office
address, giving the former address and the new address, in order
that our periodicals and occasional papers may be correctly mailed.

FORM OF A BEQUEST.

'I was incog. in
the next room; but it was too good to interrupt. Besides, Helen has
succeeded to my aunt's vacant throne, and my mother is never so hurt
as when Violet interferes with any of her vagaries. The other day, when
Violet carried her off roaring at not being allowed to turn grandmamma's
work-box inside out, her ladyship made a formal remonstrance to me on
letting the poor child's spirit be broken by strictness.'

'I hope you told her that some spirits would be glad to have been broken
long ago,' said Theodora.

'I only told her I had perfect faith in Violet's management.'

Percy was wanted speedily to set off for his new situation, and
the question of the marriage became difficult. His income was fully
sufficient, but Theodora had many scruples about leaving her mother,
whom the last winter had proved to be unfit to be left without
companionship. They doubted and consulted, and agreed that they must be
self-denying; but John came to their relief. He shrank with a sort of
horror from permitting such a sacrifice as his own had been; held that
it would be positively wrong to let their union be delayed any longer,
and found his father of the same opinion, though not knowing how Lady
Martindale would bear the loss. Perhaps his habit of flinching from
saying to her what he expected her to dislike, had been one cause of
Mrs. Nesbit's supremacy.

John, therefore, undertook to open her eyes to the necessity of
relinquishing her daughter, intending to offer himself as her companion
and attendant, ready henceforth to devote himself to her comfort, as the
means of setting free those who still had a fair prospect.

All._ (_with dignity_). I didn't say I always went to Margate.
On the contrary I have never been here before, and shouldn't be here
now, if my doctor hadn't told me it was my only chance.

_Mrs. Ard._ (_reassured_). I only came down here on my little girl's
account.'And you will not miss her so much when I am at home.'

_cypres_ or cyprus,--used by the old writers for _crape_: whether from
the French _crespe_ or from the Island whence it was imported. Its
accidental similarity in spelling to _cypress_ has, here and in
Milton's Penseroso, probably confused readers.

'I was thinking,' said Lady Martindale, with the slowness of one little
wont to originate a scheme, 'how pleasant it would be, if we could keep
Arthur and Violet always with us. I cannot bear to part with the dear
children, and I am sure they will all be ill again if they go back to
London.'

'To live with us! exclaimed John. 'Really, mother, you have found the
best plan of all. Nothing could be better!'

'Do you think your father would approve?' said Lady Martindale, eagerly.

