Online Distributed Proofreading Team (http://www.pgdp.net/)


THE LAND WE LIVE IN

Or

The Story of Our Country

by

HENRY MANN

Author of "Handbook for American Citizens," etc.


Published by
The Christian Herald,
Louis Klopsch, Proprietor,
Bible House, New York.
Copyright, 1896,
by Louis Klopsch.


INTRODUCTION.


"The Story of Our Country" has been often told, but cannot be told too
often. I have spared no effort to make the following pages interesting as
well as truthful, and to present, in graphic language, a pen-picture of
our nation's origin and progress. It is a story of events, and not a dry
chronicle of official succession. It is an attempt to give some fresh
color to facts that are well known, while depicting also other facts of
public interest which have never appeared in any general history. Wherever
I have taken the work of another I give credit therefor; otherwise this
little book is the fruit of original research and thought. The views
expressed will doubtless not please everybody, and some may think that I
go too far in pleading the cause of the original natives of the soil.
Historic justice demands that some one should tell the truth about the
Indians, whose chief and almost only fault has been that they occupied
lands which the white man wanted. Even now covetous eyes are cast upon the
territory reserved for the use of the remaining tribes.

For such statements in regard to General Jackson at New Orleans as differ
from the ordinary narrative I am indebted to a work never published, so
far as I am aware, in this country or in the English language--Vincent
Nolte's "Fifty Years in Both Hemispheres," issued in Hamburg in 1853. As
Nolte owned the cotton which Jackson appropriated, and also served as a
volunteer in the battle of New Orleans, he ought to be good authority.

In dealing with the late war I have sought to be just to both the Union
and the Confederacy. The lapse of over thirty years has given a more
accurate perspective to the events of that mighty struggle, in which, as
a soldier-boy of sixteen, I was an obscure participant, and all true
Americans, whether they wore the blue or gray, now look back with pride
to the splendid valor and heroic endurance displayed by the combatants
on both sides. Those who belittle the constancy and courage of the South
belittle the sacrifices and successes of the North.

The slavery conflict has long been over, and the scars it left are
disappearing. Other and momentous problems have arisen for settlement,
but there is every reason for confidence that they will be settled at
the ballot-box, and without appeal to rebellion, or thought or threat of
secession. In the present generation, more than in any preceding, is the
injunction of Washington exemplified, that the name of _American_ should
always exalt the just pride of patriotism, more than any appellation
derived from local discriminations. This supreme National sentiment
overpowering all considerations of local interest and attachment, is the
assurance that our country will live forever, that all difficulties,
however menacing, will yield to the challenge of popular intelligence
and patriotism, and that the glorious record of the past is but the
morning ray of our National greatness to come.

HENRY MANN.


CONTENTS.


                            FIRST PERIOD.

                            THE FOOTHOLD.

                              CHAPTER I.
                                                                PAGE.

A Land Without a History--Origin of the American Indians--Their
Semi-civilization--The Spanish Colonial System--The King Was Absolute
Master--The Council of the Indies--The Hierarchy--Servitude of the
Natives--Gold and Silver Mines--Spanish Wealth and Degeneracy--
Commercial Monopoly--Pernicious Effects of Spain's Colonial Policy
--Spaniards Destroy a Huguenot Colony,                             21

                             CHAPTER II.

Queen Elizabeth and Sir Walter Raleigh--English Expedition to North
Carolina--Failure of Attempts to Settle There--Virginia Dare--The Lost
Colony--The Foundation of Jamestown--Captain John Smith--His Life Saved
by Pocahontas--Rolfe Marries the Indian Princess--A Key to Early
Colonial History--Women Imported to Virginia,                      32

                             CHAPTER III.

The French in Canada--Champlain Attacks the Iroquois--Quebec a Military
Post--Weak Efforts at Colonization--Fur-traders and Missionaries--The
Foundation of New France--The French King Claims from the Upper Lakes to
the Sea--Slow Growth of the French Colonies--Mixing With the Savages--The
"Coureurs de Bois,"                                                41

                             CHAPTER IV.

Henry Hudson's Discovery--Block Winters on Manhattan Island--The
Dutch Take Possession--The Iroquois Friendly--Immigration of the
Walloons--Charter of Privileges and Exemptions--Patroons--Manufactures
Forbidden--Slave Labor Introduced--New Sweden--New Netherlanders Want
a Voice in the Government,                                         46

                              CHAPTER V.

Landing of the Pilgrims--Their Abiding Faith in God's Goodness--The
Agreement Signed on the Mayflower--A Winter of Hardship--The Indians
Help the Settlers--Improved Conditions--The Colony Buys Its
Freedom--Priscilla and John Alden--Their Romantic Courtship and
Marriage,                                                          52

                             CHAPTER VI.

The Puritan Immigration--Wealth and Learning Seek These Shores--Charter
Restrictions Dead Letters--A Stubborn Struggle for Self-government--
Methods of Election--The Early Government an Oligarchy--The Charter of
1691--New Hampshire and Maine--The New Haven Theocracy--Hartford's
Constitution--The United Colonies--The Clergy and Politics--Every
Election Sermon a Declaration of Independence,                     57

                             CHAPTER VII.

Where Conscience Was Free--Roger Williams and His Providence Colony--
Driven by Persecution from Massachusetts--Savages Receive Him
Kindly--Coddington's Settlement in Rhode Island--Oliver Cromwell
and Charles II. Grant Charters--Peculiar Referendum in Early Rhode
Island,                                                            64

                             CHAPTER VIII.

Puritans and Education--Provision for Public Schools--Puritan
Sincerity--Effect of Intolerance on the Community--Quakers Harshly
Persecuted--The Salem Witchcraft Tragedy--History of the Delusion--
Rebecca Nourse and Other Victims--The People Come to their Senses--
Cotton Mather Obdurate to the Last--Puritan Morals--Comer's Diary--
Rhode Island in Colonial Times,                                    68

                             CHAPTER IX.

New England Prospering--Outbreak of King Philip's War--Causes of the
War--White or Indian Had to Go--Philip on the War-path--Settlements
Laid in Ashes--The Attack on Hadley--The Great Swamp Fight--Philip
Renews the War More Fiercely Than Before--His Allies Desert Him--
Betrayed and Killed--The Indians Crushed in New England,           77

                              CHAPTER X.

Growth of New Netherland--Governor Stuyvesant's Despotic Rule--His
Comments on Popular Election--New Amsterdam Becomes New York--The
Planting of Maryland--Partial Freedom of Conscience--Civil War in
Maryland--The Carolinas--Settlement of North and South Carolina--The
Bacon Rebellion in Virginia--Governor Berkeley's Vengeance,        82

                             CHAPTER XI.

The Colony of New York--New Jersey Given Away to Favorites--Charter of
Liberties and Franchises--The Dongan Charter--Beginnings of New York
City Government--King James Driven From Power--Leisler Leads a Popular
Movement--The Aristocratic Element Gains the Upper Hand--Jacob Leisler
and Milborne Executed--Struggle For Liberty Continues,             90

                             CHAPTER XII.

William Penn's Model Colony--Sketch of the Founder of Pennsylvania--
Comparative Humanity of Quaker Laws--Modified Freedom of Religion--
An Early Liquor Law--Offences Against Morality Severely Punished--
White Servitude--Debtors Sold Into Bondage--Georgia Founded as
an Asylum for Debtors--Oglethorpe Repulses the Spaniards--Georgia a
Royal Province,                                                    95


                             SECOND PERIOD.

                        THE STRUGGLE FOR EMPIRE.

                            CHAPTER XIII.

Struggle for Empire in North America--The Vast Region Called Louisiana--
War Between England and France--New England Militia Besiege Quebec--
Frontenac Strikes the Iroquois--The Capture of Louisburg--The Forks
of the Ohio--George Washington's Mission to the French--Braddock's
Defeat--Washington Prevents Utter Disaster--Barbarous Treatment of
Prisoners,                                                        103

                             CHAPTER XIV.

Expulsion of the Acadians--A Cruel Deportation--The Marquis De
Montcalm--The Fort William Henry Massacre--Defeat of Abercrombie--
William Pitt Prosecutes the War Vigorously--Fort Duquesne Reduced--
Louisburg Again Captured--Wolfe Attacks Quebec--Battle of the
Plains of Abraham--Wolfe and Montcalm Mortally Wounded--Quebec
Surrenders--New France a Dream of the Past--Pontiac's War,        108


                            THIRD PERIOD.

                           THE REVOLUTION.

                             CHAPTER XV.

Causes of the Revolution--The Act of Navigation--Acts of Trade--Odious
Customs Laws--English Jealousy of New England--Effect of Restrictions on
Colonial Trade--Du Chatelet Foresees Rebellion and Independence--The
Revolution a Struggle for More Than Political Freedom,            115

                             CHAPTER XVI.

Writs of Assistance Issued--Excitement in Boston--The Stamp Act--Protests
against Taxation Without Representation--Massachusetts Appoints a
Committee of Correspondence--Samuel Adams and Patrick Henry--Henry's
Celebrated Resolutions--His Warning to King George--Growing Agitation
in the Colonies--The Stamp Act Repealed--Parliament Levies Duties on Tea
and Other Imports to America--Lord North's Choice of Infamy--Measures of
Resistance in America--The Massachusetts Circular Letter--British Troops
in Boston--The Boston Massacre--Burning of the Gaspee--North Carolina
"Regulators"--The Boston Tea Party--The Boston Port Bill--The First
Continental Congress--A Declaration of Rights--"Give Me Liberty, or Give
Me Death!"                                                        122

                             CHAPTER XVII.

The Battle of Lexington--The War of the Revolution Begun--Fort
Ticonderoga Taken--Second Continental Congress--George Washington
Appointed Commander-in-Chief--Battle of Bunker Hill--Last Appeal to King
George--The King Hires Hessian Mercenaries--The Americans Invade
Canada--General Montgomery Killed--General Howe Evacuates Boston--North
Carolina Tories Routed at Moore's Creek Bridge--The Declaration of
Independence--The British Move on New York--Battle at Brooklyn--Howe
Occupies New York City--General Charles Lee Fails to Support
Washington--Lee Captured--Washington's Victory at Trenton--The Marquis
De Lafayette Arrives,                                             133

                            CHAPTER XVIII.

Moreover, it is a very small book, and the space in it devoted to
Balzac as a man is further curtailed by several chapters devoted to
criticism of his work. The introduction to the excellent translation
of Balzac's novels undertaken by Mr.
Saintsbury, contains a short account of his life, but this only fills a
few pages and does not enter into much detail. Besides these, an
admirable essay on Balzac has appeared in "Main Currents of
Nineteenth-century Literature," by Mr. George Brandes; the scope
of this, however, is mainly criticism of his merits as a writer, not
description of his personality and doings.

Even in the French language, there is no trustworthy or satisfactory
Life of Balzac--a fact on which numerous critical writers make many
comments, though they apparently hesitate to throw themselves into
the breach and to undertake one.

                             Madame Surville's charming Memoir only professes to treat of Balzac's
early life, and even within these limits she intentionally conceals
as much as she reveals.

M. Edmond Bire, in his interesting book, presents Balzac in different
aspects, as Royalist, playwriter, admirer of Napoleon, and so on; but
M. Bire gives no connected account of his life, while MM. Hanotaux
and Vicaire deal solely with Balzac's two years as printer and
publisher. The Vicomte de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul is the one man who
could give a detailed and minutely correct Life of Balzac, as he has
proved by the stores of biographical knowledge contained in his
works the "Roman d'Amour," "Autour de Honore de Balzac," "La Genese
d'un Roman de Balzac, 'Les Paysans,'" and above all, "L'Histoire des
Oeuvres de Balzac," which has become a classic. The English or
American reader would hardly be able to appreciate these fascinating
books, however, unless he were first equipped with the knowledge
of Balzac which would be provided by a concise Life.

                            In these circumstances, helped and encouraged by Dr.

                                Emil Reich, whose extremely interesting lectures I had attended
with much enjoyment, and who very kindly gave me lists of books,
and assisted me with advice, I engaged in the task of writing this
book.

                             It is not intended to add to the mass of criticism of Balzac's
novels, being merely an attempt to portray the man as he was, and
to sketch correctly a career which has been said to be more thrilling
than a large proportion of novels.

I must apologise for occasional blank spaces, for when Balzac is
with Madame Hanska, and his letters to her cease, as a general rule
all our information ceases also; and the intending biographer can
only glean from scanty allusions in the letters written afterwards,
what happened at Rome, Naples, Dresden, or any of the other towns,
to which Balzac travelled in hot haste to meet his divinity.

The book has been compiled as far as possible from original sources;
as the Vicomte de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul--whose collection of
documents relating to Balzac, Gautier, and George Sand is unique,
while his comprehensive knowledge of Balzac is the result of many
years of study--has most kindly allowed me to avail myself of his
library at Brussels.

                             There, arranged methodically, according to some wonderful system
which enables the Vicomte to find at once any document his visitor
may ask for, are hundreds of Balzac's autograph writings, many of
them unpublished and of great interest.

There, too, are portraits and busts of the celebrated novelist,
letters from his numerous admirers, and the proofs of nearly
all his novels--those sheets covered with a network of writing, which
were the despair of the printers. The collection is most remarkable,
even when we remember the large sums of money, and the patience
and ability, which have for many years been focussed on its formation.

                       It will one day be deposited in the museum at Chantilly, near Paris,
where it will be at the disposal of those who wish to study its
contents.

                             The Vicomte has kindly devoted much time to answering my questions,
and has shown me documents and autograph letters, the exact words
of which have been the subject of discussion and dispute, so that
I have been able myself to verify the fact that the copies made by
M. de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul are taken exactly from the originals.

He has warned me to be particularly careful about my authorities, as
many of Balzac's letters--printed as though copied from autographs--are
incorrectly dated, and have been much altered.

He has further added to his kindness by giving me several illustrations,
and by having this book translated to him, in order to correct it
carefully by the information to which he alone has access.

                            I gladly take this opportunity of acknowledging how deeply I am
indebted to him.

I cannot consider these words of introduction complete without again
expressing my sense of what I owe to Dr. Reich, to whom the initial
idea of this book is due, and without whose energetic impetus it would
never have been written. He has found time, in the midst of a very
busy life, to read through, and to make many valuable suggestions, and
I am most grateful for all he has done to help me.

I must finish by thanking Mr.

                             Curtis Brown most heartily for the trouble he has taken on my behalf,
for the useful hints he has given me, and for the patience with
which he has elucidated the difficulties of an inexperienced writer.

MARY F. SANDARS.

HONORE DE BALZAC

CHAPTER I
Balzac's claims to greatness--The difficulty in attempting a complete
Life--His complex character--The intention of this book.

                              At a time when the so-called Realistic School is in the ascendant
among novelists, it seems strange that little authentic information
should have been published in the English language about the great
French writer, Honore de Balzac.

Almost alone among his contemporaries, he dared to claim the interest of
the world for ordinary men and women solely on the ground of a common
humanity. Thus he was the first to embody in literature the principle
of Burns that "a man's a man for a' that"; and though this fact has now
become a truism, it was a discovery, and an important discovery, when
Balzac wrote. He showed that, because we are ourselves ordinary men and
women, it is really human interest, and not sensational circumstance
which appeals to us, and that material for enthralling drama can
be found in the life of the most commonplace person--of a middle-aged
shopkeeper threatened with bankruptcy, or of an elderly musician
with a weakness for good dinners.

                             At one blow he destroyed the unreal ideal of the Romantic School,
who degraded man by setting up in his place a fantastic and impossible
hero as the only theme worthy of their pen; and thus he laid the
foundation of the modern novel.

His own life is full of interest. He was not a recluse or a bookworm;
his work was to study men, and he lived among men, he fought strenuously,
he enjoyed lustily, he suffered keenly, and he died prematurely, worn
out by the force of his own emotions, and by the prodigies of labour to
which he was impelled by the restless promptings of his active brain,
and by his ever-pressing need for money. Some of his letters to Madame
Hanska have been published during the last few years; and where can we
read a more pathetic love story than the record of his seventeen years'
waiting for her, and of the tragic ending to his long-deferred happiness?
Or where in modern times can more exciting and often comical tales
of adventure be found than the accounts of his wild and always
unsuccessful attempts to become a millionaire?

                            His friends comprised most of the celebrated French writers of the
day; and though not a lover of society, he was acquainted with many
varieties of people, while his own personality was powerful, vivid,
and eccentric.

Thus he appears at first sight to be a fascinating subject for biography;
but if we examine a little more closely, we shall realise the web of
difficulties in which the writer of a complete and exhaustive Life
of Balzac would involve himself, and shall understand why the task has
never been attempted. The great author's money affairs alone are so
complicated that it is doubtful whether he ever mastered them himself,
and it is certainly impossible for any one else to understand them; while
he managed to shroud his private life, especially his relations to
women, in almost complete mystery.

                         For some years after his death the monkish habit in which he attired
himself was considered symbolic of his mental attitude; and even
now, though the veil is partially lifted, and we realise the great
part women played in his life, there remain many points which are
not yet cleared up.

                           Consequently any one who attempts even in the most unambitious way
to give a complete account of the great writer's life, is confronted
with many blank spaces.

It is true that the absolutely mysterious disappearances of which
his contemporaries speak curiously are now partially accounted for,
as we know that they were usually connected with Madame Hanska,
and that Balzac's sense of honour would not allow him to breathe her
name, except to his most intimate friends, and under the pledge of the
strictest secrecy. His letters to her have allowed a flood of light
to pour upon his hitherto veiled personality; but they are almost our
only reliable source of information.
Therefore, when they cease, because Balzac is with his ladylove, and
we are suddenly excluded from his confidence, we can only guess
what is happening.

                              In this way, we possess but the scantiest information about the
journeys which occupied a great part of his time during the last
few years of his life.

                            We know that he travelled, regardless of expense and exhaustion,
as quickly as possible, and by the very shortest route, to meet
Madame Hanska; but this once accomplished, we can gather little
more, and we long for a diary or a confidential correspondent.

In the first rapture of his meeting at Neufchatel, he did indeed open his
heart to his sister, Madame Surville; but his habitual discretion,
and his care for the reputation of the woman he loved, soon imposed
silence upon him, and he ceased to comment on the great drama of
his life.

The great versatility of his mind, and the power he possessed of
throwing himself with the utmost keenness into many absolutely
dissimilar and incongruous enterprises at the same time, add further
to the difficulty of understanding him.

                             An extraordinary number of subjects had their place in his capacious
brain, and the ease with which he dismissed one and took up another
with equal zest the moment after, causes his doings to seem unnatural
to us of ordinary mind.

Leon Gozlan gives a curious instance of this on the occasion of the first
reading of the "Ressources de Quinola."
Balzac had recited his play in the green-room of the Odeon to the assembled
actors and actresses, and before a most critical audience had gone
through the terrible strain of trying to improvise the fifth act, which
was not yet written. He and Gozlan went straight from the hot atmosphere
of the theatre to refresh themselves in the cool air of the Luxembourg
Gardens. Here we should expect one of two things to happen. Either Balzac
would be depressed with the ill-success of his fifth act, at which,
according to Gozlan, he had acquitted himself so badly that Madame
Dorval, the principal actress, refused to take a role in the play;
or, on the other hand, his sanguine temperament would cause him to
overlook the drawbacks, and to think only of the enthusiasm with
which the first four acts had been received.

                             Neither of these two things took place.

Balzac "n'y pensait deja plus." He talked with the greatest eagerness
of the embellishments he had proposed to M. Decazes for his palace,
and especially of a grand spiral staircase, which was to lead
from the centre of the Luxembourg Gardens to the Catacombs, so that
these might be shown to visitors, and become a source of profit
to Paris. But of his play he said nothing.

                            The reader of "Lettres a l'Etrangere," which are written to the
woman with whom Balzac was passionately in love, and whom he
afterwards married, may, perhaps, at first sight congratulate himself
on at last understanding in some degree the great author's character
and mode of life.

If he dives beneath the surface, however, he will find that these beautiful
and touching letters give but an incomplete picture; and that,
while writing them, Balzac was throwing much energy into schemes,
which he either does not mention to his correspondent, or
touches on in the most cursory fashion. Therefore the perspective of his
life is difficult to arrange, and ordinary rules for gauging
character are at fault.

                        We find it impossible to follow the principle, that because Balzac
possessed one characteristic, he could not also show a diametrically
opposite quality--that, for instance, because tenderness, delicacy
of feeling, and a high sense of reverence and of honour were
undoubtedly integral parts of his personality, the stories told by
his contemporaries of his occasional coarseness must necessarily
be false.

                           His own words, written to the Duchesse d'Abrantes in 1828, have no
doubt a great element of truth in them: "I have the most singular
character I know.

I study myself as I might study another person, and I possess, shut
up in my five foot eight inches, all the incoherences, all the
contrasts possible; and those who think me vain, extravagant, obstinate,
high-minded, without connection in my ideas,--a fop, negligent,
idle, without application, without reflection, without any
constancy; a chatterbox, without tact, badly brought up, impolite,
whimsical, unequal in temper,--are quite as right as those who perhaps
say that I am economical, modest, courageous, stingy, energetic, a
worker, constant, silent, full of delicacy, polite, always gay.
Those who consider that I am a coward will not be more wrong than
those who say that I am extremely brave; in short, learned or
ignorant, full of talent or absurd, nothing astonishes me more than
myself.

                            I end by believing that I am only an instrument played on by
circumstances.

Does this kaleidoscope exist, because, in the soul of those who claim
to paint all the affections of the human heart, chance throws all these
affections themselves, so that they may be able, by the force of their
imagination, to feel what they paint? And is observation a sort of
memory suited to aid this lively imagination? I begin to think so."[*]

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i. p. 77.

Certainly Balzac's character proves to the hilt the truth of the
rule that, with few exceptions in the world's history, the higher the
development, the more complex the organisation and the more violent
the clashing of the divers elements of the man's nature; so that
his soul resembles a field of battle, and he wears out quickly.

                            Nevertheless, because everything in Balzac seems contradictory,
when he is likened by one of his friends to the sea, which is one
and indivisible, we perceive that the comparison is not inapt.

Round the edge are the ever-restless waves; on the surface the foam blown
by fitful gusts of wind, the translucent play of sunbeams, and the
clamour of storms lashing up the billows; but down in the sombre depths
broods the resistless, immovable force which tinges with its reflection
the dancing and play above, and is the genius and fascination, the
mystery and tragedy of the sea.

Below the merriment and herculean jollity, so little represented
in his books, there was deep, gloomy force in the soul of the man
who, gifted with an almost unparalleled imagination, would yet grip
the realities of the pathetic and terrible situations he evolved
with brutal strength and insistence.

                            The mind of the writer of "Le Pere Goriot," "La Cousine Bette," and
"Le Cousin Pons," those terrible tragedies where the Greek god Fate
marches on his victims relentlessly, and there is no staying of the
hand for pity, could not have been merely a wide, sunny expanse
with no dark places.

Nevertheless, we are again puzzled, when we attempt to realise the
personality of a man whose imagination could soar to the mystical and
philosophical conception of "Seraphita," which is full of religious
poetry, and who yet had the power in "Cesar Birotteau" to invest prosaic
and even sordid details with absolute verisimilitude, or in the
"Contes Drolatiques" would write, in Old French, stories of
Rabelaisian breadth and humour. The only solution of these
contradictions is that, partly perhaps by reason of great physical
strength, certainly because of an abnormally powerful brain and
imagination, Balzac's thoughts, feelings, and passions were unusually
strong, and were endowed with peculiar impetus and independence
of each other; and from this resulted a versatility which caused
most unexpected developments, and which fills us of smaller mould
with astonishment.

                        Nevertheless, steadfastness was decidedly the groundwork of the
character of the man who was not dismayed by the colossal task of
the Comedie Humaine; but pursued his work through discouragement,
ill health, and anxieties.

                           Except near the end of his life, when, owing to the unreasonable
strain to which it had been subjected, his powerful organism had
begun to fail, Balzac refused to neglect his vocation even for his
love affairs--a self-control which must have been a severe test to
one of his temperament.

This absorption in his work cannot have been very flattering to the
ladies he admired; and one plausible explanation of Madame de Castries'
coldness to his suit is that she did not believe in the devotion
of a lover who, while paying her the most assiduous court at Aix,
would yet write from five in the morning till half-past five in
the evening, and only bestow his company on her from six till an early
bedtime. Even the adored Madame Hanska had to take second place where
work was concerned. When they were both at Vienna in 1835, he writes
with some irritation, apparently in answer to a remonstrance on her
part, that he cannot work when he knows he has to go out; and that,
owing to the time he spent the evening before in her society, he
must now shut himself up for fourteen hours and toil at "Le Lys
dans la Vallee."

                            He adds, with his customary force of language, that if he does not
finish the book at Vienna, he will throw himself into the Danube!

The great psychologist knew his own character well when, in another
letter to Madame Hanska, who has complained of his frivolity, he cries,
indignantly: "Frivolity of character! Why, you speak as a good _bourgeois_
would have done, who, seeing Napoleon turn to the right, to the left,
and on all sides to examine his field of battle, would have said, 'This
man cannot remain in one place; he has no fixed idea!'"[*]

                         [*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

                            This change of posture, though consonant, as Balzac says, with real
stability, is a source of bewilderment to the reader of his sayings
and doings, till it dawns upon him that, through pride, policy, and
the usual shrinking of the sensitive from casting their pearls
before swine, Balzac was a confirmed _poseur_, so that what he tells
us is often more misleading than his silence.

Leon Gozlan's books are a striking instance of the fact that, with all
Balzac's jollity, his camaraderie, and his flow of words, he did
not readily reveal himself, except to those whom he could thoroughly
trust to understand him.
Gozlan went about with Balzac very often, and was specially chosen
by him time after time as a companion; but he really knew very
little of the great man.

If we compare his account of Balzac's feeling or want of feeling
at a certain crisis, and then read what is written on the same
subject to Madame Hanska, Balzac's enormous power of reserve, and
his habit of deliberately misleading those who were not admitted
to his confidence, may be gauged.

George Sand tells us an anecdote which shows how easily, from his
anxiety not to wear his heart upon his sleeve, Balzac might be
misunderstood.

He dined with her on January 29th, 1844, after a visit to Russia,
and related at table, with peals of laughter and apparently enormous
satisfaction, an instance which had come under his notice of the
ferocious exercise of absolute power.

Any stranger listening, would have thought him utterly heartless
and brutal, but George Sand knew better.

She whispered to him: "That makes you inclined to cry, doesn't
it?"[*] He answered nothing; left off laughing, as if a spring in him
had broken; was very serious for the rest of the evening, and did
not say a word more about Russia.

[*] "Autour de la Table," by George Sand.

Balzac looked on the world as an arena; and as the occasion and the
audience arose, he suited himself with the utmost aplomb to the part he
intended to play, so that under the costume and the paint the real Balzac
is often difficult to discover. Sometimes he would pretend to be rich
and prosperous, when he thought an editor would thereby be induced to
offer him good terms; and sometimes, when it suited his purpose, he would
make the most of his poverty and of his pecuniary embarrassments.
Madame Hanska, from whom he required sympathy, heard much of his desperate
situation after the failure of Werdet, whom he likens to the vulture
that tormented Prometheus; but as it would not answer for Emile de
Girardin, the editor of _La Presse_, to know much about Balzac's
pecuniary difficulties, Madame de Girardin is assured that the report of
Werdet's supposed disaster is false, and Balzac virtuously remarks that
in the present century honesty is never believed in.[*] Sometimes his
want of candour appears to have its origin in his hatred to allow that
he is beaten, and there is something childlike and naive in his
vanity. We are amused when he informs Madame Hanska that he is giving up
the _Chronique de Paris_ --which, after a brilliant flourish of trumpets
at the start, was a complete failure--because the speeches in the
Chambre des Deputes are so silly that he abandons the idea of
taking up politics, as he had intended to do by means of journalism.

All appeals from the decisions of the Courts of
Audience, the highest tribunals in America, were made to the Council of
the Indies.

The absolute power of the sovereign did not stop short at the Church.
Pope Julian II. conferred on King Ferdinand and his successors the
patronage and disposal of all ecclesiastical benefices in America, and
the administration of ecclesiastical revenues--a privilege which the
crown did not possess in Spain. The bulls of the Roman pontiff could not
be admitted into Spanish America until they had been examined and
approved by the king and Council of the Indies. The hierarchy was as
imposing as in Spain, and its dominion and influence greater. The
archbishops, bishops and other dignitaries enjoyed large revenues, and
the ecclesiastical establishment was splendid and magnificent. The
Inquisition was introduced in America in 1570 by Philip II., the
oppressor of Protestant England and of the Netherlands, and patron of the
monster Alva. The native Indians, on the ground of incapacity, were
exempted from the jurisdiction of that tribunal. No scruple was shown,
however, in converting the natives to Christianity, and multitudes were
baptized who were entirely ignorant of the doctrine they professed to
embrace. In the course of a few years after the reduction of the Mexican
empire, more than four millions of the Mexicans were nominally converted,
one missionary baptizing five thousand in one day, and stopping only when
he had become so exhausted as to be unable to lift his hands.

Conversion to Christianity did not save the Indians from being reduced to
slavery. Columbus himself, in the year 1499, to avoid the consequences of
a disaffection among his followers, granted lands and distributed a
certain number of Indians among them to cultivate the soil. This system
was afterward introduced in all the Spanish settlements, the Indians
being everywhere seized upon and compelled to work in the mines, to till
the plantations, to carry burdens and to perform all menial and laborious
services. The stated tasks of the unhappy natives were often much beyond
their abilities, and multitudes sank under the hardships to which they
were subjected. Their spirit was broken, they became humble and degraded,
and the race was rapidly wasting away. The oppressions and sufferings of
the natives at length excited the sympathies of many humane persons,
particularly among the clergy, who exerted themselves with much zeal and
perseverance to ameliorate their condition. In 1542 Charles V. abolished
the enslavement of the Indians, and restored them to the position of
freemen. This caused great indignation in the colonies and in Peru
forcible resistance was offered to the royal decree. But although
relieved in some degree from the burdens of personal slavery, the natives
were required, as vassals of the crown, to pay a personal tax or tribute
in the form of personal service. They were also put under the protection
of great landholders, who treated them as serfs, although not exacting
continuous labor, so that during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries
the condition of the Indians did not greatly improve.

Notwithstanding the avidity of the first Spanish adventurers for the
precious metals, and the ardor with which they pursued their researches,
their exertions were attended for a number of years with but little
success. It was not until 1545 that the rich mines of Potosi, in Peru,
were accidentally discovered by an Indian in clambering up the mountain.
This was soon followed by the discovery of other highly productive mines
of gold and silver in the various provinces, and Spanish America began to
pour a flood of wealth into the coffers of Spain. The mines were not
operated by the crown, but by individual enterprise, the crown receiving
a share of the proceeds, and alloting a certain number of Indians to the
mine-owners as laborers. These Indians did all the work of the mine
without the aid of machinery, and with very little assistance from
horse-power. Their industry enriched Spain and her colonies to a degree
unexampled in the previous experience of mankind.

                        *          *          *

Silver and gold, however, did not bring lasting prosperity. Already in
the early part of the seventeenth century Spain showed signs of decay.
Her manufactures and commerce began to decline; men could not be
recruited to keep up her fleets and armies, and even agriculture felt the
blight of national degeneracy. The great emigration to the colonies
drained off the energetic element of the population and the immense
riches which the colonies showered upon Spain intoxicated the people and
led them to desert the accustomed paths of industry. Nineteen-twentieths
of the commodities exported to the Spanish colonies were foreign fabrics,
paid for by the products of the mines, so that the gold and silver no
sooner entered Spain than they passed away into the hands of foreigners,
and the country was left without sufficient of the precious metals for a
circulating medium.

Although wholly unable to supply the wants of her colonies Spain did not
relax in the smallest degree the rigor of her colonial system, the
controlling principle of which was that the whole commerce of the
colonies should be a monopoly in the hands of the crown. The regulation
of this commerce was entrusted to the Board of Trade, established at
Seville.

This board granted a license to any vessel bound to America, and
inspected its cargo. The entire commerce with the colonies centred in
Seville, and continued there until 1720. It was carried on in a uniform
manner for more than two centuries. A fleet with a strong convoy sailed
annually for America. The fleet consisted of two divisions, one destined
for Carthagena and Porto Bello, the other for Vera Cruz. At those points
all the trade and treasure of Spanish America from California to the
Straits of Magellan, was concentrated, the products of Peru and Chili
being conveyed annually by sea to Panama, and from thence across the
isthmus to Porto Bello, part of the way on mules, and part of the way
down the Chagres river. The storehouses of Porto Bello, now a decayed and
miserable town, retaining no shadow of former greatness, were filled with
merchandise, and its streets thronged with opulent merchants drawn from
distant provinces. Upon the arrival of the fleet a fair was opened,
continuing for forty days, during which the most extensive commercial
transactions took place, and the rich cargoes of the galleons were all
marketed, and the specie and staples of the colonies received in payment
to be conveyed to Spain. The same exchange occurred at Vera Cruz, and
both squadrons having taken in their return cargoes, rendezvoused at
Havana, and sailed from thence to Europe. Such was the stinted, fettered
and restricted commerce which subsisted between Spain and her possessions
in America for more than two centuries and a half, and such were the
swaddling clothes which bound the youthful limbs of the Spanish colonies,
retarding their growth and keeping them in a condition of abject
dependence. The effect was most injurious to Spain as well as to the
colonies. The naval superiority of the English and Dutch enabled them in
time of war to cut off intercourse between Spain and America, and thereby
deprive Spanish-Americans of the necessaries as well as the luxuries for
which they depended upon Spain, and an extensive smuggling trade grew up
which no efforts on the part of the authorities could repress. Monopoly
was starved out through the very rigor exerted to make it exclusive, and
the markets were so glutted with contraband goods that the galleons could
scarcely dispose of their cargoes.

The restrictions upon the domestic intercourse and commerce of the
Spanish colonies were, if possible, more grievous and pernicious in their
consequences than those upon traffic with Europe. Inter-colonial commerce
was prohibited under the severest penalties, the crown insisting that all
trade should be carried on through Spain and made tributary to the
oppressive duties exacted by the government. While Spain received a
considerable revenue from her colonies, notwithstanding the contraband
trade, the expenses of the system were very great, and absorbed much of
the revenue. Corruption was widespread, and colonial officers looked upon
their positions chiefly with a view to their own enrichment. They had no
patriotic interest in the welfare of the colonies, and conducted
themselves like a garrison quartered upon the inhabitants. Although
salaries were high the expenses of living were great, and the salaries
were usually but a small part of the income. Viceroys who had been in
office a few years, went back to Spain with princely fortunes.

                        *          *          *

Such was the condition of affairs in Spain's vast American empire when
England, France and the United Provinces started on a career of
colonization in North America. It seems to have been providential that
the same generation which witnessed the discovery of America witnessed
the birth of Luther. In the century which followed the Theses of
Wittenberg the eyes of sufferers for conscience' sake turned eagerly and
hopefully toward the New World as a refuge from the oppression, the
scandal and the persecution of the old. The first to seek what is now the
Atlantic region of the United States with the object of making their home
here were French Huguenots, sent out by the great Admiral Coligny, who
afterward fell a victim in the massacre of Bartholomew's Day. The
Frenchmen planted a settlement first at Port Royal, which was abandoned,
and afterward built a fort about eighteen miles up the St. John's River,
Florida, and named it Fort Caroline. This was in the year 1564. In the
following year a Spanish fleet, commanded by Don Pedro Menendez de
Aviles, appeared at the mouth of the St. John's. In answer to the French
challenge as to his purpose the Spanish commander replied that he came
with orders from his king to gibbet and behead all the Protestants in
those regions. "The Frenchman, who is a Catholic," he added, "I will
spare. Every heretic shall die." The Huguenots, had they held together,
might have been able to offer a successful resistance to the Spaniards,
but Jean Ribault, the French commander, unfortunately decided to sail out
from the shelter of Fort Caroline and seek a conflict at sea with the
enemy. A storm destroyed the French fleet, but the crews succeeded in
escaping to land. Menendez marched overland with his troops to the
unprotected fort and easily captured it with its handful of defenders.
The Spaniards cruelly murdered almost the entire colony of two hundred
men, women and children, some of them being hung to trees with the
inscription: "Not as Frenchmen, but as Lutherans."

Ribault, ignorant of the tragedy at the fort, sought to return there from
the place where he had been shipwrecked. His men were divided in two
detachments. Menendez went in search of them, and meeting one party told
them that Fort Caroline, with its inmates, had been destroyed. The
Frenchmen were helpless, and pleaded for mercy. Menendez asked: "Are you
Catholics or Lutherans?" They answered: "We are of the reformed
religion." The pitiless Spaniard replied that he was under orders to
exterminate all of that faith. They offered him fifty thousand ducats if
he would spare their lives. Menendez demanded that the Frenchmen should
place themselves at his mercy. They consented to do so. A small stream
divided the Huguenots from the Spaniards. Menendez ordered that the
French should cross over in companies of ten. As they crossed they were
taken out of sight of their companions and bound with their arms behind
them. When all of the Frenchmen, about two hundred in number, had been
thus secured, Menendez again asked them: "Are you Catholics or
Lutherans?" Some twelve professed to be Catholics, and these with four
mechanics who could be made useful to the Spaniards, were led away. The
remainder of the two hundred were put to death. Menendez next intercepted
Ribault and the remnant of his men, and by similar treachery accomplished
their destruction, refusing an offer of one hundred thousand ducats to
spare their lives. Menendez wrote to King Phillip that the Huguenots
"were put to the sword, judging this to be expedient for the service of
God our Lord, and of your majesty."

Thus ended the first attempt of members of the reformed religion to
settle within the limits of what is now the United States. But the blood
of the victims did not cry in vain to Heaven for vengeance. A Frenchman,
himself a Roman Catholic, the Chevalier Dominic de Gourges, determined to
punish the Spaniards for their cruelty. He sold his property to obtain
money to fit out an expedition to Florida. Arriving in Florida in the
spring of 1568, he was joined by the natives in an attack on two forts
occupied by the Spaniards below Fort Caroline. The forts were captured
and their inmates put to the sword, except a few whom de Gourges hung to
trees with the inscription: "Not as Spaniards and mariners, but as
traitors, robbers and murderers."


CHAPTER II.

Queen Elizabeth and Sir Walter Raleigh--English Expedition to North
Carolina--Failure of Attempts to Settle There--Virginia Dare--The Lost
Colony--The Foundation of Jamestown--Captain John Smith--His Life Saved
by Pocahontas--Rolfe Marries the Indian Princess--A Key to Early Colonial
History--Women Imported to Virginia.


The lives of the hapless Huguenots who perished at the hands of Menendez
were, perhaps, not altogether wasted, for it is believed that a refugee
from the Port Royal colony, wrecked on the coast of England, gave Queen
Elizabeth interesting information about the temperate and fruitful
regions north of the Spanish territories and prepared her mind to favor
the projects of Sir Walter Raleigh. That bold and talented adventurer,
whose name will live forever in American annals, and whose monument is
North Carolina's beautiful State capital, is said in the familiar story
to have attracted the notice of Queen Elizabeth by spreading his scarlet
cloak over a miry place for the queen to walk upon. He made rapid
progress in the good graces of his sovereign, who was quick to discern
the men who could be useful to her and to her kingdom. Sir Humphrey
Gilbert, half brother to Sir Walter, had perished on an expedition to
found an English colony in America. A storm engulfed his vessel, the
Squirrel, and he went down with all his crew. Queen Elizabeth graciously
granted to Sir Walter a patent as lord proprietor of the country from
Delaware Bay to the mouth of the Santee River, and substantially
including the present States of Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina and a
large portion of South Carolina, with an indefinite extension to the
west.

Raleigh sent out an expedition of two ships under the command of Philip
Amidas and Arthur Barlow. They landed upon the coast of North Carolina at
mid-summer, in the year 1584. The scenery and climate were charming, the
natives hospitable and everything seemed to promise well for future
settlement. The adventurers reported to Raleigh, who decided to plant a
colony in the region visited by his vessels. Queen Elizabeth herself is
said to have given the name of Virginia to her dominion, to commemorate
her unmarried condition. Untaught by the experience of American colonists
from the days of Columbus, the English settlers in North Carolina had the
usual quarrel with the natives, and were saved from the usual fate only
by the timely arrival of Sir Francis Drake on his return to England from
a cruise against the Spaniards. The colonists sought refuge on Drake's
vessels and were carried back to their native country.

Subsequent attempts of Sir Walter Raleigh to establish colonies in North
Carolina also failed, but these efforts were productive of at least one
important benefit in introducing to the attention of the English and also
of the Irish, the potato, which, although previously brought to Ireland
by a slave-trader named Hawkins, and to England by Sir Francis Drake,
attracted but little notice before it was imported by John White,
Raleigh's Governor of Roanoke. At Roanoke was born, August 18, 1587, the
first white child of English parentage on the North American continent,
Virginia Dare, the daughter of William and Eleanor Dare, and
granddaughter of Governor White.

In the little wooden chapel, two or three weeks after the event, the
colonists assembled one bright day to attend the baptism and christening
of the little stranger. The font was the family's silver wash ewer, and
the sponsor was Governor White himself, the baby's grandfather.
Thereafter she was known as Virginia Dare, a sweet and appropriate name
for this pretty little wild flower that bloomed all alone on that
desolate coast. About the time that Virginia was cutting her first teeth
there came very distressing times to the colony. There was great need of
supplies, and it was determined to send to England for them. Governor
White went himself, and never saw his little granddaughter again.

It was three years before the Governor returned to Roanoke Island. He was
kept in England by the Spanish invasion, and after the winds and the
waves had shattered the dreaded Armada, it was some time before Raleigh
could get together the men and supplies that were needed by the far-off
colony. At last the ship was ready and White took his departure, but he
had not sailed far when his vessel was overtaken by a Spanish cruiser and
captured. White himself escaped in a boat, and after many days reached
England again. Then he had to wait for another ship, and the weary old
man saw day after day go by before he left the chalk cliffs of England
behind him. After long, anxious months he approached the new land. It was
near sunset and he expected to see the smoke rising from the chimneys and
the settlers hurrying in from the fields to eat their evening meal, or
crowding down to greet the long-looked for arrivals. But no such cheering
sight met his gaze. There stood the cabins, but they were deserted; not a
single human soul was visible. They landed and walked up the grass-grown
paths. Vines and climbers festooned the doorways. A dreary stillness
reigned everywhere. The colony had disappeared, and tradition has it to
this day that the settlers were absorbed in the Indian tribes and that
little Virginia Dare may have become a white Pocahontas.

Raleigh lost his best friend when Queen Elizabeth died, and her
successor, James, gave into other hands the task of establishing English
power in America. The London Company, with a patent from the king, sent a
fleet of three vessels to Virginia, which ascended the James River, and
fifty miles from its mouth laid the foundation of Jamestown, May 13,
1607.

                        *          *          *

It was a lovely day in summer, presenting a bright southern contrast to
the bitter winter weather which welcomed the Pilgrims thirteen years
later to Plymouth Rock, when the Englishmen began the erection of a fort
on the peninsula or island in the river, where they proposed to establish
the capital of their colony. They chose for their president Edward Maria
Wingfield, ignoring Captain John Smith, a gallant and resourceful soldier
of fortune who would have been invaluable as a leader against any foe.
The fort had not been completed when the Indians gathered in large
numbers and made a desperate attack on the colony. Twelve of the
colonists were killed and wounded before the savages were driven off by
the use of artillery. In the following winter Captain John Smith explored
the waters in the vicinity of Jamestown in search of a passage to the
Pacific. This may seem ridiculous in the light of present knowledge, but
it is to be remembered that two years later, in 1609, the great
navigator, Henry Hudson, ascended the river which bears his name, in the
expectation of discovering a northwest passage to the Orient. Even the
most enlightened nations of Europe were slow to give up the idea that a
connection by water existed through the American continent, between the
Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.

To return to Captain John Smith. It appears that in the course of his
explorations he was captured by Indians, and taken before Chief Powhatan
at his forest home. As Smith tells the story, the chief wore a mantle of
raccoon skins and a head-dress of eagle's feathers. The warriors, about
two hundred in number, were ranged on each side of Powhatan, and the
Indian women were assembled behind the warriors to witness the unwonted
scene. Two daughters of the chief, or, as the English called him, the
"emperor," had seats near his "throne." Smith was well received, one
woman bringing him water to wash his hands, and another a bunch of
feathers to dry them with. Then he was fed, and the council deliberated
as to his fate. They resolved that he should die. Two large stones were
placed in front of Powhatan and Smith was pinioned, dragged to the
stones, and his head placed upon them, while the warriors who were to
carry out the sentence brandished their clubs for the fatal blow. One of
the daughters of Powhatan, named Matoa, or Pocahontas, sixteen or
eighteen years old, sprang from her father's side, clasped Smith in her
arms, and laid her head upon his. Powhatan, savage as he was, and full of
anger against the English, melted at the sight. He ordered that the
prisoner should be released, and sent him with a message of friendship to
Jamestown.

Pocahontas continued to be a friend to the white man. Learning, two years
later, of an Indian plot to exterminate the intruders, she sped
stealthily from her father's home to the English settlement, warned
Captain Smith of the impending peril, and was back in Powhatan's cabin
before morning. The English were not ungrateful for her goodness, even
although it appears she was unable to prevent her father from giving
expression at times to his hatred of the colonists. On one occasion, when
the settlers were suffering from scarcity of food, and Powhatan would not
permit his people to carry corn to Jamestown, an Englishman named Samuel
Argall went on a foraging expedition near the home of Powhatan, and
enticed Pocahontas on board his vessel. He held the young woman as a
prisoner, and offered to release her for a large ransom in corn. Powhatan
refused to have anything to do with Argall, but sent word to Jamestown
saying that if his daughter should be returned to him he would treat the
English as friends. Pocahontas was detained at Jamestown for several
months, being treated with respect, and having the free run of the
colony. She appears to have been a romping, good-natured young woman,
comely for an Indian, passing her time as happily as possible, without
moping for her kinspeople, and not at all the typical heroine of song and
story. It was wicked to detain her, but she seemed to enjoy her captivity
and frolicked about the place in a way that must have shocked those who
regarded her as of royal birth. Evidently Pocahontas liked the English
from the first, and preferred their company at Jamestown to her childhood
home in the Virginia forests. A young Englishman, named John Rolfe, fell
in love with her. Wives from England were scarce, and this fact may have
made Pocahontas more attractive in his eyes. When some one objected that
she was a pagan--"Is it not my duty," he replied, "to lead the blind to
the light?" Pocahontas learned to love Rolfe in return, and love made
easy her path to conversion to Christianity. She was baptized by the name
of Rebecca, and was the first Christian convert in Virginia. Powhatan
consented to his daughter's marriage--he had probably concluded by this
that she was bound to be English anyhow--and the ceremony was performed
in the chapel at Jamestown, on a delightful spring day in April, 1613.
Pocahontas, we are told, was dressed in a simple tunic of white muslin
from the looms of Dacca. Her arms were bare even to her shoulders, and
hanging loosely to her feet was a robe of rich stuff presented by the
Governor, Sir Thomas Dale, and fancifully embroidered by Pocahontas and
her maidens. A gaudy fillet encircled her head, and held the plumage of
birds and a veil of gauze, while her wrists and ankles were adorned with
the simple jewelry of the native workshops. When the ceremony was ended,
the eucharist was administered, with bread from the wheat fields around
Jamestown, and wine from the grapes of the adjacent woodland. Her
brothers and sisters and forest maidens were present; also the Governor
and Council, and five English women--all that there were in the
colony--who afterward returned to England. Rolfe and his spouse "lived
civilly and lovingly together" until Governor Dale went back to England
in 1616, when they and the Englishwomen in Virginia accompanied the
Governor. The "Lady Rebecca" received great attentions at court and from
all below it. She was entertained by the Lord Bishop of London, and at
court she was treated with the respect due to the daughter of a monarch.
The silly King James was angry because one of his subjects dared marry a
lady of royal blood! And Captain Smith, for fear of displeasing the royal
bigot, would not allow her to call him "father," as she desired to do,
and her loving heart was grieved. The king, in his absurd dreams of the
divinity of the royal prerogative, imagined Rolfe or his descendants
might claim the crown of Virginia on behalf of his royal wife, and he
asked the Privy Council if the husband had not committed treason![1]
Pocahontas remained in England about a year; and when, with her husband
and son she was about to return to Virginia, with her father's chief
councillor, she was seized with small-pox at Gravesend, and died in June,
1617. Her remains lie within the parish church-yard at Gravesend. Her
son, Thomas Rolfe, afterward became a distinguished man in Virginia, and
his descendants are found among the most honorable citizens of that
commonwealth.

      [1] Lossing.

Between the lines of the story of Pocahontas can be found the key to much
of the early history of Virginia and other colonies. Even before regular
settlements were attempted on these shores the Indians had learned by
bitter experience to dread and hate the strangers in the big canoes.
Slave-traders and adventurers made prey of the natives, and many a
depredating visit was doubtless paid to America that is not recorded in
the annals of those times. Argall's abduction of Pocahontas ended
fortunately, but it might have brought on a terrible Indian war and the
destruction of the Virginia colony. Had such been the result the
civilized world would never have known the red man's side of the story,
and Powhatan's just vengeance would have been set down to the barbarous
and savage nature of the Indian.

The scarcity of women in the Virginia colony has already been alluded to
in connection with the marriage of Rolfe and Pocahontas. Of the early
immigrants very few were women, and there could be no permanent colony
without the home and family. The London Company, at the instance of their
treasurer, Edwin Sandys, proposed, about twelve years after the first
settlement, to send one hundred "pure and uncorrupt" young women to
Virginia at the expense of the corporation, to be wives to the planters.
Ninety were sent over in 1620. The shores were lined with young men
waiting to see them land, and in a few days everyone of the fair
immigrants had found a husband. Wives had to be paid for in tobacco--the
currency of the colony--in order to recompense the company for the
expense of importing them. The price of a wife was at first fixed at one
hundred and twenty-five pounds of tobacco--equal to about $90--but
afterward rose to $150. The women were disposed of on credit, when the
suitor had not the cash, and the debt incurred for a wife was considered
a debt of honor. Virginia became a colony of homes. The settlement was
saved from becoming a refuge of the criminal and the outcast, and in the
unions formed at that time many of the families in the country had their
origin. That some of the refuse of English society floated into the
colony is true, and many of the unruly children of London and other
English towns, were sent there as apprentices. But the unruly street boy
often has the diamond of energy and genius concealed within the rude
exterior, and in the genial clime of Virginia, with an opportunity to be
a man among men, the young apprentice from the slums of London or
Plymouth proved himself to possess qualities of value to the community.


CHAPTER III.

The French in Canada--Champlain Attacks the Iroquois--Quebec a Military
Post--Weak Efforts at Colonization--Fur-traders and Missionaries--The
Foundation of New France--The French King Claims from the Upper Lakes to
the Sea--Slow Growth of the French Colonies--Mixing with the Savages--The
"Coureurs de Bois."


Although the French navigator, Jacques Cartier, had sailed up the St.
Lawrence as early as 1534, it was not until 1608--the year after the
foundation of Jamestown--that Samuel de Champlain effected a permanent
settlement at Quebec. It happened that the Indians of the St. Lawrence
region were at bitter enmity with the Iroquois, or Five Nations, who
lived in the present State of New York, and this enmity had no small
influence in deciding the subsequent duel between France and England for
empire in North America. Champlain accepted the St. Lawrence Indians as
allies, and consented to lead a war party against the Iroquois. In 1609,
the year after the settlement of Quebec, Champlain entered the lake which
bears his name, accompanied by a number of the St. Lawrence Indians, and
engaged the Iroquois in battle. The warriors of the Five Nations were
brave, but the white man's gun was too much for them, and when two of
their chiefs fell dead, pierced by a shot from Champlain's weapon, they
turned and fled. The French thus won the friendship of the Canadian
Indians and the undying hatred of the Five Nations, and the latter
therefore stood faithfully by first the Dutch, and later the English in
the establishment of their power at Manhattan.

Quebec continued for many years to be hardly more than a military post.
At the time of Champlain's death, in 1635, there was, says Winsor, a
fortress with a few small guns on the cliffs of Cape Diamond. Along the
foot of the precipice was a row of unsightly and unsubstantial buildings,
where the scant population lived, carried on their few handicrafts, and
stored their winter provisions. It was a motley crowd which, in the
dreary days, sheltered itself here from the cold blasts that blew along
the river channel. There was the military officer, who sought to give
some color to the scene in showing as much of his brilliant garb as the
cloak which shielded him from the wind would permit. The priest went from
house to house with his looped hat. The lounging hunter preferred for the
most part to tell his story within doors. Occasionally you could mark a
stray savage who had come to the settlement for food. Such characters as
these, and the lazy laborers taking a season of rest after the summer's
traffic, would be grouped in the narrow street beneath the precipice
whenever the wintry sun gave more than its usual warmth at mid-day. It
was hardly a scene to inspire confidence in the future. It was not the
beginning of empire. If one climbed the path leading to the top of the
rugged slope he could see a single cottage that looked as if a settler
had come to stay. There were cattle-sheds and signs of thrift in its
garden plot. If Champlain had had other colonists like the man who built
this house and marked out this farmstead, he might have died with the
hope that New France had been planted in this great valley on the basis
of domestic life. The widow of this genuine settler, Hebert, still
occupied the house at the time when Champlain died, and they point out to
you now in the upper town the spot where this one early householder of
Quebec made his little struggle to instil a proper spirit of colonization
into a crowd of barterers and adventurers. From this upper level the
visitor at this time might have glanced across the valley of the St.
Charles to but a single other sign of permanency in the stone manor house
of Robert Gifart, which had, the previous year, been built at Beauport.

The French pushed their explorations toward the west and missionary
stations were established in the country of the Hurons. Two French
fur-traders reached in 1658 the western extremity of Lake Superior, and
heard from the Indians there of the great river--the Mississippi--running
toward the south. Upon the return of the traders to Canada an expedition
was organized to proceed to the distant region to which the traders had
penetrated, exchange trinkets for furs, and convert the natives to the
Christian faith. It was now that the French began to reap the fatal
fruits of their causeless war on the Iroquois. The latter attacked and
dispersed the expedition, killing several Frenchmen. In 1665, western
exploration was resumed, Father Allouez reaching the Falls of St. Mary in
September of that year, and coasting along the southern shore of Lake
Superior to the great village of the Chippewas. Delegations from a number
of Indian nations, including the Illinois tribe, met Father Allouez in
council at St. Mary's, and complained of the hostile visitations of the
Iroquois from the east and the Sioux from the west. Father Allouez
promised them protection against the Iroquois. Soon after this the French
summoned a great convention of the tribes to St. Mary's, and in presence
of the chieftains formally took possession of the country in behalf of
the king of France. A large wooden cross was elevated with religious
ceremonies. The priests chanted and prayed and the French king was
proclaimed sovereign of the country along the upper lakes and southward
to the sea. Thus was founded the short-lived empire of France in America.

The only French occupation of the St. Lawrence was not of the kind to
flourish. Sir William Alexander, in a tract which he published in 1624,
to induce a more active immigration on the part of his countrymen to his
province of New Scotland (Nova Scotia), accounts for the want of
stability in the French colony in that they were "only desirous to know
the nature and quality of the soil and did never seek to have (its
products) in such quantity as was requisite for their maintenance,
affecting more by making a needless ostentation that the world should
know they had been there, more in love with glory than with virtue....
Being always subject to divisions among themselves it was impossible that
they could subsist, which proceeded sometimes from emulation or envy, and
at other times from the laziness of the disposition of some, who,
loathing labor, would be commanded by none."[1] In 1660, after more than
half a century after the first settlement, a census of Canada showed a
total of 3418 souls, while the inhabitants of New England numbered at the
same time not far from eighty thousand. The establishment of seigneuries
was not calculated to invite or promote desirable immigration. A
seigneurial title was given to any enterprising person who would
undertake to plant settlers on the land, and accept in return a certain
proportion of the grist, furs and fish which the occupant could procure
by labor. Immigrants of the class which builds up a country want to own
the land which they cultivate. The sense of independence inspires them
with energy and with a patriotic interest in the commonwealth. Another
peculiar feature of French colonization was the tendency to mingle with
the natives. As early as 1635, Champlain told the Hurons, at his last
Council in Quebec, that they only needed to embrace the white man's faith
if they would have the white man take their daughters in marriage. The
English principle was to drive out the savage when he could be driven
out, or to tolerate him as a ward and an inferior when it would be unjust
to expel or destroy him; the Frenchman embraced the Indian as a brother.
"The French missionary," says Doyle in his Puritan colonies, "well nigh
broke with civilization; he toned down all that was spiritual in his
religion, and emphasized all that was sensual, till he had assimilated it
to the wants of the savage. The better and worse features of Puritanism
forbade a triumph won on such terms." One of the worst products of French
colonial life was the class known as the "coureurs de bois," a lawless
gang, half trader, half explorer, bent on divertisement, and not
discouraged by misery or peril. They lived in a certain fashion to which
the missionaries themselves were not averse, as Lemercier shows where he
commends the priests of his order as being savages among savages.
Charlevoix tells us that while the Indian did not become French, the
Frenchman became a savage. Talon speaks of these vagabonds as living as
banditti, gathering furs as they could and bringing them to Albany or
Montreal to sell, just as it proved the easiest. If the intendant could
have controlled them he would have made them marry, give up trade and the
wilderness, and settle down to work.

      [1] Winsor's "Cartier to Frontenac."


CHAPTER IV.

Henry Hudson's Discovery--Block Winters on Manhattan Island--The Dutch
Take Possession--The Iroquois Friendly--Immigration of the Walloons--
Charter of Privileges and Exemptions--Patroons--Manufactures Forbidden
--Slave Labor Introduced--New Sweden--New Netherlanders Want a Voice
in the Government.


When Henry Hudson managed, notwithstanding his detention in England by
King James, to send an account of his discoveries to Holland, the Dutch
were swift to avail themselves of the opportunities thus offered to
extend their trade to North America. The traders who first sought
Manhattan Island and Hudson's River, or the "Mauritius" as the Dutch
called the North River, were not settlers. Among them was the daring
navigator, Adrian Block, from whom Block Island is named, who gathered a
cargo of skins and was about to depart, late in the year 1613, when
vessel and cargo were consumed by fire. Block and his crew built
log-cabins on the lower part of Manhattan Island, and spent the winter
constructing a new ship, which they called the "Onrust" or "unrest"--an
incident and a name significant now in view of the commercial
pre-eminence and activity of the metropolis founded where those men built
the first habitations occupied by Europeans. Block sailed in the spring
of 1614 on a voyage of further discovery in his American built ship. He
passed through the East River and Long Island Sound and ascertained that
the long strip of land on the south was an island. He saw and named Block
Island, and entered Narragansett Bay and the harbor of Boston. His report
led the States-General to grant a charter for four years from October 11,
1614, to a company formed to trade in the region which Block had
explored, the territory "lying between Virginia and New France," being
called the New Netherland. When the charter expired, the States-General
refused to grant a renewal, it being designed to place New Netherland
under the jurisdiction of the Dutch West India Company as soon as that
company should have received the charter for which application had been
made. This charter, granted June 3, 1620, conferred on the Dutch West
India Company almost sovereign powers over the Atlantic coast of America,
so far as it was unoccupied by other nations, and the western coast of
Africa. The Company was organized in 1622, and its attention was at once
called to the necessity of founding a permanent colony in the New
Netherland in order to preserve the country from seizure by the English,
now established in New Plymouth to the north, as well as Virginia on the
south. Dutch traders had not been idle during the period between the
lapse of the old charter and organization under the new and the West
India Company found its operations greatly facilitated by the labors of
the pioneers. The storehouse on Manhattan Island had been enlarged, a
fort had been erected on an island near the site of Albany, and the
Iroquois had learned that in the Dutch they had an ally who would assist
them with arms at least against their enemies on the St. Lawrence. The
West India Company began wisely the work of settlement. They invited the
Walloons, Protestant refugees from the Belgic provinces of Spain, to
emigrate to New Netherland. They were most desirable settlers for a new
country, as industrious as they were intelligent and religious, and well
versed in agriculture as well as the mechanical and finer arts. Having
abandoned their homes for conscience' sake they could be trusted to do
their duty loyally to their adopted State, and to advance to the best of
their ability the interests of the Company.

Thirty families, including one hundred and ten men, women and children,
and most of them Walloons, were in the first emigration. Four of the
families, young couples who had been married on shipboard, and who,
perhaps, concluded that they would get along better apart from the older
households, chose to settle on the Delaware, four miles below the site of
Philadelphia, where they built a blockhouse and called it Fort Nassau.
Eight seamen went with them and formed a part of their colony, which grew
and prospered. Others of the emigrants went to Long Island; some founded
Albany; some settled on the Connecticut River, and several families made
their homes in what is at present Ulster County. The Company sent over
Peter Minuit as Governor in 1626, who bought from the natives their title
to Manhattan Island, paying therefor trinkets and liquor to the value of
twenty-four dollars. Governor Minuit built a fortification at the
southern end of the island, and called it New Amsterdam. The
States-General constituted the colony a county of Holland, and bestowed
on it a seal, being a shield enclosed in a chain, with an escutcheon on
which was the figure of a beaver. The crest was the coronet of a count.

In 1629 the Dutch West India Company gave to the settlers a charter of
"privileges and exemptions," and sought to encourage immigration by
offering as much land as the immigrants could cultivate, with free
liberty of hunting and fowling under the direction of the Governor. They
also offered to any person who should "discover any shore, bay or other
fit place for erecting fisheries or the making of salt pounds" an
absolute property in the same. To further promote the settlement of New
Netherland the company proposed to grant lands in any part of the colony
outside the island of Manhattan, to the extent of sixteen miles along any
navigable stream, or four miles if on each shore, and indefinitely in the
interior, to any person who should agree to plant a colony of adults
within four years; or if he should bring more, his domain to be enlarged
in proportion. He was to be the absolute lord of the manor, with the
feudal right to hold manorial courts; and if cities should grow up on his
domain he was to have power to appoint the magistrates and other officers
of such municipalities, and have a deputy to confer with the Governor.
Settlers under these lords, who were known as patroons--a term synonymous
with the Scottish "laird" and the Swedish "patroon"--were to be exempt
for ten years from the payment of taxes and tribute for the support of
the colonial government, and for the same period every man, woman and
child was bound not to leave the service of the patroon without his
written consent. In order to prevent the colonists from building up local
manufactures to the detriment of Holland industries and of the Company's
trade, the settlers were forbidden to manufacture cloth of any kind under
pain of banishment, and the Company agreed to supply settlers with as
many African slaves "as they conveniently could," and to protect them
against enemies. Each settlement was required to support a minister of
the gospel and a schoolmaster. The system thus established contained the
seed of evil as well as of good. African slave labor, already introduced
in Virginia, where the climate was some excuse for its adoption, worked
injury to the New Netherland, where all the conditions were favorable to
white labor, and tended to create a servile class. The negroes, both bond
and free, were for many years a most obnoxious element in the colony,
viewed with apprehension and suspicion even down to the beginning of the
present century by the general body of white citizens, and often
subjected to most cruel and unjust persecution and punishment on charges
that were either baseless or founded only in malice. The restriction on
domestic manufactures was another barb in the side of the colonists, and
that policy continued by the English successors of the Dutch, had much to
do with exciting the War for Independence. The patroons also were an
aristocratic element foreign to the prevalent spirit of North American
settlement, and their feudal rule, although liberal and patriarchal in
some instances, became less tolerable as years rolled on, and the people
comprehended the absurdity and injustice of mediæval institutions on
American soil. It is fortunate that the patroon system, unlike slavery,
was ultimately uprooted without revolution.

                        *          *          *

Americans should be proud of the fact that Gustavus Adolphus, the great
king of Sweden who died on the field of Lutzen in the cause of religious
liberty, gave his approval to the project for planting a Swedish colony
in America, and by proclamation, while in the midst of his campaign
against the Catholic League, recommended the enterprise to his people.
Eighteen days later the champion of Protestantism fell in the hour of
victory, and a noble monument erected by the German people marks the spot
where he gave up his life that Germany might be free. The scheme was
carried out by the regency which took charge of the kingdom, and Governor
Minuit, recalled from New Netherland, sailed from Gottenburg in 1637 to
plant a new colony on the west side of Delaware Bay. The colonists
arrived at their destination in the spring of 1638, and Minuit procured
from an Indian sachem a deed for a region which, the Swedes claimed,
extended from Cape Henlopen to the Falls of the Delaware, where Trenton
is now, and an indefinite distance inland. The Dutch protested and
threatened, but Minuit built a fort on the site of Wilmington, and called
it Fort Christina, in honor of the young queen of Sweden, daughter of
Gustavus Adolphus. The colony prospered, and a number of Hollanders
settled there with the Swedes. Minuit died in 1641, and the Swedish
government proceeded to place the colony on a permanent footing, and
called it "New Sweden." The colony was unable to hold its own against the
Dutch, and surrendered in 1655 to an expedition led by Peter Stuyvesant.

While New Netherland remained under Dutch rule the people had no voice in
the choice of those officers whose duties were more than local in
character. The governor was an appointee of the West India Company, and
responsible solely to it; though the latter was subject to a certain
amount of control from the States-General. That the people desired the
privilege of electing their general officers, is shown by a petition sent
in 1649 to the States-General from the Nine Men. A request was made in
this document for a suitable system of government, and it was accompanied
by a sketch of the methods of written proxies used by the New England
colonies in selecting their governors. On the other hand, a letter sent
two years later by the magistrates of Gravesend to the directors at
Amsterdam, stated that it would involve "ruin and destruction" to
frequently change the government by allowing the people to elect the
governor, partly on account of the numerous factions, and partly because
there were no persons in the province capable of filling the office. Nor
did the Dutch colonists possess any voice in the making of laws. There
was no regular representative assembly, although we find that there were
several emergencies when the advice of the people was asked by the
governors.[1]

      [1] See "History of Elections in the American Colonies." Columbia
      College Series.


CHAPTER V.

Landing of the Pilgrims--Their Abiding Faith in God's Goodness--The
Agreement Signed on the Mayflower--A Winter of Hardship--The Indians Help
the Settlers--Improved Conditions--The Colony Buys Its Freedom--Priscilla
and John Alden--Their Romantic Courtship and Marriage.


It is usual to celebrate the landing day of the Pilgrim Fathers on the
bleak shore of New Plymouth, December 11 (22) 1620, as the beginning of
New England. It was an event which richly deserves all the commemoration
in song and story and banquet-hall which it has received or ever will
receive, but the real and substantial foundation of New England was laid
about ten years later, when a numerous and well-to-do body of Puritans,
under a charter granted by the crown, formed the colony of Massachusetts
Bay. The Pilgrim Fathers were merely a handful in number, and as poor as
they were loyal and conscientious. Exiles to Holland, they declined an
offer from the Dutch West India Company to accept lands in New
Netherland. They wished to remain English, and with the aid of some
London merchants whose Puritan sympathies were mingled with a desire for
gain, the little community procured the means to sail for "the northern
parts of Virginia." The Pilgrims were just as true to King James as the
settlers of Jamestown, but they did not intend to join that colony, whose
members were attached to the Established Church, so far as they had any
religion, and where dissenters would have been ill at ease. At the same
time the immigrants in the Mayflower did not intend to land so far north
as they did. The wearisome voyage, however, made them anxious to get on
shore, the land could not be more inhospitable than the winter sea, and
they had an abiding faith in God's goodness and providence which enabled
them to face with resolution the hardships and dangers of the northern
wilderness. The act which the men of the party signed on the Mayflower,
previous to landing, showed that they were determined to have an orderly
government. It was the first American constitution, and as such deserves
to be remembered: "In the name of God, Amen. We, whose names are
hereunder written, the loyal subjects of our dread sovereign lord, King
James, by the grace of God, of Great Britain, France and Ireland, King,
Defender of the Faith, etc., having undertaken for the glory of God and
the advancement of the Christian Faith, and honor of our King and
country, a voyage to plant the first colony in the northern parts of
Virginia, do, by these presents, solemnly and mutually, in the presence
of God and of one another, covenant and combine ourselves together into a
civil body politic for our better ordering and preservation and
furtherance of the ends aforesaid; and by virtue hereof to enact,
constitute and frame such just and equal laws, ordinances, acts,
constitution and offices, from time to time, as shall be thought most
meet and convenient for the general good of the colony, unto which we
promise all due submission and obedience. In witness whereof we have
hereunto subscribed our names at Cape Cod, the 11th of November (O. S.)
in the year of the reign of our sovereign lord, King James of England,
France and Ireland, the eighteenth, and of Scotland the fifty-fourth,
Anno Domini 1620."

The day of landing was, as already stated, December 11, or according to
the new style, December 22. The spot which the Pilgrims selected for
settlement was well-watered and promising, and they gave to it the name
of the haven where they had taken a final leave of their native land. The
winter was fortunately mild, but they had to endure cruel hardships.
Their stores were scanty; they had no fishing tackle, and game was not
abundant. Fortunately spring came early; but forty-four of the little
company succumbed to want and cold, and those who retained their health
were hardly equal to the task of nursing the sick and burying the dead.
Had the savages been numerous and hostile they could have swept the
little settlement out of existence with but small effort; but the country
had been wasted not long before by a deadly pestilence and the native
tribes were too weak and too much in fear of more powerful enemies of
their own race, to make an attack on the strangers. Instead of injuring
the newcomers the Indians helped them, brought them game and fish, and
taught them how to cultivate corn. In 1623 the colony had, with new
arrivals, about one hundred and fifty inhabitants. The first division of
land was made this year, and a large crop of corn was harvested. Twelve
years after the foundation the people of Plymouth hardly numbered five
hundred, and they were soon overshadowed by the large Puritan immigration
to Salem and Boston. The poor and struggling settlers of Plymouth did not
even have the satisfaction of knowing that the fruits of their toils and
sufferings would be their own. They were still bound to the London
merchants who had supplied them with the means for emigration, and these
partners in the enterprise were impatient of the lack of returns. As the
Pilgrims gradually grew better off they were the more anxious to remove
the yoke which interfered with their independence, and some members of
the community who were richer than the others agreed, in exchange for a
monopoly of the Indian trade and the surrender of the accumulated wealth
of the colony, to pay its debt to the English shareholders. The colony
thus achieved its freedom, and its members were able to proceed in
building their settlement according to their own ideas of religion and
civil government without restraint from partners who had sought only for
worldly profit.

One of the most interesting incidents connected with the early history of
the Plymouth Colony was the romantic marriage of Priscilla and John
Alden, immortalized in the verse of Longfellow. Captain Miles Standish
was a redoubtable soldier, small in person, but of great activity and
courage. He came over in the Mayflower, and his wife Rose Standish fell a
victim to the privations which attended the first year in America.
Another passenger on the Mayflower was Priscilla Mullins, daughter of
William Mullins, a maiden of unusual beauty, just blooming into
womanhood. The gallant widower fell in love with Priscilla, but for some
reason which does not clearly appear, but probably bashfulness, he sent
another to do his courting. Standish himself was about thirty-seven years
of age, and doubtless showed the effect of his hard service in the wars.
Nevertheless, he might have won Priscilla had he gone for her in person,
for, as the military leader of the colony, beset as it was by savages who
might at any time become hostile, he was a man of importance and
desirable for a son-in-law. He made the mistake of choosing as Cupid's
messenger a handsome young man named John Alden, a cooper from
Southampton, with whom Priscilla was already well acquainted, and with
whom she had quite possibly whiled away many hours of the wearisome three
months' voyage from old Plymouth. Alden and Priscilla may have been in
love with each other already, when Captain Standish sent the youth on his
embarrassing mission. Even the rigid rules of Puritanism could not
prevent young men and women from falling in love, while their elders were
engaged in more sedate occupations. It is to be said for Standish, also,
that he evidently did not intend that the young man should state the case
to Priscilla, but only to her father. The parent promptly gave his
consent, but added that "Priscilla must be consulted." The maiden was
called into the room, and a brighter light dawned in her eyes, and a
ruddier flush suffused her cheeks, as her gaze met that of the handsome
young cooper. John Alden, too, could not remain unaffected, as he
repeated his message to the fair young woman, into whose ears he had
probably poured sweet nothings many a time while they dreamed, perhaps,
of the day when more serious words would be spoken. Priscilla asked why
Captain Standish had not come himself. Alden replied that the Captain was
too busy. This naturally made the maiden indignant, for she was justified
in assuming that no business could be more important than that of asking
for her hand. It is also possible that she was glad of an excuse for
rejecting the proffered honor. She declared that she would never marry a
man who was too busy to court her, adding, in the words of Longfellow:

    "Had he waited awhile, had only showed that he loved me,
    Even this captain of yours--who knows?--at last might have won me,
    Old and rough as he is, but now it never can happen."

John Alden pressed the suit in behalf of his soldier friend, secretly
hoping, it is to be feared, that Priscilla would not take him too much in
earnest, when, continues Longfellow:

    "Archly the maiden smiled, and with eyes over-running with laughter.
    Said, in a tremulous voice: 'Why don't you speak for yourself, John?'"

John did not speak for himself--at least not directly, on that occasion,
but he did later on, and shortly afterward the marriage of John Alden and
Priscilla Mullins was celebrated with all the display that the Plymouth
settlers could afford. Captain Standish did not blame Alden, but he did
not remain long near the scene of his disappointment, moving, in 1626, to
Duxbury, Massachusetts. He lived to a hale old age, respected both for
his private virtues and his public services.


CHAPTER VI.

The Puritan Immigration--Wealth and Learning Seek These Shores--Charter
Restrictions Dead Letters--A Stubborn Struggle for Self-government--
Methods of Election--The Early Government an Oligarchy--The Charter of
1691--New Hampshire and Maine--The New Haven Theocracy--Hartford's
Constitution--The United Colonies--The Clergy and Politics--Every
Election Sermon a Declaration of Independence.


John Endicott's settlement at Salem, and the large immigration which
followed the granting of a royal patent to the Massachusetts Bay Company,
together with the transfer of the charter and corporate powers of the
company from England to Massachusetts, led to the growth of a powerful
Puritan commonwealth which overshadowed and ultimately absorbed the
feeble settlement at Plymouth. The natal day of New England was that on
which John Winthrop landed at Salem, with nine hundred immigrants in the
summer of 1630, bringing not merely virtue, muscle and brawn, such as
carried the Pilgrims through their appalling experience, but wealth and
substance, learning and art, men to command as well as men to obey. From
that time, except during the season of depression which followed King
Philip's war, New England went steadily forward in population, prosperity
and political power. Her rulers were well able to meet and defeat their
would-be oppressors in the field of diplomacy, and now defying, now
ignoring and again pretending to yield to royal dictation, Massachusetts
never gave up the principles which animated her founders, or the purpose
which prompted them to abandon homes of comfort and even of luxury, and
establish new institutions in a new world. The Massachusetts settlers
were forbidden by the terms of their charter to enact any laws repugnant
to the laws of England. This restriction was a dead letter from the very
beginning. Indeed, literally construed, it would have defeated the very
object of Puritan emigration--to escape from the rule of a hierarchy
established under English laws. As Massachusetts was for many years the
leading colony of the north of English origin, and probably made more of
an impress than any other colony and State upon our national character,
it may be of interest to quote here a sketch of its political
institutions and their changes in the colonial period.

The charter of the Massachusetts Bay Company authorized the election of a
governor, deputy governor and eighteen assistants on the last Wednesday
of Easter. Endicott, the first governor, was chosen by the company in
London in April, 1629, but in October of the following year it was
resolved that the governor and deputy governor should be chosen by the
assistants out of their own number. After 1632, however, the governor was
chosen by the whole body of the freemen from among the assistants at a
general court or assembly held in May of each year. The deputy governor
was elected at the same time. The charter, as already mentioned, provided
also for the annual election of assistants or magistrates, whose number
was fixed at eighteen. Besides the officers mentioned in the charter, an
order of 1647 declared that a treasurer, major-general, admiral at sea,
commissioners for the United Colonies, secretary of the General Court and
"such others as are, or hereafter may be, of like general nature," should
be chosen annually "by the freemen of this jurisdiction." The voting took
place in Boston in May at a court of election held annually, and freemen
could vote at first only in person, but eventually by proxy also, if they
desired to do so. In both Massachusetts and New Plymouth all freemen had
originally a personal voice in the transaction of public business at the
general courts or assemblies which were held at stated intervals. One of
these was known as the Court of Election, and at this were chosen the
officers of the colony for the ensuing year. As the number of settlements
increased, it became inconvenient for freemen to attend the general
courts in person and they were allowed to be represented by deputies. As
it was impossible for all freemen when the colony became more populated,
to attend the courts of election, the deputies were at length permitted
to carry the votes of their townsmen to Boston.

The governor, as well as the other officers in Massachusetts, were first
chosen by show of hands, but about 1634 it was provided that the names
should be written on papers, the papers to be open or only once folded,
so that they might be the sooner perused. Afterward the voting was by
corn and beans, a grain of Indian corn signifying election, and a black
bean the contrary. The offence of ballot-box stuffing seems to have
existed, or at least was provided against even among the early Puritans,
for it was enacted that any freeman putting more than one grain should be
fined ten pounds--a large sum of money in those days.

The Massachusetts colonial government has been called a theocracy. As a
matter of fact it was an oligarchy, the political power residing in but a
small proportion of even the church-going freemen. This is shown in the
remonstrance addressed to the colony by the royal commission appointed
under King Charles II. to investigate the governments of the New England
colonies. Said the Commissioners to Massachusetts:

"You haue so tentered the king's qualliffications as in making him only
who paieth ten shillings to a single rate to be of competent estate, that
when the king shall be enformed, as the trueth is, that not one church
member in an hundred payes so much & yt in a toune of an hundred
inhabitants, scarse three such men are to be found, wee feare that the
king will rather finde himself deluded than satisfied by your late act."

During the rule of Dudley and Andros the whole legislative power of
Massachusetts was lodged in a council, appointed by the crown through its
governor, and popular election in the New England colonies was limited to
the choice of selectmen at a single meeting held annually in each town,
on the third Monday in May.

The ultimate result of the revolution of 1688 in England was to unite
Massachusetts and New Plymouth under the Charter of 1691. By virtue of
this instrument, "the Great and General Court of Assembly" was to consist
of "the Governor and Council or Assistants for the time being, and such
Freeholders of our said Province or Territory as shall be from time to
time elected or deputed by the Major parte of the Freeholders and other
Inhabitants of the respective Townes and Places." The governor, deputy
governor and secretary and the first assistants were appointed. After the
first year, the assistants were to be annually elected by the General
Assembly. Under this charter, with the exception of the deputies, the
only elective officers whose functions were at all general in their
nature were the county treasurers, and they were chosen upon the basis of
the town rather than upon the basis of the provincial suffrage.

                        *          *          *

New Hampshire owed its original settlement to John Mason, a London
merchant, who was associated with Sir Ferdinand Gorges in obtaining a
grant of land in 1622, from the Merrimac to the Kennebec and inland to
the St. Lawrence. Gorges and Mason agreed to divide their domain at the
Piscataqua. Mason, obtaining a patent for his portion of the territory,
called it New Hampshire, in commemoration of the fact that he had been
governor of Portsmouth in Hampshire, England. The Rev. Mr. Wheelwright,
brother of Anne Hutchinson, founded Exeter. The New Hampshire settlements
were annexed by Massachusetts in 1641, and remained dependent on that
colony until 1680, when New Hampshire became a royal province, ruled by a
governor and council and house of representatives elected by the people.
The settlers of New Hampshire were mostly Puritans, and thoroughly in
sympathy with the political-religious system of Massachusetts.
Massachusetts obtained jurisdiction over Maine through purchase from
Gorges, and that territory remained attached to Massachusetts until 1820.
Vermont had no separate existence until the Revolution.

                        *          *          *

The colonies of Connecticut and New Haven were in full sympathy with the
religious and political system of Massachusetts. The first meeting of all
the "free planters" of New Haven was held on the fourth day of June,
1639, for the purpose "of settling civil government according to God, and
about the nomination of persons that might be found by consent of all,
fittest in all respects for the foundation work of a church." The meeting
was opened with prayer. There was some debate as to whether the planters
should give to free burgesses the power of making ordinances, but it was
ultimately decided to do so. The minutes of the meeting show that this
decision was arrived at on the authority of several passages from the
Bible--such as "Take you wise men and understanding, and know among your
tribes and I will make them rulers over you," and "Thou shalt in any wise
set him king over thee whom the Lord thy God shall choose; one from among
thy brethren shalt thou set king over thee; thou mayest not set a
stranger over thee, which is not thy brother." The model followed in the
governmental organization was the liveries of the city of London which
chose the magistrates and were themselves elected by the companies.
Accordingly, the planters of New Haven elected a committee of eleven men,
and gave them power to choose the seven founders of the theocracy they
had decided to establish. The seven founders met as a court of election
in October of the same year and admitted upon oath several members of
"approved churches." After reading a number of passages from the Bible
bearing on the subject of an ideal ruler, they proceeded to the election
of a chief magistrate and four deputy magistrates. The franchise in all
cases was confined to church members. In the Hartford colony, which was
Connecticut proper, the earliest mention of elections is found in the
Fundamental Orders of 1638, which have become famous as the first written
constitution framed on the American continent. It was enacted that a
governor and six magistrates should be chosen annually by the freemen of
the jurisdiction. A deputy governor was also chosen. The Charter of
Charles II., which placed the New Haven and the Hartford colonies under
one government, provided for the same general officers, together with
twelve assistants, a secretary and a treasurer being added in 1689.

In 1643, the four colonies of Massachusetts, Plymouth, Connecticut and
New Haven formed a confederation for defence against the Indians and also
the Dutch, who had claimed that a portion of what is now the State of
Connecticut was included within their jurisdiction. The confederation was
called the United Colonies of New England, and its affairs were managed
by a board of eight commissioners, two from each colony. The
commissioners could summon troops in case of necessity and settle
disputes between the colonies. This union proved most effective in the
subsequent war with King Philip. It was the germ of American
confederation.

The election sermon was a prominent feature of election day in the
Puritan colonies. The clergyman to deliver the sermon was selected by the
freemen, and it was considered a great honor to be chosen for the office.
The preacher often dealt with public questions, and especially during the
troublous times which preceded the Revolution. Instead of pastors being
blamed for interference in politics the General Court sometimes sent a
general request to all ministers of the gospel resident in the colony
asking them to preach on election day before the freemen of each
plantation a sermon "proper for direction in the choice of civil rulers."


[61] Works, Paris, 1686, Vol. I., col. 1528, No. 113. Egyptian Mythology
and Egyptian Christianity, etc., by Samuel Sharpe. London, 1863, p.
3.

[62] An Essay of Scarabs, by W.J. Loftie, B.A., F.S.A., pp. 58, 59.

VI.

THE POSITION OF THE SCARAB IN ANCIENT EGYPTIAN RELIGION AND THE BOOK
OF THE DEAD. EGYPTIAN PHILOSOPHY. ADVANCED INTELLECTUALITY OF EGYPT SIX
THOUSAND YEARS AGO. DEITIES OF LIBRARIES AND LEARNING.

    ANCIENT LIBRARIANS AND BOOKS. THE
    DIVISION OF LEARNED MEN INTO
    DIFFERENT BRANCHES OF STUDY. THE
    STATEMENTS OF GREEK WRITERS ON EGYPTIAN THOUGHT NOT TO BE DEPENDED
UPON.

    QUOTATIONS FROM THE BOOK OF THE
    DEAD ON THE SYMBOLISM OF THE
    SCARABÆUS DEITY. THE SYMBOLISM OF THE
    GREAT SPHINX.

    FURTHER QUOTATIONS FROM THE BOOK OF THE
    DEAD, ON THE SYMBOLISM OF THE
    SCARAB DEITY.
    

    
    As I have already said: the
    larger scarabs are usually found
    in the body of the mummy in place of the heart, which was always
taken out of the corpse and placed in one of the visceral vases,
that of Tuamautef.

    The scarab was a symbol of the re-birth, resurrection and the eternal
life of the soul, pronounced pure at the psychostasia; and we know
from the Book of the Dead, that at the moment of resurrection, in
analogy to the beginning of terrestrial life, it was the heart that
was asserted to be given to the dead so as to receive the first
vitality of the second birth, it was through the heart that the
mummy would revive, thence the inscribed scarab was placed in the
mummy in the place formerly occupied by its heart when in terrestrial
life.

Sometimes the representation of a human heart was engraved on the scarabæus.
The small scarabs are not often found inside of the mummy.
But frequently large stone scarabs have been found in it in the place of
the heart, on which, incised in very small characters, are portions of
the Book of the Dead. Those usually inscribed are, the XXXth chapter or
those parts of the LXIVth, line 34, or of the XXVIIth chapters, which
relate to the heart of a man. They begin usually with the formula:
"My heart which comes from my mother, my heart which is necessary for
my transformations," etc. They are, following the commands in the Book
of the Dead, frequently set in gold, sometimes in bronze, and sometimes
are incised with the shape of the hieroglyph for the heart.

At some very remote period, so remote that we cannot even surmise its date,
the scarabæus symbol was considered as embodying not only the idea of
the creator but also, the idea of the life beyond the grave in eternal
futurity. Some scholars assert that the Egyptians rejected every
abstraction and did not have any philosophy. This I do not and cannot
believe from my investigations of their learning, but I do think, that
we have not yet grasped nor understood that philosophy in its fullness,
from the few remnants of it which have reached our day.
The oldest texts and monuments show, a high condition of culture and thought
as well as artistic feeling; the unknown deity was idealized and never
represented to the eye on the monuments of early times; the Great Sphinx,
itself a philosophical abstraction, was made long before the historical
period; and the Book of the Dead, shows beneath its pages, a hidden
religious metaphysical philosophy not yet unraveled.
This was, likely, secretly taught by word of mouth as Qabbalah or
Oral Tradition to the initiates, and was never put into writing. Some
of these ideas we have just grasped, for instance, we now have some
knowledge of the Egyptian divisions of the spiritual or immaterial part
of man, of his psychology, and upon studying these divisions one can
readily imagine, a secret religious philosophy accompanying those
separations of the spiritual in man. We are also obtaining some knowledge,
of their idea of God and of their kosmology and kosmogony.

Six thousand years ago Egypt had attained great advancement. "Its
religion was established. It possessed a language and writing. Art under
the IVth and Vth Dynasties had reached a height which the following
Dynasties[63] never surpassed. It had an especially complicated
administration, the result of many years. The Egyptians had
civil grades and religious grades, bishops as well as prefects.
Registration of land surveys existed. The pharaoh had his organized
court, and a large number of functionaries, powerfully and wisely
arranged, gravitated around him. Literature was honored and books
were composed on morals, some of which have reached our day. This was
under the Ancient Empire during which existed the builders of the
Pyramids."[64] The deities of literature and of libraries already existed,
they were Thoth, the Greek Hermes; Atmu, of Thebes; _Ma_ or _Maat_,
goddess of the harmony of the entire universe, or its law of existence,
and of righteousness; Pacht, the mistress of thoughts; Safekh, goddess
of books, who presided over the foundations of monuments and who was
venerated at Memphis as early as the IVth Dynasty; Selk, who was also the
goddess of libraries.

"In one of the tombs at Gizeh, a great functionary of the first
period of the VIth Dynasty (_circa_ 3300 B.C.,) takes the title of:
'Governor of the House of Books.' This simple mention incidentally
occurring between two titles, more exalted, would suffice, in the
absence of others, to show us the extraordinary development which
had been reached in the civilization of Egypt at that time.

Not only had that people a literature, but that literature was sufficiently
large to fill libraries; and its importance was so great, that one
of the functionaries of the court was especially attached to the care and
preservation of the royal library. He had, without doubt, in his keeping
with the contemporaneous works, the books written under the first
Dynasties, books of the time of Mena and perhaps of kings anterior to
Mena. The works in the library would be composed of religious works;
chapters of the Book of the Dead, copied after authentic texts preserved
in the Temples; scientific treatises on geometry, medicine and astronomy;
historic books in which were preserved the sayings and doings of the
ancient kings, together with the number of the years of their lives and
the exact duration of their reigns; manuals of philosophy and practical
morals and perhaps some romances," etc.[65]
The learned of that ancient people followed special lines of study and
thought. There was a division of them known as the _Herseshta_, or Teachers
of Mysteries. These were subdivided, among other divisions into: "The
Mystery Teachers of Heaven," or, the astronomers and astrologers; "The
Mystery Teachers of All Lands," or, the geographers and those who studied
other peoples and countries; "The Mystery Teachers of the Depth," likely,
the possessors of a knowledge of minerals, mining, varieties of rocks,
etc.; "Mystery Teachers of the Secret Word," doubtless those interested
in abstract thought, religious metaphysics and philosophy; "Mystery
Teachers of the Sacred Language," men who devoted themselves to grammar
and the form of writing; "Mystery Teachers of Pharaoh, or, 'of all
the commands of Pharaoh,'" wise men, likely private scribes and secretaries
of the king; "Mystery Teachers who examine Words," likely learned
men who sat as judges to hear complaints, and sift the opposing
statements of litigants and witnesses.

The learned writers known as scribes were also divided into many
branches.[66]
We cannot accept the statements of most of the Greek authors upon this
subject, for the study of the last few years of the Ancient Egyptian papyri
and other remains, shows that they either did not know or they willfully
misrepresented, Egyptian abstract thought; about the only works,
outside of the papyri and the monuments, from which we can gather as to
it with any sureness, meagre details; are the writings attributed to
Hermes Trismegistos; the Osiris and Isis, of Plutarch; the work ascribed
to Horapollon, and the book of Iamblichus, entitled:
A Treatise on the Mysteries. The Greek writers upon Ancient Egypt,
Herodotus, Diodorus Siculus, Strabo, Thales, Plato, Pythagoras, Solon,
and others, of less note; give but little assistance, indeed in
many cases their statements are misleading.

It is a question yet to be solved, as to how much of the foundations
of the philosophy of Pythagoras, Plato, Solon and other Greek
writers, were obtained from the learned men of Egypt or their
writings.[67]
Chapter XXX. of the _Per-em-hru_, or, Book of the Dead, has frequently
in the papyrus copies, a picture of the soul of the dead in adoration
before a scarabæus set upright upon a support.

This chapter is entitled: "Chapter of not allowing the heart of a man to
have opposition made to it in the divine inferior region." It says towards
the end: "This chapter is to be said over a scarabæus of hard stone,
formed and set in gold, which should be placed in the breast of the man,
after the opening of the mouth has been made and the head anointed
with oil; then the following words shall be said over him in right
of a magical charm: 'My heart which comes to me from my mother, my
heart which is necessary to me for my transformations.'"

See, Appendix A.

The whole of this chapter was frequently engraved upon the large scarabs,
which were placed in the breasts of the mummies in place of the
heart.

The LXIVth chapter of the Book of the Dead, is one of the oldest of the
entire collection and line 34 _et seq._, uses the same language as to the
heart, and says: "Put it on a scarabæus of hard stone set in gold,
in the breast of the mummy, having engraved on it: 'My heart is my mother,'"
etc. This chapter is fuller than the other just cited.

The CLXIIIrd chapter, lines 9, 10, says: "O Amen bull-scarabæus, master
of the eyes: 'Terrible with the pupil of the eye' is thy name.
The Osiris * * * (here the name of the deceased was inserted,) is the
emanation of thy two eyes." That is, Amen is here invoked as the bull-symbol
of generation and also as the scarabæus, that is, as the creator who
has engendered himself.

Chapter CLXV. of the same book, has as a vignette or picture: The god Khem,
ithyphallic, with the body of a scarab, etc., line 11 reads: "I do all
thy words. Saying (them) over the image of the god raising the arm,
having the double plume upon his head, the legs separated and the body
of the scarabæus."
The rising sun or Horus, in whose arms it was asserted, the dead arose
into the upper life, was represented by the scarabæus under the
name of Khepra, Khepera, or Khepri, this name among its other meanings
signifying: "The itself transforming," and this is hieroglyphically written
by the use of the scarabæus. The body of Khepera as a deity is surmounted
in some of the representations, by a scarab in place of a human head.

In chapter XXIV. of the Book of the Dead, we read: "Khepra transforms
itself, (or, gives itself a form to itself,) on high, from the thigh of
its mother." This is more fully developed in a papyrus in the Louvre
which reads: "The majesty of this great god attains that reign
(the twelfth division of the subterranean world, responding to the twelfth
hour of the night,) which is the end of absolute darkness. The birth of
this great god, when it became Khepra, took place in that region * * *
It went out from the inferior region. It joined the boat _mad_. It raised
itself above the thighs of Nut."
"O Khepra who created itself on high, from the thigh of its mother, i.e.,
Nu, or Nut."[68]
Nut was the goddess personifying the vault of heaven, the sky, and the
space, in which the sun was supposed to have been born. The scarab it
must be remembered was in the Egyptian thought, an androgyne.

In a papyrus now in Turin, Italy, we may read: "I am Khepera, the morning;
Ra, the midday; Tum, the evening." It is said of Khepra as of Horus,
that it produced the _Ma_, i.e., the law or harmony which uphold the
universe, and it is merged with a form of Horus, under the name of:
"Harmakhis-Khepra who gives itself its form." One of the parts played by
Khepra in Ancient Egyptian thought, is condensed in that figure which
we find on the top of some of the Osirian naos's or arks, the scarab
in the middle of the disk emerging from the horizon.

The perpetuity of the transformations or the power to become, whenever it
pleased, the form it desired; was everywhere recalled to the mind of the
people of Ancient Egypt, by the symbolic figure of the scarab, the
hieroglyph of the words: _To become_, _to be_, _to be existing_,
as also creator, an amulet of power above all others.

"Khepra in its bark is Har-em-Khu (or, Harmakhis) himself," (chapter XVII.
Book of the Dead, line 79.) The latter is the sun re-born every
day at sunrise in the East under the name of Horus, it is: "Horus
in the horizon," the conqueror of darkness. The scarab as Tum-Ra-Khepra
is the, "illuminator of the double earth at its going out of the
under-world, great god, and master of the _Ma_:" that is, of the
Harmony and Law, whereby the universe came into being and exists.

                        The similarity attached to the idea in the symbolism of the sphinx,
causes the close student of Egyptology to see, that the scarab and
the sphinx represent similar ideas.

The Great Sphinx of Gizeh near the Great Pyramids, is an image of
Ra-Harmakhis or, "Horus in the two horizons," (the rising and the setting
sun;) one of the names of the sphinx is _seshep_ (i.e., to make the light.)
The sphinx is said to be, an emblem of energy and force united to
intellect, it is one of the very earliest of the Ancient Egyptian
emblems, that of Gizeh was old and needing repairs when the Pyramids
were being built; (_circa_ 3733 B.C.) That abstraction does not appear
to me, to be beyond the philosophy of the archaic Egyptians. The head
of the Great Sphinx signified the _Khu_, or intellectual part of the
soul, in their psychology; and the lion-shaped body, signified force,
vitality or energy, the life principle or _Ka_.[69]
The promise of the resurrection of the soul was symbolized, by the
Great Sphinx of Gizeh, old at the beginning of the Ancient Empire; by
the Phoenix, and by the Scarab, the antiquity of the symbolism of which
no Egyptologist has yet fathomed. We have it set forth in writing on
the inscriptions of the earliest Dynasties.[70]
On a stele found between the paws of the Great Sphinx of Gizeh
is:
"The majesty of this beautiful god speaks by its own mouth, as a father
speaks to his child, saying: Look to me, let thine eye rest on me,
my son Thutmes! I, thy father, Harmakhu-Khepra-Ra-Tum, I give thee the
kingdom." This monarch was Thutmes IVth (1533 B.C.)[71]
In the interior of the pyramid of Mer-en-Ra (or Mirinri Ist,) 3200 B.C.,
was inscribed on the walls: "And they installing this _Mihtimsaouf
Mirini_ upon their thrones at the head of the divine Nine, mistress
of Ra, it who has its dwelling fixed, because they cause that
_Mihtimsaouf Mirini_ may be as _Ra, in its name of the Scarabæus_,
and thou hast entered as to thyself as Ra," etc.[72]
"Salutation to thee Tumu,[73] salutation to thee, Scarabæus-god,
who art thyself; thou who liftest up, in that holding thy name of
lifter up ('from the earth,' 'the stairway,' or 'stairs,') and who
art (Khopiru) in this, holding the name of the Scarabæus-god
(Khopiru)!

Salutation to thee Eye of Horus, whom it has furnished with its two
creating hands (Tumuï,)" etc.[74]
Chapter XVII., line 75, of the Book of the Dead, reads: "O Khepra in its
boat! the society of the gods is its body, in other words, it is Eternity."

Chapter XXIV., lines 1, 2, say: "I am Khepra who gives to itself a form
on high, from the thigh of its mother, making a wolf-dog, for those who
are in the celestial abyss, and the phoenix, for those who are among the
divine chiefs." That is, as Harmakhis.

Chapter XV., lines 3, 4, read: "Salutation to thee, Harmakhis-Khepra who
to itself gives a form to itself!

                        Splendid is thy rising in the horizon, illuminating the double earth
with thy rays."

The statutes of England, as well as of the
American colonies, dealt with the imaginary crime. Among the intelligent
and educated classes, however, both in Europe and America, the subject
was generally considered of too doubtful a nature to be dealt with by the
infliction of the penalties which the law prescribed. In Massachusetts,
where everybody had some education, the majority of the people, although
deeply and almost fanatically religious, had their doubts about the
reality of the diabolical art, and the belief, strangely enough, seems to
have been most intense and aggressive in the highest intellectual
quarters, among ministers and men of superior education and commensurate
influence. It was this that gave the witchcraft delusion its awful power
for evil, and enabled a few vicious children afflicted with hysteria or
epilepsy to bring a score of mostly reputable persons to an ignominious
death, to ruin more than that number of homes and to spread consternation
throughout the commonwealth.

The Salem delusion began in the house of Mr. Parris, the minister at
Danvers. Parris had two slaves, an Indian and his wife, Tituba, the
latter half negro and half Indian. Tituba taught the children various
tricks. While practicing these tricks, some of them became hysterical and
acted in a peculiar manner. It was suggested that they were bewitched,
and they were asked who had bewitched them. They indicated a woman named
Sarah Goode, who was generally disliked. She was arrested and imprisoned.
This seems to have gratified the children, who soon after had convulsions
in the presence of another victim, one Giles Corey. Corey stood mute
under the accusation, and was tortured to death by pressing. The cases
attracted attention, and at the instance of Cotton Mather and others,
Governor Phipps designated a special court to try persons accused of
witchcraft. Malice, greed and craft promptly supplied more victims for
the court and the hangman. Doctors discovered what they called
witch-marks, such as moles or callosities of any kind, and after the
children or others alleged to have been bewitched had performed the usual
contortions, the accused were swiftly convicted. Francis Nourse and his
wife, Rebecca, had a controversy about the occupation of a farm with a
family named Endicott. The Endicott children went into hysterics and
charged that Rebecca Nourse had bewitched them. Although as good and pure
a woman as there was in the colour, Rebecca was convicted, hanged on
Witches' Hill, and her body cast into a pit designed for those who should
meet her fate. Mr. Parris, the minister, thought it necessary to preach a
sermon fortifying the belief in witchcraft, and when Sarah Cloyse, a
sister of Rebecca, got up and went out of the meeting-house, regarding
the sermon as an insult to the memory of her murdered sister, she was
also denounced and arrested. The Rev. Dr. Cotton Mather, one of the
lights of Puritanism, and son of Dr. Increase Mather, president of
Harvard University, was most active and violent in the prosecutions.
Among the victims was the Rev. Stephen Burroughs, a learned minister of
exemplary life, who was accused of possessing a witch's trumpet. Mather
witnessed the hanging of Burroughs, and when the latter on the scaffold
offered up a touching prayer, Mather cried out to the people that Satan
often transformed himself into an angel of light to deceive men's souls.
The Rev. Mr. Noyes, standing by at the execution of eight accused
persons, exclaimed: "What a sad thing it is to see eight fire-brands of
hell hanging there!" A committee was appointed to ferret out witches, and
children were readily found to court the notoriety and interest which a
share in the work attracted. When the accusers began to utter charges
against the wife of Governor Phipps and relatives of the Mathers, the
authorities took a different view of the monster which they had evolved
out of their superstitious imaginings. Public opinion, which had been
fettered by fear and amazement at the hideous proceedings, began to find
expression in protest against any further sacrifice. Many of the accusers
recanted their testimony, and said that they had given it in order to
save their own lives, dreading to be accused of witchcraft themselves.
The General Court of Massachusetts appointed a general fast and
supplication "that God would pardon all the errors of His servants and
people in a late tragedy raised among them by Satan and his instruments."
Judge Sewall, who had presided at a number of the trials, stood up in his
place in the church and begged the people to pray that the errors which
he had committed "might not be visited by the judgment of an avenging God
on his country, his family and himself." The Rev. Mr. Parris was
compelled to leave the country. Cotton Mather, however, adhered
steadfastly to his belief in witches. He said, among other things equally
astounding to the common sense even of that day, that the devil allowed
the victims of witchcraft to "read Quaker books, the Common Prayer and
popish books," but not the Bible. At the instance of Cotton Mather, and
that of his father, Increase Mather, the president of Harvard, a circular
was sent out signed by Increase Mather and a number of other ministers in
the name of Harvard College, inviting reports of "apparitions,
possessions, enchantments and all extraordinary things wherein the
existence and agency of the invisible world is more sensibly
demonstrated," to be used "as some fit assembly of ministers might
direct." But few replies to the circular were received. The people of
Massachusetts had muzzled the monster, and did not care to turn it loose
again. A monument was recently erected to Rebecca Nourse on the hill
where she perished, and her descendants have an organization which holds
annual meetings in commemoration of their hapless ancestor.

                        *          *          *

Notwithstanding harsh laws and their bitter enforcement, the habits of
the people were probably not much better than to-day in well-ordered
communities, and considerable depravity existed, especially in the
remoter settlements. Comer's Diary, which has never been published, but
which the writer of this work has examined in manuscript, shows a
condition of society far from exemplary, and it also shows that persons
whose position ought to have been respectable, sometimes took Indians
either as wives or in a less honorable relation. There is, perhaps, more
Indian blood in New England than is generally supposed, and the earlier
inhabitants of that section were probably less exclusive toward the
aborigines than is assumed in conventional history. Comer's Diary deals,
it is true, with the early part of the eighteenth century, but the
conditions it minutely and no doubt faithfully describes, must have
existed substantially in the seventeenth.[1]

      [1] I was present at a meeting of the Rhode Island Historical
      Society when President (then professor) Andrews, of Brown
      University, reported in behalf of a committee, that it had been
      judged inexpedient to publish Comer's Diary. I have since had the
      privilege of examining the diary in the original, and can understand
      the grounds of objection.--H. M.

                        *          *          *

The laws of Rhode Island were founded on the Mosaic system, like those of
Massachusetts, but entirely ignored the question of religion. The
penalties for immoral conduct were not so merciless as in the Puritan
colonies, and the Rhode Island colonial records indicate that the laws,
such as they were, were not rigidly enforced. The remnants of the Indian
tribes, having first been demoralized by unprincipled whites, became
themselves a demoralizing element, and Indian dances were, the records
show, a continual source of scandal and of vice, which the authorities
sought vainly to suppress. In connection with the principle of entire
separation of Church and State, on which Rhode Island was founded, it may
be of interest to mention here that I learned, in my examination of
Comer's Diary, that an attempt was made to establish a branch of the
Anglican Church in Providence, in the colonial period, and that a
minister was sent over under authority of the bishop of London. The
minister had to depart, and the church was closed on account of some
scandal. I wrote to the present bishop of London inquiring if there was
any record of the incident in the Episcopal archives, and he answered me
to the effect that nothing could be found relating to it.


CHAPTER IX.

New England Prospering--Outbreak of King Philip's War--Causes of the
War--White or Indian Had to Go--Philip on the War-path--Settlements Laid
in Ashes--The Attack on Hadley--The Great Swamp Fight--Philip Renews the
War More Fiercely Than Before--His Allies Desert Him--Betrayed and
Killed--The Indians Crushed in New England.


The civil war between Charles I. and the Parliament put an end to Puritan
immigration to New England, and some of the settlers went back to
England, and gave efficient aid to their fellow Puritans in fighting
against the king. The people of New England were, on the whole,
prosperous about the middle of the seventeenth century. Nearly every head
of a family owned his house and the land which he occupied, and in the
coast towns many were engaged in profitable trade and the fisheries.
Fishing vessels from abroad were customers for the agricultural products
of the colony, and gradually the colonists built their own vessels and
absorbed the fisheries themselves. The figure of a codfish in the
Massachusetts State House was, until recently, a reminder of the
beginning of Massachusett's wealth and prosperity.

King Philip's War was a terrible blow to the colonies, and came near to
proving their destruction. The immediate provocation of the conflict was
slight enough, but the conflict itself was inevitable. There was no
longer room in New England for independent Indian tribes side by side
with English colonies. One race or the other had to give way and war
meant extermination for one or the other. King Philip, Sachem of the
Wampanoags, saw that the further progress of the colonies would involve
the extinction of his race. He was a brave man, and possessed of uncommon
ability. He did not move hastily, although his tribesmen clamored for
bloodshed to avenge three of their fellows whom the English had hanged on
a doubtful charge of murder, based on the killing of an Indian traitor.
When Philip was prepared to strike he sent his women and children to the
Narragansetts for protection, and then started on the warpath against the
settlers of Plymouth colony. Major Savage, with horse and foot from
Boston, joined the Plymouth forces, and they drove Philip back into a
swamp at Pocasset. After a siege of many days Philip made his way from
the swamp, was welcomed by the Nipmucks, a tribe in interior
Massachusetts, and with fifteen hundred warriors he hurried to attack the
white settlements in Connecticut. The colonial army meanwhile hastened to
the Narragansett country, and compelled Canonchet, chief of the
Narragansetts, upon whom King Philip had relied for aid, to make a treaty
of friendship. Philip was disappointed by the loss of this expected ally,
but disappointment made him only the more resolute and desperate.
Everywhere he excited the New England tribes against the English, and
carefully avoiding any general encounter, he waylaid the settlers,
destroyed their homes and laid ambuscades for them in field and highway,
now and then attacking some important town. The colonists suffered
fearfully; numbers were slain; whole settlements were devastated, and the
gun had to be kept at hand in church, at home and at daily toil. No one
knew when the dusky foe would suddenly spring from the forest; no woman
left her doorstep without fear that she might never enter it again, and
the settler, whom duty summoned from home, looked anxiously on his return
to see if his dwelling was there. Even the churches, with congregations
armed as they listened to the Word of God, were assailed and the
worshipers sometimes massacred. Deerfield was laid in ashes, and Hadley
was saved undoubtedly by the sudden appearance of a venerable man,
William Goffe, the regicide, who had been a major-general under Cromwell,
was one of the judges who signed the death warrant of Charles I., and had
fled to New England from the vengeance of Charles II. He was concealed in
Hadley when the Indians attacked the place, and unexpectedly appeared
among the inhabitants, most of whom took him for a supernatural being,
and animated them to repulse the savages. He then as suddenly
disappeared, going back to his place of refuge. Philip, encouraged by his
successes, made a bold attack upon Springfield, but was repulsed with
serious loss. He then retreated to the Narragansett country, and was
hospitably received by Canonchet.

Although Canonchet's sympathies were with Philip, it is not certain that
the Narragansett chief had hostile designs against the English. The
colonists had determined, however, to make a sweep of possible as well as
actual enemies, and they marched upon the Narragansetts. Then occurred
the Great Swamp fight, one of the most sanguinary of encounters in the
history of Indian warfare. The Narragansetts had their winter camp, or
fort, in the heart of a swamp, in what is now Charlestown, Rhode Island.
Successive rows of palisades protected a position of considerable extent,
accessible during the greater part of the year by a single narrow path.
This one access was guarded by a blockhouse, but the cold weather gave a
footing to the invaders on the usually impassable morasses. An attempt
was made to take the Narragansetts by surprise. The warriors, however,
detected the stealthy approach, and seizing their weapons, fired from the
security of their palisades upon the advancing enemy. A number of the
best men on the colonial side were shot down while urging on the attack.
The battle on both sides was fierce and stubborn. Assault followed
assault, only to be repulsed, and when the English had fought their way
into the fortress, they were at first driven out by an irresistible onset
of the Indians. At length the colonists made good their entrance, and the
battle continued at closer quarters, the Indians nerved to desperation by
the presence of their wives and children, whose fate would be their own,
and the colonists inspired to prodigies of valor by the thought that
their defeat would certainly involve their own destruction, and perhaps
that of New England. The invaders at length set fire to the wigwams. As
the flames spread the women and children ran out, hampering their
defenders with cries of terror and appeals for protection, and at length
the Indians were overpowered. Then followed a pitiless massacre of the
defeated Indians and their families, hundreds of whom perished in the
flames, while many were taken prisoners to be carried off into slavery.
Canonchet was slain, and the power of the Narragansetts was broken
forever.[1]

      [1] In the summer of 1883 I represented the Providence _Journal_ at
      the dedication of Fort Ninigret, a spot set apart from the former
      Narragansett reservation in memory of the tribe which had given
      welcome to Roger Williams when he fled from Puritan persecution. I
      visited at the time the scene of the Great Swamp fight, and also
      the burying-ground of the latter Narragansett chiefs.

      The following lines which were suggested by the occasion, may
      perhaps be of interest to the reader:

          THE GRAVE OF NINIGRET.

          A stricken pine--a weed-grown mound
            On the upland's rugged crest,
          Point where the hunted Indian found
            At length a place of rest.

          Thou withered tree, by lightning riven,
            Of bark and leaf bereft,
          With lifeless arms erect to heaven,
            Of thee a remnant's left;

          The bolt that broke thy giant pride
            Yet spared the sapling green;
          And tall and stately by thy side
            'Twill show what thou hast been.

          But of the Narragansett race
            Nor kith, nor blood remains;
          Save that perchance a tainted trace
            May lurk in servile veins.

          The mother's shriek, the warrior's yell
            That rent the midnight air
          When Christians made yon swamp a hell,
            No longer echo there.

          The cedar brake is yet alive--
            But not with human tread--
          Within its shade the plover thrive,
            The otter makes its bed.

          The red fox hath his hiding-place
            Where ancient foxes ran.
          How keener than the sportsman's chase
            The hunt of man by man!

      H. M.

King Philip escaped from the slaughter, found other Indian allies, and
renewed the war more fiercely than before. Many towns were laid in ashes,
including Providence and Warwick, in Rhode Island; Weymouth, Groton,
Medfield, Lancaster and Marlborough, in Massachusetts. About six hundred
of the colonists were killed in battle or waylaid and murdered, and the
burden of the struggle bore heavily on the survivors. Fortunately
dissensions among the savages diminished their power for harm, and
Philip's allies deserted him, or surrendered to avoid starvation. Captain
Church of Rhode Island went in pursuit of Philip who had taken refuge in
the fastnesses of Mount Hope. The wife and little son of the Indian chief
were made prisoners, and this was a final blow to him. "My heart breaks,"
he said; "I am ready to die." An Indian, who claimed to have a grievance
against Philip on account of a brother whom the sachem had killed,
betrayed the hiding-place of Philip to the English, and shot the fallen
chief. Philip's head was cut off and carried on a pole to Plymouth, and
his body was quartered. His wife and son were sold into slavery in
Bermuda. The Indians of New England were crushed, and they never again
attempted to stand against the whites.


CHAPTER X.

Growth of New Netherland--Governor Stuyvesant's Despotic Rule--His
Comments on Popular Election--New Amsterdam Becomes New York--The
Planting of Maryland--Partial Freedom of Conscience--Civil War in
Maryland--The Carolinas--Settlement of North and South Carolina--The
Bacon Rebellion in Virginia--Governor Berkeley's Vengeance.


New Amsterdam prospered under methods of government which were mild as
compared with those of the Puritans, although the annals of the Dutch
colony are unhappily not free from the stain of persecution for
conscience' sake. Englishmen as well as Hollanders thronged to New
Netherland, and the people, as they grew beyond anxiety for enough to eat
and drink, became ambitious for a share in the government. In 1653, after
much agitation and resistance on the part of Governor Stuyvesant, New
Amsterdam was organized as a municipality, the power of the burghers
being, however, very limited.

The smaller Dutch towns possessed the privilege of electing their
officers, though their choice was subject to the approval of the
director-general. New Amsterdam had not been granted this privilege,
although it had been demanded in 1642 and again in 1649. At last, in
1652, Governor Stuyvesant was instructed to have a schout, two
burgomasters and five schepens "elected according to the custom of the
metropolis of Fatherland." He, however, continued for a long time to
appoint municipal officers, and when a protest was made he replied that
he had done so "for momentous reason." "For if," he said, "this rule was
to become a synocure, if the nomination and election of magistrates were
to be left to the populace who were the most interested, then each would
vote for some one of his own stamp, the thief for a thief, the rogue, the
tippler, the smuggler for a brother in iniquity, that he might enjoy
greater latitude in his vices and frauds." The magistrates had not been
appointed contrary to the will of the people, because they were "proposed
to the commonalty in front of the City Hall by their names and surnames,
each in his quality, before they were admitted or sworn to office. The
question is then put, 'Does any one object?'" At length, in 1658,
Stuyvesant allowed the burgomasters and schepens to nominate their
successors, but the city did not have a schout of its own until 1660.

Other troubles besides the demands of the people for self-government,
were gathering around the sturdy Dutch governor. The English were
pressing him from the east, and in New Netherland itself they were
aggressive and defiant in their attitude toward Dutch authority. Charles
II. granted New Netherland to his brother, the Duke of York, and an
English flotilla under Richard Nicholls appeared in front of New
Amsterdam and demanded the surrender of the province. Stuyvesant refused
to submit, but the people of New Amsterdam were more than willing to come
under English rule, and their doughty governor was made to understand
that he would be virtually alone in resisting the invaders. After a week
of fuming and raging against the inevitable, Stuyvesant yielded, and the
English took possession of New Amsterdam. The place was recaptured and
held by the Dutch for a few months in 1673, but with the exception of
this brief period the English remained thenceforth masters of the
Atlantic coast of North America from the St. Lawrence in the north to the
Spanish possessions in the south.

                        *          *          *

The planting of a Roman Catholic colony in Maryland was almost
contemporary with the Puritan settlement of New England. The first steps
toward the establishment of the colony had been taken under James I., but
it was in the reign of Charles I. that Cecil Calvert, the second Lord
Baltimore, obtained the charter which made him almost an independent
sovereign over one of the fairest regions of North America. The charter
granted civil and religious liberty to Christians who believed in the
Trinity. The Ark and the Dove, two vessels fitted out by Lord Baltimore,
bore about two hundred Roman Catholic immigrants to the banks of the
Potomac, where they landed on March 25, 1634. The cross was planted as
the emblem of the new colony, and Governor Leonard Calvert opened
negotiations with the Indians for the purchase of their lands. The first
assembly met in 1635, and another in 1638. Question having arisen as to
whether the lord proprietor or the colonists had the right to propose
laws, that right was at length conceded to the colonists. Of course the
settlers would not have been allowed to persecute non-Catholics, even had
they so desired; but they showed no such desire, and laws were enacted
securing freedom of worship to all professing to believe in Jesus Christ;
with the important limitation, however, of severe penalties for alleged
blasphemy. This limitation clearly made it possible for magistrates to
construe an honest expression of religious opinion as blasphemy, and to
inflict the cruel punishments provided for that offence. It should be
noticed that the Toleration Act of Maryland, passed in 1649, was the work
of a General Assembly composed of sixteen Protestants and eight Roman
Catholics, the governor (William Stone) himself being a Protestant. Some
years later the Puritans, being in a majority in the Maryland General
Assembly, passed an act disfranchising Roman Catholics and members of the
Church of England. Civil war followed, resulting in a defeat for the
Roman Catholics near Providence, now called Annapolis, April, 1655. Lord
Baltimore, whose authority was overthrown in the course of the conflict,
recovered his rights when the monarchy was restored in England. The
government of the Baltimores continued, with some interruptions, until
the Revolution, and it is but fair to state that the character which they
stamped upon the colony was not effaced even by that event.

                        *          *          *

The Puritans nearly succeeded in adding North Carolina to their chain of
colonies. The first settlers, after the ill-fated Raleigh expeditions of
the previous century, were Presbyterian refugees from persecution at
Jamestown, who, led by Roger Green, settled on the Chowan, near the site
of Edenton. These were joined by other dissenters who had found the
religious atmosphere of Virginia uncomfortable, and Puritans from New
England landed at the Cape Fear River in 1661, and bought lands from the
Indians. The soil and climate were admirably suited for successful
colonization, and North Carolina might have proved a southern New England
but for the hunger for vast American domains which just then possessed
the courtiers of Charles II. In view of the notorious depravity of that
merry monarch's surroundings it seems ludicrous to read that the grantees
obtained Carolina under the pretence of a "pious zeal for the propagation
of the gospel among the heathen." The list included the Earl of
Clarendon, General George Monk, to whom Charles owed, in a large degree,
his restoration to the throne; Sir Anthony Ashley Cooper, afterward Earl
of Shaftesbury; Sir John Colleton, Lord Craven, Sir George Carteret and
Lord John Berkeley and his brother, then Governor of Virginia. It is
related that, "when the petitioners presented their memorial, so full of
pious pretensions, to King Charles in the garden of Hampton Court, the
'merrie monarch,' after looking each in the face a moment, burst into
loud laughter, in which his audience joined heartily. Then taking up a
little shaggy spaniel, with large, meek eyes, and holding it at arm's
length before them, he said, 'Good friends, here is a model of piety and
sincerity, which it might be wholesome for you to copy.' Then tossing it
to Clarendon, he said, 'There, Hyde, is a worthy prelate; make him
archbishop of the domain which I shall give you.' With grim satire
Charles introduced into the preamble of the charter a statement that the
petitioners, 'excited with a laudable and pious zeal for the propagation
of the gospel, have begged a certain country in the parts of America not
yet cultivated and planted, and only inhabited by some barbarous people
who have no knowledge of God.'"

The Puritans, already settled in North Carolina, had no desire to take
part in the propagation of the gospel in the fashion which prevailed
among the courtiers of Charles II., and most of those who were from New
England abandoned their North Carolina plantations. Governor Berkeley, of
Virginia, extended his authority over the remainder, and made William
Drummond, a Scotch Presbyterian, who had been settled in Virginia,
administrator of the Chowan colony. Emigrants from Barbadoes bought land
from the Indians near the site of Wilmington, and founded a prosperous
settlement with Sir John Yeamans as governor. Other emigrants from
England, led by Sir William Sayle and Joseph West, entered Port Royal
Sound, and landed at Beaufort Island in 1671. They soon deserted Beaufort
and planted themselves on the Ashley River, a few miles above the site of
Charleston. In December, 1671, fifty families and a large number of
slaves arrived from the Barbadoes. Carolina, about this time, had a
narrow escape from being made the subject of a grotesque feudal
constitution conceived by John Locke, the philosopher, and approved by
the Earl of Shaftesbury. This constitution proposed to inflict on the
infant colony a system of titled aristocracy as elaborate as that of
Germany. The good sense of the colonists repelled the absurd scheme, and
saved Carolina from being a laughing stock for the nations. In 1680, the
settlers on Ashley River moved to Oyster Point, at the junction of the
Ashley and Cooper Rivers, and laid the foundation of Charleston.

                        *          *          *

Meantime Virginia was the scene of a memorable struggle between the
aristocrats and the people, the royalists led by the Governor, Sir
William Berkeley, and the republicans marshaled by Nathaniel Bacon, a
wealthy lawyer, deeply attached to the popular cause. The character of
Berkeley can best be judged by a communication which he sent to England
in 1665: "I thank God there are no free schools nor printing in Virginia,
and I hope we shall not have them these hundred years; for learning has
brought heresy and disobedience and sects into the world, and printing
hath divulged them and libels against the best government; God keep us
from both!" It is not strange that a man who felt like this should have
cared but little for the safety and welfare of the common people. He
himself reveled in riches, accumulated at the cost of the colony, and he
had in sympathy with him the large landholders, who sought to imitate in
their Virginia mansions the pomp and circumstance of the English
nobility, while they looked down on the mass of poor whites as vassals
and inferiors. The immediate provocation for the so-called Bacon
Rebellion was the failure of Governor Berkeley to protect the settlers
from Indian depredations, the governor having a monopoly of the
fur-trade, and being inclined by motives of self-interest to propitiate
the savages. An armed force assembled and chose Bacon as their leader.
They first repulsed the Indians, and then demanded from the governor a
commission for Bacon as commander-in-chief of the Virginia military.
Berkeley, although urged by the newly-elected House of Burgesses, which
was in sympathy with the people, to grant the commission, for some time
hesitated, but at length consented. Bacon marched against the Indians,
and Berkeley proclaimed him a traitor. This hostile action of the
governor excited Bacon and his followers, in whose numbers were included
many of the best men in the colony, to an open and resolute stand for the
rights of the people. Berkeley fled to the eastern shore of Chesapeake
Bay, and sought to raise an army to maintain his authority. He proclaimed
that the slaves of all rebels were to free; he aroused the Indians to
join him, and several English ships were placed at his service. With this
following the governor went back to Jamestown, and again proclaimed Bacon
a traitor.

The popular leader hastened to accept the challenge, and at the head of a
considerable force of republicans, he appeared before Jamestown.
Berkeley's mercenaries refused to fight, and stole away under cover of
night, Berkeley being obliged to accompany them in order to avoid being
made a prisoner. Jamestown was burned by the republicans, all the colony,
except the eastern shore acknowledged Bacon's authority, and the success
of the insurrection seemed assured when the popular leader fell a victim
to malignant fever. Without his genius and energy to guide the cause of
liberty, it rapidly declined, and Berkeley returned and soon succeeded in
re-establishing his authority. He made Williamsburg the capital of the
colony, instead of Jamestown, which never rose from its ruins--a fact
hardly to be regretted, as the site was decidedly unhealthy. Berkeley had
no mercy on the now submissive insurgents. Bacon's chief lieutenant had
been the brave Scotch Presbyterian, William Drummond, the first governor
of North Carolina. When Drummond was brought before him the governor
said: "You are very welcome; I am more glad to see you than any man in
Virginia; you shall be hanged in half an hour." Drummond calmly answered:
"I expect no mercy from you. I have followed the lead of my conscience,
and done what I could to rescue my country from oppression." Drummond was
executed about three hours later, and his devoted wife, Sarah, who had
taken an active part in urging the people to defend their rights, and who
had in her the spirit of the mothers of the Revolution, was banished with
her children to the wilderness. A wife who offered herself as a victim in
place of her husband, claiming that she had urged him to rebellion, was
repulsed with coarse and brutal insult, and the husband was led to the
gallows. Twenty-two in all were executed before Berkeley's vengeance was
satiated. Charles II. heard with indignation of the sacrifice of life,
exclaiming: "The old fool has taken more lives in that naked country than
I have taken for the murder of my father." Berkeley was recalled to
England in 1677. But for the presence of the fleet and troops of Sir John
Berry, sent over by the king to maintain the royal authority, Berkeley
might have been subjected to violence by the colonists who fired guns and
lighted bonfires to show their joy over his departure. Upon Berkeley's
arrival in England he found himself equally an object there of public
hatred and contempt on account of his cruelties, and he died in July of
the same year of grief and mortification.


CHAPTER XI.

The Colony of New York--New Jersey Given Away to Favorites--Charter of
Liberties and Franchises--The Dongan Charter--Beginnings of New York
City Government--King James Driven from Power--Leisler Leads a Popular
Movement--The Aristocratic Element Gains the Upper Hand--Jacob Leisler
and Milborne Executed--Struggle For Liberty Continues.


The colony of New York, so called after James, the Duke of York and
brother of King Charles II., came into English hands at a fortunate time,
and after a fortunate experience. Owing to Dutch, occupation during half
a century of intense agitation, civil war and revolution, New Netherland
had escaped being drawn into the maelstrom of English hates and
rivalries. Indeed the Dutch settlements, and New Amsterdam in particular,
had derived advantage from the troubles of the English colonies, and
among the immigrants who sought an asylum from Puritan intolerance within
New Netherland jurisdiction were many who proved valuable additions to
the population of the province, and who helped to build up its trade and
commerce, and to develop agriculture. The Duke of York, therefore,
entered upon possession of a colony with the accumulated prosperity of
about fifty years as the substantial foundation for future progress, and
with a population which, while composed of diverse nationalities,
retained the better features of them all. The settlers of New York, both
Dutch and English, were, as a rule, attentive to religious duties; but
they did not regard religion as the single aim of existence. They were
merchants and traders and farmers, liberal for their age in their views
of religious freedom, and devoting their best energies to building up
their worldly fortunes. New Amsterdam was in no sense Puritan--it was a
respectable, thriving, trading and bartering community, with flourishing
farms in the outskirts, and a commerce stunted by jealous restrictions,
but which gave promise of future development.[1]

      [1] The Rev. John Miller, in 1695, speaks of "the wickedness and
      irreligion of the inhabitants, which abounds in all parts of the
      province, and appears in so many shapes, constituting so many sorts
      of sin, that I can scarce tell which to begin withal." The reverend
      gentleman was probably prejudiced.

The Duke of York at first made poor use of his new possessions. He
astonished Colonel Richard Nicolls, who had conquered the territory for
him without firing a shot, by giving away to two favorites, Lord
Berkeley, brother of the Governor of Virginia, and Sir George Carteret,
the rich domain between the Hudson and Delaware, which received the name
of New Jersey, and for many years that province was a theatre of
dissensions traceable to the autocratic and reckless course of the Duke.
The rights of settlers who had preceded the proprietary government were
ignored, and an attempt made to reduce freeholders to the position of
tenants. A large immigration of Quakers from England a few years after
the Dutch surrender added a valuable element to the population, in which
the Puritans, apart from the Dutch, had predominated. Puritans and
Quakers seemed to get along very well in the Jerseys, and with good
government on the part of the proprietors the colony would doubtless have
flourished. That for a number of years the Jerseys remained law-abiding
and comparatively tranquil without a regular civil government attests the
excellent character of the people.

The Duke of York showed more wisdom in the management of his greater
province of New York. In 1683 he instructed his governor, Thomas Dongan,
to call a representative assembly, which met in the fort at New York. The
assembly adopted an act called "The Charter of Liberties and Franchises,"
which was approved, first by the governor, and afterward by the duke.
This charter declared that the power to pass laws should reside in the
governor, council and people met in general assembly; that every
freeholder and freeman should be allowed to vote for representatives
without restraint; that no freeman should suffer but by judgment of his
peers; that all trials should be by a jury of twelve men; that no tax
should be levied without the consent of the Assembly; that no seaman or
soldier should be quartered on the inhabitants against their will; that
there should be no martial law, and that no person professing faith in
God by Jesus Christ should be disquieted or questioned on account of
religion. Two years later James, now become king, virtually abrogated
this charter by levying direct taxes on New York without the consent of
the people, by prohibiting the introduction of printing, and otherwise
assuming arbitrary power. He did not, however, suppress the General
Assembly, which became, as years advanced and the colony grew in
importance, more and more resolute in asserting the people's rights.

Governor Dongan did all in his power to defend the interests of the
province against the aggressions of the crown, and to secure some degree
of self-government for those who bore the burdens of government. In 1686
the Dongan charter gave to the lieutenant-governor the power of
appointing the mayor and sheriff of New York city, but an alderman, an
assistant and a constable were to be chosen for each ward by a majority
of the inhabitants of that ward. During his short lease of power Leisler
issued warrants for the election of the mayor and sheriff by "all
Protestant freeholders." The resulting election was a farce, as only
seventy of the inhabitants voted. The illegality of this action in
defiance of the provisions of the Dongan charter was one of the chief
causes of complaint against Leisler. The Montgomery charter, granted to
New York in 1730, authorized the election of one alderman, an assistant,
two assessors, one collector and two constables in each ward. The charter
of Albany was granted by Governor Dougan in 1686, and it resembled in
many respects the instrument under which the city of New York was first
organized. It provided that six aldermen, six assistant aldermen,
constables and other magistrates, should be chosen annually. The mayor,
as well as the sheriff, was appointed by the governor. Governor Dongan's
reluctance to fall in with the despotic and reactionary policy of King
James led to his being dismissed from office in 1688, when Andros took
his place.

The tyrannical conduct of James II. and of his representatives in
America, alienated the people of New York from that sovereign, and the
news of his downfall was received with delight, especially as nearly all
the people were Protestants. The aristocratic element was inclined,
notwithstanding the news, to uphold the government established by James,
but the common or democratic element resolved to drive out the
representatives of the late king, and create a temporary government in
sympathy with the revolution. Jacob Leisler, a distinguished Huguenot
merchant, and senior captain of the military companies, was induced to
lead a revolt. A committee of safety, consisting of ten members, Dutch,
Huguenots and English, made Leisler commander-in-chief until orders
should arrive from William and Mary, the new sovereigns of England. Sir
Francis Nicholson, the acting governor under Sir Edmund Andros, departed
for England, and the members of his council to Albany, and denounced
Leisler as an arch-rebel. Leisler sent an account of his proceedings to
King William, and called an assembly to provide means for carrying on war
against the French in Canada. King William paid no attention to Leisler's
message, and commissioned Colonel Henry Sloughter governor of New York,
and sent a company of regular soldiers, under Captain Ingoldsby, to the
province. Leisler proclaimed Sloughter's appointment, but refused to
surrender the fort to Ingoldsby. A hostile encounter followed, in which
some lives were lost. The aristocratic element succeeded, upon
Sloughter's arrival, in obtaining an ascendancy over him, and Leisler and
his son-in-law, Milborne, were arrested on charges of treason. They were
tried and convicted by a packed court, and Sloughter was induced, while
drunk at a banquet given by Leisler's enemies, to sign the death
warrants. For fear the governor would repent of his act when sober, both
men were torn away from their weeping families to the scaffold. A number
of Leisler's enemies were assembled to witness his death, while a crowd
of the common people, who regarded him as their champion and a martyr for
their cause, looked sullenly on. Milborne saw his bitter foe, Robert
Livingston, in the throng, and exclaimed: "Robert Livingston, for this I
will implead thee at the bar of God!" The execution of Leisler aroused
strong indignation both in America and England, and some years later the
attainder placed upon them was removed by act of Parliament, and their
estates restored to their families. Leisler's soul, like that of John
Brown, marched on while his body was moldering in the grave. The spirit
which he infused, and the love of liberty to which he gave expression,
could not be eradicated by his tragic death. The people continued the
struggle in assembly after assembly for the people's rights, and
resolutely upheld freedom of speech and of the press in the legislative
hall and the jury box.


CHAPTER XII.

William Penn's Model Colony--Sketch of the Founder of Pennsylvania--
Comparative Humanity of Quaker Laws--Modified Freedom of Religion--An
Early Liquor Law--Offences Against Morality Severely Punished--White
Servitude--Debtors Sold Into Bondage--Georgia Founded as an Asylum for
Debtors--Oglethorpe Repulses the Spaniards--Georgia a Royal Province.


Founded on principles of equity by a man who was eminently a lover of his
kind, Pennsylvania stood forth as a model colony, an ample and hospitable
refuge for the oppressed of every clime. William Penn believed in the
Golden Rule, and he sought to establish a state in which that rule would
be the fundamental law. Instead of stern justices growing fat on the fees
of litigation, he would have peace-makers in every county. He would treat
the Indian as of the same flesh and blood as the white, and would live on
terms of amity with red men embittered against the invaders of their
lands by many years of unjust encroachment and cruel oppression. His
object, Penn declared in his advertisement of Pennsylvania, was to
establish a just and righteous government in the province that would be
an example for others. He proposed that his government should be a
government of law, with the people a party to the making of laws. None,
he declared, should be molested or prejudiced in matters of faith and
worship, and nobody should be compelled at any time to frequent or
maintain any religious place of worship or ministry whatsoever. Trial by
jury was guaranteed; the person of an Indian was to be as sacred as that
of a white man, and in any issue at law in which an Indian should be
concerned, one half the jury was to be composed of Indians.

William Penn was well known both in England and on the Continent when he
received, in 1681, his grant of Pennsylvania from Charles II. in
discharge of a debt of about eighty thousand dollars, due by the crown to
Penn's father, Admiral Sir William Penn. The proprietor of Pennsylvania
had suffered in the cause of religious liberty and reform. He had been
confined in the Tower for writing heretical pamphlets, and been
prosecuted for preaching in the streets of London. He had traveled in
Holland and Germany as a self-appointed missionary of the Society of
Friends, and had not spared his own ease in pleading the cause of
persecuted Quakers everywhere. When, therefore, he proposed to found a
colony in America, his name alone was enough to attract a host of
followers. Many immigrants flocked to Pennsylvania even before Penn
himself had arrived there, and the settlers of Delaware, who had been
anxious as to their future under the charter of the Duke of York, gladly
came under the rule of one whose name was a synonym of equity. Under a
spreading elm the Indians met the proprietor of Pennsylvania and made a
covenant with him that was equally just to the white man and to the
native--a covenant which, it is said, was never forgotten by the
aborigines.

Nothing is more significant of the spirit and the motives which guided
the early settlers than the humanity of their laws, as compared with the
code of England. The humane and enlightened sentiment as expressed in
legislation, was not peculiar to Pennsylvania. In Rhode Island, also,
that other colony founded on the principle of religious liberty, the
first spontaneous code enacted by the exiles was more than a century in
advance of European ideas and statutes, and in Rhode Island, as in
Pennsylvania, the ideal was compelled to give way to the hard and
practical pressure of dominating English influence, and of contact with
the rougher sort of mankind, attracted to these shores by the hope of
gain or the fear of punishment at home.

The Quakers began by proclaiming a modified freedom of religion. They
declared, "That no person now, or at any time hereafter, dwelling or
residing within this province, who shall profess faith in God the Father,
and in Jesus Christ, His only Son, and in the Holy Spirit, one God
blessed for Evermore, and shall acknowledge the Holy Scriptures of the
Old and New Testament to be given by Divine Inspiration, and, when
lawfully required, shall profess and declare that they will live
peaceably under the civil government, shall in any case be molested or
prejudiced for his or her conscientious persuasion, nor shall he or she
be at any time compelled to frequent or maintain any religious worship,
place or ministry whatsoever, contrary to his or her mind, but shall
freely and fully enjoy his or her Christian liberty in all respects,
without molestation or interruption." Of course this manifestly excluded
unbelievers in the Trinity, and left a door open for controversy as to
what books were included in the Sacred Scriptures. Furthermore, the law
against blasphemy might easily have been used as a weapon of persecution,
providing, as it did, that whoever should "despitefully blaspheme or
speak loosely and profanely of Almighty God, Christ Jesus, the Holy
Spirit or the Scriptures of Truth, and is legally convicted thereof,
shall forfeit and pay the sum of ten pounds for the use of the poor of
the county where such offence shall be committed, or suffer three months
imprisonment at hard labor."

Practically, however, entire freedom of worship existed in Pennsylvania.
The same liberal spirit breathed through the Quaker code, while at the
same time due care was taken to protect the morals of the people.

In view of the severe liquor law now in force in Pennsylvania, it may
be of interest to recall an early enactment regulating the traffic. It
was provided in 1709, that "For preventing of disorders and the mischiefs
that may happen by multiplicity of public houses of entertainment, _Be
it enacted_, That no person or persons whatsoever, within this province,
shall hereafter have or keep any public inn, tavern, ale-house,
tippling-house or dram shop, victualling or public house of entertainment
in any county of this province, or in the City of Philadelphia, unless
such person or persons shall first be recommended by the justices in the
respective County Courts, and the said city, in their Quarter Sessions or
Court of Record for the said counties and cities respectively, to the
Lieutenant-Governor for the time being, for his license for so doing,
under the penalty of five pounds." Tavern keepers permitting disorder in
their places of entertainment were subject to revocation of license.

There was a marked disposition in those days to visit with severity
offences against morality, especially when the detected culprits were
females; though males were not spared when sufficient proof could be
brought of their guilt. A woman concealing the birth of a child, found
dead, and evidently born alive, was held to be guilty of murder, unless
she could prove that the death was not her doing. This unjust presumption
remained in force for many years, until, under the influence of kinder
and Christian sentiment, the law was changed, the burden of proof placed
upon the prosecution and the presumption of innocence extended to the
defendant. The penalty for violating the marriage obligation was the
lash; the letter "A" being branded on the forehead for the third offence.
A singular provision of law was that a married woman having a child when
her husband had been one year absent, should be punished as a criminal,
but to be exempt from punishment if she should prove that her husband had
been within the period stated "in some of the Queen's colonies or
plantations on this continent, between the easternmost parts of New
England and the southernmost parts of North Carolina."

The penalties inflicted on servants point in a remarkable manner to the
wonderful advance in the condition of menial and common laborers within
the past hundred years. Pennsylvania, in the treatment of the laborer,
was at least as lenient as any other colony, but the laws of the time
appear hideously harsh and oppressive to us of to-day. The early colonial
statutes provided that, "For the just encouragement of servants in the
discharge of their duty, and the prevention of their deserting their
master's or owner's service, be it enacted, that no servant bound to
serve his or her time in this province, shall be sold or disposed of to
any person residing in any other province or government without the
consent of said servant, and two justices of the peace of the county
wherein such servant lives or is sold, under the penalty of ten pounds to
be forfeited by the seller." What a picture this conjures up of some
poor, orphaned and half-starved colonial Oliver Twist, dragged by his
master into the presence of pompous justices, and frowned into a
hesitating consent to exchange the evils with which he was familiar for a
fate whose wretchedness he knew not of!

Ten shillings was to be paid for returning a runaway servant, if captured
within ten miles of the servant's abode; if over ten miles, then the sum
of twenty shillings was to be paid to the captor on delivery of the
fugitive to the sheriff, the master to pay, in addition to the reward,
five shillings prison fees, and all other disbursements and charges. The
penalty for concealing a runaway servant was twenty shillings, and any
one purchasing any goods from a servant without the consent of the master
or mistress was fined treble the value of the goods, to the use of the
owner, "and the servant, if a white, shall make satisfaction to his or
her master or owner by servitude after the expiration of his or her time,
to double the value of said goods, and if the servant be a black, he or
she shall be severely whipped in the most public place in the township in
which such offence was committed."

It may be seen from the above that common labor up to the time of the
Revolution was virtually that of serfs, without discrimination of color
or nativity. The supply of such labor came largely from Great Britain and
Ireland, and to some extent from the other colonies and from Africa. Poor
debtors also were sold into servitude, a law of 1705 providing that
"debtors should make satisfaction by servitude not exceeding seven years,
if a single person and under the age of fifty, and three years or five
years if a married man, and under the age of forty-six years." What the
family of the married debtor were to do for a living while he was in
servitude, legislation failed to suggest. Probably, in many instances,
they were glad to accompany the husband and father into serfdom. Warrants
could not be served on Sunday, one day of the seven being reserved when
the wretched debtor might rest in security, and the hunted criminal
forget that he was outlawed.

                        *          *          *

While other colonies were founded as places of refuge for Christians
oppressed on account of their religion, Georgia had its origin in the
humane desire of General James Edward Oglethorpe to establish an asylum
for poor debtors, with whom the prisons of England were over-crowded, the
colony also to be a haven for the Protestants of Germany and other
continental States. The proprietors of the Carolinas surrendered their
charters to the crown in 1729, and King George II was, therefore, free to
grant, June 9, 1732, a charter for a corporation for twenty-one years "in
trust for the poor," to found a colony in the disputed territory south of
the Savannah, to be called Georgia, in honor of the king. The trustees,
appointed by the crown, possessed all the power both of making and
executing laws. The people of Charleston, South Carolina, gave welcome to
Oglethorpe and his immigrants, for South Carolina had been greatly
harassed by the Spaniards to the south, and by the powerful tribes of
Indians who occupied a large portion of the proposed colony. General
Oglethorpe laid the foundation of the future State on the site of
Savannah, and notwithstanding grievous restrictions on the ownership of
land, the colony attracted many settlers from England, Scotland and
Germany. The Spaniards invaded Georgia in 1742 with a fleet of
thirty-five vessels from Cuba and a land force three thousand strong.
Oglethorpe had but a small body of troops, chiefly Scotch Highlanders,
but by courage and strategy he inflicted a sanguinary defeat on the
Spaniards at the place called the "Bloody Marsh." Ten years later, in
1742, Georgia became a royal province, and secured the liberties enjoyed
by other American provinces under the crown.


SECOND PERIOD.

The Struggle for Empire.


CHAPTER XIII.

Struggle for Empire in North America--The Vast Region Called Louisiana
--War Between England and France--New England Militia Besiege Quebec
--Frontenac Strikes the Iroquois--The Capture of Louisburg--The Forks
of the Ohio--George Washington's Mission to the French--Braddock's
Defeat--Washington Prevents Utter Disaster--Barbarous Treatment of
Prisoners.


The closing years of the seventeenth century witnessed the beginning of
the struggle between France and England for empire in North America.
Marquette, Joliet and La Salle won for France by daring exploration a
nominal title to the Mississippi Valley, and La Salle assumed possession
of the great river and its country in the name of Louis XIV., after whom
he called the region Louisiana. It was a vast dominion indeed that was
thus claimed for the House of Bourbon without a settlement and with
hardly an outpost to make any real show of sovereignty. Even had the
expulsion of James II. from the English throne not hastened an outbreak
between England and France, the conflict would have been inevitable. The
war began in 1689, and with intervals of peace and sometimes in spite of
peace the contest continued, until 1763, with varying fortunes, but
ultimately resulting in the complete overthrow of the French. The
Iroquois stood firmly by the English, while the French and their Indian
allies repeated the scenes of King Philip's War on the frontiers, and
often far in the interior of New York and New England. The people of the
British colonies did not look only to Great Britain for defence. They
defended themselves, and even carried war into the enemy's country. In
1690, two thousand Massachusetts militia, led by Sir William Phipps,
sailed up the St. The scarabs, as we have remarked, were usually engraved
with incised hieroglyphic symbols on the under side, frequently with
those used on one of his cartouches by the reigning pharaoh, and were
then worn by their owners to show veneration for him, as the representative
of the deity upon earth, or from national pride. The names of deities,
officials, private persons, and even only monograms or devices, at later
periods, were engraved on the bases. The best class were usually made
of a fine, hard, green basalt; sometimes they were joined to the
representation of the human heart on which was inscribed "Life, Stability
and Protection." This was evidently talismanic.

The principal period of their manufacture in large quantities, was
in the reign of Tehuti-mes, or Thotmes IIIrd, of the XVIIIth Dynasty
(_circa_ 1600-1566 B.C.) Other times were the XIXth and XXth Dynasties.

The large and small scarabs form two classes.

Those two to three inches in length belong to the larger, and were
usually for use inside of the mummies in place of the heart. There
are also some of very large size; one made of basalt now in the
British Museum, is five feet high.

The making of the shape of the scarab in cameo, in soft material was
easily done, and the incising of its flat under surface with the
hieroglyphics not difficult; the artist most likely used, one or more
instruments of different sizes, formed at the end like a very small
chisel or bradawl, and gouged or punched out the figures and inscriptions
desired, before the glazing or enameling was put on, this gave a flat
appearance at the depth or bottom of the incised work. On those of
hard stone they used hand-drills or the lathe.

I condense the following remarks, adding however some of my own,
from a very valuable little book recently published by the learned
egyptologist Mr. W.M. Flinders Petrie, entitled: Historical Scarabs.[20]

I regret Mr. Petrie's lithographic drawings are so blurred that they
are difficult to read, and hope that he will, in the near future, get
out a more artistic and complete book on this important subject.[21]

He shows 2,220 examples of incised historical scarabs. The first
genuine historical scarabs he gives copies of, are those of Neb-ka
of the IIIrd Dynasty; (circa 3933-3900 B.C.) He also shows some of the
period of Nefer-ka-Ra or Huni, mentioned in Brugsch's History of
the Pharaohs, pages 27 and 32; who lived 3800 B.C.

                        The name Ra, forming part of the king's name at this period, is
very unusual.

It was not used, as a portion of his name, by any other Egyptian king
from the Ist Dynasty to the second king of the IVth or Great Pyramid
Dynasty, named Tatf-Ra. The next king to him was Khaf-Ra. The reign
of Tatf-Ra was preceded by that of Khufu, the Kheops of the Greek writers,
builder of the Great Pyramid; (_circa_ 3733-3700 B.C.)
The scarabs of the time of Khufu are all small and of fine work but
without elaboration, and the colors are delicate, beautiful and permanent.
Under Khaf-Ra or Khefren, there was a deterioration; the work is
inferior and the glazing has often perished, indeed good glazes are
rare after this period until the XIth Dynasty; (_circa_ 2500 B.C.) The
glazes of this latter period are hard, unalterable and of fine colors,
some under the XIIth are fine but often they are decomposed.

Blue is a special color of this time and it is also used in the
sculpture. Under Pepi, IVth Dynasty, (_circa_ 3233 B.C.,) the scroll
pattern first arises as a system, but is not found continuously in the
scarabs of his period. In the XIIth Dynasty, (2466-2266 B.C.,) the
continuous scroll pattern was developed, it became general in the
XIIIth, (_circa_ 2233 B.C.,)and XIVth Dynasties, and lingered as far as
the XIXth (1400 B.C.)
Brown scarabs were originally green glazed but have faded, white were
originally blue, excepting possibly some of Amen-hotep IIIrd. There are
also white and gray, without any glaze remaining, which were originally
blue or green.

The cowroids, with a rope border on the back, are of the Hyksos period.

The XVIIIth Dynasty (1700-1400 B.C.,) begins with some of a poor style
but it soon disappeared. The peculiarity of the first part of this Dynasty
is the dark green glaze--rather greyish--this was followed by those of
brilliant tints in the time of Amen-hotep IIIrd, (1500-1433 B.C.,)
those of red, yellow, violet, chocolate and other colors.

They are never met with later.

At the end of the XVIIIth Dynasty, pottery rings came into general use and
are more frequently met with than scarabs. Their range is from Amen-hotep
IIIrd to Rameses IInd.

In the XVIIIth Dynasty the art of glazing deteriorated, and most of the
scarabs of this period have now lost their original colors, and are
at present only browns and greys.

Under Rameses IInd and his successors the work is poorly done.

In the XXIVth (the Saïtic Period, _circa_ 733 B.C.,) and in the XXVth
Dynasties, there was a revival and better work and glaze and there remain
of this time some fine examples.

The XXVIth (666-528 B.C. Saïtic,) was poor in results but the work neat.
The scarab form had nearly run its course and continued, in a debased
style, until the close of the native monarchy with the XXXth Dynasty
(_circa_ 378 B.C.)
Place had much to do with the difference between scarabs, local styles of
manufacture made more differences than various Dynasties. This is a
subject very difficult to investigate; we have but few sources of information
on this subject. At ancient Tanis (now called by the Arabs,
San,) they are all of schist, rough and small, the glaze nearly always
gone; within a short distance from there, at Nebesheh, they are usually
of pottery with bright apple-green glazes; at Naukratis, the Ancient
Egyptian name of which was Am and which was a city in the time of
the XIIth Dynasty, they are mostly of soft glazed pottery, or, of a blue
paste, and nearly all are small; in the ruins of this city was found a
factory for making Greek scarabs in imitation of the Egyptian
style.[22] It is said, that those with scroll border, are from the
ancient city of Abydos.

A curious thing is, the re-issue of those of an earlier king by a
later monarch, examples of these are, re-issues under queen Hatshepsu
(_circa_ 1600 B.C.,) and Tehuti-mes IIIrd (_circa_ 1600-1566 B.C.,) of
the XVIIIth Dynasty. The earlier and later names are often on one scarab.
We cannot therefore be sure of the age of a scarab, even from the
inscription, as it may be of a period subsequent to the king named on
it. However these re-issues were only in a few special periods. One point
to be noted is, we find similar work and color in the majority of those
made under each pharaoh, and such style is different from that of any
earlier or later age; through this we have a guide as to the original
dating of most scarabs from the IVth Dynasty to the end.
No subsequent period shows us similarities to the majority of the scarabs
of any one king.

To the unlearned probably all scarabs look alike, but to an eye educated
on the subject, the peculiarities of each Dynasty, and even of
separate reigns, become evident. The value of scarabs to the historian
is therefore great, as the study of scarabs will reveal, the names of
kings unknown heretofore from any of the other monuments so far
discovered.

FOOTNOTES:

[19] This is chalcedony penetrated by minute green fibres of hornblende.
It is now found principally in India and China. The color is
frequently equal to that of the finest emerald, but the yellow patches
or black spots running through it, distinguish its species.
Ancient specimens have been found free of these marks and very
transparent. They may have had a method in ancient times of freeing the
stone from these spots.

[20] Historical Scarabs. A series of Drawings from the Principal Collections.
Arranged chronologically, by W.M. Flinders Petrie, author of, Pyramids
and Temples of Gizeh, etc. London, D. Nutt, 1889.

[21] I have generally used in this work the ordinary well known forms of
the Egyptian proper names, such as Rameses, Thotmes, Amen-hotep, etc.,
instead of the more unusual, but more correct and learned, names: Ra-messu,
Tehuti-mes, Amen-hetep, etc. The dates are based on those of Dr. Heinrich
Brugsch-Bey.

[22] Ten Years Digging in Egypt, etc., by W.M. Flinders Petrie.
London, 1892, p. 45.

III.

METHOD, PERIOD AND ANTIQUITY, OF ENGRAVING THE SCARAB AND OTHER FORMS.
USE OF RINGS. MENTION OF, AND OF ENGRAVING AND SEALING, IN THE OLD TESTAMENT.
USE OF CYLINDER SIGNETS BY THE EGYPTIANS.
RELATIONS WITH MESOPOTAMIA. CARVING OF DIORITE AND OTHER HARD STONE. THE
EGYPTIANS DID NOT BORROW THEIR ENGRAVING AND THE SCARAB, FROM
MESOPOTAMIA. DISUSE OF SCARABS.

The art of the lapidary is asserted in the Book of Enoch, to have been
taught to mankind by the angel Azazel,[23] chief of the angels who took
to themselves wives from among the daughters of men. The most ancient
method consisted, in obtaining a flat surface by rubbing or scraping, with
corundum or other hard and wearing stone, the stone to be engraved.
If a very hard stone, the incising or cutting was done by drilling,
wearing and polishing, through attrition, by means of a wooden or metal
point, kept in connection with a silicious sand or corundum, by the medium
of oil or water; and also, by the use of the punch and of the wheel. The
Greek artists likely used powdered emery and copper drills. Bronze and
iron drills, and those of other metals may have been used at a very
early period. Pliny says, corundum was used in the form of a
splinter fixed in an iron style. The ancients also appear at a very
early period, to have used diamond dust and oil, and diamond
splinters, framed in iron.

It has been shown by recent investigations, that the Ancient
Egyptians, before the building of the Great Pyramid; cut diorite, syenite
and other very hard stone, by means of saws, some of them nine feet long,
having jeweled teeth inserted; and that they excavated the centre of
large blocks of hard stones for use as sarcophagi, etc., by means of
tubular or circular hollow drills, the cutting surface of which was
armed with jewels. They then took out the core and broke down the partitions
between the drilled holes, with the chisel and hammer, and thus made
large excavations in the block of hard stone.
They also used lathes at a most archaic period in cutting diorite and other
hard stones.[24] They also used the bow-drill,[25] They also may have
known and used boort.

As early as the first Theban Dynasty, the XIIth Egyptian (2466-2266
B.C.,) the Dynasty in which lived the Amen-em-hats and the Usertsens,
the great early art period of the Egyptian empire,[26] the Egyptians
engraved on amethyst, jasper and rock crystal, and at that early
period did some of the most beautiful work remaining to us of their
glyptography.

The signets however were not always in scarab form, they were sometimes
squares or parallelograms.[27]
There is now in the Museum of the Louvre in Paris, France, the
finest old cameo in the world. It is of the reign of Amen-em-hat IIIrd
of the XIIth Dynasty, (2300 B.C.) This was the first Theban Dynasty and
is a very rare period for Egyptian cameo work, as they then usually incised
their engraving on precious stones and did not engrave them in
relief.[28] The stone is a square sardonyx and is engraved in relief,
with great fineness on one side, with a figure the name of which can
be read _Ha-ro-bes_, the other side is incised and has the figure of
a pharaoh killing a prisoner, whom he holds by the beard, with a mace;
the cartouch reads, _Ra-en-ma_, i.e., Amen-em-hat IIIrd. The intaglio
work on this side is not equal to that in cameo, on the other.

There is yet in existence the signet ring of the celebrated Queen Hatshepsu
(_circa_ 1600-1566 B.C.) It is made of fine turquoise, cut in the form
of a scarab, perforated longitudinally and hung on a swivel. On the
under side is engraved the family name of the Queen.[29] There also
exists the signet ring of Amen-hotep IInd, (1566-1533 B.C.,) having
inserted in it a fine green glazed scarab.[30]
The description of the working and engraving of precious stones in
the VIIth century before our era, is given in Ezekiel[31] where addressing
the king of Tyre, he says: "Thou art covered with precious stones of all
kinds, with the ruby, emerald, diamond, hyacinth, onyx, jasper, sapphire,
carbuncle, sardonyx and gold. _The wheels and drills of the lapidaries_,
were prepared in thy service for the day in which thou wert created."

The use of the signet ring is frequently mentioned in the Old Testament.[32]
There, are also the phrases, "Sealed up in a bag;"[33] "A book that is
sealed;"[34] "Written evidence sealed;"[35] "Sealed with clay;"[36]
"Sealing with the signet of the king."[37] There are also many places
referring to the use of seals in the New Testament.

In Genesis, we find Thamar asking from Judah, his seal, seal string
and staff; in pledge.[38] In the same book, but referring to a much later
period,[39] Pharaoh takes his signet ring, in which was likely set
a scarab, from his hand and puts it on the hand of Joseph, so as
to confer sovereign authority upon him.[40]
In Exodus,[41] mention is made of the engraving of _Shoham_ stones
as a signet, i.e., in intaglio, as done by Betzaleel for the ephod
of the High Priest, and for his breastplate, engraved in the same
way; these were hard precious stones. We do not know with certainty
the names of these stones in English. The Hebrew names of those on
the first row of the ephod, are; _odem_, _piteda_, _bareketh_;
second row, _nophesh_, _saphir_, _yahlome_; third row, _leshéme_,
_shevo_, _a'halama_; fourth and last row, _tarshish_, _shokam_,
_yoshphé_.
Some archæologists argue, that the original form of the Egyptian
seal was that of a cylinder, and from thence would deduce, that the
Egyptians, or at the least Egyptian art, came from Mesopotamia. I
would now say, that I do not believe that fact can be correctly
deduced, from the cylindrical form sometimes used in Egypt. The
cylinder perforated is only a form of the bead, and beads were one
of the earliest forms of decoration and ornament, used by primitive
man.
The earliest shape of genuine seals known and used in Egypt, is
that in the scarab form and that form is peculiarly Egyptian;
cylinders however were sometimes used by that people in early times.
The Egyptians at a time, to us beyond all positive history, took
advantage of and used the intaglio seal, so as to secure, by its
impression, the authenticity of personal acts whether done by the
sovereign, his chancellor, or his treasurer, or by private individuals;
and they sometimes made use of signets of a cylindrical form, which
they applied upon clay or wax, but such were not frequently used
in Egypt.
The cartouch of the earliest known king, Mena, (4400 B.C.,) is in
the form of the outline of the under side of the scarab.
It was because of its shape, the oval, ellipse, or ring form of the
line around the cartouch, it not having an end; that the pharaohs,
always having in mind immortality, have placed their names within
that form. The incised oval capable of producing millions of
impressions, would also be thought of as an emblem of reproduction,
renewment and eternity.
Indeed in all the different epochs of its greatness, we will find
used in Egypt, a few cylinders of hard stone upon which are well
engraved cartouches. There is one in serpentine in the National
Library of Paris bearing the name of Khufu or Kheops, of the IVth
Dynasty, (3733 B.C.,) builder of the Great Pyramid at Gizeh. They
have been found of soapstone made in the period of the IVth Dynasty,
and of schist enameled green, of the periods of Amen-em-hat Ist,
Amen-em-hat IInd and of Sovkhotpu IIIrd, pharaohs of the XIIth and
XIIIth Dynasties.France ceded to
Spain, in order to compensate that power for the loss of Florida, the
city of New Orleans, and all the vast and indefinite territory known as
Louisiana, stretching from the Gulf of Mexico to the unexplored regions
of the northwest. New France was a dream of the past.

The French policy in America had one essential and fatal feature. The
French came more as a garrison than as colonists. They came to govern,
rather than possess the land, to rule, but not to supplant the natives of
the soil. This policy insured some immediate strength, because the
Indians were naturally less jealous of Europeans who did not threaten
their hunting-grounds. On the other hand the ultimate failure of such a
course was inevitable, in dealing as rivals and antagonists with a people
who had come to possess the land, to drive out the Indian, to make the
New World their home and a heritage for their descendants. The English
settlers might be driven back for a time; their cabins might be turned
into ashes, and the tomahawk and scalping-knife leave dire evidence of
savage vengeance and Gallic inhumanity. But the rally was as certain as
the raid was sudden. A garrison might be massacred; a colony could not be
exterminated, and the defeats of Braddock and Abercrombie only burned
into English breasts the resolution to tear down forever on the American
continent the flag which floated over the evidence of England's dishonor.

The Algonquin Indians, who had regarded the French as allies and
protectors, were now left to defend themselves against the English.
Pontiac, chief of the Ottawas, conceived the idea of inducing all the
tribes to unite in a general attack upon the English settlements as a
last desperate resort to stay the advance of the whites. Pontiac is
supposed to have led the Ottawas who assisted the French in defeating
Braddock, and he perhaps underrated the power and prowess of his British
antagonists. He was an able chieftain, of the same type as King Philip,
Tecumseh and Sitting Bull. He saw that the white man and the red man
could not possess the land together, and he determined to make a stand in
behalf of his race. The struggle lasted for about two years, attended by
the usual barbarities of savage warfare, and ended in the death of
Pontiac, who, after suing for peace, was murdered by a drunken Indian,
bribed by an English trader with a barrel of rum to commit the deed.
Instead of preventing, Pontiac's War only hastened the flight of the
Indian and the march of the colonists toward the setting sun.


THIRD PERIOD.

The Revolution.


CHAPTER XV.

Causes of the Revolution--The Act of Navigation--Acts of Trade--Odious
Customs Laws--English Jealousy of New England--Effect of Restrictions on
Colonial Trade--Du Chatelet Foresees Rebellion and Independence--The
Revolution a Struggle for More Than Political Freedom.


It was not for the sake of the colonists that England had assisted them
in driving the French from America, but with the wholly selfish aim of
building up the trade and commerce of Great Britain. European nations
looked upon their American colonies simply as resources from which the
mother country might become enriched, and in this respect the policy of
England was not different from that of Spain, described in the beginning
of this volume. As early as 1625 an English author (Hagthorne) wrote that
even in time of peace it was the purpose and aim of England to undermine
and beat the Dutch and Spaniards out of their trades, "which may not
improperly be called a war, for the deprivation and cutting off the
trades of a kingdom may be to some prince more loss if his revenues
depend thereon than the killing of his armies." The wars against Holland,
which resulted in the subjection to the British crown of the colonial
possessions of that industrious people, and which compelled the fleets of
the United Provinces to acknowledge British supremacy on the high seas,
were in the line of commercial aggrandizement, and the Navigation Act
transferred to England a large share of the Dutch carrying trade, and
enriched English shipowners with an utterly selfish indifference to the
welfare of English colonies.

When the colonists, their western bounds no longer threatened by
civilized foes, their plantations flourishing and their seaport towns
wealthy with the profits of a commerce carried on in contempt of imperial
restrictions, began to feel and to assert that they were entitled to all
the rights of freeborn Englishmen, and to the same commercial and
industrial independence enjoyed by loyal subjects in England, they were
surprised to learn that Parliament and the English people regarded them
not as freemen, but as tributaries. The colonists were themselves loyal,
even up to the hour when they were compelled by stubborn tyranny to
assert the right of revolution, for, to quote the language of John Adams,
"it is true there always existed in the colonies a desire of independence
of Parliament in the articles of internal taxation and internal policy,
and a very general, if not universal opinion, that they were
constitutionally entitled to it, and as general a determination to
maintain and defend it. But there never existed a desire of independence
of the Crown, or of general regulations of commerce for the equal and
impartial benefit of all parts of the empire." "If any man," said the
same great statesman, "wishes to investigate thoroughly the causes,
feelings and principles of the Revolution, he must study this Act of
Navigation, and the Acts of Trade, as a philosopher, a politician and a
philanthropist."

When the Act of Navigation was originally passed, in the Cromwell period,
it is probable that the colonies were not seriously in the minds of the
people and of Parliament. The act was aimed, as we have before stated, at
the Dutch, and was effective for the purposes intended; but within the
decade that elapsed before its re-enactment under the Restoration, the
colonial trade had grown with a vigor that aroused jealousy and
uneasiness at home, and the Act of Navigation was soon followed, in 1663,
by the first of the Acts of Trade, which provided that no supplies should
be imported into any colony, except what had been actually shipped in an
English port, and carried directly thence to the importing colony. This
cut the colonies off from direct trade with any foreign country, and made
England the depot for all necessaries or luxuries which the colonies
desired, and which they could not obtain in America. Nine years later, in
1672, followed another act "for the better securing the plantation
trade," which recited that the colonists had, contrary to the express
letter of the aforesaid laws, brought into diverse parts of Europe great
quantities of their growth, productions and manufactures, sugar, tobacco,
cotton, wool and dye woods being particularly enumerated in the list, and
that the trade and navigation in those commodities from one plantation to
another had been greatly increased, and provided that all colonial
commodities should either be shipped to England or Wales before being
imported into another colony, or that a customs duty should be paid on
such commodities equivalent to the cost of conveying the same to England,
and thence to the colony for which they were destined. For instance, if a
merchant in Rhode Island desired to sell some product of the colony of
Massachusetts in New York, and to forward the same by a vessel, either a
bond had to be given that the commodity would be transported to England,
or a duty had to be paid, in money or in goods sufficiently onerous to
protect the English merchant and shipowner against serious colonial
competition in the carrying trade.

The above act was followed up by another providing penalties for
attempted violation of the customs laws. In this statute no mention was
made of the plantations and its general tenor indicated that it was
intended to apply to Great Britain only, providing, as it did, for the
searching of houses and dwellings for smuggled goods by virtue of a writ
of assistance under the seal of His Majesty's court of exchequer. Under
William the Third, who was as arbitrary a monarch toward the colonies as
the second James had been, the statute was made directly applicable to
the plantation trade, with the provision that "the like assistance shall
be given to the said officers in the execution of their office, as by the
last-mentioned act is provided for the officers in England." It was on
the question of whether such a writ could be issued from a colonial court
that James Otis made the famous speech in which he arraigned the
commercial policy of England, stripped the veil of reform from the bust
of the Stadtholder-King, and awakened the colonists to a throbbing sense
of English oppression and of American wrongs--the oration which, in the
language of John Adams, who heard it, "breathed into this nation the
breath of life."

                        *          *          *

It is needless to follow the numerous Acts of Trade in their order, for
they were all in a line with the accepted and established principle of
that age in England that the colonies should minister to the commercial
aggrandizement of the mother country, instead of being the centres of an
independent traffic, that they should be communities for the consumption
of British manufactures and the feeding of British trade. New England was
especially the object of English jealousy and restriction, and for
reasons, as given by Sir Josiah Child, in his "New Discourse on Trade,"
written about the year 1677, that are creditable to the founders of those
States, for after speaking of the people of Virginia and the Barbadoes as
a loose vagrant sort, "vicious and destitute of means to live at home,
gathered up about the streets of London or other places, and who, had
there been no English foreign plantation in the world, must have come to
be hanged or starved or died untimely of those miserable diseases that
proceed from want and vice, or have sold themselves as soldiers to be
knocked on the head, or at best, by begging or stealing two shillings and
sixpence, have made their way to Holland to become servants to the Dutch,
who refuse none," he goes on to describe "a people whose frugality,
industry and temperance and the happiness of whose laws and institutions,
do promise to themselves long life, with a wonderful increase of people,
riches and power." But, after paying this probably reluctant tribute to
New England virtue and industry, he frankly avows his full sympathy with
the restrictive system, and adds that "there is nothing more prejudicial
and in prospect more dangerous to any mother kingdom than the increase of
shipping in her colonies, plantations and provinces." It is no wonder
that John Adams said that he never read these authors without being set
on fire, and that at last the same fire spread to every patriotic breast.

The Acts of Navigation and of Trade were not the dead letters that some
superficial writers and readers have seen fit to term them. It is true
that obedience was reluctant and slow, and that evasion was extensive,
and it is also true, that colonial commerce flourished in spite of the
restrictions; but it should be remembered that the prolonged wars in
which England was engaged gave lucrative opportunities for privateering,
and that even the customs duties, though intended to be virtually
prohibitory, were not heavy enough to overcome the advantages which the
colonists enjoyed. In Rhode Island the General Assembly asserted and
maintained the right to regulate the fees of the customs officers, and,
as far as was possible, the collection of the dues. The shipping of the
colony rapidly increased, and in 1731 included two vessels from England,
as many from Holland and the Mediterranean, and ten or twelve from the
West Indies, and ten years later numbered one hundred and twenty vessels
engaged in the West Indian, African, European and coasting trade. The
period preceding the Revolution witnessed New England's greatest
commercial prosperity, and it was in that age that Moses Brown and other
enterprising merchants and shipowners laid the foundation of fortunes, a
liberal share of which has been expended with illustrious munificence in
monuments of learning, of art and of charity. As for the restrictions
upon domestic industry, they were not severely felt among a people
devoted, in the country to agriculture, and in the towns to local traffic
and shipping, and the American farmer who wore homespun attire, did not
realize the harshness or appreciate the purpose of the statute which
prohibited the export of wool, or woolen manufactures. As for the
Southern planter, the question of fostering domestic manufactures never
entered his thoughts. He raised his tobacco and his cotton, exported them
to England, and got what goods he needed there just as his descendants,
in a later age, procured the manufactured necessities and luxuries of
life from the depots of New England trade.[1]

      [1] "English Free Trade; Its Foundation, Growth and Decline." By
      Henry Mann.

But even if the British Parliament had never attempted to raise a revenue
by taxation in the American colonies, it is probable that in time the
restrictions on commerce would have led to revolution, unless rescinded.
This was the opinion of the shrewd observer Du Chatelet, who, after
France had surrendered her American possessions to Great Britain, said
that "they (the chambers of commerce) regard everything in colonial
commerce which does not turn exclusively to the benefit of the kingdom as
contrary to the end for which colonies were established, and as a theft
from the state. To practice on these maxims is impossible. The wants of
trade are stronger than the laws of trade. The north of America can alone
furnish supplies to its south. This is the only point of view under which
the cession of Canada can be regarded as a loss for France; but that
cession will one day be amply compensated, if it shall cause in the
English colonies the rebellion and the independence which become every
day more probable and more near."

                        *          *          *

America, if not contented, was quiet under restrictive laws not
stringently enforced, and but for the measures initiated by Grenville and
Townshend, and approved by the king, the Parliament and the people of
England, there would, if the leading American minds of that day were
sincere, have been no insurrection in that era against British authority.
George the Third is called a tyrant on every recurring Fourth of July,
but the nation he ruled was as tyrannical as he, and impartial history
cannot condemn the monarch without awarding a greater share of odium to
his people, who sustained by their pronounced opinion and through their
chosen representatives, every measure for the destruction of the
liberties of these colonies, and who began to listen to the dictates of
reason and of humanity only when America had become the prison of
thousands of England's soldiers, and thousands of others, hired Hessian
and kidnapped Briton alike, had been welcomed by American freemen to
graves in American soil. The measures which led to war, and the war
itself, were inspired and incited by the trading classes, as well as the
aristocracy of England, who expected, in the destruction of a powerful
commercial and menacing industrial rival, an ample return for the blood
and treasure expended in the strife. The American people recognized that
the struggle was for commercial and industrial as well as for political
independence, and the stand in behalf of American industry was taken long
before the scattered colonies met an empire in the field of arms.


CHAPTER XVI.

Writs of Assistance Issued--Excitement in Boston--The Stamp Act--Protests
Against Taxation Without Representation--Massachusetts Appoints a
Committee of Correspondence--Samuel Adams and Patrick Henry--Henry's
Celebrated Resolutions--His Warning to King George--Growing Agitation in
the Colonies--The Stamp Act Repealed--Parliament Levies Duties on Tea and
Other Imports to America--Lord North's Choice of Infamy--Measures Of
Resistance in America--The Massachusetts Circular Letter--British Troops
in Boston--The Boston Massacre--Burning of the "Gaspee"--North Carolina
"Regulators"--The Boston Tea Party--The Boston Port Bill--The First
Continental Congress--A Declaration of Rights--"Give Me Liberty or Give
Me Death!"


Even before peace had been made with France the king's officers in
America began to enforce the revenue laws with a rigor to which the
colonists had been unaccustomed. Charles Paxton, commissioner of customs
in Boston, applied to the Superior Court for authority to use writs of
assistance in searching for smuggled goods. These writs were warrants for
the officers to search when and where they pleased and to call upon
others to assist them, instead of procuring a special search-warrant for
some designated place. Thomas Hutchinson, chief justice, and afterward
royalist governor and refugee, favored the application, which was
earnestly opposed by the merchants and the people generally.[1] "To my
dying day," exclaimed James Otis, in pleading against the measure, "I
will oppose with all the power and faculties God has given me, all such
instruments of slavery on one hand and of villainy on the other."
Parliament had authorized the issue of the writs, however, and the custom
house officers therefore had the law on their side. Writs were granted,
but their enforcement was attended with so many difficulties that the
customs authorities virtually gave up this attempt to encroach upon the
rights of the people. The next step in provoking the colonists to
revolution was the Stamp Act. The object of this enactment was to raise
money for the support of British troops and the payment of salaries to
certain public officers in the colonies who had depended upon the
colonial treasuries for their compensation. In this there was a threefold
invasion of colonial rights. Taxation without representation was contrary
to a principle recognized for centuries in England, vindicated in the
revolution which cost Charles I his head, and upheld in America from the
very beginning of the settlements here. Again, while British troops had
been welcome as allies in battling against the French and the Indians,
they were not desired as garrisons to overawe the free people of the
colonies, and finally the colonial officers whom it was proposed to pay
from the royal treasury would become the masters instead of servants of
the people--or they would be servants only of the king. The purpose of
the Stamp Act obviously was to make America the vassal of Great Britain.
The act required that legal documents and commercial instruments should
be written, and that newspapers should be printed on stamped paper.

      [1] John Adams, in his letter to the President of Congress, July 17,
      1780, attributes the outbreak of the Revolution to Hutchinson's
      course in this and other matters. "He was perhaps the only man in
      the world," wrote Adams, "who could have brought on the controversy
      between Great Britain and America in the manner and at the time it
      was done, and involved the two countries in an enmity which must end
      in their everlasting separation."

                        *          *          *

The people everywhere protested against the tyrannical action of
Parliament. Samuel Adams drew up the instructions to the newly elected
representatives of Boston to use all efforts against the plan of
parliamentary taxation. It was resolved "that the imposition of duties
and taxes by the Parliament of Great Britain upon a people not
represented in the House of Commons is irreconcilable with their rights."
A committee of correspondence was appointed in Massachusetts to
communicate with other colonial assemblies, and the idea of union for the
common defence began to take firm hold on the public mind. Benjamin
Franklin, in the Congress held at Albany in 1754 to insure the aid of the
Six Nations in the war then breaking out with France, had proposed a plan
of union for the colonies, with a grand council having extensive powers
and a president to be appointed by the crown. The plan was not adopted.
Adams had written about the same time that "the only way to keep us from
setting up for ourselves is to disunite us." Everybody now began to
perceive the need of union, which the great intellects of Franklin and
Adams had discerned long before.

No influence was so powerful in leading the South to stand side by side
with the Northern colonies as that of Patrick Henry, the great orator of
Virginia. In the House of Burgesses, in 1765, Mr. Henry introduced his
celebrated resolutions against the Stamp Act, as follows:

    "Resolved, That the first adventurers and settlers of this his
    majesty's colony and dominion, brought with them, and transmitted to
    their posterity, and all other his majesty's subjects, since
    inhabiting in this, his majesty's said colony, all the privileges,
    franchises and immunities, that have at any time been held, enjoyed
    and possessed by the people of Great Britain.

    "Resolved, That by two royal charters, granted by King James the
    First, the colonists, aforesaid, are declared entitled to all the
    privileges, liberties and immunities of denizens and natural born
    subjects, to all intents and purposes, as if they had been abiding
    and born within the realm of England.

    "Resolved, That the taxation of the people by themselves, or by
    persons chosen by themselves to represent them, who can only know
    what taxes the people are able to bear, and the easiest mode of
    raising them, and are equally affected by such taxes themselves, is
    the distinguishing characteristic of British freedom, and without
    which the ancient constitution cannot subsist.

    "Resolved, That his majesty's liege people of this most ancient
    colony have uninterruptedly enjoyed the right of being thus governed
    by their own assembly in the article of their taxes and internal
    police, and that the same hath never been forfeited, or any other way
    given up, but hath been constantly recognized by the king and people
    of Great Britain.

    "Resolved, therefore, That the General Assembly of this colony have
    the sole right and power to lay taxes and impositions upon the
    inhabitants of this colony; and that every attempt to vest such power
    in any person or persons whatsoever, other than the General Assembly
    aforesaid, has a manifest tendency to destroy British as well as
    American freedom."

On the back of the paper containing those resolutions, and found among
Henry's papers after his death, was the following endorsement in the
handwriting of Mr. Henry himself: "The within resolutions passed the
House of Burgesses in May, 1765. They formed the first opposition to the
Stamp Act, and the scheme of taxing America by the British Parliament.
All the colonies, either through fear or want of opportunity to form an
opposition, or from influence of some kind or other, had remained silent.
I had been for the first time elected a burgess, a few days before; was
young, inexperienced, unacquainted with the forms of the House, and the
members that composed it. Finding the men of weight averse to opposition,
and the commencement of the tax at hand, and that no person was likely to
step forth, I determined to venture, and alone, unadvised and unassisted,
on a blank leaf of an old law book wrote the within. Upon offering them
to the House, violent debates ensued. Many threats were uttered, and much
abuse cast upon me by the party for submission. After a long and warm
contest, the resolutions passed by a very small majority, perhaps of one
or two only. The alarm spread throughout America with astonishing
quickness, and the ministerial party were overwhelmed. The great point of
resistance to British taxation was universally established in the
colonies. This brought on the war, which finally separated the two
countries, and gave independence to ours. Whether this will prove a
blessing or a curse will depend upon the use our people make of the
blessings which a gracious God hath bestowed on us. If they are wise,
they will be great and happy. If they are of a contrary character, they
will be miserable--Righteousness alone can exalt them as a nation.

"Reader, whoever thou art, remember this; and in thy sphere practice
virtue thyself, and encourage it in others.--P. HENRY."

Every American realized the truth expressed in Mr. Henry's resolutions;
but no man beside himself dared to utter it. All wished for independence;
and all hitherto trembled at the thought of asserting it. Randolph,
Bland, Pendleton and Wythe, with "all the old members whose influence in
the House had, till then, been unbroken," opposed the resolutions, and
had not Henry's unrivalled eloquence supported them, they would have been
strangled in their birth. "The last and strongest resolution was carried
by a single vote;" and Peyton Randolph said, immediately after, "I would
have given 500 guineas for a single vote!" From this we may easily imagine
how spirited was the opposition, and how energetic the eloquence exerted
against Henry. It was in the midst of this magnificent debate, while he
was descanting on the tyranny of the obnoxious act, that he exclaimed
in a voice of thunder, and with the look of a god, "Caesar had his
Brutus--Charles the First his Cromwell--and George the Third--('Treason,'
cried the Speaker--'treason, treason,' echoed from every part of the
House--it was one of those trying moments which is decisive of
character--Henry faltered not for an instant; but rising to a loftier
attitude, and fixing on the Speaker an eye of the most determined fire,
he finished his sentence with the firmest emphasis) _may profit by
their example. If this be treason, make the most of it_."[2]

      [2] Wirts' "Life of Patrick Henry," pages 64, 65.

On the following day, when Henry was absent, the more timid asserted
themselves and the most important of the resolutions was reconsidered and
expunged.

A congress held at New York declared against, the Stamp Act, and sent a
protest to Parliament. Americans would not buy or use the stamps, and
those who undertook agencies for their sale were treated as public
enemies. Boxes of stamped paper were burned on arrival in port; the
newspapers ignored the act, and legal documents were, by general consent,
treated as valid without the stamp. In the following year Parliament,
after a prolonged debate, in which William Pitt earnestly supported the
American cause, repealed the act. The news of the repeal was received
with great rejoicing in America, and the colonists hoped that there would
be no more attempts to invade their rights as English subjects.

                        *          *          *

King George III., however, was bent upon reducing the colonists to abject
submission to his will, and the fact that William Pitt, whom the king
detested, had championed the Americans, made the monarch all the more
obstinate in his purpose to humiliate them. In 1767 Charles Townshend,
chancellor of the exchequer, carried through Parliament a bill putting a
duty upon tea, glass, paper and other articles entering American ports.
In connection with this measure the scheme of the British crown to reduce
the colonies to a vassal condition was fully disclosed. Not only were
troops to be supported out of the revenue thus raised, but the salaries
of governors, judges and crown attorneys were to be paid from it, and any
surplus remaining could be used by the king to pension Americans who had
gained the royal grace by their subserviency. Townshend suddenly died
after these measures had been adopted, and was succeeded by Lord North,
who soon afterward became prime minister. North was not personally in
favor of dealing harshly with the colonies, but he yielded to the royal
will as the price of remaining in office, and shares in history the
infamy of his master's course.

The Americans began to concert measures of resistance. They refused to
use the dutiable articles, and made it unprofitable to import them. The
Massachusetts legislature was dissolved by order of the king, because it
had sent a circular-letter to other colonies inviting common action
against the aggressions of Parliament. Other colonial assemblies were
dissolved by the king's governors because they answered the letter
favorably. The people's representatives continued to attend to the
people's interests in informal conventions, and had the more time to give
to the overshadowing issue of colonial rights, because royal displeasure
had relieved them from the ordinary business of law making. Boston and
Richmond worked in harmony in the one great cause, and North and South
forgot social and religious differences in common effort for the common
weal.

                        *          *          *

King George regarded Massachusetts as the hotbed and centre of colonial
discontent, and in the autumn of 1768 he sent two regiments of British
regulars to that city to assist in enforcing the Townshend acts. The
troops and the citizens had frequent disputes, for the colonists were
unused to military arrogance, and refused to be ordered about by
martinets in uniform. The Boston Massacre, so-called, in March, 1770,
when seven soldiers fired into a crowd of townspeople, killing five and
wounding several others, helped to inflame the antagonism between the
provincials and the military, and Governor Hutchinson, at the demand of
Samuel Adams, speaking in behalf of three thousand resolute citizens,
removed the troops to an island in the harbor. In April, 1770, Parliament
again yielded to the Americans in so far as to take off all the Townshend
duties except the duty on tea, which the king insisted upon retaining as
a vindication of England's right to impose the duty.

The colonists continued as determined as ever not to submit to British
taxation, or to the domineering course of the king's officers, which in
some of the provinces had led to harsh and even bloody strife between the
people and their oppressors. An armed schooner in the British revenue
service called the Gaspee, gave offence to American navigators on
Narragansett Bay by requiring that their flag should be lowered in token
of respect whenever they passed the king's vessel. The Gaspee ran aground
while chasing a Providence sloop. Word of the mishap was carried up to
Providence and, on the same night (June 9, 1772) sixty-four armed men
went down in boats, attacked and captured the Gaspee, and burned the
vessel. Abraham Whipple, afterward a commodore in the Continental Navy,
and one of the founders of the State of Ohio, led the expedition. The
royal authorities were greatly exasperated on hearing of the daring
achievement, and Joseph Wanton, Governor of Rhode Island, afterward
deposed from office for his loyalty to King George, issued a proclamation
ordering diligent search for the perpetrators of the act. The British
government offered a reward of $5000 for the leader, but although the
people of Providence well knew who had taken part in the exploit, neither
Whipple nor his associates were betrayed. In North Carolina insurgents
calling themselves "Regulators" fought a sanguinary battle with Governor
Tryon's troops, and were defeated, and six of them hanged for treason. In
South Carolina the people also divided on the issue between England and
the colonists, but for the time stopped short of violence.

The famous "Boston Tea Party" occurred in December, 1773. This was not a
riotous, or, from the colonial standpoint, a lawless act, for the
colonists were already administering their own affairs to a certain
extent independently of royal authority, with the view to the
preservation and defence of their liberties. The English East India
Company had been anxious to regain the American trade and offered to pay
an export duty more than equivalent to the import duty imposed in
America, if the government would permit tea to be delivered at colonial
ports free of duty. To this the British government would not consent, on
the ground that it would be a surrender of the principle which the import
duty represented. The government permitted the East India Company,
however, to export tea to America free from export duty, thus allowing
the Americans to buy tea as cheaply as if no import duty had been levied.
The British authorities assumed that Americans would be satisfied to sell
the principle for which they were contending for threepence on a pound of
tea. They learned the American character better when two ships laden with
tea arrived in Boston. The citizens gathered in the old South
Meeting-house, and in the evening about sixty men, disguised as Indians,
boarded the ships and cast the tea into the harbor. Upon news of this
event reaching England, King George and his ministers decided to make an
example of Boston. A bill was introduced by Lord North and passed almost
unanimously closing the port of Boston and making Salem the seat of
government. Another act annulled the charter of Massachusetts, and a
military governor, General Thomas Gage, was appointed, with absolute
authority over the province.

                        *          *          *

With the enactment of the Boston Port Bill, King George and his
Parliament crossed the Rubicon. America was aflame. The other colonies
joined in expressing their sympathy with Massachusetts, and their resolve
to stand by her people and share their fate. A Continental Congress
convened in Carpenter's Hall, Philadelphia, on the fourth of September,
1774. The most eminent men in the colonies were now brought together for
the first time to decide upon action which would affect the liberties of
three millions of people. Patrick Henry was the first to speak, and he
delivered an address worthy of his fame and worthy of the occasion.
Colonel, afterward General Washington, then made the impression which
earned for him the command of the American armies. The Congress drew up a
Declaration of Rights, and sent it to the king. The people of
Massachusetts formed a Provincial Congress with John Hancock for
President, and began organizing provincial troops, and collecting
military stores. Virginia continued to keep pace with Massachusetts. At a
convention of delegates from the several counties and corporations of
Virginia, held in Richmond, March, 1775, Patrick Henry stood resolutely
forth for armed resistance. "Three millions of people," he said, "armed
in the holy cause of liberty, and in such a country as that which we
possess, are invincible by any force which our enemy can send against us.
Besides, sir, we shall not fight our battles alone. There is a just God
who presides over the destinies of nations; and who will raise up friends
to fight our battles for us. The battle, sir, is not to the strong alone;
it is to the vigilant, the active, the brave. Besides, sir, we have no
election. If we were base enough to desire it, it is now too late to
retire from the contest. There is no retreat, but in submission and
slavery! Our chains are forged. Their clanking may be heard on the plains
of Boston! The war is inevitable--and let it come!! I repeat it, sir, let
it come!!!

"It is in vain, sir, to extenuate the matter. Gentlemen may cry peace,
peace--but there is no peace. The war is actually begun! The next gale
that sweeps from the north, will bring to our ears the clash of
resounding arms! Our brethren are already in the field! Why stand we here
idle? What is it that gentlemen wish? What would they have? Is life so
dear, or peace so sweet, as to be purchased at the price of chains and
slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God!--I know not what course others may
take; but as for me, give me liberty, or give me death!"


CHAPTER XVII.

The Battle of Lexington--The War of the Revolution Begun--Fort
Ticonderoga Taken--Second Continental Congress--George Washington
Appointed Commander-in-chief--Battle of Bunker Hill--Last Appeal to King
George--The King Hires Hessian Mercenaries--The Americans Invade
Canada--General Montgomery Killed--General Howe Evacuates Boston--North
Carolina Tories Routed at Moore's Creek Bridge--The Declaration of
Independence--The British Move on New York--Battle at Brooklyn--Howe
Occupies New York City--General Charles Lee Fails to Support Washington
--Lee Captured--Washington's Victory at Trenton--The Marquis De Lafayette
Arrives.


General Gage, military governor of Massachusetts, received orders in
April, 1775, to arrest John Hancock and Samuel Adams and send them to
England to be tried for treason. The two patriots were at the house of a
friend in Lexington when Gage, on the evening of April 18, sent eight
hundred British soldiers from Boston to seize military stores at Concord,
and to arrest Adams and Hancock at Lexington. Paul Revere, a patriotic
engraver, rode far in advance of the troops to warn the people of their
coming. When the soldiers reached Lexington at sunrise they were
confronted by armed yeomanry drawn up in battle array. The British fired,
killing seven men. The War of the Revolution was begun. From near and far
the farmers hastened to attack the troops. Every wall concealed an enemy
of the British; from behind trees and fences a deadly fire was poured
into their ranks. Their track was blazed with dead and wounded, as they
hurried back from Concord, disappointed in the objects of their mission.
Gage heard of the rising, and hurried reinforcements to the assistance of
his decimated and almost fugitive soldiery, and with a loss of nearly
three hundred men they re-entered Boston. From all parts of
Massachusetts, from Connecticut, New Hampshire and Rhode Island, the
provincials hastened to face the invaders, and an army of sixteen
thousand men of all sorts, conditions and colors, but most of them hardy
New Englander farmers, besieged Governor Gage in Boston. Joseph Warren,
John Stark, Israel Putnam and Benedict Arnold were among the leaders of
the patriot forces. Ethan Allen, chief of the "Green Mountain Boys,"
demanded and obtained the surrender of Fort Ticonderoga "by the authority
of the Great Jehovah and the Continental Congress" (May 10) and Seth
Warner captured Crown Point two days later.

The second Continental Congress met at Philadelphia the same day that
Fort Ticonderoga was taken. The Congress chose for its president John
Hancock, whom the British government wanted to try for treason, assumed
direction of the troops encamped at Cambridge, and called upon Virginia
and the middle colonies for recruits. George Washington was appointed to
command the American forces.

                        *          *          *

The battle of Bunker Hill proved to the British that the skill and
courage which had been displayed with signal success against the French
could be used with equal effect against British troops. General Gage had
determined to seize and fortify points in the neighborhood of Boston in
order to strengthen his hold upon the city, and to enable him to resist a
siege. This purpose of the British commander becoming known to the
Massachusetts Committee of Safety, the Committee ordered Colonel William
Prescott, with one thousand men, including a company of artillery with
two field-pieces, to occupy and fortify Bunker Hill. The force ascended
Breed's Hill, much nearer Boston, on the evening of June 16. They worked
all night under the direction of an engineer named Gridley, and in the
morning the British on their vessels in the Charles River were surprised
to see on a hill which had been bare the previous day a redoubt about
eight rods square, flanked on the right by a breastwork which extended in
a northerly direction to some marshy land, and which commanded both the
city and the shipping. The guns of the fleet were quickly turned on the
bold provincials, and the roar of cannon awoke the citizens of Boston to
behold a conflict in which they had the deepest interest. The Americans
continued to work under the shower of shot and shell, strengthening their
fortifications for the desperate struggle they felt was at hand. General
Artemas Ward, who commanded the colonial army, was not as prompt as he
ought to have been in sending reinforcements to Breed's Hill, but at
length Stark's New Hampshire regiment and Colonel Reed's regiment were
permitted to join the men in the redoubt. The British sent 3000 of their
best troops to carry the works by assault. Thousands of the people of
Boston and neighborhood, many of whom had fathers, sons, brothers and
husbands in the patriot lines, looked from hill and housetop and balcony
as the regulars marched steadily to the attack. At the redoubt all was
silent, although the British ships and a battery on Copp's Hill hurled
shots at the Americans. Nearer and nearer marched the British. They were
almost close enough for the final charge, when suddenly at the word
"Fire!"--up sprang 1500 Americans and poured a storm of bullets into the
advancing enemy. Down went the British platoons as before the scythe of
death. Whole companies were swept away. The survivors could not stand
before the deadly hail, and back they fell to the shore. Some shots had
been fired at the British from houses in Charlestown, and General Gage
gave orders to fire that place. The British advanced again, the flames
from the burning town adding to the terror of the scene. Again the
hurricane of bullets drove them back to the shore. Strengthened by fresh
troops the British marched up a third time to the hillside now scattered
with their dying and their dead. British artillery planted as near as
possible to the Americans swept the redoubt and the patriots, their
ammunition failing at this critical time, were obliged to give way before
the overwhelming charge of the grenadiers. The Americans escaped in good
order across Charlestown Neck, losing General Joseph Warren, who fell
when leaving the redoubt. Colonel Prescott was in command throughout the
engagement, although both General Warren and General Israel Putnam had
taken a gallant part in the battle, but without any command. The fight
lasted about two hours, and the British lost 1054 killed and wounded out
of about 3000 troops engaged, and the provincials lost 450 killed and
wounded. The British ministry looked on the result as virtually a defeat
for their troops.

                        *          *          *

Washington reached Cambridge on the second of July. He found the spirit
of the troops admirable, but their discipline wretched, and the leaders
divided by dissension in regard to the commands. He labored assiduously
and successfully to bring order out of comparative chaos. The Congress
made another effort to prevent a conflict with Great Britain by sending a
respectful statement of America's case in a petition to the King. He
refused to receive it, and issued a proclamation calling for troops to
put down the rebellion in America. King George showed how little he
regarded humanity in dealing with his revolted subjects by appealing to
semi-barbarous Russia for troops to use against the colonists. The
Empress Catharine refused to sell her people for such a purpose, and the
British monarch then turned to the petty princes of Germany, where he
bought 20,000 soldiers like so many cattle for the American war. As many
of these were from Hesse Cassel, they were known as Hessians. It being
now evident that a peaceable arrangement, short of abject surrender,
could not be hoped for, the Continental Congress prepared to push the war
with vigor, and if possible to secure a union of all British America
against the enemy of American liberty.

                        *          *          *

The invasion of Canada in the latter part of 1775 by American expeditions
under command of General Richard Montgomery and Colonel Benedict Arnold,
was prompted by expectation that the French inhabitants of that region
would gladly espouse the cause of the colonists, for whom they had shown
sympathy when the people Of Boston were in distress on account of the
closing of their port. Only a few Canadians rallied to the American
standard; the majority remained indifferent. Montgomery captured
Montreal, but in the attack on Quebec he was slain, and Arnold wounded in
the leg, and the Americans were defeated with a loss of about four
hundred killed, wounded and prisoners. The death of Montgomery was a
severe blow to the American cause. He was one of the ablest commanders in
the service at a time when the colonists were much in need of practiced
military men, and even in England he was held in high regard. "Curse on
his virtues," said Lord North; "they've undone his country."

                        *          *          *

In March, 1776, General William Howe evacuated Boston and sailed to
Halifax, taking with him a number of refugees. Howe busied himself in
Halifax in fitting out a powerful expedition for the capture of New York,
where the people had taken up with enthusiasm the cause of the colonies.
Late in April General Washington moved to New York and prepared to defend
that city. Meantime Lord Dunmore, royal governor of Virginia, after
endeavoring to excite an insurrection of the slaves, had been conducting
a predatory and incendiary warfare against the colony, until driven away
by the militia, when he sailed off in a fleet loaded with plunder. In
North Carolina, where an association of patriots had declared for
independence at Mecklenburg as early as May, 1775, a severe battle
occurred at Moore's Creek Bridge, February 26, 1776, between the
patriots, led by Colonel James Moore, and the loyalists or Tories, many
of whom had fought for the Young Pretender in Scotland, but were now
equally devoted to the House of Hanover. The Tories were completely
routed, and the plans of the British to make North Carolina a centre of
royalist operations were disconcerted.

                        *          *          *

The Declaration of Independence was now inevitable. Many of the
colonists, including a large proportion of the well-to-do, were unwilling
to throw off allegiance to the crown, and these were known as Tories and
punished as traitors whenever they gave active expression to their
sentiments. The majority of the people, however, were for complete
separation from England, and were ready to support that determination
with their lives. Richard Henry Lee, of Virginia, made a motion in the
Continental Congress, June 7, 1776, "that these united colonies are and
of right ought to be free and independent States, that they are absolved
from all allegiance to the British crown, and that all political
connection between them and the State of Great Britain is and ought to be
totally dissolved." John Adams, of Massachusetts, seconded the motion,
and a committee was appointed to prepare a Declaration of Independence.
Thomas Jefferson, of Virginia, was the author of the Declaration, which,
after warm debate, was adopted by the unanimous vote of the thirteen
colonies July 4, 1776. On the same day the news arrived that the British
commander, Sir Henry Clinton, had been repulsed in an attempt to enter
Charleston harbor. North and south the United States were free from the
enemy, and although it was but the lull before the storm, the Americans
had thus a precious opportunity to put down malcontents and to gather
strength for the coming struggle.

                        *          *          *

The British formed a plan to cut the Union in two by capturing New York,
and establishing a chain of British posts from Manhattan to Canada. While
General Carleton operated against the Americans from the Canadian
frontier a large British fleet, commanded by Admiral Richard Howe,
arrived in the harbor of New York, carrying an army of 25,000 men, led by
his brother, General William Howe. The Americans had but 9000 men to
defend Brooklyn Heights against the overwhelming force with which Howe
attacked their position. The patriot troops, especially the Marylanders,
fought gallantly, but were driven back by superior numbers. Great credit
is due to Washington for his skill and success in saving the greater part
of the army by timely withdrawal across the East River to New York. Howe
occupied the city of New York a few days later, Washington retreating
slowly, and fighting the British at every favorable opportunity.

It was at the time of Washington's retirement from New York that Nathan
Hale, a young American captain, was put to death as a spy by the British.
Hale volunteered to seek some information desired by the American
commander-in-chief, and was betrayed, within the British lines, by a Tory
who recognized him. He was treated most brutally by the British
Provost-Marshal Cunningham, being denied the attendance of a clergyman
and the use of a Bible. Letters which Hale wrote to his mother and other
dear ones were torn up by the provost-marshal in the victim's presence.
Hale was hanged September 22, 1776. His last words were "I only regret
that I have but one life to lose for my country." These words appear on
the base of the statue erected to his memory in the City Hall Park, New
York.

General Howe concluded to move on Philadelphia, and his object becoming
known to Washington, the latter directed General Charles Lee, who was in
command of about 7000 men at Northcastle, on the east side of the Hudson,
to join him at Hackensack on the west side, so that the whole force of
the Americans could be used to oppose Howe. Lee disregarded these orders,
thereby making it necessary for Washington to retreat into Pennsylvania.
Lee then led his own troops to Norristown, where he was captured by the
British outside of his own lines while taking his ease at a tavern. Lee
was an English adventurer of loud pretensions, probably not lacking in
courage, but wholly mercenary and unprincipled. That so worthless and
dangerous a person should have been trusted with high command in the
American army is explained by the dearth of military leaders at the
opening of the war. The capture of Lee was fortunate for the Americans,
as he was succeeded by General John Sullivan, an excellent officer, who
at once led his troops to the assistance of Washington. Thus reinforced
the commander-in-chief was enabled to strike a blow at the British which
revived the drooping spirits of the patriots.

                        *          *          *

The battle of Trenton would not have been so memorable but for the
dejected condition of the patriot cause at the time it was fought, and
the evidence which it gave to England and the world at large of General
Washington's prudent daring and military genius. At twilight on Christmas
night, 1776, General Washington prepared to pass the Delaware with 2000
men to attack 1500 of the enemy, chiefly Hessians, who were stationed
under the Hessian Colonel Rall at Trenton. It was a dark and bitter
night, and the Delaware was covered with floating ice. Boats had been
hastily procured, and with much difficulty against the swift current the
troops were borne across. A storm of sleet and snow added to the hardship
of crossing, and not until four o'clock in the morning did the little
army stand on the opposite bank. The Americans advanced in two columns,
one led by General Washington, the other by General Sullivan. The Germans
had spent Christmas in carousing, and although it was full daylight when
the Americans reached Trenton, they were not discovered until they were
already on the Hessian pickets. Colonel Rall, aroused from slumber,
quickly put his men in fighting order. The battle was quick and sharp.
Colonel Rall fell mortally wounded; and the main body of his troops,
attempting to retreat, were captured. Some British light horse and
infantry escaped, but all the Hessians, their standards, cannon and
small-arms, fell into the hands of the Americans. The victory gave new
vigor to the friends of independence, depressed the Tories, and
astonished the British, who had looked upon the war as virtually over.
General Howe was afraid to march upon Philadelphia, lest Washington
should cut off his supplies, and for five months longer the invaders
remained in the vicinity of New York. The patriots were further
encouraged by the arrival in April, 1777, of the Marquis de Lafayette, of
General Kalb, known as Baron de Kalb, and other foreign military officers
of real merit and sincere devotion to the American cause. These offered
their services to the Congress, and received commissions in the
Continental army.


CHAPTER XVIII.

Sir John Burgoyne's Campaign--His Bombastic Proclamation--The Tragic
Story of Jane McCrea--Her Name a Rallying Cry--Washington Prevents Rowe
from Aiding Burgoyne--The Battle of Brandywine--Burgoyne Routed at
Saratoga--He Surrenders with All His Army--Articles of Confederation
Submitted to the Several States--Effect of the Surrender of Burgoyne
--Franklin the Washington of Diplomacy--Attitude of France--France
Concludes to Assist the United States--Treaties of Commerce and Alliance
--King George Prepares for War with France--The Winter at Valley Forge
--Conspiracy to Depose Washington Defeated--General Howe Superseded
by Sir Henry Clinton--The Battle of Monmouth--General Charles Lee's
Treachery--Awful Massacre of Settlers in the Wyoming Valley--General
Sullivan Defeats the Six Nations--Brilliant Campaign of George Rogers
Clark--Failure of the Attempt to Drive the British from Rhode Island.


The disastrous campaign of General Sir John Burgoyne in the summer of
1777, against northern New York, was the turning point of the war. The
object of the invasion was to seize the Hudson River, and divide the
colonies by a continuous British line from Canada to the city of New
York. Had the plan succeeded it would have been an almost fatal blow to
the cause of independence. Its failure was not due to the courage or
skill of any one American commander, but to the indomitable resolution
with which every step of the invading army was resisted by Americans of
every rank. The whole country rose as one man to oppose and harass the
enemy, and it seemed as if every militiaman understood that the fate of
his country depended on the repulse or destruction of the foe.

Burgoyne's plan of campaign, as concerted with the British ministry, was
to march to Albany with a large force by way of Lakes Champlain and
George, while another force under Sir Henry Clinton advanced up the
Hudson. At the same time Colonel Barry St. Leger was to make a diversion
by way of Oswego, on the Mohawk River. Burgoyne began his advance in
June, with about eight thousand men. Proceeding up Lake Champlain he
compelled the Americans to evacuate Crown Point, Ticonderoga and Fort
Anne. His first blunder was in failing to avail himself of the water
carriage of Lake George, at the head of which there was a direct road to
Fort Edward. Instead of taking this course he spent three weeks in
cutting a road through the woods, and building bridges over swamps. This
gave time for General Schuyler to gather the yeomanry in arms, and for
Washington to send troops from the southern department to reinforce
Schuyler. Burgoyne also lost valuable time in a disastrous attack on
Bennington.

Burgoyne issued a proclamation in most bombastic style. In the preamble
he stated, besides his military and other distinctions, that he was
"author of a celebrated tragic comedy called the 'Blockade of Boston.'"
He accused the patriots of enormities "unprecedented in the inquisitions
of the Romish Church," and offered to give encouragement, employment and
assistance to all who would aid the side of the king. "I have but to give
stretch," he concluded, "to the Indian forces under my direction--and
they amount to thousands--to overtake the hardened enemies of Great
Britain and America. I consider them the same wherever they lurk. If
notwithstanding these endeavors and sincere inclination to assist them
the frenzy of hostility should remain, I trust I shall stand acquitted in
the eyes of God and of men in denouncing and executing the vengeance of
the State against the willful outcasts. The messengers of justice and of
wrath await them in the field, and devastation, famine, and every
concomitant horror that a reluctant but indispensable prosecution of
military duty must occasion will bar the way to their return."

While Burgoyne's array was lying near Fort Edward occurred the tragic
death of Jane McCrea, celebrated in song and story. Jane was the second
daughter of the Reverend James McCrea, a Presbyterian clergyman of
Scottish descent, and she made her home with her brother, John, at Fort
Edward, New York. John McCrea was a patriot, but Jane had for her lover
an officer in Burgoyne's army named David Jones, to whom she was
betrothed. Between John McCrea and David Jones an estrangement had arisen
on account of their opposite political sympathies, but Jane clung to her
affianced. "My dear Jenny," wrote Jones, under date of July 11, 1777,
"these are sad times, but I think the war will end this year, as the
rebels cannot hold out, and will see their error. By the blessing of
Providence I trust we shall yet pass many years together in peace. * * *
No more at present, but believe me yours affectionately till death." How
faithfully he kept that promise!

Jane McCrea well deserved her lover's devotion. She is described as a
young woman of rare accomplishments, great personal attractions, and of a
remarkable sweetness of disposition.[1] She was of medium stature, finely
formed, of a delicate blonde complexion. Her hair was of a golden brown
and silken lustre, and when unbound trailed upon the ground. Her father
was devoted to literary pursuits, and she thus had acquired a taste for
reading, unusual in one of her age--about twenty-four years--in those
early times.

      [1] See "The Burgoyne Ballads," by William L. Stone, from whose
      narrative this sketch is taken.

When Burgoyne's army was about four miles from Fort Edward, David Jones
sent a party of Indians, under Duluth, a half-breed, to escort his
betrothed to the British camp, where they were to be married at once by
Chaplain Brudenell, Lady Harriet Acland and Madame Riedesel, wife of
General Riedesel, in command of the Brunswick contingent, having
consented to be present at the wedding. It had been arranged that Duluth
should halt in the woods about a quarter of a mile from the house of a
Mrs. McNeil where Jane was waiting to join him at the appointed time.
Meanwhile it happened that a fierce Wyandotte chief named Le Loup, with a
band of marauding Indians from the British camp, drove in a scouting
party of Americans, and stopping on their return from the pursuit at Mrs.
McNeil's house, took her and Jane captive, with the intention of taking
them to the British camp. On their way back Le Loup and his followers
encountered Duluth and his party. The half-breed stated his errand, and
demanded that Jane be given up to him. Le Loup insisted on escorting her.
Angry words followed and Le Loup, in violent passion, shot Jane through
the heart. Then the savage tore the scalp from his victim and carried it
to the British camp. Mrs. McNeil had arrived at the camp a little in
advance, having been separated from Jane before the tragedy. She at once
recognized the beautiful tresses. David Jones never recovered from the
shock. It is said that he was so crushed by the terrible blow, and
disgusted with the apathy of Burgoyne in refusing to punish the miscreant
who brought the scalp of Jane McCrea to the camp as a trophy, claiming
the bounty offered for such prizes by the British, that he asked for a
discharge and upon this being refused deserted, having first rescued the
precious relic of his beloved from the savages. Jones retired to the
Canadian wilderness, and spent the remainder of his life unmarried, a
silent and melancholy man.

The murder of Jane McCrea fired New York. From every farm, from every
village, from every cabin in the woods the men of America thronged to
avenge her death. Her name was a rallying cry along the banks of the
Hudson and in the mountains of Vermont, and "her death contributed in no
slight degree to Burgoyne's defeat, which became a precursor and
principal cause of American independence."[2]

      [2] Stone, "The Burgoyne Ballads."

The force of about two thousand men, whom Colonel Barry St. Leger led
into the forests of what is now Oneida County, met stout resistance, and
but for the Indian allies of the British, led by the great Mohawk chief,
Joseph Brant, St. Leger's troops would probably have been destroyed or
made captive. The fierce battle of Oriskany, in which the brave General
Herkimer received a fatal wound, was a patriot victory, but it gave St.
Leger a respite. When he heard that Benedict Arnold was approaching with
troops sent by General Schuyler, to give him battle, he retreated to Lake
Ontario, shattering Burgoyne's hopes of aid from the Tories of the Mohawk
Valley. Meanwhile Congress had relieved General Schuyler from command in
the North, and appointed Horatio Gates in his place. Gates was not a man
of ability, but he was ably seconded in his operations against Burgoyne
by Benedict Arnold.

General Howe had intended to take Philadelphia and then co-operate with
Burgoyne in inflicting a final and crushing blow on the Americans, but
the Fabian strategy of Washington again proved too much for the British.
Howe being prevented by Washington from crossing New Jersey with his
army, undertook an expedition by sea. He sailed up Chesapeake Bay,
marched northward with 18,000 men to Brandywine Creek, and there met
Washington with 11,000, on the eleventh of September. The British held
the field, but Washington retreated slowly, disputing every foot of
ground, and it was not until the twenty-sixth of September that Howe
entered Philadelphia. Washington attacked the British encampment at
Germantown at daybreak on the fourth of October, and attempted to drive
the British into the Schuyikill River. One American battalion fired into
another by mistake, and this unhappy accident probably saved the British
from another Trenton on a larger scale. Howe was unable to send any
assistance to Burgoyne until it was too late to save that commander.

Burgoyne found his progress stopped by the intrenchments of the Americans
under General Gates, at Bemis Heights, nine miles south of Saratoga, and
he endeavored to extricate himself from his perilous position by
fighting. Two battles were fought on nearly the same ground, on September
19, and October 7. The first was indecisive; the second resulted in so
complete a rout for the British that, leaving his sick and wounded to the
compassion of Gates, Burgoyne retreated to Saratoga. There finding his
provisions giving out, and that there was no chance for escape, he
capitulated with his entire army, October 17, 1777.

                        *          *          *

The Congress had, by common consent, represented national sovereignty
from the beginning of the war, but it was not until November 15, 1777,
that articles of confederation were approved by the Congress, and
submitted to the States. This compact, entitled "Articles of
Confederation and Perpetual Union," was but little more than a treaty of
mutual friendship on the part of the several States, and was not
sanctioned by all of them until near the close of the Revolution. It was
too weak to be effective in time of peace, and hardly necessary in time
of war, when the common danger gave sufficient assurance of fidelity to
the common cause. However, the Articles of Confederation undoubtedly
promoted confidence in the stability of the government where that
confidence was most needed, in the European cabinets adverse to British
dominion in America.

The surrender of Burgoyne gave to the American cause a status which it
had lacked abroad, and it brought into full and effectual exercise the
diplomatic side of the struggle for independence. It was then that
Franklin showed himself another Washington. "On the great question of the
foreign relations of the United States," says Wharton, "it made no matter
whether he was alone or surrounded by unfriendly colleagues; it was only
through him that negotiations could be carried on with France, for to him
alone could the French government commit itself with the consciousness
that the enormous confidences reposed in him would be honorably guarded."
France, chiefly through the influence of Franklin, had given covert
assistance to the colonies from the beginning of the struggle, but the
French ministry hesitated to take a decisive step. Fear that the
Americans would succumb, and leave France to bear the weight of British
hostility, and apprehension that England might grant the demands of the
colonists and then turn her forces against European foes, deterred the
French government from avowed support of the American cause. The news
from Saratoga gave assurance that America would prove a steadfast as well
as a powerful ally, and that with the aid of the United States the
British empire might be dismembered, and France avenged for her losses
and humiliations on the American continent. Nor was revenge the only
motive which led France to cast her lot with the revolted colonies.
England was already stretching forth to establish her power in India, and
France felt that with North America and India, both subject to the
British, the maritime and commercial superiority of England would be a
menace to other powers.

France did not act without long and careful premeditation on the part of
the French crown and its ministers, for the relations between England and
her American colonies had been carefully and acutely considered by the
statesmen of Versailles long before the point of open revolt was reached.
Even when France concluded to throw her resources into the scale on the
side of the United States she did not altogether abandon her cautious
attitude. The French government acknowledged the United States as a
sovereign and treaty-making power; but while the treaty of commerce of
February 6, 1778, was absolute and immediate in its effects, the treaty
of alliance of the same date was contingent on war taking place between
Great Britain and France. It is interesting to note that Benjamin
Franklin was the subject of invective by Arthur Lee and others because at
the suggestion of Silas Deane, of Connecticut, he procured a clause in
the commercial treaty providing for the exportation of molasses to the
United States, free of duty, from the French colonies--the molasses being
used to manufacture New England rum. Owing to the objection of Lee this
clause was afterward abrogated, and the infant industry of making New
England rum had to survive without special protection.

Upon receiving formal notice of the treaties Lord North immediately
recalled the British ambassador from Paris, and George III. stated, in
bad English, to Lord North (the king spelled "Pennsylvania"
"Pensilvania," and "wharfs" "warfs") that a corps must be drawn from the
army in America sufficient to attack the French islands. There was a
state of partial war without a declaration of war. The naval forces of
England and France came into unauthorized collision, and actual war was
the result.

                        *          *          *

Pending the negotiations with France Washington and his heroic army spent
a winter of painful hardship at Valley Forge, about twenty miles from
Philadelphia. Half-naked and half-fed, they shivered in the rude huts
which they erected, while their commander, if better housed, showed by
actions more than words that he felt every pang of his soldiers.
Washington's anxiety at this critical period was greatly aggravated by
the conspiracy known as "Conway's Cabal," to depose him from the command,
and put in his place the pretentious but incapable Gates. This conspiracy
was narrowly defeated by the patriotic firmness of the supporters of
Washington in Congress, one of whom--William Duer, of New York, an
Englishman by birth--had himself carried in a litter to the floor of
Congress, at the risk of his life, to give his vote for Washington. Never
on the battlefield did he who is justly called the Father of Our Country
show such heroism, such fortitude, such devotion to duty as in face of
this combination of deluded men to effect his ruin.

                        *          *          *

The French alliance was hailed with delight in the United States. George
III., who personally controlled military operations, stated his
conclusion about a month after the French treaties, and on the day they
were formally announced, to act on the defensive, holding New York and
Rhode Island, but abandoning Pennsylvania. General William Howe was
superseded in command of the British troops by Sir Henry Clinton, who
evacuated Philadelphia, departing from that city before dawn of June 18,
and starting for New York with about 17,000 effective men. Upon being
informed of this movement, Washington hastened after the British. He
followed Clinton in a parallel line, ready to strike him at the first
favorable opportunity.

When the British were encamped near the courthouse in Freehold, Monmouth
County, New Jersey, June 27, Washington made arrangements for an attack
on the following morning, should Clinton move. General Charles Lee, who
had recently been a prisoner in the hands of the British, was in command
of the advance corps. He showed such incapacity and folly in his
directions to subordinate and far more competent generals as nearly to
wreck the army. His confused and perplexing instructions promoted
disorder, chilled the ardor of the troops, and gave the enemy
opportunities they never could have gained without this assistance from
Lee. As an apparently conclusive blow to the side he pretended to serve
Lee ordered a retreat, and the British, from being on the defensive, were
speedily in pursuit. Egypt Under the Pharaohs, by Brugsch-Bey. London,
1891, pp. 199, 201. As to Tum, see _Supra_.

[74] _Recueil_, etc., before cited, Vol. XII., p. 160 _et seq._, 189,
190. Pyramid of Pepi II. See also the Book of the Dead, Turin Mss.
ch.
CXLI., A. 6; _Ibid._, ch. XVII. beginning; _Ibid._, ch. LXXIX., l. 1;
_Ibid._, ch. LXXVIII., l. 12.

[75] _Religions de l'Antiquité_, etc., by J.D. Guigniaut, founded on the
German work of Dr. Fréd. Creuzer. Paris, 1825, Vol. I., part 2, pl.
XLVIII., 187b. Compare the other curious figures of the scarabæus in
this volume, also p. 948 _et seq._
[76] Comp. Wilkinson, Manners, etc., of the Ancient Egyptians, 2nd
series, London, 1841, Vol. II., p. 260, Vol. I., pp. 250, 256.

VII.

IMPORTANCE OF THE HEART IN THE ANCIENT EGYPTIAN RELIGION.
IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL ACCORDING TO THAT RELIGION. SYMBOLISM OF THE SCARAB
IN THEIR DOCTRINE OF SUCH IMMORTALITY.

                        NO THING IN THIS UNIVERSE ABSOLUTELY DESTROYED, ONLY CHANGED.

THE IDEA OF METEMPSYCHOSIS IN ANCIENT EGYPT. ELEVATED IDEAS AS TO THE
DEITY.
HYMN TO AMMON-RA CITED. QUOTATIONS AS TO EGYPTIAN PHILOSOPHY, EVOLUTION OF
THE UNIVERSE AND KOSMOGONY. OF KHEPRA AND OF TUM OR ATMU. EGYPTIAN
PSYCHOLOGY AND ITS DIVISIONS.

The human heart, the first life principle of human existence and
regeneration, the first apparent individuality of embryonic human life;
was symbolized, in the _Per-em-Hru_, i.e., the Book of the Dead, by Khepra,
the scarabæus deity; this is one reason why the texts (chapters XXX. and
XXVII., see also LXIV.,) which related to the heart, were those usually
inscribed on the funeral scarabæi, and consecrated to the preservation
of the heart of the dead. The condition of death was described
by the Egyptian expression: "The one whose heart does not beat." The
resurrection or re-birth from the dead only began, according to the
Egyptian idea, when this organ, so essential and necessary to all
animal life, was returned to the deceased _Ba_, i.e., responsible soul,
by the decree of Osiris and the judges of the dead, which Thoth registers:
"To him is accorded that his heart may be in its place." Indeed
most of the texts of the _Per-em-Hru_, as we have seen, are dedicated
to the preservation of the heart of the dead one.

The philosophic student can therefore from this, at once see, the great
value of the scarabæus symbol to the whole religious thought-world of
Ancient Egypt. It was the symbol, when returned to the dead, of the
regenerated and resurrected life of the dead one to the heavenly
regions of the blessed for all eternity, to the second birth in the
regions of eternal rest and happiness.

Taking as a model the daily course of the sun, which rising in the
morning as Horus; reaching the zenith at noon as Ra; setting in the
evening, in the regions of darkness as Tum; and absent during the night
and until the morrow as Osiris; upon which, victorious over the chaotic
darkness, it arose in triumph again as Horus; the birth and journey
of man on earth, was considered by the Ancient Egyptians as similar
to the solar journey; and death, the end of that journey, was
assimilated to the course of the sun when at night it was, according
to their astronomical knowledge, supposed to be in the Lower Regions
or Underworld, the abode of Osiris.

When he died, the Egyptian became as Osiris, "the nocturnal sun;"
resurrected, he became Horus, the new-born and rising sun; in midday,
he was Ra.

Horus was: "The Old One who rejuvenated himself." Such a re-birth of the
dead to immortality, was the recompense promised by the Egyptian
religion, to the soul of the man pious and good during this life,
but the wicked were to be tortured, transformed into lower forms,
or annihilated.[77] Matter, according to it, does not perish but
only changes and the earth itself, was deified as Seb, Isis, Ta-nen,
and Ptah-Tatunen.

What then did matter become, it was transformed, the deities were
transformed. Matter was transformed,--this is explained to us through
the symbolism of the scarab, the hieroglyph of the word _Kheper_,
i.e., "to be," "to exist," "to become," "to create," "to emanate;"
of which, as I have said, the Great Sphinx is the symbol, and has
therefore the philosophical value of creator and created.[78] God
and His universe, existence and change or transformation, death and
dissolution, all which were only considered as regeneration and
re-birth in another form.

Thence becomes apparent to us, the great value and importance to the
Egyptian people of the symbolism of the scarab, it was, to them, the
emblematic synthesis of their religion as to-day to Christians, the
Latin or the Greek cross, is the emblematic synthesis of Latin or Greek
Christianity. The philosophic Egyptian, thought, the atoms and molecules
of all bodies and of all matter, were never destroyed or lost, they
were always in motion but were only transformed and changed, by death
or the dissolution of forms.
Death on this earth did not destroy the personality of the human being,
that continued beyond death on our earth, and as to those who had
been good and pious during their life here, their personality continued
eternally; but the punishment of the wicked was, the annihilation of
that personality or an immobility which was almost the same. The work
entitled, Hermes Trismegistos, contains a resumé of that idea,
saying, among other things: "What was composed is divided.

That division is not Death, it is the analysis of a combination; but the
aim of that analysis is not destruction, it is the renewment. What is
in effect the energy of life? Is it not movement? What then is there in
this world, immovable?"[79]
The everlasting interchange of life and death, flows throughout all the
religious philosophy of the Ancient Egyptians; basing itself on the
continual return of day from night and of day to night, and upon the
apparent course of the sun, they seem to have formulated the idea
of the immortality of the soul of man after death.

Herodotus tells us,[80] that the Egyptians believed, that the soul of the
departed passed into an animal, and after having gone through all
the ranks of the animal world, was at the end of three thousand
years reunited to the human body; but from the remains of the
Egyptian religion we have to-day, next to nothing has been found
that will confirm this statement, but much that shows the Greek
authors were frequently in error.

                        In the realm of the dead, according to the texts of the Book of the
Dead, (chapter LXXXIX. and other places,) the responsible soul or
_Ba_ of the deceased, may become a sparrow-hawk, an adder, a
crocodile-headed being, etc., but only to deceive its demon
enemies;[81] not until after this, is the _Khu_, the intellectual
soul, which accompanies the _Ba_, which is represented under the
symbolized form of a sparrow-hawk with a human head, reunited to
the _Ba_.

This however all occurs, not on earth, but in the realms of the dead. The
Ancient Egyptian believed, that as the setting of the sun was an actual
separation of the body and soul of the sun-god; and its rising, a reunion
of the two; so it happened to the future of the spiritual of man, and
that after man's death on this earth, his spirit, as did that of
the sun-god; would arise again to life, but it would be to a life of
immortality in a higher sphere. I am inclined also to think, that they
believed the spiritual body of the new-born child came down from the
sun-disk or from some very exalted sphere.[82]
The following quotations from Eugène Grébaut's translation in French,
of the Hymn to Ammon-Ra, are important for an understanding of the
positions of Khepra and of Turn during the Theban Dynasties.

"Hail to thee Ra, lord of the _maat_, (the) mysterious in his shrine.
Master (i.e., father) of the gods, Khepra in its boat, (it) sending
forth the word (i.e., the creative word,) the gods came into
existence.

                        Hail god Tum, maker of intelligent beings, who determines their
manner of existence, artisan of their existences; (and who)
distinguishes (their) colors, one from the other

."[83] "Author of humanity, making the form of all things to become (or,
former who produced every thing;) it is in thy name of Tum-Khepra."[84]
"Khepra is father of the gods and the producer of the _maat_."[85]
The deities go out of the mouth of their father Khepra, and are nourished
by the _maat_, i.e., the Harmony or Law of the universe;[86] men go out
of its eyes, that is from the light of the deity, and it is this light
which vivifies the entire universe. The Hymn says: "O Form, ONE, producing
all things, the ONE, who art Alone; producing existences! Men come
forth from Its two eyes, the gods come into existence from Its Word.
Author of the green pastures, which nourish the cattle, and of the
nutritious plants for the use of mankind. It who maketh that fishes
live in the rivers and the winged fowl in the air; who giveth the
breath of life to (the germ) in the egg.

It maketh to live birds of all species, and likewise the insects which creep
and also those which fly. It maketh provision for the rats in their
holes, and nourisheth the birds that are on the trees. Hail to Thee, O
Author of the totality of all forms. The ONE who art alone, yet
numberless through Thy extended arms: watching over all humanity when
it sleeps, seeking the good of Its creatures."[87] I have used the
neuter It and not He, the Egyptian idea of the highest deity was, that
it was androgenic not masculine. Although it would seem that this Hymn,
of which I have cited but a small portion, applied to Ammon-Ra, yet it
expressly says, that: Its name is also Tum (or, Atmu,)--Khepra.[88]
Another text reads: "O Bull of the western region[89] concealed in the
concealed region (i.e., Amenti or the Underworld) from whom emanates all
the gods (and all) the goddesses who are with him! The Osiris, the
Hathor * * * (the name of the dead was inserted here) the justified (or,
triumphant,) comes towards thee; the becoming which is in the becoming
of all things when they become.[90] Powerful lords, beneficent, divine,
judging the speech (words) of the inhabitants of the countries; lords
of Truth![91] Hail to thee! gods, essence of the essences without their
bodies, ruling the generations of _Ta-nen_ (i.e., of this earth) and
the births (begettings) in the temple of _Mesxen_[92] (they raise the
generations?) from the first essence of the divine essences, third greatness
above the father of their fathers; invoking the soul from its
Almightiness when are produced its Desires (Will;) adoring their Father
in his glorifications; _divine Prototypes of the Types of all that
exists_, Fathers and Mothers of the solar disk, Forms, Great Ancients,
Divine Essences, first from Atum (i.e., chaos,) emanating humanity;
causing to emerge the forms of all forms; lords of the divine
sustenance; homage to thee!

Lords from everlasting, possessing eternity," etc.[93] "All that is done
and said upon earth has its source in the heights, from whence the essences
are dispensed to us with measure and equilibrium; and there is not anything,
which does not emanate from on high and which does not return thereto."[94]

The verb _Kheper_ usually translated "to be," "to exist," "to become,"
also has the meaning of "to roll" or "revolve." The sun apparently
rolled or revolved around the earth. In the British Museum, in a hieratic
papyrus (No. 10,188,) Khepera is identified with the deity Neb-er'-ter,
and the latter says, in it:--"I am He (It?) who evolved Himself (Itself?)
under the form of the god Khepera. I, the evolver of evolutions, evolved
Myself, the evolver of all evolutions, after a multitude of evolutions and
developments which came forth from My mouth.[95] There was not any heaven,
earth was not, animals which move upon the earth and reptiles existed
not in that place. I constructed their forms out of the inert mass
of watery matter. I did not find any place upon which I could stand. By
the power which was in My Will I laid the foundation (of things) in the
form of the god Shu[96] and I created (emanated?)

                        for them every attribute which they have.

I alone existed, for I had not, as yet, made Shu emanate from Me, and I
had not ejected the spittle which became Tefnut (i.e., the deity or
personification of, moisture.) There did not exist any other to work with
Me. By My own Will I laid the foundation of all things, and the evolutions
of things, and the evolutions which took place from the evolutions of
their births, which took place through the evolutions of their
offspring, became multiplied. My shadow[97] was united with Me, and
produced Shu and Tefnut from the emanation of Myself, * * * thus from
one deity I became three deities * * * I gathered together My members
and wept over them, and from the tears which fell from My eye, men and
women sprung into existence."
The duplicate copy of this chapter reads: "I developed Myself from the
primeval matter which I made. My name is Osiris, the germ of primeval
matter. I have worked My Will to its full extent in this earth, I have
spread abroad (or, expanded Myself,) and fitted it * * * I uttered
My Name as a Word of Power, from My own mouth, and I straightway
developed Myself by evolution.

I evolved Myself under the form of the evolutions of the god Khepera,
and I developed Myself out of the primeval matter which has evolved
multitudes of evolutions from the beginning of time. No-thing existed on
this earth (before Me,) I made all things. There was none other who worked
with Me at that time.
I made all evolutions by means of that soul, which I raised up there
from inertness out of the watery matter."[98] This is a most important
papyrus for a knowledge of Ancient Egyptian philosophy.

"'In the beginning: When there was not yet heaven, when there was
not yet earth, when there were not yet men, when the gods were not yet
born, when there was not yet death.'[99] Nu alone was existing, the
water (or humid) principle of all things, and in that primordial water,
Tumu, the father of the gods.[100] The day of creation came, Shu raised
the waters upon the staircase which is in Khmunu.[101] The earth was made
even under his feet, as a long united table; heaven appeared above
his head as a ceiling of iron (or steel) upon which rolled the divine
Ocean. Hor (Horus) and his sons Hapi, Amsit (or Mestha,) Tuamautef and
Qebhsennuf, the gods of the four cardinal points, went out at once and
posted themselves at the four corners of the inferior table, and received
the four angles of the firmament upon the point of their sceptres;
the sun appeared and the voice of the god, the first day is arisen and
the world was thereafter constituted, such as it ought to ever remain!"[102]

"Glory of all things, God, the divine and the divine nature.
Principles of the beings; God, the Intelligence, nature and matter.
Wisdom manifests the universe, of which the divine is the principle, the
nature, energy, necessity, the end and the renewing.

There was darkness without limit over the abyss and the water, and a subtle
and intelligent spirit, contained in chaos by the divine power. Then
gushed forth the holy light, and under the sand (i.e., the atomic
dryness) the elements went forth from the humid essence, and all the gods
distributed the fecundity of nature.

      The universe being in confusion and disorder, the buoyant elements
      ascended, and the heavier were established as a foundation under the
      damp sand, (and) everything became separated by fire and suspended,
      so as to be raised by the spirit."[103]
      The Ancient Egyptians made many more statements which undoubtedly
      referred to an unknown, all-powerful, ideal deity of the highest
      order, I have a great number of such, but will not bring them forward
      in this writing; I refer the reader for some quotations on this
      subject, to the valuable writings of Mr. P. Le Page Renouf, especially
      to his; Religion of Ancient Egypt (Hibbert Lectures for 1879), which
      I have already cited in several places.
      
      It will be seen from these quotations, that Khepra, the scarabæus
      deity, especially as Tum-Khepra; occupied a most elevated position,
      I might say the most elevated, of all the religious conceptions of
      the Ancient Egyptians, for beyond it, was the unknown ideal deity
      whom none could form a conception of. Khepra was asserted to have
      generated and caused to come into existence, itself through itself,
it united in itself, the male and female principles of life.

It was androgenic. The scarabæus was the hieroglyph of the _creator_, the
_to be_, _to become_, to _exist_, the _eternal_, the _coming into being
from chaotic non-being_, also the _itself transforming_ or _becoming_,
the _emanating_ or _creating power_, also, the _universe_. Khepra
was "Father of the gods," connected with the idea of the rising of the
sun from the darkness of night, Khepra was used to typify the resurrection
from the dead of the spirits of men. It represented the active and positive
in antithesis to Atmu, or Tum. With Atmu as Atmu (or, Tum)-Khepra, it
represented the positive and negative united, spirit and matter.

Atmu, Tum or Tmu, was the symbol of the eternal night or darkness of Chaos,
which preceded the emanation of light, it was the type of senility and
absolute death, the negative and end. It was the nocturnal or hidden
sun, as Horus was the rising sun, and Ra the risen sun, proceeding in its
course each day through the firmament. Tum was not however considered
as absolutely inert, it was the precursor of the rising sun, and
the point of departure of the setting sun, and was the nocturnal
sun, and was also a point of departure into existence, of all the
created and emanated in the universe.

                        It, as well as Khepra, in some of the texts is called "Father of
the gods

."[104]
This deity was the unknown and inaccessible, primordial deity of chaos,
"existing alone in the abyss," before the appearance of Light.
One of the texts reads:

"Homage to thee, sun at its setting, Tum-Harmakhis, god renewing and
forming itself in itself, double essence. * * Hail to thee author of
the gods, who hast suspended heaven for the circulation of thy two
eyes, author of the earth in its extent, and from whom the light is,
so as to give to all men the sensation of the sight of his fellow
creature."[105]
It is of the greatest importance to an understanding of the Egyptian
religion and philosophy, and especially of the _Per-em-hru_, the
so-called, Book of the Dead; that the Egyptian psychology be
comprehended; in order to enable the reader to do this, I have prepared
the following condensed statement of the same.

I. The Body was called _Khat_. This was embalmed and then placed in the
tomb.

II. The Soul was called, _Ba_ or _Bai_, plur. _Baiu_. This was the part of
the spiritual which was thought to contain the elements necessary for
the world-life of a man, such as judgment, conscience, etc. It seems to
be the same termed _psuke_ or _psyche_ by the Greeks.

                        This _Ba_ performed the pilgrimage in the underworld, and was judged
for the conduct of the man it inhabited in this world, by Osiris
and the Forty-two judges.

It was usually represented as a bird, especially as a human-headed
sparrow-hawk. It fluttered to and fro between this world and the next,
sometimes visiting the mummy in its tomb. It was sometimes represented
as a crane, at others as a lapwing. It is paralleled by the _Rua'h_ of
the Hebrew Qabbalah.

III. The Intellectual part of man's spirit was called, _Xu_ or _Khu_. It
was considered as part of the flame detached from the upper divine fire.
Freed from mortality it wandered through space and had the power of
keeping company with or haunting humanity, and even of entering into
and taking possession of the body of a living man. The Egyptians spoke of
being possessed with a _khu_ as we would say of a being possessed
by a spirit.[106] It was considered as a luminous spirit. It was
the Intelligence and answers to the _Nous_ of the Greeks and the
_Neshamah_ of the Hebrew Qabbalah.

IV. The Shadow or Shade was called, _Khaibit_. This created the
Individuality, and was an important part of the personality.
There was a valley in which the Shades were, in the Underworld.
It was restored to the soul in the second life. They are frequently
mentioned in the _Per-em-hru_. His shadow, would early attract the attention
of the primitive man.

V. The Name was called, _Ren_. This was the Personality, that something,
which continued to know itself as a distinct individual, through every
change of the atoms and appearances of the body. In the _Per-em-hru_ was
written: "The Osiris (then the name of the dead was inserted.)" It
was restored eternally to the soul in the second life. The _Ba_ retained
the _Ren_ in its journey through the Underworld.
VI. The life or Double was called, _Ka_, plur. _Kau_.French and Americans poured shot and shell into the British
intrenchments, and the bombardment grew heavier day by day. The superior
forces and strong situation of the besiegers made it impossible to break
through their lines. It would not even have been a forlorn hope. No
course now remained but to surrender. Cornwallis sought to make the best
terms possible. He has been severely and plausibly criticised for
abandoning the Tory refugees to American justice and vengeance. Horace
Walpole, writing in safe and comfortable quarters, far from siege or
battlefield, said that Cornwallis "ought to have declared that he would
die rather than sacrifice the poor Americans who had followed him from
loyalty, against their countrymen." Had Cornwallis so declared he would
doubtless have had a chance to die without any objection on the part of
the patriots on whose friends and relatives he had inflicted devilish
cruelties. Cornwallis was obliged to choose between perishing with all
his army, or accepting the terms which his conquerors saw fit to grant.
Apart from the formal articles of surrender he obtained the informal
consent of the allies that certain Tories most obnoxious to their
countrymen should be permitted to depart to New York in the vessel which
carried dispatches from the British commander to Sir Henry Clinton.[2]
General Lincoln, who had been compelled to surrender to the royal troops
at Charleston in the previous year, received the sword of Cornwallis from
General O'Hara, and twenty-eight British captains, each bearing a flag in
a case, handed over their colors to twenty-eight American sergeants. The
number of troops surrendered was about 7000, and to these were added 2000
sailors, 1500 Tories and 1800 negroes. The British lost during the siege
in killed, wounded and missing about 550 men; the Americans lost about
300. The spoils included nearly 8000 muskets, 75 brass and 160 iron
cannon and a large quantity of munitions of war and military stores, as
well as "about one hundred vessels, above fifty of them
square-rigged."[3] On the day after the surrender Washington ordered
every American soldier under arrest or in confinement to be set at
liberty, and as the next day would be Sunday he directed that divine
service should be performed in the several brigades.

      [2] Walpole is right, however, in pointing out that the
      unconditional surrender of the refugees by Cornwallis had an
      important influence in bringing the war to a close by depriving the
      British of American support and sympathy. "It was a virtual end of
      the war," he says. "Could one American, unless those shut up in New
      York and Charleston, even out of prudence and self-preservation,
      declare for England, by whose general they were so unfeelingly
      abandoned?"

      [3] Livingston to Dana, October 22, 1781.

                        *          *          *

"Oh God, it is all over!" exclaimed Lord North, on hearing that
Cornwallis had surrendered. And it was all over, although we have
Franklin's authority that George III. continued to hope for a revival of
his sovereignty over America "on the same terms as are now making with
Ireland." These hopes were soon dissipated, and a treaty of peace was
finally signed at Paris, September 23, 1783. The British troops sailed
away from New York on November 25, and General Washington, after a tender
parting with his officers, resigned his commission. A great number of
Tory refugees departed from New York with the British, but it is doubtful
whether their lot was happier than that of those who remained to accept
the new order of things. It is only necessary to glance at the diary of
Hutchinson, the royalist governor of Massachusetts, to perceive that,
even under the most favorable circumstances, the situation of the exiled
Tories was miserable indeed. Many of them settled in Canada, there to
hand down to their descendants feelings of antipathy which, in America,
have long been discarded. Many of them wisely returned to the United
States, and were magnanimously forgiven and received as brethren and
citizens. No voice was raised to plead more eloquently in their behalf
than that of Patrick Henry. "I feel no objection," he exclaimed, "to the
return of those deluded people. They have, to be sure, mistaken their own
interests most wofully, and most wofully have they suffered the
punishment due to their offences. * * * Afraid of them!--what, sir--shall
we who have laid the proud British lion at our feet, now be afraid of his
whelps?"


FOURTH PERIOD.

Union.


CHAPTER XX.

Condition of the United States at the Close of the Revolution--New
England Injured and New York Benefited Commercially by the Struggle--
Luxury of City Life--Americans an Agricultural People--The Farmer's
Home--Difficulty in Traveling--Contrast Between North and South--Southern
Aristocracy--Northern Great Families--White Servitude--The Western
Frontier--Karly Settlers West of the Mountains--A Hardy Population--
Disappearance of the Colonial French--The Ordinance of 1787--Flood of
Emigration Beyond the Ohio.


Peace with Great Britain left the United States free and independent, but
burdened with the expenses of the war, and agitated by the problems which
independence presented. The soldiers of the Continental Army went back to
their firesides and their fields, and trade began to show signs of
revival. New England's commercial interests had received a serious blow
from the Revolution, while New York city, occupied by the British
throughout the war, the headquarters of the royal forces with their
lavish expenditures, and its commerce protected and convoyed by the
British fleet, was benefited instead of injured by the struggle. The
merchants of New York, whether attached or not at heart to the royalist
cause, put business before patriotism, while the flag of St. George
floated over their city, and urged the British to severer measures
against the "rebels" in order that New York's mercantile interests might
be promoted and safeguarded.[1] Apart from natural advantages, next in
importance to the Erie Canal as a cause of New York's leading commercial
position is the fact that the British were in possession of the city
during the Revolution.

      [1] A number of years ago the Hon. William M. Evarts delivered
      a speech before the New York Chamber of Commerce in which he
      congratulated that body on its patriotism "during the Revolution."
      Having been allowed to examine the records of the Chamber for the
      revolutionary period, I wrote an article which appeared over my
      initials in the New York _Sun_ pointing out that the Chamber, as
      shown by its own records, had been ultra-loyal, instead of
      patriotic.--_H. M._

There was considerable luxury in city life then as now. "By Revolutionary
times love of dress everywhere prevailed throughout the State of New
York," says Mrs. Alice Morse Earle, "a love of dress which caused great
extravagance and was noted by all travelers."[2] "If there is a town on
the American continent," said the Chevalier de Crevecoeur, "where English
luxury displayed its follies it is in New York." Philadelphia was not far
behind New York in extravagance, notwithstanding Quaker traditions, while
Boston, rich in solid wealth, was more conservative in displaying it, and
retained in appearance at least something of Puritan simplicity.

      [2] Costumes of Colonial Times.

The urban residents of those days were, however, insignificant in numbers
as compared with the total population. The Americans were an agricultural
people, and they were a self-dependent people. The articles of clothing
needed in the farmer's home were manufactured in the home; the tailor
went around from house to house making into suits the cloth which the
family had woven; the school teacher "boarded around" as an equivalent
for salary that might otherwise have been paid in worthless currency, and
the simple requirements of rural existence were supplied in a large
degree by trade and barter without the use of what passed as money. The
farmer's cottage stood upon a level sward of green. The kitchen was the
living-room, and there the family spent their time when not out at work
or retired to rest. It was the largest apartment in the house, and its
great fire-place, with a ruddy back-log and pine knots flaming and
sparkling on the iron-dogs, offered a most cheerful welcome on a New
England winter's night. The baking oven, heated with fine-split dry wood,
cooked the frugal but savory meal, which was served up on a solid
old-fashioned table, around which the household gathered, first giving
thanks to the Giver of all. When not busied with other duties, the
housewife pressed with measured round the treadles of the loom, as she
twilled the web she was weaving; and as the shades of evening descended
the sonorous hum of the spinning-wheel gave token to the young man on
courtship intent that the daughter of the house was at home. From the
kitchen a door opened into the best room, a cheerless sort of place only
thrown open on special occasions, and not to compare in comfort with the
kitchen, its high-backed settle and its genial fire, whose glowing ashes
seemed to reflect the warmer glow of loving eyes. Other doors from the
kitchen opened into sleeping-rooms, although in the larger houses the
family usually slept upstairs. The well was used for cooling purposes as
well as water supply, and the old oaken bucket suspended from the
well-sweep by means of a slender pole, invited the passing stranger to
quaff nature's wholesome beverage. Wheeled vehicles were not often seen
in the rural districts, horses being commonly used for locomotion. The
difficulty of traveling discouraged intercourse between different
communities, and a journey from Boston to New York, taking a week by
stage-coach, and three or four days by sailing vessel, was a more
momentous undertaking than a voyage to Europe now. Few traveled for
pleasure. Few took any active interest in public affairs beyond their own
neighborhood, or at most their own State, and the bond of the
confederation rested loosely on communities now no longer united by the
apprehension of common danger.

                        *          *          *

Between the North and the South the contrast was already ominous of
future strife. The Southern planter lived like an aristocrat surrounded
by servants and slaves, dispensing hospitality according to his means
after the fashion of the British nobility. Cotton had not yet poured the
gold of England into the lap of the South, but tobacco held its own as a
substantial basis of wealth. In the North, on the other hand, the tiller
of the soil was usually its owner, assisted sometimes by indentured
servants or slaves, but never himself above the toil which he exacted
from others. The North, too, had its great families, descendants of
patroons and others who had received large grants of land and enjoyed
exceptional privileges, and were now growing in wealth with the
increasing value of their property; but the aristocratic Northern
families were gradually losing political power and influence, and sinking
toward the level of the people; whereas in the South the aristocratic
element was arrogating more and more the control of State affairs, and
the representation of Southern States in the councils of the nation. In
the North also equality was promoted by the potent influence of the
Revolution in breaking up the system of servile white labor. Master and
man were summoned for the defence of their country; they fought, they
suffered and endured together the same privations for a common cause.
Distinctions of class were obliterated by the blood that flowed freely
for the freedom of all, and what remained of ancient aristocratic
prejudice was yet more thoroughly undermined by the example of the great
social upheaval in France. Nevertheless the system of white servitude was
not entirely abolished until long after the close of the eighteenth
century, immigrants to this country frequently selling themselves as
"redemptioners" to pay the cost of their passage. The limits of this form
of service seldom exceeded seven years. No taint was apparently attached
to it, and many a worthy family had a "redemptioner" for its first
American ancestor.

                        *          *          *

Looking to the western frontier just after the Revolution, and in
particular the forks of the Ohio, we see a population very different in
character from that of the older settlements. The peace-loving Quaker
clung to the eastern counties, where life and property were secured from
raid and reprisal, and formed his ideas of the Indian character and
deserts from the red men, who, either Christianized or demoralized,
preferred the grudging charity of civilization to the rude and frugal
spoils of the chase, or the blood-stained rapine of war. This specimen of
Indian was usually so harmless, in some instances perhaps so deserving,
that the well-meaning Quaker learned to receive with discredit the
stories of horror from the frontier, and discouraged with his voice and
influence every step toward the subjection of the hostile Indian and his
European allies. Emigrants were forbidden, under stern penalties, to
encroach on the Indian domain, and petitions from invaded settlements for
arms and assistance, were met with cold indifference or positive refusal.
The men and women who, in face of such discouragement, cast their lot
beyond the mountains, must have been a hardy set indeed, and made of
stuff not likely to yield in a wrestle with wild nature and wilder
humanity.

The early inhabitants of that frontier region were of sturdy Scotch and
Irish stock. The troublous political times in their native countries
doubtless had much to do with their emigration hither. The star of the
Stuart line had set never to rise again, and its bright and hopeless
flicker, in the days of '45, was extinguished in the blood of Scotland's
noblest sons. But while order reigned, content was far from prevailing,
and many a brave heart sought, on the distant shore of America, to forget
the anguish of the past in the building of a prosperous future. With a
final sigh for "Lochaber No More," the Highlander turned his gaze from
the lochs and glens of his fathers, and crossed the ocean to that new
land of promise where every man might be a laird, and a farm might be had
for the asking, where no Culloden would remind him of the fate of his
kindred, and his children could grow up far from the barbarous laws that
crushed out the spirit of the ancient clans. Along the banks of the
Monongahela those Scotch and Irish settlers built their rude cabins under
the guns of Fort Pitt, guarded--strange irony of fate--from a savage
enemy by the very flag which flaunted oppression in their native Britain
and Ireland. That they learned to love their adopted land who can
question? A Virginian cavalier, accustomed to the graces and _politesse_
of a slave-owning aristocracy, saw fit to sneer at their humble abodes,
and their lack of the finer accessories of civilization, forgetting that a
cabin is more often than a palace the cradle of the purest patriotism, and
that as true American hearts beat in those huts in the wilderness as in
the courtly precincts of Richmond.

But the "poor mechanics and laborers" exercised a tremendous influence on
the destinies of the young, and as yet disunited republic. They were
freemen. Pittsburg, the outpost of civilization, had no slave within
sight of its redoubts, and the spirit of freedom which hovered there,
found rest and refreshment for its broader flight toward the great
northwest. The decision of 1780, which saved Pittsburg to Pennsylvania,
preserved it as a stronghold of freedom and of free labor, and now it far
surpasses in industry, wealth and population the then slave-labor capital
of the Old Dominion.

It is an interesting fact that the colonial French left no impress on the
site where they made such a gallant stand for New France. They have
vanished as completely as the Indian. In Detroit, in St. Louis, French
ancestry can be traced in families of high position and honorable
lineage. Such families are to those cities what the Knickerbockers are to
New York. They give a gracious flavor to society; they are a link between
the dim and heroic past and the dashing, eager, practical present; they
add a dreamy fascination to the social landscape, like the lingering haze
of morning illumined by the rays of the sun fast mounting to zenith.
Where Duquesne stood, neither track nor mark remains of the volatile,
daring and glory-loving race whose lily flag greeted the bearers of brave
Beaujeu's remains from the fatal field of Braddock. No authentic trace
has been discovered even of the fortifications which they erected, and
Fort Duquesne is known only by its tragic place in American history.

The ordinance of 1787, creating the Northwestern Territory, and throwing
it open for settlement, at once induced a large emigration to the lands
beyond the Ohio. Descendants of the Puritans mingled in the pioneer
throng with rangers from Virginia and backwoodsmen from Pennsylvania. The
frontiersman in hunting-shirt and moccasins blazed a path for the New
Englander in broadcloth coat, velvet collar, bell-crowned hat and heavy
boots. These emigrants all possessed valuable qualities for the building
up of new States, and they all displayed in the trials which immediately
beset them the courage which had carried the nation successfully through
the war for independence. They were entering upon a vast and fertile
domain which the aboriginal possessors, notwithstanding treaties, did not
propose to abandon, and which was the scene of sanguinary conflict before
it was finally surrendered.


CHAPTER XXI.

The Spirit of Disunion--Shays' Rebellion--A National Government Necessary
--Adoption of the Constitution--Tariff and Internal Revenue--The Whiskey
Insurrection--President Washington Calls Out the Military--Insurgents
Surrender--"The Dreadful Night"--Hamilton's Inquisition.


The spirit of disunion was brewing; the people were tax-ridden, the
States without credit and the prevailing discontent found expression in
riot and rebellion. The insurrection of Daniel Shays and his followers in
Massachusetts, the disturbances in western North Carolina and other
outbreaks in various parts of the country were but symptoms of radical
weakness in the body politic, and of the complete failure of the
loose-jointed confederation to command the confidence of the people and
maintain the credit of the nation. It became evident that union was as
vitally important in peace as in war; that national burdens could only be
sustained by a national government, and that the welfare of trade and
commerce required one system of interstate laws enforced by the united
power of all the States. The adoption of the Federal Constitution created
a nation; it created a free government worth all that it had cost; it
realized the dream of Franklin and the prediction of Adams; it made
possible the American Republic of to-day, and the great work was
fittingly crowned with the election of George Washington as first
President.

                        *          *          *

The first business of the new government was to establish the public
credit. Alexander Hamilton, Washington's Secretary of the Treasury,
proposed with this object a tariff on imports, and a tax on whiskey. To
the former the people submitted readily enough; the latter provoked an
insurrection which for some time threatened to be formidable. The farmers
of the western counties of Pennsylvania--Westmoreland, Fayette,
Washington and Allegheny--having no market for grain, in the decade
following the Revolution, on account of the absence of large settlements
in their vicinity, and the lack of facilities to transport to more
distant places, were from necessity compelled to reduce the bulk of their
grain by converting it into whiskey. A horse could carry two kegs of
eight gallons each, worth about fifty cents per gallon on the western,
and one dollar on the eastern side of the mountains, and return with a
little iron and salt, the former worth fifteen to twenty cents per pound,
the latter five dollars per bushel, at Pittsburg. The still was therefore
the necessary appendage of every farm, where the farmer was able to
procure it; if he was not he carried his grain to the more wealthy to be
distilled. To the large majority of these farmers excise laws were
peculiarly odious. The State of Pennsylvania made some attempt, during
and just after the Revolution, to enforce an excise law; but without
effect. A man named Graham, who had kept a public house in Philadelphia,
accepted the appointment of Collector for the western counties. He was
assailed, his head shaven and he was threatened with death. Other
collectors were equally unsuccessful.

The United States excise law was enacted in March, 1791. While the bill
was before Congress, the subject was taken up by the Pennsylvania
Legislature, then in session, and resolutions were passed in strong terms
against the law, and requesting the senators and representatives, by a
vote of thirty-six to eleven, to oppose its passage; the minority voting
on the principle that it was improper to interfere with the action of the
Federal Government, and not from approval of the measure. The law imposed
a tax of from nine to twenty-five cents per gallon, according to
strength, upon spirits distilled from grain. To secure the collection of
the duties, suitable regulations were made. Inspection districts were
established, one or more in each State, with an inspector for each.
Distillers were to furnish at the nearest inspection office full
descriptions of their buildings, which were always subject to examination
by a person appointed for that purpose, who was to gauge and brand the
casks; duties to be paid before removal. But to save trouble to small
distillers, not in any town or village, they were allowed to pay an
annual tax of sixty cents per gallon on the capacity of the still.

Such a measure could not fail to be intensely unpopular, especially among
the small farmers to whom the whiskey derived from their grain was the
principal source of income and support. To the large distillers the tax
was not altogether odious, as they comprehended that the new law would
add greatly to their trade by cutting off their lesser rivals, and
securing the manufacture of spirits to the well-to-do and
well-established few. On the same ground distillers to-day are very
generally opposed to the removal of the internal revenue tax on spirits.
But popular clamor carried all before it, and it would have been unsafe
for any one to openly avow himself in favor of the excise. At a meeting
held in Pittsburg, on the seventh of September, 1791, resolutions were
adopted denouncing the tax as "operating on a domestic manufacture--a
manufacture not equal through the States. It is insulting to the feelings
of the people to have their vessels marked, houses painted and ransacked,
to be subject to informers gaining by the occasional delinquency of
others. It is a bad precedent, tending to introduce the excise laws of
Great Britain and of countries where the liberty, property and even the
morals of the people are sported with to gratify particular men in their
ambitious and interested measures." The duties were likewise denounced as
injurious to agricultural interests.

So far as refusal to obey the excise law, and defiance of the Federal
officers empowered to enforce it, constituted rebellion, the western
counties of Pennsylvania were in a condition of rebellion for over three
years. President Washington was patient; the Congress was conciliatory;
the State authorities were more than tolerant. General John Neville, a
man of great wealth and well-deserved popularity, accepted the office of
Inspector of the Revenue. Had he been discovered guilty of a monstrous
crime, his popularity could not have more rapidly waned. Albert Gallatin,
Brackenridge and other men, respected not only in Pennsylvania, but
wherever known in the country at large, took counsel, and appeared to
take sides with the multitude in their opposition to the national law.
Veneration of the Ancient Egyptians for the scarabæus. Entomology of the
insect.
Symbolism of according to Plutarch, Pliny and Horapollo. Its astronomical
value. Worship of insects by other peoples. Symbolism, with the Egyptians,
of the scarabæus. Uses of it with them 1-17
II.

Manufacture of the Scarabæi. Materials. Inscriptions on. Different
periods of manufacture and the peculiarities of. How to judge of the epoch.
18-29
III.

Method, period and antiquity, of engraving the scarab and other forms.
Use of rings. Mention of, and of engraving and sealing, in the Old
Testament. Use of cylinder signets by the Egyptians.

Relations with Mesopotamia. Carving of diorite and other hard stone.
The Egyptians did not borrow their engraving and the scarab, from
Mesopotamia. Disuse of scarabs 30-45
IV.

The oldest scarabs. Classification and value of the scarab to the
scholar of to-day. Large inscribed historical scarabs 46-56
V.

Where usually found and the mode of wearing scarabs by the Egyptians,
Book of the Dead. Egyptian scarabs found in Mesopotamia. The scarab in
Christianity 57-64 
VI.

The position of the scarab in Ancient Egyptian religion and the Book of
the Dead. Egyptian philosophy. Advanced intellectuality of Egypt six
thousand years ago.
Deities of libraries and learning. Ancient librarians and books. The
division of learned men into different branches of study. The
statements of Greek writers on Egyptian thought not to be depended upon.
Quotations from the Book of the Dead on the symbolism of the scarabæus
deity. The symbolism of the Great Sphinx.
Further quotations from the Book of the Dead, on the symbolism of the
scarab deity 65-90
VII.

Importance of the heart in the Ancient Egyptian religion. Immortality
of the soul according to that religion. Symbolism of the scarab in their
doctrine of such immortality. No thing in this universe absolutely
destroyed, only changed. The idea of metempsychosis in Ancient Egypt.
Elevated ideas as to the deity. Hymn to Ammon-Ra cited. Quotations as
to Egyptian philosophy, evolution of the universe and kosmogony. Of
Khepra and of Tum or Atmu. Egyptian psychology and its divisions 91-122

VIII.

Forgery of scarabs in modern times. Difficulty of detecting such. Other
Egyptian antiquities also counterfeited by the present inhabitants
of Egypt 123-127
IX.

Phoenician scarabs.

Manufactured mostly as article of trade. Used inscribed scarabs as
seals in commercial and other transactions. Many scarabs found in
Sardinia 128-133
X.

Etruscan scarabs. Origin of and where found.

Copied from Egyptian but with changes in subjects, size and
ornamentation.

The engraving of.

Where usually found.
Uses by the Etruscans. Greek and Roman scarabs.
Gnostic, of the Basilidians 134-143

APPENDIX A 145-154

INDEX 155-177

ON SCARABS.

FORMS OF THE WORD SCARABÆUS. VENERATION OF THE ANCIENT EGYPTIANS FOR THE
SCARABÆUS. ENTOMOLOGY OF THE INSECT. SYMBOLISM OF ACCORDING TO PLUTARCH,
PLINY AND HORAPOLLO. ITS ASTRONOMICAL VALUE. WORSHIP OF INSECTS BY OTHER
PEOPLES. SYMBOLISM, WITH THE EGYPTIANS, OF THE SCARABÆUS. USES OF IT
WITH THEM.

Among the many animals, insects and creatures, held in veneration as
symbols by the Ancient Egyptians; the one universally in use as a symbol
from a most remote period, were insects of the family of the scarabæidæ.

The Greek name of the models of these was _Skarabaios_, _Skarabos_,
_Karabos_, _Karabis_; the Sanskrit, _Carabha_, which like the Latin
_Locusta_, designated both the lobster and the grasshopper. The Latin
name derived from the Greek, was, _Scarabæus_, the French,
_Scarabée_.

To the people of our day, the high position enjoyed in the religion of
Ancient Egypt by this insect, appears very strange, for to us, there
is nothing attractive about it. With that people however it held, for
some fifty centuries; the position in their religion which the Latin
cross now holds with us as Christians, and if we consider for an instant,
our own veneration for the latter; it would doubtless have been considered,
by those unfamiliar with our religion, as also based on a veneration
for a very strange emblem; for the cross was the instrument used by the
Romans for punishing with death, murderers and criminals of the lowest
type; and what would be thought to-day, of a man worshipping the gallows
or the guillotine, or carrying copies modeled from the same, suspended
from his neck. However we of to-day all understand the emblem of
the cross, and the Ancient Egyptians in their time, all understood the
emblem of the scarab.

"Men are rarely conscious of the prejudices, which really incapacitate them,
from forming impartial and true judgments on systems alien to their own
habits of thought. And philosophers who may pride themselves on
their freedom from prejudice, may yet fail to understand; whole classes
of psychological phenomena which are the result of religious practice,
and are familiar to those alone to whom such practice is habitual."[6]
Said Thespesion to Apollonius Tyanæus, according to the biography of the
latter, by Philostratus; "The Egyptians do not venture to give form to
their deities, they only give them in symbols which have an occult
meaning."
The family of the _Scarabæidæ_ or _Coprophagi_ is quite large, the
type of the family is the genus _Ateuchus_, the members of this
genus are more frequently found in the old world than the new, and
of its forty species, thirty belong to Africa.

      The sacred scarab of the Egyptians was termed by Linnæus, the _Scarabæus
      sacer_, but later writers have named it, _Ateuchus sacer_.
      This insect is found throughout Egypt, the southern part of Europe,
      in China, the East Indies, in Barbary and at the Cape of Good
      Hope, Western Asia and Northern Africa. It is black and about one
      inch in length.
      
      There was also another species of the scarabæus valued by the
      Ancient Egyptians, that termed by Cuvier, the _Ateuchus sacer
      Ægyptiorum_, which is larger and wider than the others
      of its family; it is of green golden tints, and is now found
principally in Egypt and Nubia.

Pliny, in his Natural History says: "The green scarabæus has the property
of rendering the sight more piercing, (i.e., curing fatigue of the
eye from its green color,) of those who gaze upon it; hence it is, that
the engravers of precious stones use these insects to steady their sight."[7]
M. Latreille thinks; the species he named _Ateuchus Ægyptiorum_, or
+hêliokantharos+, and which is of a green color, was that which
especially engaged the attention of the Ancient Egyptians.

The Egyptian also held in estimation, the species _Buprestis_ and the
_Cantharis_ and _Copris_, and used them as he did the members of
the true family of the scarabæidæ, and S.

                        Passalacqua found a species of _Buprestis_, embalmed in a tomb at
Thebes.

At least four species of beetles appear to have been held in veneration
and were distinguished, by the absence or presence, of striated elytra.
The _Ateuchus sacer_ is the one commonly represented on the monuments. The
number of the toes, thirty, symbolized the days of the month, and the
movement of the ball, which it manufactured and in which was deposited
its egg, symbolized among other things, the action of Ra, the Egyptian
sun-deity, at midday.

The Egyptian soldier wore the scarab as a charm or amulet, to increase
bravery;[8] the women, to increase fertility. The Greeks called it,
Helio-cantharus, and, not understanding its significance, were disposed
to ridicule it, as is apparent from the travesty upon it by Aristophanes
in his comedy of Peace. Pliny also again speaks of it in his Natural
History, saying:

"The scarabæus also, that forms pellets and rolls them along. It is on
account of this kind of scarabæus that the people of a great part
of Egypt worship those insects as divinities, an usage for which
Apion gives a curious reason, asserting, as he does, by way of
justifying the rites of his nation, that the insect in its operations
portrays the revolution of the sun.

There is also another kind of scarabæus, which the magicians recommend
to be worn as an amulet--the one that has small horns[9] thrown backwards--it
must be taken up, when used for this purpose, with the left hand. A third
kind also, known by the name of '_fullo_' and covered with white
spots, they recommend to be cut asunder and attached to either arm, the
other kinds being worn upon the left arm."[10]
In the work on Egyptian hieroglyphics attributed to a writer called
Horapollo, sometimes incorrectly called, Horus Apollo, the first part of
which shows, that it was written by a person who was well acquainted
with the Egyptian monuments and had studied them carefully, we find:
"To denote an _only begotten_, or, _generation_, or, a _father_, or,
the _world_, or, a _man_, they delineate a scarabæus.
And they symbolize by this, an _only begotten_; because the scarabæus
is a creature self-produced, being unconceived by a female; for the
propagation of it is unique and after this manner:--when the male
is desirous of procreating, he takes the dung of an ox, and shapes
it into a spherical form like the world; he then rolls it from him by
the hinder parts from East to West, looking himself towards the East,
that he may impart to it the figure of the world (for that is borne from
East to West, while the course of the stars is from West to East;) then
having dug a hole, the scarabæus deposits this ball in the earth
for the space of twenty-eight days, (for in so many days the moon passes
through the twelve signs of the zodiac.) By thus remaining under the
moon, the race of scarabæi is endued with life; and upon the nine
and twentieth day after, having opened the ball, it casts it into
the water, for it is aware, that upon that day the conjunction of the
moon and sun takes place, as well as the generation of the world.
From the ball thus opened in the water, the animals, that is the
scarabæi, issue forth. The scarabæus also symbolizes _generation_, for the
reason before mentioned;--and a _father_, because the scarabæus is
engendered by a father only;--and the _world_ because in its generation
it is fashioned in the form of the world;--and a _man_, because
there is not any female race among them.

                        Moreover there are three species of scarabæi, the first like a
cat,[11] and irradiated, which species they have consecrated to the
sun from this similarity; for they say that the male cat changes
the shape of the pupils of his eyes according to the course of the
sun; for in the morning at the rising of the god, they are dilated,
and in the middle of the day become round, and about sunset, appear
less brilliant; whence also, the statue of the god in the city of
the sun[12] is of the form of a cat.

Every scarabæus also has thirty toes, corresponding to the thirty days
duration of the month, during which the rising sun performs his course.
The second species is the two-horned and bull-formed; which are
consecrated to the moon; whence the children of the Egyptians say,
that the bull in the heavens is the exaltation of this goddess. The
third species is, the one-horned and Ibis-formed, which they regard as
sacred to Hermes (i.e., Thoth.) in like manner as the bird."[13][14]
Horapollo also says: "To denote Hephæstos (Ptah,) they delineate a
scarabæus and a vulture, and to denote Athena (Neith,) a vulture and a
scarabæus."[15]
The scarabæus also had an astronomical value and is placed on some
zodiacs in place of the crab. It may be found on the outside, or square
planisphere, of the zodiac of the Temple of Denderah. Some archæologists
think it preceded the crab, as the emblem of the division of the zodiac
called by us, Cancer. Its emblem, as shown on the Hindu zodiac, looks
more like a beetle or other insect than it does like a crab.[16]
The religious feeling for it, most probably existed among the early
Ethiopians, before the migration of the ancient race who were the
originators of the Egyptians, into the land on the banks of the
Nile.
The cult is shown in more modern times by the veneration of the
Hottentot for the same insect, and from the worship of the Holy
Cricket by the natives of Madagascar.

The Egyptians held the scarabæus especially sacred to Amen-Ra, i.e., the
mystery of the sun-god. It was their symbol of the creative and fertilizing
power, of the re-birth, resurrection and immortality of the soul, and
was, through this, connected with their astronomical and funeral rites and
knowledge. It was, as the living insect, the first living creature seen
coming to life from the fertilizing mud of the Nile, under the influence
of the hot rays of the sun, after the subsidence of the inundating
waters of that river. The royal cartouches of their kings is in an oval
taken from the form of its under side. And this oval form has existed
from the most remote times that we have any knowledge of the cartouch.

It is often found portrayed, as if a passenger in a boat, with extended
wings; holding in its claws the globe of the sun, or elevated in the
firmament, as the type of the creating power of the sun-god Ra, in the
meridian. Other deities are sometimes shown praying to it.[17]
Ptah the Creative Power, and also Khepera, a kosmogonic deity of the
highest type, had the scarab assigned to them as an emblem. It was one of
the forms symbolic of the Demiurge or Maker of our universe.

      It was also the emblem of Ptah Tore, of Memphis, another symbolic
      form of the creative power. It was assigned as an emblem of
      Ptah-Sokari-Osiris, the pigmy deity of Memphis, being placed on
      his head, and this deity was sometimes represented under the form
      of a scarab.

                        It was also an emblem of Ra, the sun deity; also, an emblem of the
world or universe; and was, as I have said, connected with astronomy
and with funeral rites, and the second birth or re-birth, of the
soul.

Another use of the scarabæus by the Egyptians was as an amulet and
talisman, both for the living and the dead; and for that reason, images,
symbols or words; supposed to be agreeable to the deity, or to the
evil spirit sought to be conciliated; were incised, or engraved in
intaglio, upon the under side. It was also used as a signet to impress
on wax, clay or other material, so as to fasten up doors, boxes,
etc., containing valuable things, so they could not be opened without
breaking the impression. The engraving on the under surface of the
scarab was also impressed on wax, etc., to verify the execution of,
or to keep secret, written documents; and in some instances, the
papyrus or linen, was written upon, then rolled up, and a string
used to fasten it; an impression of the signet, made on wax or other
material, was then placed on it and the string, so that it could
not be opened without breaking the impression.
In very ancient paintings especially those in the tombs of the kings
of Thebes, the scarabæus plays a most remarkable part, as an emblem
of the creating first source of life, which passes from it to the
embryo, through the intermediary of a celestial generator, who is
intended to represent the Makrokosm or great Ideal Man, as the
demiurgos. We find the idea of the Makrokosm or great Ideal Man,
permeating those writings termed, the Books of Hermes Trismegistos,
which have reached our day, and which, with some more recent matter,
contain much very old, Egyptian philosophy.[18] Statements as to
the Ideal Prototype and the Primordial Man, are apparently, set
forth in many of the Ancient Egyptian writings.

FOOTNOTES:
[6] P. Le Page Renouf in: The Origin and Growth of Religion, as
illustrated by the Religion of Ancient Egypt. New York, Charles
Scribner's Sons, p. 6.
[7] Pliny's Natural History. Bk. XXIX., ch. 38 end. Bohn ed. by
John Bostock and H.T. Riley. London, 1856, Vol. V., p. 416.
[8] Plutarch says: "The Egyptian warriors had a beetle carved upon
their signets, because there is no such thing as a female beetle;
for they are all males," etc.--Of Isis and Osiris §§ 10, 74, in
Plutarch's Morals.He was accused of monarchical
designs, and had to confront treachery in his Cabinet and scurrilous
slanders in the public press. Yet throughout all he bore himself with
patience, and never swerved from the course which he deemed best for the
public weal. It should not be supposed that he was indifferent to the
arrows of malice and of falsehood. On the contrary, he was extremely
sensitive to them; but he never permitted himself, in public at least, to
be carried away by his feelings, and no matter how strong his sentiments
on any subject, his sense of justice was always supreme. In his agony
upon the news of St. Clair's defeat, he denounced that general as worse
than a murderer for having suffered his army to be taken by surprise; but
when the burst of passion was over he added: "General St. Clair shall
have justice. I will receive him without displeasure; I will hear him
without prejudice." And Washington kept his word.

Far abler pens than mine have dealt with the character of the Father of
our Republic, but a few plain and original expressions on a subject never
wearisome to Americans may not be out of place. Washington's chief
characteristics were fortitude, the sense of justice of which I have
spoken, and the ability to grasp conditions and seize upon opportunities.
He was a thoroughly practical man, a strategist by instinct, fearless but
not rash, possessing an impetuous temper kept within careful control, and
unleashed only when, as at the battle of Monmouth, there was prudence in
its vehemence. He was an excellent judge of men. The officers who owed
their advancement to Washington seldom disappointed and often exceeded
expectations. He was above the petty jealousy, so conspicuous in our late
civil war, that would permit another general to be defeated in order to
shine by contrast. He was devoted to the cause more than to winning
personal reputation, and the effect of his unselfishness was that the
cause triumphed with his name fixed in history as that of its leader and
champion.

It is difficult to compare the military achievements of Washington with
those of Old World commanders. Marlborough, Wellington and Napoleon had
troops thoroughly organized, under complete military control, and held to
service by iron rules which made the general always sure that his
military machine would be ready for use, barring the chances of war.
Washington's forces were largely composed of militia, enlisted for short
periods, many of them induced to serve by bounties, and anxious to go
home and attend to their farms.[3] The soldiers, too, were shamefully
neglected by Congress and by their States, and it seems wonderful that
Washington should have kept them together as he did, or maintained an
army at all. In this respect Washington showed genius as a military
manager without parallel in history. It should not be forgotten, also,
that to Washington is largely due credit for victories at which he was
not present. His was the master mind which scanned the entire field,
directed all operations and made the triumphs of others possible. His
closing campaign, which ended in the surrender of Cornwallis, exhibited
military talent of the highest order. In conception and execution it was
equal to any of Napoleon's campaigns. It embraced an extent of territory,
from New York to North Carolina inclusive, as extensive as the present
German empire, and every movement was that of a master hand on the
chess-board of war. Success without the French would have been
impossible, without Greene's admirable generalship it might have been
impossible, but Washington conceived and carried through to
accomplishment the whole great scheme which resulted in a final and
crashing blow to British hopes of subjugating America.[4]

      [3] Mr. William L. Stone, the historical writer, recently published
      the diary of a relative who served a few months in the Revolution,
      and who received ten sheep for enlisting. The soldier in question
      appears to have been in the habit of going home whenever he felt
      like it to cultivate his crops.

      Governor Clinton said of the militia: "They come in the morning and
      return in the evening, and I never know when I have them, or what my
      strength is."--_Letter to the New York Council of Safety._

      [4] M. Barbé Marbois, who was Secretary of the French Legation in
      the United States during the Revolution, says of Washington: "The
      sound judgment of Washington, his steadiness and ability, had long
      since elevated him above all his rivals and far beyond the reach of
      envy. His enemies still labored, however, to fasten upon him, as a
      general, the reproach of mediocrity. It is true that the military
      career of this great man is not marked by any of those achievements
      which seem prodigious, and of which the splendor dazzles and
      astonishes the universe, but sublime virtues unsullied with the
      least stain are a species of prodigy. His conduct throughout the
      whole course of the war invariably attracted and deserved the
      veneration and confidence of his fellow-citizens. The good of his
      country was the sole end of his exertions, never personal glory. In
      war and in peace, Washington is in my eyes the most perfect model
      that can be offered to those who would devote themselves to the
      service of their country and assert the cause of liberty."

As a statesman Washington merited distinction fully equal to that gained
in his military career. To him the United States were always a nation,
and only as a nation could they exist. His influence was as potent in
forming the Union as his military genius had been in achieving
independence, and the veneration with which he was regarded abroad
secured for the new nation a degree of respect in foreign cabinets, which
was almost vital to its existence, and which no other American could have
commanded. At home, too, he rose superior to the discord of ambitious men
and of rival factions, and those who, like Edmund Randolph, attempted to
belittle him, only called attention thereby to their own comparative
unworthiness and insignificance, and were glad in later years to seek
oblivion for their abortive folly.

In his domestic life Washington was one of the best of husbands, as he
was blessed with one of the best of wives. He held slaves, and I have
never been of those who claim that he regarded slavery with serious
disapproval. He was too conscientious a man to have retained a single
slave in his possession or under his control if his conscience did not
approve the relation. That Washington favored the gradual abolition of
slavery his letters leave no doubt, and especially those to John P.
Mercer and Lawrence Lewis, quoted by Washington Irving, but in the
letterbook of the great Rhode Island merchant, Moses Brown, which I was
allowed, some years ago, to examine, I read a letter from General
Washington which, as I remember, indicated Washington's anti-slavery
opinions to be more abstract than active, and conveyed distinctly the
impression that he saw nothing wrong whatever in the holding of human
chattels. Washington's views on slavery were those of a Southern planter
of the most enlightened class, and the provisions which he made in his
will for the emancipation of his slaves on the decease of his wife, and
for the care of those who might be unable to support themselves, showed
that no color-line narrowed his sense of justice and of humanity.

The fame of Washington has not lost in brilliancy since he passed from
the world in which he acted such a providential part. Like the Phidian
Zeus his proportions are all the more majestic for the distance which
rounds over any venial defect. His example is as valuable to the American
Republic of the present as his life-work was to the America of a century
ago. As water never rises above its source, so a great nation should have
a great founder, and the figure of Washington is sublime enough to be the
oriflamme of a people's empire bounded only by the oceans which wash the
land that he loved.


CHAPTER XXIII.

John Adams President--Jefferson and the French Revolution--The French
Directory--Money Demanded from America--"Millions for Defence; Not One
Penny for Tribute"--Naval Warfare with France--Capture of the Insurgent
--Defeat of the Vengeance--Peace with France--Death of Washington--Alien
and Sedition Laws--Jefferson President--The Louisiana Purchase--Burr's
Alleged Treason--War with the Barbary States--England Behind the Pirates
--Heroic Naval Exploits--Carrying War Into Africa--Peace with Honor.


The Jay treaty secured peace with England, but it was accepted as almost
a declaration of war by France. The attitude of the French government did
not become intolerable until after the retirement of Washington from the
presidency. John Adams, who succeeded Washington, belonged to the
Federalist party, which supported a strong central government with
aristocratic tendencies, and was opposed to the Republican party, which
sympathized with the French Revolution, and whose members were,
therefore, known also as "Democrats." Alexander Hamilton was the chief
spirit of the Federalists and Thomas Jefferson of the Republicans. The
intense Jacobinism of Jefferson's views may be judged from some of his
utterances, in which he even defended the terrible September massacres of
the French Revolution. Speaking of the innocent who perished he said: "I
deplore them as I should have done had they fallen in battle. It was
necessary to use the arm of the people, a machine not quite so blind as
balls and bombs, but blind to a certain degree. A few of their cordial
friends met at their hands the fate of enemies. * * * My own affections
have been deeply wounded by some of the martyrs to this cause, but rather
than it should have failed, I would have seen half the earth desolated;
were there but an Adam and an Eve left in every country, and left free,
it would be better than it is now."

The spread of these ideas shocked and alarmed conservative men, including
Washington himself, Hamilton and Adams, and led to measures of
restriction that were injudicious in their severity. The nation, however,
united as one man, irrespective of party, to resent the intolerable
insolence of the French, who assumed that they could crush America with
the same ease that they subdued the petty states of Italy and Germany.
The French Directory, which had succeeded to the Terrorists in the
exercise of power virtually supreme, was composed of men whose depravity
we have seen shockingly illustrated in the recently published memoirs of
Barras. Its foreign policy was managed by the vulpine Talleyrand, who is
accused by Barras of having extorted large sums of money from the lesser
States of Europe as the price of being let alone--although it is
extremely probable that Barras and others of the Directory shared in
these ill-gotten funds. Talleyrand tried to extort similar tribute from
America, demanding that a douceur of two hundred and fifty thousand
dollars be put at his disposal for the use of the Directory, and a large
loan made by America to France. "Millions for defence--not one penny for
tribute!" was the cry that went up from the American people when this
infamous proposition was made known.

Washington was summoned from his retirement to take command of the
American army, a Secretary of the Navy was added to the President's
Cabinet--Benjamin Stoddart, of Georgetown, D. C., being the first--and
the new American navy was authorized to retaliate upon France for
outrages committed upon American shipping. A vigorous naval warfare
followed, in which the new American frigates proved more than a match for
the French. The American Constellation, forty-eight guns, after a sharp
engagement, captured the French frigate Insurgent, forty guns. It is
really amusing to note the tone of injured innocence in which Captain
Barreaut, of the Insurgent, who had himself captured the American cruiser
Retaliation but a short time before, reports to his government his
"surprise on finding himself fought by an American frigate after all the
friendship and protection accorded to the United States!" "My
indignation," he adds, "was at its height." It soon cooled off, however,
under the pressure of broadsides from the Constellation, and Captain
Barreaut was glad to surrender. The second frigate action of the war was
between the Constellation and the Vengeance, the former fifty guns, the
latter fifty-two. The Frenchman, badly beaten, succeeded in making his
escape. The battle between the American frigate Boston and the French
corvette Berceau was one of the most gallant of the struggle, the Berceau
fighting until resistance was hopeless. American merchantmen also showed
the French that they could defend themselves, and one of Moses Brown's
ships, the Anne and Hope, sailed into Providence from a voyage to the
West Indies, bearing in her rigging the marks of conflict with a French
privateer, whom the merchantman had bravely repulsed. During the two
years and a half of naval war with France eighty-four armed French
vessels, nearly all of them privateers, were captured, and no vessel of
our navy was taken by the enemy, except the Retaliation. This was not the
kind of tribute the French government had expected, and a treaty of
peace, which entirely sustained the position of the United States, was
ratified in February, 1801.

                        *          *          *

The illustrious Washington, who fortunately had not been required to take
the field against America's ancient allies, died December 14, 1799, at
Mount Vernon, deeply mourned by all his countrymen, and honored even by
the former enemies of American independence. I will only repeat, with
Washington Irving, that "with us his memory remains a national property,
where all sympathies throughout our widely extended and diversified
empire meet in unison. Under all dissensions and amid all the storms of
party, his precepts and example speak to us from the grave with a
paternal appeal; and his name--by all revered--forms a universal tie of
brotherhood--a watchword of our Union."

                        *          *          *

While the nation heartily sustained the government in the conflict with
France the enactment of the Alien and Sedition Laws, which abridged
American liberty and the freedom of speech and of the press, was
generally resented by the people. The public indignation which these laws
aroused resulted in the banishment of the Federalist party from power,
and the election of the great Republican--or Democrat--Thomas Jefferson,
as President in 1800, with Aaron Burr as Vice-President. Jefferson was
the first President inaugurated in the city of Washington. The leading
features of his administration were the Louisiana Purchase, the Burr
conspiracy and the war with the Barbary States--the first alone
sufficient to make Jefferson's presidency the most memorable between that
of Washington and Abraham Lincoln.

Jefferson's foresight in the Louisiana Purchase appears all the grander
when we consider the ignorance which prevailed regarding the magnificent
Pacific region up to the birth of a generation which is still in middle
life. The Louisiana Purchase was the second great gift of France to
America, and as the first came to us because the French hated and desired
to weaken England, so the second came because Napoleon feared that
Louisiana would fall into the hands of England. It should be remembered
that the Louisiana Purchase included not only the now flourishing State
at the mouth of the Mississippi, but also Arkansas, Missouri, Iowa,
Nebraska, Colorado, Wyoming, Montana, Idaho, Oregon and probably the two
Dakotas. It meant the control of the Mississippi and the rescue of that
great artery of American commerce forever from foreign dominion. France
had acquired this vast property from Spain in 1800. The Amiens Treaty of
1802, to which France and England were the principal parties, was short
lived, and for some time before the new rupture Napoleon saw that it
would be his best policy to concentrate his strength in Europe, and not
endeavor to defend distant possessions in America. At the same time it
was evident to President Jefferson that the continued occupation of the
city of New Orleans by a foreign power was a menace to American interests
in the rapidly growing West. The President therefore instructed Robert R.
Livingston, the American Minister to Paris, to propose to Napoleon the
cession to the United States of New Orleans and adjoining territory,
sufficient to secure the free navigation of the Mississippi. James
Monroe, American Minister to England, was associated with Livingston in
the negotiations. The American representatives were surprised and elated
upon learning from M. Barbé-Marbois, Napoleon's Minister of Finance, that
the First Consul was ready to dispose of all Louisiana to the United
States. Barbé-Marbois conducted the negotiations on behalf of France;
both parties were anxious to arrive at a settlement before the English
should have an opportunity to attack New Orleans, and on April 30, 1803,
the treaty was signed by which the United States, for the sum of
$15,000,000, came into possession of an immense territory extending from
the North Pacific to the Gulf of Mexico. The loan necessary was
negotiated through the celebrated house of Hope, of Amsterdam, the money
was paid to France, and the United States entered upon its vast estate.

The very next year President Jefferson sent out the expedition of Lewis
and Clark to the headwaters of the Columbia River, and caused a complete
survey to be made to its mouth. This river had been discovered in 1792,
by Captain Robert Gray, a native of Tiverton, Rhode Island, and a famous
navigator, who sailed in a ship fitted out by Boston merchants. Had
Jefferson's energetic action been followed up with equal vigor by his
successors we would never have had the Oregon boundary dispute, and
Marcus Whitman would never have felt summoned to take that famous ride so
worthily chronicled by Oliver W. Nixon.

                        *          *          *

With Aaron Burr's alleged treason I will deal very briefly. It will
always be a disputed point whether that restless and unprincipled and yet
gifted person plotted to alienate territory of the United States, or only
to play the part of a Northman in territory belonging to Spain. Admitting
Burr to be innocent of designs against the United States, he was
nevertheless guilty of quasi-treason if he schemed to erect a separate
government within Spanish possessions to which the American Republic was
already heir apparent. The murder of Alexander Hamilton by Burr under the
forms of a duel, which preceded his mysterious expedition in the
southwest, and his subsequent attempt to claim British allegiance on the
ground that he had been a British subject before the Revolution, were
other extraordinary incidents in the career of a man in whom
distinguished talents were utterly without the anchor of morality.

                        *          *          *

No war in which the United States has been engaged witnessed more heroic
deeds than that with the Barbary States. It was a struggle in which the
youngest of civilized nations met the semi-barbarous masters of Northern
Africa, the heirs of Mahomet and conquerors of the Constantines. Attended
by the loss of some precious lives, which were deeply mourned and are
gratefully remembered, the chastisement of the corsairs proved excellent
schooling for the more serious war with Great Britain. The struggle with
the pirates was largely due to the hostile influence exerted by England
with a view to the destruction of American commerce. In 1793 the British
government actually procured a truce between Algiers and Portugal, in
order that the Algerians might have free rein in preying upon American
and other merchantmen, and it may be said that piracy in the
Mediterranean was under British protection. The American people for a
time paid the tribute which the pirates demanded, but at length revolted
against the indignity. The war began with disaster. The American frigate
Philadelphia, Captain William Bainbridge, ran on a reef in the harbor of
Tripoli, and all on board were made prisoners. The Bashaw held his
captives for ransom, and treated them sometimes with indulgence and at
other times with severity, as he thought best for his interests. It
should not be forgotten by the American people that Mr. Nissen, the
Danish consul, devoted himself assiduously to the welfare of the
prisoners, and was instrumental in many ways in assisting the American
cause, while Captain Bainbridge also managed to give most valuable
information to Captain Edward Preble, in command of the American
squadron.

One suggestion made by Captain Bainbridge was that the Philadelphia,
which the Tripolitans had succeeded in raising, should be destroyed at
her anchorage in the harbor. The youthful Lieutenant Decatur headed this
perilous enterprise. With the officers and men under his command,
including Lieutenant James Lawrence and others afterward distinguished in
American naval history, Decatur entered the harbor at night in a small
vessel or "ketch" called the Mastico, disguised as a trader from Malta.
The watchword was "Philadelphia," and strict orders were given not to
discharge any firearms, except in great emergency. A challenge from the
Tripolitans on the Philadelphia was met by a statement from the Maltese
pilot that the Mastico had just arrived from Malta, had been damaged in a
gale, and lost her anchors, and desired to make fast to the frigate's
cables until another anchor could be procured. The Turks lowered a boat
with a hawser, intending to secure the ketch to their stern, instead of
to the cables, and the Americans accepted the hawser, intimating in
broken Italian that they would do as desired. At the same time the
Americans made fast to the Philadelphia's fore chains, and a strong pull
by the men, who were mostly lying down in order to remain unseen by the
Turks, swung the ketch alongside the frigate. One of the Turks looking
over the side saw the men hauling on the line, and sent up the
cry--"Americano!"

The Turks succeeded in severing the line, but too late. The Americans
sprang for the Philadelphia's deck and charged upon the astonished enemy.
In ten minutes from the appearance of the first American on deck the
vessel was in our hands. Combustibles were then passed from the ketch,
and the Philadelphia was set on fire. While the Americans safely made
their escape the burning frigate lighted up the harbor, and her shotted
guns boomed warning to the Bashaw of what he might yet expect from
American courage and daring. Of the Tripolitans on board the Philadelphia
many doubtless perished, and some swam ashore. Only one prisoner was
taken, a wounded Tripolitan, who swam to the ketch, and whose life was
spared, notwithstanding strict orders not to take prisoners.

The Bashaw treated his captives more rigorously than ever, after this
splendid exploit, fearing apparently that they might rise and capture his
own castle--a fear not without foundation, as a rising with that object
was for some time contemplated. The ketch in which Decatur made his
daring and successful expedition was christened the Intrepid, and fitted
up as a floating mine with the purpose of sending her into the harbor,
and exploding her in the midst of the Tripolitan shipping. It was an
enterprise likely to be attended by the destruction of all engaged in it,
but volunteers were not lacking. Master-Commandant Richard Somers,
Decatur's bosom friend, was in charge and Midshipman Henry Wadsworth,
uncle of the poet Longfellow, was second in command. Midshipman Joseph
Israel also managed to get on the ketch unobserved, and was permitted to
remain. The crew consisted of ten seamen from the Nautilus and the
Constitution, all volunteers. The fate of these gallant men was never
known, except that it is certain that they all perished upon the
explosion of the Intrepid. Bodies found mangled beyond recognition were
unquestionably the remains of these heroes, and were buried on the beach
outside the town of Tripoli.

The attack was conducted with unceasing vigor, not only on sea, but on
land, the Americans literally carrying the war into Africa by inciting
Hamet, the deposed Bashaw of Tripoli, to attack the brother who had
usurped his throne. William Eaton, the American consul at Tunis, led
Hamet's army, and with the cooperation of the fleet, made a successful
attack upon Derne, the capital of the richest province of Tripoli. The
loss of this important fortress brought the reigning Bashaw to terms, and
he signed a treaty giving up all claims to tribute, and releasing the
American prisoners on payment of sixty thousand dollars. A most
advantageous peace was likewise dictated to the Bey of Tunis, who had
also been induced by English influences to assume a menacing attitude
toward the Americans, and the schemes of Great Britain to prevent,
through the agency of Barbary pirates, the growth of American commerce,
were disappointed.


CHAPTER XXIV.

French Decrees and British Orders in Council--Damage to American
Commerce--The Embargo--Causes of the War of 1812--The Chesapeake and the
Leopard--President and Little Belt--War Declared--Mr. Astor's Messenger
--The Two Navies Compared--American Frigate Victories--Constitution and
Guerriere--United States and Macedonian--Constitution and Java--American
Sloop Victories--The Shannon and Chesapeake--"Don't Give Up the Ship."


The Barbary pirates had been brought to terms, but American commerce was
being severely handled between French decrees and British orders in
council. England had declared a blockade of all the coasts of Europe
under the control of France, and Napoleon from his camp at Berlin and his
palace at Milau retaliated by making British products contraband of war
and subjecting to confiscation all vessels destined for British ports.
Between these two mighty millstones the American carrying trade was
sorely ground, and conditions were made far worse by the very means which
the American government, in its comparative impotency, adopted to compel
redress. The embargo was intended to inflict such injury on both France
and England as to drive them into a recognition of America's rights as a
neutral. Its only serious effect was to inflict an almost fatal wound on
American commerce, and the repeal of the first embargo came too late to
undo the injury it had done. It was not as clearly apparent then as now
that all restrictions on exportation chiefly injure the nation which
imposes them. The embargo played into the hands of the British by
effecting through our own agency what England had vainly sought to
accomplish through others. England commanding every sea with her fleets
suffered but slight inconvenience by the withdrawal of American shipping
from her ports, while Americans suffered most severely.

The British blockade of continental Europe would not, however, have led
to the conflict which broke out in 1812. Other aggressions, offensive to
American independence, and in grievous violation of American national
rights, obliged Congress reluctantly to declare war, after years of
irritation and provocation on the part of England. The British stopped
American vessels on the high seas, and impressed American seamen into the
British naval service. American merchantmen were halted in mid-ocean and
deprived of the best men in their crews, who were forced to serve in the
British navy.[1]

      [1] In the famous sea-fight between the American frigate United
      States and the British frigate Macedonian several American seamen on
      the British vessel, through their spokesman, John Card, who was
      described by one of his shipmates as being "as brave a seamen as
      ever trod a plank," frankly told Captain Garden their objections to
      fighting the American flag. The British commander savagely ordered
      them back to their quarters, threatening to shoot them if they again
      made the request. Half an hour later Jack Card was stretched out on
      the Macedonian's deck weltering in his blood, slain by a shot from
      his countrymen.--_Maclay's History of the United States Navy, D.
      Appleton & Co._

Thousands of American seamen were thus impressed, while American vessels
were seized by British cruisers, taken to port and unloaded and searched
for contraband of war. The Leopard-Chesapeake affair was a crowning
outrage on the part of the British, and had it not been promptly
disavowed by the government at London, war would have been declared in
1807 instead of 1812. The Chesapeake, an American frigate of thirty-six
guns, commanded by Captain James Barren, was hailed by the English
fifty-gun frigate, Leopard, Captain Humphreys, in the open sea. The
latter sent a lieutenant on board the Chesapeake, who handed to Captain
Barren an order signed by the British Vice-Admiral Berkeley, directing
all commanders in Berkeley's squadron to board the Chesapeake wherever
found on the high seas, and search the vessel for deserters. Captain
Barren's ship was utterly unprepared for battle, but he gave orders to
clear tor action. So shameful was the lack of preparation on the
Chesapeake that not a gun could be discharged until Lieutenant William
Henry Allen seized a live coal from the galley fire with his fingers and
sent a shot in response to repeated broadsides from the Leopard. The
Chesapeake hauled down her flag after losing three killed and eighteen
wounded. The British then boarded the vessel and carried off four of the
crew, who were claimed as British deserters, although they all asserted
to the last that they were American citizens. One of these men, Jenkin
Ratford or John Wilson, was hanged at the yard-arm of the British
man-of-war Halifax. The other three were sentenced each to receive five
hundred lashes, but the sentences were not carried out, and two of them,
the third having died, were returned on board the Chesapeake. Some
indemnity was paid and the British government recalled Vice-Admiral
Berkeley.

The British continued to impress Americans into their service, and to
annoy American shipping, and the American temper was gradually becoming
inflamed under repeated provocations. Nevertheless there was a powerful
sentiment opposed to war in the State of New York and in New England, and
the people generally hesitated to believe that war would be declared. In
1811 the American frigate President avenged in some degree the Leopard
outrage by severely chastising the British twenty-two-gun ship Little
Belt, which lost eleven killed and twenty-one wounded in the encounter.
The Little Belt appears to have fired the first shot. War was at length
declared by Congress, and proclaimed by President James Madison, June 18,
1812.

The news of war with Great Britain was carried, to New York by a special
courier, and American merchants at once sent out a swift sailing vessel
to warn American merchantmen in the ports of Northern Europe of the new
danger that threatened them. By this warning many American vessels were
saved from capture. Very different in result, although presumably not in
intent, was the warning sent by John Jacob Astor, of New York, to his
agent across the border. Mr. Astor, upon receiving the news from
Washington, at once dispatched a messenger by swiftest express, to
Queenstown, Canada, with the view of protecting as speedily as possible
Mr. Astor's fur-trading interests. The messenger sped through the
settlements of western New York, by farms and villages calmly reposing in
the confidence of peace, and without saying a word of his momentous
secret, he crossed the Niagara River with his master's message. The
recipient of that message was a British subject, and felt bound by his
allegiance to communicate it to the authorities. The following morning
the people of Buffalo were surprised to see the Canadians descend upon
their harbor and seize the shipping within reach.

                        *          *          *

Hostilities were opened promptly on land and sea. The American navy
consisted only of seventeen vessels, 442 guns and 5025 men, while that of
Great Britain included 1048 vessels, 27,800 guns and 151,572 men. It is
no wonder that the American people hesitated to send forth their
men-of-war against such tremendous odds, even although England's navy was
largely engaged in the tremendous conflict with France, or rather in
keeping Napoleon cribbed and cabined within his continental boundaries;
and it is no wonder that British naval officers assumed to regard with
contempt the fir-built frigates which bore the Stars and Stripes. The
defeat and capture of the British frigate Guerriere, forty-nine guns,
Captain Dacres, by the American frigate Constitution, fifty-five guns,
Captain Isaac Hull, made British contempt give place to surprise. In this
naval battle the Americans proved their superiority in rapidity and
accuracy of fire, and it is perhaps needless to say that they showed
themselves fully the equals of the British in bravery. It is pleasant to
read in the official report of Captain Dacres the following tribute to
his generous foe: "I feel it my duty to state that the conduct of Captain
Hull and his officers to our men has been that of a brave enemy, the
greatest care being taken to prevent our men losing the smallest trifle,
and the greatest attention being paid to the wounded." The Guerriere lost
her second lieutenant, Henry Ready, and fourteen seamen killed, and
Captain Dacres, First Lieutenant Kent, Sailing Master Scott, two master's
mates, one midshipman and fifty-seven sailors were wounded, six of the
wounded afterward dying. The Constitution lost her first lieutenant of
marines, William Sharp Bush, and six seamen killed, and her first
lieutenant, Charles Morris, her sailing master, four seamen and one
marine were wounded. Thus resulted the first naval combat between British
and American built men-of-war.[2]

      [2] The Constitution may still be seen in the Navy Yard at
      Portsmouth, N. H. The following famous poem, by Oliver Wendell
      Holmes, saved the grand old vessel from destruction in 1833:

          "Ay, tear the tattered ensign down!
          Long has it waved on high,
          And many an eye has danced to see
          That banner in the sky;
          Beneath it rung the battle-shout,
          And burst the cannon's roar--
          The meteor of the ocean air
          Shall sweep the clouds no more.

          Her deck, once red with heroes' blood,
          Where knelt the vanquished foe,
          When winds were hurrying o'er the flood
          And waves were white below,
          No more shall feel the victor's tread,
          Or know the conquered knee--
          The harpies of the shore shall pluck
          The eagle of the sea!

          Oh, better that her shattered hulk
          Should sink beneath the wave;
          Her thunders shook the mighty deep.
          And there should be her grave;
          Nail to the mast her holy flag,
          Set every threadbare sail,
          And give her to the god of storm
          The lightning and the gale!"

For rapid and accurate firing and destructive effect thereof upon the
enemy the records of naval warfare probably offer nothing to surpass the
conduct of the American frigate United States, fifty-four guns, Captain
Decatur, in battle with the British frigate Macedonian, forty-nine guns,
Captain Garden. "The firing from the American frigate at close quarters
was terrific. Her cannon were handled with such rapidity that there
seemed to be one continuous flash from her broadside, and several times
Captain Garden and his officers believed her to be on fire. * * * Her
firing was so rapid that 'in a few minutes she was enveloped in a cloud
of smoke which from the Macedonian's quarter-deck appeared like a huge
cloud rolling along the water, illuminated by lurid flashes of lightning,
and emitting a continuous roar of thunder.' But the unceasing storm of
round shot, grape and canister, and the occasional glimpse of the Stars
and Stripes floating above the clouds of smoke, forcibly dispelled the
illusion, and showed the Englishmen that they were dealing with an enemy
who knew how to strike and who struck hard. * * * 'Grapeshot and canister
were pouring through our port holes like leaden hail; the large shot came
against the ship's side, shaking her to the very keel, and passing
through her timbers and scattering terrific splinters, which did more
appalling work than the shot itself. A constant stream of wounded men
were being hurried to the cockpit from all quarters of the ship.' And
still the American frigate kept up her merciless cannonading. As the
breeze occasionally made a rent in the smoke her officers could be seen
walking around her quarter-deck calmly directing the work of destruction,
while her gun-crews were visible through the open ports deliberately
loading and aiming their pieces."[3] The action had lasted about an hour
and a half, when the Macedonian struck. The United States, lost five men
killed and seven wounded; the Macedonian lost thirty-six killed and
sixty-eight wounded.

      [3] From statements of witnesses on the Macedonian, in Maclay's
      "History of the United States Navy."

The next naval victory was won by Captain William Bainbridge, this time
in command of the Constitution, forty-four guns, over the British
thirty-eight-gun frigate Java, Captain Henry Lambert. The battle began at
2.40 p. m., and at 4.05 p. m., the British frigate was "an unmanageable
wreck." The Java at length surrendered, having lost sixty killed, besides
one hundred and one wounded, while the loss of the Constitution was nine
killed and twenty-five wounded. Both commanders were wounded, the British
captain mortally, and there was a touching scene when Captain Bainbridge,
supported by his officers to the bedside of the dying Lambert, gave back
to the latter his sword.

                        *          *          *

The British press foamed almost deliriously over these disasters to their
navy, which robbed of half its luxury the imminent downfall of Napoleon.
The London "Times" could hardly find words to express its emotion over
the fact that five hundred merchantmen and three frigates; had been
captured in seven months by the Americans. An attempt was made to explain
the repeated and astounding defeats on the ocean by the plea that the
American frigates were almost ships of the line in disguise, and that
their superior size and armament carried an unfair advantage. The same
plea could not be offered in explanation of the victories won by American
sloops, in the case of the American Hornet and British Peacock, of about
equal strength, while the American Wasp was considerably inferior in guns
and weight of metal to the British Frolic. Master-Commandant James
Lawrence, of the Hornet, captured the Peacock in eleven minutes from the
beginning of the action, the American guns being fired so rapidly that
buckets of water were constantly dashed on them to keep them cool. A
Halifax paper said that "a vessel moored for the purpose of experiment
could not have been sunk sooner. It will not do for our vessels to fight
theirs single-handed." The American eighteen-gun sloop-of-war Wasp,
Master-Commandant Jacob Jones, had a longer fight with the British
brig-of-war Frolic, twenty-two guns, Captain Thomas Whinyates. The action
lasted forty-three minutes from the first broadside, and the Frolic was
taken by boarding. The Wasp had five killed and five wounded, and the
Frolic fifteen killed and forty-seven wounded. The fact is, it was not
the number but the handling of the guns that won American victories.

The capture of the American forty-nine-gun frigate Chesapeake, Captain
James Lawrence, by the British fifty-two-gun frigate Shannon, Captain
Philip Bowes Vere Broke, consoled the English in some degree for their
losses, and the very exultation with which the news was received in Great
Britain showed the high estimate which the mistress of the seas had
formed of the American navy from previous experience during the war.
It is but just to the gallant Lawrence to say that he had no fair
opportunity to prepare for battle, that he had the poorest crew--largely
Portuguese and other riff-raff--ever put on board an American man-of-war,
and that with a crew such as Hull or Decatur or Bainbridge had commanded,
or that he had himself commanded on the Hornet, he might have recorded a
victory instead of losing his ship and his life. At the same time it must
also be admitted that Captain Broke was a superb naval officer, and that
his victory was chiefly due to the perfect discipline and devotion of his
men, with whom he was thoroughly acquainted, whereas Lawrence had been
but a few days in command of the Chesapeake. When mortally wounded and
carried below, Lawrence cried: "Keep the guns going!" "Fight her till she
strikes or sinks!" and his last words were--"Don't give up the ship!" The
British boarded the Chesapeake, after a brief cannonading. The Americans
on board made a desperate resistance, and it is a question whether there
was any formal surrender. The Chesapeake lost forty-seven killed and
ninety-nine wounded, and of the latter fourteen afterward died. The
Shannon lost twenty-four killed and fifty-nine wounded. There could
hardly have been greater joy in England over a Peninsular victory.
Parliament acclaimed, the guns of the Tower thundered, and Captain Broke
was made a baronet and a Knight Commander of the Bath. America keenly
felt the defeat, but honored the heroic dead, and a gold medal was voted
to the nearest male descendant of Captain Lawrence.


CHAPTER XXV.

The War on Land--Tecumseh's Indian Confederacy--Harrison at Tippecanoe
--General Hull and General Brock--A Fatal Armistice--Surrender of
Detroit--English Masters of Michigan--General Harrison Takes Command
in the Northwest--Harrison's Answer to Proctor--"He Will Never Have This
Post Surrendered"--Crogan's Brave Defence--The British Retreat--War on
the Niagara Frontier--Battle of Queenstown--Death of Brock--Colonel
Winfield Scott and the English Doctrine of Perpetual Allegiance.


The sea victories were a fortunate offset to American disasters on land.
With the aid of the great Indian chieftain Tecumseh, the British set out
to conquer the Northwest. As a hewer of wood and a drawer of water, in a
stagnant little clearing of the forest, our convict toiled
continually--continually--like Caliban: all days alike; hewing at the
mighty trunk and hacking up the straggling branches; no hope--no help--no
respite; and the iron of servile tyranny entered into his very soul.
Ay--ay; the culprit convicted, when he hears in open court, with an
impudent assurance, the punishment that awaits him on those penal shores,
little knows the terrors of that sentence.Thus the
American Union was to be met by an Indian union. Tecumseh had a brother,
known in history as "The Prophet," who visited the various tribes and
brought the influence of superstition to bear in favor of Tecumseh's
projects. Governor William Henry Harrison, whose Territory of Indiana
included the present States of Indiana, Illinois, Michigan and Wisconsin,
viewed Tecumseh's operations with alarm, although assured by that
chieftain that his intentions were peaceful. In order to remove any just
ground for discontent Governor Harrison offered to restore to the Indians
any lands that had not been fairly purchased. Tecumseh met Governor
Harrison at Vincennes, and recited the old story of Indian wrongs. After
complaining of white duplicity in obtaining sales of land, and
endeavoring to sow strife between the tribes, Tecumseh added: "How can we
have confidence in the white people? When Jesus Christ came upon the
earth, you killed him and nailed him on a cross. You thought he was dead,
but you were mistaken. Everything I have said to you is the truth. The
Great Spirit has inspired me." The first interview ended in great
excitement, but a second meeting, on the following day, was more decorous
in character. Nothing came of these discussions, as Tecumseh's demand for
the restoration of all Indian lands purchased from single tribes could
obviously not be granted. Hostilities followed, and the battle of
Tippecanoe was fought during the absence of Tecumseh, who on going South
to visit the Cherokees and other tribes had given strict orders to his
brother, the Prophet, not to attack the Americans. The Indians attempted
a surprise after midnight, November 7, 1811. They fought furiously, and
if Harrison had been a Braddock, the story of Duquesne might have been
repeated. But Harrison understood frontier warfare, and he directed his
men so skillfully, although many of them had never been under fire
before, that the Indians were at length repulsed. One of Harrison's
orders, which probably saved his army, was to extinguish the campfires,
so that white and Indian fought in the darkness on equal terms. The
American loss was thirty-seven killed and 151 wounded, and that of the
Indians somewhat smaller. In effect Tippecanoe was a decisive victory for
the Americans, and broke the spell in which Tecumseh and the Prophet had
held the tribes.

                        *          *          *

The War of 1812 revived the hopes of the great Indian chieftain, and with
the rank of brigadier-general in the British army he set about to assist
General Isaac Brock, the Governor of Upper Canada, in the task of
wresting the Northwest from the Americans. General William Hull, an uncle
of Captain Isaac Hull, the commander of the Constitution, was Governor of
the Territory of Michigan, which had been organized in 1805 and now
contained about 5000 inhabitants. To General Hull was given the command
of the forces intended for defensive and offensive operations on the
Upper Lakes. A small garrison of United States troops was stationed at
Michilimacinac and one at Chicago, which were the outposts of
civilization. The English near Detroit appear to have been aware of the
declaration of war before the news reached General Hull, and while the
latter was moving with an extreme caution excusable only on the ground of
age, Brock swiftly laid out and as swiftly entered upon an aggressive
campaign. The American outposts were captured by the British and Indians,
and the garrison of Fort Dearborn--Chicago--was cruelly massacred. On
this occasion Mr. John Kinzie, the first settler at Chicago, who as a
trader was much liked by the Indians, did noble service, with his
excellent wife, in saving the lives of the soldiers' families. Mrs.
Heald, the wife of Captain Heald, was ransomed for ten bottles of whiskey
and a mule, just as an Indian was about to scalp her.

At this critical juncture General Hull was weakened, and the British
forces opposed to him were encouraged by the news that General Henry
Dearborn, commander of the American troops in the Northern Department,
instead of invading Canada from the Niagara frontier, in obedience to his
instructions, had agreed to a provisional armistice with Sir George
Prevost, the governor-general of Canada. The ground for the armistice was
that England had revoked the orders in council obnoxious to Americans,
five days after the declaration of war by the United States, and that
intended peace negotiations would therefore have in all probability a
happy result. As a matter of fact England had not yielded, and had no
intention, as it proved, of yielding on the question of impressment,
which was the principal American grievance. But even if England had
surrendered every point it was an outrageous assumption on the part of
General Dearborn to depart from the line of military instructions and
military duty upon any representation foreign to that duty. By his error
in this regard General Dearborn injured the American cause more than a
severe defeat would have done, leaving as he did General Hull and his
handful of men, who were not included in the armistice, to bear the brunt
of British hostility. The government at Washington disapproved General
Dearborn's course, and the armistice was cancelled, but not in time to
prevent the loss of Detroit.

General Hull had only eight hundred men in Detroit when General Brock
attacked the place by land and water, with a much more numerous force of
British and Indians, assisted by ships of war. It is often asserted that
General Hull surrendered the place without serious defence. This is not
true. In addition to the official statements of both sides, and General
Hull's own vindication, the journal of an Ohio soldier named Claypool who
was in the American ranks at the time, shows that the Americans returned
the British fire vigorously during August 15, and for several hours on
the following day, when General Hull, in view of the overwhelming force
opposed to him, capitulated. General Hull was afterward tried by
court-martial and sentenced to death, but the sentence was not carried
out, the United States escaping a stain like that which attaches to
England for the fate of Admiral Byng. Hull had proven during the
Revolution that he was no coward. Whatever may have been his errors of
judgment before the surrender, at the time of the surrender Detroit was
indefensible.

                        *          *          *

The English were now masters of Michigan Territory, and the western
forests were alive with Indians on the warpath. Fort Wayne was besieged,
and Captain Zachary Taylor bravely defended Fort Harrison. General
Harrison, appointed to the command of the Northwestern army, promptly
relieved both posts, and the government ordered that ten thousand men
should be raised to recover Detroit and invade Canada. General James
Winchester, in command of the advance corps of Harrison's forces,
imprudently engaged in conflict with a much more numerous body of British
at Frenchtown, on the River Raisin. Nearly all his troops, numbering
about eight hundred, were killed or captured, and some of the captives
were massacred. General Winchester himself was taken prisoner. Soon
afterward the British General Proctor issued a proclamation requiring the
citizens of Michigan to take the oath of allegiance to the British crown,
or leave the Territory. The American residents in Detroit, under the
terms of the capitulation, remained undisturbed in their homes, but their
hearts were continually wrung by the spectacle of cruelties practiced by
Indian allies of the British upon American captives. Many families parted
with all but necessary wearing apparel to redeem the sufferers, and
private houses were turned into hospitals for their relief. Mr. Kinzie,
of Chicago, who was now a paroled prisoner in Detroit, was foremost in
this work of patriotism and humanity.

The defeat at the River Raisin was a hard blow to General Harrison,
especially as the troops to make up his army of ten thousand men were
slow in arriving. He did not lose courage, however, and when General
Proctor sent an imperious demand for the surrender of Fort Meigs,
Harrison answered: "He will never have this post surrendered to him upon
any terms. Produced by David Widger

HOW SPRING CAME IN NEW ENGLAND
By Charles Dudley Warner

New England is the battle-ground of the seasons. It is La Vendee.
To conquer it is only to begin the fight. When it is completely subdued,
what kind of weather have you? None whatever.

What is this New England? A country? No: a camp. It is alternately invaded
by the hyperborean legions and by the wilting sirens of the tropics.
Icicles hang always on its northern heights; its seacoasts are fringed
with mosquitoes. There is for a third of the year a contest between
the icy air of the pole and the warm wind of the gulf. The result of
this is a compromise: the compromise is called Thaw.

It is the normal condition in New England. The New-Englander is a
person who is always just about to be warm and comfortable.
This is the stuff of which heroes and martyrs are made. A person thoroughly
heated or frozen is good for nothing. Look at the Bongos.
Examine (on the map) the Dog-Rib nation. The New-Englander, by incessant
activity, hopes to get warm. Edwards made his theology.
Thank God, New England is not in Paris!

Hudson's Bay, Labrador, Grinnell's Land, a whole zone of ice and walruses,
make it unpleasant for New England. This icy cover, like the lid of a pot,
is always suspended over it: when it shuts down, that is winter. This
would be intolerable, were it not for the Gulf Stream. The Gulf Stream
is a benign, liquid force, flowing from under the ribs of the equator,--a
white knight of the South going up to battle the giant of the
North. The two meet in New England, and have it out there.

This is the theory; but, in fact, the Gulf Stream is mostly a delusion
as to New England. For Ireland it is quite another thing.
Potatoes ripen in Ireland before they are planted in New England.

That is the reason the Irish emigrate--they desire two crops the
same year.

The Gulf Stream gets shunted off from New England by the formation of
the coast below: besides, it is too shallow to be of any service. Icebergs
float down against its surface-current, and fill all the New-England
air with the chill of death till June: after that the fogs drift down
from Newfoundland. There never was such a mockery as this Gulf
Stream. It is like the English influence on France, on Europe. Pitt
was an iceberg.

Still New England survives. To what purpose? I say, as an example:
the politician says, to produce "Poor Boys." Bah! The poor boy is an
anachronism in civilization. He is no longer poor, and he is not a boy.
In Tartary they would hang him for sucking all the asses' milk
that belongs to the children: in New England he has all the cream
from the Public Cow.

What can you expect in a country where one knows not today what the
weather will be tomorrow? Climate makes the man. Suppose he, too, dwells
on the Channel Islands, where he has all climates, and is superior to
all. Perhaps he will become the prophet, the seer, of his age, as he is
its Poet. The New-Englander is the man without a climate. Why is his
country recognized? You won't find it on any map of Paris.

And yet Paris is the universe. Strange anomaly! The greater must
include the less; but how if the less leaks out? This sometimes happens.

And yet there are phenomena in that country worth observing. One of them
is the conduct of Nature from the 1st of March to the 1st of June, or,
as some say, from the vernal equinox to the summer solstice. As Tourmalain
remarked, "You'd better observe the unpleasant than to be blind." This
was in 802. Tourmalain is dead; so is Gross Alain; so is little
Pee-Wee: we shall all be dead before things get any better.

That is the law. Without revolution there is nothing. What is revolution?
It is turning society over, and putting the best underground for a
fertilizer. Thus only will things grow. What has this to do with
New England? In the language of that flash of social lightning, Beranger,
"May the Devil fly away with me if I can see!"
Let us speak of the period in the year in New England when winter
appears to hesitate.

Except in the calendar, the action is ironical; but it is still
deceptive. The sun mounts high: it is above the horizon twelve hours at
a time. The snow gradually sneaks away in liquid repentance. One
morning it is gone, except in shaded spots and close by the fences.
From about the trunks of the trees it has long departed: the tree is a
living thing, and its growth repels it.
The fence is dead, driven into the earth in a rigid line by man: the
fence, in short, is dogma: icy prejudice lingers near it.
The snow has disappeared; but the landscape is a ghastly sight, --bleached,
dead. The trees are stakes; the grass is of no color; and the bare soil
is not brown with a healthful brown; life has gone out of it. Take up
a piece of turf: it is a clod, without warmth, inanimate. Pull it in
pieces: there is no hope in it: it is a part of the past; it is the
refuse of last year. This is the condition to which winter has reduced
the landscape. When the snow, which was a pall, is removed, you
see how ghastly it is.

      The face of the country is sodden. It needs now only the south wind
      to sweep over it, full of the damp breath of death; and that begins
to blow.

No prospect would be more dreary.

And yet the south wind fills credulous man with joy. He opens the window.
He goes out, and catches cold. He is stirred by the mysterious coming
of something. If there is sign of change nowhere else, we detect it in
the newspaper. In sheltered corners of that truculent instrument for
the diffusion of the prejudices of the few among the many begin to
grow the violets of tender sentiment, the early greens of yearning.
The poet feels the sap of the new year before the marsh-willow. He
blossoms in advance of the catkins. Man is greater than Nature. The poet
is greater than man: he is nature on two legs,--ambulatory.

At first there is no appearance of conflict. The winter garrison seems to
have withdrawn. The invading hosts of the South are entering
without opposition. The hard ground softens; the sun lies warm upon the
southern bank, and water oozes from its base. If you examine the
buds of the lilac and the flowering shrubs, you cannot say that
they are swelling; but the varnish with which they were coated in
the fall to keep out the frost seems to be cracking.

If the sugar-maple is hacked, it will bleed,--the pure white blood of
Nature.

At the close of a sunny day the western sky has a softened aspect:
its color, we say, has warmth in it On such a day you may meet a caterpillar
on the footpath, and turn out for him. The house-fly thaws out; a company
of cheerful wasps take possession of a chamber-window.
It is oppressive indoors at night, and the window is raised. A flock of
millers, born out of time, flutter in. It is most unusual weather for
the season: it is so every year. The delusion is complete, when, on a
mild evening, the tree-toads open their brittle-brattle chorus on the
edge of the pond. The citizen asks his neighbor, "Did you hear the
frogs last night?" That seems to open the new world. One thinks of his
childhood and its innocence, and of his first loves. It fills one
with sentiment and a tender longing, this voice of the tree-toad. Man
is a strange being. Deaf to the prayers of friends, to the sermons and
warnings of the church, to the calls of duty, to the pleadings of his
better nature, he is touched by the tree-toad. The signs of the spring
multiply.

The passer in the street in the evening sees the maid-servant leaning on
the area-gate in sweet converse with some one leaning on the other side;
or in the park, which is still too damp for anything but true affection,
he sees her seated by the side of one who is able to protect her
from the policeman, and hears her sigh, "How sweet it is to be with those
we love to be with!"
All this is very well; but next morning the newspaper nips these early
buds of sentiment. The telegraph announces, "Twenty feet of snow at
Ogden, on the Pacific Road; winds blowing a gale at Omaha, and snow still
falling; mercury frozen at Duluth; storm-signals at Port Huron."
Where now are your tree-toads, your young love, your early season?
Before noon it rains, by three o'clock it hails; before night the bleak
storm-cloud of the northwest envelops the sky; a gale is raging, whirling
about a tempest of snow. By morning the snow is drifted in banks, and
two feet deep on a level. Early in the seventeenth century, Drebbel
of Holland invented the weather-glass.
Before that, men had suffered without knowing the degree of their
suffering. A century later, Romer hit upon the idea of using mercury in
a thermometer; and Fahrenheit constructed the instrument which adds a new
because distinct terror to the weather. Science names and registers the
ills of life; and yet it is a gain to know the names and habits of
our enemies. It is with some satisfaction in our knowledge that we say
the thermometer marks zero.

In fact, the wild beast called Winter, untamed, has returned, and
taken possession of New England.

      Nature, giving up her melting mood, has retired into dumbness and
      white stagnation. But we are wise. We say it is better to have
      it now than later. We have a conceit of understanding things.
      
      The sun is in alliance with the earth. Between the two the snow is
      uncomfortable. Compelled to go, it decides to go suddenly. The
      first day there is slush with rain; the second day, mud with hail;
      the third day a flood with sunshine. The thermometer declares
      that the temperature is delightful. Man shivers and sneezes.
      His neighbor dies of some disease newly named by science; but
      he dies all the same as if it hadn't been newly named. Science has
      not discovered any name that is not fatal.
      
      This is called the breaking-up of winter.

Nature seems for some days to be in doubt, not exactly able to stand
still, not daring to put forth anything tender. Man says that the worst
is over. If he should live a thousand years, he would be deceived every
year. And this is called an age of skepticism. Man never believed in
so many things as now: he never believed so much in himself. As to Nature,
he knows her secrets: he can predict what she will do. He communicates
with the next world by means of an alphabet which he has invented.
He talks with souls at the other end of the spirit-wire. To be sure,
neither of them says anything; but they talk. Is not that something? He
suspends the law of gravitation as to his own body--he has learned
how to evade it--as tyrants suspend the legal writs of habeas
corpus.

When Gravitation asks for his body, she cannot have it.

He says of himself, "I am infallible; I am sublime." He believes all these
things. He is master of the elements.

Shakespeare sends him a poem just made, and as good a poem as the man could
write himself. And yet this man--he goes out of doors without his
overcoat, catches cold, and is buried in three days. "On the 21st of
January," exclaimed Mercier, "all kings felt for the backs of their
necks."

This might be said of all men in New England in the spring. This
is the season that all the poets celebrate. Let us suppose that once, in
Thessaly, there was a genial spring, and there was a poet who sang
of it.

      All later poets have sung the same song. "Voila tout!" That is the
      root of poetry.

Another delusion. We hear toward evening, high in air, the "conk" of the
wild-geese. Looking up, you see the black specks of that adventurous
triangle, winging along in rapid flight northward.
Perhaps it takes a wide returning sweep, in doubt; but it disappears in
the north. There is no mistaking that sign. This unmusical "conk" is
sweeter than the "kerchunk" of the bull-frog. Probably these birds
are not idiots, and probably they turned back south again after spying
out the nakedness of the land; but they have made their sign. Next day
there is a rumor that somebody has seen a bluebird.

                        This rumor, unhappily for the bird (which will freeze to death),
is confirmed.

In less than three days everybody has seen a bluebird; and favored
people have heard a robin or rather the yellow-breasted thrush,
misnamed a robin in America. This is no doubt true: for angle-worms
have been seen on the surface of the ground; and, wherever there is anything
to eat, the robin is promptly on hand.
About this time you notice, in protected, sunny spots, that the grass has
a little color. But you say that it is the grass of last fall.
It is very difficult to tell when the grass of last fall became the grass
of this spring. It looks "warmed over." The green is rusty.
The lilac-buds have certainly swollen a little, and so have those of
the soft maple. In the rain the grass does not brighten as you think
it ought to, and it is only when the rain turns to snow that you
see any decided green color by contrast with the white. The snow gradually
covers everything very quietly, however. Winter comes back without the
least noise or bustle, tireless, malicious, implacable.

                        Neither party in the fight now makes much fuss over it; and you
might think that Nature had surrendered altogether, if you did not
find about this time, in the Woods, on the edge of a snow-bank, the
modest blossoms of the trailing arbutus, shedding their delicious
perfume.

The bravest are always the tenderest, says the poet. The season, in its
blind way, is trying to express itself.

And it is assisted. There is a cheerful chatter in the trees. The blackbirds
have come, and in numbers, households of them, villages of
them,--communes, rather. They do not believe in God, these black-birds.
They think they can take care of themselves. We shall see.
But they are well informed. They arrived just as the last snow-bank melted.
One cannot say now that there is not greenness in the grass; not in the
wide fields, to be sure, but on lawns and banks sloping south. The
dark-spotted leaves of the dog-tooth violet begin to show. Even Fahrenheit's
contrivance joins in the upward movement:
the mercury has suddenly gone up from thirty degrees to sixty-five
degrees. It is time for the ice-man. Ice has no sooner disappeared
than we desire it.

There is a smile, if one may say so, in the blue sky, and there is.
softness in the south wind. The song-sparrow is singing in the
apple-tree. Another bird-note is heard,--two long, musical whistles, liquid
but metallic. A brown bird this one, darker than the song-sparrow,
and without the latter's light stripes, and smaller, yet bigger than the
queer little chipping-bird. He wants a familiar name, this sweet singer,
who appears to be a sort of sparrow. He is such a contrast to the blue-jays,
who have arrived in a passion, as usual, screaming and scolding, the
elegant, spoiled beauties! They wrangle from morning till night, these
beautiful, high-tempered aristocrats.

Encouraged by the birds, by the bursting of the lilac-buds, by the
peeping-up of the crocuses, by tradition, by the sweet flutterings of a
double hope, another sign appears. This is the Easter bonnets, most
delightful flowers of the year, emblems of innocence, hope, devotion.

                        Alas that they have to be worn under umbrellas, so much thought,
freshness, feeling, tenderness have gone into them!

And a northeast storm of rain, accompanied with hail, comes to crown all
these virtues with that of self-sacrifice. The frail hat is offered up
to the implacable season. In fact, Nature is not to be forestalled
nor hurried in this way. Things cannot be pushed.
Nature hesitates. The woman who does not hesitate in April is lost.
The appearance of the bonnets is premature. The blackbirds see it.
They assemble. For two days they hold a noisy convention, with high debate,
in the tree-tops. Something is going to happen.

Say, rather, the usual thing is about to occur. There is a wind called
Auster, another called Eurus, another called Septentrio, another Meridies,
besides Aquilo, Vulturnus, Africus. There are the eight great winds of
the classical dictionary,--arsenal of mystery and terror and of the
unknown,--besides the wind Euroaquilo of St.
Luke. This is the wind that drives an apostle wishing to gain Crete upon
the African Syrtis. If St. Luke had been tacking to get to Hyannis, this
wind would have forced him into Holmes's Hole. The Euroaquilo is no respecter
of persons.

These winds, and others unnamed and more terrible, circle about New
England. They form a ring about it: they lie in wait on its borders, but
only to spring upon it and harry it.

They follow each other in contracting circles, in whirlwinds, in
maelstroms of the atmosphere:
they meet and cross each other, all at a moment. This New England is
set apart: it is the exercise-ground of the weather. Storms bred elsewhere
come here full-grown: they come in couples, in quartets, in choruses.
If New England were not mostly rock, these winds would carry it off; but
they would bring it all back again, as happens with the sandy
portions. What sharp Eurus carries to Jersey, Africus brings back.
When the air is not full of snow, it is full of dust.
This is called one of the compensations of Nature.

This is what happened after the convention of the blackbirds: A moaning
south wind brought rain; a southwest wind turned the rain to snow;
what is called a zephyr, out of the west, drifted the snow; a north
wind sent the mercury far below freezing. Salt added to snow increases
the evaporation and the cold. This was the office of the northeast
wind: it made the snow damp, and increased its bulk; but then it
rained a little, and froze, thawing at the same time. The air was
full of fog and snow and rain. And then the wind changed, went back
round the circle, reversing everything, like dragging a cat by its
tail. The mercury approached zero. This was nothing uncommon. We
know all these winds. We are familiar with the different "forms of
water."
All this was only the prologue, the overture. If one might be
permitted to speak scientifically, it was only the tuning of the
instruments. The opera was to come,--the Flying Dutchman of the
air.
There is a wind called Euroclydon: it would be one of the Eumenides;
only they are women. It is half-brother to the gigantic storm-wind
of the equinox. The Euroclydon is not a wind: it is a monster. Its
breath is frost. It has snow in its hair. It is something terrible.
It peddles rheumatism, and plants consumption.
The Euroclydon knew just the moment to strike into the discord of
the weather in New England. From its lair about Point Desolation,
from the glaciers of the Greenland continent, sweeping round the
coast, leaving wrecks in its track, it marched right athwart the
other conflicting winds, churning them into a fury, and inaugurating
chaos.
It was the Marat of the elements. It was the revolution marching
into the "dreaded wood of La Sandraie."
Let us sum it all up in one word: it was something for which there
is no name.
Its track was destruction. On the sea it leaves wrecks. What does
it leave on land? Funerals. When it subsides, New England is
prostrate.The British
followed up the firing of Washington by an effort to capture Baltimore.
The brave defenders of Fort McHenry held out successfully against
Cockburn's fleet, and General Ross lost his life while attempting to
co-operate with the fleet. Francis S. Key, a resident of Georgetown,
D. C., was detained on board a British ship while Fort McHenry was being
bombarded, and in the depth of his anxiety for his country's flag he
wrote that famous song, "The Star Spangled Banner." Finding that their
vandalism only served to inflame American patriotism instead of
"chastising the Americans into submission," as Cockburn had been ordered
to do, the invaders withdrew to their vessels.


CHAPTER XXVII.

British Designs on the Southwest--New Orleans as a City of Refuge--The
Baratarians--The Pirates Reject British Advances--General Jackson Storms
Pensacola--Captain Reid's Splendid Fight at Fayal--Edward Livingston
Advises Jackson--Cotton Bales for Redoubts--The British Invasion--Jackson
Attacks the British at Villere's--The Opposing Armies--General Pakenham
Attempts to Carry Jackson's Lines by Storm--The British Charge--They Are
Defeated with Frightful Slaughter--Pakenham Killed--Last Naval Engagement
--The President-Endymion Fight--Peace--England Deserts the Indians as
She Had Deserted the Tories--Decatur Chastises the Algerians.


An invasion of the Southwest by way of the Mississippi, and the seizure
of New Orleans, were also included in the British plans. New Orleans at
this time, although many good people were included among its inhabitants,
attracted the refuse of the United States. The character of the place can
be judged from an incident which occurred in Boston about the period of
which I am writing. A merchant who had formed an establishment in
Louisiana, happening to be in Boston, saw in a newspaper of that city a
vessel advertised to sail thence for New Orleans. He called upon the
owner, and asked him to consign the ship to his house. The owner told the
applicant in strict confidence that he had no intention of sending the
vessel to New Orleans, but had advertised that alleged destination in the
hope that among the persons applying for a passage he should find a
rascal who had defrauded one of his friends out of a considerable sum of
money, "New Orleans," he added, "being the natural rendezvous of rogues
and scoundrels." Among persons answering the latter description were the
pirates known as "Baratarians," because they lived on Barataria Bay, just
west of the mouths of the Mississippi River. They pretended to prey upon
Spanish commerce only, but they made very little distinction and sold
their plunder openly in the markets of New Orleans. The slave-trade was,
however, their chief resource. They captured Spanish and other slaves on
the high seas, and sold them to planters who were glad to buy for from
$150 to $200 each, negroes worth three or four times that amount in the
regular market. Jean Lafitte was the chief of these marauders. A
Frenchman by origin he felt some attachment, it appears, to the country
which tolerated him and his fellow-pirates, and when the commander of the
British Gulf Squadron offered to pay the Baratarians to join him in an
attack on New Orleans, Lafitte at once sent the dispatches received from
the British to Governor Claiborne, of Louisiana. The people of New
Orleans, under the leadership of Edward Livingston, the noted jurist, and
former mayor of New York, organized a Committee of Safety, and prepared
to assist in repelling the enemy. General Jackson, now major-general in
the regular army, and in command of the Department of the South, repulsed
the British from Mobile, and took Pensacola by storm, and thus freed from
apprehension of an attack from Florida, he proceeded to defend New
Orleans.

Fortunately for the American cause Captain Samuel C. Reid, commander of
the privateer General Armstong, being attacked in the neutral harbor of
Fayal by the British commodore, Lloyd, and his squadron, resisted the
onset with such extraordinary courage and energy as to severely cripple
his assailants. Captain Reid was obliged to scuttle his ship to prevent
her from falling into the hands of the British, but the latter lost one
hundred and twenty killed and one hundred and thirty wounded in the
unequal battle, and Lloyd's squadron was not able to join the expedition
at Jamaica until ten days after the date appointed for departure. The
General Armstrong lost only two men killed and seven wounded in this
memorable fight, which gave Jackson ample time to prepare the defence of
New Orleans.

To New Orleans had resorted many adherents of the old Bourbon monarchy,
driven from France by the Revolution, and also at a more recent date some
of the followers of Napoleon. Among the former was a French emigrant
major named St. Geme, who had once been in the English service in
Jamaica, and now commanded a company in a battalion of citizens. This
officer had been a favored companion of the distinguished French general,
Moreau, when the latter, on a visit to Louisiana, a few years previously,
had scanned with the critical eye of a tactician, the position of New
Orleans and its capabilities of defence. Edward Livingston, who acted as
an aide-de-camp to General Jackson, advised the general to consult St.
Geme, and the latter pointed out the Rodriguez Canal as the position
which Moreau himself had fixed upon as the most defensible, especially
for irregular troops. Jackson approved and acted upon the advice thus
given, and hastened to cast up intrenchments along the line of the canal
from the Mississippi back to an impassable swamp two miles away. In
building the redoubts the ground was found to be swampy and slimy, and
the earth almost unavailable for any sort of fortification, whereupon a
French engineer suggested the employment of cotton bales. The requisite
cotton was at once taken from a barque already laden for Havana. The
owner of the cotton, Vincent Nolte, complained to Edward Livingston, who
was his usual legal adviser. "Well, Nolte," said Livingston, "since it is
your cotton you will not mind the trouble of defending it."[1] Before the
final battle a red hot ball set fire to the cotton, thereby endangering
the gunpowder, and the cotton was removed, leaving only an earth
embankment about five feet high, with a ditch in front to protect the
Americans.

      [1] A similar remark has been incorrectly attributed to Jackson.

The British troops, about 7000 in number, disembarked at Lake Borgne,
after capturing an American flotilla which had been sent to prevent the
landing. About nine miles from New Orleans, at Villere's Plantation, the
invaders formed a camp, and they were suddenly attacked by Jackson on the
evening of December 23. The battle raged fearfully in the darkness,
Jackson's Tennesseans using knives and tomahawks with deadly effect. The
Americans had the advantage, but in the fog and darkness Jackson could
not follow up his success. Lieutenant-General Edward Pakenham, one of the
bravest and ablest of Wellington's veterans, landed on Christmas Day with
reinforcements which made the British army about 8000 strong. Jackson had
planted heavy guns along his line of defence, and had about 4000 men to
receive Pakenham. Among the most efficient of these were the 500 riflemen
who fought with Jackson against the Creeks, and who were known as
Coffee's brigade, from their commander's name. Trained in repeated
encounters with the savages they knew little of military organization,
but were inaccessible to fear, perfectly cool in danger, of great
presence of mind and personal resource, and above all unerring marksmen.
Among the New Orleans militia were several officers who had served under
Napoleon, and had met on the battlefields of Europe the British veterans
they were now about to confront in America. The Baratarians, too, should
not be forgotten, and these, with the regular troops, the militia and the
citizens, and many negroes, free and slave, composed about as mixed an
array as ever fought a battle on American soil.[2]

      [2] More than half of Jackson's command was composed of negroes, who
      were principally employed with the spade, but several battalions of
      them were armed, and in the presence of the whole army received the
      thanks of General Jackson for their gallantry. On each anniversary
      the negro survivors of the battle always turned out in large
      numbers--so large, indeed, as to excite the suspicion that they were
      not all genuine.--_Albert D. Richardson._

The British made an assault on the twenty-eighth, and were repulsed with
loss. On the night of December 31, they prepared for the closing struggle
by erecting batteries upon which they mounted heavy ordnance within six
hundred yards of the American breastworks. On the morning of January 1,
1815, the British opened fire, Jackson replying with his heavy guns. The
British batteries were demolished, an attempt to turn the American flank
was repulsed by Coffee and his riflemen, and the day ended in gloom and
disaster for the invaders. The American forces, strengthened by the
arrival of one thousand Kentuckians, awaited the renewal of the attack.
Pakenham determined to carry Jackson's lines by storm. At dawn on January
8, the British advanced in solid column under a most destructive fire
from the American batteries. On marched the men before whom the best
troops of Napoleon had been unable to stand--on they marched as steadily
as if on parade, the living closing in as the dead and wounded dropped
out. Was it to be Badajos over again?

The British were within two hundred yards of the American breastworks.
Suddenly the Tennessee and Kentucky sharpshooters, four ranks deep, rose
from their concealment, and at the command--"Fire!"--a storm of bullets
swept through the British lines. And it was not a single volley. As the
Tennesseans fired they fell back and loaded, while the Kentuckians fired.
And so the deadly blast of lead mowed down the British ranks while round
and grape and chain-shot ploughed and shrieked through the now wavering
battalions. General Pakenham, at the head of his men, urged them forward
with encouraging words, while he had one horse shot under him and his
bridle arm disabled by a bullet. The British rallied and rushed forward
again amid the tempest of death. Pakenham, mortally wounded, was caught
in the arms of his aid, and his troops, no longer sustained by their
leader's presence and example, fell back in disorder. In this fearful
charge the British lost 2600 men, killed, wounded and made prisoners. The
Americans lost only eight killed and thirteen wounded. On the night of
January 19, the British retired to their fleet.

                        *          *          *

The last naval engagement of the war took place in January, 1815, between
the American frigate President, forty-four guns, commanded by Commodore
Stephen Decatur, and the British frigate, Endymion, forty guns, Captain
Hope. The battle began about three o'clock in the afternoon, and lasted
until eleven o'clock at night, both commanders showing remarkable skill
and resolution in the conflict, which was at long range. The Endymion was
nearly dismantled and about to surrender when three other British
men-of-war came up, and Decatur, being overpowered, had to strike his
colors. The President had twenty-four men killed and fifty-six wounded,
and the Endymion had eleven killed and fourteen wounded.

                        *          *          *

A treaty of peace had been signed at Ghent between the American and
British commissioners on Christmas Eve, 1814. England yielded nothing
and received nothing. The issues which had provoked the war were ignored
in its termination--indeed it was unnecessary to deal with them. As
_Niles Register_ stated the case in December, 1814: "With the general
pacification of Europe, the chief causes for which we went to war with
Great Britain have, from the nature of things, ceased to affect us; it is
not for us to quarrel for forms. Britain may pretend to any right she
pleases, provided she does not exercise it to our injury." The moral
effect of the war was, however, favorable to the United States. American
naval victories and the battle of New Orleans taught England that America
was not an enemy to be despised on either sea or land. The War of 1812 has
sometimes been called the second War of Independence, and its effect
certainly was to establish for the United States a respectable position
among independent powers. Even England's satellites in the confederacy
against Napoleon could not but admire the courage of the American people
in bearding the British lion, and the chief magistrate of Ghent voiced the
feeling of Europe when he offered the sentiment, at a dinner to the
American Commissioners--"May they succeed in making an honorable peace to
secure the liberty and independence of their country."

England had to give up her demand for special terms for the Indians who
had assisted her in the war. The scheme to create an Indian nation in the
Northwest, with permanent boundaries, not to be trespassed by the United
States, was abandoned, although at first declared by the British
Commissioners to be a _sine qua non_ and the Indians had to accept terms
dictated by the United States. The British had made lavish promises to the
Indians when seeking them for allies, but the red men were deserted, as
the loyalists of the Revolution had been deserted, at the close of
hostilities. The Indians felt this keenly, especially as the Americans
treated them as generously as if no hostilities had interrupted former
relations.

                        *          *          *

Peace with England gave the United States opportunity to chastise the
Algerians, whose Dey, Hadgi Ali, a sanguinary tyrant, had been committing
outrages on American commerce ever since the beginning of the war with
the British. Commodore Decatur was sent to the Mediterranean in May,
1815, with a squadron to chastise the Dey. He had no difficulty in
encountering the Algerian corsairs, who supposed that the American navy
no longer existed. Decatur, after a brief engagement, captured the Dey's
flagship, and this was followed by the capture of another man-of-war
belonging to the pirates. Decatur then sailed for Algiers with his
squadron and prizes. The terrified despot appeared on the quarter-deck of
Decatur's flagship, the Guerriere, gave up the captives in his hands, and
signed a treaty dictated by the American commodore. Decatur then sailed
to Tunis and Tripoli, and compelled the rulers of those States to make
restitution for having allowed the British to capture American vessels in
their harbors. In view of the services of the Danish consul, Mr. Nissen,
when Captain Bainbridge was a prisoner in Tripoli, it is gratifying to
know that Commodore Decatur, while in that port, secured the release of
eight Danish seamen. History does not record whether Decatur, on this
occasion, visited the lonely grave supposed to contain the mortal remains
of Somers, the companion of his youth, and the hero of the gunpowder
enterprise during the war with Tripoli. What emotions must have filled
Decatur's mind as the old scenes brought back to him the memory of his
own brave exploit--the destruction of the Philadelphia--and of the
unhappy fate of his bosom friend!


South America Free.


CHAPTER XXVIII.

England and Spanish America--A Significant Declaration--The Key to
England's Policy in South America--Alexander Hamilton and the South
Americans--President Adams' Grandson a Filibuster--Origin of the
Revolutions in South America--Colonial Zeal for Spain--Colonists Driven
to Fight for Independence--A War of Extermination--Patriot Leaders--The
British Assist the Revolutionists--American Caution and Reserve--The
Monroe Doctrine--Why England Championed the Spanish-American Republics--
A Free Field Desired for British Trade--The Holy Alliance--Secretary
Canning and President Monroe--The Monroe Declaration Not British, But
American.


The same motives which had prompted England to impose oppressive
restrictions upon American trade, thereby driving the colonies to strike
for independence, prompted her to assist South America in throwing off
the yoke of Spain. England did not expect to conquer Spain's American
colonies for herself, but she desired to liberate them in order to annex
them commercially. Hardly had King George recognized the independence of
the United States when his ministers were scheming to effect the
independence of South America. As early as June 26, 1797, Thomas Picton,
governor of the British island of Trinidad, in the West Indies, issued an
address to certain revolutionists in Venezuela in which, speaking by
authority of the British Minister of Foreign Affairs, he said:

"The object which at present I desire most particularly to recommend to
your attention, is the means which might be best adapted to liberate the
people of the continent near to the Island of Trinidad, from the
oppressive and tyrannic system which supports, with so much rigor, the
monopoly of commerce, under the title of exclusive registers, which their
government licenses demand; also to draw the greatest advantages
possible, and which the local situation of the island presents, by
opening a direct and free communication with the other parts of the
world, without prejudice to the commerce of the British nation. In order
to fulfill this intention with greater facility, it will be prudent for
your Excellency to animate the inhabitants of Trinidad in keeping up the
communication which they had with those of Terra Firma, previous to the
reduction of that island; under the assurance, that they will find there
an _entrepôt_, or general magazine, of every sort of goods whatever. To
this end, his Britannic Majesty has determined, in council, to grant
freedom to the ports of Trinidad, with a direct trade to Great Britain.

"With regard to the hopes you entertain of raising the spirits of those
persons, with whom you are in correspondence, toward encouraging the
inhabitants to resist the oppressive authority of their government, I
have little more to say, than that they may be certain that, whenever
they are in that disposition, they may receive, at your hands, all the
succors to be expected from his Britannic Majesty, be it with forces, or
with arms and ammunition to any extent; with the assurance, that the
views of his Britannic Majesty go no further than to secure to them their
independence, without pretending to any sovereignty over their country,
nor even to interfere in the privileges of the people, nor in their
political, civil or religious rights."

This declaration is the key to Great Britain's policy in Spanish America
during the century since it was issued. The conspiracy which evoked
Governor Picton's plain statement of England's attitude toward the South
American colonies, was discovered by the Spanish authorities, and J. M.
Espana, one of its leaders, was executed.[1] William Pitt continued to
scheme for Spanish-American independence, and succeeded in enlisting the
sympathy of Alexander Hamilton and Rufus King, American Minister at
London. President John Adams, however, would have nothing to do with the
movement, which he regarded as a plot to drive the United States into a
British alliance against the French, and possibly this may have been in
the mind of Pitt. The American people were not as cold as the President,
however, on the subject of South America, and Francisco Miranda, a
voluntary exile from Venezuela on account of his republican principles,
succeeded in organizing a filibustering force in New York, one of the
members of which was a grandson of the President himself. The expedition
was defeated and nearly all engaged in it were captured by the Spaniards,
among them young William S. Smith, John Adams' grandson. Yrujo, the
Spanish Minister at Washington, offered to interpose in behalf of a
pardon for the young man, but President Adams declined to use his exalted
office to obtain any respite for the youth who had so unfortunately
proved his inheritance of the old Adams' devotion to liberty. "My blood
should flow upon a Spanish scaffold," wrote America's chief magistrate,
"before I would meanly ask or accept a distinction in favor of my
grandson." The young man's life was spared, however, and he returned to
the United States.

      [1] Espana was hanged and quartered. A writer in the New York
      _Sun_, commenting on Espana's death, said that "thus in the
      eighteenth century Spain repeated the barbarism perpetrated by
      England on William Wallace in 1305." It is unnecessary to go back
      to William Wallace or off the American continent for an act of
      barbarity similar to Espana's execution. In the same decade, one
      McLean, a former resident, if not a citizen of the United States,
      was hanged and quartered in Canada, by the sentence of a British
      court, on a trumped up charge of having been engaged in a
      treasonable conspiracy.

Francisco Miranda, who had made his escape to Barbadoes, raised a force
of four hundred men, with the assistance of the British, landed in
Venezuela, and proclaimed a provisional government. This expedition was
also unsuccessful, and Miranda retired under the protection of a British
man-of-war. At this time there was no general feeling in South America in
favor of independence. Although some scattering sparks from the sacred
altar of liberty had found their way into Spanish America;
notwithstanding the severity of the colonial system, and the corruptions
and abuses of power which everywhere prevailed; such was the habitual
loyalty of the creoles of America; such the degradation and
insignificance of the other races; so inveterate were the prejudices of
all, and so powerful was the influence of a state religion, maintained by
an established hierarchy, that it is probable the colonies would have
continued, for successive ages, to be governed by a nation six thousand
miles distant, who had no interest in common with them, and whose
oppressions, they had borne for three centuries, had not that nation been
shaken at home, by an extraordinary revolution, and its government
overturned.[2]

      [2] See Huntington's "View of South America and Mexico."

                        *          *          *

Among other good results which the ambition of Napoleon Bonaparte
produced without intention on his part, was the uprising against Spanish
oppression in South America. When Napoleon compelled Ferdinand to
abdicate the crown of Spain in favor of Joseph Bonaparte, the loyalty and
spirit of the Spaniards were aroused, and the people refused to submit to
a monarch imposed on them by treachery and supported by foreign bayonets.
In the provinces not occupied by the French, juntas were established
which assumed the government of their districts; and that at Seville,
styling itself the supreme junta of Spain and the Indies, despatched
deputies to the different governments in America, requiring an
acknowledgment of its authority; to obtain which, it was represented that
the junta was acknowledged and obeyed throughout Spain. At the same time
the regency created at Madrid by Ferdinand when he left his capital, and
the junta at Asturias, each claimed superiority, and endeavored to direct
the affairs of the nation.

Napoleon, on his part, was not less attentive to America; agents were
sent in the name of Joseph, king of Spain, to communicate to the colonies
the abdication of Ferdinand, and Joseph's accession to the throne, and to
procure the recognition of his authority by the Americans. Thus the
obedience of the colonies was demanded by no less than four tribunals,
each claiming to possess supreme authority at home. There could scarcely
have occurred a conjuncture more favorable for the colonists to throw off
their dependence on Spain, being convulsed, as she was, by a civil war,
the king a prisoner, the monarchy subverted and the people unable to
agree among themselves where the supreme authority was vested, or which
of the pretenders was to be obeyed. The power of the parent state over
its colonies was _de facto_ at an end; in consequence of which they were,
in a measure, required to "provide new guards for their security." But so
totally unprepared were the colonists for a political revolution that
instead of these events being regarded as auspicious to their welfare,
they only served to prove the strength of their loyalty and attachment to
Spain. Notwithstanding that the viceroys and captain-generals, excepting
the viceroy of New Spain, manifested a readiness to acquiesce in the
cessions of Bayonne, to yield to the new order of things, and to sacrifice
their king, provided they could retain their places, in which they were
confirmed by the new king, the news of the occurrences in Spain filled the
people with indignation; they publicly burnt the proclamations sent out
by King Joseph, expelled his agents, and such was their rage that all
Frenchmen in the colonies became objects of insult and execration. In
their zeal, not for their own but for Spanish independence, the colonists,
up to the year 1810, supplied not less than ninety millions of dollars to
Spain to assist in carrying on the war against France.

                        *          *          *

At length, about the year 1809, the people of the several provinces began
to form juntas of their own, not with the object of throwing off the
Spanish yoke, but the better to protect themselves, should the French
succeed in establishing their power in the peninsula. The Spanish
viceroys, alarmed for their own authority, met the movement with
unsparing hostility. In the city of Quito the popular junta was
suppressed by an armed force, and hundreds of persons were massacred and
the city plundered by the Spanish troops. Notwithstanding these cruelties
the people remained faithful to the crown of Spain, and the junta of
Caracas, having deposed the colonial officers, and organized a new
administration, still acted in the name of Ferdinand the Seventh, and
offered to aid in the prosecution of the war against France. The impotent
Council of Regency, which pretended to represent the ancient government
in Spain, treated the position taken by the colonists as a declaration of
independence, and sent troops to dragoon the Americans into submission.
Thus the Spanish-Americans were compelled to assume an independence of
the mother country which they had neither sought nor desired, and on July
5, 1811, Venezuela took the lead in formally casting off allegiance to
Spain.

The war which followed was of the most sanguinary character. The patriots
of South America were denounced as rebels and traitors, and the vengeance
of the State, and the anathemas of the Church, directed against them.
That a contest commenced under such auspices should have become a war of
extermination, and in its progress have exhibited horrid scenes of
cruelty, desolation, and deliberate bloodshed; that all offers of
accommodation were repelled with insult and outrage; capitulations
violated, public faith disregarded, prisoners of war cruelly massacred,
and the inhabitants persecuted, imprisoned, and put to death, cannot
occasion surprise, however much it may excite indignation. As violence
and cruelty always tend to provoke recrimination and revenge, the
outrages of the Spaniards exasperated the Americans, and led to
retaliation, which rendered the contest a war of death, as it was often
called, characterized by a ferocious and savage spirit, scarcely
surpassed by that of Cortes and Pizarro. The violent measures of the
Spanish rulers, and the furious and cruel conduct of their agents in
America, toward the patriots, produced an effect directly contrary to
what was expected; but which nevertheless might have been foreseen, had
the Spaniards taken counsel from experience instead of from their
mortified pride and exasperated feelings. Arbitrary measures, enforced
with vigor and cruelty, instead of extinguishing the spirit of
independence, only served to enliven its latent sparks and blow them into
flame. Miranda died in chains, and Hidalgo, the patriot priest of Mexico,
was put to death by his cruel captors, but Bolivar and Paez, Sucre and
San Martin, led the patriot armies to ultimate victory, and established
the independence of Spanish America. Only one great revolutionary leader,
Iturbide, failed to follow the example of Washington. Iturbide attempted
to found an imperial dynasty in Mexico, and lost his life and his crown.
Bolivar, on the other hand, with a foresight worthy of Washington
himself, sought to form a general confederation of all the States of what
was formerly Spanish America, with the object of uniting the resources
and means of the several States for their general defence and security.
This great project was accepted by Chile, Peru and Mexico, and treaties
concluded in accordance therewith.

                        *          *          *

Throughout the South American struggle for independence Great Britain
gave assistance to the patriots almost as freely and openly as if she had
been at war with Spain. Veteran officers who had served in the British
armies against Napoleon, joined the South American forces, and an Irish
Legion of one thousand men, raised by General D'Evereux, sailed from
Dublin for Colombia. A banquet was given to General D'Evereux, before his
departure, at which two thousand guests were present, and the celebrated
orator, Charles Philips, delivered a most eloquent address. Lord
Cochrane, Earl of Dundonald, commanding the Chilian fleet, drove the
Spaniards from the Pacific. American as well as English officers and
seamen served under Cochrane's flag, and took part in his exploits, of
which the most brilliant was the cutting out of a Spanish frigate from
under the guns of Callao. Under the protection of the batteries of the
castle of Callao lay three Spanish armed vessels, a forty-gun frigate and
two sloops-of-war, guarded by fourteen gunboats. On the night of the
fifth of November, 1820, Lord Cochrane, with 240 volunteers in fourteen
boats, entered the inner harbor, and succeeded in cutting out the Spanish
frigate with the loss of only forty-one men killed and wounded. The
Spanish loss was 120 men. This success annihilated the Spanish naval
power in those waters.

                        *          *          *

When a commissioner from the patriots of New Grenada applied at
Washington in 1812, for assistance, President Madison answered that
"though the United States were not in alliance, they were at peace with
Spain, and could not therefore assist the independents; still, as
inhabitants of the same continent, they wished well to their exertions."
Notwithstanding the policy of the government, founded on the dictates of
prudence and caution, the people of the United States almost universally
felt a deep and lively interest in the success of their brethren in South
America, engaged in the same desperate struggle for liberty which they
themselves had gone through. Near the close of the year 1817, the
President of the United States appointed three commissioners, Messrs.
Rodney, Bland, and Graham, to visit the revolted colonies in South
America and to ascertain their political condition, and their means and
prospects of securing their independence; and early in 1818, the
legislators of Kentucky adopted resolutions, expressing their sense of
the propriety and expediency of the national government acknowledging the
independence of the South American republics. These resolutions probably
emanated from the influence of Henry Clay, from the first a zealous and
steadfast friend of the South American patriots. Some Americans joined
the patriot forces, and supplies of ammunition and muskets were furnished
to them from this country. President Monroe was able to state to
Congress, in 1819, that the greatest care had been taken to enforce the
laws intended to preserve an impartial neutrality. Briefly summed up, the
attitude of the American government throughout the South American
struggle was one of distance, caution and reserve, while England boldly
ignored international laws, and fought her way through her filibusters to
the hearts and the commerce of the Spanish-Americans.

                        *          *          *

It is needless to go into extended discussion as to the authorship of the
Monroe Doctrine. Intelligent self-interest inspired the United States and
England to support the independence of South America. England's motive
was chiefly commercial and partly political. She wanted Spanish America
to be independent because the continent would thus be thrown open to
British commerce, and because, not looking forward herself to territorial
aggrandizement in that direction, she wished other powers to keep their
hands off. The British government had no desire, in taking this position,
to promote the growth and extension of republican institutions. The
ruling class in Great Britain would doubtless have preferred to see every
Spanish-American State a monarchy, provided that under monarchy it could
be equally useful to the British empire and independent of every other
European power. If England, in championing the Spanish-American republics
seemed to champion republican institutions, it was because republican
institutions gave the strongest assurance of political separation from
Europe, and of a free field for Great Britain.[3]

      [3] "The Spanish-American question is essentially settled. There
      will be no Congress upon it, and things will take their own course
      on that continent which cannot be otherwise than favorable to us.
      I have no objection to monarchy in Mexico; quite otherwise. Mr.
      Harvey's instructions authorize him to countenance and encourage any
      reasonable project for establishing it (project on the part of the
      Mexicans I mean), even in the person of a Spanish Infanta. But, as
      to putting it forward as a project, or proposition of ours, that is
      out of the question. Monarchy in Mexico, and monarchy in Brazil,
      would cure the evils of universal democracy, and prevent the drawing
      of the line of demarkation, which I most dread, America versus
      Europe. The United States naturally enough aim at this division, and
      cherish the democracy which leads to it. But I do not much apprehend
      their influence, even if I believed it. I do not altogether see any
      of the evidence of their activity in America. Mexico and they are
      too neighborly to be friends."--_Canning, to the British Minister
      at Madrid, December 31, 1823._

On the part of the United States the Monroe Doctrine was the formal and
authoritative expression of a sentiment which had animated American
breasts from the origin of the Republic. The Monroe Doctrine is based on
patriotism and self-preservation, and the crisis which called it forth
was of the gravest consequence to the American people. The Spanish empire
in America had never been a menace to the United States. It was too
decrepit to be dangerous. Conditions would have been very different with
France, for instance, or Prussia, established as a great South American
power. There was the strongest reason for believing that the governments
of continental Europe combined in the "Holy Alliance" seriously intended
to dispose the destinies of South America, as they had divided the
continent of Europe. The primary object of the allied powers--the
proscription of all political reforms originating from the people--could
leave no doubt of the concern and hostility with which they viewed the
development of events in Spanish America, and the probable establishment
of several independent, free States, resting on institutions emanating
from the will and the valor of the people. But there is more specific
evidence of their hostile intentions--Don Jose Vaventine Gomez, envoy
from the government of Buenos Ayres at Paris, in a note to the secretary
of his government of the twentieth of April, 1819, said that "the
diminution of republican governments was a basis of the plans adopted by
the holy alliance for the preservation of their thrones; and that in
consequence, the republics of Holland, Venice, and Genoa, received their
deathblow at Vienna, at the very time that the world was amused by the
solemn declaration that all the States of Europe would be restored to the
same situation they were in before the French revolution. The sovereigns
assembled at Aix la Chapelle, have agreed, secretly, to draw the
Americans to join them in this policy, when Spain should be undeceived,
and have renounced the project of re-conquering her provinces; and the
king of Portugal warmly promoted this plan through his ministers." France
also sought by intrigue to secure the acceptance by the United Provinces
and Chile of a monarchical government under French protection.

For the reasons before stated these designs naturally alarmed Canning,
England's distinguished Minister of Foreign Affairs, and he proposed to
Mr. Rush, the American Minister at London, that Great Britain and the
United States should join in a protest against European interference with
the independent States of Spanish America. This was in September 1823,
and in a message of December 2, following, President Monroe uttered his
famous declaration to the effect that "the United States would consider
any attempt on the part of the European powers to extend their system to
any portion of this hemisphere as dangerous to our peace and safety."[4]
Mr. Monroe's motive in issuing this declaration was wholly American and
patriotic. England's designs were inevitably aided by the action of the
American President, and the English Government approved and their press
applauded America's resolute course, but it was not to win English
applause, but to defend the integrity of the United States that the
Monroe Doctrine was proclaimed to the world. The opposition of Great
Britain and the attitude of the United States proved more than the Holy
Alliance cared to confront, and the nations of Spanish America were
allowed to enjoy without further molestation the independence which they
had gained by years of heroic effort and sacrifice.

      [4] "They (the United States) have aided us materially. The Congress
      (Verona) was broken in all its limbs before, but the President's
      (Monroe's) speech gives it the coup de grace. While I was hesitating
      in September what shape to give the protest and declaration I
      sounded Mr. Rush, the American Minister here, as to his powers and
      disposition to join in any step which we might take to prevent a
      hostile enterprise on the part of the European powers against
      Spanish America. He had not powers, but he would have taken upon
      himself to join with us if we would have begun by recognizing the
      Spanish-American States. This we could not do, and so we went on
      alone. But I have no doubt that his report to his government of this
      sounding, which he probably represented as an overture, had a great
      share in producing the explicit declarations of the
      President."--_Canning to the British Minister at Madrid._


Progress.


CHAPTER XXIX.

The United States Taking the Lead in Civilization--Manhood Suffrage and
Freedom of Worship--Humane Criminal Laws--Progress the Genius of the
Nation--A Patriotic Report--State Builders in the Northwest--Illinois and
the Union--Immigration--British Jealousy--An English Farmer's Opinion of
America--Commerce and Manufactures--England Tries to Prevent Skilled
Artisans from Emigrating--The Beginning of Protection--The British Turn
on Their Friends the Algerians--General Jackson Invades Florida--Spain
Sells Florida to the United States.


While holding their own against foreign enemies on land and sea the
United States were assuming the lead in the march of civilization.
Manhood suffrage was gradually taking the place of property suffrage,
liberty of worship was recognized in practice as well as theory, and the
criminal laws showed a growing spirit of humanity. Capital crimes were
few, as compared with Great Britain. "The severity of our criminal laws,"
wrote William Bradford, the distinguished jurist, and for some time
Attorney-General of the United States, "is an exotic plant, and not the
growth of Pennsylvania." And Pennsylvania, when left to her own
influences and tendencies by the success of the Revolution, was not slow
to adopt humane and gratifying reforms, uttering far in advance of some
other commonwealths the declaration that "to deter more effectually from
the commission of crimes by continued visible punishment of long
duration, and to make sanguinary punishments less necessary, houses ought
to be provided for punishing by hard labor those who shall be convicted
of crimes not capital." In September, 1786, the laws of that State were
amended so as to substitute imprisonment at hard labor for capital
punishment for robbery, burglary, and one other crime, and it was
provided that no attainder should work corruption of blood in any case,
and that the estates of persons committing suicide should descend to
their natural heirs. It was likewise enacted that "every person convicted
of bigamy, or of being accessory after the fact in any felony, or of
receiving stolen goods, knowing them to have been stolen, or of any other
offence not capital, for which, by the laws now in force, burning in the
hand, cutting off the ears, nailing the ear or ears to the pillory,
placing in and upon the pillory, whipping, or imprisonment for life, is,
or may be inflicted, shall, instead of such parts of the punishment, be
fined and sentenced to hard labor for any term not exceeding two years."
Also, as if dreading that lax laws might lead to a carnival of crime, the
legislators restricted the operation of the new and lenient statute to
three years. The act was renewed, however, at the close of that term, and
finally, in 1794, the reform of the criminal code was crowned with the
declaration that "no crime whatever, excepting murder of the first
degree, shall hereafter be punished with death."

Other States either kept pace with or followed the example of
Pennsylvania in making their criminal laws more reformatory and less
vindictive, and while England affected to despise American civilization,
America was leading England in the march of humanity.

The genius of the nation was progress--not the spirit of the huckster,
anxious for present gain, but the enlarged view of the patriot, anxious
for the future weal of his country and his race. A striking expression of
this spirit is shown in the report made in 1812 by Gouverneur Morris, De
Witt Clinton and other eminent men on the practicability and prospects of
the proposed Erie Canal. After boldly stating that the tolls from this
work would amply repay the outlay required for its construction, the
report adds: "It is impossible to ascertain and it is difficult to
imagine how much toll would be collected; but like our advance in numbers
and wealth, calculation out-runs fancy. Things which twenty years ago any
man would have been laughed at for believing, we now see. * * * The life
of an individual is short. The time is not distant when those who make
this report will have passed away. But no time is fixed to the existence
of a State; and the first wish of a patriot's heart is that his may be
immortal." In the Northwest also, the State-builders of that day were
equally farsighted in patriotic provision for the future. When it was
proposed to admit Illinois as a State, Nathaniel Pope, delegate in
Congress from that territory, urged, that the northern boundary should be
extended to take in the port of Chicago, and a considerable coast-line on
Lake Michigan, so as to give the State an interest in the lakes and bind
it to the North as its southern frontiers bound it to the South and
Southwest, thus checking any tendency to sectional disunion. Judge Pope
pointed out that associations would thus be formed both with the North
and South, and that a State thus situated, having a decided interest in
the commerce, and in the preservation of the whole confederacy, could
never consent to disunion. These views were happily successful in
obtaining the approbation of Congress, and Illinois was saved from the
limits which would have made it only a southern border State. In the
Southwest, as well as in the North pioneers pushed rapidly into the
wilderness, crossing the Mississippi and founding new States in which the
long struggle between freedom and slavery was to begin.

                        *          *          *

When what may be called the blockade of Europe was raised by the final
defeat of Napoleon, immigrants began to pour into the United States in
large numbers. Many of them, like many immigrants to-day, became stranded
in the cities of the coast, without resources and without employment,
willing to work, but unable to get work. In February, 1817, James
Buchanan, the British consul at New York, issued a warning against
immigration to the United States, on the ground, as he alleged, of
numerous applications made to his office for aid to return to Great
Britain and Ireland, but at the same time the consul stated that he was
authorized to place all desirable immigrants, who found themselves
destitute in New York, in Upper Canada or Nova Scotia. Mr. Buchanan was
evidently not so anxious to assist his fellow-subjects of King George as
he was to promote the British policy of building up the Canadian
territories as a counterpoise to the United States. While there was
undoubtedly some distress among immigrants of the improvident class,
those who came here with the determination to work generally found work
before long at much better compensation than they could have earned in
England, while those who proceeded to the new regions of the West had no
difficulty in becoming independent and prosperous freeholders.

"In exchanging the condition of an English farmer for that of an American
proprietor," wrote an intelligent immigrant, "I expect to suffer many
inconveniences; but I am willing to make a great sacrifice of present
ease, were it merely for the sake of obtaining in the decline of life, an
exemption from that wearisome solicitude about pecuniary affairs from
which even the affluent find no refuge in England; and, for my children,
a career of enterprise and wholesome family connections in a society
whose institutions are favorable to virtue; and at last the consolation
of leaving them efficient members of a flourishing, public-spirited,
energetic community; where the insolence of wealth and the servility of
pauperism, between which in England there is scarcely an interval
remaining, are alike unknown. * * * It has struck me as we have passed
along from one poor hut to another, among the rude inhabitants of this
infant State, that travelers in general who judge by comparison, are not
qualified to form a fair estimate of these lonely settlers. Let a
stranger make his tour through England in a course remote from the great
roads, and going to no inns, take such, entertainment only as he might
find in the cottage of laborers, he would have as much cause to complain
of the rudeness of the people, and more of their drunkenness and
profligacy than in these backwoods: although in England the poor are a
part of society whose institutions are matured by the experience of two
thousand years. But in their manners and morals, but especially in their
knowledge and proud independence of mind, they exhibit a contrast so
striking that he must be a _petit maître_ traveler, or ill-informed of
the character and circumstances of his poor countrymen, or deficient in
good and manly sentiment, who would not rejoice to transplant into these
boundless regions of freedom the millions he has left behind him
groveling in ignorance and want."[1]

      [1] Notes on a journey in America from the coast of Virginia to the
      territory of Illinois, by M. Birkbeck.

While a great agricultural domain was being occupied in the West,
commerce and manufactures were not neglected. American merchantmen
visited every sea, no longer in dread of hostile Briton or Barbary
pirate, and internal commerce received a mighty impulse from the
steamboat. Meanwhile the foundations were laid of those vast
manufacturing interests which were yet to overshadow commerce in the
East. As early as 1810, the domestic manufactures of all descriptions
were worth $127,694,602 annually, and it was estimated by competent
authorities that of $36,793,249--the value of the manufactures of wool,
cotton and flax, with their mixtures--fully two-thirds were produced in
the houses of the farmers and other inhabitants. England had foreseen
that America might prove a powerful rival in the manufacturing field, and
Parliament enacted laws to prevent the emigration of skilled artisans. It
may seem almost incredible that less than one hundred years ago such a
prohibition existed, but I read in an account of a voyage from London to
Boston in 1817 that "the passengers were summoned to appear at the
Gravesend custom house, personally to deliver in their names and a
statement of their professions. Had any been known to be artisans or
manufacturers, they would have been stopped and forbidden to leave the
kingdom. An act of Parliament imposes a heavy fine on those who induce
them to attempt it." Samuel Slater, who brought the Arkwright patents in
his brain, evaded the prohibition a few years after the Revolution, and
his descendants are to-day among the wealthiest and most reputable of New
England's citizens.

The war of 1812-15, gave a tremendous impulse to American manufactures
through the exclusion of British and other foreign products. At the close
of the war, however, when American ports were thrown open to the trade of
Great Britain, the manufacturers of that country, with the deliberate
purpose of crushing American industries out of existence, threw vast
quantities of goods into the American markets, completely swamping native
productions, and making it impossible for native manufacturers to compete
with the importations. It was this ruinous relapse from comparative
prosperity that prompted the agitation for a protective tariff. As
further evidence of British purpose to do all the damage possible to
American interests, even in time of peace, it may be mentioned that when
Lord Exmouth, with a powerful fleet, visited Algiers in 1816, and
negotiated a treaty between the Dey--Omar, the successor of Hadgi
Ali--and the kings of Sardinia and Naples, the Algerians began to show
themselves again hostile to the United States within a few days after the
treaty. The public sentiment of Europe, however, made it impossible for
England to make longer use of those pirates to injure commercial rivals,
and the British Government, in deference to that sentiment, sought a
quarrel with the Dey, bombarded Algiers, and compelled the Barbary States
to agree to put an end to piracy--an agreement which remained for some
time a dead letter.

                        *          *          *

The Louisiana Purchase was crowned in 1818 by the purchase of Florida
from Spain. Spanish authority in North America had long been little more
than a thin disguise, behind which the British plotted and operated
against the welfare of the United States. General Jackson had found it
necessary in 1814 to capture Pensacola, which the English were using as a
base of hostilities. Again in 1818 General Jackson invaded Florida to
punish Indians who, incited by British subjects under Spanish protection,
were plundering and murdering in American settlements. Jackson took by
force the Spanish post of St. Marks, entered Pensacola, and attacked the
fort at Barrancas, compelling it to surrender. Two British subjects who
had stirred up the Indians to attack the Americans were executed.
Secretary of State John Quincy Adams sustained Jackson, notwithstanding
the protests of Spain, and the latter power concluded to yield to the
inevitable, and sold Florida to the United States on the extinction of
the various American claims for spoliation, for the satisfaction of which
the United States agreed to pay $5,000,000 to the claimants. Thus all
foreign authority was extinguished in the Southeast and the American flag
waved from the Florida Keys to the boundaries of New Spain.


CHAPTER XXX.

The Missouri Compromise--Erie Canal Opened--Political Parties and Great
National Issues--President Jackson Crushes the United States Bank--South
Carolina Pronounces the Tariff Law Void--Jackson's Energetic Action--A
Compromise--Territory Reserved for the Indians--The Seminole War--
Osceola's Vengeance--His Capture and Death--The Black Hawk War--Abraham
Lincoln a Volunteer--Texas War for Independence--Massacre of the Alamo
--Mexican Defeat at San Jacinto--The Mexican President a Captive--Texas
Admitted to the Union--Oregon--American Statesmen Blinded by the Hudson
Bay Company--Marcus Whitman's Ride--Oregon Saved to the Union--The "Dorr
War."


The Missouri Compromise, by which Congress, after admitting Missouri as a
slave State, took the parallel of thirty-six degrees thirty minutes as a
dividing line through the rest of the Louisiana Purchase, between slavery
and freedom, averted for another generation the great struggle between
North and South. At peace with the rest of the world, the United States
had time to devote to national development without the distraction of
war, and financial questions, the tariff and internal improvements
engrossed the attention of Congress and of the States. The opening of the
Erie Canal, connecting Lake Erie with the Hudson River, in 1825, made
central New York the great highway of commerce and of travel, and New
York gradually became the leading State of the Union in population,
wealth and trade. There was a strong agitation in favor of a general
system of roads and canals, connecting the various parts of the country,
and to be constructed at the expense of the nation, and not of the
States. The party known as National Republicans, direct successors of the
Federalists, supported this proposition, and also advocated a high tariff
on imports and an extension of the charter of the United States Bank,
about to expire in 1836. The Democratic Republicans, now known simply as
Democrats, denied the constitutional authority of the national government
to construct roads and canals, or to impose a tariff except for revenue,
or to charter a national bank. During the administration of John Quincy
Adams the National Republicans succeeded in having tariff laws enacted in
1824 and 1828, which gave substantial and, in the view of the Democrats,
excessive protection to domestic manufactures.

General Andrew Jackson was elected President in 1828, after a most bitter
contest, in which John Quincy Adams was his opponent. Jackson
claimed--and the evidence seems to support his claim--that the United
States Bank had used all its influence against him, and had even made
antagonism to Jackson a condition of mercantile accommodation. He had
long before been prejudiced against the bank through the stupid red
tapeism of an agent of the bank in New Orleans who stood by a rule not
intended for emergencies when Jackson needed money for his army. He was
convinced that not only all the power of the bank, but all the power
which the Federal Government could exert to defeat him had been exerted,
and being victorious in despite of this opposition, he resolved to crush
the bank and to make a clean sweep of the officeholders. The old
pamphlets in the Astor Library which tell the story of the bank's
struggle to escape annihilation are almost pathetic reading. The giant
was prostrate, and his enemy had no mercy. In 1832 Jackson vetoed the
bill to renew the charter of the bank. Re-elected President in 1832 by an
overwhelming majority of votes in the Electoral College, Jackson, in the
following year, removed the public money which had been deposited in the
United States Bank, and distributed it among various State banks. Prisse
says:[110] "Most of the fellahs who inhabit the land, formerly
Memphis and Thebes, live only from the products of their finds. Constrained
to cease from their lucrative researches, they are reduced to the
counterfeiting of figurines, amulets and the other objects of art
which they formerly found in the earth.

Necessity the mother of industry has caused them in a short time to make
wonderful progress. Without any practice in the arts, and with the
rudest tools, some of the peasants have carved scarabs and beautiful
statuettes and ornamented them with hieroglyphic legends. They very
well know that cartouches add much value to the antiquities, and they
are never in want of copies of them either from the great monuments or
the original scarabs. They use in making the copies a limestone of
fine and compact grain, soapstone, serpentine and alabaster. The
objects made of limestone are daubed with bitumen taken from the mummies,
or from the colors taken away from the paintings in the hypogea, finally
some are covered uniformly with a brilliant pottery glaze which renders,
it is true, the forms rather blurred and not easy to see, but which
resembles in a surprising manner, antiquities which the action of
fire or of earth, impregnated with saltpetre, have slightly damaged.
The feigned hieroglyphs therein are mistaken for those as to which the
work has been neglected. Their statuettes recall the figurines of
poor ware, which the Ancient Egyptians placed in so great a number in
their tombs. In spite of their imperfections, the fellahs have been
perfectly successful in deceiving most of the travelers, generally
grossly ignorant of antiquities. Hard stones, such as basalt, green
jasper, burnt serpentine, green feldspar, chalcedony, cornelian,
etc., upon which the rude tools of the fellahs would not have worked, would
have become, for the amateurs in antiquities, the only pieces of
authentic origin; but the Jews of Cairo, also as rapacious and more
able than the Arabs, have engraved with the wheel, scarabs and amulets
denuded of legends; and finally have entirely counterfeited them,
so that all these little objects are now very much suspected, and
their appreciation to-day, demands understanding of the text much
more than knowledge of Egyptian art.

                        Not only the tourists, the people of leisure from Europe, who bring
back from all the classic lands some antiquities, in place of
observation and study, which are not sold; purchase these falsified
antiquities, but also people who pride themselves upon having a
knowledge of archæology, often buy them.

Most of the collections of the Museums of Europe contain, more or less,
objects fabricated in our day in Egypt. 'Luxor' says M. Mariette, 'is
a centre for fabrications in which scarabs, statuettes and even steles,
are imitated with an address which often leads astray the most instructed
antiquary.'"
Mr. Henry A. Rhind[111] writing in 1862 says: "There is now at Thebes an
arch-forger of scarabæi--a certain Ali Gamooni, whose endeavors, in the
manufacture of these much sought after relics, have been crowned with
the greatest success. * * Scarabæi of elegant and well finished descriptions,
are not beyond the range of this curious counterfeiter. These he makes
of the same material as the ancients used--a close-grained, easily cut
limestone--which, after it is cut into shape and lettered, receives a
greenish glaze by being baked on a shovel with brass filings. Ali not
content with closely imitating, has even aspired to the creative;
so antiquarians must be on their guard lest they waste their time and
learning, on antiquities of a very modern date."[112]
FOOTNOTES:

[110] _Collections d'Antiquités Égypt. au Caire_, p. 1 _et seq._
[111] Thebes; its Tombs and their Tenants, ancient and modern. London,
1862.

[112] _Ibid._, pp. 253-255. Comp. Gliddon, Indigenous Races, p. 192
note.

IX.

PHOENICIAN SCARABS. MANUFACTURED MOSTLY AS ARTICLE OF TRADE.
USED INSCRIBED SCARABS AS SEALS IN COMMERCIAL AND OTHER TRANSACTIONS.

                        MANY SCARABS FOUND IN SARDINIA.

Archæologists frequently find in lands bordering on the shores of the
Mediterranean sea, scarabs and scarabeoids, on which are engraved subjects
which are Egyptian, Chaldean, Assyrian, Hittite or Persian; they were
intended apparently to be used as signets, and were incised with short
inscriptions in Phoenician, and sometimes, in Aramaic or in Hebrew,
giving the name of the owner of the signet.

These had been mostly manufactured in their entirety, as articles of
trade, for sale by the ancient merchants of Tyre and Sidon, or they were
Egyptian, Assyrian or other originals upon which, Phoenician
lapidaries had engraved the name of the later Phoenician owner. In
spite of not being an artistic people producing works of originality,
this people, the great mariners and merchants of antiquity, had in
an eminent degree the genius of assimilation or adaptation, and
manufactured cylinders, cones, spheroids, scarabs and signets of
all kinds, at first for themselves, and afterwards as an article
of sale to the people with whom they traded.Black Hawk was yet more enraged when he
found, in April, 1831, that during the absence of himself and his people
from their village on a hunting expedition a fur-trader had purchased
from the government the ground on which the village stood, and was
preparing to cultivate the field upon which the Indians had for many
years raised their corn. This was in violation of the letter and spirit
of the treaty, which provided that the Indians could occupy their lands
until they were needed for settlement, and the frontier settlements were
yet fifty miles distant. War soon followed between the whites and
Indians, Abraham Lincoln, afterward President of the United States, being
enlisted as a volunteer. Colonel Zachary Taylor, afterward President, was
one of the officers in command of the United States troops. After
fighting with varied fortunes for several months, Black Hawk was defeated
with the loss of many warriors, and fled to a village of the Winnebagoes.
The latter escorted the fallen chieftain to the United States authorities
at Prairie du Chien. "Black Hawk is an Indian," said the captive warrior,
speaking in the third person. "He has done nothing an Indian need be
ashamed of. He has fought the battles of his country against the white
men, who come year after year to cheat them and take away their lands. He
will go to the world of spirits contented." Black Hawk was well treated
as a prisoner, taken to Washington to visit the President, and liberated
after peace had been made.

                        *          *          *

During Jackson's second term the American settlers in Texas succeeded,
after a conflict attended by signal heroism and ferocity, in securing
their independence of Mexico. The massacre of the Alamo by the Mexicans
under Santa Anna, will always be remembered in American history. The
Mission of the Alamo, which the Texans defended to the death against
overwhelming numbers, was entirely isolated from the town of San Antonio.
It consisted of several buildings, and a convent yard, surrounded by high
and thick walls, having partly, like all the old missions, the character
of a fortress. Fourteen pieces of artillery were mounted for the defence,
and the garrison, when it entered the Alamo, consisted of one hundred and
forty-five men, untrained in arms, except in the use of the rifle. Their
leader was Lieutenant Colonel William Barret Travis, a native of North
Carolina, and second in command was Colonel James Bowie, inventor of the
terrible bowie-knife. Santa Anna, the President of Mexico, was in
personal command of the attacking forces, numbering between 6000 and 7000
men. He declared that he would grant no quarter. The troops ordered to
the assault numbered 2500, or about twenty-five Mexicans to one American.
The deadly fire from the Alamo twice repelled the enemy, but they were
driven on by the blows and shouts of their officers, and at the third
attempt they scaled the wall, and carried the defences. While life lasted
the Texans fought. They had agreed to blow up the buildings in the last
extremity, but Major T. C. Evans, when about to fire the magazine, was
struck down by a bullet. Not a defender who could be found was spared.
Five Texans who had hidden themselves were taken before Santa Anna. At a
word from that monster of cruelty they were at once dispatched with
bayonets.

The Alamo was not long unavenged. The massacre took place on March 6,
1836. On April 21, the Texans, led by General Sam Houston, met the
Mexicans at San Jacinto. The Texans numbered 743; the Mexicans about
1400, with Santa Anna in command. Houston, by strategy worthy of greater
fame, had managed to come upon the Mexican President when the latter was
separated from the larger part of his forces. Determined to win or die,
Houston destroyed a bridge which afforded the only retreat for his men or
escape for the enemy. The Texans delivered one volley at close range, and
then clubbed their rifles or drew their bowie-knives, with the
cry--"Remember the Alamo!" In fifteen minutes the Mexicans were in
flight, pursued by the yelling Texans. "Me no Alamo! Me no Alamo!" cried
the terrified fugitives. The Texans did not stay their hands until they
had killed six hundred and thirty and wounded two hundred and eight of
their cowardly foes. The remainder of the Mexicans were allowed to
surrender, and were not maltreated as prisoners. Santa Anna was captured
while hiding in the grass at some distance from the battlefield, and
brought, a pallid and trembling captive, before Houston. The latter
spared the tyrant's life, and placed a guard to protect him. The battle
of San Jacinto virtually put an end to the war, and Texas remained the
Lone Star Republic, until admitted to the American Union in 1845.

                        *          *          *

This period witnessed also the successful assertion of American title to
that extensive and productive region now divided into the States of
Oregon, Washington and Idaho. President Jefferson had seen almost with
the vision of prophecy the future of that distant portion of the
Louisiana Purchase. "I looked forward with gratification," he said in his
later years, "to the time when the descendants of the settlers of Oregon
would spread themselves through the whole length of the coast, covering
it with free, independent Americans, unconnected with us but by the ties
of blood and interest, and enjoying, like us, the rights of
self-government." And yet, for forty years after the treaty which
transferred to the United States the possessions of France in America,
the leading statesmen of our republic, Jefferson excepted, remained blind
to the value of America's domain on the Pacific. In 1810, John Jacob
Astor's American Fur Company undertook to establish a post upon what they
regarded as American soil, at a place which the founders called Astoria.
The Hudson Bay Company then claimed Oregon as part of their territory,
and when the War of 1812 broke out the British attacked Astoria, took the
Americans prisoners, and changed the name of the post to Fort George. The
Astor attempt to found a settlement in Oregon was not without favorable
bearing on American claims to that territory, especially as the
enterprise had the sanction of the United States Government, and a United
States naval officer commanded the leading vessel in the expedition.
Under the treaty of Ghent, Astoria was to be restored to its original
owners, but it was not until 1846 that this act of justice was
consummated. In 1818 it was mutually agreed that each nation should
equally enjoy the privileges of all the bays and harbors on that coast
for ten years, and this agreement was renewed in 1827 for an indefinite
time. Practically this meant the occupation of the country by the Hudson
Bay Company, which found its forests and waters a mine of fur-bearing
wealth. The most eminent of America's statesmen, so far as the Pacific
Northwest was concerned, seemed to be under the spell of their own
ignorance and of the Hudson Bay Company's misrepresentations. The great
Senator Benton said that, "The ridge of the Rocky Mountains may be named
as a convenient, natural and everlasting boundary." Winthrop, of
Massachusetts, quoted and commended this statement of Benton, and
McDuffie of South Carolina declared that the wealth of the Indies would
be insufficient to pay the cost of a railroad to the mouth of the
Columbia. While the nation was stirred up over a boundary dispute
involving a comparatively small district in the Northeast--settled by the
Ashburton Treaty in 1842--Oregon, with its extensive territory and
magnificent natural wealth was treated as unworthy of controversy. But
for the patriot missionary, Marcus Whitman, who in the winter of 1842-43
made a perilous journey from his mission post in Oregon to Washington, to
stir up the American Government to a sense of its duty, and of the
imminent danger of the seizure of Oregon by the British, that valuable
region would in all probability have passed under British dominion. "All
I ask," said Doctor Whitman to President Tyler, "is that you won't barter
away Oregon or allow English interference until I can lead a band of
stalwart American settlers across the plains; for this I will try to do."
The President promised; the settlers went, and Oregon was saved.[1] For a
time it seemed that war might result, but the two nations at length
compromised on a boundary line at forty-nine north latitude.

      [1] It is sad to know that this patriot missionary and his admirable
      wife were massacred in 1847, with a number of other persons, at
      their mission station of Waiilatpwi by the very Indians they were
      educating. There is reason to believe the massacre was indirectly
      the result of Whitman's service to his country in rescuing Oregon
      from the Hudson Bay Company. The treaty of 1846 greatly irritated
      that powerful corporation, and this feeling inevitably spread to
      the Indians who depended upon the company for supplies, and who
      naturally sympathized with its policy of keeping the land for
      fur-bearing animals and savage humanity. It is unnecessary to
      suspect the company or the Roman Catholic missionaries attached to
      the company of any plot against Whitman's life. It was sufficient
      for the savages to know that the company hated Whitman, and that the
      American Protestant missionaries sought to convert them not only to
      Christianity, but also to industry.

During President Tyler's administration Rhode Island was the scene of a
commotion known as the "Dorr War." While the property qualification for
voters had been discarded in nearly every Northern State, Rhode Island
still adhered to the system of government provided in the King Charles
charter of 1663, which restricted the franchise to freeholders and their
eldest sons. This restriction gave occasion for many abuses, mortgagees
often exercising control over the votes of their debtors, and citizens
who paid taxes on mortgaged property being sometimes denied the privilege
of voting on the ground that they did not possess sufficient equity in
their estates. The majority of the people desired a frame of government
in accord with the spirit of American institutions, but were resisted by
the minority in actual power. The party of reform, therefore, held an
election in defiance of the charter, adopted a new constitution arid
chose Thomas W. Dorr governor, along with other general officers and a
General Assembly. The Dorr legislature met in a foundry and passed
various laws, which they had no power to enforce. The charter government
called out the militia, the Dorrites also took arms, and for some time
there was danger of a collision. The Dorrites were ultimately dispersed
without a battle, and the charter government remained in power. From a
sanitary standpoint it was a healthy war, as more people were probably
benefited by the outing than injured by bullets and bayonets.[2] Dorr was
afterward sentenced to State Prison for life, but was pardoned after a
few years, and his sentence expunged by vote of the legislature, from the
records of the court. A constitution embodying most of the reforms for
which the Dorrites had striven was legally adopted, and Rhode Island
settled down to its customary calm and prosperity.

      [2] The "Dorr war," however, was very real to the people of Rhode
      Island. About thirteen years ago the writer was present in the
      office of the clerk of a Rhode Island town, when an old lady
      entered, and told the clerk that she wanted to see the record of a
      deed. Upon being asked to indicate the probable date, she said it
      was "before the war." On inquiry by the clerk it appeared that she
      meant the "Dorr war."


CHAPTER XXXI.

War with Mexico--General Zachary Taylor Defeats the Mexicans--Buena
Vista--Mexicans Four to One--"A Little More Grape, Captain Bragg!"--
Glorious American Victory--General Scott's Splendid Campaign--A
Series of Victories--Cerro Gordo--Contreras--Churubusco--Molino del
Rey--Chapultepec--Stars and Stripes Float in the City of Mexico--
Generous Treatment of the Vanquished--Peace--Cession of Vast Territory
to the United States--The Gadsden Purchase.


The annexation of Texas by the United States was accepted by Mexico as an
act of war. The American Government and people were not unprepared for a
challenge from Mexico, and rather welcomed it, as, apart from the Texas
issue, Mexico had, from the time of her independence treated the United
States in a manner far from neighborly, and inflicted many injuries on
American citizens. In the West and South especially it was deemed
necessary to give Mexico a lesson; in New England the war was not
popular. Hostilities began, and two sharp battles were fought, before war
was actually declared. General Zachary Taylor, with a force much inferior
to that of the enemy, defeated the Mexicans at Palo Alto and Resaca de la
Palma, and drove them out of Texas. At Resaca the American dragoons under
Captain May charged straight upon a Mexican battery, killing the gunners
and capturing the Mexican general La Vega just as he was about to apply a
match to one of the pieces. The Mexican army was so completely scattered
that their commander Arista fled unaccompanied across the Rio Grande. At
Buena Vista Generals Taylor and Wool, with 5000 men, of whom only 500
were regular troops, confronted Santa Anna with 20,000, February 23,
1847. The Mexican chieftain expected an easy victory, and his army,
inspired with his confidence, rushed from their mountains upon the small
force of Americans drawn up in battle array on the plain of Angostura.

    "Like the fierce Northern hurricane
    That sweeps his great plateau,
    Flushed with the triumph yet to gain,
    Came down the serried foe.
    Who heard the thunder of the fray
    Break o'er the field beneath,
    Well knew the watchword of that day
    Was victory or death."[1]

      [1] "The Bivouac of the Dead."--_O'Hara._

The battle lasted all day, the American artillery being splendidly
handled, and mowing down the Mexicans at every charge. "Give 'em a little
more grape, Captain Bragg!" said Taylor quietly, as he saw Santa Anna's
lines wavering. The grape was given, and the Mexicans fled, leaving 500
of their number dead or dying on the field. The total Mexican loss,
including wounded and prisoners was about 2000; that of the Americans in
killed, wounded and missing, 746. This victory, and the successes of
Fremont and Kearney in California, completed the conquest of Northern
Mexico.

General Winfield Scott, who was in supreme command of all the American
forces, conducted a brilliant campaign from the coast. After taking Vera
Cruz and the castle of San Juan de Ulloa, General Scott advanced toward
the City of Mexico with about 10,000 men. At Cerro Gordo, a difficult
pass in the mountains, the American army encountered 12,000 Mexicans
under command of Santa Anna, who had, by extraordinary efforts, collected
this force after his defeat at Buena Vista. The battle was fought on
April 18, every movement of the American troops being directed, according
to a carefully prepared plan, by General Scott. Colonel Harvey led the
storming party into the pass, with a deep river on one side, and
batteries belching death from lofty rocks on the other side. The
Americans rushed forward with irresistible courage. They knew their
enemy. The Alamo had not been forgotten. Cerro Gordo fell, and the flight
of the Mexicans may best be described in the language of one of their own
historians: "General Santa Anna, accompanied by some of his adjutants,
was passing along the road to the left of the battery, when the enemy's
column, now out of the woods, appeared on his line of retreat and fired
upon him, forcing him back. The carriage in which he had left Jalapa was
riddled with shot, the mules killed and taken by the enemy, as well as a
wagon containing $16,000 received the day before for the pay of the
soldiers. Every tie of command and obedience now being broken among our
troops, safety alone being the object, and all being involved in a
frightful confusion, they rushed desperately to the narrow pass of the
defile that descended to the Plan del Rio, where the general-in-chief had
proceeded, with the chiefs and officers accompanying him. Horrid indeed
was the descent by that narrow and rocky path where thousands rushed,
disputing the passage with desperation, and leaving a track of blood upon
the road. All classes being confounded military distinction and respect
were lost; and badges of rank became marks of sarcasm. The enemy, now
masters of our camp, turned their guns upon the fugitives, thus
augmenting the terror of the multitude that crowded through the defile
and pressed forward every instant by a new impulse, which increased the
confusion and disgrace of that ill-fated day." Of the 12,000 Mexicans
engaged in this battle about 1200 were killed and wounded, and 3000 were
made prisoners. The captives were all paroled, and the sick and wounded
sent to Jalapa, where they were well cared for. The Castle of Perote, the
strongest fortress in Mexico, surrendered without resistance, and the
American flag was unfurled on the summit of the eastern Cordilleras.

After a rest at Puebla General Scott pushed on in the footsteps of
Cortes. Santa Anna, who would have equalled Napoleon or Caesar had his
ability and courage in the field been equal to his success in organizing
armies, made a stand with 32,000 Mexicans at Contreras and Churubusco.
The army of General Scott numbered about 9000 effective men. Both sides
knew that the battle to be fought would decide the fate of the City of
Mexico. On the nineteenth of August about one-half of the American army
attacked the fortified camp at Contreras, defended by nearly 7000
Mexicans, under General Valencia. Evening fell without victory for either
side. In the early morning, after a night of heavy rain, General P. F.
Smith, with three brigades of infantry, but without cavalry or artillery,
marched in the darkness up to the Mexican camp, discharged several
volleys in quick succession, and dashed, bayonet in hand, upon the enemy.
In fifteen minutes the Americans were victors, over 3000 Mexicans were
prisoners, and the rest of Valencia's troops were fugitives. The American
army gave the enemy no time to recover, but moved promptly forward to
more victories. The fort of San Antonio was captured, the garrison not
waiting to be attacked before taking to flight, and then began the battle
of Churubusco. This place is a small village, six miles south from the
City of Mexico, and connected with it by a spacious causeway. At the head
of the causeway, near the village, and in front of the bridge over the
Churubusco River, was a strong redoubt, mounted with batteries, and
occupied by a large force of Mexicans. The convent-church of San Pablo,
with its massive stone walls, was converted into a fort. The walls were
impervious to the attack of field pieces, and the building was defended
by a well-constructed bastion, and guns placed in the embrasure. The
church stood on an eminence, and the village which clustered about it was
defended by stone walls and a stone building, strongly fortified.

The Americans carried the redoubt at the point of the bayonet, and then a
desperate battle raged about the fortified village and church. From
behind their defences the Mexicans kept up a deadly fire on the
Americans, but the latter never faltered. The Mexicans made repeated
sallies from the convent, but were driven back every time. In their
desperation the native Mexicans desired to surrender, but some deserters
from the American army, known as the San Patricio companies, hauled down
the white flag whenever it was put up. At length after a three-hours'
struggle the convent and other defences were captured. In the rear of
Churubusco General James Shields and General Franklin Pierce, afterward
President of the United States, were hard pressed by an overwhelming
force of Mexicans, and in some danger. Timely reinforcements sent by
General Scott turned danger into victory, and the Mexicans, discomfited
on every side, gave way, and retreated in utter disorder toward the city
of Mexico, pursued by the triumphant Americans. It was the most glorious
day since Yorktown for American arms. The Mexican loss was nearly 4000
killed and wounded, besides 300 prisoners, thirty-seven cannon and a
large quantity of small arms and ammunition. The Americans lost 139
killed and 926 wounded.

Churubusco should have ended the war, and negotiations for peace were
commenced, but were broken off through Mexican bad faith. Hostilities
were resumed and the coup-de-grace was given to Mexico on the historic
hill of Chapultepec. The storming of El Molino del Rey, of the Casa de
Mata and the Castle of Chapultepec were among the boldest exploits of the
war. Chapultepec had been an ancient seat of the Aztec emperors. Rising
abruptly from the shore of Lake Tezcuco, crowned with a strongly
fortified castle, supported by numerous outworks and with several massive
stone buildings, each a fortress powerfully garrisoned, at the base, the
hill of Chapultepec seemed a very Gibraltar guarding the entrance to
Mexico's capital. El Molino del Rey and the Casa de Mata were carried by
storm on the eighth of September, the Mexicans leaving 1000 dead on the
field, beside 800 prisoners, and those who escaped death or capture
either flying in dismay from the scene or retreating up the hill to the
Castle of Chapultepec.

General Scott determined to batter down the castle with heavy cannon.
Robert E. Lee, afterward commander of the Confederate armies, was one of
the officers who placed the artillery in position. A continuous fire was
kept up during the first day (September 12), the solid shot and shell
crashing through the Castle and killing many of its defenders. Among
these were about one hundred young boys, from ten to sixteen years of
age, cadets in the Military Academy, which was situated on the hill of
Chapultepec. Several of the boys lost their lives fighting the Americans
with a valor that might well have put some of their elders to shame.
About fifty general officers were also in the Castle, and the whole
Mexican force engaged probably did not exceed 4000 men. It was the last
stand made by Mexican troops, and it was a brave stand. The weak and the
demoralized had slunk away from further conflict with an invincible foe.
The bombardment was resumed on the thirteenth, and troops moved to the
assault under cover of a heavy cannonade. The Mexicans fought
desperately, but they were no match for their antagonists. The Stars and
Stripes soon floated over Chapultepec, hailed with a mighty cheer by the
American troops, nearly all of whom had taken some part in the conflict.

On September 14 the American flag was hoisted in the City of Mexico, and
from the National Palace of that Republic General Scott issued a general
order in which, with justifiable pride, he declared: "Beginning with
August 10 and ending the fourteenth instant, this army has gallantly
fought its way through the fields and forts of Contreras, San Antonio,
Churubusco, Molino del Rey, Chapultepec and the gates of San Cosme and
Tacubaya into the capital of Mexico. When the very limited number who
have performed these brilliant deeds shall have become known, the world
will be astonished and our own countrymen filled with joy and
admiration." The triumphs of Scott and Taylor added lustre to American
arms which time will not efface. They recalled the exploits of Cortes and
Pizarro, save in the scrupulous honor and humanity which guided every
step of the American invasion. No victors were ever more generous in
their treatment of the conquered. "The soldiers of Vera Cruz," says a
Mexican historian, "received the honor due to their valor and
misfortunes. Not even a look was given them by the enemy's soldiers which
could be interpreted into an insult." The Duke of Wellington, the
conqueror of Napoleon, followed Scott's campaign with deep interest and
caused its movements to be marked on a map daily, as information was
received. Admiring its triumphs up to the basin of Mexico, Wellington
then said: "Scott is lost. He has been carried away by successes. He
can't take the city, and he can't fall back on his base." Wellington
proved to be wrong. He had never met American troops.

The treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo, concluded February 2, 1848, established
the Rio Grande as the boundary between the United States and Mexico, and
California and New Mexico, including what is now Arizona, were ceded to
the United States for $15,000,000. The United States also assumed the
payment of obligations due by Mexico to American citizens to the amount
of $3,250,000, and discharged Mexico from all claims of citizens of the
United States against that Republic. Strict provision was made for the
preservation of the rights of the inhabitants of the ceded territory. The
Gadsden Purchase, in 1853--so called from General James Gadsden, who
conducted the negotiations in behalf of the United States--added 45,535
square miles of Mexican territory to the United States, for which this
country paid $10,000,000, Mexico at the same time relinquishing claims
against the United States for Indian depredations amounting to from
$15,000,000 to $30,000,000. The American Republic thus received in all,
as a consequence of the Mexican War, 591,398 square miles, and the Union
acquired its present boundaries, exclusive of Alaska. The Mexican War
gave to the United States the Pacific as well as the Atlantic seaboard,
and completed the westward movement which had begun with the very birth
of the Republic. It made the United States the great power of the
American continent, seated between the two oceans, with a domain
unequalled in natural resources by any other region of the world.


CHAPTER XXXII.

The Union in 1850--Comparative Population of Cities and Rural Districts
--Agriculture the General Occupation--Commercial and Industrial
Development--Growth of New York and Chicago--The Southern States--
Importance of the Cotton Crop--Why the South Was Sensitive to
Anti-Slavery Agitation--Manufactures--Religion and Education,--The
Cloud on the Horizon.


Approaching that period of civil discord, followed by civil war, which
has left its impress in every corner of the Union, and which was attended
by radical changes in the Constitution and the institutions of our
country, it may be well to review the material condition of the States
when the forces of freedom and slavery began to gather for the great
conflict, first in the forum and later in the field. In 1850 the United
States had a population of 23,191,876, of whom 3,204,313 were slaves.
Only 4,000,000 of the people lived in cities, towns and villages, and of
these but 2,860,000 resided in 140 cities and towns of more than 10,000
inhabitants each. Of the total real and personal property in the United
States more than two-thirds was owned by the rural population, and the
value of manufactures was insignificant, compared with the products of
agriculture. One leading aim of American statesmanship and enterprise had
been, from a very early period, to connect the great lakes and the
fertile valleys of the middle and western States with the cities and
ports along the Atlantic seaboard; to improve navigation of the rivers,
and thus bring into cultivation the valuable tracts of country along
their banks; and, as a part of this great work, to connect with each
other, by railways and canals, the towns and villages in the more
densely-peopled and cultivated districts. To carry out the general
design, vast sums were lavished and expensive works constructed, in many
instances far in advance of any ascertained requirements of the country,
and certainly with little prospect of an early return for the
expenditure. But in the meantime the most apparently hopeless of these
works conferred important benefits upon the mass of the community, by
developing sources of wealth which might otherwise have been closed for
years, and providing new spheres for the restless and indomitable energy
of the American.

While the agricultural portion of the American people were extending the
area of their location, and laying under the Constitution new and vast
sources of wealth, the cities and towns also grew apace under the impulse
of commercial and industrial development. No country in the world, Great
Britain not excepted, succeeded more signally in directing its natural
advantages to the promotion of commerce. The abundance of water power was
utilized for manufactures of every description. Machinery of the most
perfect kind was applied to every process, economizing labor,
facilitating locomotion and aiding in surmounting those difficulties
which had ever impeded the progress of young nations. Nowhere was the
gigantic power of steam more abundantly and usefully employed--in the
mine and in the mill, on the rivers and lakes, the canals and the
railroads, doing the work of millions of hands and of human and animal
sinews, without creating a vacuum in the market for labor, or diminishing
the rewards of industry. From 1830 to 1840, a period of only ten years,
the increase in the population of twenty of the largest cities in the
United States, from New York to St. Louis inclusive, was fifty-five per
cent, and this in face of the most disastrous commercial panic that had
ever visited the country, and this marvelous rate of increase was fully
maintained during the subsequent decade.

It is not remarkable that the cities and States of the Union which first
took steps to connect the fertile regions lying beyond the Allegheny
Mountains with the Atlantic should have made the greatest progress in
importance and prosperity. It was the fortune of the State of New York to
take the earliest step to effect this great desideratum, although
Washington had perhaps first suggested its importance, in agitating a
movement for the purpose of connecting the country adjoining the Great
Lakes with his native Virginia. The construction of the Erie Canal placed
New York in the very front of American communities. Before the canal was
opened the cost of transit from Lake Erie to tidewater was such as to
prohibit the shipment of western produce and merchandise to New York; and
it consequently came only to Baltimore and Philadelphia. "As soon as the
lakes were reached," says a Federal report, "the line of navigable water
was extended through them nearly one thousand miles farther from the
interior. The Western States immediately commenced the construction of
similar works, for the purpose of opening a communication from the more
remote portions of their territories with this great water-line. All
these works took their direction and character from the Erie Canal, which
in this manner became the outlet for the greater part of the produce of
the West. Without such a work the West would have had no attractions for
a settler, and have probably remained a waste up to the present time; and
New York itself could not have progressed as it has done." In addition,
however, to the formation of the Erie Canal, New York originated, in
advance of most other States, lines of railway throughout its territory,
in connection either with the canal, or between its various towns and
settlements. It also connected itself by railroad with Lake Champlain,
and succeeded in diverting a considerable portion of the transit trade of
Canada from the St. Lawrence through these communications to the port of
New York. The effect of this enterprise displayed by the people and by
the State may be estimated by the fact that the population, which was, in
1830, 1,918,608, had increased in 1840 to 2,428,921, and in 1850 was
3,097,394. In 1830, the value of the imports at New York was $38,656,064;
in 1840 it had reached $60,064,942, and in 1851, when the network of
railway communications throughout the State had come into fairly complete
operation, the value of imports was $144,454,616.

Under the influence of railroad and canal Chicago also made swift and
wonderful progress. In May, 1848, a canal one hundred miles in length was
opened to connect Lake Michigan with the Illinois River, and the first
section of a railway from Chicago to the westward was opened in March,
1849. Previously to these works being brought into operation it appears
from the city census of 1847 that the population was 16,859; in 1850, it
had sprung to 29,963, and in August, 1852 it was estimated at nearly, if
not quite, 40,000, having thus considerably more than doubled itself in
five years.

The efforts of the Southern States to attract toward their ports the
produce of the West, by way of the magnificent rivers which empty
themselves into the Gulf of Mexico, rivalled those made by the North. The
prosperity of these States was greatly promoted by the growing demand for
cotton in America and Europe. In the thirty-one years from 1821 to 1852,
there had been an increase of 3,000,000 bales in the growth, which
multiplied itself during that period seven-fold! The importance of this
crop as an element of wealth may be estimated from the fact that the
census value of it in 1849-50 was $112,000,000; that its cultivation and
preparation for market employed upward of 800,000 agricultural laborers,
85 per cent of whom were slaves and the residue (120,000) white citizens;
that upward of 120,000 tons of steam shipping, and at least 7000 persons
were engaged in its transportation from the interior to the southern
ports, and that after remunerating merchants, factors, underwriters and a
host of other persons it furnished profitable freight for 1,100,000 tons
of American shipping, and 55,000 seamen in the Gulf and Atlantic coasting
trade, and for 800,000 tons and 40,000 seamen for its transport to Europe
and elsewhere. As the Southern people generally believed that cotton
could not be cultivated without the labor of slaves it is easy to
understand why they were sensitive to every agitation, however slight,
that seemed to threaten that source of wealth, and how their
sensitiveness grew as cotton's empire extended.

Manufactures were also in a flourishing condition, and it was estimated
in 1852, that the capital embarked in the cotton manufactories of the
United States was at least $80,000,000; that the value of the products
was $70,000,000; that 100,000 male and female operatives were employed,
and that quite 700,000 bales of cotton, worth at least $35,000,000, were
spun and woven. America possessed, also, a number of woolen
manufactories, which employed about the same period 39,252 hands.

The American people, then as now, believed in religion and education as
the corner-stones of liberty's temple. The population of 23,000,000 in
1850 had 36,221 churches and chapels, with accommodation for 13,967,449
persons--a large accommodation for a new country whose population had
spread so rapidly over so extensive an area. Of the youth nearly
4,000,000 were receiving instruction in the various educational
institutions. The teachers numbered 115,000, and colleges and schools
nearly 100,000. America had upward of seventy theological schools;
forty-four medical and surgical schools; nineteen schools of law, and ten
schools of practical science and extensive libraries were attached to
nearly all of these institutions.

Never had the future of our nation seemed more promising than at the very
time when the cloud of slavery began to darken the bright horizon,
gradually overspreading the heavens until it burst in the storm of
secession.


The Slavery Conflict.


CHAPTER XXXIII.

Aggressiveness of Slavery--The Cotton States and Border States--The
Fugitive Slave Law--Nullified in the North--Negroes Imported from
Africa--The Struggle in Kansas--John Brown--Abraham Lincoln Pleads for
Human Rights--Treason in Buchanan's Cabinet--Citizens Stop Guns at
Pittsburg--Conditions at the Beginning of the Struggle--Southern
Advantages--The Soldiers of Both Armies Compared--Conscription in the
Confederacy--Southern Resources Limited--The North at a Disadvantage at
First, but Its Resources Inexhaustible--Conscription in the North--
Popular Support of the War--Unfriendliness of Great Britain and
France--Why They Did Not Interfere.


Slavery could not stand still. The Cotton States, so-called, which
suffered least from the escape of slaves were the most aggressive in
demanding a Fugitive Slave Law, while the Border States, where escapes
were frequent, were not nearly as aggressive as their Southern neighbors.
Attachment to slavery in the Cotton States had become a passion,
springing from self-interest, but stronger than self-interest; while in
the Border States the slaveholders were affected by propinquity to free
communities, and the calculations of self-interest were softened by their
surroundings; which shows, like many another chapter in history, that in
the mighty impulses which guide the destinies of nations, the heart is
above the head. The advocates of slavery felt insecure because they knew
that even if legally right they were divinely and humanly wrong. They
were not satisfied to have the Free States acquiescent and even
submissive; they were determined, in their fever of unrest, to drive
freedom to the wall, and to make the people of the North slave-catchers,
if they would not consent to be slave-owners.

The South had the Constitution on its side, and the Fugitive Slave Law
could be met only by obedience or nullification. The Northern people
simply decided to nullify the law. They did not meet in State
conventions--like South Carolina in 1832--and declare the law void and of
no effect. They were too sensible for that; but they would not obey the
law. It was nullified in various ways. In Rhode Island, for instance, it
was made a crime for an officer of the State to arrest a fugitive slave;
in Ohio the ordinary statute against kidnappers was used to punish
Federal officers and others attempting to carry slaves back into bondage,
and in New York and other States mob law interfered to rescue and
liberate the victims. The Fugitive Slave Law roused the spirit of
freedom, and Northern defiance of the law inflamed the slaveholders. The
Kansas-Nebraska bill, menacing the free States with a slave barrier West
as well as South, and stretching to the Pacific as well as the Gulf, made
civil war almost inevitable. Compromise became cowardice, and everyone
who was not for freedom was against it. The Supreme Court of the United
States supported the contentions of the slaveholders, but in vain for
their cause. That higher tribunal--the conscience of a free and
intelligent people--arraigned slavery as a crime against God and man, the
Constitution and the Supreme Court to the contrary notwithstanding. When
Chief Justice Taney held that Dred Scott was not a citizen of Missouri,
but a thing, and could be carried by his master from one State to
another, like a dog or a watch, and still be a slave, the Chief Justice
only immortalized his own infamy; he did not immortalize slavery. Still
greater was the shock when in defiance of the Constitution and the laws
the foreign slave trade was resumed, and negroes imported from Africa to
the South. It is only just to state that, according to recently published
narratives of these slave importations, with details that could not have
been related at the time with safety for the parties concerned, the
Federal authorities in the South seem to have made a sincere effort to
bring the slave-traders to justice, and the planters apparently did not
welcome the traffic.

The pioneers of the great struggle to come met on the plains of Kansas
and several years of fierce border strife ended in victory for freedom.
John Brown, whom the world calls a fanatic, perished on the scaffold at
Harper's Ferry in a vain attempt to liberate the slaves, and while
editors vacillated and quibbled, and fawning time servers applauded,
Thoreau, from his hermitage in the New England woods, paid eloquent
tribute to the man who dared to die for the truth. Away in the West a
figure was looming up, a gaunt, homely figure, born in and nurtured in
hardship, but endowed as no other man of his age was endowed, with the
ability to guide his country through the awful ordeal to come. He
perceived the right, and he boldly declared it. "If it is decreed that I
should go down because of this speech, then let me go down linked to the
truth--let me die in the advocacy of what is just and right," said
Abraham Lincoln to the friends who disapproved his celebrated declaration
that the government could not endure half slave, half free. "In the right
to eat the bread without the leave of anybody else, which his own hand
earns, he (the negro) is my equal, and the equal of Judge Douglas, and
the equal of every living man"--was another sterling utterance which
struck home to the North.

While Lincoln was pleading the cause of human rights, and asserting that
the Declaration of Independence was meant for black as well as white,
members of President Buchanan's cabinet, holding in their grasp the reins
of National Government, were plotting the nation's overthrow. Even down
to the very moment that John B. Floyd left the War Office, and when South
Carolina was already in rebellion, this plotting was continued. As late
as the beginning of January, 1861, an attempt was made under an order
from Floyd to remove one hundred and fifty cannon from the Allegheny
Arsenal, at Pittsburg, to the South, to be used against the Union. "Our
people are a unit that not a gun shall be shipped South," said the
_Dispatch_ of that city, and without violence, without the shedding of a
drop of blood or the drawing of a weapon against national authority, the
citizens obtained the reversal of the order, and the guns, some of which
were already under convoy to the wharf, were returned to the arsenal. The
"Rebellion Records," published by the government, should not begin with
1861. They should go back to the time when the plot originated to strip
the national arsenals for the benefit of the nation's enemies, to disarm
the Union that it might fall a prey to secession. This was the treason
which should never be forgotten. The men who fought bravely and openly in
the field for the Confederate cause can be respected for their sincerity
and honored for their valor; but not so with the men who before the war
violated their trust as guardians and armor bearers of the Union to
betray the nation to its conspiring foes.

                        *          *          *

The conditions at the beginning of the war were much more favorable to
the South than a mere comparison of population would indicate. The loyal
States had a population of 23,000,000; the seceded States 8,000,000, of
whom about one-half were slaves. These slaves counted, however, for about
as much effective strength as if they had been whites, for the soil had
to be cultivated, the armies fed, fortifications built and other
necessary services performed, and the negroes, while all who were bright
enough to understand the situation wished for the success of the Union,
worked for their masters faithfully, as a rule, until the approach of the
national armies gave an opportunity to escape. Besides, the negroes in
attendance on the Confederate troops performed many duties to which on
the Northern side soldiers were assigned, and in this way the blacks were
useful in even a strictly military sense. In short, the negroes did
everything for the Confederacy but fight for it, and this, too, although
they loved the blue uniform, and gave loyal assistance to the Union
troops whenever occasion offered. The Southern forces, it should also be
remembered, were on their own ground. They knew every thicket and road
and stream; they had the sympathy of the white, as well as the service of
the black inhabitants. They were led by a brilliant group of commanders
whom Jefferson Davis, when Secretary of War, had brought together
probably with this object in view, and they were thoroughly armed and
equipped at the expense of the very government against which they were
contending. It is needless to say that no better soldiers ever bore rifle
or sabre than the men of the Southern Confederacy. They were, like most
of their northern antagonists, Americans of the same blood as those who
carried the redoubts at Yorktown and stormed the hill of Chapultepec, and
their courage in the Civil War fully maintained the prestige gained in
battle against alien foes. In intelligence, or at least in education,
however, the rank and file of the Confederate armies were inferior to the
native Americans in the Union armies. The Confederate troops captured at
Vicksburg were no doubt equal to the average, and of the 27,000 men then
made prisoners and paroled two-thirds made their marks, not being able to
write their names. This is not so surprising when it is remembered that
there was no common school system in the South before the war, and that
the "twenty-negro law," exempting the owner of twenty negroes from
conscription, excused from military service the class which had an
opportunity to be educated, and which also had most at stake in the
contest.

Before the close of the war, however, all exemptions in the Confederacy
were virtually swept away, and the government enlisted every one able to
bear a musket, from the boy hardly in his teens to the old man tottering
to the grave. Those not able to go to the front did duty in the rear, and
the whole male population, excepting cripples and children, was in the
ranks, or the civil service. If any escaped the net of conscription they
were likely to be caught in the round-up made every now and then after
the fashion of the old English press-gang, when all who happened to be in
sight were gathered in, and sent to the army, unless they clearly proved
a title to freedom. In one of these round-ups, says Jones, in his "Diary
of a Rebel War Clerk"--the Postmaster-General of the Confederacy, John H.
Reagan, was carried along with the rest, and detained for some time
before released. Thus the prophecy of Houston was strikingly fulfilled.
Of course, the refugees and deserters, of whom there were a very large
number in the swamps and woods of the South, are excepted from the
statement that the whole population was in arms for the Confederate
cause.

                        *          *          *

In the beginning of the war the North was at a disadvantage. Mr. Lincoln
found the little army of the United States scattered and disorganized,
the navy sent to distant quarters of the globe, the treasury bankrupt and
the public service demoralized. Floyd and his fellow-conspirators had
done their work thoroughly. It did not take long for the people of the
North to rally to the defence of the government, and for an army to be
formed capable not only of defending the loyal States, but of striking a
blow at the Confederacy. With the National credit restored, an abundance
of currency provided for national needs, and the public departments
cleared of Southern sympathizers, the North entered upon a conflict which
could have but one ending should the North remain steadfast.

The weakness of the South, from a military standpoint, was in the fact
that men lost could not be replaced. The North could replenish its
depleted armies; the South could not. With men therefore of the same race
and equal in soldierly qualities arrayed against each other, one side
within measurable distance of exhaustion and the other with inexhaustible
human resources to draw upon, the war became an easy sum in arithmetic,
provided the stronger party should not cry "enough" before the weaker had
reached the exhaustion point. The battles on comparatively equal terms
were fought, therefore, in the early part of the war, the decisive
battles in 1863, and the closing struggle between the gasping Confederacy
and the Union stronger than ever, in the last fifteen months of the
conflict.

In the North, notwithstanding the immense armies put in the field, there
never was a time except in brief periods of riot and disorder, when the
usual bustle of humanity was absent from the cities and towns. Commerce
and industry went on with accustomed activity. While Southern cities
looked like garrisoned graveyards the North had never worn a busier or
more prosperous appearance. With such a large population there should
have been no reason for conscription, but when conscription was deemed
requisite, there ought to have been no exemption on the ground of wealth.
Every able-bodied drafted man ought to have been obliged to serve,
without the privilege of a substitute, and no money payment should have
secured release from service. The obligation to defend the country rests
upon all, but if there is any distinction, the rich man has more interest
in protecting the government which shields him and his possessions from
danger than the poor man. European nations make no exemption on account
of wealth or position, and the American Republic certainly should not
have given such an example.

The people of the North, however, with comparatively few but very
troublesome exceptions, gave earnest and enthusiastic support to the
National Government. Committees were formed everywhere to aid the armies
in the field, to provide for the wounded and the sick and to assist the
families of absent soldiers. In the darkest days of the struggle the
people never lost faith in the ultimate triumph of the Union. While
statesmen and editors professing to be superior to their fellows in
knowledge and foresight saw only the gloomy side and predicted the defeat
and downfall of the Republic, the popular heart was true and confident
and courageous. Upon the people's arms Lincoln could always lean in times
of severest trial and anxiety, assured of comfort, support and strength.

                        *          *          *

The unfriendliness of Great Britain and France was a most serious and
ever-present danger to the United States throughout the whole period of
the war, and was prolific of injury to American interests. From the
first Great Britain showed a conscious unfriendly purpose. That
government privately proposed to France, even before Queen Victoria's
proclamation recognizing the insurgents as belligerents, to open direct
negotiations with the South, and the British Legation at Washington was
used for secret communications with the Confederate President. When the
Confederate agents, James M. Mason and John Slidell and their secretaries,
were taken from the British mail-steamer Trent by Captain Wilkes, of the
American warship San Jacinto, the course of the British Cabinet indicated
an unfriendliness so extreme as to approach a desire for war. Peremptory
instructions were sent to Lord Lyons, the British Minister at Washington,
to demand the release of the men arrested, and to leave Washington if the
demand was not complied with in seven days. Vessels of war were fitted
out by the British, and troops pressed forward to Canada. The official
statement of the American Minister at London that the act had not been
authorized by the American Government was kept from the British people,
and public opinion was encouraged to drift into a state of hostility
toward the United States. The surrender of Mason and Slidell removed all
excuse for war, much to the disgust, doubtless, of the ruling class in
Great Britain. Leading English statesmen made public speeches favoring
the Confederacy. Lord Russell, himself, the Secretary of State for
Foreign Affairs, stated in the House of Lords that the subjugation of the
South by the North "would prove a calamity to the United States and to
the world." The Alabama and other privateers went forth from British
ports to prey on American commerce, and the builder of the Alabama was
cheered in the House of Commons when he boasted of what he had done. Even
Mr. Gladstone--before Vicksburg and Gettysburg--declared that "the
restoration of the American Union by force is unattainable."

Napoleon the Third--that crow in the eagle's nest--was cordially with
Great Britain in all efforts to injure the American Union. He had long
cherished the design to establish a vassal empire in Mexico, and in our
Civil War he saw his opportunity. A Southern Confederacy would form a
grand barrier between a Franco-Mexican dominion and the United States,
and while the French emperor treated the government at Washington with
diplomatic courtesy, he never ceased to exert his influence in favor of
the South, so far as he could, without an actual rupture. Napoleon was
ready and anxious to recognize the Confederacy, and he only waited for
the South to win victories that would give him an excuse for action. "His
course toward us," says Bigelow, "from the beginning to the end of the
plot was deliberately and systematically treacherous, and his ministers
allowed themselves to be made his pliant instruments."[1] General Grant
declared at City Point, in 1864, that as soon as we had disposed of the
Confederates we must begin with the Imperialists, and after Appomattox he
expressed the opinion that the French intervention in Mexico was so
closely allied to the rebellion as to be a part of it.

      [1] France and the Confederate Navy.

Neither England nor France interfered directly in behalf of the South.
Louis Napoleon waited for England to act, and the British Cabinet felt
that the British masses would not justify a war in defence of slavery.
The American Government, while it met with firm and dignified protest
Great Britain's disregard of international obligations, was careful to
abstain from giving any excuse for British hostility. "One war at a
time," said Abraham Lincoln, in deciding to surrender Mason and Slidell.
But Americans kept careful account of every item of outrage on the part
of England, and in due time the bill was presented--and paid. And in due
time also Napoleon was told to go out of Mexico--and he went.


CHAPTER XXXIV.

The Confederate Government Organized--Fort Sumter--President Lincoln
Calls for 75000 Men--Command of the Union Forces offered to Robert E.
Lee--Lee Joins the Confederacy--Missouri Saved to the Union--Battle of
Bull Run--Union Successes in the West--General Grant Captures Fort
Donelson--"I Have No Terms but Unconditional Surrender"--The Monitor and
Merrimac Fight--Its World-Wide Effect--Grant Victorious at Shiloh--Union
Naval Victory Near Memphis--That City Captured--General McClellan's
Tactics--He Retreats from Victory at Malvern Hill--Second Bull Run
Defeat--Great Battle of Antietam--Lee Repulsed, but Not Pursued--
McClellan Superseded by Burnside--Union Defeat at Frederickburg--
Union Victories in the West--Bragg Defeated by Rosecrans at Stone River
--The Emancipation Proclamation.


The new Confederate Government was organized at Montgomery, Ala.,
February 4, 1861, by delegates from South Carolina, Mississippi, Florida,
Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana and Texas. Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi,
was elected President and Alexander H. Stephens, of Georgia,
Vice-President. The border States, which would be the battlefield of war,
still hoped for peace, and hesitated to yield to the importunities of
those who had already crossed the Rubicon. In Charleston harbor, the
American flag floated over a little fortress called Sumter, so named
after the "South Carolina Gamecock" of the Revolution, and commanded by
Major Robert Anderson. In the gray of the morning on April 12, the
Confederate batteries opened fire on the fort. For nearly two days the
Stars and Stripes waved defiantly amid the storm of shot and shell. Then
further resistance being useless and hopeless, the brave garrison
evacuated the fort, carrying away the flag which they had so resolutely
defended. Two days later President Lincoln called for 75,000 men to put
down armed resistance to national authority. The North sprang to arms,
and from East and West regiments started on their way to Washington. The
governors of Arkansas, Tennessee, Kentucky, North Carolina, Virginia and
Missouri declined to obey the call of the President, and the secession of
all these States from the Union followed, except Kentucky and Missouri.
On April 17, the Virginia Convention passed the Ordinance of Secession.
President Lincoln had desired to give the command of the troops to be
called into the field to Colonel Robert E. Lee, of the First United
States Cavalry, but that officer declined to accept the offer, resigned
his commission, and joined the Confederacy. It should be needless to say
that the qualities displayed by Lee, at the head of the Army of Northern
Virginia, amply justified President Lincoln's measure of his capacity.
The seat of the Confederate Government was removed from Montgomery to
Richmond, and the latter city was thenceforward the headquarters of the
rebellion.

Of the other border States Maryland remained in the Union, and Kentucky,
after an attempt to maintain an impossible neutrality, yielded to the
influence of mountain air, and espoused the cause of freedom. Missouri's
disloyal government sought to drag the State into secession, but Francis
Preston Blair, a lawyer of St. Louis, and Captain Nathaniel Lyon,
commandant of the United States Arsenal in that city, took vigorous
action against the rebel sympathizers, and saved the State to the Union.
The German element in Missouri was so loyal to the old flag that
"Unionist" and "Dutchman" were synonymous terms in that region during the
war. Captain Lyon, promoted to brigadier-general, was defeated and killed
at the battle of Wilson Creek. It is believed that he resolved to win the
battle or die. Of such stuff were the men who rescued the Southwest.

The battle of Bull Run, when General Joseph E. Johnston, commanding the
Confederates, defeated General McDowell with serious loss, and sent the
Union army in disorderly retreat toward Washington, taught the Northern
people that the war was not a parade, and that the overthrow of the
Confederacy would tax all the energies of the loyal States. Fortunately,
General George H. Thomas won an important victory for the Union at Mill
Spring, Kentucky, in January, 1862, and the capture of Fort Henry and
Fort Donelson, in the following month, by General Ulysses S. Grant, aided
by Commodore Foote and his gunboats, tended to efface the depression
caused by defeat in Virginia. General Grant's reply to the Confederate
General Buckner, when the latter wished to make terms for the surrender
of Fort Donelson, was on every tongue in the North. "I have no terms but
unconditional surrender. I propose to move immediately upon your works,"
was a message that spoke the man. Nearly sixteen thousand prisoners were
captured. They belonged mostly to the working classes of Missouri,
Tennessee and Arkansas.

                        *          *          *

John Ericsson's Monitor, in March, 1862, sent a thrill of relief and joy
through the North by its wonderful victory over the Merrimac. The
Confederates cut down a United States frigate at the Norfolk navy yard,
and transformed it into an ironclad ram, with a powerful beak. This
monster they sent against the Union fleet of wooden warships in Hampton
Roads. Broadsides had no effect on the Merrimac. The floating fortress
attacked the Cumberland, ramming that vessel, and breaking a great hole
in its side. The Cumberland sank with all on board. The Congress was
driven aground and compelled to surrender. Then the monster rested for
the night, intending to continue its mission of destruction on the
morrow. I have always been called a dreamer, but the habit has grown
since I came to this lovely unreal land of yours."
"Have you the intention to take it from us, Ex- cellency?" she asked
quietly.

"Would you betray me if you thought I had?"
Her eyes responded for a moment to the mag- netism of his, and then
she drew herself up.

"No, senor, I could not betray a man who had been our guest, and
Spain needs no assistance from a weak girl to hold her own against
Russia."
"Well said! I kiss your hands, as they say in Vienna. But we must sail
again. I told them to be ready at three o'clock."
Dalliance with the most alluring girl he had ever known was all very well,
but the day's work was not yet done. When they returned to the ship he
deliberately engaged all the Spaniards in a game of cards, ordered
cigarettes and a bowl of punch for their refreshment, and then the Juno
steered south.

                        

They sailed swiftly past Nuestra Senorita de los Angeles and the eastern
side of Alcatraz, Rezanov sweeping every inch with his glass; more slowly
past the peninsula where it came down in a succes- sion of rough hills
almost in a straight line from the Presidio, ascending to a high outpost
of solid rock, whence it turned abruptly to the south in a waving line
of steep irregular cliffs, harsh, barren, intersected with gullies. Then
the land became sud- denly as flat as the sea, save for the shifting
dunes:
the desert porch of the great fertile valley hidden from the water
by the waves of sand, but indicated by its rampart of mountains. The
shallow water curved abruptly inward between the rocky mass on the right
and a gentler incline and point two miles below. At its head was the
"Battery of Yerba Buena," facing the island from which it took its name.
Rezanov scrupulously kept his word and did not raise his glass, but one
contemptuous glance satisfied his curiosity. His eye rolled over the
steep hills that were designed to bristle with forts, and, as
sometimes happened, when he spoke again to Concha, whom he kept
close to his side, for the other girls bored him, his words did not
express the work- ings of his mind.

"Athens has no finer site than this," he said. "I should like to see a
white marble city on these hills, and on that plain, when all the
sand dunes are leveled. Not in our time, perhaps! But, as I told you, I
have surrendered myself to the habit of dreaming."
Concha shrugged her shoulders and made no re- ply at the moment. As
they sailed toward the east before turning south again, she pointed
across the great silvery sheet of water melting into the misty southern
horizon, to a high ridge of mountains that looked to be a continuation
of the San Bruno range behind the Mission, but slanting farther
west with the coast line.

"Those are behind our rancho, senor--Rancho El Pilar, or Las Pulgas,
as some prefer. Perhaps my father will take you there. I hope so, for
we love to go, and may not too often; my father is very busy here. He
is one of the few that has received a large grant of land, and it is
because the clergy love him so much they oppose his wish in nothing.
Do you see those sharp points against the sky? They are the tops of lofty
trees, like the masts of giant ships, and with many rigid arms spiked
like the pines.

                        You saw a few of them in the hollow below Tamal- pais, but up on
those mountains there are miles and miles of mighty forests.

No white man has ever penetrated them, nor ever will, perhaps.
We have no use for them, and even if you made this your kingdom, senor, I
suppose not many would come with you. Far, far down where the water
stops are the Mission of Santa Clara and the pueblo of San Jose;
but I have heard you cannot approach within many miles of the
land in a boat."
When they had sailed south for a few moments the boat came about sharply.
Concha laughed. "I had forgotten the chart. I rather hoped you would run
on a shoal."
But as they approached the cove of Yerba Buena again she caught his arm
suddenly, unconscious of the act, and the little dancing lights of
humor in her eyes went out. "Your white city, senor! Ay, Dios!
what a city of dreams that can never come true!"
The soft white fog that sometimes, even at this season, came in from the
sea, was rolling over the hills between the Battery and the Presidio,
wreath- ing about the rocky heights and slopes. It broke into domes and
cupolas, spires and minarets. Great waves rolled over the sand dunes and
beat upon the cliffs with the phantoms clinging to its sides.

Then the sun struggled with a thousand colors.
The sun conquered, the mist shimmered into sun- light, and once more
the hills were gray and bare.

Rezanov laughed, but his eyes glowed down upon her. "I am not sure
it was there," he said. "I have an idea your imagination and touch acted
as a sort of enchanter's wand. The others evidently saw nothing."
"The others saw only fog and shivered. But it was there, senor! We have
had a vision. A Rus- sian city! Ay, yi!"
But Rezanov had forgotten the city. Her reboso had fallen and a strand
of her hair blew across his face. His lips caught it and his eyes
burned. They rounded a headland and the world looked green and young.

"Concha!" he whispered.

Her eyes flashed and melted, she lifted her chin; then burst into a
merry ripple of laughter.

"Senor!"

she said, "if you make love to me, I shall have to compare you with many
others, and I might not like the Russian fashion. You are much better as
you are--very grand seigneur, iron- handed and absolute, haughty and
arrogant, but the most charming person in the world, with ends to
gain, even from such humble folk as a handful of stranded Californians.
But to sigh! to languish with the eye! to sing at the grating! I fear
that the lightest headed of the caballeros you despise could transcend you
in all."
"Very likely! I have not the least intention of sighing or languishing
or singing at gratings.

      But if we were alone I certainly should kiss you."

                        But her eyes did not melt again at the vision.

She flushed hotly with annoyance. "I am a child to you! Were it not that
I have read a few books, you would find me but a year older than Ana
Paula. Well! Regard me as a child and do not attempt to flirt with me
again. Shall it be so?"
"As you wish!" Rezanov looked at her half in resentment, half wistfully,
then shrugged his shoulders, and called to Davidov to steer for the
anchorage. She was quite right; and on the whole he was grateful to
her.

XIII
"Concha," said Sturgis abruptly, "will you marry me?"
Concha, who was sitting in the shade of the rose vines on the corridor
making a dress for Gertrudis Rudisinda, ran the needle into her finger.

"Madre de Dios!" she cried angrily. "Who would have expected such foolish
words from you?
and now I have pricked my finger and stained my little frock. It will have
to be washed before worn, and is never so pretty after."
"I am sorry," said Sturgis humbly. "But it seems to me that if a man
wishes to marry a maid he should ask her in a straightforward
manner, with no preliminary sighs and hints and serenades--and all
sorts of insincere stage play.

                        "He should at least address her parents first."

"True. I was wholly the American for the mo- ment. May I speak to Don Jose
and Dona Ignacia, Concha?"
"How can I prevent? No, I will not coquet with you, Weeliam. But I am angry
that you have thought of such nonsense. Such friends as we
were! We have talked and read together by the hour, and my parents
have thought no more of it than if it had been Santiago. There! You
have a new book in your pocket.

Why did you not read it to me instead of making love?

Let me see it."
"I brought it to read later if you wished, but I came to ask you to marry
me and to receive your answer. I never expected to ask you--but--lately
--things have changed--life seems, somehow, more real. The thought of
losing you has suddenly be- come terrible."
"You have been drinking Russian tea," said Con- cha, stitching quietly but
flashing him a glance of amusement, not wholly without malice.

"It is true," he replied. "I suppose I never really believed you would marry
Raimundo or Ignacio or any of the caballeros. They think and talk
of noth- ing but horse-racing, gambling, cock-fighting, love and cigaritos.
I thought of you always here, where at least I could look at you
or read with you. But one must admit that this Russian is no ordinary
man. I hate him, yet like him more than any I have ever met. Last night
I stayed to punch with him, and we talked English for an hour. That
is to say, he did; I could have listened to him till morning.
Langsdorff says that he has the greatest possible command of his native
tongue, but he speaks Eng- lish well enough. I wish I could despise him,
but I do not believe I even hate him."
"Well?" demanded Concha. She kept her eyes on her work (and the delight
that rose in her breast from her voice).

"Well?"
"Why should you hate him?"
"Do you ask me that, Concha, when he makes a fence of himself about you,
and his fine eyes--prac- tised is nearer the mark--look at no one
else?"
"But why should that cause you jealousy? He is a man of the world,
accustomed to make himself agreeable, and I am the daughter of the Com-
mandante."
"He is more in love with you than he knows."
"Do you think so, Weeliam?" Still her voice was innocent and even, although
the color rose above the inner commotion. "But even so, what of it?
Have not many loved me? Am I to be won by the first stranger?"
"I do not know."

                        The tumult in Concha turned to wrath, and she lifted flashing eyes
to his moody face.

"Do you presume to say you are jealous because you think I love him--a
stranger I have known but a week-- who looks upon me as a child--who
has never-- never thought--" But her dignity, flying to the rescue, assumed
control. Her upper lip curled, her body stiffened for a moment, and
she went on with her stitching. "You deserve I should rap your silly little
skull with my thimble. You are no better than Ignacio and Fernando. Such
scenes as I have had with them! They wanted to fight the Russian!

How he would laugh at them! I have threatened they shall both be sent to
San Diego if there is any more nonsense." Then curiosity overcame
her.
"You never had the least, least reason to think I would marry you, and
now, according to your own words, you think you have less. Then
why, pray, did you address me?"
"Because I am a man, I suppose. I could not sit tamely down and see you
go."
She looked at him with a slight access of interest.
A man? Perhaps he was, after all.

And his well- bred, bony face looked very determined, albeit the eyes
were wistful. Suddenly she felt sorry for him; and she had never experienced
a pang of sym- pathy for a suitor before. She leaned forward and patted
his hand.

"I cannot marry you, dear Weeliam," she said, and never had he seen her
so sweet and adorable, although he noted with a pang that her mouth
was already drawn with a firmer line. "But what mat- ter? I shall never
marry at all. For many years-- forty, fifty perhaps--I shall sit here
on the veranda, and you shall read to me."
And then she shivered violently. But she set her mouth until it was almost
straight, and picked up the little dress. "Not that, perhaps," she
said quietly in a moment. "I sometimes think I should like to be a nun,
that, after all, it is my vocation.
Not a cloistered one, for that is but a selfish life.
But to teach, to do good, to forget myself. There are no convents
in California, but I could join the Third Order of the Franciscans,
and wear the gray habit, and be set aside by the world as one that only
lived to make it a little better. To forget oneself!
That, after all, may be the secret of happiness. I envy none of my friends
that are married. They have the dear children, it is true. But the
children grow up and go away, and then one is fat and eats many dulces and
the siesta grows longer and longer and the face very brown. That is life
in California.
I should prefer to work and pray, and"--with a flash of insight that made
her drop her work again and stare through the rose-vines--"to dream
always of some beautiful thing that youth promised but never gave,
and that given might have ended in dull routine and a brain so choked
with little things that memory too held nothing else."

"But Concha," cried Sturgis eagerly, "I could give you far better than
that. I could take you away from here--to Boston, to Europe. You
should see--live your life--in the great cities you have dreamed
of--that you hardly believe in--that were made to enjoy. I have told
you of the theater, the opera--you should go to the finest in the world.

You should wear the most beautiful gowns and jewels, go to courts, see
the great works of art--I am not trying to bribe you," he stammered,
flushing miserably. "God forbid that I should stoop to any-
thing as mean as that. But it all rushed upon me suddenly that I could
give you so much that you were made for, with this worthless money of
mine.
And what happiness to be in Europe with you-- what--what--"
His voice trembled and broke, and he dared not look at her. Again
she stared through the vines.
A splendid and thrilling panorama rose beyond them, her bosom heaved,
her lips parted. She saw herself in it, and not alone. And not, alas,
with the honest youth whose words had inspired it. In a moment she
shook her head and turned her eyes on the flushed, averted face of her
suitor.

"I shall never see Europe," she said gently, "and I shall never marry."

"Not if this Russian asks you?" cried Sturgis, in his jealous misery.

But Concha's anger did not rise again. "He has no intention of asking a
little California girl to share the honors of one of the most brilliant
careers in Europe," she said calmly. "Set your mind at rest. He has
paid me no more attention than is due my position as the daughter
of the Commandante, and perhaps of La Favorita.

                        If I flirt a little and he flirts in response, that is nothing.

Is he not then a man? But he will forget me in a month. The world, his
world, is full of pretty girls."
"A week ago you would not have said that," said Sturgis shrewdly. "There
has been nothing in your life to make you so humble."
"I cannot explain, but he seems to have brought the great world with him.
I know, I understand so many things that I had not dreamed of a week
ago. A week! Madre de Dios!"
And Sturgis, who after all was a gallant gentle- man, made no
comment.

XIV
Governor Arrillaga, Commandante Arguello, and Chamberlain Rezanov sat in
the familiar sala at the Presidio content in body after a culinary
achievement worthy of Padre Landaeta, but per- turbed and alert of
mind. Upon the arrival of the two California dignitaries in the morning,
Rezanov had sent Davidov and Langsdorff on shore to assure them of
his gratitude and deep appreciation of the hospitality shown himself, his
officers and men. The Governor had replied with a fulsome apology for not
repairing at once to the Juno to welcome his dis- tinguished guest
in person, and, pleading his age and the one hundred and seventy-five
English miles he had ridden from Monterey, begged him as a younger man
to waive informality, and dine at the house of the Commandante that very
day. Rezanov had complied as a matter of course, and now he was alone with
the men who held his fate in their hands.
The dark worn rugged face of Don Jose, who had been skilfully prepared
by his oldest daughter to think well of the Russian, beamed with
good-will and interest, in spite of lingering doubts; but the lank, wiry
figure of the Governor, who was as digni- fied as only a blond Spaniard
can be, was fairly rigid with the severe formality he reserved for occa-
sions of ceremony--being a gentleman who loved good company and cheer--and
his sharp gray eyes were almost shut in the effort to penetrate
the de- signs of this deputy, this symbol, this index in cipher,
of a dreaded race.

Rezanov smoked calmly, made himself comfortable on the slippery horse-hair
chair, though with no loss of dignity, and beat about the bush with the
others until the Governor betrayed himself at last by a chance remark:

"What you say of the neighborly instincts of the Russian colonists for the
Spanish on this coast in- terests me deeply, Excellency, but if Russia
is at war with Spain--"
"Russia is not at war with Spain," said Rezanov, with a flash of amusement
in his half-closed eyes.

"Napoleon Bonaparte is encamped about half way between the two
countries.

They could not get at each other if they wished. While that man is at
large, Europe will be at war with him, no two na- tions with each
other."
"Ah!" exclaimed Arrillaga. "That is a manner of reasoning that had not
occurred to me."
The Commandante had spat at the mention of the usurper's name and
muttered "Chinchosa!" and Rezanov, recalling his first conversation
with Con- cha, looked into the honest eyes of the monarchist with a
direct and hearty sympathy.

"No better epithet for him," he said.

"And the sooner Europe combines to get rid of him the bet- ter. But until
it does, count upon a common griev- ance to unite your country and
mine."
"Good!" muttered the Governor. "Good! I am glad that nightmare has
lifted its bat's wings from our poor California. Captain O'Cain's raid
two years ago made me apprehensive, for he took away some eleven hundred
of our otter skins and his hunters were Aleutians--subjects of the Tsar.
A negro that deserted gave the information that they were
furnished the Bostonian by the chief manager of your Company--Baranhov--whose
reputation we know well enough!--for the deliberate purpose of raiding
our coast."
Rezanov shrugged his shoulders and replied indif- ferently: "I will ask
Baranhov when I return to Sitka, and write you the particulars.
It is more likely that the Aleutians were deserters. This O'Cain would
not be the first shrewd Bostonian to tempt them, for they are admirable
hunters and ready for any change. They make a greater de- mand upon the
Company for variety of diet than we are always prepared to meet, so
many are the difficulties of transportation across Siberia. When,
therefore, the time arrived that I could continue my voyage, I determined
to come here and see if some arrangement could not be made for a
bi-yearly exchange of commodities. We need farinaceous stuffs of every
sort. I will not pay so poor a com- pliment to your knowledge of the
northern settle- ments as to enlarge upon the advantages California
would reap from such a treaty."
The Governor, who had permitted himself to touch the back of his chair
after the dispersal of the war cloud, stiffened again. "Ah!" he
said.
"Ah!" He looked significantly at the Com- mandante, who nodded.
"You come on a semi- official mission, after all, then?"
"It is entirely my own idea," said Rezanov care- lessly. "The young
Tsar is too much occupied with Bonaparte to give more than a passing
thought to his colonies. But I have a free hand. Can I arrange the
preliminaries of a treaty, I have only to return to St. Petersburg
to receive his signature and highest approval. It would be a great
feather in my cap I can assure your excellencies," he added, with
a quick human glance and a sudden curve of his somewhat cynical
mouth.

"Um!" said the Governor. "Um!"
But Arguello's stern face had further relaxed.
After all, he was but eleven years older than the Russian, and,
although early struggles and heavy responsibilities and many
disappointments had de- prived life of much of its early savor,
what was left of youth in him responded to the ambition he divined
in this interesting stranger. Moreover, the idea of a friendly bond
with another race on the lonely coast of the Pacific appealed to
him irresistibly. He turned eagerly to the Governor.
"It is a fine idea, Excellency. We need much that they have, and
it pleases me to think we should be able to supply the wants of
others. Fancy any one wanting aught of California, except hides,
to be sure. I did not think our existence was known save to an
occasional British or Boston skipper. It is true we are here only
to Christianize savages, but even they have need of much that cannot
be manu- factured in this God-forsaken land. And we our- selves
could be more comfortable--God in heaven, yes! It is well to think
it over, Excellency. Who knows?--we might have a trip to the north
once in a while. Life is more excellent with something to look
forward to."
"You should have a royal welcome. Baranhov is the most hospitable
man in Russia, and I might have the happiness to be there myself.
I see, by the way, that you have not engaged in shipbuilding. I
need not say that we should supply the ships of com- merce, with
no diminution of your profits. We build at Okhotsk, Petropaulovski,
Kadiak, and Sitka.
Moreover, as the Bostonians visit us frequently, and as your laws
prohibit you from trading with them, we would see that you always
got such of their com- modities as you needed. They come to us for
furs, and generally bring much for which we have no use. Captain
D'Wolf, from whom I bought the Juno, had a cargo I was forced to
take over. I unloaded what was needed at Sitka, but as there was
no boat going for some months to the other islands, I brought the
rest with me, and you are wel- come to it, if in exchange you will
ballast the Juno with samples of your agricultural products; while
the treaty is pending, I can experiment in our col- onies and make
sure which are the most adaptable to the market.
"Um!" said the Governor. "Um!"
Rezanov did not remove his cool direct gaze from the snapping eyes
opposite.
"I have not the least objection to making a trade that would fill
my promuschleniki with joy; but that was by no means the first
object of my voyage; which was partly inspired by a desire to see
as much of this globe as a man may in one short life, partly to
arrange a treaty that would be of incalculable benefit to both
colonies and greatly redound to my own glory. I make no pretence
of being disinter- ested.General Lee had about 50,000 men to defend two cities and a line of
intrenchments enveloping both, thirty-five miles long, against about
150,000 men, a large proportion of them veterans, trained and steeled to
war. The time had passed for offensive operations on any effective scale
on the part of the Confederates, although a desperate dash now and then
gave a false impression to the world outside that the Confederacy still
had a vigorous vitality. While General Philip H. Sheridan, Chief of
Cavalry of the Army of the Potomac, was at Winchester, October 19,
General Jubal Early suddenly attacked Sheridan's forces at Cedar Creek,
nearly twenty miles from Winchester. The attack was made at dawn, and
proved a complete surprise. The National troops were defeated, and the
roads were thronged with fugitives, while camp, and cannon and a large
number of prisoners fell into the hands of the enemy. Sheridan was riding
leisurely out of Winchester, when he met his routed troops. At once he
dashed forward on his black charger, crying out to his men: "Face the
other way, boys! Face the other way!" and, as he learned the extent of
the disaster, he added: "We will have all the camps and cannon back
again!" With courage revived by their leader's example, the Union troops
rallied and turned upon the foe, recovering all the spoil, and virtually
destroying Early's army.

                        *          *          *

Disaster attended the Confederate cause on land and sea. The British
cruiser Alabama, flying the Confederate flag, was defeated and sunk by
the United States frigate Kearsarge, off the coast of France, in June,
1864. Admiral David Glasgow Farragut entered Mobile Bay, August 5, lashed
to the mast of his flagship, the Hartford, and fought the last naval
battle of the war. The monitor Tecumseh, which led the National vessels,
was struck by the explosion of a torpedo, and sank with Commander Craven
and nearly all her officers and men. Farragut, unshaken by this disaster,
ordered the Hartford to go ahead heedless of torpedoes, and the other
vessels to follow. He silenced the batteries with grapeshot, destroyed
the Confederate squadron, and on the following day captured the forts
with the assistance of a land force of 5000 men from New Orleans. The
impatience of the Richmond government, chafing under its own impotence,
hastened the catastrophe. General Joseph E. Johnston, who had succeeded
Bragg, and who husbanded as far as compatible with an efficient defence
the troops under his command, was removed to give way to General John B.
Hood, who was willing to waste his forces in hopeless conflict with
Sherman. On September 2 Sherman entered Atlanta.

The news of Lincoln's re-election by 212 electoral votes to 21 for
McClellan, put an end to Confederate reliance on Northern sympathy and
aid. Even the most sanguine now lost hope.

                        *          *          *

After sending a part of his army under Thomas to cope with Hood, who had
moved into middle Tennessee, Sherman started about the middle of November
with 60,000 men on his famous march through Georgia to the seacoast. He
destroyed the railroads, and devastated the country from which the
Confederacy was drawing its supplies. Although I have never seen it
mentioned in any publication regarding the war, I believe that previous
to Sherman's march it was the purpose of the Confederate Government to
retreat to North Carolina when too hardly pressed in Virginia. Otherwise
there seems to be no explanation for the vast accumulation of provisions
at Salisbury, which were certainly not intended or used for the Union
prisoners at that place, and for the large stores of food at Charlotte.
Sherman captured Savannah just before Christmas, and proceeded northward
through the Carolinas. Meantime General Thomas had completely defeated
Hood at the battle of Nashville, and dispersed his army, the remnant of
which gathered again under General Joseph E. Johnston to oppose the march
of Sherman. Fort Fisher, North Carolina, surrendered to General Alfred H.
Terry and Admiral Porter in January, 1865.

                        *          *          *

Lee, reduced to the last extremity at Richmond, and appointed in
February, 1865, general-in-chief of armies which no longer had a real
existence, decided to abandon the Confederate capital and effect a
junction with Johnston. Sheridan prevented this by defeating the
Confederates at Five Forks, April 1, and turning Lee's right and
threatening his rear. Five Forks was the beginning of the end.
Thirty-five thousand muskets were guarding thirty-seven miles of
intrenchments, and on these attenuated lines General Grant ordered an
immediate assault. The defences were found to be almost denuded of men.
Petersburg and Richmond fell, and Lee, driven westward, surrendered at
Appomattox, on April 9, the remains of the once proud Army of Northern
Virginia, now numbering 26,000 ragged and starving soldiers. On learning
that Lee's troops had been living for days on parched corn, General Grant
at once offered to send them rations, and the Union soldiers readily
shared their own provisions with the men with whom, a few hours before,
they had been engaged in mortal strife. Lee bade a touching farewell to
his troops, and rode through a weeping army to his home in Richmond. A
fortnight afterward Johnston surrendered to Sherman, and with the
surrender of the Confederate Trans-Mississippi Army, May 26, the war was
at an end. The Confederate Government had fled from Richmond when Lee
withdrew his army, and on May 10, Jefferson Davis was captured near
Irwinsville, Ga., and sent as a prisoner to Fortress Monroe.

                        *          *          *

We have read of the sieges of Numantia and of Haarlem, of Scotland's
struggle for liberty under Wallace and Bruce, and of the virtual
extinction of the men of Paraguay in the war against Brazil and
Argentina; but history records no resistance on the part of a
considerable population inhabiting an extensive region, under an
organized government, worthy to compare in resolution, endurance and
self-sacrifice, with that of the Southern Confederacy to the forces of
the Union. When the war closed the South was prostrate. When the Governor
of Alabama was asked to join in raising a force to attack the rear of
Sherman he answered, no doubt truthfully, that only cripples, old men and
children remained of the male population of the State. In their
desperation the Southern leaders even thought of enlisting negroes, thus
adding a grotesque epilogue to the mighty national tragedy. Of course
even the most ignorant negro could not have been expected to fight for
his own enslavement. I saw Richmond about a month before the surrender.
It was like a city of the dead. Two weeks later I was in New York. It
teemed with life and bustle and energy.

The blots on the Confederacy were the cruel persecution of Union men
living in the South, who were, in many instances, dragged from their
families and put to death as traitors, and the maltreatment of Union
prisoners. The North tolerated Southern sympathizers, when not actually
engaged in plotting against the government, and treated Southern
prisoners with all the kindness possible. It has been said for the South
that while Union prisoners were starving, the Confederate troops in the
field were almost starving too. This is a dishonest subterfuge. The
Southern troops were starving not because ordinary food was not plentiful
in the Confederacy, but because of lack of transportation to carry the
food from the interior to the front, while the Union prisoners perished
from hunger in the midst of abundance. Again, even assuming the plea of
scarcity to be true, that would not palliate the numerous murders of
helpless prisoners by volleys fired into the stockades at the pleasure of
the guards.[1] There was a vindictiveness in these crimes which no plea
can extenuate.

      [1] As one of the survivors of the massacre of November 25, 1864, at
      Salisbury, North Carolina, I know whereof I speak.

                        *          *          *

The murder of Abraham Lincoln by John Wilkes Booth removed the only man
who could have done justice to the South and controlled the passions of
the North. Lincoln was signally, providentially adapted to be the
nation's guide in the struggle which, under his leadership, was brought
to a successful conclusion. For the equally difficult task of
reconstruction he was likewise admirably qualified, and his death was
followed by a civil chaos almost as deplorable as armed disunion. From
that chaos the American people gradually emerged by force of their native
character and their fundamental sense of justice and of right. The South,
for some years subjected to the rule of camp-followers and freedmen,
gradually recovered from the devastation of war, and superior
intelligence came to the top, as it always will eventually. The Southern
people learned that they had other resources besides cotton, and they
began to emulate the North in the development of manufactures and mines.
The old slave-owning aristocracy in the South has disappeared, but the
"poor whites" have also almost disappeared, and the average of comfort in
that section is greater than at any period in American history. The
negroes complain, and with too much cause, of political oppression and
exclusion from the suffrage, but they seem to be on good terms with their
"oppressors," and on the principle of the old Spanish proverb that "he is
my friend who brings grist to my mill," the Southern black has no better
friend than the Southern white.


Thirty Years of Peace.


CHAPTER XXXVII.

Reconstruction in the South--The Congress and the President--Liberal
Republican Movement--Nomination, Defeat and Death of Greeley--Troops
Withdrawn by President Hayes--Foreign Policy of the Past Thirty Years--
French Ordered from Mexico--Last Days of Maximilian--Russian-America
Bought--The Geneva Arbitration--Alabama Claims Paid--The Northwest
Boundary--The Fisheries--Spain and the Virginius--The Custer Massacre
--United States of Brazil Established--President Harrison and Chile
--Venezuela--American Prestige in South America--Hawaii--Behring
Sea--Garfield, the Martyr of Civil Service Reform--Labor Troubles--
Railway Riots of 1877 and 1894--Great Calamities--The Chicago Fire,
Boston Fire, Charleston Earthquake, Johnstown Flood.


The Southern people cannot be justly blamed for their resolute resistance
to negro domination. It was too much to expect that former masters should
accept political inferiority to a race emancipated from slavery, but not
emancipated from deplorable ignorance and debasement, and easily misled
by unscrupulous whites. On the other hand, gratitude and prudence
demanded, on the part of the North, that the negro should not only be a
freeman, but also a citizen; that he should not only be liberated from
slavery, but also protected against oppression. The negro, however
ignorant, was true to the Union, and attached to the Republican party;
the black soldiers had fought in the Union armies, and Abraham Lincoln
himself had advised Governor Hahn, of Louisiana, in 1863, that "the very
intelligent colored people, and especially those who fought gallantly in
our ranks, should be admitted to the franchise," for "they would probably
help in some trying time to come to keep the jewel of liberty within the
family of freedom."

Andrew Johnson, succeeding to the chair of Lincoln, and with his heart
softened toward his native South, would have restored the whites to full
control, with the negroes at their mercy. The Congress, however,
intervened, and the ex-Confederate States were placed under military law,
and only admitted to recognition as States upon conditions which gave the
negro equal rights with his white fellow-citizens--and indeed superior
rights to many of them, the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States excluding from office all persons who, having taken an
oath as public officers to support the Constitution afterward joined the
Confederacy. For opposing these measures of Congress President Johnson
was impeached, and escaped conviction by one vote.

                        *          *          *

The Southern whites continued to struggle for white supremacy. The
conflict continued throughout Johnson's term as President, and even the
severe military measures adopted under power from Congress by General
Grant, only suppressed organized violence in its more rampant form. It
was impossible to imprison a commonwealth or to place bayonets at every
threshold, and while the negro might be upheld in his right of suffrage,
Federal protection could not supply him with work and bread. The
intellect and the property of the South were on the side of the whites,
and the blacks began to find that their choice was between submission or
extinction.

In the North, even among Republicans, a feeling grew that the
ex-Confederates had suffered enough, while it was impossible for an
honest man to have any other sentiment than contempt for the political
vultures who had descended on the wasted South. This feeling gave
strength to the Liberal Republican movement in 1872, and arrayed
Democrats--and not a few of the old anti-slavery leaders--in support of
Horace Greeley for President.

The insanity and death of Mr. Greeley cast a gloom over the election for
victors as well as vanquished. Mr. Greeley's mind was weakened by
domestic affliction, and by the desertion of _Tribune_ readers, and when
crushing defeat at the polls gave the _coup-de-grace_ to his political
prospects, his once vigorous intellect yielded under the strain. Like a
dying gladiator, mortally wounded, but with courage unquenched, he seized
once more the editorial blade with which he had dealt so many powerful
blows in the past for justice and for truth; but nature was not equal to
the task, and the weapon fell from his nerveless grasp. His last words
were: "The country is gone; the _Tribune_ is gone, and I am gone."
General Grant attended the funeral of his gifted and hapless competitor,
and the nation joined in honor and eulogy of the great editor whose heart
was always true to humanity, and whose very failings leaned to virtue's
side. Fortunately Mr. Greeley's irresponsible utterance was not prophetic
either as to the country or the _Tribune_. Mr. Whitelaw Reid succeeded to
the editorial chair, and has ably kept the _Tribune_ in the front rank of
American journals.

                        *          *          *

Mr. Greeley's last editorial expression pleaded with the victors in
behalf of justice and fair dealing for the South. General Grant himself
is said to have arrived at the conclusion before the close of his second
term, that the Federal troops should be withdrawn from the Southern
States, and sagacious Republicans discerned in the growth of Democratic
sentiment both North and South a warning that the people were becoming
tired of bayonet government ten years after Appomattox. The election of
1876, when the Democrats had a popular majority, and the decision between
Rutherford B. Hayes, Republican, and Samuel J. Tilden, Democrat, depended
on a single vote, emphasized the popular protest against military rule in
time of peace, and when the Electoral Commission gave a verdict in favor
of General Hayes, the new President speedily withdrew the National troops
from the reconstructed States.

                        *          *          *

While the country witnessed deep agitation and difference of opinion
regarding reconstruction in the South, there was no difference of public
sentiment regarding the vigorous, far-sighted and thoroughly American
policy of the government in dealing with foreign powers. One of the first
steps of Secretary Seward after the close of the war was to demand in
courteous language that the French should evacuate Mexico. Napoleon dared
not challenge the United States by answering no. General Philip H.
Sheridan was on the Rio Grande with fifty thousand men, anxious to cross
over and fight; a million veterans were ready to obey the summons to
battle, and Generals Grant and Sherman would willingly have followed in
the footsteps of Scott and Taylor. The French troops were withdrawn.
Maximilian, deceived as to the strength of his cause with the natives,
refused to accompany Bazaine across the ocean, and the month of May,
1867, saw the usurping emperor shut up with a small force in Queretaro,
surrounded by an army of forty thousand Mexican avengers.

In those final days of his life and reign the hapless Austrian prince
exhibited a courage and nobility of character which showed that the blood
of Maria Theresa was not degenerate in his veins. He faced death with
more than reckless daring; he shared in all the privations of his
faithful adherents, and he was preparing to cut his way out through the
host of besiegers, at the head of his men, when treachery betrayed him to
the enemy.

Miguel Lopez was the Benedict Arnold of Queretaro; personal immunity and
two thousand gold ounces the price. Lopez held the key of Queretaro--the
convent of La Cruz. Maximilian had been his generous patron and friend,
and had appointed him chief of the imperial guard. Lopez discerned the
approaching downfall of his sovereign, and resolved to save himself by
delivering up that sovereign to the enemy. On the night of May 14, the
Liberal troops were admitted to La Cruz, and Queretaro was at the mercy
of the besiegers.

Maximilian made a last stand on the "Hill of the Bells." Successful
resistance was impossible. The bullet he prayed for did not come, and the
emperor and his officers were prisoners. In vain the Princess Salm-Salm,
representing one of the proudest families of Europe, bent her knees
before the Indian President of Mexico, and pleaded for the life of
Maximilian. "I am grieved, madam," said Juarez, "to see you thus on your
knees before me; but if all the kings and queens of Europe were in your
place, I could not spare that life. It is not I who take it. It is the
people and the law, and if I should not do their will, the people would
take it, and mine also."

"Boys, aim well--aim at my heart"--was Maximilian's request to his
executioners. "Oh man!" was his last cry as he fell, the victim of his
own ambition, and of Louis Napoleon's perfidy. The volley which pierced
his breast was the knell of the Bonaparte dynasty. Gravelotte was but
little more than three years from Queretaro.

                        *          *          *

The acquisition of Russian America for the sum of $7,200,000 was a
splendid stroke of statesmanship, and secured to the United States the
control of the North Pacific coast of the continent, besides adding about
581,107 square miles to the territory of the Republic. Alaska has immense
resources, and is already looking forward to a proud and prosperous
future as the north star in the flag of our Union.

                        *          *          *

When the British Government proposed, in 1871, a joint commission to
settle the Canadian fisheries dispute, Secretary of State Hamilton Fish
replied that the settlement of the claims for depredations by
Anglo-Confederate cruisers would be "essential to the restoration of
cordial and amicable relations between the two governments." In the
following February five high commissioners from each country met in
Washington, and a treaty was agreed upon providing for arbitration upon
the issues between the American Republic and Great Britain. These issues
included the "Alabama Claims"--so-called because the Alabama was the most
notorious and destructive of the Anglo-Confederate sea rovers--the
question of the Northwest boundary, and the Canadian fisheries.

The Tribunal of Arbitration upon the "Alabama Claims" met at Geneva,
Switzerland, December 15, 1871. Charles Francis Adams, American Minister
to England during the war, was member of the Tribunal for the United
States, and Lord Chief Justice Cockburn acted for Great Britain. Baron
Itajuba, Brazilian Minister to France; Count Sclopis, an Italian
statesman, and M. Jaques Stæmpfii, of Switzerland, were the other members
of the illustrious and memorable court. Caleb Cushing, William M. Evarts
and Morrison R. Waite, counsel for the United States, presented an
indictment against England which should have made British statesmen
shrink from the evidence of their unsuccessful conspiracy against the
life of a friendly State. The course of Great Britain during the war was
reviewed in language not less forcible and convincing because it was
calm, dignified and restrained. A fortress of facts was presented
impregnable to British reply, and highly creditable to the forethought
and skill with which the American State Department had gathered the
material for its case from the very beginning of the war. So strong and
unanswerable was the proof against the Alabama that the British
arbitrator voted in favor of the United States on the issue of British
responsibility for that vessel.

Where upon the kynges hignes (_sic_), by his incomparable wysedome,
forseinge and most prudently considerynge, hath invited and called to
hym the primates of this his gracis realme, and also a sufficient nombre
of discrete, vertuous, and well-lerned personages in divinite, as well
of either of the universites, Oxforde and Cambrige, as also hath chosen
and taken out of other parties of his realme; gyvinge unto them libertie
to speke and declare playnly their advises, judgmentes, and determinations,
concernynge as well the approbation or rejectynge of suche bokes as be
in any parte suspected, as also the admission and divulgation of the Olde
and Newe Testament translated into englishe. Wher upon his highnes, in
his owne royall person, callynge to hym the said primates and
divines, hath seriously and depely, with great leisure and longe deliberation,
consulted, debated, inserched, and discussed the premisses: and
finally, by all their free assentes, consentes, and agrementes,
concluded, resolved, and determyned, that these bokes ensuynge,
that is to say, the boke entitled the wicked Mammona, the boke named
the Obedience of a Christen Man, the Supplication of Beggars, and
the boke called the Revelation of Antichrist, the Summary of
Scripture, and divers other bokes made in the englisshe tonge, and
imprinted beyonde y^e see, do conteyne in them pestiferous errours
and blasphemies; and for that cause, shall from hensforth be reputed
and taken of all men, for bokes of heresie, and worthy to be dampned,
and put in perpetuall oblivion.

                        The kingis said highnes therfore straitly chargeth and commandeth,
all and every his subjectes, of what astate or condition so ever
he or they be, as they wyll avoyde his high indignacion and most
grevous displeasure, that they from hensforth do not bye, receyve,
or have, any of the bokes before named, or any other boke, beinge
in the englisshe tonge, and printed beyonde the see, of what matter
so ever it be, or any copie written, drawen out of the same, or the
same bokes in the frenche or duche tonge.

And to the entent that his highnes wylbe asserteyned, what nombre
of the said erronious bokes shal be founde from tyme to tyme within this
his realme, his highnes therfore chargeth and commaundeth, that all
and every person or persones, whiche hath or herafter shall have, any
boke or bokes in the englisshe tonge, printed beyonde the see, as is
afore written, or any of the sayde erronious bokes in the frenche
or duche tonge: that he or they, within fyftene dayes nexte after
the publisshynge of this present proclamation, do actually delyver
or sende the same bokes and every of them to the bisshop of the
diocese, wherin he or they dwelleth, or to his commissary, or els
before good testimonie, to theyr curate or parisshe preest, to be
presented by the same curate or parisshe preest to the sayd bisshop
or his commissary.

And so doynge, his highnes frely pardoneth and acquiteth them, and every
of them, of all penalties, forfaitures, and paynes, wherin they have
incurred or fallen, by reason of any statute, acte, ordinaunce, or
proclamation before this tyme made, concernynge any offence or transgression
by than commytted or done, by or for the kepynge or holdynge of the
sayde bokes.

Forseen and provided alwayes, that they from hensforth truely do
observe, kepe, and obey this {423} his present gracis proclamation
and commaundement. Also his highnes commaundeth all mayres, sheriffes,
bailliffes, constables, bursholders, and other officers and ministers
within this his realme, that if they shall happen by any meanes or
wayes to knowe that any person or persons do herafter bye, receyve,
have, or deteyne any of the sayde erronious bokes, printed or written
anywhere, or any other bokes in englisshe tonge printed beyonde the
see, or the saide erronious bokes printed or written in the frenche
or duche tonge, contrarie to this present proclamation, that they
beinge therof well assured, do immediatly attache the said person
or persons, and brynge hym or them to the kynges highnes and his
most honorable counsayle; where they shalbe corrected and punisshed
for theyr contempte and disobedience, to the terrible example of
other lyke transgressours.

Moreover his highnes commaundeth, that no maner of person or persons
take upon hym or them to printe any boke or bokes in englisshe tonge,
concernynge holy scripture, not before this tyme printed within
this his realme, untyll suche tyme as the same boke or bokes be examyned
and approved by the ordinary of the diocese where the said bokes shalbe
printed: And that the printer therof, upon every of the sayde bokes beinge
so examyned, do sette the name of the examynour or examynours, with
also his owne name, upon the saide bokes, as he will answere to the kynges
highnes at his uttermost peryll.

Unlike other emperors and kings who have
been compelled to give up their American dominions, Dom Pedro's parting
message to the land he had wisely governed was one of amity and peace. As
the shores of his loved Brazil disappeared before his moistening eyes he
released a dove to bear back his last adieu of loyal and fervent
goodwill. He died in exile, his end doubtless hastened by pathetic
longing to see once more the native land forever barred to him.

The path toward freedom in Brazil had not been strewn with flowers.
Brazil had its martyrs as well as its heroes. It is a remarkable fact
that nearly every revolution in France had its echo in Brazil, and
undoubtedly French as well as American example had much to do with the
deposition of Pedro II. It is a mistake to argue, as some European
writers have argued, that the change from a monarchy to a republic in
Brazil was nothing more than a successful military revolt. It was the
culmination of more than a century of agitation in behalf of republican
principles; it was the pure flame of a sacred hearth-fire, which had
never been extinguished from the day when it caught the first feeble glow
from the dying breath of Filipe dos Santos.

The Brazilians have given an admirable example to other South American
republics in the separation of State from Church. While providing for the
maintenance of ecclesiastics now dependent on the State for support, the
Brazilian Constitution decrees not only entire liberty of worship, but
absolute equality of all before the law, without regard to their
religious creed. The absence of this equality is the chief blot on some
South American States.

                        *          *          *

The resolute course of President Harrison in exacting indemnity and
apology from Chile for insult to the American uniform and the murder and
wounding of American sailors, tended greatly to promote the influence and
prestige of the United States in South America, and the Spanish-American
republics are learning to esteem the United States, instead of England,
as the leading power of the New World. Brazil is grateful for American
countenance and friendship in the defence of that youngest and greatest
of South American republics against rebellion plotted in Europe in the
interest of the Braganzas, while Venezuela depends upon the United States
with justifiable confidence for the vindication of the Monroe Doctrine,
and the restoration of territory seized and occupied by the British
without any title save that of superior force. Cuba, in her heroic battle
for freedom, is upheld by American public sentiment and the substantial
sympathy of the American people, and Nicaragua is virtually under
American protection. The American eagle, from its seat in the North,
overshadows with guardian pinions the American continent.

                        *          *          *

In the case of Hawaii the American Republic seems likely to depart from
its traditional policy of acquiring no territory beyond American bounds.
The Hawaiian Islands were won from barbarism by the efforts and
sacrifices of American missionaries and their descendants. A republic has
been established there, and intelligent Hawaiians look hopefully forward
to a common future with the United States. There is hardly a doubt that
this hope will be fulfilled, and that the Eden of Southern seas will
become an outpost of American civilization. With the two great English
speaking nations of America and Australia confronting each other across
the Pacific, that ocean is certain to be in the twentieth century the
theatre of grand events, perhaps of future Actiums and Trafalgars. In
Hawaii we will have a Malta worthy of such a mighty arena, and the flames
of Kilauea will be a beacon fire of American liberty to the teeming
millions of Asia.

                        *          *          *

The Behring Sea negotiations have from the first been discreditable to
diplomacy at Washington. The attempt to prove that the fur-seals are
domestic animals, and the property of the United States when a hundred
miles out in the Pacific Ocean was a humiliating reflection on the
intelligence of both parties to the dispute, and showed abject and
degrading subserviency to the corporation controlling the seal monopoly.
Added to this was the disgrace of forgery, detected, unfortunately, not
at Washington, but in London, and indicating that, while Washington
officials were doubtless innocent of complicity in the crime, the forger
knew, or thought he knew, what was wanted. The end is that this country
has to pay about $400,000 to England, while the seals are abandoned to
destruction, which at least will have the happy effect of removing them
as a cause of international controversy.

                        *          *          *

The assassination of President Garfield, July 2, 1881, by a disappointed
seeker for office made that President the martyr of civil service reform,
and gave an irresistible impulse to the movement to alleviate the evils
of what is known as the "spoils system." Notwithstanding the opposition
of politicians and newspapers representing the vicious and ignorant
element, civil service reform has made marvelous progress, and the
principle is now recognized not only in appointments to the vast majority
of non-elective offices under the National Government, but also in the
civil service of States and municipalities.

                        *          *          *

An unfortunate consequence of the vast growth of individual and corporate
wealth, after the war, was the widening of the division line between
capital and labor. The depression consequent upon the collapse of
inflated values in 1873 compelled employers to reduce expenses, and made
harder the lot of labor, while the workingman who saw his wages reduced
was not always willing to make intelligent allowance for the
circumstances which made the reduction necessary. The spirit of
discontent reached the point of eruption in 1877, when railway employees
throughout a large part of the Union abandoned their work, and indulged
in riot and disorder. The struggle raged most fiercely in the city of
Pittsburg, which was subjected for some days to the reign of a mob, and
to perils seldom surpassed save in the tragic scenes of old-world
barricades and revolution. The County of Allegheny had to settle for
damages to the amount of $2,772,349.53, of which $1,600,000 went to the
Pennsylvania Railroad. Chicago, Baltimore and Reading were also the
scenes of severe and sanguinary conflict between rioters and the militia.
It was estimated that about 100,000 workers were engaged in the strike in
various parts of the country.

Pennsylvania, New York, Illinois and other States have witnessed serious
labor troubles since 1877, and the regular army of the United States was
employed by order of President Cleveland to put down unlawful
interference with interstate commerce in 1894; but the general tendency
of workingmen is to obtain redress for real or imaginary grievances in a
law-abiding manner by securing the election of officials favorable to
their interests. This is the only method of redress that can be tolerated
in a republic.

                        *          *          *

The great fires of Chicago in 1871, and of Boston in 1872, the Charleston
earthquake of 1886 and the Johnstown flood of 1889, were among the most
memorable of the destructive visitations which have served signally to
illustrate the energy, the generosity, and the recuperative power of the
American people. Chicago, with $200,000,000 of property swept away by the
flames, laid amid the ashes the foundations of that new Chicago which is
the inland metropolis of the continent, brimming with the spirit of
American progress, and the blood in every vein bounding with American
energy. Boston plucked profit from disaster by establishing her claim as
the modern Athens in architecture as well as literature, and Charleston
learned, amid her ruins, that northern sympathy was not bounded by Mason
and Dixon's line. The South taught a similar lesson in return when the
cry from flood-stricken Johnstown touched every merciful heart.


CHAPTER XXXVIII.

The American Republic the Most Powerful of Nations--Military and Naval
Strength--Railways and Waterways--Industry and Art--Manufactures--The New
South--Foreign and Domestic Commerce--An Age of Invention--Americans a
Nation of Readers--The Clergy--Pulpit and Press--Religion and Higher
Education--The Currency Question--Leading Candidates for the Presidency
--A Sectional Contest Deplorable--What Shall the Harvest Be?


Thirty-two years ago the very existence of the American Republic was in
the balance. Today it is the most powerful of nations, with forty-five
stars, representing that number of States, on its flag, and unequalled in
population, wealth or resources by any other civilized land. The men of
America are not herded away from industry to drill in camps and garrison,
and wait for a war that may never come. They continue to be producers,
but should the need arise they would be found as good soldiers as any in
the world, and for fighting on American soil better than the best of
Europe. The American navy is already formidable, and becoming more
formidable every year, and the spirit of the men who fought under
Bainbridge, Decatur, Hull and Perry survives in their descendants.
However great the improvements in naval machines the men on the ship will
always be of more importance than the armament. The American Republic has
the men, and is fast acquiring the armament.

The people were never so closely united as now. Every new railway is a
muscle of iron knitting together the joints of the Union, and no other
nation has a railway service equal to that of America. Railways span the
continent from New York to the Golden Gate. The traveler retires to rest
in the North and wakes up in the sunny South. And still he can journey on
in his own country, under the American flag, day after day, if he wishes,
toward the setting sun, unvexed by custom house, and free from the
inquisition which attends the stranger in Europe, as he flits from one
petty State to another. The great national policy of encouraging the
extension of railway and water communication is grandly vindicated in the
America of to-day. When the Nicaragua Canal shall have been completed the
American people will have a new waterway joining the Atlantic and Pacific
coasts of the Republic, as important to the commerce of the Union as the
Erie Canal was fifty years ago.

To describe the progress of the United States in the industries and arts
would be a work requiring many volumes, including the census reports of
1890, and catalogues of the Centennial and Chicago Fairs. The Republic is
not only the greatest of agricultural nations, but also leads Great
Britain in manufactures. In the quality of our textile fabrics we are
outstripping Europe, and the statement that cloth is imported is a
temptation now only to ignorant purchasers. In the more refined arts
America is also gaining upon the older world, and it is absurd to see
Americans purchasing silverware, for instance, abroad when they can get a
much finer article at home. The low wages and keen competition of Europe
have a degrading effect not only upon the workingman, but also in some
degree upon his product, whereas here the artist and the artisan are
encouraged by fair compensation and comfortable surroundings to do their
best. And now, after all the shattering storms, and haggard sufferings,
and degrading terrors of that voyage, they neared the metropolis of
sin; some town on Botany Bay, a blighted shore--where each man, looking
at his neighbour, sees in him an outcast from heaven.

They landed in droves, that ironed flock of men; and the sullenest-looking
scoundrel of them all was John Dillaway.

There were murderers among his gang; but human passions, which had hurried
them to crime, now had left them as if wrecked upon a lee shore--humbled
and remorseful, and heaven's happier sun shed some light upon their
faces: there were burglars; but the courage which could dare those
deeds, now lending strength to bear the stroke of punishment, enabled
them to walk forth even cheerily to meet their doom of labour:
there was rape; but he hid himself, ashamed, vowing better things:
fiery arson, too, was there, sorry for his rash revenge: also,
conspiracy and rebellion, confessing that ambition such as theirs
had been wickedness and folly; and common frauds, and crimes, and
social sins; bad enough, God wot, yet hopeful; but the mean,
heartless, devilish criminality of our young Dagon beat them all.

If to be hard-hearted were a virtue, the best man there was Dillaway.

And now they were to be billeted off among the sturdy colonists
as farm-servants, near a-kin to slaves; tools in the rough hands
of men who pioneer civilization, with all the vices of the social, and
all the passions of the savage.
Everybody
reads, and whereas the American of a generation ago took one newspaper,
his son to-day probably takes two or three, besides weekly and monthly
publications. Notwithstanding all that is said about ignorant foreign
immigration it is certain that the growth of newspaper circulation in the
past two decades has exceeded the growth of population. Americans are a
reading people, and it is for every head of a family to see that his
children have the right kind of reading.

                        *          *          *

The clergy are not now the political monitors of the community, as when,
at the time of the Revolution, the election sermon preached in Boston,
and printed in pamphlet form, was spelled by the light of the pine-knot
in the cabin on the Berkshire plantation, inspiring the rustic breast
with holy zeal to deliver the Israel of the New World from the yoke of
the English Sennacherib. The newspaper has taken the place of the pulpit
as a political beacon and guide, and, as every denomination and
congregation includes members of both the prominent national parties, it
would be impossible for a clergyman to indulge in even a distant partisan
allusion without offending some one of his hearers. The clergyman is
free, like any other citizen, to indicate his preferences and express his
opinions in regard to public affairs, but the judicious pastor is not
prone to use that freedom indiscreetly.

Although the preachers are no longer political leaders, there is, in the
opinion of the writer, based upon what he has heard and read of the past,
and observed of the present, a larger proportion of learned, talented,
and eloquent men among the pastors who minister in the churches to-day,
than in any generation gone by. The clergy are still pre-eminently the
molders of education. The presidents and professors of leading
universities are usually prominent in some evangelical sect, and this is
probably owing to the fact that every seminary of higher knowledge is
under the control of a branch of the Christian Church, whose influence is
predominant in the faculty, and which regards the college as a filial
institution, with traditions intertwined with its own. However skeptical
or indifferent students may be to religion, they cannot fail to imbibe at
least an esteem for the doctrines of the Saviour from the teachers who
impart to them secular lessons. The impressions thus received by the
plastic mind of youth are not likely to be ever wholly effaced. The man
or the divinity we venerate at nineteen we instinctively bow to at forty.

                        *          *          *

The progress of the past thirty years has no doubt been due in an eminent
degree to a sound and uniform currency. In the coming national election
it will be decided whether that currency is to remain as it is--at the
world's highest standard--or whether the mints of the United States are
to be opened freely to the coinage of silver. Major William McKinley, one
of the bravest soldiers of the Union army, and a statesman of recognized
integrity and ability, is the candidate of the existing standard; the
Hon. William J. Bryan, a brilliant young orator, is the candidate of free
silver. The contest now opening is likely to be one of the most exciting
the country has ever witnessed. Nothing could be more deplorable than for
that contest to assume a sectional aspect, with West arrayed against East
and East against West.

Come weal, come woe, this should and will remain a united country. The
American nation is one people, and will remain one people. The destiny of
one section is the destiny of all. North, East, West and South are
traveling along a common highway toward a common future. Be that future
one of prosperity or of calamity, all will share in it. Whatever the seed
sown, whether of good or evil, all will reap the harvest, and it remains
for all, therefore, to consider, as citizens of a common country, what
shall the harvest be?


The American People.


CHAPTER XXXIX.

No Classes Here--All Are Workers--Enormous Growth of Cities--Immigration
--Civic Misgovernment--The Farming Population--Individuality and
Self-reliance--Isolation Even in the Grave--The West--The South--The
Negro--Little Reason to Fear for Our Country--American Reverence for
Established Institutions.


In the Old World meaning of the term there are no classes of society
here. There is no condition of life, however low, from which a man may
not aspire and rise to the highest honors and the most enviable
distinction, provided that he has the requisite natural endowments,
favorable opportunities, and the ability and foresight to grasp them. .

[54] An Essay of Scarabs, by W.J. Loftie, B.A., F.S.A. London, (125
copies printed,) pp. 37, 38.

V.

WHERE USUALLY FOUND AND THE MODE OF WEARING SCARABS BY THE EGYPTIANS.
BOOK OF THE DEAD. EGYPTIAN SCARABS FOUND IN MESOPOTAMIA. THE SCARAB IN
CHRISTIANITY.

The small sized scarabs were usually incised with hieroglyphics and
perforated longitudinally; they are generally found on the breasts of
mummies next the skin or suspended from the neck, by a wire of
gold or other metal, or a string going through them, or worn like
a ring stone on the forefinger of the left hand; and sometimes,
grasped inside of the closed left hand.

                        The inscriptions on them usually run from right to left.

One method of wearing them by the living, a very ancient one, was by
stringing them on a cord or a wire, so that they could be worn as a
bracelet on the wrist, a necklace around the throat, or as a pendant to a
necklace. The engraved base serving not only as an amulet but also as the
private signet of the owner. Soldiers wore them suspended around the
neck, as a talisman when going into battle and also to instil courage in
them during the fray. But the most usual mode of mounting them by the
living, was as a stone for a finger ring on a swivel, or a wire,
passing through the longitudinal perforation and then curved into
a ring shape; this was usually worn on the forefinger of the left
hand, as that finger was thought by the Egyptians, to contain a
nerve leading directly to the heart; the engraved part was turned
next to the flesh.

                        M.

Mariette says, that the mummies of the XIth Dynasty nearly always
have a scarab on the little finger of the left hand.[55]
Sometimes they were made of baked clay or cut in steatite, with the head
of a hawk, cow, ram, dog, cat, lion, or even of a man, and such have
been found buried with the mummies. Those found on the breasts of mummies
embalmed most carefully and expensively, and in immediate contact with
the flesh, have sometimes bodies of stone with extended wings, as
if flying; these wings sometimes having been made of metal, frequently
of gold, and at other times of cut stone.[56] Those found made of
stone with extended wings, also had the latter often made of lead
or silver; when of blue pottery, the wings were generally made of
the same material.In the cities, however, and especially in New
York and Chicago, may be found a class of foreigners who unfortunately
herd together in certain districts, and remain almost as alien to the
American language and to American institutions as when they first landed
on our shores. Even these, however, are not irredeemable, and in the
course of a generation or two their more obnoxious traits will probably
disappear. Freedom of worship and the public school have a curative and
humanizing influence which not even the leprosy bred of centuries of
European despotism and oppression can resist. I am not of those who view
with apprehension or aversion the race of Christ, of David and of the
Maccabees, of Disraeli and of Gambetta. There is no better class of
citizens than the better class of Jews, and it would be a dishonorable
day for our Republic should its gates ever be closed to the victims of
religious intolerance, whatsoever their race or belief.

                        *          *          *

The great cities witness almost unceasing strife between what may be
called the political-criminal element on the one side, and patriotism and
intelligence on the other side. Knaves, using bigotry, ignorance and
intimidation as their weapons, manage to control municipal affairs,
except when expelled from office for periods more or less brief by some
sudden spasm of public virtue and indignation, like the revolt in the
city of New York against the Tweed Ring a quarter of a century ago, and
the reform victory in that city two years ago.

The overthrow of Tweed, and the great uprising of 1894 in New York, and
of more recent date in Chicago, prove that the American people, once
fully aroused, can crush, as with the hammer of Thor, any combination of
public plunderers, however powerful. But why should these tremendous
efforts be necessary? Why should not the latent energy which makes them
possible be exerted in steady and uniform resistance to the restless
enemies of pure and popular government?

                        *          *          *

The farming population, although largely overshadowed by manufacturing
and commercial interests, is still the anchor of the Republic. In many of
the States the rural vote is predominant, although in the nation as a
whole it is gradually losing ground, owing to the growth of the cities,
the removal of restrictions on the suffrage, and the partial adjustment
of representation to numbers. The most striking features in the character
of the native farmer are individuality and self-reliance. These qualities
have been inherited from ancestors who were compelled _by_ circumstances
to depend upon their own industry for a living, and their own vigilance
and courage for defence, when the treacherous Indian lurked in swamps and
woods, and the father attended Sunday worship with a weapon by his side.
The founders of these States were men who thought for themselves, or they
would not have been exiles for the sake of conscience. Their situation
made them still more indifferent to the opinions and concerns of the
world from which they were divided, while they stood aloof even from
each other, except when common danger drove them to unite for mutual
protection. Their offspring grew up amid stern and secluded surroundings,
and the thoughts and habits of the parent became the second nature  of
the child. I have often imagined that in the firm, wary, and reserved
expression on the Yankee farmer's face was photographed the struggle of
his progenitors two centuries ago. This wariness and reserve does not,
as a rule, amount to churlishness. The American, like the English
cultivator, has felt the ameliorating influences of modern civilization,
and while he retains his strong individuality, his intelligence prompts
him to benefit by the opportunities denied to his forefathers.

The dwelling of the American farmer is usually lacking in those tasteful
accessories which add such a charm to the cottage homes of England and
France. Beyond the belt of suburban villas one seldom sees a carefully
tended flower-garden, or an attractive vine. The yard, like the field, is
open to the cattle, and, if there is a plot fenced in, it is devoted, not
to roses and violets, but to onions or peas. The effect is dreary and
uninviting, even though the enclosure may be clean, and the milk-cans
scoured to brilliancy. Again we see in this disregard for the beautiful
the effect of isolation upon the native character, the result of hard
grubbing for the bare needs of existence. The primitive settlers needed
every foot of the land which they laboriously subdued, for some
productive use; they had neither time nor soil to spare for the culture
of the beautiful; and their descendants have inherited the ancestral
disposition to utilize everything, and the ancestral want of taste for
the merely charming in nature. Yet there are gratifying exceptions to the
general rule, and sometimes a housewife may be met who takes pride and
pleasure in her flower-beds. No doubt it was such a wife that the
lonesome old farmer was speaking of one evening, in a group by a roadside
tavern, as the writer passed along. "My wife loved flowers," he
mournfully said, as his weary eyes seemed to look back into the past,
"and I must go and plant some upon her grave."

                        *          *          *

The spirit of independence and isolation extends in many of the old
American families even to the tomb. An interesting monograph might be
written on the private graveyards in some parts of the East. Among the
shade-trees surrounding a house on the busy street, in the orchard behind
the farmer's barn, and again in the depth of the wood, a few rude,
unchiseled headstones, perhaps nearly hidden by tangled brush, reveal the
spot where sleep the forefathers of the plantation. I came across such a
burying-ground not long ago. It was far from the traveled highway, far
from the haunts of living men, among trees and grapevines, and blueberry
bushes. The depression in the soil indicated that the perishable remains
had long ago crumbled to dust, while a large hole burrowed in the earth
showed where a woodchuck made its home among the bones of the forgotten
dead. With reverent hand I cleared the leaves from about the primitive
monuments, and sought for some word or letter that might tell who they
were that lay beneath the silver birches, in the silent New England
forest. But the stones, erect as when set by sorrowing friends perhaps
two hundred years ago, bore neither trace nor mark. There were graves
enough for a household, and likely a household was there. It maybe a
father who had fled from Old England to seek in the wilderness a place
where he might worship God according to the dictates of his heart; a
Pilgrim wife and mother, whose gentle love mellowed and softened the
harshness of frontier life, and sons and daughters, cut off before the
growth of commerce tempted the survivors to the town, or the reports of
new and fertile territories induced them to abandon the rugged but not
ungrateful paternal fields. With gentle step, so not to disturb the
sacred stillness of the scene, I turned from the lonely graves, and I
thought as I walked, that these simple tombs in the bosom of nature well
befitted those who had dared the dangers of wild New England for freedom
from the empty forms of a mitred religion.

History can be read in secluded resting-places of the departed. With the
accretion of wealth to the living more care was expended upon the dead,
and enduring slabs of slate, with appropriate engravings, took the place
of the uncouth fragments of rock. With added riches the taste for display
in headstones, as well as in social life, increased, and imported marble
was occasionally used to designate the tombs of prosperous descendants of
the early and impoverished settlers. Samuel Birch has given a translation
of them, which I think is subject to revision.[52] One relates to the
marriage of Amen-hotep IIIrd in the tenth year of his reign, with his
queen Thya, (Taia, or Thai;) a second relates to the same subject and
to the arrival of Thya and Gilukipa in Egypt, with 317 women; a
third, now in the Vatican, mentions a tank or sacred lake, made for
the queen Thya, in the eleventh year and third month of his reign,
to celebrate the Festival of the Waters, on which occasion he entered
it, in a boat of "the most gracious Disk of Ra," i.e., the sun-god.

                        This substitution of the boat of the "Disk of Ra" for the usual
boat of Amen-Ra, is the first indication of a new, or heretical,
sun worship.[53]
One in the Museum of the Louvre (No. 580-747, Vitrine N.) reads:
"The living Horus, the bull strong through the _Ma_, the sovereign
of the two regions, supporter of the laws and preserver of the land
(country,) the Horus triumphant and great by his valor, vanquisher
of the Asiatics, king of Upper and Lower Egypt, _Ra-ma-neb_ (the
prenomen of the king,) son of the sun, Amenophis III., giving life.

The queen _Taia_ living.

Account of the lions brought from Asia by his Majesty, namely: from the
first year to the tenth, savage lions 102."
Another in the same Museum (582-787, Vitrine N.) This begins, as the
preceding, with an eulogy of Amenophis III. and follows with: "The principal
consort _Taia_, living, the name of her father (is) _Auaa_.
The name of her mother (is) _Tuaa_, She is the consort of the victorious
king whose frontiers (extend) to the south as far as _Ka ro_ (or,
Karai, perhaps Soudan,) to the north as far as Naharina," i.e., Mesopotamia.

He has the old Puritan love of learning, and from the humble colleges in
which his more ambitious children are educated go forth the Joshuas and
the Davids of our American Israel. The total yearly expenses of one of
those western colleges would hardly equal the salary of the chief of a
great university, but presidents of the United States are graduated
there.

The western farmer reads and thinks, and perhaps in that clear western
air, as he ploughs the sod of the prairie, and reaps the harvest on his
rude domain, he sees farther into the future than his brother of the
East. Right or wrong in his political views, he is at any rate honest in
them, and if his convictions seem to partake sometimes of the fervor of
the crusader, it should not be forgotten that the spirit of Ossawattomie
Brown yet lives in the land which he saved for freedom; it should not be
forgotten that nearly every western homestead has its grave in the
battlefields of the war which made us one people forever. Making due
allowance for that good-natured raillery which is one of the spices of
existence, it may be truthfully said that anyone who laughs in earnest at
the West calls attention merely to his own shallow conceit. Intelligent
people in the East are studying, not ridiculing the West.

                        *          *          *

The recuperative energy displayed by the Southern people has been even
more wonderful and admirable than that exhibited by France after the
German conquest. France was not denuded, as the South was denuded of all
that represents wealth save a fertile soil and the resolution to rise
from the ashes of the past. And the South has risen. I passed through
North Carolina and Virginia just before the close of the war. Recently I
visited the same States, and South Carolina and Georgia for the first
time since the war. What a transformation! But for the genial climate the
busy factories would have recalled New England, while a keen business air
had taken the place of that old-time lassitude which in ante-bellum days
seemed inseparable from the institution of slavery. The Southern people
have all the acuteness of the Yankee, with a genuine bonhomie which
brightens the most ordinary incidents of life. New conditions have called
into play valuable qualities which were torpid until touched by the wand
of necessity. The old families no longer regard honorable toil with
aversion or disdain; on the contrary they are workers, and work is the
passport to respectable recognition. The Southern whites are getting
along very well with the colored people, and look on them as not only
useful, but indispensable to the South. "If the negroes emigrate," said a
prominent business man of Augusta, Ga., to the writer, "I want to
emigrate too." And this is the prevailing sentiment. The negroes, also,
are proving themselves worthy of freedom, although it is not to be
expected that the effects of three centuries of slavery could be
eradicated in three decades of liberty. In looking out for business
rivalry New England would do well to gaze less intently across the
Atlantic and more toward the Yadkin and the Savannah.

                           *          *          *

There is little reason to fear for our country. At the beginning of the
19th century he was 64; and his son's attention to the business of the
office in Great Russell Street enabled him to live more at Shere, but when
in London his habits were little changed. He dined with the Antiquaries'
Club almost every week during the season until he was 90. He did not so
frequently take his meals at the houses of his friends, but at his own
table they were always welcome, and many came.

{108} He was frequently bled according to the usual practice in
those days.Before it the pestilential vapor of
anarchy, borne across the Atlantic from the squirming and steaming masses
of Europe, disappears like a plague before a purifying flame, and,
whatever may be the outcome of the struggle, in its various forms, now
going on between the upper and lower orders in the mother continent, in
the United States the foundations of society are likely to remain firm
and unsapped.