"A brief respite from instant death," said Rebecca, "which will little
avail me--was this all thou couldst do for one, on whose head thou hast
heaped sorrow, and whom thou hast brought near even to the verge of the
tomb?"

"No maiden," said Bois-Guilbert, "this was NOT all that I purposed. Had
it not been for the accursed interference of yon fanatical dotard, and
the fool of Goodalricke, who, being a Templar, affects to think and
judge according to the ordinary rules of humanity, the office of the
Champion Defender had devolved, not on a Preceptor, but on a Companion
of the Order. Then I myself--such was my purpose--had, on the sounding
of the trumpet, appeared in the lists as thy champion, disguised indeed
in the fashion of a roving knight, who seeks adventures to prove his
shield and spear; and then, let Beaumanoir have chosen not one, but two
or three of the brethren here assembled, I had not doubted to cast them
out of the saddle with my single lance. Thus, Rebecca, should thine
innocence have been avouched, and to thine own gratitude would I have
trusted for the reward of my victory."

"This, Sir Knight," said Rebecca, "is but idle boasting--a brag of what
you would have done had you not found it convenient to do otherwise. You
received my glove, and my champion, if a creature so desolate can find
one, must encounter your lance in the lists--yet you would assume the
air of my friend and protector!"

"Thy friend and protector," said the Templar, gravely, "I will yet
be--but mark at what risk, or rather at what certainty, of dishonour;
and then blame me not if I make my stipulations, before I offer up all
that I have hitherto held dear, to save the life of a Jewish maiden."

"Speak," said Rebecca; "I understand thee not."

Transverse divisions separate the foreigners' sections from each
other, while longitudinal divisions extending throughout the length
of the building divide the various classes of exhibits subjectively. A
person may thus cross the building and view the exhibits of a country
in the different classes, or he may go lengthwise of the building and see
what the various nations have to show in a given class. No better plan
could be devised if they are all to be assembled under one roof. The
same plan has been tried before, especially in the great elliptical
building at Vienna.
It is probable that the Philadelphia plan of isolated buildings
may find imitators in the future, and then this plan of national
and subjective arrangement may be carried out without the violent
contrasts incident to sandwiching the machine galleries between
the alimentary and chemical sections.

All the exhibits are classed under nine general groups, which are--1.
Fine arts; 2. Liberal arts and education; 3. Furniture and accessories;
4.
Textile fabrics and clothing; 5.

Mining industries and raw products; 6.
Machinery; 7. Alimentary products; 8. Agriculture; 9. Horticulture. The
first of these occupies the pavilions in the central court. The second
and following ones to the seventh occupy the galleries as one passes
from the central court to the exterior of the building; agricultural
implements and products are shown in spacious sheds outside the main
building and within the enclosing fence; animals are shown in a
separate enclosure on the esplanade of the Invalides. Horticulture finds
a place in all the intervals wherever there is a square yard of ground
not necessary for paths, and also on the two esplanades which
divide the Palais du Champ de Mars and the Palais Trocadéro from
the river which flows between.

The subjective character of the longitudinal disposition cannot be
rigorously maintained, since nations that excel in one or another
line of work or culture are utterly deficient in others.

China and Japan, for instance, fill their galleries to overflowing with
papeterie, furniture and knickknacks, while their space in the
machinery hall is principally devoted to ceramics, a few rude
implements and costumed figures.

The English pavilion in the Galérie d'Iéna consists of four wooden
structures representing Oriental mosques and kiosques, painted red
and surmounted by numerous gilded domes of the bulbous shape so
characteristic of the Indian architecture.

In the order of position, as approached from the main central doorway,
the first and third are Indian, the second Ceylonese, and the fourth is
devoted to the productions of Jamaica, Guiana, Trinidad, Trinity
Island, Lagos, Seychelles, Mauritius, the Strait Settlements and
Singapore. Their contents, without attempting an enumeration, are rather
of the useful than the ornamental, with the exception of the furniture,
carpets, dresses and tissues. The Lagos collection has a number of
native drums, with snake-skin heads on bodies carved from the solid
wood, and it has also a very curious lyre of eight strings strained by
as many elastic wooden rods fastened to a box which forms the
sounding-chamber.
"With these I deal not," he continued, holding the train of her
robe--"it is thee only I address; and what can counterbalance thy
choice? Bethink thee, were I a fiend, yet death is a worse, and it is
death who is my rival."

"I weigh not these evils," said Rebecca, afraid to provoke the wild
knight, yet equally determined neither to endure his passion, nor even
feign to endure it. "Be a man, be a Christian! If indeed thy faith
recommends that mercy which rather your tongues than your actions
pretend, save me from this dreadful death, without seeking a requital
which would change thy magnanimity into base barter."

"No, damsel!" said the proud Templar, springing up, "thou shalt not thus
impose on me--if I renounce present fame and future ambition, I renounce
it for thy sake, and we will escape in company. Listen to me, Rebecca,"
he said, again softening his tone; "England,--Europe,--is not the
world. There are spheres in which we may act, ample enough even for my
ambition. We will go to Palestine, where Conrade, Marquis of Montserrat,
is my friend--a friend free as myself from the doting scruples which
fetter our free-born reason--rather with Saladin will we league
ourselves, than endure the scorn of the bigots whom we contemn.--I will
form new paths to greatness," he continued, again traversing the room
with hasty strides--"Europe shall hear the loud step of him she has
driven from her sons!--Not the millions whom her crusaders send to
slaughter, can do so much to defend Palestine--not the sabres of the
thousands and ten thousands of Saracens can hew their way so deep into
that land for which nations are striving, as the strength and policy of
me and those brethren, who, in despite of yonder old bigot, will adhere
to me in good and evil. Thou shalt be a queen, Rebecca--on Mount Carmel
shall we pitch the throne which my valour will gain for you, and I will
exchange my long-desired batoon for a sceptre!"

"A dream," said Rebecca; "an empty vision of the night, which, were it
a waking reality, affects me not. Enough, that the power which thou
mightest acquire, I will never share; nor hold I so light of country or
religious faith, as to esteem him who is willing to barter these ties,
and cast away the bonds of the Order of which he is a sworn member,
in order to gratify an unruly passion for the daughter of another
people.--Put not a price on my deliverance, Sir Knight--sell not a deed
of generosity--protect the oppressed for the sake of charity, and not
for a selfish advantage--Go to the throne of England; Richard will
listen to my appeal from these cruel men."

"Never, Rebecca!" said the Templar, fiercely. "If I renounce my Order,
for thee alone will I renounce it--Ambition shall remain mine, if thou
refuse my love; I will not be fooled on all hands.--Stoop my crest to
Richard?--ask a boon of that heart of pride?--Never, Rebecca, will I
place the Order of the Temple at his feet in my person. I may forsake
the Order, I never will degrade or betray it."

"Now God be gracious to me," said Rebecca, "for the succour of man is
well-nigh hopeless!"

"It is indeed," said the Templar; "for, proud as thou art, thou hast in
me found thy match. If I enter the lists with my spear in rest, think
not any human consideration shall prevent my putting forth my strength;
and think then upon thine own fate--to die the dreadful death of the
worst of criminals--to be consumed upon a blazing pile--dispersed to the
elements of which our strange forms are so mystically composed--not a
relic left of that graceful frame, from which we could say this lived
and moved!--Rebecca, it is not in woman to sustain this prospect--thou
wilt yield to my suit."

"Bois-Guilbert," answered the Jewess, "thou knowest not the heart
of woman, or hast only conversed with those who are lost to her best
feelings. I tell thee, proud Templar, that not in thy fiercest battles
hast thou displayed more of thy vaunted courage, than has been shown
by woman when called upon to suffer by affection or duty. I am myself a
woman, tenderly nurtured, naturally fearful of danger, and impatient
of pain--yet, when we enter those fatal lists, thou to fight and I to
suffer, I feel the strong assurance within me, that my courage shall
mount higher than thine. Farewell--I waste no more words on thee; the
time that remains on earth to the daughter of Jacob must be otherwise
spent--she must seek the Comforter, who may hide his face from his
people, but who ever opens his ear to the cry of those who seek him in
sincerity and in truth."

"We part then thus?" said the Templar, after a short pause; "would to
Heaven that we had never met, or that thou hadst been noble in birth and
Christian in faith!--Nay, by Heaven! when I gaze on thee, and think when
and how we are next to meet, I could even wish myself one of thine own
degraded nation; my hand conversant with ingots and shekels, instead of
spear and shield; my head bent down before each petty noble, and my look
only terrible to the shivering and bankrupt debtor--this could I wish,
Rebecca, to be near to thee in life, and to escape the fearful share I
must have in thy death."

"Thou hast spoken the Jew," said Rebecca, "as the persecution of such
as thou art has made him. Heaven in ire has driven him from his country,
but industry has opened to him the only road to power and to influence,
which oppression has left unbarred. Read the ancient history of the
people of God, and tell me if those, by whom Jehovah wrought such
marvels among the nations, were then a people of misers and of
usurers!--And know, proud knight, we number names amongst us to which
your boasted northern nobility is as the gourd compared with the
cedar--names that ascend far back to those high times when the Divine
Presence shook the mercy-seat between the cherubim, and which derive
their splendour from no earthly prince, but from the awful Voice, which
bade their fathers be nearest of the congregation to the Vision--Such
were the princes of the House of Jacob."

Rebecca's colour rose as she boasted the ancient glories of her race,
but faded as she added, with at sigh, "Such WERE the princes of Judah,
now such no more!--They are trampled down like the shorn grass, and
mixed with the mire of the ways. Yet are there those among them who
shame not such high descent, and of such shall be the daughter of Isaac
the son of Adonikam! Farewell!--I envy not thy blood-won honours--I envy
not thy barbarous descent from northern heathens--I envy thee not thy
faith, which is ever in thy mouth, but never in thy heart nor in thy
practice."

"There is a spell on me, by Heaven!" said Bois-Guilbert. "I almost think
yon besotted skeleton spoke truth, and that the reluctance with which
I part from thee hath something in it more than is natural.--Fair
creature!" he said, approaching near her, but with great respect,--"so
young, so beautiful, so fearless of death! The magnetic iron is melted
with charcoal without any flux, and obtained at once in a perfectly tough
and malleable state. It is superior to any English or Swedish iron.
It is perhaps unnecessary to remind readers that the famous blades of
Damascus were forged from Indian steel. Some of the blades are
watered, others chased in half relief with hunting-scenes--some serrated,
others flamboyant. A very striking object is a suit of armor of the horny
scales of the Indian armadillo, ornamented with encrusted gold,
turquoises and garnets. Another suit is of Kashmir chain-armor
almost as fine as lace.

Others have damascened breastplates, the gold wire being inserted in
undercut lines engraved in the steel, and incorporated therewith by
hammering. Five cases are filled with the matchlocks of various tribes
and nations--one with its barrel superbly damascened in gold with a
poppy-flower pattern, another with a stock carved in ivory, with
hunting-scenes in cameo.

Enamelled and jewelled mountings are seen, with all the fanciful
profusion of ornament with which the semi-barbarian will deck his
favorite weapon. The splendor of Indian arms is largely due to the
lavish use of diamonds, rubies, emeralds and other precious stones,
mainly introduced for their effect in color, few of them being
of great value as gems. Stones with flaws, and others which are mere
chips or scales, are laid on like tinsel.

Two cases are filled with gaudy trappings and caparisons--horse and
camel saddles with velvet and leather work, gold embroidery and
cut-cloth work (_appliqué_); an elephant howdah of silver; chowries
of yak tails with handles of sandal-wood, chased gold or carved
ivory; gold-embroidered holsters and elaborate whips which will
hold no more ornamentation than has been crowded upon them.

The yak's-tail chowries, or fly-brushes, and the fans of peacocks'
feathers, are emblems of royalty throughout the East.

The metal ware of India, shown in eight of the glass cases--some of
them the prince's and others Lord Northbrook's--affords connoisseurs
great delight, and also arrests the attention of those who have
simply a delight in beautiful forms and colors, without technical
knowledge.

"Thou art mad," answered Malvoisin; "thou mayst thus indeed utterly ruin
thyself, but canst not even find a chance thereby to save the life of
this Jewess, which seems so precious in thine eyes. Beaumanoir will
name another of the Order to defend his judgment in thy place, and the
accused will as assuredly perish as if thou hadst taken the duty imposed
on thee."

"'Tis false--I will myself take arms in her behalf," answered the
Templar, haughtily; "and, should I do so, I think, Malvoisin, that thou
knowest not one of the Order, who will keep his saddle before the point
of my lance."

"Ay, but thou forgettest," said the wily adviser, "thou wilt have
neither leisure nor opportunity to execute this mad project. Go to Lucas
Beaumanoir, and say thou hast renounced thy vow of obedience, and see
how long the despotic old man will leave thee in personal freedom.
The words shall scarce have left thy lips, ere thou wilt either be an
hundred feet under ground, in the dungeon of the Preceptory, to abide
trial as a recreant knight; or, if his opinion holds concerning thy
possession, thou wilt be enjoying straw, darkness, and chains, in some
distant convent cell, stunned with exorcisms, and drenched with holy
water, to expel the foul fiend which hath obtained dominion over thee.
Thou must to the lists, Brian, or thou art a lost and dishonoured man."

"I will break forth and fly," said Bois-Guilbert--"fly to some distant
land, to which folly and fanaticism have not yet found their way. No
drop of the blood of this most excellent creature shall be spilled by my
sanction."

"Thou canst not fly," said the Preceptor; "thy ravings have excited
suspicion, and thou wilt not be permitted to leave the Preceptory. Go
and make the essay--present thyself before the gate, and command the
bridge to be lowered, and mark what answer thou shalt receive.--Thou are
surprised and offended; but is it not the better for thee? Wert thou
to fly, what would ensue but the reversal of thy arms, the dishonour of
thine ancestry, the degradation of thy rank?--Think on it. Where
shall thine old companions in arms hide their heads when Brian de
Bois-Guilbert, the best lance of the Templars, is proclaimed recreant,
amid the hisses of the assembled people? What grief will be at the Court
of France! With what joy will the haughty Richard hear the news, that
the knight that set him hard in Palestine, and well-nigh darkened his
renown, has lost fame and honour for a Jewish girl, whom he could not
even save by so costly a sacrifice!"

"Malvoisin," said the Knight, "I thank thee--thou hast touched the
string at which my heart most readily thrills!--Come of it what may,
recreant shall never be added to the name of Bois-Guilbert. Would to
God, Richard, or any of his vaunting minions of England, would appear in
these lists! But they will be empty--no one will risk to break a lance
for the innocent, the forlorn."

"The better for thee, if it prove so," said the Preceptor; "if no
champion appears, it is not by thy means that this unlucky damsel shall
die, but by the doom of the Grand Master, with whom rests all the blame,
and who will count that blame for praise and commendation."

"True," said Bois-Guilbert; "if no champion appears, I am but a part
of the pageant, sitting indeed on horseback in the lists, but having no
part in what is to follow."

"None whatever," said Malvoisin; "no more than the armed image of Saint
George when it makes part of a procession."

"Well, I will resume my resolution," replied the haughty Templar. "She
has despised me--repulsed me--reviled me--And wherefore should I offer
up for her whatever of estimation I have in the opinion of others?
Malvoisin, I will appear in the lists."

He left the apartment hastily as he uttered these words, and the
Preceptor followed, to watch and confirm him in his resolution; for in
Bois-Guilbert's fame he had himself a strong interest, expecting much
advantage from his being one day at the head of the Order, not to
mention the preferment of which Mont-Fitchet had given him hopes, on
condition he would forward the condemnation of the unfortunate Rebecca.
Yet although, in combating his friend's better feelings, he possessed
all the advantage which a wily, composed, selfish disposition has over
a man agitated by strong and contending passions, it required all
Malvoisin's art to keep Bois-Guilbert steady to the purpose he had
prevailed on him to adopt. The addition of blocks of graphite,
some curiously carved into the shape of elephants, and the more
prosaic agricultural productions, such as cotton, cinnamon, matting
and baskets, tone down the color and exhibit the fact that the English
possession has the mercantile side. Antlers of the Ceylon deer,
tusks of elephants and boars, contrast with the richness and the sobriety
of the other contents of the overflowing pavilion.
Another Indian kiosque, and we are at the end of the row.CHAPTER XL

     Shadows avaunt!--Richard's himself again.
     Richard III

