Well--I didn't spare the bottle, either for myself or for my friends;
and we grew very talkative, and very affectionate as the drinking went
on. Each man told stories of his gallantry in the field, or amongst the
ladies, as officers will, after dinner. Clopper confided to the company
his wish that I should marry his sister, and vowed that he thought me
the best fellow in Christendom.

Ensign Dobble assented to this. "But let Miss Clopper beware," says he,
"for Stubbs is a sad fellow: he has had I don't know how many liaisons
already; and he has been engaged to I don't know how many women."

"Indeed!" says Clopper. "Come, Stubbs, tell us your adventures."

"Psha!" said I, modestly, "there is nothing, indeed, to tell. I have
been in love, my dear boy--who has not?--and I have been jilted--who has
not?"

Clopper swore he would blow his sister's brains out if ever SHE served
me so.

"Tell him about Miss Crutty," said Dobble. "He! he! Stubbs served THAT
woman out, anyhow; she didn't jilt HIM. I'll be sworn."

"Really, Dobble, you are too bad, and should not mention names. The
fact is, the girl was desperately in love with me, and had money--sixty
thousand pounds, upon my reputation. Well, everything was arranged, when
who should come down from London but a relation."

"Well, and did he prevent the match?"

"Prevent it--yes, sir, I believe you he did; though not in the sense
that YOU mean. He would have given his eyes--ay, and ten thousand pounds
more--if I would have accepted the girl, but I would not."

"Why, in the name of goodness?"

"Sir, her uncle was a SHOEMAKER. I never would debase myself by marrying
into such a family."

"Of course not," said Dobble; "he couldn't, you know. Well, now--tell
him about the other girl, Mary Waters, you know."

"Hush, Dobble, hush! don't you see one of those naval officers has
turned round and heard you? My dear Clopper, it was a mere childish
bagatelle."

"Well, but let's have it," said Clopper--"let's have it. I won't tell my
sister, you know." And he put his hand to his nose and looked monstrous
wise.

"Nothing of that sort, Clopper--no, no--'pon honor--little Bob Stubbs is
no LIBERTINE; and the story is very simple. You see that my father has a
small place, merely a few hundred acres, at Sloffemsquiggle. Isn't it
a funny name? Hang it, there's the naval gentleman staring again,"--(I
looked terribly fierce as I returned this officer's stare, and continued
in a loud careless voice). Well, at this Sloffemsquiggle there lived
a girl, a Miss Waters, the niece of some blackguard apothecary in the
neighborhood; but my mother took a fancy to the girl, and had her up to
the park and petted her. We were both young--and--and--the girl fell in
love with me, that's the fact. I was obliged to repel some rather warm
advances that she made me; and here, upon my honor as a gentleman, you
have all the story about which that silly Dobble makes such a noise.

Just as I finished this sentence. I found myself suddenly taken by the
nose, and a voice shouting out,--

"Mr. Stubbs, you are A LIAR AND A SCOUNDREL! Take this, sir,--and this,
for daring to meddle with the name of an innocent lady."

I turned round as well as I could--for the ruffian had pulled me out
of my chair--and beheld a great marine monster, six feet high, who was
occupied in beating and kicking me, in the most ungentlemanly manner,
on my cheeks, my ribs, and between the tails of my coat. "He is a liar,
gentlemen, and a scoundrel! The bootmaker had detected him in swindling,
and so his niece refused him. Miss Waters was engaged to him from
childhood, and he deserted her for the bootmaker's niece, who was
richer."--And then sticking a card between my stock and my coat-collar,
in what is called the scruff of my neck, the disgusting brute gave me
another blow behind my back, and left the coffee-room with his friends.

Dobble raised me up; and taking the card from my neck, read, CAPTAIN
WATERS. Clopper poured me out a glass of water, and said in my ear, "If
this is true, you are an infernal scoundrel, Stubbs; and must fight me,
after Captain Waters;" and he flounced out of the room.

I had but one course to pursue. I sent the Captain a short and
contemptuous note, saying that he was beneath my anger. As for Clopper,
I did not condescend to notice his remark but in order to get rid of the
troublesome society of these low blackguards, I determined to gratify
an inclination I had long entertained, and make a little tour. I applied
for leave of absence, and set off THAT VERY NIGHT. I can fancy the
disappointment of the brutal Waters, on coming, as he did, the next
morning to my quarters and finding me GONE. Ha! ha!

After this adventure I became sick of a military life--at least the life
of my own regiment, where the officers, such was their unaccountable
meanness and prejudice against me, absolutely refused to see me at mess.
Colonel Craw sent me a letter to this effect, which I treated as it
deserved.--I never once alluded to it in any way, and have since never
spoken a single word to any man in the North Bungays.


AUGUST.--DOGS HAVE THEIR DAYS.

See, now, what life is! I have had ill-luck on ill-luck from that day
to this. I have sunk in the world, and, instead of riding my horse and
drinking my wine, as a real gentleman should, have hardly enough now to
buy a pint of ale; ay, and am very glad when anybody will treat me to
one. Why, why was I born to undergo such unmerited misfortunes?

You must know that very soon after my adventure with Miss Crutty, and
that cowardly ruffian, Captain Waters (he sailed the day after his
insult to me, or I should most certainly have blown his brains out; NOW
he is living in England, and is my relation; but, of course, I cut the
fellow)--very soon after these painful events another happened, which
ended, too, in a sad disappointment. My dear papa died, and, instead of
leaving five thousand pounds, as I expected at the very least, left only
his estate, which was worth but two. The land and house were left to
me; to mamma and my sisters he left, to be sure, a sum of two thousand
pounds in the hands of that eminent firm Messrs. Pump, Aldgate and Co.,
which failed within six months after his demise, and paid in five years
about one shilling and ninepence in the pound; which really was all my
dear mother and sisters had to live upon.

The poor creatures were quite unused to money matters; and, would you
believe it? when the news came of Pump and Aldgate's failure, mamma only
smiled, and threw her eyes up to heaven, and said, "Blessed be God, that
we have still wherewithal to live. There are tens of thousands in this
world, dear children, who would count our poverty riches." And with this
she kissed my two sisters, who began to blubber, as girls always will
do, and threw their arms round her neck, and then round my neck, until I
was half stifled with their embraces, and slobbered all over with their
tears.

"Dearest mamma," said I, "I am very glad to see the noble manner in
which you bear your loss; and more still to know that you are so rich
as to be able to put up with it." The fact was, I really thought the
old lady had got a private hoard of her own, as many of them have--a
thousand pounds or so in a stocking. Had she put by thirty pounds a
year, as well she might, for the thirty years of her marriage, there
would have been nine hundred pounds clear, and no mistake. But still
I was angry to think that any such paltry concealment had been
practised--concealment too of MY money; so I turned on her pretty
sharply, and continued my speech. "You say, Ma'am, that you are rich,
and that Pump and Aldgate's failure has no effect upon you. I am very
happy to hear you say so, Ma'am--very happy that you ARE rich; and I
should like to know where your property, my father's property, for
you had none of your own,--I should like to know where this money
lies--WHERE YOU HAVE CONCEALED IT, Ma'am; and, permit me to say, that
when I agreed to board you and my two sisters for eighty pounds a year,
I did not know that you had OTHER resources than those mentioned in my
blessed father's will."

This I said to her because I hated the meanness of concealment, not
because I lost by the bargain of boarding them: for the three poor
things did not eat much more than sparrows: and I've often since
calculated that I had a clear twenty pounds a year profit out of them.

Mamma and the girls looked quite astonished when I made the speech.
"What does he mean?" said Lucy to Eliza.

Mamma repeated the question. "My beloved Robert, what concealment are
you talking of?"

"I am talking of concealed property, Ma'am," says I sternly.

The water was now several inches deep on the porch and she
contrived to half-float, half-row the tub into the room.

Without frightening the children she got them dressed in the
warmest clothes they had. She lined the oblong tub with a blanket, and
made ready bread and cold meat left from supper. With Rob's assistance
she dragged the tub upstairs. There was a single large window in the room,
and they set the tub directly by it, so that when the water rose the
tub would float out. There was no way for the children to reach the roof,
which was a very steep, inclined one. It did not seem long before the
water had very nearly risen to the top of the stairs leading from
below.

Bess flung the window open, and made Rob get into their novel boat;
then she lifted in Kate, and finally baby Rose, who began to cry, was
given into Rob's arms, and now the little mother, taking the basket of
food, made ready to enter, too; but, lo!

there was no room for her with safety to the rest. Bess paused a moment,
drew a long breath, and kissed the children quietly. She explained to
Rob that he must guard the basket, and that they must sit still.

"Goodbye, dears. Say a prayer for sister, Rob. If you ever see father
and mother, tell them I took care of you." Then the water seized the
insecure vessel, and out into the dark night it floated.

[Illustration: ]
The next day Mr. Mayfield, who, with his neighbors, scoured the broad
lake of eddying water that represented the Mississippi, discovered
the tub lodged in the branches of a sycamore with the children
weeping and chilled, but safe.says Mrs. Stubbs, getting up off her knees, and
making believe to smile as she clawed hold of my hand and kissed it.

This was TOO cool. "YOU have got a hundred a year, Ma'am," says I--"YOU
have got a house? Upon my soul and honor this is the first I ever heard
of it; and I'll tell you what, Ma'am," says I (and it cut her PRETTY
SHARPLY too): "as you've got it, YOU'D BETTER GO AND LIVE IN IT. I've
got quite enough to do with my own house, and every penny of my own
income."

Upon this speech the old lady said nothing, but she gave a screech loud
enough to be heard from here to York, and down she fell--kicking and
struggling in a regular fit.

*****

I did not see Mrs. Stubbs for some days after this, and the girls used
to come down to meals, and never speak; going up again and stopping with
their mother. At last, one day, both of them came in very solemn to
my study, and Eliza, the eldest, said, "Robert, mamma has paid you our
board up to Michaelmas."

"She has," says I; for I always took precious good care to have it in
advance.

"She says, Robert, That on Michaelmas day--we'll--we'll go away,
Robert."

"Oh, she's going to her own house, is she, Lizzy? Very good. She'll want
the furniture, I suppose, and that she may have too, for I'm going to
sell the place myself." And so THAT matter was settled.

*****

On Michaelmas day--and during these two months I hadn't, I do believe,
seen my mother twice (once, about two o'clock in the morning, I woke and
found her sobbing over my bed)--on Michaelmas-day morning, Eliza
comes to me and says, "ROBERT, THEY WILL COME AND FETCH US AT SIX THIS
EVENING." Well, as this was the last day, I went and got the best goose
I could find (I don't think I ever saw a primer, or ate more hearty
myself), and had it roasted at three, with a good pudding afterwards;
and a glorious bowl of punch. "Here's a health to you, dear girls," says
I, "and you, Ma, and good luck to all three; and as you've not eaten a
morsel, I hope you won't object to a glass of punch. It's the old stuff,
you know, Ma'am, that that Waters sent to my father fifteen years ago."

Six o'clock came, and with it came a fine barouche. As I live, Captain
Waters was on the box (it was his coach); that old thief, Bates, jumped
out, entered my house, and before I could say Jack Robinson, whipped off
mamma to the carriage: the girls followed, just giving me a hasty shake
of the hand; and as mamma was helped in, Mary Waters, who was sitting
inside, flung her arms round her, and then round the girls; and the
Doctor, who acted footman, jumped on the box, and off they went; taking
no more notice of ME than if I'd been a nonentity.

Here's a picture of the whole business:--Mamma and Miss Waters are
sitting kissing each other in the carriage, with the two girls in the
back seat: Waters is driving (a precious bad driver he is too); and I'm
standing at the garden door, and whistling. That old fool Mary Malowney
is crying behind the garden gate: she went off next day along with the
furniture; and I to get into that precious scrape which I shall mention
next.


SEPTEMBER.--PLUCKING A GOOSE.

After my papa's death, as he left me no money, and only a little land,
I put my estate into an auctioneer's hands, and determined to amuse
my solitude with a trip to some of our fashionable watering-places. My
house was now a desert to me. I need not say how the departure of my
dear parent, and her children, left me sad and lonely.

Well, I had a little ready money, and, for the estate, expected a couple
of thousand pounds. I had a good military-looking person: for though I
had absolutely cut the old North Bungays (indeed, after my affair with
Waters, Colonel Craw hinted to me, in the most friendly manner, that
I had better resign)--though I had left the army, I still retained the
rank of Captain; knowing the advantages attendant upon that title in a
watering-place tour.

Captain Stubbs became a great dandy at Cheltenham, Harrogate, Bath,
Leamington, and other places. I was a good whist and billiard player;
so much so, that in many of these towns, the people used to refuse, at
last, to play with me, knowing how far I was their superior. Fancy my
surprise, about five years after the Portsmouth affair, when strolling
one day up the High Street, in Leamington, my eyes lighted upon a young
man, whom I remembered in a certain butcher's yard, and elsewhere--no
other, in fact, than Dobble. He, too, was dressed en militaire, with
a frogged coat and spurs; and was walking with a showy-looking,
Jewish-faced, black-haired lady, glittering with chains and rings, with
a green bonnet and a bird-of-Paradise--a lilac shawl, a yellow gown,
pink silk stockings, and light-blue shoes. Three children, and a
handsome footman, were walking behind her, and the party, not seeing me,
entered the "Royal Hotel" together.

I was known myself at the "Royal," and calling one of the waiters,
learned the names of the lady and gentleman. He was Captain Dobble, the
son of the rich army-clothier, Dobble (Dobble, Hobble and Co. of Pall
Mall);--the lady was a Mrs. Manasseh, widow of an American Jew, living
quietly at Leamington with her children, but possessed of an immense
property. There's no use to give one's self out to be an absolute
pauper: so the fact is, that I myself went everywhere with the character
of a man of very large means. My father had died, leaving me immense
sums of money, and landed estates. Ah! I was the gentleman then, the
real gentleman, and everybody was too happy to have me at table.

Well, I came the next day, and left a card for Dobble, with a note. He
neither returned my visit, nor answered my note. The day after, however,
I met him with the widow, as before; and going up to him, very kindly
seized him by the hand, and swore I was--as really was the case--charmed
to see him. Dobble hung back, to my surprise, and I do believe the
creature would have cut me, if he dared; but I gave him a frown, and
said--

"What, Dobble, my boy, don't you recollect old Stubbs, and our adventure
with the butcher's daughters--ha?"

Dobble gave a sickly kind of grin, and said, "Oh! ah! yes! It is--yes!
it is, I believe, Captain Stubbs."

"An old comrade, Madam, of Captain Dobble's, and one who has heard so
much, and seen so much of your ladyship, that he must take the liberty
of begging his friend to introduce him."

Dobble was obliged to take the hint; and Captain Stubbs was duly
presented to Mrs. Manasseh. The lady was as gracious as possible; and
when, at the end of the walk, we parted, she said "she hoped Captain
Dobble would bring me to her apartments that evening, where she expected
a few friends." Everybody, you see, knows everybody at Leamington; and
I, for my part, was well known as a retired officer of the army, who,
on his father's death, had come into seven thousand a year. Dobble's
arrival had been subsequent to mine; but putting up as he did at the
"Royal Hotel," and dining at the ordinary there with the widow, he had
made her acquaintance before I had. I saw, however, that if I allowed
him to talk about me, as he could, I should be compelled to give up all
my hopes and pleasures at Leamington; and so I determined to be short
with him. As soon as the lady had gone into the hotel, my friend Dobble
was for leaving me likewise; but I stopped him and said, "Mr. Dobble, I
saw what you meant just now: you wanted to cut me, because, forsooth, I
did not choose to fight a duel at Portsmouth. Now look you, Dobble, I
am no hero, but I'm not such a coward as you--and you know it. You are
a very different man to deal with from Waters; and I WILL FIGHT this
time."

Not perhaps that I would: but after the business of the butcher, I knew
Dobble to be as great a coward as ever lived; and there never was any
harm in threatening, for you know you are not obliged to stick to it
afterwards. My words had their effect upon Dobble, who stuttered and
looked red, and then declared he never had the slightest intention of
passing me by; so we became friends, and his mouth was stopped.

He was very thick with the widow, but that lady had a very capacious
heart, and there were a number of other gentlemen who seemed equally
smitten with her. "Look at that Mrs. Manasseh," said a gentleman (it
was droll, HE was a Jew, too) sitting at dinner by me. "She is old,
and ugly, and yet, because she has money, all the men are flinging
themselves at her."

"She has money, has she?"

"Eighty thousand pounds, and twenty thousand for each of her children.
I know it FOR A FACT," said the strange gentleman. "I am in the law,
and we of our faith, you know, know pretty well what the great families
amongst us are worth."

"Who was Mr. Manasseh?" said I.

"A man of enormous wealth--a tobacco-merchant--West Indies; a fellow of
no birth, however; and who, between ourselves, married a woman that is
not much better than she should be. My dear sir," whispered he, "she
is always in love. I said "Sing?" She looked so happy and bowed her head.

I began singing: "I am Jesus' little lamb." She bowed her head again.

In the forenoon she kept looking at her aunts, Ollie and Belle, and
pointing up. Oh! it meant so much. It seemed to me that she was saying,
that it meant: "Meet me in heaven." Finally she motioned for me to
raise the window curtain. I did so and she looked out the window so
eagerly, as though she was expecting to see the little children. Then
the little blue eyes closed to open no more in this world, but in
heaven.

--Mrs. L. Jones.

SHE DIED FOR HIM 
[Illustration]
A poor emigrant had gone to Australia to "make his fortune," leaving
a wife and little son in England.I sat by her at dinner, I drank with her
at the "Wells"--I rode with her, I danced with her, and at a picnic to
Kenilworth, where we drank a good deal of champagne, I actually popped
the question, and was accepted. In another month, Robert Stubbs, Esq.,
led to the altar, Leah, widow of the late Z. Manasseh, Esq., of St.
Kitt's!

*****

We drove up to London in her comfortable chariot: the children and
servants following in a post-chaise. I paid, of course, for everything;
and until our house in Berkeley Square was painted, we stopped at
"Stevens's Hotel."

*****

My own estate had been sold, and the money was lying at a bank in the
City. About three days after our arrival, as we took our breakfast in
the hotel, previous to a visit to Mrs. Stubbs's banker, where certain
little transfers were to be made, a gentleman was introduced, who, I saw
at a glance, was of my wife's persuasion.

He looked at Mrs. Stubbs, and made a bow. "Perhaps it will be convenient
to you to pay this little bill, one hundred and fifty-two pounds?"

"My love," says she, "will you pay this--it is a trifle which I had
really forgotten?"

"My soul!" said I, "I have really not the money in the house."

"Vel, denn, Captain Shtubbsh," says he, "I must do my duty--and arrest
you--here is the writ! Tom, keep the door?" My wife fainted--the
children screamed, and I fancy my condition as I was obliged to march
off to a spunging-house along with a horrid sheriff's officer?


OCTOBER.--MARS AND VENUS IN OPPOSITION.

I shall not describe my feelings when I found myself in a cage in
Cursitor Street, instead of that fine house in Berkeley Square, which
was to have been mine as the husband of Mrs. Manasseh. What a place!--in
an odious, dismal street leading from Chancery Lane. A hideous Jew boy
opened the second of three doors and shut it when Mr. Nabb and I (almost
fainting) had entered; then he opened the third door, and then I was
introduced to a filthy place called a coffee-room, which I exchanged for
the solitary comfort of a little dingy back-parlor, where I was left for
a while to brood over my miserable fate. Fancy the change between this
and Berkeley Square! Was I, after all my pains, and cleverness, and
perseverance, cheated at last? Had this Mrs. Manasseh been imposing
upon me, and were the words of the wretch I met at the table-d'hote at
Leamington only meant to mislead me and take me in? I determined to send
for my wife, and know the whole truth. I saw at once that I had been the
victim of an infernal plot, and that the carriage, the house in town,
the West India fortune, were only so many lies which I had blindly
believed. It was true that the debt was but a hundred and fifty pounds;
and I had two thousand at my bankers'. But was the loss of HER 80,000L.
nothing? Was the destruction of my hopes nothing? The accursed addition
to my family of a Jewish wife and three Jewish children, nothing? And
all these I was to support out of my two thousand pounds. I had better
have stopped at home with my mamma and sisters, whom I really did love,
and who produced me eighty pounds a year.

I had a furious interview with Mrs. Stubbs; and when I charged her, the
base wretch! with cheating me, like a brazen serpent as she was, she
flung back the cheat in my teeth, and swore I had swindled her. Why did
I marry her, when she might have had twenty others? She only took me,
she said, because I had twenty thousand pounds. I HAD said I possessed
that sum; but in love, you know, and war all's fair.

We parted quite as angrily as we met; and I cordially vowed that when I
had paid the debt into which I had been swindled by her, I would take
my 2,000L. and depart to some desert island; or, at the very least, to
America, and never see her more, or any of her Israelitish brood. There
was no use in remaining in the spunging-house (for I knew that there
were such things as detainers, and that where Mrs. Stubbs owed a hundred
pounds, she might owe a thousand) so I sent for Mr. Nabb, and tendering
him a cheque for 150L. and his costs, requested to be let out forthwith.
"Here, fellow," said I, "is a cheque on Child's for your paltry sum."

"It may be a sheck on Shild's," says Mr. Nabb; "but I should be a baby
to let you out on such a paper as dat."

"Well," said I, "Child's is but a step from this: you may go and get the
cash,--just give me an acknowledgment."

Nabb drew out the acknowledgment with great punctuality, and set off
for the bankers', whilst I prepared myself for departure from this
abominable prison.

He smiled as he came in. "Well," said I, "you have touched your money;
and now, I must tell you, that you are the most infernal rogue and
extortioner I ever met with."

"Oh, no, Mishter Shtubbsh," says he, grinning still. "Dere is som
greater roag dan me,--mosh greater."

"Fellow," said I, "don't stand grinning before a gentleman; but give me
my hat and cloak, and let me leave your filthy den."

"Shtop, Shtubbsh," says he, not even Mistering me this time. "Here ish a
letter, vich you had better read."

I opened the letter; something fell to the ground:--it was my cheque.

The letter ran thus: "Messrs. Child and Co. present their compliments to
Captain Stubbs, and regret that they have been obliged to refuse payment
of the enclosed, having been served this day with an attachment by
Messrs. Oh! may I never see agony like that child's, as the lips he kissed
gave back no kiss, as the hands he took fell lifeless from his hand,
instead of shaking his hand as it always had, and the boy knew she
was dead.

"Mother, I do love you now," all the day he sobbed and cried, "O
Mother, Mother, forgive me."

Then he would not leave his mother. "Speak to me, Mother!" but she
could never speak again, and he--the last words she had ever heard
him say, were, "Mother, I don't love you now."

If you knew what tears are
blotting over the paper as I write it--if you knew that for weeks after
I was more like a madman than a sane man,--a madman in the Fleet Prison,
where I went instead of to the desert island! What had I done to deserve
it? Hadn't I always kept an eye to the main chance? Hadn't I lived
economically, and not like other young men? Had I ever been known to
squander or give away a single penny? No! I can lay my hand on my heart,
and, thank heaven, say, No! Why, why was I punished so?

Let me conclude this miserable history. Seven months--my wife saw me
once or twice, and then dropped me altogether--I remained in that fatal
place. I wrote to my dear mamma, begging her to sell her furniture, but
got no answer. All my old friends turned their backs upon me. My action
went against me--I had not a penny to defend it. Solomonson proved my
wife's debt, and seized my two thousand pounds. As for the detainer
against me, I was obliged to go through the court for the relief of
insolvent debtors. I passed through it, and came out a beggar. But
fancy the malice of that wicked Stiffelkind: he appeared in court as my
creditor for 3L., with sixteen years' interest at five per cent, for a
PAIR OF TOP-BOOTS. The old thief produced them in court, and told the
whole story--Lord Cornwallis, the detection, the pumping and all.

Commissioner Dubobwig was very funny about it. "So Doctor Swishtail
would not pay you for the boots, eh, Mr. Stiffelkind?"

"No: he said, ven I asked him for payment, dey was ordered by a yong
boy, and I ought to have gone to his schoolmaster."

"What! then you came on a BOOTLESS errand, ay, sir?" (A laugh.)

"Bootless! no sare, I brought de boots back vid me. How de devil else
could I show dem to you?" (Another laugh.)

"You've never SOLED 'em since, Mr. Tickleshins?"

"I never would sell dem; I svore I never vood, on porpus to be revenged
on dat Stobbs."

"What! your wound has never been HEALED, eh?"

"Vat do you mean vid your bootless errands, and your soling and healing?
I tell you I have done vat I svore to do: I have exposed him at school;
I have broak off a marriage for him, ven he vould have had tventy
tousand pound; and now I have showed him up in a court of justice. Dat
is vat I 'ave done, and dat's enough." And then the old wretch went
down, whilst everybody was giggling and staring at poor me--as if I was
not miserable enough already.

"This seems the dearest pair of boots you ever had in your life, Mr.
Stubbs," said Commissioner Dubobwig very archly, and then he began to
inquire about the rest of my misfortunes.

In the fulness of my heart I told him the whole of them: how Mr.
Solomonson the attorney had introduced me to the rich widow, Mrs.
Manasseh, who had fifty thousand pounds, and an estate in the West
Indies. How I was married, and arrested on coming to town, and cast
in an action for two thousand pounds brought against me by this very
Solomonson for my wife's debts.

"Stop!" says a lawyer in the court. "Is this woman a showy black-haired
woman with one eye? very often drunk, with three children?--Solomonson,
short, with red hair?"

"Exactly so," said I, with tears in my eyes.

"That woman has married THREE MEN within the last two years. One in
Ireland, and one at Bath. A Solomonson is, I believe, her husband, and
they both are off for America ten days ago."

"But why did you not keep your 2,000L.?" said the lawyer.

"Sir, they attached it."

"Oh, well, we may pass you. You have been unlucky, Mr. Stubbs, but it
seems as if the biter had been bit in this affair."

"No," said Mr. Dubobwig. "Mr. Stubbs is the victim of a FATAL
ATTACHMENT."


NOVEMBER.--A GENERAL POST DELIVERY.

I was a free man when I went out of the Court; but I was a beggar--I,
Captain Stubbs, of the bold North Bungays, did not know where I could
get a bed, or a dinner.

As I was marching sadly down Portugal Street, I felt a hand on my
shoulder and a rough voice which I knew well.

"Vell, Mr. Stobbs, have I not kept my promise? I told you dem boots
would be your ruin."

I was much too miserable to reply; and only cast my eyes towards the
roofs of the houses, which I could not see for the tears.

"Vat! you begin to gry and blobber like a shild? you vood marry, vood
you? and noting vood do for you but a vife vid monny--ha, ha--but you
vere de pigeon, and she was de grow. She has plocked you, too, pretty
vell--eh? ha! ha!"

"Oh, Mr. Stiffelkind," said I, "don't laugh at my misery: she has not
left me a single shilling under heaven. And I shall starve: I do believe
I shall starve." And I began to cry fit to break my heart.

"Starf! stoff and nonsense! You vill never die of starfing--you vill die
of HANGING, I tink--ho! ho!--and it is moch easier vay too." I didn't
say a word, but cried on; till everybody in the street turned round and
stared.

"Come, come," said Stiffelkind, "do not gry, Gaptain Stobbs--it is not
goot for a Gaptain to gry--ha! ha! Dere--come vid me, and you shall have
a dinner, and a bregfast too,--vich shall gost you nothing, until you
can bay vid your earnings."

And so this curious old man, who had persecuted me all through my
prosperity, grew compassionate towards me in my ill-luck; and took me
home with him as he promised. "I saw your name among de Insolvents, and
I vowed, you know, to make you repent dem boots. Dere, now, it is done
and forgotten, look you. Here, Betty, Bettchen, make de spare bed, and
put a clean knife and fork; Lort Cornvallis is come to dine vid me."

I lived with this strange old man for six weeks. I kept his books, and
did what little I could to make myself useful: carrying about boots and
shoes, as if I had never borne his Majesty's commission. He gave me no
money, but he fed and lodged me comfortably. The men and boys used
to laugh, and call me General, and Lord Cornwallis, and all sorts of
nicknames; and old Stiffelkind made a thousand new ones for me.

One day I can recollect--one miserable day, as I was polishing on
the trees a pair of boots of Mr. Stiffelkind's manufacture--the old
gentleman came into the shop, with a lady on his arm.

"Vere is Gaptain Stobbs?" said he. "Vere is dat ornament to his
Majesty's service?"

I came in from the back shop, where I was polishing the boots, with one
of them in my hand.

There was no time to lose. Quick! quick! The flames were getting
around. Snatching the child, she held him to her a moment. "Willie,
tell Father I died for you!" Then the boy as lowered into the sailor's
willing arms. She died for him.

--Selected.

"I DON'T LOVE YOU NOW, MOTHER"
A great many years ago, I knew a lady who had been sick for two
years, as you have seen many a one, all the while slowly dying with
consumption.
She had one child--a little boy named Henry."I wish, uncle," says she, "you would not leave me with such low
people."

"Low, because he cleans boots? De Gaptain prefers PUMPS to boots I
tink--ha! ha!"

"Captain indeed! a nice Captain," says Miss Crutty, snapping her fingers
in my face, and walking away: "a Captain who has had his nose pulled!
ha! ha!"--And how could I help it? it wasn't by my own CHOICE that that
ruffian Waters took such liberties with me. Didn't I show how averse I
was to all quarrels by refusing altogether his challenge?--But such is
the world. And thus the people at Stiffelkind's used to tease me, until
they drove me almost mad.

At last he came home one day more merry and abusive than ever.
"Gaptain," says he, "I have goot news for you--a goot place. Your
lordship vill not be able to geep your garridge, but you vill be
gomfortable, and serve his Majesty."

"Serve his Majesty?" says I. "Dearest Mr. Stiffelkind, have you got me a
place under Government?"

"Yes, and somting better still--not only a place, but a uniform: yes,
Gaptain Stobbs, a RED GOAT."

"A red coat! I hope you don't think I would demean myself by entering
the ranks of the army? I am a gentleman, Mr. Stiffelkind--I can
never--no, I never--"

"No, I know you will never--you are too great a goward--ha! ha!--though
dis is a red goat, and a place where you must give some HARD KNOCKS
too--ha! ha!--do you gomprehend?--and you shall be a general instead of
a gaptain--ha! ha!"

"A general in a red coat, Mr. Stiffelkind?"

"Yes, a GENERAL BOSTMAN!--ha! ha! I have been vid your old friend,
Bunting, and he has an uncle in the Post Office, and he has got you de
place--eighteen shillings a veek, you rogue, and your goat. You must not
oben any of de letters you know."

And so it was--I, Robert Stubbs, Esquire, became the vile thing he
named--a general postman!