Produced by Barbara Tozier and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team


[Illustration: "_I plucked him off the duke and flung him on his back on
the sands_,"]


THE INDISCRETION OF THE DUCHESS

_Being a Story Concerning Two Ladies, a Nobleman, and a Necklace_


BY ANTHONY HOPE


AUTHOR OF "THE PRISONER OF ZENDA," ETC.


NEW YORK

1894


CONTENTS.


     I. A MULTITUDE OF GOOD REASONS

    II. THE SIGNIFICANCE OF A SUPPER-TABLE

   III. THE UNEXPECTED THAT ALWAYS HAPPENED

    IV. THE DUCHESS DEFINES HER POSITION

     V. A STRATEGIC RETREAT

    VI. A HINT OF SOMETHING SERIOUS

   VII. HEARD THROUGH THE DOOR

  VIII. I FIND THAT I CARE

    IX. AN UNPARALLELED INSULT

     X. LEFT ON MY HANDS

    XI. A VERY CLEVER SCHEME

   XII. AS A MAN POSSESSED

  XIII. A TIMELY TRUCE

   XIV. FOR AN EMPTY BOX

    XV. I CHOOSE MY WAY

   XVI. THE INN NEAR PONTORSON

  XVII. A RELUCTANT INTRUSION

 XVIII. A STRANGE GOOD HUMOR

   XIX. UNSUMMONED WITNESSES

    XX. THE DUKE'S EPITAPH

   XXI. A PASSING CARRIAGE

  XXII. FROM SHADOW TO SUNSHINE


THE INDISCRETION OF THE DUCHESS.


CHAPTER I.

A Multitude of Good Reasons.


In accordance with many most excellent precedents, I might begin by
claiming the sympathy due to an orphan alone in the world. I might even
summon my unguided childhood and the absence of parental training to
excuse my faults and extenuate my indiscretions. But the sympathy which I
should thus gain would be achieved, I fear, by something very like false
pretenses. For my solitary state sat very lightly upon me--the sad events
which caused it being softened by the influence of time and habit--and had
the recommendation of leaving me, not only free to manage my own life as I
pleased, but also possessed of a competence which added power to my
freedom. And as to the indiscretions--well, to speak it in all modesty and
with a becoming consciousness of human frailty, I think that the undoubted
indiscretions--that I may use no harder term--which were committed in the
course of a certain fortnight were not for the most part of my doing or
contriving. For throughout the transactions which followed on my arrival
in France, I was rather the sport of circumstances than the originator of
any scheme; and the prominent part which I played was forced upon me, at
first by whimsical chance, and later on by the imperious calls made upon
me by the position into which I was thrust.

The same reason that absolves me from the need of excuse deprives me of
the claim to praise; and, looking back, I am content to find nothing of
which I need seriously be ashamed, and glad to acknowledge that, although
Fate chose to put me through some queer paces, she was not in the end
malevolent, and that, now the whole thing is finished, I have no cause to
complain of the ultimate outcome of it. In saying that, I speak purely and
solely for myself. There is one other for whom I might perhaps venture to
say the same without undue presumption, but I will not; while for the
rest, it must suffice for me to record their fortunes, without entering on
the deep and grave questions which are apt to suggest themselves to anyone
who considers with a thoughtful mind the characters and the lives of those
with whom he is brought in contact on his way through the world. The good
in wicked folk, the depths in shallow folk, the designs of haphazard
minds, the impulsive follies of the cunning--all these exist, to be dimly
discerned by any one of us, to be ignored by none save those who are
content to label a man with the name of one quality and ignore all else in
him, but to be traced, fully understood, and intelligently shown forth
only by the few who are gifted to read and expound the secrets of human
hearts. That is a gift beyond my endowment, and fitted for a task too
difficult for my hand. Frankly, I did not, always and throughout, discern
as clearly as I could desire the springs on which the conduct of my
fellow-actors turned; and the account I have given of their feelings and
their motives must be accepted merely as my reading of them, and for what,
as such, it is worth. The actual facts speak for themselves. Let each man
read them as he will; and if he does not indorse all my views, yet he
will, I venture to think, be recompensed by a story which even the
greatest familiarity and long pondering has not robbed of all its interest
for me. But then I must admit that I have reasons which no one else can
have for following with avidity every stage and every development in the
drama, and for seeking to discern now what at the time was dark and
puzzling to me.

The thing began in the most ordinary way in the world--or perhaps that is
too strongly put. The beginning was ordinary indeed, and tame, compared
with the sequel. Yet even the beginning had a flavor of the unusual about
it, strong enough to startle a man so used to a humdrum life and so
unversed in anything out of the common as I. Here, then, is the beginning:

One morning, as I sat smoking my after-breakfast cigar in my rooms in St.
James' Street, my friend Gustave de Berensac rushed in. His bright brown
eyes were sparkling, his mustache seemed twisted up more gayly and
triumphantly than ever, and his manner was redolent of high spirits. Yet
it was a dull, somber, misty morning, for all that the month was July and
another day or two would bring August. But Gustave was a merry fellow,
though always (as I had occasion to remember later on) within the limits
of becoming mirth--as to which, to be sure, there may be much difference
of opinion.

"Shame!" he cried, pointing at me. "You are a man of leisure, nothing
keeps you here; yet you stay in this _bouillon_ of an atmosphere, with
France only twenty miles away over the sea!"

"They have fogs in France too," said I. "But whither tends your
impassioned speech, my good friend? Have you got leave?"

Gustave was at this time an extra secretary at the French Embassy in
London.

"Leave? Yes, I have leave--and, what is more, I have a charming
invitation."

"My congratulations," said I.

"An invitation which includes a friend," he continued, sitting down. "Ah,
you smile! You mean that is less interesting?"

"A man may smile and smile, and not be a villain," said I. "I meant
nothing of the sort. I smiled at your exhilaration--nothing more, on the
word of a moral Englishman."

Gustave grimaced; then he waved his cigarette in the air, exclaiming:

"She is charming, my dear Gilbert!"

"The exhilaration is explained."

"There is not a word to be said against her," he added hastily.

"That does not depress me," said I. "But why should she invite me?"

"She doesn't invite you; she invites me to bring--anybody!"

"Then she is _ennuyée_, I presume?"

"Who would not be, placed as she is? He is inhuman!"

"_M. le mari?_"

"You are not so stupid, after all! He forbids her to see a single soul; we
must steal our visit, if we go."

"He is away, then?"

"The kind government has sent him on a special mission of inquiry to
Algeria. Three cheers for the government!"

"By all means," said I. "When are you going to approach the subject of who
these people are?"

"You will not trust my discernment?"

"Alas, no! You are too charitable--to one half of humanity."

"Well, I will tell you. She is a great friend of my sister's--they were
brought up in the same convent; she is also a good comrade of mine."

"A good comrade?"

"That is just it; for I, you know, suffer hopelessly elsewhere."

"What, Lady Cynthia still?"

"Still!" echoed Gustave with a tragic air. But he recovered in a moment.
"Lady Cynthia being, however, in Switzerland, there is no reason why I
should not go to Normandy."

"Oh, Normandy?"

"Precisely. It is there that the duchess--"

"Oho! The duchess?"

"Is residing in retirement in a small _château_, alone save for my
sister's society."

"And a servant or two, I presume?"

"You are just right, a servant or two; for he is most stingy to her
(though not, they say, to everybody), and gives her nothing when he is
away."

"Money is a temptation, you see."

"_Mon Dieu_, to have none is a greater!" and Gustave shook his head
solemnly.

"The duchess of what?" I asked patiently.

"You will have heard of her," he said, with a proud smile. Evidently he
thought that the lady was a trump card. "The Duchess of Saint-Maclou."

I laid down my cigar, maintaining, however, a calm demeanor.

"Aha!" said Gustave. "You will come, my friend?"

I could not deny that Gustave had a right to his little triumph; for a
year ago, when the duchess had visited England with her husband, I had
received an invitation to meet her at the Embassy. Unhappily, the death of
a relative (whom I had never seen) occurring the day before, I had been
obliged to post off to Ireland, and pay proper respect by appearing at the
funeral. When I returned the duchess had gone, and Gustave had,
half-ironically, consoled my evident annoyance by telling me that he had
given such a description of me to his friend that she shared my sorrow,
and had left a polite message to that effect. That I was not much consoled
needs no saying. That I required consolation will appear not unnatural
when I say that the duchess was one of the most brilliant and well-known
persons in French society; yes, and outside France also. For she was a
cosmopolitan. Her father was French, her mother American; and she had
passed two or three years in England before her marriage. She was very
pretty, and, report said, as witty as a pretty woman need be. Once she had
been rich, but the money was swallowed up by speculation; she and her
father (the mother was dead) were threatened with such reduction of means
as seemed to them penury; and the marriage with the duke had speedily
followed--the precise degree of unwillingness on the part of Mlle. de
Beville being a disputed point. Men said she was forced into the marriage,
women very much doubted it; the lady herself gave no indication, and her
father declared that the match was one of affection. All this I had heard
from common friends; only a series of annoying accidents had prevented the
more interesting means of knowledge which acquaintance with the duchess
herself would have afforded.

"You have always," said Gustave, "wanted to know her."

I relit my cigar and puffed thoughtfully. It was true that I had rather
wished to know her.

"My belief is," he continued, "that though she says 'anybody,' she means
you. She knows what friends we are; she knows you are eager to be among
her friends; she would guess that I should ask you first."

I despise and hate a man who is not open to flattery: he is a hard,
morose, distrustful, cynical being, doubting the honesty of his friends
and the worth of his own self. I leant an ear to Gustave's suggestion.

"What she would not guess," he said, throwing his cigarette into the
fireplace and rising to his feet, "is that you would refuse when I did ask
you. A few years later he was sent to Siberia for a political "crime."

Upon various occasions later he was compelled to flee from the
country, living sometimes in Paris, sometimes in London, but more
often in Switzerland.

It was through his writings mainly that he acquired the influence he had
in the Russian movement.

There is nothing unusual or remarkable about this, for the Social
Democratic party of Russia was practically directed from Geneva.

Lenine was in London when the Revolution of 1905 broke out and
caused him to hurry to St.

Petersburg.

As a young man Lenine, like most of the Intelligentsia of the period,
gave up a good deal of his spare time to teaching small groups of
uneducated working-men the somewhat abstract and intricate theories
and doctrines of Socialism.

To that excellent practice, no doubt, much of Lenine's skill as a lucid
expositor and successful propagandist is due. He has written a number
of important works, most of them being of a polemical nature and
dealing with party disputations upon questions of theory and tactics.

The work by which he was best known in Socialist circles prior to
his sensational rise to the Premiership is a treatise on _The
Development of Capitalism in Russia_.

This work made its appearance in 1899, when the Marxian Socialist movement
was still very weak.

In it Lenine defended the position of the Marxians, Plechanov and his group,
that Russia was not an exception to the general law of capitalist
development, as was claimed by the leaders of the People's party,
the _Narodniki_.

The book gave Lenine an assured position among the intellectual leaders
of the movement, and was regarded as a conclusive defense of the
position of the Plechanov group, to which Lenine belonged.

Since his overthrow of the Kerensky régime, and his attempt to
establish a new kind of social state in Russia, Lenine has been
frequently confronted by his own earlier reasoning by those who
believe his position to be contrary to the true Marxian position.

From 1903 to 1906 Lenine's views developed farther and farther away
from those of his great teacher, George Plechanov.

His position in the period of the First Duma can best be stated,
perhaps, in opposition to the position of Plechanov and the Mensheviki.

Accepting the Marxian theory of historical development, Plechanov and his
followers believed that Russia must pass through a phase of
capitalist development before there could be a social--as distinguished
from a merely political--revolution.

Certainly they believed, an intensive development of industry,
bringing into existence a strong capitalist class, on the one hand,
and a strong proletariat, on the other hand, must precede any attempt
to create a Social Democratic state.

They believed, furthermore, that a political revolution, creating
a democratic constitutional system of government, must come before
the social revolution could be achieved.

They accepted the traditional Marxian view that the achievement of
this political revolution must be mainly the task of the bourgeoisie,
and that the proletariat, and especially the Socialists, should
co-operate with the enlightened bourgeoisie in attaining that
political revolution without which there could never be a Socialist
commonwealth.

Plechanov was not blind to the dangers of compromise which must be
faced in basing the policy of a movement of the masses upon this
reasoning.

He argued, however, that there was no choice in the matter at all;
that the iron law of historical inevitability and necessity determined
the matter.

He pointed out that the bourgeoisie, represented by the Constitutional
Democrats in the political struggle, were compelled to wage relentless
war upon Absolutism, the abolition of which was as absolutely
essential to the realization of their class aims as it was to the
realization of the class aims of the proletariat.

Hence, in this struggle, the capitalist class, as yet too weak to accomplish
the overthrow of autocracy and Czarism, and the proletariat, equally
dependent for success upon the overthrow of autocracy and Czarism,
and equally too weak to accomplish it unaided, had to face the fact
that historical development had given the two classes which were
destined to wage a long conflict an immediate unity of interest.

Their imperative needs at the moment were not conflicting needs,
but identical ones.

To divide their forces, to refuse to co-operate with each other,
was to play the game of the Czar and his associates, argued
Plechanov.

The Mensheviki favored participation in the Duma elections and
co-operation with the liberal and radical bourgeoisie parties, in
so far as might be necessary to overthrow the autocracy, and without
sacrificing Socialist principles.

They pointed out that this position was evidently feared by the
bureaucracy far more than the position of the extremists among the
Social Democrats and the Socialist-Revolutionists, who refused to
consider such co-operation, and pointed to the fact that provocateurs
in large numbers associated themselves with the latter in their
organizations and preached the same doctrine of absolute isolation
and exclusiveness.

It will be seen that the position of the Mensheviki was one of practical
political opportunism, an opportunism, however, that must be sharply
distinguished from what Wilhelm Liebknecht used to call "political
cow-trading."

No man in the whole history of international Socialism ever more
thoroughly despised this species of political opportunism than
George Plechanov.

To those who are familiar with the literature of international
Socialism it will be unnecessary to say that Plechanov was not the
man to deprecate the importance of sound theory as a guide to the
formulation of party policies.

For many years he was rightly regarded as one of the greatest theoreticians
of the movement. Certainly there was only one other writer in the whole
international movement who could be named as having an equal title to
be considered the greatest Socialist theorist since Marx--Karl Kautsky.

But Plechanov[1]--like Marx himself--set reality above dogma, and regarded
movement as of infinitely greater importance than theory. The Mensheviki
wanted to convene a great mass convention of representatives of the
industrial proletariat during the summer of 1906. "It is a class
movement," they said, "not a little sectarian movement. How can
there be a _class_ movement unless the way is open to all the working class
to participate?" Accordingly, they wanted a convention to which all the
factory-workers would be invited to send representatives. There should
be no doctrinal tests, the sole qualification being membership in
the working class.

It did not matter to the advocates of this policy whether a man belonged
to the Social Democratic party or to any party; whether he called
himself a revolutionist or anything else. It was, they said, a movement of
the working class, not the movement of a sect within the working
class.

They knew, of course, that in such a great mass movement there would
probably be some theoretical confusion, more or less muddled thinking. They
recognized, too, that in the great mass convention they proposed
some Social Democratic formulations might be rejected and some
others adopted which did not accord with the Marxian doctrines.

But, quoting Marx to the effect that "One step of real movement is worth a
thousand programs," they contended that if there was anything at all in
the Marxian theory of progress through class struggles, and the historic
rule of the working class, it must follow that, while they might make
mistakes and go temporarily astray, the workers could not go far
wrong, their class interests being a surer guide than any amount of
intellectualism could produce.

Lenine and his friends, the Bolsheviki, bitterly opposed all this reasoning
and took a diametrically opposite position upon every one of the
questions involved.

They absolutely opposed any sort of co-operation with bourgeois parties of
any kind, for any purpose whatever.

No matter how progressive a particular bourgeois party might be, nor how
important the reform aimed at, they believed that Social Democrats
should remain in "splendid isolation," refusing to make any distinction
between more liberal and less liberal, progressive and reactionary,
groups in the bourgeoisie. Trotzky, who did not at first formally join the
Bolsheviki, but was a true Bolshevik in his intellectual convictions
and sympathies, fully shared this view.

Now, Lenine and Trotzky were dogmatic Marxists, and as such they
could not deny the contention that capitalism must attain a certain
development before Socialism could be attained in Russia.

Nor could they deny that Absolutism was an obstacle to the development
both of capitalist industry and of Socialism. They contended, however,
that the peculiar conditions in Russia, resulting from the retardation
of her economic development for so long, made it both possible and
necessary to create a revolutionary movement which would, at one
and the same time, overthrow both autocracy and capitalism.

Necessarily, therefore, their warfare must be directed equally
against autocracy and all political parties of the landlord and
capitalist classes.

They were guided throughout by this fundamental conviction.

The policy of absolute and unqualified isolation in the Duma, which
they insisted the Social Democrats ought to pursue, was based upon
that conviction.

VI

All this is quite clear and easily intelligible.

Granted the premise, the logic is admirable. It is not so easy, however, to
see why, even granting the soundness of their opposition to _co-operation_
with bourgeois parties and groups in the Duma, there should be no
political _competition_ with them--which would seem to be logically
implied in the boycott of the Duma elections.

Non-participation in the elections, consistently pursued as a
proletarian policy, would leave the proletariat unrepresented in
the legislative body, without one representative to fight its battles
on what the world universally regards as one of the most important
battle-fields of civilization.

And yet, here, too, they were entirely logical and consistent--they
did not believe in parliamentary government.

As yet, they were not disposed to emphasize this overmuch, not, apparently,
because of any lack of candor and good faith, but rather because
the substitute for parliamentary government had not sufficiently
shaped itself in their minds.

The desire not to be confused with the Anarchists was another reason.

Because the Bolsheviki and the Anarchists both oppose parliamentary
government and the political state, it has been concluded by many
writers on the subject that Bolshevism is simply Anarchism in another
guise.

This is a mistake.

Bolshevism is quite different from and opposed to Anarchism.

It requires strongly centralized government, which Anarchism abhors.

Parliamentary government cannot exist except upon the basis of the will
of the majority. Whoever enters into the parliamentary struggle, therefore,
must hope and aim to convert the majority. Back of that hope and aim
must be faith in the intellectual and moral capacity of the
majority.

At the foundation of Bolshevist theory and practice lies the important
fact that there is no such faith, and, consequently, neither the
hope nor the aim to convert the majority and with its strength make
the Revolution.

Out of the adult population of Russia at that time approximately
85 per cent. were peasants and less than 5 per cent. belonged to
the industrial proletariat.

At that time something like 70 per cent. of the people were
illiterate.

Even in St.

Petersburg--where the standard of literacy was higher than in any other
city--not more than 55 per cent. of the people could sign their own names
in 1905, according to the most authentic government reports. When we
contemplate such facts as these can we wonder that impatient revolutionaries
should shrink from attempting the task of converting a majority
of the population to an intelligent acceptance of Socialism?

There was another reason besides this, however. Lenine--and he personifies
Bolshevism--was, and is, a doctrinaire Marxist of the most dogmatic type
conceivable. As such he believed that the new social order must be the
creation of that class which is the peculiar product of modern capitalism,
the industrial proletariat. To that class alone he and his followers
pinned all their faith and hope, and that class was a small minority
of the population and bound to remain a minority for a very long
period of years.

Here, then, we have the key.

It cannot be too strongly stressed that the Bolsheviki did not base
their hope upon the working class of Russia, and did not trust it.

The working class of Russia--if we are to use the term with an
intelligent regard to realities--was and is mainly composed of
peasants; the industrial proletariat was and is only a relatively
small part of the great working class of the nation.

_But it is upon that small section, as against the rest of the working
class, that Bolshevism relies_.

Lenine has always refused to include the peasants in his definition
of the working class.

With almost fanatical intensity he has insisted that the peasant, together
with the petty manufacturer and trader, would soon disappear; that
industrial concentration would have its counterpart in a great
concentration of landownings and agriculture; that the small peasant
holdings would be swallowed up by large, modern agricultural estates,
with the result that there would be an immense mass of landless
agricultural wage-workers.

This class would, of course, be a genuinely proletarian class, and its
interests would be identical with those of the industrial proletariat.
Until that time came it would be dangerous to rely upon the peasants,
he urged, because their instincts are bourgeois rather than proletarian.
Naturally, he has looked askance at the peasant Socialist movements,
denying that they were truly Socialist at all. They could not be Socialist
movements in the true sense, he contended, because they lacked the
essential quality of true Socialists, namely, proletarian class
consciousness.

Naturally, too, Lenine and his followers have always regarded
movements which aimed to divide the land among the peasants, and
so tend to give permanence to a class of petty agriculturists, as
essentially reactionary.

The exigencies of the struggle have forced them into some compromises,
of course.

For example, at first they were not willing to admit that the
peasants could be admitted into their group at all, but later on
they admitted some who belonged to the poorest class of peasants.

Throughout, however, they have insisted that the peasant class as
a whole was a class of petty bourgeoisie and that its instincts and
interests would inevitably lead it to side with the bourgeoisie as
against the proletariat.

Of course, this is a very familiar phase of Socialist evolution in
every country.

It lasted in Germany many years.

In Russia, however, the question assumed an importance it never had
in any other country, owing to the vast preponderance of peasants
in the population.

Anything more un-Russian than this theorizing cannot be well
conceived.

"I write," said Gustave, with a rhetorical gesture, "to say that I am
going to the house of some friends to meet my sister!"

"Oh, you write?" we murmured.

"My sister writes to say she is not there!"

"Oh, she writes?" we murmured again.

"And it is thought--"

"By whom?" asked the duchess.

"By Lady Cynthia Chillingdon," said I.

"That it is a trick--a device--a deceit!" continued poor Gustave.

"It was decidedly indiscreet of you to come," said the duchess
reprovingly. "How was I to know about Lady Cynthia? If I had known about
Lady Cynthia, I would not have asked you; I would have asked Mr. Aycon
only. Or perhaps you also, Mr. Aycon--"

"Madame," said I, "I am alone in the world."

"Where has Claire gone to?" asked Gustave.

"Paris," pouted the duchess.

Gustave rose, flinging his napkin on the table.

"I shall follow her to-morrow," he said. "I suppose you'll go back to
England, Gilbert?"

If Gustave left us, it was my unhesitating resolve to return to England.

"I suppose I shall," said I.

"I suppose you must," said the duchess ruefully. "Oh, isn't it
exasperating? I had planned it all so delightfully!"

"If you had told the truth--" began Gustave.

"I should not have had a preacher to supper," said the duchess sharply;
then she fell to laughing again.

"Is Mlle. de Berensac irrecoverable?" I suggested.

"Why, yes. She has gone to take her turn of attendance on your rich old
aunt, Gustave."

I think that there was a little malice in the duchess' way of saying this.

There seemed nothing more to be done. The duchess herself did not propose
to defy conventionality to the extent of inviting me to stay. To do her
justice, as soon as the inevitable was put before her, she accepted it
with good grace, and, after supper, busied herself in discovering the time
and manner in which her guests might pursue their respective journeys. I
may be flattering myself, but I thought that she displayed a melancholy
satisfaction on discovering that Gustave de Berensac must leave at ten
o'clock the next morning, whereas I should be left to kick my heels in
idleness at Cherbourg if I set out before five in the afternoon.

"Oh, you can spend the time _en route_," said Gustave. "It will be
better."

The duchess looked at me; I looked at the duchess.

"My dear Gustave," said I, "you are very considerate. You could not do
more if I also were in love with Lady Cynthia."

"Nor," said the duchess, "if I were quite unfit to be spoken to."

"If my remaining till the afternoon will not weary the duchess--" said I.

"The duchess will endure it," said she, with a nod and a smile.

Thus it was settled, a shake of the head conveying Gustave's judgment. And
soon after, Mme. de Saint-Maclou bade us good-night. Tired with my
journey, and (to tell the truth) a little out of humor with my friend, I
was not long in seeking my bed. At the top of the stairs a group of three
girls were gossiping; one of them handed me a candle and flung open the
door of my room with a roguish smile on her broad good-tempered face.

"One of the greatest virtues of women," said I pausing on the threshold,
"is fidelity."

"We are devoted to Mme. la Duchesse," said the girl.

"Another, hardly behind it, is discretion," I continued.

"Madame inculcates it on us daily," said she. I took out a napoleon.

"Ladies," said I, placing the napoleon in the girl's hand, "I am obliged
for your kind attentions. Good-night!" and I shut the door on the sound of
a pleased, excited giggling. I love to hear such sounds; they make me
laugh myself, for joy that this old world, in spite of everything, holds
so much merriment; and to their jovial lullaby I fell asleep,

Moreover--the duchess teaching discretion! There can have been nothing
like it since Baby Charles and Steenie conversed within the hearing of
King James! But, then discretion has two meanings--whereof the one is "Do
it not," and the other "Tell it not." Considering of this ambiguity, I
acquitted the duchess of hypocrisy.

At ten o'clock the next morning we got rid of my dear friend Gustave de
Berensac. Candor compels me to put the statement in that form; for the
gravity which had fallen upon him the night before endured till the
morning, and he did not flinch from administering something very like a
lecture to his hostess. His last words were an invitation to me to get
into the carriage and start with him. When I suavely declined, he told me
that I should regret it. It comforts me to think that his prophecy, though
more than once within an ace of the most ample fulfillment, yet in the end
was set at naught by the events which followed.

Gustave rolled down the hill, the duchess sighed relief.

"Now," said she, "we can enjoy ourselves fora few hours, Mr. Aycon. And
after that--solitude!"

I was really very sorry for the duchess. Evidently society and gayety were
necessary as food and air to her, and her churl of a husband denied them.
My opportunity was short, but I laid myself out to make the most of it. I
could give her nothing more than a pleasant memory, but I determined to do
that.

We spent the greater part of the day in a ramble through the woods that
lined the slopes of the hill behind the house; and all through the hours
the duchess chatted about herself, her life, her family--and then about
the duke. If the hints she gave were to be trusted, her husband deserved
little consideration at her hands, and, at the worst, the plea of reprisal
might offer some excuse for her, if she had need of one. But she denied
the need, and here I was inclined to credit her. For with me, as with
Gustave de Berensac before the shadow of Lady Cynthia came between, she
was, most distinctly, a "good comrade." Sentiment made no appearance in
our conversation, and, as the day ruthlessly wore on, I regretted honestly
that I must go in deference to a conventionality which seemed, in this
case at least--Heaven forbid that I should indulge in general theories--to
mask no reality. Yet she was delightful by virtue of the vitality in her;
and the woods echoed again and again with our laughter.

At four o'clock we returned sadly to the house, where the merry girls
busied themselves in preparing a repast for me. The duchess insisted on
sharing my meal.

"I shall go supperless to bed to-night," said she; and we sat down glum as
two children going back to school.

Suddenly there was a commotion outside; the girls were talking to one
another in rapid eager tones. The duchess raised her head, listening. Then
she turned to me, asking:

"Can you hear what they say?"

"I can distinguish nothing except 'Quick, quick!'"

As I spoke the door was thrown open, and two rushed in, the foremost
saying:

"Again, madame, again!"

"Impossible!" exclaimed the duchess, starting up.

"No, it is true. Jean was out, snaring a rabbit, and caught sight of the
carriage."

"What carriage? Whose carriage?" I asked.

"Why, my husband's," said the duchess, quite calmly. "It is a favorite
trick of his to surprise us. But Algeria! We thought we were safe with
Algeria. He must travel underground like a mole, Suzanne, or we should
have heard."

"Oh, one hears nothing here!"

"And what," said the duchess, "are we to do with Mr. Aycon?"

"I can solve that," I observed. "I'm off."

"But he'll see you!" cried the girl. "He is but a half-mile off."

"Mr. Aycon could take the side-path," said the duchess.

"The duke would see him before he reached it," said the girl. "He would be
in sight for nearly fifty yards."

"Couldn't I hide in the bushes?" I asked.

"I hate anything that looks suspicious," remarked the duchess, still quite
calm; "and if he happened to see you, it would look rather suspicious! And
he has got eyes like a cat's for anything of that sort."

There was no denying that it would look suspicious if I were caught hiding
in the bushes. I sat silent, having no other suggestion to make.

Suzanne, with a readiness not born, I hope, of practice, came to the
rescue with a clever suggestion.

"The English groom whom madame dismissed a week ago--" said she. "Why
should not the gentleman pass as the groom? The man would not take his old
clothes away, for he had bought new ones, and they are still here. The
gentleman would put them on and walk past--_voilà_."

"Can you look like a groom?" asked the duchess. "If he speaks to you, make
your French just a _little_ worse"--and she smiled.

They were all so calm and businesslike that it would have seemed
disobliging and absurd to make difficulties.

"We can send your luggage soon, you know," said the duchess. "You had
better hide Mr. Aycon's luggage in your room, Suzanne. Really, I am afraid
you ought to be getting ready, Mr. Aycon."

The point of view again! By virtue of the duchess' calmness and Suzanne's
cool readiness, the proceeding seemed a most ordinary one. Five minutes
later I presented myself to the duchess, dressed in a villainous suit of
clothes, rather too tight for me, and wearing a bad hat rakishly cocked
over one eye. The duchess surveyed me with great curiosity.

"Fortunately the duke is not a very clever man," said she. "Oh, by the
way, your name's George Sampson, and you come from Newmarket; and you are
leaving because you took more to drink than was good for you. Good-by, Mr.
Aycon. I do hope that we shall meet again under pleasanter circumstances."

"They could not be pleasanter--but they might be more prolonged," said I.

"It was so good of you to come," she said, pressing my hand.

"The carriage is but a quarter of a mile off!" cried Suzanne warningly.

"How very annoying it is! I wish to Heaven the Algerians had eaten the
duke!"

"I shall not forget my day here," I assured her.

"You won't? It's charming of you. Oh, how dull it will be now! It only
wanted the arrival of--Well, good-by!"

And with a final and long pressure of the duchess' hand, I, in the garb
and personality of George Sampson, dismissed for drunkenness, walked out
of the gate of the _château_.

"One thing," I observed to myself as I started, "would seem highly
probable--and that is, that this sort of thing has happened before."

The idea did not please me. I like to do things first.


CHAPTER IV.

The Duchess Defines Her Position.


I walked on at a leisurely pace; the heavy carriage was very near the top
of the hill. In about three minutes' time we met. There sat alone in the
carriage a tall dark man, with a puffy white face, a heavy mustache, and
stern cold eyes. He was smoking a cigar. I plucked my hat from my head and
made as if to pass by.

"Who's this?" The greatest mistake of all is to seek traitors, German agents,
separate Sturmers.

_We have a still greater enemy than the German influence, than the
treachery and treason of individuals.

And that enemy is the system--the system of a medieval form of
government_."
How far the conspiracy of the government of Russia against the war of Russia
and her Allies extended is shown by the revelations made in the
Duma on March 3d by one of the members, A.

Konovalov.

He reported that two days previously, March 1st, the only two members
of the Labor Group of the War Industries Committee who were not in
prison issued an appeal to the workers not to strike.

These two members of the Labor Group of the War Industries Committee, Anosovsky
and Ostapenko, took their exhortation to the bureau of the War
Industries Committee for its approval.

But, although approved by this great and important organization, the
appeal was not passed by the government censor.

When Guchkov, president of the War Industries Committee, attempted to
get the appeal printed in the newspapers he was prevented by action
emanating from the office of Protopopov.

IV

Through all the early days of March there was labor unrest in
Petrograd, as well as in some other cities.

Petrograd was, naturally, the storm center.

There were small strikes, but, fortunately, not much rioting.

The extreme radicals were agitating for the release of the imprisoned leaders
of the Labor Group and urging drastic action by the workers.

Much of this agitation was sincere and honest, but no little of it
was due to the provocative agents.

These, disguised as workmen, seized every opportunity to urge revolt.

Any pretext sufficed them; they stimulated the honest agitation to
revolt as a protest against the imprisonment of the Labor Group,
and the desperate threat that unless food was forthcoming revolution
would be resorted to for sinister purposes.

And all the time the police and the troops were massed to crush the
first rising.

The next few days were destined to reveal the fact that the cunning
and guile of Protopopov had overreached itself; that the soldiers
could not be relied upon to crush any uprising of the people.

There was some rioting in Petrograd on March 3d, and the next day
the city was placed under martial law.

On March 7th the textile workers went out on strike and were quickly
followed by several thousand workers belonging to other trades.

Next day there was a tremendous popular demonstration at which the
workers demanded food.

The strike spread during the next two or three days until there was a pretty
general stoppage of industry. Students from the university joined with
the striking workmen and there were numerous demonstrations, but
little disposition to violence.

When the Cossacks and mounted police were sent to break up the
crowds, the Cossacks took great care not to hurt the people,
fraternizing with them and being cheered by them.

It was evident that the army would not let itself be used to crush
the uprising of the people.

The police remained "loyal," but they were not adequate in numbers.

Protopopov had set in motion forces which no human agency could
control.

The Revolution was well under way.

The Duma remained in constant session.

Meantime the situation in the capital was becoming serious in the
extreme.

Looting of stores began, and there were many victims of the police
efforts to disperse the crowds.

In the midst of the crisis the Duma repudiated the government and broke off
all relations with it.

The resolution of the Duma declared that "The government which covered
its hands with the blood of the people should no longer be admitted
to the Duma. With such a government the Duma breaks all relations forever."
The answer of Czar Nicholas was an order to dissolve the Duma, which
order the Duma voted to ignore, remaining in session as before.

On Sunday, March 11th, there was a great outpouring of people at a
demonstration. Police established on the roofs of some public buildings
attacked the closely packed throngs with machine-gun fire, killing and
wounding hundreds.

One of the famous regiments, the Volynski, revolted, killed its
commander, and joined the people when ordered to fire into the
crowds.

Detachments of soldiers belonging to other regiments followed their example
and refused to fire upon the people.

One or two detachments of troops did obey orders and were immediately
attacked by the revolutionary troops. There was civil war in Petrograd.

While the fighting was still going on, the president of the Duma
sent the following telegram to the Czar:

The situation is grave.

Anarchy reigns in the capital. The government is paralyzed. The transport
of provisions and fuel is completely disorganized.
And he seized me by the shoulder and
pulled me into the room.

The duchess sprang to her feet, crying out in startled tones, "Back?"

I kept my eyes glued to the floor, wondering what would happen next,
thinking that it would be, likely enough, a personal conflict with my
master.

"Yes, back," said he. "I am sorry, madame, if it is not your pleasure, for
it chances to be mine."

His sneer gave the duchess a moment's time. I felt her regarding me, and I
looked up cautiously. The duke still stood half a pace in front of me, and
the message of my glance sped past him unperceived.

Then came what I had looked for--the gradual dawning of the position on
the duchess, and the reflection of that dawning light in those wonderful
eyes of hers. She clasped her hands, and drew in her breath in a long
"Oh!" It spoke utter amusement and delight. What would the duke make of
it? He did not know what to make of it, and glared at her in angry
bewilderment. Her quick wit saw the blunder she had been betrayed into.
She said "Oh!" again, but this time it expressed nothing except a sense of
insult and indignation.

"What's that man here for?" she asked.

"Because I have engaged him to assist my household."

"I had dismissed him," she said haughtily.

"I must beg you to postpone the execution of your decree," said he. "I
have need of a servant, and I have no time to find another."

"What need is there of another? Is not Lafleur here?" (She was playing her
part well now.)

"Lafleur comes to-morrow; but he will not be enough."

"Not enough--for you and me?"

"Our party will be larger to-morrow."

"More surprises?" she asked, sinking back into her chair.

"If it be a surprise that I should invite my friends to my house," he
retorted.

"And that you should not consult your wife," she said, with a smile.

He turned to me, bethinking himself, I suppose, that the conversation was
not best suited for the ears of the groom.

"Go and join your fellow-servants; and see that you behave yourself this
time."

I bowed and was about to withdraw, when the duchess motioned me to stop.
For an instant her eyes rested on mine. Then she said, in gentle tones:

"I am glad, Sampson, that the duke thinks it safe to give you an
opportunity of retrieving your character."

"That for his character!" said the duke, snapping his fingers. "I want him
to help when Mme. and Mlle. Delhasse are here."

On the words the duchess went red in the face, and then white, and sprang
up, declaring aloud in resolute, angry tones, that witnessed the depth of
her feelings in the matter:

"I will not receive Mlle. Delhasse!"

I was glad I had not missed that: it was a new aspect of my little friend
the duchess. Alas, my pleasure was short-lived! for the duke, his face
full of passion, pointed to the door, saying "Go!" and, cursing his regard
for the dignity of the family, I went.

In the hall I paused. At first I saw nobody. Presently a rosy, beaming
face peered at me over the baluster halfway up the stairs, and Suzanne
stole cautiously down, her finger on her lips.

"But what does it mean, sir?" she whispered.

"It means," said I, "that the duke takes me for the dismissed groom--and
has re-engaged me."

"And you've come?" she cried softly, clasping her hands in amazement.

"Doesn't it appear so?"

"And you're going to stay, sir?"

"Ah, that's another matter. But--for the moment, yes."

"As a servant?"

"Why not--in such good company?"

"Does madame know?"

"Yes, she knows, Suzanne. Come, show me the way to my quarters; and no
more 'sir' just now."

We were standing by the stairs. I looked up and saw the other girls
clustered on the landing above us.

"Go and tell them," I said. "Warn them to show no surprise. Then come back
and show me the way."

Suzanne, her mirth half-startled out of her but yet asserting its
existence in dimples round her mouth, went on her errand. I leaned against
the lowest baluster and waited.

Suddenly the door of the duchess' room was flung open and she came out.
She stood for an instant on the threshold. She turned toward the interior
of the room and she stamped her foot on the parqueted floor.

"No--no--no!" she said passionately, and flung the door close behind her,
to the accompaniment of a harsh, scornful laugh.

Involuntarily I sprang forward to meet her. But she was better on her
guard than I.

"Not now," she whispered, "but I must see you soon--this evening--after
dinner. Suzanne will arrange it. You must help me, Mr. Aycon; I'm in
trouble."

"With all my power!" I whispered, and with a glance of thanks she sped
upstairs. I saw her stop and speak to the group of girls, talking to them
in an eager whisper. Then, followed by two of them, she pursued her way
upstairs.

Suzanne came down and approached me, saying simply, "Come," and led the
way toward the servants' quarters. I followed her, smiling; I was about to
make acquaintance with a new side of life.

Yet at the same time I was wondering who Mlle. Delhasse might chance to
be: the name seemed familiar to me, and yet for the moment I could not
trace it. And then I slapped my thigh in the impulse of my discovery.

"By Jove, Marie Delhasse the singer!" cried I, in English.

"Sir, sir, for Heaven's sake be quiet!" whispered Suzanne.

"You are perfectly right," said I, with a nod of approbation.

"And this is the pantry," said Suzanne, for all the world as though
nothing had happened. "And in that cupboard you will find Sampson's
livery."

"Is it a pretty one?" I asked.

"You, sir, will look well in it," said she, with that delicate evasive
flattery that I love. "Would not you, sir, look well in anything?" she
meant.

And while I changed my traveling suit for the livery, I remembered more
about Marie Delhasse, and, among other things, that the Duke of
Saint-Maclou was rumored to be her most persistent admirer. Some said that
she favored him; others denied it with more or less conviction and
indignation. But, whatever might chance to be the truth about that, it was
plain that the duchess had something to say for herself when she declined
to receive the lady. Her refusal was no idle freak, but a fixed
determination, to which she would probably adhere. And, in fact, adhere to
it she did, even under some considerable changes of circumstance.


CHAPTER V.

A Strategic Retreat.


The arrival of the duke, aided perhaps by his bearing toward his wife and
toward me, had a somewhat curious effect on me. I will not say that I felt
at liberty to fall in love with the duchess; but I felt the chain of
honor, which had hitherto bound me from taking any advantage of her
indiscretion, growing weaker; and I also perceived the possibility of my
inclinations beginning to strain on the weakened chain. On this account,
among others, I resolved, as I sat in the pantry drinking a glass of wine
with which Suzanne kindly provided me, that my sojourn in the duke's
household should be of the shortest. Moreover, I was not amused; I was not
a real groom; the maids treated me with greater distance and deference
than before; I lost the entertainment of upstairs, and did not gain the
interest of downstairs. The absurd position must be ended. I would hear
what the duchess wanted of me; then I would go, leaving Lafleur to grapple
with his increased labors as best he could. True, I should miss Marie
Delhasse. Well, young men are foolish.

"Perhaps," said I to myself with a sigh, "it's just as well."

I did not wait at table that night; the duchess was shut up in her own
apartment: the duke took nothing but an omelette and a cup of coffee;
these finished, he summoned Suzanne and her assistants to attend him on
the bedroom floor, and I heard him giving directions for the lodging of
the expected guests. Apparently they were to be received, although the
duchess would not receive them. Not knowing what to make of that
situation, I walked out into the garden and lit my pipe; I had clung to
that in spite of my change of raiment.

Presently Suzanne looked out. A call from the duke proclaimed that she had
stolen a moment. She nodded, pointed to the narrow gravel path which led
into the shrubbery, and hastily withdrew. I understood, and strolled
carelessly along the path till I reached the shrubbery. There another
little path, running nearly at right angles to that by which I had come,
opened before me. I strolled some little way along, and finding myself
entirely hidden from the house by the intervening trees, I sat down on a
rude wooden bench to wait patiently till I should be wanted. For the
duchess I should have had to wait some time, but for company I did not
wait long; after about ten minutes I perceived a small, spare,
dark-complexioned man coming along the path toward me and toward the
house. He must have made a short cut from the road, escaping the winding
of the carriage-way. He wore decent but rather shabby clothes, and carried
a small valise in his hand. Stopping opposite to me, he raised his hat and
seemed to scan my neat blue brass-buttoned coat and white cords with
interest.

"You belong to the household of the duke, sir?" he asked, with a polite
lift of his hat.

I explained that I did--for the moment.

"Then you think of leaving, sir?"

"I do," I said, "as soon as I can; I am only engaged for the time."

"You do not happen to know, sir, if the duke requires a well-qualified
indoor servant? I should be most grateful if you would present me to him.
I heard in Paris that a servant had left him; but he started so suddenly
that I could not get access to him, and I have followed him here."

"It's exactly what he does want, I believe, sir," said I. "If I were you,
I would go to the house and obtain entrance. The duke expects guests
to-morrow."

"But yourself, sir? Are not your services sufficient for the present?"

"As you perceive," said I, indicating my attire, "I am not an indoor
servant. I am but a makeshift in that capacity."

He smiled a polite remonstrance at my modesty, adding:

"You think, then, I might have a chance?"

"An excellent one, I believe. Turn to the left, there by the chestnut
tree, and you will find yourself within a minute's walk of the front
door."

He bowed, raised his hat, and trotted off, moving with a quick, shuffling,
short-stepping gait. I lit another pipe and yawned. I hoped the duke would
engage this newcomer and let me go about my business; and I fancied that
he would, for the fellow looked dapper, sharp, and handy. And the duchess?
I was so disturbed to find myself disturbed at the thought of the duchess
that I exclaimed:

"By Jove, I'd better go! By Jove, I had!"

A wishing-cap, or rather a hoping-cap--for if a man who is no philosopher
may have an opinion, we do not always wish and hope for the same
thing--could have done no more for me than the chance of Fate; for at the
moment the duke's voice called "Sampson!" loudly from the house. I ran in
obedience to his summons. He stood in the porch with the little stranger
by him; and the stranger wore a deferential, but extremely well-satisfied
smile.

"Here, you," said the duke to me, "you can make yourself scarce as soon as
you like. I've got a better servant, aye, and a sober one. There's ten
francs for you. Now be off!"

I felt it incumbent on me to appear a little aggrieved:

"Am I to go to-night?" I asked. "Where can I get to to-night, my lord?"

"What's that to me? I dare say if you stand old Jean a franc, he'll give
you a lift to the nearest inn. Tell him he may take a farm-horse."

Really the duke was treating me with quite as much civility as I have seen
many of my friends extend to their servants. I had nothing to complain of.
I bowed, and was about to turn away, when the duchess appeared in the
porch.

"What is it, Armand?" she asked. "You are sending Sampson away after all?"

"I could not deny your request," said he in mockery. "Moreover, I have
found a better servant."

The stranger almost swept the ground in obeisance before the lady of the
house.

"You are very changeable," said the duchess.

I saw vexation in her face.

"My dearest, your sex cannot have a monopoly of change. I change a bad
servant--as you yourself think him--for a good one. Is that remarkable?"

The duchess said not another word, but turned into the house and
disappeared. The duke followed her. The stranger, with a bow to me,
followed him. I was left alone.

"Certainly I am not wanted," said I to myself; and, having arrived at this
conclusion, I sought out old Jean. The old fellow was only too ready to
drive me to Avranches or anywhere else for five francs, and was soon busy
putting his horse in the shafts. I sought out Suzanne, got her to smuggle
my luggage downstairs, gave her a parting present, took off my livery and
put on the groom's old suit, and was ready to leave the house of M. de
Saint-Maclou.

At nine o'clock my short servitude ended. As soon as a bend in the road
hid us from the house I opened my portmanteau, got out my own clothes,
and, _sub æthere_, changed my raiment, putting on a quiet suit of blue,
and presenting George Sampson's rather obtrusive garments (which I took
the liberty of regarding as a perquisite) to Jean, who received them
gladly. I felt at once a different being--so true it is that the tailor
makes the man.

"You are well out of that," grunted old Jean. "If he'd discovered you,
he'd have had you out and shot you!"

"He is a good shot?"

"_Mon Dieu_!" said Jean with an expressiveness which was a little
disquieting; for it was on the cards that the duke might still find me
out. And I was not a practiced shot--not at my fellow-men, I mean.
Suddenly I leaped up.

"Good Heavens!" I cried. "I forgot! The duchess wanted me. Stop, stop!"

With a jerk Jean pulled up his horse, and gazed at me.

"You can't go back like that," he said, with a grin. "You'll have to put
on these clothes again," and he pointed to the discarded suit.

"I very nearly forgot the duchess," said I. To tell the truth, I was at
first rather proud of my forgetfulness; it argued a complete triumph over
that unruly impulse at which I have hinted. But it also smote me with
remorse. I leaped to the ground.

"You must wait while I run back."

"He will shoot you after all," grinned Jean.

"The devil take him!" said I, picturing the poor duchess utterly
forsaken--at the mercy of Delhasses, husband, and what not.

I declare, as my deliberate opinion, that there is nothing more dangerous
than for a man almost to forget a lady who has shown him favor. If he can
quite forget her--and will be so unromantic--why, let him, and perhaps
small harm done. But almost--That leaves him at the mercy of every
generous self-reproach. He is ready to do anything to prove that she was
every second in his memory.

I began to retrace my steps toward the _château_.

"I shall get the sack over this!" called Jean.

"You shall come to no harm by that, if you do," I assured him.

But hardly had I--my virtuous pride now completely smothered by my tender
remorse--started on my ill-considered return journey, when, just as had
happened to Gustave de Berensac and myself the evening before, a slim
figure ran down from the bank by the roadside. It was the duchess. The
short cut had served her. She was hardly out of breath this time; and she
appeared composed and in good spirits.

"I thought for a moment you'd forgotten me, but I knew you wouldn't do
that, Mr. Aycon."

Could I resist such trust?

"Forget you, madame?" I cried. "I would as soon forget--"

"So I knew you'd wait for me."

"Here I am, waiting faithfully," said I.

"That's right," said the duchess. "Take this, please, Mr. Aycon."

"This" was a small handbag. She gave it to me, and began to walk toward
the cart, where Jean was placidly smoking a long black cheroot.

"You wished to speak to me?" I suggested, as I walked by her.

"I can do it," said the duchess, reaching the cart, "as we go along."

Even Jean took his cheroot from his lips. I jumped back two paces.

"I beg your pardon!" I exclaimed, "As we go along, did you say?"

"It will be better," said the duchess, getting into the cart (unassisted
by me, I am sorry to say). "Because he may find out I'm gone, and come
after us, you know."

Nothing seemed more likely; I was bound to admit that.

"Get in, Mr. Aycon," continued the duchess. And then she suddenly began to
talk English. "I told him I shouldn't stay in the house if Mlle. Delhasse
came. He didn't believe me; well, he'll see now. I couldn't stay, could I?
Why don't you get in?"

Half dazed, I got in. I offered no opinion on the question of Mlle.
Delhasse: to begin with, I knew very little about it; in the second place
there seemed to me to be a more pressing question.

"Quick, Jean!" said the duchess.

And we lumbered on at a trot, Jean twisting his cheroot round and round,
and grunting now and again. The old man's face said, plain as words.

"Yes, I shall get the sack; and you'll be shot!"

I found my tongue.

"Was this what you wanted me for?" I asked.

"Of course," said the duchess, speaking French again.

"But you can't come with me!" I cried in unfeigned horror.

The duchess looked up; she fixed her eyes on me for a moment; her eyes
grew round, her brows lifted. Then her lips curved: she blushed very red;
and she burst into the merriest fit of laughter.

"Oh, dear!" laughed the duchess. "Oh, what fun, Mr. Aycon!"

"It seems to me rather a serious matter," I ventured to observe. "Leaving
out all question of--of what's correct, you know" (I became very
apologetic at this point), "it's just a little risky, isn't it?"

Jean evidently thought so; he nodded solemnly over his cheroot.

The duchess still laughed; indeed, she was wiping her eyes with her
handkerchief.

"What an opinion to have of me!" she gasped at last. "I'm not coming with
you, Mr. Aycon."

I dare say my face showed relief: I don't know that I need be ashamed of
that. My change of expression, however, set the duchess a-laughing again.

"I never saw a man look so glad," said she gayly. Yet somewhere, lurking
in the recesses of her tone--or was it of her eyes?--there was a little
reproach, a little challenge. And suddenly I felt less glad: a change of
feeling which I do not seek to defend.

"Then where are you going?" I asked in much curiosity.

"I am going," said the duchess, assuming in a moment a most serious air,
"into religious retirement for a few days."

"Religious retirement?" I echoed in surprise.

"Are you thinking it's not my _métier_?" she asked, her eyes gleaming
again.

"But where?" I cried.

"Why, there, to be sure." And she pointed to where the square white
convent stood on the edge of the bay, under the hill of Avranches. "There,
at the convent. The Mother Superior is my friend, and will protect me."

The duchess spoke as though the guillotine were being prepared for her. I
sat silent. The situation was becoming rather too complicated for my
understanding. Unfortunately, however, it was to become more complicated
still; for the duchess, turning to the English tongue again, laid a hand
on my arm and said in her most coaxing tones:

"And you, my dear Mr. Aycon, are going to stay a few days in Avranches."

"Not an hour!" would have expressed the resolve of my intellect. But we
are not all intellect; and what I actually said was:

"What for?"

"In case," said the duchess, "I want you, Mr. Aycon."

"I will stay," said I, nodding, "just a few days at Avranches."

We were within half a mile of that town. The convent gleamed white in the
moonlight about three hundred yards to the left. The duchess took her
little bag, jumped lightly down, kissed her hand to me, and walked off.

Jean had made no comment at all--the duchess' household was hard to
surprise. I could make none. And we drove in silence into Avranches.

When there before with Gustave, I had put up at a small inn at the foot of
the hill. Now I drove up to the summit and stopped before the principal
hotel. A waiter ran out, cast a curious glance at my conveyance, and
lifted my luggage down.

"Let me know if you get into any trouble for being late," said I to Jean,
giving him another five francs.

He nodded and drove off, still chewing the stump of his cheroot.

"Can I have a room?" I asked, turning to the waiter.

"Certainly, sir," said he, catching up my bag in his hand.

"I am just come," said I, "from Mont St. Michel."

A curious expression spread over the waiter's face. I fancy he knew old
Jean and the cart by sight; but he spread out his hands and smiled.

"Monsieur," said he with the incomparable courtesy of the French nation,
"has come from wherever monsieur pleases."

"That," said I, giving him a trifle, "is an excellent understanding."

Then I walked into the _salle-à-manger_, and almost into the arms of an
extraordinarily handsome girl who was standing just inside the door.

"This is really an eventful day," I thought to myself.


CHAPTER VI.

A Hint of Something Serious.


Occurrences such as this induce in a man of imagination a sense of sudden
shy intimacy. The physical encounter seems to typify and foreshadow some
intermingling of destiny. This occurs with peculiar force when the lady is
as beautiful as was the girl I saw before me.

"I beg your pardon, madame," said I, with a whirl of my hat.

"I beg your pardon, sir," said the lady, with an inclination of her head.

"One is so careless in entering rooms hurriedly," I observed.

"Oh, but it is stupid to stand just by the door!" insisted the lady.

Conscious that she was scanning my appearance, I could but return the
compliment. She was very tall, almost as tall as I was myself; you would
choose to call her stately, rather than slender. She was very fair, with
large lazy blue eyes and a lazy smile to match. In all respects she was
the greatest contrast to the Duchess of Saint-Maclou.

"You were about to pass out?" said I, holding the door.

She bowed; but at the moment another lady--elderly, rather stout, and, to
speak it plainly, of homely and unattractive aspect--whom I had not
hitherto perceived, called from a table at the other end of the room where
she was sitting:

"We ought to start early to-morrow."

The younger lady turned her head slowly toward the speaker.

"My dear mother," said she, "I never start early. Besides, this town is
interesting--the landlord says so."

"But he wishes us to arrive for _déjeuner_."

"We will take it here. Perhaps we will drive over in the
afternoon--perhaps the next day."

And the young lady gazed at her mother with an air of indifference--or
rather it seemed to me strangely like one of aversion and defiance.

"My dear!" cried the elder in consternation. "My dearest Marie!"

"It is just as I thought," said I to myself complacently.

Marie Delhasse--for beyond doubt it was she--walked slowly across the room
and sat down by her mother. I took a table nearer the door; the waiter
appeared, and I ordered a light supper. Marie poured out a glass of wine
from a bottle on the table; apparently they had been supping. They began
to converse together in low tones. My repast arriving, I fell to. A few
moments later, I heard Marie say, in her composed indolent tones:

"I'm not sure I shall go at all. _Entre nous_, he bores me."

I stole a glance at Mme. Delhasse. Consternation was writ large on her
face, and suspicion besides. She gave her daughter a quick sidelong
glance, and a frown gathered on her brow. So far as I heard, however, she
attempted no remonstrance. She rose, wrapping a shawl round her, and made
for the door. I sprang up and opened it; she walked out. Marie drew a
chair to the fire and sat down with her back to me, toasting her feet--for
the summer night had turned chilly. I finished my supper. The clock struck
half-past eleven. I stifled a yawn; one smoke and then to the bed was my
programme.

Marie Delhasse turned her head half-round.

"You must not," said she, "let me prevent you having your cigarette. I
should set you at ease by going to bed, but I can't sleep so early, and
upstairs the fire is not lighted."

I thanked her and approached the fire. She was gazing into it
meditatively. Presently she looked up.

"Smoke, sir," she said imperiously but languidly.

I obeyed her, and stood looking down at her, admiring her stately beauty.

"You have passed the day here?" she asked, gazing again into the fire.

"In this neighborhood," said I, with discreet vagueness.

"You have been able to pass the time?"

"Oh, certainly!" That had not been my difficulty.

"There is, of course," she said wearily, "Mont St. Michel. But can you
imagine anyone living in such a country?"

"Unless Fate set one here--" I began.

"I suppose that's it," she interrupted.

"You are going to make a stay here?"

"I am," she answered slowly, "on my way to--I don't know where."

I was scrutinizing her closely now, for her manner seemed to witness more
than indolence; irresolution, vacillation, discomfort, asserted their
presence. I could not make her out, but her languid indifference appeared
more assumed than real.

With another upward glance, she said:

"My name is Marie Delhasse."

"It is a well-known name," said I with a bow.

"You have heard of me?"

"Yes."

"What?" she asked quickly, wheeling half-round and facing me.

"That you are a great singer," I answered simply.

"Ah, I'm not all voice! What about me? A woman is more than an organ pipe.
What about me?"

Her excitement contrasted with the langour she had displayed before.

"Nothing," said I, wondering that she should ask a stranger such a
question. She glanced at me for an instant. I threw my eyes up to the
ceiling.

"It is false!" she said quietly; but the trembling of her hands belied her
composure.

The tawdry gilt clock on the mantelpiece by me ticked through a long
silence. The last act of the day's comedy seemed set for a more serious
scene.

"Why do you ask a stranger a question like that?" I said at last, giving
utterance to the thought that puzzled me.

"Whom should I ask? And I like your face--no, not because it is handsome.
You are English, sir?"

"Yes, I am English. My name is Gilbert Aycon."

"Aycon--Aycon! It is a little difficult to say it as you say it."

Her thoughts claimed her again. I threw my cigarette into the fire, and
stood waiting her pleasure. But she seemed to have no more to say, for she
rose from the seat and held out her hand to me.

"Will you 'shake hands?'" she said, the last two words in English; and she
smiled again.

I hastened to do as she asked me, and she moved toward the door.

"Perhaps," she said, "I shall see you to-morrow morning."

"I shall be here." Then I added: "I could not help hearing you talk of
moving elsewhere."

She stood still in the middle of the room; she opened her lips to speak,
shut them again, and ended by saying nothing more than:

"Yes, we talked of it. My mother wishes it. Good-night, Mr. Aycon."

I bade her good-night, and she passed slowly through the door, which I
closed behind her. I turned again to the fire, saying:

"What would the duchess think of that?"

I did not even know what I thought of it myself; of one thing only I felt
sure---that what I had heard of Marie Delhasse was not all that there was
to learn about her.

I was lodged in a large room on the third floor, and when I awoke the
bright sun beamed on the convent where, as I presume, Mme. de Saint-Maclou
lay, and on the great Mount beyond it in the distance. I have never risen
with a more lively sense of unknown possibilities in the day before me.
These two women who had suddenly crossed my path, and their relations to
the pale puffy-cheeked man at the little _château_, might well produce
results more startling than had seemed to be offered even by such a freak
as the original expedition undertaken by Gustave de Berensac and me. And
now Gustave had fallen away and I was left to face the thing alone. For
face it I must. My promise to the duchess bound me: had it not I doubt
whether I should have gone; for my interest was not only in the duchess.

I had my coffee upstairs, and then, putting on my hat, went down for a
stroll. So long as the duke did not come to Avranches, I could show my
face boldly--and was not he busy preparing for his guests? I crossed the
threshold of the hotel.

Just at the entrance stood Marie Delhasse; opposite her was a thickset
fellow, neatly dressed and wearing mutton-chop whiskers. As I came out I
raised my hat. The man appeared not to notice me, though his eyes fell on
me for a moment. I passed quickly by--in fact, as quickly as I could--for
it struck me at once that this man must be Lafleur, and I did not want him
to give the duke a description of the unknown gentleman who was staying at
Avranches. Yet, as I went, I had time to hear Marie's slow musical voice
say:

"I'm not coming at all to-day."

I was very glad of it, and pursued my round of the town with a lighter
heart. Presently, after half an hour's walk, I found myself opposite the
church, and thus nearly back at the hotel: and in front of the church
stood Marie Delhasse, looking at _the façade_.

Raising my hat I went up to her, her friendliness of the evening before
encouraging me.

"I hope you are going to stay to-day?" said I.

"I don't know." Then she smiled, but not mirthfully. "I expect to be very
much pressed to go this afternoon," she said.

I made a shot--apparently at a venture.

"Someone will come and carry you off?" I asked jestingly.

"It's very likely. My presence here will be known."

"But need you go?"

She looked on the ground and made no answer.

The quantity of the solution so used corresponds with the quantity of acids
contained in the must--the larger division lines opposite the
numbers indicating the thousandths part, and the smaller lines or
dots the ten thousandths part.

"Until the eye has learned by practice to recognize the points of saturation
by the tone of color, it can be proven by means of litmus paper.

When the mixture in the bottle begins to turn blue, put in the end
of a slip of litmus paper about half an inch deep, and then draw
this end through your fingers, moistened with water.

So long as the ends of the blue litmus paper become more or less reddened,
the acids have not been completely saturated.

Only when it remains blue, has the point of saturation been reached.

"In examining _red_ must, the method should be modified as follows:--Instead
of first filling the pipette with tincture of litmus, fill it with water
to the line A, and transfer it into the bottle.
After the quantity of must has been added, drop six-thousandths of the
solution of ammonia into the mixture, constantly shaking it while
dropping, then test it, and so on, until, after every further
addition required with litmus paper, it is no longer reddened after
having been wiped off."

DR.

GALL further gives the following directions, as a guide, to distinguish
and determine the proportion of acids which a must should contain,
to be still agreeable to the palate, and good:
"Chemists distinguish the acid contained in the grape as the vinous,
malic, grape, citric, tannic, gelatinous and para-citric acids.

Whether all these are contained in the must, or which of them, is of
small moment for us to know.

For the practical wine-maker, it is sufficient to know, with full
certainty, that, as the grape ripens, while the proportion of sugar
increases, the quantity of acids continually diminishes; and hence,
by leaving the grapes on the vines as long as possible, we have a
double means of improving their products--the must or wine.

"All wines, without exception, to be of good and of agreeable taste,
must contain from 4-1/2 to 7 thousandths parts of free acids, and
each must containing more than seven thousandths parts of free acids
may be considered as having too little water and sugar in proportion
to its quantity of acids.

"In all wine-growing countries of Germany, for a number of years
past, experience has proved that a corresponding addition of sugar
and water is the means of converting the sourest must, not only
into a good drinkable wine, but also into as good a wine as can be
produced in favorable years, _except_ in that peculiar and delicate
aroma found only in the must of well-ripened grapes, and which must
and will always distinguish the wines made in the best seasons from
those made in poor seasons.

"The saccharometer and acidimeter, properly used, will give us the exact
knowledge of what the must contains, and what it lacks; and we
have the means at hand, by adding water, to reduce the acids to
their proper proportion; and by adding sugar, to increase the amount
of sugar the must should contain; in other words, we can change the
poor must of indifferent seasons into the normal must of the best
seasons in _everything_, _except_ its bouquet or aroma, thereby
converting an unwholesome and disagreeable drink into an agreeable
and healthy one."

THE CHANGE OF THE MUST, BY FERMENTATION, INTO WINE.

Let us glance for a few moments at this wonderful, simple, and yet so
complicated process, to give a clearer insight into the functions which man
has to perform to assist Nature, and have her work for him, to attain
the desired end. I cannot put the matter in a better light for my readers
than to quote again from DR.

GALL.

He says:--"To form a correct opinion of what may and can be done in the
manufacture of wine, we must be thoroughly convinced that Nature,
in her operations, has other objects in view than merely to serve
man as his careful cook and butler.

Had the highest object of the Creator, in the creation of the grape,
been simply to combine in the juice of the fruit nothing but what is
indispensable to the formation of that delicious beverage for the
accommodation of man, it might have been still easier done for him
by at once filling the berries with wine already made.

But in the production of fruits, the first object of all is to
provide for the propagation and preservation of the species.

Each fruit contains the germ of a new plant, and a quantity of
nutritious matter surrounding and developing that germ.

The general belief is, that this nutritious matter, and even the
peculiar combination in which it is found in the fruit, has been
made directly for the immediate use of man.

This, however, is a mistake. The nutritious matter of the grape, as in the
apple, pear, or any similar product, is designed by Nature only to serve
as the first nourishment of the future plant, the germ of which
lies in it.

There are thousands of fruits of no use whatever, and are even
noxious to man, and there are thousands more which, before they can
be used, must be divested of certain parts, necessary, indeed, to
the nutrition of the future plant, but unfit, in its present state,
for the use or nourishment of man.

For instance, barley contains starch, mucilaginous sugar, gum,
adhesive matter, vegetable albumen, phosphate of lime, oil, fibre
and water.

All these are necessary to the formation of roots, stalks, leaves,
flowers and the new grain; but for the manufacture of beer, the
brewer needs only the first three substances.

The same rule applies to the grape.

"In this use of the grape, all depends upon the judgment of man to
select such of its parts as he wishes, and by his skill he adapts
and applies them in the best manner for his purposes.

In eating the grapes, he throws away the skins and seeds; for raisins, he
evaporates the water, retaining only the solid parts, from which, when
he uses them, he rejects their seeds. If he manufactures must, he lets
the skins remain.

In making wine, he sets free the carbonic acid contained in the
must, and removes the lees, gum, tartar, and, in short, everything
deposited during, and immediately after fermentation, as well as
when it is put into casks and bottles.

He not only removes from the wine its sediments, but watches the fermentation,
and checks it as soon as its vinous fermentation is over, and the
formation of vinegar about to begin.

He refines his wine by an addition of foreign substances if necessary;
he sulphurizes it; and, by one means or another, remedies its
distempers.

"The manufacture of wine is thus a many-sided art; and he who does
not understand it, or knows not how to guide and direct the powers
of Nature to his own purposes, may as well give up all hopes of
success in it."

So far DR.

GALL; and to the intelligent and unbiased mind, the truth and force of
these remarks will be apparent, without further extending or
explaining them.

How absurd, then, the blind ravings of those who talk about "natural"
wines, and would condemn every addition of sugar and water to the
must by man, when Nature has not fully done her part, as adulteration
and fraud.

Why, there is no such thing as a "natural wine;" for wine--good
wine--is the product of art, and a manufacture from beginning to end.

Would we not think that parent extremely cruel, as well as foolish, who
would have her child without clothing, simply because Nature had
allowed it to be born without it?

Would not the child suffer and die, because its mother failed to aid
Nature in her work, by clothing and feeding it when it is yet
unable to feed and clothe itself?

And yet, would not that wine-maker act equally foolish who has it within
his power to remedy the deficiencies of Nature with such means as
she herself supplies in good season, and which ought and would be
in the must but for unfavorable circumstances, over which we have
no control?

Wine thus improved is just as pure as if the sugar and water had
naturally been in the grapes in right proportions; just as beneficial
to health; and only the fanatical "know-nothing" can call it
adulterated.

But the prejudices will disappear before the light of science and
truth, however much ignorance may clamor against it.

GALILEO, when forced to abjure publicly his great discovery of the
motion of the earth around the sun as a heresy and lie, murmured
between his teeth the celebrated words, "And yet it moves."

It _did_ move; and the theory is now an acknowledged truth, with
which every schoolboy is familiar.

Thus will it be with improved wine-making.

It will yet be followed, generally and universally, as sure as the
public will learn to distinguish between good and poor wine.

Let us now observe for a moment the change which fermentation makes in
converting the must into wine. The nitrogeneous compounds--vegetable
albumen, gluten--which are contained in the grape, and which are
dissolved in the must as completely as the sugar, under certain
circumstances turn into the fermenting principle, and so change the
must into wine.

This change is brought about by the fermenting substance coming into
contact with the air, and receiving oxygen from it, in consequence of which
it coagulates, and shows itself in the turbid state of must, or young wine.
The coagulation of the lees takes place but gradually, and just in the
degree the exhausted lees settle.
The sugar gradually turns into alcohol. The acids partly remain
as tartaric acid, are partly turned into ether, or settle with the lees,
chrystallize, and adhere to the bottom of the casks. The etheric oil, or
aroma, remains, and develops into bouquet; also the tannin, to a certain
degree.

The albumen and gluten principally settle, although a small portion of them
remains in the wine.

The coloring matter and extractive principle remain, but change
somewhat by fermentation.

Thus it is the must containing a large amount of sugar needs a
longer time to become clear than that containing but a small portion
of it; therefore, many southern wines retain a certain amount of
sugar undecomposed, and they are called _sweet_, or liqueur wines;
whereas, wines in which the whole of the sugar has been decomposed
are called _sour_ or _dry_ wines.

I have thought it necessary to be thus explicit to give my readers
an insight into the general principles which should govern us in
wine-making.

I have quoted freely from the excellent work of DR. GALL.
We will now see whether and how we can reduce it to practice. I will try
and illustrate this by an example.

NORMAL MUST.

"Experiments continued for a number of years have proved that, in
favorable seasons, grape juice contains, on the average, in 1,000
lbs.:

Sugar, 240 lbs.
Acids, 6 " Water, 754 " ----- 1,000 "
This proportion would constitute what I call a normal must.

But now we have an inferior season, and the must contains, instead of the
above proportions, as follows:

Sugar, 150 lbs.

Acids, 9 " Water, 841 " ----- 1,000 "

What must we do to bring such must to the condition of a normal must?
This is the question thus arising.

To solve it, we calculate thus: If, in six pounds of acids in a
normal wine, 240 pounds of sugar appear, how much sugar is wanted
for nine pounds of acids?

Answer, 360 pounds.

Our next question is: If, in six pounds of acids in a normal must,
754 pounds of water appear, how much water is required for nine
pounds of acids?

Answer, 1,131 pounds.

As, therefore, the must which we intend to improve by neutralizing its
acids, should contain 360 pounds of sugar, nine pounds of acids,
and 1,131 pounds of water, but contains already 150 pounds of sugar,
9 pounds of acids, and 841 pounds of water, there remain to be
added, 210 pounds of sugar, no acids, and 290 pounds of water.

By ameliorating a quantity of 1,000 pounds must by 210 pounds sugar, and
290 pounds water, we obtain 1,500 pounds of must, consisting of
the same properties as the normal must, which makes a first-class
wine."

This is wine-making, according to GALL'S method, in Europe. Now,
let us see what we can do with it on American soil, and with
American grapes.

THE MUST OF AMERICAN GRAPES.

If we examine the must of most of our American wine grapes closely,
we find that they not only contain an excess of acids in inferior
seasons, but also a superabundance of flavor or aroma, and of tannin
and coloring matter.

Especially of flavor, there is such an abundance that, were the quantity
doubled by addition of sugar and water, there would still be an
abundance; and with some varieties, such as the Concord, if fermented
on the husks, it is so strong as to be disagreeable.

We must, therefore, not only ameliorate the acid, but also the
flavor and the astringency, of which the tannin is the principal
cause.

Therefore it is, that to us the knowledge of how to properly gallize our
wines is still more important than to the European vintner, and the
results which we can realize are yet more important. By a proper management,
we can change must, which would otherwise make a disagreeable wine,
into one in which everything is in its proper proportion, and which
will delight the consumer, to whose fastidious taste if would
otherwise have been repugnant.

True, we have here a more congenial climate, and the grapes will
generally ripen better, so that we can in most seasons produce a
drinkable wine.

But if we can increase the quantity, and at the same time improve the quality,
there is certainly an inducement, which the practical business sense of our
people will not fail to appreciate and make use of.

There is, however, one difficulty in the way. I do not believe that the
acidimeter can yet be obtained in the country, and we must import
them direct from the manufacturers, DR.

L. C. MARQUART, of Bonn, on the Rhine; or J. DIEHN, Frankfort-on-the-Main.

However, this difficulty will soon be overcome; and, indeed, although
it is impossible to practice gallizing without a saccharometer, we
may get at the surplus of acids with tolerable certainty by the
results shown by the saccharometer.

To illustrate this, I will give an example:

Last year was one of the most unfavorable seasons for the ripening of grapes
we have ever had here, and especially the Catawba lost almost nine-tenths
of its crop by mildew and rot; it also lost its leaves, and the
result was, that the grapes did not ripen well.

When gathering my grapes, upon weighing the must, I found that it ranged
from 52° to 70°; whereas, in good seasons, Catawba must weighs
from 80° to 95°.

I now calculated thus: if normal must of Catawba should weigh at
least 80°, and the must I have to deal with this season will weigh
on an average only 60°, I must add to this must about 1/2 lb. of
sugar to bring it up to 80°.

But now I had the surplus acid to neutralize yet. To do this, I calculated
thus: If, even in a normal Catawba must, or a must of the best
seasons, there is yet an excess of acid, I can safely count on there
being at least one-third too much acid in a must that weighs but 60°.

I, therefore, added to every 100 gallons of must 40 gallons of soft water,
in which I had first dissolved 80 lbs. of crushed sugar, which brought
the water, when weighed after dissolving the sugar in it, up to 80°. Now,
I had yet to add 50 lbs., or half a pound to each gallon of the original
must, to bring _this_ up to 80°.

I thus pressed, instead of 100 gallons, 150 gallons, from the same
quantity of grapes; and the result was a wine, which every one who
has tasted it has declared to be excellent Catawba.

It has a brilliant pale yellow color, was perfectly clear 1st of January,
and sold by me to the first one to whom I offered it, at a price
which I have seldom realized for Catawba wine made in the best
seasons, without addition of sugar or water.

True, it has not as strong an aroma as the Catawba of our best seasons,
nor has it as much astringency; but this latter I consider an
advantage, and it still has abundant aroma to give it character.

Another experiment I made with the Concord satisfied me, without question,
that the must of this grape will always gain by an addition of water and
sugar. I pressed several casks of the pure juice, which, as the Concord had
held its leaves and ripened its fruit very well, contained sugar
enough to make a fair wine, namely, 75°.

This I generally pressed the day after gathering, and put into
separate casks.

I then took some must of the same weight, but to which I had added, to
every 100 gallons, 50 gallons of water, in which I had diluted
sugar until the water weighed 75°, or not quite two pounds of sugar
to the gallon of water, pressed also after the expiration of the
same time, and otherwise treated in the same manner.

Both were treated exactly alike, racked at the same time; and the
result is, that every one who tries the two wines, without knowing
how they have been treated, prefers the gallized wine to the
other--the pure juice of the grape.

It is more delicate in flavor, has less acidity, and a more brilliant
color than the first, the ungallized must.

They are both excellent, but there is a difference in favor of the gallized
wine.

DR. GALL recommends grape sugar as the best to be used for the
purpose.

This is made from potato starch; but it is hard to obtain here, and I
have found crushed loaf sugar answer every purpose. I think this sugar has
the advantage over grape sugar, that it dissolves more readily, and can
even be dissolved in cold water, thus simplifying the process very
much.

It will take about two pounds to the gallon of water to bring this
up to 80°, which will make a wine of sufficient body.

The average price of sugar was about 22 cents per pound, and the
cost of thus producing an additional gallon of wine, counting in
labor, interest on capital, etc., will be about 60 cents.

When the wine can be sold at from $2 to $3 per gallon, the reader will
easily perceive of what immense advantage this method is to the
grape-grower, if he can thereby not only improve the quality, but
also increase the quantity of the yield.

The efforts made by the Commissioner of Patents, and the contributors
to the annual reports from the Patent Office, to diffuse a general
knowledge of this process, can therefore not be commended too highly.

It will help much to bring into general use, among all classes,
good, pure, native wines; and as soon as ever the poorer classes
can obtain cheap agreeable wines, the use of bad whiskey and brandy
will be abandoned more and more, and this nation will become a more
temperate people.

But this is only the first step.

There is a way to still further increase the quantity. DR.

GALL and others found, by analyzing the husks of the grape after
the juice had been extracted by powerful presses, that they not
only still contained a considerable amount of juice, but also a
great amount of extracts, or wine-making principles, in many instances
sufficient for three times the bulk of the juice already expressed.

This fact suggested the question: As there are so many of these
valuable properties left, and only sugar and water exhausted, why
cannot these be substituted until the others are completely exhausted?

It was found that the husks still contained sufficient of acids,
tannin, aroma, coloring matter, and gluten.

All that remained to be added was water and sugar.

It was found that this could be easily done; and the results showed
that wine made in this manner was equal, if not superior, to some
of that made from the original juice, and was often, by the best
judges, preferred to that made from the original must.

I have also practiced this method extensively the last season; and
the result is, that I have fully doubled the amount of wine of the
Norton's Virginia and Concord.

I have thus made 2,500 gallons of Concord, where I had but 1,030
gallons of original must; and 2,600 gallons of Norton's Virginia,
where I had but 1,300 gallons of must.

The wines thus made were kept strictly separate from those made
from the original juice, and the result is, that many of them are
better, and none inferior, to the original must; and although I
have kept a careful diary of wine-making, in which I have noted the
process how each cask was made, period of fermentation on the husks,
quantity of sugar used, etc., and have not hesitated to show this
to every purchaser after he had tasted of the wine, they generally,
and with very few exceptions, chose those which had either been
gallized in part, or entirely.

[Illustration: FIG. 37.

UNION VILLAGE.--_Berries 1/3 diameter._]
My method in making such wines was very simple.

I generally took the same quantity of water, the husks had given
original must, or in other words, when I had pressed 100 gallons
of juice, I took about 80 gallons of water.

To make Concord wine, I added 1-3/4 lbs. of sugar to the gallon,
as I calculated upon some sugar remaining in the husks, which were
not pressed entirely dry.

This increased the quantity, with the juice yet contained in the husks
to 100 gallons, and brought the water to 70; calculating that from
5° to 10° still remained in the husks, it would give us a must of
about 80°.

The grapes, as before remarked, had been gathered during the foregoing
day, and were generally pressed in the morning. As soon as possible the
husks were turned into the fermenting vat again, all pulled apart
and broken, and the water added to them.

As the fermentation had been very strong before, it immediately commenced
again.

I generally allowed them to ferment for twenty-four hours, and then
pressed again, but pressed as dry as possible this time.

The whole treatment of this must was precisely similar to that of the
original.

In making Norton's Virginia, I would take, instead of 1-3/4 lbs.,
2 lbs. of sugar to the gallon--as it is naturally a wine of greater
body than the Concord--and I aimed to come as near to the natural
must as possible.

I generally fermented this somewhat longer, as a darker color was
desired.

The time of fermentation must vary, of course, with the state of
the atmosphere; in cooler weather, both pressings should remain
longer on the husks.

The results, in both varieties were wines of excellent flavor, good body,
a brilliant color, with enough of tannin or astringency, and
sufficient acid--therefore, in every way satisfactory.

The experiments, however, were not confined to these alone, but
extended over a number of varieties, with good results in every case.

Of all varieties tried, however, I found that the Concord would bear the
most of gallizing, without losing its own peculiar flavor; and I
satisfied myself, that the quantity in this grape can safely be
increased _here_, from 100 gallons of must to 250 gallons of wine,
and the quality yet be better, than if the must had been left in
its normal condition.

And it is here again where only experience can teach us _how far_
we can go with a certain variety.

"When have you promised to go?"

"To-morrow," she answered.

"Because of this thing?" and I pointed to the necklace.

"Because of--How dare you ask me such questions!"

I rose from my seat and bowed.

"You are going?" she asked, her fingers on the necklace, and her eyes
avoiding mine.

"I have the honor," said I, "to enjoy the friendship of the Duchess of
Saint-Maclou."

"And that forbids you to enjoy mine?"

I bowed assent to her inference. She sat still at the table, her chin on
her hands. I was about to leave her, when it struck me all in a moment
that leaving her was not exactly the best thing to do, although it might
be much the easiest. I arrested my steps.

"Well," she asked, "is not our acquaintance ended?"

And she suddenly opened her hands and hid her face in them. It was a
strange conclusion to a speech so coldly and distantly begun.

"For God's sake, don't go!" said I, bending a little across the table
toward her.

"What's it to you? What's it to anybody?" came from between her fingers.

"Your mother--" I began.

She dropped her hands from her face, and laughed. It was a laugh the like
of which I hope not to hear again. Then she broke out:

"Why wouldn't she have me in the house? Why did she run away? Am I unfit
to touch her?"

"If she were wrong, you're doing your best to make her right."

"If everybody thinks one wicked, one may as well be wicked, and--and live
in peace."

"And get diamonds?" I added, "Weren't you wicked?"

"No," she said, looking me straight in the face. "But what difference did
that make?"

"None at all, in one point of view," said I. But to myself I was swearing
that she should not go.

Then she said in a very low tone:

"He never leaves me. Ah! he makes everyone think--"

"Let 'em think," said I.

"If everyone thinks it--"

"Oh, come, nonsense!" said I.

"You know what you thought. What honest woman would have anything to do
with me--or what honest man either?"

I had nothing to say about that; so I said again.

"Well, don't go, anyhow."

She spoke in lower tones, as she answered this appeal of mine:

"I daren't refuse. He'll be here again; and my mother--"

"Put it off a day or two," said I. "And don't take that thing."

She looked at me, it seemed to me, in astonishment.

"Do you really care?" she asked, speaking very low.

I nodded. I did care, somehow.

"Enough to stand by me, if I don't go?"

As we have our apparatus all prepared now, we can commence the
operation itself.

This can be done in different ways, according to the class of wine
we are about to make.

To make white, or light-colored wine, the grapes which were gathered
and mashed during the day, can be pressed and put into the cask the
following night.

To mash them, we place the mill above one of the fermenting vats,
mashing them as quick as they are carried or hauled to the press-house.

The vat is simply covered with a cloth during the day.

If the season has been good, the must will make good wine without
the addition of anything else.

In poor seasons it will be necessary to add water and sugar, to improve
its quality, but I will speak of this method in a separate chapter.

In the evening, the must which will run off, is first drawn from
the vat, and by some kept separate; but I think, it makes, upon the
whole, a better wine, if the pressing is added to it.

The husks, or mashed grapes, are then poured upon the press, and pressed
until fully dry.

To accomplish this the press is opened several times, and the edges
of the cake, or "cheese," as some call it, are cut off with an axe
or cleaver and put on top, after which they are pressed down again.

The casks are then filled with the must; either completely, if it
is intended that the must should ferment _above_, as it is called,
or _under_, when the cask is not completely filled, so that the
husks, which the must will throw up, will remain in the cask.

Both methods have their advantages, but I prefer the former, with
a very simple contrivance, to exclude the air, and also prevent
waste.

This is a siphon or tin tube, bent in the form of a double elbow,
of which one end fits tightly in the bung hole, and the other empties
into a dish of water, to be set on one end of the cask, through
which the gas escapes, as shown in Fig. 30.

We should, however in pressing, be guided somewhat by the weather.

In warm weather fermentation will commence much sooner, and be more violent,
than when the weather is cold.

Consequently we should press much sooner in warm weather, than when
the air is cool.

Late in the fall, it is sometimes advisable to leave the must a day
longer on the husks, than indicated below.

The cellar should be kept at an even temperature of about 60° during
the first few weeks, and if it does not naturally attain this
temperature, then it should be warmed by a stove, as much of the
quality of the wine depends upon a thorough fermentation during the
first ten days.

[Illustration: FIG. 30.]
When violent fermentation has ceased, say after about ten or twelve days,
and the must has become quiet, the cask should be closed with a
tight bung, and the wine is left until it is clear.

In about two to three months it ought to be perfectly clear and
fine--is then racked, _i.e._, drawn from the lees, by means of a
faucet, and put into clean, sweet casks.

It is very important that the casks are "wine-seasoned," that is,
have no other tang than of wine.

For must, fresh brandy or whiskey casks may be used, but after the
wine has fermented, it will not do to use such, as the wine will
acquire the smell and taste of the liquor.

When a cask has been emptied, it should be carefully cleaned, as before
described, by entering at the door, or with smaller casks, by taking out
the head.

After it is thoroughly cleansed, it may be fumigated slightly, by
burning a small piece of sulphured paper, or a nutmeg in it, and
then filled.

The old lady glared at me,
bobbed her head the slightest bit in the world, and passed me by.

I went out into the sunshine, whistling merrily. My good friend the waiter
stood by the door. His eyes asked me a question.

"She is much better," I said reassuringly. And I walked out, still
whistling merrily.

In truth I was very pleased with myself. Every man likes to think that he
understands women. I was under the impression that I had proved myself to
possess a thorough and complete acquaintance with that intricate subject.
I was soon to find that my knowledge had its limitations. In fact, I have
been told more than once since that my plan was a most outrageous one.
Perhaps it was; but it had the effect of wresting those dangerous stones
from poor Marie's regretful hands. A man need not mind having made a fool
of himself once or twice on his way through the world, so he has done some
good by the process. At the moment, however, I felt no need for any such
apology.


CHAPTER IX.

An Unparalleled Insult.


I was thoughtful as I walked across the _place_ in front of the church in
the full glare of the afternoon sun. It was past four o'clock; the town
was more lively, as folk, their day's work finished, came out to take
their ease and filled the streets and the _cafés_. I felt that I also had
done something like a day's work; but my task was not complete till I had
lodged my precious trust safely in the keeping of the duchess.

There was, however, still time to spare, and I sat down at a _café_ and
ordered some coffee. While it was being brought my thoughts played round
Marie Delhasse. I doubted whether I disliked her for being tempted, or
liked her for resisting at the last; at any rate, I was glad to have
helped her a little. If I could now persuade her to leave Avranches, I
should have done all that could reasonably be expected of me; if the duke
pursued, she must fight the battle for herself. So I mused, sipping my
coffee; and then I fell to wondering what the duchess would say on seeing
me again so soon. Would she see me? She must, whether she liked it or not;
I could not keep the diamonds all night. Perhaps she would like.

"There you are again!" I said to myself sharply, and I roused myself from
my meditations.

As I looked up, I saw the man Lafleur opposite to me. He had his back
toward me, but I knew him, and he was just walking into a shop that faced
the _café_ and displayed in its windows an assortment of offensive
weapons--guns, pistols, and various sorts of knives. Lafleur went in. I
sat sipping my coffee. He was there nearly twenty minutes; then he came
out and walked leisurely away. I paid my score and strolled over to the
shop. I wondered what he had been buying. Dueling pistols for the duke,
perhaps! I entered and asked to be shown some penknives. The shopman
served me with alacrity. I chose a cheap knife, and then I permitted my
gaze to rest on a neat little pistol that lay on the counter. My simple
_ruse_ was most effective. In a moment I was being acquainted with all the
merits of the instrument, and the eulogy was backed by the information
that a gentleman had bought two pistols of the same make not ten minutes
before I entered the shop.

"Really!" said I. "What for?"

"Oh, I don't know, sir. It is a wise thing often to carry one of these
little fellows. One never knows."

"In case of a quarrel with another gentleman?"

"Oh, they are hardly such as we sell for dueling, sir."

"Aren't they?"

"They are rather pocket pistols--to carry if you are out at night; and we
sell many to gentlemen who have occasion in the way of their business to
carry large sums of money or valuables about with them. They give a sense
of security, sir, even if no occasion arises for their use."

"And this gentleman bought two? Who was he?"

"I don't know, sir. He gave me no name."

"And you didn't know him by sight?"

"No, sir; perhaps he is a stranger. But indeed I'm almost that myself: I
have but just set up business here."

"Is it brisk?" I asked, examining the pistol.

"It is not a brisk place, sir," the man answered regretfully. "Let me sell
you one, sir!"

It happened to be, for the moment, in the way of my business to carry
valuables, but I hoped it would not be for long, so that I did not buy a
pistol; but I allowed myself to wonder what my friend Lafleur wanted with
two--and they were not dueling pistols! If I had been going to keep the
diamonds--but then I was not. And, reminded by this reflection, I set out
at once for the convent.

Now the manner in which the Duchess of Saint-Maclou saw fit to treat
me--who was desirous only of serving her--on this occasion went far to
make me disgusted with the whole affair into which I had been drawn. It
might have been supposed that she would show gratitude; I think that even
a little admiration and a little appreciation of my tact would not have
been, under the circumstances, out of place. It is not every day that a
lady has such a thing as the Cardinal's Necklace rescued from great peril
and freely restored, with no claim (beyond that for ordinary civility) on
the part of the rescuer.

And the cause did not lie in her happening to be out of temper, for she
greeted me at first with much graciousness, and sitting down on the corn
bin (she was permitted on this occasion to meet me in the stable), she
began to tell me that she had received a most polite--and indeed almost
affectionate--letter from the duke, in which he expressed deep regret for
her absence, but besought her to stay where she was as long as the health
of her soul demanded. He would do himself the honor of waiting on her and
escorting her home, when she made up her mind to return to him.

"Which means," observed the duchess, as she replaced the letter in her
pocket, "that the Delhasses are going, and that if I go (without notice
anyhow) I shall find them there."

"I read it in the same way; but I'm not so sure that the Delhasses are
going."

"You are so charitable," said she, still quite sweetly. "You can't bring
yourself to think evil of anybody."

The duchess chanced to look so remarkably calm and composed as she sat on
the corn bin that I could not deny myself the pleasure of surprising her
with the sudden apparition of the Cardinal's Necklace. Without a word, I
took the case out of my pocket, opened it, and held it out toward her. For
once the duchess sat stock-still, her eyes round and large.

"Have you been robbing and murdering my husband?" she gasped.

With a very complacent smile I began my story. Who does not know what it
is to begin a story with a triumphant confidence in its favorable
reception? Who does not know that first terrible glimmer of doubt when the
story seems not to be making the expected impression? Who has not endured
the dull dogged despair in which the story, damned by the stony faces of
the auditors, has yet to drag on a hated weary life to a dishonored grave?

These stages came and passed as I related to Mme. de Saint-Maclou how I
came to be in a position to hand back to her the Cardinal's Necklace.
Still, silent, pale, with her lips curled in a scornful smile, she sat and
listened. My tone lost its triumphant ring, and I finished in cold,
distant, embarrassed accents.

"I have only," said I, "to execute my commission and hand the box and its
contents over to you."

And, thus speaking, I laid the necklace in its case on the corn bin beside
the duchess.

The duchess said nothing at all. She looked at me once--just once; and I
wished then and there that I had listened to Gustave de Berensac's second
thoughts and left with him at ten o'clock in the morning. Then having
delivered this barbed shaft of the eyes, the duchess sat looking straight
in front of her, bereft of her quick-changing glances, robbed of her
supple grace--like frozen quicksilver. And the necklace glittered away
indifferently between us.

At last the duchess, her eyes still fixed on the whitewashed wall
opposite, said in a slow emphatic tone:

"I wouldn't touch it, if it were the crown of France!"

I plucked up my courage to answer her. For Marie Delhasse's sake I felt a
sudden anger.

"You are pharisaical," said I. "The poor girl has acted honorably. Her
touch has not defiled your necklace."

"Yes, you must defend what you persuaded," flashed out the duchess. "It's
the greatest insult I was ever subjected to in my life!"

Here was the second lady I had insulted on that summer day!

"I did but suggest it--it was her own wish."

"Your suggestion is her wish! How charming!" said the duchess.

"You are unjust to her!" I said, a little warmly.

The duchess rose from the corn bin, made the very most of her sixty-three
inches, and remarked:

"It's a new insult to mention her to me."

I passed that by; it was too absurd to answer.

"You must take it now I've brought it," I urged in angry puzzle.

The duchess put out her hand, grasped the case delicately, shut it--and
flung it to the other side of the stable, hard by where an old ass was
placidly eating a bundle of hay.

"That's the last time I shall touch it!" said she, turning and looking me
in the face.

"But what am I to do with it?" I cried.

"Whatever you please," returned Mme. de Saint-Maclou; and without another
word, without another glance, either at me or at the necklace, she walked
out of the stable, and left me alone with the necklace and the ass.

The ass had given one start as the necklace fell with a thud on the floor;
but he was old and wise, and soon fell again to his meal. I sat drumming
my heels against the corn bin. Evening was falling fast, and everything
was very still. No man ever had a more favorable hour for reflection and
introspection. I employed it to the full. Then I rose, and crossing the
stable, pulled the long ears of my friend who was eating the hay.

"I suppose you also were a young ass once," said I with a rueful smile.

Well, I couldn't leave the Cardinal's Necklace in the corner of the
convent stable. I picked up the box. Neddy thrust out his nose at it. I
opened it and let him see the contents. He snuffed scornfully and turned
back to the hay.

"He won't take it either," said I to myself, and with a muttered curse I
dropped the wretched thing back in the pocket of my coat, wishing much
evil to everyone who had any hand in bringing me into connection with it,
from his Eminence the Cardinal Armand de Saint-Maclou down to the waiter
at the hotel.

Slowly and in great gloom of mind I climbed the hill again. I supposed
that I must take the troublesome ornament back to Marie Delhasse,
confessing that my fine idea had ended in nothing save a direct and
stinging insult for her and a scathing snub for me. My pride made this
necessity hard to swallow, but I believe there was also a more worthy
feeling that caused me to shrink from it. I feared that her good
resolutions would not survive such treatment, and that the rebuff would
drive her headlong into the ruin from which I had trusted that she would
be saved. Yet there was nothing else for it. Back the necklace must go. I
could but pray--and earnestly I did pray--that my fears might not be
realized.

I found myself opposite the gun-maker's shop; and it struck me that I
might probably fail to see Marie alone that evening. I had no means of
defense--I had never thought any necessary. But now a sudden nervousness
got hold of me: it seemed to me as if my manner must betray to everyone
that I carried the necklace--as if the lump in my coat stood out
conspicuous as Mont St. Michel itself. Feeling that I was doing a
half-absurd thing, still I stepped into the shop and announced that, on
further reflection, I would buy the little pistol. The good man was
delighted to sell it to me.

"If you carry valuables, sir," he said, repeating his stock
recommendation, "it will give you a feeling of perfect safety."

"I don't carry valuables," said I abruptly, almost rudely, and with most
unnecessary emphasis.

"I did but suggest, sir," he apologized. "And at least, it may be that you
will require to do so some day."

"That," I was forced to admit, "is of course not impossible." And I slid
the pistol and a supply of cartridges into the other pocket of my coat.

"Distribute the load, sir," advised the smiling nuisance. "One side of
your coat will be weighed down. Ah, pardon! I perceive that there is
already something in the other pocket."

"A sandwich-case," said I; and he bowed with exactly the smile the waiter
had worn when I said that I came from Mont St. Michel.


CHAPTER X.

Left on my Hands.


"There is nothing else for it!" I exclaimed, as I set out for the hotel.
"I'll go back to England."

I could not resist the conclusion that my presence in Avranches was no
longer demanded. The duchess had, on the one hand, arrived at a sort of
understanding with her husband; while she had, on the other, contrived to
create a very considerable misunderstanding with me. She had shown no
gratitude for my efforts, and made no allowance for the mistakes which,
possibly, I had committed. Now draw a line along the whole length of the
bed; then take a spade and put it down perpendicular along the line
or nearly so, moving it a little backwards and forwards, so as to open the
cut. Now take the cutting and press it down into the cut thus made,
until the upper bud is even with the surface of the soil. The cuttings
may be put close in the rows, say an inch apart, and the rows made two
feet apart. Press the ground firmly down with your foot along the line
of cuttings, so as to pack it closely around the cutting. After the
bed is finished, mulch them with straw, or litter, spent tan or
saw-dust, say about an inch thick, and if none of these can be had,
leaves from the forest may be used for the purpose.

This will serve to protect the young leaves from the sun, and will also
keep an even moisture during the heat of summer, at the same time keeping
the soil loose and porous. If weeds appear, they should be pulled up,
and the cuttings, kept clean through the summer. They will generally make
a firm, hardy growth of from one to four feet, have become used to all
the hardships and changes of the weather; and as they have formed
their roots just where they ought to be, about eight inches below the ground,
will not suffer so much from transplanting, as either a single eye or a
layer, whose roots have to be put much deeper in transplanting, than
they were before, and thus, as it were, become acclimated to the
lower regions.

For these reasons, I think, that a good plant grown from a cutting is
preferable to that propagated by any other method. In the Fall, the
vines are carefully taken up, assorted and heeled in, in the same
manner as described, with single eyes, and cut back to about three
inches of their growth.

They are then ready for transplanting into the vineyard.

IV.--BY LAYERING.

This is a very convenient method of increasing such varieties as
will not grow readily from cuttings; and vines thus propagated will,
if treated right, make very good plants.

To layer a vine, shorten in its last season's growth to about
one-half; then prepare the ground thoroughly, pulverizing it well;
then, early in spring make a small furrow, about an inch deep, then
bend the cane down and fasten it firmly in the bottom of the trench,
by wooden hooks or pegs, made for the purpose.

They may thus be left, until the young shoots have grown, say six inches;
then fill up with finely pulverized soil or leaf-mould.
The vines will thus strike root generally at every joint.

The young shoots may be tied to small sticks, provided for the purpose,
and when they have grown about a foot, their tips should be pinched off
to make them grow more stocky.

In the Fall they are taken up carefully, commencing to dig at the
end furthest removed from the vine, and separate each plant between
the joints, so that every shoot has a system of roots by itself.

They are then either planted immediately, or heeled in as described
before.

V.--BY GRAFTING.

The principal advantages to be gained by this method are: 1st. The facility
by which new and rare kinds may be increased, by grafting them on
strong stocks of healthy varieties, when they will often grow from ten
to twenty feet the first season, producing an abundance of wood to propagate.
2d. The short time in which fruit can be obtained from new and untried
varieties, as their grafts will generally bear the next season. 3d.

In every vineyard there are, in these days of many varieties, vines
which have proved inferior, yet by grafting into them some superior
variety, they may be made very valuable. 4th.

The facility by which vines can be forced under glass, by grafting
on small pieces of roots, and the certainty with which every bud
can thus be made to grow.

[Illustration: FIG. 4.]
The vine, however, does not unite with the same facility as the
pear and apple, and, to ensure success, must be grafted under ground,
which makes the operation a difficult and disagreeable one.

It will therefore hardly become a general practice; but, for the
purposes above named, is of sufficient importance, to make it
desirable that every vineyardist should be able to perform it.

I have generally had the best success in grafting here about the
middle of March, in the following manner: Dig away the ground around
the vine you wish to graft, until you come to a smooth place to
insert your scion; then cut off the vine with a sharp knife, and
insert one or two scions, as in common cleft-grafting, taking care
to cut the wedge on the scion very thin, with shoulders on both
sides, as shown in Figure 4, cutting your scion to two eyes, to
better insure success.

Great care must be taken to insert the scion properly, as the inner
bark or liber of the vine is very thin, and the success of the
operation depends upon a perfect junction of the stock and scion.

If the vine is strong enough to hold the scion firmly, no further
bandage is necessary; if not, it should be wound firmly and evenly with
bass bark. Then press the soil firmly on the cut, and fill up the hole
with well pulverized earth, to the top of the scion.
Examine the stock from time to time, and remove all wild shoots and suckers,
which it may throw up, as they will rob the graft of nourishment and enfeeble
it.

Others prefer to graft in May, when the leaves have expanded, and
the most rapid flow of sap has ceased, keeping the scions in a cool
place, to prevent the buds from starting.

The operation is performed in precisely the same manner, and will be
just as successful, I think, but the grafts that have been put in early,
have the advantage of several weeks over the others, and the latter will
seldom make as strong a growth, or ripen their wood as well as those put
in early.

Mr. A. S. FULLER performs the operation in the fall, preventing the graft
from freezing by inverting a flower-pot over it, and then covering with
straw or litter.

He claims for this method--1st.

That it can be performed at a time when the ground is more dry, and in
better condition, and business not so pressing as in spring.--2d. That
the scion and stock have more time to unite, and will form their
junction completely during the winter, and will therefore start
sooner, and make a more rapid growth than in spring.

It certainly looks feasible enough, and is well worth trying, as,
when the operation succeeds, it must evidently have advantages over
any of the other modes.

Vines I had grafted in March have sometimes made twenty to thirty feet
of growth, and produced a full crop the next season. This will show one
the advantage to be derived from it in propagating new and scarce
varieties, and in hastening the fruiting of them. Should a seedling, for
instance, look very promising in foliage and general appearance, fruit
may be obtained from it from one to two seasons sooner by grafting
some of the wood on strong stocks, than from the original plant.

Hence the vast importance of grafting, even to the practical
vineyardist.

THE VINEYARD.

LOCATION AND SOIL.

As the selection of a proper location is of vast importance, and
one of the main conditions of success, great care and judgment
should be exercised in the choice.

Some varieties of grapes may be grown on almost any soil, it is true; but
even they will show a vast difference in the quality of the fruit, even
if the quantity were satisfactory; on indifferent soil, and in an inferior
location. Everybody should grow grapes enough for his own use, who owns
an acre of ground, but every one cannot grow them and make the
most delicious wine.

The best locations are generally on the hillsides, along our larger rivers,
water-courses, and lakes, sloping to the East, South, and Southwest,
as they are generally more exempt from late spring frosts and early
frosts in fall.

The location should be sheltered from the cold winds from the north and
northwest, but fully exposed to the prevailing winds in summer from
the south and southwest. If a hill is chosen at any distance from a
large body of water, it should be high and airy, with as gentle a
slope as can be obtained.

The locations along creeks and smaller water-courses should be particularly
avoided, as they are subject to late spring frosts, and are generally damp
and moist.

The soil should be a dry, calcareous loam, sufficiently deep, say three feet;
if possible, draining itself readily. Should this not be the case naturally,
it should be done with tiles.

I was much struck by the force of a remark made by medical friend
last summer, when, in consequence of the continual rains, the ague
was very prevalent.

It was this: wherever you will find the ague an habitual guest with the
inhabitants you need not look for healthy grapevines.

Wherever we find stagnant water let us avoid the neighboring
hillsides, for they would not be congenial to our grape-vines.

But on the bluffs overhanging the banks of our large streams,
especially on the northern and western sides, where the vines are
sheltered from the north and west winds, and fully exposed to the
warm southern winds of our summer days, and where the fogs arising
from the water yet give sufficient humidity to the atmosphere, even
in the hottest summer days, to refresh the leaf during the night
and morning hours; where the soil on the southern and eastern slopes
is a mixture of decomposed stone and leaf-mould, and feels like
velvet to the feet--there is the paradise for the grape; and the
soil is already better prepared for it than the hand of man can
ever do.

Such locations should be cheap to the grape-grower at _any_ price. We
find them very frequently along the northern banks of the Missouri and
Mississippi rivers, and they will no doubt become the favored grape regions
of the country. The grape grows there with a luxuriance and health which
is almost incredible to those living in less favored locations.

But the question may be asked here, what shall be done by those who do not
live in these favored regions, and yet would like to grow grapes? I
answer, let them choose the best location they have, the most free and
airy, and let them choose only those sturdy varieties that withstand
everything. They cannot grow the most delicate varieties--the Herbemont,
the Delaware, the Clara, are not for them; but they can grow the Concord,
Hartford Prolific, and Norton's Virginia, and they at least are "very
good," although they may not be the "best." There is no excuse for any
one in this country why he should not grow his own grapes, for the use
of his family at least, if he has any ground to grow them on.

PREPARING THE SOIL.

In this, the foundation of all grape-growing, the vineyardist must
also look to the condition in which he finds the soil.

Should it be free of stones, stumps, and other obstructions, the plough and
sub-soil plough will be all-sufficient.

Should your soil be new, perhaps a piece of wild forest land, have
it carefully grubbed, and every tree and stump taken out by the
roots.

After the ground is cleared take a large breaking-plough, with three yoke
of sturdy oxen, and plough as deep as you can, say twelve to fourteen
inches.

Now follow in the same furrow with an implement we call here a sub-soil
stirrer, and which is simply a plough-share of wedge shape, running
in the bottom of the furrow, and a strong coulter, running up from
it through the beam of the plough, sharp in front, to cut the roots;
the depth of the furrow is regulated by a movable wheel running in
front, which can be set by a screw.

With two yoke of oxen this will loosen the soil to the depth of,
say twenty inches, which is sufficient, unless the sub-soil is very
tenacious. In land already cultivated, where there are no roots to
obstruct, two yoke of oxen or four horses attached to the plough, and one
yoke of oxen or a pair of horses or mules to the sub-soil plough, will be
sufficient. In stony soil the pick and shovel must take the place of the
plough, as it would be impossible to work it thoroughly with the latter;
but I think there is no advantage in the common method of trenching
or inverting the soil, as is now practiced to a very great extent. If we
examine the growth of our native vines we will generally find their
roots extending along the surface of the soil. It is unnatural to suppose
that the grape, the most sun-loving of all our plants, should be
buried with its roots several feet below the surface of the soil, far
beyond the reach of sun and air. Therefore, if you can afford it,
work your soil deep and thoroughly; it will be labor well invested; is
the best preventive against drouth, and also the best drainage in
wet weather; but have it in its natural position--not invert it;
and do not plant too deep.

Should the soil be very poor it may be enriched by manure, ashes,
bone-dust, etc.; but it will seldom be found necessary, as most of our
soil is rich enough; and it is not advisable to stimulate the growth
too much, as it will be rank and unhealthy, and injurious to the quality
and flavor of the fruit.

Wet spots may be drained by gutters filled with loose stones, or
tiles, and then covered with earth.

Surface-draining can be done by running a small ditch or furrow
every sixth or eighth row, parallel with the hillside, and leading
into a main ditch at the end or the middle of the vineyard.

Steep hillsides should be terraced or benched; but, as this is very
expensive, they should be avoided.

WHAT SHALL WE PLANT?

CHOICE OF VARIETIES.

It is a very difficult matter, in a vast country like ours, where the soil
and climate differ so much, to recommend any thing; and I think it a
mistake, into which many of our prominent grape-growers have fallen, to
recommend _any_ variety, simply because it succeeded well _with
them_, for _general_ cultivation. Grape-growing is, perhaps, more than any
other branch of horticulture or pomology, dependent upon soil, location
and climate, and it will not do to dictate to the inhabitants of a country,
in which the "extremes meet," that they should _all_ plant one
variety.

Yet this has been done by some who _pretend_ to be authorities, and it shows,
more than any thing else, that they have more arrogance than knowledge.
I, for my part, have seen such widely different results, from the same
varieties, under the same treatment, and in vineyards only a few miles
apart, but with a different soil and different aspect, that I am reluctant
to recommend to my next neighbor, what he shall plant.

But, while the task is a difficult one, yet we may lay down certain rules,
which can govern us in selection of varieties to a certain extent.
We should choose--1st. The variety which has given the most general
satisfaction in the State or county in which we live, or the nearest locality
to us. 2d--Visit the nearest accessible vineyard in the month of August
and September, observe closely which variety has the healthiest foliage
and fruit; ripens the most uniformly and perfectly; and either sells
best in market, or makes the best wine, and which, at the same
time, is of good quality, and productive enough.
Your observations, thus taken, will be a better guide than the opinion
of the most skillful grape grower a thousand miles off.

I will now name a few of the most prominent varieties which should at least
be tried by every grape grower.

THE CONCORD.

This grape seems to have given the most general satisfaction all over the
country, and seems to be _the_ "grape for the million." Wherever heard
from, it seems to be uniformly healthy and productive. Our Eastern
friends complain of its inferior quality; this may be owing partly to
their short seasons, and partly to the too early gathering of the fruit.
It is one of those varieties which color early, but should hang a long time
after coloring, to attain its full perfection. Here it is at least
_very_ good; makes an excellent wine, and, if we take into consideration
its enormous productiveness, its vigor and adaptability to all soils and
climates, we must acknowledge that as yet it stands without a rival,
and will be a safe investment almost anywhere. Our long summers bring it
to a perfection of which our Eastern friends have no idea, until they
try it here. It will do well in almost any soil.

NORTON'S VIRGINIA.

This, so far, is the leading grape for red wine, and its reputation
here and in the entire West is now so fully established, that it
would be difficult indeed to persuade our people into the belief,
that any other grape could make a better red wine.

It is healthy and uniformly productive, and will be safe to plant, I
think, in nearly all the Western States. I rather doubt that our Eastern
friends will succeed in making a first class wine from it, as I think
their summers are too short, to develop all its good qualities. Will succeed
in almost any soil, but attains its greatest perfection in southern
slopes with somewhat strong soil.

HERBEMONT.

This is a truly delicious grape, but somewhat tender, and wants a
long season to fully ripen its fruit and bring out all its good
qualities.

Will hardly do much further north than we are here, in Missouri, but is, I
think, destined to be one of the leading grapes for the Southern States.
If you have a warm, southern exposure, somewhat stony, with limestone
foundation, plant the Herbemont, and you will not be disappointed. It is
healthy and very productive; more refreshing than the Delaware, and makes
an excellent wine.

DELAWARE.

Is much recommended by Eastern authorities, and where it succeeds, is
certainly a fine grape and makes a delicious wine. Here at the West, it
has proved a failure in most locations, being subject to leaf-blight, and
a feeble grower. There are some locations, however, where it will flourish;
and whoever is the fortunate possessor of such a one should not forget
to plant it. It seems to flourish best in light, warm, somewhat sandy
soil.

HARTFORD PROLIFIC.

This is immensely productive; of very fair quality here; hardy and healthy;
and if planted for early marketing, will give general satisfaction. It
hangs well to the bunch, and even makes a very fair wine. Will
flourish in almost every soil.

CLINTON.

Hardy, healthy and productive; will make a fair wine, but is here not equal
even to the Concord, and far behind the Norton's Virginia in
quality. May be desirable further north.

PLANTING.

The distance at which the vines may be planted will of course vary somewhat
with the growth of the different varieties. The rows may all be six
feet apart, as this is the most convenient distance for cultivating, and
gives ample space for a horse and man to pass through with plough or
cultivator. Slow-growing varieties, such as the Delaware and Catawba, may
be planted six feet apart in the rows, making the distance six feet each
way; but the Concord, Norton's Virginia, Herbemont, Hartford Prolific,
Cunningham, and all the strong growers, will need more room, say ten
feet in the rows, so as to give the vines ample room to spread, and allow
free circulation of air--one of the first conditions of health in the
vines, and quality of the fruit.

The next question to be considered is: Shall we plant cuttings or
rooted plants? My preference is decidedly for the latter, for the
following reasons: Cuttings are uncertain, even of those varieties which
grow the most readily; and we cannot expect to have anything like an
even growth, such as we can have if the plants are carefully assorted.
Some of the cuttings will always fail, and there will be gaps and
vacancies which are hard to fill, even if the strongest plants are
taken for replanting.

Therefore, let us choose plants.

But we should not only choose rooted plants, but the best we can get;
and these are good one year old, whether grown from cuttings, layers or
single eyes. A good plant should have plenty of strong, well-ripened roots;
not covered with excrescences and warts, which is always a sign of ill
health; but smooth and firm; with well-ripened, short-jointed wood.
My delight was therefore great when I discovered that--either because he
trusted his fellow-men, or because he possessed nothing in the least worth
stealing--he had left his door simply on the latch. I lifted the latch and
walked in. A dim lantern burned on a little table near the smoldering
log-fire. Yet the light was enough to tell me that my involuntary host was
not in the room. I passed across its short breadth to a door in the
opposite wall. The door yielded to a push; all was dark inside. I listened
for a sleeper's breathing, but heard nothing. I returned, took up the
lantern, and carried it with me into the inner room. I held it above my
head, and it enabled me to see the low pallet-bed in the corner. But Jean
was not lying in the bed--nay, it was clear that he had not lain on the
bed all that night. Yet his bedtime was half-past eight or nine, and it
was now hard on one o'clock. Jean was "making a night of it," that seemed
very clear. But what was the business or pleasure that engaged him? I
admit that I was extremely annoyed. My darling scheme, on which I had
prided myself so much, was tripped up by the trifling accident of Jean's
absence.

What in the world, I asked again, kept the old man from his bed? It
suddenly struck me that he might, by the duke's orders, have accompanied
Mme. Delhasse back to Avranches, in order to be able to report to his
master any news that came to light there. He might well have been the
second man on the box. This reflection removed my surprise at his absence,
but not my vexation. I did not know what to do! Should I wait? But he
might not be back till morning. Wearily, in high disgust, I recognized
that the great scheme had, for tonight at least, gone awry, and that I
must tramp back to Avranches, carrying my old man of the sea, the
Cardinal's Necklace. For Jean could not read, and it was useless to leave
the parcel with written directions.

I went into the outer room, and set the lantern in its place; I took a
pull at my flask, and smoked a pipe. Then, with a last sigh of vexation, I
grasped my stick in my hand, rose to my feet, and moved toward the door.

Ah! Hark! There was a footstep outside.

"Thank Heaven, here comes the old fool!" I murmured.

The step came on, and, as it came, I listened to it; and as I listened to
it, the sudden satisfaction that had filled me as suddenly died away; for,
if that were the step of old Jean, may I see no difference between the
footfalls of an elephant and of a ballet-dancer! And then, before I had
time to form any plan, or to do anything save stand staring in the middle
of the floor, the latch was lifted again, the door opened, and in
walked--the Duke of Saint-Maclou!


CHAPTER XII.

As a Man Possessed.


The dim light served no further than to show that a man was there.

"Well, Jean, what news?" asked the duke, drawing the door close behind
him.

"I am not Jean," said I.

"Then who the devil are you, and what are you doing here?" He advanced and
held up the lantern. "Why, what are you hanging about for?" he exclaimed
the next moment, with a start of surprise.

"And I am not George Sampson either," said I composedly. I had no mind to
play any more tricks. As I must meet him, it should be in my own
character.

The duke studied me from top to toe. He twirled his mustache, and a slight
smile appeared on his full lips.

"Yet I know you as George Sampson, I think, sir," said he, but in an
altered tone. He spoke now as though to an equal--to an enemy perhaps, but
to an equal.

I was in some perplexity; but a moment later he relieved me.

"You need trouble yourself with no denials," he said. "Lafleur's story of
the gentleman at Avranches, with the description of him, struck me as
strange; and for the rest--there were two things."

He seated himself on a stool. I leaned against the wall.

"In the first place," he continued, "I know my wife pretty well; in the
second, a secret known to four maidservants-- Really, sir, you were very
confiding!"

"I was doing no wrong," said I; though not, I confess, in a very convinced
tone.

"Then why the masquerade?" he answered quickly, hitting my weak point.

"Because you were known to be unreasonable."

His smile broadened a little.

"It's the old crime of husbands, isn't it?" he asked. "Well, sir, I'm no
lawyer, and it's not my purpose to question you on that matter. I will put
you to no denials."

I bowed. The civility of his demeanor was a surprise to me.

"If that were the only affair, I need not keep you ten minutes," he went
on. "At least, I presume that my friend would find you when he wanted to
deliver a message from me?"

"Certainly. But may I ask why, if that is your intention, you have delayed
so long? You guessed I was at Avranches. Why not have sent to me?"

The duke tugged his mustache.

"I do not know your name, sir," he remarked.

"My name is Aycon."

"I know the name," and he bowed slightly. "Well, I didn't send to you at
Avranches because I was otherwise occupied."

"I am glad, sir, that you take it so lightly," said I.

"And by the way, Mr. Aycon, before you question me, isn't there a question
I might ask you? How came you here to-night?" And, as he spoke, his smile
vanished.

"I have nothing to say, beyond that I hoped to see your servant Jean."

"For what purpose? Come, sir, for what purpose? I have a right to ask for
what purpose." And his tone rose in anger.

I was going to give him a straightforward answer. My hand was actually on
the way to the spot where I felt the red box pressing against my side,
when he rose from his seat and strode toward me; and a sudden passion
surged in his voice.

"Answer me! answer me!" he cried. "No, I'm not asking about my wife; I
don't care a farthing for that empty little parrot. Answer me, sir, as you
value your life! What do you know of Marie Delhasse?"

And he stood before me with uplifted hand, as though he meant to strike
me. I did not move, and we looked keenly into one another's eyes. He
controlled himself by a great effort, but his hands trembled, as he
continued:

"That old hag who came to-night and dared to show her filthy face here
without her daughter--she told me of your talks and walks. The girl was
ready to come. Who stopped her? Who turned her mind? Who was there but
you--you--you?"

And again his passion overcame him, and he was within an ace of dashing
his fist in my face.

My hands hung at my side, and I leaned easily against the wall.

"Thank God," said I, "I believe I stopped her! I believe I turned her
mind. I did my best, and except me, nobody was there."

"You admit it?"

"I admit the crime you charged me with. Nothing more."

"What have you done with her? Where is she now?"

"I don't know."

"Ah!" he cried, in angry incredulity. "You don't know, don't you?"

"And if I knew, I wouldn't tell you."

"I'm sure of that," he sneered. "It is knowledge a man keeps to himself,
isn't it? But, by Heaven, you shall tell me before you leave this place,
or--"

"We have already one good ground of quarrel," I interrupted. "What need is
there of another?"

"A good ground of quarrel?" he repeated, in a questioning tone.

Honestly I believe that he had for the moment forgotten. His passion for
Marie Delhasse and fury at the loss of her filled his whole mind.

"Oh, yes," he went on. "About the duchess? True, Mr. Aycon. That will
serve--as well as the truth."

"If that is not a real ground, I know none," said I.

"Haven't you told me that you kept her from me?"

"For no purposes of my own."

He drew back a step, smiling scornfully.

"A man is bound to protest that the lady is virtuous," said he; "but need
he insist so much on his own virtue?"

"As it so happens," I observed, "it's not a question of virtue."

I suppose there was something in my tone that caught his attention, for
his scornful air was superseded by an intent puzzled gaze, and his next
question was put in lower tones:

"What did you stay in Avranches for?"

"Because your wife asked me," said I. The answer was true enough, but, as
I wished to deal candidly with him, I added: "And, later on, Mlle.
Delhasse expressed a similar desire."

"My wife and Mlle. Delhasse! Truly you are a favorite!"

"Honest men happen to be scarce in this neighborhood," said I. I was
becoming rather angry.

"If you are one, I hope to be able to make them scarcer by one more," said
the duke.

"Well, we needn't wrangle over it any more," said I; and I sat down on the
lid of a chest that stood by the hearth. But the duke sprang forward and
seized me by the arm, crying again in ungovernable rage:

"Where is she?"

"She is safe from you, I hope."

"Aye--and you'll keep her safe!"

"As I say, I know nothing about her, except that she'd be an honest girl
if you'd let her alone."

He was still holding my arm, and I let him hold it: the man was hardly
himself under the slavery of his passion. But again, at my words, the
wonder which I had seen before stole into his eyes.

"You must know where she is," he said, with a straining look at my face,
"but--but--"

He broke off, leaving his sentence unfinished. Then he broke out again:

"Safe from me? I would make life a heaven for her!"

"That's the old plea," said I.

"Is a thing a lie because it's old? There's nothing in the world I would
not give her--nothing I have not offered her." Then he looked at me,
repeating again: "You must know where she is." And then he whispered: "Why
aren't you with her?"

"I have no wish to be with her," said I. Any other reason would not have
appealed to him.

He sank down on the stool again and sat in a heap, breathing heavily and
quickly. He was wonderfully transfigured, and I hardly knew in him the
cold harsh man who had been my temporary master and was the mocking
husband of the duchess. Say all that may be said about his passion, I
could not doubt that it was life and death to him. Justification he had
none; excuse I found in my heart for him, for it struck me--coming over
me in a strange sudden revelation as I sat and looked at him--that he had
given such love to the duchess, the gay little lady would have been
marvelously embarrassed. It was hers to dwell in a radiant mid-ether,
neither to mount to heaver nor descend to hell. And in one of theses two
must dwell such feelings as the dukes's.

He roused himself, and leaning forward spoke to me again:

"You've lived in the same house with her and talked to her. You swear you
don't love her? What? Has Elsa's little figure come between?"

His tone was full of scorn. He seemed angry with me, not for presuming to
love his wife (nay, he would not believe that), but for being so blind as
not to love Marie.

"I didn't love her!" I answered, with a frown on my face and slow words.

"You have never felt attracted to her?"

I did not answer that question. I sat frowning in silence till the duke
spoke again, in a low hoarse whisper:

"And she? What says she to you?"

I looked up with a start, and met his searching wrathful gaze. I shook my
head; his question was new to me--new and disturbing.

"I don't know," said I; and on that we sat in silence for many moments.

Then he rose abruptly and stood beside me.

"Mr. Aycon," he said, in the smoother tones in which he had begun our
curious interview, "I came near a little while ago to doing a ruffianly
thing, of a sort I am not wont to do. We must fight out our quarrel in the
proper way. Have you any friends in the neighborhood?"

"I am quite unknown," I answered.

He thought for an instant, and then continued:

"There is a regiment quartered at Pontorson, and I have acquaintances among
the officers. If agreeable to you, we will drive over there; we shall find
gentlemen ready to assist us."

"You are determined to fight?" I asked.

"Yes," he said, with a snap of his lips. "Have we not matters enough and
to spare to fight about?"

"I can't of course deny that you have a pretext."

"And I, Mr. Aycon, know that I have also a cause. Will this morning suit
you?"

"It is hard on two now."

"Precisely. We have time for a little rest; then I will order the carriage
and we will drive together to Pontorson."

"You mean that I should stay in your house?"

"If you will so far honor me. I wish to settle this affair at once, so as
to be moving."

"I can but accept."

"Indeed you could hardly get back to Avranches, if, as I presume, you came
on foot. Ah! you've never told me why you wished to see Jean;" and he
turned a questioning look on me again, as he walked toward the door of the
cottage.

"It was--" I began.

"Stay; you shall tell me in the house. Shall I lead the way? Ah, but you
know it!" and he smiled grimly.

With a bow, I preceded him along the little path where I had once waited
for the duchess, and where Pierre, the new servant, had found me. No words
passed between us as we went. The duke advanced to the door and unlocked
it. We went in, nobody was about, and we crossed the dimly lighted hall
into the small room where supper had been laid for three (three who should
have been four) on the night of my arrival. Meat, bread, and wine stood on
the table now, and with a polite gesture the duke invited me to a repast.
I was tired and hungry, and I took a hunch of bread and poured out some
wine.

"What keeps Jean, I wonder?" mused the duke, as he sat down. "Perhaps he
has found her!" and a gleam of eager hope flashed from his eyes.

I made no comment--where was the profit in more sparring of words? I
munched my bread and drank my wine, thinking, by a whimsical turn of
thought, of Gustave de Berensac and his horror at the table laid for
three. Soon I laid down my napkin, and the duke held out his cigarette
case toward me:

"And now, Mr. Aycon, if I'm not keeping you up--"

"I do not feel sleepy," said I.

"It is the same for both of us," he reminded me, shrugging his shoulders.
"Well, then, if you are willing--of course you can refuse if you choose--I
should like to hear what brought you to Jean's quarters on foot from
Avranches in the middle of the night."

"You shall hear. I did not desire to meet you, if I could avoid it, and
therefore I sought old Jean, with the intention of making him a messenger
to you."

"For what purpose?"

"To restore to you something which has been left on my hands and to which
you have a better right than I."

"Pray, what is that?" he asked, evidently puzzled. The truth never crossed
his mind.

"This," said I; and I took the red leathern box out of my pocket, and set
it down on the table in front of the duke. And I put my cigarette between
my lips and leaned back in my chair.


CHAPTER XIII.

A Timely Truce.


I think that at first the Duke of Saint-Maclou could not, as the old
saying goes, believe his eyes. He sat looking from me to the red box, and
from the red box back to my face. Then he stretched out a slow, wavering
hand and drew the box nearer to him till it rested in the circle of his
spread-out arm and directly under his poring gaze. He seemed to shrink
from opening it; but at last he pressed the spring with a covert timid
movement of his finger, and the lid, springing open, revealed the
Cardinal's Necklace.

It seemed to be more brilliant than I had ever seen it, in the light of
the lamp that stood on the table by us; and the duke looked at it as a
magician might at the amulet which had failed him, or a warrior at the
talisman that had proved impotent. And I, moved to a sudden anger with him
for tempting the girl with such a bribe, said bitterly and scornfully,
with fresh indignation rising in me:

"It was a high bid! Strange that you could not buy her with it!"

He paid no visible heed to my taunt; and his tone was dull, bewildered,
and heavy as, holding the box still in his curved arm, he asked slowly:

"Did she give it to you to give to me?"

"She gave it to me to give to your wife." He looked up with a start. "But
your wife would not take it of her. And when I returned from my errand she
was gone--where I know not. So I decided to send it back to you."

He did not follow, or took very little interest in my brief history. He
did not even reiterate his belief that I knew Marie's whereabouts. His
mind was fixed on another point.

"How did you know she had it?" he asked.

"I found her with it on the table before her--"

"You found her?"

"Yes; I went into her sitting room and found her as I say; and she was
sobbing; and I got from her the story of it."

"She told you that?"

"Yes; and she feared to send it back, lest you should come and overbear
her resistance. I supposed you had frightened her. But neither would she
keep it--"

"You bade her not," he put in, in a quick low tone.

"If you like, I prayed her not. Did it need much cleverness to see what
was meant by keeping it?"

His mouth twitched. I saw the tempest rising again in him. But for a
little longer he held it down.

"Do you take me for a fool?" he asked.

"Am I a boy--do I know nothing of women? And do I know nothing of men?"

And he ended in a miserable laugh, and then fell again to tugging his
mustache with his shaking hand.

"You know," said I, "what's bad in both; and no doubt that's a good deal."

In that very room the duchess had called Gustave de Berensac a preacher.
Her husband had much the same reproach for me.

"Sermons are fine from your mouth," he muttered.

And then his self-control gave way. With a sweep of his arm he drove the
necklace from him, so that the box whizzed across the table, balanced a
moment on the edge, and fell crashing on the ground, while the duke cried:

"God's curse on it and you! You've taken her from me!"

There was danger--there was something like madness--in his aspect as he
rose, and, facing me where I sat, went on in tones still low, but charged
with a rage that twisted his features and lined his white cheeks:

"Are you a liar or a fool? Have you taken the game for yourself, or are
you fool enough not to see that she has despised me--and that miserable
necklace--for you--because you've caught her fancy? My God! and I've given
my life to it for two years past! And you step in. Why didn't you keep to
my wife? You were welcome to her--though I'd have shot you all the same
for my name's sake. You must have Marie too, must you?"

He was mad, if ever man was mad, at that moment. But his words were strong
with the force and clear with the insight of his passion; and the rush of
them carried my mind along, and swept it with them to their own
conclusion. Nay, I will not say that--for I doubted still; but I doubted
as a man who would deny, not as one who laughs away, a thought. I sat
silent, looking, not at him, but at the Cardinal's Necklace on the floor.

Then, suddenly, while I was still busy with the thought and dazzled at the
revelation, while I sat bemused, before I could move, his fingers were on
my throat, and his face within a foot of mine, glaring and working as he
sent his strength into his arms to throttle me. For his wife--and his
name--he would fight a duel: for the sake of Marie Delhasse he would do
murder on an invited stranger in his house. I struggled to my feet, his
grip on my throat; and I stretched out my hands and caught him under the
shoulders in the armpits, and flung him back against the table, and thence
he reeled on to a large cabinet that was by the wall, and Stood leaning
against it.

"I knew you were a villain," I said, "but I thought you were a gentleman."
(I did not stop to consider the theory implied in that.)

He leaned against the cabinet, red with his exertion and panting; but he
did not come at me again. He dashed his hand across his forehead and then
he said in hoarse breathless tones:

"You shan't leave here alive!"

Then, with a start of recollection, he thrust his hand into his pocket and
brought out a key. He put it in the lock of a drawer of the cabinet,
fumbling after the aperture and missing it more than once. Then he opened
the drawer, took out a pair of dueling pistols, and laid them on the
table.

"They're loaded," he said. "Examine them for yourself."

I did not move; but I took my little friend out of my pocket.

"If I'm attacked," said I, "I shall defend myself; but I'm not going to
fight a duel here, without witnesses, at the dead of night, in your
house."

"Call it what you like then," said he; and he snatched up a pistol from
the table.

He was beyond remonstrance, influence, or control. I believe that in a
moment he would have fired; and I must have fired also, or gone to my
death as a sheep to the slaughter. But as he spoke there came a sound,
just audible, which made him pause, with his right hand that held the
pistol raised halfway to the level of his shoulder.

Faint as the sound was, slight as the interruption it would seem to offer
to the full career of a madman's fury, it was yet enough to check him, to
call him back to consciousness of something else in the world than his
balked passion and the man whom he deemed to have thwarted it.

"What's that?" he whispered.

It was the lowest, softest knock at the door--a knock that even in asking
attention almost shrank from being heard. It was repeated, louder, yet
hardly audibly. The duke, striding on the tip of his toes, transferred the
pistols from the table back to the drawer, and stood with his hand inside
the open drawer: I slid my weapon into my pocket; and then he trod softly
across the floor to the door.

"One moment!" I whispered.

And I stooped and picked up the Cardinal's Necklace and put it back where
it had lain before, pushing its box under the table by a hasty movement of
my foot--for the duke, after a nod of intelligence, was already opening
the door. I drew back in the shadow behind it and waited.

"What do you want?" asked the duke.

And then a girl stepped hastily into the room and closed the door quickly
and noiselessly behind her. I saw her face: she was my old friend Suzanne.
When her eyes fell on me, she started in surprise, as well she might; but
the caution and fear, which had made her knock almost noiseless, her tread
silent, and her face all astrain with alert alarm, held her back from any
cry.

"Never mind him," said the duke. "That's nothing to do with you. What do
you want?"

"Hush! Speak low. I thought you would still be up, as you told me to
refill the lamp and have it burning. There's--there's something going on."

She spoke in a quick, urgent whisper, and in her agitation remembered no
deference in her words of address. "Going on? Where? Do you mean here?"

"No, no! I heard nothing here. In the duchess's dressing-room: it is just
under the room where I sleep. I awoke about half an hour ago, and I heard
sounds from there. There was a sound as of muffled hammering, and then a
noise, like the rasping of a file; and I thought I heard people moving
about, but very cautiously."

The duke and I were both listening attentively.

"I was frightened, and lay still a little; but then I got up--for the
sounds went on--and put on some clothes, and came down--"

"Why didn't you rouse the men? It must be thieves."

"I did go to the men's room; but their door was locked, and I could not
make them hear. I did not dare to knock loud; but I saw a light in the
room, under the door; and if they'd been awake they would have heard."

"Perhaps they weren't there," I suggested.

Suzanne turned a sudden look on me. Then she said:

"The safe holding the jewels is fixed in the wall of the duchess' dressing
room. And--and Lafleur knows it."

The duke had heard the story with a frowning face; but now a smile
appeared on his lips, and he said:

"Ah, yes! The jewels are there!"

"The--the Cardinal's Necklace," whispered Suzanne.

"True," said the duke; and his eyes met mine, and we both smiled. A few
minutes ago it had not seemed likely that I should share a joke--even a
rather grim joke--with him.

"Mr. Aycon," said he, "are you inclined to help me to look into this
matter? It may be only the girl's fancy--"

"No, no; I heard plainly," Suzanne protested eagerly.

"But one can never trust these rascally men-servants."

"I am quite ready," said I.

"Our business," said he, "will wait."

"It will be the better for waiting."

He hesitated a moment; then he assented gravely:

"You're right--much better."

He took a pistol out of the drawer, and shut and locked the drawer. Then
he turned to Suzanne and said:

"You had better go back to bed."

"I daren't, I daren't!"

"Then stay here and keep quiet. Mind, not a sound!"

"Give me a pistol."

He unlocked the drawer again, and gave her what she asked. Then signing to
me to follow him, he opened the door, and we stepped together into the
dark hall, the duke laying his hand on my arm and whispering:

"They're after the necklace."

We groped slowly, with careful noiselessness, across the hall to the foot
of the great staircase. There we paused and listened. There was nothing to
be heard. We climbed the first flight of stairs, and the duke turned sharp
to the right. We were now in a short corridor which ran north and south;
three yards ahead of us was another turn, leading to the west wing of the
house. There was a window by us; the duke gently opened it; and over
against us, across the base of the triangle formed by the building, was
another window, four or five yards away. The window was heavily curtained;
no light could be seen through it. But as we stood listening, the sounds
began--first the gentle muffled hammering, then the sound of the file. The
duke still held my arm, and we stood motionless. The sounds went on for a
while. Then they ceased. There was a pause of complete stillness. Then a
sharp, though not loud, click! And, upon this, the duke whispered to me:

"They've got the safe open. Now they'll find the small portable safe which
holds the necklace."

And I could make out an amused smile on his pale face. Before I could
speak, he turned and began to crawl away. I followed. We descended the
stairs again to the hall. At the foot he turned sharply to the left, and
came to a standstill in a recess under the staircase.

"We'll wait here. Is your pistol all right?"

"Yes, all right," said I.

And, as I spoke, the faintest sound spread from the top of the stairs, and
a board creaked under the steps of a man. I was close against the duke,
and I felt him quiver with a stifled laugh. Meanwhile the Cardinal's
Necklace pressed hard against my ribs under my tightly buttoned coat.


CHAPTER XIV.

For an Empty Box.


When I look back on the series of events which I am narrating and try to
recover the feelings with which I was affected in its passage, I am almost
amazed and in some measure ashamed to find how faint is my abhorrence of
the Duke of Saint-Maclou. My indignation wants not the bridle but the
whip, and I have to spur myself on to a becoming vehemence of disapproval.
I attribute my sneaking kindness for him--for to that and not much less I
must plead guilty--partly indeed to the revelation of a passion in him
that seemed to leave him hardly responsible for the wrong he plotted, but
far more to the incidents of this night, in which I was in a manner his
comrade and the partner with him in an adventure. To have stood shoulder
to shoulder with a man blinds his faults--and the duke bore himself, not
merely with the coolness and courage which I made no doubt of his
displaying, but with a readiness and zest remarkable at any time, but more
striking when they followed on the paroxysm to which I had seen him
helplessly subject. These indications of good in the man mollified my
dislike and attached me to him by a bond which begot toleration and
resists even the clearer and more piercing analysis of memory. Therefore,
when those who speak to me of what he did and sought to do say what I
cannot help admitting to be true, I hold my peace, thinking that the duke
and I have played as partners as well as on hostile sides, and that I,
being no saint, may well hold my tongue about the faults of a
fellow-sinner. Moreover,--and this is the thing of all strongest to temper
or to twist my judgment of him,--I feel often as though it were he who
laid his finger on my blind eyes and bade me look up and see where lay my
happiness. For it is strange how long a man can go without discovering his
own undermost desire. Yet, when seen, how swift it grows!

Quiet and still we stood in the bay of the staircase, and the steps over
our heads creaked under the feet of the men who came down. The duke's hand
was on my arm, restraining me, and he held it there till the feet had
passed above us and the stealthy tread landed on the marble flagging of
the hall. We thrust our heads out and peered through the darkness. I saw
the figures of two men, one following the other toward the front door;
this the first and taller unfastened and noiselessly opened; and he and
his fellow, whom, by the added light which entered, I perceived to be
carrying a box or case of moderate size, waited for a moment on the
threshold. Then they passed out, drawing the door close after them.

Still the duke held me back, and we rested where we were three or four
minutes. Then he whispered, "Come," and we stole across the hall after
them and found ourselves outside. It must have been about half-past two
o'clock in the morning; there was no moon and it was rather dark. The duke
turned sharp to the left and led me to the bypath, and there, a couple of
hundred yards ahead of us, we saw a cube of light that came from a dark
lantern.

The duke's face was dimly visible, and an amused smile played on his lips
as he said softly:

"Lafleur and Pierre! They think they've got the necklace!"

Was this the meaning of Pierre's appearance in the role of my successor?
The idea suggested itself to me in a moment, and I strove to read my
companion's face for a confirmation.

"We'll see where they go," he whispered, and then laid his finger on his
lips. Amusement sounded in his voice; indeed it was impossible not to
perceive the humor of the position, when I felt the Cardinal's Necklace
against my own ribs.

We were walking now under cover of the trees which lined the sides of the
path, so that no backward glance could discover us to the thieves; and I
was wondering how long we were thus to dog their steps, when suddenly they
turned to the left about fifty yards short of the spot where old Jean's
cottage stood, and disappeared from our sight. We emerged into the path,
the duke taking the lead. He was walking more briskly now, and I saw him
examine his pistol. When we came where the fellows had turned, we followed
in their track.

The first distant hint of approaching morning caught the tops of the trees
above us, turning them from black to a deep chill gray, as we paused to
listen. Our pursuit had brought us directly behind the cottage, which now
stood about a hundred yards on the right; and then we came upon them--or
rather suddenly stopped and crouched down to avoid coming upon them--where
they were squatting on the ground with a black iron box between them, and
the lantern's light thrown on the keyhole of the box. Lafleur held the
lantern; Pierre's hand was near the lock, and I presumed--I could not
see--that he held some instrument with which he meant to open it. A ring
of trees framed the picture, and the men sat in a hollow, well hidden from
the path even had it been high day.

The Duke of Saint-Maclou touched my arm, and I leaned forward to look in
his face. This latter consideration, I think, is very important, as we can
hardly expect such plants, which have been petted and pampered, and fed
on rich diet, to thrive on the every-day fare they will find in the
vineyard. Do not take second or third rate plants, if you can help it; they
may live and grow, but they will never make the growth which a plant of
better quality would make. We may hear of good results sometimes, obtained
by planting second-rate plants, but certainly the results would be better
if better plants had been chosen. Especially important is the selection
of good plants with those varieties which do not propagate and
transplant readily, such as the Norton's Virginia, Delaware, and other
hard-wood varieties.

Better pay double the price you would have to give for inferior plants; the
best are the cheapest in the end, as they will make the healthiest
vines, and bear sooner.

But I would also caution my readers against those who will sell you
"extra large layers, for _immediate_ bearing," and whose "plants are better
than those whom anybody else may grow," as their advertisements will
term it. It is time that this humbug should cease; time that the public
in general should know, that they cannot, in nature and reason, expect
any fruit from a plant transplanted the same season; and that those who
pretend it can be done, without vital injury to the plant, are
only seeking to fill their pockets at the cost of their customers.

They know well enough themselves that it cannot be done without killing or
fatally injuring the plant, yet they will impose upon the credulity of
their confiding customers; make them pay from $3 to $5 a piece for
a plant, which these good souls will buy, with a vision of a fine
crop of grapes before their eyes, plant them, with long tops, on
which they may obtain a few sickly bunches of fruit the first season;
but if they do the vines will make a feeble growth, not ripen their
fruit, and perhaps be winter-killed the next season.

It is like laying the burden of a full grown man on the shoulders of a
child; what was perhaps no burden at all to the one, will kill the
other.

Then, again, these "plants, superior to those of every one else." It is
the duty of every propagator and nursery-man to raise good plants; he
can do it if he tries; it is for his interest as much as for the
interest of his customers to raise plants of the best quality; and we
have no reason to suppose that we are infinitely superior to our
neighbors. While the first is a downright swindle, the latter is
the height of arrogance. If we had a good deal less of bombast and self
laudation, and more of honesty and fair dealing in the profession, the
public would have more confidence in professional men, and would be more
likely to practice what we preach. Therefore, if you look around for
plants, do not go to those who advertise, "layers for immediate bearing,"
or "plants of superior quality to all others grown;" but go to men who
have honesty and modesty enough to send you a sample of their best
plants, if required, and who are not averse to let you see how they
grow them.

Choose their good, strong healthy, one year old plants, with strong,
firm, healthy roots, and let those who wish to be humbugged buy
the layers for _immediate_ bearing.

You must be content to wait until the third year for the first crop;
but, then, if you have treated your plants as you ought to do, you
can look for a crop that will make your heart glad to see and gather
it.

You cannot, in reason and nature expect it sooner.

If your ground has been prepared in the Fall, so much the better,
and if thrown into ridges, so as to elevate the ground somewhat,
where the row is to be, they may be planted in the Fall.

The advantages of Fall planting are as follows: The ground will generally
work better, as we have better weather in the Fall; and generally more
time to spare; the ground can settle among the roots; the roots
will have healed and callused over, and the young plant be ready to
start with full vigor in spring.

[Illustration: FIG. 5.]
Mark your ground, laying it off with a line, and put down a small stick
or peg, eighteen inches long, wherever a plant is to stand. Dig a hole,
about eight to ten inches deep, as shown in Figure 5, in a slanting
direction, raising a small mound in the bottom, of well-pulverized,
mellow earth; then, having pruned your plant as shown in Figure 6,
with its roots and tops shortened in, as shown by the dotted lines,
lay it in, resting the lower end on the mound of earth, spread out
its roots evenly to all sides, and then fill in among the roots
with rich, well-pulverized earth, the upper bud being left above
the ground.

When planted in the fall, raise a small mound around your vine, so
that the water will drain off, and throw a handful of straw or any
other mulch on top, to protect it.

Of course, the operation should be performed when the ground is dry enough
to be light and mellow, and will readily work in among the roots.

[Illustration: FIG. 6.]

TREATMENT OF THE VINE THE FIRST SUMMER.

The first summer after planting nothing is necessary but to keep the ground
free from weeds, and mellow, stirring freely with hoe, rake, plough,
and cultivator, whenever necessary.

Should the vines grow strong they may be tied to the stakes provided in
planting, to elevate them somewhat above the ground.

Allow all the laterals to grow, as it will make the wood stronger
and more stocky.

They may even be summer-layered in July, laying down the young cane,
and covering the main stem about an inch deep with mellow soil,
leaving the ends of the laterals out of the ground.

With free-growing kinds, such as the Concord and Hartford Prolific,
these will generally root readily, and make very good plants, the laterals
making the stems of the layers.
With varieties that do not root so readily, as the Delaware and Norton's
Virginia, it will seldom be successful, and should not be practiced. The
vineyard may thus be made to pay expenses, and furnish the vines
for further plantations the first year.

They are taken up and divided in the fall, as directed in the chapter for
layers. In the fall, prune the vine to three buds, if strong enough, to
one or two if it has only made a weak growth. A fair growth is from four
to five feet the first summer. During the winter, trellis should be
provided for the vines, as we may expect them to grow from twelve to
fifteen feet the coming summer. The cheapest and most economical are those
of strong upright posts, say four inches in diameter, made of red cedar
if it can be had, if not, of any good, durable timber--mulberry, locust,
or white oak--and seven feet long, along which No. 10 wire is stretched
horizontally. Make the holes for the posts with a post-hole auger,
two feet deep; set in the posts, charred on one end, to make them durable.

If wire is to be used, one post every sixteen feet will be enough, with a
smaller stake between, to serve as a support for the wires. Now stretch
your wire, the lowest one about two feet from the ground, the second one
eighteen inches above it, and the third eighteen inches above the
second.

The wires may be fastened to the posts by nails, around which they can be
twisted, or by loops of wire driven into the post. Where timber is plenty,
laths made of black oak may be made to serve the same purpose; but the
posts must then be set much closer, and the wire will be the cheapest
and neatest in the end. A good many grape-growers train their vines
to stakes, believing it to be cheaper, but I have found it more expensive
than trellis made in the above manner, and it is certainly a very
slovenly method, compared with the latter.

Trellis is much more convenient for tying the vines, the canes can
be distributed much more evenly, and the fruit and young wood, not
being huddled and crowded together as on stakes, will ripen much
more evenly, and be of better quality, as the air and sun have free
access to it.

TREATMENT OF THE VINE THE SECOND SUMMER.

We find the young vine at the commencement of this season pruned
to three buds of the last season's growth.

From these we may expect from two to three strong shoots or canes. Our
first work will be to cultivate the whole ground, say from four to six
inches deep, ploughing between the rows, and hoeing around the vines
with a two-pronged German hoe, or _karst_. Figure 7 shows one of these
implements, of the best form for that purpose. The ground should be
completely inverted, but never do it in wet weather, as this will make the
ground hard and cloggy.

[Illustration: FIG. 7.]
Of the young shoots, if there are three, leave only the two strongest,
tying the best of them neatly to the trellis with bass, or pawpaw
bark, or rye straw.

If a Catawba or Delaware, you may let them grow unchecked, tying them along
the uppermost wire, when they have grown above it. The Concord, Herbemont,
Norton's Virginia, and other strong-growing varieties, I treat in the
following manner: When the young shoot has reached the second wire I pinch
off its leader. This has the tendency to force the laterals into stronger
growth, each forming a medium-sized cane. On these we intend to grow our
fruit the coming season, as the buds on these laterals will generally
produce more and finer fruit than the buds on the strong canes.

Figure 8 will show the manner of training the second summer, with one cane
layered, for the purpose of raising plants. This is done as described
before; only, as the vine will make a much stronger growth this season than
the first, the layering maybe done in June, as soon as the young shoots
are strong enough.

Figure 9 shows the vine pruned and tied, at the end of the second
season.

Figure 10 illustrates the manner of training and tying the Catawba
or Delaware.

[Illustration: FIG. 8.

FIG. 9.]
[Illustration: FIG. 10.]
The above is a combination of the single cane and bow system, and the
horizontal arm training, which I first tried on the Concord from sheer
necessity; when the results pleased me so much that I have adopted
it with all strong-growing varieties. The circumstances which led me to
the trial of this method were as follows: In the summer of 1862, when my
Concord vines were making their second season's growth, we had,
in the beginning of June, the most destructive hail storm I have
ever seen here. Every leaf was cut from the vines, and the young succulent
shoots were all cut off to about three to three and a half feet
above the ground.

The vines, being young and vigorous, pushed out the laterals vigorously,
each of them making a fair-sized cane. In the fall, when I came to prune
them, the main cane was not long enough, and I merely shortened in the
laterals to from four to six buds each. On these I had as fine a crop of
grapes as I ever saw, fine, large, well-developed bunches and berries, and
a great many of them, as each had produced its fruit-bearing shoot. Since
that time I have followed this method altogether, and obtained the
most satisfactory results.

The ground should be kept even and mellow during the summer, and the
vines neatly tied to the trellis with bast or straw.

There are many other methods of training; for instance, the old bow and stake
training, which is followed to a great extent around Cincinnati, and
was followed to some extent here. But it crowds the whole mass of fruit and
leaves together so closely that mildew and rot will follow almost as a
natural consequence, and those who follow it are almost ready to give up
grape-culture in despair. Nor is this surprising.

With their tenacious adherence to so fickle a variety as the Catawba, and
to practices and methods of which experience ought to have taught
them the utter impracticability long ago, we need not be
surprised that grape-culture is with them a failure. We have a class of
grape-growers who never learn, nor ever forget, anything; these we cannot
expect should prosper. The grape-grower, of all others, should be a close
observer of nature in her various moods, a thinking and a reasoning being;
he should be trying and experimenting all the time, and be ready always
to throw aside his old methods, should he find that another will more
fully meet the wants of his plants. Only thus can he expect to prosper.

There is also the arm system, of which we hear so much now-a-days, and
which certainly looks very pretty _on paper_. But paper is patient, and
while it cannot be denied that it has its advantages, if every
spur and shoot could be made to grow just as represented in drawings,
with three fine bunches to each shoot; yet, upon applying it
practically, we find that vines are stubborn, and some shoots will
outgrow others; and before we hardly know how, the whole beautiful
system is out of order.

It may do to follow in gardens, on arbors and walls, with a few vines,
but I do not think that it will ever be successfully followed in
vineyard culture for a number of years, as it involves too much labor in
tying up, pruning, etc.

I think the method described above will more fully meet the wants
of the vinyardist than any I have yet seen tried; it is so simple
that every intelligent person can soon become familiar with it, and
it gives us new, healthy wood for bearing every season.

Pruning may be done in the fall, as soon as the leaves have dropped.

TREATMENT OF THE VINE THE THIRD SEASON.

At the commencement of the third season, we find our vine pruned to two
spurs of two eyes each, and four lateral canes, of from four to six eyes
each.

These are tied firmly to the trellis as shown in Figure 12, for
which purpose small twigs of willows (especially the golden willow,
of which every grape-grower should plant a supply) are the most
convenient.

The ground is ploughed and hoed deeply, as described before, taking care,
however, not to plough so deep as to cut or tear the roots of the vine.

Our vines being tied, ploughed, and hoed, we come to one of the most
important and delicate operations to be performed; one of as great--nay,
greater--importance than pruning. I mean summer-pruning, or pinching,
_i.e._ thumb or finger pruning. Fall-pruning, or cutting back, is but
the beginning of the discipline under which we intend to keep our
vines; summer-pruning is the continuation, and one is useless, and
cannot be followed systematically without the other.

Let us look at our vine well, before we begin, and commence near the
ground. The time to perform the first summer-pruning is when the young
shoots are about six to eight inches long, and when you can see
plainly all the small bunches or buttons--the embryo fruit.

We commence on the lower two spurs, having two buds each. From these two
shoots have started.

One of them we intend for a bearing cane next summer; therefore allow it to
grow unchecked for the present, tying it, if long enough, to the lowest
wire. The other, which we intend for a spur again next fall, we pinch
with thumb and finger to just beyond the last bunch or button, taking
out the leader between the last bunch and the next leaf, as shown
in Figure 11, the cross line indicating where the leader is to be
pinched off.

We now come to the next spur, on the opposite side, where we also leave one
cane to grow unchecked, and pinch off the other. We now go over all the
shoots coming from the arms or laterals tied to the trellis, and also pinch
them beyond the last bunch. Should any of the buds have pushed out two
shoots, we rub off the weakest; we also take off all barren or weak
shoots.

If any of them are not sufficiently developed we pass them over, and go
over the vines again, in a few days after the first pinching.

[Illustration: FIG. 11.]
This early pinching of the shoot has a tendency to throw all the
vigor into the development of the young bunch, and the leaves
remaining on the shoot, which now grow with astonishing rapidity.

It is a gentle checking, and leading the sap into other channels;
not the violent process which is often followed long after the
bloom, when the wood has become so hardened that it must be cut
with a knife, and by which the plant is robbed of a large quantity
of its leaves, to the injury of both fruit and vine.

Let any of my readers, who wish to satisfy themselves, summer-prune a vine,
according to the method described here, and leave the next vine until after
the bloom, and he will plainly perceive the difference. The merit of first
having practised this method here, which I consider one of vast
importance in grape-culture, belongs to Mr.

WILLIAM POESCHEL, of this place, who was led to do so, by observing the
rapid development of the young bunches on a shoot which had accidentally
been broken beyond the last bunch.

Now, there is hardly an intelligent grape-grower here, who does not
follow it; and I think it has added more than one-third to the
quantity and quality of my crop.

It also gives a chance to destroy the small, white worm, a species of
leaf-folder, which is very troublesome just at this time, eating
the young fruit and leaves, and which makes its web among the tender
leaves at the end of the shoot.

The bearing branches having all been pinched back, we can leave our
vines alone until after the bloom, only tying up the young canes
from the spurs, should it become necessary.

But do not tie them over the bearing canes, but lead them to the
empty space on both sides of the vine; as our object must be to
give the fruit all the air and light we can.

By the time the grapes have bloomed, the laterals will have pushed from the
axils of the leaves on the bearing shoots. Now go over these again, and
pinch each lateral back to one leaf, as shown in Figure 12.

This will make the leaf which remains grow and expand rapidly,
serving at the same time as a conductor of sap to the young bunch
opposite, and shading it when it becomes fully developed.

The canes from the spurs, which we left unchecked, and which we
design to bear fruit the next season, may now also be stopped or pinched,
when they are about three feet long, to start their laterals into
stronger growth. Pinch off all the tendrils; this is a very busy time for
the vine-dresser, and upon his close attendance and diligence now,
depends, in a great measure, the value of his crop. Besides, "a stitch
in time saves nine," and he can save an incredible amount of labor by
doing everything at the proper time.

[Illustration: FIG. 12.]

In a short time, the laterals on the fruit-bearing branches which have
been pinched will throw out suckers again. These are stopped again, leaving
one leaf of the young growth. Leave the laterals on the canes intended for
next years' fruiting to grow unchecked, tying them neatly with
bass, or pawpaw bark, or with rye straw.

This is about all that is necessary for this summer, except an
occasional tying up of a fruiting branch, should its burden become
more than it can bear.

But the majority of the branches will be able to sustain their fruit without
tying, and the young growth which may yet start from the laterals
may be left unchecked, as it will serve to shade the fruit when
ripening.

Of course, the soil must be kept clean and mellow, as in the former summer.
This short pruning is also a partial preventative against mildew and
rot, and the last extremely wet season has again shown the importance
of letting in light and air to all parts of the vine; as those vineyards,
where a strict system of early summer pruning had been followed,
did not suffer half as much from rot and mildew as those where the
old slovenly method still prevailed.

My readers will perceive, that Fall-pruning, or shortening-in the ripened
wood of the vine, and summer-pruning, shortening in and thinning
out the young growth, have one and all the same object in view,
namely, to keep the vine within proper bounds, and concentrate all
its energies for a two-fold object, namely, the production and
ripening of the most perfect fruit, and the production of strong,
healthy wood for the coming season's crop.

Both operations are, in fact, only different parts of one and the same system,
of which summer-pruning is the preparatory, and fall pruning the finishing
part.

If we think that a vine is setting more fruit than it is able to bear and
ripen perfectly, we have it in our power to thin it, by taking away
all imperfect bunches, and feeble shoots. We should allow no more wood to
grow than we need for next season's bearing; if we allow three
canes to grow where only two are needed, we waste the energies of
the vine, which should all be concentrated upon ripening its fruit
in the most perfect condition, and producing the necessary wood for
next season's bearing, and that of the best and most vigorous
quality, but no more.

If we prune the vine too long, we over-tax its energies; making it bear
more fruit than it can perfect, and the result will be poor,
badly-ripened fruit, and small and imperfect wood.

If, on the contrary, we prune the vine too short, we will have a
rank, excessive growth of wood and leaves, and encourage rot and
mildew.

Only practice and experience will teach us the exact medium, and the observing
vintner will soon find out where he has been wrong, better than he can
be taught by a hundred pages of elaborate advice.

Different varieties will require different treatment, and it would be
foolishness to suppose that two varieties so entirely different,
as for instance, the Concord and the Delaware, could be pruned,
trained and pinched in the same manner.

The first, being a rank and vigorous grower, with long joints, will require
much longer pruning than the latter, which is a slow-growing,
short-jointed vine.

Some varieties, the Taylor for instance, also the Norton, will fruit better
if pruned to spurs on old wood, than on the young canes; it will
therefore be the best policy for the vintner in pruning these, to
retain the old arms or canes, pruning all the healthy, strong shoots
they have to two buds, as long as the old arms remain healthy;
always, however, growing a young cane to fall back upon, should the
old arm become diseased; whereas, the Catawba and Delaware, being
only moderate growers, will flourish and bear best when pruned
short, and to a cane of last season's growth.

He grumbled
at my request, declaring that I should end by getting him into trouble;
but a few francs overcame his scruples, and he provided me with a sturdy
animal, which I promised to bring or send back in the course of the day.

Great as my impatience was, I was compelled to spend the first hour of my
arrival at Avranches under the doctor's hands. He discovered to my
satisfaction that the bullet had not lodged in my arm and that my hurt was
no more than a flesh-wound, which would, if all went well, heal in a few
days. He enjoined perfect rest and freedom from worry and excitement. I
thanked him, bowed myself out, mounted again, and rode to the hotel, where
I left my horse with instructions for its return to its owner. Then, at my
best speed, I hastened down the hill again, reached the grounds of the
convent, and approached the door. Perfect rest and freedom from excitement
were unattainable until I had learned whether Marie Delhasse was still
safe within the old white walls which I saw before me; for, though I could
not trace how the change in me had come, nor track its growth, I knew now
that if she were there the walls held what was of the greatest moment to
me in all the world, and that if she were not there the world was a hell
to me until I found her.

I was about to ring the bell, when from the gate of the burial-ground the
Mother Superior came at a slow pace. The old woman was frowning as she
walked, and her frown deepened at sight of me. But I, caring nothing for
what she thought, ran up to her, crying before I had well reached her:

"Is Marie Delhasse still here?"

The Mother stopped dead, and regarded me with disapprobation.

"What business is it of yours, sir, where the young woman is?" she asked.

"I mean her no harm," I urged eagerly. "If she is safe here, I ask to know
no more; I don't even ask to see her. Is she here? The Duchess of
Saint-Maclou told me that you refused to send her away."

"God forbid that I should send away any sinner who will find refuge here,"
she said solemnly. "You have seen the duchess?"

"Yes; she is at home. But Mlle. Delhasse?"

But the old woman would not be hurried. She asked again:

"What concern have you, sir, with Marie Delhasse?"

I looked her in the face as I answered plainly:

"To save her from the Duke of Saint-Maclou."

"And from her own mother, sir?"

"Yes, above all from her own mother."

The old woman started at my words; but there was no change in the level
calm of her voice as she asked:

"And why would you rescue her?"

"For the same reason that any gentleman would, if he could. If you want
more--"

She held up her hand to silence me; but her look was gentler and her voice
softer, as she said:

"You, sir, cannot save, and I cannot save, those who will not let God
himself save them."

"What do you mean?" I cried in a frenzy of fear and eagerness.

"I had prayed for her, and talked with her. I thought I had seen grace in
her. Well, I know not. It is true that she acted as her mother bade her.
But I fear all is not well."

"I pray you to speak plainly. Where is she?"

"I do not know where she is. What I know, sir, you shall know, for I
believe you come in honesty. This morning--some two hours ago--a carriage
drove from the town here. Mme. Delhasse was in it, and with her the Duke
of Saint-Maclou. I could not refuse to let the woman see her daughter.
They spoke together for a time; and then they called me, and Marie--yes,
Marie herself--begged me to let her see the duke. So they came here where
we stand, and I stood a few yards off. They talked earnestly in low tones.
And at last Marie came to me (the others remaining where they were), and
took my hand and kissed it, thanking me and bidding me adieu. I was
grieved, sir, for I trusted that the girl had found peace here; and she
was in the way to make us love her. 'Does your mother bid you go?' I
asked, 'And will she save you from all harm?' And she answered: 'I go of
my own will, Mother; but I go hoping to return.' 'You swear that you go of
your own will?' I asked. 'Yes, of my own will,' she said firmly; but she
was near to weeping as she spoke. Yet what could I do? I could but tell
her that our door--God's door--was never shut. That I told her; and with a
heavy heart, being able to do nothing else, I let her go. I pray God no
harm come of it. But I thought the man's face wore a look of triumph."

"By Heaven," I cried, "it shall not wear it for long! Which way did they
go?"

She pointed to the road by the side of the bay, leading away from
Avranches.

"That way. I watched the carriage and its dust till I saw it no more,
because of the wood that lies between here and the road. You pursue them,
sir?"

"To the world's end, madame, if I must."

She sighed and opened her lips to speak, but no words came; and without
more, I turned and left her, and set my face to follow the carriage. I
was, I think, half-mad with anger and bewilderment, for I did not think
that it would be time well spent to ascend to the town and obtain a
vehicle or a horse; but I pressed on afoot, weary and in pain as I was,
along the hot white road. For now indeed my heart was on fire, and I knew
that beside Marie Delhasse everything was nothing. So at first
imperceptibly, slowly, and unobserved, but at the last with a swift
resistless rush, the power of her beauty and of the soul that I had seemed
to see in her won upon me; and that moment, when I thought that she had
yielded to her enemy and mine, was the flowering and bloom of my love for
her.

Where had they gone? Not to the duke's house, or I should have met them as
I rode down earlier in the morning. Then where? France was wide, and the
world wider: my steps were slow. Where lay the use of the chase? In the
middle of the road, when I had gone perhaps a mile, I stopped dead. I was
beaten and sick at heart, and I searched for a nook of shade by the
wayside, and flung myself on the ground; and the ache of my arm was the
least of my pain.

As I lay there, my eye caught sight of a cloud of dust on the road. For a
moment I scanned it eagerly, and then fell back with a curse of
disappointment. It was caused by a man on a horse--and the man was not the
duke. But in an instant I was sitting up again--for as the rider drew
nearer, trotting briskly along, his form and air was familiar to me; and
when he came opposite to me, I sprang up and ran out to meet him, crying
out to him:

"Gustave! Gustave!"

It was Gustave de Berensac, my friend. He reined in his horse and greeted
me--and he greeted me without surprise, but not without apparent
displeasure.

"I thought I should find you here still," said he. "I rode over to seek
you. Surely you are not at the duchess'?"

His tone was eloquent of remonstrance.

"I've been staying at the inn."

"At the inn?" he repeated, looking at me curiously. "And is the duchess at
home?"

"She's at home now. How come you here?"

"Ah, my friend, and how comes your arm in a sling? Well, you shall have my
story first. I expect it will prove shorter. I am staying at Pontorson
with a friend who is quartered there."

"But you went to Paris."

Gustave leaned clown to me, and spoke in a low impressive tone:

"Gilbert," said he, "I've had a blow. The day after I got to Paris I heard
from Lady Cynthia. She's going to be married to a countryman of yours."

Gustave looked very doleful. I murmured condolence, though in truth I
cared, just then, not a straw about the matter.

"So," he continued, "I seized the first opportunity for a little change."

There was a pause. Gustave's mournful eye ranged over the landscape. Then
he said, in a patient, sorrowful voice:

"You said the duchess was at home?"

"Yes, she's at home now."

"Ah! I ask again, because as I passed the inn on the way between here and
Pontorson I saw in the courtyard--"

"Yes, yes, what?" cried I in sudden eagerness.

"What's the matter, man? I saw a carriage with some luggage on it, and it
looked like the duke's, and--Hallo! Gilbert, where are you going?"

"I can't wait, I can't wait!" I called, already three or four yards away.

"But I haven't heard how you got your arm--"

"I can't tell you now. I can't wait!"

My lethargy had vanished; I was hot to be on my way again.

"Is the man mad?" he cried; and he put his horse to a quick walk to keep
up with me.

I stopped short.

"It would take all day to tell you the story," I said impatiently.

"Still I should like to know--"

"I can't help it. Look here, Gustave, the duchess knows. Go and see her. I
must go on now."

Across the puzzled mournful eyes of the rejected lover and bewildered
friend I thought I saw a little gleam.

"The duchess?" said he.

"Yes, she's all alone. The duke's not there."

"Where is the duke?" he asked; but, as it struck me, now rather in
precaution than in curiosity.

"That's what I'm going to see," said I.

And with hope and resolution born again in my heart I broke into a fair
run, and, with a wave of my hand, left Gustave in the middle of the road,
staring after me and plainly convinced that I was mad. Perhaps I was not
far from that state. Mad or not, in any case after three minutes I thought
no more of my good friend Gustave de Berensac, nor of aught else, save the
inn outside Pontorson, just where the old road used to turn toward Mont
St. Michel. To that goal I pressed on, forgetting my weariness and my
pain. For it might be that the carriage would still stand in the yard, and
that in the house I should come upon the object of my search.

Half an hour's walk brought me to the inn, and there, to my joy, I saw the
carriage drawn up under a shed side by side with the inn-keeper's market
cart. The horses had been taken out; there was no servant in sight. I
walked up to the door of the inn and passed through it. And I called for
wine.

A big stout man, wearing a blouse, came out to meet me. The inn was a
large one, and the inn-keeper was evidently a man of some consideration,
although he wore a blouse. But I did not like the look of him, for he had
shifty eyes and a bloated face. Without a word he brought me what I
ordered and set it down in a little room facing the stable yard.

"Whose carriage is that under your shed?" I asked, sipping my wine.

"It is the carriage of the Duke of Saint-Maclou, sir," he answered readily
enough.

"The duke is here, then?"

"Have you business with him, sir?"

"I did but ask you a simple question," said I. "Ah! what's that? Who's
that?"

I had been looking out of the window, and my sudden exclamation was caused
by this--that the door of a stable which faced me had opened very gently,
and but just wide enough to allow a face to appear for an instant and then
disappear. And it seemed to me that I knew the face, although the sight of
it had been too short to make me sure.

"What did you see, sir?" asked the inn-keeper. (The name on his signboard
was Jacques Bontet.)

I turned and faced him full.

"I saw someone look out of the stable," said I.

"Doubtless the stable-boy," he answered; and his manner was so ordinary,
unembarrassed, and free from alarm, that I doubted whether my eyes had not
played me a trick, or my imagination played one upon my eyes.

Be that as it might, I had no time to press my host further at that
moment; for I heard a step behind me and a voice I knew saying:

"Bontet, who is this gentleman?"

I turned. In the doorway of the room stood the Duke of Saint-Maclou. He
was in the same dress as when he had parted from me; he was dusty, his
face was pale, and the skin had made bags under his eyes. But he stood
looking at me composedly, with a smile on his lips.

"Ah!" said he, "it is my friend Mr. Aycon. Bontet, bring me some wine,
too, that I may drink with my friend." And he added, addressing me: "You
will find our good Bontet most obliging. He is a tenant of mine, and he
will do anything to oblige me and my friends. Isn't it so, Bontet?"

The fellow grunted a surly and none too respectful assent, and left the
room to fetch the duke his wine. Silence followed on his departure for
some seconds. Then the duke came up to where I stood, folded his arms, and
looked me full in the face.

"It is difficult to lose the pleasure of your company, sir," he said.

"If you will depart from here alone," I retorted, "you shall find it the
easiest thing in the world. For, in truth, it is not desire for your
society that brings me here."

He lifted a hand and tugged at his mustache.

"You have, perhaps, been to the convent?" he hazarded.

"I have just come from there," I rejoined.

"I am not an Englishman," said he, curling the end of the mustache, "and I
do not know how plain an intimation need be to discourage one of your
resolute race. For my part, I should have thought that when a lady accepts
the escort of one gentleman, it means that she does not desire that of
another."

He said this with a great air and an assumption of dignity that contrasted
strongly with the unrestrained paroxysms of the night before. I take it
that success--or what seems such--may transform a man as though it changed
his very skin. But I was not skilled to cross swords with him in talk of
that kind, so I put my hands in my pockets and leaned against the shutter
and said bluntly:

"God knows what lies you told her, you see."

His white face suddenly flushed; but he held himself in and retorted with
a sneer:

"A disabled right arm gives a man fine courage."

"Nonsense!" said I. "I can aim as well with my left;" and that indeed was
not very far from the truth. And I went on: "Is she here?"

"Mme. and Mlle. Delhasse are both here, under my escort."

"I should like to see Mlle. Delhasse," I observed.

He answered me in low tones, but with the passion in him closer to the
surface now and near on boiling up through the thin film of his
self-restraint:

"So long as I live, you shall never see her."

But I cared not, for my heart leaped in joy at his words. They meant to me
that he dared not let me see her; that, be the meaning of her consent to
go with him what it might, yet he dared not match his power over her
against mine. And whence came the power he feared? It could be mine only
if I had touched her heart.

"I presume she may see whom she will," said I still carelessly.

"Her mother will protect her from you with my help."

There was silence for a minute. Then I said:

"I will not leave here without seeing her."

And a pause followed my words till the duke, fixing his eyes on mine,
answered significantly:

"If you leave here alive to-night, you are welcome to take her with you."

I understood, and I nodded my head.

"My left arm is as sound as yours," he added; "and, maybe, better
practiced."

Our eyes met again, and the agreement was sealed. The duke was about to
speak again, when a sudden thought struck me. I put my hand in my pocket
and drew out the Cardinal's Necklace. And I flung it on the table before
me, saying:

"Let me return that to you, sir."

The duke stood regarding the necklace for a moment, as it lay gleaming and
glittering on the wooden table in the bare inn parlor. Then he stepped up
to the table, but at the moment I cried:

"You won't steal her away before--before--"

"Before we fight? I will not, on my honor." He paused and added: "For
there is one thing I want more even than her."

I could guess what that was.

And then he put out his hand, took up the necklace, and thrust it
carelessly into the pocket of his coat. And looking across the room, I saw
the inn-keeper, Jacques Bontet, standing in the doorway and staring with
all his eyes at the spot on the table where the glittering thing had for a
moment lain; and as the fellow set down the wine he had brought for the
duke, I swear that he trembled as a man who has seen a ghost; for he
spilled some of the wine and chinked the bottle against the glass. But
while I stared at him, the duke lifted his glass and bowed to me, saying,
with a smile and as though he jested in some phrase of extravagant
friendship for me:

"May nothing less than death part you and me?"

And I drank the toast with him, saying "Amen."


CHAPTER XVII.

A Reluctant Intrusion.


As Bontet the inn-keeper set the wine on the table before the Duke of
Saint-Maclou, the big clock in the hall of the inn struck noon. It is
strange to me, even now when the story has grown old in my memory, to
recall all that happened before the hands of that clock pointed again to
twelve. And last year when I revisited the neighborhood and found a neat
new house standing on the site of the ramshackle inn, I could not pass by
without a queer feeling in my throat; for it was there that the results of
the duchess' indiscretion finally worked themselves out to their
unexpected, fatal, and momentous ending. Seldom, as I should suppose, has
such a mixed skein of good and evil, of fatality and happiness, been spun
from material no more substantial than a sportive lady's idle freak.

"By the way, Mr. Aycon," said the duke, after we had drunk our toast, "I
have had a message from the magistrate at Avranches requesting our
presence to-morrow morning at eleven o'clock. An inquiry has to be held
into the death of that rascal Lafleur, and our evidence must be taken. It
is a mere formality, the magistrate is good enough to assure me, and I
have assured him that we shall neither of us allow anything to interfere
with our waiting on him, if we can possibly do so."

"I could have sent no other message myself," said I.

"I will also," continued the duke, "send word by Bontet here to those two
friends of mine at Pontorson. It would be dull for you to dine alone with
me, and, as the evening promises to be fine, I will ask them to be here by
five o'clock, and we will have a stroll on the sands and a nearer look at
the Mount before our meal. They are officers who are quartered there."

"Their presence," said I, "will add greatly to the pleasure of the
evening."

"Meanwhile, if you will excuse me, I shall take an hour or two's rest. We
missed our sleep last night, and we should wish to be fresh when our
guests arrive. If I might advise you--"

"I am about to breakfast, after that I may follow your advice."

"Ah, you've not breakfasted? You can't do better, then. _Au revoir_;" and
with a bow he left me, calling to Bontet to follow him upstairs and wait
for the note which was to go to the officers at Pontorson. It must be
admitted that the duke conducted the necessary arrangements with much
tact.

In a quarter of an hour my breakfast was before me, and I seated myself
with my back to the door and my face to the window. I had plenty to think
about as I ate; but my chief anxiety was by some means to obtain an
interview with Marie Delhasse, not with a view to persuading her to
attempt escape with me before the evening--for I had made up my mind that
the issue with the duke must be faced now, once for all--but in the hope
of discovering why she had allowed herself to be persuaded into leaving
the convent. Until I knew that, I was a prey to wretched doubts and
despondency, which even my deep-seated confidence in her could not
overcome. Fortunately I had a small sum of money in my pocket, and I felt
sure that Bontet's devotion to the duke would not be proof against an
adequate bribe: perhaps he would be able to assist me in eluding the
vigilance of Madame Delhasse and obtaining speech with her daughter.

Bontet, detained as I supposed by the duke, had left a kitchen-girl to
attend on me; but I soon saw him come out into the yard, carrying a letter
in his hand. He walked slowly across to the stable door, at which the
face, suddenly presented and withdrawn, had caught my attention. He
stopped before the door a moment, then the door opened. I could not see
whether he opened it or whether it was unlocked from within, for his burly
frame obstructed my view; but the pause was long enough to show that more
than the lifting of a latch was necessary. And that I thought worth
notice. The door closed after Bontet. I rose, opened my window and
listened; but the yard was broad and no sound reached me from the stable.

I waited there five minutes perhaps. The inn-keeper did not reappear, so I
returned to my place. I had finished my meal before he came out. This time
I was tolerably sure that the door was closed behind him by another hand,
and I fancied that I heard the click of a lock. Also I noticed that the
letter was no longer visible--of course, he might have put it in his
pocket. Jumping up suddenly as though I had just chanced to notice him, I
asked him if he were off to Pontorson, or, if not, had he a moment for
conversation.

"I am going in a few minutes, sir," he answered; "but I am at your service
now."

The words were civil enough, but his manner was surly and suspicious.
Lighting a cigarette, I sat down on the window-sill, while he stood just
outside.

"I want a bedroom," said I. "Have you one for me?"

"I have given you the room on the first floor, immediately opposite that
of the duke."

"Good. And where are the ladies lodged?"

He made no difficulty about giving me an answer.

"They have a sitting room on the first floor," he answered, "but hitherto
they have not used it. They have two bedrooms, connected by an interior
door, on the second floor, and they have not left them since their
arrival."

"Has the duke visited them there?"

"I don't think he has seen them. They had a conversation on their
arrival;" and the fellow grinned.

Now was my time. I took a hundred-franc note out of my pocket and held it
in my hand so that he could see the figures on it. I hoped that he would
not be exorbitant, for I had but one more and some loose napoleons in my
pocket.

"What was the conversation about?" I asked.

He put out his hand for the note; but I kept my grasp on it. Honesty was
not written large--no, nor plain to read--on Bontet's fat face.

"I heard little of it; but the young lady said, as they hurried upstairs:
'Where is he? Where is he?'"

"Yes, yes!"

And I held out the note to him. He had earned it. And greedily he clutched
it, and stowed it in his breeches pocket under his blouse.

"I heard no more; they hurried her up; the old lady had her by one arm and
the duke by the other. She looked distressed--why, I know not; for I
suppose"--here a sly grin spread over the fellow's face--"that the pretty
present I saw is for her."

"It's the property of the duke," I said.

"But gentlemen sometimes make presents to ladies," he suggested.

"It may be his purpose to do so. Bontet, I want to see the young lady."

He laughed insolently, kicking his toe against the wall.

"What use, unless you have a better present, sir? But it's nothing to me.
If you can manage it, you're welcome."

"But how am I to manage it? Come, earn your money, and perhaps you'll earn
more."

"You're liberal, sir;" and he stared at me as though he were trying to
look into my pocket and see how much money was there. I was glad that his
glance was not so penetrating. "But I can't help you. Stay, though. The
old lady has ordered coffee for two in the sitting-room, and bids me rouse
the duke when it is ready: so perhaps the young lady will be left alone
for a time. If you could steal up--"

I was not in the mood to stand on a punctilio. My brain was kindled by
Marie's words, "Where is he?" Already I was searching for their meaning
and finding what I wished. If I could see her, and learn the longed-for
truth from her, I should go in good heart to my conflict with the duke.

"Go to your room," said Bontet, whom my prospective _largesse_ had
persuaded to civility and almost to eagerness, "and wait. If madame and
the duke go there, I'll let you know. But you must risk meeting them."

"I don't mind about that," said I; and, in truth, nothing could make my
relations with the pair more hostile than they were already.

My business with Bontet was finished; but I indulged my curiosity for a
moment.

"You have a good stable over there, I see," I remarked. "How many horses
have you there?"

The fellow turned very red: all signs of good humor vanished from his
face; my bribe evidently gave me no right to question him on that subject.

"There are no horses there," he grunted. "The horses are in the new stable
facing the road. This one is disused."

"Oh, I saw you come out from there, and I thought--"

"I keep some stores there," he said sullenly.

"And that's why it's kept locked?" I asked at a venture.

"Precisely, sir," he replied. But his uneasy air confirmed my suspicions
as to the stable. It hid some secret, I was sure. Nay, I began to be sure
that my eyes had not played me false, and that I had indeed seen the face
I seemed to see. If that were so, friend Bontet was playing a double game
and probably enjoying more than one paymaster.

However, I had no leisure to follow that track, nor was I much concerned
to attempt the task. The next day would be time--if I were alive the next
day: and I cared little if the secret were never revealed. It was nothing
to me--for it never crossed my mind that fresh designs might be hatched in
the stable. Dismissing the matter, I did as Bontet advised, and walked
upstairs to my room; and as luck would have it, I met Mme. Delhasse plump
on the landing, she being on her way to the sitting room. I bowed low.
Madame gave me a look of hatred and passed by me. As she displayed no
surprise, it was evident that the duke had carried or sent word of my
arrival. I was not minded to let her go without a word or two.

"Madame--" I began; but she was too quick for me. She burst out in a
torrent of angry abuse. Her resentment, dammed so long for want of
opportunity, carried her away. To speak soberly and by the card, the woman
was a hideous thing to see and hear; for in her wrath at me, she spared
not to set forth in unshamed plainness her designs, nor to declare of what
rewards, promised by the duke, my interference had gone near to rob her
and still rendered uncertain. Her voice rose, for all her efforts to keep
it low, and she mingled foul words of the duchess and of me with scornful
curses on the virtue of her daughter. I could say nothing; I stood there
wondering that such creatures lived, amazed that Marie Delhasse must call
such an one her mother.

Then in the midst of her tirade, the duke, roused without Bontet's help,
came out of his room, and waited a moment listening to the flow of the
torrent. And, strange as it seemed, he smiled at me and shrugged his
shoulders, and I found myself smiling also; for disgusting as the woman
was, she was amusing, too. And the duke went and caught her by the
shoulder and said:

"Come, don't be silly, mother. We can settle our accounts with Mr. Aycon
in another way than this."

His touch and words seemed to sober her--or perhaps her passion had run
its course. She turned to him, and her lips parted with a smile, a cunning
and--if my opinion be asked--loathsome smile; and she caressed the lapel
of his coat with her hand. And the duke, who was smoking, smoked on, so
that the smoke blew in her face, and she coughed and choked: whereat the
duke also smiled. He set the right value on his instrument, and took
pleasure in showing how he despised her.

"My dear, dear duke, I have such news for you--such news?" she said,
ignoring, as perforce she must, his rudeness. "Come in here, and leave
that man."

At this the duke suddenly bent forward, his scornful, insolent toleration
giving place to interest.

"News?" he cried, and he drew her toward the door to which she had been
going, neither of them paying any more attention to me. And the door
closed upon them.

The duke had not needed Bontet's rousing. I did not need Bontet to tell me
that the coast was clear. With a last alert glance at the door, I trod
softly across the landing and reached the stairs by which Mlle. Delhasse
had descended. Gently I mounted, and on reaching the top of the flight
found a door directly facing me. I turned the handle, but the door was
locked. I rattled the handle cautiously--and then again, and again. And
presently I heard a light, timid, hesitating step inside; and through the
door came, in the voice of Marie Delhasse:

"Who's there?"

And I answered at once, boldly, but in a low voice:

"It is I. Open the door."

She, in her turn, knew my voice; for the door was opened, and Marie
Delhasse stood before me, her face pale with weariness and sorrow, and her
eyes wide with wonder. She drew back before me, and I stepped in and shut
the door, finding myself in a rather large, sparely furnished room. A door
opposite was half-open. On the bed lay a bonnet and a jacket which
certainly did not belong to Marie.

Most undoubtedly I had intruded into the bedchamber of that highly
respectable lady, Mme. Delhasse. I can only plead that the circumstances
were peculiar.


CHAPTER XVIII.

A Strange Good Humor.


For a moment Marie Delhasse stood looking at me; then she uttered a low
cry, full of relief, of security, of joy; and coming to me stretched out
her hands, saying:

"You are here then, after all!"

Charmed to see how she greeted me, I had not the heart to tell her that
her peril was not past; nor did she give me the opportunity, for went on
directly:

"And you are wounded? But not badly, not badly, Mr. Aycon?"

"Who told you I was wounded?"

"Why, the duke. He said that you had been shot by a thief, and were very
badly hurt; and--and--" She stopped, blushing.

("Where is he?" I remembered the words; my forecast of their meaning had
been true.)

"And did what he told you," I asked softly, "make you leave the convent
and come to find me?"

"Yes," she answered, taking courage and meeting my eyes. "And then you
were not here, and I thought it was a trap."

"You were right; it was a trap. I came to find you at the convent, but you
were gone: only by the chance of meeting with a friend who saw the duke's
carriage standing here have I found you."

"You were seeking for me?"

"Yes, I was seeking for you."

I spoke slowly, as though hours were open for our talk; but suddenly I
remembered that at any moment the old witch might return. And I had much
to say before she came.

"Marie--" I began eagerly, never thinking that the name she had come to
bear in my thoughts could be new and strange from my lips. But the moment
I had uttered it I perceived what I had done, for she drew back further,
gazing at me with inquiring eyes, and her breath seemed arrested. Then,
answering the question in her eyes, I said simply:

"For what else am I here, Marie?" and I caught her hand in my left hand.

She stood motionless, still silently asking what I would. And I kissed her
hand. And again the low cry, lower still--half a cry and half a sigh--came
from her, and she drew timidly nearer to me; and I drew her yet nearer,
whispering, in a broken word or two, that I loved her.

But she, still dazed, looked up at me, whispering, "When, when?"

And I could not tell her when I had come to love her, for I did not know
then--nor can I recollect now; nor have I any opinion about it, save that
it speaks ill for me that it was not when first I set my eyes upon her.
But she doubted, remembering that I had seemed fancy-struck with the
little duchess, and cold, maybe stern, to her; and because, I think, she
knew that I had seen her tempted. And to silence her doubts, I kissed her
lips. She did not return my kiss, but stood with wondering eyes. Then in
an instant a change came over her face. I felt her press my hand, and for
an instant or two her lips moved, but I heard no words, nor do I think
that the unheard words were for my ear; and I bowed my head.

Yet time pressed. Again I collected my thoughts from this sweet
reverie--wherein what gave me not least joy was the perfect trust she
showed in me, for that is perhaps the one thing in this world that a man
may be proud to win--and said to her:

"Marie, you must listen. I have something to tell you."

"Oh, you'll take me away from them?" she cried, clutching my hand in both
of hers.

"I can't now," I answered. "You must be brave. Listen: if I try to take
you away now, it may be that I should be killed and you left defenseless.
But this evening you can be safe, whatever befalls me."

"Why, what should befall you?" she asked, with a swift movement that
brought her closer to me.

I had to tell her the truth, or my plan for her salvation would not be
carried out.

"To-night I fight the duke. Hush! hush! Yes, I must fight with the
duke--yes, wounded arm, my darling, notwithstanding. We shall leave here
about five and go down to the bay toward the Mount, and there on the sands
we shall fight. And--listen now--you must follow us, about half an hour
after we have gone."

"But they will not let me go."

"Go you must. Marie, here is a pistol. Take it; and if anyone stops you,
use it. But I think none will; for the duke will be with me, and I do not
think Bontet will interfere."

"But my mother?"

"You are as strong as she."

"Yes, yes, I'll come. You'll be on the sands; I'll come!" The help she had
found in me made her brave now.

"You will get there as we are fighting or soon after. Do not look for me
or for the duke, but look for two gentlemen whom you do not know, they
will be there--French officers--and to their honor you must trust."

"But why not to you?"

"If I am alive and well, I shall not fail you; but if I come not, go to
them and demand their protection from the duke, telling them how he has
snared you here. And they will not suffer him to carry you off against
your will. Do you see? Do you understand?"

"Yes, I see. But must you fight?"

"Yes, dear, I must fight. The duke will not trouble you again, I think,
before the evening; and if you remember what I have told you, all will be
well."

So I tried to comfort her, believing as I did that no two French gentlemen
would desire or dare to refuse her their protection against the duke. But
she was clinging to me now, in great distress that I must fight--and
indeed I had rather have fought at another time myself--and in fresh
terror of her mother's anger, seeing that I should not be there to bear it
for her.

"For," she said, "we have had a terrible quarrel just before you came. I
told her that unless I saw you within an hour nothing but force should
keep me here, and that if they kept me here by force, I would find means
to kill myself; and that I would not see nor speak to the duke unless he
brought me to you, according to his promise; and that if he sent his
necklace again--for he sent it here half an hour ago--I would not send it
back as I did then, but would fling it out of the window yonder into the
cattle pond, where he could go and fetch it out himself."

And my dearest Marie, finding increased courage from reciting her
courageous speech, and from my friendly hearing of it, raised her voice,
and her eyes flashed, so that she looked yet more beautiful; and again did
I forget inexorable time. But it struck me that there was small wonder
that Mme. Delhasse's temper had not been of the best nor calculated to
endure patiently such a vexatious encounter as befell her when she ran
against me on the landing outside her door.

Yet Marie's courage failed again; and I told her that before we fought I
would tell my second of her state, so that if she came not and I were
wounded (of worse I did not speak), he would come to the inn and bring her
to me. And this comforted her more, so that she grew calmer, and, passing
from our present difficulties, she gave herself to persuading me (nor
would the poor girl believe that I needed no persuading) that in no case
would she have yielded to the duke, and that her mother had left her in
wrath born of an utter despair that Marie's will in the matter could ever
be broken down.

"For I told her," Marie repeated, "that I would sooner die!"

She paused, and raising her eyes to mine, said to me (and here I think
courage was not lacking in her):

"Yes, although once I had hesitated, now I had rather die. For when I
hesitated, God sent you to my door, that in love I might find salvation."

Well, I do not know that a man does well to describe all that passes at
times like this. There are things rather meet to be left dwelling in his
own heart, sweetening all his life, and causing him to marvel that sinners
have such joys conceded to them this side of Heaven; so that in their
recollection he may find, mingling with his delight, an occasion for
humility such as it little harms any of us to light on now and then.

Enough then--for the telling of it; but enough in the passing of it there
was not nor could be. Yet at last, because needs must when the devil--or a
son--aye, or an elderly daughter of his--drives, I found myself outside
the door of Mme. Delhasse's room. With the turning of the lock Marie
whispered a last word to me, and full of hope I turned to descend the
stairs. For I had upon me the feeling which, oftener perhaps than we
think, gave to the righteous cause a victory against odds when ordeal of
battle held sway. Now, such a feeling is, I take it, of small use in a
court of law.

But Fortune lost no time in checking my presumption by an accident which
at first gave me great concern. For, even as I turned away from the door
of the room, there was Mme. Delhasse coming up the stairs. I was fairly
caught, there was no doubt about it; and for Marie's sake I was deeply
grieved, for I feared that my discovery would mean another stormy scene
for her. Nevertheless, to make the best of it, I assumed a jaunty air as I
said to Mlle. Delhasse:

"The duke will be witness that you were not in your room, madame. You will
not be compromised."

I fully expected that an outburst of anger would follow on this pleasantry
of mine--which was, I confess, rather in the taste best suited to Mme.
Delhasse than in the best as judged by an abstract standard--but to my
surprise the old creature did nothing worse than bestow on me a sour grin.
Apparently, if I were well-pleased with the last half-hour, she had found
time pass no less pleasantly. All traces of her exasperation and ill humor
had gone, and she looked as pleased and contented as though she had been
an exemplary mother, rewarded (as such deserve to be) by complete love and
peace in her family circle.

"You've been slinking in behind my back, have you?" she asked, but still
with a grin.

"It would have been rude to force an entrance to your face," I observed.

"And I suppose you've been making love to the girl?"

"At the proper time, madame," said I, with much courtesy, "I shall no
doubt ask you for an interview with regard to that matter. I shall omit no
respect that you deserve."

As I spoke, I stood on one side to let her pass. I cannot make up my mind
whether her recent fury or her present good humor repelled me more.

"You'd have a fine fool for a wife," said she, with a jerk of her thumb
toward the room where the daughter was.

"I should be compensated by a very clever mother-in-law," said I.

The old woman paused for an instant at the top of the stairs, and looked
me up and down.

"Aye," said she, "you men think yourselves mighty clever, but a woman gets
the better of you all now and then."

I was utterly puzzled by her evident exultation. The duke could not have
consented to accept her society in place of her daughter's; but I risked
the impropriety and hazarded the suggestion to Mme. Delhasse. Her face
curled in cunning wrinkles. She seemed to be about to speak, but then she
shut her lips with a snap, and suspicion betrayed itself again in her
eyes. She had a secret--a fresh secret--I could have sworn, and in her
triumph she had come near to saying something that might have cast light
on it.

"By the way," I said, "your daughter did not expect my coming." It was
perhaps a vain hope, but I thought that I might save Marie from a tirade.

The old woman shrugged her shoulders, and observed carelessly:

"The fool may do what she likes;" and with this she knocked at the door.

Landowners were always in the majority and in general the zemstvos reflected
the ideas and ideals of the enlightened wealthy and cultivated classes. The
peasant representatives in the zemstvos were generally peasants of the most
successful and prosperous type, hating the revolutionists and all their
works. By means of a policy incredibly insane these conservatively inclined
elements of the population were goaded to revolt. The newspapers and
magazines of the zemstvos became more and more critical of the
government, more and more outspoken in denunciation of existing conditions.
Presently, the leaders of the zemstvos followed the example of the
revolutionists and held a secret convention at which a program for common
action was agreed upon. Thus they were resorting to illegal methods,
exactly as the Socialists had done. Finally, many of the liberal zemstvo
leaders formed themselves into a political party--the Union of
Liberation--with a special organ of its own, called _Emancipation_.

This organ, edited by the brilliant and courageous Peter Struve, was
published in Stuttgart, Germany, and, since its circulation in Russia was
forbidden, it had to be smuggled into the country and secretly circulated,
just as the revolutionary Socialist journals were. Thus another bond was
established between two very different movements.

As was inevitable, revolutionary terrorism enormously increased.

In the cities the working-men were drawn mainly into the Social Democratic
Working-men's party, founded by Plechanov and others in 1898, but
the peasants, in so far as they were aroused at all, rallied around
the standard of the Socialist-Revolutionists, successors to the
Will of the People party.

This party was peculiarly a party of the peasants, just as the party of
Plechanov was peculiarly a party of industrial workers. It emphasized the
land question above all else. It naturally scorned the view, largely held
by the Marxists in the other party, that Russia must wait until her
industrial development was perfected before attempting to realize
Socialism. It scorned the slow, legalistic methods and resolutely
answered the terrorism of Czarism by a terrorism of the people. It
maintained a special department for carrying on this grim work.

Its Central Committee passed sentences of death upon certain
officials, and its decrees were carried out by the members of its
Fighting Organization.

To this organization within the party belonged many of the
ablest and most consecrated men and women in Russia.

A few illustrations will suffice to make clear the nature of this terroristic
retaliation: In March, 1902, Sypiagin, the Minister of the Interior, was
shot down as he entered his office by a member of the Fighting
Organization, Stephen Balmashev, who was disguised as an officer.

Sypiagin had been duly sentenced to death by the Central Committee.

He had been responsible for upward of sixty thousand political
arrests and for the suffering of many exiles.

Balmashev went to his death with heroic fortitude. In May, 1903, Gregory
Gershuni and two associates executed the reactionary Governor of Ufa.
Early in June, 1904, Borikov, Governor-General of Finland, was assassinated
by a revolutionist. A month later, July 15th, the infamous Von Plehve, who
had been judged by the Central Committee and held responsible for the
Kishinev pogrom, was killed by a bomb thrown under the wheels of his carriage
by Sazanov, a member of the Fighting Force. The death of this cruel tyrant
thrilled the world. In February, 1905, Ivan Kaliaiev executed the death
sentence which had been passed upon the ruthless Governor-General of
Moscow, the Grand-Duke Serghei Alexandrovich.

There was war in Russia--war between two systems of organized
terrorism.

Sometimes the Czar and his Ministers weakened and promised concessions,
but always there was speedy reaction and, usually, an increased
vigor of oppression.

The assassination of Von Plehve, however, for the first time really weakened
the government.

Czarism was, in fact, already toppling. The new Minister of the Interior,
Von Plehve's successor, Prince Svyatpolk-Mirski, sought to meet the
situation by a policy of compromise.

While he maintained Von Plehve's methods of suppressing the radical
organizations and their press, and using provocative agents to
entrap revolutionary leaders, he granted a certain degree of freedom
to the moderate press and adopted a relatively liberal attitude
toward the zemstvos.

By this means he hoped to avert the impending revolution.

Taking advantage of the new conditions, the leaders of the zemstvos
organized a national convention. This the government forbade, but it had
lost much of its power and the leaders of the movement ignored the
order and proceeded to hold the convention.

At this convention, held at St.
Petersburg, November 6, 1904, attended by many of the ablest lawyers,
doctors, professors, scientists, and publicists in Russia, a
resolution was adopted demanding that the government at once call
representatives of the people together for the purpose of setting
up a constitutional government in Russia.

It was a revolutionary act, a challenge to the autocracy, which the
latter dared not accept. On the contrary, in December the Czar issued an
ambiguous ukase in which a number of concessions and reforms were
promised, but carefully avoiding the fundamental issues at stake.

VI

Meanwhile the war with Japan, unpopular from the first, had proved to be
an unbroken series of military defeats and disasters for Russia. From the
opening of the war in February to the end of the year the press
had been permitted to publish very little real news concerning it,
but it was not possible to hide for long the bitter truth.

Taxes mounted higher and higher, prices rose, and there was intense
suffering, while the loss of life was enormous.

News of the utter failure and incompetence of the army and the navy
seeped through.

Here was Russia with a population three times as large as that of Japan,
and with an annual budget of two billions as against Japan's paltry
sixty millions, defeated at every turn.

What did this failure signify? In the first place, it signified the
weakness and utter incompetence of the régime. It meant that imperialist
expansion, with a corresponding strengthening of the old régime,
was out of the question.

Most intelligent Russians, with no lack of real patriotism, rejoiced at the
succession of defeats because it proved to the masses the unfitness of the
bureaucracy.

It signified something else, also. There were many who remembered the
scandals of the Turkish War, in 1877, when Bessarabia was recovered. At
that time there was a perfect riot of graft, corruption, and treachery,
much of which came under the observation of the zemstvos of the border.

High military officials trafficked in munitions and food-supplies.
Food intended for the army was stolen and sold--sometimes, it was
said, to the enemy. Materials were paid for, but never delivered to the
army at all. The army was demoralized and the Turks repulsed the Russians
again and again.

Now similar stories began to be circulated. Returning victims told stories
of brutal treatment of the troops by officers; of wounded and dying
men neglected; of lack of hospital care and medical attention. They told
worse stories, too, of open treachery by military officials and others;
of army supplies stolen; of shells ordered which would fit no guns the
Russian army ever had, and so on. It was suggested, and widely believed,
that Germany had connived at the systematic corruption of the Russian
bureaucracy and the Russian army, to serve its own imperialistic and
economic ends.

Such was the state of Russia at the end of the year 1904. Then came
the tragic events of January, 1905, which marked the opening of the
Revolution.
In order to counteract the agitation of the Social Democrats among
the city workers, and the formation by them of trades-unions, the
government had caused to be formed "legal" unions--that is,
organizations of workmen approved by the government.

In order to give these organizations some semblance to real labor-unions,
and thereby the better to deceive the workers, strikes were actually
inspired by agents of the government from time to time. On more than one
occasion strikes thus instigated by the government spread beyond control
and caused great alarm. The Czar and his agents were playing with
fire.

Among such unions was the Gathering of Industrial Working-men of St.
Petersburg, which had for its program such innocent and non-revolutionary
objects as "sober and reasonable pastimes, aimed at physical,
intellectual, and moral improvement; strengthening of Russian
national ideas; development of sensible views concerning the rights
and duties of working-men and improvement of labor conditions and
mutual assistance."

It was founded by Father Gapon, who was opposed to the revolutionary
movement, and was regarded by the Socialists as a Czarist tool.

On January 3d--Russian calendar--several thousand men belonging
to the Gathering of Industrial Workin-gmen of St. Petersburg went out on
strike.
By the 6th the strike had assumed the dimensions of a general strike.
It was estimated that on the latter date fully one hundred and forty
thousand men were out on strike, practically paralyzing the
industrial life of the city.

At meetings of the strikers speeches were made which had as much to
do with the political demands for constitutional government as with the
original grievances of the strikers.

The strike was fast becoming a revolution. On the 9th Father Gapon led
the hosts to the Winter Palace, to present a petition to the Czar
asking for reforms.

The text of the petition was widely circulated beforehand. It begged
the Czar to order immediately "that representatives of all the
Russian land, of all classes and groups, convene." It outlined a moderate
program which had the support of almost the entire nation with the exception
of the bureaucracy:

Let every one be equal and free in the right of election; order to
this end that election for the Constituent Assembly be based on
general, equal, direct, and secret suffrage.

This is our main request; in it and upon it everything is founded; this
is the only ointment for our painful wounds; and in the absence
of this our blood will continue to flow constantly, carrying us
swiftly toward death.

But this measure alone cannot remedy all our wounds.

Many others are necessary, and we tell them to you, Sire, directly
and openly, as to our Father.

We need:

_I.

Measures to counteract the ignorance and legal oppression of the Russian
people_:

(1) Personal freedom and inviolability, freedom of speech and the
press, freedom of assemblage, freedom in religious affairs;
(2) General and compulsory public education at the expense of the
state;
(3) Responsibility of the Ministers to the people, and guaranties
of lawfulness in administration;
(4) Equality before the law for all without exemption;
(5) Immediate rehabilitation of those punished for their convictions

.

(6) Separation of the Church from the state.

_II. Measures against the poverty of the people_:

(1) Abolition of indirect taxes and introduction of direct income taxes
on a progressive scale;

(2) Abolition of the redemption payments, cheap credit, and gradual
transferring of the land to the people;
(3) The orders for the naval and military Ministers should be filled in
Russia and not abroad;
(4) The cessation of the war by the will of the people.

_III. Measures against oppression of labor by capital_:

(1) Protection of labor by legislation;
(2) Freedom of consumers' and producers' leagues and trades-unions;
(3) An eight-hour workday and a regulation of overtime;
(4) Freedom of struggle against capital (freedom of labor strikes);

(5) Participation of labor representatives in the framing of a bill
concerning state insurance of working-men; 
(6) Normal wages.

Those are, Sire, the principal wants with which we have come to you.
Let your decree be known, swear that you will satisfy them, and
you will make Russia happy and glorious, and your name will be
branded in our hearts and in the hearts of our posterity for ever
and ever.

If, however, you will not reply to our prayer, we shall die here, on the
place before your palace.

We have no other refuge and no other means.

We have two roads before us, one to freedom and happiness, the other
to the grave.

Tell us, Sire, which, and we will follow obediently, and if it be the road
of death, let our lives be a sacrifice for suffering-wearied Russia. We
do not regret the sacrifice; we bring it willingly.

Led on by the strange, hypnotic power of the mystical Father Gapon, who
was clad in the robes of his office, tens of thousands of working-people
marched that day to the Winter Palace, confident that the Czar would see
them, receive their petitions, and harken to their prayers. It was not a
revolutionary demonstration in the accepted sense of that term; the
marchers did not carry red flags nor sing Socialist songs of revolt.

Instead, they bore pictures of the Czar and other members of the
royal family and sang "God Save the Czar" and other well-known
religious hymns.

No attempt was made to prevent the procession from reaching the square
in front of the Winter Palace. Suddenly, without a word of warning,
troops appeared from the courtyards, where they were hidden, and fired
into the crowded mass of human beings, killing more than five hundred and
wounding nearly three thousand. All who were able to do so turned and
fled, among them Father Gapon.

Bloody Sunday, as the day is known in Russian annals, is generally regarded
as the beginning of the First Revolution. Immediately people began to
talk of armed resistance. On the evening of the day of the tragedy there
was a meeting of more than seven hundred Intellectuals at which the means
for carrying on revolution was the topic discussed. This was the first of
many similar gatherings which took place all over Russia. Soon
the Intellectuals began to organize unions, ostensibly for the
protection of their professional interests, but in reality for
political purposes.

There were unions of doctors, writers, lawyers, engineers, professors,
editors, and so on.

Quietly, and almost without design, there was being effected another and
more important union, namely, the union of all classes against
autocracy and despotism.

The Czar gave from his private purse fifty thousand rubles for the relief
of the families of the victims of Bloody Sunday. On the 19th of January
he received a deputation of carefully selected "loyal" working-men
and delivered to them a characteristic homily, which infuriated the masses
by its stupid perversion of the facts connected with the wanton
massacre of Bloody Sunday.

Then, at the end of the month, he proclaimed the appointment of a commission
to "investigate the causes of labor unrest in St.

Petersburg and its suburbs and to find means of avoiding them in the future."
This commission was to consist of representatives of capital and
labor.

The working-men thereupon made the following demands:

(1) That labor be given an equal number of members in the commission
with capital;
(2) That the working-men be permitted to freely elect their own
representatives;
(3) That the sessions of the commission be open to the public;
(4) That there be complete freedom of speech for the representatives
of labor in the commission;
(5) That all the working-people arrested on January 9th be released.

These demands of the working-men's organizations were rejected by
the government, whereupon the workers agreed to boycott the commission
and refuse to have anything to do with it.

At last it became evident to the government that, in the circumstances,
the commission could not accomplish any good, and it was therefore
abandoned.

The Czar and his advisers were desperate and vacillating. One day they would
adopt a conciliatory attitude toward the workers, and the next day follow
it up with fresh measures of repression and punishment.

Little heeding the stupid charge by the Holy Synod that the
revolutionary leaders were in the pay of the Japanese, the workers
went on organizing and striking.

All over Russia there were strikes, the movement had spread far beyond the
bounds of St. Petersburg. General strikes took place in many of the large
cities, such as Riga, Vilna, Libau, Warsaw, Lodz, Batum, Minsk,
Tiflis, and many others.

Conflicts between strikers and soldiers and police were common. Russia
was aflame with revolution. The movement spread to the peasants in a
most surprising manner. Numerous extensive and serious revolts of peasants
occurred in different parts of Russia, the peasants looting the mansions
of the landowners, and indulging in savage outbreaks of rioting.

While this was going on the army was being completely demoralized. The
terrible defeat of the Russian forces by the Japanese--the foe that had
been so lightly regarded--at Mukden was a crushing blow which
greatly impaired the morale of the troops, both those at home and
those at the front.

Disaster followed upon disaster. May saw the destruction of the great
Russian fleet. In June rebellion broke out in the navy, and the crew of
the battle-ship _Potyamkin_, which was on the Black Sea, mutinied and
hoisted the red flag.

After making prisoners of their officers, the sailors hastened to lend
armed assistance to striking working-men at Odessa who were in
conflict with soldiers and police.

VII
It was a time of turbulent unrest and apparent utter confusion. It was not
easy to discern the underlying significance and purpose of some of the most
important events. On every hand there were strikes and uprisings, many of
them without any sort of leadership or plan. Strikes which began over
questions of wages and hours became political demonstrations in favor of
a Constituent Assembly.

On the other hand, political demonstrations became transformed, without
any conscious effort on the part of anybody, into strikes for
immediate economic betterment.

There was an intense class conflict going on in Russia, as the large
number of strikes for increased wages and shorter hours proved, yet
the larger political struggle dwarfed and obscured the class struggle.

For the awakened proletariat of the cities the struggle in which
they were engaged was economic as well as political.

They wisely regarded the political struggle as part of the class
struggle, as Plechanov and his friends declared it to be.

Yet the fact remained that the capitalist class against which the proletariat
was fighting on the economic field was, for the most part, fighting against
autocracy, for the overthrow of Czarism and the establishment of
political democracy, as earnestly, if less violently, than the
proletariat was.

The reason for this was the recognition by the leading capitalists
of Russia of the fact that industrial progress was retarded by the
old régime, and that capitalist development requires popular
education, a relatively high standard of living, political freedom,
and stability and order in government.

It was perfectly natural, therefore, for the great associations of manufacturers
and merchants to unite in urging the government to grant extensive
political reforms so long as the class conflict was merely incidental.

What had begun mainly as a class war had become the war of all classes
against autocracy.

Of course, in such a merging of classes there necessarily appeared
many shadings and degrees of interest.

Not all the social groups and classes were as radical in their
demands as the organized peasants and city workers, who were the
soul of the revolutionary movement.

There were, broadly speaking, two great divisions of social life
with which the Revolution was concerned--the political and the
economic.

With regard to the first there was practical unanimity; he would be a
blind slave to theoretical formulæ who sought to maintain the thesis
that class interests divided masses and classes here. All classes, with the
exception of the bureaucracy, wanted the abolition of Czarism and
Absolutism and the establishment of a constitutional government, elected
by the people on a basis of universal suffrage, and directly responsible
to the electorate.

Upon the economic issue there was less agreement, though all parties and
classes recognized the need of extensive change. It was universally recognized
that some solution of the land question must be found. There can never
be social peace or political stability in Russia until that problem is
settled. Now, it was easy for the Socialist groups, on the one hand, and
the moderate groups, upon the other, to unite in demanding that the large
estates be divided among the peasants. But while the Socialist groups--those
of the peasants as well as those of city workers--demanded that the
land be taken without compensation, the bourgeois elements, especially
the leaders of the zemstvos, insisted that the state should pay compensation
for the land taken. Judgment upon this vital question has long been
embittered by the experience of the peasants with the "redemption payments"
which were established when serfdom was abolished. During the period of
greatest intensity, the summer of 1905, a federation of the various
revolutionary peasants' organizations was formed and based its policy
upon the middle ground of favoring the payment of compensation _in some
cases_.

All through this trying period the Czar and his advisers were temporizing
and attempting to obtain peace by means of petty concessions. A greater
degree of religious liberty was granted, and a new representative body, the
Imperial Duma, was provided for.

This body was not to be a parliament in any real sense, but a debating
society. It could _discuss_ proposed legislation, but it had no powers
to _enact_ legislation of any kind.
Absolutism was dying hard, clinging to its powers with remarkable tenacity.

Of course, the concessions did not satisfy the revolutionists, not even
the most moderate sections, and the net result was to intensify rather
than to diminish the flame.

On the 2d of August--10th, according to the old Russian calendar--the
war with Japan came to an end with the signing of the Treaty of
Portsmouth.
Russia had experienced humiliating and disastrous defeat at the hands of a
nation far inferior in population and wealth, but infinitely
superior in military capacity and morale. The news of the conditions of
peace intensified the ardor and determination of the revolting
Russian people and, on the other hand, added to the already great weakness
of the government. September witnessed a great revival of revolutionary
agitation, and by the end of the month a fresh epidemic of strikes had
broken out in various parts of the country. By the middle of October
the whole life of Russia, civil, industrial, and commercial,
was a chaos. In some of the cities the greater part of the population had
placed themselves in a state of siege, under revolutionary
leadership.

On the 17th of October--Russian style--the Czar issued the famous Manifesto
which acknowledged the victory of the people and the death of Absolutism.

After the usual amount of pietistic verbiage by way of introduction the
Manifesto said:

We make it the duty of the government to execute our firm will:
(1) To grant the people the unshakable foundations of civic freedom
on the basis of real personal inviolability, freedom of conscience,
of speech, of assemblage of unions

.

(2) To admit now to participation in the Imperial Duma, without stopping the
pending elections and in so far as it is feasible in the short time remaining
before the convening of the Duma, all the classes of the population,
_leaving the farther development of the principle of universal suffrage
to the new legislative order._
(3) _To establish as an unshakable rule that no law can become binding without
the consent of the Imperial Duma, and that the representatives of the people
must be guaranteed a real participation in the control over the
lawfulness of the authorities appointed by us_.

But Marie, in the same calm scornful voice asked:

"By whom did the message come?"

"By your mother," said he, gazing at her eagerly. "And I sent mine--the
one I told you--by her. Marie, was it not true?" he cried, dragging
himself nearer to her.

"True!" she echoed--and no more.

But it was enough. For an instant he glared at her; then he cried:

"That old fiend has played a trick on me! She has got the necklace!"

And I began to understand the smile that I had seen on Mme. Delhasse's
face, and her marvelous good humor; and I began to have my opinion
concerning her evening stroll to Pontorson. Bontet and Pierre had been
matched against more than they thought.

The duke, painfully supported on his hand, drew nearer still to Marie; but
she rose to her feet and retreated a pace as he advanced. And he said:

"But you love me, Marie? You would have--"

She interrupted him.

"Above all men I loathe you!" she said, looking on him with shrinking and
horror in her face.

His wound was heavy on him--he was shot in the stomach and was bleeding
inwardly--and had drawn his features; his pain brought a sweat on his
brow, and his arm, trembling, scarce held him. Yet none of these things
made the anguish in his eyes as he looked at her.

"This is the man I love," said she in calm relentlessness.

And she put out her hand and took mine, and drew me to her, passing her
arm through mine. The Duke of Saint-Maclou looked up at us; then he
dropped his head, heavily and with a thud on the sand, and so lay till we
thought he was dead.

Yet it might be that his life could be saved, and I said to Marie:

"Stay by him, while I run for help."

KEHR, who had brought it with him from Virginia.

The vine seemed a rough customer, and its fruit very insignificant when
compared with the large bunch and berry of the Catawba, but we soon
observed that it kept its foliage bright and green when that of
the Catawba became sickly and dropped; and also, that no rot or
mildew damaged the fruit, when that of the Catawba was nearly
destroyed by it.

A few tried to propagate it by cuttings, but generally failed to make it
grow. They then resorted to grafting and layering, with much better success.
After a few years a few bottles of wine were made from it, and found to
be very good. But at this time it almost received its death-blow,
by a very unfavorable letter from Mr.

I found the flask and gave him some of its contents, which kept the life
in him for a little longer. And I was glad to feel that he settled
himself, as though more comfortably, against me.

"What happened?" he asked very faintly.

And I told him what had happened, as I conceived it--how that Bontet must
have given shelter to Pierre, till such time as escape might be possible;
but how that, when Bontet discovered that the necklace was in the inn, the
two scoundrels, thinking that they might as well be hanged for a sheep as
for a lamb, had determined to make another attempt to secure the coveted
spoil; how, in pursuance of this scheme, Bontet had, as I believed,
suppressed the duke's message to his friends at Pontorson, with the intent
to attack us, as they had done, on the sands; and I added that he himself
knew, better than I, what was likely to have become of the necklace in the
hands of Mme. Delhasse.

In the reorganization of the Cabinet, Shuvaviev, the War Minister, who
had loyally co-operated with the zemstvos and had supported the
Duma in November, was dismissed.

Pokrovsky, the Foreign Minister, who had announced to the Duma in December
the rejection of the German peace offer, was reported to be "sick" and
given "leave of absence." Other changes were made in the Cabinet,
in every case to the advantage of the reactionaries.

It was practically impossible for anyone in Russia to find out who the
Ministers of the government were.Both his rough passion
and the terrible abasement of defeat seemed to leave him, and his face
became again the face of a well-bred, self-controlled man. There was a
helpless effort at a shrug of his shoulders, a scornful slight smile on
his lips, and a look of recognition, almost of friendliness, almost of
humor, in his eyes, as he said to me, who still held his head:

"_Mon Dieu_, but I've made a mess of it, Mr. Aycon!"

LENOIR.

Of the Herbemont class, but about a week earlier; of good quality,
but too unproductive to be recommended.

Bunch medium, compact, shouldered; berry small, round, black, sweet
and good.

NORTH AMERICA.
Early and hardy, but too unproductive, and bunch too small.When I saw that the Duke of Saint-Maclou was dead, I laid him down on the
sands, straightening him into a seemly posture; and I closed his eyes and
spread his handkerchief over his face. Then I began to walk up and down
with folded arms, pondering over the life and fate of the man and the
strange link between us which the influence of two women had forged. And I
recognized also that an hour ago the greater likelihood had been that I
should be where he lay, and he be looking down on me. _Dis aliter visum._
His own sin had stretched him there, and I lived to muse on the wreck--on
the "mess" as he said in self-mockery--that he had made of his life. Yet,
as I had felt when I talked to him before, so I felt now, that his had
been the hand to open my eyes, and from his mighty but base love I had
learned a love as strong and, as I could in all honesty say, more pure.

The sun was quite gone now, the roll of the tide was nearer, and water
gleamed between us and the Mount. But we were beyond its utmost rise, save
at a spring tide, and I waited long, too engrossed in my thoughts to be
impatient for Marie's return. I did not even cross the wall to see how
Bontet fared under the blow I had given him--whether he were dead, or lay
still stunned, or had found life enough to crawl away. In truth, I cared
not then.

Presently across the sands, through the growing gloom, I saw a group
approaching me. Marie I knew by her figure and gait and saw more plainly,
for she walked a little in front as though she were setting the example of
haste. The rest followed together; and, looking past them, I could just
discern a carriage which had been driven some way on to the sands. One of
the strangers wore top-boots and the livery of a servant. As they
approached, he fell back, and the remaining two--a man and a woman on his
arm--came more clearly into view. Marie reached me some twenty yards ahead
of them.

"I met no one till I was at the inn," she said, "and then this carriage
was driving by; and I told them that a gentleman lay hurt on the sands,
and they came to help you to carry him up."

Therefore, they are as pure as any grape juice can be, with the consideration
in their favor, that everything is in the right proportion. Therefore,
if wine made from pure grape juice can be recommended for general use,
surely, the gallized wines can also be recommended. DR. GALL has
repeatedly offered to pay a fine for the benefit of the poor, if the
most critical chemical analysis could detect anything in them, which was
injurious to health, or which pure wines ought not to contain, and
his opponents have always failed to show anything of the kind.

I know that some of my wine-making friends will blame me for thus
"letting the cat out of the bag." They seem to think that it would be
better to keep the knowledge we have gained, to ourselves, carefully even
hiding the fact that any of our wines have been gallized. But it has always
been a deep-seated conviction with me, that knowledge and truth, like God's
sun should be the common property of all His children--and that it is
the duty of every one not to "hide his light under a bushel," but
seek to impart it to all, who could, perhaps, be benefitted by it.

And why, in reality, should we seek to keep as a secret a practice
which is perfectly right and justifiable?

If there is a prejudice against it, (and we know there is), this
is not the way to combat it.

Only by meeting it openly, and showing the fallacy of it, can we
hope to convince the public, that there is nothing wrong about it.

Truth and justice need never fear the light--they can only gain
additional force from it.

I do not even attempt to sell a cask of gallized wine, before the
purchaser is made fully acquainted with the fact, that it has been
gallized.

It is a matter of course, that many, who go to work carelessly and
slovenly, will fail to make good wine, in this or any other way.

To make a good article, the nature of each variety and its peculiarities
must be closely studied--we must have as ripe grapes as we can get,
carefully gathered; and we need not think that water and sugar will accomplish
_everything_. There is a limit to everything, and to gallizing as
well as to anything else. As soon as we pass beyond that limit, an
inferior product will be the result.

"He looked just like that when he asked me to marry him," she said, with
the simple gravity of a child whose usual merriment is sobered by
something that it cannot understand.

I doubted not that he had. Life, marriage, death--so he had faced them
all, with scorn and weariness and acquiescence--all, save that one passion
which bore him beyond himself.

The duchess spread the handkerchief again over the dead man's face, and
rose to her feet. And she looked across the dead body of the duke at Marie
Delhasse. I knew not what she would say, for she must have guessed by now
who the girl was that had brought her to the place. Suddenly the question
came in a tone of curiosity, without resentment, yet tinctured with a
delicate scorn, as though spoken across a gulf of difference:

"Did you really care for him at all?"

Marie started, but she met the duchess' eyes and answered in a low voice
with a single word:

"No."

"Ah, well!" said the little duchess with a sigh; and, if I read aright
what she expressed, it was a pitying recognition of the reason in that
answer: he could not have expected anyone to love him, she seemed to say.
And if that were so, then indeed had the finger of truth guided the duke
in the penning of his epitaph.

Following the example set in the 1905 Revolution, there had been
formed a central committee of the working-class organizations to direct
the movement. This body, composed of elected representatives of the unions
and Socialist societies, was later known as the Council of Workmen's
Deputies. It was this body which undertook the organization of the
Revolution. This Revolution, unlike that of 1905, was initiated by the
bourgeoisie, but its originators manifested little desire and less
capacity to lead it.

When Monday morning came there was no longer an unorganized, planless
mass confusedly opposing a carefully organized force, but a compact,
well-organized, and skilfully led movement.

Processions were formed, each under responsible directors with very definite
instructions.

As on the previous day, the police stationed upon roofs of buildings, and
at various strategic points, fired upon the people.

As on the previous day, also, the soldiers joined the Revolution and
refused to shoot the people.

The famous Guards' Regiment, long the pet and pride of the Czar, was the
first to rebel. The soldiers killed the officer who ordered them to fire,
and then with cheers joined the rebels. When the military authorities sent
out another regiment to suppress the rebel Guards' Regiment they saw the
new force go over to the Revolution in a body. Other regiments deserted in
the same manner.

The flower of the Russian army had joined the people in revolting against
the Czar and the system of Czarism.

On the side of the revolutionists were now many thousands of well-trained
soldiers, fully armed. Soon they took possession of the Arsenal, after
killing the commander. The soldiers made organized and systematic
warfare upon the police. Every policeman seen was shot down, police
stations were set on fire, and prisons were broken open and the
prisoners released. The numerous political prisoners were triumphantly
liberated and took their places in the revolutionary ranks.There being but four of them and their anxiety being to achieve the
capture of Pierre, they made no difficulty of allowing me to go on my way,
taking from me my promise to present myself before the magistrate at
Avranches next day; and leaving two to seek for Bontet, the other two made
on, in the hope of finding a boat to take them to the Mount, whither they
conceived the escaped man must have directed his steps.

Thus delayed, I was some time behind the others in reaching the inn, and I
found Gustave waiting for me in the entrance. The body of the duke had
been carried to his own room and a messenger sent to procure a proper
conveyance. Marie Delhasse was upstairs, and Gustave's message to me was
that the duchess desired to see me.

"Nay," said I, "there is one thing I want to do before that;" and I called
to a servant girl who was hovering between terror and excitement at the
events of the evening, and asked her whether Mme. Delhasse had returned.

"No, sir," she answered. "The lady left word that she would be back in
half an hour, but she has not yet returned."

Then I said to Gustave de Berensac, laying my hand on his shoulder:

"When I am married, Gustave, you will not meet my mother-in-law in my
house;" and I left Gustave staring in an amazement not unnatural to his
ignorance. And I allowed myself to be directed by the servant girl to
where the duchess sat.

The duchess waited till the door was shut, and then turned to me as if
about to speak, but I was beforehand with her; and I began:

"Forgive me for speaking of the necklace, but I fear it is still missing."

The duchess looked at me scornfully.

"He gave it to the girl again, I suppose?" she asked.

"He gave it," I answered, "to the girl's mother, and she, I fear, has made
off with it;" and I told the duchess how Mme. Delhasse had laid her plot.
The duchess heard me in silence, but at the end she remarked:

"It does not matter. I would never have worn the thing again; but it was a
pretty plot between them."

"The duke had no thought," I began, "but that--"

"Oh, I meant between mother and daughter," said the duchess. "The mother
gets the diamonds from my husband; the daughter, it seems, Mr. Aycon, is
likely to get respectability from you; and I suppose they will share the
respective benefits when this trouble has blown over."

It was no use to be angry with her; to confess the truth, I felt that
anger would come ill from me. So I did but say very quietly:

"I think you are wrong. Mlle. Delhasse knew nothing of her mother's
device."

"You do not deny all of what I say," observed the duchess.

"Mlle. Delhasse," I returned, "is in no need of what you suggest; but I
hope that she will be my wife."

"And some day," said the duchess, "you will see the necklace--or perhaps
that would not be safe. Madame will send the money."

"When it happens," said I, "on my honor, I will write and tell you."

The duchess, with a toss of her head which meant "Well, I'm right and
you're wrong," rose from her seat.

"I must take poor Armand home," said she. "M. de Berensac is going with
me. Will you accompany us?"

"If you will give me a delay of one hour, I will most willingly."

"What have you to do in that hour, Mr. Aycon?"

"I purpose to escort Mlle. Delhasse back to the convent and leave her
there. I suppose we shall all have to answer some questions in regard to
this sad matter, and where can she stay near Avranches save there?"

"She certainly can't come to my house," said the duchess.

"It would be impossible under the circumstances," I agreed.

"Under any circumstances," said the duchess haughtily.

By this time a covered conveyance had been procured, and when the duchess,
having fired her last scornful remark at me, walked to the door of the
inn, the body of the duke was being placed in it. Gustave de Berensac
assisted the servant, and their task was just accomplished when Jacques
Bontet was carried by two of the police to the door. The man was alive and
would recover, they said, and be able to stand his trial. But as yet no
news had come of the fortune that attended the pursuit of Raymond Pinceau,
otherwise known as Pierre. It was conjectured that he must have had a boat
waiting for him at or near the Mount, and, gaining it, had for the moment
at least made good his escape.

"But we shall find about that from Bontet," said one of them, with a
complacent nod at the fellow who lay still in a sort of stupor, with
blood-stained bandages round his head.

I stood by the door of the duchess' carriage, in which she and Gustave
were to follow the body of the duke, and when she came to step in I
offered her my hand. But she would have none of it. She got in unassisted,
and Gustave followed her. They were about to move off, when suddenly,
running from the house in wild dismay, came Marie Delhasse, and caring for
none of those who stood round, she seized my arm, crying:

"My mother is neither in the sitting room nor in her bedroom! Where is
she?"

Now I saw no need to tell Marie at that time what had become of Mme.
Delhasse. The matter, however, was not left in my hands; no, nor in those
of Gustave de Berensac, who called out hastily to the driver, "Ready! Go
on, go on!" The duchess called "Wait!" and then she turned to Marie
Delhasse and said in calm cold tones:

"You ask where your mother is. b.

Persons who have an income without doing any work, such as interest from
capital, receipts from property, etc.

c.

Private merchants, trade, and commercial brokers.

d. Monks and clergy of all denominations.

e. Employees and agents of the former police, the gendarme corps, and the
Okhrana (Czar's secret service), also members of the former reigning
dynasty.

f. Persons who have in legal form been declared demented or mentally
deficient, and also persons under guardianship.

g. Persons who have been deprived by a Soviet of their rights of
citizenship because of selfish or dishonorable offenses, for the period
fixed by the sentence.

Apparently the Constitution does not provide any standard for
determining what labor is "useful and productive to society," and
leaves the way open for a degree of arbitrariness on the part of
some authority or other that is wholly incompatible with any generally
accepted ideal of freedom and democracy.

It is apparent from the text of paragraph 64, subdivision "a" of the
foregoing chapter that housekeeping as such is not included in the
category of "labor that is productive and useful to society," for
a separate category is made of it.

The language used is that "The right to vote and to be elected to the Soviets
is enjoyed by....

All who have acquired the means of living through labor that is
productive and useful to society, _and also_ persons engaged in
housekeeping, which enables the former to do productive work--_i.e._,
laborers and employees of all classes who are employed in industry,
trade, agriculture, etc."

This _seems_ to mean that persons engaged in housekeeping can only
vote if and when they are so engaged in order to enable other persons
than themselves to do "productive work."

It appears that housekeeping for persons not engaged in such productive
work--for children, for example--would not confer the right to vote. It
is not possible to tell with certainty what it _does_ mean, however, for
there is probably not a single person in Russia or in the world who can
tell exactly what this precious instrument actually means. What standard
is to be established to determine what labor is "productive" and "useful"?
Is the journalist, for instance, engaged in useful and productive labor?
Is the novelist? is the agitator?

Presumably the journalist employed in defending the Soviet Republic against
attacks by unfriendly critics would be doing useful work and be entitled
to vote, but what about the journalist employed in making the criticisms?
Would the wife of the latter, no matter how much she might disagree with
her husband's views, be barred from voting, simply because she was
"engaged in housekeeping" for one whose labors were not regarded "productive
and useful to society"? If the language used means anything at all,
apparently she would be so disfranchised.

Upon what ground is it decided that the "private merchant" may not
vote?
Certainly it is not because his labor is of necessity neither productive
nor useful, for paragraph 65 says that even though belonging to one of
the categories of persons otherwise qualified to vote, the private
merchant may "enjoy neither the right to vote nor to be voted for."
The keeper of a little grocery store, even though his income is not
greater than that of a mechanic, and despite the fact that his store meets
a local need and makes his services, therefore, "useful" in the highest
degree, cannot enjoy civic rights, simply because he is a "merchant"! The
clergy of all denominations are excluded from the franchise. It does
not matter, according to this constitution, that a minister belongs to a
church independent of any connection with the state, that he is elected
by people who desire his services and is paid by them, that he satisfies
them and is therefore doing a "useful service"--if utility means the
satisfying of needs--because he is so employed he cannot vote.

It is clearly provided that "peasants and Cossack agricultural laborers
who employ no help for the purpose of making profits" can vote and
be voted for.
For half an hour they sat,
and there was that in their air that made them observed. Suddenly the man
crossed over to the woman and whispered in her ear. She started, crying
low yet audibly, "You lie!" But he spoke to her again; and then she rose
and paid her score and walked out of the inn on to the quays, followed by
her unrelenting attendant. It was dark now, or quite dusk; and a loiterer
at the door distinguished their figures among the passing crowd but for a
few yards: then they disappeared; and none was found who had seen them
again, either under cover or in the open air, that night.

And for my part, I like not to think how the night passed for that
wretched old woman; for at some hour and in some place, near by the water,
the man found her alone, and ran his prey to the ground before the
bloodhounds that were on his track could come up with them.

Indeed he almost won safety, or at least respite; for the ship was already
moving when she was boarded by the police, who, searching high and low,
came at last on the spare man with the red whiskers; these an officer
rudely plucked off and the fair wig with them, and called the prisoner by
the name of Pinceau. The little man made one rush with a knife, and,
foiled in that, another for the side of the vessel. But his efforts were
useless. He was handcuffed and led on shore. And when he was searched, the
stones which had gone to compose the great treasure of the family of
Saint-Maclou--the Cardinal's Necklace--were found hidden here and there
about him; but the setting was gone.

And the woman? Let me say it briefly. Great were her sins, and not the
greatest of them was the theft of the Cardinal's Necklace. Yet the greater
that she took in hand to do was happily thwarted; and I pray that she
found mercy when the deep dark waters of the harbor swallowed her on that
night, and gave back her body to a shameful burial.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the quiet convent by the shores of the bay the wind of the world, with
its burden of sin and sorrow, blows faintly and with tempered force: the
talk of idle, eager tongues cannot break across the comforting of kind
voices and the sweet strains of quiet worship. Raymond Pinceau was dead,
and Jacques Bontet condemned to lifelong penal servitude; and the world
had ceased to talk of the story that had been revealed at the trial of
these men, and--what the world loved even more to discuss--of how much of
the story had not been revealed.

For although M. de Vieuville, President of the Court which tried Bontet,
and father of Alfred de Vieuville, that friend of the duke's who was to
have acted at the duel, complimented me on the candor with which I gave my
evidence, yet he did not press me beyond what was strictly necessary to
bring home to the prisoners the crimes of murder and attempted robbery
with which they were charged. Not till I knew the Judge, having been
introduced to him by his son, did he ask me further of the matter; and
then, sitting on the lawn of his country-house, I told him the whole
story, as it has been set down in this narrative, saving only sundry
matters which had passed between the duchess and myself on the one hand,
and between Marie Delhasse and myself on the other. Yet I do not think
that my reticence availed me much against an acumen trained and developed
by dialectic struggles with generations of criminals. For the first
question which M. de Vieuville put to me was this:

"And what of the girl, Mr. Aycon? She has suffered indeed for the sins of
others."

But young Alfred, who was standing by, laid a hand on his father's
shoulder and said with a laugh:

"Father, when Mr. Aycon leaves us tomorrow, it is to visit the convent at
Avranches." And the old man held out his hand to me, saying:

"You do well."

To the convent at Avranches then I went one bright morning in the spring
of the next year; and again I walked with the stately old lady in the
little burial ground. Yet she was a little less stately, and I thought
that there was what the profane might call a twinkle in her eye, as she
deplored Marie's disinclination to become a permanent inmate of the
establishment over which she presided. And on her lips came an indubitable
smile when I leaped back from her in horror at the thought.

"There would be none here to throw her troubles in her teeth," pursued the
Mother Superior, smiling still. "None to remind her of her mother's shame;
none to lay snares for her; none to remind her of the beauty which has
brought so much woe on her; no men to disturb her life with their angry
conflicting passions. When Alexander III died, at the end of 1894, both movements had
developed considerable strength.

Working in secret and subject to terrible measures of repression, their
leaders being constantly imprisoned and exiled, these two wings
of the Russian revolutionary movement were gathering strength in
preparation for an uprising more extensive and serious than anything
that had hitherto been attempted.

Whenever a new Czar ascended the throne in Russia it was the fashion
to hope for some measure of reform and for a degree of liberality.

Frequently, as in the case of Alexander III, all such hopes were
speedily killed, but repeated experiences of the kind did not prevent
the birth of new hopes with the death of successive Czars.

When, therefore, Alexander III was succeeded by his son, Nicholas II, liberal
Russia expectantly awaited the promulgation of constitutional reforms.
In this they were doomed to disappointment, just as they had been on the
occasion of the accession of the new Czar's immediate predecessor. Nicholas
II was evidently going to be quite as reactionary as his father was.

This was made manifest in a number of ways. When a deputation from one
of the zemstvos, which congratulated him upon his ascension to the throne,
expressed the hope that he would listen to "the voice of the people and the
expression of its desires," the reply of the new Czar was a grim warning
of what was to come. Nicholas II told the zemstvos that he intended to
follow the example of his father and uphold the principles of Absolutism,
and that any thought of participation by the zemstvos or other organizations
of the people in state affairs was a senseless dream. More significant
still, perhaps, was the fact that the hated Pobiedonostzev was retained
in power.

The revolutionists were roused as they had not been for a decade
or more.

Some of the leaders believed that the new reign of reaction would prove
to be the occasion and the opportunity for bringing about a union of all
the revolutionary forces, Anarchists and Socialists alike, peasants and
industrial workers. This hope was destined to fail, but there was an
unmistakable revolutionary awakening. In the latter part of January, 1895,
an open letter to Nicholas II was smuggled into the country from
Switzerland and widely distributed.

It informed the Czar that the Socialists would fight to the bitter end the
hateful order of things which he was responsible for creating, and
menacingly said, "It will not be long before you find yourself entangled
by it."

IV
In one respect Nicholas II differed from Alexander III--he was by
nature more humane and sentimental. Like his father, he was thoroughly
dominated by Pobiedonostzev's theory that Russia, in order to be
secure and stable, must be based upon Nationality, Orthodoxy, and
Autocracy.

Yet, when I had been married to Marie Delhasse some
six months, I received a letter from my good friend Gustave de Berensac,
informing me of his approaching union with Mme. de Saint-Maclou. And, if I
might judge from Gustave's letter, he repudiated utterly the idea which I
have ventured to suggest concerning the duchess.

Two other facts Gustave mentioned--both of them, I think, with a touch of
apology. The first was that the duchess, being unable to endure the
horrible associations now indissolubly connected with the Cardinal's
Necklace, of which she had become owner for the term of her life--

"What? Won't she wear it?" asked my wife at this point: she was (as wives
will) leaning over my shoulder as I read the letter.

It was what I also had expected to read; but what I did read was that the
duchess, ingeniously contriving to save both her feelings and her
diamonds, had caused the stones to be set in a tiara--"which," continued
Gustave (I am sure he was much in love) "will not have any of the
unpleasant associations connected with the necklace."

There are some varieties circulated throughout the country as natives,
which are really nothing but foreign varieties, or, perhaps, raised from
foreign seed. They will not succeed in open air, although now and then
they will ripen a bunch.For the little
duchess, consistent to the end, in spite of his entreaties and protests,
had resolutely and entirely declined to receive Mrs. Aycon!

I finished the letter and looked up at Marie. And Marie, looking
thoughtfully down at the paper, observed:

"I always told you that she was fond of you, you know."

But, for my part, I hope that Marie's explanation is not the true one. I
prefer to attribute the duchess' refusal--in which, I may state, she
steadily persists--to some mistaken and misplaced sense of propriety; or,
if that fails me, then I will set it down to the fact that Marie's
presence would recall too many painful and distressing scenes, and be too
full of unpleasant associations. That remarkable document provided that
soldiers and officers of all ranks should enjoy full civic and political
rights; that they should be free to speak or write upon any subject;
that their correspondence should be uncensored; that while on duty
they should be free to receive any printed matter, books, papers,
and so on, which they desired.

It provided for the abolition of the compulsory salute to officers; gave
the private soldier the right to discard his uniform when not actually on
service and to leave barracks freely during "off-duty" hours.

       Finally, it placed all matters pertaining to the management in the
hands of elective committees in the composition of which the men
were to have four-fifths of the elective power and the officers
one-fifth.

Of course, the Declaration of Soldiers' Rights represented a violent
reaction.

Under the old régime the army was a monstrously cruel machine; the
soldiers were slaves.

At the first opportunity they had revolted and, as invariably
happens, the pendulum had swung too far.

On May 28th the Council of Workmen's and Soldiers' Delegates issued
a declaration in which it was said: "From now on the soldier-citizen
is free from the slavery of saluting, and as an equal, free person
will greet whomsoever he chooses....

Discipline in the Revolutionary Army will exist, prompted by popular
enthusiasm and the sense of duty toward the free country rather
than by a slavish salute."

If we are tempted to laugh at this naïve idealism, we Americans will do
well to remember that it was an American statesman-idealist who
believed that we could raise an army of a million men overnight,
and that a shrewd American capitalist-idealist sent forth a "peace
ship" with a motley crew of dreamers and disputers to end the
greatest war in history.

.

       *       *       *       *       *


FOURTH EDITION OF

A CHANGE OF AIR.

By ANTHONY HOPE,

_Author of_ "_The Prisoner of Zenda_," "_The Indiscretion of the
Duchess_," _etc_.

With portrait and notice of the author.

Narrow 16mo, buckram. 75 cents.

"A highly clever performance, with little touches that recall both Balzac
and Meredith. Mr. Hope, being disinclined to follow any of the beaten
tracks of romance writing, is endowed with exceeding originality."--_New
York Times_.

"The tragic undercurrent but increases the charm of the pervading wit and
humor of the tale, which embodies a study of character as skillful and
true as anything we have lately had, but at the same time so simple and
unpretentious as to be very welcome indeed amid the flood of inartistic
analysis which we are compelled to accept in so many recent
novels."--_Philadelphia Times_.


SECOND EDITION OF

QUAKER IDYLS.

By Mrs. S.M.H. GARDNER.

Narrow 16mo, buckram. 75 cents.

"Fiction, if this be altogether fiction, can hardly be better employed
than when it makes such sweet, simple earnestness real to us."--_Public
Opinion_.

"Her accounts of these (an anti-slavery fair and the trial of a fugitive
slave) seem to be descriptions of actual happenings, and she describes men
and incidents vividly, but with no straining after effect.... A book to be
welcomed."--_New York Times_.

"No greater contrast could be imagined than that of these quiet but deep
tales and the shallow passions of much contemporary fiction."--_Literary
World_.

HENRY HOLT & CO., 29 WEST 23D STREET, NEW YORK.

       *       *       *       *       *


BUCKRAM SERIES.

Small 16mo, buckram, with frontispieces. 75 cents each.


The wood should be cut from the vines in the fall, as soon as the
leaves have dropped.

For propagating, use only firm, well-ripened wood of the last season's growth,
and about medium thickness.

These are to be preferred to either very large or very small ones.

A dramatic story of the North Carolina coast.

_Fourth edition._


A CHANGE OF AIR.

By ANTHONY HOPE. The adventures of a young poet in Market Denborough. With
a portrait and account of the author.

_Eighth edition._


THE PRISONER OF ZENDA.

By ANTHONY HOPE. A stirring romance of to-day.

_Second edition._


QUAKER IDYLS.

By MRS. S.M.H. GARDNER. Sympathetic, often humorous, and sometimes
exciting character sketches.

ELSINBURGH, (MISSOURI BIRD'S EYE).

This old variety was largely disseminated under the latter name,
by NICHOLAS LONGWORTH, of Cincinnati.

It is a nice little grape; but too unproductive to be of any value
here, although it makes a very superior wine.

HENRY HOLT & CO.,

29 WEST 23D STREET, NEW YORK.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE HONORABLE PETER STIRLING.

A NOVEL.

By PAUL LEICESTER FORD. 12mo.


_This is pre-eminently a story of American character and American issues.
The hero, though a New Yorker engaged in Sixth Ward politics, keeps his
friends true to him, and his record clean. Gotham's Irish politician is
vividly characterized, though the "boss" is treated rather leniently. 
The Duma waited in vain that night for an answer from the Czar. The bourgeois
elements in the Duma were terrified. Only the leaders of the different
Socialist groups appeared to possess any idea of providing the
revolutionary movement with proper direction.

While the leaders of the bourgeois groups were proclaiming their
conviction that the Revolution would be crushed in a few hours by
the tens of thousands of troops in Petrograd who had not yet rebelled,
the Socialist leaders were busy preparing plans to carry on the
struggle.

The
picture of the profane old sea captain's peculiar household is new in
fiction. The tragic climax is original and impressive._

HENRY HOLT & CO.,

29 WEST 23D STREET, NEW YORK.

              *       *       *       *       *