Felix gripped his wrist. "Pull yourself together and
keep still."

The officer, who was idly swinging a club as if for
companionship along his lonely beat, stopped short.
"Any trouble, sir?" he said as soon as he had Felix's
outline and bearing clear.

"No, thank you, officer. Only a friend of mine
who needs a little looking after. I'll take care of
him."

"All right, sir," and he passed on down the narrow
street.

The man gave a long breath and staggered against
the wall. Felix caught him by his trembling shoulders.
"Now, brace up. The first thing you need is something
to eat. There is a restaurant at the corner. Come with
me."

"They won't let me in."

"I'll take care of that."

Felix entered first. "What is there hot this time of
night, barkeeper?"

"Frankfurters and beans, boss."

"Any coffee?"

"Sure."

"Send a double portion of each to this table," and
he pulled out a chair. "Here's a man who has missed
his dinner. Is that enough?" and he laid down a dollar
bill--one Kling had given him.

"Forty cents change, boss."

"Keep it, and see he gets all he wants. And now
here," he said to the tramp, "is another dollar to keep
you going," and with a shift of his stick to his left arm
Felix turned on his heel, swung back the door, and was
lost in the throng.


Kitty was up and waiting for him when he lifted
the hinged wooden flap which provided an entrance
for the privileged and, guided by the glow of the kerosene
lamp, turned the knob of her kitchen door. She
was close to the light, reading, the coffee-pot singing
away on the stove, the aroma of its contents filling
the room.

"I hope I have not kept you up, Mrs. Cleary. You
had my message by Mike, did you not?" he asked
in an apologetic tone.

"Yes, I got the message, and I got the trunks; they're
up-stairs, and if you had given Mike the keys I'd have
'em unpacked by this time and all ready for you. As to
my bein' up--I'm always up, and I got to be. John
and Mike is over to Weehawken, and Bobby's been to
the circus and just gone to bed, and I've been readin'
the mornin' paper--about the only time I get to read
it. Will ye sit down and wait till John comes in? Hold
on 'til I get ye a cup of hot coffee and--"

"No, Mrs. Cleary. I will go to bed, if you do not
mind."

"Oh, but the coffee will put new life into ye, and--"

"Thanks, but it would be more likely to put it OUT
of me if it kept me awake. Can I reach my room this
way or must I go outside?"

"Ye can go through this door--wait, I'll go wid ye
and show ye about the light and where ye'll find the
water. It's dark on the stairs and ye may stumble.
I'll go on ahead and turn up the gas in the hall," she
called back, as she mounted the steps and threw wide
his room door. "Not much of a place, is it? But ye
can get plenty of fresh air, and the bed's not bad.
Ye can see for yourself," and her stout fist sunk into its
middle. "And there's your trunks and tin chest, and
the hat-box is beside the wash-stand, and the waterproof
coat's in the closet. We have breakfast at seven
o'clock, and ye'll eat down-stairs wid me and John.
And now good night to ye."

Felix thanked her for her attention in his simple,
straightforward way, and, closing the door upon her,
dropped into a chair.

The night's experience had been like a sudden awakening.
His anxiety over his dwindling finances and his
disappointment over Carlin's news had been put to
flight by the suffering of the man who had tried to
rob him. There were depths, then, to which human
suffering might drive a man, depths he himself had
never imagined or reached--horrible, deadly depths,
without light or hope, benumbing the best in a man,
destroying his purposes by slow, insidious stages.

He arose from his chair and began walking up and
down the small room, stopping now and then to inspect
a bureau drawer or to readjust one of the curtains
shading the panes of glass. In the same absent-minded
way he drew out one of the trunks, unlocked it, paused
now and then with some garment in his hand only
to awake again to consciousness and resume his task,
pushing the trunk back at last under the bed and continuing
his walk about the narrow room, always
haunted by the tramp's haggard, hopeless look.

Again he felt the mysterious sense of kinship in
pain that wipes away all distinctions. With it, too,
there came suddenly another sense--that of an overwhelming
compassion out of which new purposes are
born to human souls.

The encounter, then, had been both a blessing and
a warning. He would now stand guard against the
onslaught of his own sorrows while keeping up the
fight, and this with renewed vigor. He would earn
money, too, since this was so necessary, laboring with
his hands, if need be; and he would do it all with a
wide-open heart.


Chapter V


If O'Day's presence was a welcome addition to
Kitty's household, it was nothing compared to the
effect produced at Kling's. Long before the month
was out he had not only earned his entire wages five
times over by the changes he had wrought in the
arrangement and classification of the stock, but he
had won the entire confidence of his employer. Otto
had surrendered when an old customer who had been
in the habit of picking up rare bits of china, Japanese
curios, and carvings at his own value had been confronted
with the necessity of either paying Felix's
price or going away without it, O'Day having promptly
quadrupled the price on a piece of old Dresden, not
only because the purchaser was compelled to have it to
complete his set but because the interview had shown
that the buyer was well aware he had obtained the
former specimens at one-fourth of their value.

And the same discernment was shown when he was
purchasing old furniture, brass, and so-called Sheffield
plate to increase Otto's stock. If the articles offered
could still boast of either handle, leg, or back of their
original state and the price was fair, they were almost
always bought, but the line was drawn at the fraudulent
and "plugged-up" sideboards and chairs with
their legs shot full of genuine worm-holes; ancient
Oriental stuffs of the time of the early Persians (one
year out of a German loom), rare old English plate,
or undoubted George III silver, decorated with coats
of arms or initials and showing those precious little
dents only produced by long service--the whole fresh
from a Connecticut factory. These never got past
his scrutiny. While it was true, as he had told Kling,
that he knew very little in the way of trade and commerce
--nothing which would be of use to any one--
he was a never-failing expert when it came to what
is generally known as "antiques" and "bric-a-brac."

Masie--Kling's only child--a slender, graceful little
creature with a wealth of gold-yellow hair flying
about her pretty shoulders and a pair of blue eyes in
which were mirrored the skies of ten joyous springs,
had given her heart to him at once. She had never forgotten
his gentle treatment of her dog Fudge, whose
attack that first morning Felix had understood so well,
lifting and putting the refractory animal back in her
arms instead of driving him off with a kick. Fudge,
whose manners were improving, had not forgotten
either and was always under O'Day's feet except when
being fondled by the child.

Until Felix came she had had no other companions,
some innate reserve keeping her from romping with the
children on the street, her sole diversion, except when
playing at home among her father's possessions or
making a visit to Kitty, being found in the books of
fairy-tales which the old hunchback, Tim Kelsey, had
lent her. At first this natural shyness had held her
aloof even from O'Day, content only to watch his face
as he answered her childish appeals. But before the
first week had passed she had slipped her hand into
his, and before the month was over her arms were
around his neck, her fresh, soft cheek against his own,
cuddling close as she poured out her heart in a continuous
flow of prattle and laughter, her father looking
on in blank amazement.

For, while Kling loved her as most fathers love their
motherless daughters, Felix had seen at a glance that
he was either too engrossed in his business or too dense
and unimaginative to understand so winning a child.
She was Masie, "dot little girl of mine dot don't got
no mudder," or "Beesvings, who don't never be still,"
but that was about as far as his notice of her went, except
sending her to school, seeing that she was fed and
clothed, and on such state occasions as Christmas, New
Year's, or birthdays, giving her meaningless little presents,
which, in most instances, were shut up in her
bureau drawers, never to be looked at again.

Kitty, who remembered the child's mother as a girl
with a far-away look in her eyes and a voice of surprising
sweetness, always maintained that it was a
shame for Kling, who was many years her senior, to
have married the girl at all.

"Not, John, dear, that Otto isn't a decent man, as
far as he goes," she had once said to him, when the
day's work was over and they were discussing their
neighbors, "and that honest, too, that he wouldn't get
away with a sample trunk weighing a ton if it was
nailed fast to the sidewalk, and a good friend of ours
who wouldn't go back on us, and never did. But that
wife of his, John! If she wasn't as fine as the best of
em, then I miss my guess. She got it from that father
of hers--the clock-maker that never went out in the
daytime, and hid himself in his back shop. There was
something I never understood about the two of 'em
and his killing himself when he did. Why, look at that
little Masie! Can't ye see she is no more Kling's
daughter than she is mine? Ye can't hatch out hummin'-birds
by sittin' on ducks' eggs, and that's what's
the matter over at Otto's."

"Well, whose eggs were they?" John had inquired,
half asleep by the stove, his tired legs outstretched,
the evening paper dropping from his hand.

"Oh, I don't say that they are not Kling's right
enough, John. Masie is his child, I know. But what
I say is that the mother is stamped all over the darling,
and that Otto can't put a finger on any part and call
it his own."

Whether Kitty were right or wrong regarding the
mystery is no part of our story, but certain it was that
the soul of the unhappy young mother looked through
the daughter's eyes, that the sweetness of the child's
voice was hers, and the grace of every movement a
direct inheritance from one whose frail spirit had taken
so early a flight.

To Felix this companionship, with the glimpses it
gave him of a child's heart, refreshed his own as a summer
rain does a thirsty plant. Had she been his daughter,
or his little sister, or his niece, or grandchild, a certain
sense of responsibility on his part and of filial duty
on hers would have clouded their perfect union. He
would have had matters of education to insist upon--
perhaps of clothing and hygiene. She would have
had her secrets--hidden paths on which she wandered
alone--things she could never tell to one in authority.
As it was, bound together as they were by only a mutual
recognition, their joy in each other knew no bounds.
To Masie he was a refuge, some one who understood
every thought before she had uttered it; to O'Day she
was a never-ending and warming delight.

And so this man of forty-five folded his arms about
this child of ten, and held her close, the opening chalice
of her budding girlhood widening hourly at his touch--
a sight to be reverenced by every man and never to be
forgotten by one privileged to behold it.

And with the intimacy which almost against his will
held him to the little shop, there stole into his life a
certain content. Springs long dried in his own nature
bubbled again. He felt the sudden, refreshing sense of
those who, after pent-up suffering, find the quickening
of new life within.

Mike noticed the change in the cheery greetings and
in the passages of Irish wit with which the new clerk
welcomed him whenever be appeared in the store, and
so did Kling, and even the two Dutchies when Felix
would drop into the cellar searching for what was still
good enough to be made over new. And so did Kitty
and John and all at their home.

Masie alone noticed nothing. To her, "Uncle Felix,"
as she now called him, was always the same adorable
and comprehending companion, forever opening up to
her new vistas of interest, never too busy to answer
her questions, never too preoccupied to explain the
different objects he was handling. If she were ever in
the way, she was never made to feel it. Instead, so
gentle and considerate was he, that she grew to believe
herself his most valuable assistant, daily helping him
to arrange the various new acquisitions.

One morning in June when they were busy over a
lot of small curios, arranging bits of jade, odd silver
watches, seals, and pinchbeck rings, in a glass case that
had been cleaned and revarnished, the door opened and
an old fellow strolled in--an odd-looking old fellow, with
snow-white hair and beard, wearing a black sombrero
and a shirt cut very low in the neck. But for a pair
of kindly eyes, which looked out at you from beneath
the brim of the hat, he might have been mistaken for
one of the dwarfs in "Rip Van Winkle." Fudge, having
now been disciplined by Felix, only sniffed at his
trousers.

"I see an old gold frame in your window," began
the new customer. "Might I measure it?"

"Which one, sir?" replied Felix. "There are half
a dozen of them, I believe."

"Well; will you please come outside? And I will point
it out. It is the Florentine, there in the corner--
perhaps a reproduction, but it looks to me like the real
thing."

"It is a Florentine," answered Felix. "There are
two or three pictures in the Uffizi with similar frames,
if I recall them aright. Would you like a look at it?"

"I don't want to trouble you to take it out," said the
old man apologetically. "It might not do, and I can't
afford to pay much for it anyway. But I would like
to measure it; I've got an Academy picture which I
think will just fit it, but you can't always tell. No, I
guess I'll let it go. It's all covered up, and you would
have to move everything to reach it."

"No, I won't have to move a thing. Here, you
bunch of sunshine! Squeeze in there, Masie, dear,
and let me know how wide and high that frame is--
the one next the glass. Take this rule."

The child caught up the rule and, followed by Fudge,
who liked nothing so well as rummaging, crept among
the jars, mirrors, and candelabra crowding the window,
her steps as true as those of a kitten. "Twenty inches
by thirty-one--no, thirty," she laughed back, tucking
her little skirts closer to her shapely limbs so as to
clear a tiny table set out with cups and saucers.

"You're sure it's thirty?" repeated the painter.

"Yes, sir, thirty," and she crept back and laid the
rule in O'Day's hand.

"Thank you, my dear young lady," bowed the old
gnome. "It is a pleasure to be served by one so obliging
and bright. And I am glad to tell you," he added,
turning to O'Day, "that it's a fit--an exact fit. I
thought I was about right. I carry things in my eye.
I bought a head once in Venice, about a foot square,
and in Spain three months afterward, on my way down
the hill leading from the Alhambra to the town, there
on a wall outside a bric-a-brac shop hung a frame which
I bought for ten francs, and when I got to Paris and
put them together, I'll be hanged if they didn't fit as
if they had been made for each other."

"And I know the shop!" broke out Felix, to Masie's
astonishment. "It's just before you get to the small
chapel on the left."

"By cracky, you're right! How long since you were
there?"

"Oh, some five years now."

"Picking up things to sell here, I suppose. Spain
used to be a great place for furniture and stuffs; I've
got a lot of them still--bought a whole chest of embroideries
once in Seville, or rather, at that hospital
where the big Murillo hangs. You must know that
picture--Moses striking water from the rock--best
thing Murillo ever did."

Felix remembered it, and he also remembered many
of the important pictures in the Prado, especially the
great Velasquez and the two Goyas, and that head of
Ribera which hung on the line in the second gallery on
the right as you entered. And before the two enthusiasts
were aware of what was going on around
them, Masie and Fudge had slipped off to dine upstairs
with her father, Felix and the garrulous old
painter still talking--renewing their memories with a
gusto and delight unknown to the old artist for
years.

"And now about that frame!" the gnome at last
found time to say. "I've got so little money that
I'd rather swap something for it, if you don't mind.
Come down and see my stuff! It's only in 10th
Street--not twenty minutes' walk. Maybe you can
sell some of my things for me. And bring that blessed
little girl--she's the dearest, sweetest thing I've seen
for an age. Your daughter?"

Felix laughed gently. "No, I wish she were. She
is Mr. Kling's child."

"And your name?"

"O'Day."

"Irish, of course--well, all the same, come down any
morning this week. My name is Ganger; I'm on
the fourth floor--been there twenty-two years. You'll
have to walk up--we all do. Yes, I'll expect
you."

Kling, whom Felix consulted, began at once to demur.
He knew all about the building on 10th Street.
More than one of his old frames--part of the clearing-
out sale of some Southern homestead, the portraits
being reserved because unsalable--had resumed their
careers on the walls of the Academy as guardians and
protectors of masterpieces painted by the denizens of
this same old rattletrap, the Studio Building. Some
of its tenants, too, had had accounts with him--which
had been running for more than a year. Bridley, the
marine painter; Manners, who took pupils; Springlake,
the landscapist; and half a dozen others had been in
the habit of dropping into his shop on the lookout for
something good in Dutch cabinets at half-price, or no
price at all, until Felix, without knowing where they
had come from, had put an end to the practice.

"Got a fellow up to Kling's who looks as if he had
been a college athlete, and knows it all. Can't fool
him for a cent," was the talk now, instead of "Keep
at the old Dutchman and you may get it. He don't
know the difference between a Chippendale sideboard
and a shelf rack from Harlem. Wait for a
rainy day and go in. He'll be feeling blue, and you'll
be sure to get it."

Kling, therefore, when he heard some days later,
of Felix's proposed visit, began turning over his books,
looking up several past-due accounts. But Felix
would have none of it.

"I'm going on a collecting tour, Mr. Kling, this
lovely June morning," he laughed, "but not for money.
We will look after that later on. And I will take
Masie. Come, child, get your hat. Mr. Ganger wanted
you to come, and so do I. Call Hans, Mr. Kling,
if the shop gets full. We will be back in an hour."

"Vell, you know best," answered Kling in final surrender.
"Ven it comes to money, I know. You go
'long, little Beesvings. I mind de shop."

"And I'll take Fudge," the child cried, "and we'll
stop at Gramercy Park."

Fudge was out first, scampering down the street and
back again before they had well closed the door, and
Masie was as restless. "Oh, I'm just as happy as I
can be, Uncle Felix. You are always so good. I never
had any one to walk with until you came, except old
Aunty Gossberger, and she never let me look at anything."

Days in June--joyous days with all nature brimful
with laughter--days when the air is a caress, the
sky a film of pearl and silver, and the eager mob of
bud, blossom, and leaf, having burst their bonds, are
flaunting their glories, days like these are always to
be remembered the world over. But June days about
Gramercy Park are to be marked in big Red Letters
upon the calendar of the year. For in Gramercy
Park the almanac goes to pieces.

Everything is ahead of time. When little counter-
panes of snow are still covering the baby crocuses away
off in Central Park, down in Gramercy their pink and
yellow heads are popping up all over the enclosure.
When the big trees in Union Square are stretching their
bare arms, making ready to throw off the winter's
sleep, every tiny branch in Gramercy is wide awake
and tingling with new life. When countless dry roots
in Madison Square are still slumbering under their
blankets of straw, dreading the hour when they must
get up and go to work, hundreds of tender green fingers
in Gramercy are thrust out to the kindly sun, pleading
for a chance to be up and doing.

And the race keeps up, Gramercy still ahead, until
the goal of summer is won, and every blessed thing
that could have burst into bloom has settled down to
enjoy the siesta of the hot season.

Masie was never tired of watching these changes,
her wonder and delight increasing as the season
progressed.

In the earlier weeks there had been nothing but
flower-beds covered with unsightly clods, muffled
shrubs, and bandaged vines. Then had come a blaze
of tulips, exhausting the palette. And then, but a
short time before--it seemed only yesterday--every
stretch of brown grass had lost its dull tints in a coat
of fresh paint, on which the benches, newly scrubbed,
were set, and each foot of gravelled walks had been
raked and made ready for the little tots in new straw
hats who were then trundling their hoops and would
soon be chasing their first butterflies.

And now, on this lovely June morning, summer had
come--REAL SUMMER--for a mob of merry roses were
swarming up a trellis in a mad climb to reach its top,
the highest blossom waving its petals in triumph.

Felix waited until she had taken it all in, her face
pressed between the bars (only the privileged possessing
a key are admitted to the gardens within),
Fudge scampering up and down, wild to get at the
two gray squirrels, which some vandal has since stolen,
and then, remembering his promise to Ganger, he
called her to him and continued his walk.

But her morning outing was not over. He must
take her to the marble-cutter's yard, filled with all
sorts of statues, urns, benches, and columns, and show
her again the ruts and grooves cut in the big stone well-head,
and tell her once more the story of how it had
stood in an old palace in Venice, where the streets were
all water and everybody went visiting in boats. And
then she must stop at the florist's to see whether he
had any new ferns in his window, and have Felix again
explain the difference between the big and little ferns
and why the palms had such long leaves.

She was ready now for her visit to the two old painters,
but this time Felix lingered. He had caught sight
of a garden wall in the rear of an old house, and with
his hand in hers had crossed the street to study it the
closer. The wall was surmounted by a solid, wrought-
iron railing into which some fifty years or more ago a
gardener had twisted the tendrils of a wistaria. The
iron had cut deep, and so inseparable was the embrace
that human skill could not pull them apart without
destroying them both.

As he reached the sidewalk and got a clearer view
of the vine, tracing the weave of its interlaced
branches and tendrils, Masie noticed that he stopped
suddenly and for a moment looked away, lost in deep
thought. She caught, too, the shadow that sometimes
settled on his face, one she had seen before and wondered
over. But although her hand was still in his,
she kept silent until he spoke.

"Look, dear Masie," he said at last, drawing her to
him, "see what happens to those who are forced into
traps! It was the big knot that held it back! And
yet it grew on!"

Masie looked up into his thoughtful face. "Do you
think the iron hurts it, Uncle Felix?" she asked with a
sigh.

"I shouldn't wonder; it would me," he faltered.

"But it wasn't the vine's fault, was it?"

"Perhaps not. Maybe when it was planted nobody
looked after it, nor cared what might happen when it
grew up. Poor wistaria! Come along, darling!"


At last they turned into 10th Street, Fudge scurrying
ahead to the very door of the grim building, where
a final dash brought him to Ganger's, his nose having
sniffed at every threshold they passed and into every
crack and corner of the three flights of stairs.

Felix's own nostrils were now dilating with pleasure.
The odor of varnish and turpentine had brought back
some old memories--as perfumes do for us all. A
crumpled glove, a bunch of withered roses, the salt
breath of an outlying marsh, are often but so many
fairy wands reviving comedies and tragedies on which
the curtains of forgetfulness have been rung down
these many years.

Something in the aroma of the place was recalling
kindred spirits across the sea, when the door was swung
wide and Ganger in a big, hearty voice, cried:

"Mr. O'Day, is it? Oh, I am glad! And that dear
child, and-- Hello! who invited you, you restless little
devil of a dog? Come in, all of you! I've a model, but
she doesn't care and neither do I. And this, Mr. O'Day,
is my old friend, Sam Dogger--and he's no relation of
yours, you imp!"--with a bob of his grizzled head at
Fudge--"He's a landscape-painter and a good one--
one of those Hudson River fellows--and would be a
fine one if he would stick to it. Give me that hat and
coat, my chick-a-biddy, and I'll hang them up. And
now here's a chair for you, Mr. O'Day, and please get
into it--and there's a jar full of tobacco, and if you
haven't got a pipe of your own you'll find a whole lot
of corncobs on the mantelpiece and you can help
yourself."

O'Day had stood smiling at the painter, Masie's
hand fast in his, Fudge tiptoeing softly about, divided
between a sense of the strangeness of the place and a
certainty of mice behind the canvases. Felix knew the
old fellow's kind, and recognized the note of attempted
gayety in the voice--the bravado of the poor putting
their best, sometimes their only, foot foremost.

"No, I won't sit down--not yet," he answered pleasantly;
"I will look around, if you will let me, and I
will try one of your pipes before I begin. What a jolly
place you have here! Don't move"--this to the model,
a slip of a girl, her eyes muffled in a lace veil, one of
Ganger's Oriental costumes about her shoulders--"I
am quite at home, my dear, and if you have been a
model any length of time you will know exactly what
that means."

"Oh, she's my Fatima," exclaimed Ganger. "Her
real name is Jane Hoggson, and her mother does my
washing, but I call her Fatima for short. She can stop
work for the day. Get down off the platform, Jane
Hoggson, and talk to this dear little girl. You see,
Mr. O'Day, now that the art of the country has gone
to the devil and nobody wants my masterpieces, I
have become an Eastern painter, fresh from Cairo,
where I have lived for half a century--principally on
Turkish paste and pressed figs. My specialty at present
--they are all over my walls, as you can see--is
dancing-girls in silk tights or without them, just as
the tobacco shops prefer. I also do sheiks, muffled to
their eyebrows in bath towels, and with scimitars--
like that one above the mantel. And very profitable,
too; MOST profitable, my dear sir. I get twenty doldars
for a real odalisk and fifteen for a bashi-bazouk.
I can do one about every other day, and I sell one about
every other month. As for Sam Dogger here--Sam,
what is your specialty? I said landscapes, Sam, when
Mr. O'Day came in, but you may have changed since
we have been talking."

The wizened old gentleman thus addressed sidled
nearer. He was ten years younger than Ganger, but
his thin, bloodless hands, watery eyes, their lids edged
with red, and bald head covered by a black velvet
skull-cap made him look that much older.

"Nat talks too much, Mr. O'Day," he piped in a
high-keyed voice. "I often tell Nat that he's got a
loose hinge in his mouth, and he ought to screw it tight
or it will choke him some day when he isn't watching.
He! He!" And a wheezy laugh filled the room.

"Shut up, you old sardine! You don't talk enough.
If you did you'd get along better. I'll tell you, Mr.
O'Day, what Sam does. Sam's a patcher-up--a 'puttier.'
That's what he is. Sam can get more quality
out of a piece of sandpaper, a pot of varnish, and a
little glue than any man in the business. If you don't
believe it, just bring in a fake Romney, or a Gainsborough,
or some old Spanish or Italian daub with the
corners knocked off where the signature once was, or a
scrape down half a cheek, or some smear of a head, with
half the canvas bare, and put Sam to work on it, and in
a week or less out it comes just as it left the master's
easel--'Found by his widow after his death' or 'The
property of an English nobleman on whose walls it has
hung for two centuries.' By thunder! isn't it beautiful?"
He chuckled. "Wonderful how these bullfrogs of
connoisseurs swallow the dealers' flies! And here am I,
who can paint any blamed thing from a hen-coop to a
battle scene, doing signs for tobacco shops; and there is
Sam, who can do Corots and Rousseaus and Daubignys
by the yard, obliged to stick to a varnish pot and a
scraper! Damnable, isn't it? But we don't growl, do
we, Sammy? When Sammy has anything left over,
he brings half of it down to me--he lives on the floor
above--and when I get a little ahead and Sammy is
behind, I send it up to him. We are the Siamese twins,
Sammy and I, aren't we, Sam? Where are you, anyway?
Oh, he's after the dog, I see, moving the canvases
so the little beggar won't run a thumb-tack in his
paw. Sam can no more resist a dog, my dear Mr.
O'Day, than a drunkard can a rum-mill, can you,
Sam?"

"At it again, are you, Nat?" wheezed the wizened old
gentleman, dusting his fingers as he reappeared from
behind the canvases, his watery eyes edged with a
deeper red, due to his exertions. "Don't pay any attention
to him, Mr. O'Day. What he says isn't half
true, and the half that is true isn't worth listening to.
Now tell me about that frame he's ordered. He don't
want it, and I've told him so. If you are willing to
lend it to him, he'll pay you for it when the picture is
sold, which will never be, and by that time he'll--"

"Dry up, you old varnish pot!" shouted Ganger.
"how do you know I won't pay for it?"

"Because your picture will never be hung--that's
why!"

"Mr. Ganger did not want to buy it," broke in Felix,
between puffs from one of his host's corn-cob pipes.
"He wanted to exchange something for it--'swap' he
called it."

"Oh, well," wheezed Sam, "that's another thing.
What were you going to give him in return, Nat?
Careful, now--there's not much left."

"Oh, maybe some old stuff, Sammy. Move along,
you blessed little child--and you, too, Jane Hoggson!
You're sitting on my Venetian wedding-chest--real,
too! I bought it forty years ago in Padua. There are
some old embroideries down in the bottom, or were,
unless Sam has been in here while I-- Oh, no, here
they are! Beg pardon, Sammy, for suspecting you.
There--what do you think of these?"

Felix bent over the pile of stuffs, which, under
Ganger's continued dumpings, was growing larger
every minute--the last to see the light being part of a
priest's Cope and two chasubles.

"There--that is enough!" said Felix. "This chasuble
alone is worth more than the frame. We will put
the Florentine frame at ten dollars and the vestment
at fifteen. What others have you, Mr. Ganger?
There's a great demand for these things when they
are good, and these are good. Where did you get
them?"

"Worth more than the frame? Holy Moses!"
whistled Ganger. "Why, I thought you'd want all
there was in the chest! And you say there are people
out of a lunatic asylum looking for rags like this?"
And he held up one end of the cope.

"Yes, many of them. To me, I must say, they are
worth nothing, as I don't like the idea of mixing up
church and state. But Mr. Kling's customers do, and
if they choose to say their prayers before a chasuble
on a priest's back on Sunday and make a sofa cushion
of it the next day, that is their affair, not mine. And
now, what else? You spoke of some costumes this
morning."

"Yes, I did speak of my costumes, but I'm afraid
they are too modern for you--I make 'em up myself.
Get up, Jane, and let Mr. O'Day see what you've got
on!"

Jane jumped to her feet, looking less Oriental than
ever, her spangled veil having dropped about her
shoulders, her red hair and freckled face now in full
view.

"I think her dress is beautiful, Uncle Felix," whispered
Masie.

"Do you, sweetheart? Well, then, maybe I might
better look again. What else have you in the way of
Costumes, Mr. Ganger?"

Dogger stepped up. "He hasn't got a single thing
worth a cent; he buys these pieces down in Elizabeth
Street, out of push-carts, and Jane Hoggson's mother
sews them together. But, my deary"--here he laid
his hand on Masie's head--"would you like to see
some REAL ONES, all-gold-and-silver lace--and satin shoes
--and big, high bonnets with feathers?"

Masie clapped her hands in answer and began whirling
about the room, her way of telling everybody that
she was too happy to keep still.

"Well, wait here; I won't be a minute."

"Sam's fallen in love with her, too," muttered Ganger,
"and I don't blame him. Come here, you darling,
and let me talk to you. Do you know you are the first
little girl that's ever been inside this place for ever--
and ever and EVER--so long? Think of that, will you?
Not one single little girl since-- Oh, well, I just can't
remember--it's such an awful long time. Dreadful,
isn't it? Hear that old Sam stumbling down-stairs!
Now let's see what he brings you."

Dogger's arms were full. "I've a silk dress," he
puffed, "and a ruffled petticoat, and a great leghorn
hat--and just look at these feathers, and you never saw
such a pair of slippers and silk stockings! And now
let's try 'em on!"

The child uttered a little scream of delight. "Oh,
Uncle Felix! Isn't it lovely? Can't I have them?
Please, Uncle Felix!" she cried, both hands around his
shirt collar in supplication.

"Take 'em all, missy," shouted Sam. Then, turning
to Felix: "They belonged to an actor who hired half
of my studio and left them to pay for his rent, which
they didn't do, not by a long chalk, and-- Oh, here's
another hat--and, oh, such a lovely old cloak! Yes,
take 'em all, missy--I'm glad to get rid of 'em--before
Nat claps them on Jane and goes in for Puritan maidens
and Lady Gay Spankers. Oh, I know you, Nat! I
wouldn't trust you out of my sight! Take 'em along,
I say." He stopped and turned toward Felix again.

"Couldn't you bring her down here once in a while,
Mr. O'Day?" he continued, a strange, pathetic note in
his wheezing voice. "Just for ten minutes, you know,
when she's out with the dog, or walking with you.
Nobody ever comes up these stairs but tramps and
book agents--even the models steer clear. It would
help a lot if you'd bring her. Wouldn't you like to
come, missy? What did you say her name was? Oh,
yes--Masie--well, my child, that's not what I'd call
you; I'd call you--well, I guess I wouldn't call you anything
but just a dear, darling little girl! Yes, that's
just what I'd call you. And you are going to let me
give them to her, aren't you, Mr. O'Day?"

Felix grasped the old fellow's thin, dry hand in his
own strong fingers. For an instant a strange lump in
his throat clogged his speech. "Of course, I'll take the
costumes, and many thanks for your wish to make the
child happy," he answered at last. "I am rather foolish
about Masie myself; and may I tell you, Mr. Dogger,
that you are a very fine old gentleman, and that I am
delighted to have made your acquaintance, and that,
if you will permit me I shall certainly come again?"

Dogger was about to reply when Masie, Looking up
into the wizened face, cried: "And may I put them on
when I like, if I'm very, very--oh, so VERY careful?"

"Yes, you buttercup, and you can wear them full of
holes and do anything else you please to them, and I
won't care a mite."

And then, with Jane Hoggson's help, he put on
Masie's own hat and coat, which Ganger had hung on
an easel, and Masie called Fudge from his mouse-hole,
and Felix shook hands first with Nat and then with
Sam, and last of all with Jane, who looked at him
askance out of one eye as she bobbed him half a
courtesy. And then everybody went out into the hall
and said good-by once more over the banisters, Felix
with the bundle under his arm, Masie throwing kisses
to the two old gnomes craning their necks over the
banisters, Fudge barking every step of the way down
the stairs.


Chapter VI


The glimpse which Felix had caught of these two
poor, unappreciated old men, living contentedly from
hand to mouth, gayly propping each other up when one
or the other weakened, had strangely affected him. If,
as he reasoned, such battered hulks, stranded these
many years on the dry sands of incompetency, with no
outlook for themselves across the wide sea over which
their contemporaries were scudding with all sails set
before the wind of success--if these castaways, their
past always with them and their hoped-for future forever
out of their reach, could laugh and be merry, why
should not he carry some of their spirit into his relations
with the people among whom his lot was now
thrown?

That these people had all been more than good to
him, and that he owed them in return something more
than common politeness now took possession of his
mind. Few such helping hands had ever been held
out to him. When they bad been, the proffered palm
had generally concealed a hidden motive. Hereafter
he would try to add what he could of his own to the
general fund of good-fellowship and good deeds.

He would continue his nightly search--and he had
not missed a single evening--but he would return
earlier, so as to be able to spend an hour reading to
Masie before she went to bed, or with his other friends
and acquaintances of "The Avenue"--especially with
Kitty and John. He had been too unmindful of them,
getting back to his lodgings at any hour of the night,
either to let himself in by his pass-key--all the lights
out and everybody asleep--or to find only Kitty or
John, or both, at work over their accounts or waiting
up for Mike or Bobby or for one of their wagons detained
on some dock. And since Kling had raised his
salary, enabling him not only to recover his dressing-
case, which then rested on his mantel, but to take his
meals wherever he happened to be at the moment--he
had seldom dined at home--a great relief in many ways
to a man of his tastes.

