"Radio energy, Masters! Something absolutely harmless to man.
These living, energy spheres will change to radio energy when
they meet resistance. Frustration is resistance. Frustration is
an emotion. An overwhelming emotion for the spheres! The sphere
is frustrated--meets resistance--it disappears. New fruits either
retained their foreign names (_cherry_, _peach_, _pear_, _quince_)
or were violently converted into _apples_ or _berries_, usually the
former.

       This practice is common to the European languages, the _apple_ being
regarded as the typical fruit.

The
crashing roar of the slaughter sounded like distant thunderstorms.

Streets were jammed with panic-stricken human beings, fleeing
from the unknown menace which slashed with bolts of heat energy.

From the hole in the factory roof poured more spheres to join the
destruction.

"They breed fast, the devils!" said Masters.

A figure in khaki approached Taylor. It was Pember with blood
running from a cut on the side of his head. He saluted briskly.

"Norden escaped, sir!" he blurted. "The dirty so-and-so cracked
me over the head with the trench tool and got away!"

"I never thought he'd turn yellow," Masters said. "Well, maybe
it's a good thing he's gone. I never trusted him anyhow."

"Which way did he go?" Taylor asked.

"He went toward the factory, sir!" Pember replied. "He didn't
knock me out. Just a glancing blow. I was too dazed to stop him,
but I saw him running toward the factory."

"He'd rather take it that way than the firing squad, I guess,"
Masters decided.

"Masters," Taylor said. "We overlooked something. Norden knows
something we don't know. He was around Orkins most of the time
after we left the plant. He listened to what Orkins said. Orkins
was in the factory when the spheres first appeared. I overlooked
Orkins as having an answer to the problem. I thought I knew it
all, but I was wrong! Orkins knew more than I know about the
spheres."

"Sure! I should have thought of it, too. How did Orkins get away
when everyone else got killed? I never asked that. I just took it
for granted that he got away by accident. Orkins might have known
enough to help Norden get the spheres on his side!"

Taylor already was running toward the factory. At his heels came
Masters and Pember.


CHAPTER VI

INFERNO


They found no sign of Norden as they approached the factory.
Several times they had to take cover in ditches and weeds as
whispering spheres floated overhead in search of prey. But they
escaped the electrical feelers which stirred the grass and brush
around them.

Pember recovered his Garand rifle, which had been left near the
sentry box during the retreat.

Taylor led the group into the tunnel, with Masters following and
Pember bringing up the rear.

The din of the slaughter in the town and the shrill whistle of
the spheres was blotted out underground. They reached the far
end, where the ladder led upward to the sphere-haunted factory.

Taylor ascended. He could hear the shrill whistle of spheres
dinning through the bleak building. He peeped into the forge
room. The first flush of dawn was streaming through the windows.

Norden was there, creeping along the barrels of some naval guns
toward the casting room.

Norden halted at the door. He took a deep breath. From his lips
came a shrill, whispering whistle, a close imitation of the call
of the spheres.

An orange light was reflected from the room beyond.

Still whistling, Norden stepped back a few paces. Through the
door, floating toward the spy came an orange sphere.

Taylor watched, expecting to see a bolt of heat lash out toward
the spy. But the sphere pulsed slowly, as if half pleased by the
sound Norden made with his lips.

So this is how Orkins escaped from the plant, Taylor thought.
Orkins had imitated the creatures. They had spared him as a pet,
like a man keeps a talking parrot.

Norden stood very still, whistling while the sphere approached. A
little tentacle of flame reached out toward him.

Taylor expected to see Norden disappear in a flash of fire, but
the flame seemed to caress. A soft glow seemed to diffuse from
the man's clothing and body.

The sphere, too, seemed to change, growing softer and more
mellow. It wasn't a tangible substance, but something ethereal,
like the flicker of flame over an open hearth. Some tremendous
force seemed to hold the sphere in globular shape.

Taylor could see the chimerical eyes peering through the surface
of the sphere. He looked into the depths of those eyes and still
could not be sure they were not an illusion. The intensity of the
creatures' intelligence seemed to shine from within, giving the
impression of staring, haunting eyes. They were not organs of
sight, but they were the windows of the mind. They were the
source of those tenuous flames that seemed to caress Norden.

As Taylor looked at the eyes he felt plunged into the pathless
depths of a vast, powerful brain. He was in contact with an infinity
of intelligence far beyond limits of human comprehension. It was a
surging intelligence of energy, abysmal, vaporous and limitless,
transcending the dimensions, out-reaching boundless time,
overshadowing matter.

The eyes made Taylor forget he was a man. His own mind seemed
merged in the intellectual energy floating among the monster
machines of the forge room. Dimly, he was conscious that this
power was not directed at him, but at Norden who stood, still
whistling, in front of the globe.

The sphere was whistling, too, and the sound transformed itself
into music of the stars.

A discordant note rose in the song from Norden's imitation of the
voice. Norden was shrieking hatred for Taylor's nation, for all
those who opposed the self-designated supermen of the world.

"My race must be preserved!"

The thought was Norden's, reflected to Taylor from the shoreless
depths of the energy brain.

"All other peoples are evil, decadent, and are doomed to slavery
under the man of the future. The future man will be a child of my
race. Our adjective _bald_ is thus a past participle.

Things are often named from animals.

_Crane_, _kite_, _donkey-engine_, _monkey-wrench_, _pig-iron_, etc.,
are simple cases.

The _crane_ picture is so striking that we are not surprised to
find it literally reproduced in many other languages. The
toy called a _kite_ is in French _cerf volant_, flying
stag, a name also applied to the stag-beetle, and in Ger.
_Drachen_, dragon. It is natural that terrifying names
should have been given to early fire-arms.This Norden begs us to kill."

"It is only through destruction of the weak that the strongest
survive," Norden answered. "Man is a cruel, but noble creature.
Those who fail to kill are weak."

The sphere's whistle grew thunderous.

"You speak the philosophy of my world!" it said.

From the depths of the sphere a rhythm of thought arose. A
whispered epic sang through the fibres of Taylor's mind, telling
of a world of energy, whipped into a storm of war. Spheres of
energy, overwhelmed a weaker race made up of gaseous clouds of
atoms.

In the midst of this titanic battle a huge disc appeared, carried
by the gaseous clouds. It was a concave lens, like some powerful
optical instrument. But instead of focusing beams of light, it
reflected, not only light but all forms of energy. As the spheres
attacked they were shattered into spores and shot away through
space.

The whispered song told of the flight through space. Behind lay a
world, unlike the earth, which the spheres called home. It was a
gaseous, flaming world where matter and energy mingled as one
substance. It was mottled with spots of cold gases which warred
with the whispering spheres. _It was the sun._

