1.  In the first place, the preaching of that Fast-day was 'pertinent'
and to the point.  William Law, that divine writer for ministers, warns
ministers against going off upon Euroclydon and the shipwrecks of Paul
when Christ's sheep are looking up to them for their proper food.  What,
he asks, is the nature, the direction, and the strength of that
Mediterranean wind to him who has come up to church under the plague of
his own heart and under the heavy hand of God?  You may be sure that
Boanerges did not lecture that Fast-day forenoon in Mansoul on Acts
xxvii. 14.  We would know that, even if we were not told what his text
that forenoon was.  His text that never-to-be-forgotten Fast-day forenoon
was in Luke xiii. 7--'Cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground?'  And a
very smart sermon he made upon the place.  First, he showed what was the
occasion of the words, namely, because the fig-tree was barren.  Then he
showed what was contained in the sentence, to wit, repentance or utter
desolation.  He then showed also by whose authority this sentence was
pronounced.  And, lastly, he showed the reasons of the point, and then
concluded his sermon.  But he was very pertinent in the application,
insomuch that he made all the elders and all their people in Mansoul to
tremble.  Sidney Smith says that whatever else a sermon may be or may not
be, it must be interesting if it is to do any good.  Now, pertinent
preaching is always interesting preaching.  Nothing interests men like
themselves.  And pertinent preaching is just preaching to men about
themselves,--about their interests, their losses and their gains, their
hopes and their fears, their trials and their tribulations.  Boanerges
took both his text and his treatment of his text from his Master, and we
know how pertinently The Master preached.  His preaching was with such
pertinence that the one half of His hearers went home saying, Never man
spake like this man, while the other half gnashed at Him with their
teeth.  Our Lord never lectured on Euroclydon.  He knew what was in man
and He lectured and preached accordingly.  And if we wish to have praise
of our best people, and of Him whose people they are, let us look into
our own hearts and preach.  That will be pertinent to our people which is
first pertinent to ourselves.  Weep yourself, said an old poet to a new
beginner; weep yourself if you would make me weep.  'For my own part,'
said Thomas Shepard to some ministers from his death-bed, 'I never
preached a sermon which, in the composing, did not cost me prayers, with
strong cries and tears.  I never preached a sermon from which I had not
first got some good to my own soul.'

   'His office and his name agree;
   A shepherd that and Shepard he.'

And many such entries as these occur in Thomas Boston's golden journal:
'I preached in Ps. xlii. 5, and mostly on my own account.'  Again:
'Meditating my sermon next day, I found advantage to my own soul, as also
in delivering it on the Sabbath.'  And again: 'What good this preaching
has done to others I know not, yet I think myself will not the worse of
it.'

2.  The preaching of that Fast-day was with great authority also.  'There
was such power and authority in that sermon,' reports one who was
present, 'that the like had seldom been seen or heard.'  Authority also
was one of the well-remembered marks of our Lord's preaching.  And no
wonder, considering who He was.  But His ministers, if they are indeed
His ministers, will be clothed by Him with something even of His supreme
authority.  'Conscience is an authority,' says one of the most
authoritative preachers that ever lived.  'The Bible is an authority;
such is the Church; such is antiquity; such are the words of the wise;
such are hereditary lessons; such are ethical truths; such are historical
memories; such are legal saws and state maxims; such are proverbs; such
are sentiments, presages, and prepossessions.'  Now, the well-equipped
preacher will from time to time plant his pulpit on all those kinds of
authority, as this kind is now pertinent and then that, and will, with
such a variety and accumulation of authority, preach to his people.
Thomas Boston preached at a certain place with such pertinence and with
such authority that it was complained of him by one of themselves that he
'terrified even the godly.'  Let all our young preachers who would to old
age continue to preach with interest, with pertinence, and with
terrifying authority, among other things have by heart _The Memoirs of
Thomas Boston_, 'that truly great divine.'

3.  A third thing, and, as some of the people who heard it said of it,
the best thing about that sermon was that--'He did not only show us our
sin, but he did visibly tremble before us under the sense of his own.'
Now I know this to be a great difficulty with some young ministers who
have got no help in it at the Divinity Hall.  Are they, they ask, to be
themselves in the pulpit?  How far may they be themselves, and how far
may they be not themselves?  How far are they to be seen to tremble
before their people because of their own sins, and how far are they to
bear themselves as if they had no sin?  Must they keep back the passions
that are tearing their own hearts, and fill the forenoon with Euroclydon
and other suchlike sea-winds?  How far are they to be all gown and bands
in the pulpit, and how far sackcloth and ashes?  One half of their people
are like Pascal in this, that they like to see and hear a man in his
pulpit; but, then, the other half like only to see and hear a proper
preacher.  'He did not only show the men of Mansoul their sin, but he did
tremble before them under the sense of his own.  Still crying out as he
preached to them, Unhappy man that I am! that I should have done so
wicked a thing!  That I, a preacher, should be one of the first in the
transgression!'

This you will remember was the Fast-day.  And so truly had this preacher
kept the Fast-day that the Communion-day was down upon him before he was
ready for it.  He was still deep among his sins when all his people were
fast putting on their beautiful garments.  He was ready with the letter
of his action-sermon, but he was not equal to the delivery of it.  His
colleague, accordingly, whose sense of sin was less acute that day, took
the public worship, while the Fast-day preacher still lay sick in his
closet at home and wrote thus on the ground: 'I am no more worthy to be
called Thy son,' he wrote.  'Behold me here, Lord, a poor, miserable
sinner, weary of myself, and afraid to look up to Thee.  Wilt Thou heal
my sores?  Wilt Thou take out the stains?  Wilt Thou deliver me from the
shame?  Wilt Thou rescue me from this chain of sin?  Cut me not off in
the midst of my sins.  Let me have liberty once again to be among Thy
redeemed ones, eating and drinking at Thy table.  But, O my God, to-day I
am an unclean worm, a dead dog, a dead carcass, deservedly cast out from
the society of Thy saints.  But oh, suffer me so much as to look to the
place where Thy people meet and where Thine honour dwelleth.  Reject not
the sacrifice of a broken heart, but come and speak to me in my secret
place.  O God, let me never see such another day as this is.  Let me
never be again so full of guilt as to have to run away from Thy presence
and to flee from before Thy people.'  He printed more than that, in blood
and in tears, before God that Communion-morning, but that is enough for
my purpose.  Now, would you choose a dead dog like that to be your
minister?  To baptize and admit your children and to marry them when they
grow up?  To mount your pulpits every Sabbath-day, and to come to your
houses every week-day?  Not, I feel sure, if you could help it!  Not if
you knew it!  Not if there was a minister of proper pulpit manners and a
well-ordered mind within a Sabbath-day's journey!  'Like priest like
people,' says Hosea.  'The congregation and the minister are one,' says
Dr. Parker.  'There are men we could not sit still and hear; they are not
the proper ministers for us.  There are other men we could hear always,
because they are our kith and our kin from before the foundation of the
world.'  Happy the hearer who has hit on a minister like the minister of
Mansoul, and who has discovered in him his everlasting kith and kin.  And
happy the minister who, owning kith and kin with Boanerges, has two or
three or even one member in his congregation who likes his minister best
when he likes himself worst.

But what about the fasting all this time?  Was it all preaching, and was
there no fasting?  Well, we do not know much about the fasting of the
prophets and the apostles, but the Puritans sometimes made their people
almost forget about fasting, and about eating and drinking too, they so
took possession of their people with their incomparable preaching.  I
read, for instance, in Calamy's _Life of John Howe_ that on the public
Fast-days, it was Howe's common way to begin about nine in the morning
and to continue reading, preaching, and praying till about four in the
afternoon.  Henry Rogers almost worships John Howe, but John Howe's Fast-
days pass his modern biographers patience; till, if you would see a
nineteenth-century case made out against a seventeenth-century Fast-day,
you have only to turn to the author of _The Eclipse of Faith_ on the
author of _Delighting in God_.  And, no doubt, when we get back our Fast-
days, we shall leave more of the time to reading pertinent books at home
and to secret fasting and to secret prayer, and shall enjoin our
preachers, while they are pertinent and authoritative in their sermons,
not to take up the whole day with their sermons even at their best.  And
then, as to fasting, discredited and discarded as it is in our day, there
are yet some very good reasons for desiring its return and reinstatement
among us.  Very good reasons, both for health and for holiness.  But it
is only of the latter class of reasons that I would fain for a few words
at present speak.  Well, then, let it be frankly said that there is
nothing holy, nothing saintly, nothing at all meritorious in fasting from
our proper food.  It is the motive alone that sanctifies the means.  It
is the end alone that sanctifies the exercise.  If I fast to chastise
myself for my sin; if I fast to reduce the fuel of my sin; if I fast to
keep my flesh low; if I fast to make me more free for my best books, for
my most inward, spiritual, mystical books--for my Kempis, and my Behmen,
and my Law, and my Leighton, and my Goodwin, and my Bunyan, and my
Rutherford, and my Jeremy Taylor, and my Shepard, and my Edwards, and
suchlike; if I fast for the ends of meditation and prayer; if I fast out
of sympathy with my Bible, and my Saviour, and my latter end, and my
Father's house in heaven--then, no doubt, my fasting will be acceptable
with God, as it will certainly be an immediate means of grace to my
sinful soul.  These altars will sanctify many such gifts.  For, who that
knows anything at all about himself, about his own soul, and about the
hindrances and helps to its salvation from sin; who that ever read a page
of Scripture properly, or spent half an hour in that life which is hidden
in God--who of such will deny or doubt that fasting is superseded or
neglected to the sure loss of the spiritual life, to the sensible
lowering of the religious tone and temper, and to the increase both of
the lusts of the flesh and of the mind?  It may perhaps be that the
institution of fasting as a church ordinance has been permitted to be set
aside in order to make it more than ever a part of each earnest man's own
private life.  Perhaps it was in some ways full time that it should be
again said to us, 'Thou, when thou fastest, appear not unto men to fast.'
As also, 'Is not this the fast that I have chosen: to undo the heavy
burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke?
Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring the
outcast to thy house?'  Let us believe that the form of the Fast-day has
been removed out of the way that the spirit may return and fashion a new
form for itself.  And in the belief that that is so, let us, while
parting with our fathers' Fast-days with real regret--as with their
pertinent and pungent preaching--let us meantime lay in a stock of their
pertinent and pungent books, and set apart particular and peculiar
seasons for their sin-subduing and grace-strengthening study.

The short is this.  The one real substance and true essence of all
fasting is self-denial.  And we can never get past either the supreme and
absolute duty of that, or the daily and hourly call to that, as long as
we continue to read the New Testament, to live in this life, and to
listen to the voice of conscience, and to the voice of God speaking to us
in the voice of conscience.  Without strict and constant self-denial, no
man, whatever his experiences or his pretensions, is a disciple of Jesus
Christ, and secret fasting is one of the first, the easiest, and the most
elementary exercises of New Testament self-denial.  And, besides, the
lusts of our flesh and the lusts of our minds are so linked and locked
and riveted together that if one link is loosened, or broken, or even
struck at, the whole thrall is not yet thrown off indeed, but it is all
shaken; it has all received a staggering blow.  So much is this the case
that one single act of self-denial in the region of the body will be felt
for freedom throughout the whole prison-house of the soul.  And a victory
really won over a sensual sin is already a challenge sounded to our most
spiritual sin.  And it is this discovery that has given to fasting the
place it has held in all the original, resolute, and aggressive ages of
the Church.  With little or nothing in their Lord's literal teaching to
make His people fast, they have been so bent on their own spiritual
deliverance, and they have heard and read so much about the deliverances
both of body and of soul that have been attained by fasting and its
accompaniments, that they have taken to it in their despair, and with
results that have filled them in some instances with rapture, and in all
instances with a good conscience and with a good hope.  You would wonder,
even in these degenerate days,--you would be amazed could you be told how
many of your own best friends in their stealthy, smiling, head-anointing,
hypocritical way deny themselves this and that sweetness, this and that
fatness, this and that softness, and are thus attaining to a strength, a
courage, and a self-conquest that you are getting the benefit of in many
ways without your ever guessing the price at which it has all been
purchased.  Now, would you yourself fain be found among those who are in
this way being made strong and victorious inwardly and spiritually?  Would
you?  Then wash your face and anoint your head; and, then, not denying it
before others, deny it in secret to yourself--this and that sweet morsel,
this and that sweet meat, this and that glass of such divine wine.
Unostentatiously, ungrudgingly, generous-heartedly, and not ascetically
or morosely, day after day deny yourself even in little unthought-of
things, and one of the very noblest laws of your noblest life shall
immediately claim you as its own.  That stealthy and shamefaced act of
self-denial for Christ's sake and for His cross's sake will lay the
foundation of a habit of self-denial; ere ever you are aware of what you
are doing the habit will consolidate into a character; and what you begin
little by little in the body will be made perfect in the soul; till what
you did, almost against His command and altogether without His example,
yet because you did it for His sake and in His service, will have placed
you far up among those who have forsaken all, and themselves also, to
follow Jesus Christ, Son of Man and Son of God.  Only, let this always be
admitted, and never for a moment forgotten, that all this is said by
permission and not of commandment.  Our Lord never fasted as we fast.  He
had no need.  And He never commanded His disciples to fast.  He left it
to themselves to find out each man his own case and his own cure.  Let no
man, therefore, take fasting in any of its degrees, or times, or
occasions, on his conscience who does not first find it in his heart.  At
the same time this may be said with perfect safety, that he who finds it
in his heart and then lays it on his conscience to deny himself anything,
great or small, for Christ's sake, and for the sake of his own
salvation,--he will never repent it.  No, he will never repent it.


CHAPTER XXV--A FEAST-DAY IN MANSOUL


   'He brought me into his banqueting house.'--_The Song_.

Emmanuel's feast-day in the Holy War excels in beauty and in eloquence
everything I know in any other author on the Lord's Supper.  The Song of
Solomon stands alone when we sing that song mystically--that is to say,
when we pour into it all the love of God to His Church in Israel and all
Israel's love to God, and then all our Lord's love to us and all our love
back again to Him in return.  But outside of Holy Scripture I know
nothing to compare for beauty, and for sweetness, and for quaintness, and
for tenderness, and for rapture, with John Bunyan's account of the feast
that Prince Emmanuel made for the town of Mansoul.  With his very best
pen John Bunyan tells us how upon a time Emmanuel made a feast in
Mansoul, and how the townsfolk came to the castle to partake of His
banquet, and how He feasted them on all manner of outlandish food--food
that grew not in the fields of Mansoul; it was food that came down from
heaven and from His Father's house.  They drank also of the water that
was made wine, and, altogether, they were very merry and at home with
their Prince.  There was music also all the time at the table, and man
did eat angels' food, and had honey given him out of the rock.  And then
the table was entertained with some curious and delightful riddles that
were made upon the King Himself, upon Emmanuel His Son, and upon His wars
and doings with Mansoul; till, altogether, the state of transportation
the people were in with their entertainment cannot be told by the very
best of pens.  Nor did He, when they returned to their places, send them
empty away; for either they must have a ring, or a gold chain, or a
bracelet, or a white stone or something; so dear was Mansoul to Him now,
so lovely was Mansoul in His eyes.  And, going and coming to the feast, O
how graciously, how lovingly, how courteously, and how tenderly did this
blessed Prince now carry it to the town of Mansoul!  In all the streets,
gardens, orchards, and other places where He came, to be sure the poor
should have His blessing and benediction; yea, He would kiss them; and if
they were ill, He would lay His hands on them and make them well.  And
was it not now something amazing to behold that in that very place where
Diabolus had had his abode, the Prince of princes should now sit eating
and drinking with all His mighty captains, and men of war, and
trumpeters, and with the singing men and the singing women of His
Father's court!  Now did Mansoul's cup run over; now did her conduits run
sweet wine; now did she eat the finest of the wheat, and now drink milk
and honey out of the rock!  Now she said, How great is His goodness, for
ever since I found favour in His eyes, how honourable have I ever been!

1.  Now, the beginning of it all was, and the best of it all was, that
Emmanuel Himself made the feast.  Mansoul did not feast her Deliverer; it
was her Deliverer who feasted her.  Mansoul, in good sooth, had nothing
that she had not first and last received, and it was far more true and
seemly and fit in every way that her Prince Himself should in His own way
and at His own expense seal and celebrate the deliverance, the freedom,
the life, the peace, and the joy of Mansoul.  And, besides, what had
Mansoul to set before her Prince; or, for the matter of that, before
herself?  Mansoul had nothing of herself.  Mansoul was not sufficient of
herself for a single day.  And how, then, should she propose to feast a
Prince?  No, no! the thing was impossible.  It was Emmanuel's feast from
first to last.  Just as it was at the Lord's table in this house this
morning.  You did not spread the table this morning for your Lord.  You
did not make ready for your Saviour and then invite Him in.  He invited
you.  He said, This is My Body broken for you, and This is My Blood shed
for you; drink ye all of it.  And had any one challenged you at the fence
door and asked you how one who could not pay his own debts or provide
himself a proper meal even for a single day, could dare to sit down with
such a company at such a feast as that, you would have told him that he
had not seen half your hunger and your nakedness; but that it was just
your very hunger and nakedness and homelessness that had brought you
here; or, rather, it was all that that had moved the Master of the feast
to send for you and to compel you to come here.  There was nothing in
your mind and in your mouth more all this day than just that this is the
Lord's Supper, and that He had sent for you and had invited you, and had
constrained and compelled you to come and partake of it.  It was the
Lord's Table to-day, and it will be still and still more His table on
that great Communion-Day when all our earthly communions shall be
accomplished and consummated in heaven.

2.  All that Mansoul did in connection with that great feast was to
prepare the place where Diabolus at one time had held his orgies and
carried on his excesses.  Her Prince, Emmanuel, did all the rest; but He
left it to Mansoul to make the banqueting-room ready.  When our Lord
would keep His last passover with His disciples, He said to Peter and
John, Go into the city, and there shall meet you a man bearing a pitcher
of water, and he will show you a large upper room furnished and prepared.
There is some reason to believe that that happy man had been expecting
that message and had done his best to be ready for it.  And now he was
putting the last touch to his preparations by filling the water-pots of
his house with fresh water; little thinking, happy man, that as long as
the world lasts that water will be holy water in all men's eyes, and
shall teach humility to all men's hearts.  And, my brethren, you know
that all you did all last week against to-day was just to prepare the
room.  For the room all last week and all this day was your own heart,
and not and never this house of stone and lime made with men's hands.  You
swept the inner and upper room of your own heart.  You swept it and
garnished its walls and its floors as much as in you lay.  He, whose the
supper really was, told you that He would bring with Him what was to be
eaten and drunken to-day, while you were to prepare the place.  And, next
to the very actual feast itself, and, sometimes, not next to it but equal
to it, and even before it and better than it, were those busy household
hours you spent, like the man with the pitcher, making the room ready.  In
plain English, you had a communion before the Communion as you prepared
your hearts for the Communion.  I shall not intrude into your secret
places and secret seasons with Christ before His open reception of you to-
day.  But it is sure and certain that, just as you in secret entertained
Him in your mother's house and in the chambers of her that bare you, just
in that measure did He say to you openly before all the watchmen that go
about the city and before all the daughters of Jerusalem, Eat, O friends;
drink, yea, drink abundantly, O beloved.  Yes; do you not think that the
man with the pitcher had his reward?  He had his own thoughts as he
furnished, till it was quite ready, his best upper room and carried in
those pitchers of water, and handed down to his children in after days
the perquisite-skin of the paschal lamb that had been supped on by our
Lord and His disciples in his honoured house that night.  Yes; was it not
amazing to behold that in that very place where sometimes Diabolus had
his abode, and had entertained his Diabolonians, the Prince of princes
should sit eating and drinking with His friends?  Was it not truly
amazing?

3.  Now, upon the feasting-day He feasted them with all manner of
outlandish food--food that grew not in all the fields of Mansoul; it was
food that came down with His Father's court.  The fields of Mansoul
yielded their own proper fruits, and fruits that were not to be despised.
But they were not the proper fruits for that day, neither could they be
placed upon that table.  They are good enough fruits for their purpose,
and as far as they go, and for so long as they last and are in their
season.  But our souls are such that they outlive their own best fruits;
their hunger and their thirst outlast all that can be harvested in from
their own fields.  And thus it is that He who made Mansoul at first, and
who has since redeemed her, has out of His own great goodness provided
food convenient for her.  He knows with what an outlandish life He has
quickened Mansoul, and it is only the part of a faithful Creator to
provide for His creature her proper nourishment.  What is it? asked the
children of Israel at one another when they saw a small round thing, as
small as hoarfrost, upon the ground.  For they wist not what it was.  And
Moses said, Gather of it every man according to his eating, an omer for
every man, according to the number of your persons.  And the house of
Israel called the name thereof Manna, and the taste of it was like wafers
made with honey.  He gave them of the corn of heaven to eat, and man did
eat in the wilderness angels' food.  Your fathers did eat manna in the
wilderness, and are dead; but this is the bread of which if any man eat
he shall not die.  And the bread that I will give is My Flesh, which I
will give for the life of the world.  And so outlandish, so supernatural,
and so full of heavenly wonder and heavenly mystery was that bread, that
the Jews strove among themselves over it, and could not understand it.
But, by His goodness and His truth to us this day, we have again, to our
spiritual nourishment and growth in grace, eaten the Flesh and drunk the
Blood of the Son of God; a meat that, as He who Himself is that meat has
said of it, is meat indeed and drink indeed--as, indeed, we have the
witness in ourselves this day that it is.  They drank also of the water
that was made wine, and were very merry with Him all that day at His
table.  And all their mirth was the high mirth of heaven; it was a mirth
and a gladness without sin, without satiety, and without remorse.

4.  There was music also all the while at the table, and the musicians
were not those of the country of Mansoul, but they were the masters of
song come down from the court of the King.  'I love the Lord,' they sang
in the supper room over the paschal lamb--'I love the Lord because He
hath heard my voice and my supplication.  Because He hath inclined His
ear unto me, therefore will I call upon Him as long as I live.  What
shall I render to the Lord,' they challenged one another, 'for all His
benefits towards me?  I will take the cup of salvation, and will call
upon the name of the Lord.'  'Sometimes imagine,' says a great devotional
writer with a great imagination--'Sometimes imagine that you had been one
of those that joined with our blessed Saviour as He sang an hymn.  Strive
to imagine to yourself with what majesty He looked.  Fancy that you had
stood by Him surrounded with His glory.  Think how your heart would have
been inflamed, and what ecstasies of joy you would have then felt when
singing with the Son of God!  Think again and again with what joy and
devotion you would have then sung had this really been your happy state;
and what a punishment you would have thought it to have then been silent.
And let that teach you how to be affected with psalms and hymns of
thanksgiving.'  Yes; and it is no imagination; it was our own experience
only this morning and afternoon to join in a music that was never made in
this world, but which was as outlandish as was the meat which we ate
while the music was being made.

   'Bless, O my soul, the Lord thy God,
      And not forgetful be
   Of all His gracious benefits
      He hath bestow'd on thee.

   Who with abundance of good things
      Doth satisfy thy mouth;
   So that, ev'n as the eagle's age,
      Renewed is thy youth.'

The 103rd Psalm was never made in this world.  Musicians far other than
those native to Mansoul made for us our Lord's-Table Psalm.

5.  And then, the riddles that were made upon the King Himself, and upon
Emmanuel His Son, and upon Emmanuel's wars and all His other doings with
Mansoul.  And when Emmanuel would expound some of those riddles Himself,
oh! how they were lightened!  They saw what they never saw!  They could
not have thought that such rarities could have been couched in so few and
such ordinary words.  Yea, they did gather that the things themselves
were a kind of portraiture, and that, too, of Emmanuel Himself.  This,
they would say, this is the Lamb! this is the Sacrifice! this is the
Rock! this is the Door! and this is the Way! with a great many other
things.  At Gaius's supper-table they sat up over their riddles and nuts
and sweetmeats till the sun was in the sky.  And it would be midnight and
morning if I were to show you the answers to the half of the riddles.
Take one, for an example, and let it be one of the best for the communion-
day.  'In one rare quality of the orator,' says Hugh Miller, writing
about his adored minister, Alexander Stewart of Cromarty, 'Mr. Stewart
stood alone.  Pope refers in his satires to a strange power of creating
love and admiration by just "touching the brink of all we hate."  Now,
into this perilous, but singularly elective department, Mr. Stewart could
enter with safety and at will.  We heard him, scarce a twelvemonth since,
deliver a discourse of singular power on the sin-offering as minutely
described by the divine penman in Leviticus.  He described the
slaughtered animal--foul with dust and blood, its throat gashed across,
its entrails laid open and steaming in its impurity to the sun--a vile
and horrid thing, which no one could look on without disgust, nor touch
without defilement.  The picture appeared too vivid; its introduction too
little in accordance with a just taste.  But this pulpit-master knew what
he was all the time doing.  "And that," he said, as he pointed to the
terrible picture, "that is SIN!"  By one stroke the intended effect was
produced, and the rising disgust and horror transferred from the
revolting, material image to the great moral evil.'  And, in like manner,
This is the LAMB! we all said over the mystical riddle of the bread and
the wine this morning.  This is the SACRIFICE!  This is the DOOR!  This
is EMMANUEL, GOD WITH US, and made sin for us!

6.  In one of his finest chapters, Thomas A Kempis tells us in what way
we are to communicate mystically: that is to say, how we are to keep on
communicating at all times, and in all places, without the intervention
of the consecrated sacramental elements.  And John Bunyan, the sweetest
and most spiritual of mystics, has all that, too, in this same supreme
passage.  Every day was a feast-day now, he tells us.  So much so that
when the elders and the townsmen did not come to Emmanuel, He would send
in much plenty of provisions to them.  Yea, such delicates would He send
them, and therewith would so cover their tables, that whosoever saw it
confessed that the like could not be seen in any other kingdom.  That is
to say, my fellow-communicants, there is nothing that we experienced and
enjoyed in this house this day that we may not experience and enjoy again
to-morrow and every day in our own house at home.  All the mystics worth
the noble name will tell you that all true communicating is always
performed and experienced in the prepared heart, and never in any upper
room, or church, or chapel, or new heaven, or new earth.  The prepared
heart of every worthy communicant is the true upper room; it is the true
banqueting chamber; it is the true and the only house of wine.  Our
Father's House itself, with its supper-table covered with the new wine of
the Kingdom--the best of it all will still be within you.  Prepare
yourselves within yourselves, then, O departing and dispersing
communicants.  Prepare, and keep yourselves always prepared.  And as
often as you so prepare yourselves your Prince will come to you every
day, and will cat and drink with you, till He makes every day on earth a
day of heaven already to you.  See if He will not; for, again and again,
He who keeps all His promises says that He will.


CHAPTER XXVI--EMMANUEL'S LIVERY


   'And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen,
   clean and white; for the fine linen is the righteousness of
   saints.'--_John_.

The Plantagenet kings of ancient England had white and scarlet for their
livery; white and green was the livery of the Tudors; the Stuarts wore
red and yellow; while blue and scarlet colours adorn to-day the House of
Hanover.  And the Prince of the kings of the earth, He has his royal
colours also, and His servants have their badge of honour and their
blazon also.  Then He commanded that those who waited upon Him should go
and bring forth out of His treasury those white and glittering robes,
that I, He said, have provided and laid up in store for my Mansoul.  So
the white garments were fetched out of the treasury and laid forth to the
eyes of the people.  Moreover, it was granted to them that they should
take them and put them on, according, said He, to your size and your
stature.  So the people were all put into white--into fine linen, clean
and white.  Then said the Prince, This, O Mansoul, is My livery, and this
is the badge by which Mine are known from the servants of others.  Yea,
this livery is that which I grant to all them that are Mine, and without
which no man is permitted to see My face.  Wear this livery, therefore,
for My sake, and, also, if you would be known by the world to be Mine.
But now can you think how Mansoul shone!  For Mansoul was fair as the
sun, clear as the moon, and terrible as an army with banners.

