"No! I play fair, always--ask anybody! Oh, I _do_ want to go back to
France so badly!" Once more she was all appeal and childishness.
"Anyway, I won't stay in England! I have made up my mind to that!"

"How long has it taken?"

"A fortnight," she said, slowly--"just a fortnight."

"That hardly seems time enough--does it?" said Ashe. "Give us a little
longer."

"No--I--I hate you!" These, when in good order, are not apt to fail if
the lock-string be properly pulled; as, however, a slight deterioration
may interfere with the regularity of salutes, the precaution of
dropping a few grains of gunpowder into the vent will be found
effectual.

Madame
d'Estrées could be heard giving directions. A space was made in the
large drawing-room--a little table appeared in it, and a footman placed
thereon a glass of water.

Lady Kitty looked up.

"Oh, that _detestable_ man!" she said, drawing back. "No--I can't, I
can't bear it. Come with me!" and beckoning to Ashe she fled with
precipitation into the farther part of the inner drawing-room, out of
her mother's sight. Ashe followed her, and she dropped panting and elate
into a chair.

Meanwhile the outer room gathered to hear the recitation of some _vers
de société_, fondly believed by their author to be of a very pretty and
Praedian make. They certainly amused the company, who laughed and
clapped as each neat personality emerged. Lady Kitty passed the time
either in a running commentary on the reciter, which occasionally
convulsed her companion, or else in holding her small hands over her
ears.

When it was over, she drew a long breath.

"How maman _can!_ Oh! how _bête_ you English are to applaud such a man!
You have only _one_ poet, haven't you--one living poet? Ah! I shouldn't
have laughed if it had been he!"

"I suppose you mean Geoffrey Cliffe?" said Ashe, amused. "Nobody abroad
seems ever to have heard of any one else."

"Well, of course, I just long to know him! Every one says he is so
dangerous!--he makes all the women fall in love with him. That's
_delicious_! He shouldn't make me! Do you know him?"

"I knew him at Eton. We were 'swished' together," said Ashe.

She inquired what the phrase might mean, and when informed, flushed
hotly, denouncing the English school system as quite unfit for gentlemen
and men of honor. Her French cousins would sooner die than suffer such a
thing. Then in the midst of her tirade she suddenly paused, and fixing
Ashe with her brilliant eyes, she asked him a surprising question, in a
changed and steady voice:

"Is Lady Tranmore not well?"

Ashe was fairly startled.

"Thank you, I left her quite well. Have you--"

"Did maman ask her to come to-night?"

It was Ashe's turn to redden.

"I don't know. But--we are in mourning, you see, for my brother."

Her face changed and softened instantly.

"Are you? I'm so sorry. I--I always say something stupid. Then--Lady
Tranmore used to come to maman's parties--before--"

She had grown quite pale; it seemed to him that her hand shook. Ashe
felt an extraordinary pang of pity and concern.

"It's I, you see, to whom your mother has been kind," he said, gently.
"We're an independent family; we each make our own friends."

"No--" she said, drawing a deep breath. "No, it's not that. Look at that
room."

Following her slight gesture, Ashe looked. It was an old, low-ceiled
room, panelled in white and gold, showing here and there an Italian
picture--saint, or holy family, agreeable school-work--from which might
be inferred the tastes if not the _expertise_ of Madame d'Estrées' first
husband, Lord Blackwater. The floor was held by a plentiful collection
of seats, neither too easy nor too stiff; arranged by one who understood
to perfection the physical conditions at least which should surround the
"great art" of conversation. At this moment every seat was full. A sea
of black coats overflowed on the farther side, into the staircase
landing, where through the open door several standing groups could be
seen; and in the inner room, where they sat, there was but little space
between its margin and themselves. It was a remarkable sight; and in his
past visits to the house Ashe had often said to himself that the
elements of which it was made up were still more remarkable. Ministers
and Opposition; ambassadors, travellers, journalists; the men of fashion
and the men of reform; here a French republican official, and beyond
him, perhaps, a man whose ancestors were already of the most ancient
_noblesse_ in Saint-Simon's day; artists, great and small, men of
letters good and indifferent; all these had been among the guests of
Madame d'Estrées, brought to the house, each of them, for some quality's
sake, some power of keeping up the social game.

But now, as he looked at the room, not to please himself but to obey
Lady Kitty, Ashe became aware of a new impression. The crowd was no
less, numerically, than he had seen it in the early winter; but it
seemed to him less distinguished, made up of coarser and commoner items.
He caught the face of a shady financier long since banished from Lady
Tranmore's parties; beyond him a red-faced colonel, conspicuous alike
for doubtful money-matters and matrimonial trouble; and in a farther
corner the sallow profile of a writer whose books were apt to rouse even
the man of the world to a healthy and contemptuous disgust. Surely these
persons had never been there of old; he could not remember one of them.

He looked again, more closely. Was it fancy, or was the gathering itself
aware of the change which had passed over it? As a whole, it was
certainly noisier than of old; the shouting and laughter were incessant.
But within the general uproar certain groups had separated from other
groups, and were talking with a studied quiet. Most of the habitué's
were still there; but they held themselves apart from their neighbors.
Were the old intimacy and solidarity beginning to break up?--and with
them the peculiar charm of these "evenings," a charm which had so far
defied a social boycott that had been active from the first?

He glanced back uncertainly at Lady Kitty, and she looked at him.

"Why are there no ladies?" she said, abruptly.

He collected his thoughts.

"It--it has always been a men's gathering. Perhaps for some men
here--I'm sorry there are such barbarians, Lady Kitty!--that makes the
charm of it. Look at that old fellow there! He is a most famous old
boy. Everybody invites him--but he never stirs out of his den but to
come here. My mother can't get him--though she has tried often."

And he pointed to a dishevelled, gray-haired gentleman, short in
stature, round in figure, something, in short, like an animated egg, who
was addressing a group not far off.

Lady Kitty's face showed a variety of expressions.

"Are there many parties like this in London? Are the ladies asked, and
don't come? I--I don't--understand!"

Ashe looked at her kindly.

"There is no other hostess in London as clever as your mother," he
declared, and then tried to change the subject; but she paid no heed.

"The other day, at Aunt Grosville's," she said, slowly, "I asked if my
two cousins might come to-night, and they looked at me as though I were
mad! Oh, _do_ talk to me!" She came impulsively nearer, and Ashe noticed
that Darrell, standing against the doorway of communication, looked
round at them in amusement. "I liked your face--the very first moment
when I saw you across the room. Do you know--you're--you're very
handsome!" She drew back, her eyes fixed gravely, intently upon him.

For the first time Ashe was conscious of annoyance.

"I hope you won't mind my saying so"--his tone was a little short--"but
in this country we don't say those things. They're not--quite polite."

