Mr. Baron Hatsel summed up in his dreary vacillating way.  He told
the gentlemen of the jury that young men would be young men,
especially where pretty wenches were concerned, and that all knew
that there was bitterness where Whig and Tory were living nigh
together.  Then he went over the evidence, at first in a tone
favourable to the encounter having been almost accidental, and the
stroke an act of passion.  But he then added, it was strange, and he
did not know what to think of these young sparks and the young
gentlewoman all meeting in a lonely place when honest folks were
abed, and the hiding in the vault, and the state of the clothes were
strange matters scarce agreeing with what either prisoner or witness
said.  She had been married three months to Daker. She was a poor
girl left alone, with a few hundreds, I apprehend. She would not
say much. A runaway match, I concluded. Not a word about her family.
When I left Paris, after dinner, he had made no sign.
He had come ingenuously forward to deliver his
cousin, and a deliberate murderer was not wont to be so generous,
though may be he expected to get off easily on this same plea of
misadventure.  If it was misadventure, why did he not try to do
something for the deceased, or wait to see whether he breathed
before throwing him into this same pit? though, to be sure, a lad
might be inexperienced.  For the rest, as to these same sights of
the deceased or his likeness, he (the judge) was no believer in
ghosts, though he would not say there were no such things, and the
gentlemen of the jury must decide whether it was more likely the
poor youth was playing pranks in the body, or whether he were
haunting in the spirit those who had most to do with his untimely
end.  This was the purport, or rather the no-purport, of the charge.

The jury were absent for a very short time, and as it leaked out
afterwards, their intelligence did not rise above the idea that the
young gentleman was thick with they Frenchies who wanted to bring in
murder and popery, warming-pans and wooden shoes.  He called stoning
poultry a trifle, so of what was he not capable?  Of course he
spited the poor young chap, and how could the fact be denied when
the poor ghost had come back to ask for his blood?

So the awful suspense ended with 'Guilty, my Lord.'

"Of murder or manslaughter?"

"Of murder."

The prisoner stood as no doubt he had faced Turkish batteries.

The judge asked the customary question whether he had any reason to
plead why he should not be condemned to death.

"No, my lord.  I am guilty of shedding Peregrine Oakshott's blood,
and though I declare before God and man that I had no such purpose,
and it was done in the heat of an undesigned struggle, I hated him
enough to render the sentence no unjust one.  I trust that God will
pardon me, if man does not."

The gentlemen around drew the poor old father out of the court so as
not to hear the final sentence, and Anne, half stunned, was taken
away by her uncle, and put into the same carriage with him.  The old
man held her hands closely and could not speak, but she found voice,
"Sir, sir, do not give up hope.  God will save him.  I know what I
can do.  I will go to Princess Anne.  She is friendly with the King
now.  She will bring me to tell him all."

Hurriedly she spoke, her object, as it seemed to be that of every
one, to keep up such hope and encouragement as to drown the terrible
sense of the actual upshot of the trial.  The room at the George was
full in a moment of friends declaring that all would go well in the
end, and consulting what to do.  Neither Sir Philip nor Dr. Woodford
could be available, as their refusal to take the oaths to King
William made them marked men.  The former could only write to the
Imperial Ambassador, beseeching him to claim the prisoner as an
officer of the Empire, though it was doubtful whether this would be
allowed in the case of an Englishman born.  Mr. Fellowes undertook
to be the bearer of the letter, and to do his best through
Archbishop Tenison to let the King know the true bearings of the
case.  Almost in pity, to spare Anne the misery of helpless waiting,
Dr. Woodford consented to let her go under his escort, starting very
early the next morning, since the King might immediately set off for
the army in Holland, and the space was brief between condemnation
and execution.

Sir Edmund proposed to hurry to Carisbrooke Castle, being happily on
good terms with that fiery personage, Lord Cutts, the governor of
the Isle of Wight as well as a favoured general of the King, whose
intercession might do more than Princess Anne's.  Moreover, a
message came from old Mr. Cromwell, begging to see Sir Edmund.  It
was on behalf of Major Oakshott, who entreated that Sir Philip might
be assured of his own great regret at the prosecution and the
result, and his entire belief that the provocation came from his
unhappy son.  Both he and Richard Cromwell were having a petition
for pardon drawn up, which Sir Henry Mildmay and almost all the
leading gentlemen of Hampshire of both parties were sure to sign,
while the sheriff would defer the execution as long as possible.
Pardons, especially in cases of duelling, had been marketable
articles in the last reigns, and there could not but be a sigh for
such conveniences.  Sir Philip wanted to go at once to the jail,
which was very near the inn, but consented on strong persuasion to
let his son-in-law precede him.

Anne longed for a few moments to herself, but durst not leave the
poor old man, who sat holding her hand, and at each interval of
silence saying how this would kill the boy's mother, or something
equally desponding, so that she had to talk almost at random of the
various gleams of hope, and even to describe how the little Duke of
Gloucester might be told of Philip and sent to the King, who was
known to be very fond of him.  It was a great comfort when Dr.
Woodford came and offered to pray with them.

By and by Sir Edmund returned, having been making arrangements for
Charles's comfort.  Ordinary prisoners were heaped together and
miserably treated, but money could do something, and by application
to the High Sheriff, permission had been secured for Charles to
occupy a private room, on a heavy fee to the jailor, and for his
friends to have access to him, besides other necessaries, purchased
at more than their weight in gold.  Sir Edmund brought word that
Charles was in good heart; sent love and duty to his father, whom he
would welcome with all his soul, but that as Miss Woodford was--in
her love and bravery--going so soon to London, he prayed that she
might be his first visitor that evening.

There was little more to do than to cross the street, and Sir Edmund
hurried her through the flagged and dirty yard, and the dim, foul
hall, filled with fumes of smoke and beer, where melancholy debtors
held out their hands, idle scapegraces laughed, heavy degraded faces
scowled, and evil sounds were heard, up the stairs to a nail-studded
door, where Anne shuddered to hear the heavy key turned by the
coarse, rude-looking warder, only withheld from insolence by the
presence of a magistrate.  Her escort tarried outside, and she saw
Charles, his rush-light candle gleaming on his gold lace as he wrote
a letter to the ambassador to be forwarded by his father.

He sprang up with outstretched arms and an eager smile.  "My brave
sweetheart! how nobly you have done.  Truth and trust.  It did my
heart good to hear you."

Her head was on his shoulder.  She wanted to speak, but could not
without loosing the flood of tears.

"Faith entire," he went on; "and you are still striving for me."

"Princess Anne is--" she began, then the choking came.

"True!" he said.  "Come, do not expect the worst.  I have not made
up my mind to that!  If the ambassador will stir, the King will not
be disobliging, though it will probably not be a free pardon, but
Hungary for some years to come--and you are coming with me."

"If you will have one who might be--may have been--your death.  Oh,
every word I said seemed to me stabbing you;" and the tears would
come now.

"No such thing!  They only showed how true my love is to God and me,
and made my heart swell with pride to hear her so cheering me
through all."

His strength seemed to allow her to break down.  She had all along
had to bear up the spirits of Sir Philip and Lady Archfield, and
though she had struggled for composure, the finding that she had in
him a comforter and support set the pent-up tears flowing fast, as
he held her close.

"Oh, I did not mean to vex you thus!" she said.

"Vex! no indeed!  'Tis something to be wept for.  But cheer up, Anne
mine.  I have often been in far worse plights than this, when I have
ridden up in the face of eight big Turkish guns.  The balls went
over my head then, by God's good mercy.  Why not the same now?  Ay!
and I was ready to give all I had to any one who would have put a
pistol to my head and got me out of my misery, jolting along on the
way to the Iron Gates.  Yet here I am!  Maybe the Almighty brought
me back to save poor Sedley, and clear my own conscience, knowing
well that though it does not look so, it is better for me to die
thus than the other way.  No, no; 'tis ten to one that you and the
rest of you will get me off.  I only meant to show you that
supposing it fails, I shall only feel it my due, and much better for
me than if I had died out there with it unconfessed.  I shall try to
get them all to feel it so, and, after all, now the whole is out, my
heart feels lighter than it has done these seven years.  And if I
could only believe that poor fellow alive, I could almost die
content, though that sounds strange.  It will quiet his poor
restless spirit any way."

"You are too brave.  Oh!  I hoped to come here to comfort you, and I
have only made you comfort me."

"The best way, sweetest.  Now, I will seal and address this letter,
and you shall take it to Mr. Fellowes to carry to the ambassador."

This gave Anne a little time to compose herself, and when he had
finished, he took the candle, and saying, "Look here," he held it to
the wall, and they read, scratched on the rough bricks, "Alice
Lisle, 1685.  This is thankworthy."

"Lady Lisle's cell!  Oh, this is no good omen!"

"I call it a goodly legacy even to one who cannot claim to suffer
wrongfully," said Charles.  "There, they knock--one kiss more--we
shall meet again soon.  Don't linger in town, but give me all the
days you can.  Yes, take her back, Sir Edmund, for she must rest
before her journey.  Cheer up, love, and do not lie weeping all
night, but believe that your prayers to God and man must prevail one
way or another."


CHAPTER XXXI: ELF-LAND


"Three ruffians seized me yestermorn,
   Alas! a maiden most forlorn;
They choked my cries with wicked might,
   And bound me on a palfrey white."

S. T. COLERIDGE.

Yet after the night it was with more hope than despondency, Anne, in
the February morning, mounted en croupe behind Mr. Fellowes's
servant, that being decided on as the quickest mode of travelling.
She saw the sunrise behind St. Catherine's Hill, and the gray mists
filling the valley of the Itchen, and the towers of the Cathedral
and College barely peeping beyond them.  Would her life rise out of
the mist?

Through hoar-frosted hedges, deeply crested with white, they rode,
emerging by and by on downs, becoming dully green above, as the sun
touched them, but white below.  Suddenly, in passing a hollow,
overhung by two or three yew-trees, they found themselves surrounded
by masked horsemen.  BENEVENTE (since NA January 2002) cabinet:
for four-year terms; governor and lieutenant governor elected on the
same ticket by popular vote for four-year terms; election last
held NA November 2001 (next to be held NA November 2005) election
results: Juan N.

BABOUTA (Republican Party) 49%
Legislative branch: + bicameral Legislature consists of the
Senate (9 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve four-year
staggered terms) and the House of Representatives (18 seats; members
are elected by popular vote to serve two-year terms) election
results: Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
Republican Party 4, Democratic Party 3, Reform Party 1, independent
1; House of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats
by party - Republican Party 16, Democratic Party 1, Covenant Party
1 note: the Northern Mariana Islands does not have a nonvoting
delegate in the US Congress; instead, it has an elected official
or "resident representative" located in Washington, DC; seats by
party - Republican Party 1 (Pedro A.

TENORIO) elections:
Senate - last held 5 November 2001 (next to be held NA November
2003); House of Representatives - last held 5 November 2001 (next
to be held NA November 2003)
Judicial branch: Commonwealth Supreme Court; Superior Court; Federal
District Court 
Political parties and leaders: Democratic Party [Dr.

Carlos S. CAMACHO]; Republican Party [Benigno R. FITIAL]
Political pressure groups and leaders: NA
International organization participation: ESCAP (associate), Interpol
(subbureau), SPC
Flag description: blue, with a white, five-pointed star superimposed
on the gray silhouette of a latte stone (a traditional foundation
stone used in building) in the center, surrounded by a wreath
Economy Northern Mariana Islands
Economy - overview: The economy benefits substantially from financial
assistance from the US.

The rate of funding has declined as locally generated government
revenues have grown. The key tourist industry employs about 50% of
the work force and accounts for roughly one-fourth of GDP. Japanese
tourists predominate. Annual tourist entries have exceeded one-half
million in recent years, but financial difficulties in Japan have
caused a temporary slowdown.

Then came the sound as of harder ground and a stop--
undertones, gruff and manly, could be heard, the peculiar noise of
horses' drinking; and her captor came up this time on foot, saying,
"Plaguy little to be had in this accursed hole; 'tis but the choice
between stale beer and milk.  Which will you prefer?"

She could not help accepting the milk, and she was taken down to
drink it, and a hunch of coarse barley bread was given to her, with
it the words, "I would offer you bacon, but it tastes as if Old Nick
had smoked it in his private furnace."

Such expressions were no proof that gentle blood was lacking, but
whose object could her abduction be--her, a penniless dependent?
Could she have been seized by mistake for some heiress?  In that
moment's hope she asked, "Sir, do you know who I am--Anne Woodford,
a poor, portionless maid, not--"

"I know perfectly well, madam," was the reply.  "May I trouble you
to permit me to mount you again?"

She was again placed behind one of the riders, and again fastened to
him, and off they went, on a rougher horse, on harder ground, and,
as she thought, occasionally through brushwood.  Again a space, to
her illimitable, went by, and then came turf once more, and by and
by what seemed to her the sound of the sea.

Another halt, another lifting down, but at once to be gathered up
again, and then a splashing through water.  "Be careful," said the
voice.  A hand, a gentleman's hand, took hers; her feet were on
boards--on a boat; she was drawn down to sit on a low thwart.
Putting her hand over, she felt the lapping of the water and tasted
that it was salt.

"Oh, sir, where are you taking me?" she asked, as the boat was
pushed off.

"That you will know in due time," he answered.

Some more refreshment was offered her in a decided but not
discourteous manner, and she partook of it, remembering that
exhaustion might add to her perils.  She perceived that after
pushing off from shore sounds of eating and low gruff voices mingled
with the plash of oars.  Commands seemed to be given in French, and
there were mutterings of some strange language.  Darkness was coming
on.  What were they doing with her?  And did Charles's fate hang
upon hers?

Yet in spite of terrors and anxieties, she was so much worn out as
to doze long enough to lose count of time, till she was awakened by
the rocking and tossing of the boat and loud peremptory commands.
She became for the first time in her life miserable with sea-
sickness, for how long it was impossible to tell, and the pitching
of the boat became so violent that when she found herself bound to
one of the seats she was conscious of little but a longing to be
allowed to go to the bottom in peace, except that some great cause--
she could hardly in her bewildered wretchedness recollect what--
forbade her to die till her mission was over.

There were loud peremptory orders, oaths, sea phrases, in French and
English, sometimes in that unknown tongue.  A little _crévé_ taps his
teeth with the end of his cane, blinks his tired, wicked eyes,
like a monkey in the sun, through his _pince-nez_, and opines,
with a sharp relish, that Aspasia is destined to sweep her five
stories--well.

Pah!

There followed a fresh upheaval, as if the boat were perpendicular;
a sudden sinking, some one fell over and bruised her; another
frightful rising and falling, then smoothness; the rope that held
her fast undone; the keel grating; hands apparently dragging up the
boat.  She was lifted out like a doll, carried apparently through
water over shingle.  Light again made itself visible; she was in a
house, set down on a chair, in the warmth of fire, amid a buzz of
voices, which lulled as the bandage was untied and removed.  Her
eyes were so dazzled, her head so giddy, her senses so faint, that
everything swam round her, and there that strange vision recurred.
Peregrine Oakshott was before her.  She closed her eyes again, as
she lay back in the chair.

"Take this; you will be better."  A glass was at her lips, and she
swallowed some hot drink, which revived her so that she opened her
eyes again, and by the lights in an apparently richly curtained
room, she again beheld that figure standing by her, the glass in his
hand.

"Oh!" she gasped.  "Are you alive?"

The answer was to raise her still gloved hand with substantial
fingers to a pair of lips.

"Then--then--he is safe!  Thank God!" she murmured, and shut her
eyes again, dizzy and overcome, unable even to analyse her
conviction that all would be well, and that in some manner he had
come to her rescue.

"Where am I?" she murmured dreamily.  "In Elf-land?"

"Yes; come to be Queen of it."

