Produced by Curtis A. Weyant and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team


[Illustration: DOWN THEY PLUNGED SIDE BY SIDE FROM THE ISLAND AND INTO THE
WATER.]


JACK NORTH'S TREASURE HUNT

Or,

Daring Adventures in South America
BY
ROY ROCKWOOD

Author of "The Rival Ocean Divers," "The Cruise of the
Treasure Ship," "A Schoolboy's Pluck," etc.

<i>Illustrated</i>

THE WORLD SYNDICATE PUBLISHING CO.
CLEVELAND   NEW YORK

Made in U.S.A.


Copyright, 1907, by
CHATTERTON-PECK COMPANY
PRESS OF
THE COMMERCIAL BOOKBINDING CO
CLEVELAND


Contents


     I.  A Chance for a Position
    II.  The Test of Strength
   III.  A Long Trip Proposed
    IV.  Just in Time
     V.  On the Island of Robinson Crusoe
    VI.  A Terrible Mistake
   VII.  A Plea of the Enemy
  VIII.  The Lonely Pimento
    IX.  Jack Becomes an Engineer
     X.  A Narrow Escape
    XI.  Under the Head of a Jaguar
   XII.  Put to the Test
  XIII.  Precious Moments
   XIV.  The Attack on the Train
    XV.  The Treasure Island
   XVI.  At the Boiling Lake
  XVII.  In the Nitrate Fields
 XVIII.  An Alarm of Fire
   XIX.  Chilians on Both Sides
    XX.  Preparations for Departure
   XXI.  A Panic on Shipboard
  XXII.  The Fate of Plum Plucky
 XXIII.  Jenny
  XXIV.  Jack and the Ocelot
   XXV.  In the Quicksands
  XXVI.  A Night in the Jungle
 XXVII.  Jack and the Big Snake
XXVIII.  Back from the Dead
  XXIX.  The Treasure of the Boiling Lake
   XXX.  A Ride for Life--Conclusion


Jack North's Treasure Hunt


Chapter I

A Chance for a Position


"Where are you going, Jack?"

"To the shops of John Fowler & Company."

"To look for a job?"

"Yes."

"Then you are in luck, for I heard this morning that they want another
striker in the lower shop at once."

"Then I'll <i>strike</i> for the opening at once, and my name is not Jack
North if I don't land it."

"It will be John Slowshanks when you do get it, mind me!" cried out
another voice, from an alley-way near at hand, and before Jack North or
his companion could recover from their surprise the speaker, a tall,
awkward youth of twenty, sped up the street at the top of his speed.

The scene was in Bauton, a large manufacturing city of New England. The
first speaker was a workman at the shops that had been mentioned, but
beyond the fact that he placed the youth before him in the way of getting
work, he needs no special introduction.

The other person was a lad of eighteen, with brown, curly hair, blue eyes,
and a round, robust figure. His name was John North, and he was the son of
a couple in humble circumstances.

"Take care!" cried the man, "that sneak will get in ahead of you, and then
a snap of your little finger for your chance of getting the job at
Fowler's."

Jack North did not stop to hear his friend through. He was very much in
need of a situation, and he knew the young man who had rushed in ahead of
him as a bitter enemy. That fact, coupled with his desire to get work,
caused him to dash up the street as fast as he could run.

Naturally the appearance of the two running at such a headlong pace
aroused the attention of the passers-by, all of whom stopped to see what
it meant. Others rushed out of their houses, offices or workshops to
ascertain the meaning of the race, until the street was lined with
excited, anxious men, women and children.

"Is it fire?" asked an old, gray-headed man, and another, catching only
the sound of the last word, repeated it and thus a wild alarm was quickly
spread.

Meanwhile Jack North had found that he could not overtake his rival. 
Kolina solemnly declared she must be of the party; and thus these experienced
savages, used to sudden and daring resolves, decided in one night
on a journey which would perhaps have been talked of half a century
elsewhere before it was undertaken.

Kolina slept little that night. In a compartment near her was one who had
since childhood been the ideal of her future. She had loved Ivan
as a playmate--she loved him as a man; and here, he whom she had
longed for all the winter, and he whom she had hoped to see once more
the next summer, had suddenly come, starting on a perilous journey
of years, to win the hand of an avaricious, but young and beautiful
widow.

Kolina saw all her fairest dreams vanish, and the idol of her heart
crumble into dust. And yet she felt no ill-will to Ivan, and never
changed her resolve to be the faithful companion and attendant of
her father and his friend in their wild journey to the supposed
islands in the Frozen Sea.

III.--NIJNEI-KOLIMSK.

The five days fixed by Sakalar for preparing for the journey were
wholly devoted to the necessary arrangements.

There was much to be done, and much to be talked of. They had to travel
a long way before they reached even the real starting-point of
their adventurous voyage.

Sakalar, duly to impress Ivan with the dangers and perils of the search,
narrated once more in minute detail all his former sufferings.

But nothing daunted the young trader. He was one of those men, who, under
more favorable circumstances, would have been a Cook, a Parry, or
a Franklin, periling everything to make farther discovery in the
science of geography.

The five horses of Ivan were exchanged for others more inured to the kind
of journey they were about to undertake.

There was one for each of the adventurers and four to carry the luggage,
consisting chiefly of articles with which to pay for the hire of
dogs and sledges.

All were well armed, while the dress of all was the same--Kolina
adopting for the time the habits and appearance of the man. Over their
usual clothes they put a jacket of foxes' skins and a fur-breast
cover; the legs being covered by hare-skin wrappers.

Over these were stockings of soft reindeer leather, and high strong boots
of the same material.

The knees were protected by knee-caps of fur, and then, above all, was a
coat with loose sleeves and hood of double deerskin.

This was not all.

After the chin, nose, ears, and mouth had been guarded by appropriate
pieces, forming together a mask, they had received the additional
weight of a pointed fur cap.

Our three travelers when they took their departure looked precisely like
three animated bundles of old clothes.

All were well armed with gun, pistol, hatchet, and hunting-knife, while
the girdle further supported a pipe and tobacco-pouch.

They had not explained whither they were going, but the whole village
knew that they must be about to undertake some perilous journey,
and accordingly turned out to cheer them as they went, while several
ardent admirers of Kolina were loud in their murmurs at her
accompanying the expedition.

interrupted the other youth sharply in the
midst of Jack's speech. "I reckon Henshaw knows who he is talking to." "It
was me Mr. Jacobs recommended the place to, and you are trying to steal it
from me," cried Jack. "You are telling a likely story, Jack North, and if
you say another word I'll hit you. Henshaw called for me, and it's me he's
going to give work."

Mr. Henshaw, who for the first time seemed to realize the situation,
looked surprised, as he gazed from one to the other.

Disliking to raise a fuss Jack remained silent at first, but he felt bound
to say:

"I was first at the office, and I claim--" "You'd claim the earth, as far
as that is concerned, you miserable chick of nobody!" broke in Offut.

The last was more than Jack could stand, and stepping quickly forward, he
cried: "Stop, Fret Offut! you have said enough. I don't want any quarrel
with you, but I am as good as you."

"Are yer?" demanded the fiery Offut, whose greatest delight seemed to be
in provoking a quarrel. "I can lick you out of your boots, and I will do
it before I will let you get in here." By this time Mr. Henshaw, a rather
rough man, as slow as he was of comprehension, was interested in the
dispute, and not averse to encouraging sport of the kind, he said:

"That's it, boys; fight it out. I'll hire the lad that downs the other."

"Then the job is as good as mine!" cried Fret Offut, rushing at Jack with
great bluster and no regard to fairness.


Chapter II

The Test of Strength


If taken unawares, Jack North did not allow his enemy to get very much the
advantage of him. As the other rushed forward, expecting to overpower him
by sheer force, he met him squarely in a hand-to-hand struggle for the
mastery.

Mr. Henshaw seemed delighted, and he cried out:

"Limber up, lads, limber up! A job to him that comes out on top! Hi,
there!"

Sundry other exclamations came from the excited foreman at every change of
the situation, while several spectators, attracted to the place by the
out-cries, gathered about the young contestants, lending their voices to
the confusing sounds of the scene.

While Fret Offut was taller and larger than Jack North, he lacked the
latter's firm-set muscles, and what was of even greater account, his
unflinching determination to win. Our hero never knew what it was to
possess a faint heart, and that is more than half the battle every time.

Thus when young Offut crowded him back against the wall of the building,
and every one present felt sure he must be overpowered, Jack set his lips
more firmly together and renewed his resistance with redoubled effort.

Then, as he struck his foot against a piece of scrap iron and reeled
backward in spite of all he could, his friends groaned, while Fret Offut
cried, exultantly:

"Ho, my fine cub, down you go this time! Henshaw--"

But Mr. Henshaw never knew what was to be said to him, neither did the
young bully ever realize fully just what followed.

Jack, concentrating all the strength he possessed, rallied. He threw out
his right foot in such a way as to catch his antagonist behind his left
knee, when the latter suddenly found himself sinking. At the same time the
grasp on his collar tightened, while with almost superhuman power he was
flung backward. With such force did Jack handle his adversary that he sent
him flying several yards away, where he fell in a pool of dark, slimy
water.

The spectators cheered heartily, while Mr. Henshaw clapped his grimy hands
and shouted at the top of his voice:

"Well done, my hearty! That's a handsome trick and well worth a job."

Fret Offut arose from his unwelcome bath, dripping from head to foot with
the nasty mess, presenting a most unprepossessing appearance.

The foreman was turning back into the shop, followed by Jack, and the
crowd was rapidly dispersing.

"Hold on!" he bawled, "that wasn't fair. I tripped--stop, Henshaw! don't
let my job go to that miserable thief."

Getting no reply to his foolish speech, Offut followed the others into the
shop. His appearance being so ridiculous he was greeted with cries of
derision from the workmen, which only made him the more angry and
belligerent.

"I'll get even with you for this, Jack North!" he cried, "if I follow you
to the end! My father always said your family was the meanest on earth,
and now I know it is so. But you shall hear from me again."

With these bitter words the defeated youth, who really had no one to blame
but himself for his ill-feeling, disappeared, though it was not to be long
before he was to reappear in the stirring life of Jack North, and bring
him such troubles as he could not have foreseen.

It proved that Mr. Henshaw was anxious for another workman, and after
asking Jack a few questions, told the lad he might begin his task at once.

The pay was small, less than five dollars a week, but Jack did not let
that cause him to refuse the opportunity. He needed the money, for his
folks were in poor circumstances, and he went about his work with a stout
heart.

He quickly proved an adept workman, observing, rapid to learn and always
diligent, so much so that the foreman took a strong liking to him.

Several days passed and it became evident to Jack that if he had left one
enemy outside the shop, he had another within, who was ready to improve
every opportunity to trouble him. This was a small, thinfaced man who
worked with him, and whose name was Mires. Besides being physically unable
to carry an even end with him, this workman was prone to shirk every part
of his work that he could, this portion falling largely on Jack to do in
addition to his own.

Jack paid no heed to this, however, but kept about his work as if
everything was all right, until a little incident occurred which
completely changed the aspect of affairs.

Unknown to our hero, there had been a practice of long standing among the
workmen of "testing" every new hand that came in, by playing what was
believed to be a smart trick upon him. The joke consisted in sending the
new hand in company with a fellow workman to bring from a distant part of
the shop a pair of wheels, one of which was of iron and weighed over four
hundred pounds, while its mate was made of wood and finished off to look
exactly like its companion. The workman in the secret always looked out
and got hold of the wooden wheel, which he could carry off with ease,
while his duped associate would struggle over the other to the unbounded
amusement of the lookers-on.

It heightened the effect by selecting a small, weak man to help in the
deception, and Henshaw, liking this joke no less than his men, on the
third day of Jack's apprenticeship, said:

"North, you and Mires bring along them wheels at the lower end. Don't be
all day about it either," speaking with unusual sharpness.

"Yes, sir."

In a moment every one present was watching the scene, beginning to smile
as they saw Mires start with suspicious alacrity toward the wheels. Some
of the men, in order to get as good a view as possible of the expected
exhibition, stationed themselves near at hand, having hard work to
suppress their merriment in advance.

"Purty stout, air ye?" asked Mires, as he and Jack stood by the wheels.

"I never boasted of my strength," replied Jack, beginning to wonder why so
much interest was being manifested over so slight a matter. His surprise
was increased at that moment by discovering Fret Offut among the
spectators, his big mouth reaching almost from ear to ear with an idiotic
grin.

"Come to see the fun!" declared the latter, finding that he had been seen
by Jack.

"I'll take this one," said Mires, stooping over the nearest wheel which
was half buried in dust and dirt.

Then, without any apparent effort, the small sized workman raised the
wheel to his shoulder and walked back from the direction whence they had
come.

"Now see the big gawk lift his!" exclaimed Fret Offut, who had somehow
been let into the secret. Still ignorant of the deception being played
upon him, Jack North bent over to lift the remaining wheel.


Chapter III

A Long Trip Proposed


Having seen Mires carry off the other wheel with comparative ease, Jack
naturally expected to lift the remaining one without trouble.

His amazement may be therefore understood when, at his first effort, he
failed to move it an inch from the floor.

It lay there as solid as if bound down!

His failure was the signal for Fret Offut to break out into a loud laugh,
which was instantly caught up by the workmen, until the whole building
rang with the merriment.

"Baby!" some one cried. "See Mires carry his. North ain't got the strength
of a mouse!"

By that time Mires had reached the opposite end of the shop, and was
putting down his burden to turn and join in the outbursts over the
discomfiture of his young companion.

Jack had now awakened to the realization that he had been the easy victim
of a scheme to cast ridicule upon him.

Mires could never have carried away this wheel. The thought of the trick
which had been played upon him aroused all the latent energy he possessed.
He did not believe the wheel could weigh five hundred pounds, and if it
did not he would lift it, as he believed he could.

Thus, with the shouts and laughter of the spectators ringing in his ears,
Jack stooped for a second attempt to accomplish what no one else had ever
been able to do.

"I'll grunt for you!" called Offut in derision. "Spit on your hands!" said
a workman. Jack compressed his lips for a mighty effort, and his hands
closed on the rim of the wheel, while he concentrated every atom of
strength he had for the herculean task.

The cries of the onlookers suddenly stopped as they saw, to their
amazement, the ponderous object rise from the floor, slowly but surely,
until the young workman held it abreast of him. Not a sound broke the
deathlike stillness, save for the crunching of his own footsteps, as Jack
North walked across the shop and dropped his burden upon the wheel Mires
had placed there.

A loud crash succeeded, the heavy iron wheel having broken the imitation
into kindling wood and smashed into the floor.

The cries of derision were supplemented by loud calls of admiration, which
rang through and through the old building until a perfect din prevailed.

Fret Offut waited to see no more, but stole away unobserved by the
stalwart iron workers, who crowded around their victorious companion with
hearty congratulations. Jack had won the friendship of nearly all by his
feat, while Henshaw at once boasted of the act.

Mires, fancying that the laugh had been turned upon him, and he was about
right, allowed all of the bitterness of his sullen nature to be turned
against the young apprentice. In his wicked heart he vowed he would
humiliate Jack in the eyes of his admirers in some way and at some time.
But no opportunity came for him, as month after month passed.

Jack showed a wonderfully industrious nature, and he never seemed idle.
When not at work he was studying some part of the ponderous machinery
about him, as if anxious to learn all there was to be known about it. The
knowledge he thus obtained was to be of inestimable value to him in the
scenes to come.

This trait of his pleased Henshaw, who, if a rough man, was honest in his
intentions, and he caused Jack's wages to be raised to seven dollars a
week. This was done in opposition to his assistant, who had taken a
strange dislike to him. His reasons for this will become apparent as we
proceed. About that time Jack was surprised to find that Fret Offut had
found employment in the building, though it was more as a helper than as a
regular workman, his chief task being to wheel the scraps of iron and
waste material away and to wait upon the boss of the big steam hammer.

He did not offer to speak to Jack, but the latter soon saw him holding
whispered conversations with Mires and the second boss, Furniss, when he
felt certain by their looks and motions that he was the subject of their
remarks. Once he overheard Offut tell a companion:

"I sha'n't wheel scrap iron always and Jack North won't be boss, either."

Jack had been at the engine works about six months, when he accidentally
learned that the company were planning to ship one of their machines to
South America, and that they were looking about for a suitable person to
send with it, to help unload it properly and set it up. A few days later,
as he was leaving the shop to go home, Henshaw came to him, saying:

"Let me put a flea in your ear, Jack. John Fowler has got his eye on you
for the one to go to South America."

Scarcely any other announcement could have brought greater joy to Jack,
for he had a great desire to travel, and this long journey would take him
away from home for many months, he felt it would be a grand opportunity.
But he knew that Furniss had been working for the place, and he could not
realize that such good fortune was to fall to him, so he said to Henshaw:

"I thought that Furniss was sure of the chance. I heard him say as much
only yesterday." "A fig for Furniss! Old John had a long talk with me this
morning, and I told him you were just the chap for the place, young and
capable. He nodded his head and I could see that you were as good as
taken. Of course we shall miss you, but it's a trip a youngster like you
can't afford to miss."

"I should like to go, Mr. Henshaw, and I thank you for your kind words."

"Don't cost nothing," returned the bluff foreman, as he started homeward.

Jack was too happy over his prospects to mind the baleful looks of Furniss
the next day, or to hear the jibes of Fret Offut. Could he have foreseen
the startling result he must have been bound with dismay.

The following Monday, when the day's work was done and he was leaving the
shop, Mr. Henshaw came along, and slapping him on the shoulder, said: "Let
me congratulate you, my lad. It is just as I said; you are going to South
America,--if you will."

"It seems too good to be true, Mr. Henshaw." "It's the blessed truth and I
know it I don't blame you for feeling well over such an appointment, for
it is something any of us might be glad of. But you deserve it."

The appearance of Furniss checked Jack's reply. He could see the other
understood that he had lost. He had another proof of the fact before he
got home from Fret Offut, who said:

"Feel mighty stuck up, don't yer? But let me tell yer,'twon't do any
good."

This was the first time he had spoken to Jack since he had begun work in
the shops, and our hero made no reply.

The following day, as he was about to leave the shop at the close of his
work, Jack was accosted by Furniss, who asked him to assist him a moment
at the big hammer.

Jack started at once to his help, noticing that the building was
completely deserted at the time, except for the second boss and himself;
even Henshaw, who generally stayed until after the workmen had left, was
gone.

His surprise may be imagined then when he saw Fret Offut step from behind
a huge boiler as he approached. Still he did not dream of any sinister
purpose in the minds of the two, and he was about to stoop to lift a piece
of iron at the request of Furniss, when he discovered a bar of iron so
suspended over his head from the cross timber that a slight movement on
his part was sure to bring it down upon his head.

No sooner had he seen his precarious situation than he started back, when
Fret Offut flung a heavy slug at his feet. The effect was startling, for
the concussion on the floor sent the menacing bar overhead downward with
fearful force.

Jack succeeded in dodging the blow so far that he escaped the full weight
of the falling iron, which struck the floor endwise with a heavy thud. But
before he could get beyond its reach the massive bar tipped over, falling
in such way as to strike him in the side of the head, and felling him
senseless to the floor.

In a moment Furniss and Offut were bending over him with anxious looks on
their grimy countenances.

"Is he killed?" asked the younger of the twain.

Jack answered the question himself by opening his eyes, though he was
still too bewildered to attempt to rise.

"What did you do that for?" he demanded.

"Do what?" questioned Fret Offut. "You know well enough. You fixed that
bar so it would hit me."

"Hear the boy talk!" came from Furniss. "It is true. If I get the chance--"

"Stop, you shan't get us into trouble," yelled the man, in a rage.

"Not much," put in Offut. "Let's teach him a lesson he won't forget!"

"So we will," answered Furniss; and both started forward to attack Jack.


Chapter IV

Just in Time


Though still somewhat dazed by the blow on his head, Jack realized that
the unprincipled twain in their desperation would stop short of no crime
in order to carry out their purpose.

Thus Furniss had barely laid his hand on him before he was on his feet
ready to fight for his life if necessary.

Flinging aside the second boss, he turned to meet the assault of Fret
Offut, whom he caught by the collar and flung headlong upon a pile of
scrap iron and ashes still warm from the furnace.

Shrieking with pain the big youth scrambled to his feet and began to dance
around as if he had a coal of fire in the heel of his shoe.

Furniss rallied to grapple anew with Jack, but though a strong man he
found his match. Used to hard work all of his life, Jack's sinews seemed
like bands of steel and there was no breaking from his grasp.

"Help, Offut--quick!" cried Furniss, as his head was jabbed into the midst
of a box of coal. "He--he'll kill me!" spluttered the discomfited man.

But Fret Offut failed for good reasons to heed the supplications of his
friend.

The next instant Furniss managed to get a hold on Jack which enabled him
to throw him upon the floor.

"Go to South America, will you?" cried the exultant Furniss. "Let that
settle it," and he aimed a furious blow at his victim's head.

But Jack was too nimble to remain still and receive whatever attack the
other might rain upon him, and when Furniss' fist descended it missed its
mark, to strike plump upon the sharp edge of a bar of iron, peeling the
skin on its back from knuckle to wrist.

At the same time Jack turned his adversary and, clearing him, vaulted to
his feet, carrying the other backwards by the impetuous movement and
sending him headfirst into a bucket of water.

Before he could rise Jack had caught him by the throat with one hand, and
he immediately began to "churn" the other's head up and down in the black
water, while the discomfited wretch, trying in vain to break away,
exclaimed in gasps:

"Help--don't--you'll kill me! I--Of--ut--h-e-l-p--murder!"

"Will you promise to let me alone after this?" demanded Jack, giving his
victim another plunge in the bucket.

"Yes. Let me go or I'll tell Fowler. Oh--oh!"

"Tell Fowler, will you?"

"No--no! Let me go!"

"You promise it?"

"Yes," spluttered the man as soon as he could speak.

"I think that will be enough this time." declared the triumphant Jack. "If
I could get my hands on you, Fret Offut, I would give you a dose of the
same medicine."

"I ain't done nothing!" cried the terrified youth. "Don't you dare to
touch me!" and by that time he had reached the door, to disappear an
instant later.

Feeling that he had nothing more to fear from his enemies, Jack left the
shop to go to his home, his mind soon occupied with thoughts of his South
American voyage rather than with the more unpleasant memory of his recent
trouble with young Offut and Furniss.

Before going direct to his home to tell the news there, Jack sought
another home that he might first break the account of his good fortune to
one whose fair countenance had been in his mind's eye all the afternoon.

He knew the hardest part of his starting on his long voyage would be in
tearing himself away from a certain blue-eyed damsel named Jenny Moodhead.

At her home he was met by the girl's mother, who, in answer to his
inquiries for Jenny, said:

"Jane is not here, and I do not see why you have not met her, as she said
she was going to see you as you came from the shops. I am afraid something
has happened to her."

Without further loss of time, Jack started to retrace the way to the
engine shops, though going by a different course from that which he had
come.

He had got about half way there, and was passing near an old ruined mill,
which stood more than half over the river, when he was startled by the
sound of a voice, which was too familiar for him not to recognize.

"Don't you dare come any nearer, Fret Offut! Stand back, or the worst will
be your own!"

It was Jenny speaking, and as Jack dashed down to the side of the old mill
he discovered her at the further extremity of the ruins defiantly facing
young Offut, who was kept from approaching any nearer to her by a club she
held in her hands, uplifted over her head.

Between the two was a gulf of dark waters a dozen feet or more in width,
but spanned by a plank over which the girl had evidently passed in
reaching her place of retreat.

"I'll take up the plank so you can't come back!" declared young Offut.
"You see if you do not answer me in a becoming manner I can--"

Fret Offut did not have the opportunity to finish his sentence before a
stout hand was laid on his shoulder and he was plunged headfirst into the
river. "Get out the best you can!" cried Jack North.

He turned to the girl. "Has he dared so much as to lay a ringer on you,
Jenny?"

"Oh, Jack! I am so glad to see you! No, he had not touched me, though I
don't know what he might have done if you had not come. You won't let him
drown?"

"It would serve him about right, if I did. But he will take care of
himself. See, he is crawling out below the mill. Come with me, Jenny, for
I have important news to tell you. I am going to South America!"

"To South America! Oh, Jack, why?"

"The firm want me to go, and they will pay me well for my services. I am
to look after some machinery that is to be shipped."

"But you will come back?" questioned Jenny, anxiously.

"Sure, as soon as my task is done. But now tell me about Fret Offut."

"Oh, there is not much to tell. He--he wanted to be sweet on me and--and I
wouldn't have it. That made him angry, and he followed me to this place,
and--you saw the rest."

"I hope he won't bother you again."

"I don't think he will," said Jenny. "Anyway, I'll keep my eyes open for
him."

After that Jack spent a pleasant hour in the company of the girl who was
his dearest friend, and then went home to prepare for his trip of so many
thousand miles.

His parents already knew something about the proposed journey, so they
were not much surprised. They had seen Mr. Fowler and talked it over with
the manufacturer. Mrs. North did what she could to get Jack's outfit ready
for him.

"I'll be glad to leave such fellows as Fret Offut behind," said Jack, to
his father.

"Fret Offut is a bully and a fool," said Mr. North, who was a blunt-spoken
man. "He will never get along in life."

Jack had spoken without knowing the truth. He was not to get rid of Fret
Offut just yet, as we shall soon see.


Chapter V

On the Island of Robinson Crusoe


Ho! for South America!

Bravely did the good steamer <i>Standish</i> keep on her long, and, at
times, stormy voyage to the far distant shore of Western South America.
She escaped the severest storms of the Northern Atlantic, Grossed the
equatorial line in fine shape, and stemmed the farious wrath of Cape Horn
in safety. But every one on board felt freer and in better spirits, when
at last they entered the Pacific regions where storms are of rare
occurrence.

The steamer's destination was Valparaiso, Chili, and the commander talked
of getting into port shortly.

Among those looking most hopefully forward to the termination of the
voyage was our hero, who had been sent by his employers on the responsible
errand of seeing that one of their engines was properly delivered and put
into good running order. He fondly believed it was the great opportunity
of his life.

He was never more surprised than he was upon finding at the last moment
that Fret Offut had been delegated to accompany him as helper.

At first he could not believe it; but there the awkward youth was, and
that he was sent for that purpose was plainly indicated by the order from
John Fowler & Co.

To his still greater surprise, the other seemed to have forgotten or
overlooked their differences, and he greeted Jack with all the warmth of
an old friend.

"If he can afford to be friendly I can," thought Jack, who was not a
person to cherish long any bitterness of feeling against another, and he
resolved to treat Fret as well as possible.

This, coupled with that bond of sympathy for an associate one is sure to
have on leaving those dear to him far behind, made the two seem somewhat
like friends.

Had Jack known the truth, known the frequent and long conversations his
deceitful companion had held with the plotting Furniss, and how the latter
had worked to get Offut sent on this voyage with him, our hero would have
felt different toward the other. The second boss's parting words had been:
"Remember you owe this opportunity to me, Fret Offut, who might have gone
but for my willingness to let you. Don't forget either that if, for any
reason, North does not get to Valparaiso you will step into his place, and
gain the honor he is anxious to get."

This was spoken with such signs and indications as only one in the secret
could understand, and young Offut nodded knowingly, as much as to say:

"I understand perfectly, and will not fail in my part to gain our ends."

It may have been that the looked-for opportunity did not come, as he had
expected, or that his courage failed him in his cowardly purpose, for no
harm befel Jack until on the evening before the day, which, if nothing
unfavorable occurred, the commander had promised would bring them within
sight of land. Jack stood by the quarter-rail a long time watching the sun
sink into the distant water, and then the silent coming of the stars into
the firmament overhead.

It was a beautiful evening, though fleecy clouds were beginning to fringe
the horizon, and he was certain the whole sky would be obscured soon.

But his mind was more engrossed with thoughts of his parents and Jenny at
home than with the calm grandeur of a tropical sea, and he was wondering
how many months must pass before he should be able to meet her, when the
sound of a cat-like step behind him arrested his attention.

Thinking of no harm, he turned slowly to greet the one approaching, to
find himself confronted by the tall figure of Fret Offut.

A look of wild fierceness was on the other's features, and before Jack
could speak his arms were uplifted, swinging overhead a belaying pin.

Reading at a glance Offut's horrible purpose, Jack attempted to seize his
upraised hands, but he had barely made a move before the weapon descended
upon him!

With an indistinct recollection of a dull sense of pain in his head, Jack
knew no more until he was brought back to consciousness by the feeling of
water around him and it slowly dawned upon him that he had been sent
overboard from the ship into the sea by the blow from Fret Offut.

It was too dark for him to see any distance, so he listened for some sound
of the steamer.

Once he thought he caught the regular swish, swish of the big wheel; but
he must have been mistaken, for after a moment he realized that the
<i>Standish</i> was not within hearing.

He had begun to shout for help, and this shouting he kept up until he was
hoarse, and he felt that it would be better to save all of his strength in
the great battle for life ahead.

No one, who has not been there, can know the utter hoplessness of being
castaway upon the great, boundless ocean with not even a plank to keep him
from a watery grave.

Jack North was brave and sanguine, but for a time he felt that it was
useless for him to try and keep up. Then the thought of home and loved
ones, with all the bright dreams and hopes of life, gave him the
resolution to fight for victory over defeat until the very last. He had
heard of sailors who had been cast away, and who had managed to keep
afloat a whole night and day. Might not he keep from drowning until
morning?

At any rate he would not give up while he had the strength to struggle
against fate.

Buoyed up with hopes which he knew were groundless, he swam on and on
through the dark expanse of waters girdling him.

When he had gone as far as he deemed prudent he would turn upon his back
and thus float upon the bosom of the great deep, borne by its ceaseless
tide he knew not whither.

Perhaps he was being carried further and further out to sea, or it might
be he was slowly approaching the shore of the southern continent.

That was the longest, most gloomy night Jack North ever knew. He saw nor
heard nothing of the steamer during the long hours of darkness and
desolation.

With the first faint streak of daylight he scanned the surrounding sea
with anxious, eager gaze. But whither he would look, north, south, east or
west, not an object broke the monotony of the view.

He felt that he was hopelessly lost, and he wondered in his despair if his
true fate would be known.

As it grew lighter he continued to watch the sea for some welcome sight,
until he saw, away on his left, a dark rim on the horizon. Was it a cloud
or--land?

He dared not hope it was the latter at first, but as it grew plainer he
felt a thrill of joy pass through his worn-out frame.

"Land!" he cried, coming near drowning in the exuberance of his new-found
discovery.

Even after he had seen land it seemed he was doomed to disappointment.

It did not appear that he had strength to reach it. Still the prospect
ahead served to give power to his weary limbs and a new lease of endurance
to his overworked body.

As he swam nearer he saw that great pointed peaks pierced the sky wherever
he looked, while abrupt walls of rock rose from the water's edge to the
height of many hundred feet.

These he realized could not be scaled by him, and as he gazed on the gray,
moss-covered rocks dripping with the spray of the ocean that continually
beat against their rugged sides, hopelessness again came near overpowering
him.

Above the granite front of this lonely island, as he believed it to be, he
could see stupendous ridges of reddish earth rise in countless numbers and
always running back toward the centre, with here and there green pastures
of grass, but he looked in vain for a break in the adamantine barrier
which made this ocean-bound realm unapproachable.

In his despair he was nearly overjoyed to suddenly see a boat, with two
men in it, come around an angle of the rock-bound shore.

He shouted as loudly as he could in his exhausted state for help, and then
gave up the battle, and sank.

But strong arms were near, and the boatmen, hearing his cries, rowed
rapidly to his assistance and picked him up as he was going down for the
last time.

When Jack recovered consciousness he found himself lying on a rude couch,
with a friendly face looking into his and his hand held by the same
person.

"Well, here you are," said the man. "I had about given up looking for you
to come out of it. You must have had a long, hard pull against the sea."

"Where am I?" asked Jack. "Who are you?"

"You are on the island of Robinson Crusoe. As to myself, I am an American
by the name of William Pearce. Before I shall ask you even your name I
shall advise you to keep quiet and go to sleep if you can. You are among
friends."

Jack was fain to follow this well-meant advice, and a few minutes later he
was sound asleep.

It was nearly night before he awoke, and even then his friend would not
allow him to leave his couch.

"Here is a dish of goat's milk and I will soon have some warm oat
porridge."

Jack felt stronger when he had partaken of the simple food offered him,
but he was still too weak to move about very much, and in less than five
minutes he was again asleep.

He did not awake until the following morning this time, when he found
himself in pretty good condition.

His host being absent at the time, he had an opportunity to examine his
surroundings. He found himself in a small hut built of the straw of wild
oats, interwoven with long, slender sticks, while the roof was treated in
the same way. Only a few rather primitive utensils of cooking and living
were to be seen, and he was wondering what sort of a hermit he had fallen
in with when the man entered.

He was past middle life, with a sunburned, bearded and honest countenance.

Upon seeing that Jack had awakened, his looks instantly brightened and he
spoke cheerily:

"Glad to see you looking so well. You will be all right in a day or two."

"Is it possible that I am on the island where Robinson Crusoe spent his
lonely years?"

"It is so."

"I can hardly believe it."

"Nevertheless it is a fact."

"If I ever get away from it I will read the story all over again."

The man laughed.

"That's natural.

"But do you live here alone?"

"Oh, no; there are six Chilian families here with me. But you are beating
me at asking questions, for you have learned all there is to be learned of
me, while I cannot name you from any descendant of old Adam."

Without further delay Jack told his companion the story of his adventures.


Chapter VI

A Terrible Mistake


Jack found Robinson Crusoe's island a pleasanter place than he had
expected. Among the ridges were many pretty valleys which were covered
with patches of woods or grass. Everything bore a peculiar hue of green,
from the groves of myrtle, pimento and corkwood to the grassy plots, the
natural fields of oats and even to the moss-covered rocks of the spinelike
mountains.

The coast, as far as he could see, overhung the sea or rose perpendicular
to such a height as to make it inaccessible, except at one place where a
rent in the wall allowed man to enter the almost sacred domain.

The rude, picturesque huts of Mr. Pearce and his associates stood in a
romantic valley, where the American told him had stood the "castle" of the
Crusoe inhabitant of the island, Alexander Selkirk, whose strange story
has been read the wide world over.

Jack had been at the island nearly a week, and he was looking forward to
an opportunity to go to the mainland in a few days, when Mr. Pearce
informed him that something singular had transpired during the night.

"Though no vessel is in sight this morning, I am sure some one landed here
last night between midnight and daylight."

"Do you think there is anything to fear from such a visit, providing some
one has been here?" asked Jack.

"I don't know. This island was used several years as a penal colony for
Chili, but an earthquake so upset things that the one hundred and fifty
odd prisoners escaped, and since that no one has been sent here. But it
has been the refuge of two or three outlaws since, as if the place had a
strange fascination for them. Perhaps they think it is a safe place to
flee to after what has occurred here. I have had no trouble with them
worth mentioning."

"Do you think one came last night?"

"Looks like it. But I will find out before I am much older. I will get the
Chilians to go with us and we will explore the cells."

Jack was not kept in suspense long as to Mr. He is a young man of great tact and of small accomplishments.

He can warble a song, aid a great lady to organise a social festivity, lead
a cotillon, order a dinner, and help to eat it, act in amateur theatricals,
and recommend French novels to inquiring matrons. His manners are always
easy, and his conversation has that spice of freedom which renders
it specially acceptable in the boudoirs of the smart.

The experience of a few years makes plain to him that, in social matters,
the serious person goes down before the trifler. He therefore cultivates
flippancy as a fine art, and becomes noted for a certain cheap cynicism,
which he sprinkles like a quasi-intellectual pepper over the strong
meat of risky conversation.
Moreover, he is constantly self-satisfied, and self-possessed. Yet he
manages to avoid giving offence by occasionally assuming a gentle
humility of manner, to which he almost succeeds in imparting a
natural air, and he studiously refrains from saying or doing anything
which, since it may cause other men to provoke him, may possibly
result in his being forced to pretend that he himself has been
ruffled.

Yet it must be added that he is always thoroughly harmless. He flutters
about innumerable dovecots, without ever fluttering those who dwell in
them, and, in course of time, he comes to be known and accepted
everywhere as a useful man.

As might be supposed, he is never obtrusively manly.
The rough pursuits of the merely athletic repel him, yet he has the knack
of assuming an interest where he feels it not, and is able to prattle
quite pleasantly about sports in which he takes little or no active
part. At the same time it must be admitted that he holds a gun fairly
straight, and does not disgrace himself when the necessity of
slaughtering a friend's pheasants interrupts for a few hours the
rehearsals of private theatricals, in company with the friend's wife.

Certainly he is not a fool. He gauges with great accuracy his own
capacities, and carefully limits his ambition to those smaller desires
which, since they exact no vaulting power, are never likely to
bring about a fall on the other side.

The objects of his admiration are mean; and since he meanly admires them,
he comes quite naturally under the Thackerayan definition of a
Snob.

Whilst he is still a year or two on the fair side of thirty, it may
happen that a turn of the political wheel will bring into high office a
statesman who is quite willing to be served by those who are able
to make themselves useful to him, without exacting from them solidity
either of character or of attainments.

With him the Servant of Society, with an instinct that does credit to
his discernment, will have established friendly relations. The politician
was first amused and then impressed by his versatility; now, having the
opportunity, he offers to him the position of Assistant Private Secretary
(unpaid), and it is scarcely necessary to say that the young man accepts
it with a gratitude which proves that he believes his patron capable of
conferring further favours. From this time forward he begins to abandon
the merely frivolous air that has hitherto distinguished him.

He lays in a mixed stock of solemnity, mystery, and importance, and occasionally
awes the friends of his flippant days by assuming the reticent
look and the shake of the head of one who is marked off from common
mortals by the possession of secrets the revelation of which might,
perhaps, imperil the peace of the world.

In country-houses, in London drawing-rooms, and at Clubs, where he had
hitherto been mentioned with a laugh as "Little So-and-So," he comes to be
talked of as "So-and-So--of course you know him--Lord BLANK'S Private
Secretary."

Thus he becomes quite a personage. But he is far from abandoning the _rôle_
of Servant of Society.

Indeed, he only enlarges and glorifies the scope of his ministrations,
without in any way ceasing to cultivate those smaller trifles which stood
him in such good stead at the outset of his career. He now has the
satisfaction of seeing many of those who desire anything that a
Cabinet Minister can give, cringing to one whom they despise, and
who rejoices in the knowledge that he can afford to patronise them,
and perhaps crush them by obtaining for them that which they want.

When, in the course of a few years, Lord BLANK'S party ceases to direct
the government of the country, his Assistant Private Secretary follows him
into the cold shade of adversity and opposition, and stands by him
with exemplary usefulness and fidelity.

But, though he is often pressed, he never contests a constituency,
feeling, perhaps, that it is impossible to serve both Society and
the Caucus.

In time his name becomes the common property of all Society journals--his
biography is published in one, his discreet service is extolled in
another, while a third goes so far as to hint that, if the truth
were known, it would be found that the various departments of the
State could not possibly carry on their affairs without his enlightened
counsel.

He adopts an antique fashion of dress, in order to emphasise his
personality.

He wears a stock, and a very wide-brimmed hat, and carries a bunch of
seals dangling from a fob.

At forty-five he marries the daughter of a powerful Peer, and,
shortly afterwards, insures so much of the favour of Royalty as to
be spoken of as a _persona grata_ at Court.

Henceforward his services are often employed in delicate negotiations,
which may necessitate the climbing of many back-stairs. On such occasions,
and after it has been announced in the papers that "Mr.

So-and-so was the bearer of an important communication" from one great person
to another, it is his custom to show himself in his Clubs and in
crowded haunts, so that he may enjoy the pleasure of being pointed
out, _digita prætereuntium_, and of catching the whispers of those
who nudge one another as they mention his name.

Finally, it will be rumoured that he has been collecting materials for the
Memoirs which he proposes shortly to publish. But though he never
disclaims the intention, and is even understood, on more than one
occasion, to allude in conversation to the precise period of his life to
which his writing has then brought him, it is quite certain that he will
never carry out the intention, or bring out the book. At the age of
sixty he will still be a young man, with a gay style of banter
peculiarly his own.

Towards the end of his life he will often talk darkly of great events
in which he has played a part, and of extraordinary services which
only he could have performed; and when he dies, the country will be
called upon to mourn for one who has saved it from social degradation, and
from political disaster.

* * * * *
A PIG IN A POKE.

[Illustration]

[According to the _Standard_, by the new Meat Inspection Law, just come
into force in the United States, American cattle and pigs for export to
England, France, or Germany, are to be inspected before leaving America,
with a view to removing the grounds of objection on the part of
those Governments to the unrestricted reception of these important
American exports.

Should any foreign Government, fearful of pleuro-pneumonia or
trichinosis, refuse to trust to the infallibility of the American
inspectors, the President of the United States is authorised to
retaliate by directing that such products of such foreign State as
he may deem proper shall be excluded from importation to the United
States.]

O SENATOR EDMONDS, of verdant Vermont, Of wisdom you may be a
marvellous font; But you'll hardly get JOHN,--'tis too much of a joke!

-- To buy in your fashion a Pig in a Poke; Which nobody can expect!

To slaughter your Cattle when reaching our shore, You probably think is
no end of a bore; But even your valiant Vermonters to please, We cannot
afford to spread Cattle-disease, Which nobody can desire.

A Yankee Inspector is all very fine, But if pleuro-pneumonia crosses
the line, And with BULL'S bulls and heifers should play up the deuce, A
Yankee Inspector won't be of much use, Which nobody can dispute.

A Yankee Inspector you seem to suppose is A buckler and barrier
against trichinosis; Bat trichinae pass without passports.

Bacilli And microbes that Yankee _might_ miss willy-nilly, Which nobody
can deny.

Port-slaughter restrictions may limit your trade.

Well, your Tariffs Protective to help _us_ aren't made, And we cannot run
dangers to plump up your wealth, Until you can show us a clean bill of
health, Which nobody can assert.

And as to that cudgel tucked under your arm, You fancy, perhaps, it will
act as a charm.

No, JONATHAN! JOHN to your argument's dull, And you will not convince
him by cracking his skull, Which nobody can suppose.

The Gaul and the Teuton seem much of my mind, And, despite your new Law,
you will probably find That Yankee Inspectors, plus menaces big,
Rehabilitate not the American Pig, Which nobody can affirm.

No, JONATHAN, JOHNNY feels no animosity, He'd like, with yourself, to
have true Reciprocity; But neither your Law, nor a smart cudgel-stroke,
Will make him--or them--buy your Pig in a Poke-- Which nobody can
particularly wonder at, after all; now can they, JONATHAN?

* * * * *

"NOMINE MUTATO."--For some weeks there was a considerable amount of
correspondence in the _Times_, anent "Ecclesiastical Titles," which
suddenly disappeared. Was the topic resumed one day last week under the
new heading, "_The Symbolical Representation of Ciphers_?"

* * * * *

LATEST FROM THE LYCEUM.

--With a view to supplying the entire world with the current number,
_Mr.

Punch_ goes to press at a date too early to permit of a criticism
of _Ravenswood_.

So he contents himself (for the present) by merely recording that
at the initial performance on Saturday last all went as happily
("merrily," with so sombre a plot, is _not_ the word) as a
marriage-bell.

There was a striking situation towards the end of the drama which
was both novel and interesting.

Mr.

IRVING received and deserved a grand reception, and it was generally
admitted that amongst the many admirable impersonations for which
MISS ELLEN TERRY is celebrated, her _Bride of Lammermoor_ appropriately
"takes the cake!"

* * * * *
MY PRETTY JANE.

(_LATEST VERSION_.)

[It is said that the price of wheat and the marriage-rate go together,
most people getting married when wheat is highest.]

My pretty JANE, my dearest JANE, Ah, never look so shy, But meet me, meet
me in the market, When the price of wheat rules high.
The glut is waning fast, my love, And corn is getting dear; Good
(Hymen) times are coming, love, Ceres our hearts shall cheer.

Then pretty JANE, though poorish JANE, Ah, never pipe your eye, But meet
me, meet me at the Altar, For the price of wheat rules high!

Yes, name the day, the happy day, I can afford the ring; For corn
rules high, the marriage rate Mounts up like anything; The "quarter"
stands at fifty, love, Which, for Mark Lane is dear.

Our wedding day is coming, love, Our married course is clear.
Then, pretty JANE, if poorish JANE, Ah, never look so shy; But meet
me, meet me at the Altar, When the price of wheat rules high!

* * * * *
[Illustration: TAKEN ON TRUST.

_Viscount Conamorey_ (_whose recollections of the antique are somewhat
hazy_). "AW--A--WHAT BEAUTIFUL ARMS AND HANDS YOU'VE GOT, MRS.
BOUNDER!

THEY REMIND ME OF THE VENUS OF MILO'S!"

_Mrs. B._ (_who has never even seen the Venus of Milo_). "_OH_! YOU
_FLATTERER_!"]
* * * * *

AN INVOCATION.

(_BY A TOWN MOUSE._)
[Illustration]
Come back to Town! Why wander where The snow-clad peaks arise?
Our English sunsets are as fair, With red September skies.
Soft is the matutinal mist Through which the trees loom brown; Come
back, if only to be kist,-- Come back to Town!

For evermore, in days like these, When musing on your face, My sad imagination
sees Another in my place.
Say, do you listen to his prayer, Or slay him with a frown?

At any rate I can't be there.
Come back to Town!

Why linger by some far-off lake Or Continental strand?
St. Martin's Summer comes to make A glory in the land.
The river runs a golden stream Where WREN'S great dome looks down;
Thine eyes, methinks, have brighter gleam; Come back to Town!

I hear your voice upon the wind, In dreamland you appear; But do you wonder
that I find The day so long and drear?

_Lentis adhærens brachiis_ come Once more my life to crown; Without
thee 'tis too burdensome.

Come back to Town!

* * * * *

MR. PUNCH'S DICTIONARY OF PHRASES.

AT AN AFTERNOON CALL.

"_So glad to see you at last. Now don't let me interrupt your talk
with Mrs.

VEREKER_;" i.e., "If I do, I shall be let in for being button-holed."
"_Do let me get you some tea--you must be dying for a cup_;" i.e.,
"Know _I_ am."

"_So sorry_--_I fear everything is cold. Do let me have some fresh tea made
for you_;" i.e., "He can't accept _that_ offer."
IN A NON-SMOKING CARRIAGE.

"_You don't mind my cigar, do you?_" i.e., "I know he does, but I'm not
going to waste it."
(_Reply to the above query._)

"_Oh, not at all!_" i.e., "Beastly thing! If he wasn't so confoundedly
selfish and stingy, he'd throw it away."

* * * * *

"I'M AFLOAT!"

(NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE VERSION.)
[Illustration]
I'm afloat, I'm afloat on the coaly black Tyne!
The draft licence sent me I begged to decline; Though other chaps had 'em,
they were not for me; I prefer a free flag, on the strictest Q.T.
A sly "floating factory" thus I set up (I'm a mixture of RUPERT the
Rover and KRUPP).
At Jarrow Slake moored, my trim wherry or boat I rejoiced in, and
sung "I'm afloat!

I'm afloat!" For quick-firing guns ammunition I made, Engaging (says FORD)
in the contraband trade.
An inquest _was_ held, but its verdict cleared _me_.
I'm afloat, I'm afloat, and the Rover is free!

I fear not the Government, heed not its law.
Much rumpus is made, we shall hear lots of jaw:
An explosion took place on October the third, My sly "floating
factory" blew up like a bird.

It killed one poor fellow, and damaged a lot, But I am a Great Gun, and
got off like a shot; Indeed all were well, but for cold Colonel FORD,
Who blames _me_, the Rover!

Too bad, on my word!
The Pirate of Elswick shall not be the sport of a fussy Commission's
ill-tempered Report.

To bring me to book is all fiddlededee-- I'm afloat, I'm afloat, and the
Rover is free!

I contraband, careless?

Why, everyone owns _That_ is natural, 'neath the black flag and cross-bones.

No mere paltry maker of fireworks am I, But a Rover who's free, whose sole
roof is the sky.
The law of the land may the petty appal.
But frighten the Rover? Oh no, not at all!
And ne'er to Commissions or Colonels I'll yield, Whilst there's
Black Tyne to back me or Whitehall to shield.

Unfurl the Black Flag!

shake its folds to the wind!
And I'll warrant we'll soon leave sea-lawyers behind.
Up, up with the flag! Pirate's licence for me!
I'm afloat, I'm afloat, and the Rover is free!

* * * * *
DEFINITION OF MILITARY MANOEUVRES.--"Peace-work."
DARWINITES.--"The Evolutionary Squadron

."
* * * * *
OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

Speaking of _Reynart the Fox_, I was made, by a slip of the printer's
hand--I am accustomed to seeing slips _from_ his hand, which is
quite another thing--to say that this mediæval romance "presents a
truer picture of life than novels in which vice is punished and
virtue patiently rewarded."

After considering for some time what on earth I could have meant by
"patiently rewarded," I remembered that I had written "patently
rewarded."

The printer put my "i" out; and without an "i" it was very difficult to
perceive the sense of the phrase.

[Illustration]
_Nutshell Novels_, by that crack writer--no, not "crack'd"--and poet, whose
verses send a frill right through us, Mr. J. ASHBY-STERRY, are coming
out.

Capital title.

As SHAKSPEARE says, "Sermons in stones, novels in nutshells, and good in
everything." SHELLEY'S poems might be brought out in pocketable form
under a similar title, _Nut-Shelley Poems._ I have not yet seen the
volume in question, only heard tell of it, and should not be surprised to
hear that the central novel and the best was a short military novel,
entitled _The Kernel_. Messrs.
HUTCHINSON & Co. are the publishers. I hope Mr. STERRY has illustrated
them himself. He can draw and paint, but he won't, and there's an end on't.
He must follow up the _Nutshells_ with a volume of _Crackers_,
about Christmas time.

Just been looking through _London Street Arabs_, by Mrs. H.M. STANLEY,
published by CASSELL & Co., which firm--whose telegraphic address is "Caspeg,
London," and a good name too--writes to the Baron thus:--"_In
forwarding you an early copy_"--small and early--"_of Mrs.

Stanley's book, we will ask you to be good enough_"--("I am 'good enough'"
quoth the Baron)--"to _confine your extracts from the Introduction
to an extent not exceeding one-third of the whole_."

"Willingly, my dear 'Caspeg,'" replies the Baron, who does not like being
dictated to, and, to gratify your wish to the utmost, he will make no
extracts at all from the book, a proceeding which ought mightily to delight
"Caspeg, London." What next?

Will publishers send to the Baron, and request him not even to breathe the
names of their books? By all means.

He has no objection, as, whether sent to him for review, or purchased by
him _pour se distraire_, the Baron only mentions those he likes,
or, if he mentions those he dislikes, 'tis _pro bono publico_, and
there's an end on't.

Mrs. STANLEY appreciates humour, as the following anecdote will show--But,
dear me, the Baron is forgetful--he begs "Caspeg's" pardon; he
mustn't quote.

Mrs.

STANLEY can be truly sympathetic with sorrow, as the following
story proves--no, "Caspeg," the story must _not_ follow. Never mind--the
Baron's dear readers will read it for themselves if they feel "so
dispoged." The Baron supposes that all this was written and drawn while
Mrs. STANLEY was Miss DOROTHY TENNANT, because her recorded opinion,
probably, as a spinster, is (and here the Baron "quotes" not, but
"alludes"), that you can find better artistic material in this line at
home, than you can obtain by seeking it abroad; yet when she
married, off she went to Milan, Venice, and so forth.

For pleasure, of course, not work; but work to her is evidently pleasure.
May happiness have accompanied her everywhere! The drawings are
pretty, rather of the goody-good "Sunday-at-home-readings" kind
of illustrations. And what on earth has a sort of pictorial advertisement
for "Somebody's Soap" got to do with Street Arabs? "_Washed Ashore; or,
Happy At Last_," might be the title of this mer-baby picture, in which
two naked children, not Street Arabs, or Arabs of any sort, are
depicted as examining the inanimate body of a nondescript creature,
half flesh and half fish, which has been thrown up by the waves "to
be left till called for" by the next high-tide, when, perhaps, its
sorrowing parents, Mr. and Mrs.

MERMAN, or its widowed mother, Mrs. MERWOMAN, arrayed in sea-"weeds,"
may come to claim it and give it un-christian burial.

But that the Baron, out of deference to the wishes of "Caspeg, London," does
not like to quote one single line, he could give Mrs. STANLEY'S own
account of how this picture of the Mer-baby came to be included
in the Street Arab Collection.

For such explanation the Baron refers the reader to the book itself. "Caspeg,"
farewell!

I have, the Baron says, commenced the first pages of _The Last Days
of Palmyra_.

Good, so far; but several new books have come in, and _Palmyra_ cannot
receive my undivided attention, says
THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

P.S.

--My faithful "Co." has been reading _Ferrers Court_, by JOHN STRANGE
WINTER, author of _Bootle's Baby_ and a number of other novelettes
of like kind.

He says that he is getting just the least bit tired of _Mignon_, and the
plain-spoken girls, and the rest of them.

By the way, he observes that it seems to be the fashion, judging from the
pages of _Ferrers Court_, in what he may call "Service Suckles,"
to talk continually of a largely advertising lady's tailor.

If this custom spreads, he presumes that the popular topic of
conversation, the weather, will have to give place to the prior
claims for consideration of Somebody's Blacking, or Somebody-else's
Soap.

This is to be regretted, as, in spite of the sameness of subject
of the _Bootle's Baby_ series, JOHN STRANGE WINTER is always more
amusing than nine-tenths of his (or should it be her?)

contemporaries. B. De B.-W. & Co.

P.S. No. 2.--The Baron wishes to add that on taking up the _Bride of Lammermoor_
in order to refresh his memory before seeing the new drama, he was
struck by a few lines in the description of _Lucy Ashton_, which, during
rehearsals, must have been peculiarly appropriate to her representative
at the Lyceum, Miss ELLEN TERRY.

Here they are:--"To these details, however trivial, _Lucy_ lent
patient and not indifferent attention.

They moved and interested _Henry_, and that was enough to secure her ear."
"Great Scott!" indeed! Perfectly prophetic, and prophetically perfect. B.
DE B.-W.

* * * * *

[Illustration: AN EFFECTIVE MILITARY MANOEUVRE.

"The day of cocked hats and plumes is past and gone. This head-dress is
utterly unsuited for active service."--_Military Correspondent's Letter
to Times_.

SUGGESTION, IN CONSEQUENCE, FOR NEW COSTUME FOR GENERAL OFFICERS--SO
THAT THEY MIGHT BE MISTAKEN BY THE ENEMY FOR HARMLESS GENTLEMEN-FARMERS
ENGAGED IN AGRICULTURAL PURSUITS

.]
* * * * *
STALKING THE SAGACIOUS STAG.

_SPORTING NOTES FROM OUR SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE_.

I had an invite from JEPSON, a Stock Exchange acquaintance, who has rented
a Moor for the winter months, and who, happening to hear that I
and my two foreign friends were in the neighbourhood, most kindly
asked me to come and have a look at his box, and bring them with me.

"I hear," he writes, "that the deer are very lively, and if you want to
show your foreign friends some first-rate British Sport, you can't do better
than bring them."
Need I say that I jumped at this. Coming along on the top of the coach,
that takes us to Spital-hoo, the place my friend has rented, I have
been endeavouring to describe what I _imagine_ to be the nature of the
sport of Deer-stalking to the Chief and the Bulgarian Count.

The former, who has been listening attentively, says that, from my description,
stalking a stag must be very much the same as hunting the double-humped
bison in Mwangumbloola, and that the only weapon he shall take with
him will be a pickaxe.

I have pointed out to him that I don't think this will be any use, as in
deer-stalking I fancy you follow the stag _at some distance_, but he seems
resolute about the pickaxe, and so, I suppose, I must let him have his
way.

The Bulgarian Count was deeply interested in the matter, and says that
evidently the proper weapon to use is a species of quick-firing, repeating
Hotchkiss, and that he has one now on its way through Edinburgh,
the invention of a compatriot, that will fire 2700 two-ounce bullets
in a minute and a-half.

But ain't you looking like a peacock!"

"I have managed to get a living by working hard."

"I'll warrant you have; but I wouldn't work at the starvation wages they
offered me. Say, where are you going?"

"To St. Resa."

"In South Peru?"

"Yes."

"What do you expect to do there?"

"Going to apply for a situation as engineer on a railroad."

"Whew! I heard a man say this morning they were offering big pay. Let me
go with you, Jack? You will do this for old time's sake? I will be
fireman."

Jack's first thought was to refuse the other's company. He felt that Fret
had already done him harm enough, and that his presence would be a
positive injury to him. But upon second thought he became more generous.
In spite of all Fret had done against him he could not help pitying the
young fellow now in his forlorn condition, and thus he said:

"If you will promise that you will not try to make trouble for me and that
you will do the very best you can for yourself. You mustn't forget, too,
that you are going where you may not come back alive."

Fret Offut promised very solemnly to all that Jack asked, and the couple
started on their hazardous journey into the interior of the country which
was about to become the battleground of three nations.

They received a warm welcome at the railroad company's office as soon as
the object of their call was known. It had been a week since the last
train had gone over the route, and a big accumulation of freight wanted to
be moved. They were offered big wages and accepted.

"Well, Fret, we're in for it now," said Jack, as they went to the station
to make their first trip.

The young fireman made no reply. He was already beginning to regret the
step he had taken, though Jack's fearlessness was not without its effect
on him.

A big crowd was at the station to see the train start, which made Fret
feel the importance of his position.

The train had a fifty-mile run and Jack found that he was expected to make
it and return the same day. This did not seem a difficult task, providing
the bush-raiders let them alone.

The road was in a terrible condition, yet the first trip was made without
adventure and Fret's spirits rose.

"Probably the bush-raiders did not know we were going yesterday," said
Jack, as his helper was boasting of their easy job.

Jack could not say as much when he got back from his second trip, for no
less than three shots had been fired into the caboose.

Fret Offut was in genuine alarm. The situation was worse than had been
described to Jack. Reports showed that the bush-raiders were gaining in
numbers every day, and growing more bold as they increased in strength.
The country, sparsely settled, through which the railroad ran seemed
especially fitted for their guerrilla warfare, to say nothing of the poor
state of the road-bed, which at places actually made the passage
dangerous. Then, too, the cars and engine were cheap and simple affairs,
offering no protection from the bullets of the enemies.

But Jack had no intention of giving up at this stage of the situation, and
Fret concluded to risk a third trip.

The company were anxious for the train to be kept running, but offered no
protection, if it could supply any.

The round trip on this day was made without any shots being fired by the
enemies, though at least twenty bush-raiders were seen drawn up in sight
of the train, as it wound its way through one of the gloomiest spots of
the entire route.

One of the disreputable looking party waved a red cloth on the muzzle of
his short-barreled carbine as they whisked past.

"Look out for to-morrow," said Jack. "That looks to me like a sort of
warning."

It proved that he was not the only one who had his suspicions, for as he
swung himself upon the engine the following morning some one stepped from
out of the motley crowd collected about the station and thrusting a scrap
of paper into his hand instantly disappeared.

As soon as they were fairly on their way Jack smoothed out the crumpled
paper to read in a scrawling hand:

"Look out for the bush-raiders to-day."

The sheet bore no signature or date.

"Looks like a scare by some one," remarked Jack, as he handed the missive
to Fret. "But there can be no harm in keeping a sharp lookout," he
admitted. "I suppose the trouble has got to begin soon, and it might as
well be to-day as to-morrow."

Fret Offut, whose stock of courage was small, turned pale, as he read the
brief message:

"You ain't going to keep on, Jack?"

"What else are we hired for? We should be the laughing stock of the
country if we stopped now."

"But this warning makes it different."

"Not a bit as I can see. We came up here expecting to take our chances,
and as for me it seems the bush-raiders have been very modest in opening
proceedings. It is too late for us to turn back. I--"

"No--no! Stop, Jack, and I will get off."

"If you don't get off until I stop you will ride into de la Pama. Now
don't be foolish and let that little piece of paper upset you. It was no
more than we expected. Keep a cool head and stand to your post.

"It may not be as bad as it threatens. But if you persist in leaving you
can do so when we have made this trip. I don't propose to be left in the
lurch by losing my fireman at a time I cannot afford to let him go."

Jack's quiet determination and assurance served to quiet Fret's fears, so
he said nothing further about quitting his duty.

After leaving St. Resa, the train, which was a mixed one, made up of two
passenger coaches and a dozen freight cars, had to stop at irregular
intervals, following which the road ran through a twenty-mile wilderness,
the most of the way rugged in the extreme.

It was during this part of the journey that Jack expected trouble if
anywhere, and as he approached the broken region he kept a sharp watch on
every hand.

Fret, though pale and trembling, kept his post.

"Give me every pound of steam possible," said Jack. "If we don't go
through Whirlwind Gap flying it will be because the old engine has lost
her cunning."

They were now rushing along at a tremendous rate of speed considering the
condition of the track, and the old engine rocked and lurched as if it
would leave the track at any moment. There were but a few passengers
aboard, for only those who were compelled to do so traveled during this
dangerous period.  Jack knew there was a valuable freight behind him, to
say nothing of human lives, and he was determined to get into de la Pama
if it lay in his power.

Thus, with a full realization of the peril of his situation, he was
standing at his post, with one hand on the throttle and the other on the
reversing lever, peering intently ahead, taking in every object as they
sped furiously over the rails, when he suddenly beheld a sight which for a
moment fairly took away his breath.

They were swiftly approaching the foot of a high bluff, upon the top of
which he had discovered a dozen of the bush-raiders looking down upon him.
But they were not the most startling part of what he saw and heard.

As the train dashed madly under the rocky wall, above its terrific thunder
rang a deafening crash, and he saw with horror a huge bowlder coming down
the side of the cliff, directly toward the engine!

It had been loosened from its bed by the bush-raiders, and so well had
they timed their work that it would be impossible for the engine to get
beyond its reach before the rock should fall upon it!

It would be equally hazardous to try and stop the train.

Fret Offut had seen the appalling sight, and with a despairing cry,
feeling that it would be death to remain on the engine, he leaped far out
over the embankment.

"Fret!" cried Jack, but no answer came back to the call.

Jack North felt that it was all over with him, but true to the instinct of
his nature, he stood bravely at his post.


Chapter X

A Narrow Escape


With the wild cry of Fret Offut and the exultant yells of the bush-raiders
ringing in his ears above the thunder of the rushing train, Jack North
heard the ominous crash, of the descending bowlder, and saw with a dazed
look its swift approach.

The locomotive, throbbing and panting like a human being in a race for
life, was fairly flying along the winding track.

It all lasted but a moment, the downward rush of the deadly body, the
cries of exultation and despair, the lightning-like passing of the fatal
spot by the engine, and the ordeal was over as quickly as it had come!

The descent of the ponderous missile was swift and sure until a projection
on the side of the cliff was reached, when with a terrific concussion the
bowlder glanced. It suddenly shot outward like a cannon ball, and was
carried fairly over the engine into the gulch below.

Jack witnessed this miraculous movement with breathless eagerness
bordering upon terror.

The huge rock passed so near that it scraped the top of the caboose, and
the current of air it raised swept the boy engineer's cap from his head.

The train had got its length beyond the place before Jack could realize
that he had escaped.

The bush-raiders reminded him of it then, if he needed any further
notification, by a volley of bullets and renewed yells of rage.

Though some of the leaden missiles flew uncomfortably near his head, Jack
was unharmed, and as he was borne on by the iron horse around the next
curve in the track, leaving his enemies out of sight, he offered a prayer
of thankfulness for his providential escape.

Fret, he was certain, must have been killed by his mad leap from the
engine. As much as he would have liked to have gone back and looked for
the youth, he knew such a course would have been the height of folly.
Besides his own life to look after, there were the passengers who had
intrusted themselves to his care.

"Poor Fret! I could do no good now, and I must remember the others. If you
had only remained on the engine it would have been better for you."

To his infinite relief, Jack saw nor heard nothing further of the baffled
bush-raiders, who must have been greatly surprised at the escape of the
train with its rich freight.

At the first station, which was several miles away from the scene of the
outlaws' attack, the young engineer told of the loss of his fireman and
his own narrow escape from death, when an armed squad of men started to
search for the body of the missing youth, and to rout the bush-raiders if
they could be found.

Finding an assistant at this place, Jack finished his run to de la Pama
and then came back to this station, which was known as Resaca.

The relief party had not returned, but Jack was told that a bridge had
been found to be unsafe for the passage of the train, so he could not
reach St Resa that day, while it might be a week before the road would be
in a condition to resume his regular trips. But he was willingly allowed
to start after the relief party with the engine and one car, accompanied
by a dozen armed men.

They were approaching the bridge mentioned, when they met the others
coming back, bearing in their midst the lifeless form of Fret Offut.

Jack immediately stopped to have the body of his associate put on the car,
when he started on the return to Resaca.

The untimely fate of Fret Offut impressed him with the great uncertainty
of life. It was true the other had never been his friend, but now that was
forgotten and he felt a deep regret over the youth's sad end.

The return to Resaca was made in safety. In fact nothing had been seen of
the raiders since the start, and it was uncertain what might be their next
move.

The following day Jack saw that Fret's body was given burial in a little
plot within sight of the low-walled church of this clustered settlement,
he being the only mourner.

"If I should fall in my hazardous work, I could not expect as much as poor
Fret gets in this land of strangers. The last bond between this wild
country and home seems to be broken. Little did we think of this, Fret,
when we anticipated that South American trip!"

The last sad duty done for Fret Offut, and finding that the bridge would
not be repaired inside of a week, Jack resolved to take a little outing on
his own account.

He still carried with him the paper so strangely found on Robinson Crusoe
island, and he was determined to make a search for the hidden treasure
which it mentioned.

Accordingly, mounted on a small but sure-footed and faithful pony, with a
supply of provisions, Jack set out on his uncertain journey without
telling any one his intentions, little dreaming of the result which was to
come of his secret movement.

He believed the mysterious island was nearly north of Resaca, so he shaped
his course in that direction, keeping a sharp lookout for any enemy that
might be in his pathway.

He was in the heart of the great dry region of South America, a district
of nearly a thousand miles in length, where rain seldom if ever falls, and
the country is afforded sufficient moisture by the sea vapors condensed on
the Andes and sent down upon the plains and lowlands. The desert of
Atacama lay many miles to the south, but as he progressed he often found
sections of the country without a thing growing upon the land, though
sometimes these spots were bordered by the most abundant growth he had
ever seen, even in that realm of grand forests and magnificent flora.

Everywhere, save on these dark patches of waste land, the vegetation was
on the boldest scale imaginable, the magnitude of the trees being simply
beyond the comprehension of him who had never seen them, while some of
even the largest were adorned with beautiful flowers, making them seem
like gardens of themselves.

On account of the density of the growth, Jack often found it difficult to
advance, and many times he was obliged to make long detours in order to
reach a certain point.

Zig-zagging about, always keeping his eyes open for bush-raiders, wild
beasts, and, above all, for the strange island, he had spent four days in
the wilderness, when he felt that it was time for him to think of
returning to civilization.

He had seen no sign of the looked-for body of inland water with its
treasure island, though the increasing presence of cinchona trees told him
that he was already ascending into the region of the Peruvian Andes.

"I am sure it is at the foot of these mountains that the strange island
exists," he thought, as he paused on the summit of one of the foothills of
the snow-crowned Monarch of Mountains. "But there is no sign of water, and
how can I expect to find an island where there is no water?"

The involuntary speech brought a smile to his lips. As he would explain
his thoughts, he said aloud:

"Somehow I got it into my head that there was a lake in this region, and
there I was to find my treasure island. But I have been a fool to look for
either. Come, Juan," patting the neck of his pony, "let us go back while
we have sense enough to do so."

But while he spoke he lingered around the place, as if there was some
strong fascination for him. It was a beautiful scene, made up almost
entirely of forest, but such a forest as only Peru, with its wonderful
natural wealth, can produce.

The trees were composed largely of rosewoods in all their varied beauty,
the giant quassia in all their hues and tints of foliage, with a
sprinkling of cinchona, lending a happy blending of more sober coloring,
while from the lowlands was wafted to him on the gentle breeze of that
tropical clime the perfume of the tinga.

Oh! my darling Danusia, I searched for you and rescued you. You are no
more in the power of the Germans. Be not afraid. We shall soon be at
Spychow. You were ill, but the Lord Jesus had mercy upon you.

There was so much sorrow, so many tears! Dear Danusia. Now, everything is
well. There is nothing but happiness for you. Ah I how much did I search
for you!... How far did I wander!... Oh! Mighty God!... Oh!..."
He sighed deeply and groaned as though he had thrown off the last
heavy burden of suffering from his breast.

Danusia lay quiet trying to recall something to her mind and reflecting
upon something. Then finally she asked:

"So, you cared for me?"
Two tears which were gathering in her eyes slowly rolled down her
cheeks upon the pillow.

"I, not care for you?" cried Zbyszko.

There was something more powerful in that smothered exclamation
than in the most vehement protestations and oaths, because he had
always loved her with his whole soul.

And from the moment when he had recovered her she had become more
dear to him than the whole world.

Silence reigned again. The distant singing of the mowing peasant ceased
and he began to whet his scythe again.

Danusia's lips moved again, but with such a low whisper that Zbyszko could
not hear it. He therefore bent over her and asked:

"What do you say, darling?"

But she repeated:

"Sweet smelling blossoms."

"Because we are near the meadows," he replied.

"But we shall soon proceed and go to dear papa, whom we have also rescued
from captivity, and you shall be mine even unto death. Do you hear me
well? Do you understand me?"

Then he suddenly became alarmed, for he observed that her face was gradually
paling and was thickly covered with perspiration.

"What ails you?" he asked in great alarm.

And he felt his hair bristling and frost creeping through his bones.

"What ails you, tell me," he repeated.

"It darkens," she whispered.

"It darkens? Why, the sun shines and you say: 'it darkens'?" he said with
a suppressed voice. "Up to this time you have spoken rationally. In God's
name I beseech you, speak, even if it is only one word."

She still moved her lips, but she was unable even to whisper. Zbyszko
guessed that she tried to pronounce his name and that she called him.
Immediately afterward, her emaciated hands began to twitch and flutter
upon the rug covering her. That lasted only for a moment.

No doubt was left now that she had expired.

Horrified and in despair, Zbyszko began to beg her, as though his entreaties
could avail:

"Danuska! Oh, merciful Jesus!... Only wait till we come to Spychow!

Wait!
Wait, I beseech you! Oh, Jesus! Jesus! Jesus!"
The appeal awoke the sleeping women, and the men who were stretched
with the horses upon the lawn came running. They guessed at a glance
what had happened; they knelt down and began loudly to recite the
litany.

The breeze ceased, even the leaves upon the pear-tree did not rustle.
Only the voices reciting the litany sounded throughout that profound
silence.
Danusia opened her eyes once more at the very end of the litany,
as though she wished to look upon Zbyszko and upon the sunlit world
for the last time. Then she lapsed into an everlasting sleep.
* * * * *
The women closed her eyelids; then they went to the meadow to gather
flowers. The men followed them in file. Thus they walked in the
sunshine among the luxuriant grass and had the appearance of field
spirits bowing now and then, and weeping, for their hearts were
filled with pity and sorrow. Zbyszko was kneeling in the shade
beside the litter, with his head upon Danusia's knees, speechless
and motionless, as if he too were dead. But the gatherers kept on
plucking here and there, marigolds, buttercups, bellflowers and
plenty of red and white sweet-smelling little blossoms. They also
found in the small moist hollows in the meadow, lilies of the valley,
and upon the margin near the fallow ground, they got St. John's
wort until they had gathered their arms full.But he could not hope these would
protect him long, if at all, from the attacks of the voracious brutes.

Words cannot describe his feelings as he lay there listening to the
ominous growls and crunching of the hungry animals, expecting every moment
to feel their sharp teeth in his own flesh.

Two or three times he felt one or the other of the jaguars push savagely
against his foot, which was lifted and carried forward upon the pony's
neck in their eagerness to get at the warm meat.

All of that horrible scene Jack heard and felt rather than saw, for he did
not dare to open his eyes--dare to draw a full breath.

After awhile he heard one of the pair move away a short distance, and he
could hear it licking its dripping chops after its feast.

Its mate continued its voracious attacks upon the carcass, the grinding of
its jaws and the crackling of the pony's bones making horrible sounds for
the helpless boy.

When this had continued for several minutes longer, the second jaguar
stopped eating and began to lick Jack's boots.

Nothing so far had equaled the horror of that sensation.

It seemed to Jack that he must go mad if it continued long!

After what seemed a long time to him in his intense agony, the dull,
rasping sound ceased; the jaguar had ended its licking, but, as if loath
to leave the spot, it allowed its head to fall forward on the half eaten
body, with its nostrils lying on Jack's foot. Its slow and regular
breathing finally told that it had fallen asleep after eating its dinner.

Jack a little later heard the cat-like steps of its mate leaving the
place, until the pitter-patter died away in the distance.

Then, for the first time, he dared to open his eyes, though he did not
venture to move his head or hand a particle.

He could see the sleeping jaguar's head and that was all that was in sight
of the creature, that still remained motionless but likely to start up at
his first movement.

As Jack's gaze followed his narrow orbit of vision he soon saw his
firearm, which had slipped from him in his ride over the precipice and
fallen near where he lay in that terrible situation.

He had no sooner seen the weapon than a wild desire to get possession of
it filled his mind. If he only had that in his hands he believed he could
shoot the jaguar before it could do him harm.

The longer he pondered upon this the stronger became the desire to make
the attempt. Failure could not be any worse than that awful suspense,
which in all probability must end in death.

Then, as he realized that the jaguar's mate might return at any moment, he
resolved to make the bold venture without more delay.

He was first careful to make himself sure that the brute was still asleep,
when he slowly and cautiously raised his hand enough to reach for the
carbine, which fortunately lay stock toward him.

Not a sound broke the deathlike stillness of the lonely scene, save the
labored breathing of the sleeping jaguar.

Never allowing his gaze to leave the creature, he continued to reach for
the firearm until he felt his hand touch the stock.

As complete control as he had maintained over himself so far in the trying
ordeal, at this critical moment he so far forgot himself as to draw a long
breath--a breath of relief to think that he had something with which to
defend himself.

That breath was instantly answered by a terrific growl!

It had awakened the light-sleeping beast, which quickly raised its head,
and its whole appearance immediately changed, as it glared furiously
around.

It seemed to realize at once that it had been fooled by this human
creature within its clutch, and with another growl, louder, fiercer and
more startling than any yet, it prepared to spring on its new victim.

But it was no quicker of action than Jack, who knew that his life hung on
prompt work. At the same time he lifted the carbine from the ground, he
cocked the weapon. At that moment the open jaws of the aroused jaguar were
thrust into his face, and the hot breath of the wild creature fanned his
cheek. The next instant he ran the muzzle of the firearm into the maddened
brute's throat and pulled the trigger.

A dull report followed, the jaguar's head was blown into fragments, and
Jack knew that his life was saved.


Chapter XII

Put to the Test


Though he had no more to fear from this jaguar, Jack knew that its mate
was likely to return at any moment, and as soon as he had recovered
somewhat from the effect of the ordeal through which he had passed, he
freed himself from the weight of the pony's body.

He was glad to find that his limb had not received any serious injury,
though it was so paralyzed from lying under the pressure that it was a few
minutes before he could stand alone.

But he lost no more time than he could avoid before he left the place,
feeling that his situation even then was not pleasant to contemplate. He
was not only afoot in the heart of a trackless wilderness, but many miles
from the nearest point of civilization.

Half an hour after leaving the scene of the jaguar's attack, he made a
discovery which caused him no little concern.

He had lost his compass.

Realizing the risk of returning to the fatal spot, as well as the
uncertainty of finding the lost instrument, he kept on without it,
endeavoring to pursue as direct a course as possible.

In this he was unsuccessful, and two days later he was wandering at random
through the intricate labyrinths of a Peruvian forest, nearly worn out and
disheartened.

Hoping that his shots might be heard by some one who would come to his
rescue, he had fired all but the last load of ammunition he had with him,
and that charge was in his carbine.

"I might as well discharge that," he said to himself. "It is my last
chance and I might as well take it now as later. It is useless for me to
try to find my way out of this wilderness."

In his desperation he cocked the weapon, and pointing it skyward pulled
the trigger.

Loud and long rang out the report on the deep silence of the forest, the
distant foothills taking up the sound and flinging it back to the valleys
in echoes that repeated the detonation far and wide. As the last sullen
sound died away in the distance he leaned against one of the trees, saying
half aloud:

"I might as well meet the worst here as anywhere."

Five, ten, fifteen minutes passed away, and satisfied that his last shot
had been fired in vain, Jack started to resume his aimless wanderings,
when the sound of footsteps fell upon his ears.

At first he thought it might be some wild beast prowling through the
woods, but it was not long before a human figure burst into sight.

There was little of beauty in the youthful stranger who had thus
unceremoniously appeared, but Jack had never been so glad to see any one
in his life.

At sight of his woebegone countenance the newcomer came to a sudden halt
in his impetuous advance, exclaiming in a voice with a peculiar and
characteristic nasal twang:

"Consarn ye! who air yeou scrouched down there in that way? Aair yeou the
feller who has been wasting ammunition so like a scart peon?"

The speaker's tone was not unfriendly, and Jack was nearly overjoyed to
find that the new-comer was not a Peruvian.

Springing from his seat on a fallen tree, where he had sunk in his
respair, he cried in genuine gladness:

"You're an American!"

"No more'n yeou air!" replied the other, brushing back his long blonde
hair from his forehead as he spoke, and looking straight into our hero's
countenance with a pair of deep blue eyes.

Then, when the two had stared upon each other for fully a minute, both
burst into a fit of laughter.

"Shoo neow!" exclaimed the Yankee boy, "who air yeou and what air yeou
doing here?"

"I might ask the same question of you," replied Jack. "My name is John
North and I come from Banton, Connecticut.

"Bet yeou air called Jack every time. My name is Plummer Plucky, but I'm
called Plum for short, though that is all they can make short about me. I
hail from <i>New</i> England too, and I'll bet my dad is hoeing taters in
sight of Plymouth Rock."

"I am lost in this wilderness," went on Jack. "I hope you can show me the
way out."

"Bet your boots on that. I live, leastways stop, not three hours' tramp
from here, though if yeou had come to-morrer yeou wouldn't found me here.
I have been working on the estancia of Don de Estuaray, the dirtiest,
meanest, miserliest, yellowest old Spaniard that ever drew the breath o'
this beautiful country."

"Evidently you love the Don," said Jack, with a smile.

"Do I? Do you know what he pays me fer work thet's enought to kill a man?"

"I haven't the slightest idea."

"No more you have. He pays me three dollars and sixty cents a month--think
of it--if you can!"

"That's a small fortune" went on Jack. He rather liked the fellow before
him. "I suppose you've got a pile saved up in the bank out of it."

"Think so? Consarn ye, yer ain't got no right to think so!" And now the
other really looked somewhat angry.

"No, I don't think so," answered Jack, promptly. "I was only fooling. They
don't pay big wages down here--I've found that out--down near the coast,
where I worked at starvation wages myself."

"Wall, I aint jest starved," said the other youth, somewhat mollified. "I
git feed enough--leas'-wise, I take what I want. But it ain't enough
money--no it ain't--nohow, consarn him anyway!"

Jack had too much at stake to desire a quarrel with his new-found
acquaintance, so he hastened to say:

"I hope you will forgive me if I have said anything to offend. I trust we
shall be friends."

Whatever of anger Plum had shown quickly left his honest countenance, and
frankly holding out a hand, he said:

"I never pick a quarrel with any one, but I won't let any one tread on my
toes. I reckon we shall be friends."

The clasp of the hands which followed cemented the firmest friendship of
Jack North's life, an acquaintance which, notwithstanding its inauspicious
beginning, was destined to ripen into a heart-felt intimacy.

The hand-shaking over, the twain, Plum leading the way, started in the
direction whence the latter had come at the sound of Jack's carbine. On
the way toward the estancia where the former had been working, our hero
learned the complete story of his past life; how he had left home to win a
fortune and drifted over the world until he was now employed by this Don
de Estuaray at the princely sum which had been the crumb of argument
between them a few minutes before.

Jack in turn told the other his story, except that part bearing upon the
island of treasure, and long before they had reached signs of civilization
they had become fast friends.

So favorably impressed was Jack with the appearance of his new-found chum
that he proposed that Plum should apply for the position of fireman on the
St. Resa railroad, a proposition which met the other boy's hearty approval
the moment he learned the wages he was likely to get His first question
was:

"Do yeou s'pose they will have me?"

"Gladly. It isn't a question of that, but whether you have the sand to
stand up in a spot where you are likely to lose your life any minute."

"Reckon I can stand up where you can, and if I do lay down it will be to
stay there. Give me your hand, old feller. I like yeou."

They were now approaching the estancia of Don de Estuaray, who lived in a
pleasant valley several miles from any settlement, and as they advanced
Jack could not help noticing the tall growth of a patch of vegetation on
their right hand, as they were entering the spacious grounds.

To his wonder he saw cotton plants that reached far above his head and
sugar cane which stood like forest trees. Plum Plucky, standing on his
shoulders, with Fret Offut, had he been living then and there, on his
shoulders, could not have reached the top of the lowest plants!

He saw indigo plants that amazed him for their size, and altogether it was
such a sight as he had never seen.

A short distance away he saw a field of oats which reared their heads into
the air to a height of more than fifteen feet.

Plum Plucky seeing the look of surprise on his countenance, said:

"Can't guess what made that stuff grow so? I can tell you. I just brought
down some of that funny dirt found in the barren spots on the hills yonder
and put a good lot round the roots. It beats all creation how it sends the
stuff into the air. The don said I'd kill it all, but I knowed better, for
I had seen the wild stuff growing like fun all round the edges of sich
places. But it don't seem to hitch on in the spots themselves. S'pect it's
too stout there."

Jack at once recalled the accounts he had heard of the nitrate beds on the
Peruvian hills, though he did not dream then of the importance of this
discovery to him.

Our hero was anxious to get back to Resaca, knowing that his prolonged
absence might have already cost him his situation as engineer on the
railroad, and as Plum Plucky had fully decided to go with him, they lost
no further time in starting for that place.

They found the railroad officials in a fever of excitement.

Believing that Jack had left them and finding no one to take his place,
the bush-raiders having grown bolder in their depredations, in their
despair, the managers were offering double their previous pay for a man
who would dare to undertake the work of getting a train through from St.
Resa to de la Pama.

Jack felt unbounded delight upon finding that the pay had been raised to
over a hundred dollars a trip, and without any explanation he offered
himself for the situation a second time.

He was gladly accepted, with no questions asked while Plum was given the
position of fireman at a salary which caused him to look with amazement.

"Well!" he exclaimed, "it's too good to last."

"Wait till you meet the bush-raiders," said Jack.

"I reckon I can take any medicine that you can," was the answer, and the
boy engineer realized that he had filled Fret Offut's place with a
companion of altogether different make-up.

Somewhat to their surprise three trips were made without any molestation
from the outlaw band, when the young couple were put to a test few would
have the courage to meet.

We fail to try to know what God has taught by neglecting to learn the
Christian doctrine.

323. Q. Who are they who do not believe all that God has taught?
A. They who do not believe all that God has taught are the heretics
and infidels.

324.

Q. Who are they who neglect to profess their belief in what God has
taught?
A.

They who neglect to profess their belief in what God has taught are all
those who fail to acknowledge the true Church in which they really
believe.

325. Q. Can they who fail to profess their faith in the true Church in
which they believe expect to be saved while in that state?

A. They who fail to profess their faith in the true Church in which they
believe cannot expect to be saved while in that state, for Christ
has said: "Whoever shall deny Me before men, I will also deny him
before My Father who is in heaven." 
326.

Q. Are we obliged to make open profession of our faith?
A.

We are obliged to make open profession of our faith as often as God's
honor, our neighbor's spiritual good, or our own requires it.

"Whosoever," says Christ, "shall confess Me before men, I will also
confess him before My Father who is in heaven." 
327.

Q. Which are the sins against hope?
A. The sins against hope are presumption and despair.

328. Q.

What is presumption?

A. Presumption is a rash expectation of salvation without making proper
use of the necessary means to obtain it.

329. Q. What is despair?
A. Despair is the loss of hope in God's mercy.

330. Q. How do we sin against the love of God?

A. We sin against the love of God by all sin, but particularly by mortal
sin.

LESSON THIRTY-FIRST THE FIRST COMMANDMENT--ON THE HONOR AND INVOCATION
OF SAINTS 

331.

Q. Does the first Commandment forbid the honoring of the saints?
A.

The first Commandment does not forbid the honoring of the saints,
but rather approves of it; because by honoring the saints, who are
the chosen friends of God, we honor God Himself.

332.

Q. Does the first Commandment forbid us to pray to the saints?
A.

The first Commandment does not forbid us to pray to the saints.

333.

Q. What do we mean by praying to the saints?
A. By praying to the saints we mean the asking of their help and
prayers.

334.

Q. How do we know that the saints hear us?
A.

We know that the saints hear us, because they are with God, who makes our
prayers known to them.

335.

Q. Why do we believe that the saints will help us?
A.

We believe that the saints will help us because both they and we are members
of the same Church, and they love us as their brethren.

336. Q. How are the saints and we members of the same Church?

A.

The saints and we are members of the same Church, because the Church in
heaven and the Church on earth are one and the same Church, and all its
members are in communion with one another.

337.

Q. What is the communion of the members of the Church called?
A.

The communion of the members of the Church is called the communion
of saints.

338.

Q. What does the communion of saints mean?

A. The communion of saints means the union which exists between the members
of the Church on earth with one another, and with the blessed in
heaven and with the suffering souls in purgatory.

339.

Q. What benefits are derived from the communion of saints?

A.

The following benefits are derived from the communion of saints:--the
faithful on earth assist one another by their prayers and good
works, and they are aided by the intercession of the saints in
heaven, while both the saints in heaven and the faithful on earth
help the souls in purgatory.

340.

Q. Does the first Commandment forbid us to honor relics?
A. The first Commandment does not forbid us to honor relics, because
relics are the bodies of the saints, or objects directly connected
with them or with our Lord.

341.

Q. Does the first Commandment forbid the making of images?
A. The first Commandment does forbid the making of images if they are
made to be adored as gods, but it does not forbid the making of
them to put us in mind of Jesus Christ, His Blessed Mother, and the
saints.

342.

Q.

Is it right to show respect to the pictures and images of Christ
and His saints?

A.

It is right to show respect to the pictures and images of Christ
and His saints, because they are the representations and memorials
of them.

343.

Q. Is it allowed to pray to the crucifix or to the images and relics of
the saints?

A.

It is not allowed to pray to the crucifix or images and relics of the
saints, for they have no life, nor power to help us, nor sense to hear
us.

344. Q.

Why do we pray before the crucifix and the images and relics of the
saints?

A.

We pray before the crucifix and images and relics of the saints because
they enliven our devotion by exciting pious affections and desires, and
by reminding us of Christ and of the saints, that we may imitate
their virtues.

LESSON THIRTY-SECOND FROM THE SECOND TO THE FOURTH COMMANDMENT 

345.

Q. What is the second Commandment?
A. The second Commandment is: Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy
God in vain.

346. Q. What are we commanded by the second Commandment?
A.

We are commanded by the second Commandment to speak with reverence of
God and of the saints, and of all holy things, and to keep our
lawful oaths and vows.

347.

Q. What is an oath?
A.

An oath is the calling upon God to witness the truth of what we say.

348. Q. When may we take an oath?
A.

We may take an oath when it is ordered by lawful authority or required for
God's honor or for our own or our neighbor's good.

349.

Q. What is necessary to make an oath lawful?
A. To make an oath lawful it is necessary that what we swear to, be true,
and that there be a sufficient cause for taking an oath.

350.

Q. What is a vow?
A.

A vow is a deliberate promise made to God to do something that is
pleasing to Him.

351.

Q. Is it a sin not to fulfill our vows?
A. Not to fulfill our vows is a sin, mortal or venial, according to the
nature of the vow and the intention we had in making it.

352.

Q. What is forbidden by the second Commandment?
A.

The second Commandment forbids all false, rash, unjust, and unnecessary
oaths, blasphemy, cursing, and profane words.

353. Q. What is the third Commandment?
A.

The third Commandment is: Remember thou keep holy the Sabbath day.

354. Q. What are we commanded by the third Commandment?
A.

By the third Commandment we are commanded to keep holy the Lord's
day and the holydays of obligation, on which we are to give our
time to the service and worship of God.

355.

Q.

How are we to worship God on Sundays and holydays of obligation?

A.

We are to worship God on Sundays and holydays of obligation by hearing
Mass, by prayer, and by other good works.

356.

Q. Are the Sabbath day and the Sunday the same?
A.

The Sabbath day and the Sunday are not the same. The Sabbath is the seventh
day of the week, and is the day which was kept holy in the Old Law; the
Sunday is the first day of the week, and is the day which is kept
holy in the New Law.

357.

Q. Why does the Church command us to keep the Sunday holy instead of the
Sabbath?
A. The Church commands us to keep the Sunday holy instead of the Sabbath
because on Sunday Christ rose from the dead, and on Sunday He sent the
Holy Ghost upon the Apostles.

358. Q. What is forbidden by the third Commandment?
A. The third Commandment forbids all unnecessary servile work and whatever
else may hinder the due observance of the Lord's day.

359. Q. What are servile works?

A. Servile works are those which require labor rather of body than of
mind.

360. Q. Are servile works on Sunday ever lawful?
A. Servile works are lawful on Sunday when the honor of God, the
good of our neighbor, or necessity requires them.

LESSON THIRTY-THIRD FROM THE FOURTH TO THE SEVENTH COMMANDMENT

361. Q. What is the fourth Commandment?
A. The fourth Commandment is: Honor thy father and thy mother.

362. Q. What are we commanded by the fourth Commandment?
A. We are commanded by the fourth Commandment to honor, love, and
obey our parents in all that is not sin.

363.

Q. Are we bound to honor and obey others than our parents?
A. We are also bound to honor and obey our bishops, pastors, magistrates,
teachers, and other lawful superiors.

364.

Q. Have parents and superiors any duties towards those who are under
their charge?
A.

It is the duty of parents and superiors to take good care of all under
their charge and give them proper direction and example.

365.

Q. What is forbidden by the fourth Commandment?

A. The fourth Commandment forbids all disobedience, contempt, and stubbornness
towards our parents or lawful superiors.

366. Q. What is the fifth Commandment?
A.

The fifth Commandment is: Thou shalt not kill.

367. Q. What are we commanded by the fifth Commandment?
A.

We are commanded by the fifth Commandment to live in peace and union with
our neighbor, to respect his rights, to seek his spiritual and
bodily welfare, and to take proper care of our own life and
health.

368.

Q. What is forbidden by the fifth Commandment?
A. The fifth Commandment forbids all wilful murder, fighting, anger,
hatred, revenge, and bad example.

369.

Q. What is the sixth Commandment?

A.

The sixth Commandment is: Thou shalt not commit adultery.

370. Q. What are we commanded by the sixth Commandment?
A. We are commanded by the sixth Commandment to be pure in thought and
modest in all our looks, words, and actions.

371.

Q. What is forbidden by the sixth Commandment?

A. The sixth commandment forbids all unchaste freedom with another's
wife or husband; also all immodesty with ourselves or others in
looks, dress, words, or actions.

372.

Q. Does the sixth Commandment forbid the reading of bad and immodest
books and newspapers?
A. The sixth Commandment does forbid the reading of bad and immodest books
and newspapers.

LESSON THIRTY-FOURTH FROM THE SEVENTH TO THE END OF THE TENTH COMMANDMENT

373. Q. What is the seventh Commandment?
A.

The seventh Commandment is: Thou shalt not steal.

374. Q. What are we commanded by the seventh Commandment?
A. By the seventh Commandment we are commanded to give to all men what
belongs to them and to respect their property.

375. Q. What is forbidden by the seventh Commandment?
A. The seventh Commandment forbids all unjust taking or keeping what belongs
to another.

376. Q. Are we bound to restore ill-gotten goods?
A. We are bound to restore ill-gotten goods, or the value of them, as far
as we are able; otherwise we cannot be forgiven.

377.

Q. Are we obliged to repair the damage we have unjustly caused?
A. We are bound to repair the damage we have unjustly caused.

378. Q. What is the eighth Commandment?

A. The eighth Commandment is: Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy
neighbor.

379. Q. What are we commanded by the eighth Commandment?
A.

We are commanded by the eighth Commandment to speak the truth in all
things and to be careful of the honor and reputation of every one.

380. Q. What is forbidden by the eighth Commandment?

A. The eighth Commandment forbids all rash judgments, backbiting, slanders,
and lies.

381. Q. What must they do who have lied about their neighbor and seriously
injured his character?

A. They who have lied about their neighbor and seriously injured his
character must repair the injury done as far as they are able, otherwise
they will not be forgiven.

382. Q. What is the ninth Commandment?

A. The ninth Commandment is: Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife.

383. Q. What are we commanded by the ninth Commandment?

A. We are commanded by the ninth Commandment to keep ourselves pure in
thought and desire.

384. Q.

What is forbidden by the ninth Commandment?

A. The ninth Commandment forbids unchaste thoughts, desires of another's
wife or husband, and all other unlawful impure thoughts and desires.

385. Q. Are impure thoughts and desires always sins?
A. Impure thoughts and desires are always sins, unless they displease us
and we try to banish them.

386.

Q. What is the tenth Commandment?
A.

The tenth Commandment is: Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's
goods.

387.

Q.

What are we commanded by the tenth Commandment?
A. By the tenth Commandment we are commanded to be content with what we
have, and to rejoice in our neighbor's welfare.

388.

Q. What is forbidden by the tenth Commandment?
A.

The tenth Commandment forbids all desires to take or keep wrongfully
what belongs to another.

LESSON THIRTY-FIFTH ON THE FIRST AND SECOND COMMANDMENTS OF THE
CHURCH

389. Q. Which are the chief commandments of the Church?
A. The chief commandments of the Church are six:

1. To hear Mass on Sundays and holydays of obligation.

2. To fast and abstain on the days appointed.
3. To confess at least once a year.
4.

To receive the Holy Eucharist during the Easter time.
5. To contribute to the support of our pastors.
6. Not to marry persons who are not Catholics, or who are related to us
within the third degree of kindred, nor privately without witnesses, nor
to solemnize marriage at forbidden times.

390.

Q. Is it a mortal sin not to hear Mass on a Sunday or a holyday of
obligation?

A. It is a mortal sin not to hear Mass on a Sunday or a holyday of obligation,
unless we are excused for a serious reason.

They also commit a mortal sin who, having others under their charge, hinder
them from hearing Mass, without a sufficient reason.

391. Q. Why were holydays instituted by the Church?
A.

Holydays were instituted by the Church to recall to our minds the great
mysteries of religion and the virtues and rewards of the saints.
392.

Q. How should we keep the holydays of obligation?

A. We should keep the holydays of obligation as we should keep the Sunday.

393. Q. What do you mean by fast-days?
A.

By fast-days I mean days on which we are allowed but one full meal.

394. Q.

What do you mean by days of abstinence?
A. By days of abstinence I mean days on which we are forbidden to eat
flesh-meat, but are allowed the usual number of meals.

395.

Q. Why does the Church command us to fast and abstain?
A. The Church commands us to fast and abstain, in order that we may
mortify our passions and satisfy for our sins.

396.

Q. Why does the Church command us to abstain from flesh-meat on Fridays?
A. The Church commands us to abstain from flesh-meat on Fridays, in
honor of the day on which our Saviour died.

LESSON THIRTY-SIXTH ON THE THIRD, FOURTH, FIFTH AND SIXTH COMMANDMENTS OF
THE CHURCH
397. Q. What is meant by the command of confessing at least once a
year?
A. By the command of confessing at least once a year is meant that
we are obliged, under pain of mortal sin, to go to confession within
the year.

398. Q. Should we confess only once a year?
A. We should confess frequently, if we wish to lead a good life.
399. Q. Should children go to Confession?
A. Children should go to Confession when they are old enough to
commit sin, which is commonly about the age of seven years.
400. Q. What sin does he commit who neglects to receive Communion
during the Easter time?
A. He who neglects to receive Communion during the Easter time
commits a mortal sin.

401. Q. What is the Easter time?
A. The Easter time is, in this country, the time between the first
Sunday of Lent and Trinity Sunday.
402. Q. Are we obliged to contribute to the support of our pastors?
A. We are obliged to contribute to the support of our pastors, and
to bear our share in the expenses of the church and school.
403. Q. What is the meaning of the commandment not to marry within
the third degree of kindred?
A. The meaning of the commandment not to marry within the third
degree of kindred is that no one is allowed to marry another within
the third degree of blood relationship.
404. Q. What is the meaning of the command not to marry privately?
A. The command not to marry privately means that none should marry
without the blessing of God's priests or without witnesses.
405. Q. What is the meaning of the precept not to solemnize marriage
at forbidden times?
A. The meaning of the precept not to solemnize marriage at forbidden
times is that during Lent and Advent the marriage ceremony should
not be performed with pomp or a nuptial Mass.
406. Q. What is the nuptial Mass?
A. A nuptial Mass is a Mass appointed by the Church to invoke a
special blessing upon the married couple.
407. Q. Should Catholics be married at a nuptial Mass?
A. Catholics should be married at a nuptial Mass, because they
thereby show greater reverence for the holy Sacrament and bring
richer blessings upon their wedded life.
LESSON THIRTY-SEVENTH ON THE LAST JUDGMENT AND THE RESURRECTION,
HELL, PURGATORY, AND HEAVEN 

408. Q. When will Christ judge us?
A. Christ will judge us immediately after our death, and on the
last day.
409. Q. What is the judgment called which we have to undergo
immediately after death?
A. The judgment we have to undergo immediately after death is called
the Particular Judgment.
410. Q. What is the judgment called which all men have to undergo
on the last day?
A. The judgment which all men have to undergo on the last day is
called the General Judgment.
411. Q. Why does Christ judge men immediately after death?
A. Christ judges men immediately after death to reward or punish
them according to their deeds.
412. Q. What are the rewards or punishments appointed for men's
souls after the Particular Judgment?
A. The rewards or punishments appointed for men's souls after the
Particular Judgment are Heaven, Purgatory, and Hell.
413. Q. What is Hell?
A. Hell is a state to which the wicked are condemned, and in which
they are deprived of the sight of God for all eternity, and are in
dreadful torments.

414. Q. What is Purgatory?
A. Purgatory is a state in which those suffer for a time who die
guilty of venial sins, or without having satisfied for the punishment
due to their sins.
415. Q. Can the faithful on earth help the souls in Purgatory?
A. The faithful on earth can help the souls in Purgatory by their
prayers, fasts, alms-deeds; by indulgences, and by having Masses
said for them.

416. Q."If I could only find that now how it would help me to carry on my
speculations."

Determined to look again on the spot, he climbed the ascent, until for a
second time he stood on the height.

Before he had reached this elevated position he had heard a deep rumbling
sound in the distance--a sound which seemed like the whirl and rush of
angry waters, as if he was approaching a high cataract.

Ere he had gained the extreme top of the elevation, however, this noise
suddenly died away, and the calmness of the primeval wilderness lay on the
scene as he paused on the summit to gaze into the valley.

Naturally his gaze had turned in that direction, and an exclamation of
astonishment left his lips, as he saw that the valley was gone!

The great basin was filled with water, the high hills and mountains
forming a mighty rim with a piece of the huge bowl broken away where the
gap existed in the elevated range on the north. But another feature of
this inland lake had greater interest for him.

Near its centre was a small, barren island, entirely destitute of growth
except for a solitary tree standing on its highest point.

The lonely monarch stood stark and stern in all its solitude, with one
branch lifted like a skeleton arm pointing toward the north.

"The pimento--the treasure island!" exclaimed Jack with suppressed
emotion.

The longer he looked upon the little island and its surroundings the more
fully convinced he became that it was the spot described in the paper he
had found so singularly on Robinson Crusoe's island.

When he had recovered somewhat from his glad surprise he urged the pony
down the rough descent until the shore of the lake was reached.

"Oh, Don!" he said to the faithful pony, "you must take me to the island,"
never dreaming of the effort it would cost.

As he spoke a commotion began in the water at the north end, though that
in front of him was still as unruffled as ever. But the pony had barely
plunged into the tide before a deep, guttural sound came up from the
depths and long lines of foam appeared on the surface.

Nothing daunted by this, Jack continued to urge the animal ahead in spite
of its desire to turn back, until they were about midway between the bank
which they had left and the island.

The strange noise had increased so that now it completely filled Jack's
ears, while the water was in a fearful state of agitation. It had taken on
a peculiar greenish hue, with big flecks of white foam, and here and there
were fountains spouting up bright yellow liquid, which rose to the height
of from ten to twenty feet.

The youth felt a strong undercurrent, and, finding that he could not reach
the island, he tried to get back to the shore he had left.

By this time the pony was struggling helplessly in the mysterious power
sucking it downward.

Then, before Jack could clear his feet from the stirrups, so as to look
out for himself, he was drawn under the seething waters with his horse!


Chapter XVI

At the Boiling Lake


As Jack felt the swirling waters closing over him, he made greater effort
to keep on the surface.

His gallant pony was struggling furiously for the same purpose, but the
power pulling them down was irresistible.

A continual roaring filled his ears, and it seemed as if he was being
drawn into some infernal region.

In spite of all he could do he was carried downward, until suddenly he
felt a terrible shock, as if he had been hurled against some stony
surface, and the next he knew he was floating on the water near the north
end of the lake, which was then quite tranquil. He had no difficulty in
swimming to the nearest point of land.

Scrambling up the precipitous bank he was glad to sink upon the ground for
rest.

He was wondering if his pony had perished, when he was gladdened by the
sight of the animal on the opposite side of the lake.

Before going to the horse Jack resolved to try to swim out to the island,
and as the water had now assumed the calmness which had prevailed at the
time he had first seen it, he did not think of further trouble. He had
received some bruises from his recent experience, but beyond them he felt
little the worse for his adventure.

Removing his outer garments, so as to give greater freedom to his
movements, he stepped down to the edge of the dark flood, which was filled
with the fine particles of earth it had swallowed.

As calm as the water was then, he had barely touched it with one foot
before a shriek, which rang in his ears for a long time afterwards, rang
high and far, cut short in its midst by a fearful rush of the aroused
flood, and a column was suddenly thrown into the air to the height of a
hundred feet!

It was such a terrific, appalling outburst that he hastily clambered back
upon the bank, to watch the strange sight. For fully two minutes the
waterspout quivered and vibrated in the air, when it collapsed as abruptly
as it had appeared.

The water of the lake continued to boil for five minutes, when it began to
subside, though bearing traces of agitation for five minutes longer,
during which Jack watched it with intense interest.

Still undaunted by this marvelous display, Jack resolved to try a third
time to reach the island, selecting a more favorable place for his descent
into the water this time.

As no outbreak had immediately followed his entrance into the lake this
time, he was beginning to think that the strange phenomenon was over. But
he was soon to be undeceived.

All at once, without warning, a dozen columns of water sprang upward,
threatening for a moment to drain the lake dry, and among these rushing,
writhing pillars Jack was borne into the air.

When the powers subsided he fell back with such a force as to render him
almost senseless. The lake was still churned and convulsed by the mighty
agency controlling it, and he had a hard fight to reach the shore, where
he lay completely exhausted.

Slowly recovering his strength he finally sat up and began to wring the
water out of his clothes, deciding to leave the place as soon as he felt
able. The water was calm then; though a short time before it had been
tossed and whipped into fury by the mysterious element controlling it.

"Were the whole Incas treasure buried on that island it would be safe from
the hand of the despoiler," he said, speaking aloud his thoughts. "But I
do not understand it. I am willing to wager that this is the same valley I
saw when I was this way before, though it was as dry as a palm leaf then.
How calm it is now, but I suppose if I should dare to enter its sacred
precinct it would begin again its fearful convulsions."

As he finished speaking, Jack picked up a small stone and tossed it into
the lake. No sooner had it disappeared beneath its dark surface than
another column of water shot upward with a sort of hissing that was
terrific, and in a moment the whole body was once more undergoing a series
of spasms frightful to behold.

Watching it until the outbreak was over, Jack lost no further time in
seeking the pony. Then he began to climb the hillside leading from the
place.

Upon the crest he paused for a last look, saying:

"It is calm enough now. Sometime I will come again, for I will know its
secret if I die for it. There is and must be a natural explanation for all
this."

Finding Plum Plucky waiting anxiously for him at the expected place of
meeting, Jack led the way toward civilization, having come to the
conclusion to close the trade on one of the nitrate beds he had seen and
begin operations as soon as possible.

He said nothing to his companion of his experience in the valley of
mystery, partly because the stirring scenes immediately following caused
him to put it in the background of his memory for a while.

He was the more anxious to get his first cargo of nitrate off as the war
cloud was deepening fast, and not only was Peru and Chili at a state of
bitter antagonism, but Bolivia was threatening to mix in the trouble. A
three-cornered war, with Southern Peru for its battleground, was anything
but what he desired to see.

The next day he bought his first nitrate bed, paying for it forty
pistoles, which was considerably more than he had expected, but it was
large, and if his plans only worked he believed there was a small fortune
in it.

He then hired oxen enough to make two six-ox teams, with suitable wagons
to draw the nitrate on, and he engaged the services of half a dozen
Peruvians to help in the work of getting out the first loads.

As the bed lay remote from the few beaten paths of the thinly populated
country, it would involve considerable hard work and time to get passable
roads cut through, so as to be able to draw loads of any size.

"By gosh!" drawled Plum Plucky, as they set out on their work, "I'm going
to stand by yeou; but yeou may hang my hat on a scare-crow if I don't
think yeou'll blow yerself dry."

"By that I suppose you mean that I shall lose all I am putting into my
venture," said Jack, good-naturedly.

"That's just what I mean. I'll bet yeou have got about every dollar yeou
have into it now."

"I have figured up that I shall have about twenty pounds left when I have
paid off my help."

"Say, Jack! I'd like to be there when you get in with yer first load of
dirt and see 'em laugh. Don't s'pose yeou have any dirt in the teown yeou
come from."

"Not dirt that is pure nitrate of soda, and possessing the highest
qualities for fertilization of any known compound. Hello! what is up now?"


Chapter XVII

In the Nitrate Fields


The last exclamation was called from Jack by the fact that the teams had
suddenly stopped, and the native drivers were shouting excitedly over
something which had happened.

They were at the time trying to make a roadway to the nitrate bed through
a trackless wilderness, and had thus far progressed with greater ease than
the young speculator had calculated.

But upon reaching the spot where the teamsters and workmen were holding an
excited controversy, Jack found that the cause of the excitement was the
fact that the way had been stopped by a sharp, rocky ridge, which extended
for miles in both directions.

"We can't go any further, señor," declared the head driver. "No team can
find its way through these rocks and up and down the hill."

Jack had seen this place when making his survey and had calculated upon
the difficulty in passing it, having the route most feasible at this
point.

"Let two men come forward with axes to clear away the stunted growth, and
the rest get their levers. I will show you by to-morrow it can be passed."

Lively work followed, the men taking hold with a vim, so that by noon the
next day a path had been cleared, so the teams could cross the rocky
ridge.

The balance of the distance to the mine was very favorable and at last
Jack had the satisfaction of finding himself at his destination, when the
men were set to work loading the carts, the oxen getting a chance to rest
while it was being done.

While superintending the work Jack had time to realize more fully than
before the gigantic undertaking he had upon hand. It is true the worst
seemed over, now that the path was cleared, but he knew with the rude
implements he had to work with that this had been poorly done, and that
the loaded teams would have difficult work to reach the open country. Even
then he would be many miles from the nearest seaport, where he was likely
to meet with another obstacle in finding a ship to transport his cargo to
the United States. Then, after he had reached home, how would he be
treated? A failure to sell his nitrate meant the loss of every penny of
money he had worked so hard to earn. But these anxious thoughts did not
rob him of his confidence in his ultimate success. Now he had put his
shoulder to the wheel, he was not one to look back.

When the hour came for him to give the order to hitch up the cattle and
prepare for the return journey, he gave his orders in a cheery tone.

"I tell you, Jack," said Plum, speaking with less drawl than common, "I'm
mighty glad to do this. I don't see how you can be so chipper, for I'm
dead sure we're going to have loads of trouble before we get out of this."

"No great thing was ever done without having more or less trouble at the
outset," replied Jack. "As soon as we get started we shall find it easier.
Hi, there, Pedro!" addressing one of the Peruvian drivers, "you have those
oxen yoked wrong. You ought to know better by this time."

"Who knows best, señor, you or I?" demanded the Peruvian, showing anger at
what he deemed an unwarranted interference.

Jack said nothing further, feeling that he had spoken too sharply perhaps,
though he knew he was in the right. He had found the natives anything but
pleasant men to deal with, and the quarrel of one was sure to be taken up
by his companions.

Five minutes later the foremost team was leaving the nitrate bed, starting
on its long journey at the slow pace of oxen, while the other soon
followed.

Vague reports had reached Jack before he had left on his trip, of the
uprising of the people, and of the guerrilla warfare being carried on by
the straggling armies of the North and South. Still he did not think he
would be molested, and he felt in good spirits, as they followed the rough
pathway.

To be on his guard as much as possible, however, he had thought best to
keep a short distance ahead of the teams, while Plum Plucky followed about
the same distance behind, the two thus maintaining a continual watch over
the train.

Nothing occurred to delay their progress, until Jack found himself
climbing the steep upgrade, which the Peruvians had declared impassable
before they had done so much work in clearing it. The course was uneven
now, and considerable of the way it was little more than a scratch on the
mountain side, with a sheer descent on one side of hundreds of feet.

He had got about half way toward the top when the loud cries of the
teamsters caused him to look back.

A glance showed him that the foremost team was "hung up" at a particularly
bad place.

The drivers were belaboring the patient oxen unmercifully, but not another
inch could they make the animals pull the load.

Shouting to the men to stop their useless goading of the oxen, our hero
ran back to the spot, finding that the second team had stopped a short
distance below, where it was comfortably waiting for the other to move
ahead so it could resume its tedious journey.

As there was no chance to get the oxen on the lower team past the upper
one, so as to be hitched on to help, on account of the narrowness of the
road, Jack quickly dismissed such an idea from his thoughts.

Not wishing to throw off a part of the load, which must be lost by so
doing, he stepped alongside the cattle and began to stroke them and to
speak gently to them.

"Both teams couldn't pull the load up this path, señor," said one of the
drivers.

"I am sorry I did not think to double up at the foot of the ascent, but it
is too late to complain now. Come, boys! all together."

Jack had taken the long, slender pole, with its ten feet of lash, with
which the drivers urged on their patient teams, and swinging the unwieldly
instrument over their heads as he uttered the words, he hoped to make them
start.

The result was most unexpected.

Putting their shoulders to the work with renewed life, the obedient oxen
fairly touched the ground with their bodies as they tugged ahead with
their burden.

The cart creaked and the axles groaned, while the heavy wheels began to
revolve.

"Hooray! it is mov--"

Plum Plucky gave expression to the exultant cry, but he did not have time
to finish before a loud snap was heard, and the oxen were seen to suddenly
plunge up the grade, leaving the cart!

"The pull pin has broken!" cried one of the Peruvians, terrified.

"The clevis has broke--look out!" yelled Plum, turning pale. "The other
team will be smashed!"

The heavily loaded wagon, freed suddenly from the power which had pulled
it to this precarious position, stood for a moment as if balanced on the
pinacle.

Of course Jack had seen what was taking place with a quicker eye than any
of his companions, and as he saw the wagon trembling in the balance for a
moment before it started on its downward course to destruction, and
realizing that a timely action could yet save it, he rushed forward to
seize hold of one of the wheels, shouting to his assistants:

"Quick--put your shoulder to the wheel and we may save it!"

Plum did spring forward to help his friend, but even he was too late to be
of any avail, while the Peruvians stood idle, without offering to move.

While the united strength of all might have stopped the wagon, Jack's
resistance was futile, and in a moment the loaded vehicle started on its
downward course, soon gaining a momentum that nothing could stop.

Faster and faster it moved, the wheels creaking and groaning unanimously,
as it gained in speed.

The drivers of the other team in the pathway below uttered wild cries of
terror, as they saw their danger, and began to scramble helter-skelter up
the mountain side.

The runaway was going directly upon them, but they were likely to escape.

Not so with the oxen and wagon, which seemed surely doomed.

Jack saw at a glance his whole work going to naught in a moment's time.

Then his presence of mind returned to him and he thought he saw a way to
avert a part of the loss.

Bounding down the pathway after the runaway, he soon managed to catch hold
of the tongue, which was dodging swiftly from one side to the other of the
path, according as it was swung to and fro by the motion of the forward
wheels.

Grasping this forearm with all the strength he possessed, Jack swung it
toward the near side, until locking the forward wheel on that side against
the sill of the cart.

He had seen that the only chance to save the rear wagon was at the
sacrifice of the other, and no sooner had he begun to hold the pole in
that position that the wagon began to turn toward the gulf yawning on that
side of the track.

It was a fearful alternative, but the best he could do, and Jack breathed
a sigh of relief as he found the hind wheels going over the brink of the
chasm.

For a moment the big load stood quivering on the edge of the precipice,
and then, with a crash which sounded far up and down the rugged valley,
the wagon went headlong to its doom.


Chapter XVIII

An Alarm of Fire


Breathless and exhausted by his almost superhuman effort, Jack sank down
upon the hard rocks, where he had stood at the fateful moment.

Plum Plucky, further up the broken pathway, stood in silent awe, while the
Peruvians looked on from their perches on the mountain side with bulging
eyes and chattering teeth.

The only creatures which seemed unconcerned were the oxen which had been
so narrowly threatened, as they quietly chewed their cuds, while they
blinked their big, soft-lighted eyes.  Plum was the first to speak.

"Jiminey whack, Jack! but you've done it."

"It was my only chance to save the oxen and the other load," said Jack,
rising to feet. "Better save half a loaf than to lose it all, you know.
Simply couldn't turn it into the rocks."

"But I don't see how you could think of it. I was scart, I ain't ashamed
to own. I'll bet that other is smashed into kindling wood."

Jack was already looking over the precipice after the lost wagon, saying
in a minute or so:

"It has come out better than I should have expected, though it will do us
no further good. It has lodged among some trees and rocks, and I do not
believe a wheel has been broken."

"That's so, Jack, though I reckon it don't make any difference to us. But
if 'em rocks don't start to grow it's 'cause the nitrate ain't any good,
for the stuff is sowed all over the Andes."

"It is pretty well scattered, that is a fact. But come, boys, we must
hitch on the other oxen, and see if the double team can pull this load to
the top."

Though the loss of one of his wagons and a portion of his nitrate, which
had cost him so much to get so far, was felt keenly by Jack, he showed his
indomitable will by immediately giving his attention toward carrying out
the work of crossing the ridge.

The remaining load proved an easy burden for the united teams, and in a
few minutes the heavy wagon was moving slowly up the path, the loud
commands of the Peruvian drivers echoing up and down the valley with
somewhat startling effect.

"As soon as we get to the summit," said Jack to Plum, "you and I will go
back and see if there is not some way to save the other wagon, even at the
sacrifice of its load."

"I s'pose we might throw off what nitrate there is left on it, and by
hitching together all the chains and ropes we have--"

"I wonder what is wrong now," exclaimed Jack, for the team had again
stopped, though the wagon was not more than its length from the summit. To
the drivers he shouted:

"Drive up a little further, so the wagon will stand without--"

Loud, angry cries stopped him in the midst of his speech.

Anxious to know what had caused another interruption in the advance, he
hurried forward, to meet a most unexpected sight.

Drawn up in front of the team in the narrow path was a squad of Chilian
soldiers, or bushwhackers, more properly speaking, for he knew they did
not belong to the regular army.

The Peruvians were cowering by the side of the wagon and cattle, muttering
over something in their native tongue which our hero did not understand.

"Ho, there, soldiers!" he called out, in his best Spanish, "what does this
mean?"

"It means if you don't get out of our path, Americanos, we will hew you
down!"

"Don't be too fast, señor captain," Jack made bold to say, "this path is
one of my own making, though if you will allow me to get my team to the--"

"Pitiful dog!" cried the Chilian, "Captain de Costa commands you to clear
his way without any insulting words."

Jack saw that it would be worse than useless to have any words with this
imperious Chilian, who in his petty command felt more arrogant than a king
on this throne. Accordingly he began in a respectful tone:

"If Captain de Costa will kindly allow us to drive to the summit we shall
be able--"

"Americano dog! will you surrender?"

By this time the Peruvians had taken to their heels, and Jack and Plum
stood alone in front of the pompous captain and legion.

Jack's first thought was to boldly refuse the demand, knowing the other
had no business to interfere with him, and to make such a resistance as he
and his companion could. But single-handed, against such odds, he knew it
would be folly.

"If you please, Captain de Costa, we two are but peaceful American boys,
both of us engaged--"

"Will you surrender?" thundered the Chilian, advancing with uplifted
sword, as if he would carry out his threat of hewing him down.

"We are offering no resistance to you, señor captain. If you will allow us
to--"

At a motion from the Chilian leader his soldiers leaped forward, and Jack
and Plum were quickly made prisoners.

The order was then given for the lads to be intrusted to a portion of
troops under the command of a sergeant, and then the march down the
pathway toward the nearest town was begun.

The last Jack saw of his team it was still standing just over the brow of
the height, the patient oxen chewing their cuds as unconcerned as if the
fortunes and the lives of their owners were not in the least endangered.

"What is going to be the end of this?" asked Plum, as they were marched
along side by side.

"It is impossible to tell. I do not think it will be best for us to have
much to say to each other if we wish to keep together. We must keep our
eyes open for a chance to escape."

Plum taking the hint, the friends walked along in silence until the
journey seemed without end.

The soldiers kept up a continual run of conversation, Jack catching enough
to know that the Chilian forces were gaining successes wherever they met
the Peruvians. He also learned that the army of Bolivia was now their
greatest concern, and that the latter was then on a march over the Andes
to meet them.

At nightfall a halt was made under a spur of the mountains, but before the
sun had tipped with gold the crest of the distant Andes the weary journey
was resumed.

That day about noon they came in sight of a little up-country town, which
the prisoners soon learned was known as Santa Rosilla. Its long, narrow
streets bore a deserted appearance, save for the motley-coated soldiers
passing to and fro, as if on guard.

The town bore every sign of a recent siege, while the indications were as
strong that the inhabitants had been completely routed and killed or
driven back into the mountains by their conquerors.

Straight down the grand plaza marched the soldiers with their captives,
making their way toward the casa consistorial, or town house, above which
flapped in the sleepy breeze the flag of Chili.

The door of the town house, which bore the marks of many bullets, was off
its hinges, but the rooms within were secure enough for all prisoners of
war that might fall into their hands in that isolated district, and
thither our twain were marched.

To their delight, which they were careful to conceal, they were put into a
room together, though under a strong guard.

"Looks so we were in for it," said Plum, after they had been left by
themselves for an hour or more.

"It was a hard set-back to my plans," said Jack.

But I must now have once more recourse to my current notes.

I have now been something like five hours on the tramp, plodding my way
through a deep glen in a pine forest, but have not yet come across
any sign of a stag, I started with the Chief and the Count, but the
former soon went off at a tangent somewhere on his own hook, and
the latter, who had got his Hotchkiss with him and found it heavy
work to drag it up and down the mountain paths, I have left behind
to take a rest and recuperate himself.

I pause in my walk and listen. The forest is intensely still. Not a sign
of a stag anywhere.

JEPSON is left at home, as he is expecting a couple of local Ministers to
tea, but he has told me I'm "bound to come across whole herds of
them," if I only tramp long enough.

Well, I've been at it five hours, and I certainly ought to have spotted
something by this time.

By Jove, though, what's that moving in the path ahead of me? It is! _It is
a stag!_ A magnificent fellow--though he appears to have only one
horn.

But, how odd! I believe he has seen me, and yet doesn't seem scared!
Yes, he is actually approaching in the most leisurely fashion in
the world.

But that isn't the correct thing. In deer-stalking, I'm sure you ought to
stalk the deer, not the deer stalk you. And this creature is absolutely
coming down on me. Oh! I can't stand this. I shall have a shot at him. Bang!
Have fired--and _missed_!

And, by Jove, the stag doesn't seem to mind! He is coming nearer and nearer.
He actually comes close to where I am kneeling, and with facetious
friendliness removes my Tam o'Shanter!

But, hulloah! who is this speaking?

"Ha, and would ye blaze awa wi' your weepons upon poor old Epaminondas,
mon!" It is an aged Highlander who is addressing me, and he has just turned
out of a bye-path.

He is fondling the creature's nose affectionately, and the stag seems to
know him. I remark as much.

"Ha! sure he does," he replies, "Why there's nae a body doon the glen but
has got a friendly word for puir Old Epaminondas.

You see he's blind o' one 'ee, and he's lost one o' his antlers, and he's
a wee bit lame, and all the folk here about treat him kindly, when
ye thought to put that bit o' lead into him just noo, sure he was
just oomin' to ye for a bit o' oatmeal cake."

I express my regret for having so nearly shot the "Favourite of the
Glen" through inadvertence! I explain that I came out deerstalking, and
did not expect, of course, to come across a perfectly tame and domestic
stag.

"A weel, there's nae mischief done," continues my interlocutor; "but it's
nae good a stalking Epaminondas, for he's just a sagacious beastie
altogether

."

* * * * *

Here we are at the Lodge.

But, hulloah!

what's this uproar on the lawn? A herd of deer dashing wildly over everything,
flowerbeds and all, and, yes, absolutely five of them bursting into the
house, through one of the drawing-room windows, while JEPSON and
the two kirk Ministers emerge hurriedly, terrified, from the other.

Crash!
And what's _that_? Why, surely it _can't_ be--but yes, I believe it is--yes,
it _positively is_ the Chief's pickaxe that has flown through the
air, and just smashed through the upper panes, scattering the glass
in a thousand fragments in all directions!

And thus ends my Stalking for the Present, and (probably) the Future!

* * * * *
[Illustration: BLACK SYRENS.

"Is the window large enough to let us crawl out if our hands were free?"
asked Jack.

"It may be; but it is crossed with bars of iron no man could break with
his hands."

"Take your last look and then come down."

Plum took a hurried survey of the scene which he realized he might never
look upon again, but his narrow orbit allowed of nothing more than what he
had described.

The cannons were still thundering forth their loud-voiced peals of war,
half drowned by the incessant rattle of the smaller arms in the hands of
the town's defenders.

In a moment Plum descended to the floor in a heap.

"Get on your feet if you can," said Jack a moment later.

By resting against the wall, as his companion was doing, Plum Plucky soon
stood beside him.

"I should like to know what we are to do in this condition. We are sure to
be killed."

"Hark! do you hear anything of the sentry now?"

"No; he went out to join the soldiers. I see him."

"Then our way is clear. Now, Plum, I want you to brace yourself as best
you can, and when I give the word throw all your weight against the door
with me."

"Going to try and break it down?"

"Yes; ready?"

"Ready."

"Now then, together!"

The old door shook and creaked beneath their combined efforts, but it
withstood the shock.

"Again--together!"

This time the whole building trembled, and the door creaked and groaned,
but still defied them.

"Still again--together!"

But the third attempt, nor yet the fourth nor fifth cleared their pathway,
though when both the boys were bruised from head to feet the rusty hinges
suddenly gave away and they went headlong into the narrow hallway.

Jack struck upon top, and he was the first to gain his knees, as near an
erect position as he could easily gain, and he began to crawl toward the
open air, saying:

"Follow me, Plum."

On the outer threshold they paused to take a hasty survey of the
surroundings, soon satisfying themselves that a terrific battle was being
waged at the upper end of the town.

"The quicker we get away the better," said Jack, begining to move
laboriously toward the grand plaza, with Plum close behind him.

In that slow, tedious way the two crossed the yard in front of the town
house, and then steering for the cover of a line of shrubbery bordering on
the west side of the plaza, they crawled as fast as they could in that
direction.

The sound of the cannon was not heard so constant now, but the storm of
the musketry had not seemed to cease to any extent.

What meant infinitely more to them, the firing was rapidly drawing nearer.
The fire, too, of the burning town was growing brighter and brighter, even
the plaza showing plainly under its vivid glare.

Upon reaching the shrubbery they stopped for a brief respite.

"Look, Jack!" exclaimed Plum, in a shrill whisper, "our prison is on fire!
We didn't get out any too soon."

Jack had made the same discovery. He made no reply, his thoughts being
busy in another direction.

An incendiary had kindled a fire at one end of the building and so fast
did the flames increase and spread that while they watched them they
sprang up and enveloped one whole side in a crimson sheet.

"We must get away from this place," said Jack. "The two factions of war
are coming this way on a run. It must be the captors of the town have met
more than their match this time."

Again the escaping couple began their slow retreat, now under cover of a
dense growth reaching they knew not how far. Nor did that matter so long
as it afford them shelter from their enemies.

Once, having gained a little summit from which they could look down on the
exciting scene, they stopped to gaze back, their curiosity aroused by the
wild medley of cries.

The town house was now all ablaze, the lurid fire feeding upon its walls
lighting far the night scene, while throwing a weird glamor over the
contending factions of war-crazed men, who had now both reached the
further side of the plaza and temporally suspended hostilities.

There was a reason for this last, too, as explained by Jack's words, as he
analyzed the situation:

"They are Chilians on both sides, Plum!"

"Do you mean, Jack, that this attack on the Chilians of the town has been
made by some of their own countrymen?"

"Yes; there has been some mistake made, which has cost many needless
lives. What a painful surprise it must be to them!"

Jack afterwards learned that he had been right in his conjectures, and
that through some unexplainable blunder one division of the Chilian army
had been sent to capture the town already in possession of another
portion.

Santa Rosilla was in the possession of the Chilians sure enough now!

But Jack and Plum dared not stop to see the outcome of this singular
meeting between the armed forces, but improved every moment to get away
from the ill-fated town.


Chapter XX

Preparations for Departure


Three days later, having actually worn off the bonds on their lower limbs
by their long, painful journey on their hands and knees through the dense
growth, until a friendly Peruvian lad finished their liberation, Jack and
Plum entered de la Pama, two sorry-looking youths but still full of
courage. Almost the first news they learned was that the St. Resa railroad
was again without the men to run the train, which had been stalled for
weeks. In fact, the engineer and his helper who had succeeded them, had
not made one complete trip, the fireman having blown out the boiler soon
after leaving De la Pama.

In this dilemma the officials hailed the appearance of the boys with
unfeigned delight. But Jack was sorry to learn that it had been decided
not to pay over thirty pistoles a month for his services.

"We might as well let the cars stand idle as to pay out all we can get for
help. Then, too, the business is not going to be very good while this war
lasts, señor."

The pay was still big for that country, and Jack resolved to accept,
though before doing so he asked: "What will you pay my fireman?"

"Twenty pistoles, señor. That is the best we can do. We can get plenty of
men for that price." "It doesn't look so. But what do you say, Plum? That
will bring you seventy-two dollars a month, if I reckon right. I will try
it for awhile if you will go with me."

"I'm with you."

Most unexpected to them at the time they began, the "awhile" proved for a
year. Jack had not dreamed he should stay so long, but his previous
experience had left him penniless, and with his fixed determination to try
again, he knew he would not be able to find so good an opportunity to earn
the needed money to begin renewed operations. During those days Jack sent
several letters to his folks and to Jenny. In return he received a letter
from his father, stating that all was now going fairly well with the
family and if he wanted to stay in South America he could do so. Mr. North
also sent the information that Fowler & Company had gone into the hands of
a receiver and there was no telling whether the business would be
continued or not, and Jack need not expect any back pay from the concern.

From Jenny Jack heard not a word, much to his anxiety and dismay. The fact
was that Jenny's folks had moved to another town and she had not received
Jack's letters, and consequently did not know exactly where he was.

"I suppose she has forgotten all about me," he thought, with a sigh.
"Well, I suppose I ought to go back, but I hate to do it before I've
managed to get some money together. There's a fortune in that nitrate and
I know it, and some day I'll get hold of it."

Very much to Jack's surprise they were not molested very much by the
bush-raiders, whose power seemed to have been checked by the advance of
the opposing armies, for the war was still carried on, though in a sort of
desultory manner, as if each side was afraid of the others. Jack could
foresee that the Chilians were pretty sure to secure that portion of the
country before they got through. Plum Plucky had stood by his friend all
of this time, and they had met with some thrilling experiences, but come
out of them safely.

Jack saved his money like a miser, and with undimmed faith in his ultimate
success bought five more nitrate beds, to be laughed at by his friend.

"Should think you would want to look after 'em loads you have got over on
the Andes," Plum would frequently say.

Each time Jack remained silent.

"Say, Jack," Plum would then invariably say, "don't yeou s'pose 'em oxen
are getting hungry by this time?"

Still the other held his peace.

Jack had not forgotten the mysterious island in the equally mysterious
lake amid the Andes, and twice during the year his memory had been
refreshed by startling accounts given of the place by different parties
that had visited the valley. These men had given it the name of the
"Devil's Waters," not very inappropriately.

At the end of the year, it now being certain that the Peruvians were
losing their hold on the province which comprised the territory in which
they were located, Jack said to his companion:

"I am almost sorry to say that I shall make my last trip to-morrow, Plum."

"Going back to nitrates?" asked the other, showing but little surprise.

"Yes. I must get a cargo to America as soon as possible."

"Should think you would want to. Guess I will stick to the old gal here a
little longer. When I have got enough money to get out of this swamp in
the way I want to I shall go back to old New England.

"I tell you there is no place like the Old Bay State. Yeou won't think me
a sneak for deserting yeou now, Jack?" dropping back into his old-time
nasal drawl.

"Oh, no, of course not. In fact, I think you are doing just as I should if
I were in your place. I will speak a good word for you to get my position
as engineer. You can run the engine as well as I now."

"Good for you, Jack. Now, how do you think of getting that stuff to the
States?"

"About the same way I tried first, only I shall not try to go behind that
spur of the Andes, as I did before.

"I can see my mistake now, though I believe that is the richest deposit I
have, and I shall sometime make something out of it. I am going to get a
cargo from the bed nearest to the railroad and get the company to freight
it for me to the seaboard."

"Then I shall see you occasionally, Jack."

"Oh, yes. I shall not be far away."

Jack was as good as his word, and the following day Plum Plucky proudly
took his place as engineer, with a new fireman to help him.

Jack then began to carry out his scheme of getting a cargo of nitrate to
his native land.

This time he obtained his supply of nitrate from a bed less than ten miles
from the railroad, drawing it to the station with ox teams. With his
better knowledge of the country he met with success in this part of the
undertaking, and then the train carried it to the sea-coast for him at
moderate rates.

Before this had been done he had bargained with a Peruvian captain of a
merchantman to carry the cargo to Philadelphia.

This had proved the most difficult part of his arrangements, for with the
existing war between the countries it was sometime before he could find a
man willing to do it.

But he found one at last and the nitrate was eventually loaded on the
vessel.

It was a proud, and yet an anxious, moment for Jack when he found
everything in readiness to leave the harbor.

The captain had declared his intention of setting sail under cover of
darkness, so as to escape an attack from a Chilian ship should one offer
to dispute his passage.

That afternoon Jack saw Plum to bid him goodbye, feeling sorry to part
with his honest friend.

The latter actually cried.

"Hang it, Jack! I've a mind to go with you. Think of me in this heathenish
country and you among friends and rolling in wealth."

"All but the wealth, Plum. But I shall be glad to have you go with me."

"I thank you, Jack, but I mustn't. I must stay here long enough to get the
money to pay up the mortgage on dad's farm, when I shall skip by the light
of the moon. You may not find me here when you come back, Jack, but I wish
you well."

A little after sunset the Peruvian ship moved slowly out of the harbor of
San Maceo, Jack watching the land as it receded from sight with a peculiar
interest, and his mind ran swiftly back over the eventful time he had
passed in that faraway land.

He had given the captain the last pistole he possessed, as he had been
obliged to pay him in advance to get him to undertake the task, so he was
again penniless. But he had no doubt he would have money enough as soon as
he could get home and dispose of his cargo. Over and again he had figured
out his profit, if it should prove saleable at the moderate price he had
fixed upon it. Is it a wonder his thoughts were in a tumult? Is it strange
that he found it difficult to make himself believe that at last after that
long waiting, he was really homeward bound?

"How glad they will be to see me!" he thought. "And Jenny! She will not be
expecting me. It has been so long since I left. Some of them may be--"

He was interrupted in his meditations by the report of a gun in the
distance, and, glancing to the port, he discovered a ship coming up
rapidly.

That there was something wrong in the appearance of the stranger was
evident from the bustle and excitement which had suddenly sprung up among
officers and crew, not one of whom spoke anything but Spanish.

All sail had been crowded on that the ship could possibly carry; but
heavily loaded and at best a poor sailer, the new-comer continued to
overhaul them at a startling rate.

Coming alongside of Jack finally, the captain said:

"We are lost, señor! I ought to lose my head for undertaking such a mad
project."

"It may not be as bad as you seem to think, señor capitan," replied Jack,
hoping to encourage the commander.

But all that he could say was in vain.

The Chilian warship, as the stranger really was, continued to keep up its
firing, though the Peruvian vessel had not fired a gun.

Jack anxiously watched the approach of their pursuer, feeling that his
fortune, if not his life, was at stake.

It is possible if the Peruvian had laid to and allowed the other to come
up without the show of running away, that it might have been permitted to
continue its course unmolested. And again it may not have been so.

At any rate the Peruvian captain held to his flight as his only hope of
salvation, until at last a shot, better directed than the random firing so
long kept up, struck the doomed merchantman fairly amidship.

The craft instantly lurched and trembled from bow to stern.

"She is sinking!" shrieked the captain. "Quick--to the boats!"


Chapter XXI

A Panic on Shipboard


A scene of the wildest description followed the frantic captain's
announcement and order. The sailors were panic stricken, and more than
half of them plunged headlong into the sea.

The captain was scarcely less distracted than his men, and he only added
to the helplessness of the situation by his words and actions.

Jack tried to pacify him by saying:

"Pardon me, señor capitan, but the ship will not sink at once if at all.
You have plenty of time in which to save your lives."

"But the Chilian! We shall be made prisoners of war. Heaven protect me! I
was a fool to listen to you, Señor North."

"It is too late to think of that now. It is your duty to see if something
cannot be done to stop the ship's leak."

It was useless to try to reason with the Peruvian captain. He was sure the
ship was going to sink, and seemed determined that she should.

Meanwhile the Chilian continued to draw nearer, though it had nearly
stopped firing.

The trumpet-like tone of the commander rang over the water just as the
terrified Peruvians lowered a boat and leaped headlong into it, that is,
those who had not previously jumped into the sea.

Finding himself alone on the sinking vessel, which was going down fast,
Jack answered the Chilian's challenge:

"Ship ahoy! what do you want?"

"What ship is that?"

"The merchant ship, <i>Santa Clara</i>, Señor Captain, now sinking from
the effects of your shot."

"Lay to and I'll come aboard."

This command was not obeyed.

The doomed vessel was now lurching fearfully, and Jack knew that he could
not leave it any too soon for his own safety of life. Fortunately the
shore was not so far away but he believed he could reach it, and throwing
off his outer garments, he leaped into the water.

The Peruvians were struggling in every direction, the boat having been
upset by them in their mad endeavors to save themselves. Jack knew that
the farther he got away from them and the quicker he did it, the better it
would be for him. He left them in their furious, but futile, efforts to
escape or drown, as their attempts for life deserved.

After swimming a short distance he looked back to find that he was just in
season to witness the fate of the ship. He saw her make a sudden lurch
forward, and then she seemed to right herself for a moment, but it was her
death struggle, for with the next breath she went downward, quickly
disappearing from sight forever.

"Another plan gone wrong," thought Jack, "and again I am where I began."

A less courageous youth than Jack North must have given up then, but with
the stern determination of his nature not to give up, he resumed his
swimming, reaching the land half an hour later.

"This is worse than before," he said ruefully, as he viewed his drenched
figure, "for I did save my coat then. Yes, and my cargo of nitrate is
still on the mountain waiting for me. I think I will toss up a cent to see
what I shall do next. No! come to think of it, I haven't got the cent to
do that!"

His first thought was to return to the machine shop in Tocopilla, but as
De la Pama was nearer he decided to go there in the morning. "It is
useless for me to remain here," he reasoned, "I wonder how many of the
Peruvians have escaped? They were a set of cowards anyway, and the captain
the biggest fool of them all. I hope he will make good use of my money."

Jack laid down supperless that night under the green blanket of a Peruvian
forest, and he went on toward De la Pama the next morning breakfastless,
thinking:

"There is one thing certain, I will not take Plum's job from him. If he
has no fireman, and will accept me, I will go as his helper."

Though he did not seek immediately his friend, almost the first person he
saw in town was Plum. It would be difficult to say which was the more
surprised.

"What! not gone to the States, Jack?"

"No, Plum."

"Something gone wrong, Jack, again?"

"About my usual luck, Plum. I am where I began--without a cent in my
pocket," and he quickly told the other what had befallen him since they
had parted.

"It's too bad, Jack, but I'll tell you what I'll do. I have what amounts
to three hundred dollars that I've saved and every dollar of it is yours
till you can pay it back."

"I could not think of taking your hard earnings, Plum, for it is uncertain
if I should ever be able to pay it back.

"I thank you from the bottom of my heart, but must look for work again."

"Then you shall have my job, Jack. I had rather fire anyway; honest,
Jack."

"Thank you again, Plum, and it's just like your generosity, but I cannot
rob you of your situation. How does your fireman do?"

"Tip-top, I am sorry to say. To tell the truth, Jack, he does so well I am
afraid he will get my job away from me. I wish you would take the lever
again, Jack, and let me fire. I never had so good a time in my life as I
did then."

This was a little past noon, and a few minutes later Jack would be obliged
to part with Plum, who must start on his return to St. Resa.

"There is one favor you can do me, Plum. If you will lend me money enough
to buy a pair of oxen I will begin to team a cargo of nitrate down myself.
I do not feel you will take much risk in letting me have that amount."

"I only wish you would take more, Jack."

"I think I have hit on a better plan this time," said Jack, as he took the
loan. "I am going to draw enough for a shipload down on the Bolivian coast
and house it there until an American ship comes into harbor.

"I may have to wait a long time, but it will be best in the end."

With his oldtime vivacity Jack set out on his new undertaking. He soon
found a yoke of oxen to his liking, and finding he had money enough he
bought a second pair. Then he started for the mountain ridge where he had
so unceremoniously left his two loads of nitrate so long before.

He did not expect to recover the one that had gone over the precipice,
though it had not moved from its singular position. To his joy he found
the other just where he had left it. The rust had gathered on the iron-work
and the sun had discolored the wood, but the wagon was in running order,
and as the path from this point was generally descending he had no trouble
in drawing the load, though his team consisted of one yoke of oxen less
than before.

It would be tedious to follow him in his long, lonely journeys to Cobija,
on the coast of Bolivia, where he stored his nitrate until he had there
enough for a ship's cargo. During the time his cattle lived by feeding on
the grass that grew on the more fertile places along the route, while he
lived on whatever food he could pick up, sleeping at night under his cart.

He had no further use for his oxen, so he sold them at the first favorable
opportunity, realizing enough for them to pay back the money he had
borrowed of his friend, with a fair rate of interest. Surely he had made a
more auspicious beginning this time.


Chapter XXII

The Fate of Plum Plucky


It had been three months since Jack had seen Plum, so he resolved to go to
De la Pama and see his friend before making another move in his venture.
But he had not left town before he was surprised to meet his friend, who
had come to Cobija in search of him.

"Lost my job and so I thought I would hunt you up," said the latter,
bluntly. "Got a stunning piece of news for you, too. There is an American
brig ship just above here at the next town, and I made bold to ask him to
take your cargo to New York. He says he will do it for a snip in the
profits."

This was a bit of news worth hearing, and in the exuberance of his
spirits, Jack flung his cap high into the air and threw his arms about the
neck of his friend.

"At last I believe my dream will be fulfilled, but I shall never forget it
was you who helped to accomplish it. But I want to pay the money I owe
you."

"Not yet, Jack; better keep it awhile longer. I know it is safe. You may
need it you know. Besides I am going to the States with you. I have got
enough of this country. The war grows hotter and hotter up St. Resa way. I
am homesick!"

That the songs they were to sing had incomparable pathos no one
who heard them doubted. But nothing short of sublimest faith could have
sent forth this band of friendless youth on their mission. They
often were penniless as they went from town to town. They arrived at Oberlin
and were permitted to sing before the National Council, then in session at
that stronghold of the colored man. The tide turned.

It rose with rapidity. Plymouth, Brooklyn, and other churches were
opened to them. The entire North gave them welcome. They crossed the
Atlantic; that gracious friend of humanity Queen Victoria, gave them
audience. Her incomparable prime minister, Gladstone, made them his guests
at Hawarden. Germany and France heard them. At the end of seven years they
returned to Nashville and laid at the feet of the University the munificent
sum of $150,000, a large part of which was devoted to the erection
of Jubilee Hall and the remainder to the paying for the campus of
thirty-five acres, once a slave plantation, now the most commanding
location in the Athens of the South, as Nashville, the seat of four
universities, is justly called.

[Illustration: A BAND OF KING'S DAUGHTERS.]
[Illustration: LIVINGSTONE HALL.

A gift mainly from Mrs. Valeria G. Stone.]
THERE HAS BEEN ROMANCE IN ALL ITS LIFE.

Never for a year has the hard work, the distasteful drudgery, the, at the
time, apparently fruitless toil been undertaken on the basis of
cold calculating judgment; from its birth to the present hour,
ideals that to most men would have seemed dreams and wild fancies,
have animated the leaders of this enterprise--such ideals as have
underlain the world's greatest achievements and have given heart
to the world's victors.

[Illustration: FISK MEMORIAL CHAPEL.

Erected with the bequest of Gen. Fisk. Seats 1,000.]

WISDOM AND PAINSTAKING ATTENTION to the material interests of the
University, that have challenged the admiration of those who have
watched its growth, have been coupled with all this romance.

The ideal has been made actual. This has not been due to one man, nor one
sex, nor one race.

For a quarter of a century and more, have men and women, white and black,
worked with an unanimity rarely equaled, with patience and
self-sacrifice. As the outcome there is 
FISK OF TO-DAY.

The building of Jubilee Hall set the pace for the progress of the
institution. Thorough workmanship, good taste and belief in a large
future, have prevented the erection of buildings which could be
used only a short time and must be replaced by structures adapted
to the work.

Eight substantial buildings afford the facilities now needed and are so
grouped that in the near future the Central and Music Halls can
be erected, to complete the general plan.

Already the large enrolment of pupils, coming, as they do, from more than
a score of the states of our Union, is making the proposed buildings
a necessity and affording other givers the opportunity to bless
humanity that has been so handsomely met by those large-minded
donors who have built the structures already erected.

[Illustration: THEOLOGICAL HALL.

Builded mainly by the A. M. A., a band of Jubilee Singers assisting.]

[Illustration: THE 1899 FOOTBALL TEAM.]
THE EVERY-DAY LIFE OF THE UNIVERSITY is first of all religious.

With no cant, with the avoidance of undue emotion, with a constant appeal
to Christian manhood and womanhood, men and women loyal to Jesus, seeking
less their rights than to faithfully perform their duties, are being
reared. For nine months in a year the faculty of Fisk, like those who in
large cities man college settlements, day and night seek in every
way and by all means to arouse and perpetuate the highest Christian
ideals.

Added to these are intellectual training, musical culture and a
spirit of true gentility.

The student body honors scholarship, awakens ambitions, cultivates good
manners, frowns upon untidyness of appearance, while by firmly
sustained legislation the faculty forbids any display of extravagance
in attire.

Patches and darns are expected; soiled or neglected garments the school
will not permit. In a word, what one would expect to find in a Caucasian
institution, composed of pupils of moderate means, with high ideals
and gentle manners, are found at Fisk.

The choicest of the recently emancipated race are here seeking a training.
As always and everywhere, none reach the highest ideal.
Some are found who fail to aspire to it; a few are intractable, but to
one who recalls the life of the race and the treatment it has
received before and since it was freed, life at Fisk is a constant
miracle.

[Illustration: INDUSTRIAL BUILDING AND GYMNASIUM.

Erected through a legacy by Mr. Howard, of Nashville, and gift of Dr. A.
J. Burrell, of Oberlin, O.]
[Illustration: "AS GOOD AS NEW."]

THE FISK IDEA is an expression often on the lips of its alumni. It may be
summed up in this: The rudiments of learning for all, manual training
for those that are adapted to it and will use it in their after
life, the best of culture for those who are capable of receiving
and employing it.

In a word, capacity not color, Christianity not caste, is to decide the
question as to the kind of education a youth is to receive, whether he
dwell in the North or South, whether he be an Ethiopian or an Anglo-Saxon.
Exceeding few in comparison with the vast multitude of their race
will be those who receive their diploma at Fisk; but they are to
be the leaders of a people sorely needing leadership.

And Fisk's determination to rear such leaders is an abiding protest
against the spirit which denies to any human being a chance, and a declaration
that the Church, like its divine Master, is to minister especially
to those who most need help.

FISK PRODUCTS are the test of its work. Each year it publishes to the world
its list of graduates, and over against each name what he is doing for
the world.

It does not hesitate to compare this list with a like catalogue of
any institution with equipment equal to its own.

It has faith to believe that the demon of prejudice will not always hold its
flaming sword to bar true manhood deserving success at the threshold
of life.

It would do its part to overcome this demon by producing self-respecting
manhood, which in the eyes of all true men commands respect.

FISK'S NEEDS are great.

It needs such an endowment as shall enable it to decline help from that
truest foster mother--the A. M. A. Its chairs professorial and for instructors
should be placed upon a permanent footing.

In no other way can its fine plant be utilized.
If Northern institutions of learning must rely upon endowments to pay
from two-thirds to three-quarters of the cost of educating their
students, certainly an institution educating the youth of a race
scarcely forty years out of the house of bondage, and hence poor
beyond all expression, needs vastly more the income of an endowment
to supplement the meagre tuitions which its pupils pay.

Here is an opportunity for the man of large means to bestow a princely
gift, while the man of slender means none the less can invest in the same
undertaking.

The man or men who shall thus endow Fisk, will have ever the favor of Him
who has declared Himself the friend of the poor and needy.

[Illustration: DANIEL HAND MODEL SCHOOL.

Erected by the A. M. A. with money from the income of the Daniel Hand bequest.]

Fisk's greatest need is an answer to the prayer of God's people for that
constant indwelling of the divine Spirit which shall keep in stout heart
those who, with personal self-sacrifice, are doing its work

.

* * * * *
CHEYENNE AND ARAPAHOE INDIANS.

REV. W. M.

WELLMAN, OKLAHOMA.

Christian work among the Cheyenne and Arapahoe Indians of Oklahoma
was first entered upon some ten years ago.

It was begun by two Christian Indians who labored with their own people
until they were discouraged and the work well-nigh died. Afterwards several
young men, one after another, came into the field, but though they were
individually earnest, their work did not make much impression.

They procured tables, chairs and reading matter and fitted up a room,
but nine out of ten of those to whom they were sent could neither
read nor write, and of course did not seem to be greatly drawn to
current literature.

In 1893, however, Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Woodward took charge, and did most
excellent service, remaining almost a year until they left
to become missionaries in India.

[Illustration: (1) MISSION, DARLINGTON, OKLAHOMA.]

[Illustration: (2) MR. AND MRS. WELLMAN AND INDIAN WOMAN AND CHILD.]

Up to this time, for lack of funds and steady workers, the work had been but
poorly organized, and though the men who had been leading were wise, earnest
and true, yet as a force for permanent good, it was somewhat in
question.

In 1895 Rev. R. H. Harper, coming to take charge, found, he says, one
cheap two-room cottage, one pony, an old wagon and harness and
besides these a table and a few chairs.

He knew that unless more buildings could be procured, the work would
amount to nothing.

Upon request, the Interior Department set aside two acres of land near the
government school for the use of the mission.

The Church-Building Society has at different times extended generous
help, as a result of which the mission finally secured a beautiful
chapel, with rooms and apartments above and below.

Mr. Harper did much excellent service throughout his stay, until 1897, when,
his wife's health giving way, he was compelled to leave the field.

[Illustration: ON THE ROAD.]
I succeeded him at once, and the work went forward, apparently
without abatement.

I organized the work at the two government schools carefully, and instituted
evangelistic work in both. This phase of the work was so successful that
on the following Easter, 37 Indian young people gave their hearts to God
and were baptized, and on Children's Day, in June following, 29 others
came in the same way.

A fervent religious interest prevailed in both of the government schools,
so that, at Christmas time, 35 others came into the Church on an intelligent
confession of faith. This most blessed work could not be kept within the
narrow bounds of the schoolroom.

It spread to the camp and field. The parents came to me to learn, and I had
many requests to go to them and tell them about Jesus, till in at
least two places, 18 and 20 miles distant from the Agency, the camp
Indians have asked to have a church organized and a house built.

On Easter Sunday, 1898, the climax was reached, so far as numbers were
concerned, when 67 young people, from ten to twenty-six years of age, from
both tribes, gave themselves to Christ, and presented themselves
for baptism. The interest is still general though somewhat abated in
intensity. Several times in the last few months have smaller numbers
united with the Church.

[Illustration: IN CAMP.]
A few weeks ago I returned to my work from the East, where dear friends
showed me every courtesy and sympathy possible, and while at the
Mohonk Conference of Indian Workers I met many whose hearts and
purses were open to pray for and help the helpless and abused red
man.

During my visit East I found a general interest and sympathy from
churches and individuals, and money was put into my hands sufficient
to add two or three warm rooms to our parsonage, which we have
vacated and turned over to the sick and distressed Indians for a
hospital.

With the rooms we have just added--work is now going on--this parsonage
hospital has one kitchen, one general work-room, two rooms sufficient for
four beds, a room for reading and study, a laundry or general
purpose room, and a bathroom; this latter, however, we cannot finish
at present for lack of money to provide water facilities.

Chairs and tables will be put in, and bead and embroidery work, done in
both silk and worsted, will be persistently encouraged, so far as
funds will allow.

There is attached to the mission a free medical dispensary, to which a
great many come. It is, however, only intended to be supplemental
to the general medical work under the direction of the stationed Government
physician, who is not only a thoroughly trained and competent
physician, but a careful and painstaking one as well.

A great many questions mingled with doubt are frequently asked us, by those
who look upon the Indian more as a curiosity than a human being,
or as a painted entity watching for an opportunity to wreak vengeance
on the white man.

"Do you really think these young people and camp Indians understand what
they are doing," etc., etc.

[Illustration: IN WINTER QUARTERS.]
I say, "We certainly do, when a boy or girl, or a young man or woman,
no matter what color the skin may be, comes to us of his own will,
and says, 'I want to have a good heart and love Jesus and want to
be a Christian,' and then in the presence of both white and red
scoffers, is baptized and unites with the Church, and lives a
consistent and prayerful life, I have no reason or no right to
doubt."

A few months ago there walked into the church, just as service had begun
one Sunday morning, eleven fine-looking Arapahoe Indians.

They were not richly attired, but they were clean. Only one could even
partially understand my words, but they were quiet and attentive.

After service they lingered. I said, addressing the leader,
"Coyote, what do you want?" "We Indians come 20 miles, want to talk about
Jesus. We hear you talk some days back, down on Big River.

You say, God love Indian just the same He love white man.

You say, Jesus came to help Indian be good just the same as white
man.

Indian want good heart, to know how to love squaw and children.
Indian love Jesus and Indian give Jesus heart and brain and hand and feet."
"Well," I said, "let us pray and ask God." We knelt.

I prayed, Coyote prayed, and, with some hesitation, they all, in
turn, prayed fervently.

I have no doubt they understood, although I have not taken them
into the Church yet.

A few weeks ago an old Indian woman with gray hair came into the church.
She could not talk much, but in their sign language I asked, "Are you a
Christian?" "Yes, yes," she replied; "I could not live if Jesus leave
me," and then making the sign as if washing on a wash-board, and
the sign for spirit (soul), pointing to my white cuff--Jesus has
washed my soul white--do they not understand?

Can we, dare we, turn one of these, His little ones, away?

* * * * *
SOUTHERN FIELD NOTES.

BY REV. GEORGE W. MOORE.

Quite a number of students and graduates of our A. M. A. schools are in
business and professional life in northern and western cities, as well
as in the South. A growing number of colored youth from the North attend
our Southern institutions.

Thus Dr. Dubois, the noted negro scholar and writer, came from Massachusetts
to Tennessee to take his college training at Fisk University. But it is
of the Southern field, as I have seen it during the last six weeks,
that I wish to speak.

Our Chandler Institute at Lexington, Ky., is filled with earnest students,
under the direction of Miss Fanny J. Webster and her associates. Every year
well-trained young people go out from this school to their life-work.
During a gospel meeting recently held with the Lexington Church,
more than fifty of the pupils of Chandler School avowed their faith
in Christ.

The church is built upon the site of an old slave-pen, the key of
which is preserved as a relic of those dark days. The neat chapel now
stands as a symbol of light and truth to the people. The pastor, Rev. W.
L. Johnson, is a graduate of Fisk, and his wife is from Le Moyne Institute.
She has taught in our service at Memphis and Mobile.

Some of the most representative and influential citizens are members of our
Lexington Church, among whom are the two leading physicians, the supervising
principal and several teachers of the public schools.

A directory of the negro in business reports: four physicians, two dentists,
two lawyers, an editor, two undertaking establishments, several
groceries, a drug store and other business enterprises, besides
mechanics, farmers, etc.

They support a home for orphans, and maintain a number of benevolent
organizations.

The colored people of Lexington hold an Annual Fair at the State
Fair Grounds, which is a most attractive feature of Kentucky life.

During the week of the Fair the city is crowded, and the daily attendance
numbers thousands of the best people of both races.

The Negro Fair Association is entirely under the management of colored
men, and has a paid-up capital of several thousand dollars.

The thrift and intelligence of the colored people can be seen by the large
number of neat and well-appointed homes owned by them.

Plymouth Church, at Louisville, is making hopeful progress under the ministry
of Rev. E. G. Harris.

Among the members of this church are three teachers of the Colored High
School, who are Fisk graduates.

The president of the Christian Endeavor is Dr. Whipple, a physician of
note, and the superintendent of the Sunday-school is Professor Perry, the
principal of a large public school of over a thousand pupils.

Some of the most active workers are mechanics and people in humble life.

Rev.

Gilbert Walton was present at one of our meetings and gave an interesting
address on the work among the people of the mountains of Kentucky and
Tennessee.

The colored people of Louisville are also making encouraging, material
progress. Dr.

Whedbee and other colored physicians have opened a medical school under
the auspices of the Colored State College. They have also opened a free
sanitarium in the central part of the city, which is supported by the colored
people.

The entrance to
the cave was suddenly darkened. A great heavy body dropped through. The
mother ocelot landed on four feet on the cave floor with a terrific growl.

She ran first to her crying cubs, nosed them affectionately, and then
turned with low, ominous growlings.

Jack saw the beast's eyes fix themselves upon him. They glowed with fire
and fury. Its collar ruffled and its white teeth showed.

Jack had not so much as a stick to defend himself with. He had loaned his
hunting knife to a friend when they first started and his pistol had been
dropped in the woods.

In his pocket was a small pocket knife. He was groping for this when the
ocelot, that had for a minute or two stood perfectly motionless, made a
forward movement.

It was not a spring or a glide, but a rush. Jack knew why they called this
species the Honey Eater. Its paws were enormous and armed with long curved
sharp pointed claws.

He was hedged in. The beast, still advancing, reared on its hind feet.

Its forepaws were extended and whipping the air. Jack knew that one
contact would tear the bark from the toughest tree. He mechanically seized
the first object his groping fingers met in his coat pocket.

It was one of two condiment bottles that he had brought from the last
camp. This was the one containing pepper.

In a desperate sort of a way Jack discovered this. He tore off the top of
the bottle.

It was all that he could do to stay the course of the determined animal.

As the ocelot thrust out one formidable paw to tear its victim into its
clasp, Jack flung the contents of the pepper bottle squarely into its
eyes.


Chapter XXV

In the Quicksands


Jack ducked down and dodged the ocelot, and got past the animal. He could
do this now, for the whole contents of the pepper bottle had gone squarely
into the eyes of the beast.

The effect was indescribable. The animal gave a frightful roar, dropped to
the floor, and, rolling over and over, tore frantically with its paws at
its blinded, smarting eyes.

The cubs, excited and frightened by the uproar, joined in the chorus. They
waddled around, getting in our hero's way, and by their cries arousing the
mother from her own distress.

She got upright, and seemed to spot Jack. Her advance, however, was clumsy
and at fault, and the youth had time to get out of her way.

A second and a third rush she made at him. The last time one paw struck
Jack's coat sleeve and ripped it from place.

"This is getting serious," murmured the lad. "Each time she comes swifter
and surer. I must get out of here, now or never."

Jack drove the cubs to their litter, and poked them with his foot. They
set up a frantic uproar. This was just what he wanted. The mother flew
towards her offspring.

The moment that she did so, Jack glided to the opposite wall of the cave.

He made a sharp run for the opening overhead, calculated poise and
distance nicely, and landed with success.

He grabbed the rounding root. It held like iron, but his feet were
dangling, and as he swayed there the big ocelot brushed by them on the
hunt for the intruder.

Jack held firmly to the root and swung up his other hand. He caught at a
higher tree root. Now he had a double hold.

He knew that the ocelot might come after him even up there, and lost no
time in climbing from root to root. At last his head projected through the
mesh of verdure into clear daylight. Jack lifted himself to solid ground
and leaned against the tree trunk, out of breath and perspiring.

"That was action," he panted. "Will the beast come after me? No--but
something else may. Oh, the mischief!"

The roars and growlings down in the cave seemed to have attracted outside
attention. Jack turned sharply, at the sound of crackling branches and
rustling leaves at a densely-verdured spot near at hand.

There burst through the greenery a new enemy. This was an ocelot larger
than the one he had just escaped from.

"That is the head of the family, sure," thought Jack. "It's a race, now."

The new feature in the incident came straight for our hero, with bristling
muzzle and fiery eyes. Jack started down the edge of the ravine.

It crumbled so that he could not make very rapid progress. To turn aside
into the jungle meant to fight his way through thick, thorny bushes. To
leap down into the dry water-course was even worse. There, as he knew, the
spongy, shifting sand bottom would prevent even the progress of a decent
walk.

Jack glanced back over his shoulder. The big ocelot, more sure-footed than
himself, was following him up resolutely.

Jack took the first tree he came to. It was a dead one. There were lower
branches within reach, and he swung himself up to its first crotch
readily. The ocelot did not pause. It started up the tree without delay.
Jack armed himself with a piece of a thick limb. Reaching down, as the
beast got about four feet away, he delivered a smart whack directly across
its snout.

The animal issued a terrific snort. Its eyes blazed madly. A second blow
with the club brought the blood, but it kept on climbing.

Jack knew that it would be folly to tempt to battle at any closer
quarters. He stood on a dead limb about twenty feet from the ground.

The limb was as thick as his arm, and over thirty feet long. It ran clear
across the ravine, and a discovery of this fact gave Jack an idea.

He planned to go out to the far end of the limb, swing from its extremity
and drop to the ground, landing on the ether bank of the cut.

The ocelot could not get hold or balance to venture as far out on the limb
as the lad dared to go. Jack calculated that the time it lost in getting
down to the ground again, would enable him to meantime put a considerable
distance between himself and the enemy.

The lad sat astride the dead tree branch and began to walk himself outward
from the main trunk of the tree.

The ocelot reached the crotch, surveyed Jack with a savage growl, and
carefully planting its feet, started out after him.

Its progress was slow. Jack hitched himself along more rapidly. The branch
began to creak. Our hero doubted if it would sustain their double weight.
However, he trusted to the wary instinct of the ocelot, which kept coming
right forward. Jack was about eight feet from the end of the branch when
it gave a very ominous crack. In fact, he saw the white splinters show
where it joined the tree.

He swung both feet to one side of the limb, held on only by his fingers,
and planned to get to its end hand over hand.

Snap! Jack hurried progress, but it was no use. He saw the ocelot crouch
and hug the limb. It gave way at its base. Jack let go. He landed directly
on the smooth, sandy bottom of that portion of the ravine.

He struck the ground upright, squarely with both feet. Glancing quickly at
the tree, he saw that the branch had whipped right down against the trunk.

The limb had not entirely broken loose, but swayed from several sustaining
wood filaments. The ocelot, still hugging the limb, was clawing
frantically at the main trunk of the tree to get a new hold there to keep
from a tumble.

"It won't do to stop, I see that," murmured Jack. "Ugh! what kind of a
mushy mess have I got into?"

Jack looked down at his feet. They had sunk into the sand and were covered
to the ankles. With the greatest difficulty he pulled out one foot.

The instant he put it down again in a new spot, however, it sank afresh.
He released the other. This threw his weight on a single foot, which went
down half way to the knee.

It was not ten feet to the bank of the ravine. Jack lost all interest in
the ocelot as he thrilled at a startling discovery.

"Quicksand!" he breathed hastily. "There is not a moment to lose!"

Our hero tugged to get the sunken foot free. He succeeded. Then,
half-dancing about, he threw himself flat.

His idea was to make a hurried scramble for the bank on hands and knees.
But he uttered a cry of the greatest alarm as his hands went down into the
treacherous mass clear to the wrists.

It took a great effort to get upright again. By the time he had done so,
Jack realized that he was in a most serious and critical situation.

He was sunk now clear to the knees in a weaving, shifting mass. It circled
his imprisoned limbs like great moving ropes, pulling him downward with a
suction force that was tremendous.

The youth uttered a grasp of real horror. He could not budge either limb.
As he sank to the thighs, he gave himself up for lost.

He saw that no help of any kind whatever was at hand. He knew that the
camp of the men who had come with him must be near. He raised his voice to
a desperate pitch.

He let out a series of the most piercing yells. But his heart sank, as
from the neighboring jungle there instantly arose a mocking imitation from
the throats of several parrots.

They drowned out his cries for help. Jack shuddered as the shifting sands
wound about his waist. He drew up his tingling fingers with a shock as the
mass swept them in ominous, warning contact.

"It is the last of me," thought Jack, as tears of despair came to his
eyes. "Jenny and the folks will never know my fate!"

Jack looked up at the dark sky, sick at heart, but trying to resign
himself to the terrible fate that hung over him.

His glance shifted to the tree. He instinctively dodged his head to one
side as he did so. Something spirited was happening there.

The ocelot had got a clutch on the main tree trunk, now. As it let go of
the dangling limb, however, this parted under the strain.

Its small end struck the ground, and it swung out, coming for Jack and
threatened to crush him.

The limb fell with a crash, the big end just reaching the west side of the
ravine. Its centre grazed our hero's shoulder.

"I am saved!" cried Jack.

He threw one arm tightly around the limb, then the other. Now he was
clinging to a natural bridge spanning the ravine from one side to the
other.

Jack held on and tugged hard to draw himself up from this quicksand bath.

It was hard work. Finally he got one limb free, then the other. They were
numb, and felt like pieces of lead.

Jack was so exhausted with the effort that, crawling on top of the limb,
he lay there lengthwise, almost exhausted.


Chapter XXVI

A Night in the Jungle


It was a good quarter of an hour before Jack felt like making another
move. As he lay on the log he kept a lookout for the ocelots, but neither
of the beasts appeared, the larger having gone to the cave-like opening to
learn what was the matter with its mate.

"I must get away from this vicinity," thought our hero, and at last
started off.

He scarcely knew in what direction to turn, for the running away of his
pony and his adventures with the wild beasts and in the quicksands had
completely bewildered him.

"I'd give a good round sum to be back with our party," he thought, as he
pushed his way through the jungle. "I wonder if they are out searching for
me?"

At last he had to rest again, and thinking himself safe for the time being
he set about cleaning his hands and face, and also his outfit.

"This is certainly treasure hunting with a vengeance," he mused. "I think
I would have done better had I stuck to the nitrates. Maybe I'll lose my
life and the vultures will pick my bones, just as they did poor Plum's."

It made our hero more dismal than ever to think of how Plum had departed,
and he was very sober as night drew on and he still found himself alone
and with no idea of where he was.

"I'll have to stay here alone in the dark," he said, half aloud. "That
won't be pleasant, but it can't be helped."

Soon it was so dark that to advance further would have been foolish.

Accordingly Jack came to a halt, and looked around for some means of
making himself comfortable for the night.

He did not deem it wise to remain on the ground, where some wild beast
might leap upon him, and so looked for some wide-spreading tree among
whose branches he might rest in peace.

At length he found a tree to his liking and having taken a final look
around, ascended to a number of the upper branches.

Here there was a sort of natural platform, where he might lie without much
danger of falling to the ground.

It was now pitch dark, the clouds obscuring the stars in the heavens. He
was very hungry but had absolutely nothing with which to gratify his
appetite.

"I'll have to get something for breakfast," he reasoned. "If I don't I'll
be likely to starve to death."

It was but natural that Jack should find sleep difficult, and it was a
good two hours before he went off soundly. When he awoke it was with a
start.

Jack listened intently, for he realized that some movement at the foot of
the tree had awakened him. He tried to look downward, but the darkness and
the leaves hid everything from view. He waited with bated breath and soon
heard a faint scratching. That some wild animal was at the foot of the
tree he had no doubt.

"I hope it doesn't try to come up," he thought. "If it does, what am I to
do?"

He did not dare to make a noise, and so remained silently on guard. The
minutes went by slowly, until a good hour had passed. The noises below
continued but that was all.

"Well, even if the beast can't get up it evidently intends to tree me,"
thought Jack, dismally.

Sleep was out of the question, and rather impatiently the youth waited for
the coming of dawn.

At last came a faint light in the east and at last daylight was at hand.

For some time Jack had heard no further noises below him and he fondly
hoped the thing on the ground--whatever it was--had gone away. But now the
noise was repeated, and then came another sound that made him start in
wonder and anticipation.

"Can it be possible!" he murmured, and began to climb down the tree with
all speed. Soon he reached the lower branches, and looking downward saw
his pony resting directly under him!

"Blind luck!" he cried. "And I thought it was a wild beast! How foolish I
was not to come down and take a look!"

Not to scare the pony, Jack called out softly, at which the steed pricked
up its ears. Then our hero slid down the tree to the ground and caught the
pony by the head. It did not offer to run away, but whinnied with evident
satisfaction.

It gave Jack great pleasure to find the pony again, and he felt far less
lonely than he had during the night. He mounted into the saddle, and,
guided by the sun turned in the direction where he thought the mountain
trail might lie.

It was a dull day, a peculiar smoky air filling the jungle.

From a distance came the cry of wild birds, but that was all.

Jack journeyed for a good two hours, and then came to what looked like
another ravine. But the banks were not so steep as before and he had but
little difficulty in going down one side and getting up the other.

"Well, I never!"

This was the cry that burst from his lips half an hour later. A moment
before he had realized that the surroundings looked familiar. Now, on the
ground before him, he saw his lost pistol, shining among the grass and
leaves.

He lost no time in securing the weapon. It was ready for use and with
great satisfaction he placed it in his pocket.

"Now I've got something with which to defend myself," he reasoned. "It may
not be as good as a gun, but it is better than nothing."

Onward he went once more, stopping once to get some handsful of berries
which he knew were good to eat, and then again for a drink of water for
himself and his steed. He had left his former trail, fearful of going in a
circle once more,--a common experience of those traveling in a dense
forest.

By noon Jack was more than hungry and he decided to shoot something and
cook it for a meal. He kept his eyes open, and when some plump birds came
close, brought down two with ease. Then a fire was lit, and he spitted the
birds and broiled them to his satisfaction. He took his time over the
meal, allowing his pony to graze in the meanwhile. Close at hand was a
spring of cold, mountain water and at this he quenched his thirst, and the
pony did the same.

"There, that makes me feel better," said the youth to himself. "It will
last me until nightfall, and by that time I ought to be able to find the
others of the party, or gain some regular trail which leads to somewhere."

So speaking Jack started to get into the saddle once more. As he did so,
he heard a rustling in the leaves of some bushes behind the spring. The
pony gave a violent snort and gave a side step, which threw our hero to
the ground.

"Whoa there, Firefly!" he called out. "Whoa, I say!"

But instead of quieting down, the pony became more violent and it was
impossible for Jack to hold the steed. The pony broke away and like a
flash whirled around and disappeared once more into the jungle.

Somewhat bewildered, Jack stood up and gazed around him.

"What can this mean?" he asked himself. The next instant he saw the reason
for the pony's extreme fright. A snake had appeared, coming rapidly over
the rocks. It was ten or twelve feet long and as thick as a man's arm. It
was hissing viciously and had its glittering eyes fastened full upon our
hero!


Chapter XXVII

Jack and the Big Snake


It was no wonder that Jack was both startled and alarmed. The snake was
certainly powerful, and the youth knew that many of the reptiles of that
vicinity were poisonous. A sting might mean death, and if the snake should
wind itself about him, he might be strangled until his breath was gone,
never to return.

By instinct more than reason he leaped to one side. At this the snake,
hissing louder than ever, did likewise. Then Jack made a wild leap into
the air, caught a low-hanging tree branch, and hauled himself upward.

For the time being our hero was clear of the snake, but he felt far from
comfortable. He perched himself on the limb and watched the reptile
closely. It whipped this way and that over the ground as if in high anger
over missing its intended prey.

Thus several minutes passed. The snake circled the tree three times and
then began to come up with a quickness that chilled Jack to the bone.
There was no help for it, and pulling his pistol, the youth blazed away at
the snake. The first shot took no effect, but the second hit the reptile
fairly in the body. It whipped around its head for a moment, then came
forward as before.

Jack was as far out on the limb as he could get, and now, as the snake
came forward, he blazed away a third and fourth time. Then he let himself
drop to the ground.

As he did this, the reptile thrashed around wildly in the tree, hitting
one limb after another with its tail. Then it came to the ground in a
heap, writhing horribly in its death agonies. Jack had wounded it fatally,
but the body would continue to move until sundown, if not longer. When the
scare was over the youth found himself bathed in a cold perspiration and
trembling as if with the ague. He realized that he had had a narrow
escape, and thanked providence that the snake was dead.

What is contrition, or sorrow for sin?
A. Contrition, or sorrow for sin, is a hatred of sin and a true grief of
the soul for having offended God, with a firm purpose of sinning no more.

196. Q. What kind of sorrow should we have for our sins?
A.

The sorrow we should have for our sins should be interior, supernatural,
universal, and sovereign.

197. Q. What do you mean by saying that our sorrow should be
interior?
A. When I say that our sorrow should be interior, I mean that it should
come from the heart, and not merely from the lips.

198. Q. What do you mean by saying that our sorrow should be supernatural?

A.

When I say that our sorrow should be supernatural, I mean that it
should be prompted by the grace of God, and excited by motives which
spring from faith, and not by merely natural motives.

199. Q. What do you mean by saying that our sorrow should be universal?

A. When I say that our sorrow should be universal, I mean that we should
be sorry for all our mortal sins without exception.

200.

Q. What do you mean when you say that our sorrow should be sovereign?
A. When I say that our sorrow should be sovereign, I mean that we should
grieve more for having offended God than for any other evil that
can befall us.

201.

Q. Why should we be sorry for our sins?
A. We should be sorry for our sins, because sin is the greatest of evils
and an offense against God our Creator, Preserver, and Redeemer,
and because it shuts us out of heaven and condemns us to the eternal
pains of hell.

202.

Q. How many kinds of contrition are there?
A.

There are two kinds of contrition: perfect contrition and imperfect
contrition.

203. Q. What is perfect contrition?
A. Perfect contrition is that which fills us with sorrow and hatred for
sin, because it offends God, who is infinitely good in Himself and
worthy of all love.

204. Q. What is imperfect contrition?

A. Imperfect contrition is that by which we hate what offends God, because
by it we lose heaven and deserve hell; or because sin is so hateful in
itself.

205. Q. Is imperfect contrition sufficient for a worthy confession?
A.

Imperfect contrition is sufficient for a worthy confession, but we
should endeavor to have perfect contrition.

206.

Q.

What do you mean by a firm purpose of sinning no more?
A. By a firm purpose of sinning no more I mean a fixed resolve not
only to avoid all mortal sin, but also its near occasions.
207. Q. What do you mean by the near occasions of sin?
A. By the near occasions of sin I mean all the persons, places, and
things that may easily lead us into sin.
LESSON NINETEENTH ON CONFESSION 

208. Q. What is Confession?
A. Confession is the telling of our sins to a duly authorized priest,
for the purpose of obtaining forgiveness.
209. Q. What sins are we bound to confess?
A. We are bound to confess all our mortal sins, but it is well also
to confess our venial sins.
210. Q. Which are the chief qualities of a good Confession?
A. The chief qualities of a good Confession are three: it must be
humble, sincere, and entire.

211.After that they rode along in silence for fully half a mile, when they
reached a trail running east and west.

"Is this the road the señor is looking for?" asked the native, bringing
his pony to a halt.

"I believe it is," answered Jack. "But I must look around first to see if
my party has passed this way."

He surveyed the scene with care, but could find no trace of the others.
Had they come thus far, or had they turned back, in a hunt for him? Jack
was in a quandary over what to do next. Night was again coming on, and he
had no desire to remain alone again, after his many adventures of the past
twenty-four hours.

"Where can we stop around here?" he asked.

"The señor wants his humble servant to remain with him over night?"

"Yes, unless some other house is handy, and others there."

"There is a house not far away, but it is empty."

"Then let us go to it. It will be better to remain there than to stay in
the open."

They went up the trail a short distance, and then turned to the southward
and took to a side road leading through a patch of high brushwood.
Crossing a tiny mountain torrent, they came in sight of a dilapidated
house, one end of which was all but wrecked. To the surprise of both Jack
and his guide, smoke was issuing from behind the structure.

"Somebody must be here after all," said the youth, as he rode forward.

"It must be a stranger, señor," was the native's reply.

Not to fall into the hands of enemies Jack advanced with caution. As he
rounded the end of the dilapidated house, he saw a bright fire burning
among some piled-up stones. In front of this fire a tall young man,
dressed in rags, was crouching, cooking something in a battered pan. As
Jack came closer the young man suddenly leaped to his feet, uttering a cry
of alarm. Then he gave another cry, and dropping the pan with its contents
to the ground, he rushed forward with wide-stretched arms yelling at the
top of his voice.

"Jack! Jack! It is really my own Jack! Oh, how glad I am to see yeou!"


Chapter XXVIII

Back from the Dead


Jack literally fell from his horse. Was he dreaming or was this a ghost
that confronted him? He gazed at the other fellow with eyes that almost
popped from his head.

"Ain't yeou glad to see me?" came from the fellow in rags, and his voice
took on a hurt tone. "Plum! Is it--is it really you?" faltered Jack.

"Sure ez yeou air born it's me," was the answer from Plum Plucky.

"But I thought you were dead--I was sure you were dead. Why, I--I buried
your bones!"

"Not by a jugful yeou didn't bury my bones, Jack. I've got 'em all with
me, although I allow they ain't much meat on 'em jest now," went on Plum,
dolefully.

"But this--this staggers me! I was certain you were dead, and when I found
a heap of bones which the vultures had picked clean I buried them for
yours. This is the most wonderful thing I ever heard of. I can't
understand it. Where have you been, and why didn't you let me hear from
you?"

"I have been a prisoner of war," answered Plum. "Got caught in the
mountains one day. Fust they was up fer shootin' me, but then they changed
their minds and carted me off to some little town in the mountains. They
fired me into a dungeon an' I took sick, an' would have died only a native
gal up an' nussed me back to health. Then I give the gal some silver I had
hidden away an' she showed me how to git away, an' I got. Then I got lost
in the mountains, an' would have starved to death only I run down some
sort o' a wild beast that had two legs broken in a fall over the rocks. I
killed the beast--I reckon it was a puma--with some rocks, an' lived on
the meat fer nigh on to a week. (_BY MR. PUNCH'S OWN TYPE WRITER._)
NO. XIX.--THE SERVANT OF SOCIETY.

The Servant of Society is one who, having in early life abdicated every
claim to independent thought or action, is content to attach himself
to the skirts and coat-tails of the great, and to exist for a long
time as a mere appendage in mansions selected by the unerring
instinct of a professional tuft-hunter.

It is as common a mistake to suppose that all tuft-hunters are necessarily
of lowly birth and of inferior social position, as it is to believe
them all to be offensive in manner and shallow in artifice.

The coarse but honest Snob still perhaps exists, and here and there
he thrusts and pushes in the old familiar way; but more often than
not the upstart who has won his way to wealth and consideration
finds himself to his own surprise courted and fawned upon by those
whose boots his abilities would have fitted him to black, and his
disposition prompted him to lick.

Noble sportsmen are proud to be seen in his company, aristocratic
guinea-pigs are constantly in his pocket in the congenial society
of the great man's purse, art willingly reproduces his features,
journalism enthusiastically commemorates his adventures, and even
Royalty does not thrust away a votary whose ministrations are as
acceptable as they are readily performed.

Without much effort on his own part he is raised to pinnacles which
he imagined impossible of access, and soon learns to look down
with a contempt that might spring of ancient lineage and assured
merit, upon the hungry crowd whose cry is that of the daughter of
the horse-leech.

But the genuine Servant of Society is of a different stamp. Ordinarily
he is of a good family, and of a competence which both differs from and
resembles his general character in being possessed at once of the attributes
of modesty and assurance.

From an early age he will have been noted for the qualities which in after-life
render him humbly celebrated in subordinate positions. At school he will
have had the good fortune to be attached as fag to a big boy who
occupied an important place as an athlete, and whose condescending
smiles were naturally an object of greater ambition to the small
fry than the approval of the school authorities.

For him he performed with much assiduity the various duties of a fag, happy
to shine amongst his companions as the recipient of the great boy's favours.
To play the jackal without incurring universal dislike is (at
school) no very easy task, but he accomplishes it with discretion
and with a natural aptitude that many maturer jackals might envy.

Then one of the men was despatched to bring up the rest
of the party; and by nightfall all hands were together again.

"I shall certainly be more careful in the future," declared Jack. "Such
absent-mindedness does not pay."

Fortunately some extra clothing had been brought along, and a suit was
given to Plum, for which he was exceedingly thankful. That night Jack
slept finely, and in the morning declared himself in the best of health.

Once again the party moved forward to the rocky bowl in the mountains
holding the Devil's Waters. By noon the summit of the ascent was gained
and the party came to a halt. Then Jack went ahead accompanied only by
Plum.

As soon as Jack reached a spot where he could look into the vast bowl he
saw that something unusual had occurred. He was mystified and appalled and
sat on his pony spellbound.

The roar and thunder of the mysterious boiling lake was gone. Not a sound
broke the stillness of the mountainous scene. He looked down on a
grass-covered valley, somewhat round, in size and having in its center a
mound or "island," upon which grew a lonely pimento tree. A branch of the
tree, devoid of foliage, pointed like a great finger, to a cut in the
great mountain bowl.

There was no mistaking such a landmark, and as Jack viewed it he gave a
long low whistle.

"Well?" demanded Plum, questioningly.

"I am--am staggered, Plum."

"Why?"

"This doesn't look like a lake, does it?"

"Sure not, Jack."

"Well, the last time I was here it was a boiling, writhing lake, and that
mound you see yonder was an island in the middle."

"Gosh all hemlock, Jack! Yeou don't mean it!"

"I assuredly do."

"There ain't a drop o' water around here neow!"

"I know it and that is what puzzles me."

"Ain't mistaken in the spot?"

"Not at all. Do you see that solitary pimento tree? Well, that was there,
exactly as it is now."

"Yeou said it would be, I remember that," said Plum, scratching his head.
"But this ain't no lake."

"It has been. See, the grass shows signs of having been covered with water
mixed with mud."

"That is so too, an' neow I look at it, Jack, ther's big holes in the
ground here an' there, where the water must have run off."

For several minutes Jack and his friend surveyed the scene. Then our hero
urged his pony down the somewhat steep side of the gigantic mountain bowl.

"Whar be yeou a going now?" asked Plum.

"To the mound in the middle of the valley, to see if I can find the
treasure," shouted back Jack.

"All right, I'm with yeou," answered the Yankee lad, and followed down the
slope.


Chapter XXIX

The Treasure of the Boiling Lake


It must be owned that Jack's heart beat rather rapidly as he rode down
into the little valley, hemmed in on all sides by the high walls of the
Andes mountains.

He remembered well what the paper had said concerning the treasure, yet he
did his best to steel himself against possible disappointment.

Plum Deemed to read his thoughts, for as he rode up he said:

"Jack, thet treasure might have been here years ago, but don't be
disapp'inted if it's gone now. Them waters may have washed it away."

"I am willing to take what comes, Plum," was the answer. "But I want to
know the exact truth--I hate to be kept in suspense."

"Well, we'll know afore long, I calkerlate," returned the Yankee lad.

They had to pick their way with care to the "island," as Jack insisted
upon calling it. The bed of the valley was filled with holes and cuts, all
of unknown depth. Here and there the flat rocks were split in twain in the
most extraordinary fashion.

"There has been some great convulsion of nature here," said Jack. "Maybe
the earthquakes have something to do with the disappearance of the water."

"If the water was here--an' I believe what you say--it must have gone down
in 'em holes and cuts," said Plum. "But what made it spout up ag'in?"

"Some contraction of the hollows under the lake's surface," answered Jack.
"Maybe a cave would get filled with water, then some rocks would fill the
cave up, causing the water to spout out into the valley."

"It must be thet--but it is certainly wonderful, Jack."

At last the pair reached the side of the mound or "island," Here they
could gain a good idea of the big pimento tree with its stricken branch
pointing to the distant hills. Around the pimento the rocks were strewn in
all directions.

"If there was a cave here it is filled up," said Jack.

Why did Christ suffer and die?

A. Christ suffered and died for our sins.

84. Q. What lessons do we learn from the sufferings and death of
Christ?

A. From the sufferings and death of Christ we learn the great evil of
sin, the hatred God bears to it, and the necessity of satisfying
for it.

85.

Q.

Where did Christ's soul go after His death?
A. After Christ's death His soul descended into hell.

86.

Q. Did Christ's soul descend into the hell of the damned?
A.

The hell into which Christ's soul descended was not the hell of the damned,
but a place or state of rest called Limbo, where the souls of the just
were waiting for Him.

87. Q. Why did Christ descend into Limbo?

A. Christ descended into Limbo to preach to the souls who were in prison--that
is, to announce to them the joyful tidings of their redemption.

88. Q. Where was Christ's body while His soul was in Limbo?
A.

While Christ's soul was in Limbo His body was in the holy sepulchre.

89. Q. On what day did Christ rise from the dead?

A.

Christ rose from the dead, glorious and immortal, on Easter Sunday,
the third day after His death.

90.

Q.

How long did Christ stay on earth after His resurrection?
A. Christ stayed on earth forty days after His resurrection to show
that He was truly risen from the dead, and to instruct His
Apostles.

91.

Q. After Christ had remained forty days on earth whither did He go?
A.

After forty days Christ ascended into heaven, and the day on which
He ascended into heaven is called Ascension day.

92.

Q. Where is Christ in heaven?
A.

In heaven Christ sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty.

93. Q. What do you mean by saying that Christ sits at the right hand
Of God?

A. When I say that Christ sits at the right hand of God I mean that
Christ as God is equal to His Father in all things, and that as
man He is in the highest place in heaven next to God.

LESSON NINTH ON THE HOLY GHOST AND HIS DESCENT UPON THE APOSTLES

94. Q. Who is the Holy Ghost?

A. The Holy Ghost is the third Person of the Blessed Trinity.

95. Q. From whom does the Holy Ghost proceed?

A. The Holy Ghost proceeds from the Father and the Son.

96. Q. Is the Holy Ghost equal to the Father and the Son?
A.

The Holy Ghost is equal to the Father and the Son, being the same
Lord and God as They are.

97.

Q. On what day did the Holy Ghost come down upon the Apostles?
A. The Holy Ghost came down upon the Apostles ten days after the Ascension
of our Lord; and the day on which He came down upon the Apostles
is called Whitsunday, or Pentecost.

98.

Q. How did the Holy Ghost come down upon the Apostles?

A.

The Holy Ghost came down upon the Apostles in the form of tongues of fire.

99. Q.

Who sent the Holy Ghost upon the Apostles?
A. Our Lord Jesus Christ sent the Holy Ghost upon the Apostles.
100. Q. Why did Christ send the Holy Ghost?
A. Christ sent the Holy Ghost to sanctify His Church, to enlighten
and strengthen the Apostles, and to enable them to preach the
Gospel.

101. Q. Will the Holy Ghost abide with the Church forever?
A. The Holy Ghost will abide with the Church forever, and guide it
in the way of holiness and truth.
LESSON TENTH ON THE EFFECTS OF THE REDEMPTION
102. Q. Which are the chief effects of the Redemption?
A.Remember the boiling lake."

He assisted the Yankee lad to the top of the opening and then, mounted on
their ponies, they made their way over the dry bottom of the lake to the
rocky ridge beyond. Here they deposited the gold in a safe place, and then
returned to the "island."

"I'll go down this time," said Jack, and did so. A torch had been brought
along, and sticking it in a crack of the rocks, the youth went to work
with a will.

In less than half an hour the ponies were again loaded with gold. Jack had
picked up almost the last piece in sight when he came to a sudden pause in
his work.

What was that strange sound, and was it possible the earth beneath him was
trembling? He leaped back to the center of the hole. Yes, the earth was
surely quaking, and now some loose dirt came down on top of him.

"It is the earthquake!" he murmured, and at that moment came a loud cry
from Plum.

"Jack! Jack! come up, as quick as yeou can! The water is squirting up
through 'em holes, an' the lake is filling up!"


Chapter XXX

A Ride for Life--Conclusion



The earthquake was indeed upon them, and as Plum threw down a rope to Jack
the whole landscape seemed to rock to and fro, causing the Yankee lad to
miss his footing and pitch headlong on our hero's head.

"Oh, Jack, did I hurt you?" spluttered Plum, as he stood upright at the
bottom of the hole.

Jack did not answer, for at that instant the earth shook again, sending
them both on their backs. Then all became, for the instant, quiet.

"We must get away from this spot!" gasped Jack. "If we don't, we'll be
buried alive!"

The rope had fallen at his feet. He picked it up. There was a noose at one
end and this he whirled upward.

Twice he missed the object for which he aimed, but the third time the rope
caught fast to a projecting rock.

"Now, Plum, up you go!" he said, and gave his companion a lift. Fear lent
the Yankee lad strength and he went up hand over hand in rapid fashion.
Jack followed, and in a moment more both stood on the surface of the
island.

The sight that met their gaze was enough to make them shudder. On all
sides the darkish-green water was spouting from the holes and cuts in the
lake bed. Some of the columns arose to a height of a hundred feet, the
water falling back into the basin with a tremendous report, and causing
the drops to fly in all directions. At one point in the lake the water was
already a foot or more deep.

"To the shore!" yelled Jack, and flew for a pony, while Plum did likewise.
The animals were crazy with fear and could scarcely be controlled.

As they left the island there came another movement of the earthquake,
followed by a crash behind them. They looked back, to see the lonely
pimento tree fall into the very hole they had just left!

"Gosh! what a narrer escape!" gasped Plum.

"We are not out of it yet, Plum," answered Jack. "Come, we must ride for
all we are worth. Perhaps we had better throw away the gold."

"No! no! Don't do it!" screamed the Yankee lad. "We can make the shore if
we hurry."

Down they plunged side by side from the island and into the water that was
now flowing in all directions around the mound. They made a bee line for
the rocky ridge beyond.

"Look out for holes!" cried Jack, but even as he spoke his pony plunged
downward, nearly causing our hero to take a header. But he clung fast,
and, struggling up, the pony went forward as before.

It was a ride that can scarcely be described. Soon the water was up to the
bodies of the ponies and then they were carried off their feet. They swam
a short distance, and then, coming to a shallow spot, galloped on as
before.

It was a wild ride, and dripping from foam and water the ponies kept on
until once again they had to swim.

Then came a roar from the bottom of the lake, and steeds and riders were
hurled high in the air, to fall again with a noise in the spume of the
boiling lake.

"We--we air lost!" panted Plum. "Th--the wind is gone out o' me!"

"Keep on, we have only a short distance further to go!" cried Jack.

The earth was shaking again and the water appeared to swing away from them
toward the island.

Then it came on with a rush, carrying ponies and riders far up the rocky
ridge. Then the water went back as before, boiling and foaming furiously,
while a mist blotted out the immediate landscape.

"Come, don't stop here!" yelled Jack, urging his pony forward. "To higher
ground, before it is too late!"

Again they went on, but not for far. Another earthquake threw them flat
and Plum rolled down under his pony. Then the quaking ceased; and that was
the last of the earthquake.  Arising, Jack helped his companion and found
that the Yankee youth was uninjured. Both looked down the rocks toward the
lake. The water was boiling and foaming as before, but gradually the
surface of the lake grew calm. Then Jack gave another exclamation:

"The island! It is sinking from sight!"

It was true, the island was going down slowly but surely. In a few minutes
it was but a mere speck on the surface, and then even this disappeared.

"Gone!" gasped Plum. "But we got the gold--or a good part o' it!"

"Thank heaven that our lives were spared!" murmured Jack. "I never want to
go through another such experience--not for all the gold in the world!"