Produced by Markus Brenner and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


                               MAKING A
                               FIREPLACE


                         _By_ HENRY H. SAYLOR

                               AUTHOR OF
                 BUNGALOWS, MAKING A ROSE GARDEN, ETC.

                            [Illustration]


                               NEW YORK
                        McBRIDE, NAST & COMPANY
                                 1913


                          Copyright, 1913, by
                          MCBRIDE, NAST & CO.

                       Published, January, 1913


    [Illustration: The fireplace of long ago, made large enough to
    accommodate most of the kitchen's pots and pans beside the fire]


                               CONTENTS


                                                      PAGE
  INTRODUCTION                                           1

  CONSTRUCTION                                           7

  MISCELLANEOUS ODD FORMS                               22

  FACINGS AND MANTELS                                   25

  MENDING POOR FIREPLACES                               31

  FIREPLACE ACCESSORIES                                 36

  BUILDING THE FIRE                                     45


                           THE ILLUSTRATIONS


  THE FIREPLACE OF LONG AGO                 _Frontispiece_

                                             FACING PAGE
  AN ENGLISH BASKET GRATE IN BRASS                       4

  A MODERN ENGLISH FIRE CORNER IN CONTRASTING TILES      4

  AN INGLENOOK WITH STONE HEARTH                        22

  CAEN STONE MANTEL FOR THE FORMAL TYPE                 26

  AN INFORMAL FIREPLACE IN FIELD STONE                  30

  THE MODERN COLONIAL TYPE WITH BRICK FACING AND
  WHITE WOOD MANTEL                                     38

  A CRAFTSMAN TYPE IN BRICK WITH COPPER HOOD            46

  A RECESSED FIREPLACE IN BRICK AND ROUGH PLASTER       50


                             INTRODUCTION


In a book of this kind there is no particular need for dwelling at
length on the desirability of having a fireplace. That will be taken for
granted. It is enough to say that in these days a home can scarcely be
considered worthy of the name if it does not contain at least one
hearth. There is some inexplicable quality in a wood fire that exerts
almost a hypnotic influence upon those who eagerly gather about it. The
smoldering glow of the logs induces a calm and introspective mood that
banishes all the trivialities and distractions of the day's work and
gives one an opportunity to replenish his store of energy for the coming
day.

The open fire, unlike most of the comforts that we demand in a modern
home, has been associated with the race as far back almost as the home
itself. At first, of course, it was as a necessity and the development
from that to a luxury has been an exceedingly slow one extending over
the years down to the present time.

There are two forms of the open fire--a possible third one, the gas log,
being a subject on which the less said the better. We have, therefore, a
choice between the open fireplace designed for wood and the basket grate
in which to burn coal, preferably cannel coal. This latter fuel is not
nearly so well known in this country as in England where the scarcity of
wood necessarily makes coal the more commonly used fuel. With our own
abundance of wood, however, there will perhaps be little hesitancy in
choosing the open fireplace rather than the basket grate for coal,
although in certain cases, for example an apartment where the flue has
been built too small, or in a house where an available chimney offers
only a small flue area for fireplace use, the basket grate will prove a
welcome solution of the problem. Of course there is no excuse whatever
for building a modern home with a chimney too small for the sort of
fireplace you want, but where the chimney has already been built without
this provision it may possibly be found that a small terra cotta flue
lining may be inserted in the larger flue without seriously damaging the
latter's power of draft. In that event the addition of a basket grate
fireplace to an old house would be an interesting possibility.

However fully we may appreciate the desirability of some sort of
fireplace, there seems to be a rather widespread impression that the
attainment is largely a matter of chance. Too many home-builders have
instructed their architects to provide a fireplace or two in the fond
hope that the matter was then practically closed--a mere matter of time
until they might be sitting before the fire's cheerful glow. Too
frequently the result has been a disappointment when the first few
trials introduced into the room more smoke than heat or cheer. The
reason for this is that there is a scientific basis for fireplace
building which is frequently ignored absolutely by an over-confident and
stupid mason. Where the work of building the home has been entrusted to
an architect's hands the latter usually appreciates the fact that the
building of the fireplaces is liable more than any other part of the
house to be taken into the mason's own hands with, if he is not watched,
disastrous results. Undoubtedly every mason would resent most
strongly any insinuation as to his lack of knowledge regarding fireplace
construction. Each mason not only thinks that he knows how a fireplace
should be built, but it is almost as general a rule that he feels that
his particular method is the only correct one.

    [Illustration: One of the best forms of the basket grate in
    brass. The splayed sides send out more heat]

    [Illustration: A modern English fire corner. Facing and hearth
    have been worked out in a rather startling contrast of tiles]


In view of this it might be well for any man building his own home to
give some attention to the matter of his fireplaces, to insist on
knowing how they are designed and to follow their construction
throughout so that there is no chance for a blunder; and this chance is
not so slight as might be supposed. In a house in which the author had
carefully shown every detail of construction in the drawings, it was
found when the building was nearly completed that the cast-iron throat
flues, which ordinarily prevent any possible mistake of construction on
the mason's part, had been put in reversed and it was necessary to tear
down the whole face of the chimney breast in each case to replace them
properly.

The matter of construction is not at all a complicated affair, as the
next chapter will aim to show.


                             CONSTRUCTION


The chief difficulty in attaining a successful fireplace design does not
lie in securing an abundant draft. In fact it is an easy matter to make
a fireplace draw if the flue is large enough and the opening from the
fire chamber into the flue unobstructed. There will never be any
question of getting a roaring blaze the moment the fire is lighted.

This is, in a way, the type of fireplace that our Colonial ancestors
built--great cavernous openings and generous flues, with the result that
the more wood was piled upon the blaze the more they blistered their
toes and at the same time chilled their backs. For it is evident that
when we secure such a strong, unobstructed current of hot air up the
chimney, enough cool air to take its place must be drawn into the room
through every opening and crevice. The result is a mighty draft that
rushes past those unfortunate enough to be sitting about the fire and
carries rapidly up the chimney almost all of the heat of combustion.

In the fireplace of our Colonial ancestors probably ninety per cent. of
the heat was entirely lost, being carried up the chimney. However, cord
wood was then to be had for the cutting.

We want a different sort of a fire in these days--one that will burn
with a steady, constant blaze or glow, conserving most of its heat,
which the back and sides of the fire chamber will reflect out into the
room.

Such a fireplace will not necessarily be a large one. It is amusing to
hear how universally the demand goes up for large fireplaces--"great
big fellows that will burn full cord wood." It is hard to see just why
this is. It may be based on the assumption that if a small fireplace is
desirable a large one is more so. R. Shepherd, _Historical Atlas_ (N.
Y., 1911, Holt, $2.50), with about two hundred and fifty maps covering
the historical field. The latest and one of the best of the classical
atlases is _Murray's Small Classical Atlas_, edited by G.
B. Grundy (N. Y., 1904, Oxford University Press, American Branch, $1.35).

A special feature of this work is the adoption of the system of colored
contours to indicate configuration. The _Atlas of Ancient and Classical
Geography_ in "Everyman's Library" (N. Y., 1910, Dutton, 35 cents) might
well be purchased by every student. Other valuable works are E.

    W. Dow, _Atlas of European History_ (N. Y., 1907, Holt, $1.50)
    and Ramsay Muir, _A New School Atlas of Modern History_ (N.

Y., 1911, Holt, $1.25). Much use can be made of the inexpensive and handy
_Literary and Historical Atlas of Europe_ by J. G. Bartholomew in "Everyman's
Library" (N. Y., 1910, Dutton, 35 cents).

WALL MAPS AND CHARTS
Kiepert's _New Wall Maps of Ancient History_ (Chicago, Rand, McNally,
and Co.) and Johnston's _Classical Series_ (Chicago, A. J. Nystrom and
Co.) may be obtained singly, mounted on common rollers, or by sets in
a case with spring rollers. The text is in Latin. The Spruner-Bretschneider
_Historical Maps_ are ten in number, size 62 x 52 inches, and cover the
period from A.D. 350 to 1815. The text is in German (Chicago, Nystrom,
each $6.00; Rand, McNally, and Co., each $6.50). Johnston's _Maps of
English and European History_ are sixteen in number, size 40 x 30 inches,
and include four maps of ancient history (Chicago, Nystrom, each $2.50).
A new series of _European History Maps_, thirty-nine in number, size
44 x 32 inches, has been prepared for the study of ancient history by
Professors J. H. Breasted and C. F. Huth, and for medieval and modern
history by Professor S. B. Harding (Chicago, Denoyer-Geppert Co.,
complete set with tripod stand, $52.00; in two spring roller cases,
$73.00). These maps may also be had separately. The maps in this
admirable series omit all irrelevant detail, present place names in
the modern English form, and in choice of subject matter emphasize
the American viewpoint. The school should also possess good physical
wall maps such as the Sydow-Habenicht or the Kiepert series, both to
be obtained from Rand, McNally, and Co. The text is in German. Phillips's
_Model Test Maps_ and Johnston's _New Series of Physical Wall Maps_
are obtainable from A.

J. Nystrom and Co. The only large charts available are those prepared by
MacCoun for his _Historical Geography Charts of Europe_. The two sections,
"Ancient and Classical" and "Medieval and Modern," are sold separately
(N. Y., Silver, Burdett, and Co., $15.00). A helpful series of
_Blackboard Outline Maps_ is issued by J. L. Engle, Beaver, Penn.
These are wall maps, printed with paint on blackboard cloth, for use
with an ordinary crayon. Such maps are also sold by the Denoyer-Geppert
Co., Chicago.

OUTLINE MAPS
The "Studies" following each chapter of this book include various exercises
for which small outline maps are required. Such maps are sold by D.
C. Heath and Co., Boston, New York, Chicago. Useful atlases of outline
maps are also to be had of the McKinley Publishing Co., Philadelphia,
Atkinson, Mentzer and Grover, Chicago, W. B. Harison, New York
City, and of other publishers.

ILLUSTRATIONS
The best photographs of ancient works of art must usually be obtained
from the foreign publishers in Naples, Florence, Rome, Munich,
Paris, Athens, and London, or from their American agents.[Illustration: Perspective view of the fireplace, showing the
    shape of the various parts as built without a cast-iron throat
    damper]

There are other types of dampers, most of them patented and all of them
aiming to provide an adjustable opening in the throat in some way. One
or two of these have a knob or handle projecting through the brickwork
of the arch, permitting the convenient adjustment of the damper from
outside. As a general principle, however, it is well to choose the
simplest possible device that will secure the desired result.

The terra cotta flue lining which is shown in the sectional diagram is
not absolutely necessary, of course, as it is a rather modern
introduction and unnumbered fireplaces have served their purpose without
it. There is no question, however, regarding its worth, for it provides
a flue with smooth, regular sides that will not clog nearly so readily
as an ordinary brick flue. Besides that, it has the advantage of
permitting a thinner wall for the chimney. It is dangerous to build a
chimney with a single four-inch thickness of brick between the flue and
whatever may adjoin the chimney. Of course no wood should be allowed to
come within an inch or two of the brickwork in any event, but with a
single thickness of brick, unlined, there is always the danger that the
mortar will crumble from a joint and leave an opening through which it
would be an easy matter for sparks or flame to do considerable damage.
The introduction of a flue lining, however, into the chimney built in
this way makes it entirely safe, provided the joints between sections of
flue lining are carefully filled and made smooth with cement mortar.

The sectional diagram, it will be noticed, indicates a difference
between the main back wall of the chimney, eight inches thick, and the
brickwork laid inside the fire chamber to form the hearth and the back.
The reason for this separation is that the rough brickwork of the
chimney is always laid first as simply as possible, leaving the fire
chamber with its sloping back and sides and the hearth to be filled in
later with a better grade of brick or perhaps another kind. Frequently,
also, tile will be combined with the brick finish as a hearth or facing.

    [Illustration: A cross-section showing the construction of a
    large stone fireplace with slightly arched opening]

A support for the hearth is usually obtained as indicated--by bringing
what is called a "row-lock" or "trimmer" arch between the foundation
masonry of the chimney and a pair of floor joists set out at the proper
distance, depending upon the desired width of the hearth. While this is
the customary method, occasionally a support is secured in some other
way, such as corbeling out from the masonry foundation, or by extending
two short projections of this masonry from the bottom up at either end
of the hearth and throwing an arch across between these. Upon a bed of
cement the hearth bricks themselves are laid, usually flush with the
floor, although occasionally enough higher to permit a beveled molding
strip to cover the joint between brick and floor more closely. In some
cases the hearth itself is raised the full thickness of a brick above
the floor, as in one of the photographic illustrations shown.

The width of the hearth is ordinarily made about sixteen or eighteen
inches beyond the face of the opening with the average size fireplace,
twenty inches or even more with larger ones. This width should be
increased, of course, if the opening is made considerably larger. The
question of materials for the hearth and facing will be discussed in the
next chapter.

The chimney itself should extend at least a foot or two above any nearby
roof ridge and it should work without any cowl, whirligig or other
device of that type on the top. There is no great objection to having
the opening a horizontal one at the top of the chimney, although in that
case if the flue is nearly straight throughout its course, some rain
will find its way down to the hearth in a hard storm. In most cases
there is enough bend in the flue to prevent this, and if not it may be
avoided by covering the top of the chimney with a stone and having the
openings vertical ones on all four sides just under this.

All of the brickwork throughout chimney and fireplace should be laid in
first-class cement mortar which consists of one part Portland cement to
three parts clean, sharp sand. Although lime mortar was used in all
brickwork up to recent years, it is not durable, particularly in the
vicinity of heat.


                        MISCELLANEOUS ODD FORMS


There are many unusual forms of fireplace with which we are not
particularly concerned. For example, one sees occasionally an opening
shaped like an inverted heart or like an ace of spades. It is possible
to make a fireplace of this kind work satisfactorily, but it is by no
means certain that this result can be accomplished at the first trial
nor that the fire will continue to work properly under all conditions.
It is safer always to adhere to the established type of rectangular
opening, or to depart from this only to the extent of having the top an
arch of large radius. Whenever the top is permitted to vary more than a
slight extent from the horizontal there is the danger of having the
smoke escape into the room at the top.

    [Illustration: The inglenook seldom fails as a dispenser of home
    cheer. Frequently the seats are placed too close to the fire]

There is one other type that deserves special mention and that is the
double fireplace, where two openings in adjacent rooms are served by a
single flue between them. The only way in which this affects the two
vital principles mentioned above is that the cross-section area of the
flue should be one-tenth of the combined areas of the openings. The
throat will in this case be in the middle of the chimney with the smoke
shelf on either side of it. It is essential in a fireplace of this kind
that there be no disturbing draft tending to pass through the opening
from one room to the other.

Still another type which is even more rarely seen is the open fire in
the middle of a room, such as may be desired occasionally in the
lounging room of a large club. Such an apparent anomaly could be
secured by suspending a metal flue and hood from the roof, so that the
lower edge of the truncated pyramidal form at the bottom would form the
upper side of the fireplace "opening" at a convenient height above the
hearth of brick, stone, tile or concrete. It is conceivable that an
effective and thoroughly practical fireplace could be thus devised,
having the flue and hood of wrought iron or copper, suspended and
steadied by chains or bars from the ceiling and surrounding walls. In
such a form the same principle of a fixed ratio between opening (here
the entire perimeter of the hood multiplied by the distance above the
hearth) and cross-section of flue would have to be observed, and here
also it would be well to provide as fully as possible against the
presence of disturbing drafts.


                          FACINGS AND MANTELS


There is not a particularly wide choice of materials available for the
finish of the hearth and fireplace. Stone, brick, cement and tile
exhaust the possibilities, although with combinations of these we have
all the variety that we could wish.

Stone is suitable only in certain environments--the informal shack or
log cabin chiefly, though of course it is impossible to make any hard
and fast rule in the matter.

Brick is almost never out of place. Perhaps it is the association with
the fireplaces that have been built by our fathers and grandfathers, or
perhaps it is the inherent worth and fitness of the material itself
that puts it forward as a first choice. Undoubtedly the practical
consideration that it is easier and more economical to build has
something to do with the matter.

Concrete is a newcomer in the field of fireplace facing and as yet it
cannot be said to have shown any particular reason why it should
displace the other materials. With the ordinary heat developed in an
open fire of wood there is no likelihood of cracking the concrete facing
if the material has been properly mixed and applied, although there
seems to be a vague impression that this might be a real danger. The
color of concrete gives it no particular recommendation, for it is one
that remains unchanged by fire, though not unstained by smoke. Brick, on
the other hand, and tile, have the very closest possible association
with fire in the making, which gives them a peculiar fitness for this
purpose.

    [Illustration: Caen stone or its clever representation in cement
    serves well for the more formal type of mantel and facing]

Tile, the last of the four materials, gives more latitude in design than
any of the others, sometimes too much latitude we feel. If
understandingly used, nothing could be more appropriate and attractive,
but tile has been used so carelessly that somehow we have a feeling that
the tiled fireplace is for show rather than for use. In any case, there
is no question whatever regarding the unfitness of the glazed tiles
which have made horrors of thousands of pseudo fireplace openings. It is
only the mat-glazed or unglazed tiles that have any right to be used in
such a place.

Since this little volume has for its subject the fireplace rather than
the mantel, little need be said regarding the latter outward form,
though there is no doubt that a whole book on the subject might
profitably be written. To touch upon the subject as lightly as space
will permit, we can probably do no better than to suggest the obvious
type of mantel for one or two of the more common architectural styles,
and recommend that in other styles the architect be allowed sufficient
latitude in design and expense to distinguish this important feature of
hall, living-room, dining-room or library with the characteristics of
the style he has worked out for the house itself.

The modern home along Colonial lines is perhaps the commonest problem,
and incidentally the easiest, for the old models of delicately detailed
white-painted wood mantels are so well known and so universally admired
that modern reproductions along good lines and reasonable cost are
easily obtained.

For the English plaster or half-timber house the architect will
doubtless design a special mantel, in scale and in harmony with the dark
paneling and other architectural woodwork, probably with a paneled
over-mantel if the cost is not too rigorously held down.

In a house which breaks away from the historic architectural styles, as
so many of the stucco buildings of the day do, the mantel treatment
offers particularly interesting possibilities. Frequently the mantel is
done away with entirely and the chimney breast treated independently as
a whole.

With the very informal type of summer home where a rough stone for
facing and chimney is employed, the mantel treatment can hardly be kept
too simple and unobtrusive in its rugged strength. A heavy log, planed
to a smooth top surface and resting on two projecting stone brackets,
is frequently used with good effect. The chimney breast may be stepped
back at the shelf height to form a narrow stone ledge, or the breast
left without any shelf. Many simple variations with the informal brick
chimney breast will occur to everyone. In general, with these summer
shacks or bungalows, the fireplace is the chief architectural feature of
the living-room and for that reason will stand a moderate amount of
embellishment, but this latter should take the form of a slightly better
finish of the materials used throughout the room rather than the
introduction of more elaborate and costly ones.

    [Illustration: A fireplace and chimney breast of field stone,
    chosen with care and laid with more than average skill]


                        MENDING POOR FIREPLACES


It is well enough to say just how a fireplace should be built so that it
will work satisfactorily, but that does not go far in helping the man
who has a fireplace that will not work. Frequently it is possible
without any very great expense and trouble to correct a fireplace that
has been improperly built. If one has in mind a clear comprehension of
the few elementary principles of fireplace construction it will usually
be an easy matter to determine the reason why a fireplace smokes or
fails to draw.

The cross-section area of the flue is likely to prove the most common
difficulty. Usually this cannot be seen from inside the fireplace,
because of the narrow throat and the smoke chamber which in some form
may be above the shelf. If, therefore, the apparent essentials--such as
shape of opening, narrow throat across the whole width, and preferably
the slanting back--have been followed out it would be well to determine
the area of the flue itself. To do this it will be necessary to reach
the top of the chimney and, by lowering a weight on a line, find which
flue leads to the fireplace in question. Its area at the top will in all
probability be its area throughout. If the flue happens to be the only
one in that particular chimney it may sometimes be determined more
easily by counting the bricks in its two horizontal directions and in
this way estimating what would probably be the inside flue. VOL.
99.

December 27, 1890.

[Illustration: 'DRESSED-CRAB']
* * * * *
OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

The origin of the phrase, _Le Coup de Jarnac_, is interesting, and the
story is well told by Mr. _MAC_DOWALL in Mac_millan's Magazine_.
Good, this, for "The Two Macs."
[Illustration]
In _The Argosy_, edited by Mr. CHARLES WOOD, there are two good most
seasonable Ghost Stories, by CHARLES W. WOOD, the "Rev. F.O.W." The first
is not new, as there is a similar legend attached to several old
Manor Houses, one of a Sussex Family House, the Baron had first-hand,
from a witness on the premises.

It lacked corroboration at the time, and is likely to do so.

The Letters passing between a fine young English Cantab, "all of the
modern style," and his family at home, are uncommonly amusing.
_Harry Fludyer at Cambridge_ is the title of the book, published by
CHATTO AND WINDUS. Well, to quote the ancient witticism in vogue _tempore
EDOUARDI RECTI et DON PAOLO BEDFORDI_ (the great Adelphoi, or rather
the great "Fill-Adelphians," as they were once called), "Things is werry
much as they used to was" at Cambridge, and University life of to-day
differs very little from that of yesterday, or the day before, or the
day before that. "_Hæc olim meminisse juvabit_," when, half a century
hence, the rollicking author of these letters--which, by the way,
first appeared in _The Granta_--is telling his _Minimus_ what "a dog,"
he, the writer, was, and what "a day he used to have," in the merry
time that's past and gone.

                         "His health and book!"

quoth the Baron.

A more muddle-headed story than _The Missing Member_ I have not read for
some considerable time.

The Baron sends HACHETTE & CIE.'S "_Mon Premier Alphabet_," and the
moral tale of "_Mlle. Marie Sans-souci_," up to the nursery where
they will be much appreciated by the little Barons.
"LETT's get a Diary," quoth a Barren Jester, not _the_ Baron DE
B.W., who, had it not been Christmas time, would have expelled the
witty youth. "No joke, if you please," quoth he, "about LETTS's
Diaries. We may advertise these useful and hardy annuals in canine
Latin and say, '_Libera nos_!' i.e., Letts out!"
BARON DE BOOK-WORMS & Co.
_P.S._ I have it on the best authority that Mrs. SUTHERLAND EDWARDS,
Author of _The Secret of the Princess; a Tale of Country, Camp,
Court, Convict, and Cloister Life in Russia_, is about to produce
a highly sensational work, entitled _The Bargain of the Barmaid; a
Story of Claret, Cheese, Coffee, Cognac, and Cigar Life in London_I have wondered sometimes why the philosophers have not hit upon
the andiron as a particularly fitting subject for pleasurable
rumination. There are so few things which combine to such a degree the
purely utilitarian with the eminently decorative qualities. Most things
which do combine the two in any real measure have been developed on the
side of one at the expense of the other quality. Take man's dress coat,
for example, the cut-away front of which, with the two buttons at the
back, was designed to permit the gentleman to loop the skirts up to his
waist when he mounted his horse. Or, take the modern lighting fixture
with its little pan still waiting to catch the drip of the tallow
beneath the flame, which has long since been displaced by gas tip or
incandescent filament. How few things there are, after all, which ages
ago--probably through a long evolution--were designed to meet a real
need in the best possible manner and which still meet that need and
combine true beauty with their usefulness. The wrought-iron shoe of a
horse occurs to us, perhaps a ship's anchor, a string-bow or an axe
helve.

Some support is needed to raise the fuel so that the air may find a
clear passage under and through it to the flames, and nothing could well
be devised to serve the purpose better than the pair of horizontal
wrought bars, each with its single rear foot and its steadying front,
the upper continuation of which serves to hold the burning logs in
place.

One is not likely to go wrong in making a choice of andirons for any
given type of fireplace. The simply turned brass patterns belong so
obviously to the Colonial brick opening with its surrounding white
woodwork; the rougher wrought-iron types are so evidently at home in the
craftsman fireplace or the rough opening of stonework, that misfits are
hardly possible.

Fortunately the old brass andirons of Colonial days have proven
themselves fitted to survive, and many of them are still to be found in
old cobwebby attics or in the more accessible shop of the dealer in
antiques. One of these confided to me his way of distinguishing the
really old andirons from artificially aged reproductions: the old ones
have the turned brass of the front post held in place by a wrought-iron
bar that attaches to the horizontal member by a screw thread on the bar
itself; on the modern examples this upright bar is drilled with a
threaded hole into which an ordinary short screw engages through a hole
in the horizontal member.

    [Illustration: The good old dependable Colonial type, with its
    simple brick facing framed by the delicately detailed white wood
    mantel]

Next after the andirons in importance are the tools--the three most
nearly essential ones being the poker, tongs and shovel. But surely
you want a magnificent costume?"
"Thanks, no; I get everything from Paris."
"And you think of the feelings of your _modiste_, and ignore those
of your poor old (but well-preserved) Godmother!" And the Fairy was
nearly moved to tears.There are two ways of taking care of
them--the ordinary method of using a stand which, if the tools are
bought together, will probably come with them; or in some of the
fireplace types where the whole chimney breast is of brick, concrete or
stone, sometimes a combination of three or more hooks is wrought in the
same metal as the tools and fixed securely in the chimney breast at the
side of the opening.

A brush for the hearth, although not so frequently seen, is exceedingly
useful in sweeping back the ashes and small embers. Then there is the
time-honored bellows, now hardly more than an ornament, for with a
scientifically built fireplace it should never need to be called into
action.

A screen of some sort comes nearer to being classed with the necessities
than with the merely decorative accessories, for it is hardly safe to
leave a fire or even the smoldering embers without some protection
against the damage that is so quickly caused by sparks. The usual type
of screen is the woven wire one in several forms. Probably the most
convenient type is that made up of a number of flat sections which fold
upon one another into a compact mass which will not be in the way when
not in use. In recent years, however, there is another sort of screen
that is coming to be regarded with very high favor and that is the
screen made up of glass in combination with other materials. The Cubans,
on their part, were panic-stricken. They have such a dread of Weyler that
they expected he would revenge himself on them for his disgrace.

In Havana some of the Cubans hired armed men to protect them from attack,
and others crowded the steamship offices in an endeavor to escape
from the country before the catastrophe came.

The fears of the people were, however, set at rest by a statement from
the Captain-General that he would never be guilty of any act which could
cause his Government trouble. He therefore hastened to assure Señor
Sagasta of his willingness to obey the wishes of the Government, and gave
up his command in Cuba.

He asked permission to leave the island at once, but Sagasta cabled
to him that he must remain where he was until Oct. 20th.

General Ramon Blanco will sail for Cuba on Oct. 15th.

The newly appointed commander of the forces in Cuba was Governor-General
of the Philippine Islands at the outbreak of the war there, but was
recalled for political reasons.

Unfortunately, his record for cruelty is not far behind Weyler's,
and so the savage character of the war in Cuba is not likely to be
changed by the change of commanders.

The Cubans know Barman Blanco well. He was Captain-General of the
island in 1879, when the second insurrection against the Spaniards
started.

Under him was Camilo Polavieja, who as Governor of the Philippines has
made for himself an unenviable reputation for cruelty.
To these two men was intrusted the task of suppressing the revolt.
The insurrection of 1879 was not a very serious affair; the Cubans
as a body took no part in it; but notwithstanding this fact, which
was well known to the authorities, fully fifteen hundred men of
position in Cuba were arrested, and many of them put to death without
being tried or given an opportunity to prove their innocence.The crane is a very picturesque
feature in a fireplace that is large enough to hold it comfortably, but
it does seem unfortunate that in a great many fireplaces the crane is
dragged in with the idea of making it a decorative feature but without
any expectation of putting it to practical use. There are
fireplaces--in a summer camp, for example--where a crane could be put to
good use. Used elsewhere it is too often merely an affectation.

The trivet is not nearly so well known as the crane and yet it might be
put to use in a modern fireplace much more frequently. In England it is
found in various ingenious forms, most of which show, however, some form
of low stool which is stood upon the hearth, as near as may be
convenient to the fire, to keep warm a teakettle or perhaps even a plate
of toast. There are some rather interesting antique brass trivets to be
found in many of the larger antique shops.


                           BUILDING THE FIRE


I have no doubt that the majority of the readers who have patiently
found their way thus far through this little book will feel like closing
it with a sigh of impatience at the sight of the chapter heading above.
"Who doesn't know how to build a wood fire? We might as well seek
instruction as to the most approved method of striking a match!" But if
you will bear with me for a moment I would say most emphatically that as
a matter of fact very few people really do know how to build a fire. It
is easy enough to assemble a bunch of newspapers, twigs, kindling and
logs so that it is possible to _start_ a fire, but perhaps you have
noticed that while many fires are kindled few burn out. If you are
seeking for the greatest amount of comfort and enjoyment from your wood
fire you will secure it only by sitting at the feet of that greatest of
all teachers, experience, or perhaps more quickly by experimenting a bit
with one or two of the simple expedients which I shall try to show are
based on the wood fire's way of working. While there are those who would
not for worlds give up the pleasure of tinkering with the tongs and
poker while the fire burns, it will perhaps not detract from this
enjoyment if the tinkering is not actually the result of necessity to
keep the logs burning. Fire-mending is a delightful recreation only when
it is not imposed upon us by becoming an alternative to having the
glowing embers become discouraged and give up the fight.

    [Illustration: There is a splendid opportunity for home
    craftsmanship of a high order in making the copper hood for an
    example of this type]

First of all, there is the need of having fuel that is really dry. It
is not essential that the woodpile be kept indoors, but it should at
least have shelter above it and on three sides. The woodsheds of New
England farmhouses offer a practical and efficient solution of the
problem. Usually you will find these as an extension to the house, a
shed open only to the south, in which the cord wood is piled neatly to
the roof with sawn ends to the front. Two long logs are laid on the
floor or ground, at right angles to the firewood, so as to encourage a
circulation of air for drying.

In addition to the heavier logs which are cut to fit the fireplace
opening, there should be almost an equal quantity of twigs, brush and
smaller pieces, or else split kindling, to serve as starting fuel.

To lay a fire on the hearth, select first a heavy log which should be
placed close against the back of the fire chamber on the hearth and not
on the andirons. This is the traditional "backlog." It will serve
through several fires and is intended mainly as a protection of the back
brickwork. Stand the andirons with their rear ends close up against the
backlog, and if the latter is of the best size its top will be well
above the horizontal bars of the andirons. Now select a smaller
log--preferably not a split piece--and lay it across the andirons. If a
big fire is desired, keep this log--the "forelog"--well to the front,
just back of the andiron upright posts, leaving plenty of space between
backlog and forelog for the main body of the fire. The distance between
these two logs will govern the size of the fire. In this space put a few
crumpled sheets of newspaper, some of the lighter twigs and small
branches, and one, two or three logs or split pieces, as may be required
to fill the space. The diagrams will make clearer this arrangement for a
small fire or a large one.

    [Illustration: Section showing the arrangement of andirons and
    wood for a large fire (at the left) and a smaller one]

As the central portion of the fire burns away, keep the forelog pushed
back against it, unless a less active fire is desired. It is well to
remember that where one isolated log will not burn, two close together
probably will, and a pyramid of three will do still better.

Many fireplaces show a tendency to smoke only when first lighted; this
is probably due to a cold chimney, and can usually be prevented or made
less objectionable by burning a newspaper just under the throat, thus
starting the proper action of the up and down drafts.

If it is possible for us to choose between various kinds of wood for our
open fire fuel there is opened up one of the most interesting phases of
the whole subject. To most people probably a wood fire is a wood fire,
whether the logs be of cherry wood, pine, hickory or anything else. For
the wood fire connoisseur, if we may call him by that name, there is no
difficulty whatever in telling with a glance at the fire just what wood
is burned. The crackle and explosive nature of hickory, the hiss of
pine, the steady flame from cherry, the hot and rapid disintegration of
sycamore, and the steady and thorough combustion of soft apple wood
soon become familiar characteristics to those who have the opportunity
to lay the fire in variety. Then there is, of course, the fascination
and the weird coloring in a driftwood fire--most spectacular of all but
unfortunately denied to most of us.

    [Illustration: A simple and exceedingly effective recessed
    design in brick and rough plaster. The hearth is raised above
    the floor]

Finally, the most important factor of all in the management of a wood
fire is an ample bed of ashes for its foundation. It is impossible for
anyone who has not actually tried fires both ways to appreciate the
immense advantage that a bed of wood ashes gives. Whether these efforts
to secure the friendship of the Cubans will be successful or not, the
future alone can tell.

At present the Cubans are not disposed to listen to any offers. They
persist in their declaration that they are fighting for freedom, and
that the change of ministers or captains-general makes no difference to
them. They are not going to lay down their arms because Weyler is
recalled, nor yet because Sagasta offers them Home Rule.If need be, fight for the retention of
that bed of ashes. You can scarcely get it too large or too deep. The
accumulation of two years is a priceless treasure. One of my own
fireplaces has a bank that has to be depleted about twice a year to make
room for the fire. A peck or two of the fine white powder is then
carried out to bring joy to the rose garden.

To one who loves a wood fire and knows its possibilities the mention of
such a thing as an ash-drop is as a red flag to a bull. Peace be to the
ashes of the man who invented this easy method of robbing the hearth of
half its charm. May he be forgiven it.




                                 _THE
                            HOUSE & GARDEN
                                MAKING
                                BOOKS_


It is the intention of the publishers to make this series of little
volumes, of which _Making a Fireplace_ is one, a complete library of
authoritative and well illustrated handbooks dealing with the activities
of the home-maker and amateur gardener. Text, pictures and diagrams
will, in each respective book, aim to make perfectly clear the
possibility of having, and the means of having, some of the more
important features of a modern country or suburban home. Among the
titles already issued or planned for early publication are the
following: _Making a Rose Garden_; _Making a Lawn_; _Making a Tennis
Court_; _Making a Water Garden_; _Making Paths and Driveways_; _Making a
Poultry House_; _Making a Garden with Hotbed and Coldframe_; _Making
Built-in Furniture_; _Making a Rock Garden_; _Making a Garden to Bloom
this Year_; _Making a Garden of Perennials_; _Making the Grounds
Attractive with Shrubbery_; _Making a Bulb Garden_, _Making a Garage_,
_Making and Furnishing Outdoor Rooms and Porches_; with others to be
announced later.