"I only wished to spare my uncle, as much as possible, in breaking
to him what I know will give him pain."

"People, who will wish what they ought not to wish, must endure the
pain that the frustration of such wishes entails. It is certainly
your right to marry according to your own inclinations."

"Yes; and in truth, as far as real power goes, there is nothing to
prevent my doing so. It is truly a desire to break to my uncle, as
gently as I can, that which will certainly be a blow to him. He is
not well, my uncle. He is deplorably changed since the beginning of
this year. Look at him, as he passes us," he added, as he observed
the Marchese Lamberto approaching the place where they were sitting,
with the white satin domino on his arm.

"He is looking changed and ill, certainly," said Violante, when the
Marchese had passed, apparently without noticing them; "he looks
thin and worn, and yet feverish and excited. Who is the lady on his
arm? She must be very tall."

Many of the assembled company had by this time, like the Contessa
Violante, discarded their masks, finding the heat, which always
results from the use of them, oppressive, and not perceiving that
any further amusement was to be got by retaining them. But the white
domino, leaning on the Marchese's arm, still retained hers. It is
not likely that Bianca herself could have had any objection to its
being seen by all Ravenna that she monopolized the attention of the
Marchese during the entire evening. And it is therefore probable
that she had retained her disguise in compliance with some hint
given to that effect by the Marchese Lamberto.

"I take it it must be La Lalli, the prima donna. I know she is here
to-night and in a white domino, though I have not yet spoken to her.
I am afraid my uncle must be tired and bored with her. He always
makes a point of showing those people attention; and besides he had
so much to do with bringing her here. I dare say we shall hear her
once or twice again in this house before she leaves Ravenna. My
uncle is fond of getting up some good music in Lent, when he can."

"The Marchese Lamberto did not look to me as if he was tired or
bored," said Violante, thoughtfully. "I hope he is not. Here comes
that absurd animal Leandro again. Did you ever see anything so
outrageously ridiculous?"

Ludovico and the Contessa then rose from their seats, and Violante
taking his arm drew him in the direction in which the Marchese
Lamberto had led the white satin domino.


CHAPTER IX

Paolina's Return to the City


There remained now but one day more of that Carnival, which remained
memorable for many years afterwards in Ravenna, for the terrible
catastrophe that marked its conclusion.

All that these people, whose passions, and hopes, and fears have
been laid open to the reader, were doing during those Carnival weeks
was gradually leading up, after the manner of human acts, to the
terrible event which rounded off the action with such fatal
completeness. And the catastrophe was now at hand.

During the reception at the Castelmare palace on that night of the
last day of Carnival but one, the white domino, whom Ludovico had
rightly supposed to be Bianca--a guess which had been shared by many
other persons in the room--had pretty exclusively occupied the
attention of the Marchese Lamberto. And it must be supposed that the
resolution was then taken between them which led to the summons of
Signor Fortini, the family lawyer, to the palazzo on the first day
of Lent, as was related in the first book of this narrative. It was
on the morning of Ash Wednesday, it will be remembered, that the
lawyer had received from the Marchese the formal communication of
his intention to marry the Signorina Bianca Lalli.

The reader knows, also, that what took place in the interval between
the night of the reception at the Palazzo Castelmare and the morning
of the first day in Lent was not calculated, as might have been
supposed, to assist in bringing the mind of the Marchese to a final
determination to that effect. The terrible degree to which his
jealousy and anger had been excited on the night of the ball at the
Circolo by Ludovico and Bianca will also not have been forgotten.
The conduct which had awakened that jealousy was, in a great
measure, if not entirely, innocent on the part of both the
offenders, as the reader will also, no doubt, remember. The
similarity of the costume adopted by the Marchesino and Bianca was
entirely accidental. And this, trifling as the circumstance may
seem, had contributed very materially to arouse the Marchese's wrath
and jealous agony. A pity that honest neighbors not to want to make
friends! Gelt, I can also be fun if it's needed. Titania. You are so
wise, like you're irritating. BookMarks. That is just not. But if
I had wit enough to get out of this forest to come, I would have just
as much as I need to do. Titania. Desire not from this grove to fliehn;
You have to go willingly or not, verziehn.

I am a spirit not of general ethics; A ewger summer zieret my
country, and, behold, I love you! drum, follow me. I will give you
control of elves, you should pearls from the sea And you get when
you lightly on flowers schlummerst, sing.

I want the earth substances befrein thee, that thou shalt so airy
as his ghost. mustard seeds! Bean Blossom! Moth! Web! (Four elves
occur.) First Eleven. Here! Second Eleven. And I! Third Eleven. And
I! Fourth Eleven. And I! All. What are we? Titania. Gefällig and
ye serve the Lord.

"Jumps, where he goes, and gaukelt to him; Addiction Apricot 'and stung
him on the Elbe'; give him mulberries, figs, purple grapes,
you must sack of honey bees to rob him; candle to take from
her a waxen leg and put it in a bogus Glühwurms , to light up
my friend and a bed, with colorful butterflies Flügelein fends
fächelnd Aug him by the moonlight. Now, elves, pays homage to him
and leans out fine.

First Eleven. Heil dir, mortal! Second Eleven. Heil! Third Eleven.
Healing ! Fourth Eleven. Heil! labels. I beseech your grace with
all my heart for forgiveness, I ask for your name graces. cobweb.
cobweb. BookMarks. I wish more of you know to be good Musje web.
If I cut in the finger, I shall be free, to use .-- Your name, Mr.
Ehrsam? Bean Blossom. Blüte beans. BookMarks.

I ask you, do you recommend me Madame sleeve, your mother, and Mr.
Bean pod, Lord your father. Good Mr. Bean Blossom, with you, I
hope to become more aware .-- Your name, sir, if I may ask. Mustard
seeds. Mustard seeds. BookMarks. Musje Dear mustard seeds, I know
your patience well indeed.

That vile and hulking fellow, roast beef, has been some valiant
lord of your house devoured. Sei'n assured, your friendship has
given me the eye quite often do go on. I wish to know more, dear
Musje mustard seeds. Titania. Come, take him out to my sanctuary,
I am seems to tears by blinking Lunas gloss; And when she weeps,
weeps every little flower To make a wreath of wild zerrißnen
girls. The magic is the dearest tongue bind: We still want the door
to find arbor. (all starting from.) Second Scene Another part of the
forest, Oberon (occurs).
Apollinare and to the Pineta quits the city, in order there to make
inquiries,--and the terrible reply to their inquiries that there met
him.

What that reply was had not been immediately clear to the lawyer.
For, as far as the circumstances of the previous events were then
known to him, there were two persons, Bianca Lalli, the singer, and
Paolina Foscarelli, the Venetian artist--two young girls missing,
who were both known to have been out of the city in that direction
that morning; two young girls of whom he knew little more than this,
that they had apparently reason to feel a deadly jealousy of each
other. Which of these two was the one whose dead body lay there
under the city gateway before him, he had no immediate means of
knowing. For Ludovico, who had raised the sheet that covered the
features of the dead, and had, of course, become on the instant
aware of the truth, had fallen into unconsciousness, without
uttering a word beyond the one agonized outcry that, for the moment,
had left little doubt on the mind of the lawyer that the victim at
their feet was the girl Paolina.

But, of course, the means of setting at rest the doubt on the
lawyer's mind were very soon at hand; at hand even before Ludovico
recovered from his short fainting fit. For the same man among the
Octroi officers, who had recognized La Lalli when she had passed
with Ludovico in the morning, was now able to say that the woman who
now lay dead in the gateway was in truth no other than the poor
Diva.

Paolina, in fact, was by that time safe at home, and had been well
scolded by Signora Orsola for having given her such a fright by
playing the truant for so long.

Of course her old friend called upon her for an account of the hours
which had elapsed during her prolonged absence. And Paolina, in
reply to this demand, gave a very intelligible account of the time.
But unfortunately, most unfortunately, as the sequel showed it to
be, this account rested solely on her own statement. Of course old
Orsola saw not the smallest reason for doubting any part of it. And
the explanations which she gave of her movements, and of the motives
which led to them, embodied in the following statement of what
happened from the time when she left the church to the time when she
re-entered the city, are the result of her subsequent declarations,
when called upon to account for her occupation of those hours.

The aged Capucine friar had, as we know, watched her take the path
that led to the farmhouse on the border of the wood. And having
looked after her as long as she was in his sight, he sighed heavily,
and, turning away, went back to his prayers in the church. But had
he been able to watch her on her way a few minutes longer, he would,
if the girl's own account of her movements were correct, have seen
her change the direction of her walk.

About half-way between the eastern end of the church, by which the
path the friar had indicated to Paolina passed, and the farmhouse on
the border of the forest, another path, skirting what had once
apparently been the cemetery attached to the church, turned off at
right angles to the left, so as, after some distance, to rejoin the
road on its way towards the city. And this path, according to her
own account, Paolina took; thus abandoning her intention of reaching
the forest at the spot where the farmhouse stood. Why had she thus
changed her purpose?

Various thoughts and feelings, which had presented themselves to her
in the space of the minute or two she had occupied in walking round
to the eastern end of the church, had contributed to produce this
change in her purpose.

Unquestionably the first feeling which arose in her mind, on seeing
what she had seen from the window of the church, was one of
jealousy. But she combated it vigorously; and if she did not succeed
in altogether conquering it,--that fiend being, by the nature of not
to be vanquished so by one single effort, however valorous--at least
put it to the rout for the present. She had known all along that
Ludovico frequently saw La Bianca. She knew that he would meet her
at the ball; and, doubtless, the object of their expedition this
morning was, as the friar had suggested, to show the stranger the
celebrated Pineta. Having thus, in some measure, tranquillized her
heart, she began to think how lovely the forest must be on that fine
spring morning; how much she, too, should like to see it; how good
an opportunity the present was of doing so. Perhaps, too, there was
some little anticipation of the slight punishment to be inflicted on
her lover, when he should be told that she had visited the Pineta
alone at the very time when he had been in her immediate vicinity
engaged in showing it to another.

And with these thoughts in her head, she made her inquiries, and
started on her way. But before she had walked many steps, other
thoughts began to present themselves to her mind. How did she know
how far they had gone from the farmhouse? Might they not still be in
the immediate neighbourhood of it? Might she not, very probably,
fall in with them? And would not that be exceedingly disagreeable?
Would she not have all the appearance of having followed them
purposely from motives of jealousy? Would not her presence be
unwelcome? Would there not be something of indelicacy even in thus
following one who evidently preferred being with another?

These considerations sufficed to produce the change in her purpose,
and in the  direction towards which she turned her steps, that has
been mentioned. So she returned by the path, which has been
described, into the road, and proceeded along it on her return to
the city. She did not trip along as briskly and alertly as she had
done in coming thither; but walked slowly and pensively with her
eyes on the ground. She was thus a good deal longer in returning
than in going. And when she had reached the immediate neighbourhood
of the city, she turned aside before entering the gate, into a sort
of promenade under some trees near the city wall, and sat down on
one of the stone benches there to think a little.

And presently; as she was busy thinking, she was startled into much
displeasure against herself by discovering that two large utterly
unauthorised tears were running down her cheeks.

What was the meaning of that? Surely she was not jealous still,
after all the good reasons for not being so, that she had so
conclusively pointed out to herself?

No, she was not jealous. She would not be jealous. But it would have
been so nice in the Pineta. The sun was now high in the heavens. The
birds were singing on every tree; and Ludovico was enjoying it with
that woman, whom, when she had seen her at the theatre, she had
found it so impossible to like or to tolerate. Yet she would not,
could not, doubt that Ludovico loved herself, and her only.

She dried her tears, and determined that she would not let doubts of
what she really did not doubt torment her. But still she sat on and
on upon the bench in the shade musing on many things--on the
Contessa Violante, on the steps Ludovico had said that he would take
this very first day of Lent towards the open breaking off of all
engagement with that lady, and on the amount of scandal and
difficulty that would thence arise.

Then her fancy, despite all her endeavours and determinations to the
contrary, would go back to paint pictures of the beauty of La
Bianca, as she sat by the side of Ludovico in the little carriage.
How lovely she had looked, and how happy,--so evidently pleased with
herself, with her companion, and with all about her. And Ludovico
had seemed in such good spirits--so happy, so thoroughly contented.
He did not want any one else to be with him. He was far enough from
thinking of the fond and faithful heart that would have been made so
happy--oh, so happy--if it had been given to her to sit there by his
side.

She sat thinking of all these things till she was roused from her
reverie by the city clocks striking noon. It was three good hours
later than she had supposed it to be; and she jumped up from her
seat, intending to hasten home to Signora Orsola Steno.

All this Paolina stated partly to Signora Orsola on her return home,
and partly in reply to inquiries subsequently made of her by
inquirers far less easily satisfied.

But chance--or, what for want of a better designation, we are in the
habit of so calling--had decreed that Signora Orsola should not be
delivered from her suspense so quickly.

On turning into the shady promenade under the city walls, a little
before reaching the Porta Nuova, Paolina had strolled onwards,
before sitting down on one of the benches that tempted her after her
walk, till she fancied that it would be shorter for her to reach the
Via di Santa Eufemia by another gate, which gave admission to the
city at the other end of the promenade, instead of by turning back
to the Porta Nuova. And thus, though she had in truth returned to
the city, the men at that gate were quite right in their statement
that she had not returned by the way they guarded.

The road, however, by which Paolina proposed to return to her home
led her past the residence of the Cardinal, and, as she passed, it
occurred to her that it would be well, and save another walk, to
look in at the chapel and put together the things she had left in it
on finishing her task there, so that they might be ready for a
porter to bring away when she should send for them.

For this purpose she ascended the great staircase of the Cardinal's
palace, and was at once admitted to pass on into the chapel, as a
matter of course, by the servants, who had become quite used to her
visits there; and, from this point forwards, the accuracy of her
statements was easily proved by other testimony besides her own.

It would not have taken her long, as she had said to herself, to get
her things together and make them ready for being fetched away. But
in the chapel she found the Lady Violante on her knees on the fald-
stool before the altar. It was the first day in Lent, and,
accordingly, a period of extra devotion. The sins, the excesses, the
frivolities, of the Carnival had to be atoned for by extra prayers
and religious exercises; and if Violante had herself been guilty of
no sins, excesses, or frivolities, during the festive season, yet
there was abundant need of her prayers for those who had.

On hearing a light footfall behind her she looked round; and, on
seeing Paolina, rose from her knees, and advanced a step to meet
her.

"You are come to take away your things, cara mia. The scaffolding
has already been removed. I suppose you are very glad that your task
here is done; and it would be selfish, therefore, to say that I am
sorry. How often it happens, Paolina, that we are tempted to wish
what we ought not to wish."

"I don't think, Signorina, that I often wish what my conscience
tells me I ought not to desire; and I should have thought that such
a thing had never occurred to you. I wished very much to do
something this morning, and I began to do it; but then I thought
that I ought not to do it, and I did not."

"Then, my child, you are all the happier. It is a happy day for
you."

Paolina sighed a great sigh, and dropped her eyes to the ground.

"Then I suppose the evil wish was not wholly conquered," said
Violante, looking into her companion's eyes with a grave smile.

"It was this, Signora: I walked out very early this morning to St.
Apollinare in Classe, where I am to make some copies of the Mosaics,
which I hope to begin to-morrow. A scaffolding has been prepared for
me; and I went to see that all was ready."

And then poor little Paolina was tempted to pour out all her heart
and its troubles to her gravely kind and gentle friend. Beautiful, my
faith! Hast thou not afraid, nor custom girl, Not a trace of
shame? And force you so hard to talk my soft lips? You puppet, ugh!
You puppet, you! Hermia. how? Doll? Ha, their game is now clear
to me: You asked him to compare our growth - I have noticed -
at its height getrotzt.

With her figure, with her long figure Did you be sure you see me!
bemeistert. And are you now so great in favor with him, Because
I'm so small because I am so dwarfish?
BOOK V

Who Did the Deed?


CHAPTER I

At the City Gate


Bianca Lalli lay dead at the city gate. Fresh from her triumphs, her
successes, her schemes, her hopes, her frolic, at the full tide of
her fame, and her matchless beauty, the poor Diva was--dead!

How she came by such sudden death there was nothing whatever in her
appearance to tell--scarcely anything to tell that she was dead. In
a quiet composed attitude stretched on her back, she lay in the
light white dress she had put on for her excursion with Ludovico.
With the exception of a broad blue ribbon round the waist, and
another which bound her wealth of auburn hair, her entire dress was
white. It was now scarcely whiter than her face. But there was on
the features neither disorder nor sign of pain.

From a feeling of natural respect for death, and perhaps, also, for
the extreme beauty of the young face in death, the bearers of the
body had covered it with a coarse linen sheet, such as they had
chanced to find to hand. But the duty of the officers of the gate
would have required them to uncover the face, even if Ludovico in
the first agony of his doubt had not already done so. There, amid
the pitying throng of rough men, she lay beneath the sombre old
gateway vault. The extraordinary abundance of her hair fell in great
loose tresses, some making rich contrast with the white dress that
covered her shoulders, and some of it thrown back behind over the
door on which the body lay.

A terrible and deadly sickness came over Ludovico, and his face
became almost as white as that of the corpse. His head swam round;
and, reeling back from the sight that met his eyes, he swooned, and
would have fallen to the ground had the lawyer not caught him.

"I suppose," said Fortini, to the men who crowded round the body,
while he paid attention to the Marchesino,--"I suppose that there
can be no doubt that she is dead?"

"She's as dead as the door she lies on," said one of the men who had
helped to carry the body, shaking his head gravely, as he looked
pitifully down on her; "as dead as the door she lies on, more's the
pity, for she looks like one of them that find it good to live,--
more's the pity,--more's the pity."

"Che bella donna! E proprio un viso d'angiolo," said another; "and
so young too. Staun and I do not know what to say. (She runs
after Helen.)

Oberon. This is your rash! Always you are mistaken, If it's not
geflißne pranks prankster. Droll. I was wrong this time, believe
me, lord of the shadows, Gabt you not certain of the Mir, the
man as a characteristic of Athenertracht? And so far I am without
guilt that those who I anointed, but really an Athenian, and so
far I am pleased that so that's added, because these Balgerei me
very happy.He
very often manifests a great deal which he does not genuinely feel;
but he never seeks to hide any that he does feel.

All this while the officials at the gate, some six or eight of them,
standing thus round the extemporized bier, were closely questioning
the men, who had been the bearers; Ludovico and the old lawyer were
thus shut out from the circle which had formed itself around the
body, and were on the outside of it. A boy, belonging to one of the
gate officials, brought, at the lawyer's bidding, a glass of cold
water, by the help of which the young Marchese was quickly restored
to consciousness. He was able to rise to his feet again before the
officers had concluded their official questioning of those who had
brought in the body. And the lawyer looked anxiously into his face
to ascertain that he was capable of understanding what was said to
him, as he stood, still apparently half-stunned by the shock of the
event, against the doorway of the little dwelling of the
gatekeepers.

"Stand where you are and say nothing; we will go away together
presently," whispered the lawyer in his ear, griping him hard at the
same time by the arm, and giving him a little shake, as if to rouse
him to comprehension; a mode of speaking and acting on the part of
Signor Fortini, which would have seemed very extraordinary to the
young Marchese at any other time, but which he was now too much
overpowered by what had happened to notice.

Signor Fortini had no official character or function, which in any
way gave him the right, or made it his duty to meddle with the
circumstances, that had occurred by chance in his presence. But he
was so well known to all the city, was mixed in one way or another
with so many matters of business, and was so much and so generally
looked up to, that the people at the gate, hardly knowing what their
own duty required of them under circumstances so unusual, turned to
him for directions as to what they ought to do.

"What you have to do, my good friend, is simple enough," said the
lawyer, addressing the superior official at the gate; "you must, in
the first place, receive and take charge of the body. You must
inquire of these good folks all they have to tell you, together with
their names and addresses. You must draw up a processo verbale,
embodying all such information; and then you must have the body
conveyed to the mortuary at the hospital, at the same time making
your report to the police, and delivering up the body into their
custody. In such a case as this, it will be well, too, that these
worthy men, who have brought the body here, should go with you to
the police, the more so," he added, as his quick eye marked a
certain blank look in the faces of the men,--"the more so, as they
must be recompensed for their trouble and labour, and it is by the
police that the payment for it must be made."

Be quiet, Helena! they will do you no harm. Demetrius. It will not,
sir, if you already protects them. Helena. Oh, she has arge malice
in their anger. She was' not in bad Seven And the school is terribly
wild, although so small . Hermia."We must hear first what these men have to say. First take down
their names and addresses."

The men gave them, as the lawyer remarked to himself, with perfect
willingness and alacrity.

They then related that having been at work in the forest, cutting up
the branches and trunk of a tree, which had fallen from old age and
natural decay, they were going to another part of the Pineta, a
short distance off, where another fallen tree awaited their axes and
saws, when they saw a lady asleep as they thought on a bank. They
were about to pass on without interfering with her in any way, when
one of their party remarked that it was odd that all the noise they
had made had not wakened her, for they had come along laughing,
singing, and talking loudly. (Demetrius and Hermia enter.) Oberon.
Kick her, since coming to Athens. Droll. The girl is there, but not
the man Demetrius. O so you can, because I love you, lose the mortal
enemy you should so deadly torment! Hermia.
They looked at her, and looked all around to see if they
could perceive any sign of the cause of her death. But they could
see nothing. There was, as far as they could see, no trace of blood,
either on her dress or anywhere around the spot where she lay. And
then they had borrowed a door from the farm near St. Apollinare, and
had brought the body here, and that was all they knew about it.

"Had they seen any other person in the forest that morning?"

"Not a soul; and they had been in that part of the Pineta, or at
least at no great distance, all the morning from sunrise."

"Would they be able to find again and to know the spot on which they
had found the body?" the lawyer asked.

