You see now how we set out and the spirit in which we set out our towns.
It demands but the slightest exercise of the imagination to devise a
hundred additions and variations of the scheme. You can make picture-
galleries--great fun for small boys who can draw; you can make
factories; you can plan out flower-gardens--which appeals very strongly
to intelligent little girls; your town hall may become a fortified
castle; or you may put the whole town on boards and make a Venice of it,
with ships and boats upon its canals, and bridges across them. We used
to have some very serviceable ships of cardboard, with flat bottoms; and
then we used to have a harbor, and the  ships used to sail away to
distant rooms, and even into the garden, and return with the most
remarkable cargoes, loads of nasturtium-stem logs, for example. We had
sacks then, made of glove-fingers, and several toy cranes. I suppose we
could find most of these again if we hunted for them. Once, with this
game fresh in our we went to see the docks, which struck us as just our
old harbor game magnified.

"I say, Daddy," said one of us in a quiet corner, wistfully, as one who
speaks knowingly against the probabilities of the case, and yet with a
faint, thin hope, "couldn't we play just for a little with these sacks .
. . until some-body comes?"

Of course the setting-out of the city is half the game. Then you devise
incidents. As I wanted to photograph the particular set-out for the
purpose of illustrating this account, I took a larger share in the
arrangement than I usually do. It was necessary to get everything into
the picture, to ensure a light background that would throw up some of
the trees, prevent too much overlapping, and things like that. When the
photographing was over, matters became more normal. I left the
schoolroom, and when I returned I found that the group of riflemen which
had been converging on the publichouse had been sharply recalled to
duty, and were trotting in a disciplined, cheerless way towards the
railway station. The elephant had escaped from the zoo into the Blue
Ward, and was being marched along by a military patrol. The originally
scattered boy scouts were being paraded. G. P. W. had demolished the
shop of the Jokil Company, and was building a Red End station near the
bend. The stock of the Jokil Company had passed into the hands of the
adjacent storekeepers. Then the town hall ceremonies came to an end and
the guard marched off. Then G. P. W. demolished the rifle-range, and ran
a small branch of the urban railway uphill to the town hall door, and on
into the zoological gardens. This was only the beginning of a period of
enterprise in transit, a small railway boom. A number of halts of simple
construction sprang up. There was much making of railway tickets, of a
size that enabled passengers to stick their heads through the middle and
wear them as a Mexican does his blanket. Then a battery of artillery
turned up in the High Street and there was talk of fortifications.
Suppose wild Indians were to turn up across the plains to the left and
attack the town! Fate still has toy drawers untouched. . .

So things will go on till putting-away night on Friday. Then we shall
pick up the roofs and shove them away among the books, return the
clockwork engines very carefully to their boxes, for engines are fragile
things, stow the soldiers and civilians and animals in their nests of
drawers, burn the trees again--this time they are sweet-bay; and all the
joys and sorrows and rivalries and successes of Blue End and Red End
will pass, and follow Carthage and Nineveh, the empire of Aztec and
Roman, the arts of Etruria and the palaces of Crete, and the plannings
and contrivings of innumerable myriads of children, into the limbo of
games exhausted . . . it may be, leaving some profit, in thoughts
widened, in strengthened apprehensions; it may be, leaving nothing but a
memory that dies.

Verrätherey!
King. Helft O, my friends, vertheidiget me, I'm only wounded - Hamlet.
Here, you blutschändrischer, mördrischer, damned Dähne, drink from
this cup - is the jewel here?

Follow my mother - (The King dies.)
I will now glance
rather more shortly at some other very good uses of the floor, the
boards, the bricks, the soldiers, and the railway system--that pentagram
for exorcising the evil spirit of dulness from the lives of little boys
and girls. And first, there is a kind of lark we call Funiculars. There
are times when islands cease somehow to dazzle, and towns and cities are
too orderly and uneventful and cramped for us, and we want something--
something to whizz. Then we say: "Let us make a funicular. Let us make a
funicular more than we have ever done. Let us make one to reach up to
the table." We dispute whether it isn't a mountain railway we are after.
The bare name is refreshing; it takes us back to that unforgettable time
when we all went to Wengen, winding in and out and up and up the
mountain side--from slush, to such snow and sunlight as we had never
seen before. And we make a mountain railway. So far, we have never got
it up to the table, but some day we will, Then we will have a station
there on the flat, and another station on the floor, with shunts and
sidings to each.

The peculiar joy of the mountain railway is that, if it is properly
made, a loaded car--not a toy engine; it is too rough a game for
delicate, respectable engines--will career from top to bottom of the
system, and go this way and that as your cunningly-arranged switches
determine; and afterwards--and this is a wonderful and distinctive
discovery--you can send it back by 'lectric.

What is a 'lectric? You may well ask. 'Lectrics were invented almost by
accident, by one of us, to whom also the name is due. It came out of an
accident to a toy engine; a toy engine that seemed done for and that was
yet full of life.

You know, perhaps, what a toy engine is like. It has the general
appearance of a railway engine; funnels, buffers, cab, and so forth. All
these are very elegant things, no doubt; but they do not make for
lightness, they do not facilitate hill-climbing. Now, sometimes an
engine gets its clockwork out of order, and then it is over and done
for; but sometimes it is merely the outer semblance that is injured--
the funnel bent, the body twisted. You remove the things and, behold !
you have bare clockwork on wheels, an apparatus of almost malignant
energy, soul without body, a kind of metallic rage. This it was that our
junior member instantly knew for a 'lectric, and loved from the moment
of its stripping.

(I have, by the by, known a very serviceable little road 'lectric made
out of a clockwork mouse.)

Well, when we have got chairs and boxes and bricks, and graded our line
skilfully and well, easing the descent, and being very careful of the
joining at the bends for fear that the descending trucks and cars will
jump the rails, we send down first an empty truck, then trucks loaded
with bricks and lead soldiers, and then the 'lectric; and then
afterwards the sturdy 'lectric shoves up the trucks again to the top,
with a kind of savagery of purpose and a whizz that is extremely
gratifying to us. We make switches in these lines; we make them have
level-crossings, at which collisions are always being just averted; the
lines go over and under each other, and in and out of tunnels.

