The brandy, which is exported by sea, is put into large vessels made of
clay, called _botijas_. In form they are like a pear, the broad ends
being downwards. At the top there is a small aperture, which is
hermetically closed with gypsum. The large _botija_ when filled weighs
six or seven arobas. Two are a load for a mule. To the pack-saddle, or
_aparejo_, two baskets are fastened, in which the _botijas_ are placed
with the small ends downwards. These _botijas_ were formerly also used
for conveying the brandy across the mountains; but, in consequence of
the dangerous, slippery roads, over which the mules often fell, many
were broken. Still greater damage was sustained at the springs and
wells on the coast, for the poor animals, after their long journeys
through the sandy wastes, rushed, on perceiving water, in full flight
to the springs. As it happens that there is often room for only five
or six mules, and from seventy to eighty were often pressing forward,
a great number of the _botijas_ were unavoidably dashed to pieces in
spite of all the caution the arrieros could exercise. The annual loss
of brandy was immense, and to counteract this evil, bags of goatskin
were introduced. These skins are now generally used for the
conveyance of brandy across the mountains. The method of skinning the
goats is the most horribly cruel that can be conceived. A negro hangs
the living animal up by the horns, and makes a circular incision
round his neck, which, however, goes no further than to the flesh. He
then draws the skin from the body of the writhing animal, which
utters the most frightful cries. When the skin is completely removed,
and not till then, is the suffering animal killed. The negroes assert
that the skin is most easily removed in this manner, and that the
_odres_[50] become thereby more durable. It is to be hoped that
humanely disposed planters will soon put an end to this barbarous
and unreasonable practice.

I happened to be in Yca at the time of the celebration of the negro
carnival, which I will here briefly describe. In some of the principal
streets of the town large arches are erected, and gaily decorated with
ribbons. Round these arches negresses and mestizas dance, and endeavor
to stop the negroes whilst riding at full gallop under the arches. The
negroes start from the distance of about one hundred paces, and gallop
straight to the boundary, where the women endeavor to seize the bridle,
and to throw the rider from his saddle. The task of the men is to ride
past the women without being stopped; and when they fail in so doing,
they have to pay a fine, and are hooted into the bargain. It is hard to
say which is most surprising;--the speed of the horses, the dexterity of
the riders, or the courage of the negresses, who fearlessly throw
themselves in the way of the galloping horses. During the race the
negroes are pelted with unripe oranges and lemons, which, when thrown by
the vigorous arm of a zamba, inflict a sufficiently heavy blow. I saw a
negro gallop to and fro for the space of an hour, at full speed, and
every time he passed under the arch he dexterously evaded the
outstretched hands of the women; thus giving proof of uncommon bodily
strength. While dashing at full speed through the arch of the bridge,
and leaning forward on the horse's neck, he seized two negresses, one
with each of his arms, and pulled them into the saddle beside him.

The climate of Yca is hot, and not altogether healthy, for the torrents
of rain which fall from the hills swell the river so as to make it
overflow its lower bank, where marshes are formed, in which malaria is
developed. Most of the plantations in the environs are more healthy.

All the bushes in the vicinity of the town are inhabited by a kind of
Guinea pig (_Cavia Cuttleri_, King). These animals are exceedingly
numerous. After sunrise and towards evening, they leave their lurking
places and play about in the grass. Upon the whole they are not shy,
and they allow people to approach them pretty closely. The natives
call this little animal the _Cui del Montes_, and they believe it to
be the progenitor of the tame Guinea pig. This notion is, however,
quite erroneous.

Along the whole of the Peruvian coast there is found a small animal of
the lizard kind, of which the natives are very much afraid. They call it
the _Salamanqueja_. It lives in the fissures of walls, and is sometimes
seen creeping along the lime plaster of houses. Its bite is believed to
be mortal. From the descriptions given of this animal, I was curious to
see it, and I commissioned some persons to procure me one. At last, an
Indian brought me a specimen very much crushed, and I found that I had
already got several of them in my collections. I now obtained more of
them, and the natives beheld me with astonishment carrying them alive in
my hand. Of the Salamanqueja there are two species, the _Diplodactylus
lepidopygus_, Tsch., and the _Discodactylus phacophorus_, Tsch. They are
nearly related to each other, being only distinguished by one species
having an orifice in the thighs, serving as a passage for an issue from
a gland which secretes a very acrid fluid. This little animal never
bites; but it is possible that the fluid by touching a fresh wound, or
scratch, may cause very serious consequences.

To the south of Yca there are some large cotton plantations; the most
considerable of which belong to Don Domingo Elias. The cotton for
exportation is shipped at the port of San Nicolas. Many experienced
captains of ships declare the bay of San Nicolas to be the safest and
best along the whole of the western coast of South America.

The Quebrada of Huaitara, which stretches to the east of Yca, is the
principal channel of communication between this part of the coast and
the rich mountain provinces of Jauja and Huancavelica, and from the
latter places to Ayacucho and Cosco.

Opposite to Pisco and Chinca there is a group of small islands, of which
the largest, Sangallan, is six English miles distant from Pisco. These
islands have of late years become celebrated on account of the great
quantity of guano that has been exported from them.

Guano (or according to the more correct orthography, Huanu)[51] is
found on these islands in enormous layers of from 35 to 40 feet thick.
The upper strata are of a greyish-brown color, which lower down becomes
darker. In the lower strata the color is a rusty red, as if tinged by
oxide of iron. The Guano becomes progressively more and more solid from
the surface downward, a circumstance naturally accounted for by the
gradual deposite of the strata, and the evaporation of the fluid
particles. Guano is found on all the islands, and on most of the
uninhabited promontories of the west coast of South America, especially
in those parts within the tropics. I have often been assured that beds
of Guano several feet high, covered with earth, are found inland at some
distance from the sea; but I never met with any, and I have some doubt
of the correctness of the statement. If, however, these inland strata
really exist, I am inclined to believe that they can only be found on
hilly ground; and in that case they afford strong evidence of a
considerable elevation of the coast.

Guano is formed of the excrements of different kinds of marine birds,
as mews, divers, sheerbeaks, &c.; but the species which I can name
with more precision are the following:--_Larus modestus_, Tsch.;
_Rhinchops nigra_, Lin.; _Plotus Anhinga_, Lin.; _Pelecanus thayus_,
Mol.; _Phalacrocorax Gaimardii_, and _albigula_, Tsch. (_Pelecanus
Gaimardii_, Less., _Carbo albigula_, Brandt), and chiefly the _Sula
variegata_, Tsch.

The immense flocks of these birds as they fly along the coast appear
like clouds. When their vast numbers, their extraordinary voracity, and
the facility with which they procure their food, are considered, one
cannot be surprised at the magnitude of the beds of Guano, which have
resulted from uninterrupted accumulations during many thousands of
years. I kept for some days a living _Sula variegata_, which I fed
abundantly with fish. The average weight of the excrement daily was
from 3-1/2 to five ounces. I have no doubt that when the bird is in a
state of freedom the weight must be much greater, for these birds are
constantly plunging into the sea, in order to devour the fishes which
they find in extraordinary masses around all the islands. When an
island is inhabited by millions of sea-birds, though two-thirds of
the guano should be lost while flying, still a very considerable
stratum would be accumulated in the course of a year.

The marine birds nestle on the uninhabited islands, or on rocks near the
shore; but they never settle on the flat beach, or any place distant
from it inland. On this fact, I ground my conjecture that those beds of
guano in the interior, which may have been removed from the shore by
important elevations of the coast, are to be found only on hills.

During the first year of the deposit the strata are white, and the guano
is then called _Guano Blanco_. In the opinion of the Peruvian
cultivators, this is the most efficacious kind. It is found in the Punta
de Hormillos, on the islands of Islay, Jesus, Margarita, &c.

As soon as the dealers in guano begin to work one of the beds, the
island on which it is formed, is abandoned by the birds. It has also
been remarked, that since the increase of trade and navigation, they
have withdrawn from the islands in the neighborhood of the ports.

Much has recently been written on the employment and utility of guano;
but the manner in which it is applied as manure in Peru, seems to be but
little known. The Peruvians use it chiefly in the cultivation of maize
and potatoes. A few weeks after the seeds begin to shoot, a little
hollow is dug round each root, and is filled up with guano, which is
afterwards covered with a layer of earth. After the lapse of twelve or
fifteen hours, the whole field is laid under water, and is left in that
state for some hours. Of the _Guano Blanco_ a less quantity suffices,
and the field must be more speedily and abundantly watered, otherwise
the roots would be destroyed. The effect of this manure is incredibly
rapid. In a few days the growth of a plant is doubled. If the manure be
repeated a second time, but in smaller quantity, a rich harvest is
certain. At least, the produce will be threefold that which would have
been obtained from the unmanured soil.

The haciendas of the valley of Chancay have, during the last fifty
years, consumed annually from 33,000 to 36,000 bushels of guano brought
from the islands of Chancha and Pisco. The price of the bushel of
colored guano is one dollar and a quarter, and the price of the white
from two to three dollars. The price has recently undergone many
fluctuations, in consequence of the great exports to Europe.

The employment of this kind of manure is very ancient in Peru; and there
is authentic evidence of its having been used in the time of the Incas.
The white guano was then chiefly found on the islands opposite to
Chincha; so that for upwards of 600 years the deposit has been
progressively removed from those islands without any apparent decrease
of the accumulation. The uniformity of climate on a coast where there is
not much rain, must contribute to render the Peruvian guano a more arid
manure than the African, as fewer of the saline particles of the former
being in solution, they are consequently less subject to evaporation.

From 3° 35' to 21° 48' south latitude, a plain of sand, 540 leagues
long, and varying from 3 to 20 leagues in breadth, stretches along the
coast of the Pacific Ocean. It is intersected by chains of small
hillocks, which, extending westward from the Cordilleras, gradually
diminish in height, and either become blended with the plain, or form
abrupt promontories, which project into the sea. Between the river Loa,
which marks the southern frontier of the Peruvian coast, and the Tumbez,
on the northern boundary, fifty-nine rivers, great and small, pass
through the line of coast. Proceeding from the avalanches of the Andes
or the small alpine lakes, they force their way through narrow
mountain-valleys, irrigate the waste grounds, and then, after brief
courses, flow into the great ocean.

A fine light yellow drift sand covers hill and dale. It is only where
rivers intersect the plain that oases of luxuriant vegetation are
formed. The peril of traversing these plains is greatly increased by
the movability of the sand and the _Medanos_. The strong winds raise
immense clouds of dust and sand. The sand rises in columns of from
eighty to a hundred feet high, which whirl about in all directions, as
if moved by magic. Sometimes they suddenly overshadow the traveller, who
only escapes from them by rapid riding.

The medanos are hillock-like elevations of sand, some having a firm,
others a loose base. The former, which are always crescent-shaped, are
from ten to twenty feet high, and have an acute crest. The inner side is
perpendicular, and the outer or bow side forms an angle with a steep
inclination downward. When driven by violent winds, the medanos pass
rapidly over the plains. The smaller and lighter ones move quickly
forwards before the larger ones; but the latter soon overtake and crush
them, whilst they are themselves shivered by the collision. These
medanos assume all sorts of extraordinary figures, and sometimes move
along the plain in rows forming most intricate labyrinths, whereby what
might otherwise be visible in the distance is withdrawn from the view of
the traveller. A plain often appears to be covered with a row of
medanos, and some days afterwards it is again restored to its level and
uniform aspect. Persons who have the greatest experience of the coast
are apt to mistake their way, when they encounter these sand-hills.

The medanos with immovable bases are formed on the blocks of rock which
are scattered about the plain. The sand is driven against them by the
wind, and as soon as it reaches the top point it descends on the other
side until that is likewise covered; thus gradually arises a
conical-formed hill. Entire hillock-chain with acute crests are formed
in a similar manner. The small hillock-chain, by which the coast is
intersected obliquely from east to west, is a boundary which arrests the
progress of the wandering medanos; otherwise fruitful oases would soon
be converted into barren sand-flats. A correct observation of these
hillock-chains affords a most certain scale for ascertaining the
direction of the prevailing wind. On their southern declivities are
found vast masses of sand drifted thither by the mid-day gales. The
northern declivity, though not steeper than the southern, is only
sparingly covered with sand. If a hillock-chain somewhat distant from
the sea extends in a line parallel with the Andes, namely from S.S.E. to
N.N.W., the western declivity is almost entirely free of sand, as it is
driven to the plain below by the southeast wind, which constantly
alternates with the wind from the south.

