It is necessary here to remember that in 1851 Louis Napoleon had stepped
on to the top of the Republic, whom he had previously served as its
President, and had made himself Emperor of the French. It is necessary
also to remember that there was a very general sense of alarm throughout
England as to his plans regarding an invasion. He was thought to be
collecting a fleet destined to attack us. But, later, it was proved that
we had been exciting and disturbing ourselves quite unnecessarily. Louis
Napoleon wanted something of us, it is true. But that something was
alliance.

By this time Kossuth was back in England. One day, Francis Newman says,
"Kossuth called suddenly on me with an English Blue-book in his hand, and
abruptly said: 'We foreigners look to you to explain your own Blue-books.
Please to tell me what does this strange sentence mean?' I read carefully
these words from the despatches of the Western Powers to the admirals of
their fleets in Constantinople: c You must clearly understand that you are
not sent to fight against the Emperor of Russia, but to save the Sultan
from _religious enthusiasm and fatal auxiliaries_'! He pointed out these
last words.... '_Religious enthusiasm_ is the diplomatic phrase for
Turkish patriotism; _fatal auxiliaries_ mean Hungarians.... I gazed
enraptured at this splendor and no sleep came to my eyes. Never since have
I traveled with such delight; it seemed as though we were journeying
to heaven. Toward eight o 'clock in the morning our carriage drove up
before my grandfather's house.[Footnote: Reminiscences of Two Wars and Two Exiles.]

[Illustration: This certificate is dated the year after Kossuth's first
visit to England, and is in possession of Edward G. Sieveking, Esq. of the
firm of Sieveking, Podmore, and Wright, Gracechurch Street, E.C.]

In 1848-9 the Whigs and Tories in England mistook the whole meaning of the
disturbances which were going forward abroad. Macaulay (whom Newman
quotes) distinctly asserts that in Hungary and Italy "kings were fighting
in the cause of civilization, and nationalities were rising to destroy it
in the cause of anarchy."

Comment on this is, of course, quite needless when one remembers how
misinformed were the English ministers as to the nature of the struggle
for liberty which was then going forward in both countries, and how
treacherously and cruelly the people had been treated by those in
authority over them: and what efforts had been made constantly against
their rights as citizens. In 1854 Kossuth was again doing his best to
rouse interest on behalf of his country in England. He called on Newman to
enquire what would be the best and quickest way of collecting
subscriptions. He wanted for immediate national use £5000. Newman referred
him to a printer who "was a Zealot for Hungary," and who would supply him
with the names of the richest men who had "spoken vigorously for Hungary."

Kossuth proceeded to write out a circular to be sent to these Englishmen,
asking for subscriptions. A little later Newman found out that the result
of this fishing in English waters was £400, and he had wanted £5000 to
enable him to carry out his projects for Hungary!

Accusations were made first by one side, then the other. Marcum accused
Callahan of killing his uncle, and Callahan in turn charged that
his father had been slain by Marcum's uncle.

In July, 1902, the flames of the feud were fanned to white heat.

Tom Cockrell, a minor, fought a pistol duel with Ben Hargis, Jim's
brother, in a blind tiger, leaving Ben dead upon the floor. Tom
was defended by his kinsman, J. B. Marcum, without fee. Tom's
guardian, Dr.
B. D.The
fortification of Gallipoli I regarded as stupid infatuation: our old
military men said it was necessary for _safety!_ We lost all our time
while Russia had her hands full on the Danube, we let in Austria to hinder
the Turks pursuing the retreat, we delayed ten weeks longer to make
preparation, and landed, leaving all our preparations behind. This _delay_
has been the mischief.... The climate is now my fear, not the enemy. But I
look on all this as a part of the providential or fatal necessity which
determines that war shall not be decided by regular armies. If we _will_
do things in a 'slow and sure' way, Russia will beat us, for she cares
nothing for the lives of her men; to us it is agony. But to yield is to
make her omnipotent. I expect, therefore, that the harder we fight, and
the poorer our success, the more will Austria show Russian sympathies, and
the more will the Western Powers be forced to call up Poland and
Hungary.... I suppose nothing but severe suffering and vain effort will
reconcile Louis Napoleon or the English aristocracy to the revolution in
Europe, which alone can permanently cripple Russia.

"Ever yours affectionately,

"F. W. Newman."


And in August, 1855, he wrote again:--

"I do not think you see truly the _treachery_ of our Government (I cannot
use a weaker word), nor know truly what Kossuth has always demanded. To my
first question, 'Do you expect us to drive Austria into hostility?' he
replied (probably in November, 1853), 'Certainly not; but I claim that you
shall not _try to hinder_ our fighting our just and necessary battle
against Austria.' This is the turning point. We did try to hinder it,
hoping thereby to seduce Austria to our side. To whisper to Austria the
words 'H. P. I.' would not have been to stir up those countries to
insurrection, but to _compel Austria not to threaten Turkey with her
armies_. Our Government encouraged her in it, and aided her to occupy the
Principalities, forcing the Sultan to take pliable Ministers.... We reap
the bitter fruit, as Kossuth from the beginning told us we should. I,
however, still hope that we shall regain a morally right position, and
that if we fare the worse Hungary may be the better; for _then_ Austria
might have been neutral, now she will be our enemy."

Kossuth suffered greatly in his political aims and endeavours from lack of
funds. Indeed, from his first journey to England until he finally gave up
coming over here, he was terribly hampered by want of money. There was no
trace even of a scrap of the child's dress anywhere to be seen on
ground or fence.

At last someone said, "Could be a water witch might have knowing
to find a lost child!" And the frantic parents moaned, "Could be.
Send for the water witch."Sieveking and Son, members
of my family, who were keenly interested in Hungarian politics, and who
transacted many business arrangements for Kossuth from time to time while
he was in England. The letter is on behalf of a friend of his, a Mr.
Ernest Poenisch, and is written in German:--


"Honoured Sir,

"Would you not do me the kindness to give a favourable reference about the
honourability [_sic_] of Mr. Ernest G. Poenisch if anyone should happen to
make enquiries of you about him?

"Mr. Ernest Poenisch is a merchant in the city, a German by birth, and was
a merchant of importance, and as he often has commercial business of
importance to look after for me, you will be doing to me myself, a
kindness if you would give him a good reference in a general way, should
opportunity occur.

"Renewing my request to you, I sign myself,
"Respectfully yours,

"L. Kossuth.
"To E. Sieveking and Son."


In June, 1855, Francis Newman writes to Dr. One blow too many could
never do any harm and, if it turned out that I had really not
deserved any particular one, it was reckoned as offsetting some of
my naughty pranks that had happened to escape discovery.

"Anything but coddling." That is indeed a very good principle, and I
do not care to criticise it, in spite of the fact that its application did
not help me, not even as a hardening process; but whatever one may think
of it, my mother now and then carried her harsh treatment too far.

Certainly I maintain that Hungary and
Poland are nations; so in fact is Italy: but Austria is only a Court and
Army, not a nation. We have had public relations with Hungary as a nation;
we violated our duty to Hungary in 1848-9; and complain we are still
allowing Austria to get the benefit of our wrong. So also to Poland, I
feel we have grossly neglected our duty, and still neglect it.... We know
that Hungary (Poland, Italy) is in the right; but though called on to say
so, we will not say it; nor even mediate, _for_ it will lead to
republicanism. Again, I call it immoral to argue: 'We know that Austria is
giving Turkey just cause of war; but we must _not allow_ the Sultan to
resent it by declaring war; _for_ it will give the nationalities an
opportunity of throwing off the Austrian yoke.'... Then, my dear friend,
do you forget that I approved of the _French_, and disapproved of the
_Austrian_ alliance?... Not to ally with Louis Napoleon is not to join him
_against the French nation_; while to ally with Francis Joseph was to join
him _against the French nation_, which his armies are trampling down.
Again, we did not catch Louis Napoleon engaged in a scheme with Nicholas
(Emperor of Russia) to dismember Turkey, and bribe Louis Napoleon to join
us by the promise or hint that he should still get his slice of Turkey. We
_have_ done this to Austria, and have used our severe pressure on the
Turkish Government to get Austria admitted into the Principalities.... I
fear this summer will be as deadly to our army as the winter was; my only
comfort will be, that I shall make sure that Austria will the clearer show
her true colours.

"Hoping you are all well, I am,

"Ever yours affectionately,

"F. W. Newman."


[Illustration: FACSIMILE OF LETTER FROM KOSSUTH TO MESSRS. SIEVEKING
JANUARY, 1854]

"Hungary and Poland are nations; so in fact is Italy: but Austria is only
a Court and Army, not a nation." Here is practically the gist of the whole
matter, as far as Francis Newman is concerned. Throughout all his writings
one comes again and again upon this note. "The People! The People!" is his
ever-recurring thought. What are "the People" suffering; what are _their_
needs, their wrongs which call for justice? The People is the living
nation; the Court and the Army may be inevitable adjuncts of a nation's
being, as things at present are constituted; but they are artificial
adjuncts; the People are the very life essence of the Nation, its real
motive power. Let their voice be heard, and the soul of empire at once
springs into being.

In the next letter from Newman to Martineau, 9th June, 1856, from which I
shall quote, it is shown that our Colonial Office was enraged against
Kossuth because he had "mischievously _hindered_ the Austrian Government
from getting troops to put down Italian insurrection." On that day my
parents were at a small dinner party, clear at the other end of the city.
When the company was suddenly apprised of the news that all the barns
were on fire, my mother, who was a very nervous person, immediately felt
certain that her children could not escape death in the flames, or were
at least in grave danger of losing their lives. Being completely carried
away by this idea she rushed from the table, down the long Frederick William
street, and without hat or cloak, and with her hair half tumbled down
in her mad chase, burst into our large front room and found us, snatched
out of bed and wrapped in blankets, sitting around on cushions and
footstools. On catching sight of us she screamed aloud for joy and
then fell in a swoon.Unless he would have taken the first step to civil war, he was bound to
throw a thin veil over it in public speech and action. The measure which
he then promoted was ... that no Hungarian soldier should leave the
country until the internal rebellion was thoroughly subdued. That no
Hungarian regiments should fight against Italians until the Italians had
had from Austria the offer of national institutions and freedom under the
Austrian Crown, putting them on a par with the Hungarians."

Nothing could have been fairer than these conditions, and this was very
shortly recognized when it became known that Latour and the Court were
employing all their energies for long after this date in stirring up the
Serb rebellion. Yet they were shameless enough to complain of Kossuth
having incited the Hungarians to revolt. Writing the next day to Dr.
Martineau, Newman openly avows his belief that "every nation in the world
is grasping and unjust in its foreign policy in exact proportion to its
power, _England not being at all an exception_." The italics are my own.
Have we not proof positive of this before our very eyes to-day? We cannot
look at India and say "no," for by our charter of 1833 we bound ourselves
over to hold India only until the education, which we had made possible
for them, should enable the Indians to take a share in the government of
their own country. But when we look at the India of to-day, we cannot but
plead guilty to not having kept that charter honestly before our eyes.
There is but _one_ office to which natives are admitted on equal terms
with Englishmen to-day!

To go back to the letter:--

"England has no great European army, and cannot _covet_ and subdue any
portion of the European continent. That is no great credit; but in Asia,
where she is strong and her neighbours weak, she is as grasping and unjust
as Russia, Austria, France, or the U.S.... Lord Palmerston had never heard
(or pretended never to have heard) of the peace of Satmar, and that
England was mediator of it between Austria and Hungary. I think it is not
mere knowledge, but higher morality, which is the first need of policy on
_both_ sides the Atlantic."

It was a blood feud and a war of revenge that lasted more than forty years,
the gruesome details of which have echoed around the world, cost scores
of lives, and struck terror to the hearts of women and innocent children
for several decades.Not very long after it was borne in on the mind of Cavour that
Kossuth would be an invaluable ally in the plans of future conquest which
they were then preparing.

Louis knowing that Kossuth was in sore need of funds for his political
enterprises, sent a messenger to him to intimate that he would join forces
with him; that _he_ would supply him financially with all he would require
in the way of ready cash. Kossuth was not averse from receiving in good
part Napoleon's advances, though he offered temporary resistance. He saw
clearly that if France were to help Italy, Austria would be weakened,
Newman tells us that when Napoleon announced in 1858 that he was about to
marry Clotilde, daughter of the King of Sardinia, Kossuth at once said to
him: "I have always resisted Napoleon's overtures, but I expect now that I
shall be forced to visit him in Paris, because I now see that he is
resolved upon war against Austria. This Piedmontese marriage is evidently
his pledge also to Italians that he means to drive Austria out of Italy."

Then, in 1859, a few inimical words which Napoleon spoke to the Austrian
ambassador showed very clearly to what quarter the political wind in
France had veered. "War was felt to be intended, and Russia was no longer
a support to Austria behind."

