Unbroken silence, quiet, deep, profound.
   The restless sleeper turns: "How dark, how late!
What is it that I hear--a trampling sound?
   I think there is a horseman at the gate."
The watcher turns away her eyes tear-blind:
"It is the shutter beating in the wind."

The dread hours passed; the patient clock ticked on;
   The weary watcher moved not from her place.
We talk very coolly here of 'standing
   aside,' of 'having seen our best days,' and
of giving up one part of our inheritance after
another; but the Englishmen abroad are animated by very different
sentiments.

The love of the 'old home' is strong in them, even though they may
have been born in the Colonies.

It shows itself in a thousand different
   ways. At Ballarat, Mr. Froude seems to have
been struck with a garden which might have
   been attached to an old cottage in Surrey or
Devonshire. There were cabbage-roses, pinks,
   columbines, sweet-williams, laburnums, and
honey-suckle--all prized because they were
   the flowers of Old England. The people
everywhere speak the language with remarkable
   purity. The aspirate is rarely misplaced,
unless by a recent immigrant. The misuse of the
   aspirate is, indeed, a peculiar part
of the birthright of an Englishman. No one
   ever yet heard it from the poorest or most illiterate class in the
United States.

In Australia, says Mr.

Froude, 'no provincialism has yet developed
   itself.
The tone is soft, the language good.' The young
   people looked fresh and healthy, 'not lean and
sun-dried, but fair, fleshy, lymphatic.' Mr.
   Froude could not see any difference between his
countrymen at home and those who had settled
   down in this new and wider field of industry.

'The leaves that grow on one branch of an
   oak are not more like the leaves that grow upon
another, than the Australian swarm is like the hive it
   sprung from.' Mr. Service, the Prime Minister of Victoria,
fully shares the English predilections of his fellow
   colonists, but he appears to feel some irritation
at the tone so frequently adopted by the Liberal
   press and party in this country, and emphatically urged in their
day by Mr.

Cobden and Mr. Bright. This tone is founded upon the argument,
   'The Colonies are of no use to us; therefore
the sooner they take themselves off the
   better.' If some leaders and members of the Liberal
party had their way, we should be without a
   colony in the world, without India, and with Ireland
close to our own doors a hostile and an independent
   Foreign Power.

   With regard to India it is to Baron Hübner's records
of a very remarkable journey, that we must turn for
   the notes of the most recent traveller. The work is
not so exhaustive, especially as regards the Native States,
   as M. Rousselet's 'L'Inde des Rajahs,' but it is eminently
readable and lively, and the author gives abundant
   evidence, that he took with him everywhere an earnest desire to
arrive at the truth, and a determination to form his conclusions
with strict impartiality.Some airs are like outlets of memory's oceans,
   They rise in the past and flow into the heart;
And down them float shipwrecks of mighty emotions,
   All sea-soaked and storm-tossed and drifting apart:
Their fair timbers battered, their lordly sails tattered,
   Their skeleton crew of dead days on their decks;
Then a crash of chords blending, a crisis, an ending--
   The music is over, and vanished the wrecks.


LOVE'S WAY


Love gives us copious potions of delight,
   Of pain and ecstasy, and peace and care;
Love leads us upward, to the mountain height,
   And, like an angel, stands beside us there;
Then thrusts us, demon-like, in some abyss:
   Where, in the darkness of despair, we grope,
Till, suddenly, Love greets us with a kiss
   And guides us back to flowery fields of hope.

Love makes all wisdom seem but poorest folly,
   And yet the simplest mind with Love grows wise,
The gayest heart he teaches melancholy,
   Yet glorifies the erstwhile brooding eyes.
Love lives on change, and yet at change Love mocks,
   For Love's whole life is one great paradox.


A MAN'S LAST LOVE


Like the tenth wave, that offers to the shore
Accumulated opulence and force,
So does my heart, which thought it loved of yore,
   Carry increasing passion down the course
Of time to proffer thee.
         Oh! not the faint
   First ripple of the sea should be its pride,
But the great climax of its unrestraint,
   Which culminates in one commanding tide.

The lesser billows of each crude emotion
   Break on life's strand, recede, and then unite
With love's large sea; and to some late devotion
   Unrecognised, they bring their lost delight.
So all the vanished fancies of my past
Live yet in this one passion, grand and vast.


THE LADY AND THE DAME


So thou hast the art, good dame, thou swearest,
   To keep Time's perishing touch at bay
From the roseate splendour of the cheek so tender,
   And the silver threads from the gold away;
And the tell-tale years that have hurried by us
   Shall tiptoe back, and, with kind good-will,
They shall take their traces from off our faces,
   If we will trust to thy magic skill.

Thou speakest fairly; but if I listen
   And buy thy secret and prove its truth,
Hast thou the potion and magic lotion
   To give me also the _heart_ of youth?
With the cheek of rose and the eye of beauty,
   And the lustrous locks of life's lost prime,
Wilt thou bring thronging each hope and longing
   That made the glory of that dead Time?

When the sap in the trees sets young buds bursting,
   And the song of the birds fills the air like spray,
Will rivers of feeling come once more stealing
   From the beautiful hills of the far-away?
Wilt thou demolish the tower of reason
   And fling for ever down into the dust
The caution Time brought me, the lessons life taught me,
   And put in their places my old sweet trust?

If Time's footprint from my brow is driven,
   Canst thou, too, take with thy subtle powers
The burden of thinking, and let me go drinking
   The careless pleasures of youth's bright hours?
If silver threads from my tresses vanish,
   If a glow once more in my pale cheek gleams,
Wilt thou slay duty and give back the beauty
   Of days untroubled by aught but dreams?

So again much, perhaps most, of what has been
   written upon the contrast between the American
and English constitutions--the two great
   types of popular government, Parliamentary and
Presidential, the direct and indirect election
   of the actual Executive, terms fixed by
law or dependent upon Parliamentary favour--was
   anticipated in the best chapters of Mr.

Bagehot's 'English Constitution.'

Few writers so terse, compact, and clear, have been so completely
free from the temptation of deliberate phrase making as Mr.

Bagehot; yet few professional phrase-makers
have left in the minds of their readers so
many telling, forcible, and suggestive
phrases; sentences in which a novel or
striking thought, an impressive view of new
or old truth, a principle apt to be
forgotten or imperfectly appreciated,
is vivified and incarnated in a few emphatic words.

It would be difficult to quote any passage
of ten times the length half so suggestive of
the exceptional conditions that have secured
to England peace and stability during the last
two centuries of storm and shipwreck,
revolution, and reaction abroad, any phrase so expressive of the
distinctive character of the nation and its Government, as the two
aptly chosen epithets employed by Mr.

Bagehot--the 'dignified parts' of the English Constitution and the
'deferential tendency' of the English people.

In both instances he has, as we think,
overstated his point. The dignified parts
of the Constitution are more real and
living, are more intimately associated with the
practical work of Government, than he was
disposed to allow.
I think in that great hour when God's desire
For worlds to love flung forth a million spheres,
This miracle of love in me was wrought.

An open door, a moonlit sky,
A child-like maid with musing eye,
A manly footstep passing by.

Light as a dewdrop falls from space
Upon a rosebud's folded grace,
A kiss fell on her girlish face.

"Good-night, good-bye," and he was gone.
And so was childhood; it was dawn
In that young heart the moon shone on.

His name? his face? dim memories;
I only know in that first kiss
Was prophesied this later bliss.

The dreams within my bosom grew;
Nay, grieve not that my tale is true,
Since all those dreams led straight to you.

One time when Autumn donned her robes of splendour
And rustled down the year's receding track,
As I passed dreaming by, a voice all tender
Haled me with youth's soft call to linger back.
I turned and listened to a golden story!
A wondrous tale, half human, half divine--
A page from bright September's book of glory,
To memorise and make forever mine.
Strange argosies from passion's unknown oceans
Cruised down my veins, a vague elusive fleet,
With foreign cargoes of unnamed emotions,
While wafts of song blew shoreward, dim and sweet,
And sleeping still (because unwaked by you)
I dreamed and dreamed, and thought my visions true.
I woke when all the crimson colour faded
And wanton Autumn's lips and cheeks were pale;
And when the sorrowing year had slowly waded,
With failing footsteps, through the snow-filled vale.
I woke and knew the glamour of a season
Had lent illusive lustre to a dream,
And looking in the clear calm eyes of Reason,
I smiled and said, "Farewell to things that seem."
'Twas but a red leaf from a lush September
The wind of dreams across my pathway blew,
But oh! my love! the whole round year remember,
With all its seasons I bestow on you.
The red leaf perished in the first cold blast
The full year's harvests at your feet I cast.


"Well!"

said Rhoda, bridling a little, when her
amusement had subsided; "'tis very silly
for mean people to ape the quality."
"It is so, my dear," replied Mrs Dorothy,
with that extreme quietness which was the nearest her gentle spirit
could come to irony.

"'Tis silly for any to ape another, be he less or more."

"Why, there can be no communication between
   them," observed Rhoda, with a toss of her
head.
   
"`Communication,' my dear," said Mrs Dolly. "Yonder's
   a new word.
Where did you pick it up?"No man, you say,
Dared ever so treat you before?  I believe you,
   For you have dealt only with _boys_ till to-day.

You women lay stress on your fine perception,
   Your intuitions are prated about;
You claim an occult sort of conception
   Of matters which men must reason out.
So then, of course, when you ask me kindly
   "To call again soon," you read my heart.
I cannot believe you were acting blindly;
   You saw my passion for you from the start.

In consequence of these reflections, though Phoebe was
   generally left unnoticed, yet occasionally
Lady Delawarr warmed into affability, and
   cultivated the girl who might, after all, come to be the heiress
of Madam's untold wealth.You are fanning a flame that may burn too brightly,
   Oft easily kindled, but hard to put out;
I am not a man to be played with lightly,
   To come at a gesture and go at a pout.

A brute you call me, a creature inhuman;
   You say I insult you, and bid me go.
And you?  Oh, you are a saintly woman,
   With thoughts as pure as the drifted snow.
Pah! you are but one of a thousand beauties
   Who think they are living exemplary lives:
They break no commandments, and do all their duties
   As Christian women and spotless wives.

"Not be proper!" Rhoda's cheek blanched. She had
   never recognised anything of the kind. Was she
not only to lose her fortune, but to be turned
   out of her home? When would her calamities come to an end? "Not
proper, Aunt Anne!--why not?"You lure love to wake, yet bid it keep under,
   You tempt us to fall, but bid reason control;
And then you are full of an outraged wonder
   When we get to wanting you, body and soul.

