"Just this;--my heart does not turn itself that way. It is the same
chance that has made you--partial to me."

"Partial! Why, I love the very air you breathe. When I am near you,
everything smells sweet. There isn't anything that belongs to you
but I think I should know it, though I found it a hundred miles
away. To have you in the room with me would be like heaven,--if I
only knew that you were thinking kindly of me."

"I always think kindly of you, Larry."

"Then say that you will be my wife." She paused, and became red up
to the roots of her hair. She seated herself on a chair, and then
rose again,--and again sat down. The struggle was going on within
her, and he perceived something of the truth. "Say the word once,
Mary;--say it but once." And as he prayed to her he came forward
and went down upon his knees.

"I cannot do it," she replied at last, speaking very hoarsely, not
looking at him, not even addressing herself to him.

"Mary!"

"Larry, I cannot do it. I have tried, but I cannot do it. O Larry,
dear Larry, do not ask me again. Larry, I have no heart to give.
Another man has it all."

"Is it so?" She bowed her head in token of assent. "Is it that
young parson," exclaimed Larry, in anger.

"It is not. But, Larry, you must ask no questions now. I have told
you my secret that all this might be set at rest. But if you are
generous, as I know you are, you will keep my secret, and will ask
no questions. And, Larry, if you are unhappy, so am I. If your
heart is sore, so is mine. He knows nothing of my love, and cares
nothing for me."

"Then throw him aside."

She smiled and shook her head. "Do you think I would not if I
could? Why do you not throw me aside?"

"Oh, Mary!"

"Cannot I love as well as you? You are a man, and have the liberty
to speak of it. Though I cannot return it, I can be proud of your
love and feel grateful to you. I cannot tell mine. I cannot think
of it without blushing. But I can feel it, and know it, and be as
sure that it has trodden me down and got the better of me as you
can. But you can go out into the world and teach yourself to
forget"

"I must go away from here then."

"You have your business and your pleasures, your horses and your
fields and your friends. I have nothing,--but to remain here and
know that I have disobliged all those that love me. Do you think,
Larry, I would not go and be your wife if I could? I have told you
all, Larry, and now do not ask me again."

"Is it so?"

"Yes;--it is so."

"Then I shall cut it all. I shall sell Chowton and go away. You
tell me I have my horses and my pleasures! What pleasures? I know
nothing of my horses,--not whether they are lame or sound. I could
not tell you of one of them whether he is fit to go to-morrow.
Business! The place may farm itself for me, for I can't stay there.
Everything sickens me to look at it. Pleasures indeed!"

"Is that manly, Larry?"

"How can a man be manly when the manliness is knocked out of him? A
man's courage lies in his heart; but if his heart is broken where
will his courage be then? I couldn't hold up my head up here any
more,--and I shall go."

"You must not do that," she said, getting up and laying hold of his
arm.

"But I must do it"

"For my sake you must stay here, Larry;--so that I may not have to
think that I have injured you so deeply. Larry, though I cannot be
your wife I think I could die of sorrow if you were always unhappy.
What is a poor girl that you should grieve for her in that way? I
think if I were a man I would master my love better than that." He
shook his head and faintly strove to drag his arm from out of her
grasp. "Promise me that you will take a year to think of it before
you go."

"Will you take a year to think of me?" said he, rising again to
sudden hope.

"No, Larry, no. I should deceive you were I to say so. I deceived
you before when I put it off for two months. But you can promise me
without deceit. For my sake, Larry?" And she almost embraced him as
she begged for his promise. "I know you would wish to spare me
pain. Think what will be my sufferings if I hear that you have
really gone from Chowton. You will promise me, Larry?"

"Promise what?"

"That the farm shall not be sold for twelve months"

"Oh yes;--I'll promise. I don't care for the farm."

"And stay there if you can. Don't leave the place to strangers. And
go about your business,--and hunt,--and be a man. I shall always be
thinking of what you do. I shall always watch you. I shall always
love you,--always,--always,--always. I always have loved you;--
because you are so good. But it is a different love. And now,
Larry, good-bye." So saying, she raised her face to look into his
eyes. Then he suddenly put his arm round her waist, kissed her
forehead, and left the room without another word.

Mrs. Masters saw him as he went, and must have known from his gait
what was the nature of the answer he had received. But yet she went
quickly upstairs to inquire. The matter was one of too much
consequence for a mere inference. Mary had gone from the
sitting-room, but her stepmother followed her upstairs to her
bed-chamber. "Mamma," she said, "I couldn't do it;--I couldn't do it.
I did try. Pray do not scold me. I did try, but I could not do it"
Then she threw herself into the arms of the unsympathetic woman, who,
however, was now somewhat less unsympathetic than she had hitherto
been.

Mrs. Masters did not understand it at all; but she did perceive
that there was something which she did not understand. What did the
girl mean by saying that she had tried and could not do it? Try to
do it! If she tried why could she not tell the man that she would
have him? There was surely some shamefacedness in this, some
overstrained modesty which she, Mrs. Masters, could not comprehend.
How could she have tried to accept a man who was so anxious to
marry her, and have failed in the effort? "Scolding I suppose will
be no good now," she said.

"Oh no!"

"But--. Well; I suppose we must put up with it. Everything on earth
that a girl could possibly wish for! He was that in love that it's
my belief he'd have settled it all on you if you'd only asked him."

"Let it go, mamma."

"Let it go! It's gone I suppose. Well--I ain't going to say any
more about it. But as for not sorrowing, how is a woman not to
sorrow when so much has been lost? It's your poor father I'm
thinking of, Mary." This was so much better than she had expected
that poor Mary almost felt that her heart was lightened.


CHAPTER VI

Again at Mistletoe


The reader will have been aware that Arabella Trefoil was not a
favourite at Mistletoe. She was so much disliked by the Duchess
that there had almost been words about her between her Grace and
the Duke since her departure. The Duchess always submitted, and it
was the rule of her life to submit with so good a grace that her
husband, never fearing rebellion, should never be driven to assume
the tyrant. But on this occasion the Duke had objected to the term
"thoroughly bad girl" which had been applied by his wife to his
niece. He had said that "thoroughly bad girl" was strong language,
and when the Duchess defended the phrase he had expressed his
opinion that Arabella was only a bad girl and not a thoroughly bad
girl. The Duchess had said that it was the same thing. "Then," said
the Duke, "why use a redundant expletive against your own
relative?" The Duchess, when she was accused of strong language,
had not minded it much; but her feelings were hurt when a redundant
expletive was attributed to her. The effect of all this had been
that the Duke in a mild way had taken up Arabella's part, and that
the Duchess, following her husband at last, had been brought round
to own that Arabella, though bad, had been badly treated. She had
disbelieved, and then believed, and had again disbelieved
Arabella's own statement as to the offer of marriage. But the girl
had certainly been in earnest when she had begged her aunt to ask
her uncle to speak to Lord Rufford. Surely when she did she must
have thought that an offer had been made to her. Such offer, if
made, had no doubt been produced by very hard pressure; but still
an offer of marriage is an offer, and a girl, if she can obtain it,
has a right to use such an offer as so much property. Then came
Lord Mistletoe's report after his meeting with Arabella up in
London. He had been unable to give his cousin any satisfaction, but
he was clearly of opinion that she had been ill-used. He did not
venture to suggest any steps, but did think that Lord Rufford was
bound as a gentleman to marry the young lady. After that Lord
Augustus saw her mother up in town and said that it was a d--
shame. He in truth had believed nothing and would have been
delighted to allow the matter to drop. But as this was not
permitted, he thought easier to take his daughter's part than to
encounter family enmity by entering the lists against her. So it
came to pass that down at Mistletoe there grew an opinion that Lord
Rufford ought to marry Arabella Trefoil.

But what should be done? The Duke was alive to the feeling that as
the girl was certainly his niece and as she was not to be regarded
as a thoroughly bad girl, some assistance was due to her from the
family. Lord Mistletoe volunteered to write to Lord Rufford; Lord
Augustus thought that his brother should have a personal interview
with his young brother peer and bring his strawberry leaves to
bear. The Duke himself suggested that the Duchess should see Lady
Penwether,--a scheme to which her Grace objected strongly, knowing
something of Lady Penwether and being sure that her strawberry
leaves would have no effect whatever on the baronet's wife. At last
it was decided that a family meeting should be held, and Lord
Augustus was absolutely summoned to meet Lord Mistletoe at the
paternal mansion.

It was now some years since Lord Augustus had been at Mistletoe. As
he had never been separated,--that is formally separated,--from his
wife he and she had been always invited there together. Year after
year she had accepted the invitation,--and it had been declined on
his behalf, because it did not suit him and his wife to meet each
other. But now he was obliged to go there, just at the time of the
year when whist at his club was most attractive. To meet the
convenience of Lord Mistletoe,--and the House of Commons--a
Saturday afternoon was named for the conference, which made it
worse for Lord Augustus as he was one of a little party which had
private gatherings for whist on Sunday afternoons. But he went to
the conference, travelling down by the same train with his nephew;
but not in the same compartment, as he solaced with tobacco the
time which Lord Mistletoe devoted to parliamentary erudition.

The four met in her Grace's boudoir, and the Duke began by
declaring that all this was very sad. Lord Augustus shook his head
and put his hands in his trousers pockets,--which was as much as to
say that his feelings as a British parent were almost too strong
for him. "Your mother and I think, that something ought to be
done," said the Duke turning to his son.

"Something ought to be done," said Lord Mistletoe.

"They won't let a fellow go out with a fellow now," said Lord
Augustus.

"Heaven forbid!" said the Duchess, raising both her hands.

"I was thinking, Mistletoe, that your mother might have met Lady
Penwether."

"What could I do with Lady Penwether, Duke? Or what could she do
with him? A man won't care for what his sister says to him. And I
don't suppose she'd undertake to speak to Lord Rufford on the
subject"

"Lady Penwether is an honourable and an accomplished woman."

"I dare say;--though she gives herself abominable airs."

"Of course, if you don't like it, my dear, it shan't be pressed."

"I thought, perhaps, you'd see him yourself," said Lord Augustus,
turning to his brother. "You'd carry more weight than anybody."

"Of course I will if it be necessary; but it would be
disagreeable,--very disagreeable. The appeal should be made to his
feelings, and that I think would better come through female
influence. As far as I know the world a man is always more prone to
be led in such matters by a woman than by another man."

"If you mean me," said the Duchess, "I don't think I could see him.
Of course, Augustus, I don't wish to say anything hard of Arabella.
The fact that we have all met here to take her part will prove
that, I think. But I didn't quite approve of all that was done
here."

Lord Augustus stroked his beard and looked out of the window. "I
don't think, my dear, we need go into that just now," said the
Duke.

"Not at all," said the Duchess, "and I don't intend to say a word.
Only if I were to meet Lord Rufford he might refer to things
which,--which,--which--. In point of fact I had rather not"

"I might see him," suggested Lord Mistletoe.

"No doubt that might be done with advantage," said the Duke.

"Only that, as he is my senior in age, what I might say to him
would lack that weight which any observations which might be made
on such a matter should carry with them."

"He didn't care a straw for me," said Lord Augustus.

"And then," continued Lord Mistletoe, "I so completely agree with
what my father says as to the advantage of female influence! With a
man of Lord Rufford's temperament female influence is everything.
If my aunt were to try it?" Lord Augustus blew the breath out of
his mouth and raised his eyebrows.

Knowing what he did of his wife, or thinking that he knew what he
did, he did not conceive it possible that a worse messenger should
be chosen. He had known himself to be a very bad one, but he did
honestly believe her to be even less fitted for the task than he
himself. But he said nothing,--simply wishing that he had not left
his whist for such a purpose as this.

"Perhaps Lady Augustus had better see him," said the Duke. The
Duchess, who did not love hypocrisy, would not actually assent to
this, but she said nothing. "I suppose my sister-in-law would not
object, Augustus?"

"G-- Almighty only knows," said the younger brother. The Duchess,
grievously offended by the impropriety of this language, drew
herself up haughtily.

"Perhaps you would not mind suggesting it to her, sir," said Lord
Mistletoe.

"I could do that by letter," said the Duke.

"And when she has assented, as of course she will, then perhaps you
wouldn't mind writing a line to him to make an appointment. If you
were to do so he could not refuse." To this proposition the Duke
returned no immediate answer; but looked at it round and round
carefully. At last, however, he acceded to this also, and so the
matter was arranged. All these influential members of the ducal
family met together at the ducal mansion on Arabella's behalf, and
settled their difficulty by deputing the work of bearding the lion,
of tying the bell on the cat, to an absent lady whom they all
despised and disliked.

That afternoon the Duke, with the assistance of his son, who was a
great writer of letters, prepared an epistle to his sister-in-law
and another to Lord Rufford, which was to be sent as soon as Lady
Augusta had agreed to the arrangement. In the former letter a good
deal was said as to a mother's solicitude for her daughter. It had
been felt, the letter said, that no one could speak for a daughter
so well as a mother;--that no other's words would so surely reach
the heart of a man who was not all evil but who was tempted by the
surroundings of the world to do evil in this particular case. The
letter began "My dear sister-in-law," and ended "Your affectionate
brother-in-law, Mayfair," and was in fact the first letter that the
Duke had ever written to his brother's wife. The other letter was
more difficult, but it was accomplished at last, and confined
itself to a request that Lord Rufford would meet Lady Augustus
Trefoil at a place and at a time, both of which were for the
present left blank.

On the Monday Lord Augustus and Lord Mistletoe were driven to the
station in the same carriage, and on this occasion the uncle said a
few strong words to his nephew on the subject. Lord Augustus,
though perhaps a coward in the presence of his brother, was not so
with other members of the family. "It may be very well you know,
but it's all d-- nonsense."

"I'm sorry that you should think so, uncle."

"What do you suppose her mother can do?--a thoroughly vulgar woman.
I never could live with her. As far as I can see wherever she goes
everybody hates her."

"My dear uncle!"

"Rufford will only laugh at her. If Mayfair would have gone
himself, it is just possible that he might have done something."

"My father is so unwilling to mix himself up in these things."

"Of course he is. Everybody knows that. What the deuce was the good
then of our going down here? I couldn't do anything, and I knew he
wouldn't. The truth is, Mistletoe, a man now-a-days may do just
what he pleases. You ain't in that line and it won't do you any
good knowing it, but since we did away with pistols everybody may
do just what he likes."

"I don't like brute force," said Lord Mistletoe. "You may call it
what you please:--but I don't know that it was so brutal after
all." At the station they separated again, as Lord Augustus was
panting for tobacco and Lord Mistletoe for parliamentary erudition.


CHAPTER VII

The Success of Lady Augustus


Lady Augustus was still staying with the Connop Greens in Hampshire
when she received the Duke's letter and Arabella was with her. The
story of Lord Rufford's infidelity had been told to Mrs. Connop
Green,--and of course through her to Mr. Connop Green. Both the
mother and daughter affected to despise the Connop Greens;--but it
is so hard to restrain oneself from confidences when difficulties
arise! Arabella had by this time quite persuaded herself that there
had been an absolute engagement, and did in truth believe that she
had been most cruelly ill-used. She was headstrong, fickle, and
beyond measure insolent to her mother. She had, as we know, at one
time gone down to the house of her former lover, thereby indicating
that she had abandoned all hope of catching Lord Rufford. But still
the Connop Greens either felt or pretended to feel great sympathy
with her, and she would still declare from time to time that Lord
Rufford had not heard the last of her. It was now more than a month
since she had seen that perjured lord at Mistletoe, and more than a
week since her father had brought him so uselessly up to London.
Though determined that Lord Rufford should hear more of her, she
hardly knew how to go to work, and on these days spent most of her
time in idle denunciations of her false lover. Then came her
uncle's letter, which was of course shown to her.

She was quite of opinion that they must do as the Duke directed. It
was so great a thing to have the Duke interesting himself in the
matter, that she would have assented to anything proposed by him.
The suggestion even inspired some temporary respect, or at any rate
observance, towards her mother. Hitherto her mother had been nobody
to her in the matter, a person belonging to her whom she had to
regard simply as a burden. She could not at all understand how the
Duke had been guided in making such a choice of a new emissary;--
but there it was under his own hand, and she must now in some
measure submit herself to her mother unless she were prepared to
repudiate altogether the Duke's assistance. When you stop work
at age 65 you will get a check for $19 each month for the rest
of your life. If you make $25 a week for 10 years, you will get a
little over $23 a month from the Government as long as you live after
your 65th birthday.

IF YOU SHOULD DIE BEFORE AGE 65

If you should die before you begin to get your monthly checks, your
family will get a payment in cash, amounting to 3½ cents on every
dollar of wages you have earned after 1936. If, for example, you
should die at age 64, and if you had earned $25 a week for 10 years
before that time, your family would receive $455. On the other
hand, if you have not worked enough to get the regular monthly
checks by the time you are 65, you will get a lump sum, or if you
should die your family or estate would get a lump sum.

The amount of this, too, will be 3½ cents on every dollar of wages
you earn after 1936.

Taxes

The same law that provides these old-age benefits for you and other
workers, sets up certain new taxes to be paid to the United States
Government. These taxes are collected by the Bureau of Internal
Revenue of the U. S. Treasury Department, and inquiries concerning
them should be addressed to that bureau. The law also creates an
"Old-Age Reserve Account" in the United States Treasury, and
Congress is authorized to put into this reserve account each year
enough money to provide for the monthly payments you and other
workers are to receive when you are 65.

YOUR PART OF THE TAX

The taxes called for in this law will be paid both by your employer
and by you.

For the next 3 years you will pay maybe 15 cents a week, maybe 25
cents a week, maybe 30 cents or more, according to what you earn.

That is to say, during the next 3 years, beginning January 1, 1937,
you will pay 1 cent for every dollar you earn, and at the same time
your employer will pay 1 cent for every dollar you earn, up to
$3,000 a year.

Twenty-six million other workers and their employers will be
paying at the same time.

After the first 3 years--that is to say, beginning in 1940--you
will, pay, and your employer will pay, 11/2 cents for each dollar
you earn, up to $3,000 a year.

This will be the tax for 3 years, and then, beginning in 1943, you
will pay 2 cents, and so will your employer, for every dollar you
earn for the next 3 years. After that, you and your employer will
each pay half a cent more for 3 years, and finally, beginning in
1949, twelve years from now, you and your employer will each pay 3
cents on each dollar you earn, up to $3,000 a year.

That is the most you will ever pay.

YOUR EMPLOYER'S PART OF THE TAX

The Government will collect both of these taxes from your employer.

Your part of the tax will be taken out of your pay.

The Government will collect from your employer an equal amount out
of his own funds.

This will go on just the same if you go to work for another employer,
so long as you work in a factory, shop, mine, mill, office, store,
or other such place of business.

(Wages earned in employment as farm workers, domestic workers in
private homes, Government workers, and on a few other kinds of
jobs are not subject to this tax.)

OLD-AGE RESERVE ACCOUNT

Meanwhile, the Old-Age Reserve fund in the United States Treasury
is drawing interest, and the Government guarantees it will never
earn less than 3 percent. This means that 3 cents will be added
to every dollar in the fund each year.

Maybe your employer has an old-age pension plan for his employees.

When Lord Rufford received the letter he was aghast with new
disgust. He had begun to flatter himself that his interview with
Lord Augustus would be the end of the affair. Looking at it by
degrees with coolness he had allowed himself to think that nothing
very terrible could be done to him. Some few people, particularly
interested in the Mistletoe family, might give him a cold shoulder,
or perhaps cut him directly; but such people would not belong to
his own peculiar circle, and the annoyance would not be great. But
if all the family, one after another, were to demand interviews
with him up in London, he did not see when the end of it would be.
There would be the Duke himself, and the Duchess, and Mistletoe.
And the affair would in this way become gossip for the whole town.
He was almost minded to write to the Duke saying that such an
interview could do no good; but at last he thought it best to
submit the matter to his mentor, Sir George Penwether. Sir George
was clearly of opinion that it was Lord Rufford's duty to see Lady
Augustus. "Yes, you must have interviews with all of them, if they
ask it," said Sir George. "You must show that you are not afraid to
hear what her friends have got to say. When a man gets wrong he
can't put himself right without some little annoyance."

"Since the world began," said Lord Rufford, "I don't think that
there was ever a man born so well adapted for preaching sermons as
you are." Nevertheless he did as he was bid, and consented to meet
Lady Augustus in Piccadilly on the day named by her. On that very
day the hounds met at Impington and Lord Rufford began to feel his
punishment. He assented to the proposal made and went up to London,
leaving the members of the U.R.U. to have the run of the season
from the Impington coverts.

When Lady Augustus was sitting in the back room of the mansion
waiting for Lord Rufford she was very much puzzled to think what
she would say to him when he came. With all her investigation she
had received no clear idea of the circumstances as they occurred.
That her daughter had told her a fib in saying that she was engaged
when she went to Mistletoe, she was all but certain. That something
had occurred in the carriage which might be taken for an offer she
thought possible. She therefore determined to harp upon the
carriage as much as possible and to say as little as might be as to
the doings at Rufford. Then as she was trying to arrange her
countenance and her dress and her voice, so that they might tell on
his feelings, Lord Rufford was announced. "Lady Augustus," said he
at once, beginning the lesson which he had taught himself, "I hope
I see you quite well. I have come here because you have asked me,
but I really don't know that I have anything to say."

"Lord Rufford, you must hear me."

"Oh yes; I will hear you certainly, only this kind of thing is so
painful to all parties, and I don't see the use of it."

"Are you aware that you have plunged me and my daughter into a
state of misery too deep to be fathomed?"

"I should be sorry to think that"

"How can it be otherwise? When you assure a girl in her position in
life that you love her--a lady whose rank is quite as high as your
own--"

"Quite so,--quite so."

"And when in return for that assurance you have received vows of
love from her,--what is she to think, and what are her friends to
think?" Lord Rufford had always kept in his mind a clear
remembrance of the transaction in the carriage, and was well aware
that the young lady's mother had inverted the circumstances, or, as
he expressed it to himself, had put the cart before the horse. 
[Note: According to the Social Security Administration website, this
pamphlet was published in 1936.]

Security in Your Old Age
Social Security Board
Washington, D.C.

To Employees of Industrial and Business Establishments

FACTORIES--SHOPS--MINES--MILLS--STORES OFFICES AND OTHER PLACES OF
BUSINESS
Beginning November 24, 1936, the United States Government will set
up a Social Security account for you, if you are eligible. To
understand your obligations, rights, arid benefits you should read
the following general explanation.There was a little foolish talk, but it
meant nothing."

"My lord!"

"What am I to say? I don't want to give offence, and I am heartily
sorry that you and your daughter should be under any misapprehension.
But as I sit here there was no engagement between us;--nor, if I must
speak out, Lady Augustus, could your daughter have thought that there
was an engagement."

"Did you not--embrace her?"

"I did. That's the truth."

"And after that you mean to say--"

"After that I mean to say that nothing more was intended." There
was a certain meanness of appearance about the mother which
emboldened him.

"What a declaration to make to the mother of a young lady, and that
young lady the niece of the Duke of Mayfair!"

"It's not the first time such a thing has been done, Lady
Augustus."

"I know nothing about that,--nothing. I don't know whom you may
have lived with. It never was done to her before."

"If I understand right she was engaged to marry Mr. Morton when she
came to Rufford."

"It was all at an end before that."

"At any rate you both came from his house."

"Where he had been staying with Mrs. Morton."

"And where she has been since,--without Mrs. Morton."

"Lady Ushant was there, Lord Rufford."

"But she has been staying at the house of this gentleman to whom
you admit that she was engaged a short time before she came to us."

"He is on his death-bed, and he thought that he had behaved badly
to her. She did go to Bragton the other day, at his request,--
merely that she might say that she forgave him."

"I only hope that she will forgive me too. There is really nothing
else to be said. If there were anything I could do to atone to her
for this--trouble."

"If you only could know the brightness of the hopes you have
shattered,--and the purity of that girl's affection for yourself!"

It was then that an idea--a low-minded idea occurred to Lord
Rufford. While all this was going on he had of course made various
inquiries about this branch of the Trefoil family and had learned
that Arabella was altogether portionless. He was told too that Lady
Augustus was much harassed by impecuniosity. Might it be possible
to offer a recompense? "If I could do anything else, Lady Augustus;
but really I am not a marrying man." The employer can fit his
plan into the Government plan.

What you get from the Government plan will always be more than you
have paid in taxes and usually more than you can get for yourself
by putting away the same amount of money each week in some other
way.But if this man
who was rolling in wealth should offer some sum of money to her
daughter,--something so considerable as to divest the transaction
of the meanness which would be attached to a small bribe,--
something which might be really useful throughout life, would it
not be her duty, on behalf of her dear child, to accept such an
offer? But the beginnings of such dealings are always difficult.
"Couldn't my lawyer see yours, Lady Augustus?" said Lord Rufford.

