E-text prepared by Kenneth David Cooper
and revised by Joseph E. Loewenstein, M.D.


FRAMLEY PARSONAGE

by

ANTHONY TROLLOPE

First published serially in the _Cornhill Magazine_ in 1860
and in book form in 1861


CONTENTS

         I. "Omnes Omnia Bona Dicere"
        II. The Framley Set, and the Chaldicotes Set
       III. Chaldicotes
        IV. A Matter of Conscience
         V. Amantium Iræ Amoris Integratio
        VI. Mr. Harold Smith's Lecture
       VII. Sunday Morning
      VIII. Gatherum Castle
        IX. The Vicar's Return
         X. Lucy Robarts
        XI. Griselda Grantly
       XII. The Little Bill
      XIII. Delicate Hints
       XIV. Mr. Crawley of Hogglestock
        XV. Lady Lufton's Ambassador
       XVI. Mrs. Podgens' Baby
      XVII. Mrs. Proudie's Conversazione
     XVIII. The New Minister's Patronage
       XIX. Money Dealings
        XX. Harold Smith in the Cabinet
       XXI. Why Puck, the Pony, Was Beaten
      XXII. Hogglestock Parsonage
     XXIII. The Triumph of the Giants
      XXIV. Magna Est Veritas
       XXV. Non-Impulsive
      XXVI. Impulsive
     XXVII. South Audley Street
    XXVIII. Dr. Thorne
      XXIX. Miss Dunstable at Home
       XXX. The Grantly Triumph
      XXXI. Salmon Fishing in Norway
     XXXII. The Goat and Compasses
    XXXIII. Consolation
     XXXIV. Lady Lufton Is Taken by Surprise
      XXXV. The Story of King Cophetua
     XXXVI. Kidnapping at Hogglestock
    XXXVII. Mr. Sowerby without Company
   XXXVIII. Is There Cause or Just Impediment?
     XXXIX. How to Write a Love Letter
        XL. Internecine
       XLI. Don Quixote
      XLII. Touching Pitch
     XLIII. Is She Not Insignificant?
      XLIV. The Philistines at the Parsonage
       XLV. Palace Blessings
      XLVI. Lady Lufton's Request
     XLVII. Nemesis
    XLVIII. How They Were All Married, Had Two Children,
            and Lived Happy Ever After


CHAPTER I

"Omnes Omnia Bona Dicere"


When young Mark Robarts was leaving college, his father might well
declare that all men began to say all good things to him, and to
extol his fortune in that he had a son blessed with so excellent a
disposition. This father was a physician living at Exeter. He was a
gentleman possessed of no private means, but enjoying a lucrative
practice, which had enabled him to maintain and educate a family with
all the advantages which money can give in this country. Mark was
his eldest son and second child; and the first page or two of this
narrative must be consumed in giving a catalogue of the good things
which chance and conduct together had heaped upon this young man's
head.

His first step forward in life had arisen from his having been
sent, while still very young, as a private pupil to the house of a
clergyman, who was an old friend and intimate friend of his father's.
This clergyman had one other, and only one other, pupil--the young
Lord Lufton; and between the two boys, there had sprung up a close
alliance. While they were both so placed, Lady Lufton had visited
her son, and then invited young Robarts to pass his next holidays at
Framley Court. This visit was made; and it ended in Mark going back
to Exeter with a letter full of praise from the widowed peeress. She
had been delighted, she said, in having such a companion for her son,
and expressed a hope that the boys might remain together during the
course of their education. Dr. Robarts was a man who thought much of
the breath of peers and peeresses, and was by no means inclined to
throw away any advantage which might arise to his child from such a
friendship. When, therefore, the young lord was sent to Harrow, Mark
Robarts went there also.

That the lord and his friend often quarrelled, and occasionally
fought,--the fact even that for one period of three months they never
spoke to each other--by no means interfered with the doctor's hopes.
Mark again and again stayed a fortnight at Framley Court, and Lady
Lufton always wrote about him in the highest terms. And then the lads
went together to Oxford, and here Mark's good fortune followed him,
consisting rather in the highly respectable manner in which he lived,
than in any wonderful career of collegiate success. His family was
proud of him, and the doctor was always ready to talk of him to his
patients; not because he was a prize-man, and had gotten medals
and scholarships, but on account of the excellence of his general
conduct. He lived with the best set--he incurred no debts--he was
fond of society, but able to avoid low society--liked his glass of
wine, but was never known to be drunk; and above all things, was one
of the most popular men in the University. Then came the question of
a profession for this young Hyperion, and on this subject Dr. Robarts
was invited himself to go over to Framley Court to discuss the matter
with Lady Lufton. Dr. Robarts returned with a very strong conception
that the Church was the profession best suited to his son.

Lady Lufton had not sent for Dr. Robarts all the way from Exeter for
nothing. The living of Framley was in the gift of the Lufton family,
and the next presentation would be in Lady Lufton's hands, if it
should fall vacant before the young lord was twenty-five years of
ago, and in the young lord's hands if it should fall afterwards. But
the mother and the heir consented to give a joint promise to Dr.
Robarts. Now, as the present incumbent was over seventy, and as the
living was worth £900 a year, there could be no doubt as to the
eligibility of the clerical profession. And I must further say, that
the dowager and the doctor were justified in their choice by the
life and principles of the young man--as far as any father can be
justified in choosing such a profession for his son, and as far as
any lay impropriator can be justified in making such a promise. Had
Lady Lufton had a second son, that second son would probably have had
the living, and no one would have thought it wrong;--certainly not if
that second son had been such a one as Mark Robarts.

Lady Lufton herself was a woman who thought much on religious
matters, and would by no means have been disposed to place any one in
a living, merely because such a one had been her son's friend. Her
tendencies were High Church, and she was enabled to perceive that
those of young Mark Robarts ran in the same direction. She was very
desirous that her son should make an associate of his clergyman, and
by this step she would ensure, at any rate, that. She was anxious
that the parish vicar should be one with whom she could herself fully
co-operate, and was perhaps unconsciously wishful that he might in
some measure be subject to her influence. Should she appoint an elder
man, this might probably not be the case to the same extent; and
should her son have the gift, it might probably not be the case at
all. And, therefore, it was resolved that the living should be given
to young Robarts.

He took his degree--not with any brilliancy, but quite in the manner
that his father desired; he then travelled for eight or ten months
with Lord Lufton and a college don, and almost immediately after his
return home was ordained.

The living of Framley is in the diocese of Barchester; and, seeing
what were Mark's hopes with reference to that diocese, it was by no
means difficult to get him a curacy within it. But this curacy he was
not allowed long to fill. He had not been in it above a twelvemonth,
when poor old Dr. Stopford, the then vicar of Framley, was gathered
to his fathers, and the full fruition of his rich hopes fell upon his
shoulders.

But even yet more must be told of his good fortune before we can come
to the actual incidents of our story. Lady Lufton, who, as I have
said, thought much of clerical matters, did not carry her High Church
principles so far as to advocate celibacy for the clergy. On the
contrary, she had an idea that a man could not be a good parish
parson without a wife. So, having given to her favourite a position
in the world, and an income sufficient for a gentleman's wants, she
set herself to work to find him a partner in those blessings. And
here also, as in other matters, he fell in with the views of his
patroness--not, however, that they were declared to him in that
marked manner in which the affair of the living had been broached.
Lady Lufton was much too highly gifted with woman's craft for that.
She never told the young vicar that Miss Monsell accompanied her
ladyship's married daughter to Framley Court expressly that he, Mark,
might fall in love with her; but such was in truth the case.

Lady Lufton had but two children. The eldest, a daughter, had been
married some four or five years to Sir George Meredith, and this
Miss Monsell was a dear friend of hers. And now looms before me the
novelist's great difficulty. Miss Monsell--or, rather, Mrs. Mark
Robarts--must be described. As Miss Monsell, our tale will have
to take no prolonged note of her. And yet we will call her Fanny
Monsell, when we declare that she was one of the pleasantest
companions that could be brought near to a man, as the future partner
of his home, and owner of his heart. And if high principles without
asperity, female gentleness without weakness, a love of laughter
without malice, and a true loving heart, can qualify a woman to be a
parson's wife, then was Fanny Monsell qualified to fill that station.
In person she was somewhat larger than common. Her face would have
been beautiful but that her mouth was large. Her hair, which was
copious, was of a bright brown; her eyes also were brown, and, being
so, were the distinctive feature of her face, for brown eyes are not
common. They were liquid, large, and full either of tenderness or
of mirth. Mark Robarts still had his accustomed luck, when such a
girl as this was brought to Framley for his wooing. And he did woo
her--and won her. For Mark himself was a handsome fellow. At this
time the vicar was about twenty-five years of age, and the future
Mrs. Robarts was two or three years younger. Nor did she come quite
empty-handed to the vicarage. It cannot be said that Fanny Monsell
was an heiress, but she had been left with a provision of some few
thousand pounds. This was so settled, that the interest of his wife's
money paid the heavy insurance on his life which young Robarts
effected, and there was left to him, over and above, sufficient to
furnish his parsonage in the very best style of clerical comfort, and
to start him on the road of life rejoicing.

So much did Lady Lufton do for her protégé, and it may well be
imagined that the Devonshire physician, sitting meditative over his
parlour fire, looking back, as men will look back on the upshot of
their life, was well contented with that upshot, as regarded his
eldest offshoot, the Rev. Mark Robarts, the vicar of Framley.

But little has as yet been said, personally, as to our hero himself,
and perhaps it may not be necessary to say much. Let us hope that by
degrees he may come forth upon the canvas, showing to the beholder
the nature of the man inwardly and outwardly. Here it may suffice
to say that he was no born heaven's cherub, neither was he a born
fallen devil's spirit. Such as his training made him, such he was.
He had large capabilities for good--and aptitudes also for evil,
quite enough: quite enough to make it needful that he should repel
temptation as temptation only can be repelled. Much had been done to
spoil him, but in the ordinary acceptation of the word he was not
spoiled. He had too much tact, too much common sense, to believe
himself to be the paragon which his mother thought him. Self-conceit
was not, perhaps, his greatest danger. Had he possessed more of it,
he might have been a less agreeable man, but his course before him
might on that account have been the safer. In person he was manly,
tall, and fair-haired, with a square forehead, denoting intelligence
rather than thought, with clear white hands, filbert nails, and a
power of dressing himself in such a manner that no one should ever
observe of him that his clothes were either good or bad, shabby or
smart.

Such was Mark Robarts when, at the age of twenty-five, or a little
more, he married Fanny Monsell. The marriage was celebrated in his
own church, for Miss Monsell had no home of her own, and had been
staying for the last three months at Framley Court. She was given
away by Sir George Meredith, and Lady Lufton herself saw that the
wedding was what it should be, with almost as much care as she had
bestowed on that of her own daughter. The deed of marrying, the
absolute tying of the knot, was performed by the Very Reverend the
Dean of Barchester, an esteemed friend of Lady Lufton's. And Mrs.
Arabin, the dean's wife, was of the party, though the distance from
Barchester to Framley is long, and the roads deep, and no railway
lends its assistance. And Lord Lufton was there of course; and people
protested that he would surely fall in love with one of the four
beautiful bridesmaids, of whom Blanche Robarts, the vicar's second
sister, was by common acknowledgement by far the most beautiful. And
there was there another and a younger sister of Mark's--who did not
officiate at the ceremony, though she was present--and of whom no
prediction was made, seeing that she was then only sixteen, but of
whom mention is made here, as it will come to pass that my readers
will know her hereafter. Her name was Lucy Robarts. And then the
vicar and his wife went off on their wedding tour, the old curate
taking care of the Framley souls the while. And in due time they
returned; and after a further interval, in due course a child was
born to them; and then another; and after that came the period at
which we will begin our story. But before doing so, may I not assert
that all men were right in saying all manner of good things to the
Devonshire physician, and in praising his luck in having such a son?

"You were up at the house to-day, I suppose?" said Mark to his wife,
as he sat stretching himself in an easy chair in the drawing-room,
before the fire, previously to his dressing for dinner. It was
a November evening, and he had been out all day, and on such
occasions the aptitude for delay in dressing is very powerful. A
strong-minded man goes direct from the hall door to his chamber
without encountering the temptation of the drawing-room fire.

"No; but Lady Lufton was down here."

"Full of arguments in favour of Sarah Thompson?"

"Exactly so, Mark."

"And what did you say about Sarah Thompson?"

"Very little as coming from myself: but I did hint that you thought,
or that I thought that you thought, that one of the regular trained
schoolmistresses would be better."

"But her ladyship did not agree?"

"Well, I won't exactly say that;--though I think that perhaps she did
not."

"I am sure she did not. When she has a point to carry, she is very
fond of carrying it."

"But then, Mark, her points are generally so good."

"But, you see, in this affair of the school she is thinking more of
her protégée than she does of the children."

"Tell her that, and I am sure she will give way." And then again they
were both silent. And the vicar having thoroughly warmed himself, as
far as this might be done by facing the fire, turned round and began
the operation _à tergo_.

"Come, Mark, it is twenty minutes past six. Will you go and dress?"

"I'll tell you what, Fanny: she must have her way about Sarah
Thompson. You can see her to-morrow and tell her so."

"I am sure, Mark, I would not give way, if I thought it wrong. Nor
would she expect it."

"If I persist this time, I shall certainly have to yield the next;
and then the next may probably be more important."

"But if it's wrong, Mark?"

"I didn't say it was wrong. Besides, if it is wrong, wrong in some
infinitesimal degree, one must put up with it. Sarah Thompson is very
respectable; the only question is whether she can teach."

The young wife, though she did not say so, had some idea that her
husband was in error. It is true that one must put up with wrong,
with a great deal of wrong. But no one need put up with wrong that
he can remedy. Why should he, the vicar, consent to receive an
incompetent teacher for the parish children, when he was able to
procure one that was competent? In such a case--so thought Mrs.
Robarts to herself--she would have fought the matter out with Lady
Lufton. On the next morning, however, she did as she was bid, and
signified to the dowager that all objection to Sarah Thompson would
be withdrawn.

"Ah! I was sure he would agree with me," said her ladyship, "when
he learned what sort of person she is. I know I had only to
explain;"--and then she plumed her feathers, and was very gracious;
for to tell the truth, Lady Lufton did not like to be opposed in
things which concerned the parish nearly.

"And, Fanny," said Lady Lufton, in her kindest manner, "you are not
going anywhere on Saturday, are you?"

"No, I think not."

"Then you must come to us. Justinia is to be here, you know"--Lady
Meredith was named Justinia--"and you and Mr. Robarts had better stay
with us till Monday. He can have the little book-room all to himself
on Sunday. The Merediths go on Monday; and Justinia won't be happy
if you are not with her." It would be unjust to say that Lady Lufton
had determined not to invite the Robartses if she were not allowed
to have her own way about Sarah Thompson. But such would have been
the result. As it was, however, she was all kindness; and when Mrs.
Robarts made some little excuse, saying that she was afraid she must
return home in the evening, because of the children, Lady Lufton
declared that there was room enough at Framley Court for baby and
nurse, and so settled the matter in her own way, with a couple of
nods and three taps of her umbrella. This was on a Tuesday morning,
and on the same evening, before dinner, the vicar again seated
himself in the same chair before the drawing-room fire, as soon as he
had seen his horse led into the stable.

"Mark," said his wife, "the Merediths are to be at Framley on
Saturday and Sunday; and I have promised that we will go up and stay
over till Monday."

"You don't mean it! Goodness gracious, how provoking!"

"Why? I thought you wouldn't mind it. And Justinia would think it
unkind if I were not there."

"You can go, my dear, and of course will go. But as for me, it is
impossible."

"But why, love?"

"Why? Just now, at the school-house, I answered a letter that was
brought to me from Chaldicotes. Sowerby insists on my going over
there for a week or so; and I have said that I would."

"Go to Chaldicotes for a week, Mark?"

"I believe I have even consented to ten days."

"And be away two Sundays?"

"No, Fanny, only one. Don't be so censorious."

"Don't call me censorious, Mark; you know I am not so. But I am so
sorry. It is just what Lady Lufton won't like. Besides, you were away
in Scotland two Sundays last month."

"In September, Fanny. And that is being censorious."

"Oh, but, Mark, dear Mark; don't say so. You know I don't mean it.
But Lady Lufton does not like those Chaldicotes people. You know Lord
Lufton was with you the last time you were there; and how annoyed she
was!"

"Lord Lufton won't be with me now, for he is still in Scotland. And
the reason why I am going is this: Harold Smith and his wife will be
there, and I am very anxious to know more of them. I confess I did
so with some trepidation.

"Now smell it."

I did so.

"What odor do you perceive?"

"Potassium," I replied.

"Of course," he added, "you are familiar with the chief characteristic
of that substance. It ignites instantly when brought in contact with
water.

Within that little globule of potassium, I have imbedded a pill of
my own composition and discovery.

The moment it is liberated from the potassium, it commences the work
of decomposing the fluid on which it floats.

The potassium at once ignites the liberated oxygen, and the conflagration
of this mighty globe is begun."
"Yes," said I, "begun, if you please, but your little pill soon
evaporates or sinks, or melts in the surrounding seas, and your
conflagration ends just where it began."

"My reply to that suggestion could be made at once by simply testing
the experiment on a small scale, or a large one, either.

But I prefer at present to refute your proposition by an argument
drawn from nature herself.

If you correctly remember, the first time I had the pleasure of seeing
you was on the island of Galveston, many years ago. Do you remember
relating to me at that time an incident concerning the effects of a
prairie on fire, that you had yourself witnessed but a few days
previously, near the town of Matagorde? If I recollect correctly,
you stated that on your return journey from that place, you passed
on the way the charred remains of two wagon-loads of cotton,
and three human beings, that the night before had perished in the
flames; that three slaves, the property of a Mr.

Horton, had started a few days before to carry to market a shipment
of cotton; that a norther overtook them on a treeless prairie, and
a few minutes afterward they were surprised by beholding a line of
rushing fire, surging, roaring and advancing like the resistless
billows of an ocean swept by a gale; that there was no time for
escape, and they perished terribly in fighting the devouring element?"

"Yes; I recollect the event."
Now, then, I wish a reply to the simple question: Did the single
spark, that kindled the conflagration, consume the negroes and their
charge?

No? But what did? You reply, of course, that the spark set the entire
prairie on fire; that each spear of grass added fuel to the flame,
and kindled by degrees a conflagration that continued to burn so
long as it could feed on fresh material.

The pilule in that vial is the little spark, the oceans are the prairies,
and the oxygen the fuel upon which the fire is to feed until the
globe perishes in inextinguishable flames.

The elementary substances in that small vial recreate themselves; they
are self-generating, and when once fairly under way must necessarily
sweep onward, until the waters in all the seas are exhausted.

There is, however, one great difference between the burning of a prairie
and the combustion of an ocean: the fire in the first spreads
slowly, for the fuel is difficult to ignite; in the last, it flies
with the rapidity of the wind, for the substance consumed is oxygen,
the most inflammable agent in nature."

Rising from my seat, I went to the washstand in the corner of the
apartment, and drawing a bowl half full of Spring Valley water, I
turned to Summerfield, and remarked, "Words are empty, theories
are ideal - but facts are things."

"I take you at your word."

So saying, he approached the bowl, emptied it of nine-tenths of its
contents, and silently dropped the potassium-coated pill into the
liquid.

The potassium danced around the edges of the vessel, fuming, hissing,
and blazing, as it always does, and seemed on the point of expiring
- when, to my astonishment and alarm, a sharp explosion took place,
and in a second of time the water was blazing in a red, lurid column,
half way to the ceiling.

"For God's sake," I cried, "extinguish the flames, or we shall set
the building on fire!"
"Had I dropped the potassium into the bowl as you prepared it," he
quietly remarked, "the building would indeed have been consumed."

Lower and lower fell the flickering flames, paler and paler grew the
blaze, until finally the fire went out, and I rushed up to see the
effects of the combustion.

Not a drop of water remained in the vessel! Astonished beyond measure
at what I had witnessed, and terrified almost to the verge of insanity,
I approached Summerfield, and tremblingly inquired, "To whom, sir,
is this tremendous secret known?"

"To myself alone," he responded; "and now answer me a question: is it
worth the money?"

* * * * * * *

It is entirely unnecessary to relate in detail the subsequent events
connected with this transaction. I will only add a general statement,
showing the results of my negotiations. Having fully satisfied
myself that Summerfield actually held in his hands the fate of
the whole world, with its millions of human beings, and by experiment
having tested the combustion of sea-water, with equal facility as
fresh, I next deemed it my duty to call the attention of a few
of the principal men in San Francisco to the extreme importance
of Summerfield's discovery.

A leading banker, a bishop, a chemist, two State university professors,
a physician, a judge, and two Protestant divines, were selected
by me to witness the experiment on a large scale.

This was done at a small sand-hill lake, near the seashore, but
separated from it by a ridge of lofty mountains, distant not more than
ten miles from San Francisco.
Every single drop of water in the pool was burnt up in less than
fifteen minutes. We next did all that we could to pacify Summerfield,
and endeavored to induce him to lower his price and bring it within
the bounds of a reasonable possibility. But without avail. He began
to grow urgent in his demands, and his brow would cloud like a
tempest-ridden sky whenever we approached him on the subject.
Finally, ascertaining that no persuasion could soften his heart or
touch his feelings, a sub-committee was appointed, to endeavor,
if possible, to raise the money by subscription.

Before taking that step, however, we ascertained beyond all question
that Summerfield was the sole custodian of his dread secret, and
that he kept no written memorial of the formula of his prescription.
He even went so far as to offer us a penal bond that his secret
should perish with him in case we complied with his demands.

The sub-committee soon commenced work amongst the wealthiest citizens
of San Francisco, and by appealing to the terrors of a few, and the
sympathies of all, succeeded in raising one-half the amount within
the prescribed period. I shall never forget the woe-begone faces of
California Street during the month of October. The outside world
and the newspapers spoke most learnedly of a money panic - a pressure
in business, and the disturbances in the New York gold-room. But to
the initiated, there was an easier solution of the enigma.

The pale spectre of Death looked down upon them all, and pointed with
its bony finger to the fiery tomb of the whole race, already looming
up in the distance before them. Day after day, I could see the dreadful
ravages of this secret horror; doubly terrible, since they dared
not divulge it. Still, do all that we could, the money could not
be obtained. The day preceding the last one given, Summerfield was
summoned before the committee, and full information given him of the
state of affairs. Obdurate, hard and cruel, he still continued. Finally,
a proposition was started, that an attempt should be made to raise
the other half of the money in the city of New York.

To this proposal Summerfield ultimately yielded, but with extreme
reluctance. It was agreed in committee that I should accompany him
thither, and take with me, in my own possession, evidences of the
sums subscribed here; that a proper appeal should be made to the
leading capitalists, scholars and clergymen of that metropolis,
and that, when the whole amount was raised, it should be paid over
to Summerfield, and a bond taken from him never to divulge his awful
secret to any human being.

With this, he seemed to be satisfied, and left us to prepare for
his going the next morning.

As soon as he left the apartment, the bishop rose, and deprecated the
action that had been taken, and characterized it as childish and
absurd.
He declared that no man was safe one moment whilst "that diabolical
wretch" still lived; that the only security for us all was in his
immediate extirpation from the face of the earth, and that no
amount of money could seal his lips, or close his hands.

It would be no crime, he said, to deprive him of the means of
assassinating the whole human family, and that as for himself he was
for dooming him to immediate death.

With a unanimity that was extraordinary, the entire committee
coincided.

A great many plans were proposed, discussed and rejected, having
in view the extermination of Summerfield. In them all there was
the want of that proper caution which would lull the apprehensions
of an enemy; for should he for an instant suspect treachery, we
knew his nature well enough to be satisfied, that he would waive
all ceremonies and carry his threats into immediate execution.

It was finally resolved that the trip to New York should not be abandoned,
apparently. But that we were to start out in accordance with the
original program; that during the journey, some proper means
should be resorted to by me to carry out the final intentions of the
committee, and that whatever I did would be sanctioned by them
all, and full protection, both in law and conscience, afforded me
in any stage of the proceeding.

Nothing was wanting but my own consent; but this was difficult
to secure.

At the first view, it seemed to be a most horrible and unwarrantable
crime to deprive a fellow-being of life, under any circumstances;
but especially so where, in meeting his fate, no opportunity was
to be afforded him for preparation or repentance. It was a long time
before I could disassociate, in my mind, the two ideas of act and
intent. My studies had long ago made me perfectly familiar with the
doctrine of the civil law, that in order to constitute guilt, there
must be a union of action and intention. Taking the property of
another is not theft, unless, as the lawyers term it, there is the
animus furandi. So, in homicide, life may be lawfully taken in some
instances, whilst the deed may be excused in others. The sheriff hangs
the felon and deprives him of existence; yet nobody thinks of
accusing the officer of murder. The soldier slays his enemy, still
the act is considered heroical. It does not therefore follow that human
life is too sacred to be taken away under all circumstances. The
point to be considered was thus narrowed down into one grand
inquiry, whether Summerfield was properly to be regarded as hostis
humani generis, the enemy of the human race, or not.
If he should justly be so considered, then it would not only be not a
crime to kill him, but an act worthy of the highest commendation.
Who blamed McKenzie for hanging Spencer to the yard-arm? Yet in his
case, the lives of only a small ship's crew were in jeopardy. Who
condemned Pompey for exterminating the pirates from the Adriatic?
Yet, in his case, only a small portion of the Roman Republic was
liable to devastation. Who accuses Charlotte Corday of assassination
for stabbing Marat in his bath? Still, her arm only saved the
lives of a few thousands of revolutionary Frenchmen. And to come
down to our own times, who heaps accusation upon the heads of Lincoln,
Thomas or Sheridan, or even Grant, though in marching to victory
over a crushed rebellion, they deemed it necessary to wade through
seas of human gore? If society has the right to defend itself from
the assaults of criminals, who, at best, can only destroy a few
of its members, why should I hesitate when it was apparent that
the destiny of the globe itself hung in the balance? If Summerfield
should live and carry out his threats, the whole world would feel
the shock; his death was the only path to perfect safety.

I asked the privilege of meditation for one hour, at the hands of
the committee, before I would render a decision either way.

During that recess the above argumentation occupied my thoughts. The
time expired, and I again presented myself before them. I did not
deem it requisite to state the grounds of my decision; I briefly
signified my assent, and made instant preparation to carry the
plan into execution.

Having passed on the line of the Pacific Railway more than once,
I was perfectly familiar with all of its windings, gorges and
precipices.

I selected Cape Horn as the best adapted to the purpose, and . . .
the public knows the rest.

Having been fully acquitted by two tribunals of the law, I make
this final appeal to my fellowmen throughout the State, and ask
them confidently not to reverse the judgments already pronounced.

I am conscious of no guilt; I feel no remorse; I need no repentance.
For me justice has no terrors, and conscience no sting. Let me be
judged solely by the motives which actuated me, and the importance
of the end accomplished, and I shall pass, unscathed, both temporal
and eternal tribunals.

Leonidas Parker.

Additional Particulars

The following additional particulars, as sequel to the Summerfield
homicide, have been furnished by an Auburn correspondent:

Mr. Editor: The remarkable confession of the late Leonidas Parker,
which appeared in your issue of the 13th ultimo, has given rise
to a series of disturbances in this neighborhood, which, for romantic
interest and downright depravity, have seldom been surpassed,
even in California.
Before proceeding to relate in detail the late transactions, allow
me to remark that the wonderful narrative of Parker excited
throughout this county sentiments of the most profound and
contradictory character. I, for one, halted between two opinions
- horror and incredulity; and nothing but subsequent events could
have fully satisfied me of the unquestionable veracity of your San
Francisco correspondent, and the scientific authenticity of the
facts related.

The doubt with which the story was at first received in this
community - and which found utterance in a burlesque article in an
obscure country journal, the Stars and Stripes, of Auburn - has finally
been dispelled, and we find ourselves forced to admit that we
stand even now in the presence of the most alarming fate. Too much
credit cannot be awarded to our worthy coroner for the promptitude
of his action, and we trust that the Governor of the State will not
be less efficient in the discharge of his duty.

[Since the above letter was written the following proclamation has
been issued. - P. J.]
Proclamation of the Governor

.

$10,000 Reward.

Department of State.

By virtue of the authority in me vested, I do hereby offer the
above reward of ten thousand dollars, in gold coin of the United
States, for the arrest of Bartholomew Graham, familiarly known
as "Black Bart." Said Graham is accused of the murder of C. P.
Gillson, late of Auburn, county of Placer, on the 14th ultimo. He
is five feet ten inches and a half in height, thick set, has a
mustache sprinkled with gray, grizzled hair, clear blue eyes,
walks stooping, and served in the late civil war, under Price and
Quantrell, in the Confederate army. He may be lurking in some of the
mining-camps near the foot-hills, as he was a Washoe teamster during
the Comstock excitement. The above reward will be paid for him, dead
or alive, as he possessed himself of an important secret by robbing
the body of the late Gregory Summerfield.

By the Governor: H. G. Nicholson,
Secretary of State.

Given at Sacramento, this the fifth day of June, 1871.

Our correspondent continues:

I am sorry to say that Sheriff Higgins has not been so active in the
discharge of his duty as the urgency of the case required, but he
is perhaps excusable on account of the criminal interference of the
editor above alluded to. But I am detaining you from more important
matters.
Your Saturday's paper reached here at 4 o'clock Saturday,13th May,
and, as it now appears from the evidence taken before the coroner,
several persons left Auburn on the same errand, but without any
previous conference. Two of these were named respectively
Charles P. Gillson and Bartholomew Graham, or, as he was usually
called, "Black Bart." Gillson kept a saloon at the corner of Prickly
Ash Street and the Old Spring Road; and Black Bart was in the employ
of Conrad & Co., keepers of the Norfolk Livery Stable. Gillson was a
son-in-law of ex-Governor Roberts, of Iowa, and leaves a wife
and two children to mourn his untimely end.
As for Graham, nothing certain is known of his antecedents. It is
said that he was engaged in the late robbery of Wells & Fargo's express
at Grizzly Bend, and that he was an habitual gambler. Only one thing
about him is certainly well known: he was a lieutenant in the
Confederate army, and served under General Price and the outlaw
Quantrell. He was a man originally of fine education, plausible manners
and good family, but strong drink seems early in life to have
overmastered him, and left him but a wreck of himself. But he was
not incapable of generous or, rather, romantic acts; for, during
the burning of the Putnam House in this town last summer, he rescued
two ladies from the flames. In so doing he scorched his left hand
so seriously as to contract the tendons of two fingers, and this very
scar may lead to his apprehension. There is no doubt about his utter
desperation of character, and, if taken at all, it will probably be
not alive.

So much for the persons concerned in the tragedy at the Flat.

Herewith I inclose copies of the testimony of the witnesses examined
before the coroner's jury, together with the statement of Gillson,
taken in articulo mortis:

Deposition of Dollie Adams.

State of California, } County of Placer. } ss.

Said witness, being duly sworn, deposes as follows, to wit: My name
is Dolly Adams, my age forty-seven years; I am the wife of Frank
G.

Adams, of this township, and reside on the North Fork of the American
River, below Cape Horn, on Thompson's Flat. About one o'clock p. m.,
May 14, 1871, I left the cabin to gather wood to cook dinner for
my husband and the hands at work for him on the claim. The trees
are mostly cut away from the bottom, and I had to climb some
distance up the mountainside before I could get enough to kindle
the fire.

I had gone about five hundred yards from the cabin, and was
searching for small sticks of fallen timber, when I thought I
heard some one groan, as if in pain. I paused and listened; the
groaning became more distinct, and I started at once for the place
whence the sounds proceeded; about ten steps off I discovered the man
whose remains lie there (pointing to the deceased), sitting up, with
his back against a big rock. He looked so pale that I thought him
already dead, but he continued to moan until I reached his side.
Hearing me approach, he opened his eyes, and begged me, "For God's
sake, give me a drop of water!" I asked him, "What is the matter?"
He replied, " I am shot in the back."

"Dangerously?" I demanded. "Fatally!" he faltered. Without waiting to
question him further, I returned to the cabin, told Zenie, my daughter,
what I had seen, and sent her off on a run for the men. Taking with
me a gourd of water, some milk and bread - for I thought the poor
gentleman might be hungry and weak, as well as wounded - I hurried
back to his side, where I remained until "father" - as we all call my
husband - came with the men. We removed him as gently as we could to
the cabin; then sent for Dr. Liebner, and nursed him until he died,
yesterday, just at sunset.

Question by the Coroner: Did you hear his statement, taken down by the
Assistant District-Attorney?

- A. I did.

Q. Did you see him sign it? - A. Yes, sir.

Q. Is this your signature thereto as witness? - A. It is, sir.

(Signed) Dollie Adams.

Deposition of Miss X. V. Adams.

Being first duly sworn, witness testified as follows: My name is Xixenia
Volumnia Adams; I am the daughter of Frank G.

Adams and the last witness; I reside with them on the Flat, and
my age is eighteen years.

A little past one o'clock on Sunday last my mother came running into
the house and informed me that a man was dying on the side-hill,
from a wound, and that I must go for father and the boys immediately.

I ran as fast as my legs would carry me to where they were "cleaning
up," for they never cleaned up week-days on the Flat, and told the
news; we all came back together and proceeded to the spot where the
wounded man lay weltering in his blood; he was cautiously removed
to the cabin, where he lingered until yesterday sundown, when he
died.

Question. Did he speak after he reached the cabin? - A. He did
frequently; at first with great pain, but afterward more audibly and
intelligibly.

Q. What did he say? - A.

First, to send for Squire Jacobs, the Assistant District-Attorney,
as he had a statement to make; and some time afterward, to send for
his wife; but we first of all sent for the doctor.

Q. Who was present when he died? - A. Only myself; he had appeared
a great deal easier, and his wife had lain down to take a short
nap, and my mother had gone to the spring and left me alone to watch.
Suddenly he lifted himself spasmodically in bed, glared around
wildly and muttered something inaudible; seeing me, he cried out,
"Run! run! run! He has it!
Black Bart has got the vial! Quick! or he'll set the world afire!
See, he opens it! O my God! Look! look! look! Hold his hands! tie
him! chain him down! Too late! too late! oh, the flames! Fire! fire!
fire!" His tone of voice gradually strengthened until the end of
his raving; when he cried "fire!" his eyeballs glared, his mouth
quivered, his body convulsed, and before Mrs. Gillson could reach
his bedside he fell back stone dead. (Signed) X. V. Adams.
The testimony of Adams corroborated in every particular that of his
wife and daughter, but set forth more fully the particulars of his
demoniac ravings. He would taste nothing from a glass or bottle,
but shuddered whenever any article of that sort met his eyes. In
fact, they had to remove from the room the cups, tumblers, and even
the castors. At times he spoke rationally, but after the second day
only in momentary flashes of sanity.
The deposition of the attending physician, after giving the general
facts with regard to the sickness of the patient and his subsequent
demise, proceeded thus:
I found the patient weak, and suffering from loss of blood and rest,
and want of nourishment; occasionally sane, but for the most part
flighty and in a comatose condition. The wound was an ordinary
gunshot wound, produced most probably by the ball of a navy revolver,
fired at the distance of ten paces. It entered the back near the
left clavicle, beneath the scapula, close to the vertebrae between
the intercostal spaces of the fifth and sixth ribs; grazing the
pericardium it traversed the mediastinum, barely touching the
oesophagus, and vena azygos, but completely severing the thoracic
duct, and lodging in the xiphoid portion of the sternum."We had better go in and have it
over," she said, "and then we shall be comfortable for the evening."
So the drawing-room door was opened, and there was Lady Lufton alone
upon the sofa.

"Now, mamma," said the daughter, "you mustn't scold Fanny much
about Mr. Robarts. He has gone to preach a charity sermon before
the bishop, and, under those circumstances, perhaps, he could not
refuse." This was a stretch on the part of Lady Meredith--put in
with much good-nature, no doubt; but still a stretch; for no one had
supposed that the bishop would remain at Chaldicotes for the Sunday.

"How do you do, Fanny?" said Lady Lufton, getting up. "I am not
going to scold her; and I don't know how you can talk such nonsense,
Justinia. Of course, we are very sorry not to have Mr. Robarts; more
especially as he was not here the last Sunday that Sir George was
with us. I do like to see Mr. Robarts in his own church, certainly;
and I don't like any other clergyman there as well. If Fanny takes
that for scolding, why--"

"Oh! no, Lady Lufton; and it's so kind of you to say so. But Mr.
Robarts was so sorry that he had accepted this invitation to
Chaldicotes, before he heard that Sir George was coming, and--"

"Oh, I know that Chaldicotes has great attractions which we cannot
offer," said Lady Lufton.

"Indeed, it was not that. But he was asked to preach, you know; and
Mr. Harold Smith--" Poor Fanny was only making it worse. Had she been
worldly wise, she would have accepted the little compliment implied
in Lady Lufton's first rebuke, and then have held her peace.

"Oh, yes; the Harold Smiths! They are irresistible, I know. How could
any man refuse to join a party, graced both by Mrs. Harold Smith and
Mrs. Proudie--even though his duty should require him to stay away?"

"Now, mamma--" said Justinia.

"Well, my dear, what am I to say? You would not wish me to tell a
fib. I don't like Mrs. Harold Smith--at least, what I hear of her;
for it has not been my fortune to meet her since her marriage. It may
be conceited; but to own the truth, I think that Mr. Robarts would
be better off with us at Framley than with the Harold Smiths at
Chaldicotes--even though Mrs. Proudie be thrown into the bargain."

It was nearly dark, and therefore the rising colour in the face of
Mrs. Robarts could not be seen. She, however, was too good a wife to
hear these things said without some anger within her bosom. She could
blame her husband in her own mind; but it was intolerable to her that
others should blame him in her hearing.

"He would undoubtedly be better off," she said; "but then, Lady
Lufton, people can't always go exactly where they will be best off.
Gentlemen sometimes must--"

"Well--well, my dear, that will do. He has not taken you, at any
rate; and so we will forgive him." And Lady Lufton kissed her. "As it
is,"--and she affected a low whisper between the two young wives--"as
it is, we must e'en put up with poor old Evan Jones. He is to be here
to-night, and we must go and dress to receive him."

And so they went off. Lady Lufton was quite good enough at heart to
like Mrs. Robarts all the better for standing up for her absent lord.


CHAPTER III

Chaldicotes


Chaldicotes is a house of much more pretension than Framley Court.
Indeed, if one looks at the ancient marks about it, rather than
at those of the present day, it is a place of very considerable
pretension. There is an old forest, not altogether belonging to the
property, but attached to it, called the Chace of Chaldicotes. A
portion of this forest comes up close behind the mansion, and of
itself gives a character and celebrity to the place. The Chace of
Chaldicotes--the greater part of it, at least--is, as all the world
knows, Crown property, and now, in these utilitarian days, is to be
disforested. In former times it was a great forest, stretching half
across the country, almost as far as Silverbridge; and there are bits
of it, here and there, still to be seen at intervals throughout the
whole distance; but the larger remaining portion, consisting of aged
hollow oaks, centuries old, and wide-spreading withered beeches,
stands in the two parishes of Chaldicotes and Uffley. People still
come from afar to see the oaks of Chaldicotes, and to hear their feet
rustle among the thick autumn leaves. But they will soon come no
longer. The giants of past ages are to give way to wheat and turnips;
a ruthless Chancellor of the Exchequer, disregarding old associations
and rural beauty, requires money returns from the lands; and the
Chace of Chaldicotes is to vanish from the earth's surface.

Some part of it, however, is the private property of Mr. Sowerby,
who hitherto, through all his pecuniary distresses, has managed to
save from the axe and the auction-mart that portion of his paternal
heritage. The house of Chaldicotes is a large stone building,
probably of the time of Charles the Second. It is approached on both
fronts by a heavy double flight of stone steps. In the front of
the house a long, solemn, straight avenue through a double row of
lime-trees, leads away to lodge-gates, which stand in the centre of
the village of Chaldicotes; but to the rear the windows open upon
four different vistas, which run down through the forest: four open
green rides, which all converge together at a large iron gateway,
the barrier which divides the private grounds from the Chace. The
Sowerbys, for many generations, have been rangers of the Chace of
Chaldicotes, thus having almost as wide an authority over the Crown
forest as over their own. But now all this is to cease, for the
forest will be disforested.

It was nearly dark as Mark Robarts drove up through the avenue of
lime-trees to the hall-door; but it was easy to see that the house,
which was dead and silent as the grave through nine months of the
year, was now alive in all its parts. There were lights in many
of the windows, and a noise of voices came from the stables, and
servants were moving about, and dogs barked, and the dark gravel
before the front steps was cut up with many a coach-wheel.

"Oh, be that you, sir, Mr. Robarts?" said a groom, taking the
parson's horse by the head, and touching his own hat. "I hope I see
your reverence well?"

"Quite well, Bob, thank you. All well at Chaldicotes?"

"Pretty bobbish, Mr. Robarts. Deal of life going on here now, sir.
The bishop and his lady came this morning."

"Oh--ah--yes! I understood they were to be here. Any of the young
ladies?"

"One young lady. Miss Olivia, I think they call her, your reverence."

"And how's Mr. Sowerby?"

"Very well, your reverence. He, and Mr. Harold Smith, and Mr.
Fothergill--that's the duke's man of business, you know--is getting
off their horses now in the stable-yard there."

"Home from hunting--eh, Bob?"

"Yes, sir, just home, this minute." And then Mr. Robarts walked into
the house, his portmanteau following on a foot-boy's shoulder.

It will be seen that our young vicar was very intimate at
Chaldicotes; so much so that the groom knew him, and talked to him
about the people in the house. Yes; he was intimate there: much more
than he had given the Framley people to understand. Not that he had
wilfully and overtly deceived any one; not that he had ever spoken a
false word about Chaldicotes. But he had never boasted at home that
he and Sowerby were near allies. Neither had he told them there
how often Mr. Sowerby and Lord Lufton were together in London. Why
trouble women with such matters? Why annoy so excellent a woman as
Lady Lufton? And then Mr. Sowerby was one whose intimacy few young
men would wish to reject. He was fifty, and had lived, perhaps, not
the most salutary life; but he dressed young, and usually looked
well. He was bald, with a good forehead, and sparkling moist eyes. He
was a clever man, and a pleasant companion, and always good-humoured
when it so suited him. He was a gentleman, too, of high breeding and
good birth, whose ancestors had been known in that county--longer,
the farmers around would boast, than those of any other land-owner in
it, unless it be the Thornes of Ullathorne, or perhaps the Greshams
of Greshamsbury--much longer than the de Courcys at Courcy Castle.
As for the Duke of Omnium, he, comparatively speaking, was a new
man. And then he was a member of Parliament, a friend of some men in
power, and of others who might be there; a man who could talk about
the world as one knowing the matter of which he talked. And moreover,
whatever might be his ways of life at other times, when in the
presence of a clergyman he rarely made himself offensive to clerical
tastes. He neither swore, nor brought his vices on the carpet, nor
sneered at the faith of the Church. If he was no Churchman himself,
he at least knew how to live with those who were.

How was it possible that such a one as our vicar should not relish
the intimacy of Mr. Sowerby? It might be very well, he would say to
himself, for a woman like Lady Lufton to turn up her nose at him--for
Lady Lufton, who spent ten months of the year at Framley Court, and
who during those ten months, and for the matter of that, during the
two months also which she spent in London, saw no one out of her own
set. Women did not understand such things, the vicar said to himself;
even his own wife--good, and nice, and sensible, and intelligent as
she was--even she did not understand that a man in the world must
meet all sorts of men; and that in these days it did not do for a
clergyman to be a hermit. 'Twas thus that Mark Robarts argued when he
found himself called upon to defend himself before the bar of his own
conscience for going to Chaldicotes and increasing his intimacy with
Mr. Sowerby. He did know that Mr. Sowerby was a dangerous man; he was
aware that he was over head and ears in debt, and that he had already
entangled young Lord Lufton in some pecuniary embarrassment; his
conscience did tell him that it would be well for him, as one of
Christ's soldiers, to look out for companions of a different stamp.
But nevertheless he went to Chaldicotes, not satisfied with himself
indeed, but repeating to himself a great many arguments why he should
be so satisfied.

He was shown into the drawing-room at once, and there he found Mrs.
Harold Smith, with Mrs. and Miss Proudie, and a lady whom he had
never before seen, and whose name he did not at first hear mentioned.

"Is that Mr. Robarts?" said Mrs. Harold Smith, getting up to greet
him, and screening her pretended ignorance under the veil of the
darkness. "And have you really driven over four-and-twenty miles of
Barsetshire roads on such a day as this to assist us in our little
difficulties? Well, we can promise you gratitude at any rate." And
then the vicar shook hands with Mrs. Proudie, in that deferential
manner which is due from a vicar to his bishop's wife; and Mrs.
Proudie returned the greeting with all that smiling condescension
which a bishop's wife should show to a vicar. Miss Proudie was not
quite so civil. Had Mr. Robarts been still unmarried, she also could
have smiled sweetly; but she had been exercising smiles on clergymen
too long to waste them now on a married parish parson.

"And what are the difficulties, Mrs. Smith, in which I am to assist
you?"

"We have six or seven gentlemen here, Mr. Robarts, and they always go
out hunting before breakfast, and they never come back--I was going
to say--till after dinner. I wish it were so, for then we should not
have to wait for them."

"Excepting Mr. Supplehouse, you know," said the unknown lady, in a
loud voice.

"And he is generally shut up in the library, writing articles."

"He'd be better employed if he were trying to break his neck like the
others," said the unknown lady.

"Only he would never succeed," says Mrs. Harold Smith. "But perhaps,
Mr. Robarts, you are as bad as the rest; perhaps you, too, will be
hunting to-morrow."

"My dear Mrs. Smith!" said Mrs. Proudie, in a tone denoting slight
reproach, and modified horror.

"Oh! I forgot. No, of course, you won't be hunting, Mr. Robarts;
you'll only be wishing that you could."

"Why can't he?" said the lady, with a loud voice.

"My dear Miss Dunstable! a clergyman hunt, while he is staying in the
same house with the bishop? Think of the proprieties!"

"Oh--ah! The bishop wouldn't like it--wouldn't he? Now, do tell me,
sir, what would the bishop do to you if you did hunt?"

"It would depend upon his mood at the time, madam," said Mr. Robarts.
"If that were very stern, he might perhaps have me beheaded before
the palace gates."

Mrs. Proudie drew herself up in her chair, showing that she did
not like the tone of the conversation; and Miss Proudie fixed her
eyes vehemently on her book, showing that Miss Dunstable and her
conversation were both beneath her notice.

"If these gentlemen do not mean to break their necks to-night," said
Mrs. Harold Smith, "I wish they'd let us know it. It's half-past six
already." And then Mr. Robarts gave them to understand that no such
catastrophe could be looked for that day, as Mr. Sowerby and the
other sportsmen were within the stable-yard when he entered the door.

"Then, ladies, we may as well dress," said Mrs. Harold Smith. But
as she moved towards the door, it opened, and a short gentleman,
with a slow, quiet step, entered the room; but was not yet to be
distinguished through the dusk by the eyes of Mr. Robarts. "Oh!
bishop, is that you?" said Mrs. Smith. "Here is one of the luminaries
of your diocese." And then the bishop, feeling through the dark, made
his way up to the vicar and shook him cordially by the hand. "He
was delighted to meet Mr. Robarts at Chaldicotes," he said--"quite
delighted. Was he not going to preach on behalf of the Papuan Mission
next Sunday? Ah! so he, the bishop, had heard. It was a good work,
an excellent work." And then Dr. Proudie expressed himself as much
grieved that he could not remain at Chaldicotes, and hear the sermon.
It was plain that his bishop thought no ill of him on account of his
intimacy with Mr. Sowerby. But then he felt in his own heart that he
did not much regard his bishop's opinion.

"Ah, Robarts, I'm delighted to see you," said Mr. Sowerby, when they
met on the drawing-room rug before dinner. "You know Harold Smith?
Yes, of course you do. Well, who else is there? Oh! Supplehouse. Mr.
Supplehouse, allow me to introduce to you my friend Mr. Robarts. It
is he who will extract the five-pound note out of your pocket next
Sunday for these poor Papuans whom we are going to Christianize.
That is, if Harold Smith does not finish the work out of hand at his
Saturday lecture. And, Robarts, you have seen the bishop, of course:"
this he said in a whisper. "A fine thing to be a bishop, isn't it? I
wish I had half your chance. But, my dear fellow, I've made such a
mistake; I haven't got a bachelor parson for Miss Proudie. You must
help me out, and take her in to dinner." And then the great gong
sounded, and off they went in pairs.

At dinner Mark found himself seated between Miss Proudie and the lady
whom he had heard named as Miss Dunstable. Of the former he was not
very fond, and, in spite of his host's petition, was not inclined to
play bachelor parson for her benefit. With the other lady he would
willingly have chatted during the dinner, only that everybody else at
table seemed to be intent on doing the same thing. She was neither
young, nor beautiful, nor peculiarly ladylike; yet she seemed
to enjoy a popularity which must have excited the envy of Mr.
Supplehouse, and which certainly was not altogether to the taste of
Mrs. Proudie--who, however, fêted her as much as did the others.
So that our clergyman found himself unable to obtain more than an
inconsiderable share of the lady's attention.

"Bishop," said she, speaking across the table, "we have missed you so
all day! we have had no one on earth to say a word to us."

"My dear Miss Dunstable, had I known that-- But I really was engaged
on business of some importance."

"I don't believe in business of importance; do you, Mrs. Smith?"

"Do I not?" said Mrs. Smith. "If you were married to Mr. Harold Smith
for one week, you'd believe in it."

"Should I, now? What a pity that I can't have that chance of
improving my faith! But you are a man of business, also, Mr.
Supplehouse; so they tell me." And she turned to her neighbour on her
right hand.

"I cannot compare myself to Harold Smith," said he. "But perhaps I
may equal the bishop."

"What does a man do, now, when he sits himself down to business? How
does he set about it? What are his tools? A quire of blotting paper,
I suppose, to begin with?"

"That depends, I should say, on his trade. A shoemaker begins by
waxing his thread."

"And Mr. Harold Smith--?"

"By counting up his yesterday's figures, generally, I should say;
or else by unrolling a ball of red tape. Well-docketed papers and
statistical facts are his forte."

"And what does a bishop do? Can you tell me that?"

"He sends forth to his clergy either blessings or blowings-up,
according to the state of his digestive organs. But Mrs. Proudie can
explain all that to you with the greatest accuracy."

"Can she now? I understand what you mean, but I don't believe a word
of it. The bishop manages his own affairs himself, quite as much as
you do, or Mr. Harold Smith."

"I, Miss Dunstable?"

"Yes, you."

"But I, unluckily, have not a wife to manage them for me."

"Then you should not laugh at those who have, for you don't know what
you may come to yourself, when you're married."

Mr. Supplehouse began to make a pretty speech, saying that he would
be delighted to incur any danger in that respect to which he might
be subjected by the companionship of Miss Dunstable. But before he
was half through it, she had turned her back upon him, and begun a
conversation with Mark Robarts.

"Have you much work in your parish, Mr. Robarts?" she asked. Now,
Mark was not aware that she knew his name, or the fact of his having
a parish, and was rather surprised by the question. And he had not
quite liked the tone in which she had seemed to speak of the bishop
and his work. His desire for her further acquaintance was therefore
somewhat moderated, and he was not prepared to answer her question
with much zeal.

"All parish clergymen have plenty of work, if they choose to do it."

"Ah, that is it; is it not, Mr. Robarts? If they choose to do it? A
great many do--many that I know, do; and see what a result they have.
But many neglect it--and see what a result _they_ have. I think it
ought to be the happiest life that a man can lead, that of a parish
clergyman, with a wife and family and a sufficient income."

"I think it is," said Mark Robarts, asking himself whether the
contentment accruing to him from such blessings had made him
satisfied at all points. He had all these things of which Miss
Dunstable spoke, and yet he had told his wife, the other day, that he
could not afford to neglect the acquaintance of a rising politician
like Harold Smith.

"What I find fault with is this," continued Miss Dunstable, "that we
expect clergymen to do their duty, and don't give them a sufficient
income--give them hardly any income at all. Is it not a scandal,
that an educated gentleman with a family should be made to work half
his life, and perhaps the whole, for a pittance of seventy pounds a
year!" Mark said that it was a scandal, and thought of Mr. Evan Jones
and his daughter; and thought also of his own worth, and his own
house, and his own nine hundred a year.

"And yet you clergymen are so proud--aristocratic would be the
genteel word, I know--that you won't take the money of common,
ordinary poor people. You must be paid from land and endowments, from
tithe and church property. You can't bring yourself to work for what
you earn, as lawyers and doctors do. It is better that curates should
starve than undergo such ignominy as that."

"It is a long subject, Miss Dunstable."

"A very long one; and that means that I am not to say any more about
it."

"I did not mean that exactly."

"Oh, but you did though, Mr. Robarts. And I can take a hint of that
kind when I get it. You clergymen like to keep those long subjects
for your sermons, when no one can answer you. Now if I have a longing
heart's desire for anything at all in this world, it is to be able to
get up into a pulpit, and preach a sermon."

"You can't conceive how soon that appetite would pall upon you, after
its first indulgence."

"That would depend upon whether I could get people to listen to me.
It does not pall upon Mr. Spurgeon, I suppose." Then her attention
was called away by some question from Mr. Sowerby, and Mark Robarts
found himself bound to address his conversation to Miss Proudie.
Miss Proudie, however, was not thankful, and gave him little but
monosyllables for his pains.

"Of course you know Harold Smith is going to give us a lecture about
these islanders," Mr. Sowerby said to him, as they sat round the fire
over their wine after dinner. Mark said that he had been so informed,
and should be delighted to be one of the listeners.

"You are bound to do that, as he is going to listen to you the day
afterwards--or, at any rate, to pretend to do so, which is as much as
you will do for him. It'll be a terrible bore--the lecture, I mean,
not the sermon." And he spoke very low into his friend's ear. "Fancy
having to drive ten miles after dusk, and ten miles back, to hear
Harold Smith talk for two hours about Borneo! One must do it, you
know."

"I dare say it will be very interesting."

"My dear fellow, you haven't undergone so many of these things as I
have. But he's right to do it. It's his line of life; and when a man
begins a thing he ought to go on with it. Where's Lufton all this
time?"

"In Scotland, when I last heard from him; but he's probably at Melton
now."

"It's deuced shabby of him, not hunting here in his own county. He
escapes all the bore of going to lectures, and giving feeds to the
neighbours; that's why he treats us so. He has no idea of his duty,
has he?"

"Lady Lufton does all that, you know."

"I wish I'd a Mrs. Sowerby _mère_ to do it for me. But then Lufton
has no constituents to look after--lucky dog! By the by, has he
spoken to you about selling that outlying bit of land of his in
Oxfordshire? It belongs to the Lufton property, and yet it doesn't.
In my mind it gives more trouble than it's worth." Lord Lufton had
spoken to Mark about this sale, and had explained to him that such
a sacrifice was absolutely necessary, in consequence of certain
pecuniary transactions between him, Lord Lufton, and Mr. Sowerby.
But it was found impracticable to complete the business without Lady
Lufton's knowledge, and her son had commissioned Mr. Robarts not only
to inform her ladyship, but to talk her over, and to appease her
wrath. This commission he had not yet attempted to execute, and it
was probable that this visit to Chaldicotes would not do much to
facilitate the business.

"They are the most magnificent islands under the sun," said Harold
Smith to the bishop.

"Are they, indeed!" said the bishop, opening his eyes wide, and
assuming a look of intense interest.

"And the most intelligent people."

"Dear me!" said the bishop.

"All they want is guidance, encouragement, instruction--"

"And Christianity," suggested the bishop.

"And Christianity, of course," said Mr. Smith, remembering that he
was speaking to a dignitary of the Church. It was well to humour such
people, Mr. Smith thought. But the Christianity was to be done in the
Sunday sermon, and was not part of his work.

"And how do you intend to begin with them?" asked Mr. Supplehouse,
the business of whose life it had been to suggest difficulties.

"Begin with them--oh--why--it's very easy to begin with them. The
difficulty is to go on with them, after the money is all spent. We'll
begin by explaining to them the benefits of civilization."

"Capital plan!" said Mr. Supplehouse. "But how do you set about it,
Smith?"

"How do we set about it? How did we set about it with Australia and
America? It is very easy to criticize; but in such matters the great
thing is to put one's shoulder to the wheel."

"We sent our felons to Australia," said Supplehouse, "and they began
the work for us. And as to America, we exterminated the people
instead of civilizing them."

"We did not exterminate the inhabitants of India," said Harold Smith,
angrily.

"Nor have we attempted to Christianize them, as the bishop so
properly wishes to do with your islanders."

"Supplehouse, you are not fair," said Mr. Sowerby, "neither to Harold
Smith nor to us;--you are making him rehearse his lecture, which is
bad for him; and making us hear the rehearsal, which is bad for us."

"Supplehouse belongs to a clique which monopolizes the wisdom of
England," said Harold Smith, "or, at any rate, thinks that it
does. But the worst of them is that they are given to talk leading
articles."

"Better that, than talk articles which are not leading," said Mr.
Supplehouse. "Some first-class official men do that."

"Shall I meet you at the duke's next week, Mr. Robarts?" said the
bishop to him, soon after they had gone into the drawing-room. Meet
him at the duke's!--the established enemy of Barsetshire mankind, as
Lady Lufton regarded his grace! No idea of going to the duke's had
ever entered our hero's mind; nor had he been aware that the duke was
about to entertain any one.

"No, my lord; I think not. Indeed, I have no acquaintance with his
grace."

"Oh--ah! I did not know. Because Mr. Sowerby is going; and so are the
Harold Smiths, and, I think, Mr. Supplehouse. An excellent man is
the duke;--that is, as regards all the county interests," added the
bishop, remembering that the moral character of his bachelor grace
was not the very best in the world. And then his lordship began to
ask some questions about the church affairs of Framley, in which a
little interest as to Framley Court was also mixed up, when he was
interrupted by a rather sharp voice, to which he instantly attended.

"Bishop," said the rather sharp voice; and the bishop trotted across
the room to the back of the sofa, on which his wife was sitting.
"Miss Dunstable thinks that she will be able to come to us for a
couple of days, after we leave the duke's."

"I shall be delighted above all things," said the bishop, bowing low
to the dominant lady of the day. For be it known to all men, that
Miss Dunstable was the great heiress of that name.

"Mrs. Proudie is so very kind as to say that she will take me in,
with my poodle, parrot, and pet old woman."

"I tell Miss Dunstable that we shall have quite room for any of her
suite," said Mrs. Proudie. "And that it will give us no trouble."

"'The labour we delight in physics pain,'" said the gallant bishop,
bowing low, and putting his hand upon his heart. In the meantime
Mr. Fothergill had got hold of Mark Robarts. Mr. Fothergill was
a gentleman and a magistrate of the county, but he occupied the
position of managing man on the Duke of Omnium's estates. He was not
exactly his agent; that is to say, he did not receive his rents;
but he "managed" for him, saw people, went about the county, wrote
letters, supported the electioneering interest, did popularity when
it was too much trouble for the duke to do it himself, and was, in
fact, invaluable. People in West Barsetshire would often say that
they did not know what on earth the duke would do, if it were not for
Mr. Fothergill. Indeed, Mr. Fothergill was useful to the duke.

"Mr. Robarts," he said, "I am very happy to have the pleasure of
meeting you--very happy indeed. I have often heard of you from our
friend Sowerby." Mark bowed, and said that he was delighted to
have the honour of making Mr. Fothergill's acquaintance. "I am
commissioned by the Duke of Omnium," continued Mr. Fothergill,
"to say how glad he will be if you will join his grace's party at
Gatherum Castle next week. The bishop will be there, and indeed
nearly the whole set who are here now. The duke would have written
when he heard that you were to be at Chaldicotes; but things were
hardly quite arranged then, so his grace has left it for me to tell
you how happy he will be to make your acquaintance in his own house.
I have spoken to Sowerby," continued Mr. Fothergill, "and he very
much hopes that you will be able to join us."

Mark felt that his face became red when this proposition was made
to him. The party in the county to which he properly belonged--he
and his wife, and all that made him happy and respectable--looked
upon the Duke of Omnium with horror and amazement; and now he had
absolutely received an invitation to the duke's house! A proposition
was made to him that he should be numbered among the duke's friends!

And though in one sense he was sorry that the proposition was made to
him, yet in another he was proud of it. It is not every young man,
let his profession be what it may, who can receive overtures of
friendship from dukes without some elation. Mark, too, had risen in
the world, as far as he had yet risen, by knowing great people; and
he certainly had an ambition to rise higher. I will not degrade him
by calling him a tuft-hunter; but he undoubtedly had a feeling that
the paths most pleasant for a clergyman's feet were those which were
trodden by the great ones of the earth. Nevertheless, at the moment
he declined the duke's invitation. He was very much flattered, he
said, but the duties of his parish would require him to return direct
from Chaldicotes to Framley.

"You need not give me an answer to-night, you know," said Mr.
Fothergill. "Before the week is past, we will talk it over with
Sowerby and the bishop. It will be a thousand pities, Mr. Robarts,
if you will allow me to say so, that you should neglect such an
opportunity of knowing his grace."

When Mark went to bed, his mind was still set against going to the
duke's; but, nevertheless, he did feel that it was a pity that he
should not do so. After all, was it necessary that he should obey
Lady Lufton in all things?


CHAPTER IV

A Matter of Conscience


It is no doubt very wrong to long after a naughty thing. But
nevertheless we all do so. One may say that hankering after naughty
things is the very essence of the evil into which we have been
precipitated by Adam's fall. When we confess that we are all sinners,
we confess that we all long after naughty things. And ambition is a
great vice--as Mark Anthony told us a long time ago--a great vice,
no doubt, if the ambition of the man be with reference to his own
advancement, and not to the advancement of others. But then, how many
of us are there who are not ambitious in this vicious manner? And
there is nothing viler than the desire to know great people--people
of great rank, I should say; nothing worse than the hunting of titles
and worshipping of wealth. We all know this, and say it every day of
our lives. But presuming that a way into the society of Park Lane
was open to us, and a way also into that of Bedford Row, how many of
us are there who would prefer Bedford Row because it is so vile to
worship wealth and title?

I am led into these rather trite remarks by the necessity of putting
forward some sort of excuse for that frame of mind in which the Rev.
Mark Robarts awoke on the morning after his arrival at Chaldicotes.
And I trust that the fact of his being a clergyman will not be
allowed to press against him unfairly. Clergymen are subject to
the same passions as other men; and, as far as I can see, give way
to them, in one line or in another, almost as frequently. Every
clergyman should, by canonical rule, feel a personal disinclination
to a bishopric; but yet we do not believe that such personal
disinclination is generally very strong. Mark's first thoughts when
he woke on that morning flew back to Mr. Fothergill's invitation. The
duke had sent a special message to say how peculiarly glad he, the
duke, would be to make acquaintance with him, the parson! How much of
this message had been of Mr. Fothergill's own manufacture, that Mark
Robarts did not consider. He had obtained a living at an age when
other young clergymen are beginning to think of a curacy, and he
had obtained such a living as middle-aged parsons in their dreams
regard as a possible Paradise for their old years. Of course he
thought that all these good things had been the results of his own
peculiar merits. Of course he felt that he was different from other
parsons,--more fitted by nature for intimacy with great persons, more
urbane, more polished, and more richly endowed with modern clerical
well-to-do aptitudes. He was grateful to Lady Lufton for what she had
done for him; but perhaps not so grateful as he should have been.

At any rate he was not Lady Lufton's servant, nor even her dependant.
So much he had repeated to himself on many occasions, and had gone
so far as to hint the same idea to his wife. In his career as parish
priest he must in most things be the judge of his own actions--and in
many also it was his duty to be the judge of those of his patroness.
The fact of Lady Lufton having placed him in the living, could by no
means make her the proper judge of his actions. This he often said
to himself; and he said as often that Lady Lufton certainly had a
hankering after such a judgement-seat.

Of whom generally did prime ministers and official bigwigs think it
expedient to make bishops and deans? Was it not, as a rule, of those
clergymen who had shown themselves able to perform their clerical
duties efficiently, and able also to take their place with ease in
high society? He was very well off certainly at Framley; but he
could never hope for anything beyond Framley, if he allowed himself
to regard Lady Lufton as a bugbear. Putting Lady Lufton and her
prejudices out of the question, was there any reason why he ought not
to accept the duke's invitation? He could not see that there was any
such reason. If any one could be a better judge on such a subject
than himself, it must be his bishop. And it was clear that the bishop
wished him to go to Gatherum Castle.

The matter was still left open to him. Mr. Fothergill had especially
explained that; and therefore his ultimate decision was as yet within
his own power. Such a visit would cost him some money, for he knew
that a man does not stay at great houses without expense; and then,
in spite of his good income, he was not very flush of money. He had
been down this year with Lord Lufton in Scotland. Perhaps it might
be more prudent for him to return home. But then an idea came to
him that it behoved him as a man and a priest to break through
that Framley thraldom under which he felt that he did to a certain
extent exist. Was it not the fact that he was about to decline this
invitation from fear of Lady Lufton? and if so, was that a motive by
which he ought to be actuated? It was incumbent on him to rid himself
of that feeling. And in this spirit he got up and dressed.

There was hunting again on that day; and as the hounds were to meet
near Chaldicotes, and to draw some coverts lying on the verge of the
chase, the ladies were to go in carriages through the drives of the
forest, and Mr. Robarts was to escort them on horseback. Indeed it
was one of those hunting-days got up rather for the ladies than for
the sport. Great nuisances they are to steady, middle-aged hunting
men; but the young fellows like them because they have thereby an
opportunity of showing off their sporting finery, and of doing a
little flirtation on horseback. The bishop, also, had been minded to
be of the party: so, at least, he had said on the previous evening;
and a place in one of the carriages had been set apart for him: but
since that, he and Mrs. Proudie had discussed the matter in private,
and at breakfast his lordship declared that he had changed his mind.

Mr. Sowerby was one of those men who are known to be very poor--as
poor as debt can make a man--but who, nevertheless, enjoy all the
luxuries which money can give. It was believed that he could not
live in England out of jail but for his protection as a member of
Parliament; and yet it seemed that there was no end to his horses
and carriages, his servants and retinue. He had been at this work
for a great many years, and practice, they say, makes perfect. Such
companions are very dangerous. There is no cholera, no yellow-fever,
no small-pox, more contagious than debt. If one lives habitually
among embarrassed men, one catches it to a certainty. No one had
injured the community in this way more fatally than Mr. Sowerby.
But still he carried on the game himself; and now, on this morning,
carriages and horses thronged at his gate, as though he were as
substantially rich as his friend the Duke of Omnium.

"Robarts, my dear fellow," said Mr. Sowerby, when they were well
under way down one of the glades of the forest,--for the place
where the hounds met was some four or five miles from the house of
Chaldicotes,--"ride on with me a moment. I want to speak to you; and
if I stay behind we shall never get to the hounds." So Mark, who had
come expressly to escort the ladies, rode on alongside of Mr. Sowerby
in his pink coat.

"My dear fellow, Fothergill tells me that you have some hesitation
about going to Gatherum Castle."

"Well, I did decline, certainly. You know I am not a man of pleasure,
as you are. I have some duties to attend to."

"Gammon!" said Mr. Sowerby; and as he said it, he looked with a kind
of derisive smile into the clergyman's face.

"It is easy enough to say that, Sowerby; and perhaps I have no right
to expect that you should understand me."

"Ah, but I do understand you; and I say it is gammon. I would be the
last man in the world to ridicule your scruples about duty, if this
hesitation on your part arose from any such scruple. But answer me
honestly, do you not know that such is not the case?"

"I know nothing of the kind."

"Ah, but I think you do. If you persist in refusing this invitation
will it not be because you are afraid of making Lady Lufton angry? I
do not know what there can be in that woman that she is able to hold
both you and Lufton in leading-strings." Robarts, of course, denied
the charge, and protested that he was not to be taken back to his own
parsonage by any fear of Lady Lufton. But though he made such protest
with warmth, he knew that he did so ineffectually. Sowerby only
smiled, and said that the proof of the pudding was in the eating.

"What is the good of a man keeping a curate if it be not to save him
from that sort of drudgery?" he asked.

"Drudgery! If I were a drudge how could I be here to-day?"

"Well, Robarts, look here. I am speaking now, perhaps, with more of
the energy of an old friend than circumstances fully warrant; but I
am an older man than you, and as I have a regard for you I do not
like to see you throw up a good game when it is in your hands."

"Oh, as far as that goes, Sowerby, I need hardly tell you that I
appreciate your kindness."

"If you are content," continued the man of the world, "to live at
Framley all your life, and to warm yourself in the sunshine of the
dowager there, why, in such case, it may perhaps be useless for you
to extend the circle of your friends; but if you have higher ideas
than these, you will be very wrong to omit the present opportunity of
going to the duke's. I never knew the duke go so much out of his way
to be civil to a clergyman as he has done in this instance."

"I am sure I am very much obliged to him."

"The fact is, that you may, if you please, make yourself popular
in the county; but you cannot do it by obeying all Lady Lufton's
behests. She is a dear old woman, I am sure."

"She is, Sowerby; and you would say so, if you knew her."

"I don't doubt it; but it would not do for you or me to live exactly
according to her ideas. Now, here, in this case, the bishop of the
diocese is to be one of the party, and he has, I believe, already
expressed a wish that you should be another."

"He asked me if I were going."

"Exactly; and Archdeacon Grantly will be there."

"Will he?" asked Mark. Now, that would be a great point gained, for
Archdeacon Grantly was a close friend of Lady Lufton.

"So I understand from Fothergill. Indeed, it will be very wrong of
you not to go, and I tell you so plainly; and what is more, when you
talk about your duty--you having a curate as you have--why, it is
gammon." These last words he spoke looking back over his shoulder
as he stood up in his stirrups, for he had caught the eye of the
huntsman, who was surrounded by his bounds, and was now trotting on
to join him. During a great portion of the day, Mark found himself
riding by the side of Mrs. Proudie, as that lady leaned back in
her carriage. And Mrs. Proudie smiled on him graciously, though
her daughter would not do so. Mrs. Proudie was fond of having an
attendant clergyman; and as it was evident that Mr. Robarts lived
among nice people--titled dowagers, members of Parliament, and people
of that sort--she was quite willing to install him as a sort of
honorary chaplain _pro tem_.

"I'll tell you what we have settled, Mrs. Harold Smith and I," said
Mrs. Proudie to him. "This lecture at Barchester will be so late on
Saturday evening, that you had all better come and dine with us."
Mark bowed and thanked her, and declared that he should be very happy
to make one of such a party. Even Lady Lufton could not object to
this, although she was not especially fond of Mrs. Proudie.

"And then they are to sleep at the hotel. It will really be too late
for ladies to think of going back so far at this time of the year. I
told Mrs. Harold Smith, and Miss Dunstable, too, that we could manage
to make room at any rate for them. But they will not leave the other
ladies; so they go to the hotel for that night. But, Mr. Robarts, the
bishop will never allow you to stay at the inn, so of course you will
take a bed at the palace."

It immediately occurred to Mark that as the lecture was to be given
on Saturday evening, the next morning would be Sunday; and, on that
Sunday, he would have to preach at Chaldicotes. "I thought they were
all going to return the same night," said he.

"Well, they did intend it; but you see Mrs. Smith is afraid."

"I should have to get back here on the Sunday morning, Mrs. Proudie."

"Ah, yes, that is bad--very bad indeed. No one dislikes any
interference with the Sabbath more than I do. Indeed, if I am
particular about anything it is about that. But some works are works
of necessity, Mr. Robarts; are they not? Now you must necessarily
be back at Chaldicotes on Sunday morning!" And so the matter was
settled. Mrs. Proudie was very firm in general in the matter of
Sabbath-day observances; but when she had to deal with such persons
as Mrs. Harold Smith, it was expedient that she should give way a
little. "You can start as soon as it's daylight, you know, if you
like it, Mr. Robarts," said Mrs. Proudie.

There was not much to boast of as to the hunting, but it was a very
pleasant day for the ladies. The men rode up and down the grass roads
through the chase, sometimes in the greatest possible hurry as though
they never could go quick enough; and then the coachmen would drive
very fast also, though they did not know why, for a fast pace of
movement is another of those contagious diseases. And then again
the sportsmen would move at an undertaker's pace, when the fox had
traversed and the hounds would be at a loss to know which was the
hunt and which was the heel; and then the carriage also would go
slowly, and the ladies would stand up and talk. And then the time for
lunch came; and altogether the day went by pleasantly enough.

"And so that's hunting, is it?" said Miss Dunstable.

"Yes, that's hunting," said Mr. Sowerby.

"I did not see any gentleman do anything that I could not do myself,
except there was one young man slipped off into the mud; and I
shouldn't like that."

"But there was no breaking of bones, was there, my dear?" said Mrs.
Harold Smith.

"And nobody caught any foxes," said Miss Dunstable. "The fact is,
Mrs. Smith, that I don't think much more of their sport than I do of
their business. I shall take to hunting a pack of hounds myself after
this."

"Do, my dear, and I'll be your whipper-in. I wonder whether Mrs.
Proudie would join us."

"I shall be writing to the duke to-night," said Mr. Fothergill to
Mark, as they were all riding up to the stable-yard together. "You
will let me tell his grace that you will accept his invitation--will
you not?"

"Upon my word, the duke is very kind," said Mark.

"He is very anxious to know you, I can assure you," said Fothergill.
What could a young flattered fool of a parson do, but say that he
would go? Mark did say that he would go; and in the course of the
evening his friend Mr. Sowerby congratulated him, and the bishop
joked with him and said that he knew that he would not give up good
company so soon; and Miss Dunstable said she would make him her
chaplain as soon as Parliament would allow quack doctors to have such
articles--an allusion which Mark did not understand, till he learned
that Miss Dunstable was herself the proprietress of the celebrated
Oil of Lebanon, invented by her late respected father, and patented
by him with such wonderful results in the way of accumulated fortune;
and Mrs. Proudie made him quite one of their party, talking to him
about all manner of Church subjects; and then at last, even Miss
Proudie smiled on him, when she learned that he had been thought
worthy of a bed at a duke's castle. And all the world seemed to be
open to him.

But he could not make himself happy that evening. On the next morning
he must write to his wife; and he could already see the look of
painful sorrow which would fall upon his Fanny's brow when she
learned that her husband was going to be a guest at the Duke of
Omnium's. And he must tell her to send him money, and money was
scarce. And then, as to Lady Lufton, should he send her some message,
or should he not? In either case he must declare war against her. And
then did he not owe everything to Lady Lufton? And thus in spite of
all his triumphs he could not get himself to bed in a happy frame of
mind.

On the next day, which was Friday, he postponed the disagreeable
task of writing. Saturday would do as well; and on Saturday morning,
before they all started for Barchester, he did write. And his letter
ran as follows:--


   Chaldicotes,--November, 185--.

   DEAREST LOVE,

   You will be astonished when I tell you how gay we all are
   here, and what further dissipations are in store for us.
   The Arabins, as you supposed, are not of our party; but
   the Proudies are,--as you supposed also. Your suppositions
   are always right. And what will you think when I tell you
   that I am to sleep at the palace on Saturday? You know
   that there is to be a lecture in Barchester on that day.
   Well; we must all go, of course, as Harold Smith, one of
   our set here, is to give it. And now it turns out that we
   cannot get back the same night because there is no moon;
   and Mrs. Bishop would not allow that my cloth should be
   contaminated by an hotel;--very kind and considerate, is
   it not?

   But I have a more astounding piece of news for you than
   this. There is to be a great party at Gatherum Castle
   next week, and they have talked me over into accepting an
   invitation which the duke sent expressly to me. I refused
   at first; but everybody here said that my doing so would
   be so strange; and then they all wanted to know my reason.
   When I came to render it, I did not know what reason I had
   to give. The bishop is going, and he thought it very odd
   that I should not go also, seeing that I was asked. I
   know what my own darling will think, and I know that she
   will not be pleased, and I must put off my defence till I
   return to her from this ogre-land,--if ever I do get back
   alive. But joking apart, Fanny, I think that I should
   have been wrong to stand out, when so much was said about
   it. I should have been seeming to take upon myself to
   sit in judgement upon the duke. I doubt if there be a
   single clergyman in the diocese, under fifty years of
   age, who would have refused the invitation under such
   circumstances,--unless it be Crawley, who is so mad on the
   subject that he thinks it almost wrong to take a walk out
   of his own parish. I must stay at Gatherum Castle over
   Sunday week--indeed, we only go there on Friday. I have
   written to Jones about the duties. I can make it up to
   him, as I know he wishes to go into Wales at Christmas.
   My wanderings will all be over then, and he may go for a
   couple of months if he pleases. I suppose you will take my
   classes in the school on Sunday, as well as your own; but
   pray make them have a good fire. If this is too much for
   you, make Mrs. Podgens take the boys. Indeed I think that
   will be better.

   Of course you will tell her ladyship of my whereabouts.
   Tell her from me, that as regards the bishop, as well as
   regarding another great personage, the colour has been
   laid on perhaps a little too thickly. Not that Lady Lufton
   would ever like him. Make her understand that my going to
   the duke's has almost become a matter of conscience with
   me. I have not known how to make it appear that it would
   be right for me to refuse, without absolutely making a
   party matter of it. I saw that it would be said, that I,
   coming from Lady Lufton's parish, could not go to the Duke
   of Omnium's. This I did not choose.

   I find that I shall want a little more money before I
   leave here, five or ten pounds--say ten pounds. If you
   cannot spare it, get it from Davis. He owes me more than
   that, a good deal. And now, God bless and preserve you, my
   own love. Kiss my darling bairns for papa, and give them
   my blessing.

   Always and ever your own,

   M. R.


And then there was written, on an outside scrap which was folded
round the full-written sheet of paper, "Make it as smooth at Framley
Court as possible." However strong, and reasonable, and unanswerable
the body of Mark's letter may have been, all his hesitation,
weakness, doubt, and fear, were expressed in this short postscript.


CHAPTER V

Amantium Iræ Amoris Integratio


And now, with my reader's consent, I will follow the postman with
that letter to Framley; not by its own circuitous route indeed, or by
the same mode of conveyance; for that letter went into Barchester by
the Courcy night mail-cart, which, on its road, passes through the
villages of Uffley and Chaldicotes, reaching Barchester in time for
the up mail-train to London. By that train, the letter was sent
towards the metropolis as far as the junction of the Barset branch
line, but there it was turned in its course, and came down again by
the main line as far as Silverbridge; at which place, between six
and seven in the morning, it was shouldered by the Framley footpost
messenger, and in due course delivered at the Framley Parsonage
exactly as Mrs. People could not decide where truth and fiction
blended, and the name of Caxton leaped into local fame.

The author of the tale was a lawyer, W. H. Rhodes, a man of standing
and ability, interested in scientific research. He had written little;
what time he had been able to spare from his work, had been given
to studies in chemistry whence he had drawn the inspiration for such
stories as The Case of Summerfield.

With him the writing of fiction was a pastime, not a profession. He
wrote because he wanted to, from the urgence of an idea pressing for
utterance, not from the more imperious necessity of keeping the
pot boiling and of there being a roof against the rain.

Literary creation was to him a rest, a matter of holiday in the daily
round of a man's labor to provide for his own.

His output was small. One slender volume contains all he wrote:
a few poems, half a dozen stories. In all of these we can feel
the spell exercised over him by the uncanny, the terrible, the
weirdly grotesque.

His imagination played round those subjects of fantastic horror which
had so potent an attraction for Fitz James O'Brien, the writer
whom he most resembles. There was something of Poe's cold pleasure
in dissecting the abnormally horrible in "The Story of John Pollexfen,"
the photographer, who, in order to discover a certain kind of lens,
experimented with living eyes. His cat and dog each lost an eye, and
finally a young girl was found willing to sell one of hers that
she might have money to help her lover.

But none of the other stories shows the originality and impressively
realistic tone which distinguish The Case of Summerfield. In this
he achieved the successful combination of audacity of theme with
a fitting incisiveness of style. It alone rises above the level of the
merely ingenious and clever; it alone of his work was worth
preserving.

Scattered through the ranks of writers, part of whose profession is
a continuous, unflagging output, are these "one story men," who, in
some propitious moment, when the powers of brain and heart are
intensified by a rare and happy alchemy, produce a single masterpiece.

The vision and the dream have once been theirs, and, though they may
never again return, the product of the glowing moment is ours to
rejoice in and wonder at. Unfortunately the value of these accidental
triumphs is not always seen. They go their way and are submerged in
the flood of fiction that the presses pour upon a defenseless country.
Now and then one unexpectedly hears of them, their unfamiliar
titles rise to the surface when writers gather round the table.
An investigator in the forgotten files of magazinedom has found one,
and tells of his treasure trove as the diver of his newly discovered
pearl. Then comes a publisher, who, diligent and patient, draws them
from their hiding-places, shakes off the dust, and gives them to a
public which once applauded and has since forgotten.

Such has been the fate of The Case of Summerfield. Thirty-five years
ago, in the town that clustered along the edge of San Francisco
Bay, it had its brief award of attention.

But the San Francisco of that day was very distant - a gleam
on the horizon against the blue line of the Pacific. It took a mighty
impetus to carry its decisions and opinions across the wall of the
Sierra and over the desert to the East. Fame and reputation,
unless the greatest, had not vitality for so long a flight.
So the strange and fantastic story should come as a discovery, the
one remarkable achievement of an unknown author, who, unfortunately,
is no longer here to enjoy an Indian summer of popularity.

Geraldine Bonner.

The Case of Summerfield
The following manuscript was found among the effects of the late
Leonidas Parker, in relation to one Gregory Summerfield, or, as he
was called at the time those singular events first attracted public
notice, "The Man with a Secret."

Parker was an eminent lawyer, a man of firm will, fond of dabbling
in the occult sciences, but never allowing this tendency to interfere
with the earnest practice of his profession.

This astounding narrative is prefaced by the annexed clipping from the
Auburn Messenger of November 1, 1870:

A few days since, we called public attention to the singular conduct
of James G. Wilkins, justice of the peace for the "Cape Horn"
district, in this county, in discharging without trial a man
named Parker, who was, as we still think, seriously implicated in
the mysterious death of an old man named Summerfield, who, our readers
will probably remember, met so tragical an end on the line of the
Central Pacific Railroad, in the month of October last. We have now
to record another bold outrage on public justice, in connection with
the same affair. The grand jury of Placer County has just adjourned,
without finding any bill against the person named above. Not only
did they refuse to find a true bill, or to make any presentment, but
they went one step further toward the exoneration of the offender;
they specially ignored the indictment which our district attorney
deemed it his duty to present. The main facts in relation to the
arrest and subsequent discharge of Parker may be summed up in
few words:

It appears that, about the last of October, one Gregory Summerfield,
an old man nearly seventy years of age, in company with Parker,
took passage for Chicago, via the Pacific Railroad, and about the
middle of the afternoon reached the neighborhood of Cape Horn, in
this county.
Nothing of any special importance seems to have attracted the
attention of any of the passengers toward these persons until a few
moments before passing the dangerous curve in the track, overlooking
the North Fork of the American River, at the place called Cape Horn.

As our readers are aware, the road at this point skirts a precipice,
with rocky perpendicular sides, extending to the bed of the stream,
nearly seventeen hundred feet below.

Before passing the curve, Parker was heard to comment upon the
sublimity of the scenery they were approaching, and finally requested
the old man to leave the car and stand upon the open platform, in
order to obtain a better view of the tremendous chasm and the
mountains just beyond.

The two men left the car, and a moment afterward a cry of horror was
heard by all the passengers, and the old man was observed to fall at
least one thousand feet upon the crags below.

The train was stopped for a few moments, but, fearful of a collision
if any considerable length of time should be lost in an unavailing
search for the mangled remains, it soon moved on again, and proceeded
as swiftly as possible to the next station.

There the miscreant Parker was arrested, and conveyed to the office
of the nearest justice of the peace for examination. We understand
that he refused to give any detailed account of the transaction,
only that "the deceased either fell or was thrown from the moving
train."
The examination was postponed until the arrival of Parker's
counsel, O'Connell & Kilpatrick, of Grass Valley, and after they
reached Cape Horn not a single word could be extracted from the
prisoner. It is said that the inquisition was a mere farce; there
being no witnesses present except one lady passenger, who, with
commendable spirit, volunteered to lay over one day, to give in
her testimony. We also learn that, after the trial, the justice,
together with the prisoner and his counsel, were closeted in
secret session for more than two hours; at the expiration of which
time the judge resumed his seat upon the bench, and discharged the
prisoner!

Now, we have no desire to do injustice toward any of the parties
to this singular transaction, much less to arm public sentiment
against an innocent man. But we do affirm that there is, there
must be, some profound mystery at the bottom of this affair, and
we shall do our utmost to fathom the secret.

Yes, there is a secret and mystery connected with the disappearance
of Summerfield, and the sole object of this communication is
to clear it up, and place myself right in the public estimation.
But, in order to do so, it becomes essentially necessary to
relate all the circumstances connected with my first and subsequent
acquaintance with Summerfield. To do this intelligibly, I shall
have to go back twenty-two years.

It is well known amongst my intimate friends that I resided in the
late Republic of Texas for many years antecedent to my immigration
to this State. During the year 1847, whilst but a boy, and residing
on the sea-beach some three or four miles from the city of Galveston,
Judge Wheeler, at that time Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of
Texas, paid us a visit, and brought with him a gentleman, whom he had
known several years previously on the Sabine River, in the eastern
part of that State.
This gentleman was introduced to us by the name of Summerfield. At
that time he was past the prime of life, slightly gray, and inclined
to corpulency.

He was of medium height, and walked proudly erect, as though
conscious of superior mental attainments. His face was one of those
which, once seen, can never be forgotten.

The forehead was broad, high, and protuberant. It was, besides, deeply
graven with wrinkles, and altogether was the most intellectual
that I had ever seen.

It bore some resemblance to that of Sir Isaac Newton, but still more
to Humboldt or Webster. The eyes were large, deep-set, and lustrous
with a light that seemed kindled in their own depths.

In color they were gray, and whilst in conversation absolutely blazed
with intellect. His mouth was large, but cut with all the precision
of a sculptor's chiseling. He was rather pale, but, when excited,
his complexion lit up with a sudden rush of ruddy flushes, that added
something like beauty to his half-sad and half-sardonic expression.
A word and a glance told me at once, this is a most extraordinary
man.

Judge Wheeler knew but little of the antecedents of Summerfield. He
was of Northern birth, but of what State it is impossible to say
definitely.
Early in life he removed to the frontier of Arkansas, and pursued for
some years the avocation of village schoolmaster. It was the suggestion
of Judge Wheeler that induced him to read law. In six months' time
he had mastered Story's Equity, and gained an important suit, based
upon one of its most recondite principles. But his heart was not in
the legal profession, and he made almost constant sallies into the
fields of science, literature and art. He was a natural mathematician
and was the most profound and original arithmetician in the Southwest.
He frequently computed the astronomical tables for the almanacs of
New Orleans, Pensacola and Mobile, and calculated eclipse, transit and
observations with ease and perfect accuracy.

He was also deeply read in metaphysics, and wrote and published, in
the old Democratic Review for 1846, an article on the "Natural
Proof of the Existence of a Deity," that for beauty of language,
depth of reasoning, versatility of illustration, and compactness
of logic, has never been equaled.

The only other publication which at that period he had made, was a
book that astonished all of his friends, both in title and execution.

It was called "The Desperadoes of the West," and purported to give
minute details of the lives of some of the most noted duelists and
bloodstained villains in the Western States.
But the book belied its title. It is full of splendid description
and original thought. No volume in the language contains so many
eloquent passages and such gorgeous imagery, in the same space.

His plea for immortality, on beholding the execution of one of the
most noted culprits of Arkansas, has no parallel in any living
language for beauty of diction and power of thought.

As my sole object in this communication is to defend myself,
some acquaintance with the mental resources of Summerfield is absolutely
indispensable; for his death was the immediate consequence of his
splendid attainments. Of chemistry he was a complete master. He
describes it in his article on a Deity, above alluded to, as the
"Youngest Daughter of the Sciences, born amid flames, and cradled
in rollers of fire." If there were any one science to which he was
more specially devoted than to any and all others, it was chemistry.
But he really seemed an adept in all, and shone about everywhere
with equal lustre.

Many of these characteristics were mentioned by Judge Wheeler
at the time of Summerfield's visit to Galveston, but others
subsequently came to my knowledge, after his retreat to Brownsville,
on the banks of the Rio Grande.

There he filled the position of Judge of the District Court, and such
was his position just previous to his arrival in this city in the
month of September of the past year.

One day, toward the close of last September, an old man rapped at
my office door, and on invitation came in, and advancing, called
me by name.

Perceiving that I did not at first recognize him, he introduced
himself as Gregory Summerfield.

After inviting him to a seat, I scrutinized his features more
closely, and quickly identified him as the same person whom I had
met twenty-two years before.

He was greatly altered in appearance, but the lofty forehead and
the gray eye were still there, unchanged and unchangeable. He was
not quite so stout, but more ruddy in complexion, and exhibited some
symptoms, as I then thought, of intemperate drinking. Still there was
the old charm of intellectual superiority in his conversation, and I
welcomed him to California as an important addition to her mental
wealth.

It was not many minutes before he requested a private interview.

He followed me into my back office, carefully closed the door after
him and locked it. We had scarcely seated ourselves before he inquired
of me if I had noticed any recent articles in the newspapers
respecting the discovery of the art of decomposing water so as to
fit it for use as a fuel for ordinary purposes?

I replied that I had observed nothing new upon that subject since the
experiments of Agassiz and Professor Henry, and added that, in my
opinion, the expensive mode of reduction would always prevent its
use.

In a few words he then informed me that he had made the discovery
that the art was extremely simple, and the expense attending the
decomposition so slight as to be insignificant.

Presuming then that the object of his visit to me was to procure
the necessary forms to get out a patent for the right, I congratulated
him upon his good fortune, and was about to branch forth with a
description of some of the great benefits that must ensue to the
community, when he suddenly and somewhat uncivilly requested me to
"be silent," and listen to what he had to say.

He began with some general remarks about the inequality of fortune
amongst mankind, and instanced himself as a striking example of
the fate of those men, who, according to all the rules of right,
ought to be near the top, instead of at the foot of the ladder of
fortune.

"But," said he, springing to his feet with impulsive energy, "I have
now the means at my command of rising superior to fate, or of
inflicting incalculable ills upon the whole human race."

Looking at him more closely, I thought I could detect in his eye the
gleam of madness; but I remained silent and awaited further
developments. But my scrutiny, stolen as it was, had been detected,
and he replied at once to the expression of my face: "No, sir; I
am neither drunk nor a maniac; I am in deep earnest in all that I
say; and I am fully prepared, by actual experiment, to demonstrate
beyond all doubt the truth of all I claim.

For the first time I noticed that he carried a small portmanteau in
his hand; this he placed upon the table, unlocked it, and took out
two or three small volumes, a pamphlet or two, and a small, square,
wide-mouthed vial, hermetically sealed.

I watched him with profound curiosity, and took note of his slightest
movements.

Having arranged his books to suit him, and placed the vial in a
conspicuous position, he drew up his chair very closely to my own,
and uttered in a half-hissing tone: "I demand one million dollars
for the contents of that bottle; and you must raise it for me in
the city of San Francisco within one month, or scenes too terrible
even for the imagination to conceive, will surely be witnessed by
every living human being on the face of the globe."

The tone, the manner, and the absurd extravagance of the demand,
excited a faint smile upon my lips, which he observed, but disdained
to notice.

My mind was fully made up that I had a maniac to deal with, and I
prepared to act accordingly.

But I ascertained at once that my inmost thoughts were read by the
remarkable man before me, and seemed to be anticipated by him in
advance of their expression.

"Perhaps," said I, "Mr. Summerfield, you would oblige me by informing
me fully of the grounds of your claim, and the nature of your
discovery."
"That is the object of my visit," he replied. "I claim to have
discovered the key which unlocks the constituent gases of water,
and frees each from the embrace of the other, at a single touch."
"You mean to assert," I rejoined, "that you can make water burn itself
up?"

"Nothing more nor less," he responded, "except this: to insist upon the
consequences of the secret, if my demand be not at once complied
with."

Then, without pausing for a moment to allow me to make a suggestion,
as I once or twice attempted to do, he proceeded in a clear and
deliberate manner, in these words: "I need not inform you, sir,
that when this earth was created, it consisted almost wholly of
vapor, which, by condensation, finally became water.

The oceans now occupy more than two-thirds of the entire surface
of the globe. The continents are mere islands in the midst of the
seas.

They are everywhere oceanbound, and the hyperborean north is hemmed
in by open polar seas.

Such is my first proposition. My second embraces the constituent
elements of water. What is that thing which we call water? Chemistry,
that royal queen of all the sciences, answers readily: 'Water is
but the combination of two gases, oxygen and hydrogen, and in the
proportion of eight to one.'

In other words, in order to form water, take eight parts of oxygen
and one of hydrogen, mix them together, and the result or product
is water.

You smile, sir, because, as you very properly think, these are the
elementary principles of science, and are familiar to the minds of
every schoolboy twelve years of age.

Yes! but what next? Suppose you take these same gases and mix them
in any other proportion, I care not what, and the instantaneous
result is heat, flame, combustion of the intensest description.

The famous Drummond Light, that a few years ago astonished Europe what
is that but the ignited flame of a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen
projected against a small piece of lime?

What was harmless as water, becomes the most destructive of all known
objects when decomposed and mixed in any other proportion.

"Now, suppose I fling the contents of this small vial into the
Pacific Ocean, what would be the result?

Dare you contemplate it for an instant?
I do not assert that the entire surface of the sea would instantaneously
bubble up into insufferable flames; no, but from the nucleus of a
circle, of which this vial would be the center, lurid radii of
flames would gradually shoot outward, until the blazing circumference
would roll in vast billows of fire, upon the uttermost shores.

Not all the dripping clouds of the deluge could extinguish it. Not
all the tears of saints and angels could for an instant check its
progress. On and onward it would sweep, with the steady gait of
destiny, until the continents would melt with fervent heat, the
atmosphere glare with the ominous conflagration, and all living
creatures, in land and sea and air, perish in one universal
catastrophe."
Then suddenly starting to his feet, he drew himself up to his full
height, and murmured solemnly, "I feel like a God!

and I recognize my fellow-men but as pygmies that I spurn beneath
my feet."
"Summerfield," said I calmly," there must be some strange error in
all this. You are self-deluded.

The weapon which you claim to wield is one that a good God and a
beneficent Creator would never intrust to the keeping of a mere
creature.

What, sir!

create a world as grand and beautiful as this, and hide within its
bosom a principle that at any moment might inwrap it in flames, and
sink all life in death? I'll not believe it; 't were blasphemy to
entertain the thought!"

"And yet," cried he passionately, "your Bible prophesies the same
irreverence. Look at your text in 2d Peter, third chapter, seventh
and twelfth verses. Are not the elements to melt with fervent heat?
Are not the 'heavens to be folded together like a scroll?' Are not
'the rocks to melt, the stars to fall, and the moon to be turned into
blood?' Is not fire the next grand cyclic consummation of all things
here below? But I come fully prepared to answer such objections.
Your argument betrays a narrow mind, circumscribed in its orbit,
and shallow in its depth.

'Tis the common thought of mediocrity.

You have read books too much, and studied nature too little. Let me
give you a lesson today in the workshop of Omnipotence.
"I shall come to you before dinner," said Lady Meredith; "and if I
can bring you good tidings, I shall expect you to come back here with
me. It is out of the question that I should go away from Framley
leaving you and my mother at enmity with each other." To this Mrs.
Robarts made no answer; and in a very few minutes afterwards she was
in her own nursery, kissing her children, and teaching the elder one
to say something about papa. But, even as she taught him, the tears
stood in her eyes, and the little fellow knew that everything was not
right. And there she sat till about two, doing little odds and ends
of things for the children, and allowing that occupation to stand
as an excuse to her for not commencing her letter. But then there
remained only two hours to her, and it might be that the letter would
be difficult in the writing--would require thought and changes, and
must needs be copied, perhaps, more than once. As to the money, that
she had in the house--as much, at least, as Mark now wanted, though
the sending of it would leave her nearly penniless. She could,
however, in case of personal need, resort to Davis as desired by him.

So she got out her desk in the drawing-room and sat down and wrote
her letter. It was difficult, though she found that it hardly took so
long as she expected. It was difficult, for she felt bound to tell
him the truth; and yet she was anxious not to spoil all his pleasure
among his friends. She told him, however, that Lady Lufton was very
angry, "unreasonably angry, I must say," she put in, in order to
show that she had not sided against him. "And, indeed, we have quite
quarrelled, and this has made me unhappy, as it will you, dearest; I
know that. But we both know how good she is at heart, and Justinia
thinks that she had other things to trouble her; and I hope it will
all be made up before you come home; only, dearest Mark, pray do not
be longer than you said in your last letter." And then there were
three or four paragraphs about the babies, and two about the schools,
which I may as well omit. She had just finished her letter, and was
carefully folding it for its envelope, with the two whole five-pound
notes imprudently placed within it, when she heard a footstep on the
gravel path which led up from a small wicket to the front door. The
path ran near the drawing-room window, and she was just in time
to catch a glimpse of the last fold of a passing cloak. "It is
Justinia," she said to herself; and her heart became disturbed at the
idea of again discussing the morning's adventure. "What am I to do,"
she had said to herself before, "if she wants me to beg her pardon? I
will not own before her that he is in the wrong."

And then the door opened--for the visitor made her entrance without
the aid of any servant--and Lady Lufton herself stood before her.
"Fanny," she said at once, "I have come to beg your pardon."

"Oh, Lady Lufton!"

"I was very much harassed when you came to me just now;--by more
things than one, my dear. But, nevertheless, I should not have spoken
to you of your husband as I did, and so I have come to beg your
pardon." Mrs. Robarts was past answering by the time that this was
said, past answering at least in words; so she jumped up, and with
her eyes full of tears, threw herself into her old friend's arms.
"Oh, Lady Lufton!" she sobbed forth again.

"You will forgive me, won't you?" said her ladyship, as she returned
her young friend's caress. "Well, that's right. I have not been at
all happy since you left my den this morning, and I don't suppose you
have. But, Fanny, dearest, we love each other too well, and know each
other too thoroughly, to have a long quarrel, don't we?"

"Oh, yes, Lady Lufton."

"Of course we do. Friends are not to be picked up on the road-side
every day; nor are they to be thrown away lightly. And now sit down,
my love, and let us have a little talk. There, I must take my bonnet
off. You have pulled the strings so that you have almost choked me."
And Lady Lufton deposited her bonnet on the table, and seated herself
comfortably in the corner of the sofa.

"My dear," she said, "there is no duty which any woman owes to any
other human being at all equal to that which she owes to her husband,
and, therefore, you were quite right to stand up for Mr. Robarts this
morning." Upon this Mrs. Robarts said nothing, but she got her hand
within that of her ladyship and gave it a slight squeeze.

"And I loved you for what you were doing all the time. I did, my
dear; though you were a little fierce, you know. Even Justinia admits
that, and she has been at me ever since you went away. And, indeed,
I did not know that it was in you to look in that way out of those
pretty eyes of yours."

"Oh, Lady Lufton!"

"But I looked fierce enough too myself, I dare say; so we'll say
nothing more about that; will we? But now, about this good man of
yours?"

"Dear Lady Lufton, you must forgive him."

"Well, as you ask me, I will. We'll have nothing more said about the
duke, either now or when he comes back; not a word. Let me see--he's
to be back;--when is it?"

"Wednesday week, I think."

"Ah, Wednesday. Well, tell him to come and dine up at the house on
Wednesday. He'll be in time, I suppose, and there shan't be a word
said about this horrid duke."

"I am so much obliged to you, Lady Lufton."

"But look here, my dear; believe me, he's better off without such
friends."

"Oh, I know he is; much better off."

"Well, I'm glad you admit that, for I thought you seemed to be in
favour of the duke."

"Oh, no, Lady Lufton."

"That's right, then. And now, if you'll take my advice, you'll use
your influence, as a good, dear sweet wife as you are, to prevent his
going there any more. I'm an old woman and he is a young man, and
it's very natural that he should think me behind the times. I'm not
angry at that. But he'll find that it's better for him, better for
him in every way, to stick to his old friends. It will be better for
his peace of mind, better for his character as a clergyman, better
for his pocket, better for his children and for you,--and better for
his eternal welfare. The duke is not such a companion as he should
seek;--nor, if he is sought, should he allow himself to be led away."
And then Lady Lufton ceased, and Fanny Robarts kneeling at her feet
sobbed, with her face hidden on her friend's knees. She had not
a word now to say as to her husband's capability of judging for
himself.

"And now I must be going again; but Justinia has made me
promise,--promise, mind you, most solemnly, that I would have you
back to dinner to-night,--by force if necessary. It was the only
way I could make my peace with her; so you must not leave me in the
lurch." Of course, Fanny said that she would go and dine at Framley
Court.

"And you must not send that letter, by any means," said her ladyship
as she was leaving the room, poking with her umbrella at the epistle,
which lay directed on Mis. Robarts's desk. "I can understand very
well what it contains. You must alter it altogether, my dear." And
then Lady Lufton went.

Mrs. Robarts instantly rushed to her desk and tore open her letter.
She looked at her watch and it was past four. She had hardly begun
another when the postman came. "Oh, Mary," she said, "do make him
wait. If he'll wait a quarter of an hour I'll give him a shilling."

"There's no need of that, ma'am. Let him have a glass of beer."

"Very well, Mary; but don't give him too much, for fear he should
drop the letters about. I'll be ready in ten minutes." And in five
minutes she had scrawled a very different sort of letter. But he
might want the money immediately, so she would not delay it for a
day.


CHAPTER VI

Mr. Harold Smith's Lecture


On the whole the party at Chaldicotes was very pleasant, and the
time passed away quickly enough. Mr. Robarts's chief friend there,
independently of Mr. Sowerby, was Miss Dunstable, who seemed to
take a great fancy to him, whereas she was not very accessible to
the blandishments of Mr. Supplehouse, nor more specially courteous
even to her host than good manners required of her. But then Mr.
Supplehouse and Mr. Sowerby were both bachelors, while Mark Robarts
was a married man. With Mr. Sowerby Robarts had more than one
communication respecting Lord Lufton and his affairs, which he would
willingly have avoided had it been possible. Sowerby was one of those
men who are always mixing up business with pleasure, and who have
usually some scheme in their mind which requires forwarding. Men of
this class have, as a rule, no daily work, no regular routine of
labour; but it may be doubted whether they do not toil much more
incessantly than those who have.

"Lufton is so dilatory," Mr. Sowerby said. "Why did he not arrange
this at once, when he promised it? And then he is so afraid of that
old woman at Framley Court. Well, my dear fellow, say what you will;
she is an old woman, and she'll never be younger. But do write to
Lufton, and tell him that this delay is inconvenient to me; he'll
do anything for you, I know." Mark said that he would write, and,
indeed, did do so; but he did not at first like the tone of the
conversation into which he was dragged. It was very painful to him to
hear Lady Lufton called an old woman, and hardly less so to discuss
the propriety of Lord Lufton's parting with his property. This was
irksome to him, till habit made it easy. But by degrees his feelings
became less acute, and he accustomed himself to his friend Sowerby's
mode of talking.

And then on Saturday afternoon they all went over to Barchester.
Harold Smith during the last forty-eight hours had become crammed
to overflowing with Sarawak, Labuan, New Guinea, and the Salomon
Islands. As is the case with all men labouring under temporary
specialities, he for the time had faith in nothing else, and was
not content that any one near him should have any other faith. They
called him Viscount Papua and Baron Borneo; and his wife, who headed
the joke against him, insisted on having her title. Miss Dunstable
swore that she would wed none but a South Sea islander; and to Mark
was offered the income and duties of Bishop of Spices. Nor did the
Proudie family set themselves against these little sarcastic quips
with any overwhelming severity. It is sweet to unbend oneself at the
proper opportunity, and this was the proper opportunity for Mrs.
Proudie's unbending. No mortal can be seriously wise at all hours;
and in these happy hours did that usually wise mortal, the bishop,
lay aside for awhile his serious wisdom.

"We think of dining at five to-morrow, my Lady Papua," said the
facetious bishop; "will that suit his lordship and the affairs of
State? he! he! he!" And the good prelate laughed at the fun. How
pleasantly young men and women of fifty or thereabouts can joke and
flirt and poke their fun about, laughing and holding their sides,
dealing in little innuendoes and rejoicing in nicknames, when they
have no Mentors of twenty-five or thirty near them to keep them in
order! The vicar of Framley might perhaps have been regarded as such
a Mentor, were it not for that capability of adapting himself to the
company immediately around him on which he so much piqued himself.
He therefore also talked to my Lady Papua, and was jocose about
the Baron,--not altogether to the satisfaction of Mr. Harold Smith
himself. For Mr. Harold Smith was in earnest, and did not quite
relish these jocundities. He had an idea that he could in about three
months talk the British world into civilizing New Guinea, and that
the world of Barsetshire would be made to go with him by one night's
efforts. He did not understand why others should be less serious, and
was inclined to resent somewhat stiffly the amenities of our friend
Mark.

"We must not keep the Baron waiting," said Mark, as they were
preparing to start for Barchester.

"I don't know what you mean by the Baron, sir," said Harold Smith.
"But perhaps the joke will be against you, when you are getting up
into your pulpit to-morrow, and sending the hat round among the
clod-hoppers of Chaldicotes."

"Those who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones; eh, Baron?"
said Miss Dunstable. "Mr. Robarts's sermon will be too near akin to
your lecture to allow of his laughing."

"If we can do nothing towards instructing the outer world till it's
done by the parsons," said Harold Smith, "the outer world will have
to wait a long time, I fear."

"Nobody can do anything of that kind short of a member of Parliament
and a would-be minister," whispered Mrs. Harold. And so they were all
very pleasant together, in spite of a little fencing with edge-tools;
and at three o'clock the _cortége_ of carriages started for
Barchester, that of the bishop, of course, leading the way. His
lordship, however, was not in it.

"Mrs. Proudie, I'm sure you'll let me go with you," said Miss
Dunstable, at the last moment, as she came down the big stone steps.
"I want to hear the rest of that story about Mr. Slope." Now this
upset everything. The bishop was to have gone with his wife, Mrs.
Smith, and Mark Robarts; and Mr. Sowerby had so arranged matters that
he could have accompanied Miss Dunstable in his phaeton. But no one
ever dreamed of denying Miss Dunstable anything. Of course Mark gave
way; but it ended in the bishop declaring that he had no special
predilection for his own carriage, which he did in compliance with
a glance from his wife's eye. Then other changes of course followed,
and, at last, Mr. Sowerby and Harold Smith were the joint occupants
of the phaeton. The poor lecturer, as he seated himself, made some
remark such as those he had been making for the last two days--for
out of a full heart the mouth speaketh. But he spoke to an impatient
listener. "D---- the South Sea islanders," said Mr. Sowerby.
"You'll have it all your own way in a few minutes, like a bull in a
china-shop; but for Heaven's sake let us have a little peace till
that time comes." It appeared that Mr. Sowerby's little plan of
having Miss Dunstable for his companion was not quite insignificant;
and, indeed, it may be said that but few of his little plans were
so. At the present moment he flung himself back in the carriage
and prepared for sleep. He could further no plan of his by a
_tête-à-tête_ conversation with his brother-in-law. And then Mrs.
Proudie began her story about Mr. Slope, or rather recommenced it.
She was very fond of talking about this gentleman, who had once been
her pet chaplain, but was now her bitterest foe; and in telling the
story, she had sometimes to whisper to Miss Dunstable, for there
were one or two fie-fie little anecdotes about a married lady, not
altogether fit for young Mr. Robarts's ears. But Mrs. Harold Smith
insisted on having them out loud, and Miss Dunstable would gratify
that lady in spite of Mrs. Proudie's winks.

"What, kissing her hand, and he a clergyman!" said Miss Dunstable.
"I did not think they ever did such things, Mr. Robarts."

"Still waters run deepest," said Mrs. Harold Smith.

"Hush-h-h," looked, rather than spoke, Mrs. Proudie. "The grief
of spirit which that bad man caused me nearly broke my heart, and
all the while, you know, he was courting--" and then Mrs. Proudie
whispered a name.

"What, the dean's wife!" shouted Miss Dunstable, in a voice which
made the coachman of the next carriage give a chuck to his horses as
he overheard her.

"The archdeacon's sister-in-law!" screamed Mrs. Harold Smith.

"What might he not have attempted next?" said Miss Dunstable.

"She wasn't the dean's wife then, you know," said Mrs. Proudie,
explaining.

"Well, you've a gay set in the chapter, I must say," said Miss
Dunstable. "You ought to make one of them in Barchester, Mr.
Robarts."

"Only perhaps Mrs. Robarts might not like it," said Mrs. Harold
Smith.

"And then the schemes which he tried on with the bishop!" said Mrs.
Proudie.

"It's all fair in love and war, you know," said Miss Dunstable.

"But he little knew whom he had to deal with when he began that,"
said Mrs. Proudie.

"The bishop was too many for him," suggested Mrs. Harold Smith, very
maliciously.

"If the bishop was not, somebody else was; and he was obliged to
leave Barchester in utter disgrace. He has since married the wife of
some tallow-chandler."

"The wife!" said Miss Dunstable. "What a man!"

"Widow, I mean; but it's all one to him."

"The gentleman was clearly born when Venus was in the ascendant,"
said Mrs. Smith. "You clergymen usually are, I believe, Mr. Robarts."
So that Mrs. Proudie's carriage was by no means the dullest as they
drove into Barchester that day; and by degrees our friend Mark became
accustomed to his companions, and before they reached the palace he
acknowledged to himself that Miss Dunstable was very good fun. We
cannot linger over the bishop's dinner, though it was very good of
its kind; and as Mr. Sowerby contrived to sit next to Miss Dunstable,
thereby overturning a little scheme made by Mr. Supplehouse, he again
shone forth in unclouded good humour. But Mr. Harold Smith became
impatient immediately on the withdrawal of the cloth. The lecture was
to begin at seven, and according to his watch that hour had already
come. He declared that Sowerby and Supplehouse were endeavouring to
delay matters in order that the Barchesterians might become vexed
and impatient; and so the bishop was not allowed to exercise his
hospitality in true episcopal fashion.

"You forget, Sowerby," said Supplehouse, "that the world here for the
last fortnight has been looking forward to nothing else."

"The world shall be gratified at once," said Mrs. Harold, obeying a
little nod from Mrs. Proudie. "Come, my dear," and she took hold of
Miss Dunstable's arm, "don't let us keep Barchester waiting. We shall
be ready in a quarter of an hour, shall we not, Mrs. Proudie?" and so
they sailed off.

"And we shall have time for one glass of claret," said the bishop.

"There; that's seven by the cathedral," said Harold Smith, jumping
up from his chair as he heard the clock. "If the people have come it
would not be right in me to keep them waiting, and I shall go."

"Just one glass of claret, Mr. Smith, and we'll be off," said the
bishop.

"Those women will keep me an hour," said Harold, filling his glass,
and drinking it standing. "They do it on purpose," He was thinking
of his wife, but it seemed to the bishop as though his guest were
actually speaking of Mrs. Proudie.

It was rather late when they all found themselves in the big room of
the Mechanics' Institute; but I do not know whether this on the whole
did them any harm. Most of Mr. Smith's hearers, excepting the party
from the palace, were Barchester tradesmen with their wives and
families; and they waited, not impatiently, for the big people. And
then the lecture was gratis, a fact which is always borne in mind
by an Englishman when he comes to reckon up and calculate the way
in which he is treated. When he pays his money, then he takes his
choice; he may be impatient or not as he likes. His sense of justice
teaches him so much, and in accordance with that sense he usually
acts. So the people on the benches rose graciously when the palace
party entered the room. Seats for them had been kept in the front.
There were three arm-chairs, which were filled, after some little
hesitation, by the bishop, Mrs. Proudie, and Miss Dunstable--Mrs.
Smith positively declining to take one of them; though, as she
admitted, her rank as Lady Papua of the islands did give her some
claim. And this remark, as it was made quite out loud, reached Mr.
Smith's ears as he stood behind a little table on a small raised
dais, holding his white kid gloves; and it annoyed him and rather put
him out. He did not like that joke about Lady Papua. And then the
others of the party sat upon a front bench covered with red cloth.
"We shall find this very hard and very narrow about the second hour,"
said Mr. Sowerby, and Mr. Smith on his dais again overheard the
words, and dashed his gloves down to the table. He felt that all the
room would hear it.

And there were one or two gentlemen on the second seat who shook
hands with some of our party. There was Mr. Thorne, of Ullathorne,
a good-natured old bachelor, whose residence was near enough
to Barchester to allow of his coming in without much personal
inconvenience; and next to him was Mr. Harding, an old clergyman
of the chapter, with whom Mrs. Proudie shook hands very graciously,
making way for him to seat himself close behind her if he would so
please. But Mr. Harding did not so please. Having paid his respects
to the bishop he returned quietly to the side of his old friend Mr.
Thorne, thereby angering Mrs. Proudie, as might easily be seen by her
face. And Mr. Chadwick also was there, the episcopal man of business
for the diocese; but he also adhered to the two gentlemen above
named. And now that the bishop and the ladies had taken their places,
Mr. Harold Smith relifted his gloves and again laid them down, hummed
three times distinctly, and then began.

"It was," he said, "the most peculiar characteristic of the present
era in the British islands that those who were high placed before the
world in rank, wealth, and education were willing to come forward
and give their time and knowledge without fee or reward, for the
advantage and amelioration of those who did not stand so high in the
social scale." And then he paused for a moment, during which Mrs.
Smith remarked to Miss Dunstable that that was pretty well for a
beginning; and Miss Dunstable replied, "that as for herself she felt
very grateful to rank, wealth, and education." Mr. Sowerby winked
to Mr. Supplehouse, who opened his eyes very wide and shrugged his
shoulders. But the Barchesterians took it all in good part and gave
the lecturer the applause of their hands and feet. And then, well
pleased, he recommenced--"I do not make these remarks with reference
to myself--"

"I hope he's not going to be modest," said Miss Dunstable.

"It will be quite new if he is," replied Mrs. Smith.

"--so much as to many noble and talented lords and members of the
lower House who have lately from time to time devoted themselves to
this good work." And then he went through a long list of peers and
members of Parliament, beginning, of course, with Lord Boanerges, and
ending with Mr. Green Walker, a young gentleman who had lately been
returned by his uncle's interest for the borough of Crewe Junction,
and had immediately made his entrance into public life by giving a
lecture on the grammarians of the Latin language as exemplified at
Eton School. "On the present occasion," Mr. Smith continued, "our
object is to learn something as to those grand and magnificent
islands which lie far away, beyond the Indies, in the Southern Ocean;
the lands of which produce rich spices and glorious fruits, and whose
seas are embedded with pearls and corals,--Papua and the Philippines,
Borneo and the Moluccas. My friends, you are familiar with your maps,
and you know the track which the equator makes for itself through
those distant oceans." And then many heads were turned down, and
there was a rustle of leaves; for not a few of those "who stood not
so high in the social scale" had brought their maps with them, and
refreshed their memories as to the whereabouts of these wondrous
islands.

And then Mr. Smith also, with a map in his hand, and pointing
occasionally to another large map which hung against the wall, went
into the geography of the matter. "We might have found that out from
our atlases, I think, without coming all the way to Barchester,"
said that unsympathizing helpmate, Mrs. Harold, very cruelly--most
illogically too, for there be so many things which we could find out
ourselves by search, but which we never do find out unless they be
specially told us; and why should not the latitude and longitude of
Labuan be one--or rather two of these things? And then, when he had
duly marked the path of the line through Borneo, Celebes, and Gilolo,
through the Macassar Strait and the Molucca passage, Mr. Harold
Smith rose to a higher flight. "But what," said he, "avails all
that God can give to man, unless man will open his hand to receive
the gift? And what is this opening of the hand but the process of
civilization--yes, my friends, the process of civilization? These
South Sea islanders have all that a kind Providence can bestow on
them; but that all is as nothing without education. That education
and that civilization it is for you to bestow upon them--yes, my
friends, for you; for you, citizens of Barchester as you are." And
then he paused again, in order that the feet and hands might go to
work. The feet and hands did go to work, during which Mr. Smith took
a slight drink of water. He was now quite in his element, and had
got into the proper way of punching the table with his fists. A few
words dropping from Mr. Sowerby did now and again find their way to
his ears, but the sound of his own voice had brought with it the
accustomed charm, and he ran on from platitude to truism, and from
truism back to platitude, with an eloquence that was charming to
himself.

"Civilization," he exclaimed, lifting up his eyes and hands to the
ceiling. "O Civilization--"

"There will not be a chance for us now for the next hour and a half,"
said Mr. Supplehouse, groaning. Harold Smith cast one eye down at
him, but it immediately flew back to the ceiling.

"O Civilization! thou that ennoblest mankind and makest him equal to
the gods, what is like unto thee?" Here Mrs. Proudie showed evident
signs of disapprobation, which no doubt would have been shared by
the bishop, had not that worthy prelate been asleep. But Mr. Smith
continued unobservant; or at any rate regardless. "What is like unto
thee? Thou art the irrigating stream which makest fertile the barren
plain. Till thou comest all is dark and dreary; but at thy advent the
noontide sun shines out, the earth gives forth her increase; the deep
bowels of the rocks render up their tribute. Forms which were dull
and hideous become endowed with grace and beauty, and vegetable
existence rises to the scale of celestial life. Then, too, Genius
appears clad in a panoply of translucent armour, grasping in his
hand the whole terrestrial surface, and making every rood of earth
subservient to his purposes;--Genius, the child of Civilization, the
mother of the Arts!" The last little bit, taken from the "Pedigree
of Progress," had a great success, and all Barchester went to work
with its hands and feet;--all Barchester, except that ill-natured
aristocratic front-row together with the three arm-chairs at the
corner of it. The aristocratic front row felt itself to be too
intimate with civilization to care much about it; and the three
arm-chairs, or rather that special one which contained Mrs.
Proudie, considered that there was a certain heathenness, a pagan
sentimentality almost amounting to infidelity, contained in the
lecturer's remarks, with which she, a pillar of the Church, could not
put up, seated as she was now in public conclave.

"It is to civilization that we must look," continued Mr. Harold
Smith, descending from poetry to prose as a lecturer well knows how,
and thereby showing the value of both--"for any material progress in
these islands; and--"

"And to Christianity," shouted Mrs. Proudie, to the great amazement
of the assembled people, and to the thorough wakening of the bishop,
who, jumping up in his chair at the sound of the well-known voice,
exclaimed, "Certainly, certainly."

"Hear, hear, hear," said those on the benches who particularly
belonged to Mrs. Proudie's school of divinity in the city, and among
the voices was distinctly heard that of a new verger in whose behalf
she had greatly interested herself.

"Oh, yes, Christianity of course," said Harold Smith, upon whom the
interruption did not seem to operate favourably.

"Christianity and Sabbath-day observance," exclaimed Mrs. Proudie,
who, now that she had obtained the ear of the public, seemed well
inclined to keep it. "Let us never forget that these islanders can
never prosper unless they keep the Sabbath holy." Poor Mr. Smith,
having been so rudely dragged from his high horse, was never able
to mount it again, and completed the lecture in a manner not at all
comfortable to himself. He had there, on the table before him, a huge
bundle of statistics, with which he had meant to convince the reason
of his hearers, after he had taken full possession of their feelings.
But they fell very dull and flat. And at the moment when he was
interrupted, he was about to explain that that material progress to
which he had alluded could not be attained without money; and that it
behoved them, the people of Barchester before him, to come forward
with their purses like men and brothers. He did also attempt this;
but from the moment of that fatal onslaught from the arm-chair,
it was clear to him, and to every one else, that Mrs. Proudie was
now the hero of the hour. His time had gone by, and the people of
Barchester did not care a straw for his appeal. From these causes
the lecture was over full twenty minutes earlier than any one had
expected, to the great delight of Messrs. Sowerby and Supplehouse,
who, on that evening, moved and carried a vote of thanks to Mrs.
Proudie. For they had gay doings yet before they went to their beds.

"Robarts, here one moment," Mr. Sowerby said, as they were standing
at the door of the Mechanics' Institute. "Don't you go off with Mr.
and Mrs. Bishop. We are going to have a little supper at the Dragon
of Wantly, and, after what we have gone through, upon my word we want
it. You can tell one of the palace servants to let you in." Mark
considered the proposal wistfully. He would fain have joined the
supper party had he dared; but he, like many others of his cloth, had
the fear of Mrs. Proudie before his eyes. And a very merry supper
they had; but poor Mr. Harold Smith was not the merriest of the
party.


CHAPTER VII

Sunday Morning


It was, perhaps, quite as well on the whole for Mark Robarts, that he
did not go to that supper party. It was eleven o'clock before they
sat down and nearly two before the gentlemen were in bed. It must
be remembered that he had to preach, on the coming Sunday morning,
a charity sermon on behalf of a mission to Mr. Harold Smith's
islanders; and, to tell the truth, it was a task for which he had
now very little inclination. When first invited to do this, he had
regarded the task seriously enough, as he always did regard such
work, and he completed his sermon for the occasion before he left
Framley; but, since that, an air of ridicule had been thrown over the
whole affair, in which he had joined without much thinking of his own
sermon, and this made him now heartily wish that he could choose a
discourse upon any other subject. He knew well that the very points
on which he had most insisted, were those which had drawn most mirth
from Miss Dunstable and Mrs. Smith, and had oftenest provoked his own
laughter; and how was he now to preach on those matters in a fitting
mood, knowing, as he would know, that those two ladies would be
looking at him, would endeavour to catch his eye, and would turn him
into ridicule as they had already turned the lecturer? In this he did
injustice to one of the ladies, unconsciously. Miss Dunstable, with
all her aptitude for mirth, and we may almost fairly say for frolic,
was in no way inclined to ridicule religion or anything which she
thought to appertain to it. It may be presumed that among such things
she did not include Mrs. Proudie, as she was willing enough to laugh
at that lady; but Mark, had he known her better, might have been sure
that she would have sat out his sermon with perfect propriety.

As it was, however, he did feel considerable uneasiness; and in the
morning he got up early, with the view of seeing what might be done
in the way of emendation. He cut out those parts which referred most
specially to the islands,--he rejected altogether those names over
which they had all laughed together so heartily,--and he inserted a
string of general remarks, very useful, no doubt, which he flattered
himself would rob his sermon of all similarity to Harold Smith's
lecture. He had, perhaps, hoped, when writing it, to create some
little sensation; but now he would be quite satisfied if it passed
without remark. But his troubles for that Sunday were destined to
be many. It had been arranged that the party at the hotel should
breakfast at eight and start at half-past eight punctually, so as
to enable them to reach Chaldicotes in ample time to arrange their
dresses before they went to church. The church stood in the grounds,
close to that long formal avenue of lime trees, but within the front
gates. Their walk, therefore, after reaching Mr. Sowerby's house,
would not be long.

Mrs. Proudie, who was herself an early body, would not hear of her
guest--and he a clergyman--going out to the inn for his breakfast
on a Sunday morning. As regarded that Sabbath-day journey to
Chaldicotes, to that she had given her assent, no doubt with much
uneasiness of mind; but let them have as little desecration as
possible. It was therefore an understood thing that he was to return
with his friends; but he should not go without the advantage of
family prayers and family breakfast. And so Mrs. Proudie on retiring
to rest gave the necessary orders, to the great annoyance of her
household.

To the great annoyance, at least, of her servants! The bishop himself
did not make his appearance till a much later hour. He in all things
now supported his wife's rule; in all things, now, I say; for
there had been a moment, when in the first flush and pride of his
episcopacy, other ideas had filled his mind. Now, however, he gave no
opposition to that good woman with whom Providence had blessed him;
and in return for such conduct that good woman administered in all
things to his little personal comforts. With what surprise did the
bishop now look back upon that unholy war which he had once been
tempted to wage against the wife of his bosom? Nor did any of the
Miss Proudies show themselves at that early hour. They, perhaps, were
absent on a different ground. With them Mrs. Proudie had not been
so successful as with the bishop. They had wills of their own which
became stronger and stronger every day. Of the three with whom Mrs.
Proudie was blessed one was already in a position to exercise that
will in a legitimate way over a very excellent young clergyman in
the diocese, the Rev. Optimus Grey; but the other two, having as yet
no such opening for their powers of command, were perhaps a little
too much inclined to keep themselves in practice at home. But at
half-past seven punctually Mrs. Proudie was there, and so was the
domestic chaplain; so was Mr. Robarts, and so were the household
servants--all excepting one lazy recreant. "Where is Thomas?" said
she of the Argus eyes, standing up with her book of family prayers in
her hand. "So please you, ma'am, Tummas be bad with the tooth-ache."
"Tooth-ache!" exclaimed Mrs. Proudie; but her eyes said more terrible
things than that. "Let Thomas come to me before church." And then
they proceeded to prayers. These were read by the chaplain, as it was
proper and decent that they should be: but I cannot but think that
Mrs. Proudie a little exceeded her office in taking upon herself
to pronounce the blessing when the prayers were over. She did it,
however, in a clear, sonorous voice, and perhaps with more personal
dignity than was within the chaplain's compass.

Mrs. Proudie was rather stern at breakfast, and the vicar of Framley
felt an unaccountable desire to get out of the house. In the first
place she was not dressed with her usual punctilious attention to the
proprieties of her high situation. It was evident that there was to
be a further toilet before she sailed up the middle of the cathedral
choir. She had on a large loose cap with no other strings than those
which were wanted for tying it beneath her chin, a cap with which the
household and the chaplain were well acquainted, but which seemed
ungracious in the eyes of Mr. Robarts after all the well-dressed
holiday doings of the last week. She wore also a large, loose,
dark-coloured wrapper, which came well up round her neck, and which
was not buoyed out, as were her dresses in general, with an under
mechanism of petticoats. It clung to her closely, and added to the
inflexibility of her general appearance. And then she had encased her
feet in large carpet slippers, which no doubt were comfortable, but
which struck her visitor as being strange and unsightly. "Do you
find a difficulty in getting your people together for early morning
prayers?" she said, as she commenced her operations with the teapot.

"I can't say that I do," said Mark. "But then we are seldom so early
as this."

"Parish clergymen should be early, I think," said she. "It sets a
good example in the village."

"I am thinking of having morning prayers in the church," said Mr.
Robarts.

"That's nonsense," said Mrs. Proudie, "and usually means worse than
nonsense. I know what that comes to. If you have three services on
Sunday and domestic prayers at home, you do very well." And so saying
she handed him his cup.

"But I have not three services on Sunday, Mrs. Proudie."

"Then I think you should have. Where can the poor people be so well
off on Sundays as in church? The bishop intends to express a very
strong opinion on this subject in his next charge; and then I am sure
you will attend to his wishes." To this Mark made no answer, but
devoted himself to his egg.

"I suppose you have not a very large establishment at Framley?" asked
Mrs. Proudie.

"What, at the parsonage?"

"Yes; you live at the parsonage, don't you?"

"Certainly--well; not very large, Mrs. Proudie; just enough to do the
work, make things comfortable, and look after the children."

"It is a very fine living," said she; "very fine. I don't remember
that we have anything so good ourselves,--except it is Plumstead, the
archdeacon's place. He has managed to butter his bread pretty well."

"His father was Bishop of Barchester."

"Oh, yes, I know all about him. Only for that he would barely have
risen to be an archdeacon, I suspect. Let me see; yours is £800, is
it not, Mr. Robarts? And you such a young man! I suppose you have
insured your life highly."

"Pretty well, Mrs. Proudie."

"And then, too, your wife had some little fortune, had she not? As
to the use of "R.S.V.P.," or any of the phrases now preferred by
many, as, "Please reply;" "The favor of an answer is requested,"
etc., this may be said: some authorities claim that _all_ invitations
should be _answered_; and that therefore these _requests_ for a reply
are a reflection on the good manners of the people invited. But such
is not the popular understanding. All invitations that are _plainly
limited to a certain number of guests_, as dinners, card parties,
and certain exclusive receptions, should be answered at once, in
order that vacancies may be filled. Whether the invitation is
accompanied with the request for a reply or not, all thoughtful
people will recognize the propriety. But on many occasions where
numbers are not necessarily limited, only the hostess can say
whether the reply is urgent or not; since it is a question of her
personal convenience, the limits of house-room, or some other
individual matter. As no one class of entertainments is given
always under the same conditions, it is well to allow the hostess
to choose whether she will add or omit the request for a reply to
her invitations.

Meanwhile, the punctilious may reply to every invitation of a strictly
social character, and even if the host or hostess did not expect it,
such reply can give no offense; whereas, the _neglect_ of a _necessary_
reply might prove very awkward and annoying.

A private ball is only a more elaborate form of a dancing party.
The invitations are phrased in the same language, but the hour is
usually not earlier than 9.30 P.

M.

The same form of invitation can be adapted to almost any reception,
party or other social entertainment, with such variations in the
phrasing as suit the circumstances.

It may be said that it is unnecessary to give explicit directions
about invitations, inasmuch as the engraver is the one ultimately
responsible for the accuracy of these things. But on occasions when
small numbers are invited--but undiminished formality is observed--the
formal invitation is requisite, yet the engraved card is a needless
expense.
In such cases one may have cards _written_ in due form. But, for
written invitations of this formal character, it is imperative that
the paper shall be of superior quality, and the penmanship neat, and
_thoroughly stylish_ in effect.

CARDS OF INVITATION TO A WEDDING are issued in the name of the bride's
parents, or, if she is an orphan, by her guardian, or some relative
or friend who gives her the wedding. All expenses are paid by the
bride's family.

It is not etiquette for the groom to bear any of the expense, except
the fee to the clergy man; nor to furnish anything for his own
wedding, except the ring and the bouquet for the bride, presents
for the brides-maids and best man, and some little token for the
ushers.

The hostess (who invites) requests the groom to furnish her with
two lists of names--one list of those of his friends whom he wishes
to be present to witness the ceremony, and another list of those
whom he would like to see at the reception also. These, with similar
lists of the bride's friends, make up the number of guests to be
invited.
Wedding invitations are usually sent out two weeks before the day
fixed for the ceremony. The invitation is engraved and printed upon
a note sheet, in handsome plain script, the lines broken to give
distinction to the several ideas, and the wording made as terse
as possible. The formula is nearly unvarying:

MR. AND MRS.

GEORGE LATHROP request the pleasure of your company (or the honor
of your presence) at the marriage of their daughter, MARY ADELAIDE,
to MR.

WILLIAM HENRY BISHOP, at St. Philip's Church, On Wednesday evening,
October twelfth, at seven o'clock.

If the marriage is to be solemnized at home the date follows the
names in succession, and the place of residence is given last. The
invitation may vary, "the wedding reception of their daughter,"
etc.
Or, accompanying the church wedding invitation may be a square card
bearing the lines: "Reception from half-past seven until nine
o'clock," with place of residence on the line below.

Also, to avoid a crowd at the church, a smaller card is sometimes
sent with the invitations bearing, for example, the words: "Please
present this card at St. Philip's Church, Wednesday evening, October
twelfth, at seven o'clock." This card of admission is also given to
dependents--the domestics of the family or such persons as may
be entitled to the kind notice, but who are not, strictly speaking,
invited guests. The number of such cards should never be greater
than the comfortable capacity of the church, lest their original
purpose be defeated.

In case the ceremony is private the immediate family and chosen friends
are invited verbally. It is then optional whether or not a formal
announcement shall be made to a wider circle of friends by sending
out engraved cards the day after the ceremony. These are, like the
invitations, printed on note sheets, and are phrased briefly, as
MR. AND MRS.

GEORGE LATHROP announce the marriage of their daughter, MARY ADELAIDE,
to MR. WILLIAM HENRY BISHOP, Wednesday evening, October twelfth, St.
Philip's Church.

"At Home" cards sometimes accompany this announcement, or they may
be sent out later by the young couple themselves, if a long wedding
trip intervenes.

The private wedding and after announcement is often the most suitable--in
fact, the only appropriate method to adopt when a bride is comparatively
alone in the world, or has no near relatives to take charge of
wedding formalities. In such a case the announcement is worded:
"Mr. William Henry Bishop and Miss Mary Adelaide Lathrop, married,
Wednesday, October twelfth, 149 Willow St." If no other place is
given this is understood to be the place where to address cards
of congratulation. If the young couple are to receive later, in a
new home, that address, with date of the "at home," is also given,
thus, "At home, after November fifteenth, 1129 Lake St." If the change
of residence is to another town, the name of the town is also
given.

For the proper style of "displaying" the phrases of an invitation
or announcement one may apply to a first-class stationer. Plain
script and the finest white paper are always correct. Any show
of ornamentation is out of taste.

When the circle of acquaintances is very large and invitations must
be limited to a certain number, the announcement cards may be sent
to others.

A wedding invitation, unless it includes a wedding breakfast, limited
in number, requires no reply. Cards sent afterward are all that is
necessary. These cards, and whatever congratulations are sent,
are addressed to the ones in whose name the invitation or announcement
was sent out--usually the parents of the bride.

A congratulatory note to the bride is always in order among intimate
friends, _but this bears no relation to a response to the
invitation_.

WEDDING ANNIVERSARY INVITATIONS are simply, "Mr. and Mrs. George
Lathrop, at home," etc., with date and residence. They are printed
on cards or note sheets, preferably the latter, and the character
of the occasion is indicated by a monogram at the top of the page,
in the centre, flanked by the two annual dates, as "1837 [monogram]
1887."

If for a golden wedding this heading is lettered in gold; if for a
silver wedding, in silver, the invitation being, as usual, printed
in black ink.

It is good form to engrave "No presents" in the lower left corner,
if such is the wish of "the bride and groom."

DINNER CARDS OF INVITATION may have this form:

MR. AND MRS.

GEORGE LATHROP request the pleasure Of ....................................

company at dinner on Thursday, ................ at seven o'clock.
95 Willow Street.

The above form may be engraved for perennial use by a host or hostess
who frequently give dinners, and always on the same day of the week.

Blanks are left to be filled in with the name of the invited guest
and the exact date. Or for a single occasion the form may be without
any blank spaces, and the phrasing read, "Request the pleasure of your
company."

A dinner given in honor of some distinguished guest requires an
invitation card specially engraved.

This form is most deferential:

To meet GENERAL LA FAYETTE, MR.

AND MRS. GEORGE LATHROP request the honor of ........................
company at dinner on Wednesday, May tenth, at eight o'clock.
95 Willow Street.

If the honored guest is esteemed on the score of personal friendship
rather than public distinction his name will be given last, instead
of first, on the card, the phrasing of the invitation remaining the
same.

Invitations to dinner should be answered at once, and no one should
accept if there is the least doubt about being able to be present.
Only the most serious detentions suddenly arising will excuse a
failure to keep a dinner engagement once made. If such contingency
does occur at the eleventh hour an explanation and apology should be
sent to the host or hostess without delay in order to give opportunity
for securing "the fourteenth man."

FOR A FORMAL LUNCHEON OR BREAKFAST the invitation cards are similar
in form to dinner cards. But since the manner of serving, the numbers
invited, etc., are not so definitely fixed it is proper to add
R.S.V.P.
on cards that especially call for a reply in the judgment of the
hostess. Otherwise many people with vague ideas of the "informality"
of these occasions might omit to send replies.

THE CONDUCT OF A CHURCH WEDDING
The sexton should be duly informed what preparations to make at the
church; the awning at the entrance, the ribbon barrier across the
aisle, the floral decorations, etc., by whomever arranged and
executed are under the supervision of this functionary, who is
responsible for having everything in order.

It is no longer good form for a bride to be late at her own wedding.

Now, when the invitation says "seven o'clock" it is expected that the
ceremony will begin at that hour precisely, accidents aside.

The organist is engaged by some one interested in making the arrangements,
and is supposed to be in his place for a half-hour or so before the
hour of the ceremony; and while the guests are assembling he discourses
music appropriate to the occasion--a rambling, meditative _pot-pourri_
of sweet and pathetic sentimental songs being a popular and effective
choice.

In churches having a vested choir it is possible to secure very
beautiful effects in the musical adjuncts, the processional adding
greatly to the grace and dignity of the ceremonial.

The sexton, or his deputy, stands at the door, salver in hand, to
receive the admission cards as people enter the church. The invited
guests are met at the foot of the centre aisle by the ushers.
An usher offers his arm to a lady and conducts her to a seat,
the friends of the bride being seated at the left and the friends
of the groom at the right of the middle aisle.

When, as often happens, the groom is "from a distance," and few
of his far-away acquaintances can be present, this separation
of guests is not observed.

At the appointed hour, the clergyman appears at the altar rail; the
groom, accompanied by his best man, emerges from the vestry, and
takes his place at the right, awaiting the arrival of the bride. At
this instant, the organist stops dreaming, wakes up, and starts
boldly into the wedding march, as the bridal party move up the
aisle, in the following order: First, the ushers, in pairs, then
the bridesmaids, also in pairs.

Sometimes a little "maid of honor," carrying flowers, precedes
the bride.

The bride, leaning on the arm of her father, comes last.

The ushers and the bridesmaids separate as they reach the altar, and
go to the right and to the left. At the altar the groom receives
the bride from her father's hand.

The latter steps back a few paces, but remains near enough to "give
away the bride."

When this point in the ceremony has been passed, the father
quietly joins the mother in the front pew.

If the processional has been the "Lohengrin" march, it is thought by
many to be very effective for the organist, all through the
ceremony, to continue on the swell organ a dreamy _sotto voce_
improvisation, in the course of which a varied reiteration of
"Faithful and true" serves as an affecting expression of the
sentiment of the hour.

The most enjoyable tears are shed by the emotional under this
inspiration. But other people prefer the solemn stillness, broken only
by the voice of the priest and the responses of the high contracting
parties. It is a matter of taste and feeling; and those interested
are at liberty to indulge either fancy.

The bride stands at the left of the groom during the ceremony;
and also takes his left arm at the close. When the ceremony is
concluded, the officiating clergyman congratulates the couple, but
does not kiss the bride as formerly. In the Episcopal Church, and any
other churches where it is the duty of the contracting parties to
sign the parish register, the clergyman, the newly wedded pair, and
their witnesses, now retire to the sacristry for this purpose. On
their return to the chancel, the organ peals forth the Wedding March;
the bride and groom lead the bridal party in returning down the
aisle, the bridesmaids and ushers following in due order, and after
them the nearest relatives; and all, entering their carriages, are
driven at once to the home of the bride's parents.

After a morning, or "high noon" wedding, a "breakfast" is usually
served. If the ceremony has been a nuptial mass, in the Catholic
or High Church ritual, the bridal party have--presumably--observed
the fast, before the mass; therefore, the "breakfast" is really a
breakfast.

However, the term is popularly used by non-ritualists, when
the ceremony bears no relation to the mass; and regardless of the
fact that the real breakfast has been taken at the usual hour.

A bride may wear full dress at any hour, day or evening; but _decolleté_
dress is not good form at a church wedding, nor is it allowed in the
Catholic church. White is the preferred color for a young bride. A
widow-bride, on the contrary, should choose some other color; and
she wears neither veil nor orange-blossoms.

Details of fashion vary so constantly that specific directions cannot
be given with any assumption of final authority.

A fashionable modiste should be consulted in the emergency.

The dress worn by a guest at a wedding may be as rich as desired, but
should not have a bridal appearance. Sometimes a recent bride wears
her own wedding gown at a friend's wedding; but it is in better
taste not to do so, nor in any other way to invite comparisons. The
bride should be permitted to be the conspicuous figure at her own
wedding, and while her friends may pay her the compliment of wearing
handsome toilettes on that occasion, still, other women should dress
just a little less elaborately, rather than commit the solecism of
"out-dressing the bride."

Fortunately, one may show all delicate consideration in this matter,
and yet be beautifully and becomingly dressed.

THE ETHICS OF HOSPITALITY
Hospitality shares what it has. It does not attempt to _give_ what it
_has not_. The finest hospitality is that which welcomes you to
the fireside and permits you to look upon the picture of a home-life
so little disturbed by your coming that you are at once made to
feel yourself a part of the little symphony--the rare bit of color
just needed to complete the harmonic combination. With this flattering
fact impressed upon your glowing memory you will hardly be able to
recall the material adjuncts of the occasion. It is a sign of a
gross nature to measure hospitality by the loaves and fishes,
forgetting the miracle that goes with them. And it is equally a
mistake for a host to be afraid to offer humble entertainment when
richer offers are beyond his means. To a refined perception "the
life is more than the meat," and the personality of the host, not
the condition of his larder, decides whether or not it is an honor
to be his guest. Delightful though it be to be able to afford one's
guest a rare and beautiful entertainment, one must dismiss the idea
that a graceful and acceptable hospitality depends on material
things. Sir Launfal, sharing his crust with the beggar at the gate,
was still Sir Launfal. The impoverished hostess may preside at her
frugal board with the spirit and the manner of a queen, whereas the
coarse-fibred vulgarian vainly heaps his platters with choicest
game and rarest fruit, the while he serves the banquet like the
churl that he is."Well, my dear, that's better than the hounds being mad about him,
like the poor gentleman they've put into a statue. But talking of
hounds, Frank, how badly they manage their foxes at Chaldicotes! I
was out hunting all one day--"

"You out hunting!" said the lady called Mary.

"And why shouldn't I go out hunting? I'll tell you what, Mrs. Proudie
was out hunting too. But they didn't catch a single fox; and, if you
must have the truth, it seemed to me to be rather slow."

"You were in the wrong division of the county," said the gentleman
called Frank.

"Of course I was. When I really want to practise hunting I'll go to
Greshamsbury; not a doubt about that."

"Or to Boxall Hill," said the lady; "you'll find quite as much zeal
there as at Greshamsbury."

"And more discretion, you should add," said the gentleman.

"Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Miss Dunstable; "your discretion indeed! But
you have not told me a word about Lady Arabella."

"My mother is quite well," said the gentleman.

"And the doctor? By the by, my dear, I've had such a letter from the
doctor; only two days ago. I'll show it you upstairs to-morrow. But
mind, it must be a positive secret. If he goes on in this way he'll
get himself into the Tower, or Coventry, or a blue-book, or some
dreadful place."

"Why; what has he said?"

"Never you mind, Master Frank: I don't mean to show you the letter,
you may be sure of that. But if your wife will swear three times on
a poker and tongs that she won't reveal, I'll show it to her. And so
you are quite settled at Boxall Hill, are you?"

"Frank's horses are settled; and the dogs nearly so," said Frank's
wife; "but I can't boast much of anything else yet."

"Well, there's a good time coming. I must go and change my things
now. But, Mary, mind you get near me this evening; I have such a deal
to say to you." And then Miss Dunstable marched out of the room.

All this had been said in so loud a voice that it was, as a matter
of course, overheard by Mark Robarts--that part of the conversation
of course I mean which had come from Miss Dunstable. And then Mark
learned that this was young Frank Gresham of Boxall Hill, son of
old Mr. Gresham of Greshamsbury. Frank had lately married a great
heiress; a greater heiress, men said, even than Miss Dunstable;
and as the marriage was hardly as yet more than six months old the
Barsetshire world was still full of it.

"The two heiresses seem to be very loving, don't they?" said Mr.
Supplehouse. "Birds of a feather flock together, you know. But they
did say some little time ago that young Gresham was to have married
Miss Dunstable herself."

"Miss Dunstable! why, she might almost be his mother," said Mark.

"That makes but little difference. He was obliged to marry money, and
I believe there is no doubt that he did at one time propose to Miss
Dunstable."

"I have had a letter from Lufton," Mr. Sowerby said to him the next
morning. "He declares that the delay was all your fault. You were to
have told Lady Lufton before he did anything, and he was waiting to
write about it till he heard from you. It seems that you never said a
word to her ladyship on the subject."

"I never did, certainly. My commission from Lufton was to break the
matter to her when I found her in a proper humour for receiving it.
If you knew Lady Lufton as well as I do, you would know that it is
not every day that she would be in a humour for such tidings."

"And so I was to be kept waiting indefinitely because you two between
you were afraid of an old woman! However, I have not a word to say
against her, and the matter is settled now."

"Has the farm been sold?"

"Not a bit of it. The dowager could not bring her mind to suffer
such profanation for the Lufton acres, and so she sold five
thousand pounds out of the funds and sent the money to Lufton as a
present;--sent it to him without saying a word, only hoping that it
would suffice for his wants. I wish I had a mother, I know."

Mark found it impossible at the moment to make any remark upon what
had been told him, but he felt a sudden qualm of conscience and a
wish that he was at Framley instead of at Gatherum Castle at the
present moment. He knew a good deal respecting Lady Lufton's income
and the manner in which it was spent. It was very handsome for a
single lady, but then she lived in a free and open-handed style; her
charities were noble; there was no reason why she should save money,
and her annual income was usually spent within the year. Mark knew
this, and he knew also that nothing short of an impossibility to
maintain them would induce her to lessen her charities. She had now
given away a portion of her principal to save the property of her
son--her son, who was so much more opulent than herself,--upon whose
means, too, the world made fewer effectual claims. And Mark knew,
too, something of the purpose for which this money had gone. There
had been unsettled gambling claims between Sowerby and Lord Lufton,
originating in affairs of the turf. It had now been going on for four
years, almost from the period when Lord Lufton had become of age.
He had before now spoken to Robarts on the matter with much bitter
anger, alleging that Mr. Sowerby was treating him unfairly, nay,
dishonestly--that he was claiming money that was not due to him;
and then he declared more than once that he would bring the matter
before the Jockey Club. But Mark, knowing that Lord Lufton was not
clear-sighted in those matters, and believing it to be impossible
that Mr. Sowerby should actually endeavour to defraud his friend, had
smoothed down the young lord's anger, and recommended him to get the
case referred to some private arbiter. All this had afterwards been
discussed between Robarts and Mr. Sowerby himself, and hence had
originated their intimacy. The matter was so referred, Mr. Sowerby
naming the referee; and Lord Lufton, when the matter was given
against him, took it easily. His anger was over by that time. "I've
been clean done among them," he said to Mark, laughing; "but it does
not signify; a man must pay for his experience. Of course, Sowerby
thinks it all right; I am bound to suppose so." And then there had
been some further delay as to the amount, and part of the money had
been paid to a third person, and a bill had been given, and Heaven
and the Jews only know how much money Lord Lufton had paid in all;
and now it was ended by his handing over to some wretched villain of
a money-dealer, on behalf of Mr. Sowerby, the enormous sum of five
thousand pounds, which had been deducted from the means of his
mother, Lady Lufton!

Mark, as he thought of all this, could not but feel a certain
animosity against Mr. Sowerby--could not but suspect that he was a
bad man. Nay, must he not have known that he was very bad? And yet he
continued walking with him through the duke's grounds, still talking
about Lord Lufton's affairs, and still listening with interest to
what Sowerby told him of his own. "No man was ever robbed as I have
been," said he. "But I shall win through yet, in spite of them all.
But those Jews, Mark"--he had become very intimate with him in these
latter days--"whatever you do, keep clear of them. Why, I could paper
a room with their signatures; and yet I never had a claim upon one of
them, though they always have claims on me!"

I have said above that this affair of Lord Lufton's was ended, but
it now appeared to Mark that it was not quite ended. "Tell Lufton,
you know," said Sowerby, "that every bit of paper with his name has
been taken up, except what that ruffian Tozer has. Tozer may have
one bill, I believe,--something that was not given up when it was
renewed. But I'll make my lawyer Gumption get that up. It may cost
ten pounds or twenty pounds, not more. You'll remember that when you
see Lufton, will you?"

"You'll see Lufton, in all probability, before I shall."

"Oh, did I not tell you? He's going to Framley Court at once; you'll
find him there when you return."

"Find him at Framley?"

"Yes; this little _cadeau_ from his mother has touched his filial
heart. He is rushing home to Framley to pay back the dowager's hard
moidores in soft caresses. I wish I had a mother; I know that." And
Mark still felt that he feared Mr. Sowerby, but he could not make up
his mind to break away from him.

And there was much talk of politics just then at the castle. Not that
the duke joined in it with any enthusiasm. He was a Whig--a huge
mountain of a colossal Whig--all the world knew that. No opponent
would have dreamed of tampering with his Whiggery, nor would any
brother Whig have dreamed of doubting it. But he was a Whig who gave
very little practical support to any set of men, and very little
practical opposition to any other set. He was above troubling himself
with such sublunar matters. At election time he supported, and always
carried, Whig candidates: and in return he had been appointed lord
lieutenant of the county by one Whig minister, and had received the
Garter from another. But these things were matters of course to a
Duke of Omnium, He was born to be a lord lieutenant and a Knight of
the Garter. But not the less on account of his apathy, or rather
quiescence, was it thought that Gatherum Castle was a fitting place
in which politicians might express to each other their present hopes
and future aims, and concoct together little plots in a half-serious
and half-mocking way. Indeed it was hinted that Mr. Supplehouse and
Harold Smith, with one or two others, were at Gatherum for this
express purpose. Mr. Fothergill, too, was a noted politician, and
was supposed to know the duke's mind well; and Mr. Green Walker, the
nephew of the marchioness, was a young man whom the duke desired to
have brought forward. Mr. Sowerby also was the duke's own member, and
so the occasion suited well for the interchange of a few ideas.

The then prime minister, angry as many men were with him, had not
been altogether unsuccessful. He had brought the Russian war to a
close, which, if not glorious, was at any rate much more so than
Englishmen at one time had ventured to hope. And he had had wonderful
luck in that Indian Mutiny. It is true that many of those even who
voted with him would declare that this was in no way attributable
to him. Great men had risen in India and done all that. Even his
minister there, the Governor whom he had sent out, was not allowed
in those days any credit for the success which was achieved under
his orders. There was great reason to doubt the man at the helm. But
nevertheless he had been lucky. There is no merit in a public man
like success! But now, when the evil days were wellnigh over, came
the question whether he had not been too successful. When a man has
nailed fortune to his chariot-wheels he is apt to travel about in
rather a proud fashion. There are servants who think that their
masters cannot do without them; and the public also may occasionally
have some such servant. What if this too successful minister were
one of them! And then a discreet, commonplace, zealous member of the
Lower House does not like to be jeered at, when he does his duty by
his constituents and asks a few questions. An all-successful minister
who cannot keep his triumph to himself, but must needs drive about in
a proud fashion, laughing at commonplace zealous members--laughing
even occasionally at members who are by no means commonplace, which
is outrageous!--may it not be as well to ostracize him for awhile?

"Had we not better throw in our shells against him?" says Mr. Harold
Smith.

"Let us throw in our shells, by all means," says Mr. Supplehouse,
mindful as Juno of his despised charms. And when Mr. Supplehouse
declares himself an enemy, men know how much it means. They know that
that much-belaboured head of affairs must succumb to the terrible
blows which are now in store for him. "Yes, we will throw in our
shells." And Mr. Supplehouse rises from his chair with gleaming
eyes. "Has not Greece as noble sons as him? aye, and much nobler,
traitor that he is. We must judge a man by his friends," says Mr.
Supplehouse; and he points away to the East, where our dear allies
the French are supposed to live, and where our head of affairs is
supposed to have too close an intimacy.

They all understand this, even Mr. Green Walker. "I don't know that
he is any good to any of us at all, now," says the talented member
for the Crewe Junction. "He's a great deal too uppish to suit my
book: and I know a great many people that think so too. There's my
uncle--"

"He's the best fellow in the world," said Mr. Fothergill, who felt,
perhaps, that that coming revelation about Mr. Green Walker's uncle
might not be of use to them; "but the fact is one gets tired of the
same men always. One does not like partridge every day. As for me,
I have nothing to do with it myself; but I would certainly like to
change the dish."

"If we're merely to do as we are bid, and have no voice of our own,
I don't see what's the good of going to the shop at all," said Mr.
Sowerby.

"Not the least use," said Mr. Supplehouse. "We are false to our
constituents in submitting to such a dominion."

"Let's have a change, then," said Mr. Sowerby. "The matter's pretty
much in our own hands."

"Altogether," said Mr. Green Walker. "That's what my uncle always
says."

"The Manchester men will only be too happy for the chance," said
Harold Smith.

"And as for the high and dry gentlemen," said Mr. Sowerby, "it's not
very likely that they will object to pick up the fruit when we shake
the tree."

"As to picking up the fruit, that's as may be," said Mr. Supplehouse.
Was he not the man to save the nation; and if so, why should he not
pick up the fruit himself? Had not the greatest power in the country
pointed him out as such a saviour? What though the country at the
present moment needed no more saving, might there not, nevertheless,
be a good time coming? Were there not rumours of other wars still
prevalent--if indeed the actual war then going on was being brought
to a close without his assistance by some other species of salvation?
He thought of that country to which he had pointed, and of that
friend of his enemies, and remembered that there might be still work
for a mighty saviour. The public mind was now awake, and understood
what it was about. When a man gets into his head an idea that the
public voice calls for him, it is astonishing how greet becomes his
trust in the wisdom of the public. _Vox populi, vox Dei._ "Has it not
been so always?" he says to himself, as he gets up and as he goes to
bed. And then Mr. Supplehouse felt that he was the master mind there
at Gatherum Castle, and that those there were all puppets in his
hand. It is such a pleasant thing to feel that one's friends are
puppets, and that the strings are in one's own possession. But what
if Mr. Supplehouse himself were a puppet? Some months afterwards,
when the much-belaboured head of affairs was in very truth made
to retire, when unkind shells were thrown in against him in great
numbers, when he exclaimed, "_Et tu, Brute!_" till the words were
stereotyped upon his lips, all men in all places talked much about
the great Gatherum Castle confederation. The Duke of Omnium, the
world said, had taken into his high consideration the state of
affairs, and seeing with his eagle's eye that the welfare of
his countrymen at large required that some great step should be
initiated, he had at once summoned to his mansion many members of the
Lower House, and some also of the House of Lords,--mention was here
especially made of the all-venerable and all-wise Lord Boanerges; and
men went on to say that there, in deep conclave, he had made known
to them his views. It was thus agreed that the head of affairs, Whig
as he was, must fall. The country required it, and the duke did his
duty. This was the beginning, the world said, of that celebrated
confederation, by which the ministry was overturned, and--as the
_Goody Twoshoes_ added--the country saved. But the _Jupiter_ took all
the credit to itself; and the _Jupiter_ was not far wrong. All the
credit was due to the _Jupiter_--in that, as in everything else.

In the meantime the Duke of Omnium entertained his guests in
the quiet princely style, but did not condescend to have much
conversation on politics either with Mr. Supplehouse or with Mr.
Harold Smith. And as for Lord Boanerges, he spent the morning on
which the above-described conversation took place in teaching Miss
Dunstable to blow soap-bubbles on scientific principles.

"Dear, dear!" said Miss Dunstable, as sparks of knowledge came
flying in upon her mind. "I always thought that a soap-bubble was a
soap-bubble, and I never asked the reason why. One doesn't, you know,
my lord."

"Pardon me, Miss Dunstable," said the old lord, "one does; but nine
hundred and ninety-nine do not."

"And the nine hundred and ninety-nine have the best of it," said Miss
Dunstable. "What pleasure can one have in a ghost after one has seen
the phosphorus rubbed on?"

"Quite true, my dear lady. 'If ignorance be bliss, 'tis folly to be
wise.' It all lies in the 'if.'"

Then Miss Dunstable began to sing:--


   "'What tho' I trace each herb and flower
     That sips the morning dew--'


--you know the rest, my lord." Lord Boanerges did know almost
everything, but he did not know that; and so Miss Dunstable went
on:--


   "'Did I not own Jehovah's power
     How vain were all I knew.'"


"Exactly, exactly, Miss Dunstable," said his lordship; "but why not
own the power and trace the flower as well? perhaps one might help
the other." Upon the whole, I am afraid that Lord Boanerges got the
best of it. But, then, that is his line. He has been getting the best
of it all his life.

It was observed by all that the duke was especially attentive to
young Mr. Frank Gresham, the gentleman on whom and on whose wife Miss
Dunstable had seized so vehemently. This Mr. Gresham was the richest
commoner in the county, and it was rumoured that at the next election
he would be one of the members for the East Riding. Now the duke had
little or nothing to do with the East Riding, and it was well known
that young Gresham would be brought forward as a strong Conservative.
But, nevertheless, his acres were so extensive and his money so
plentiful that he was worth a duke's notice. Mr. Sowerby, also, was
almost more than civil to him, as was natural, seeing that this very
young man by a mere scratch of his pen could turn a scrap of paper
into a bank-note of almost fabulous value.

"So you have the East Barsetshire hounds at Boxall Hill; have you
not?" said the duke.

"The hounds are there," said Frank. "But I am not the master."

"Oh! I understood--"

"My father has them. But he finds Boxall Hill more centrical than
Greshamsbury. The dogs and horses have to go shorter distances."

"Boxall Hill is very centrical."

"Oh, exactly!"

"And your young gorse coverts are doing well?"

"Pretty well--gorse won't thrive everywhere, I find. I wish it
would."

"That's just what I say to Fothergill; and then where there's much
woodland you can't get the vermin to leave it."

"But we haven't a tree at Boxall Hill," said Mrs. Gresham.

"Ah, yes; you're new there, certainly; you've enough of it at
Greshamsbury in all conscience. There's a larger extent of wood there
than we have; isn't there, Fothergill?" Mr. Fothergill said that
the Greshamsbury woods were very extensive, but that, perhaps, he
thought--

"Oh, ah! I know," said the duke. "The Black Forest in its old days
was nothing to Gatherum woods, according to Fothergill. And then,
again, nothing in East Barsetshire could be equal to anything in West
Barsetshire. Isn't that it; eh, Fothergill?" Mr. Fothergill professed
that he had been brought up in that faith and intended to die in it.

"Your exotics at Boxall Hill are very fine, magnificent!" said Mr.
Sowerby.

"I'd sooner have one full-grown oak standing in its pride alone,"
said young Gresham, rather grandiloquently, "than all the exotics in
the world."

"They'll come in due time," said the duke.

"But the due time won't be in my days. And so they're going to cut
down Chaldicotes Forest, are they, Mr. Sowerby?"

"Well, I can't tell you that. They are going to disforest it. I have
been ranger since I was twenty-two, and I don't yet know whether that
means cutting down."

"Not only cutting down, but rooting up," said Mr. Fothergill.

"It's a murderous shame," said Frank Gresham; "and I will say one
thing, I don't think any but a Whig government would do it."

"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed his grace. "At any rate, I'm sure of this," he
said, "that if a Conservative government did do so, the Whigs would
be just as indignant as you are now."

"I'll tell you what you ought to do, Mr. Gresham," said Sowerby: "put
in an offer for the whole of the West Barsetshire Crown property;
they will be very glad to sell it."

"And we should be delighted to welcome you on this side of the
border," said the duke. Young Gresham did feel rather flattered.
There were not many men in the county to whom such an offer could
be made without an absurdity. It might be doubted whether the duke
himself could purchase the Chace of Chaldicotes with ready money; but
that he, Gresham, could do so--he and his wife between them--no man
did doubt. And then Mr. Gresham thought of a former day when he had
once been at Gatherum Castle. He had been poor enough then, and the
duke had not treated him in the most courteous manner in the world.
How hard it is for a rich man not to lean upon his riches! harder,
indeed, than for a camel to go through the eye of a needle.

All Barsetshire knew--at any rate all West Barsetshire--that Miss
Dunstable had been brought down in those parts in order that Mr.
Sowerby might marry her. It was not surmised that Miss Dunstable
herself had had any previous notice of this arrangement, but it was
supposed that the thing would turn out as a matter of course. Mr.
Sowerby had no money, but then he was witty, clever, good-looking,
and a member of Parliament. He lived before the world, represented an
old family, and had an old place. How could Miss Dunstable possibly
do better? She was not so young now, and it was time that she
should look about her. The suggestion, as regarded Mr. Sowerby, was
certainly true, and was not the less so as regarded some of Mr.
Sowerby's friends. His sister, Mrs. Harold Smith, had devoted herself
to the work, and with this view had run up a dear friendship with
Miss Dunstable. The bishop had intimated, nodding his head knowingly,
that it would be a very good thing. Mrs. Proudie had given in her
adherence. Mr. Supplehouse had been made to understand that it must
be a case of "Paws off" with him, as long as he remained in that part
of the world; and even the duke himself had desired Fothergill to
manage it.

"He owes me an enormous sum of money," said the duke, who held all
Mr. Sowerby's title-deeds, "and I doubt whether the security will be
sufficient."

"Your grace will find the security quite sufficient," said Mr.
Fothergill; "but nevertheless it would be a good match."

"Very good," said the duke. And then it became Mr. Fothergill's duty
to see that Mr. Sowerby and Miss Dunstable became man and wife as
speedily as possible. Some of the party, who were more wide awake
than others, declared that he had made the offer; others, that he was
just going to do so; and one very knowing lady went so far at one
time as to say that he was making it at that moment. Bets also were
laid as to the lady's answer, as to the terms of the settlement, and
as to the period of the marriage--of all which poor Miss Dunstable of
course knew nothing. Mr. Sowerby, in spite of the publicity of his
proceedings, proceeded in the matter very well. He said little about
it to those who joked with him, but carried on the fight with what
best knowledge he had in such matters. But so much it is given to us
to declare with certainty, that he had not proposed on the evening
previous to the morning fixed for the departure of Mark Robarts.
During the last two days Mr. Sowerby's intimacy with Mark had grown
warmer and warmer. He had talked to the vicar confidentially about
the doings of these bigwigs now present at the castle, as though
there were no other guest there with whom he could speak in so free
a manner. He confided, it seemed, much more in Mark than in his
brother-in-law, Harold Smith, or in any of his brother members of
Parliament, and had altogether opened his heart to him in this affair
of his anticipated marriage. Now Mr. Sowerby was a man of mark in the
world, and all this flattered our young clergyman not a little. On
that evening before Robarts went away Sowerby asked him to come up
into his bedroom when the whole party was breaking up, and there got
him into an easy chair, while he, Sowerby, walked up and down the
room.

"You can hardly tell, my dear fellow," said he, "the state of nervous
anxiety in which this puts me."

"Why don't you ask her and have done with it? She seems to me to be
fond of your society."

"Ah, it is not that only; there are wheels within wheels:" and then
he walked once or twice up and down the room, during which Mark
thought that he might as well go to bed.

"Not that I mind telling you everything," said Sowerby. "I am
infernally hard up for a little ready money just at the present
moment. It may be, and indeed I think it will be, the case that I
shall be ruined in this matter for the want of it."

"Could not Harold Smith give it you?"

"Ha, ha, ha! you don't know Harold Smith. Did you ever hear of his
lending a man a shilling in his life."

"Or Supplehouse?"

"Lord love you! You see me and Supplehouse together here, and he
comes and stays at my house, and all that; but Supplehouse and I are
no friends. Look you here, Mark--I would do more for your little
finger than for his whole hand, including the pen which he holds in
it. Fothergill indeed might--but then I know Fothergill is pressed
himself at the present moment. It is deuced hard, isn't it? I must
give up the whole game if I can't put my hand upon £400 within the
next two days."

"Ask her for it, herself."

"What, the woman I wish to marry! No, Mark, I'm not quite come to
that. I would sooner lose her than that." Mark sat silent, gazing at
the fire and wishing that he was in his own bedroom. He had an idea
that Mr. Sowerby wished him to produce this £400, and he knew also
that he had not £400 in the world, and that if he had he would be
acting very foolishly to give it to Mr. Sowerby. But nevertheless he
felt half fascinated by the man, and half afraid of him.

"Lufton owes it to me to do more than this," continued Mr. Sowerby,
"but then Lufton is not here."

"Why, he has just paid five thousand pounds for you."

"Paid five thousand pounds for me! Indeed he has done no such thing:
not a sixpence of it came into my hands. Believe me, Mark, you don't
know the whole of that yet. Not that I mean to say a word against
Lufton. He is the soul of honour; though so deucedly dilatory in
money matters. He thought he was right all through that affair, but
no man was ever so confoundedly wrong. Why, don't you remember that
that was the very view you took of it yourself?"

"I remember saying that I thought he was mistaken."

"Of course he was mistaken. And dearly the mistake cost me; I had to
make good the money for two or three years. And my property is not
like his--I wish it were."

"Marry Miss Dunstable, and that will set it all right for you."

"Ah! so I would if I had this money. At any rate I would bring it to
the point. Now, I tell you what, Mark, if you'll assist me at this
strait I'll never forget it. And the time will come round when I may
be able to do something for you."

"I have not got a hundred, no, not fifty pounds by me in the world."

"Of course you've not. Men don't walk about the streets with £400 in
their pockets. I don't suppose there's a single man here in the house
with such a sum at his bankers', unless it be the duke."

"What is it you want, then?"

"Why, your name, to be sure. Believe me, my dear fellow, I would not
ask you really to put your hand into your pocket to such a tune as
that. Allow me to draw on you for that amount at three months. Long
before that time I shall be flush enough." And then, before Mark
could answer, he had a bill stamp and pen and ink out on the table
before him, and was filling in the bill as though his friend had
already given his consent.

"Upon my word, Sowerby, I had rather not do that."

"Why? what are you afraid of?"--Mr. Sowerby asked this very sharply.
"Did you ever hear of my having neglected to take up a bill when it
fell due?" Robarts thought that he had heard of such a thing; but in
his confusion he was not exactly sure, and so he said nothing.

"No, my boy; I have not come to that. Look here: just you write,
'Accepted, Mark Robarts,' across that, and then you shall never hear
of the transaction again; and you will have obliged me for ever."

"As a clergyman it would be wrong of me," said Robarts.

"As a clergyman! Come, Mark! If you don't like to do as much as that
for a friend, say so; but don't let us have that sort of humbug. If
there be one class of men whose names would be found more frequent on
the backs of bills in the provincial banks than another, clergymen
are that class. Come, old fellow, you won't throw me over when I am
so hard pushed." Mark Robarts took the pen and signed the bill. It
was the first time in his life that he had ever done such an act.
Sowerby then shook him cordially by the hand, and he walked off to
his own bedroom a wretched man.


CHAPTER IX

The Vicar's Return


The next morning Mr. Robarts took leave of all his grand friends with
a heavy heart. He had lain awake half the night thinking of what he
had done and trying to reconcile himself to his position. He had not
well left Mr. Sowerby's room before he felt certain that at the end
of three months he would again be troubled about that £400. As he
went along the passage, all the man's known antecedents crowded upon
him much quicker than he could remember them when seated in that
arm-chair with the bill stamp before him, and the pen and ink ready
to his hand. He remembered what Lord Lufton had told him--how he had
complained of having been left in the lurch; he thought of all the
stories current through the entire country as to the impossibility
of getting money from Chaldicotes; he brought to mind the known
character of the man, and then he knew that he must prepare himself
to make good a portion at least of that heavy payment. Why had he
come to this horrid place? Had he not everything at home at Framley
which the heart of man could desire? No; the heart of man can desire
deaneries--the heart, that is, of the man vicar; and the heart of the
man dean can desire bishoprics; and before the eyes of the man bishop
does there not loom the transcendental glory of Lambeth? He had owned
to himself that he was ambitious; but he had to own to himself now
also that he had hitherto taken but a sorry path towards the object
of his ambition. On the next morning at breakfast-time, before his
horse and gig arrived for him, no one was so bright as his friend
Sowerby. "So you are off, are you?" said he.

"Yes, I shall go this morning."

"Say everything that's kind from me to Lufton. I may possibly see him
out hunting; otherwise we shan't meet till the spring. As to my going
to Framley, that's out of the question. Her ladyship would look for
my tail, and swear that she smelt brimstone. By-bye, old fellow!"

The German student when he first made his bargain with the devil felt
an indescribable attraction to his new friend; and such was the case
now with Robarts. He shook Sowerby's hand very warmly, said that
he hoped he should meet him soon somewhere, and professed himself
specially anxious to hear how that affair with the lady came off.
As he had made his bargain--as he had undertaken to pay nearly half
a year's income for his dear friend--ought he not to have as much
value as possible for his money? If the dear friendship of this flash
member of Parliament did not represent that value, what else did do
so? But then he felt, or fancied that he felt, that Mr. Sowerby did
not care for him so much this morning as he had done on the previous
evening. "By-bye," said Mr. Sowerby, but he spoke no word as to
such future meetings, nor did he even promise to write. Mr. Sowerby
probably had many things on his mind; and it might be that it behoved
him, having finished one piece of business, immediately to look to
another.

The sum for which Robarts had made himself responsible--which he so
much feared that he would be called upon to pay--was very nearly half
a year's income; and as yet he had not put by one shilling since he
had been married. When he found himself settled in his parsonage,
he found also that all the world regarded him as a rich man. He had
taken the dictum of all the world as true, and had set himself to
work to live comfortably. He had no absolute need of a curate; but he
could afford the £70--as Lady Lufton had said rather injudiciously;
and by keeping Jones in the parish he would be acting charitably to a
brother clergyman, and would also place himself in a more independent
position. Lady Lufton had wished to see her pet clergyman well-to-do
and comfortable; but now, as matters had turned out, she much
regretted this affair of the curate. Mr. Jones, she said to herself,
more than once, must be made to depart from Framley. He had given
his wife a pony-carriage, and for himself he had a saddle-horse, and
a second horse for his gig. A man in his position, well-to-do as he
was, required as much as that. He had a footman also, and a gardener,
and a groom. The two latter were absolutely necessary, but about the
former there had been a question. His wife had been decidedly hostile
to the footman; but in all such matters as that, to doubt is to be
lost. When the footman had been discussed for a week it became quite
clear to the master that he also was a necessary.

As he drove home that morning he pronounced to himself the doom of
that footman, and the doom also of that saddle-horse. They at any
rate should go. And then he would spend no more money in trips
to Scotland; and above all, he would keep out of the bedrooms of
impoverished members of Parliament at the witching hour of midnight.
Such resolves did he make to himself as he drove home; and bethought
himself wearily how that £400 might be made to be forthcoming. As to
any assistance in the matter from Sowerby,--of that he gave himself
no promise. But he almost felt himself happy again as his wife came
out into the porch to meet him with a silk shawl over her head, and
pretending to shiver as she watched him descending from his gig. "My
dear old man," she said, as she led him into the warm drawing-room
with all his wrappings still about him, "you must be starved." But
Mark during the whole drive had been thinking too much of that
transaction in Mr. Sowerby's bedroom to remember that the air was
cold. Now he had his arm round his own dear Fanny's waist; but was he
to tell her of that transaction? At any rate he would not do it now,
while his two boys were in his arms, rubbing the moisture from his
whiskers with their kisses. After all, what is there equal to that
coming home?

"And so Lufton is here. I say, Frank, gently, old boy,"--Frank was
his eldest son--"you'll have baby into the fender."

"Let me take baby; it's impossible to hold the two of them, they
are so strong," said the proud mother. "Oh, yes, he came home early
yesterday."

"Have you seen him?"

"He was here yesterday, with her ladyship; and I lunched there
to-day. The letter came, you know, in time to stop the Merediths.
They don't go till to-morrow, so you will meet them after all. Sir
George is wild about it, but Lady Lufton would have her way. You
never saw her in such a state as she is."

"Good spirits, eh?"

"I should think so. All Lord Lufton's horses are coming, and he's to
be here till March."

"Till March!"

"So her ladyship whispered to me. She could not conceal her triumph
at his coming. He's going to give up Leicestershire this year
altogether. I wonder what has brought it all about?" Mark knew very
well what had brought it about; he had been made acquainted, as the
reader has also, with the price at which Lady Lufton had purchased
her son's visit. But no one had told Mrs. Robarts that the mother had
made her son a present of five thousand pounds.

"She's in a good humour about everything now," continued Fanny; "so
you need say nothing at all about Gatherum Castle."

"But she was very angry when she first heard it; was she not?"

"Well, Mark, to tell the truth, she was; and we had quite a scene
there up in her own room upstairs--Justinia and I. She had heard
something else that she did not like at the same time; and then--but
you know her way. She blazed up quite hot."

"And said all manner of horrid things about me."

"About the duke she did. You know she never did like the duke; and
for the matter of that, neither do I. I tell you that fairly, Master
Mark!"

"The duke is not so bad as he's painted."

"Ah, that's what you say about another great person. However, he
won't come here to trouble us, I suppose. And then I left her, not in
the best temper in the world; for I blazed up too, you must know."

"I am sure you did," said Mark, pressing his arm round her waist.

"And then we were going to have a dreadful war, I thought; and I came
home and wrote such a doleful letter to you. But what should happen
when I had just closed it, but in came her ladyship--all alone,
and-- But I can't tell you what she did or said, only she behaved
beautifully; just like herself too; so full of love and truth and
honesty. There's nobody like her, Mark; and she's better than all the
dukes that ever wore--whatever dukes do wear."

"Horns and hoofs; that's their usual apparel, according to you and
Lady Lufton," said he, remembering what Mr. Sowerby had said of
himself.

"You may say what you like about me, Mark, but you shan't abuse Lady
Lufton. And if horns and hoofs mean wickedness and dissipation,
I believe it's not far wrong. But get off your big coat and make
yourself comfortable." And that was all the scolding that Mark
Robarts got from his wife on the occasion of his great iniquity.

"I will certainly tell her about this bill transaction," he said to
himself; "but not to-day; not till after I have seen Lufton." That
evening they dined at Framley Court, and there they met the young
lord; they found also Lady Lufton still in high good-humour. Lord
Lufton himself was a fine, bright-looking young man; not so tall as
Mark Robarts, and with perhaps less intelligence marked on his face;
but his features were finer, and there was in his countenance a
thorough appearance of good-humour and sweet temper. It was, indeed,
a pleasant face to look upon, and dearly Lady Lufton loved to gaze at
it.

"Well, Mark, So you have been among the Philistines?" that was his
lordship's first remark. Robarts laughed as he took his friend's
hands, and bethought himself how truly that was the case; that he
was, in very truth, already "himself in bonds under Philistian
yoke." Alas, alas, it is very hard to break asunder the bonds of the
latter-day Philistines. When a Samson does now and then pull a temple
down about their ears, is he not sure to be engulfed in the ruin with
them? There is no horse-leech that sticks so fast as your latter-day
Philistine.

"So you have caught Sir George, after all," said Lady Lufton; and
that was nearly all she did say in allusion to his absence. There
was afterwards some conversation about the lecture, and from her
ladyship's remarks it certainly was apparent that she did not like
the people among whom the vicar had been lately staying; but she said
no word that was personal to him himself, or that could be taken
as a reproach. The little episode of Mrs. Proudie's address in the
lecture-room had already reached Framley, and it was only to be
expected that Lady Lufton should enjoy the joke. She would affect to
believe that the body of the lecture had been given by the bishop's
wife; and afterwards, when Mark described her costume at that Sunday
morning breakfast table, Lady Lufton would assume that such had been
the dress in which she had exercised her faculties in public.

_North_.--A more interesting consideration would be, the effect
produced upon the national character, by the mere circumstance of
the modes of preparing the different beverages of different countries.

Much of the acknowledged inferiority of the inhabitants of wine
countries, arises from the circumstance of having their liquor prepared
to their hand. There is no stretch of imagination in pouring wine ready
made from carafe, or barochio, or flask, into a glass--the operation
is merely mechanical; whereas, among us punch drinkers, the necessity
of a nightly manufacture of a most intricate kind, calls forth
habits of industry and forethought--induces a taste for chemical
experiment--improves us in hygrometry, and many other sciences--to
say nothing of the geographical reflections drawn forth by the
pressure of the lemon, or the colonial questions, which press upon
every meditative mind on the appearance of white sugar.

LION-EATING AND HANGING.

_North_.

--When I was at Timbuctoo--

_Shepherd (aside.)_--A lang yarn is beginning the noo--
_Moses Edrehi_.--Sind sie geweson, sare, dans I'Afrique?

_North_.

--Many years--I was Sultan of Bello for a long period, until dethroned
by an act of the grossest injustice; but I intend to expose the
traitorous conspirators to the indignation of an outraged world.

_Tickler (aside to Shepherd.)

_--He's raving.

_Shepherd (to Tickler.)

_--Dementit.

_Odoherty (to both.)_--Mad as a hatter. Hand me a segar.

_Moses Edrehi_.--Yo suis of Madoc.

_North (aside.)_--Zounds! _(to Edrehi)_ I never chanced to pass
that way--the emperor and I were not on good terms.

_Moses Edrehi_.--Then, sare, you was good luck to no pass, for the
emperor was a man ver disagreeáble ven no gut humours.

Gott keep ush! He hat lions in cage--and him gab peoples zu de
lions--dey roarsh--oh, mucho, mucho!

--and eats de poor peoples--Gott keep ush! a ver disagreeáble man dat
emperor.

_Shepherd_.--Nae doot--it canna be a pleasant thing to be gobbled by
a lion.

Oh, sirs, imagine yoursell daundering out to Canaan, to take your
kail wi' our frien' James, and as ye're passing the Links, out
jumps a lion, and at you!

_Odoherty_.--The Links--oh! James, you are no Polyglott.

_Tickler_.--I don't wish to insinuate that I should like to be eaten,
either by lion or shepherd, but I confess that I consider that the new
drop would be a worse fate than either.

_North_.--Quite mistaken--the drop's a trifle.

_Moses Edrehi_.--Ja whöl, Milord.

_Shepherd_.

--As to being hangit, why, that's a matter that happens to mony a
deacent man, and it's but a spurl or tway, and a gaspin gurble, an'
ae stour heave, and a's ower; ye're dead ere a body's weel certified
that the board's awa' from behind you--and the night-cap's a great
blessing, baith to you and the company. The gilliteen again, I'm
tauld its just perfectly ridiculous how soon that does it's turn.
Up ye come, and tway chiels ram your head into a shottle in a door
like, and your hands are clasped ahint ye, and swee gangs the door,
and you upset headforemost, and in below the axe, and hangie just
taps you on the neck to see that it's in the richt nick, and whirr,
whirr, whirr, touch the spring, and down comes the thundering edge,
loaded with at least a hunder weight o' lead--your head's aff like
a sybo--Tuts, that's naething--onybody might mak up their mind to
be justified on the gilliteen.And the evening had been so pleasant after the
dreadful storm and threatenings of hurricanes; her husband had been
so well received after his lapse of judgement; the wounds that had
looked so sore had been so thoroughly healed, and everything was so
pleasant. How all of this would have been changed had she known of
that little bill! At twelve the next morning the lord and the vicar
were walking through the Framley stables together. Quite a commotion
had been made there, for the larger portion of those buildings had of
late years seldom been used. But now all was crowding and activity.
Seven or eight very precious animals had followed Lord Lufton from
Leicestershire, and all of them required dimensions that were thought
to be rather excessive by the Framley old-fashioned groom. My lord,
however, had a head man of his own who took the matter quite into his
own hands. Mark, priest as he was, was quite worldly enough to be
fond of a good horse; and for some little time allowed Lord Lufton
to descant on the merit of this four-year-old filly, and that
magnificent Rattlebones colt, out of a Mousetrap mare; but he had
other things that lay heavy on his mind, and after bestowing half
an hour on the stud, he contrived to get his friend away to the
shrubbery walks.

"So you have settled with Sowerby," Robarts began by saying.

"Settled with him; yes, but do you know the price?"

"I believe that you have paid five thousand pounds."

"Yes, and about three before; and that in a matter in which I did not
really owe one shilling. Whatever I do in future, I'll keep out of
Sowerby's grip."

"But you don't think he has been unfair to you."

"Mark, to tell you the truth I have banished the affair from my mind,
and don't wish to take it up again. My mother has paid the money to
save the property, and of course I must pay her back. But I think
I may promise that I will not have any more money dealings with
Sowerby. I will not say that he is dishonest, but at any rate he is
sharp."

"Well, Lufton; what will you say when I tell you that I have put my
name to a bill for him, for four hundred pounds?"

"Say; why I should say--; but you're joking; a man in your position
would never do such a thing."

"But I have done it." Lord Lufton gave a long low whistle.

"He asked me the last night that I was there, making a great favour
of it, and declaring that no bill of his had ever yet been
dishonoured."

Lord Lufton whistled again. "No bill of his dishonoured! Why, the
pocket-books of the Jews are stuffed full of his dishonoured papers!
And you have really given him your name for four hundred pounds?"

"I have certainly."

"At what date?"

"Three months."

"And have you thought where you are to get the money?"

"I know very well that I can't get it, not at least by that time. The
bankers must renew it for me, and I must pay it by degrees. That is,
if Sowerby really does not take it up."

"It is just as likely that he will take up the National Debt."
Robarts then told him about the projected marriage with Miss
Dunstable, giving it as his opinion that the lady would probably
accept the gentleman.

"Not at all improbable," said his lordship, "for Sowerby is an
agreeable fellow; and if it be so, he will have all that he wants
for life. But his creditors will gain nothing. The duke, who has his
title-deeds, will doubtless get his money, and the estate will in
fact belong to the wife. But the small fry, such as you, will not get
a shilling." Poor Mark! He had had an inkling of this before; but it
had hardly presented itself to him in such certain terms. It was,
then, a positive fact, that in punishment for his weakness in having
signed that bill he would have to pay, not only four hundred pounds,
but four hundred pounds with interest, and expenses of renewal, and
commission, and bill stamps. Yes; he had certainly got among the
Philistines during that visit of his to the duke. It began to appear
to him pretty clearly that it would have been better for him to have
relinquished altogether the glories of Chaldicotes and Gatherum
Castle.

"Your argument," he then instantly added, "is by no means a good one.

What do we know of the Supreme Architect of the Universe, or of his
designs?

He builds up worlds, and he pulls them down; he kindles suns and
he extinguishes them.

He inflames the comet, in one portion of its orbit, with a heat
that no human imagination can conceive of; and in another, subjects
the same blazing orb to a cold intenser than that which invests
forever the antarctic pole. All that we know of Him we gather
through His works.
He would explain to the manager his
conviction that he would have to make good the amount, his inability
to do so at the end of the three months, and the whole state of his
income; and then the banker would explain to him how the matter might
be arranged. He thought that he could pay £50 every three months with
interest. As soon as this should have been concerted with the banker,
he would let his wife know all about it. Were he to tell her at the
present moment, while the matter was all unsettled, the intelligence
would frighten her into illness. But on the next morning there came
to him tidings by the hands of Robin postman, which for a long while
upset all his plans. As he said this he placed before me the Cosmos
of Humboldt, and I read as follows:

Nor do the Heavens themselves teach unchangeable permanency in the
works of creation. Change is observable there quite as rapid and
complete as in the confines of our solar system. In the year 1752,
one of the small stars in the constellation Cassiopeia blazed up
suddenly into an orb of the first magnitude, gradually decreased
in brilliancy, and finally disappeared from the skies.He was, therefore, at Exeter before
nightfall on that day. But, nevertheless, he arrived there too late
to see his father again alive. The old man's illness had been sudden
and rapid, and he expired without again seeing his eldest son. Mark
arrived at the house of mourning just as they were learning to
realize the full change in their position.

The doctor's career had been on the whole successful, but
nevertheless he did not leave behind him as much money as the world
had given him credit for possessing. Who ever does? Dr. Robarts had
educated a large family, had always lived with every comfort, and
had never possessed a shilling but what he had earned himself. A
physician's fees come in, no doubt, with comfortable rapidity as soon
as rich old gentlemen and middle-aged ladies begin to put their faith
in him; but fees run out almost with equal rapidity when a wife and
seven children are treated to everything that the world considers
most desirable. Mark, we have seen, had been educated at Harrow and
Oxford, and it may be said, therefore, that he had received his
patrimony early in life. For Gerald Robarts, the second brother, a
commission had been bought in a crack regiment. He also had been
lucky, having lived and become a captain in the Crimea; and the
purchase-money was lodged for his majority. And John Robarts, the
youngest, was a clerk in the Petty Bag Office, and was already
assistant private secretary to the Lord Petty Bag himself--a place of
considerable trust, if not hitherto of large emolument; and on his
education money had been spent freely, for in these days a young man
cannot get into the Petty Bag Office without knowing at least three
modern languages; and he must be well up in trigonometry too, in
Bible theology, or in one dead language--at his option. And the
doctor had four daughters. The two elder were married, including
that Blanche with whom Lord Lufton was to have fallen in love at the
vicar's wedding. A Devonshire squire had done this in the lord's
place; but on marrying her it was necessary that he should have a few
thousand pounds, two or three perhaps, and the old doctor had managed
that they should be forthcoming. The elder also had not been sent
away from the paternal mansion quite empty-handed. There were,
therefore, at the time of the doctor's death two children left at
home, of whom one only, Lucy, the younger, will come much across us
in the course of our story.

Mark stayed for ten days at Exeter, he and the Devonshire squire
having been named as executors in the will. In this document it was
explained that the doctor trusted that provision had been made for
most of his children. As for his dear son Mark, he said, he was aware
that he need be under no uneasiness. On hearing this read Mark smiled
sweetly, and looked very gracious; but, nevertheless, his heart did
sink somewhat within him, for there had been a hope that a small
windfall, coming now so opportunely, might enable him to rid himself
at once of that dreadful Sowerby incubus. And then the will went on
to declare that Mary, and Gerald, and Blanche, had also, by God's
providence, been placed beyond want. And here, looking into the
squire's face, one might have thought that his heart fell a little
also; for he had not so full a command of his feelings as his
brother-in-law, who had been so much more before the world. This eBook
was produced by David A. Schwan <davidsch@earthlink.net>.

The Case of Summerfield
By William Henry Rhodes

With an Introduction by Geraldine Bonner

The Introduction

The greatest master of the short story our country has known found his
inspiration and produced his best work in California. It is now
nearly forty years since "The Luck of Roaring Camp" appeared, and
a line of successors, more or less worthy, have been following along
the trail blazed by Bret Harte. They have given us matter of many
kinds, realistic, romantic, tragic, humorous, weird. In this mass
of material much that was good has been lost. The columns of newspapers
swallowed some; weeklies, that lived for a brief day, carried
others to the grave with them.

Now and then chance or design interposed, and some fragment of value
was not allowed to perish. It is matter for congratulation
that the story in this volume was one of those saved from oblivion.

In 1871 a San Francisco paper published a tale entitled The Case of
Summerfield. The author concealed himself under the name of "Caxton,"
a pseudonym unknown at the time. The story made an immediate impression,
and the remote little world by the Golden Gate was shaken into
startled and enquiring astonishment. Wherever people met, The Case
of Summerfield was on men's tongues. Was Caxton's contention possible?
Was it true that, by the use of potassium, water could be set on
fire, and that any one possessing this baneful secret could destroy
the world? The plausibility with which the idea was presented, the
bare directness of the style, added to its convincing power. It
sounded too real to be invention, was told with too frank a simplicity
to be all imagination.There was still ample time
for arrangement before the bill would come due, and he would not tell
Fanny till he had made up his mind what that arrangement would be. It
would kill her, he said to himself over and over again, were he to
tell her of it without being able to tell her also that the means of
liquidating the debt were to be forthcoming.

And now I must say a word about Lucy Robarts. If one might only go
on without those descriptions how pleasant it would all be! But Lucy
Robarts has to play a forward part in this little drama, and those
who care for such matters must be made to understand something of her
form and likeness. When last we mentioned her as appearing, though
not in any prominent position, at her brother's wedding, she was only
sixteen; but now, at the time of her father's death, somewhat over
two years having since elapsed, she was nearly nineteen. Laying aside
for the sake of clearness that indefinite term of girl--for girls
are girls from the age of three up to forty-three, if not previously
married--dropping that generic word, we may say that then, at that
wedding of her brother, she was a child; and now, at the death of her
father, she was a woman. Nothing, perhaps, adds so much to womanhood,
turns the child so quickly into a woman, as such death-bed scenes as
these. Hitherto but little had fallen to Lucy to do in the way of
woman's duties. Of money transactions she had known nothing, beyond
a jocose attempt to make her annual allowance of twenty-five pounds
cover all her personal wants--an attempt which was made jocose by
the loving bounty of her father. Her sister, who was three years her
elder--for John came in between them--had managed the house; that
is, she had made the tea and talked to the house-keeper about the
dinners. But Lucy had sat at her father's elbow, had read to him of
evenings when he went to sleep, had brought him his slippers and
looked after the comforts of his easy chair. All this she had done
as a child; but when she stood at the coffin head, and knelt at the
coffin side, then she was a woman.

THE FORMAL ARRANGEMENT OF THE DINNER-TABLE
The mat is first adjusted upon the table, and the table-cloth
smoothly and evenly laid over it. The cloth should fall about
half-way to the floor all around.

The floral accessories are then put in place; and also the fruits
and bon-bons, which may be commingled with the flowers in working
out a decorative design, or they may be placed, in ornamental
dishes, at the four corners of a wide table, to balance the flowers
in the centre; or, they may be arranged along the middle of a long
table.Pole had answered: "Not a bit; is she,
now? Only think what Blanche was at her age. But she has fine eyes,
for all that; and they do say she is the cleverest of them all." And
that, too, is so true a description of her that I do not know that
I can add much to it. She was not like Blanche; for Blanche had
a bright complexion, and a fine neck, and a noble bust, _et vera
incessu patuit Dea_--a true goddess, that is, as far as the eye
went. She had a grand idea, moreover, of an apple-pie, and had not
reigned eighteen months at Creamclotted Hall before she knew all the
mysteries of pigs and milk, and most of those appertaining to cider
and green cheese.

