     Evident that the man was above his costume; a rare thing!
     Mania for fearing that she may be compromised
     Material in you to make one of Cooper's redskins
     Recourse to concessions is often as fatal to women as to kings
     Those whom they most amuse are those who are best worth amusing
     Trying to conceal by a smile (a blush)
     When one speaks of the devil he appears
     Wiped his nose behind his hat, like a well-bred orator


GERFAUT

By CHARLES DE BERNARD


BOOK 2.


CHAPTER VI

GERFAUT'S STORY

While the two friends are devouring to the very last morsel the feast
prepared for them by Madame Gobillot, it may not be out of place to
explain in a few words the nature of the bonds that united these two men.

The Vicomte de Gerfaut was one of those talented beings who are the
veritable champions of an age when the lightest pen weighs more in the
social balance than our ancestors' heaviest sword. He was born in the
south of France, of one of those old families whose fortune had
diminished each generation, their name finally being almost all that they
had left. After making many sacrifices to give their son an education
worthy of his birth, his parents did not live to enjoy the fruits of
their efforts, and Gerfaut became an orphan at the time when he had just
finished his law studies. He then abandoned the career of which his
father had dreamed for him, and the possibilities of a red gown bordered
with ermine. A mobile and highly colored imagination, a passionate love
for the arts, and, more than all, some intimacies contracted with men of
letters, decided his vocation and launched him into literature.

The ardent young man, without a murmur or any misgivings, drank to the
very dregs the cup poured out to neophytes in the harsh career of letters
by editors, theatrical managers, and publishers. With some, this course
ends in suicide, but it only cost Gerfaut a portion of his slender
patrimony; he bore this loss like a man who feels that he is strong
enough to repair it. When his plans were once made, he followed them up
with indefatigable perseverance, and became a striking example of the
irresistible power of intelligence united to will-power. Reputation, for
him, lay in the unknown depths of an arid and rocky soil; he was obliged,
in order to reach it, to dig a sort of artesian well. Gerfaut accepted
this heroic labor; he worked day and night for several years, his
forehead, metaphorically, bathed in a painful perspiration alleviated
only by hopes far away. At last the untiring worker's drill struck the
underground spring over which so many noble ones breathlessly bend,
although their thirst is never quenched. At this victorious stroke, glory
burst forth, falling in luminous sparks, making this new name--his
name--flash with a brilliancy too dearly paid for not to be lasting.

The Human Voice: its Right Management in Speaking, Reading, and Debating,
including the Principles of True Eloquence; together with the Functions
of the Vocal Organs,--the Motion of the Letters of the Alphabet,--the
Cultivation of the Ear,--the Disorders of the Vocal and Articulating
Organs,--Origin and Construction of the English Language.--Proper Methods
of Delivery,--Remedial Effects of Reading and Speaking, etc. By the Rev.
W. W. Cazalet, A. M., Cantab. New York.
Fowler & Wells. 16mo. paper, pp. 46. 10 cts.

American Normal Schools: their Theory, their Workings, and their Results,
as embodied in the Proceedings of the First Annual Convention
of the American Normal School Association, held at Trenton, New Jersey,
August 19th and 20th, 1859. New York.

Barnes & Burr. 8vo. pp. 113.
$1.25.

History of the Early Church, from the First Preaching of the Gospel, to
the Council of Nicea.

For the Use of Young Persons. By the Author of "Amy Herbert." New York.
Appleton & Co. 16mo. pp. x., 383. 60 cts.

Our Bible Chronology, Historic and Prophetic, Critically Examined and
Demonstrated, and Harmonized with the Chronology of Profane
Writers:
Embracing an Examination and Refutation of the Theories of Modern
Egyptologists. Accompanied with Extensive Chronological and
Genealogical Tables, from the Earliest Records to the Present Time;
a Map of the Ancients; a Chart of the Course of Empires; and Various
Pictorial Illustrations. On a Plan entirely New. Designed for the
Use of Universities, Colleges, Academies, Bible Classes, Sabbath
Schools, Families, etc. By the Rev. R.C. Shimeall, a Member of the
Presbytery of New York; Author of an Illuminated Scripture Chart;
Dr. Watts's Scripture History, Enlarged; a Treatise on Prayer; etc.
New York.This one is
brother to a poet, another son-in-law to a historian; they conclude that
they also have a right to be poet and historian in their turn. Thomas
Corneille is their model; but we must admit that very few of our writers
reach the rank attained by Corneille the younger.

Marillac was train-bearer to Gerfaut, and was rewarded for this bondage
by a few bribes of collaboration, crumbs that fall from the rich man's
table. They had been close friends since they both entered the law
school, where they were companions in folly rather than in study.
Marillac also had thrown himself into the arena of literature; then,
different fortunes having greeted the two friends' efforts, he had
descended little by little from the role of a rival to that of an
inferior. Marillac was an artist, talent accepted, from the tip of his
toes to the sole of his boots, which he wished to lengthen by pointed
toes out of respect for the Middle Ages; for he excelled above all things
in his manner of dressing, and possessed, among other intellectual
merits, the longest moustache in literature.

If he had not art in his brain, to make up for it he always had its name
at his tongue's end. Vaudeville writing or painting, poetry or music, he
dabbled in all these, like those horses sold as good for both riding and
driving, which are as bad in the saddle as in front of a tilbury. He
signed himself "Marillac, man of letters"; meanwhile, aside from his
profound disdain for the bourgeois, whom he called vulgar, and for the
French Academy, to which he had sworn never to belong, one could reproach
him with nothing. His penchant for the picturesque in expression was not
always, it is true, in the most excellent taste, but, in spite of these
little oddities, his unfortunate passion for art, and his affection for
the Middle Ages, he was a brave, worthy, and happy fellow, full of good
qualities, very much devoted to his friends, above all to Gerfaut. One
could, therefore, pardon him for being a pseudo-artist.

"Will your story be a long one?" said he to the playwright, when
Catherine had conducted them after supper to the double-bedded room,
where they were to pass the night.

"Long or short, what does it matter, since you must listen to it?"

"Because, first, I would make some grog and fill my pipe; otherwise, I
would content myself with a cigar."

"Take your pipe and make your grog."

"Here!" said the artist, running after Catherine, "don't rush downstairs
so. You are wanted. Fear nothing, interesting maid; you are safe with us;
but bring us a couple of glasses, brandy, sugar, a bowl, and some hot
water."

"They want some hot water," cried the servant, rushing into the kitchen
with a frightened look; "can they be ill at this hour?"

"Give the gentlemen what they want, you little simpleton!" replied
Mademoiselle Reine; "they probably want to concoct some of their Paris
drinks."

When all the articles necessary for the grog were on the table, Marillac
drew up an old armchair, took another chair to stretch his legs upon,
replaced his cap with a handkerchief artistically knotted about his head,
his boots with a pair of slippers, and, finally, lighted his pipe.

"Now," said he, as he seated himself, "I will listen without moving an
eyelid should your story last, like the creation, six days and nights."

Gerfaut took two or three turns about the room with the air of an orator
who is seeking for a beginning to a speech.

"You know," said he, "that Fate has more or less influence over our
lives, according to the condition of mind in which we happen to be. In
order that you may understand the importance of the adventure I am about
relating to you, it will be necessary for me to picture the state of mind
which I was in at the time it happened; this will be a sort of
philosophical and psychological preamble."

"Thunder!" interrupted Marillac, "if I had known that, I would have
ordered a second bowl."

"You will remember," continued Gerfaut, paying no attention to this
pleasantry, "the rather bad attack of spleen which I had a little over a
year ago?"

"Before your trip to Switzerland?"

"Exactly."

"If I remember right," said the artist, "you were strangely cross and
whimsical at the time. Was it not just after the failure of our drama at
the Porte Saint-Martin?"

"You might also add of our play at the Gymnase."

"I wash my hands of that. You know very well that it only went as far as
the second act, and I did not write one word in the first."

"And hardly one in the second. However, I take the catastrophe upon my
shoulders; that made two perfect failures in that d---d month of August."

"Two failures that were hard to swallow," replied Marillac, "We can say,
for our consolation, that there never were more infamous conspiracies
against us, above all, than at the Gymnase. My ears ring with the hisses
yet! I could see, from our box, a little villain in a dress coat, in one
corner of the pit, who gave the signal with a whistle as large as a
horse-pistol. How I would have liked to cram it down his throat!" As he
said these words, he brought his fist down upon the table, and made the
glasses and candles dance 'upon it.

"Conspiracy or not, this time they judged the play aright. I believe it
would be impossible to imagine two worse plays; but, as Brid Oison says,
'These are things that one admits only to himself'; it is always
disagreeable to be informed of one's stupidity by an ignorant audience
that shouts after you like a pack of hounds after a hare. In spite of my
pretension of being the least susceptible regarding an author's vanity of
all the writers in Paris, it is perfectly impossible to be indifferent to
such a thing--a hiss is a hiss. However, vanity aside, there was a
question of money which, as I have a bad habit of spending regularly my
capital as well as my income, was not without its importance. It meant,
according to my calculation, some sixty thousand francs cut off from my
resources, and my trip to the East was indefinitely postponed.

"They say, with truth, that misfortunes never come singly. You know
Melanie, whom I prevented from making her debut at the Vaudeville? By
taking her away from all society, lodging her in a comfortable manner and
obliging her to work, I rendered her a valuable service. She was a good
girl, and, aside from her love for the theatre and a certain indolence
that was not without charm, I did not find any fault in her and grew more
attached to her every day. Sometimes after spending long hours with her,
a fancy for a retired life and domestic happiness would seize me.
Gentlemen with brains are privileged to commit foolish acts at times, and
I really do not know what I might have ended in doing, had I not been
preserved from the danger in an unexpected manner.

Even his wife and children were not to be restored to him; for, in a
secret stipulation with the Pacha, Lear had waived for four years
the execution of that article of the treaty. The poor fellow had been
taken up as a convenience, and was dropped when no longer wanted.
But he was only an African Turk, and, although not black, was probably
dark enough in complexion to weaken his claims upon the good feeling and
the good faith of the United States.

Eaton arrived at home in November of the same year,[3] disgusted
with the officers, civil and naval, who had cut short his successful
campaign, and had disregarded, as of no importance, the engagements
he had contracted with his Turkish ally.

His report to the Secretary of the Navy expressed in the most direct
language his opinion of the treaty and his contempt for the reasons
assigned by Lear and Barron for their sudden action. The enthusiastic
welcome he received from his countrymen encouraged his dissatisfaction.
The American people decreed him a triumph after their fashion,--public
dinners, addresses of congratulation, the title of Hero of Derne.

He had shown just the qualities mankind admire,--boldness, tenacity, and
dashing courage. Few could be found who did not regret that Preble had
not been there to help him onward to Tripoli and to a peace without
payments. And as Eaton was not the man to carry on a war, even of words,
without throwing his whole soul into the conflict, he proclaimed to
all hearers that the Government was guilty of duplicity and meanness,
and that Lear was a compound of envy, treachery, and ignorance.

But this violence of language recoiled upon himself,--
"And so much injured more his side, The stronger arguments he applied."

The Administration steadily upheld Lear; and good Democrats, who
saw every measure refracted through the dense medium of party-spirit,
of course defended their leaders, and took fire at Eaton's overbearing
manner and insulting intolerance of their opinions.

Thus, although the general sentiment of the country was strongly in his
favor, at Washington he made many enemies. A resolution was introduced
into the House of Representatives to present him with a medal,
or with a sword; it was violently opposed by John Randolph and others,
postponed from time to time, and never passed. Eaton received neither
promotion, nor pecuniary compensation, nor an empty vote of thanks.
He had even great delay and difficulty in obtaining the settlement of
his accounts[4] and the repayment of the money advanced by him.

Disappointment, debt, and hard drinking soon brought Eaton's life to
a close. He died in obscurity in 1811. Among his papers was found a list
of officers who composed a Court Martial held in Ohio by General St.
Clair in 1793. As time passed, he had noted in the margin of the
paper the fate of each man. All were either "Dead" or "Damned by brandy."
His friends might have completed the melancholy roll by writing
under his name the same epitaph.

However wrong Eaton may have been in manners and in morals, he seems
to have been right in complaining of the treatment he received from the
Administration. The organs of the Government asserted that Eaton had
exceeded his instructions, and had undertaken projects the end of
which could not be foreseen,--that the Administration had never
authorized any specific engagement with Hamet, an inefficient person,
and not at all the man he was supposed to be,--and that the alliance
with him was much too expensive and dangerous to justify its further
prosecution.

Unfortunately for this view of the case, the dealings of the United States
with Hamet dated back to the beginning of the war with Tripoli. A
diversion in his favor was no new project, but had been considered
for more than three years. Eaton and Cathcart had recommended it in 1801,
and Government approved of the plan. In 1802, when Jusuf Pacha offered
Hamet the Beyship of Benghazi and Derne, to break up these negotiations,
the United States Consuls promised him Jusuf's throne, if he would
refuse the offer, and threatened, if he accepted it, to treat him
as an enemy, and to send a frigate to prevent him from landing at
Derne.

Later, when the Bey of Tunis showed some inclination to surrender
Hamet to his brother, the Consuls furnished him with the means of escape
to Malta. In 1803, he crossed over to Derne in an English brig, hoping
to receive assistance from the American fleet; but Commodore Morris
left him to his own resources; he was unable to hold his ground, and
fled to Egypt.

All this was so well known at home, that members of the Opposition
in Congress jokingly accused the Administration of undertaking to
decide constitutional questions for the people of Tripoli.

Before the news of this flight into Egypt reached the United States,
Eaton had been instructed by the President to take command of an
expedition on the coast of Barbary in connection with Hamet.

It had been determined to furnish a few pieces of field-artillery, a
thousand stand of arms, and forty thousand dollars as a loan to
the Pretender.

But when the President heard of Hamet's reverses, he withheld
the supplies, and sent Eaton out as "General Agent for the several
Barbary States," without special instructions.

The Secretary of the Navy wrote at the same time to Commodore
Barron:--"With respect to the Ex-Bashaw of Tripoli, we have no objection
to your availing yourself of his cooperation with you against
Tripoli, if you shall, upon a full view of the subject, after your
arrival upon the station, consider his cooperation expedient.

The subject is committed entirely to your discretion. In such an event,
you will, it is believed, find Mr. Eaton extremely useful to you."
After Commodore Barron had reached his station, he did consider the
"coöperation" expedient; and ordered Hull in the Argus to Alexandria
with Eaton in search of Hamet, "the legitimate sovereign of the
reigning Bashaw of Tripoli." If Eaton succeeded in finding the Pacha,
Hull was to carry him and his suite to Derne, "or such other place as may
be determined the most proper for coöperating with the naval force
under my command against the common enemy ... You may assure the Bashaw
of the support of my squadron at Benghazi or Derne, and that I will take
the most effectual measures with the forces under my command for
cooperating with him against the usurper his brother, and for
reëstablishing him in the Regency of Tripoli.

Arrangements to this effect with him are confided to the discretion with
which Mr. Eaton is vested by the Government."
It would seem from these extracts that Eaton derived full authority from
Barron to act in this matter, independently of his commission as
"General Agent."

We do not perceive that he exceeded a reasonable discretion in the
"arrangements" made with Hamet.

After so many disappointments, the refugee could not be expected
to leave a comfortable situation and to risk his head without some
definite agreement as to the future; and the convention made with
him by Eaton did not go beyond what Hamet had a right to demand,
or the instructions of the Commodore,--even in Article II., which
was afterward particularly objected to by the Government.

It ran thus:--
"The Government of the United States shall use their utmost exertions,
so far as comports with their own honor and interest, their subsisting
treaties, and the acknowledged law of nations, to reëstablish the said
Hamet Bashaw in the possession of his sovereignty of Tripoli
against the pretensions of Joseph Bashaw," etc.

We should add, that Hamet, to satisfy himself of the truth of Eaton's
representations, sent one of his followers to Barron, who confirmed
the treaty; and that the Commodore, when he received Eaton's despatch,
announcing his departure from Aboukir, wrote back a warm approval
of his energy, and notified him that the Argus and the Nautilus
would be sent immediately to Bomba with the necessary stores and
seven thousand dollars in money.

Barron added,--"You may depend upon the most active and vigorous support
from the squadron, as soon as the season and our arrangements will permit
us to appear in force before the enemy's walls."
So much for Eaton's authority to pledge the faith of the United States.
As to the question of expense: the whole cost of the expedition, up to the
evacuation of Derne, was thirty-nine thousand dollars.

Eaton asserted, and we see no reason to doubt his accuracy, that thirty
thousand more would have carried the American flag triumphantly into
Tripoli.

Lear paid sixty thousand for peace.

Hamet was set on shore at Syracuse with thirty followers. Two hundred
dollars a month were allowed him for the support of himself and of them,
until particular directions should be received from the United States
concerning him. He wrote more than once to the President for
relief, resting his claims upon Eaton's convention and the letter
of the Secretary of State read to him by Consul Cathcart in 1802.

In this letter, the Secretary declared, that, in case of the failure of
the combined attack upon Derne, it would be proper for our Government
"to restore him to the situation from, which he was drawn, or to make some
other convenient arrangement that may be more eligible to him." Hamet
asked that at least the President would restore to him his wife
and family, according to the treaty, and send them all back to Egypt.

"I cannot suppose," he wrote, "that the engagements of an American
agent would be disputed by his Government, ... or that a gentleman
has pledged towards me the honor of his country on purpose to deceive
me."

Eaton presented these petitions to the President and to the public, and
insisted so warmly upon the harsh treatment his ally had received
from the United States, that two thousand four hundred dollars were
sent to him in 1806, and again, in 1807, Davis, Consul for Tripoli,
was directed to insist upon the release of the wife and children.

They were delivered up by Jusuf in 1807, and taken to Syracuse in
an American sloop-of-war.

Here ended the relations of the United States with Hamet Caramanli.[5]

Throughout this whole African chapter, the darling economy of the Administration
was a penny-wise policy which resulted in the usual failure. Already
in 1802, Mr.

Gallatin reported that two millions and a half, in round numbers, had been
paid in tribute and presents.

The expense of fitting out the four squadrons is estimated by Mr. Sabine
at three millions and a half. The tribute extorted after 1802 and the
cost of keeping the ships in the Mediterranean amount at the lowest
estimate to two millions more.

Most of this large sum might have been saved by giving an adequate force
and full powers to Commodore Dale, who had served under Paul Jones, and
knew how to manage such matters.

Unluckily for their fame, the Administration was equally parsimonious
in national spirit and pluck, and did their utmost to protect themselves
against the extravagance of such reckless fellows as Preble, Decatur, and
Eaton. In the spring of 1803, while Preble was fitting out his squadron,
Mr.

Simpson, Consul at Tangier, was instructed to buy the good-will of the
Emperor of Morocco. He disobeyed his instructions, and the Emperor
withdrew his demands when he saw the American ships.

About the same time, the Secretary of State wrote to Consul Cathcart in
relation to Tripoli:--
"It is thought best that you should not be tied down to a refusal of
presents, whether to be included in the peace, or to be made from time
to time during its continuance,--especially as in the latter case the
title to the presents will be a motive to its continuance,--to admit that
the Bashaw shall receive in the first instance, including the consular
present, the sum of $20,000, and at the rate afterwards of $8,000 or
$10,000 a year ... The presents, whatever the amount or purpose of them,
(except the consular present, which, as usual, may consist of jewelry,
cloth, etc.,) must be made in money and not in stores, to be biennial
rather than annual; _and the arrangement of the presents is to form no
part of the public treaty, if a private promise and understanding can be
substituted._"
After notifying Cathcart of his appointment to Tunis, the Secretary
directs him to evade the thirty-six-gun frigate, and to offer the
Bey ten thousand dollars a year for peace, to be arranged in the
same underhand way.

Tripoli refused the money; it was not enough. The Bey of Tunis rejected
both the offer and the Consul. He wrote to Mr. Jefferson that he
considered some of Cathcart's expressions insulting, and that he insisted
upon the thirty-six-gun frigate. Mr. Jefferson answered on the 27th
of January, 1804, after he knew of the insult to Morris and of the
expulsion of Eaton. Beginning with watery generalities about "mutual
friendships and the interests arising out of them," he regretted
that there should be any misconception of his motives on the part
of the Bey.

"Such being our regard for you, it is with peculiar concern I learn
from your letter that Mr. Cathcart, whom I had chosen from a confidence
in his integrity, experience, and good dispositions, has so conducted
himself as to incur your displeasure. In doing this, be assured he has
gone against the letter and spirit of his instructions, which were,
that his deportment should be such as to make known my esteem and
respect for your character both personal and public, and to cultivate
your friendship by all the attentions and services he could render....
In selecting another character to take the place of Mr. Cathcart, I
shall take care to fix on one who, I hope, will better fulfil the
duties of respect and esteem for you, and who, in so doing only, will
be the faithful representative and organ of our earnest desire that the
peace and friendship so happily subsisting between the two countries
may be firm and permanent."

Most people will agree with Eaton, that "the spirit which dictated
this answer betrays more the inspiration of Carter's Mountain[6] than of
Bunker Hill."
Lear, who was appointed Consul-General in 1803, was authorized by his
instructions to pay twenty thousand dollars down and ten thousand a year
for peace, and a sum not to exceed five hundred dollars a man for
ransom.

When Barron's squadron anchored at Malta, Consul O'Brien came on
board to say that he had offered, by authority, eight thousand
dollars a year to Tunis, instead of the frigate, and one hundred
and ten thousand to Tripoli for peace and the ransom of the crew
of the Philadelphia, and that both propositions had been rejected.

Finally, after fitting out this fourth squadron, at an expense of one million
five hundred and seventy thousand dollars, and with Eaton in
possession of Derne, the Administration paid sixty thousand dollars
for peace and ransom, when Preble, ten months previously, could
have obtained both for one hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

Thus they spent two millions to save ninety thousand, and left the
principle of tribute precisely where it was before.

I was admiring her
lightness and thoughtlessness, but with an uneasy feeling, when I saw her
suddenly stop. I instinctively ran toward her. An enormous crevasse of
great depth lay at her feet, blue at its edges and dark in its depths.
She stood motionless before this frightful gulf with hands thrown out
before her in horror, but charmed like a bird about to be swallowed by a
serpent. I knew the irresistible effect upon nervous temperaments of this
magnetic attraction toward an abyss. I seized her by the arm, the
suddenness of the movement made her drop her staff and flowers, which
fell into the depths of the chasm.

"I tried to lead her away, but after she had taken a few steps, I felt
her totter; she had grown pale; her eyes were closed. I threw my arm
about her, in order to support her and turned her face toward the north;
the cold air striking her revived her, and she soon opened her beautiful
brown eyes. I do not know what sudden tenderness seized me then, but I
pressed this lovely creature within my grasp, and she remained in my arms
unresistingly. I felt that I loved her already.

"She remained for a moment with her languishing eyes fixed on mine,
making no response, perhaps not even having heard me. The shouts of her
party, some of whom were coming toward her, broke the charm. With a rapid
movement, she withdrew from my embrace, and I offered her my arm, just as
if we were in a drawing-room and I was about to lead her out for a dance;
she took it, but I did not feel elated at this, for I could feel her
knees waver at every step. The smallest crevasse, which she had crossed
before with such agility, now inspired her with a horror which I could
divine by the trembling of her arm within mine. I was obliged to make
numerous detours in order to avoid them, and thus prolonged the distance,
for which I was not sorry. Did I not know that when we reached our
destination, the world, that other sea of ice, was going to take her away
from me, perhaps forever? We walked silently, occasionally making a few
trivial remarks, both deeply embarrassed. When we reached the persons who
awaited her, I said, as she disengaged my arm:

"'You dropped my flowers, Madame; will it be the same with your memory of
me?'

"She looked at me, but made no reply. I loved this silence. I bowed
politely to her and returned to the pavilion, while she related her
adventure to her friends; but I am quite sure she did not tell all the
details.

"The register for travellers who visit the Montan-Vert is a mixture of
all nationalities, and no tourist refuses his tribute; modest ones write
down their names only. I hoped in this way to learn the name of the young
traveller, and I was not disappointed. I soon saw the corpulent Monsieur
de Mauleon busily writing his name upon the register in characters worthy
of Monsieur Prudhomme; the other members of the little party followed his
example. The young woman was the last to write down her name. I took the
book in my turn, after she had left, and with apparent composure I read
upon the last line these words, written in a slender handwriting:

"Baroness Clemence de Bergenheim."


CHAPTER VII

GERFAUT ASKS A FAVOR

"The Baroness de Bergenheim!" exclaimed Marillac. "Ah! I understand it
all now, and you may dispense with the remainder of your story. So this
was the reason why, instead of visiting the banks of the Rhine as we
agreed, you made me leave the route at Strasbourg under the pretext of
walking through the picturesque sites of the Vosges. It was unworthy of
you to abuse my confidence as a friend. And I allowed myself to be led by
the nose to within a mile of Bergenheim!"

"Peace," interrupted Gerfaut; "I have not finished. Smoke and listen.

"I followed Madame de Bergenheim as far as Geneva. She had gone there
from here with her aunt, and had availed herself of this journey to visit
Mont Blanc. She left for her home the next day without my meeting her
again; but I preserved her name, and it was not unknown to me. I had
heard it spoken in several houses in the Faubourg Saint-Germain, and I
knew that I should certainly have an opportunity of meeting her during
the winter.

"So I remained at Geneva, yielding to a sensation as new as it was
strange. It first acted upon my brain whose ice I felt melting away, and
its sources ready to gush forth. I seized my pen with a passion not
unlike an access of rage. I finished in four days two acts of a drama
that I was then writing. I never had written anything more vigorous or
more highly colored. My unconstrained genius throbbed in my arteries, ran
through my blood, and bubbled over as if it wished to burst forth. My
hand could not keep even with the course of my imagination; I was obliged
to write in hieroglyphics.

"Adieu to the empty reveries brought about by spleen, and to the
meditations 'a la Werther'! The sky was blue, the air pure, life
delightful--my talent was not dead.

"After this first effort, I slackened a little! Madame de Bergenheim's
face, which I had seen but dimly during this short time, returned to me
in a less vaporous form; I took extreme delight in calling to mind the
slightest circumstances of our meeting, the smallest details of her
features, her toilette, her manner of walking and carrying her head. What
had impressed me most was the extreme softness of her dark eyes, the
almost childish tone of her voice, a vague odor of heliotrope with which
her hair was perfumed; also the touch of her hand upon my arm. I
sometimes caught myself embracing myself in order to feel this last
sensation again, and then I could not help laughing at my thoughts, which
were worthy of a fifteen-year-old lover.

"I had felt so convinced of my powerlessness to love, that the thought of
a serious passion did not at first enter my mind. However, a remembrance
of my beautiful traveller pervaded my thoughts more and more, and
threatened to usurp the place of everything else. I then subjected myself
to a rigid analysis; I sought for the exact location of this sentiment
whose involuntary yoke I already felt; I persuaded myself, for some time
yet, that it was only the transient excitement of my brain, one of those
fevers of imagination whose fleeting titillations I had felt more than
once.

"But I realized that the evil, or the good--for why call love an
evil?--had penetrated into the most remote regions of my being, and I
realized the energy of my struggle like a person entombed who tries to
extricate himself. From the ashes of this volcano which I had believed to
be extinct, a flower had suddenly blossomed, perfumed with the most
fragrant of odors and decked with the most charming colors. Artless
enthusiasm, faith in love, all the brilliant array of the fresh illusions
of my youth returned, as if by enchantment, to greet this new bloom of my
life; it seemed to me as if I had been created a second time, since I was
aided by intelligence and understood its mysteries while tasting of its
delights. My past, in the presence of this regeneration, was nothing more
than a shadow at the bottom of an abyss. I turned toward the future with
the faith of a Mussulman who kneels with his face toward the East--I
loved!

"I returned to Paris, and applied to my friend Casorans, who knows the
Faubourg Saint-Germain from Dan to Beersheba.

"'Madame de Bergenheim,' he said to me, 'is a very popular society woman,
not very pretty, perhaps, rather clever, though, and very amiable. She is
one of our coquettes of the old nobility, and with her twenty-four
carats' virtue she always has two sufferers attached to her chariot, and
a third on the waiting-list, and yet it is impossible for one to find a
word to say against her behavior. Just at this moment, Mauleon and
d'Arzenac compose the team; I do not know who is on the waiting-list. She
will probably spend the winter here with her aunt, Mademoiselle de
Corandeuil, one of the hatefullest old women on the Rue de Varennes. The
husband is a good fellow who, since the July revolution, has lived upon
his estates, caring for his forests and killing wild boars without
troubling himself much about his wife.'

"He then told me which houses these ladies frequented, and left me,
saying with a knowing air:

"'Take care, if you intend to try the power of your seductions upon the
little Baroness; whoever meddles with her smarts for it!'

"This information from a viper like Casorans satisfied me in every way.
Evidently the place was not taken; impregnable, that was another thing.

"Before Madame de Bergenheim's return, I began to show myself assiduously
at the houses of which my friend had spoken. My position in the Faubourg
Saint-Germain is peculiar, but good, according to my opinion. I have
enough family ties to be sustained by several should I be attacked by
many, and this is the essential point. It is true that, thanks to my
works, I am regarded as an atheist and a Jacobin; aside from these two
little defects, they think well enough of me. Besides, it is a notorious
fact that I have rejected several offers from the present government, and
refused last year the 'croix d'honneur'; this makes amends and washes
away half my sins. Finally, I have the reputation of having a
certain-knowledge of heraldry, which I owe to my uncle, a confirmed
hunter after genealogical claims. This gains me a respect which makes me
laugh sometimes, when I see people who detest me greet me as cordially as
the Cure of Saint-Eustache greeted Bayle, for fear that I might destroy
their favorite saint. However, in this society, I am no longer Gerfaut of
the Porte-Saint-Martin, but I am the Vicomte de Gerfaut. Perhaps, with
your bourgeois ideas, you do not understand--"

"Bourgeois!" exclaimed Marillac, bounding from his seat, "what are you
talking about? Do you wish that we should cut each other's throats before
breakfast to-morrow? Bourgeois! why not grocer? I am an artist--don't you
know that by this time?"

"Don't get angry, my dear fellow; I meant to say that in certain places
the title of a Vicomte has still a more powerful attraction than you,
with your artistic but plebeian ideas, would suppose in this year of our
Lord 1832."

"Well and good. I accept your apology."

"A vicomte's title is a recommendation in the eyes of people who still
cling to the baubles of nobility, and all women are of this class. There
is something, I know not what, delicate and knightly in this title, which
suits a youngish bachelor. Duke above all titles is the one that sounds
the best. Moliere and Regnard have done great harm to the title of
marquis. Count is terribly bourgeois, thanks to the senators of the
empire. As to a Baron, unless he is called Montmorency or Beaufremont, it
is the lowest grade of nobility; vicomte, on the contrary, is above
reproach; it exhales a mixed odor of the old regime and young France;
then, don't you know, our Chateaubriand was a vicomte.

"I departed from my subject in speaking of nobility. I accidentally
turned over one day to the article upon my family in the Dictionnaire de
Saint-Allais; I found that one of my ancestors, Christophe de Gerfaut,
married, in 1569, a Mademoiselle Yolande de Corandeuil.

"'O my ancestor! O my ancestress!' I exclaimed, 'you had strange
baptismal names; but no matter, I thank you. You are going to serve me as
a grappling iron; I shall be very unskilful if at the very first meeting
the old aunt escapes Christophe.'

"A few days later I went to the Marquise de Chameillan's, one of the most
exclusive houses in the noble Faubourg. When I enter her drawing-room, I
usually cause the same sensation that Beelzebub would doubtless produce
should he put his foot into one of the drawing-rooms in Paradise. That
evening, when I was announced, I saw a certain undulation of heads in a
group of young women who were whispering to one another; many curious
eyes were fastened upon me, and among these beautiful eyes were two more
beautiful than all the others: they were those of my bewitching
traveller.

"I exchanged a rapid glance with her, one only; after paying my respects
to the mistress of the house, I mingled with a crowd of men, and entered
into conversation with an old peer upon some political question, avoiding
to look again toward Madame de Bergenheim.

"A moment later, Madame de Chameillan came to ask the peer to play whist;
he excused himself, he could not remain late.

"'I dare not ask you to play with Mademoiselle de Corandeuil,' said she,
turning toward me; 'besides, I understand too well that it is to my
interest and the pleasure of these ladies, not to exile you to a whist
table.'

"I took the card which she half offered me with an eagerness which might
have made her suppose that I had become a confirmed whist expert during
my voyage.

"Mademoiselle de Corandeuil certainly was the ugly, crabbed creature that
Casorans had described; but had she been as frightful as the witches in
Macbeth I was determined to make her conquest. So I began playing with
unusual attention. I was her partner, and I knew from experience the
profound horror which the loss of money inspires in old women. Thank
heaven, we won! Mademoiselle de Corandeuil, who has an income of one
hundred thousand francs, was not at all indifferent to the gain of two or
three louis. She, therefore, with an almost gracious air, congratulated
me, as we left the table, upon my manner of playing.

"'I would willingly contract an alliance, offensive and defensive with
you,' said she to me.

"'The alliance is already contracted, Mademoiselle,' said I, seizing the
opportunity.

"'How is that, Monsieur?' she replied, raising her head with a dignified
air, as if she were getting ready to rebuke some impertinent speech.

"I also gravely straightened up and gave a feudal look to my face.

"'Mademoiselle, I have the honor of belonging to your family, a little
distantly, to be sure; that is what makes me speak of an alliance between
us as a thing already concluded. One of my ancestors, Christophe de
Gerfaut, married Mademoiselle Yolande de Corandeuil, one of your
great-grand-aunts, in 1569.'

"'Yolande is really a family name,' replied the old lady, with the most
affable smile that her face would admit; 'I bear it myself. The
Corandeuils, Monsieur, never have denied their alliances, and it is a
pleasure for me to recognize my relationship with such a man as you. We
address by the title of cousin relatives as far back as 1300.'

"'I am nearer related to you by three centuries,' I replied, in my most
insinuating voice; 'may I hope that this good fortune will authorize me
to pay my respects to you?'

"Mademoiselle de Corandeuil replied to my 'tartuferie' by granting me
permission to call upon her. My attention was not so much absorbed in our
conversation that I did not see in a mirror, during this time, the
interest with which Madame de Bergenheim watched my conversation with her
aunt; but I was careful not to turn around, and I let her take her
departure without giving her a second glance.

"Three days later, I made my first call. Madame de Bergenheim received my
greeting like a woman who had been warned and was, therefore, prepared.
We exchanged only one rapid, earnest glance, that was all. Availing
myself of the presence of other callers, numerous enough to assure each
one his liberty, I began to observe, with a practised eye, the field
whereon I had just taken my position.

"Before the end of the evening, I recognized the correctness of
Casorans's information. Among all the gentlemen present I found only two
professed admirers: Monsieur de Mauleon, whose insignificance was
notorious, and Monsieur d'Arzenac, who appeared at first glance as if he
might be more to be feared. D'Arzenac, thanks to an income of ten
thousand livres, beside being a man of rank, occupies also one of the
finest positions that one could desire; he is not unworthy of his name
and his fortune. Irreproachable in morals as in manners; sufficiently
well informed; of an exquisite but reserved politeness; understanding
perfectly the ground that he is walking upon; making also more advances
than is customary among the pachas of modern France, he was, without
doubt, the flower of the flock in Mademoiselle de Corandeuil's
drawing-room. In spite of all these advantages, an attentive examination
showed me that his passion was hopeless. Madame de Bergenheim received
his attentions very kindly--too kindly. She usually listened to him with
a smile in which one could read gratitude for the devotion he lavished
upon her. She willingly accepted him as her favorite partner in the
galop, which he danced to perfection. His success stopped there.

"At the end of several days, the ground having been carefully explored
and the admirers, dangerous and otherwise, having been passed in review,
one after another, I felt convinced that Clemence loved nobody.

"'She shall love me,' said I, on the day I reached this conclusion. In
order to formulate in a decisive manner the accomplishment of my desire,
I relied upon the following propositions, which are to me articles of
faith.

"No woman is unattainable, except when she loves another. Thus, a woman
who does not love, and who has resisted nine admirers, will yield to the
tenth. The only question for me was to be the tenth. Here began the
problem to be solved.

"Madame de Bergenheim had been married only three years; her husband, who
was good-looking and young, passed for a model husband; if these latter
considerations were of little importance, the first was of great weight.
According to all probability, it was too soon for any serious attack.
Without being beautiful, she pleased much and many; a second obstacle,
since sensibility in women is almost always developed in inverse ratio to
their success. She had brains; she was wonderfully aristocratic in all
her tastes.

"Last, being very much the fashion, sought after and envied, she was under
the special surveillance of pious persons, old maids, retired beauties in
one word, all that feminine mounted police, whose eyes, ears, and mouths
seem to have assumed the express mission of annoying sensitive hearts
while watching over the preservation of good morals.

"This mass of difficulties, none of which escaped me, traced as many
lines upon my forehead as if I had been commanded to solve at once all
the propositions in Euclid. She shall love me! these words flashed
unceasingly before my eyes; but the means to attain this end? No
satisfactory plan came to me. Women are so capricious, deep, and
unfathomable! It is, with them, the thing soonest done which is soonest
ended! A false step, the least awkwardness, a want of intelligence, a
quarter of an hour too soon or too late! One thing only was evident: it
needed a grand display of attractions, a complete plan of gallant
strategy; but, then, what more?

"That earthly paradise of the Montanvert was far from us, where I had
been able in less time than it would take to walk over a quadrille, to
expose her to death, to save her afterward, and finally to say to her 'I
love you!' Passion in drawing-rooms is not allowed those free, dramatic
ways; flowers fade in the candle-light; the oppressive atmosphere of
balls and fetes stifles the heart, so ready to dilate in pure mountain
air. The unexpected and irresistible influence of the glacier would have
been improper and foolish in Paris. There, an artless sympathy, stronger
than social conventions, had drawn us to each other--Octave and Clemence.
Here, she was the Baroness de Bergenheim, and I the Vicomte de Gerfaut. I
must from necessity enter the ordinary route, begin the romance at the
first page, without knowing how to connect the prologue with it.

"What should be my plan of campaign?

"Should I pose as an agreeable man, and try to captivate her attention
and good graces by the minute attentions and delicate flattery which
constitute what is classically called paying court? But D'Arzenac had
seized this role, and filled it in such a superior way that all
competition would be unsuccessful. I saw where this had led him. It
needed, in order to inflame this heart, a more active spark than foppish
gallantry; the latter flatters the vanity without reaching the heart.

"There was the passionate method--ardent, burning, fierce love. There are
some women upon whom convulsive sighs drawn from the depths of the
stomach, eyebrows frowning in a fantastic manner, and eyes in which only
the whites are to be seen and which seem to say: 'Love me, or I will kill
you!' produce a prodigious effect. I had myself felt the power of this
fascination while using it one day upon a softhearted blond creature who
thought it delightful to have a Blue-Beard for a lover. But the drooping
corners of Clemence's mouth showed at times an ironical expression which
would have cooled down even an Othello's outbursts.

"'She has brains, and she knows it,' said I to myself; 'shall I attack
her in that direction?' Women rather like such a little war of words; it
gives them an opportunity for displaying a mine of pretty expressions,
piquant pouts, fresh bursts of laughter, graceful peculiarities of which
they well know the effect. Should I be the Benedict to this Beatrice? But
this by-play would hardly fill the prologue, and I very much wished to
reach the epilogue.

"I passed in review the different routes that a lover might take to reach
his end; I recapitulated every one of the more or less infallible methods
of conquering female hearts; in a word, I went over my tactics like a
lieutenant about to drill a battalion of recruits. When I had ended I had
made no farther advance than before.

"'To the devil with systems!' exclaimed I; 'I will not be so foolish as
wilfully to adopt the role of roue when I feel called upon to play the
plain role of true lover. Let those who like play the part of Lovelace!
As for myself, I will love; upon the whole, that is what pleases best.'
And I jumped headlong into the torrent without troubling myself as to the
place of landing.

"While I was thus scheming my attack, Madame de Bergenheim was upon her
guard and had prepared her means of defence. Puzzled by my reserve, which
was in singular contrast with my almost extravagant conduct at our first
meeting, her woman's intelligence had surmised, on my part, a plan which
she proposed to baffle. I was partly found out, but I knew it and thus
kept the advantage.

"I could not help smiling at the Baroness's clever coquetry, when I
decided to follow the inspirations of my heart, instead of choosing
selfish motives as my guide. Every time I took her hand when dancing with
her, I expected to feel a little claw ready to pierce the cold glove.
But, while waiting for the scratch, it was a very soft, velvety little
hand that was given me; and I, who willingly lent myself to her
deception, did not feel very much duped. It was evident that the sort of
halo which my merited or unmerited reputation had thrown over me had made
me appear to her as a conquest of some value, a victim upon whom one
could lavish just enough flowers in order to bring him to the sacrificial
altar. In order to wind the first chain around my neck, Mauleon and
D'Arzenac, 'a tutti quanti', were sacrificed for me without my
soliciting, even by a glance, this general disbandment. I could interpret
this discharge. I saw that the fair one wished to concentrate all her
seductions against me, so as to leave me no means of escape; people
neglect the hares to hunt for the deer. You must excuse my conceit.

"This conduct wounded me at first, but I afterward forgave her, when a
more careful examination taught me to know this adorable woman's
character. Coquetry was with her not a vice of the heart or of an
unscrupulous mind; having nothing better to do, she enjoyed it as a
legitimate pastime, without giving it any importance or feeling any
scruples. Like all women, she liked to please; her success was sweet to
her vanity; perhaps flattery turned her head at times, but in the midst
of this tumult her heart remained in perfect peace. She found so little
danger for herself in the game she played that it did not seem to her
that it could be very serious for others. Genuine love is not common
enough in Parisian parlors for a pretty woman to conceive any great
remorse at pleasing without loving.

"Madame de Bergenheim was thus, ingenuously, unsuspectingly, a matchless
coquette. Never having loved, not even her husband, she looked upon her
little intriguing as one of the rights earned on the day of her marriage,
the same as her diamonds and cashmeres. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _March 29, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:

I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a communication
from the Secretary of War, dated March 25, 1882, with accompanying
correspondence, plans, and estimates, in which he recommends an
appropriation of $40,000 for the completion of the new post at Fort
Lewis, Colo.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _March 30, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:

I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the
Interior, dated the 28th instant, and the accompanying letter of the
Superintendent of the Government Hospital for the Insane, submitting
an estimate for a deficiency appropriation of $20,792.51 for the
support of that institution for the remaining portion of the present
fiscal year.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _March 30, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:

I transmit herewith a letter from the Secretary of the Interior, inclosing
draft of a bill to amend section 2056 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States, relating to the term of office of Indian inspectors
and Indian agents.

The subject is commended to the consideration of Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _March 30, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:

I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the Interior,
dated the 29th of March, and the accompanying letter of the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, submitting an estimate for the additions
of $34,200 and $20,000, respectively, to the appropriations for salaries,
fees, and commissions of registers and receivers, and for contingent
expenses, land offices, for the next fiscal year.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _March 30, 1882_.

_To the House of Representatives_:

I transmit herewith a report of the Secretary of State and accompanying
documents, in response to a resolution of the House of Representatives
of February 13, 1882, touching the protection of American citizens
in Persia and the establishment of diplomatic relations with that
country.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 3, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:

I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a letter from the
Secretary of the Interior, in which he sets forth the necessity
which will exist for an appropriation for the payment of the commissioners
to be appointed under the recent act of Congress entitled "An act to
amend section 5352 of the Revised Statutes of the United States in
reference to bigamy, and for other purposes," and also for the payment
of the election officers to be appointed by said commissioners.

In this connection I submit to Congress that, in view of the important
and responsible duties devolved upon the commissioners under this
act, their compensation at $3,000 per annum, as provided therein,
should be increased to a sum not less than $5,000 per annum.

Such increased compensation, in my judgment, would secure a higher order
of ability in the persons to be selected and tend more effectually to
carry out the objects of the act.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 3, 1882_.

_To the House of Representatives_:

I forward herewith, in compliance with a resolution of the House of
Representatives of the 6th of February ultimo, calling for information
in reference to the arrest and imprisonment in Mexico of certain American
citizens, a further report from the Secretary of State and its accompanying
paper, concerning the cases of Thomas Shields and Charles Weber, to
which that resolution refers.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 4, 1882_.

_To the House of Representatives_:

In partial response to the resolution of the House of Representatives
of the 31st of January last, on the subject of American citizens imprisoned
in Ireland, I transmit herewith a report of the Secretary of State.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 4, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:

I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a letter from the
Secretary of War, dated March 31, 1882, and accompanying report from
the Chief of Engineers, with its inclosures, relative to the
construction of a bridge across the Potomac River at or near Georgetown,
in the District of Columbia, under the provisions of the act approved
February 23, 1881, in which he requests that an additional appropriation
of $80,000 be made to give practical effect to the act referred to in
accordance with the recommendations of the Chief of Engineers.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 5, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:
I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the
Interior, setting forth the necessity for an increased number of
law clerks in the office of the Assistant Attorney-General in the
Department of the Interior, because of the growing amount of business
in that office.

The matter is commended to the attention and favorable action of
Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 5, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:

I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the
Interior of this date, with draft of bill for the relief of Pierre
Garrieaux and correspondence in relation thereto.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 5, 1882_.

_To the House of Representatives_:
I transmit herewith, in reply to the resolution of the House of
Representatives of the 31st of January last, a report from the
Secretary of State, with accompanying papers.[9] 
CHESTER A.

ARTHUR.

WASHINGTON, _April 5, 1882_.

_To the Senate_:

I transmit herewith, in reply to the resolution of the Senate of the
29th of March last, the report of the Secretary of State, with
accompanying papers.[9] 
CHESTER A.

ARTHUR.

[Footnote 9: Correspondence, etc., relative to American citizens
imprisoned in Ireland.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 6, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:

I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a letter
from the Secretary of War, dated the 4th instant, inclosing plans
and estimates for the completion of the post of Fort McKinney,
Wyoming Territory, and recommending an appropriation of $50,000 for
the purpose in accordance with the estimates.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 6, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a communication
from the Secretary of War, dated the 4th instant, inclosing estimates
for deficiency in the appropriation for the transportation of the
Army and its supplies for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1882, and
recommending an appropriation in accordance therewith.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 11, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:

I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a letter from the
Secretary of War, dated the 6th instant, in which he recommends a
reappropriation of the unexpended balances of two appropriations of $50,000
each, made in 1880 and 1881, "for continuing the improvement of the
water-power pool" at the Rock Island Arsenal, and that the additional
sum of $30,000 be granted for the same purpose; also the additional
sum of $70,000 "for deepening the canal and for opening six waterways
in connection with the water power."

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 12, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:

I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the
Interior, with the accompanying report from the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs, dated 29th ultimo, recommending an increase of item
for "transportation of Indian supplies for the fiscal year 1882"
(deficiency), as designated in Senate Executive Document 57,
Forty-seventh Congress, first session.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 12, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:

I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the Interior,
inclosing draft of bill prepared in the Office of Indian Affairs,
submitted with Commissioner's report of 27th ultimo, confirming to
the Cheyenne and Arapahoe Indians the lands in the Indian Territory
set apart for their occupancy by an Executive order dated August
10, 1869, which lands are in lieu of those set apart for their use
and occupancy by the second article of the treaty with said Indians
concluded October 28, 1867.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 12, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_

I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a letter from
the Secretary of War, dated the 6th instant, inclosing one from
the acting chief clerk of the War Department on the subject, recommending
an additional appropriation of $2,000 for contingent expenses of the War
Department for 1882; also that appropriation provided for the purpose
for the next fiscal year be increased $10,000.

CHESTER A.

ARTHUR.

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
_Washington, April 14, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, the inclosed
letter and accompanying statement from the Secretary of the Navy, in
relation to the necessity of building a new boiler shop at the
navy-yard, New York, and repairing the caisson gate of the dry dock
at that station, in which it is requested that an appropriation of
$147,243.04 be made for these objects.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

[The same message was sent to the House of Representatives.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 14, 1882_.

_To the House of Representatives:_

I transmit herewith, with commendation to the attention of Congress,
a report of the Secretary of State and its accompanying papers,
concerning the proposed establishment of an international bureau
of exchanges.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 14, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:

I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the Interior,
with correspondence, relative to right of way of the Republican Valley
Railroad across the Otoe and Missouria Reservation in the State
of Nebraska, and draft of an amendment to S.

No. 930, "A bill to amend an act entitled 'An act to provide for the sale
of the remainder of the reservation of the confederated Otoe and Missouria
tribes of Indians in the States of Nebraska and Kansas, and for
other purposes,' approved March 3, 1881."

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 17, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a letter, dated the 29th ultimo, from the
Secretary of War, inclosing copy of a communication from the
Mississippi River Commission, in which the commission recommends
that an appropriation may be made of $1,010,000 for "closing existing
gaps in levees," in addition to the like sum for which an estimate
has already been submitted.

The subject is one of such importance that I deem it proper to
recommend early and favorable consideration of the recommendations of
the commission. Having possession of and jurisdiction over the river,
Congress, with a view of improving its navigation and protecting the people
of the valley from floods, has for years caused surveys of the river to
be made for the purpose of acquiring knowledge of the laws that control
it and of its phenomena. By act approved June 28, 1879, the Mississippi
River Commission was created, composed of able engineers.

Section 4 of the act provides that--
It shall be the duty of said commission to take into consideration and
mature such plan or plans and estimates as will correct, permanently
locate, and deepen the channel and protect the banks of the Mississippi
River; improve and give safety and ease to the navigation thereof;
prevent destructive floods; promote and facilitate commerce, trade,
and the postal service.

The constitutionality of a law making appropriations in aid of these
objects can not be questioned. While the report of the commission submitted
and the plans proposed for the river's improvement seem justified
as well on scientific principles as by experience and the approval
of the people most interested, I desire to leave it to the judgment
of Congress to decide upon the best plan for the permanent and
complete improvement of the navigation of the river and for the
protection of the valley.

The immense losses and widespread suffering of the people dwelling near the
river induce me to urge upon Congress the propriety of not only
making an appropriation to close the gaps in the levees occasioned
by the recent floods, as recommended by the commission, but that
Congress should inaugurate measures for the permanent improvement
of the navigation of the river and security of the valley.

It may be that such a system of improvement would as it progressed require
the appropriation of twenty or thirty millions of dollars. Even such
an expenditure, extending, as it must, over several years, can not be
regarded as extravagant in view of the immense interest involved.
The safe and convenient navigation of the Mississippi is a matter of
concern to all sections of the country, but to the Northwest, with its
immense harvests, needing cheap transportation to the sea, and
to the inhabitants of the river valley, whose lives and property depend
upon the proper construction of the safeguards which protect them from
the floods, it is of vital importance that a well-matured and
comprehensive plan for improvement should be put into operation
with as little delay as possible. The cotton product of the region
subject to the devastating floods is a source of wealth to the
nation and of great importance to keeping the balances of trade in
our favor.
It may not be inopportune to mention that this Government has imposed
and collected some $70,000,000 by a tax on cotton, in the production
of which the population of the Lower Mississippi is largely engaged,
and it does not seem inequitable to return a portion of this tax
to those who contributed it, particularly as such an action will
also result in an important gain to the country at large, and
especially so to the great and rich States of the Northwest and the
Mississippi Valley.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 17, 1882_.
_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:
I transmit herewith a communication, dated the 14th instant, from
the Secretary of the Interior, with draft of bill, and accompanying
papers, for the establishment of an Indian training school on the
site of the old Fort Ripley Military Reservation, in the State of
Minnesota.
The subject is commended to the consideration of Congress.
CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 17, 1882_.
_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:
I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the
Interior of the 12th instant, with accompanying papers, in relation
to coal lands upon the San Carlos Reservation, in the Territory of
Arizona.
The subject is presented for the consideration of Congress.
CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 17, 1882_.
_To the Senate_:
I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of State and its
accompanying papers, concerning the international regulations for
preventing collisions at sea, and I earnestly commend this important
subject to the early and favorable consideration of Congress.
CHESTER A. ARTHUR.
[The same message was sent to the House of Representatives.]
EXECUTIVE MANSION, _April 18, 1882_.
_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:
I send herewith a copy of the circular invitation extended to all
the independent countries of North and South America to participate
in a general congress to be held in the city of Washington on the
22d of November next for the purpose of considering and discussing
the methods of preventing war between the nations of America.
In giving this invitation I was not unaware that there existed
differences between several of the Republics of South America which
would militate against the happy results which might otherwise be
expected from such an assemblage. The differences indicated are
such as exist between Chile and Peru, between Mexico and Guatemala,
and between the States of Central America.
It was hoped that these differences would disappear before the time
fixed for the meeting of the congress. This hope has not been
realized.
Having observed that the authority of the President to convene such
a congress has been questioned, I beg leave to state that the
Constitution confers upon the President the power, by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate, to make treaties, and that this
provision confers the power to take all requisite measures to
initiate them, and to this end the President may freely confer with
one or several commissioners or delegates from other nations.. The
congress contemplated by the invitation could only effect any
valuable results by its conclusions eventually taking the form of
a treaty of peace between the States represented; and, besides, the
invitation to the States of North and South America is merely a
preliminary act, of which constitutionality or the want of it can
hardly be affirmed.The crashing of the trees as they
fell, the blows of crowbars on the stones, the confused roaring of
thousands of voices, the Marseillaise sung in chorus, and the irregular
cannonading which resounded from the direction of the Rue Saint-Denis,
all composed a strident, stupefying, tempestuous harmony, beside which
Beethoven's Tempest would have seemed like the buzzing of a bee.

"I was listening to the roaring of the people, who were gnawing at their
chains before breaking them, when my eyes happened to fall upon a window
of a second-floor apartment opposite me. A man about sixty years of age,
with gray hair, a fresh, plump face, an honest, placid countenance, and
wearing a mouse-colored silk dressing-gown, was seated before a small,
round table. The window opened to the floor, and I could see him in this
frame like a full-length portrait. There was a bowl of coffee upon the
table, in which he dipped his roll as he read his journal. I beg your
pardon, ladies, for entering into these petty details, but the habit of
writing--"

"I assure you, Monsieur, your story interests me very much," said Madame
de Bergenheim, kindly.

"A King Charles spaniel, like yours, Mademoiselle, was standing near the
window with his paws resting upon it; he was gazing with curiosity at the
revolution of July, while his master was reading his paper and sipping
his coffee, as indifferent to all that passed as if he had been in Pekin
or New York.

"'Oh, the calm of a pure, sincere soul!' I exclaimed to myself, at the
sight of this little tableau worthy of Greuze; 'oh, patriarchal
philosophy! in a few minutes perhaps blood will flow in the streets, and
here sits a handsome old man quietly sipping his coffee.' He seemed like
a lamb browsing upon a volcano."

Marillac loved volcanoes, and never lost an opportunity to bring one in
at every possible opportunity.

"Suddenly a commotion ran through the crowd; the people rushed in every
direction, and in an instant the boulevard was empty. Plumes waving from
high caps, red-and-white flags floating from the ends of long lances, and
the cavalcade that I saw approaching through the trees told me the cause
of this panic. A squadron of lancers was charging. Have you ever seen a
charge of lancers?"

"Never!" said both of the ladies at once.

"It is a very grand sight, I assure you. Fancy, ladies, a legion of
demons galloping along upon their horses, thrusting to the right and left
with long pikes, whose steel points are eighteen inches long. That is a
charge of lancers. I beg you to believe that I had shown before this the
mettle there was in me, but I will not conceal from you that at this
moment I shared with the crowd the impression which the coming of these
gentlemen made. I had only time to jump over the sidewalk and to dart up
a staircase which ran on the outside of a house, every door being closed.
I never shall forget the face of one of those men who thrust the point of
a lance at me, long enough to pierce through six men at once. I admit
that I felt excited then! The jinn having passed--"

"The--what?" asked Mademoiselle de Corandeuil, who was not familiar with
Eastern terms.

"I beg a thousand pardons, it was a poetical reminiscence. The lancers,
having rushed through the boulevard like an avalanche, a laggard rider, a
hundred steps behind the others, galloped proudly by, erect in his
stirrups and flourishing his sword. Suddenly the report of a gun
resounded, the lancer reeled backward, then forward, and finally fell
upon his horse's neck; a moment later he turned in his saddle and lay
stretched upon the ground, his foot caught in the stirrup; the horse,
still galloping, dragged the man and the lance, which was fastened to his
arm by a leather band."

"How horrible!" said Clemence, clasping her hands.

Marillac, much pleased with the effect of his narration, leaned back in
his chair and continued his tale with his usual assurance.

"I looked to the neighboring roofs to discover whence came this shot; as
I was glancing to the right and left I saw smoke issuing through the
blinds of the room on the second floor, which had been closed at the
approach of the lancers.

"'Good God!' I exclaimed; 'it must be this handsome old man in the
mouse-colored silk dressing-gown who amuses himself by firing upon the
lancers, as if they were rabbits in a warren!'

"Just then the blinds were opened, and the strange fellow with the
unruffled countenance leaned out and gazed with a smiling face in the
direction the horse was taking, dragging his master's body after him. The
patriarch had killed his man between two sips of his coffee."

"And that is the cowardly way in which members of the royal guard were
assassinated by the 'heroes' of your glorious insurrection!" exclaimed
Mademoiselle de Corandeuil, indignantly.

"When the troops had passed," Marillac continued, "the crowd returned,
more excited and noisy than ever. Barricades were erected with wonderful
rapidity; two of those were on the boulevard close to the place where I
was. I saw a horseman suddenly bound over the first; he wore a tuft of
red-and-white feathers in his hat. I saw that it was a staff officer,
doubtless carrying some despatch to headquarters. He continued his way,
sabre in its sheath, head erect, proud and calm in the midst of insulting
shouts from the crowd; stones were thrown at him and sticks at his
horse's legs; he looked as if he were parading upon the Place du
Carrousel.

"When he reached the second barricade, he drew his horse up, as if it
were merely a question of jumping a hurdle in a steeplechase just then I
saw the window on the first floor open again. 'Ah! you old rascal!' I
exclaimed. The report of a gun drowned my voice; the horse which had just
made the leap, fell on his knees; the horseman tried to pull him up, but
after making one effort the animal fell over upon his side. The ball had
gone through the steed's head."

"It was that poor Fidele that I gave your husband," said Mademoiselle de
Corandeuil, who was always very sentimental in the choice of names she
gave to animals.

"He merited his name, Mademoiselle, for the poor beast died for his
master, for whom the shot was in tended. Several of those horrible faces,
which upon riot days suddenly appear as if they came out of the ground,
darted toward the unhorsed officer. I, and several other young men who
were as little disposed as myself to allow a defenceless man to be
slaughtered, ran toward him. I recognized Christian as I approached; his
right leg was caught under the horse, and he was trying to unsheath his
sword with his left hand. Sticks and stones were showered at him. I drew
out the sword, which his position prevented him from doing, and exclaimed
as I waved it in the air: 'The first rascal who advances, I will cut open
like a dog.'

"I accompanied these words with a flourish which kept the cannibals at a
distance for the time being.

"The young fellows who were with me followed my example. One took a
pickaxe, another seized the branch of a tree, while others tried to
release Christian from his horse. During this time the crowd increased
around us; the shouts redoubled: 'Down with the ordinances! These are
disguised gendarmes! Vive la liberte!--We must kill them! Let's hang the
spies to the lamp-posts!'

"Danger was imminent, and I realized that only a patriotic harangue would
get us out of the scrape. While they were releasing Christian, I jumped
upon Fidele so as to be seen by all and shouted:

"'Vive la liberte!'

"'Vive la liberte!' replied the crowd.

"'Down with Charles Tenth! Down with the ministers! Down with the
ordinances!'

"'Down!' shouted a thousand voices at once.

"You understand, ladies, this was a sort of bait, intended to close the
mouths of these brutes.

"'We are all citizens, we are all Frenchmen,' I continued; 'we must not
soil our hands with the blood of one of our disarmed brothers. After a
victory there are no enemies. This officer was doing his duty in
fulfilling his chief's commands; let us do ours by dying, if necessary,
for our country and the preservation of our rights.'

"'Vive la liberte! vive la liberte!' shouted the crowd. 'He is right; the
officer was doing his duty. It would be assassination!' exclaimed
numerous voices.

"'Thanks, Marillac,' said Bergenheim to me, as I took his hand to lead
him away, availing ourselves of the effect of my harangue; 'but do not
press me so hard, for I really believe that my right arm is broken; only
for that, I should ask you to return me my sword that I might show this
rabble that they can not kill a Bergenheim as they would a chicken.'

"'Let him cry: Vive la Charte!' roared out a man, with a ferocious face.

"'I receive orders from nobody,' Christian replied, in a very loud voice,
as he glared at him with eyes which would have put a rhinoceros to
flight."

"Your husband is really a very brave man," said Mademoiselle de
Corandeuil, addressing Clemence.

"Brave as an old warrior. This time he pushed his courage to the verge of
imprudence; I do not know what the result might have been if the crowd
had not been dispersed a second time by the approach of the lancers, who
were returning through the boulevard. I led Bergenheim into a cafe;
fortunately, his arm was only sprained." Just at this moment Marillac's
story was interrupted by a sound of voices and hurried steps. The door
opened suddenly, and Aline burst into the room with her usual
impetuosity.

"What has happened to you, Aline?" exclaimed Madame de Bergenheim,
hurrying to her sister's side. The young girl's riding-habit and hat were
covered with splashes of mud.

"Oh, nothing," replied the young girl, in a broken voice; "it was only
Titania, who wanted to throw me into the river. Do you know where
Rousselet is? They say it is necessary to bleed him; and he is the only
one who knows how to do it."

"Whom do you mean, child? Is my husband wounded?" asked Clemence, turning
pale.

"No, not Christian; it is a gentleman I do not know; only for him I
should have been drowned. Mon Dieu! can not Rousselet be found?"

Aline left the room in great agitation. They all went over to the windows
that opened out into the court, whence the sound of voices seemed to
arise, and where they could hear the master's voice thundering out his
commands. Several servants had gone to his assistance: one of them held
Titania by the bridle; she was covered with foam and mud, and was
trembling, with distended nostrils, like a beast that knows it has just
committed a wicked action. A young man was seated upon a stone bench,
wiping away blood which streamed from his forehead. It was Monsieur de
Gerfaut.

At this sight Clemence supported herself against the framework of the
window, and Marillac hurriedly left the room.

Pere Rousselet, who had at last been found in the kitchen, advanced
majestically, eating an enormous slice of bread and butter.

"Good heavens! have you arrived at last?" exclaimed Bergenheim. "Here is
a gentleman this crazy mare has thrown against a tree, and who has
received a violent blow on the head. Do you not think it would be the
proper thing to bleed him?"

"A slight phlebotomy might be very advantageous in stopping the
extravasation of blood in the frontal region," replied the peasant,
calling to his aid all the technical terms he had learned when he was a
hospital nurse.

"Are you sure you can do this bleeding well?"

"I'll take the liberty of saying to Monsieur le Baron that I
phlebotomized Perdreau last week and Mascareau only a month ago, without
any complaint from them."

"Indeed! I believe you," sneered the groom, "both are on their last
legs."

"I am neither Perdreau nor Mascareau," observed the wounded man with a
smile.

Rousselet drew himself up at full height, with the dignity of a man of
talent who scorns to reply to either criticism or mistrust.

"Monsieur," said Gerfaut, turning to the Baron, "I am really causing you
too much trouble. This trifle does not merit the attention you give it. I
do not suffer in the least. Some water and a napkin are all that I need.
I fancy that I resemble an Iroquois Indian who has just been scalped; my
pride is really what is most hurt," he added, with a smile, "when I think
of the grotesque sight I must present to the ladies whom I notice at the
window."

"Why, it is Monsieur de Gerfaut!" exclaimed Mademoiselle de Corandeuil,
toward whom he raised his eyes.

Octave bowed to her with a gracious air. His glance wandered from the old
lady to Clemence, who did not seem to have the strength to leave the
window. M. de Bergenheim, after hurriedly greeting Marillac, finally
yielded to the assurance that a surgeon was unnecessary, and conducted
the two friends to his own room, where the wounded man could find
everything that he needed.

"What the devil was the use in sending me as ambassador, since you were
to make such a fine entrance upon the stage?" murmured Marillac in his
friend's ear.

"Silence!" replied the latter as he pressed his hand; "I am only behind
the scenes as yet."

During this time Clemence and her aunt had led Aline to her room.

"Now, tell us what all this means?" said Mademoiselle de Corandeuil,
while the young girl was changing her dress.

"It was Christian's fault," replied Aline. "We were galloping along
beside the river when Titania became frightened by the branch of a tree.
'Do not be afraid!' exclaimed my brother. I was not in the least
frightened; but when he saw that my horse was about to run away, he urged
his on in order to join me. When Titania heard the galloping behind her
she did run away in earnest; she left the road and started straight for
the river. Then I began to be a little frightened. Just fancy, Clemence,
I bounded in the saddle at each leap, sometimes upon the mare's neck,
sometimes upon the crupper; it was terrible! I tried to withdraw my foot
from the stirrup as Christian had told me to do; but just then Titania
ran against the trunk of a tree, and I rolled over with her. A gentleman,
whom I had not seen before, and who, I believe, actually jumped out of
the ground, raised me from the saddle, where I was held by something, I
do not know what; then that naughty Titania threw him against the tree as
he was helping me to my feet, and when I was able to look at him his face
was covered with blood. Christian rushed on the scene, and, when he saw
that I was not badly hurt, he ran after Titania and beat her! Oh! how he
beat her! Mon Dieu! how cruel men are! It was in vain for me to cry for
mercy; he would not listen to me. Then we came home, and, since this
gentleman is not badly wounded, it seems that my poor dress has fared
worst of all."

The young girl took her riding-habit from the chair as she said these
words, and could not restrain a cry of horror when she saw an enormous
rent in it.

"Mon Dieu!" she exclaimed, as she showed it to her sister-in-law. It was
all that she had strength to articulate.

Mademoiselle de Corandeuil took the skirt in her turn, and looked at it
with the practised eye of a person who had made a special study of little
disasters of the toilet and the ways of remedying them.

"It is in the fullness," said she, "and by putting in a new breadth it
will never be seen."

Aline, once convinced that the evil could be repaired, soon recovered her
serenity.

When the three ladies entered the drawing-room they found the Baron and
his two guests chatting amicably. Gerfaut had his forehead tied up with a
black silk band which gave him a slight resemblance to Cupid with his
bandage just off his eyes. His sparkling glance showed that blindness was
not what there was in common between him and the charming little god.
After the first greetings, Mademoiselle de Corandeuil, who was always
strict as to etiquette, and who thought that Titania had been a rather
unceremonious master of ceremonies between her nephew and M. de Gerfaut,
advanced toward the latter in order to introduce them formally to each
other.

"I do not think," said she, "that Monsieur de Bergenheim has had the
honor of meeting you before today; allow me then to present you to him.
Baron, this is Monsieur le Vicomte de Gerfaut, one of my relatives."

When Mademoiselle de Corandeuil was in good humor, she treated Gerfaut as
a relative on account of their family alliance of 1569. At this moment
the poet felt profoundly grateful for this kindness.

"Monsieur has presented himself so well," said Christian frankly, "that
your recommendation, my dear aunt, in spite of the respect I have for it,
will not add to my gratitude. Only for Monsieur de Gerfaut, here is a
madcap little girl whom we should be obliged to look for now at the
bottom of the river."

As he said these words, he passed his arm about his sister's waist and
kissed her tenderly, while Aline was obliged to stand upon the tips of
her toes to reach her brother's lips.

"These gentlemen," he continued, "have agreed to sacrifice for us the
pleasure of the Femme-sans-Tete, as well as Mademoiselle Gobillot's
civilities, and establish their headquarters in my house. They can pursue
their picturesque and romantic studies from here just as well; I suppose,
Marillac, that you are still a determined dauber of canvas?"

"To tell the truth," replied the poet, "art absorbs me a great deal."

"As to myself, I never succeeded in drawing a nose that did not resemble
an ear and vice versa. But for that worthy Baringnier, who was kind
enough to look over my plans, I ran a great risk of leaving Saint Cyr
without a graduating diploma. But seriously, gentlemen, when you are
tired of sketching trees and tumbledown houses, I can give you some good
boar hunting. Are you a hunter, Monsieur de Gerfaut?"

"I like hunting very much," replied the lover, with rare effrontery.

The conversation continued thus upon the topics that occupy people who
meet for the first time. When the Baron spoke of the two friends
installing themselves at the chateau, Octave darted a glance at Madame de
Bergenheim, as if soliciting a tacit approbation of his conduct; but met
with no response. Clemence, with a gloomy, sombre air fulfilled the
duties that politeness imposed upon her as mistress of the house. Her
conduct did not change during the rest of the evening, and Gerfaut no
longer tried by a single glance to soften the severity she seemed
determined to adopt toward him. All his attentions were reserved for
Mademoiselle de Corandeuil and Aline, who listened with unconcealed
pleasure to the man whom she regarded as her saviour; for the young
girl's remembrance of the danger which she had run excited her more and
more.

After supper Mademoiselle de Corandeuil proposed a game of whist to M. de
Gerfaut, whose talent for the game had made a lasting impression upon
her. The poet accepted this diversion with an enthusiasm equal to that he
had shown for hunting, and quite as sincere too. Christian and his
sister--a little gamester in embryo, like all of her family--completed
the party, while Clemence took up her work and listened with an
absentminded air to Marillac's conversation. It was in vain for the
latter to call art and the Middle Ages to his aid, using the very
quintessence of his brightest speeches--success did not attend his
effort. After the end of an hour, he had a firm conviction that Madame de
Bergenheim was, everything considered, only a woman of ordinary
intelligence and entirely unworthy of the passion she had inspired in his
friend.

"Upon my soul," he thought, "I would a hundred times rather have Reine
Gobillot for a sweetheart. I must take a trip in that direction
tomorrow."

When they separated for the night, Gerfaut, bored by his evening and
wounded by his reception from Clemence, which, he thought, surpassed
anything he could have expected of her capricious disposition, addressed
to the young woman a profound bow and a look which said:

"I am here in spite of you; I shall stay here in spite of you; you shall
love me in spite of yourself."

Madame de Bergenheim replied by a glance none the less expressive, in
which a lover the most prone to conceit could read:

"Do as you like; I have as much indifference for your love as disdain for
your presumption."

This was the last shot in this preliminary skirmish.


CHAPTER IX

GERFAUT, THE WIZARD

There are some women who, like the heroic Cure Merino, need but one
hour's sleep. A nervous, irritable, subtle organization gives them a
power for waking, without apparent fatigue, refused to most men. And yet,
when a strong emotion causes its corrosive waters to filtrate into the
veins of these impressionable beings, it trickles there drop by drop,
until it has hollowed out in the very depths of their hearts a lake full
of trouble and storms. Then, in the silence of night and the calm of
solitude, insomnia makes the rosy cheeks grow pale and dark rings
encircle the most sparkling eyes. It is in vain for the burning forehead
to seek the cool pillow; the pillow grows warm without the forehead
cooling. In vain the mind hunts for commonplace ideas, as a sort of
intellectual poppy-leaves that may lead to a quiet night's rest; a
persistent thought still returns, chasing away all others, as an eagle
disperses a flock of timid birds in order to remain sole master of its
prey. If one tries to repeat the accustomed prayer, and invoke the aid of
the Virgin, or the good angel who watches at the foot of young girls'
beds, in order to keep away the charms of the tempter, the prayer is only
on the lips, the Virgin is deaf, the angel sleeps! The breath of passion
against which one struggles runs through every fibre of the heart, like a
storm over the chords of an Tolian harp, and extorts from it those magic
melodies to which a poor, troubled, and frightened woman listens with
remorse and despair; but to which she listens, and with which at last she
is intoxicated, for the allegory of Eve is an immortal myth, that repeats
itself, through every century and in every clime.

Since her entrance into society, Madame de Bergenheim had formed the
habit of keeping late hours. When the minute details of her toilette for
the night were over, and she had confided her beautiful body to the snowy
sheets of her couch, some new novel or fashionable magazine helped her
wile away the time until sleep came to her. Christian left his room, like
a good country gentleman, at sunrise; he left it either for the chase--or
to oversee workmen, who were continually being employed upon some part of
his domain. Ordinarily, he returned only in time for dinner, and rarely
saw Clemence except between that time and supper, at the conclusion of
which, fatigued by his day's work, he hastened to seek the repose of the
just. Husband and wife, while living under the same roof, were thus
almost completely isolated from each other; night for one was day for the
other.

By the haste with which Clemence shortened her preparations for the
night, one would have said that she must have been blessed with an
unusually sleepy sensation. But when she lay in bed, with her head under
her arm, like a swan with his neck under his wing, and almost in the
attitude of Correggio's Magdalen, her eyes, which sparkled with a
feverish light, betrayed the fact that she had sought the solitude of her
bed in order to indulge more freely in deep meditation.

With marvelous fidelity she went over the slightest events of the day, to
which by a constant effort of willpower, she had seemed so indifferent.
First, she saw Gerfaut with his face covered with blood, and the thought
of the terrible sensation which this sight caused her made her heart
throb violently. She then recalled him as she next saw him, in the
drawing-room by her husband's side, seated in the very chair that she had
left but a moment before. This trifling circumstance impressed her; she
saw in this a proof of sympathetic understanding, a sort of gift of
second sight which Octave possessed, and which in her eyes was so
formidable a weapon. According to her ideas, he must have suspected that
this was her own favorite chair and have seized it for that reason, just
as he would have loved to take her in his arms.

For the first time, Clemence had seen together the man to whom she
belonged and the man whom she regarded somewhat as her property. For, by
one of those arrangements with their consciences of which women alone
possess the secret, she had managed to reason like this: "Since I am
certain always to belong to Monsieur de Bergenheim only, Octave can
certainly belong to me." An heterodoxical syllogism, whose two premises
she reconciled with an inconceivable subtlety. A feeling of shame had
made her dread this meeting, which the most hardened coquette could never
witness without embarrassment. A woman, between her husband and her
lover, is like a plant one sprinkles with ice-cold water while a ray of
sunlight is trying to comfort it. The sombre and jealous, or even
tranquil and unsuspecting, face of a husband has a wonderful power of
repression. One is embarrassed to love under the glance of an eye that
darts flashes as bright as steel; and a calm, kindly look is more
terrible yet, for all jealousy seems tyrannical, and tyranny leads to
revolt; but a confiding husband is like a victim strangled in his sleep,
and inspires, by his very calmness, the most poignant remorse.

The meeting of these two men naturally led Clemence to a comparison which
could but be to Christian's advantage. Gerfaut had nothing remarkable
about him save an intelligent, intensely clever air; there was a
thoughtful look in his eyes and an archness in his smile, but his
irregular features showed no mark of beauty; his face wore an habitually
tired expression, peculiar to those people who have lived a great deal in
a short time, and it made him look older than Christian, although he was
really several years younger. The latter, on the contrary, owed to his
strong constitution, fortified by country life, an appearance of blooming
youth that enhanced his noble regularity of features.

In a word, Christian was handsomer than his rival, and Clemence
exaggerated her husband's superiority over her lover. Not being able to
find the latter awkward or insignificant, she tried to persuade herself
that he was ugly. She then reviewed in her mind all M. de Bergenheim's
good qualities, his attachment and kindness to her, his loyal, generous
ways; she recalled the striking instance that Marillac had related of his
bravery, a quality without which there is no hope of success for a man in
the eyes of any woman. She did all in her power to inflame her
imagination and to see in her husband a hero worthy of inspiring the most
fervent love. When she had exhausted her efforts toward such enthusiasm
and admiration, she turned round, in despair, and, burying her head in
her pillow, she sobbed:

"I cannot, I cannot love him!"

She wept bitterly for a long while. As she recalled her own severity in
the past regarding women whose conduct had caused scandal, she employed
in her turn the harshness of her judgment in examining her own actions.
She felt herself more guilty than all the others, for her weakness
appeared less excusable to her. She felt that she was unworthy and
contemptible, and wished to die that she might escape the shame that made
her blush scarlet, and the remorse that tortured her soul.

How many such unhappy tears bathe the eyes of those who should shed only
tears of joy! How many such sighs break the silence of the night! There
are noble, celestial beings among women whom remorse stretches out upon
its relentless brasier, but in the midst of the flames that torture them
the heart palpitates, imperishable as a salamander. Is it not human fate
to suffer? After Madame de Bergenheim had given vent, by convulsive sobs
and stifled sighs, to her grief for this love which she could not tear
from her breast, she formed a desperate resolution. From the manner in
which M. de Gerfaut had taken possession of the chateau the very first
day, she recognized that he was master of the situation. The sort of
infatuation which Mademoiselle de Corandeuil seemed to have for him, and
Christian's courteous and hospitable habits, would give him an
opportunity to prolong his stay as long as he desired. She thus compared
herself to a besieged general, who sees the enemy within his ramparts.

"Very well! I will shut myself up in the fortress!" said she, smiling in
spite of herself in the midst of her tears. "Since this insupportable man
has taken possession of my drawing-room, I will remain in my own room; we
will see whether he dares to approach that!"

She shook her pretty head with a defiant air, but she could not help
glancing into the room which was barely lighted with a night lamp. She
sat up and listened for a moment rather anxiously, as if Octave's dark
eyes might suddenly glisten in the obscurity. When she had assured
herself that all was tranquil, and that the throbbing of her heart was
all that disturbed the silence, she continued preparing her plan of
defense.

She decided that she would be ill the next day and keep to her bed, if
necessary, until her persecutor should make up his mind to beat a
retreat. She solemnly pledged herself to be firm, courageous, and
inflexible; then she tried to pray. It was now two o'clock in the
morning. For some time Clemence remained motionless, and one might have
thought that at least she was asleep. Suddenly she arose. Without
stopping to put on her dressing-gown, she lighted a candle by the
night-lamp, pushed the bolt of her door and then went to the windows, the
space between them forming a rather deep projection on account of the
thickness of the walls. A portrait of the Duke of Bordeaux hung there;
she raised it and pressed a button concealed in the woodwork. A panel
opened, showing a small empty space. The shelf in this sort of closet
contained only a rosewood casket. She opened this mysterious box and took
from it a package of letters, then returned to her bed with the eagerness
of a miser who is about to gaze upon his treasures.

Had she not struggled and prayed? Had she not offered upon the tyrannical
altar of duty as an expiation, tears, pale cheeks and a tortured soul?
Had she not just taken a solemn vow, in the presence of God and herself,
which should protect her against her weakness? Was she not a virtuous
wife, and had she not paid dearly enough for a moment of sad happiness?
Was it a crime to breathe for an instant the balmy air of love through
the gratings of this prison-cell, the doors of which she had just locked
with her own hand? Admirable logic for loving hearts, which, not being
able to control their feelings, suffer in order to prove themselves less
guilty, and clothe themselves in haircloth so that each shudder may cause
a pain that condones the sin!

Being at peace with herself, she read as women read who are in love;
leaning her head upon her hand, she drew out the letters, one by one,
from her bosom where she had placed them. She drank with her heart and
eyes the poison these passionate words contained; she allowed herself to
be swayed at will by these melodies which lulled but did not benumb. When
one of those invincible appeals of imploring passion awoke all the echoes
of her love, and ran through her veins with a thrill, striking the
innermost depths of her heart, she threw herself back and imprinted her
burning lips upon the cold paper. With one letter pressed to her heart,
and another pressed to her lips, she gave herself up completely,
exclaiming in an inaudible voice: "I love thee! I am thine!"

The next morning, when Aline entered her sister-in law's room, according
to her usual custom, the latter was not obliged to feign the
indisposition she had planned; the sensations of this sleepless night had
paled her cheeks and altered her features; it would have been difficult
to imagine a more complete contrast than that between these two young
women at this moment. Clemence, lying upon her bed motionless and white
as the sheet which covered her, resembled Juliet sleeping in her tomb;
Aline, rosy, vivacious, and more petulant than usual, looked very much
the madcap Mademoiselle de Corandeuil had reproached her with being. Her
face was full of that still childish grace, more lovely than calm, more
pleasing than impressive, which makes young girls so charming to the eye
but less eloquent to the heart; for are they not fresh flowers more rich
in coloring than in perfume?

Clemence could hardly stifle a sigh as she gazed at those rosy checks,
those sparkling eyes, that life so full of the rich future. She recalled
a time when she was thus, when grief glided over her cheeks without
paling them, when tears dried as they left her eyes; she also had had her
happy, careless days, her dreams of unalloyed bliss.

Aline, after presenting her face like a child who asks for a kiss, wished
to tease her as usual, but, with a tired gesture, her sister-in-law
begged for mercy.

"Are you ill?" asked the young girl anxiously, as she seated herself upon
the edge of the bed.

Madame de Bergenheim smiled, a forced smile.

"Thank me for my poor health," said she, "for it obliges you to do the
honors; I shall doubtless not be able to go down to dinner, and you must
take my place. You know that it tires my aunt to have to trouble herself
about others."

Aline made a little grimace as she replied:

"If I thought you were speaking seriously, I would go and get into my own
bed at once!"

"Child! will you not in your turn be mistress of a home? Is it not
necessary for you to become accustomed to it? It is an excellent
opportunity, and, with my aunt as a guide, you are sure to acquit
yourself well."

These last words were spoken rather maliciously, for the young woman knew
that of all the possible mentors, Mademoiselle de Corandeuil was the one
whom Aline dreaded most.

"I beg of you, my kind sister," replied the girl, clasping her hands, "do
not be ill to-day. Is it the neuralgia of the day before yesterday you
are suffering from? Do be a good sister, and get up and come and take a
walk in the park; the fresh air will cure you, I am sure of it."

"And I shall not be obliged to preside at the dinner-table, you would
add; is it not so? You selfish girl!"

"I am afraid of Monsieur de Gerfaut," said the child, lowering her voice.

When she heard pronounced this name, so deeply agitating her, Madame de
Bergenheim was silent for a moment; at last she said:

"What has Monsieur de Gerfaut done to you? Is it not downright ungrateful
to be afraid of him so soon after the service he has rendered you?"

"No, I am not ungrateful," replied the young girl quickly. "I never shall
forget that I owe my life to him, for certainly, but for him, I should
have been dragged into the river. But he has such black, piercing eyes
that they seem to look into your very soul; and then, he is such a
brilliant man! I am all the time afraid of saying something that he may
laugh at. You know, some people think I talk too much; but I shall never
dare open my mouth in his presence. Why do some persons' eyes make such
an impression upon one?"

Clemence lowered her own beautiful eyes and made no reply.

"His friend, Monsieur Marillac, does not frighten me one bit, in spite of
his big moustache. Tell me, does not this Monsieur de Gerfaut frighten
you a little too?"

"Not at all, I assure you," replied Madame de Bergenheim, trying to
smile. "But," she continued, in order to change the conversation, "how
fine you look! You have certainly some plan of conquest. What! a city
gown at nine o'clock in the morning, and hair dressed as if for a ball?"

"Would you like to know the compliment your aunt just paid me?"

"Some little jest of hers, I suppose?"

"You might say some spiteful remark, for she is the hatefulest thing! She
told me that blue ribbons suited red hair very badly and advised me to
change one or the other. Is it true that my hair is red?"

Mademoiselle de Bergenheim asked this question with so much anxiety that
her sister-in-law could not repress a smile.

"You know that my aunt delights in annoying you," said she. "Your hair is
very pretty, a bright blond, very pleasant to the eye; only Justine waves
it a little too tight; it curls naturally. She dresses your hair too
high; it would be more becoming to you if she pushed it back from your
temples a little than to wave it as much as she does. Come a little
nearer to me."

Aline knelt before Madame de Bergenheim's bed, and the latter, adding a
practical lesson to verbal advice, began to modify the maid's work to
suit her own taste.

"It curls like a little mane," said the young girl, as she saw the
trouble her sister-in-law had in succeeding; "it was my great trouble at
the Sacred Heart. The sisters wished us to wear our hair plain, and I
always had a terrible time to keep it in place. However, blond hair looks
ugly when too plainly dressed, and Monsieur de Gerfaut said yesterday
that it was the shade he liked best."

"Monsieur de Gerfaut told you he liked blond hair best!"

"Take care; you are pulling my hair! Yes, blond hair and blue eyes. He
said that when speaking of Carlo Dolci's Virgin, and he said she was of
the most beautiful Jewish type; if he intended it as a compliment to me,
I am very much obliged to him. Do you think that my eyes are as blue as
that of the painted Virgin's. Monsieur de Gerfaut pretends that there is
a strong resemblance."

Madame de Bergenheim withdrew her hand so quickly that she pulled out
half a dozen or more hairs from her sister-in-law's head, and buried
herself up to the chin in the bedclothes.

"Oh! Monsieur de Gerfaut knows how to pay very pretty compliments!" she
said. "And you doubtless are very well pleased to resemble Carlo Dolci's
Madonna?"

"She is very pretty!--and then it is the Holy Virgin, you know--Ah! I
hear Monsieur de Gerfaut's voice in the garden."

The young girl arose quickly and ran to the window, where, concealed
behind the curtains, she could see what was going on outside without
being seen herself.

"He is with Christian," she continued. "There, they are going to the
library. They must have just taken a long walk, for they are bespattered
with mud. If you could only see what a pretty little cap Monsieur de
Gerfaut has on!"

"Truly, he will turn her head," thought Madame de Bergenheim, with a
decided feeling of anger; then she closed her eyes as if she wished to
sleep.

Gerfaut had, in fact, just returned from paying his respects to the
estate. He had followed his host, who, under the pretext of showing him
several picturesque sights, promenaded him, in the morning dew, through
the lettuce in the kitchen garden and the underbrush in the park. But he
knew through experience that all was not roses in a lover's path;
watching in the snow, climbing walls, hiding in obscure closets,
imprisonment in wardrobes, were more disagreeable incidents than a quiet
tete-a-tete with a husband.

He listened, therefore, complacently enough to Bergenheim's prolix
explanations, interested himself in the planting of trees, thought the
fields very green, the forests admirable, the granite rocks more
beautiful than those of the Alps, went into ecstasies over the smallest
vista, advised the establishment of a new mill on the river, which, being
navigable for rafts, might convey lumber to all the cities on the
Moselle, and thus greatly increase the value of the owner's woods. They
fraternized like Glaucus and Diomede; Gerfaut hoping, of course, to play
the part of the Greek, who, according to Homer, received in return for a
common iron armor a gold one of inestimable value. There is always such a
secret mental reservation in the lover's mind when associating with the
husband of his inamorata.

When he entered the room of his wife, whose indisposition had been
reported to him, Christian's first words were:

"This Monsieur de Gerfaut appears to be a very excellent fellow, and I
shall be delighted if he will stay with us a while. It is too bad that
you are ill. He is a good musician, as well as Marillac; you might have
sung together. Try to get better quickly and come down to dinner."

"I can not really tell him that Monsieur de Gerfaut has loved me for more
than a year," said Madame de Bergenheim to herself.

A moment later, Mademoiselle de Corandeuil appeared, and with a prim air
seated herself beside the bed.

"Perhaps you think that I am fooled by this indisposition. I see plainly
that you wish to be impolite to Monsieur de Gerfaut, for you can not
endure him. It seems to me, however, that a relative of your family ought
to be treated with more respect by you, above all, when you know how much
I esteem him. This is unheard-of absurdity, and I shall end by speaking
to your husband about it; we shall see if his intervention will not have
more effect than mine."

"You shall not do that, aunt," Clemence interrupted, sitting up in bed
and trying to take her aunt's hand.

"If you wish that your discourteous conduct should rest a secret between
us, I advise you to get rid of your neuralgia this very day. Now, you had
better decide immediately--"

"This is genuine persecution," exclaimed Madame de Bergenheim, falling
back upon her bed when the old lady had departed. "He has bewitched
everybody! Aline, my aunt, and my husband; to say nothing of myself, for
I shall end by going mad. I must end this, at any price." She rang the
bell violently.

"Justine," said she to her maid, "do not let any one enter this room
under any pretext whatsoever, and do not come in yourself until I ring; I
will try to sleep."

Justine obeyed, after closing the blinds. She had hardly gone out when
her mistress arose, put on her dressing-gown and slippers with a vivacity
which betokened anger; she then seated herself at her desk and began to
write rapidly, dashing her pen over the satiny paper without troubling
herself as to blots. The last word was ended with a dash as energetically
drawn as the Napoleonic flourish.

When a young man who, according to custom, begins to read the end of his
letters first finds an arabesque of this style at the bottom of a lady's
letter, he ought to arm himself with patience and resignation before he
reads its contents.


CHAPTER X

PLOTS

That evening, when Gerfaut entered his room he hardly took time to place
the candlestick which he held in his hand upon the mantel before he took
from his waistcoat pocket a paper reduced to microscopic dimensions,
which he carried to his lips and kissed passionately before opening. His
eyes fell first upon the threatening flourish of the final word; this
word was: Adieu!

"Hum!" said the lover, whose exaltation was sensibly cooled at this
sight.

He read the whole letter with one glance of the eye, darting to the
culminating point of each phrase as a deer bounds over ledges of rocks;
he weighed the plain meaning as well as the innuendoes of the slightest
expression, like a rabbi who comments upon the Bible, and deciphered the
erasures with the patience of a seeker after hieroglyphics, so as to
detach from them some particle of the idea they had contained. After
analyzing and criticising this note in all its most imperceptible shades,
he crushed it within his hand and began to pace the floor, uttering from
time to time some of those exclamations which the Dictionnaire de
l'Academie has not yet decided to sanction; for all lovers resemble the
lazzaroni who kiss San-Gennaro's feet when he acts well, but who call him
briconne as soon as they have reason to complain of him. However, women
are very kind, and almost invariably excuse the stones that an angry
lover throws at them in such moments of acute disappointment, and
willingly say with the indulgent smile of the Roman emperor: "I feel no
wound!"

In the midst of this paroxysm of furious anger, two or three knocks
resounded behind the woodwork.

"Are you composing?" asked a voice like that of a ventriloquist; "I am
with you."

A minute later, Marillac appeared upon the threshold, in his slippers and
with a silk handkerchief tied about his head, holding his candlestick in
one hand and a pipe in the other; he stood there motionless.

"You are fine," said he, "you are magnificent, fatal and accursed--You
remind me of Kean in Othello--

        "Have you pray'd to-night, Desdemona?"

Gerfaut gazed at him with frowning brows, but made no reply.

"I will wager that it is the last scene in our third act," replied the
artist, placing his candlestick upon the mantel; "it seems that it is to
be very tragic. Now listen! I also feel the poetical afflatus coming over
me, and, if you like, we will set about devouring paper like two
boa-constrictors. Speaking of serpents, have you a rattle? Ah, yes! Here
is the bell-rope. I was about to say that we would have a bowl of coffee.
Or rather, I will go into the kitchen myself; I am very good friends with
Marianne, the cook; besides, the motto of the house of Bergenheim is
liberte, libertas. Coffee is my muse; in this respect, I resemble
Voltaire--"

"Marillac!" exclaimed Gerfaut, as the artist was about to leave the room.
The artist turned, and meekly retraced his steps.

"You will be so good as to do me the favor of returning to your room,"
said Gerfaut. "You may work or you may sleep, just as you like; between
us, you would do well to sleep. I wish to be alone."

"You say that as if you meditated an attempt upon your illustrious
person. Are you thinking of suicide? Let us see whether you have some
concealed weapon, some poisoned ring. Curse upon it! the poison of the
Borgias! Is the white substance in this china bowl, vulgarly called
sugar, by some terrible chance infamous arsenic disguised under the
appearance of an honest colonial commodity?"

"Be kind enough to spare your jokes," said Octave, as his friend poked
about in all the corners of the room with an affectation of anxiety,
"and, as I can not get rid of you, listen to my opinion: if you think
that I brought you here for you to conduct yourself as you have for the
last two days, you are mistaken."

"What have I done?"

"You left me the whole morning with that tiresome Bergenheim on my hands,
and I verily believe he made me count every stick in his park and every
frog in his pond. Tonight, when that old witch of Endor proposed her
infernal game of whist, to which it seems I am to be condemned daily,
you-excused yourself upon the pretext of ignorance, and yet you play as
good a game as I."

"I can not endure whist at twenty sous a point."

"Do I like it any better?"

"Well, you are a nice fellow! You have an object in view which should
make you swallow all these disagreeable trifles as if they were as sweet
as honey. Is it possible you would like me to play Bertrand and Raton? I
should be Raton the oftener of the two!"

"But, really, what did you do all day?"

Marillac posed before the mirror, arranged his kerchief about his head in
a more picturesque fashion, twisted his moustache, puffed out, through
the corner of his mouth, a cloud of smoke, which surrounded his face like
a London fog, then turned to his friend and said, with the air of a
person perfectly satisfied with himself:

"Upon my faith, my dear friend, each one for himself and God for us all!
You, for example, indulge in romantic love-affairs; you must have titled
ladies. Titles turn your head and make you exclusive. You make love to
the aristocracy; so be it, that is your own concern. As for me, I have
another system; I am, in all matters of sentiment, what I am in politics:
I want republican institutions."

"What is all that nonsense about?"

"Let me tell you. I want universal suffrage, the cooperation of all
citizens, admission to all offices, general elections, a popular
government, in a word, a sound, patriotic hash. Which means regarding
women that I carry them all in my heart, that I recognize between them no
distinction of caste or rank. Article First of my set of laws: all women
are equal in love, provided they are young, pretty, admirably attractive
in shape and carriage, above all, not too thin."

"And what of equality?"

"So much the worse. With this eminently liberal and constitutional
policy, I intend to gather all the flowers that will allow themselves to
be gathered by me, without one being esteemed more fresh than another,
because it belongs to the nobility, or another less sweet, because
plebeian. And as field daisies are a little more numerous than imperial
roses, it follows that I very often stoop. That is the reason why, at
this very moment, I am up to my ears in a little rustic love affair:

        Simple et naive bergerette, elle regne--"

"Stop that noise; Mademoiselle de Corandeuil's room is just underneath."

"I will tell you then, since I must give an account of myself, that I
went into the park to sketch a few fir-trees before dinner; they are more
beautiful of their kind than the ancient Fontainebleau oaks. That is for
art. At dinner, I dined nobly and well. To do the Bergenheims justice,
they live in a royal manner. That is for the stomach. Afterward I
stealthily ordered a horse to be saddled and rode to La Fauconnerie in a
trice, where I presented the expression of my adoration to Mademoiselle
Reine Gobillot, a minor yet, but enjoying her full rights already. That
is for the heart."

"Indeed!"

"No sarcasm, if you please; not everybody can share your taste for
princesses, who make you go a hundred leagues to follow them and then
upon your arrival, only give you the tip of a glove to kiss. Such
intrigues are not to my fancy.

          Je suis sergent,
          Brave--"

"Again, I say, will you stop that noise? Don't you know that I have
nobody on my side at present but this respectable dowager on the first
floor below? If she supposes that I am making all this racket over her
head we shall be deadly enemies by to-morrow."

          "Zitto, zitto, piano, piano,
          Senza strepito e rumore,"

replied Marillac, putting his finger to his lips and lowering his voice.
"What you say is a surprise to me. From the way in which you offered your
arm to Madame de Bergenheim to lead her into the drawing-room after
supper, I thought you understood each other perfectly. As I was
returning, for I made it my duty to offer my arm to the old lady--and you
say that I do nothing for you--it seemed to me that I noticed a meeting
of hands--You know that I have an eagle eye. She slipped a note into your
hand as sure as my name is Marillac."

Gerfaut took the note which he held crumpled up in his hand, and held it
in the flame of one of the candles. The paper ignited, and in less than a
second nothing of it remained but a few dark pieces which fell into ashes
upon the marble mantel.

"You burn it! You are wrong," said the artist; "as for me, I keep
everything, letters and hair. When I am old, I shall have the letters to
read evenings, and shall weave an allegorical picture with the hair. I
shall hang it before my desk, so as to have before me a souvenir of the
adorable creatures who furnished the threads. I will answer for it that
there will be every shade in it from that of Camille Hautier, my first
love, who was an albino, to this that I have here."

As he spoke, he took out of his pocket a small parcel from which he drew
a lock of coal-black hair, which he spread out upon his hand.

"Did you pull this hair from Titania's mane?" asked Gerfaut, as he drew
through his fingers the more glossy than silky lock, which he ridiculed
by this ironical supposition.

"They might be softer, I admit," replied Marillac negligently; and he
examined the lock submitted to this merciless criticism as if it were
simply a piece of goods, of the fineness of whose texture he wished to
assure himself.

"You will admit at least that the color is beautiful, and the quantity
makes up for the quality. Upon my word, this poor Reine has given me
enough to make a pacha's banner. Provincial and primitive simplicity! I
know of one woman in particular who never gave an adorer more than seven
of her hairs; and yet, at the end of three years, this cautious beauty
was obliged to wear a false front. All her hair had disappeared.

"Are you like me, Octave? The first thing I ask for is one of these
locks. Women rather like this sort of childishness, and when they have
granted you that, it is a snare spread for them which catches them."

Marillac took the long, dark tress and held it near the candle; but his
movement was so poorly calculated that the hair caught fire and was
instantly destroyed.

"A bad sign," exclaimed Gerfaut, who could not help laughing at his
friend's dismayed look.

"This is a day of autos-de-fe," said the artist, dropping into a chair;
"but bah! small loss; if Reine asks to see this lock, I will tell her
that I destroyed it with kisses. That always flatters them, and I am sure
it will please this little field-flower. It is a fact that she has cheeks
like rosy apples! On my way back I thought of a vaudeville that I should
like to write about this. Only I should lay the scene in Switzerland and
I should call the young woman Betty or Kettly instead of Reine, a name
ending in 'Y' which would rhyme with Rutly, on account of local
peculiarities. Will you join in it? I have almost finished the scenario.
First scene--Upon the rising of the curtain, harvesters are discovered--"

"Will you do me the favor of going to bed?" interrupted Gerfaut.

"Chorus of harvesters:

             Deja l'aurore
             Qui se colore--"

"If you do not leave me alone, I will throw the contents of this
water-pitcher at your head."

"I never have seen you in such a surly temper. It looks indeed as if your
divinity had treated you cruelly."

"She has treated me shamefully!" exclaimed the lover, whose anger was
freshly kindled at this question; "she has treated me as one would treat
a barber's boy. This note, which I just burned, was a most formal,
unpleasant, insolent dismissal. This woman is a monster, do you
understand me?"

"A monster! your angel, a monster!" said Marillac, suppressing with
difficulty a violent outburst of laughter.

"She, an angel? I must say that she is a demon--This woman--"

"Do you not adore her?"

"I hate her, I abhor her, she makes me shudder. You may laugh, if you
like!"

As he said these words, Gerfaut struck a violent blow upon the table with
his fist.

"You forget that Mademoiselle de Corandeuil's room is just beneath us,"
said the artist, in a teasing way.

"Listen to me, Marillac! Your system with women is vulgar, gross, and
trivial. The daisies which you gather, the maidens from whom you cut
handfuls of hair excellent for stuffing mattresses, your rustic beauties
with cheeks like rosy apples are conquests worthy of counter-jumpers in
their Sunday clothes. That is nothing but the very lowest grade of
love-making, and yet you are right, a thousand times right, and
wonderfully wise compared with me."

"You do me too much honor! So, then, you are not loved?"

"Truly, I had an idea I was, or, if I was not loved to-day, I hoped to be
to-morrow. But you are mistaken as to what discourages me. I simply fear
that her heart is narrow. I believe that she loves me as much as she is
able to love; unfortunately, that is not enough for me."

"It certainly seems to me that, so far, she has not shown herself madly
in love with you."

"Ah, madly! Do you know many women who love madly with their hearts and
souls? You talk like a college braggart. There are conquerors like
yourself who, if we are to believe them, would devour a whole convent at
their breakfast. These men excite my pity. As for me, really, I have
always felt that it was most difficult to make one's self really loved.
In these days of prudery, almost all women of rank appear 'frappe a la
glace', like a bottle of champagne. It is necessary to thaw them first,
and there are some of them whose shells are so frigid that they would put
out the devil's furnace. They call this virtue; I call it social
servitude. But what matters the name? the result is the same."

"But, really, are you sure that Madame de Bergenheim loves you?" asked
Marillac, emphasizing the word "love" so strongly as to attract his
friend's attention.

"Sure? of course I am!" replied the latter. "Why do you ask me?"

"Because, when you are not quite so angry, I want to ask you something."
He hesitated a moment. "If you learned that she cares more for another
than for you, what would you do?"

Gerfaut looked at him and smiled disdainfully.

"Listen!" said he, "you have heard me storm and curse, and you took this
nonsense for genuine hatred. My good fellow! do you know why I raved in
such a manner? It was because, knowing my temperament, I felt the
necessity of getting angry and giving vent to what was in my heart. If I
had not employed this infallible remedy, the annoyance which this note
caused me would have disturbed my nerves all night, and when I do not
sleep my complexion is more leaden than usual and I have dark rings under
my eyes."

"Fop!"

"Simpleton!"

"Why simpleton?"

"Do you take me for a dandy? Do you not understand why I wish to sleep
soundly? It is simply because I do not wish to appear before her with a
face like a ghost. That would be all that was needed to encourage her in
her severity. I shall take good care that she does not discover how hard
her last thrust has hit me. I would give you a one-hundred-franc note if
I could secure for to-morrow morning your alderman's face and your
complexion a la Teniers."

"Thanks, we are not masquerading just at present."

"Nevertheless, all that you have said does not prove in the slightest that
she loves you."

"My dear Marillac, words may have escaped me in my anger which have
caused you to judge hastily. Now that I am calm and that my remedy has
brought back my nervous system to its normal state, I will explain to you
my real position. She is my Galatea, I her Pygmalion. 'An allegory as old
as the world,' you are about to say; old or not, it is my true story. 
EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, July 20, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith a report of the Secretary of State and accompanying
papers, furnished in response to the resolution of the Senate of December
21, 1881, calling for the correspondence with the Mexican Government in
regard to the claims of Benjamin Weil and La Abra Silver Mining Company
against Mexico.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, July 20, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_

I transmit herewith to the Senate, for its consideration with a
view to ratification, a convention between the United States and
Mexico, providing for the reopening and retrying of the claims of
Benjamin Weil and La Abra Silver Mining Company against Mexico,
which was signed on the 13th instant.

A report of the Secretary of State, with its accompanying correspondence,
transmitted to the Senate this day in response to the resolution
of December 21, 1881, will show the antecedents of the negotiation
which resulted in the accompanying convention.

In view of the accumulation of testimony presented by Mexico relative
to these two claims, I have deemed it proper to avail myself of the
authority given to the Executive by the Constitution, and of which
authority the act of Congress of June 18, 1878, is declarative, to
effect a rehearing of these cases.

I therefore empowered the Secretary of State to negotiate with the
minister of Mexico a convention to that end.

The more important correspondence preliminary to the treaty is herewith
transmitted.

It will be seen by the stipulations of the treaty that the rehearing will
have no retroactive effect as to payments already distributed,
that the _bona fide_ interests of third parties are amply secured,
and that the Government of the United States is fully guarded against
any liability resulting from the rehearing.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, July 26, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_

I transmit herewith to the Senate, for consideration with a view to
ratification, a supplementary convention between the United States and
the French Republic, signed at Washington on the 19th instant, extending
the term of duration of the commission organized under the convention of
January 15, 1880, between the two countries.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, July 29, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_

               I transmit
               herewith, in response to the Senate resolution of the 15th instant,
a report of the Secretary of State and accompanying papers, relating
to the Clayton-Bulwer treaty.

CHESTER A.

ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, July 29, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith to the Senate, for consideration with a view to
ratification, a treaty between the United States and the Kingdom
of Korea, or Chosen, concluded on the 22d May last. For the information
of the Senate the accompanying letter of the Secretary of State is
also transmitted.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, August 1, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith to the Senate, for consideration with a view
to ratification, a convention concluded on the 29th of July, 1882,
between the United States and Mexico, providing for an international
boundary survey to relocate the existing frontier line between the
two countries west of the Rio Grande.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
_Washington, August 4, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
In reply to a resolution of the Senate passed April 25, 1882, I transmit
herewith a communication, with accompanying papers, from the Secretary
of the Navy, in relation to the title by which the United States holds
the land now occupied as a navy-yard at Boston, Mass.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _August 5, 1882_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a report of the Secretary of State, submitted in
compliance with the resolution of the House of Representatives of
the 28th of June, calling for additional information respecting the
case of American citizens under arrest in Ireland.

          CHESTER A. ARTHUR.
          

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, August 7, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith to the Senate, with a view to ratification, a convention
concluded this day between the United States of America and His Majesty
the King of Spain, supplementary to the extradition convention concluded
between said countries on the 5th day of January, 1877.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

VETO MESSAGES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, April 4, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
After careful consideration of Senate bill No. 71, entitled "An act to
execute certain treaty stipulations relating to Chinese," I herewith
return it to the Senate, in which it originated, with my objections
to its passage.

A nation is justified in repudiating its treaty obligations only
when they are in conflict with great paramount interests. Even then
all possible reasonable means for modifying or changing those obligations
by mutual agreement should be exhausted before resorting to the supreme
right of refusal to comply with them.

These rules have governed the United States in their past intercourse
with other powers as one of the family of nations. I am persuaded that
if Congress can feel that this act violates the faith of the nation as
pledged to China it will concur with me in rejecting this particular
mode of regulating Chinese immigration, and will endeavor to find
another which shall meet the expectations of the people of the
United States without coming in conflict with the rights of China.

The present treaty relations between that power and the United States
spring from an antagonism which arose between our paramount domestic
interests and our previous relations.

The treaty commonly known as the Burlingame treaty conferred upon
Chinese subjects the right of voluntary emigration to the United
States for the purposes of curiosity or trade or as permanent
residents, and was in all respects reciprocal as to citizens of the
United States in China.

It gave to the voluntary emigrant coming to the United States the right to
travel there or to reside there, with all the privileges, immunities,
or exemptions enjoyed by the citizens or subjects of the most favored
nation.

Under the operation of this treaty it was found that the institutions of
the United States and the character of its people and their means of
obtaining a livelihood might be seriously affected by the unrestricted
introduction of Chinese labor.

Congress attempted to alleviate this condition by legislation, but
the act which it passed proved to be in violation of our treaty
obligations, and, being returned by the President with his objections,
failed to become a law.

Diplomatic relief was then sought. A new treaty was concluded with China.
Without abrogating the Burlingame treaty, it was agreed to modify
it so far that the Government of the United States might regulate,
limit, or suspend the coming of Chinese laborers to the United
States or their residence therein, but that it should not absolutely
prohibit them, and that the limitation or suspension should be
reasonable and should apply only to Chinese who might go to the
United States as laborers, other classes not being included in the
limitations.

This treaty is unilateral, not reciprocal. It is a concession from China
to the United States in limitation of the rights which she was
enjoying under the Burlingame treaty.

It leaves us by our own act to determine when and how we will enforce those
limitations. China may therefore fairly have a right to expect that
in enforcing them we will take good care not to overstep the grant
and take more than has been conceded to us.

It is but a year since this new treaty, under the operation of the Constitution,
became part of the supreme law of the land, and the present act is the
first attempt to exercise the more enlarged powers which it
relinquishes to the United States.

In its first article the United States is empowered to decide whether
the coming of Chinese laborers to the United States or their residence
therein affects or threatens to affect our interests or to endanger
good order, either within the whole country or in any part of it.

The act recites that "in the opinion of the Government of the United States
the coming of Chinese laborers to this country endangers the good
order of certain localities thereof."

But the act itself is much broader than the recital. It acts upon
residence as well as immigration, and its provisions are effective
throughout the United States. I think it may fairly be accepted as
an expression of the opinion of Congress that the coming of such
laborers to the United States or their residence here affects our
interests and endangers good order throughout the country.

On this point I should feel it my duty to accept the views of Congress.

The first article further confers the power upon this Government
to regulate, limit, or suspend, but not actually to prohibit, the
coming of such laborers to or their residence in the United States.

The negotiators of the treaty have recorded with unusual fullness
their understanding of the sense and meaning with which these words
were used.

As to the class of persons to be affected by the treaty, the Americans
inserted in their draft a provision that the words "Chinese laborers"
signify all immigration other than that for "teaching, trade, travel,
study, and curiosity."

The Chinese objected to this that it operated to include artisans
in the class of laborers whose immigration might be forbidden.

The Americans replied that they "could" not consent that artisans shall be
excluded from the class of Chinese laborers, for it is this very
competition of skilled labor in the cities where the Chinese labor
immigration concentrates which has caused the embarrassment and
popular discontent.

In the subsequent negotiations this definition dropped out, and does
not appear in the treaty.

Article II of the treaty confers the rights, privileges, immunities, and
exemptions which are accorded to citizens and subjects of the most favored
nation upon Chinese subjects proceeding to the United States as teachers,
students, merchants, or from curiosity. The American commissioners report
that the Chinese Government claimed that in this article they did by
exclusion provide that nobody should be entitled to claim the
benefit of the general provisions of the Burlingame treaty but those
who might go to the United States in those capacities or for those
purposes.

I accept this as the definition of the word "laborers" as used in the
treaty.

As to the power of legislating respecting this class of persons,
the new treaty provides that we "may not absolutely prohibit" their
coming or their residence.

The Chinese commissioners gave notice in the outset that they would never
agree to a prohibition of voluntary emigration.

Notwithstanding this the United States commissioners submitted a
draft, in which it was provided that the United States might
"regulate, limit, suspend, or prohibit" it.

The Chinese refused to accept this. The Americans replied that they were
"willing to consult the wishes of the Chinese Government in preserving the
principle of free intercourse between the people of the two
countries, as established by existing treaties, provided that the
right of the United States Government to use its discretion in
guarding against any possible evils of immigration of Chinese
laborers is distinctly recognized.

Therefore if such concession removes all difficulty on the part of
the Chinese commissioners (but only in that case) the United States
commissioners will agree to remove the word 'prohibit' from their
article and to use the words 'regulate, limit, or suspend.'"

The Chinese reply to this can only be inferred from the fact that
in the place of an agreement, as proposed by our commissioners,
that we might prohibit the coming or residence of Chinese laborers,
there was inserted in the treaty an agreement that we might not do
it.

The remaining words, "regulate, limit, and suspend," first appear in the
American draft. When it was submitted to the Chinese, they said:

We infer that of the phrases regulate, limit, suspend, or prohibit, the
first is a general expression referring to the others. * * * We are entirely
ready to negotiate with your excellencies to the end that a
limitation either in point of time or of numbers may be fixed upon
the emigration of Chinese laborers to the United States.

At a subsequent interview they said that "by limitation in number they
meant, for example, that the United States, having, as they supposed,
a record of the number of immigrants in each year, as well as the
total number of Chinese now there, that no more should be allowed
to go in any one year in future than either the greatest number
which had gone in any year in the past, or that the total number
should never be allowed to exceed the number now there.

As to limitation of time they meant, for example, that Chinese should be
allowed to go in alternate years, or every third year, or, for example,
that they should not be allowed to go for two, three, or five years."

At a subsequent conference the Americans said:

The Chinese commissioners have in their project explicitly recognized the
right of the United States to use some discretion, and have proposed
a limitation as to time and number.

This _is_ the right to regulate, limit, or suspend.

In one of the conferences the Chinese asked the Americans whether
they could give them any idea of the laws which would be passed
to carry the powers into execution.

The Americans answered that this could hardly be done; that the United
States Government might never deem it necessary to exercise this
power.

It would depend upon circumstances. If Chinese immigration concentrated
in cities where it threatened public order, or if it confined
itself to localities where it was an injury to the interests of the
American people, the Government of the United States would undoubtedly
take steps to prevent such accumulations of Chinese.

If, on the contrary, there was no large immigration, or if there were
sections of the country where such immigration was clearly beneficial,
then the legislation of the United States under this power would
be adapted to such circumstances.

For example, there might be a demand for Chinese labor in the South and
a surplus of such labor in California, and Congress might legislate
in accordance with these facts. In general the legislation would be in
view of and depend upon the circumstances of the situation at the moment
such legislation became necessary.

The Chinese commissioners said this explanation was satisfactory; that
they had not intended to ask for a draft of any special act, but
for some general idea how the power would be exercised.

What had just been said gave them the explanation which they
wanted.

With this entire accord as to the meaning of the words they were
about to employ and the object of the legislation which might be had in
consequence, the parties signed the treaty, in Article I of which--

The Government of China agrees that the Government of the United
States may regulate, limit, or suspend such coming or residence,
but may not absolutely prohibit it.

The limitation or suspension shall be reasonable, and shall apply
only to Chinese who may go to the United States as laborers, other
classes not being included in the limitations.

Legislation taken in regard to Chinese laborers will be of such a
character only as is necessary to enforce the regulation, limitation,
or suspension of immigration.

The first section of the act provides that--
From and after the expiration of sixty days next after the passage of
this act, and until the expiration of twenty years next after the
passage of this act, the coming of Chinese laborers be, and the
same is hereby, suspended; and during such suspension it shall not
be lawful for any Chinese laborer to come, or, having so come after
the expiration of said sixty days, to remain within the United
States.

The examination which I have made of the treaty and of the declarations
which its negotiators have left on record of the meaning of its language
leaves no doubt in my mind that neither contracting party in concluding
the treaty of 1880 contemplated the passage of an act prohibiting
immigration for twenty years, which is nearly a generation, or
thought that such a period would be a reasonable suspension or
limitation, or intended to change the provisions of the Burlingame
treaty to that extent.

I regard this provision of the act as a breach of our national faith, and
being unable to bring myself in harmony with the views of Congress
on this vital point the honor of the country constrains me to return
the act with this objection to its passage.

Deeply convinced of the necessity of some legislation on this subject,
and concurring fully with Congress in many of the objects which
are sought to be accomplished, I avail myself of the opportunity
to point out some other features of the present act which, in my
opinion, can be modified to advantage.

The classes of Chinese who still enjoy the protection of the
Burlingame treaty are entitled to the privileges, immunities, and exemptions
accorded to citizens and subjects of the most favored nation.

We have treaties with many powers which permit their citizens and
subjects to reside within the United States and carry on business
under the same laws and regulations which are enforced against
citizens of the United States.

I think it may be doubted whether provisions requiring personal registration
and the taking out of passports which are not imposed upon natives can be
required of Chinese. Without expressing an opinion on that point, I
may invite the attention of Congress to the fact that the system
of personal registration and passports is undemocratic and hostile
to the spirit of our institutions.

I doubt the wisdom of putting an entering wedge of this kind into our laws.
A nation like the United States, jealous of the liberties of its
citizens, may well hesitate before it incorporates into its polity
a system which is fast disappearing in Europe before the progress
of liberal institutions.

A wide experience has shown how futile such precautions are, and how
easily passports may be borrowed, exchanged, or even forged by
persons interested to do so.

If it is, nevertheless, thought that a passport is the most convenient
way for identifying the Chinese entitled to the protection of the
Burlingame treaty, it may still be doubted whether they ought to
be required to register.

It is certainly our duty under the Burlingame treaty to make
their stay in the United States, in the operation of general laws upon
them, as nearly like that of our own citizens as we can consistently with
our right to shut out the laborers.

No good purpose is served in requiring them to register.

My attention has been called by the Chinese minister to the fact that
the bill as it stands makes no provision for the transit across the United
States of Chinese subjects now residing in foreign countries.
I think that this point may well claim the attention of Congress in
legislating on this subject.

I have said that good faith requires us to suspend the immigration of
Chinese laborers for a less period than twenty years; I now add that
good policy points in the same direction.

Our intercourse with China is of recent date.

Our first treaty with that power is not yet forty years old. It is only
since we acquired California and established a great seat of
commerce on the Pacific that we may be said to have broken down the
barriers which fenced in that ancient Monarchy. The Burlingame
treaty naturally followed.

Under the spirit which inspired it many thousand Chinese laborers came
to the United States. No one can say that the country has not profited
by their work.

They were largely instrumental in constructing the railways which connect
the Atlantic with the Pacific. The States of the Pacific Slope are full
of evidences of their industry.

Enterprises profitable alike to the capitalist and to the laborer of
Caucasian origin would have lain dormant but for them. A time has now come
when it is supposed that they are not needed, and when it is thought by
Congress and by those most acquainted with the subject that it is
best to try to get along without them.

There may, however, be other sections of the country where this
species of labor may be advantageously employed without interfering with
the laborers of our own race.

In making the proposed experiment it may be the part of wisdom as well as
of good faith to fix the length of the experimental period with reference
to this fact.

Experience has shown that the trade of the East is the key to
national wealth and influence.

The opening of China to the commerce of the whole world has benefited no
section of it more than the States of our own Pacific Slope. The State
of California, and its great maritime port especially, have reaped enormous
advantages from this source.
"By the powers! if I were in your place, I would say those words to her
this very day."

"So as to be thrown out by that band of idle fellows in their red coats.
None of that for me. I have my own scheme; let them laugh that win!"

As he repeated this proverb, the workman uttered his usual sardonic
laugh.

"Lambernier," said the artist, in a serious tone, "I have heard of
certain very strange speeches that you have made within the last few
days. Do you know that there is a punishment by law for those who invent
calumnies?"

"Is it a calumny, when one can prove what he says?" replied the
carpenter, with assurance.

"What is it that you undertake to prove?" exclaimed Marillac, suddenly.

"Eh! you know very well that if Monsieur le Baron--" he did not continue,
but with a coarse gesture he finished explaining his thoughts.

"You can prove this?"

"Before the courts, if necessary."

"Before the courts would not amount to very much for you; but if you will
cease this talk and never open your mouth about all this, whatever it may
be, and will give to me, and me only, this proof of which you speak, I
will give you ten napoleons."

For a moment Lambernier gazed at the artist with a singularly penetrating
glance.

"So you have two sweethearts, then--one from the city and one from the
country, a married woman and this poor girl," said he, in a jeering tone;
"does little Reine know that she is playing second fiddle?"

"What do you mean to insinuate?"

"Oh! you are more clever than!"

The two men looked at each other in silence, trying to read each other's
thoughts.

"This is a lover of Madame de Bergenheim," thought Lambernier, with the
barefaced impudence of his kind; "if I were to tell him what I know, my
vengeance would be in good hands, without my taking the trouble to commit
myself."

"Here is a sneaking fellow who pretends to be deucedly strong in
diplomacy," said Marillac to himself; "but he is revengeful and I must
make him explain himself."

"Ten napoleons are not to be found every day," continued the carpenter,
after a moment's silence; "you may give them to me, if you like, in a
week."

"You will be able to prove to me, then, what you have said," replied
Marillac, with hesitation, blushing in spite of himself at the part he
was playing at that moment, upon the odious side of which he had not
looked until now. "Bah!" said he to himself, in order to quiet his
conscience, "if this rascal really knows anything it is much better that
I should buy the secret than anybody else. I never should take advantage
of it, and I might be able to render the lady a service. Is it not a
gentleman's sworn duty to devote himself to the defence of an imprudent
beauty who is in danger?"

"I will bring you the proof you want," said the carpenter.

"When?"

"Meet me Monday at four o'clock in the afternoon at the cross-roads near
the corner of the Come woods."

"At the end of the park?"

"Yes, a little above the rocks."

"I will be there. Until then, you will not say a word to anybody?"

"That is a bargain, since you buy the goods I have for sale--"

"Here is some money to bind the trade," replied the artist. And he handed
him the silver pieces he still held in his hand; Lambernier took them
this time without any objections, and put them in his pocket.

"Monday, at four o'clock!"

"Monday, at four o'clock!" repeated Marillac, as he mounted his horse and
rode away in great haste as if eager to take leave of his companion. He
turned when he reached the road, and, looking behind him, saw the workman
standing motionless at the foot of the tree.

"There is a scamp," thought he, "whose ball and chain are waiting for him
at Toulon or Brest, and I have just concluded a devilish treaty with him.
Bah! I have nothing to reproach myself with. Of two evils choose the
least; it remains to be seen whether Gerfaut is the dupe of a coquette or
whether his love is threatened with some catastrophe; at all events, I am
his friend, and I ought to clear up this mystery and put him on his
guard."

"Ten francs to-day, and ten napoleons Monday," said Lambernier as, with
an eye in which there was a mixture of scorn and hatred, he watched the
traveller disappear. "I should be a double idiot to refuse. But this does
not pay for the blows from your whip, you puppy; when we have settled
this affair of the fine lady, I shall attend to you."


CHAPTER XII

AN INHARMONIOUS MUSICALE

The visitors referred to in the conversation between the two friends
arrived at the castle at an early hour, according to the custom in the
country, where they dine in the middle of the day. Gerfaut saw from his
chamber, where he had remained like Achilles under his tent, half a dozen
carriages drive one after another up the avenue, bringing the guests
announced by Marillac. Little by little the company scattered through the
gardens in groups; four or five young girls under Aline's escort hurried
to a swing, to which several good-natured young men attached themselves,
and among them Gerfaut recognized his Pylades. During this time Madame de
Bergenheim was doing the honors of the house to the matrons, who thought
this amusement too youthful for their age and preferred a quiet walk
through the park. Christian, on his side, was explaining methods of
improvements to gentlemen of agricultural and industrial appearance, who
seemed to listen to him with great interest. Three or four others had
taken possession of the billiard-table; while the more venerable among
the guests had remained in the parlor with Mademoiselle de Corandeuil.

"Have you a pair of clean trousers?" asked Marillac, hastily entering his
friend's room as the first bell rang for dinner. An enormous green stain
upon one of his knees was all the explanation necessary on this subject.

"You, lose no time," said Gerfaut, as he opened a drawer in his closet.
"Which of these rustic beauties has had the honor of seeing you on your
knees at her feet?"

"It was that confounded swing! Silly invention! To sacrifice one's self
to please little girls! If I am ever caught at it again I'll let you
know! Your selfish method is a better, one. By the way, Madame de
Bergenheim asked me, with a rather sly look, whether you were ill and
whether you would not come down to dinner?"

"Irony!"

"It: seemed like it. The lady smiled in a decidedly disagreeable manner.
I am not timid, but I would rather write a vaudeville in three acts than
to be obliged to make a declaration to her if she had that impish smile
on her lips. She has a way of protruding her under lip-ugh! do you know
you are terribly slender? Will you let me cut the band of your trousers?
I never could dance with my stomach compressed in this manner."

"What about this secret you were to reveal to me?" Gerfaut interrupted,
with a smile which seemed to denote perfect security.

Marillac looked at his friend with a grave countenance, then began to
laugh in an embarrassed manner.

"We will leave serious matters until to-morrow," he replied. "The
essential thing to-day is to make ourselves agreeable. Madame de
Bergenheim asked me a little while ago whether we would be kind enough to
sing a few duets? I accepted for us both. I do not suppose that the
inhabitants of this valley have often heard the duet from Mose with the
embellishments a la Tamburini:

             Palpito a quello aspetto,
             'Gemo nel suo dolor.'

"Would you prefer that or the one from 'Il Barbiere'? although that is out
of date, now."

"Whatever pleases you, but do not split my head about it in advance. I
wish that music and dancing were at the bottom of the Moselle."

"With all my heart, but not the dinner. I gave a glance into the
dining-room; it promises to be very fine. Now, then, everybody has
returned to the house; to the table!"

The time has long since passed when Paris and the province formed two
regions almost foreign to each other. To-day, thanks to the rapidity of
communication, and the importations of all kinds which reach the centre
from the circumference without having time to spoil on the way, Paris and
the rest of France are only one immense body excited by the same
opinions, dressed in the same fashions, laughing at the same bon mot,
revolutionized by the same opinions.

Provincial customs have almost entirely lost their peculiarities; a
drawing-room filled with guests is the same everywhere. There are
sometimes exceptions, however. The company gathered at the Bergenheim
chateau was an example of one of those heterogeneous assemblies which the
most exclusive mistress of a mansion can not avoid if she wishes to be
neighborly, and in which a duchess may have on her right at the table the
village mayor, and the most elegant of ladies a corpulent justice of the
peace who believes he is making himself agreeable when he urges his fair
neighbor to frequent potations.

Madame de Bergenheim had discovered symptoms of haughty jealousy among
her country neighbors, always ready to feel themselves insulted and very
little qualified to make themselves agreeable in society. So she resolved
to extend a general invitation to all those whom she felt obliged to
receive, in order to relieve herself at once of a nuisance for which no
pleasure could prove an equivalent. This day was one of her duty days.

Among these ladies, much more gorgeously than elegantly attired, these
healthy young girls with large arms, and feet shaped like flat-irons,
ponderous gentlemen strangled by their white cravats and puffed up in
their frock-coats, Gerfaut, whose nervous system had been singularly
irritated by his disappointment of the night before, felt ready to burst
with rage. He was seated at the table between two ladies, who seemed to
have exhausted, in their toilettes, every color in the solar spectrum,
and whose coquettish instincts were aroused by the proximity of a
celebrated writer. But their simperings were all lost; the one for whom
they were intended bore himself in a sulky way, which fortunately passed
for romantic melancholy; this rendered him still more interesting in the
eyes of his neighbor on the left, a plump blonde about twenty-five years
old, fresh and dimpled, who doted upon Lord Byron, a common pretension
among pretty, buxom women who adore false sentimentality.

With the exception of a bow when he entered the drawing-room, Octave had
not shown Madame de Bergenheim any attention. The cold, disdainful, bored
manner in which he patiently endured the pleasures of the day exceeded
even the privilege for boorish bearing willingly granted to gentlemen of
unquestionable talent. Clemence, on the contrary, seemed to increase in
amiability and liveliness. There was not one of her tiresome guests to
whom she did not address some pleasant remark, not one of those vulgar,
pretentious women to whom she was not gracious and attentive; one would
have said that she had a particular desire to be more attractive than
usual, and that her lover's sombre air added materially to her good
humor.

After dinner they retired to the drawing-room where coffee was served. A
sudden shower, whose drops pattered loudly against the windows, rendered
impossible all plans for amusement out of doors. Gerfaut soon noticed a
rather animated conversation taking place between Madame de Bergenheim,
who was somewhat embarrassed as to how to amuse her guests for the
remainder of the afternoon, and Marillac, who, with his accustomed
enthusiasm, had constituted himself master of ceremonies. A moment later,
the drawing-room door opened, and servants appeared bending under the
burden of an enormous grand piano which was placed between the windows.
At this sight, a tremor of delight ran through the group of young girls,
while Octave, who was standing in one corner near the mantel, finished
his Mocha with a still more melancholy air.

"Now, then!" said Marillac, who had been extremely busy during these
preparations, and had spread a dozen musical scores upon the top of the
piano, "it is agreed that we shall sing the duet from Mose. There are two
or three little boarding-school misses here whose mothers are dying for
them to show off. You understand that we must sacrifice ourselves to
encourage them. Besides, a duet for male voices is the thing to open a
concert with."

"A concert! has Madame de Bergenheim arranged to pasture us in this
sheepfold in order to make use of us this evening?" replied Gerfaut,
whose ill-humor increased every moment.

ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _December 15, 1881_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the Interior,
with accompanying papers, in reference to the applications of the Chicago,
Texas and Mexican Central and the St. Louis and San Francisco Railway
companies for a right of way across the lands of the Choctaw Nation
in the Indian Territory for the building of a proposed railroad and
telegraph line.

          The matter is commended to the careful attention of Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _December 15, 1881_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith, in response to a resolution of the Senate of
the 12th instant, a report from the Secretary of State, with an
accompanying paper, touching the proposed modification of the
Clayton-Bulwer treaty of April 19, 1850, between the United States
and Great Britain.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

WASHINGTON, _December 15, 1881_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit to the Senate, for its consideration with a view to
ratification, a treaty of peace, friendship, and commerce between
the United States of America and the Kingdom of Madagascar, signed
on the 13th day of May, 1881, together with certain correspondence
relating thereto.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

WASHINGTON, _December 19, 1881_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith to the Senate a report from the Secretary of State,
in response to its resolution of the 13th of October last, calling
for the transmission to the Senate of papers on file in the Department
of State relating to the seizure of one Vicenzo Rebello, an Italian,
in the city of New Orleans, in June, 1881, by one James Mooney,
under a warrant of arrest issued by John A.

Osborn, United States commissioner in and for the city of New
York.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

WASHINGTON, _December 19, 1881_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith to the Senate a report of the Secretary of
State, in relation to the necessity of modifying the present system
of consular jurisdiction of the United States in the countries of
the East.

I regard this subject, to which I have adverted in my general
message to Congress, as one deserving the earnest attention of the
National Legislature.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

[A similar message was sent to the House of Representatives.]

WASHINGTON, _December 19, 1881_.

_To the House of Representatives:_

I transmit herewith to the House of Representatives, for the consideration
of Congress, a communication from the Secretary of State, setting forth
the expediency of organizing a class of supernumerary secretaries of
legation to meet the needs of our diplomatic service abroad.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.
WASHINGTON, _December 19, 1881_.
_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith, in reply to the resolution of the Senate of
the 19th of May last, a report from the Secretary of State, with
an accompanying paper.[3] 
CHESTER A. ARTHUR.
[Footnote 3: List of officers, clerks, etc., in the Department of
State.] 

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _December 21, 1881_.
_To the House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a communication
from the Secretary of the Interior, with an accompanying paper, in
which he recommends a further appropriation for the payment of the
expenses of the Tenth Census; also an appropriation of $2,000 to
recompense the disbursing clerk of the Department of the Interior
for his services in disbursing the appropriations for the Tenth
Census.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, _December 21, 1881_.
_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith, in response to a resolution of the Senate of
the 6th instant, a letter from the Secretary of the Treasury and
its accompanying papers.[4] 
CHESTER A.Marillac, on the contrary, was grateful to his friend for this
indifference of execution, for he saw in it an occasion to shine at his
expense. He began his solo 'E il ciel per noi sereno,' with an unusual
tension of the larynx, roaring out his low notes. Except for the
extension being a little irregular and unconnected, he did not acquit
himself very badly in the first part. When he reached his final run, he
took a long breath, as if it devolved upon him to set in motion all the
windmills in Montmartre, and started with a majestic fury; the first
forty notes, while they did not resemble Mademoiselle Grisi's pearly
tones, ascended and descended without any notable accident; but at the
last stages of the descent, the singer's breath and voice failed him at
the same moment, the "A" came out weak, the "G" was stifled, the "F"
resembled the buzzing of a bee, and the "E" was absent!

Zuchelli's run was like one of those Gothic staircases which show an
almost complete state of preservation upon the upper floor, but whose
base, worn by time, leaves a solution of continuity between the ground
and the last step.

Madame de Bergenheim waited the conclusion of this dangerous run, not
thinking to strike the final chord; the only sound heard was the rustling
of the dilettante's beard, as his chin sought his voice in vain in the
depths of his satin cravat, accompanied by applause from a benevolent old
lady who had judged of the merit of the execution by the desperate
contortions of the singer.

"D--n that charlotte-russe!" growled the artist, whose face was as red as
a lobster.

The rest of the duet was sung without any new incident, and gave general
satisfaction.

"Madame, your piano is half a tone too low," said the basso, with a
reproachful accent.

"That is true," replied Clemence, who could not restrain a smile; "I have
so little voice that I am obliged to have my piano tuned to suit it. You
can well afford to pardon me for my selfishness, for you sang like an
angel."

Marillac bowed, partly consoled by this compliment, but thinking to
himself that a hostess's first duty was to have her piano in tune, and
not to expose a bass singer to the danger of imperilling his low "E"
before an audience of forty.

"Madame, can I be of any more service to you?" asked Gerfaut, as he
leaned toward Madame de Bergenheim, with one of his coldest smiles.

"I do not wish to impose further upon your kindness, Monsieur," said she,
in a voice which showed her secret displeasure.

The poet bowed and walked away.

Then Clemence, upon general request, sang a romance with more taste than
brilliancy, and more method than expression. It seemed as if Octave's icy
manner had reacted upon her, in spite of the efforts she had made at
first to maintain a cheerful air. A singular oppression overcame her;
once or twice she feared her voice would fail her entirely. When she
finished, the compliments and applause with which she was overwhlemed
seemed so insupportable to her that it was with difficulty she could
restrain herself from leaving the room. While exasperated by her
weakness, she could not help casting a glance in Octave's direction. She
could not catch his eye, however, as he was busy talking with Aline. She
felt so lonely and deserted at this moment, and longed so for this glance
which she could not obtain, that tears of vexation filled her eyes.

"I was wrong to write him as I did," thought she; "but if he really loved
me, he would not so quickly resign himself to obeying me!"

A woman in a drawing-room resembles a soldier on a breastwork;
self-abnegation is the first of her duties; however much she may suffer,
she must present as calm and serene a countenance as a warrior in the
hour of danger, and fall, if necessary, upon the spot, with death in her
heart and a smile upon her lips. In order to obey this unwritten law,
Madame de Bergenheim, after a slight interruption, seated herself at the
piano to accompany three or four young girls who were each to sing in
turn the songs that they had been drilled on for six months.

Marillac, who had gone to strengthen his stomach with a glass of rum,
atoned for his little mishap, in the trio from La Dame Blanche, and
everything went smoothly. Finally, to close this concert (may heaven
preserve us from all exhibitions of this kind!), Aline was led to the
piano by her brother, who, like all people who are not musical, could not
understand why one should study music for years if not from love for the
art. Christian was fond of his little sister and very proud of her
talents. The poor child, whose courage had all disappeared, sang in a
fresh, trembling little voice, a romance revised and corrected at her
boarding-school. The word love had been replaced by that of friendship,
and to repair this slight fault of prosody, the extra syllable
disappeared in a hiatus which would have made Boileau's blond wig stand
on end. But the Sacred Heart has a system of versification of its own
which, rather than allow the dangerous expression to be used, let
ultra-modesty destroy poetry!

This sample of sacred music was the final number of the concert; after
that, they began dancing, and Gerfaut invited Aline. Whether because he
wished to struggle against his ill-humor, or from kindness of heart
because he understood her emotion, he began to talk with the young girl,
who was still blushing at her success. Among his talents, Octave
possessed in a peculiar degree that of adapting his conversation to the
age, position, and character of his companions. Aline listened with
unconcealed pleasure to her partner's words; the elasticity of her step
and a sort of general trembling made her seem like a flower swaying to
the breeze, and revealed the pleasure which his conversation gave her.
Every time her eyes met Octave's penetrating glance they fell, out of
instinctive modesty. Each word, however indifferent it might be, rang in
her ears sweet and melodious; each contact with his hand seemed to her
like a tender pressure.

Gerfaut experienced a feeling of melancholy as he noticed how this fresh,
innocent rose brightened up at each word he uttered, and he thought:

"She would love me as I want to be loved, with all her heart, mind, and
soul. She would kneel before my love as before an altar, while this
coquette--"

He glanced in the direction where Madame de Bergenheim was dancing with
Marillac, and met her gaze fixed full upon him. The glance which he
received was rapid, displeased, and imperious. It signified clearly: "I
forbid you to speak thus to your partner."

Octave, at that moment; was not disposed to obedience. After glancing
over the quadrille, as if it were by mere chance that his eyes had met
Clemence's, he turned toward Aline and redoubled his amiability:

A moment later, he received, not directly, but through the medium of the
mirror--that so often indiscreet confidant--a second glance more sombre
and threatening than before.

"Very good," said he, to himself, as he led the young girl to her seat;
"we are jealous. That alters the situation. I know now where the ramparts
are the weakest and where to begin my attack."

No other incident marked the day. The guests left at nightfall, and the
society was reduced to the usual members of the household. Octave entered
his room after supper, humming an Italian air, evidently in such good
spirits that his friend was quite surprised.

"I give it up, I can not understand your conduct," said the latter; "you
have been as solemn as an owl all day, and now here you are as gay as a
lark; have you had an understanding?"

"I am more vexed than ever."

"And you enjoy being so?"

"Very much."

"Ah! you are playing 'who loses wins!'"

"Not exactly; but as my good sentiments lead to nothing, I hope to
conduct myself in such a disagreeable way as to force this capricious
creature to adore me."

"The devil! that is clever. Besides, it is a system as good as any other.
Women are such extraordinary creatures!"

"Woman," said Octave, "resembles a pendulum, whose movement is a
continual reaction; when it moves to the right, it has to go to the left
in order to return to the right again, and so on. Suppose virtue is on
one side and love on the other, and the feminine balance between them,
the odds are that, having moved to the right in a violent manner, it will
return none the less energetically to the left; for the longer a
vibration has been, the greater play the contrary vibration has. In order
to hasten the action of this pendulum I am about to attach to it--to act
as extra balance-weight--a little anguish which I ought to have employed
sooner."

"Why make her suffer, since you believe that she loves you?"

"Why? Because she drives me to it. Do you fancy that I torture her
willingly; that I take pleasure in seeing her cheeks grow pale from
insomnia and her eyes show traces of tears? I love her, I tell you; I
suffer and weep with her. But I love her, and I must make sure of her
love. If she will leave but a road full of brambles and sharp stones for
me to reach her, must I give up the struggle just because I run the risk
by taking her with me, of wounding her charming feet? I will cure them
with my kisses!"

"Listen to me! I am not in love; I am an artist. If I have some peculiar
ideas, it is not my fault. And you, in your character of docile lover,
have you decided to yield?"

"Morally."

"Very well! after all, you are right. The science of love resembles those
old signs upon which one reads: 'Here, hair is dressed according to one's
fancy.' If this angel wishes her hair pulled, do it for her."

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     I believed it all; one is so happy to believe!
     It is a terrible step for a woman to take, from No to Yes
     Lady who requires urging, although she is dying to sing
     Let them laugh that win!
     Let ultra-modesty destroy poetry
     Misfortunes never come single
     No woman is unattainable, except when she loves another
     These are things that one admits only to himself
     Topics that occupy people who meet for the first time
     You are playing 'who loses wins!'


GERFAUT

By CHARLES DE BERNARD


BOOK 3.


CHAPTER XIII

MONSIEUR DE BERGENHEIM

Some men in society marry too soon, a great number too late, a small and
fortunate proportion at an opportune time. Young men in the country, of
good family, are usually established in marriage by their parents as
early as possible. When the family council finds an heiress who answers
all the conditions of the programme laid out, they begin by giving the
victim his cue. Provided the young lady has not a positively crooked
nose, arms too red, and too uncouth a waist--sometimes even
notwithstanding these little misfortunes--the transaction is concluded
without any difficulty.

Clemence and Christian should be placed in the first rank of privileged
couples of this kind. The most fastidious old uncle or precise old
dowager could not discover the slightest pretense for criticism. Age,
social position, wealth, physical endowments, all seemed united by a
chance as rare as fortunate. So Mademoiselle de Corandeuil, who had very
high pretensions for her niece, made no objection upon receiving the
first overtures. She had not, at this time, the antipathy for her future
nephew's family which developed later. The Bergenheims were in her eyes
very well-born gentleman.

A meeting took place at the Russian Embassy. Bergenheim came in uniform;
it was etiquette to do so, as the minister of war was present; but at the
same time, of course, there was a little vanity on his part, for his
uniform showed off his tall, athletic figure to the best advantage.
Christian was certainly a very handsome soldier; his moustache and
eyebrows were of a lighter tint than his complexion, and gave him that
martial air which pleases women. Clemence could find no reason for a
refusal. The way in which she had been brought up by her aunt had not
rendered her so happy but that she often desired to change her situation.
Like the greater number of young girls, she consented to become a wife so
as not to remain a maiden; she said yes, so as not to say no.

As to Christian, he was in love with his wife as nine out of ten cavalry
officers know how to love, and he seemed perfectly satisfied with the
sentiment that he received in return for this sudden affection. A few
successes with young belles, for whom an epaulette has an irresistible
attraction, had inspired Baron de Bergenheim with a confidence in himself
the simplicity of which excused the conceit. He persuaded himself that he
pleased Clemence because she suited him exactly.

There are singers who pretend to read music at sight; give them a score
by Gluck--"I beg your pardon," they will say, "my part is written here in
the key of 'C' and I sing only in the key of 'G'!" How many men do not
know even the key of 'G' in matters of love! Unfortunately for him,
Bergenheim was one of that number. After three years of married life, he
had not divined the first note in Clemence's character. He decided in his
own mind, at the end of a few months, that she was cold, if not
heartless. This discovery, which ought to have wounded his vanity,
inspired him, on the contrary, with a deeper respect for her; insensibly
this reserve reacted upon himself, for love is a fire whose heat dies out
for want of fuel, and its cooling off is more sudden when the flame is
more on the surface than in the depths.

The revolution of 1830 stopped Christian's career, and gave further
pretexts for temporary absences which only added to the coolness which
already existed between husband and wife. After handing in his
resignation, the Baron fixed his residence at his chateau in the Vosges
mountains, for which he shared the hereditary predilection of his family.
His tastes were in perfect harmony with this dwelling, for he had quickly
become the perfect type of a country gentleman, scorning the court and
rarely leaving his ancestral acres. He was too kind-hearted to exact that
his wife should share his country tastes and retired life. The unlimited
confidence which he had in her, a loyalty which never allowed him to
suppose evil or suspect her, a nature very little inclined to jealousy,
made him allow Clemence the greatest liberty. The young woman lived at
will in Paris with her aunt, or at Bergenheim with her husband, without a
suspicious thought ever entering his head. Really,--what had he to fear?
What wrong could she reproach him with? Was he not full of kindness and
attention toward her? Did he not leave her mistress of her own fortune,
free to do as she liked, to gratify every caprice? He thus lived upon his
faith in the marriage contract, with unbounded confidence and
old-fashioned loyalty.

According to general opinion, Madame de Bergenheim was a very fortunate
woman, to whom virtue must be so easy that it could hardly be called a
merit. Happiness, according to society, consists in a box at the Opera, a
fine carriage, and a husband who pays the bills without frowning. Add to
the above privileges, a hundred thousand francs' worth of diamonds, and a
woman has really no right to dream or to suffer. There are, however,
poor, loving creatures who stifle under this happiness as if under one of
those leaden covers that Dante speaks of; they breathe, in imagination,
the pure, vital air that a fatal instinct has revealed to them; they
struggle between duty and desire; they gaze, like captive doves and with
a sorrowful eye, upon the forbidden region where it would be so blissful
to soar; for, in fastening a chain to their feet, the law did not bandage
their eyes, and nature gave them wings; if the wings tear the chain
asunder, shame and misfortune await them! Society will never forgive the
heart that catches a glimpse of the joys it is unacquainted with; even a
brief hour in that paradise has to be expiated by implacable social
damnation and its everlasting flames.


ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 13, 1885_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I herewith transmit, as desired by the act of Congress approved July
7, 1884, a letter from the Secretary of State, with accompanying report
from the Central and South American commissioners.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 17, 1885_.

_To the House of Representatives:_

In response to the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 9th
of January, 1885, calling for certain correspondence concerning the
transactions of the late French and American Commission, I transmit
herewith a report of the Secretary of State of the 16th instant, in
relation to the subject.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

WASHINGTON, _February 17, 1885_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
Referring your honorable body to the message of December 1, 1884, by
which I transmitted to the Senate, with a view to ratification, a treaty
negotiated with Belgium touching the succession to and acquirement
of real property, etc., by the citizens or subjects of the one
Government in the domain of the other, I now address you in order to
recall the treaty thus transmitted for reexamination.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 17, 1885_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
Referring to my message of the 13th instant, concerning the report of
the Central and South American commissioners, I have the honor to inform
the Senate that the report therein stated as accompanying the message was
transmitted with a like message to the House of Representatives.

A note of explanation to this effect was inadvertently omitted from
the former message.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 19, 1885_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a report of the Secretary of State of the 19th instant,
recommending the enactment of a law for the protection of submarine cables
in pursuance of our treaty obligations under the international
convention in relation to the subject signed at Paris on the 14th
day of March, 1884.

I commend the matter to the favorable consideration of Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 19, 1885_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication of the 16th instant from the
Secretary of the Interior, submitting, with accompanying papers, a draft
of a bill "to accept and ratify an agreement with the confederated tribes
and bands of Indians occupying the Yakima Reservation in the Territory
of Washington for the extinguishment of their title to so much of said
reservation as is required for the use of the Northern Pacific Railroad,
and to make the necessary appropriation for carrying out the same."

The matter is presented for the consideration and action of the
Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 19, 1885_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, in response to a resolution of the House of
Representatives of the 5th instant, requesting copies of all the
communications which have been received respecting the Kongo
conference, and especially copies of the text of the commissions or
powers sent by this Government to each of the three American
plenipotentiaries or agents, a report of the Secretary of State.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 19, 1885_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
With reference to my communication of the 27th ultimo, transmitting to the
House of Representatives a preliminary report of the Secretary of State,
dated the 26th of January, 1885, in response to the resolution of
the House of the 9th of January, 1885, calling for copies of the
accounts and vouchers of the disbursing officers of the French-American
Claims Commission and containing other information in relation to
the transactions of said commission, I now transmit herewith a
further report on the subject by the Secretary of State, dated the
17th instant, which is accompanied by the desired copies of the
accounts and vouchers in question.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 25, 1885_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
In answer to the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 13th
instant, requesting me to inform that body, if not incompatible with the
public interest, what were the reasons which moved me to appoint
commissioners to examine and report upon the California and Oregon
Railroad from Reading northwardly, I transmit herewith a communication
on that subject addressed to me on the 24th instant by the Secretary
of the Interior, setting forth the practice under which my action
was taken.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 26, 1885_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit to the Senate, for its consideration with a view to ratification,
a provisional article of agreement modifying the latter clause of Article
XXVI of the pending commercial treaty between the United States and
Spain, concluded November 18, 1884, so as to extend the time for the
approval of the laws necessary to carry the said treaty into operation
if ratified.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, D.C., February 26, 1885_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I herewith transmit, for the consideration of the Senate with a view to
ratification, an additional article, signed by the Secretary of State and
the minister of Mexico here, on behalf of their respective Governments,
the 25th instant, providing for the extension of the time for the approval
of the necessary legislation in order to carry into effect the commercial
reciprocity treaty between the United States and Mexico of January
20, 1883.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, February 28, 1885_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
Referring to my message to the Senate of the 25th instant, by which
I transmitted, with a view to ratification, an additional article
to the commercial treaty with Spain concluded November 18, 1884, I
now have the honor to request the return of that instrument.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, March 2, 1885_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I herewith transmit to the Senate, with a view to examination and
sanction by that body, a treaty signed in this city to-day by the
Secretary of State and the Spanish minister, consisting of four
supplementary articles amendatory of the commercial treaty of
November 18, 1884, between the United States and Spain, which is
now pending in the Senate.

The accompanying report of the Secretary of State recites the particulars
of the modifications which have been made in deference to the
representations made on behalf of important commercial interests of the
United States, whereby it is believed all well-founded objections on
their part to the ratification of that treaty are obviated.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _March 2, 1885_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of the Senate with a
view to its ratification, a convention concluded February 20, 1885,
between the United States of America and the United States of Mexico,
for the extradition of criminals.

A report of the Secretary of State, touching the negotiation of the
convention, is also transmitted.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _March 3, 1885_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_ 
I nominate Ulysses S.

Grant, formerly commanding the armies of the United States, to be general
on the retired list of the Army, with the full pay of such rank.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

PROCLAMATIONS.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas the treaty concluded between the United States of America and
Her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain and Ireland, concluded at
Washington on the 8th day of May, 1871, contains among other articles
the following, viz:

ARTICLE XVIII.

It is agreed by the high contracting parties that, in addition to the
liberty secured to the United States fishermen by the convention
between the United States and Great Britain signed at London on the 20th
day of October, 1818, of taking, curing, and drying fish on certain
coasts of the British North American colonies therein defined, the
inhabitants of the United States shall have, in common with the subjects
of Her Britannic Majesty, the liberty, for the term of years mentioned
in Article XXXIII of this treaty, to take fish of every kind,
except shellfish, on the seacoasts and shores and in the bays,
harbors, and creeks of the Provinces of Quebec, Nova Scotia, and
New Brunswick, and the colony of Prince Edwards Island, and of the
several islands thereunto adjacent, without being restricted to any
distance from the shore, with permission to land upon the said
coasts and shores and islands, and also upon the Magdalen Islands,
for the purpose of drying their nets and curing their fish; provided
that in so doing they do not interfere with the rights of private
property or with British fishermen in the peaceable use of any part
of the said coasts in their occupancy for the same purpose.

It is understood that the above-mentioned liberty applies solely to the sea
fishery, and that the salmon and shad fisheries, and all other fisheries
in rivers and the mouths of rivers, are hereby reserved exclusively for
British fishermen.

ARTICLE XIX.

It is agreed by the high contracting parties that British subjects shall
have, in common with the citizens of the United States, the liberty, for
the term of years mentioned in Article XXXIII of this treaty, to take
fish of every kind, except shellfish, on the eastern seacoasts and
shores of the United States north of the thirty-ninth parallel of
north latitude, and on the shores of the several islands thereunto
adjacent, and in the bays, harbors, and creeks of the said seacoasts
and shores of the United States and of the said islands, without
being restricted to any distance from the shore, with permission
to land upon the said coasts of the United States and of the islands
aforesaid, for the purpose of drying their nets and curing their
fish; provided that in so doing they do not interfere with the
rights of private property or with the fishermen of the United
States in the peaceable use of any part of the said coasts in their
occupancy for the same purpose.

It is understood that the above-mentioned liberty applies solely to the sea
fishery; and that salmon and shad fisheries, and all other fisheries
in rivers and mouths of rivers, are hereby reserved exclusively for
fishermen of the United States.

ARTICLE XX.

It is agreed that the places designated by the commissioners appointed
under the first article of the treaty between the United States
and Great Britain concluded at Washington on the 5th of June, 1854,
upon the coasts of Her Britannic Majesty's dominions and the United
States, as places reserved from the common right of fishing under
that treaty, shall be regarded as in like manner reserved from the
common right of fishing under the preceding articles.

In case any question should arise between the Governments of the United
States and of Her Britannic Majesty as to the common right of
fishing in places not thus designated as reserved, it is agreed
that a commission shall be appointed to designate such places, and
shall be constituted in the same manner and have the same powers,
duties, and authority as the commission appointed under the said
first article of the treaty of the 5th of June, 1854.

ARTICLE XXI.

It is agreed that for the term of years mentioned in Article XXXIII of this
treaty fish oil and fish of all kinds (except fish of the inland lakes
and of the rivers falling into them, and except fish preserved in oil),
being the produce of the fisheries of the United States, or of the
Dominion of Canada, or of Prince Edwards Island, shall be admitted
into each country, respectively, free of duty.

ARTICLE XXII.

Inasmuch as it is asserted by the Government of Her Britannic Majesty
that the privileges accorded to the citizens of the United States
under Article XVIII of this treaty are of greater value than those
accorded by Articles XIX and XXI of this treaty to the subjects of
Her Britannic Majesty, and this assertion is not admitted by the
Government of the United States, it is further agreed that commissioners
shall be appointed to determine, having regard to the privileges
accorded by the United States to the subjects of Her Britannic
Majesty, as stated in Articles XIX and XXI of this treaty, the
amount of any compensation which in their opinion ought to be paid
by the Government of the United States to the Government of Her
Britannic Majesty in return for the privileges accorded to the
citizens of the United States under Article XVIII of this treaty;
and that any sum of money which the said commissioners may so award
shall be paid by the United States Government, in a gross sum,
within twelve months after such award shall have been given.

ARTICLE XXIII.

The commissioners referred to in the preceding article shall be appointed
in the following manner; that is to say: One commissioner shall be
named by the President of the United States, one by Her Britannic Majesty,
and a third by the President of the United States and Her Britannic Majesty
conjointly; and in case the third commissioner shall not have been
so named within a period of three months from the date when this article
shall take effect, then the third commissioner shall be named by the
representative at London of His Majesty the Emperor of Austria and King
of Hungary. In case of the death, absence, or incapacity of any commissioner,
or in the event of any commissioner omitting or ceasing to act, the
vacancy shall be filled in the manner hereinbefore provided for
making the original appointment, the period of three months in case
of such substitution being calculated from the date of the happening
of the vacancy.

The commissioners so named shall meet in the city of Halifax, in the
Province of Nova Scotia, at the earliest convenient period after they
have been respectively named, and shall before proceeding to any business
make and subscribe a solemn declaration that they will impartially and
carefully examine and decide the matters referred to them to the
best of their judgment and according to justice and equity; and
such declaration shall be entered on the record of their
proceedings.

Each of the high contracting parties shall also name one person to attend
the commission as its agent, to represent it generally in all matters
connected with the commission.

ARTICLE XXIV.
The proceedings shall be conducted in such order as the commissioners
appointed under Articles XXII and XXIII of this treaty shall
determine. They shall be bound to receive such oral or written
testimony as either Government may present. If either party shall
offer oral testimony, the other party shall have the right of
cross-examination, under such rules as the commissioners shall
prescribe.
If in the case submitted to the commissioners either party shall
have specified or alluded to any report or document in its own
exclusive possession, without annexing a copy, such party shall be
bound, if the other party thinks proper to apply for it, to furnish
that party with a copy thereof; and either party may call upon the
other, through the commissioners, to produce the originals or
certified copies of any papers adduced as evidence, giving in each
instance such reasonable notice as the commissioners may require.
The case on either side shall be closed within a period of six
months from the date of the organization of the commission, and the
commissioners shall be requested to give their award as soon as
possible thereafter. The aforesaid period of six months may be
extended for three months in case of a vacancy occurring among the
commissioners under the circumstances contemplated in Article XXIII
of this treaty.

ARTICLE XXV."Really, Gerfaut is very obliging," said her husband, in his turn; "he
thinks it very strange that we have not had a genealogical tree made to
put in the drawing-room. He pretends that it is an indispensable
complement to my collection of family portraits, and he offers to do me
the favor of assuming charge of it. It seems, from what your aunt tells
me, that he is very learned in heraldry. Would you believe it, he spent
the whole morning in the library looking over files of old manuscripts? I
am delighted, for this will prolong his stay here. He is a very charming
fellow; a Liberal in politics, but a gentleman at heart. Marillac, who is
a superb penman, undertakes to make a fair copy of the genealogy and to
illuminate the crests. Do you know, we can not find my great-grandmother
Cantelescar's coat-of-arms? But, my darling, it seems to me that you are
not very kindly disposed toward your cousin Gerfaut."

Madame de Bergenheim, when these remarks and various others of a similar
nature came up, tried to change the conversation, but she felt an
antipathy for her husband bordering upon aversion. For lack of
intelligence is one of the faults women can pardon the least; they look
upon a confidence which is lulled into security by faith in their honor,
and a blindness which does not suspect the possibility of a fall, as
positive crimes.

"Look at these pretty verses Monsieur de Gerfaut has written in my album,
Clemence," said Aline, in her turn. During vacation, among her other
pleasures forbidden her at the Sacred Heart, the young girl had purchased
a superbly bound album, containing so far but two ugly sketches in sepia,
one very bad attempt in water-colors, and the verses in question. She
called this "my album!" as she called a certain little blank book, "my
diary!" To the latter she confided every night the important events of
the day. This book had assumed such proportions, during the last few
days, that it threatened to reach the dimensions of the Duchesse
d'Abrantes' memoires, but if the album was free to public admiration,
nobody ever saw the diary, and Justine herself never had been able to
discover the sanctuary that concealed this mysterious manuscript.

Aline was not so pleasantly received as the others, and Madame de
Bergenheim hardly concealed the ill-humor her pretty sister-in-law's
beaming face caused her every time Octave's name was mentioned.

The latter's diplomatic conduct was bearing fruit, and his expectations
were being fulfilled with a precision which proved the correctness of his
calculations.

In the midst of all the contradictory sentiments of fear, remorse,
vexation, love, and jealousy, Clemence's head was so turned, at times,
that she did not know what she did want. She found herself in one of
those situations when a woman of a complex and mobile character whom all
sensations impress, passes, with surprising facility, from one resolve to
another entirely opposed to it. After being frightened beyond measure by
her lover's presence in her husband's house, she ended by becoming
accustomed to it, and then by ridiculing her first terror.

"Truly," she thought, at times, "I was too silly thus to torment myself
and make myself ill; I was wanting in self-respect to mistrust myself to
such an extent, and to see danger where there was none. He can not expect
to make himself so very formidable while scrawling this genealogical
tree. If he came one hundred leagues from Paris for that, he really does
not merit such severe treatment."

Then, having thus reassured herself against the perils of her position,
without realizing that to fear danger less was to embolden love, she
proceeded to examine her lover's conduct.

"He seems perfectly resigned," she said, to herself; "not one word or
glance for two days! Since he resigns himself so easily, he might, it
seems to me, obey me entirely and go away; or, if he wishes to disobey
me, he might do it in a less disagreeable manner. For really, his manner
is almost rude; he might at least remember that I am his hostess, and
that he is in my house. I do not see what pleasure he can take in talking
to this little girl. I wager that his only object is to annoy me! He
deceives himself most assuredly; it is all the same to me! But Aline
takes all this seriously! She has become very coquettish, the last few
days! It certainly is very wrong for him to try to turn this child's
head. I should like to know what he would say to justify himself."

Thus, little by little, she mentally reached the point to which Octave
wished to bring her. The desire for an explanation with him, which she
dared not admit to herself at first from a feeling of pride, became
greater from day to day, and at last Octave himself could not have longed
more ardently for an interview. Now that Octave seemed to forget her, she
realized that she loved him almost to adoration. She reproached herself
for her harshness toward him more than she had ever reproached herself
for her weakness. Her antipathy for all that did not concern him
increased to such a degree that the most simple of household duties
became odious to her. It seemed to her that all the people about her were
enemies bent upon separating her from happiness, for happiness was
Octave; and this happiness, made up of words, letters, glances from him,
was lost!

The evening of the fourth day, she found this torture beyond her
strength.

"I shall become insane," she thought; "to-morrow I will speak to him."

Gerfaut was saying to himself, at nearly the same moment: "To-morrow I
will have a talk with her." Thus, by a strange sympathy, their hearts
seemed to understand each other in spite of their separation. But what
was an irresistible attraction in Clemence was only a determination
resulting from almost a mathematical calculation on her lover's part. By
the aid of this gift of second sight which intelligent men who are in
love sometimes possess, he had followed, degree by degree, the variations
of her heart, without her saying one word; and in spite of the veil of
scorn and indifference with which she still had the courage to shield
herself, he had not lost a single one of the tortures she had endured for
the last four days. Now he thought that he had discovered enough to allow
him to risk a step that, until then, he would have deemed dangerous; and
with the egotism common to all men, even the best of lovers, he trusted
in the weakness born of sorrow.

The next day a hunting party was arranged with some of the neighbors.
Early in the morning, Bergenheim and Marillac started for the rendezvous,
which was at the foot of the large oak-tree where the artist's
tete-a-tete had been so cruelly interrupted. Gerfaut refused to join
them, under the pretence of finishing an article for the 'Revue de
Paris', and remained at home with the three ladies. As soon as dinner was
ended, he went to his room in order to give a semblance of truth to his
excuse.

He had been busying himself for some time trimming a quill pen at the
window, which looked out upon the park, when he saw in the garden,
directly beneath him, Constance's forefeet and nose; soon the dog jumped
upon the sill in order to warm herself in the sun.

"The old lady has entered her sanctuary," thought Gerfaut, who knew that
it was as impossible to see Constance without her mistress as St.-Roch
without his dog.

A moment later he saw Justine and Mademoiselle de Corandeuil's maid
starting off, arm in arm, as if they were going for a promenade. Finally,
he had hardly written half a page, when he noticed Aline opposite his
window, with a straw hat upon her head and a watering-pot in her hand. A
servant carried a bucket of water and placed it near a mass of dahlias,
which the young girl had taken under her protection, and she at once set
about her work with great zeal.

"Now," said Gerfaut, "let us see whether the place is approachable." And
closing his desk, he stealthily descended the stairs.

After crossing the vestibule on the first floor, and a small gallery
decorated with commonplace pictures, he found himself at the library
door. Thanks to the genealogical tree which he had promised to compile,
he possessed a key to this room, which was not usually open. By dint of
preaching about the danger in certain reading for young girls,
Mademoiselle de Corandeuil had caused this system of locking-up,
especially designed to preserve Aline from the temptation of opening
certain novels which the old lady rejected en masse. "Young girls did not
read novels in 1780," she would say. This put an end to all discussion
and cut short the protestations of the young girl, who was brought up
exclusively upon a diet of Le Ragois and Mentelle's geography, and such
solid mental food.

Several large books and numerous manuscripts were spread out upon the
table in the library, together with a wide sheet of Holland paper, upon
which was sketched the family tree of the Bergenheims. Instead of going
to work, however, Gerfaut locked the door, and then went across the room
and pressed a little knob which opened a small door no one would have
noticed at first.

Leather bands representing the binding of books, like those which covered
the rest of the walls, made it necessary for one to be informed of the
existence of this secret exit in order to distinguish it from the rest of
the room. This door had had a singular attraction for Gerfaut ever since
the day he first discovered it. After silently opening it, he found
himself in a small passage at the end of which was a small spiral
staircase leading to the floor above. A cat creeping to surprise a bird
asleep could not have walked more stealthily than he, as he mounted the
stairs.

When he crossed the last step, he found himself in a small room, filled
with wardrobes, lighted by a small glass door covered with a muslin
curtain. This door opened into a little parlor which separated Madame de
Bergenheim's private sitting-room from her sleeping-apartment. The only
window was opposite the closet and occupied almost the whole of the
woodwork, the rest of which was hung with pearl-gray stuff with lilac
figures upon it. A broad, low divan, covered with the same material as
the hanging, occupied the space in front of the window. It was the only
piece of furniture, and it seemed almost impossible to introduce even one
chair more.

The blinds were carefully closed, as well as the double curtains, and
they let in so little light that Octave had to accustom himself to the
obscurity before he could distinguish Madame de Bergenheim through the
muslin, curtains and the glass door. She was lying upon the divan, with
her head turned in his direction and a book in her hand. He first thought
her asleep, but soon noticed her gleaming eyes fastened upon the ceiling.

"She is not asleep, she does not read, then she is thinking of me!" said
he to himself, by a logical deduction he believed incontestable.

After a moment's hesitation, seeing that the young woman remained
motionless, Gerfaut tried to turn the handle of the door as softly as
possible so as to make his entrance quietly. The bolt had just
noiselessly slipped in the lock when the drawing-room door suddenly
opened, a flood of light inundated the floor, and Aline appeared upon the
threshold, watering-pot in hand.

The young girl stopped an instant, for she thought her sister-in-law was
asleep; but, meeting in the shade Clemence's sparkling eyes, she entered,
saying in a fresh, silvery voice:

"All my flowers are doing well; I have come to water yours."

Madame de Bergenheim made no reply, but her eyebrows contracted slightly
as she watched the young girl kneel before a superb datura. This almost
imperceptible symptom, and the rather ill-humored look, foretold a storm.
A few drops of water falling upon the floor gave her the needed pretext,
and Gerfaut, as much in love as he was, could not help thinking of the
fable of the wolf and the lamb, when he heard the lady of his thoughts
exclaim, in an impatient tone:

"Let those flowers alone; they do not need to be watered. Do you not see
that you are wetting the floor?"

Aline turned around and looked at the scolder for a moment; then, placing
her watering-pot upon the floor, she darted toward the divan like a
kitten that has just received a blow from its mother's paw and feels
authorized to play with her. Madame de Bergenheim tried to rise at this
unexpected attack; but before she could sit up, she was thrown back upon
the cushions by the young girl, who seized both her hands and kissed her
on each cheek.

"Good gracious! how cross you have been for the last few days!" cried
Aline, pressing her sister's hands. "Are you going to be like your aunt?
You do nothing but scold now. What have I done? Are you vexed with me? Do
you not love me any longer?"

Clemence felt a sort of remorse at this question, asked with such a
loving accent; but her jealousy she could not overcome. To make up for
it, she kissed her sister-in-law with a show of affection which seemed to
satisfy the latter.

"What are you reading?" asked the young girl, picking up the book which
had fallen to the floor in their struggle--"Notre Dame de Paris. That
must be interesting! Will you let me read it? Oh! do! will you?"

"You know very well that my aunt has forbidden you to read novels."

"Oh! she does that just to annoy me and for no other reason. Do you think
that is right? Must I remain an idiot, and never read anything but
history and geography the rest of my life? As if I did not know that
Louis Thirteenth was the son of Henri Fourth, and that there are
eighty-six departments in France. You read novels. Does it do you any
harm?"

Clemence replied in a rather imperative tone, which should have put an
end to the discussion.

"When you are married you can do as you like. Until then you must leave
your education in the hands of those who are interested in you."

"All my friends," replied Aline with a pout, "have relatives who are
interested in them, at least as much as your aunt is in me, and they do
not prevent their reading the books they like. There is Claire de
Saponay, who has read all of Walter Scott's novels, Maleck-Adel, Eugenie
and Mathilde--and I do not know how many more; Gessner, Mademoiselle de
Lafayette--she has read everything; and I--they have let me read Numa
Ponzpilius and Paul and Virginia. Isn't that ridiculous at sixteen years
of age?"

"Do not get excited, but go into the library and get one of Walter
Scott's novels; but do not let my aunt know anything about it."

At this act of capitulation, by which Madame de Bergenheim doubtless
wished to atone for her disagreeableness, Aline made one joyous bound for
the glass door. Gerfaut had barely time to leave his post of observation
and to conceal himself between two wardrobes, under a cloak which was
hanging there, when the young girl made her appearance, but she paid no
attention to the pair of legs which were but imperfectly concealed. She
bounded down the stairs and returned a moment later with the precious
volumes in her hand.

"Waverley, or, Scotland Sixty Years Ago," said she, as she read the
title. "I took the first one on the shelf, because you are going to lend
them all to me, one by one, are you not? Claire says that a young girl
can read Walter Scott, and that his books are very nice."

"We shall see whether you are sensible," replied Clemence, smiling; "but,
above all things, do not let my aunt see these books, for I am the one
who would get the scolding."

"Do not worry;--I will go and hide them in my room."

She went as far as the door, then stopped and came back a few steps.

"It seems," said she, "that Monsieur de Gerfaut worked in the library
yesterday, for there are piles of books on the table. It is very kind of
him to be willing to make this tree, is it not? Shall we both be in it?
Do they put women in such things? I hope your aunt will not be there; she
is not one of our family."

Clemence's face clouded again at the name of Gerfaut.

"I know no more about it than you," she replied, a little harshly.

"The reason I asked is because there are only pictures of men in the
drawing-room; it is not very polite on their part. I should much prefer
that there should be portraits of our grandmothers; it would be so
amusing to see the beautiful dresses that they wore in those days rather
than those old beards which frighten me. But perhaps they do not put
young girls in genealogical trees," she continued, in a musing tone.

"You might ask Monsieur de Gerfaut; he wishes to please you too much to
refuse to tell you," said Clemence, with an almost ironical smile.

"Do you think so?" asked Aline, innocently. "I should never dare to ask
him."

"You are still afraid of him, then?"

"A little," replied the young girl, lowering her eyes, for she felt her
face flush.

This symptom made Madame de Bergenheim more vexed than ever, and she
continued, in a cutting, sarcastic tone:

"Has your cousin d'Artigues written you lately?"

Mademoiselle de Bergenheim raised her eyes and looked at her for a moment
with an indifferent air:

"I don't know," she said, at last.

"What! you do not know whether you have received a letter from your
cousin?" continued Clemence, laughing affectedly.

"Ah! Alphonse--no, that is, yes; but it was a long time ago."

"How cold and indifferent you are all of a sudden to this dear Alphonse!
You do not remember, then, how you wept at his departure, a year ago, and
how vexed you were with your brother who tried to tease you about this
beautiful affection, and how you swore that you would never have any
other husband than your cousin?"

"I was a simpleton, and Christian was right. Alphonse is only one year
older than I! Think of it, what a fine couple we should make! I know that
I am not very sensible, and so it is necessary that my husband should be
wise enough for both. Christian is nine years older than you, is he not?"

"Do you think that is too much?" asked Madame de Bergenheim.

"Quite the contrary."

"What age should you like your husband to be?"

"Oh!--thirty," replied the young girl, after a slight hesitation.

"Monsieur de Gerfaut's age?"

They gazed at each other in silence. Octave, who, from his place of
concealment heard the whole of this conversation, noticed the sad
expression which passed over Clemence's face, and seemed to provoke
entire confidence. The young girl allowed herself to be caught by this
appearance of interest and affection.

"I will tell you something," said she, "if you will promise never to tell
a soul."

"To whom should I repeat it? You know that I am very discreet as to your
little secrets."

"It is because this might be perhaps a great secret," continued Aline.

Clemence took her sister-in-law's hand, and drew her down beside her.

"You know," said Aline, "that Christian has promised to give me a watch
like yours, because I do not like mine. Yesterday, when we were out
walking, I told him I thought it was very unkind of him not to have given
it to me yet. Do you know what he replied?--It is true that he laughed a
little--It is hardly worth while buying you one now; when you are the
Vicomtesse de Gerfaut, your husband will give you one.'"

"Your brother was joking at your expense; how could you be such a child
as not to perceive it?"

"I am not such a child!" exclaimed Aline, rising with a vexed air; "I
know what I have seen. They were talking a long time together in the
drawing-room last evening, and I am sure they were speaking of me."

Madame de Bergenheim burst into laughter, which increased her
sister-in-law's vexation, for she was less and less disposed to be
treated like a young girl.

"Poor Aline!" said the Baroness, at last; "they were talking about the
fifth portrait; Monsieur de Gerfaut can not find the name of the original
among the old papers, and he thinks he did not belong to the family. You
know, that old face with the gray beard, near the door."

The young girl bent her head, like a child who sees her naughty sister
throw down her castle of cards.

"And how do you know?" said she, after a moment's reflection. "You were
at the piano. How could you hear at the other end of the room what
Monsieur de Gerfaut was saying?"

It was Clemence's turn to hang her head, for it seemed to her that the
girl had suspected the constant attention which, under an affectation of
indifference, never allowed her to lose one of Octave's words. As usual,
she concealed her embarrassment by redoubling her sarcasm.

"Very likely," said she, "I was mistaken, and you may be right after all.
What day shall we have the honor of saluting Madame la Vicomtesse de
Gerfaut?"

"I foolishly told you what I imagined, and you at once make fun of me,"
said Aline, whose round face lengthened at each word, and passed from
rose-color to scarlet; "is it my fault that my brother said this?"

"I do not think it was necessary for him to speak of it, for you to think
a great deal about the matter."

"Very well; must one not think of something?"

"But one should be careful of one's thoughts; it is not proper for a
young girl to think of any man," replied Clemence, with an accent of
severity which would have made her aunt recognize with pride the pure
blood of the Corandeuils.

"I think it is more proper for a young girl to do so than for a married
woman."

At this unexpected retort, Madame de Bergenheim lost countenance and sat
speechless before the young maiden, like a pupil who has just been
punished by his teacher.

"Where the devil did the little serpent get that idea?" thought Gerfaut,
who was very ill at ease between the two wardrobes where he was
concealed.

Seeing that her sister-in-law did not reply to her, Aline took this
silence from confusion for an expression of bad temper, and at once
became angry in her turn.

"You are very cross to-day," said she; "good-by, I do not want your
books."

She threw the volumes of Waverley upon the sofa, picked up her
watering-pot and went out, closing the door with a loud bang. Madame de
Bergenheim sat motionless with a pensive, gloomy air, as if the young
girl's remark had changed her into a statue.

"Shall I enter?" said Octave to himself, leaving his niche and putting
his hand upon the door-knob. "This little simpleton has done me an
infinite wrong with her silly speeches. I am sure that she is cruising
with full sails set upon the stormy sea of remorse, and that those two
rosebuds she is gazing at now seem to her like her husband's eyes."

Before the poet could make up his mind what to do, the Baroness arose and
left the room, closing the door almost as noisily as her sister-in-law
had done.

Gerfaut went downstairs, cursing, from the very depths of his heart,
boarding-school misses and sixteen-year-old hearts. After walking up and
down the library for a few moments, he left it and started to return to
his room. As he passed the drawing-room, loud music reached his ear;
chromatic fireworks, scales running with the rapidity of the cataract of
Niagara, extraordinary arpeggios, hammering in the bass with a petulance
and frenzy which proved that the 'furie francaise' is not the exclusive
right of the stronger sex. In this jumble of grave, wild, and sad notes,
Gerfaut recognized, by the clearness of touch and brilliancy of some of
the passages, that this improvisation could not come from Aline's
unpractised fingers. He understood that the piano must be at this moment
Madame de Bergenheim's confidant, and that she was pouring out the
contradictory emotions in which she had indulged for several days; for,
to a heart deprived of another heart in which to confide its joys and
woes, music is a friend that listens and replies.

Gerfaut listened for some time in silence, with his head leaning against
the drawing-room door. Clemence wandered through vague melodies without
fixing upon any one in particular. At last a thought seemed to captivate
her. After playing the first measures of the romance from Saul, she
resumed the motive with more precision, and when she had finished the
ritornello she began to sing, in a soft, veiled voice,

          "Assisa al pie d'un salice--"

Gerfaut had heard her sing this several times, in society, but never with
this depth of expression. She sang before strangers with her lips; now it
all came from her heart. At the third verse, when he believed her to be
exalted by her singing and the passion exhaled in this exquisite song,
the poet softly entered, judging it to be a favorable moment, and enough
agitated himself to believe in the contagion of his agitation.

The first sight which met his eyes was Mademoiselle de Corandeuil
stretched out in her armchair, head thrown back, arms drooping and
letting escape by way of accompaniment a whistling, crackling, nasal
melody. The old maid's spectacles hanging on the end of her nose had
singularly compromised the harmony of her false front. The 'Gazette de
France' had fallen from her hands and decorated the back of Constance,
who, as usual, was lying at her mistress's feet.

"Horrible old witch!" said Gerfaut to himself. "Decidedly, the Fates are
against me to-day." However, as both mistress and dog were sleeping
soundly, he closed the door and tiptoed across the floor.

Madame de Bergenheim had ceased to sing, but her fingers still continued
softly to play the motive of the song. As she saw Octave approaching her,
she leaned over to look at her aunt, whom she had not noticed to be
asleep, as the high back of her chair was turned toward her. Nobody
sleeps in a very imposing manner, but the old lady's profile, with her
false front awry, was so comical that it was too much for her niece's
gravity. The desire to laugh was, for the moment, stronger than respect
for melancholy; and Clemence, through that necessity for sympathy
peculiar to acute merriment, glanced involuntarily at Octave, who was
also smiling. Although there was nothing sentimental in this exchange of
thoughts, the latter hastened to profit by it; a moment more, and he was
seated upon a stool in front of the piano, at her left and only a few
inches from her.

"How can a person sleep when you are singing?"

The most embarrassed freshman could have turned out as bright a speech as
this; but the eloquence of it lay less in the words than in the
expression. The ease and grace with which Octave seated himself, the
elegant precision of his manner, the gracious way in which he bent his
head toward Clemence, while speaking, showed a great aptitude in this
kind of conversation. If the words were those of a freshman, the accent
and pose were those of a graduate.

The Baroness's first thought was to rise and leave the room, but an
invincible charm held her back. She was not mistress enough of her eyes
to dare to let them meet Octave's; so she turned them away and pretended
to look at the old lady.

"I have a particular talent for putting my aunt to sleep," said she, in a
gay tone; "she will sleep until evening, if I like; when I stop playing,
the silence awakens her."

"I beg of you, continue to play; never awaken her," said Gerfaut; and, as
if he were afraid his wish would not be granted, he began to pound in the
bass without being disturbed by the unmusical sounds.

"Do not play discords," said Clemence, laughing; "let us at least put her
to sleep in tune."

She was wrong to say us; for her lover took this as complicity for
whatever might happen. Us, in a tete-a-tete, is the most traitorous word
in the whole language.

It may be that Clemence had no great desire that her aunt should awaken;
perhaps she wished to avoid a conversation; perhaps she wished to enjoy
in silence the happiness of feeling that she was still loved, for since
he had seated himself beside her Octave's slightest action had become a
renewed avowal. Madame de Bergenheim began to play the Duke of
Reichstadt's Waltz, striking only the first measure of the accompaniment,
in order to show her lover where to put his fingers.

The waltz went on. Clemence played the air and Octave the bass, two of
their hands remaining unoccupied--those that were close to each other.
Now, what could two idle hands do, when one belonged to a man deeply in
love, the other to a young woman who for some time had ill-treated her
lover and exhausted her severity? Before the end of the first part, the
long unoccupied, tapering fingers of the treble were imprisoned by those
of the bass, without the least disturbance in the musical effect--and the
old aunt slept on!

A moment later, Octave's lips were fastened upon this rather trembling
hand, as if he wished to imbibe, to the very depths of his soul, the
soft, perfumed tissue. Twice the Baroness tried to disengage herself,
twice her strength failed her. It was beginning to be time for the aunt
to awaken, but she slept more soundly than ever; and if a slight
indecision was to be noticed in the upper hand, the lower notes were
struck with an energy capable of metamorphosing Mademoiselle de
Corandeuil into a second Sleeping Beauty.

When Octave had softly caressed this hand for a long time, he raised his
head in order to obtain a new favor. This time Madame de Bergenheim did
not turn away her eyes, but, after looking at Octave for an instant, she
said to him in a coquettish, seductive way:

"Aline?"

The mute glance which replied to this question was such an eloquent
denial that all words were superfluous. His sweet, knowing smile betrayed
the secret of his duplicity; he was understood and forgiven. There was at
this moment no longer any doubt, fear, or struggle between them. They did
not feel the necessity of any explanation as to the mutual suffering they
had undergone; the suffering no longer existed. They were silent for some
time, happy to look at each other, to be together and alone-for the old
aunt still slept. Not a sound was to be heard; one would have said that
sleep had overcome the two lovers also. Suddenly the charm was broken by
a terrible noise, like a trumpet calling the guilty ones to repentance.


CHAPTER XVII

A RUDE INTERRUPTION

Had a cannon-ball struck the two lovers in the midst of their ecstasy it
would have been less cruel than the sensation caused by this horrible
noise. Clemence trembled and fell back in her chair, frozen with horror.
Gerfaut rose, almost as frightened as she; Mademoiselle de Corandeuil,
aroused from her sleep, sat up in her chair as suddenly as a
Jack-in-a-box that jumps in one's face when a spring is touched. As to
Constance, she darted under her mistress's chair, uttering the most
piteous howls.

One of the folding-doors opposite the window opened; the bell of a
hunting-horn appeared in the opening, blown at full blast and waking the
echoes in the drawing-room. The curtain of the drama had risen upon a
parody, a second incident had changed the pantomime and sentiments of the
performers. The old lady fell back in her chair and stopped up her ears
with her fingers, as she stamped upon the floor; but it was in vain for
her to try to speak, her words were drowned by the racket made by this
terrible instrument. Clemence also stopped her ears. After running in her
terror, under every chair in the room, Constance, half wild, darted, in a
fit of despair, through the partly opened door. Gerfaut finally began to
laugh heartily as if he thought it all great fun, for M. de Bergenheim's
purple face took the place of the trumpet and his hearty laugh rang out
almost as noisily.

"Ah! ha! you did not expect that kind of accompaniment," said the Baron,
when his gayety had calmed a little; "this is the article that you were
obliged to write for the Revue de Paris, is it? Do you think that I am
going to leave you to sing Italian duets with Madame while I am scouring
the woods? You must take me for a very careless husband, Vicomte. Now,
then, right about face! March! Do me the kindness to take a gun. We are
going to shoot a few hares in the Corne woods before supper."

"Monsieur de Bergenheim," exclaimed the old lady, when her emotion would
allow her to speak, "this is indecorous--vulgar--the conduct of a common
soldier--of a cannibal! My head is split open; I am sure to have an awful
neuralgia in a quarter of an hour. It is the conduct of a herdsman."

"Do not think of your neuralgia, my dear aunt," replied Christian, whose
good-humor seemed aroused by the day's sport; "you are as fresh as a
rosebud--and Constance shall have some hares' heads roasted for her
supper."

At this moment a second uproar was heard in the courtyard; a horn was
evidently being played by an amateur, accompanied by the confused yelps
and barks of a numerous pack of hounds; the whole was mingled with shouts
of laughter, the cracking of whips, and clamors of all kinds. In the
midst of this racket, a cry, more piercing than the others, rang out, a
cry of agony and despair.

"Constance!" exclaimed Mademoiselle de Corandeuil, in a falsetto voice
full of terror; she rushed to one of the windows and all followed her.

The spectacle in the courtyard was as noisy as it was picturesque.
Marillac, seated upon a bench, was blowing upon a trumpet, trying to play
the waltz from Robert-le-Diable in a true infernal manner. At his feet
were seven or eight hunters and as many servants encouraging him by their
shouts. The Baron's pack of hounds, of great renown in the country, was
composed of about forty dogs, all branded upon their right thighs with
the Bergenheim coat-of-arms. From time immemorial, the chateau's dogs had
been branded thus with their master's crest, and Christian, who was a
great stickler for old customs, had taken care not to drop this one. This
feudal sign had probably acted upon the morals of the pack, for it was
impossible to find, within twenty leagues, a collection of more snarly
terriers, dissolute hounds, ugly bloodhounds, or more quarrelsome
greyhounds. They were perfect hunters, but it seemed as if, on account of
their being dogs of quality, all vices were permitted them.

In the midst of this horde, without respect for law or order, the
unfortunate Constance had found herself after crossing the ante-chamber,
vestibule, and outside steps, still pursued by the sounds from
Christian's huge horn. An honest merchant surprised at the turn of the
road by a band of robbers would not have been greeted any better than the
poodle was at the moment she darted into the yard. It may have been that
the quarrel between the Bergenheims and Corandeuils had reached the
canine species; it may have been at the instigation of the footmen, who
all cordially detested the beast--the sad fact remains that she was
pounced upon in a moment as if she were a deer, snatched, turned
topsy-turvy, rolled, kicked about, and bitten by the forty four-legged
brigands, who each seemed determined to carry away as a trophy some
portion of her cafe-au-lait colored blanket.

The person who took the most delight in this deplorable spectacle was
Pere Rousselet. He actually clapped his hands together behind his back,
spread his legs apart in the attitude of the Colossus of Rhodes, while
his coat-skirts almost touched the ground, giving him the look of a
kangaroo resting his paws under his tail. From his large cockatoo mouth
escaped provoking hisses, which encouraged the assassins in their crime
as much as did Marillac's racket.

"Constance!" exclaimed Mademoiselle de Corandeuil a second time, frozen
with horror at the sight of her poodle lying upon its back among its
enemies.

This call produced no effect upon the animal section of the actors in
this scene, but it caused a sudden change among the servants and a few of
the hunters; the shouts of encouragement ceased at once; several of the
participants prudently tried to efface themselves; as to Rousselet, more
politic than the others, he boldly darted into the melee and picked up
the fainting puppy in his arms, carrying her as tenderly as a mother
would an infant, without troubling himself whether or not he was leaving
part of his coat-tails with the savage hounds.

When the old lady saw the object of her love placed at her feet covered
with mud, sprinkled with blood, and uttering stifled groans, which she
took for the death-rattle, she fell back in her chair speechless.

"Let us go," said Bergenheim in a low voice, taking his guest by the arm.
Gerfaut threw a glance around him and sought Clemence's eyes, but he did
not find them. Without troubling herself as to her aunt's despair,
Clemence had hurried to her room; for she felt the necessity of solitude
in order to calm her emotions, or perhaps to live them over a second
time. Octave resigned himself to following his companion. At the end of a
few moments, the barking of the dogs, the joking of the hunters, even the
wind in the trees and the rustling leaves, had bored Octave to such an
extent that, in spite of himself, his face betrayed him.

"What a doleful face you have!" exclaimed his host, laughingly. "I am
sorry that I took you away from Madame de Bergenheim; it seems that you
decidedly prefer her society to ours."

"Would you be very jealous if I were to admit the fact?" replied Octave,
making an effort to assume the same laughing tone as the Baron.

"Jealous! No, upon my honor! However, you are well constituted to give
umbrage to a poor husband.

"But jealousy is not one of my traits of character, nor among my
principles."

"You are philosophical!" said the lover, with a forced smile.

"My philosophy is very simple. I respect my wife too much to suspect her,
and I love her too much to annoy her in advance with an imaginary
trouble. If this trouble should come, and I were sure of it, it would be
time enough to worry myself about it. Besides, it would be an affair soon
settled."

"What affair?" asked Marillac, slackening his pace in order to join in
the conversation.

"A foolish affair, my friend, which does not concern you, Monsieur de
Gerfaut, nor myself any longer, I hope; although I belong to the class
exposed to danger. We were speaking of conjugal troubles."

The artist threw a glance at his friend which signified: "What the deuce
made you take it into your head to start up this hare?"

"There are many things to be said on this subject," said he, in a
sententious tone, thinking that his intervention might be useful in
getting his friend out of the awkward position in which he found himself,
"an infinite number of things may be said; books without number have been
written upon this subject. Every one has his own system and plan of
conduct as to the way of looking at and acting upon it."

"And what would be yours, you consummate villain?" asked Christian;
"would you be as cruel a husband as you are an immoral bachelor? That
usually happens; the bolder a poacher one has been, the more intractable
a gamekeeper one becomes. What would be your system?"

"Hum! hum! you are mistaken, Bergenheim; my boyish love adventures have
disposed me to indulgence. 'Debilis caro', you know! Shakespeare has
translated it, 'Frailty, thy name is woman!'"

"I am a little rusty in my; Latin and I never knew a word of English.
What does that mean?"

"Upon my word, it means, if I were married and my wife deceived me, I
should resign myself to it like a gentleman, considering the fragility of
this enchanting sex."

"Mere boy's talk, my friend! And you, Gerfaut?"

"I must admit," replied the latter, a little embarrassed, "that I have
never given the subject very much thought. However, I believe in the
virtue of women."

"That is all very well, but in case of misfortune what would you do?"

"I think I should say with Lanoue: 'Sensation is for the fop, complaints
for the fool, an honest man who is deceived goes away and says nothing.'"

"I partly agree with Lanoue; only I should make a little
variation--instead of goes away should say avenges himself."

Marillac threw at his friend a second glance full of meaning.

"Per Bacco!" said he, "are you a Venetian or a Castilian husband?"

"Eh!" replied Bergenheim, "I suppose that without being either, I should
kill my wife, the other man, and then myself, without even crying,
'Beware!' Here! Brichou! pay attention; Tambeau is separated from the
rest."

As he said these words the Baron leaped over a broad ditch, which divided
the road from the clearing which the hunters had already entered.

"What do you say to that?" murmured the artist, in a rather dramatic
tone, in his friend's ear.

Instead of replying, the lover made a gesture which signified, according
to all appearance: "I do not care."

The clearing they must cross in order to reach the woods formed a large,
square field upon an inclined plane which sloped to the river side. Just
as Marillac in his turn was jumping the ditch, his friend saw, at the
extremity of the clearing, Madame de Bergenheim walking slowly in the
avenue of sycamores. A moment later, she had disappeared behind a mass of
trees without the other men noticing her.

"Take care that you do not slip," said the artist, "the ground is wet."

This warning brought misfortune to Gerfaut, who in jumping caught his
foot in the root of a tree and fell.

"Are you hurt?" asked Bergenheim.

Octave arose and tried to walk, but was obliged to lean upon his gun.

"I think I have twisted my foot," said he, and he carried his hand to it
as if he felt a sharp pain there.

"The devil! it may be a sprain," observed the Baron, coming toward them;
"sit down. Do you think you will be able to walk?"

"Yes, but I fear hunting would be too much for me; I will return to the
house."

"Do you wish us to make a litter and carry you?"

"You are laughing at me; it's not so bad as that. I will walk back
slowly, and will take a foot-bath in my room."

"Lean upon me, then, and I will help you," said the artist, offering his
arm.

"Thanks; I do not need you," Octave replied; "go to the devil!" he
continued, in an expressive aside.

"Capisco!" Marillac replied, in the same tone, giving his arm an
expressive pressure. "Excuse me," said he aloud, "I am not willing that
you should go alone. I will be your Antigone--

     Antigone me reste, Antigone est and fille.

"Bergenheim, I will take charge of him. Go on with your hunting, the
gentlemen are waiting for you. We will meet again at supper; around the
table; legs are articles of luxury and sprains a delusion, provided that
the throat and stomach are properly treated."

The Baron looked first at his guests, then at the group that had just
reached the top of the clearing. For an instant Christian charity
struggled against love of hunting, then the latter triumphed. As he saw
that Octave, although limping slightly, was already in a condition to
walk, especially with the aid of his friend's arm, he said:

"Do not forget to put your foot in water, and send for Rousselet; he
understands all about sprains."

This advice having eased his conscience, he joined his companions, while
the two friends slowly took the road back to the chateau, Octave resting
one hand upon the artist's arm and the other upon his gun.

"The bourgeois is outwitted!" said Marillac with a stifled laugh, as soon
as he was sure that Bergenheim could not hear him. "Upon my word, these
soldiers have a primitive, baptismal candor! It is not so with us
artists; they could not bamboozle us in this way. Your strain is an old
story; it is taken from the 'Mariage de raison', first act, second
scene."

"You will do me the favor to leave me as soon as we reach the woods,"
said Gerfaut, as he continued to limp with a grace which would have made
Lord Byron envious; "you may go straight ahead, or you may turn to the
left, as you choose; the right is forbidden you."

"Very well. Hearts are trumps, it seems, and, for the time being, you
agree with Sganarelle, who places the heart on the right side."

"Do not return to the chateau, as it is understood that we are together.
If you rejoin the hunting-party, say to Bergenheim that you left me
seated at the foot of a tree and that the pain in my foot had almost
entirely gone. You would have done better not to accompany me, as I tried
to make you understand."

"I had reasons of my own for wishing to get out of Christian's crowd.
To-day is Monday, and I have an appointment at four o'clock which
interests you more than me. Now, will you listen to a little advice?"

"Listen, yes; follow it, not so sure."

"O race of lovers!" exclaimed the artist, in a sort of transport,
"foolish, absurd, wicked, impious, and sacrilegious kind!"

"What of it?"

"What of it? I tell you this will all end with swords for two."

"Bah!"

"Do you know that this rabid Bergenheim, with his round face and
good-natured smile, killed three or four men while he was in the service,
on account of a game of billiards or some such trivial matter?"

"Requiescat in pace."

"Take care that he does not cause the 'De Profundis' to be sung for you.
He was called the best swords man at Saint-Cyr: he has the devil of a
lunge. As to pistol-shooting, I have seen him break nine plaster images
at Lepage's one after another."

"Very well, if I have an engagement with him, we will fight it out with
arsenic."

"By Jove, joking is out of place. I tell you that he is sure to discover
something, and then your business will soon be settled; he will kill you
as if you were one of the hares he is hunting this moment."

"You might find a less humiliating comparison for me," replied Gerfaut,
with an indifferent smile; "however, you exaggerate. I have always
noticed that these bullies with mysterious threats of their own and these
slaughterers of plaster images were not such very dangerous fellows to
meet. This is not disputing Bergenheim's bravery, for I believe it to be
solid and genuine."

"I tell you, he is a regular lion! After all, you will admit that it is
sheer folly to come and attack him in his cage and pull his whiskers
through the bars. And that is what you are doing. To be in love with his
wife and pay court to her in Paris, when he is a hundred leagues from
you, is all very well, but to install yourself in his house, within reach
of his clutches! Arthur, President of the United States, do hereby admonish
all good citizens of the United States, and especially of the Territory
of Arizona, against aiding, countenancing, abetting, or taking part in any
such unlawful proceedings; and I do hereby warn all persons engaged
in or connected with said obstruction of the laws to disperse and
retire peaceably to their respective abodes on or before noon of the 15th
day of May.

[SEAL.]

In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the
United States to be affixed.

Done at the city of Washington, this 3d day of May, A.D. 1882, and of the
Independence of the United States the one hundred and sixth.

CHESTER A.

ARTHUR.

By the President:
FREDK. T. FRELINGHUYSEN, _Secretary of State_.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

In conformity with a custom the annual observance of which is justly held
in honor by this people, I, Chester A.

Arthur, President of the United States, do hereby set apart Thursday,
the 30th day of November next, as a day of public thanksgiving.

The blessings demanding our gratitude are numerous and varied. For the
peace and amity which subsist between this Republic and all the nations
of the world; for the freedom from internal discord and violence; for the
increasing friendship between the different sections of the land; for
liberty, justice, and constitutional government; for the devotion of the
people to our free institutions and their cheerful obedience to mild laws;
for the constantly increasing strength of the Republic while extending
its privileges to fellow-men who come to us; for the improved means of
internal communication and the increased facilities of intercourse
with other nations; for the general prevailing health of the year;
for the prosperity of all our industries, the liberal return for
the mechanic's toil affording a market for the abundant harvests
of the husbandman; for the preservation of the national faith and
credit; for wise and generous provision to effect the intellectual
and moral education of our youth; for the influence upon the
conscience of a restraining and transforming religion, and for the
joys of home--for these and for many other blessings we should give
thanks.

Wherefore I do recommend that the day above designated be observed
throughout the country as a day of national thanksgiving and prayer,
and that the people, ceasing from their daily labors and meeting
in accordance with their several forms of worship, draw near to the
throne of Almighty God, offering to Him praise and gratitude for
the manifold goodness which He has vouchsafed to us and praying
that His blessings and His mercies may continue.

And I do further recommend that the day thus appointed be made a
special occasion for deeds of kindness and charity to the suffering
and the needy, so that all who dwell within the land may rejoice
and be glad in this season of national thanksgiving.

[SEAL.]

In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the
United States to be affixed.

Done at the city of Washington, this 25th day of October, A.D. 1882, and
of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and seventh.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

By the President:
FREDK. T. FRELINGHUYSEN, _Secretary of State_.

EXECUTIVE ORDERS.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, _March 30, 1882_.

_To Collectors of Customs_:

Under the provisions of section 1955, Revised Statutes, so much of
Department instructions of July 3, 1875,[12] approved by the
President, as prohibits the importation and use of breech-loading
rifles and suitable ammunition therefor into and within the limits
of the Territory of Alaska is hereby amended and modified so as to
permit emigrants who intend to become actual _bona fide_ settlers
upon the mainland to ship to the care of the collector of customs
at Sitka, for their own personal protection and for the hunting of
game, not exceeding one such rifle and suitable ammunition therefor
to each male adult; also to permit actual _bona fide_ residents of
the mainland of Alaska (not including Indians or traders), upon
application to the collector and with his approval, to order and
ship for personal use such arms and ammunition to his care, not
exceeding one rifle for each such person, and proper ammunition.

The sale of such arms and ammunition is prohibited except by persons
about to leave the Territory, and then only to _bona fide_ residents
(excluding Indians and traders) upon application to and with the
approval of the collector.

H.F. FRENCH, _Acting Secretary_.

Approved:

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

[Footnote 12: See Vol. VII, p. 328.]

CHESTER A. ARTHUR, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

_To all to whom these presents shall come, greeting_:

Whereas on the 10th day of January, 1863, Fitz John Porter, then major-general
of volunteers in the military service of the United States, and
also colonel of the Fifteenth Regiment of Infantry and brevet
brigadier-general in the United States Army, was by a general court-martial,
for certain offenses of which he had been thereby convicted, sentenced "to
be cashiered and to be forever disqualified from holding any office of
trust or profit under the Government of the United States;" and

Whereas on the 21st day of January 1863, that sentence was duly
confirmed by the President of the United States, and by his order
of the same date carried into execution; and
Whereas so much of that sentence as forever disqualified the said
Fitz John Porter from holding office imposed upon him a continuing
penalty and is still being executed; and
Whereas doubts have since arisen concerning the guilt of the said
Fitz John Porter of the offenses whereof he was convicted by the
said court-martial, founded upon the result of an investigation
ordered on the 12th day of April, 1878, by the President of the
United States, which are deemed by me to be of sufficient gravity
to warrant the remission of that part of said sentence which has
not yet been completely executed:
Now, therefore, know ye that I, Chester A.

Arthur, President of the United States, by virtue of the power vested in
me by the Constitution of the United States and in consideration of the
premises, do hereby grant to the said Fitz John Porter full remission of
the hereinbeforementioned continuing penalty.

In witness whereof I have hereunto signed my name and caused the seal
of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the city of Washington, this 4th day of May, A.D. 1882, and of
the Independence of the United States the one hundred and sixth.

[SEAL.]
CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

By the President:
FREDK. T. FRELINGHUYSEN, _Secretary of State_.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, May 26, 1882_.

SIR:[13] I am directed by the President to inform you that the
several Departments of the Government will be closed on Tuesday, the
30th instant, to enable the employees to participate in the decoration
of the graves of the soldiers who fell during the rebellion.

Very respectfully,
FRED. J. PHILLIPS, _Private Secretary_.

[Footnote 13: Addressed to the heads of the Executive Departments, etc.]

WAR DEPARTMENT, _Washington, July 13, 1882_.

I. By direction of the President, the Military Department of West Point
will be discontinued September 1, 1882.

II. By direction of the President, sections 1 and 2 of Article I of the
general regulations for the United States Military Academy are hereby
amended to read as follows:

1. The General of the Army, under the War Department, shall have
supervision and charge of the United States Military Academy.

He will watch over its administration and discipline and the instruction
of the Corps of Cadets, and will make reports thereof to the
Secretary of War.

2.

The Superintendent, and in his absence the next in rank, shall have
the immediate government and military command of the Academy, and
shall be commandant of the military post of West Point.

The Superintendent will render, through the Adjutant-General, to the General
of the Army, for submission to the Secretary of War, all required
reports, returns, and estimates concerning the Academy.

ROBERT T. LINCOLN,
_Secretary of War_.

SECOND ANNUAL MESSAGE.

WASHINGTON, _December 4, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States_:
It is provided by the Constitution that the President shall from
time to time give to the Congress information of the state of the
Union and recommend to their consideration such measures as he shall
judge necessary and expedient.

In reviewing the events of the year which has elapsed since the commencement
of your sessions, I first call your attention to the gratifying
condition of our foreign affairs.

Our intercourse with other powers has continued to be of the most
friendly character.

Such slight differences as have arisen during the year have been already
settled or are likely to reach an early adjustment. The arrest of citizens
of the United States in Ireland under recent laws which owe their
origin to the disturbed condition of that country has led to a somewhat
extended correspondence with the Government of Great Britain.

A disposition to respect our rights has been practically manifested
by the release of the arrested parties.

The claim of this nation in regard to the supervision and control of any
interoceanic canal across the American Isthmus has continued to be
the subject of conference.

It is likely that time will be more powerful than discussion in removing
the divergence between the two nations whose friendship is so
closely cemented by the intimacy of their relations and the community
of their interests.

Our long-established friendliness with Russia has remained unshaken. It
has prompted me to proffer the earnest counsels of this Government
that measures be adopted for suppressing the proscription which the
Hebrew race in that country has lately suffered.

It has not transpired that any American citizen has been subjected to
arrest or injury, but our courteous remonstrance has nevertheless
been courteously received.

There is reason to believe that the time is not far distant when Russia
will be able to secure toleration to all faiths within her borders.

At an international convention held at Paris in 1880, and attended by
representatives of the United States, an agreement was reached in respect
to the protection of trade-marks, patented articles, and the rights
of manufacturing firms and corporations.

The formulating into treaties of the recommendations thus adopted is
receiving the attention which it merits.

The protection of submarine cables is a subject now under consideration
by an international conference at Paris.

Believing that it is clearly the true policy of this Government to
favor the neutralization of this means of intercourse, I requested
our minister to France to attend the convention as a delegate.

I also designated two of our eminent scientists to attend as our
representatives at the meeting of an international committee at
Paris for considering the adoption of a common unit to measure
electric force.

In view of the frequent occurrence of conferences for the consideration
of important matters of common interest to civilized nations, I respectfully
suggest that the Executive be invested by Congress with discretionary
powers to send delegates to such conventions, and that provision
be made to defray the expenses incident thereto.

The difference between the United States and Spain as to the effect of a
judgment and certificate of naturalization has not yet been adjusted, but
it is hoped and believed that negotiations now in progress will result in
the establishment of the position which seems to this Government so
reasonable and just.

I have already called the attention of Congress to the fact that
in the ports of Spain and its colonies onerous fines have lately
been imposed upon vessels of the United States for trivial technical
offenses against local regulations.

Efforts for the abatement of these exactions have thus far proved
unsuccessful.

I regret to inform you also that the fees demanded by Spanish consuls in
American ports are in some cases so large, when compared with the
value of the cargo, as to amount in effect to a considerable export
duty, and that our remonstrances in this regard have not as yet
received the attention which they seem to deserve.

The German Government has invited the United States to participate in
an international exhibition of domestic cattle to be held at Hamburg in
July, 1883. If this country is to be represented, it is important that in
the early days of this session Congress should make a suitable appropriation
for that purpose.

The death of Mr. Marsh, our late minister to Italy, has evoked from that
Government expressions of profound respect for his exalted character and
for his honorable career in the diplomatic service of his country.
The Italian Government has raised a question as to the propriety of
recognizing in his dual capacity the representative of this country recently
accredited both as secretary of legation and as consul-general at Rome.
He has been received as secretary, but his exequatur as consul-general
has thus far been withheld.

The extradition convention with Belgium, which has been in operation
since 1874, has been lately supplanted by another.

The Senate has signified its approval, and ratifications have been
duly exchanged between the contracting countries.

To the list of extraditable crimes has been added that of the assassination
or attempted assassination of the chief of the State.

Negotiations have been opened with Switzerland looking to a settlement by
treaty of the question whether its citizens can renounce their
allegiance and become citizens of the United States without obtaining
the consent of the Swiss Government.

I am glad to inform you that the immigration of paupers and criminals from
certain of the Cantons of Switzerland has substantially ceased and is no
longer sanctioned by the authorities.

The consideration of this subject prompts the suggestion that the
act of August 3, 1882, which has for its object the return of foreign
convicts to their own country, should be so modified as not to be
open to the interpretation that it affects the extradition of
criminals on preferred charges of crime.

The Ottoman Porte has not yet assented to the interpretation which
this Government has put upon the treaty of 1830 relative to its
jurisdictional rights in Turkey. It may well be, however, that this
difference will be adjusted by a general revision of the system of
jurisdiction of the United States in the countries of the East, a subject
to which your attention has been already called by the Secretary of
State.

In the interest of justice toward China and Japan, I trust that the
question of the return of the indemnity fund to the Governments of
those countries will reach at the present session the satisfactory
solution which I have already recommended, and which has recently
been foreshadowed by Congressional discussion.

The treaty lately concluded with Korea awaits the action of the Senate.

During the late disturbance in Egypt the timely presence of American vessels
served as a protection to the persons and property of many of our
own citizens and of citizens of other countries, whose governments
have expressed their thanks for this assistance.

The recent legislation restricting immigration of laborers from China has
given rise to the question whether Chinese proceeding to or from
another country may lawfully pass through our own.

Construing the act of May 6, 1882, in connection with the treaty of November
7, 1880, the restriction would seem to be limited to Chinese immigrants
coming to the United States as laborers, and would not forbid a mere
transit across our territory.

I ask the attention of Congress to the subject, for such action, if
any, as may be deemed advisable.

This Government has recently had occasion to manifest its interest in
the Republic of Liberia by seeking to aid the amicable settlement of
the boundary dispute now pending between that Republic and the British
possession of Sierra Leone.

The reciprocity treaty with Hawaii will become terminable after September
9, 1883, on twelve months' notice by either party. While certain provisions
of that compact may have proved onerous, its existence has fostered
commercial relations which it is important to preserve.

I suggest, therefore, that early consideration be given to such
modifications of the treaty as seem to be demanded by the interests
of our people.

In view of our increasing trade with both Hayti and Santo Domingo, I advise
that provision be made for diplomatic intercourse with the latter by
enlarging the scope of the mission at Port an Prince.

I regret that certain claims of American citizens against the Government
of Hayti have thus far been urged unavailingly.

A recent agreement with Mexico provides for the crossing of the
frontier by the armed forces of either country in pursuit of hostile
Indians.

In my message of last year I called attention to the prevalent lawlessness
upon the borders and to the necessity of legislation for its suppression.
I again invite the attention of Congress to the subject.

A partial relief from these mischiefs has been sought in a convention,
which now awaits the approval of the Senate, as does also another
touching the establishment of the international boundary between
the United States and Mexico.

If the latter is ratified, the action of Congress will be required for
establishing suitable commissions of survey. The boundary dispute
between Mexico and Guatemala, which led this Government to proffer its
friendly counsels to both parties, has been amicably settled.

No change has occurred in our relations with Venezuela. I again
invoke your action in the matter of the pending awards against that
Republic, to which reference was made by a special message from
the Executive at your last session.

An invitation has been received from the Government of Venezuela to send
representatives in July, 1883, to Caracas for participating in the
centennial celebration of the birth of Bolivar, the founder of South
American independence.

In connection with this event it is designed to commence the erection at
Caracas of a statue of Washington and to conduct an industrial
exhibition which will be open to American products. I recommend that
the United States be represented and that suitable provision be
made therefor.

Did you not say
that?"

"Only a joke about the color of your livery. They call the others measles
and lobsters."

"Lobsters are lobsters," replied the coachman, in an imperative tone; "if
that vexes them, they can take care of themselves. But I will not allow
any one to attack my honor or that of my beasts by calling them
screws--and that is what you did, you vagabond! And did you not say that
I sent bags of oats to Remiremont to be sold, and that, for a month, my
team had steadily been getting thin? Did you ever hear anything so
scandalous, Pere Rousselet? to dare to say that I endanger the lives of
my horses? Did you not say that, you rascal? And did you not say that
Mademoiselle Marianne and I had little private feasts in her room, and
that was why I could not eat more at the table? Here is Rousselet, who
has been a doctor and knows that I am on a diet on account of my weak
stomach." At these words, the servant, carried away by his anger, gave
his stomach a blow with his fist.

"Lambernier," said Rousselet, turning up his lips with a look of
contempt, "I must admit that, for a man well brought up, you have made
most disgusting remarks."

"To say that I eat the horses' oats!" roared the coachman.

"I ought to have said that you drank them," replied Lambernier, with his
usual sneer.

"Rousselet, out of the way!" exclaimed the burly lackey at this new
insult; the old peasant not moving as quickly as he desired, he seized
him by the arm and sent him whirling ten steps away.

At this moment, a new person completed the scene, joining in it, if not
as actor at least as interested spectator. If the two champions had
suspected his presence they would have probably postponed their fight
until a more opportune moment, for this spectator was no other than the
Baron himself. As he saw from a distance the trio gesticulating in a very
animated manner, he judged that a disorderly scene was in preparation,
and as he had wished for a long time to put an end to the quarrelsome
ways of the chateau servants, he was not sorry to catch them in the very
act, so as to make an example of them. At first, he stooped and concealed
himself in the thickets, ready to appear for the denouement.

As Lambernier saw the giant's fist coming down upon him, he darted to one
side and the blow only struck the air, making the coachman stumble from
the force of his impetuosity. Lambernier profited by this position to
gather all his strength, and threw himself upon his adversary, whom he
seized by the flank and gave such a severe blow as to bring him down upon
his knees. He then gave him a dozen more blows upon the head, and
succeeded in overthrowing him completely.

If the coachman had not had a cranium as hard as iron, he probably could
not have received such a storm of fisticuffs without giving up the ghost.
Fortunately for him, he had one of those excellent Breton heads that
break the sticks which beat them. Save for a certain giddiness, he came
out of the scramble safe and sound. Far from losing his presence of mind
by the disadvantageous position in which he found himself, he supported
himself upon the ground with his left hand, and, passing his other arm
behind him, he wound it around the workman's legs, who thus found himself
reaped down, so to speak, and a moment later was lying on his back in
front of his adversary. The latter, holding him fast with his strong
hands, placed a knee, as large as a plate, upon his chest and then pulled
off the cap that his enemy had pushed down over his eyes, and proceeded
to administer full justice to him.

"Ah! you thought you'd attack me treacherously, did you?" said he, with a
derisive chuckle as if to slacken the speed of his horses. "You know
short reckonings make good friends. Oh! what a fine thrashing you are
going to receive, my friend! Take care! if you try to bite my hand, I'll
choke you with my two fingers, do you hear! Now, then, take this for the
green toad; this, for my horses' sake; this, for Mademoiselle Marianne!"

He followed each "this" with a heavy blow from his fist. At the third
blow the blood poured out of the mouth of the carpenter, who writhed
under the pressure of his adversary's knee like a buffalo stifled by a
boa-constrictor; he succeeded at last in freeing one hand, which he
thrust into his trousers' pocket.

"Ah! you rascal! I am killed!" howled the coachman, giving a bound
backward. Lambernier, profiting by his freedom, jumped upon his feet,
and, without troubling himself as to his adversary, who had fallen on his
knees and was pressing his hand to his left thigh; he picked up his cap
and vest and started off through the clearing. Rousselet, who until then
had prudently kept aside, tried to stop the workman, at a cry from his
companion, but the scoundrel brandished his iron compass before his eyes
with such an ugly look that the peasant promptly left the way open for
him.

At this tragic and unexpected denouement, Bergenheim, who was getting
ready to make his appearance from behind the trees and to interpose his
authority, started in full pursuit of the would-be murderer. From the
direction he took, he judged that he would try to reach the river by
passing over the rock. He walked in this direction, with his gun over his
shoulder, until he reached the foot of the steps which descended into the
grotto. Christian crouched behind some bushes to wait for Lambernier, who
must pass this way, and it was at this moment that Gerfaut, who was forty
feet below him, saw him without suspecting the reason for his attitude.

Bergenheim soon found out that he had calculated correctly when he heard
a sound like that made by a wild boar when he rushes through the thickets
and breaks the small branches in his path, as if they were no more than
blades of grass. Soon Lambernier appeared with a haggard, wild look and a
face bleeding from the blows he had received. He stopped for a moment to
catch his breath and to wipe off his compass with a handful of grass; he
then staunched the blood streaming from his nose and mouth, and after
putting on his coat started rapidly in the direction of the river.

"Halt!" exclaimed the Baron, suddenly, rising before him and barring his
passage.

The workman jumped back in terror; then he drew out his compass a second
time and made a movement as if to throw himself upon this new adversary,
out of sheer desperation. Christian, at this threatening pantomime,
raised his gun to his cheek with as much coolness and precision as he
would have shown at firing into a body of soldiers.

"Down with your weapon!" he exclaimed, in his commanding voice, "or I
will shoot you down like a rabbit."

The carpenter uttered a hoarse cry as he saw the muzzle of the gun within
an inch of his head, ready to blow his brains out. Feeling assured that
there was no escape for him, he closed his compass and threw it with an
angry gesture at the Baron's feet.

"Now," said the latter, "you will walk straight ahead of me as far as the
chateau, and if you turn one step to the right or left, I will send the
contents of my gun into you. So right about march!"

As he said these words, he stooped, without losing sight of the workman,
and picked up the compass, which he put in his pocket.

"Monsieur le Baron, it was the coachman who attacked me first; I had to
defend myself," stammered Lambernier.

"All right, we will see about that later. March on!"

"You will deliver me up to the police--I am a ruined man!"

"That will make one rascal the less," exclaimed Christian, repelling with
disgust the workman, who had thrown himself on his knees before him.

"I have three children, Monsieur, three children," he repeated, in a
supplicating tone.

"Will you march!" replied Bergenheim imperiously, as he made a gesture
with his gun as if to shoot him.

Lambernier arose suddenly, and the expression of terror upon his
countenance gave place to one of resolution mingled with hatred and
scorn.

"Very well," he exclaimed, "let us go on! but remember what I tell you;
if you have me arrested, you will be the first to repent of it, Baron
though you are. If I appear before a judge, I will tell something that
you would pay a good price for."

Bergenheim looked fixedly at Lambernier.

"What do you mean by such insolence?" said he.

"I will tell you what I mean, if you will promise to let me go; if you
give me into the hands of the police, I repeat it, you will repent not
having listened to me to-day."

"This is some idle yarn, made to gain time; no matter, speak; I will
listen."

The workman darted a defiant glance at Christian.

"Give me your word of honor to let me go afterward."

"If I do not do so, are you not at liberty to repeat your story?" replied
the Baron, who, in spite of his curiosity, would not give his word to a
scoundrel whose only aim probably was to escape justice.

This observation impressed Lambernier, who, after a moment's reflection,
assumed a strange attitude of cool assurance, considering the position in
which he found himself. Not a sound was to be heard; even the barking of
the dogs in the distance had ceased. The deepest silence surrounded them;
even Gerfaut, in the place where he was concealed, could no longer see
them, now that Bergenheim had left the edge of the cliff; from time to
time their voices reached him, but he could not distinguish the meaning
of their words.

Leaning with one hand upon his gun, Christian waited for the carpenter to
begin his story, gazing at him with his clear, piercing eyes. Lambernier
bore this glance without flinching, returning it in his insolent way.

"You know, Monsieur, that when the alterations were made in Madame's
apartment, I had charge of the carving for her chamber. When I took away
the old woodwork, I saw that the wall between the windows was constructed
out of square, and I asked Madame if she wished that the panel should be
fastened like the other or if she preferred it to open so that it would
make a closet. She said to have it open by means of a secret spring. So I
made the panel with concealed hinges and a little button hidden in the
lower part of the woodwork; it only needs to be pressed, after turning it
to the right, and the woodwork will open like a door."

Christian had now become extremely attentive.

"Monsieur will remember that he was in Nancy at the time, and that
Madame's chamber was completed during his absence. As I was the only one
who worked in this room, the other workmen not being capable of carving
the wood as Madame wished, I was the only person who knew that the panel
was not nailed down the length of the wall."

"Well?" asked the Baron, impatiently.

"Well," Lambernier replied, in a careless tone, "if, on account of the
blow which I gave the coachman, it is necessary for me to appear in
court, I shall be obliged to tell, in order to revenge myself, what I saw
in that closet not more than a month ago."

"Finish your story," exclaimed Bergenheim, as he clenched the handle of
his gun.

"Mademoiselle Justine took me into this room in order to hang some
curtains; as I needed some nails, she went out to get them. While I was
examining the woodwork, which I had not seen since it had been put in
place, I saw that the oak had warped in one place because it was not dry
enough when it was used. I wished to see if the same thing had happened
between the windows, and if the panel could open. I pressed the spring,
and when the door opened I saw a small package of letters upon the little
shelf; it seemed very singular to me that Madame should choose this place
to keep her letters, and the thought came to me that she wished to
conceal them from Monsieur."

Bergenheim gave the workman a withering glance, and made a sign for him
to continue.

"They were already talking about discharging me from the chateau's
employ; I do not know how it happened, but the thought entered my head
that perhaps one of these letters would be of use to me, and I took the
first one in the package; I had only time to close the panel when
Mademoiselle Justine returned."

"Very well! what is there in common between these letters and the
criminal court that awaits you?" asked Christian, in an altered voice,
although he tried to appear indifferent.

"Oh! nothing at all," replied the carpenter, with an air of indifference;
"but I thought that you would not like people to know that Madame had a
lover."

Bergenheim shivered as if he were taken with a chill, and his gun dropped
from his hand to the ground.

As quick as thought Lambernier stooped over to seize the gun, but he did
not have time to carry out his intention, for he was seized by the throat
and half choked by an iron hand.

"That letter! that letter!" said Christian to him, in a low, trembling
voice, and he put his face down close to the carpenter's, as if he feared
that a breath of wind might carry away his words and repeat them.

"Let me alone first, I can not breathe--" stammered the workman, whose
face, was becoming purple and his eyes starting out of his head, as if
his adversary's fingers had been a rope.

The latter granted the prayer by loosening his hold of the carpenter's
neck and seizing him by his vest in such a way as to take away all chance
of escape while leaving him free to speak.

"This letter!" he repeated.

Frightened by the shaking he had just received, and not in a condition to
reflect with his usual prudence, Lambernier mechanically obeyed this
order; he hunted in his pockets for some time, and at last took a
carefully folded paper from his vest-pocket, saying with a stunned air:

"Here it is. It is worth ten louis."

Christian seized the paper and opened it with his teeth, for he could not
use his hands without releasing his prisoner. It was, like all notes of
this kind, without address, seal, or signature. It did not differ from
most of its kind save in the natural beauty of its style and its simple
eloquence. Ardent protestations, sweet and loving complaints, those
precious words that one bestows only upon the woman he loves and which
betray a love that has yet much to desire but as much to hope. The
handwriting was entirely unknown to Bergenheim, but Clemence's name,
which was repeated several times, did not permit him to doubt for a
moment that this note was written to his wife. When he had finished
reading, he put it in his pocket with apparent serenity, and then looked
at Lambernier, who, during this time, had remained motionless under the
hand that detained him.

"You are mistaken, Lambernier," said he to him; "it is one of my letters
before my marriage." And he tried to force himself to smile; but the
muscles of his lips refused to act this falsehood, and drops of cold
perspiration stood upon his forehead and at the roots of his hair.

The carpenter had watched the change in the Baron's countenance as he
read the letter. He was persuaded that he could turn the capital
importance of his revelations into profit for himself; he believed that
the time had come when he might gain advantage by showing that he
understood perfectly well the value of the secret he had just imparted.
So he replied with a glance of intelligence:

"Monsieur's handwriting must have changed greatly, then; I have some of
his orders which do not resemble this any more than a glass of water does
a glass of wine."

Christian tried to find a response but failed. His eyebrows contracted in
a manner that betokened a coming storm, but Lambernier was not disturbed
by this symptom; he continued in a more and more assured voice:

"When I said that this letter was worth ten louis, I meant that it was
worth that much to a mere stranger, and I am very sure I should not have
to go very far to find one; but Monsieur le Baron is too sensible not to
know the value of this secret. I do not wish to set a price upon it, but
since I am obliged to go away on account of this coachman, and have no
money--"

He did not have time to finish; Bergenheim seized him in the middle of
the body and made him describe a horizontal half-circle without touching
the ground, then threw him upon his knees on the edge of the path which
descended almost perpendicularly alongside the rocks. Lambernier suddenly
saw his haggard face reflected in the river fifty feet below. At this
sight, and feeling a powerful knee between his shoulders which bent him
over the abyss, as if to make him appreciate its dangers, the workman
uttered a terrified cry; his hands clutched wildly at the tufts of grass
and roots of plants which grew here and there on the sides of the rocks,
and he struggled with all his might to throw himself back upon the
ground. But it was in vain for him to struggle against the superior
strength of his adversary, and his attempts only aggravated the danger of
his position. After two or three powerless attempts, he found himself
lying upon his stomach with half his body hanging over the precipice,
having nothing to prevent him from falling over but Bergenheim's hand,
which held him by the collar and at the same time hindered him from
rising.

"Have you ever said one word about this?" asked the Baron, as he took
hold of the trunk of a tree to steady himself upon this dangerous ground
that he had chosen as the field of discussion.

"To nobody!--ah!--how my head swims!" replied the carpenter, closing his
eyes in terror, for the blood rushing to his brain made him dizzy, and it
seemed to him that the river was slowly reaching him.

"You see that if I make one gesture, you are a dead man," replied the
Baron, leaning upon him harder yet.

"Give me up to the police; I will say nothing about the letters; as sure
as there is a God, I will say nothing. But do not let me fall--hold me
tight--do not let go of me--I am slipping--oh! holy mother of God!"

Christian taking hold of the tree near him, leaned over and raised
Lambernier up, for he really was incapable of doing so himself; fright
and the sight of the water had given him vertigo. When he was upon his
legs again, he reeled like a drunken man and his feet nearly gave way
beneath him. The Baron looked at him a moment in silence, but at last he
said:

"Go away, leave the country at once; you have time to fly before there
will be any pursuit. But remember that if I ever hear one word of what
has passed between us from your lips, I shall know how to find you and
you will die by my hand."

"I swear by the Holy Virgin and by all the saints--" stammered
Lambernier, who had suddenly become a very fervent Catholic.

Christian pointed with his finger to the stone steps beneath them.

"There is your road; pass over the rock, through the woods, and reach
Alsace. If you conduct yourself well, I will assure your living. But
remember; one single indiscreet word, and you are a dead man."

At these words he pushed him into the path with one of those quick
movements which very powerful men can not always calculate the effect of.
Lambernier, whose strength was almost exhausted by the struggles he had
undergone, had not vigor enough left to stand, and he lost his balance at
this violent as well as unexpected push. He stumbled over the first step,
reeled as he tried to regain his footing, and fell head first down the
almost vertical declivity. A ledge of the cliff, against which he first
struck, threw him upon the loose rocks. He slowly glided downward,
uttering lamentable cries; he clutched, for a moment, a little bush which
had grown in a crevice of the rocks but he did not have strength enough
to hold on to it, his arm having been broken in three places by his fall.
He let go of it suddenly, and dropped farther and farther down uttering a
last terrible shriek of despair; he rolled over twice again-and then fell
into the torrent below, that swallowed him up like a mass already
deprived of life.

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Antipathy for her husband bordering upon aversion
     Attractions that difficulties give to pleasure
     Consented to become a wife so as not to remain a maiden
     Despotic tone which a woman assumes when sure of her empire
     Love is a fire whose heat dies out for want of fuel
     Regards his happiness as a proof of superiority
     She said yes, so as not to say no


GERFAUT

By CHARLES DE BERNARD


BOOK 4.


CHAPTER XX

MARILLAC TELLS A STORY

Guests were seated that evening around the oval table in the dining-room
of the castle of Bergenheim. According to custom, the ladies were not
present at this repast. This was a custom which had been adopted by the
Baroness for the suppers which were given by her husband at the close of
his hunting parties; she dispensed with appearing at table on those days;
perhaps she was too fastidious to preside at these lengthy seances of
which the ruses of the hare, the death of the stag, and the feats of the
hounds, formed the principal topics of conversation. It is probable that
this conduct was duly appreciated by those who participated in those
rather boisterous repasts, and that they felt a certain gratitude, in
spite of the regrets they manifested on account of Madame's absence.

Among the guests was Marillac, whose sparkling eye, and cheeks even more
rosy than usual, made him conspicuous. Seated between a fat notary and
another boon companion, who were almost as drunk as he Marillac emptied
glass after glass, red wine after the white, the white after the red,
with noisy laughter, and jests of all kinds by way of accompaniment. His
head became every moment more and more excited by the libations destined
to refresh his throat, and his neighbors, without his perceiving the
conspiracy, thought it would be good fun to put a Parisian dandy under
the table. However, he was not the only one who was gliding over the
slippery precipice that leads to the attractive abyss of drunkenness. The
majority of the guests shared his imprudent abandon and progressive
exaltation. A bacchic emulation reigned, which threatened to end in
scenes bordering upon a debauch.

Among these highly colored cheeks, under which the wine seemed to
circulate with the blood, these eyes shining with a dull, fictitious
light, all this disorderly pantomime so contrary to the quiet habit of
the gesticulators, two faces contrasted strangely with the careless mirth
of the others. The Baron fulfilled his duties as master of the house with
a sort of nervous excitement which might pass for genuine merriment in
the eyes of those of his guests who were in no condition to study his
countenance; but a quiet observer would soon have discerned that these
violent efforts at good-humor and bantering concealed some terrible
suffering. From time to time, in the midst of a sentence or a laugh, he
would suddenly stop, the muscles of his face would twitch as if the
spring which set them in motion had broken; his expression became sombre
and savage; he sank back in his chair motionless, a stranger to all that
surrounded him, and gave himself up to some mysterious thought against
which resistance seemed powerless. Suddenly he appeared to wake from some
perplexing dream, and by another powerful effort aroused himself and
joined in the conversation with sharp, cutting speeches; he encouraged
the noisy humor of his guests, inciting them to drunkenness by setting
the example himself; then the same mysterious thought would cross his
face anew, and he would fall back into the tortures of a revery which
must have been horrible, to judge by the expression of his face.

Among his guests, one only, who was seated almost opposite Bergenheim,
seemed to be in the secret of his thoughts and to study the symptoms with
deep attention. Gerfaut, for it was he, showed an interest in this
examination which reacted on his own countenance, for he was paler than
ever.

"When I saw that the hare was reaching the upper road," said one of the
guests, a handsome old man about sixty years of age, with gray hair and
rosy cheeks, "I ran toward the new clearing to wait for its return. I
felt perfectly sure, notary, that he would pass through your hands safe
and sound."

"Now, notary," said Marillac, from the other end of the table, "defend
yourself; one, two, three, ready!"

"Monsieur de Camier," replied the hunter whose skill had been questioned,
"I do not pretend to have your skill. I never have shot as large game as
you did at your last hunt."

This reply was an allusion to a little misadventure which had happened to
the first speaker, who, on account of nearsightedness, had shot a cow,
taking it for a buck. The laugh, which had been at the notary's expense
first, now turned against his adversary.

"How many pairs of boots did you get out of your game?" asked one.

"Gentlemen, let us return to our conversation," said a young man, whose
precise face aspired to an austere and imposing air. "Up to this time, we
can form only very vague conjectures as to the road that Lambernier took
to escape. This, allow me to say, is more important than the notary's
hare or Monsieur de Carrier's cow."

At these words, Bergenheim, who had taken no part in the conversation,
straightened up in his chair.

"A glass of Sauterne," said he, suddenly, to one of his neighbors.

Gerfaut looked at him stealthily for a moment, and then lowered his eyes,
as if he feared his glance might be noticed.

"The public prosecutor scents a culprit, and there is no fear he will
drop the trail," said the notary.

"The case will doubtless come up at the next session of the Assizes."

M. de Carrier put his glass, which was half filled, upon the table,
angrily exclaiming:

"The devil take the jury! I am called to the next session, and I will
wager my head that I shall be drawn. How agreeable that will be! To leave
my home and business in the middle of winter and spend a fortnight with a
lot of fellows whom I do not know from Adam! That is one of the agreeable
things supplied by constitutional government. The French have to be
judged by their peers! Of what use is it to pay for judges if we,
land-owners, are obliged to do their work. The old parliaments, against
which so much has been said, were a thousand times better than all this
bedlam let loose in a court of assizes."

Marillac, who during this speech was amusing himself with singing his low
"G" while peeling an apple, interrupted his song, to the great relief of
a hound who lay at his feet, and whose nerves seemed to be singularly
affected by the strain.

"Monsieur de Carrier," said he, "you are a large landowner, an eligible
citizen and a Carlist; you fast on Fridays, go to mass in your parish,
and occasionally kill cows for bucks; I esteem and respect you; but allow
me to say that you have just uttered an old, antediluvian platitude."

"Gentlemen," said the public prosecutor, punctuating each word with his
first finger, "I have the greatest respect for the old parliaments, those
worthy models of our modern magistracy, those incorruptible defenders of
national freedom, but my veneration is none the less great for the
institutions emanating from our wise constitution, and it prevents me
from adopting an exclusive opinion. However, without pretending to
proclaim in too absolute a manner the superiority of the old system over
the new, I am in a certain sense of Monsieur de Carrier's opinion. In my
position, I am better able than any other person to study the advantages
and disadvantages of a jury, and I am forced to admit that if the
advantages are real, the disadvantages are none the less indisputable.
One of the great vices of juries consists in the habit that a great
number of its members have of calling for material proofs in order to
form their opinions. They must almost see the wounds of the victim before
agreeing on a verdict. As to Lambernier, I hope that they will not
contest the existence of the main evidence: the victim's still bleeding
thigh."

"Tra-de-ri-di-ra," exclaimed the artist, striking alternately with his
knife a glass and a bottle, as if he were playing a triangle. "I must say
that you choose madly gay subjects for conversation. We are truly a
joyous crowd; look at Bergenheim opposite us; he looks like Macbeth in
the presence of Banquo's ghost; here is my friend Gerfaut drinking water
with a profoundly solemn air. Good gracious, gentlemen! enough of this
foolish talk! Let them cut this Lambernier's throat and put an end to the
subject! The theatre for dramatic music, the church for sacred!

          Le vin, le jeu; les belles,
          Voila mes seuls amours."

A general protestation rose from the whole table at this verse, which was
roared out in a lugubrious voice. Noisy shouts, rapping of knives upon
tumblers and bottles, and exclamations of all kinds called the orator to
order.

"Monsieur Marillac," exclaimed the public prosecutor, in a joking tone,
"it seems to me that you have wandered from the subject."

The artist looked at him with an astonished air.

"Had I anything in particular to say to you?" he asked; "if so, I will
sustain my point. Only do me the kindness to tell me what it was about."

"It was on the subject of this man Lambernier," whispered the notary to
him, as he poured out a glass of wine. "Courage! you improvise better
than Berryer! If you exert yourself, the public prosecutor will be beaten
in no time."

Marillac thanked his neighbor with a smile and a nod of the head, which
signified: "Trust me." He then emptied his glass with the recklessness
that had characterized his drinking for some time, but, strangely enough,
the libation, instead of putting the finishing stroke to his drunkenness,
gave his mind, for the time being, a sort of lucidity.

"The accusation," he continued, with the coolness of an old lawyer,
"rests upon two grounds: first, the presence without cause of the accused
upon the spot where the crime was committed; second, the nature of the
weapon used.--Two simple but peremptory replies will make the scaffold
which has been erected upon this double supposition fall to the ground.
First, Lambernier had a rendezvous at this place, and at the exact hour
when this crime with which he is accused took place; this will be proved
by a witness, and will be established by evidence in a most indisputable
manner. His presence will thus be explained without its being interpreted
in any way against him. Second, the public prosecutor has admitted that
the carrying of a weapon which Lambernier may have been in the habit of
using in his regular trade could not be used as an argument against him,
and for that same reason could not be used as an argument in favor of
premeditation; now, this is precisely the case in question. This weapon
was neither a sword, bayonet, nor stiletto, nothing that the fertile
imagination of the public prosecutor could imagine; it was a simple tool
used by the accused in his profession, the presence of which in his
pocket is as easily understood as that of a snuff-box in the pocket of my
neighbor, the notary, who takes twenty pinches of snuff a minute.
Gentlemen, this weapon was a pair of carpenter's compasses."

"A compass!" exclaimed several voices at once.

"A compass!" exclaimed the Baron, gazing fixedly at the artist. Then he
carried his hand to his pocket, and suddenly withdrew it, as he felt the
workman's compass there, where it had been ever since the scene upon the
rocks.

"An iron compass," repeated the artist, "about ten inches long, more or
less, the legs of it being closed."

"Will you explain yourself, Monsieur?" excitedly exclaimed the public
prosecutor, "for it really seems as if you had witnessed the crime. In
that case you will be called out as a witness for the defence. Justice is
impartial, gentlemen. Justice has not two pairs of scales."

"To the devil with justice! You must have come from Timbuctoo to use such
old-fashioned metaphors."

"Make your deposition, witness; I require you to make your deposition,"
said the magistrate, whose increasing drunkenness appeared as dignified
and solemn as the artist was noisy.

"I have nothing to state; I saw nothing."

Here the Baron drew a long breath, as if these words were a relief.

"But I saw something!" said Gerfaut to himself, as he gazed at the
Baron's face, upon which anxiety was depicted.

"I reason by hypothesis and supposition," continued the artist. "I had a
little altercation with Lambernier a few days ago, and, but for my good
poniard, he would have put an end to me as he did to this fellow to-day."

He then related his meeting with Lambernier, but the consideration due
Mademoiselle Gobillot's honor imposed numberless circumlocutions and
concealments which ended by making his story rather unintelligible to his
auditors, and in the midst of it his head became so muddled that he was
completely put out.

"Basta!" he exclaimed, in conclusion, as he dropped heavily into his
chair. "Not another word for the 'whole empire. Give me something to
drink! Notary, you are the only man here who has any regard for me. One
thing is certain about this matter--I am in ten louis by this rascal's
adventure."

These words struck the Baron forcibly, as they brought to his mind what
the carpenter had said to him when he gave him the letter.

"Ten louis!" said he, suddenly, looking at Marillac as if he wished to
look into his very heart.

"Two hundred francs, if you like it better. A genuine bargain. But we
have talked enough, 'mio caro'; you deceive yourselves if you think you
are going to make me blab. No, indeed! I am not the one to allow myself
to become entangled. I am now as mute and silent as the grave."

Bergenheim insisted no longer, but, leaning against the back of his
chair, he let his head fall upon his breast. He remained for some time
buried in thought and vainly trying to connect the obscure words he had
just heard with Lambernier's incomplete revelations. With the exception
of Gerfaut, who did not lose one of his host's movements, the guests,
more or less absorbed by their own sensations, paid no attention to the
strange attitude of the master of the house, or, like Monsieur de Camier,
attributed it to the influence of wine. The conversation continued its
noisy course, interrupted every few moments by the startling vagaries of
some guest more animatedly excited than the rest, for, at the end of a
repast where sobriety has not reigned, each one is disposed to impose
upon others the despotism of his own intoxication, and the idle talk of
his peculiar hallucinations. Marillac bore away the prize among the
talking contingent, thanks to the vigor of his lungs and the originality
of his words, which sometimes forced the attention of his adversaries.
Finally he remained master of the field, and flashed volleys of his
drunken eloquence to the right and left.

"It is a pity," he exclaimed, in the midst of his triumph, as he glanced
disdainfully up and down the table, "it really is a pity, gentlemen, to
listen to your conversation. One could imagine nothing more
commonplace-prosaic or bourgeois. Would it not please you to indulge in a
discussion of a little higher order?

"Let us join hands, and talk of poetry and art. I am thirsting for an
artistic conversation; I am thirsting for wit and intelligence."

"You must drink if you are thirsty," said the notary, filling his glass
to the brim.

The artist emptied it at one draught, and continued in a languishing
voice as he gazed with a loving look at his fat neighbor.

"I will begin our artistic conversation: 'Knowest thou the land where the
orange-flower blooms?'"

"It is warmer than ours," replied the notary, who was not familiar with
Mignon's song; and, beginning to laugh maliciously, he gave a wink at his
neighbors as if to say:

"I have settled him now."

Marillac leaned toward him with the meekness of a lamb that presents his
head to the butcher, and sympathetically pressed his hands.

"O poet!" he continued, "do you not feel, as I do at the twilight hour
and in the eventide, a vague desire for a sunny, perfumed, southern life?
Will you not bid adieu to this sterile country and sail away to a land
where the blue sky is reflected in the blue sea? Venice! the Rialto, the
Bridge of Sighs, Saint Mark! Rome! the Coliseum and Saint Peter--But I
know Italy by heart; let us go instead to Constantinople. I am thirsting
for sultanas and houris; I am thirsting--"

"Good gracious! why do you not drink if you are thirsty?"

"Gladly. I never say no to that. I scorn love in a nightcap; I adore
danger. Danger is life to me.

"I dote on silken ladders as long as Jacob's, on citadels worth scaling;
on moonlight evenings, bearded husbands, and all that sort of thing--I
would love a bed composed of five hundred poniards; you understand me,
poet--"

"I beg of you, do not make him drink any more," said Gerfaut to the
notary.

"You are right not to wish to drink any more, Octave, I was about to
advise you not to. You have already drunk to excess to-day, and I am
afraid that it will make you ill; your health is so weak--you are not a
strong man like me. Fancy, gentlemen, Monsieur le Vicomte de Gerfaut, a
native of Gascony, a roue by profession, a star of the first magnitude in
literature, is afflicted by nature with a stomach which has nothing in
common with that of an ostrich; he has need to use the greatest care. So
we have him drink seltzer-water principally, and feed him on the white
meat of the chicken. Besides, we keep this precious phenomenon rolled up
between two wool blankets and over a kettle of boiling water. He is a
great poet; I myself am a very great poet."

"And I also, I hope," said the notary.

"Gentlemen, formerly there were poets who wrote only in verse; nowadays
they revel in prose. There are some even who are neither prose nor verse
writers, who have never confided their secret to anybody, and who
selfishly keep their poetry to themselves. It is a very simple thing to
be a poet, provided you feel the indescribable intoxication of the soul,
and understand the inexpressible afflatus that bubbles over in your large
brain, and your noble heart throbs under your left breast--"

"He is as drunk as a fool," said M. de Camier, loud enough for him to
hear.

"Old man," said he, "you are the one who is drunk. Besides the word drunk
is not civil; if you had said intoxicated I should not have objected."

Loud shouts of laughter burst forth from the party. He threw a
threatening glance around him, as if he were seeking some one upon whom
to vent his anger, and, placing his hand upon his hip, assumed the pose
of a bully.

"Softly, my good fellows!" said he, "if any of you pretend that I am
drunk, I declare to him that he lies, and I call him a misantrophe, a
vagabond, an academician!" he concluded, with a loud burst of laughter;
for he thought that the jesters would be crushed by this last heavy
weapon.

"By Jove! your friend is hilariously drunk," said the notary to Gerfaut;
"while here is Bergenheim, who has not taken very much wine, and yet
looks as if he were assisting at a funeral. I thought he was more
substantial than this."

Marillac's voice burst out more loudly than ever, and Octave's reply was
not heard.

"It is simply astounding. They are all as drunk as fools, and yet they
pretend that it is I who am drunk. Very well! I defy you all; who among
you wishes to argue with me? Will you discuss art, literature, politics,
medicine, music, philosophy, archiology, jurisprudence, magnetism--"

"Jurisprudence!" exclaimed the thick voice of the public prosecutor, who
was aroused from his stupor by this magic word; "let us talk
jurisprudence."

"Would you like," said Marillac, without stopping at this interruption,
"that I should improvise a discourse upon the death penalty or upon
temperance? Would you like me to tell you a story?"

"A story, yes, a story!" they all exclaimed in unison.

"Speak out, then; order what story you like; it will cost you nothing,"
replied the artist, rubbing his hands with a radiant air. "Would you like
a tale from the Middle Ages? a fairy, an eastern, a comical, or a private
story? I warn you that the latter style is less old-fashioned than the
others."

"Let us have it, then, by all means," said all the drunken voices.

"Very well. Now would you like it to be laid in Spain, Arabia, or
France?"

"France!" exclaimed the prosecutor.

"I am French, you are French, he is French. You shall have a French
story."

Marillac leaned his forehead upon his hands, and his elbows upon the
table, as if to gather his scattered ideas. After a few moments'
reflection, he raised his head and looked first at Gerfaut, then at
Bergenheim, with a peculiar smile.

"It would be very original," said he, in a low voice as if replying to
his own thoughts.

"The story!" exclaimed one of the party, more impatient than the rest.

"Here it is," replied the artist. "You all know, gentlemen, how difficult
it always is to choose a title. In order not to make you wait, I have
chosen one which is already well known. My story is to be called 'The
husband, the wife, and the lover.' We are not all single men here, and a
wise proverb says that one must never speak--"

In spite of his muddled brain, the artist did not finish his quotation. 
RULE XVI.

1. Whenever any officer having the power of appointment or employment shall
so request, there shall be certified to him by the Commission or the
proper examining board four names for the vacancy specified, to be
taken from those graded highest on the proper register of those in
his branch of the service and remaining eligible, regard being had to
the apportionment of appointments to States and Territories; and from the
said four a selection shall be made for the vacancy.

2.

These certifications for the service at Washington shall be made in such
order as to apportion, as nearly as may be practicable, the original
appointments thereto among the States and Territories and the
District of Columbia upon the basis of population as ascertained
at the last preceding census.

3.

In case the request for any such certification or any law or
regulation shall call for those of either sex, the four highest of
that sex shall be certified; otherwise sex shall be disregarded
in such certification.

4.

No person upon any register shall be certified more than three times
to the same officer in the customs or postal service or more than twice
to any department at Washington, unless upon request of the
appointing officer; nor shall anyone remain eligible more than one
year upon any register.

And no person while remaining eligible on any register shall be
admitted to a new examination of the same grade.

RULE XVII.

1. Every original appointment or employment in said classified service
shall be for the probationary period of six months, at the end of
which time, if the conduct and capacity of the person appointed
have been found satisfactory, the probationer shall be absolutely
appointed or employed, but otherwise be deemed out of the service.
2.

Every officer under whom any probationer shall serve during any part of
the probation provided for by these rules shall carefully observe the
quality and value of the service rendered by such probationer, and
shall report to the proper appointing officer, in writing, the facts
observed by him, showing the character and qualifications of such
probationer and of the service performed by him; and such reports
shall be preserved on file.

3.

Every false statement knowingly made by any person in his application
for examination and every connivance by him at any false statement
made in any certificate which may accompany his application shall be
regarded as good cause for the removal or discharge of such person during
his probation.

RULE XVIII.

Every head of a Department or office shall notify the Commission
of the name of every person appointed to or employed in the classified
service under him (giving the date of the appointment and the
designation of the office or place) from those examined under the
Commission, and shall also inform the Commission of the date of any
rejection or final appointment or employment of any probationer and
of the promotion, removal, discharge, resignation, transfer, or
death of any such person after probation.

RULE XIX.

There are excepted from examination the following: (1) The confidential
clerk or secretary of any head of a Department or office; (2)
cashiers of collectors; (3) cashiers of postmasters; (4) superintendents
of money-order divisions in post-offices; (5) the direct custodians
of money for whose fidelity another officer is under official bond,
but these exceptions shall not extend to any official below the
grade of assistant cashier or teller; (6) persons employed exclusively
in the secret service of the Government, or as translators or
interpreters or stenographers; (7) persons whose employment is
exclusively professional; (8) chief clerks, superintendents, and
chiefs of divisions or bureaus.

But no person so excepted shall be either transferred, appointed,
or promoted, unless to some excepted place, without an examination
under the Commission.

Promotions may be made without examinations in offices where
examinations for promotion are not now held until rules on the
subject shall be promulgated.

RULE XX.

If the failure of competent persons to attend and be examined or
the prevalence of contagious disease or other sufficient cause shall
make it impracticable to supply in due season for any appointment
the names of persons who have passed a competitive examination, the
appointment may be made of a person who has passed a noncompetitive
examination, which examination the Commission may provide for; but
its next report shall give the reason for such resort to noncompetitive
examination.

RULE XXI.

The Civil Service Commission will make appropriate regulations for
carrying these rules into effect.

RULE XXII.

Every violation by any officer in the executive civil service of these
rules or of the eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, or fourteenth section
of the civil-service act, relating to political assessments, shall
be good cause for removal.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _May 21, 1883_.

Under the provisions of section 4 of the act approved March 3, 1883,
it is hereby ordered that the several Executive Departments, the
Department of Agriculture, and the Government Printing Office be
closed on Wednesday, the 30th instant, to enable the employees to
participate in the decoration of the graves of the soldiers who
fell during the rebellion.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

WAR DEPARTMENT, _October 13, 1883_.

I.

The President, having acceded to the request of General William T. Sherman
to be relieved from the command of the Army on the 1st of November, 1883,
preparatory to his retirement from active service, directs the following
changes and assignments to command:

General William T. Sherman will be relieved from the command of the Army
on the above-mentioned date and will repair to his home, St.

Louis, Mo., to await his retirement. The General will be attended prior
to his retirement by those of his aids-de-camp whom he may designate to
the Adjutant-General.

Lieutenant-General Philip H. Sheridan will proceed to Washington, and on
the above-mentioned date assume command of the Army.

Major-General John M. Schofield will proceed to Chicago, Ill., and will
on the above-mentioned date assume command of the Military Division of the
Missouri.

Major-General John Pope will proceed to the Presidio of San Francisco,
Cal., and will on the above-mentioned date assume command of the
Military Division of the Pacific and of the Department of
California.

Brigadier-General Christopher C. Augur will proceed to Fort Leavenworth,
and will on the above-mentioned date assume command of the Department
of the Missouri.

Brigadier-General Ranald S. Mackenzie will proceed to San Antonio, Tex.,
and will on the above-mentioned date assume command of the Department
of Texas.

II. The Department of the South will on the 1st day of November, 1883, be
merged in the Department of the East, under the command of Major-General
Hancock, commanding the Military Division of the Atlantic and the
Department of the East.

ROBERT T. LINCOLN,
_Secretary of War_.

In the exercise of the power vested in the President by the Constitution,
and by virtue of the seventeen hundred and fifty-third section of
the Revised Statutes and of the civil-service act approved January
16, 1883, the following rules for the regulation and improvement
of the executive civil service are hereby amended and promulgated,
as follows:

RULE VI.

1.

There shall be open competitive examinations for testing the fitness
of applicants for admission to the service. Such examinations shall be
practical in their character and, so far is may be, shall relate
to those matters which will fairly test the relative capacity and
fitness of the persons examined to discharge the duties of the
branch of the service which they seek to enter.

2.

There shall, so far as they may be deemed useful, be competitive examinations
of a suitable character to test the fitness of persons for promotion in
the service.

RULE VII.

1. The general examinations under the first clause of Rule VI for admission
to the service shall be limited to the following subjects:
(1) Orthography, penmanship, and copying; (2) arithmetic--fundamental
rules, fractions, and percentage; (3) interest, discount, and
elements of bookkeeping and of accounts; (4) elements of the English
language, letter writing, and the proper construction of sentences;
(5) elements of the geography, history, and government of the United
States.

2.

Proficiency in each of these subjects shall be credited in grading the
standing of the persons examined in proportion to the value of a knowledge
of such subjects in the branch or part of the service which the
applicant seeks to enter.

3.

No one shall be entitled to be certified for appointment whose
standing upon a just grading in the general examination shall be less
than 65 per cent of complete proficiency in the first three subjects
mentioned in this rule, and that measure of proficiency shall be
deemed adequate.

4.

But for places in which a lower degree of education will suffice the
Commission may limit the examinations to less than the five subjects
above mentioned, but no person shall be certified for appointment
under this clause whose grading shall be less than an average of
65 per cent on such of the first three subjects or parts thereof
as the examination may embrace.

5.

The Commission may also order examinations upon other subjects, of a
technical or special character, to test the capacity which may be needed
in any part of the classified service which requires peculiar information
or skill.

Examinations hereunder may be competitive or noncompetitive, and the
maximum limitations of age contained in the twelfth rule shall not apply
to applicants for the same. The application for and notice of these
special examinations, the records thereof, and the certification of those
found competent shall be such as the Commission may provide for. After
consulting the head of any Department or office the Commission may
from time to time designate, subject to the approval of the President,
the positions therein for which applicants may be required to pass
this special examination.

RULE VIII.

No question in any examination or proceeding by or under the Commission
or examiners shall call for the expression or disclosure of any political
or religious opinion or affiliation, and if such opinion of affiliation
be known no discrimination shall be made by reason thereof by the
examiners, the Commission, or the appointing power.

The Commission and its examiners shall discountenance all disclosure
before either of them of such opinion by or concerning any applicant
for examination or by or concerning anyone whose name is on any
register awaiting appointment.

RULE XI.

Every application, in order to entitle the applicant to appear for
examination or to be examined, must state under oath the facts on
the following subjects: (1) Full name, residence, and post-office
address; (2) citizenship; (3) age; (4) place of birth; (5) health
and physical capacity for the public service; (6) right of preference
by reason of military or naval service; (7) previous employment in
the public service; (8) business or employment and residence for
the previous five years; (9) education.

Such other information shall be furnished as the Commission may
reasonably require touching the applicant's fitness for the public service.
The applicant must also state the number of members of his family in
the public service and where employed, and must also assert that he is
not disqualified under section 8 of the civil-service act, which is
as follows:

"That no person habitually using intoxicating beverages to excess
shall be appointed to or retained in any office, appointment, or
employment to which the provisions of this act are applicable."

No person under enlistment in the Army or Navy of the United States shall
be examined under these rules.

RULE XIII.

1. The date of the reception of all regular applications for the classified
departmental service shall be entered of record by the Commission,
and of all other regular applications by the proper examining boards
of the district or office for which they are made; and applicants,
when in excess of the number that can be examined at a single
examination, shall, subject to the needs of apportionment, be
notified to appear in their order on the respective records.

But any applicants in the several States and Territories for appointment
in the classified departmental service may be notified to appear for
examination at any place at which an examination is to be held, whether
in any State or Territory or in Washington, which shall be deemed
most convenient for them.

2.

The Compassion is authorized, in aid of the apportionment among the States
and Territories, to hold examinations at places convenient for applicants
from different States and Territories, or for those examination districts
which it may designate and which the President shall approve.

RULE XVI.

1. Whenever any officer having the power of appointment or employment
shall so request, there shall be certified to him by the Commission or
the proper examining board four names for the vacancy specified, to be
taken from those graded highest on the proper register of those in his
branch of the service and remaining eligible, regard being had to the
apportionment of appointments to States and Territories; and from the
said four a selection shall be made for the vacancy.

2.

These certifications for the service at Washington shall be made in such
order as to apportion, as nearly as may be practicable, the original
appointments thereto among the States and Territories and the
District of Columbia upon the basis of population as ascertained
at the last preceding census.

3.

In case the request for any such certification or any law or
regulation shall call for those of either sex, the four highest of
that sex shall be certified; otherwise sex shall be disregarded in
such certification.

4.

No person upon any register shall be certified more than four times
to the same officer in the customs or postal service or more than
twice to any Department at Washington, unless upon request of the
appointing officer; nor shall anyone remain eligible more than one
year upon any register.

No person while remaining eligible on any register shall be admitted to a
new examination, and no person having failed upon any examination shall
within six months thereafter be admitted to another examination without
the consent of the Commission; but these restrictions shall not extend
to examinations under clause 5 of Rule VII.

RULE XVIII.

Every head of a Department or office shall notify the Commission of the
name of every person appointed to or employed in the classified service
under him (giving the date of the appointment and the designation of the
office or place) from those examined under the Commission, and shall
also inform the Commission of the date of any rejection or final appointment
or employment of any probationer, and of the promotion, removal,
discharge, resignation, transfer, or death of any such person after
probation. Every head of an office in the postal or customs service
shall give such information on these subjects to the board of examiners
for his office as the regulations of the Commission may provide for.

RULE XIX.

There are excepted from examination the following: (1) The confidential
clerk or secretary of any head of Department or office; (2) cashiers of
collectors; (3) cashiers of postmasters; (4) superintendents of money-order
divisions in post-offices; (5) the direct custodians of money for
whose fidelity another officer is under official bond, but these
exceptions shall not extend to any official below the grade of
assistant cashier or teller; (6) persons employed exclusively in
the secret service of the Government, or as translators or interpreters
or stenographers; (7) persons whose employment is exclusively
professional; (8) chief clerks, deputy collectors, and superintendents
or chiefs of divisions or bureaus.

But no person so excepted shall be either transferred, appointed, or promoted,
unless to some excepted place, without an examination under the
Commission.

Promotions may be made without examinations in offices where examinations
for promotion are not now held until rules on the subject shall be
promulgated.

Approved, November 7, 1883.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

THIRD ANNUAL MESSAGE.

WASHINGTON, _December 4, 1883_.

_To the Congress of the United States:_

At the threshold of your deliberations I congratulate you upon the favorable
aspect of the domestic and foreign affairs of this Government.

Our relations with other countries continue to be upon a friendly footing.
With the Argentine Republic, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Denmark, Hayti,
Italy, Santo Domingo, and Sweden and Norway no incident has occurred which
calls for special comment.

The recent opening of new lines of telegraphic communication with
Central America and Brazil permitted the interchange of messages
of friendship with the Governments of those countries.

During the year there have been perfected and proclaimed consular and
commercial treaties with Servia and a consular treaty with Roumania,
thus extending our intercourse with the Danubian countries, while our
Eastern relations have been put upon a wider basis by treaties
with Korea and Madagascar.

The new boundary-survey treaty with Mexico, a trade-marks convention and
a supplementary treaty of extradition with Spain, and conventions extending
the duration of the Franco-American Claims Commission have also
been proclaimed.

Notice of the termination of the fisheries articles of the treaty of
Washington was duly given to the British Government, and the
reciprocal privileges and exemptions of the treaty will accordingly
cease on July 1, 1885.

The fisheries industries, pursued by a numerous class of our citizens
on the northern coasts, both of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans,
are worthy of the fostering care of Congress.

Whenever brought into competition with the like industries of other countries,
our fishermen, as well as our manufacturers of fishing appliances and
preparers of fish products, have maintained a foremost place. I suggest
that Congress create a commission to consider the general question
of our rights in the fisheries and the means of opening to our
citizens, under just and enduring conditions, the richly stocked
fishing waters and sealing grounds of British North America.

Question has arisen touching the deportation to the United States from
the British Islands, by governmental or municipal aid, of persons unable
there to gain a living and equally a burden on the community here.

Such of these persons as fall under the pauper class as defined by law
have been sent back in accordance with the provisions of our
statutes.

Her Majesty's Government has insisted that precautions have been taken
before shipment to prevent these objectionable visitors from coming hither
without guaranty of support by their relatives in this country.

The action of the British authorities in applying measures for relief
has, however, in so many cases proved ineffectual, and especially
so in certain recent instances of needy emigrants reaching our territory
through Canada, that a revision of our legislation upon this subject
may be deemed advisable.

Correspondence relative to the Clayton-Bulwer treaty has been continued
and will be laid before Congress.

The legislation of France against the importation of prepared swine
products from the United States has been repealed. That result is due
no less to the friendly representations of this Government than
to a growing conviction in France that the restriction was not
demanded by any real danger to health.

Germany still prohibits the introduction of all swine products from America.
I extended to the Imperial Government a friendly invitation to send
experts to the United States to inquire whether the use of those
products was dangerous to health. This invitation was declined. I
have believed it of such importance, however, that the exact facts
should be ascertained and promulgated that I have appointed a competent
commission to make a thorough investigation of the subject. Its members
have shown their public spirit by accepting their trust without pledge
of compensation, but I trust that Congress will see in the national
and international bearings of the matter a sufficient motive for
providing at least for reimbursement of such expenses as they may
necessarily incur.

The coronation of the Czar at Moscow afforded to this Government
an occasion for testifying its continued friendship by sending a special
envoy and a representative of the Navy to attend the ceremony.

While there have arisen during the year no grave questions affecting the
status in the Russian Empire of American citizens of other faith than that
held by the national church, this Government remains firm in its
conviction that the rights of its citizens abroad should be in no
wise affected by their religious belief.

It is understood that measures for the removal of the restrictions
which now burden our trade with Cuba and Puerto Rico are under
consideration by the Spanish Government.

The proximity of Cuba to the United States and the peculiar methods of
administration which there prevail necessitate constant discussion and
appeal on our part from the proceedings of the insular authorities. I
regret to say that the just protests of this Government have not
as yet produced satisfactory results.

The commission appointed to decide certain claims of our citizens
against the Spanish Government, after the recognition of a satisfactory
rule as to the validity and force of naturalization in the United
States, has finally adjourned.

Some of its awards, though made more than two years ago, have not
yet been paid.

Their speedy payment is expected.

Claims to a large amount which were held by the late commission to be without
its jurisdiction have been diplomatically presented to the Spanish
Government. As the action of the colonial authorities which has given
rise to these claims was admittedly illegal, full reparation for the
injury sustained by our citizens should be no longer delayed.

The case of the _Masonic_ has not yet reached a settlement. The Manila court
has found that the proceedings of which this Government has complained
were unauthorized, and it is hoped that the Government of Spain will
not withhold the speedy reparation which its sense of justice
should impel it to offer for the unusual severity and unjust action
of its subordinate colonial officers in the case of this vessel.

The Helvetian Confederation has proposed the inauguration of a class
of international treaties for the referment to arbitration of grave
questions between nations.

This Government has assented to the proposed negotiation of such a treaty
with Switzerland.

Under the treaty of Berlin liberty of conscience and civil rights are
assured to all strangers in Bulgaria. As the United States have no
distinct conventional relations with that country and are not a
party to the treaty, they should, in my opinion, maintain diplomatic
representation at Sofia for the improvement of intercourse and the
proper protection of the many American citizens who resort to that
country as missionaries and teachers.

I suggest that I be given authority to establish an agency and consulate-general
at the Bulgarian capital.

The United States are now participating in a revision of the tariffs
of the Ottoman Empire.

They have assented to the application of a license tax to foreigners
doing business in Turkey, but have opposed the oppressive storage
tax upon petroleum entering the ports of that country.

   The Government of the Khedive has proposed that the authority of
   the mixed judicial tribunals in Egypt be extended so as to cover
   citizens of the United States accused of crime, who are now triable
   before consular courts. This Government is not indisposed to
   accept the change, but believes that its terms should be submitted
   for criticism to the commission appointed to revise the whole
   subject.
   
   He then carefully closed the little door
and reseated himself beside the fireplace.

When Clemence returned, her husband seemed absorbed in reading one of the
books which he had found upon her table, while he mechanically played
with a little bronze cup that his wife used to drop her rings in when she
removed them.

"I have won my case," said the Baroness, in a gay tone; "my aunt saw
clearly the logic of the reasons which I gave her, and she defers her
departure until your return."

Christian made no reply.

"That means that she will not go at all, for her anger will have time to
cool off in three days; at heart she is really kind!--How long is it
since you have known English?" she asked, as she noticed that her
husband's attention seemed to be fixed upon a volume of Lord Byron's
poems.

Bergenheim threw the book on the table, raised his head and gazed calmly
at his wife. In spite of all his efforts, his face had assumed an
expression which would have frightened her if she had noticed it, but her
eyes were fastened upon the cup which he was twisting in his hand as if
it were made of clay.

"Mon Dieu! Christian, what is the matter with you? What are you doing to
my poor cup?" she asked, with surprise mingled with a little of that
fright which is so prompt to be aroused if one feels not above reproach.

He arose and put the misshapen bronze upon the table.

"I do not know what ails me to-night," said he, "my nerves are unstrung.
I will leave you, for I need rest myself. I shall start to-morrow morning
before you are up, and I shall return Wednesday."

"Not any later, I hope," she said, with that soft, sweet voice, from
which, in such circumstances, very few women have the loyalty to abstain.

He went out without replying, for he feared he might be no longer master
of himself; he felt, when offered this hypocritical, almost criminal,
caress, as if he would like to end it all by killing her on the spot.


CHAPTER XXII

THE CRISIS

Twenty-four hours had passed. The Baron had departed early in the
morning, and so had all his guests, with the exception of Gerfaut and the
artist. The day passed slowly and tediously. Aline had been vexed,
somewhat estranged from her sister-in-law since their conversation in the
little parlor. Mademoiselle de Corandeuil was entirely occupied in
restoring her poodle to health.

Marillac, who had been drinking tea ever since rising, dared not present
his face, which showed the effects of his debauch of the night before, to
the mistress of the house, whose exacting and aristocratic austerity he
very much feared. He pretended to be ill, in order to delay the moment
when he should be forced to make his appearance. Madame de Bergenheim did
not leave her aunt, and thus avoided being alone with Octave--who, on
account of these different complications, might have spent a continual
tete-a-tete with her had she been so inclined. Christian's absence,
instead of being a signal of deliverance for the lovers, seemed to have
created a new misunderstanding, for Clemence felt that it would be a mean
action to abuse the liberty her husband's departure gave her. She was
thus very reserved during the day, when she felt that there were more
facilities for yielding, but, in the evening, when alone in her
apartment, this fictitious prudery disappeared. She spent the entire
evening lying upon the divan in the little boudoir, dreaming of Octave,
talking to him as if he could reply, putting into practice again that
capitulation of conscience which permits our mind to wander on the brink
of guilt, provided actions are strictly correct.

After a while this exaltation fell by degrees. When struggling earnestly,
she had regarded Octave as an enemy; but, since she had gone to him as
one passes over to the enemy, and, in her heart, had taken part with the
lover against the husband, her courage failed her as she thought of this,
and she fell, weak, guilty, and vanquished before the combat.

When she had played with her passion, she had given Christian little
thought; she had felt it childish to bring her husband into an amusement
that she believed perfectly harmless; then, when she wished to break her
plaything, and found it made of iron and turning more and more into a
tyrannical yoke, she called to her aid the conjugal divinities, but in
too faint a voice to be heard. Now the situation had changed again.
Christian was no longer the insignificant ally that the virtuous wife had
condemned, through self-conceit, to ignorant neutrality; he was the
husband, in the hostile and fearful acceptation of the word. This man
whom she had wronged would always have law on his side.

Religion sometimes takes pity on a wayward wife, but society is always
ready to condemn her. She was his own, fastened to him by indissoluble
bonds. He had marked her with his name like a thing of his own; he held
the threads of her life in his hands; he was the dispenser of her
fortune, the judge of her actions, and the master of their fireside. She
had no dignity except through him. If he should withdraw his support for
a single day, she would fall from her position without any human power
being able to rescue her. Society closes its doors to the outcast wife,
and adds to the husband's sentence another penalty still more scathing.

Having now fallen from the sphere of illusion to that of reality, Madame
de Bergenheim was wounded at every step. A bitter feeling of
discouragement overwhelmed her, as she thought of the impossibility of
happiness to which a deplorable fatality condemned her. Marriage and love
struggled for existence, both powerless to conquer, and qualified only to
cause each other's death. Marriage made love a crime; love made marriage
a torture. She could only choose between two abysses: shame in her love,
despair in her virtue.

The hours passed rapidly in these sad and gloomy meditations; the clock
marked the hour of midnight. Madame de Bergenheim thought it time to try
to sleep; but, instead of ringing for her maid, she decided to go to the
library herself and get a book, thinking that perhaps it might aid her in
going to sleep. As she opened the door leading into the closet adjoining
her parlor, she saw by the light of the candle which she held in her hand
something which shone like a precious stone lying upon the floor. At
first she thought it might be one of her rings, but as she stooped to
pick it up she saw her error. It was a ruby pin mounted in enamelled
gold. She recognized it, at the very first glance, as belonging to M. de
Gerfaut.

She picked up the pin and returned to the parlor. She exhausted in
imagination a thousand conjectures in order to explain the presence of
this object in such a place. Octave must have entered it or he could not
have left this sign of his presence; it meant that he could enter her
room at his will; what he had done once, he could certainly do again! The
terror which this thought gave her dissipated like a dash of cold water
all her former intoxicating thoughts; for, like the majority of women,
she had more courage in theory than in action. A moment before, she had
invoked Octave's image and seated it lovingly by her side.

When she believed this realization possible, all she thought of was to
prevent it. She was sure that her lover never had entered the closet
through the parlor, as he never had been in this part of the house
farther than the little drawing-room. Suddenly a thought of the little
corridor door struck her; she remembered that this door was not usually
locked because the one from the library was always closed; she knew that
Octave had a key to the latter, and she readily understood how he had
reached her apartment. Mustering up all her courage through excessive
fear, she returned to the closet, hurried down the stairs, and pushed the
bolt. She then returned to the parlor and fell upon the divan, completely
exhausted by her expedition.

Little by little her emotion passed away. Her fright appeared childish to
her, as soon as she believed herself sheltered from danger; she promised
herself to give Octave a good scolding the next morning; then she
renounced this little pleasure, when she remembered that it would force
her to admit the discovery of the pin, and of course to return it to him,
for she had resolved to keep it. She had always had a particular fancy
for this pin, but she would never have dared to ask him for it, and
besides, it was the fact that Octave usually wore it that made it of
infinite value to her. The desire to appropriate it was irresistible,
since chance had thrown it into her hands. She tied a black satin ribbon
about her white neck, and pinned it with the precious ruby. After kissing
it as devotedly as if it were a relic, she ran to her mirror to judge of
the effect of the theft.

"How pretty, and how I love it!" said she; "but how can I wear it so that
he will not see it?"

Before she could solve this problem, she heard a slight noise, which
petrified her as she stood before her glass.

"It is he!" she thought; after standing for a moment half stunned, she
dragged herself as far as the stairs, and leaning over, listened with
fear and trembling. At first she could hear nothing but the beating of
her heart; then she heard the other noise again, and more distinctly.
Somebody was turning the handle of the door, trying to open it. The
unexpected obstacle of the bolt doubtless exasperated the would-be
visitor, for the door was shaken and pushed with a violence which
threatened to break the lock or push down the door.

Madame de Bergenheim's first thought was to run into her chamber and lock
the door behind her;--the second showed her the danger that might result
if the slightest noise should reach other ears. Not a moment was to be
lost in hesitation. The young woman quickly descended the stairs and drew
the bolt. The door opened softly and closed with the same precaution. The
lamp from the parlor threw a feeble light upon the upper steps of the
staircase, but the lower ones were in complete darkness. It was with her
heart rather than her eyes that she recognized Octave; he could
distinguish Madame de Bergenheim only in an indistinct way by her white
dress, which was faintly outlined in the darkness; she stood before him
silent and trembling with emotion, for she had not yet thought of a
speech that would send him away.

He also felt the embarrassment usual in any one guilty of so foolhardy an
action. He had expected to surprise Clemence, and he found her upon her
guard; the thought of the disloyal part he was playing at this moment
made the blood mount to his cheeks and took away, for the time being, his
ordinary assurance. He sought in vain for a speech which might first
justify him and then conquer her. He had recourse to a method often
employed in the absence of eloquence. He fell on his knees before the
young woman and seized her hands; it seemed as if the violence of his
emotions rendered him incapable of expressing himself except by silent
adoration. As she felt his hands touch hers, Clemence drew back and said
in a low voice:

"You disgust me!"

"Disgust!" he repeated, drawing himself up to his full height.

"Yes, and that is not enough," she continued, indignantly, "I ought to
say scorn instead of disgust. You deceived me when you said you loved
me--you infamously deceived me!"

"But I adore you!" he exclaimed, with vehemence; "what proof do you wish
of my love?"

"Go! go away at once! A proof, did you say? I will accept only one: go, I
order it, do you understand?"

Instead of obeying her, he seized her in his arms in spite of her
resistance.

"Anything but that," he said; "order me to kill myself at your feet, I
will do it, but I will not go."

She tried for a moment to disengage herself, but although she used all
her strength, she was unable to do so.

"Oh, you are without pity," she said, feebly, "but I abhor you; rather, a
thousand times rather, kill me!"

Gerfaut was almost frightened by the agonized accent in which she spoke
these words; he released her, but as he removed his arms, she reeled and
he was obliged to support her.

"Why do you persecute me, then?" she murmured, as she fell in a faint
upon her lover's breast.

He picked her up in his arms and mounted the narrow stairs with
difficulty. Carrying her into the parlor, he placed her upon the divan.
She had completely lost consciousness; one would have believed her dead
from the pallor of her face, were, it not for a slight trembling which
agitated her form every few seconds and announced a nervous attack. The
most expert of lady's maids could not have removed the little ribbon from
her neck, which seemed to trouble her respiration, more adroitly than did
Octave. In spite of his anxiety, he could not repress a smile as he
recognized the pin which he hardly expected to find upon Clemence's neck,
considering the hostile way in which she had greeted him. He knelt before
her and bathed her temples with cold water, making her also inhale some
salts which he found upon the toilet table in the next room. Little by
little, these attentions produced an effect; the nervous convulsion
became less frequent and a slight flush suffused her pale cheeks. She
opened her eyes and then closed them, as if the light troubled them;
then, extending her arms, she passed them about Octave's neck as he
leaned over her; she remained thus for some time, breathing quietly and
to all appearances sleeping. Suddenly she said:

"You will give me your pin, will you not?"

"Is not all that I have yours?" he replied, in a low tone.

"Mine!" she continued, in a feebly loving voice; "tell me again that you
belong to me, to me alone, Octave!"

"You do not send me away any longer, then? you like me to be near you?"
he said, with a happy smile, as he kissed the young woman's brow.

"Oh! stay, I beg of you! stay with me forever!"

She folded her arms more tightly around him, as if she feared he might
leave her. Suddenly she sat up, opened her eyes, and gazed about her in
silent astonishment.

"What has happened?" said she, "and how is it that you are here? Ah! this
is dreadful indeed; you have cruelly punished me for my weakness."

This sudden severity after her delicious abandon, changed Octave's
pleasure into angry vexation.

"You are the one," he replied, "who are cruel! Why allow me so much
bliss, if you intended to take it away from me so soon? Since you love me
only in your dreams, I beg of you to go to sleep again and never awaken.
I will stay near you. Your words were so sweet, but a moment ago, and now
you deny them!"

"What did I say?" she asked, with hesitation, a deep blush suffusing her
face and neck.

These symptoms, which he considered a bad augury, increased Octave's
irritation. He arose and said in a bitter tone:

"Fear nothing! I will not abuse the words which have escaped you, however
flattering or charming they may have been; they told me that you loved
me. I do not believe it any longer; you are agitated, I can see; but it
is from fear and not love."

Clemence drew herself up upon the divan, crossed her arms over her breast
and gazed at him for a few moments in silence.

"Do you believe these two sentiments incompatible?" she asked at last;
"you are the only one whom I fear. Others would not complain."

There was such irresistible charm in her voice and glance that Gerfaut's
ill-humor melted away like ice in the sun's rays. He fell upon his knees
before the divan, and tried to pass her arms about his neck as before;
but instead of lending herself to this project, she attempted to rise.

"I am so happy at your feet," he said, gently preventing her. "Everybody
else can sit beside you; I only have the right to kneel. Do not take this
right away from me."

Madame de Bergenheim extricated one of her hands, and, raising her finger
with a threatening gesture, she said:

"Think a little less of your rights, and more of your duties. I advise
you to obey me and to profit by my kindness, which allows you to sit by
my side for a moment. Think that I might be more severe, and that if I
treated you as you merited--if I told you to go away, would you obey me?"

Gerfaut hesitated a moment and looked at her supplicatingly.

"I would obey," said he; "but would you have the courage to order it?"

"I allow you to remain until just half past twelve," said she, as she
glanced at the clock, which she could see through the half-open door.
Gerfaut followed her glance, and saw that she accorded him only a quarter
of an hour: but he was too clever to make any observation. He knew that
the second quarter of an hour is always less difficult to obtain than the
first.

"I am sure," said she, "that you have thought me capricious to-day; you
must pardon me, it is a family fault. You know the saying: 'Caprice de
Corandeuil?"

"I wish it to be said: Amour de Gerfaut," said he, tenderly.

"You are right to be amiable and say pleasant things to me, for I need
them badly to-night. I am sad and weary; the darkest visions come before
my mind. I think it is the storm which makes me feel so. How doleful this
thunder is! It seems to me like an omen of misfortune."

"It is only the fancy of your vivid imagination. If you exerted the same
will to be happy that you do to imagine troubles, our life would be
perfect. What matters the storm? and even if you do see an omen in it,
what is there so very terrible? Clouds are vapor, thunder is a sound,
both are equally ephemeral; only the blue sky, which they can obscure but
for a moment, is eternal."

"Did you not hear something just now?" asked Madame de Bergenheim, as she
gave a sudden start and listened eagerly.

"Nothing. What did you think it was?"

"I feared it might be Justine who had taken it into her head to come down
stairs; she is so tiresome in her attentions--"

She arose and went to look in her chamber, which she carefully locked; a
moment later, she returned and seated herself again upon the divan.

"Justine is sleeping by this time," said Octave; "I should not have
ventured if I had not seen that her light was out."

Clemence took his hand and placed it over her heart.

"Now," said she, "when I tell you that I am frightened, will you believe
me?"

"Poor dear!" he exclaimed, as he felt her heart throbbing violently.

"You are the one who causes me these palpitations for the slightest
thing. I know that we do not run any danger, that everybody is in his own
room by this time, and yet, somehow, I feel terribly frightened. There
are women, so they say, who get used to this torture, and end by being
guilty and tranquil at the same time. It is an unworthy thought, but I'll
confess that, sometimes, when I suffer so, I wish I were like them. But
it is impossible; I was not made for wrong-doing. You can not understand
this, you are a man; you love boldly, you indulge in every thought that
seems sweet to you without being troubled by remorse. And then, when you
suffer, your anguish at least belongs to you, nobody has any right to ask
you what is the matter. But I, my tears even are not my own; I have often
shed them on your account--I must hide them, for he has a right to ask:
'Why do you weep?' And what can I reply?"

She turned away her head to conceal the tears which she could not
restrain; he saw them, and, leaning over her, he kissed them away.

"Your tears are mine!" he exclaimed, passionately; "but do not distress
me by telling me that our love makes you unhappy."

"Unhappy! oh, yes! very unhappy! and yet I would not change this sorrow
for the richest joys of others. This unhappiness is my treasure! To be
loved by you! To think that there was a time when our love might have
been legitimate! What fatality weighs upon us, Octave? Why did we know
each other too late? I often dream a beautiful dream--a dream of
freedom."

"You are free if you love me--It is the rain against the windows," said
he, seeing Madame de Bergenheim anxiously listening again. They kept
silent for a moment, but could hear nothing except the monotonous
whistling of the storm.

"To be loved by you and not to blush!" said she, as she gazed at him
lovingly. "To be together always, without fearing that a stroke of
lightning might separate us! to give you my heart and still be worthy to
pray! it would be one of those heavenly delights that one grasps only in
dreams--"

"Oh! dream when I shall be far from you; but, when I am at your feet,
when our hearts beat only for each other, do not evoke, lest you destroy
our present happiness, that which is beyond our power. Do you think there
are bonds which can more strongly unite us? Am I not yours? And you,
yourself, who speak of the gift of your heart, have you not given it to
me entirely?"

"Oh! yes, entirely! And it is but right, since I owe it to you. I did not
understand life until the day I received it from your eyes; since that
minute I have lived, and I can die. I love you! I fail to find words to
tell you one-tenth of what my heart contains, but I love you--"

He received her in his arms, where she took refuge so as to conceal her
face after these words. She remained thus for an instant, then arose with
a start, seized Octave's hands and pressed them in a convulsive manner,
saying in a voice as weak as a dying woman's:

"I am lost!"

He instinctively followed Clemence's gaze, which was fastened upon the
glass door. An almost imperceptible movement of the muslin curtain was
evident. At the same moment, there was a slight noise, a step upon the
carpet, the turning of the handle of the door, and it was silently opened
as if by a ghost.


CHAPTER XXIII

THE AGREEMENT

Madame de Bergenheim tried to rise, but her strength failed her, she fell
on her knees, and then dropped at her lover's feet. The latter leaped
from the divan with out trying to assist her, stepped over the body
stretched before him, and drew his poniard out of his pocket.

Christian stood upon the threshold of the door silent and motionless.

There was a moment of terrible silence. Only the eyes of the two men
spoke; those of the husband were fixed, dull, and implacable; those of
the lover sparkled with the audacity of despair. After a moment of mutual
fascination, the Baron made a movement as if to enter.

"One step more and you are a dead man!" exclaimed Gerfaut, in a low
voice, as he clutched the handle of his poniard.

Christian extended his hand, replying to this threat only by a look; but
such an imperative one that the thrust of a lance would not have been as
fearful to the lover. Octave put his poniard in its sheath, ashamed of
his emotion in the presence of such calm, and imitated his enemy's
scornful attitude.

"Come, Monsieur," said the latter, in a low voice, as he took a step
backward.

Instead of following his example, Gerfaut cast a glance upon Clemence.
She had fallen in such a dead faint that he sought in vain for her
breath. He leaned over her, with an irresistible feeling of pity and
love; but just as he was about to take her in his arms and place her upon
the divan, Bergenheim's hand stopped him. If there is a being on earth to
whom one owes regard and respect, it is the one whom our own wrong has
rendered our enemy. Octave arose, and said, in a grave, resigned voice:

"I am at your orders, Monsieur."

Christian pointed to the door, as if to invite him to pass out first,
thus preserving, with his extraordinary composure, the politeness which a
good education makes an indelible habit, but which at this moment was
more frightful to behold than the most furious outburst of temper.
Gerfaut glanced at Clemence again, and said, as he pointed to her:

"Shall you leave her without any aid in this condition? It is cruel."

"It is not from cruelty, but out of pity," replied the Baron, coldly;
"she will awake only too soon."

Octave's heart was intensely oppressed, but he managed to conceal his
emotion. He hesitated no longer and stepped out. The husband followed,
without giving a glance at the poor woman whose own words had condemned
her so inexorably. And so she was left alone in this pretty boudoir as if
in a tomb.

The two men descended the stairs leading from the little closet. At the
library door they found themselves in absolute obscurity; Christian
opened a dark-lantern and its faint light guided their steps. They
traversed, in silence, the picture-gallery, the vestibule, and then
mounted the main staircase. They reached the Baron's apartment without
meeting anybody or betraying themselves by the slightest sound. With the
same outward self-possession which had characterized his whole conduct,
Christian, after carefully closing the doors, lighted a candelabra filled
with candles which was upon the mantel, and then turned to his companion,
who was far less composed than he.

Gerfaut had suffered tortures since leaving the little parlor. A feeling
of regret and deepest pity, at the thought of the inevitable catastrophe
which must follow, had softened his heart. He saw in the most odious of
colors the selfishness of his love. Clemence's last glance as she fell
fainting at his feet--a forgiving and a loving glance--was like a dagger
in his heart. He had ruined her! the woman he loved! the queen of his
life! the angel he adored! This idea was like hell to him. He was almost
unable to control his emotion, dizzy as he was on the brink of the abyss
opened by his hand, into which he had precipitated what he counted as the
dearest part of his own self.

Bergenheim stood, cold and sombre, like a northern sky, opposite this
pale-faced man, upon whose countenance a thousand passionate emotions
were depicted like clouds on a stormy day.

When Bergenheim's eyes met Octave's, they were so full of vengeance and
hatred that the latter trembled as if he had come in contact with a wild
beast. The lover actually realized the inferiority of his attitude in the
presence of this enraged husband. A feeling of self-pride and indignation
came to his aid. He put aside remorse and regrets until later; these sad
expiations were forbidden him now; another duty lay before him. There is
only one reparation possible for certain offences. The course once open,
one must go to its very end; pardon is to be found only upon the tomb of
the offended.

Octave knew he had to submit to this necessity. He stifled all scruples
which might have weakened his firmness, and resumed his habitual
disdainful look. His eyes returned his enemy's glance of deadly hatred,
and he began the conversation like a man who is accustomed to master the
events of his life and forbids any one to shape them for him.

"Before any explanations take place between us," he said, "I have to
declare to you, upon my honor, that there is only one guilty person in
this affair, and that I am the one. The slightest reproach addressed to
Madame de Bergenheim would be a most unjust outrage and a most deplorable
error on your part. I introduced myself into her apartment without her
knowledge and without having been authorized in any way to do so. I had
just entered it when you arrived. Necessity obliges me to admit a love
that is an outrage to you; I am ready to repair this outrage by any
satisfaction you may demand; but in putting myself at your discretion, I
earnestly insist upon exculpating Madame de Bergenheim from all that can
in any way affect her virtue or her reputation."

"As to her reputation," said Christian, "I will watch over that; as to
her virtue--"

He did not finish, but his face assumed an expression of incredulous
irony.

"I swear to you, Monsieur," said Octave, with increasing emotion, "that
she is above all seduction and should be sheltered from all insult; I
swear to you--What oath can I take that you will believe? I swear that
Madame de Bergenheim never has betrayed any of her duties toward you;
that I never have received the slightest encouragement from her; that she
is as innocent of my folly as the angels in heaven."

Christian shook his head with a scornful smile.

"This day will be the undying remorse of my life if you will not believe
me," said Gerfaut, with almost uncontrolled vehemence; "I tell you,
Monsieur, she is innocent; innocent! do you understand me? I was led
astray by my passion. I wished to profit by your absence. You know that I
have a key to the library; I used it without her suspecting it. Would to
God that you could have been a witness to our tete-a-tete! you could then
have not one doubt left. Can one prevent a man from entering a lady's
room, when he has succeeded in finding the way to it in spite of her
wishes? I repeat it, she--"

"Enough, Monsieur," replied the Baron coldly. "You are doing as I should
do in your place; but this discussion is out of place; let this woman
exculpate herself. There should be no mention of her between us now."

"When I protest that upon my honor--"

"Monsieur, under such conditions, a false oath is not dishonorable. I
have been a bachelor myself, and I know that anything is allowable
against a husband. Let us drop this, I beg of you, and return to facts. I
consider that I have been insulted by you, and you must give me
satisfaction for this insult."

Octave made a sign of acquiescence.

"One of us must die," replied Bergenheim, leaning his elbow negligently
upon the mantel. The lover bowed his head a second time.

"I have offended you," said he; "you have the right to choose the
reparation due you."

"There is only one possible, Monsieur. Blood alone can wipe away the
disgrace; you know it as well as I. You have dishonored my home, you owe
me your life for that. If Fate favors you, you will be rid of me, and I
shall be wronged in every way. There are arrangements to be made, and we
shall settle them at once, if you are willing."

He pushed an armchair toward Gerfaut, and took another himself.

They seated themselves beside a desk which stood in the middle of the
room, and, with an equal appearance of sang-froid and polite haughtiness,
they discussed this murderous combat.

"It is not necessary for me to say to you," said Octave, "that I accept
in advance whatever you may decide upon; the weapons, place, and
seconds--"

"Listen to me, then," interrupted Bergenheim; "you just now spoke in
favor of this woman in a way that made me think you did not wish her
ruined in the eyes of the world; so I trust you will accept the
proposition I am about to make to you. An ordinary duel would arouse
suspicion and inevitably lead to a discovery of the truth; people would
seek for some plausible motive for the encounter, whatever story we might
tell our seconds. You know that there is but one motive which will be
found acceptable by society for a duel between a young man who had been
received as a guest of this house and the husband. In whatever way this
duel may terminate, this woman's honor would remain on the ground with
the dead, and that is what I wish to avoid, since she bears my name."

"Will you explain to me what your plan is?" asked Octave, who could not
understand what his adversary had in mind.

"You know, Monsieur," Bergenheim continued, in his calm voice, "that I
had a perfect right to kill you a moment ago; I did not do so for two
reasons: first, a gentleman should use his sword and not a poniard, and
then your dead body would have embarrassed me."

"The river is close by!" interrupted Gerfaut, with a strange smile.

Christian looked at him fixedly for a moment, and then replied in a
slightly changed tone:

"Instead of availing myself of my right, I intend to risk my life against
yours. The danger is the same for myself, who never have insulted you, as
for you, who have offered me the deadliest insult that one man can offer
another. I am willing to spill my blood, but not to soil my honor."

"If it is a duel without seconds that you desire, you have my consent; I
have perfect confidence in your loyalty, and I hope you can say the same
for mine."

Christian bowed his head slightly and continued:

"It is more than a duel without seconds, for the whole affair must be so
contrived as to be looked upon as an accident; it is the only way to
prevent the outbreak and scandal I dread so much. Now here is my
proposition: You know that a wild-boar hunt is to take place to-morrow in
the Mares woods. When we station ourselves we shall be placed together at
a spot I know of, where we shall be out of the sight of the other
hunters. When the boar crosses the enclosure we will fire at a signal
agreed upon. In this way, the denouement, whatever it may be, will be
looked upon as one of those accidents which so frequently happen in
shooting-parties."

"I am a dead man," thought Gerfaut, as he saw that the gun would be the
weapon chosen by his adversary, and recalled his wonderful skill, of
which he had had many and various proofs. But instead of showing the
slightest hesitation, his countenance grew still more arrogant.

"This kind of combat seems to me very wisely planned," said he; "I
accept, for I desire as much as you that this affair should remain an
eternal secret."

"Since we are to have no seconds," continued Bergenheim, "let us arrange
everything so that nothing can betray us; it is inconceivable how the
most trifling circumstances often turn out crushing evidence. I think
that I have foreseen everything. If you find that I have forgotten any
detail, please remind me of it. The place I speak of is a narrow,
well-shaded path. The ground is perfectly level; it lies from north to
south, so that at eight o'clock in the morning the sun will be on that
side; there will be no advantage in position. There is an old elm on the
borders of the wood; at fifty steps' distance in the pathway, lies the
trunk of an oak which has been felled this year. These are the two places
where we will station ourselves, if you consent to it. Is it the proper
distance?"

"Near or farther, it matters little. Breast to breast, if you like."

"Nearer would be imprudent. However, fifty steps with the gun is less
than fifteen with a pistol. This point is settled. We will remain with
heads covered, although this is not the custom. A ball might strike the
head where the cap would be, and if this should happen it would arouse
suspicion, as people do not hunt bareheaded. It only remains to decide
who shall fire first," continued Christian.

"You, of course; you are the offended one."

"You do not admit the full offence to have been committed, and, since
this is in doubt, and I can not be judge and jury together, we shall
consult chance."

"I declare to you that I will not fire first," interrupted Gerfaut.

"Remember that it is a mortal duel, and such scruples are foolish. Let us
agree that whoever has the first shot, shall place himself upon the
border of the woods and await the signal, which the other will give when
the boar crosses the enclosure."

He took a gold piece from his purse and threw it in the air.

"Heads!" said the lover, ready to acquiesce to the least of his
adversary's conditions.

"Fate is for you," said Christian, looking at the coin with marked
indifference; "but, remember, if at the signal given by me you do not
fire, or only fire in the air, I shall use my right to shoot--You know
that I rarely miss my aim."

These preliminaries ended, the Baron took two guns from his closet,
loaded them, taking particular care to show that they were of equal
length and the same calibre. He then locked them up in the closet and
offered Gerfaut the key.

"I would not do you this injustice," said the latter.

"This precaution is hardly necessary, since, tomorrow, you will take your
choice of those weapons. Now that everything is arranged," continued the
Baron, in a graver tone, "I have one request to make of you, and I think
you are too loyal to refuse it. Swear to me that whatever may be the
result, you will keep all this a profound secret. My honor is now in your
hands; speaking as a gentleman to a gentleman, I ask you to respect it."

"If I have the sad privilege of surviving you," replied Gerfaut, no less
solemnly, "I swear to you to keep the secret inviolate. But, supposing a
contrary event, I also have a request to make to you. What are your
intentions regarding Madame de Bergenheim?"

Christian gazed at his adversary a moment, with a searching glance which
seemed to read his innermost thoughts.

"My intentions?" said he at last, in a displeased, surprised tone; "this
is a very strange question; I do not recognize your right to ask it."

"My right is certainly strange," said the lover, with a bitter smile;
"but whatever it may be, I shall make use of it. I have destroyed this
woman's happiness forever; if I can not repair this fault, at least I
ought to mitigate the effect as much as lies in my power. Will you reply
to me--if I die tomorrow, what will be her fate?"

Bergenheim kept silent, his sombre eyes lowered to the floor.

"Listen to me, Monsieur," continued Gerfaut, with great emotion; "when I
said to you, 'She is not guilty,' you did not believe me, and I despair
of ever persuading you, for I know well what your suspicions must be.
However, these are the last words addressed to you that will leave my
mouth, and you know that one has to believe a dying man's statement. If
tomorrow you avenge yourself, I earnestly beg of you, let this reparation
suffice. All my pride is gone, you see, since I beg this of you upon my
bended knees. Be humane toward her; spare her, Monsieur. It is not pardon
which I ask you to grant her--it is pity for her unsullied innocence.
Treat her kindly--honorably. Do not make her too wretched."

He stopped, for his voice failed him, and his eyes filled with tears.

"I know what I ought to do," replied the Baron, in as harsh a tone as
Gerfaut's had been tender; "I am her husband, and I do not recognize
anybody's right, yours least of all, to interpose between us."

"I can foresee the fate which you have in reserve for her," replied the
lover, indignantly; "you will not murder her, for that would be too
imprudent; what would become of your vaunted honor then? But you will
slowly kill her; you will make her die a new death every day, in order to
satisfy a blind vengeance. You are a man to meditate over each new
torture as calmly as you have regulated every detail of our duel."

Bergenheim, instead of replying, lighted a candle as if to put an end to
this discussion.

"Until to-morrow, Monsieur," said he, with a cold air.

"One moment!" exclaimed Gerfaut, as he arose; "you refuse to give me one
word which will assure me of the fate of the woman whose life I have
ruined?"

"I have nothing to say."

"Very well, then; I will protect her, and I will do it in spite of you
and against you."

"Not another word," interrupted the Baron, sternly.

Octave leaned over the table between them and looked at him for a moment,
then said in a terrible voice:

"You killed Lambernier!"

Christian bounded backward as if he had been struck.

"I was a witness of that murder," continued Gerfaut, slowly, as he
emphasized each word; "I will write my deposition and give it to a man of
whom I am as sure as of myself. If I die to-morrow, I will leave him a
mission which no effort on your part will prevent him from fulfilling. He
shall watch over your slightest actions with inexorable vigilance; he
will be Madame de Bergenheim's protector, if you forget that your first
duty is to protect her. The day upon which you abuse your position with
her, the day when she shall call out despairingly, 'Help me!' that day
shall my deposition be placed in the hands of the public prosecutor at
Nancy. He will believe its contents; of that you may be certain. Besides,
the river is an indiscreet tomb; before long it will give up the body you
have confided to it. You will be tried and condemned. You know the
punishment for murder! It is hard labor for life."

Bergenheim darted toward the mantel at these words and seized a
hunting-knife which hung there. Octave, as he saw him ready to strike,
crossed his arms upon his breast, and said, coldly:

"Remember that my body might embarrass you; one corpse is enough."

The Baron threw the weapon on the floor with such force that he broke it
in two.

"But it was you," he said, in a trembling voice, "you were Lambernier's
assassin. I--He knew this infamous secret, and his death was involuntary
on my part."

"The intention is of little account. The deed is the question. There is
not a jury that would not condemn you, and that is what I wish, for such
a sentence would bring a legal separation between you and your wife and
give her her liberty."

"You are not speaking seriously," said Christian, turning pale; "you, a
gentleman, would not denounce me! And, besides, would not my being
sentenced injure the woman in whom you take so much interest?"

"I know all that," Gerfaut replied; "I too cling to the honor of my name,
and yet I expose it. I have plenty of enemies who will be glad enough to
outrage my memory. Public opinion will condemn me, for they will see only
the action, and that is odious. There is one thing, however, more
precious and necessary to me than the world's opinion, and that is peace
for every day, the right to live; and that is the reason why, happiness
having forsaken me, I am going to bequeath it to the one whom fate has
put in your power, but whom I shall not leave to your mercy."

"I am her husband," Bergenheim replied, angrily.

"Yes, you are her husband; so the law is on your side. You have only to
call upon society for its aid; it will come but too gladly at your call
and help you crush a defenceless woman. And I, who love her as you have
never known how to love her, I can do nothing for her! Living, I must
keep silent and bow before your will; but dead, your absurd laws no
longer exist for me; dead, I can place myself between you and her, and I
will do it. Since, in order to aid her, I have no choice of arms, I will
not recoil from the one weapon which presents itself. Yes, if in order to
save her from your vengeance, I am obliged to resort to the shame of a
denunciation, I swear to you here, I will turn informer. I will sully my
name with this stain; I will pick up this stone from the mud, and I will
crush your head with it."

"These are a coward's words!" exclaimed Christian, as he fell back in his
chair.

Gerfaut looked at him with a calm, stony glance, while replying:

"No insults, please! One of us will not be living to-morrow. Remember
what I tell you: if I fall in this duel, it will be to your interest to
have this matter stop then and there. I submit to death myself; but I
exact liberty for her--liberty, with peace and respect. Think it over,
Monsieur; at the first outrage, I shall arise from my tomb to prevent a
second, and dig a trench between you and her which never can be
crossed\--the penitentiary!"


CHAPTER XXIV

A FRIEND'S ADVICE

After she came out of her faint, Madame de Bergenheim remained for a long
time in a dazed condition, and did not realize, save in a confused
manner, her real position. She saw vaguely, at her first glance, the
curtains of the bed upon which she lay, and thought that she had awakened
from an ordinary sleep. Little by little, her thoughts became clearer,
and she saw that she was fully dressed, also that her room seemed
brighter than it usually was with only her night-lamp lighted. She
noticed between the half-open curtains a gigantic form reflected almost
to the ceiling opposite her bed. She sat up and distinctly saw a man
sitting in the corner by the fireplace. Frozen with terror, she fell back
upon her pillow as she recognized her husband. Then she remembered
everything, even the slightest details of the scene in the small parlor.
She felt ready to faint again when she heard Christian's steps upon the
carpet, although he walked with great precaution.

The Baron looked at her a moment, and then, opening the bed-curtains, he
said:

"You can not pass the night thus, it is nearly three o'clock. You must go
to bed as usual."

Clemence shivered at these words, whose accent, however, was not hard.
She obeyed mechanically; but she had hardly risen when she was obliged to
recline upon the bed, for her trembling limbs would not support her.

"Do not be afraid of me," said Bergenheim, drawing back a few steps; "my
presence should not frighten you. I only wish that people should know
that I have passed the night in your chamber, for it is possible that my
return may arouse suspicion. You know that our love is only a comedy
played for the benefit of our servants."

There was such affected lightness in these remarks that the young woman
was cut to the very quick. She had expected an explosion of anger, but
not this calm contempt. Her revolted pride gave her courage.

"I do not deserve to be treated thus," said she; "do not condemn me
without a hearing."

"I ask nothing of you," replied Christian, who seated himself again
beside the mantel; "undress yourself, and go to sleep if it is possible
for you to do so. It is not necessary for Justine to make any comments
tomorrow about your day clothes not having been removed."

Instead of obeying him, she went toward him and tried to remain standing
in order to speak to him, but her emotion was so intense that it took
away her strength and she was obliged to sit down.

"You treat me too cruelly, Christian," said she, when she had succeeded
to recover her voice. "I am not guilty; at least, not so much as you
think I am--" said she, drooping her head.

He looked at her attentively for a moment, and then replied, in a voice
which did not betray the slightest emotion:

"You must know that my greatest desire is to be persuaded of this by you.
I know that too often appearances are deceitful; perhaps you will be able
to explain to me what took place last evening; I am still inclined to
believe your word. Swear to me that you do not love Monsieur de Gerfaut."

"I swear it!" said she, in a weak voice, and without raising her eyes.

He went to the bed and took down a little silver crucifix which was
hanging above it.

"Swear it to me upon this crucifix," said he, presenting it to his wife.

She tried in vain to raise her hand, which seemed fastened to the arm of
her chair.

"I swear it!" she stammered a second time, while her face became as pale
as death.

A savage laugh escaped Christian's lips. He put the crucifix in its place
again without saying a word, then he opened the secret panel and, taking
out the casket, placed it upon the table before his wife. She made a
movement as if to seize it, but her courage failed her.

"You have perjured yourself to your husband and to God!" said Bergenheim
slowly. "Do you know what kind of woman you are?"

Clemence remained for some time powerless to reply; her respiration was
so painful that each breath seemed like suffocation; her head, after
rolling about on the back of the chair, fell upon her breast, like a
blade of grass broken and bruised by the rain.

"If you have read those letters," she murmured, when she had strength
enough to speak, "you must know that I am not as unworthy as you think. I
am very guilty--but I still have a right to be forgiven."

Christian, at this moment, had he been gifted with the intelligence which
fathoms the mysteries of the heart, might have renewed the bonds which
were so near being broken; he could at least have stopped Clemence upon a
dangerous path and saved her from a most irreparable fall. But his nature
was too unrefined for him to see the degrees which separate weakness from
vice, and the intoxication of a loving heart from the depravity of a
corrupt character. With the obstinacy of narrow-minded people, he had
been looking at the whole thing in its worst light, and for several hours
already he had decided upon his wife's guilt in his own mind; this served
now as a foundation for his stern conduct. His features remained
perfectly impassive as he listened to Clemence's words of justification,
which she uttered in a weak, broken voice.

"I know that I merit your hatred-but if you could know how much I suffer,
you would surely forgive me--You left me in Paris very young,
inexperienced; I ought to have fought against this feeling better than I
did, but I used up in this struggle all the strength that I had--You can
see how pale and changed I have become within the past year. I have aged
several years in those few months; I am not yet what you call a--a lost
woman. He ought to have told you that--"

"Oh, he has! of course he has," replied Christian with bitter irony. "Oh,
you have in him a loyal cavalier!"

"You do not believe me, then! you do not believe me!" she continued,
wringing her hands in despair; "but read these letters, the last ones.
See whether one writes like this to a woman who is entirely lost--"

She tried to take the package which her husband held; instead of giving
the letters to her, he lighted them at the candle and then threw them
into the fireplace. Clemence uttered a cry and darted forward to save
them, but Christian's iron hand seized her and pushed her back into her
chair.

"I understand how much you care for this correspondence," said he, in a
more excited tone, "but you are more loving than prudent. Let me destroy
one witness which accuses you. Do you know that I have already killed a
man on account of these letters?"

"Killed!" exclaimed Madame de Bergenheim, whom this word drove almost to
madness, for she could not understand its real meaning and applied it to
her lover. "Well, then, kill me too, for I lied when I said that I
repented. I do not repent! I am guilty! I deceived you! I love him and I
abhor you; I love him! kill me!"

She fell upon her knees before him and dragged herself along the floor,
striking her head upon it as if she wished to break it. Christian raised
her and seated her in the chair, in spite of her resistance. She
struggled in her husband's arms, and the only words which she uttered
were: "I love him! kill me! I love him! kill me!"

Her grief was so intense that Bergenheim really pitied her.

"You did not understand me," he said, "he is not the man I killed."

She became motionless, dumb. He left her then, from a feeling of
compassion, and returned to his seat. They remained for some time seated
in this way, one on each side of the fireplace; he, with his head leaning
against the mantel; she, crouched in her chair with her face concealed
behind her hands; only the striking of the clock interrupted this silence
and lulled their gloomy thoughts with its monotonous vibrations.

A sharp, quick sound against one of the windows interrupted this sad
scene. Clemence arose suddenly as if she had received a galvanic shock;
her frightened eyes met her husband's. He made an imperious gesture with
his hand as if to order silence, and both listened attentively and
anxiously.

The same noise was heard a second time. A rattling against the blinds was
followed by a dry, metallic sound, evidently caused by the contact of
some body against the window.

"It is some signal," said Christian in a low voice, as he looked at his
wife. "You probably know what it means."

"I do not, I swear to you," replied Clemence, her heart throbbing with a
new emotion.

"I will tell you, then; he is there and he has something to say to you.
Rise and open the window."

"Open the window?" said she, with a frightened look.

"Do what I tell you. Do you wish him to pass the night under your window,
so that the servants may see him?"

At this command, spoken in a severe tone, she arose. Noticing that their
shadows might be seen from the outside when the curtains were drawn,
Bergenheim changed the candles to another place. Clemence walked slowly
toward the window; she had hardly opened it, when a purse fell upon the
floor.

"Close it now," said the Baron. While his wife was quietly obeying, he
picked up the purse, and opening it, took the following note from it:

   "I have ruined you--you for whom I would gladly have died! But of
   what use are regrets and despair now? And my blood will not wipe
   away your tears. Our position is so frightful that I tremble so
   speak of it. I ought to tell you the truth, however, horrible as it
   may be. Do not curse me, Clemence; do not impute to me this
   fatality, which obliges me thus to torture you. The public domain
   would be more securely guarded and better progress be made in the
   instruction of the young.
   
   Alaska is still without any form of civil government. If means were
   provided for the education of its people and for the protection of
   their lives and property, the immense resources of the region would
   invite permanent settlements and open new fields for industry and
   enterprise.
   
   The report of the Commissioner of Agriculture presents an account
   of the labors of that Department during the past year and includes
   information of much interest to the general public.
   
   The condition of the forests of the country and the wasteful
   manner in which their destruction is taking place give cause for
   serious apprehension. Their action in protecting the earth's
   surface, in modifying the extremes of climate, and in regulating
   and sustaining the flow of springs and streams is now well understood,
   and their importance in relation to the growth and prosperity of the
   country can not be safely disregarded. They are fast disappearing
   before destructive fires and the legitimate requirements of our
   increasing population, and their total extinction can not be long
   delayed unless better methods than now prevail shall be adopted
   for their protection and cultivation.
   The attention of Congress is invited to the necessity of additional
   legislation to secure the preservation of the valuable forests still
   remaining on the public domain, especially in the extreme
   Western States and Territories, where the necessity for their
   preservation is greater than in less mountainous regions, and where
   the prevailing dryness of the climate renders their restoration,
   if they are once destroyed, well-nigh impossible.
   
   The communication which I made to Congress at its first session,
   in December last, contained a somewhat full statement of my
   sentiments in relation to the principles and rules which ought to
   govern appointments to public service.
   
   Referring to the various plans which had theretofore been the subject
of discussion in the National Legislature (plans which in the main
were modeled upon the system which obtains in Great Britain, but
which lacked certain of the prominent features whereby that system
is distinguished), I felt bound to intimate my doubts whether they,
or any of them, would afford adequate remedy for the evils which
they aimed to correct.

I declared, nevertheless, that if the proposed measures should prove
acceptable to Congress they would receive the unhesitating support
of the Executive.

Since these suggestions were submitted for your consideration there has
been no legislation upon the subject to which they relate, but there has
meanwhile been an increase in the public interest in that subject,
and the people of the country, apparently without distinction of
party, have in various ways and upon frequent occasions given
expression to their earnest wish for prompt and definite action.

In my judgment such action should no longer be postponed.

I may add that my own sense of its pressing importance has been
quickened by observation of a practical phase of the matter, to
which attention has more than once been called by my predecessors.

The civil list now comprises about 100,000 persons, far the larger
part of whom must, under the terms of the Constitution, be selected
by the President either directly or through his own appointees.

In the early years of the administration of the Government the personal
direction of appointments to the civil service may not have been
an irksome task for the Executive, but now that the burden has
increased fully a hundredfold it has become greater than he ought
to bear, and it necessarily diverts his time and attention from the
proper discharge of other duties no less delicate and responsible,
and which in the very nature of things can not be delegated to other
hands.

In the judgment of not a few who have given study and reflection
to this matter, the nation has outgrown the provisions which the
Constitution has established for filling the minor offices in the
public service.

But whatever may be thought of the wisdom or expediency of changing the
fundamental law in this regard, it is certain that much relief may be
afforded, not only to the President and to the heads of the Departments,
but to Senators and Representatives in Congress, by discreet legislation.
They would be protected in a great measure by the bill now pending
before the Senate, or by any other which should embody its important
features, from the pressure of personal importunity and from the
labor of examining conflicting claims and pretensions of candidates.

I trust that before the close of the present session some decisive action
may be taken for the correction of the evils which inhere in the present
methods of appointment, and I assure you of my hearty cooperation in any
measures which are likely to conduce to that end.

As to the most appropriate term and tenure of the official life of
the subordinate employees of the Government, it seems to be generally
agreed that, whatever their extent or character, the one should be
definite and the other stable, and that neither should be regulated
by zeal in the service of party or fidelity to the fortunes of an
individual.

It matters little to the people at large what competent person is
at the head of this department or of that bureau if they feel assured
that the removal of one and the accession of another will not involve
the retirement of honest and faithful subordinates whose duties are
purely administrative and have no legitimate connection with the
triumph of any political principles or the success of any political
party or faction.

It is to this latter class of officers that the Senate bill, to which
I have already referred, exclusively applies.

While neither that bill nor any other prominent scheme for improving the
civil service concerns the higher grade of officials, who are
appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate, I feel bound
to correct a prevalent misapprehension as to the frequency with
which the present Executive has displaced the incumbent of an office
and appointed another in his stead.

It has been repeatedly alleged that he has in this particular
signally departed from the course which has been pursued under
recent Administrations of the Government.

The facts are as follows:

The whole number of Executive appointments during the four years immediately
preceding Mr. Garfield's accession to the Presidency was 2,696. Of
this number 244, or 9 per cent, involved the removal of previous
incumbents.

The ratio of removals to the whole number of appointments was much
the same during each of those four years.

In the first year, with 790 appointments, there were 74 removals,
or 9.3 per cent; in the second, with 917 appointments, there were 85
removals, or 8.5 per cent; in the third, with 480 appointments, there
were 48 removals, or 10 per cent; in the fourth, with 429 appointments,
there were 37 removals, or 8.6 per cent. In the four months of President
Garfield's Administration there were 390 appointments and 89 removals,
or 22.7 per cent. Precisely the same number of removals (89) has taken
place in the fourteen months which have since elapsed, but they constitute
only 7.8 per cent of the whole number of appointments (1,118)
within that period and less than 2.6 of the entire list of officials
(3,459), exclusive of the Army and Navy, which is filled by
Presidential appointment.

I declare my approval of such legislation as may be found necessary for
supplementing the existing provisions of law in relation to political
assessments.

In July last I authorized a public announcement that employees of
the Government should regard themselves as at liberty to exercise
their pleasure in making or refusing to make political contributions,
and that their action in that regard would in no manner affect their
official status.

In this announcement I acted upon the view, which I had always maintained
and still maintain, that a public officer should be as absolutely free
as any other citizen to give or to withhold a contribution for the aid
of the political party of his choice. It has, however, been urged, and
doubtless not without foundation in fact, that by solicitation of
official superiors and by other modes such contributions have at
times been obtained from persons whose only motive for giving has
been the fear of what might befall them if they refused.

It goes without saying that such contributions are not voluntary, and
in my judgment their collection should be prohibited by law.

A bill which will effectually suppress them will receive my cordial
approval.

I hope that, however numerous and urgent may be the demands upon
your attention, the interests of this District will not be forgotten.

The denial to its residents of the great right of suffrage in all
its relations to national, State, and municipal action imposes upon
Congress the duty of affording them the best administration which
its wisdom can devise.

The report of the District Commissioners indicates certain measures
whose adoption would seem to be very desirable.

I instance in particular those which relate to arrears of taxes, to steam
railroads, and to assessments of real property.

Among the questions which have been the topic of recent debate in
the halls of Congress none are of greater gravity than those relating
to the ascertainment of the vote for Presidential electors and the
intendment of the Constitution in its provisions for devolving
Executive functions upon the Vice-President when the President
suffers from inability to discharge the powers and duties of his
office.

I trust that no embarrassments may result from a failure to determine
these questions before another national election.

The closing year has been replete with blessings, for which we owe
to the Giver of All Good our reverent acknowledgment.

For the uninterrupted harmony of our foreign relations, for the
decay of sectional animosities, for the exuberance of our harvests
and the triumphs of our mining and manufacturing industries, for
the prevalence of health, the spread of intelligence, and the
conservation of the public credit, for the growth of the country
in all the elements of national greatness--for these and countless
other blessings we should rejoice and be glad.

I trust that under the inspiration of this great prosperity our counsels
may be harmonious, and that the dictates of prudence, patriotism,
justice, and economy may lead to the adoption of measures in which
the Congress and the Executive may heartily unite.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

SPECIAL MESSAGES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _December 6, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of War, dated the
4th instant, and its accompanying papers, in which it is recommended
that section 1216, Revised Statutes, be so amended as to include
in its provisions the enlisted men of the Army, and that section
1285, Revised Statutes, be modified so as to read:
A certificate of merit granted to an enlisted man for distinguished
service shall entitle him thereafter to additional pay, at the rate
of $2 per month, while he is in the military service, although such
service may not be continuous.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _December 6, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of War, dated the
4th instant, setting forth certain facts respecting the title to
the peninsula of Presque Isle, at Erie, Pa., and recommending that
the subject be presented to Congress with the view of legislation
by that body modifying the act of May 27, 1882, entitled "An act
to authorize the Secretary of War to accept the peninsula in Lake
Erie opposite the harbor of Erie, in the State of Pennsylvania" (17
U.S.

Statutes at Large, p. 162), so as to authorize the Secretary of War
to accept title to the said peninsula, proffered by the marine
hospital of Pennsylvania pursuant to an act of the legislature of
that State approved by the governor May 11, 1871.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _December 6, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a communication
from the Secretary of War, inclosing one from the commanding general
Department of the Missouri, indorsed by the division commander,
urging the advisability of prompt action in the matter of perfecting
the title to the site of Fort Bliss, Tex.

Accompanying also is a copy of Senate Executive Document No. 96,
Forty-seventh Congress, first session, which presents fully the facts
in the case, as well as the character of the legislation necessary to
secure to the United States proper title to the land in question.

The Secretary of War expresses his concurrence in the views of the military
authorities as to the importance of this subject and urges that the
requisite legislation be had by Congress at its present session.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _December 8, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the
Interior, with a draft of a bill and accompanying papers, to accept
and ratify an agreement made by the Pi-Ute Indians, and granting a
right of way to the Carson and Colorado Railroad Company through
the Walker River Reservation, in Nevada.

The subject is presented for the consideration of Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, December 13, 1882_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
In response to the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 30th
of January, 1882, on the subject of the tariff of consular fees, I
transmit herewith a report of the Secretary of State.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _December 15, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a letter
from the Secretary of the Interior, inclosing a copy of a letter
from the acting governor of New Mexico, in which he sets forth reasons
why authority should be given and provision made for holding a
session of the Territorial legislature of New Mexico in January,
1883, or soon thereafter.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _December 19, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a communication
from the Secretary of War, upon the subject of abandoned military
reservations, and renewing his former recommendation for such
legislation as will provide for the disposal of military sites that
are no longer needed for military purposes.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _December 21, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the
Interior of the 18th instant, with accompanying papers, submitting
a draft of a bill "for the relief of the Nez Piercé Indians in the
Territory of Idaho and of the allied tribes residing upon the Grande
Ronde Indian Reservation, in the State of Oregon."

The subject is presented for the consideration of Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _December 27, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I submit herewith a letter from the Secretary of the Interior,
inclosing a communication from the secretary of the Territory of
New Mexico, who has custody of the public buildings at Santa Fe,
in which are set forth reasons why an appropriation should be made
for the completion of the capitol at Santa Fe, and commend the same
to the consideration of Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 5, 1883_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the
Interior, together with a letter from the Superintendent of the
Census, requesting an additional appropriation of $100,000 to
complete the work of the Tenth Census, and recommend the same to
Congress for its favorable consideration.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 5, 1883_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a communication
from the Secretary of War, dated the 2d instant, and inclosing one
from Lieutenant Robert Craig, Fourth Artillery, indorsed by the
Chief Signal Officer of the Army, recommending that Congress authorize
the printing and binding for the use of the Signal Office of 10,000
copies of the Annual Report of the Chief Signal Officer for the
fiscal year 1882, and inclosing a draft of a joint resolution for
the purpose.

CHESTER A.

ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 9, 1883_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the
Interior, submitting a report, with accompanying papers, regarding
the condition of the several libraries of said Department and the
consolidation of the same.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, January 10, 1883_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
The Senate having by executive resolution of the 20th ultimo returned to
me the supplemental convention of extradition signed August 7, 1882, in
order that certain verbal changes therein might be made, as requested
by the Spanish Government, as explained in the letter of the Secretary
of State to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate dated the
15th ultimo, I now lay the said convention so modified before the
Senate, with a view to its ratification.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 11, 1883_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a communication
from the Secretary of War, dated the 10th instant, inclosing one from the
Chief of Ordnance, together with one from Lieutenant-Colonel D.W.
Flagler, commanding the Rock Island Arsenal, Ill., setting forth the
insufficiency of the sum appropriated by the sundry civil appropriation
act of August 7, 1882, for the deepening of the water-power tail-race
canal at that arsenal, and recommending that a special appropriation
of $20,000 be made for the completion of said work.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 12, 1883_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a report of the Secretary of State and accompanying
papers, furnished in response to the resolution of the House of
Representatives of July 15, 1882, calling for any information in
the possession of the Department of State in reference to any change
or modification of the stipulations which the French Cable Company
made with the Government.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 19, 1883_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a communication
from the Secretary of War, dated the 17th instant, inclosing,
with other papers on the subject, a petition of Thomas Mulvihill,
of Pittsburg, Pa., praying for the repossession of certain shore
lands at Pittsburg erroneously conveyed by him to the United States.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 19, 1883_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication, dated the 18th instant, from the
Secretary of the Interior, with accompanying papers, in relation to the
request of the Cherokee Indians in the Indian Territory for payment for
lands in that Territory west of the ninety-sixth degree west
longitude, the cession of which to the United States for the
settlement of friendly Indians thereon is provided for in the
sixteenth article of the treaty of July 19, 1866.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 19, 1883_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a communication
from the Secretary of War, dated the 17th instant, inclosing copies
of letters respectively from the Chief of Engineers and Colonel A.F.

Rockwell, in charge of public buildings and grounds in this city, urging
the importance of an immediate appropriation of $1,000 for removing
snow and ice from the walks and pavements in and around the various
public reservations under his control during the remainder of the
present fiscal year.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 19, 1883_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_

I have carefully considered the provisions of Senate bill No. 561,
entitled "An act for the relief of Robert Stodart Wyld."
I am of the opinion that the general statute is sufficiently liberal to
provide relief in all proper cases of destroyed United States
bonds, and I believe that the act above referred to constitutes an
evil precedent.

It is not, however, so objectionable as to call for my formal disapproval,
and I have allowed it to become a law under the constitutional
provision, contenting myself with communicating to the Senate, in
which the bill originated, my disapproval of special legislation
of this character.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 19, 1883_.

That gentleman, who knew the ground, was hardly flattered by this
proposition.

"By Jove!" said he, "you are on your own grounds; you ought at least to
do the honors of your woods and let us choose our own positions. I think
you wish to place yourself upon the outskirts, because it is always about
that region that the animal first appears; but there will be two of us,
for I shall go also."

This determination annoyed Christian considerably, since it threatened to
ruin the plan so prudently laid out.

"I am going to put our friend Gerfaut at this post," said he, whispering
to the refractory hunter; "I shall be very much pleased if he has an
opportunity to fire. What difference does one boar more or less make to
an old hunter like you?"

"Well and good; just as you like," retorted Monsieur de Carrier, striking
the ground with the butt-end of his gun, and beginning to whistle in
order to cool off his anger.

When the adversaries found themselves side by side and alone,
Bergenheim's countenance changed suddenly; the smiling look he had
assumed, in order to convince the old hunter of his cheerful disposition,
gave place to deep gravity.

"You remember our agreement," he said, as they walked along; "I feel sure
that the boar will come in our direction. At the moment when I call out,
'Take care!' I shall expect you to fire; if, at the end of twenty
seconds, you have not done so, I warn you that I shall fire myself."

"Very well, Monsieur," said Gerfaut, looking at him fixedly; "you also
doubtless remember my words; the discovery of this body will give them
still more weight. The public prosecutor has already begun his
preliminary proceedings; remember that it depends on me how they shall be
completed. The deposition which I spoke to you about is in the hands of a
safe person, who is fully instructed to make use of it if necessary."

"Marillac, I suppose," said Christian, in an evil tone; "he is your
confidant. It is a fatal secret that you have confided to him, Monsieur.
If I survive today, I shall have to secure his silence. May all this
blood, past, present, and future, be on your head!"

Deeply affected by this reproach, the Vicomte bowed his head in silence.

"Here is my place," said the Baron, stopping before the trunk of an old
oak, "and there is the elm where you are to station yourself."

Gerfaut stopped, and said, in a trembling voice:

"Monsieur, one of us will not leave these woods alive. In the presence of
death, one tells the truth. I hope for your peace of mind, and my own,
that you will believe my last words. I give you till to- morrow morning -
no more.

If by that time your husband does not solemnly bind himself to help
me in this great scheme in which I am interested - 
LADY CHILTERN.

This fraudulent speculation -
MRS. CHEVELEY. Call it what you choose. I hold your husband in the hollow
of my hand, and if you are wise you will make him do what I tell him.

LADY CHILTERN. [Rising and going towards her.] You are impertinent.
What has my husband to do with you? With a woman like you?

MRS. CHEVELEY [With a bitter laugh.] In this world like meets with like.
It is because your husband is himself fraudulent and dishonest that
we pair so well together. Between you and him there are chasms.
He and I are closer than friends. We are enemies linked together.
The same sin binds us.

LADY CHILTERN. How dare you class my husband with yourself? How dare
you threaten him or me? Leave my house. You are unfit to enter
it.

[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN enters from behind. He hears his wife's last
words, and sees to whom they are addressed.

He grows deadly pale.]
MRS. CHEVELEY. Your house! A house bought with the price of dishonour.
A house, everything in which has been paid for by fraud.
[Turns round and sees SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.] Ask him what the origin
of his fortune is! Get him to tell you how he sold to a stockbroker
a Cabinet secret. Learn from him to what you owe your position.
LADY CHILTERN. It is not true! Robert! It is not true!
MRS. CHEVELEY.At the same moment an enormous head appeared, and the report of a gun was
heard. When Gerfaut looked through the smoke caused by his gun, at the
farther end of the ditch, nothing was to be seen but the foliage.

The boar, after crossing the clearing, vanished like a flash, leaving
behind him a trail of broken branches--and Bergenheim lay behind the
trunk of the old oak, upon which large drops of blood had already fallen.


CHAPTER XXVI

BERGENHEIM'S REVENGE

On the same morning the drawing-room of the Bergenheim castle was the
theatre of a quiet home scene very much like the one we described at the
beginning of this story. Mademoiselle de Corandeuil was seated in her
armchair reading the periodicals which had just arrived; Aline was
practising upon the piano, and her sister-in-law was seated before one of
the windows embroidering. By the calm attitude of these three ladies, and
the interest they seemed to show in their several occupations, one would
have supposed that they were all equally peaceful at heart. Madame de
Bergenheim, upon rising, had resumed her usual habits; she managed to
find the proper words to reply when spoken to, her dejection did not
differ from her usual melancholy enough for it to become the subject of
remark. Bob did not object, for he read well, and was rather proud of
it. After this the Bible reading was an established custom, and Bob
got very much interested as he read the history of Joseph, Moses, and
others. Hudson Brownlee, happening to pass one day, stopped to listen
when he saw how they were occupied, and soon a third was added
regularly to the little party. After a parable or any striking passage
had been read they would each give their own idea of its meaning and
teaching, spending much thought upon it in their eagerness to give it
in the best and clearest way.

Often during their work Hudson Brownlee, Bob, and Charlie too, would ponder
over some passage they had heard or read, comparing the different
opinions upon it, applying it, thinking it out, and turning it
over in their mind, until some great truth would stand out from the rest,
fixing itself immoveably in their hearts and understandings. And so
this study of the Bible, begun without any real religious feeling
(on Bob and Brownlee's part, at any rate), led them to higher
things--to a knowledge of God's holiness, of their own sin and
unworthiness, and their need of a Saviour.

But this was a work of time, and we must now go back a little in our
history.

When Charlie had been two months down the mine as a trapper, he was advanced
to a higher post and better wages as a putter. He might have had the
increase of wages quite a month before, but he put off applying for the
place until it was too late, and another boy had been appointed.

Harry Greenwell lent him some elementary books on mechanics, for his old
love for such things was as strong as ever, and now that he was putter
he had many opportunities of examining the working of the engine stationed
down the mine. Those were glorious days for Charlie when it was out of
order, and the engineer had to come down; he would hover round
him, holding the tools for the men, helping to lift or carry anything,
glad of any excuse to be near.

His questions were so sensible and thoughtful, and his suggestions sometimes,
for a youth, so good, that the engineer became quite interested in him,
and explained to him thoroughly the working of the engine, giving
him really valuable teaching in mechanics; and this knowledge stood
him in good stead, as you will hear.

On coming down to his work one morning he was surprised to find his
favourite, the engine, at a stand-still. A number of the miners were
near it, all talking together, trying to account for the accident,
and deploring the absence of the engineer, who was away for a day
or two's holiday.

Mr. Carlton, the viewer, looked vexed and annoyed; he was asking the overman
to send to a mine a few miles off for their engineer. Charlie made his
way to the engine, and soon saw what was wrong. It was not much, and he
felt sure that if he had the help of a pair of strong arms he could get
it into working order.

In his excitement he pushed his way to Mr. Carlton, and exclaimed, "I know
what is wrong with her, sir; if you will just come and look, sir, I'll
show you."
Mr. Carlton, surprised and amused, followed him, and Charlie, stooping
down and pointing up, full of animation, explained so clearly and
intelligently the nature of the misfortune, and how it might be remedied,
that Mr.

Carlton, no longer with the amused expression on his face, called
to one of the men, "Come here, Shields, and help him."

In an hour's time Charlie's pet was working away as hard as ever.

"Well done, my boy," said Mr. Carlton; "tell me where you picked up all
this knowledge."

The men were gone off to their work, and Mr. Carlton soon drew all Charlie's
little history from him. He made no remark, excepting that when Charlie
made his polite bow and turned off to his work, he asked him where
his father lived.

"What is the matter with you?" asked Mademoiselle de Corandeuil, noticing
for the first time her niece's dejected air and the frightened expression
in her eyes.

"Nothing," murmured the latter; "I think it is the heat of the room."

Aline hastily opened a window, then went and took her sister-in-law's
hands in her own.

"You have a fever," said she; "your hands burn and your forehead also; I
did not dare tell you, but your beautiful color--"

A frightful cry which Madame de Bergenheim uttered made the young girl
draw back in fright.

"Clemence! Clemence!" exclaimed Mademoiselle de Corandeuil, who thought
that her niece had gone insane.

"Did you not hear?" she cried, with an accent of terror impossible to
describe. She darted suddenly toward the drawing-room door; but, instead
of opening it, she leaned against it with arms crossed. Then she ran two
or three times around the room in a sort of frenzy, and ended by falling
upon her knees before the sofa and burying her head in its cushions.

This scene bewildered the two women. While Mademoiselle de Corandeuil
tried to raise Clemence, Aline, still more frightened, ran out of the
room to call for aid. A rumor which had just begun to arise in the
courtyard was distinctly heard when the door was thrown open. A moment
more, and a piercing shriek was heard, and the young girl rushed into the
parlor; throwing herself on her knees beside her sister-in-law she
pressed her to her breast with convulsive energy.

As she felt herself seized in this fashion, Clemence raised her head and,
placing her hands upon Aline's shoulders, she pushed her backward and
gazed at her with eyes that seemed to devour her.

"Which? which?" she asked, in a harsh voice.

"My brother--covered with blood!" stammered Aline.

Madame de Bergenheim pushed her aside and threw herself upon the sofa.
Her first feeling was a horrible joy at not hearing the name of Octave;
but she tried to smother her hysterical utterances by pressing her mouth
against the cushion upon which her face was leaning.

A noise of voices was heard in the vestibule; the greatest confusion
seemed to reign among the people outside. At last, several men entered
the drawing room; at their head was Monsieur de Camier, whose ruddy face
had lost all its color.

"Do not be frightened, ladies," said he, in a trembling voice; "do not be
frightened. It is only a slight accident, without any danger. Monsieur de
Bergenheim was wounded in the hunt," he continued, addressing
Mademoiselle de Corandeuil.

At last, the folding-doors were thrown open, and two servants appeared,
bearing the Baron upon a mattress.

When the servants had deposited their burden in front of one of the
windows, Aline threw herself upon her brother's body, uttering
heartrending cries. Madame de Bergenheim did not stir; she lay upon the
sofa with eyes and ears buried in the cushions, and seemed deaf and blind
to all that surrounded her. Mademoiselle de Corandeuil was the only one
who preserved her presence of mind. Controlling her emotion, she leaned
over the Baron and sought for some sign of life.

"Is he dead?" she asked, in a low voice, of Monsieur de Camier.

"No, Mademoiselle," replied the latter, in a tone which announced that he
had little hope.

"Has a physician been sent for?"

"To Remiremont, Epinal, everywhere."

At this moment Aline uttered a cry of joy. Bergenheim had just stirred,
brought to life, perhaps, by the pressure of his sister's arms. He opened
his eyes and, closed them several times; at last his energy triumphed
over his sufferings; he sat up on his improvised cot and, leaning upon
his left elbow, he glanced around the room.

"My wife!" said he, in a weak voice.

Madame de Bergenheim arose and forced her way through the group that
surrounded the mattress, and silently took her place beside her husband.
Her features had changed so terribly within a few moments that a murmur
of pity ran through the group of men that filled the room.

"Take my sister away," said Christian, disengaging his hand from the
young girl, who was covering it with kisses and tears.

"My brother! I can not leave my brother!" exclaimed Aline, as she was
dragged away rather than led to her room.

"Leave me for a moment," continued the Baron; "I wish to speak to my
wife."

Mademoiselle de Corandeuil gave Monsieur de Gamier a questioning glance,
as if to ask if it were best to grant this request.

"We can do nothing before the doctors arrive," said the latter, in a low
voice, "and perhaps it would be imprudent to oppose him."

Mademoiselle de Corandeuil recognized the correctness of this
observation, and left the room, asking the others to follow her. During
this time, Madame de Bergenheim remained motionless in her place,
apparently insensible to all that surrounded her. The noise of the
closing door aroused her from her stupor. She looked around the room as
if she were seeking the others; her eyes, which were opened with the
fixed look of a somnambulist, did not change their expression when they
fell upon her husband.

"Come nearer," said he, "I have not strength enough to speak loud."

She obeyed mechanically. When she saw the large red stain which had
soaked Christian's right sleeve, she closed her eyes, threw back her
head, and her features contracted with a horrified expression.

"You women are wonderfully fastidious," said the Baron, as he noticed
this movement; "you delight in causing a murder, but the slightest
scratch frightens you. Pass over to the left side; you will not see so
much blood-besides, it is the side where the heart is."

There was something terrible in the irony of the voice in which he spoke
at this moment. Clemence fell upon her knees beside him and took his
hand, crying,

"Pardon! pardon!"

The dying man took away his hand, raised his wife's head, and, looking at
her a few moments attentively, he said at last:

"Your eyes are very dry. No tears! What! not one tear when you see me
thus!"

"I can not weep," replied she; "I shall die!"

"It is very humiliating for me to be so poorly regretted, and it does you
little honor--try to shed a few tears, Madame--it will be remarked--a
widow who does not weep!"

"A widow--never!" she said, with energy.

"It would be convenient if they sold tears as they sell crape, would it
not? Ah! only you women have a real talent for that--all women know how
to weep."

"You will not die, Christian--oh! tell me that you will not die--and that
you will forgive me."

"Your lover has killed me," said Bergenheim, slowly; "I have a bullet in
my chest--I feel it--I am the one who is to die--in less than an hour I
shall be a corpse--don't you see how hard it is already for me to talk?"

In reality his voice was becoming weaker and weaker. His breath grew
shorter with each word; a wheezing sound within his chest indicated the
extent of the lesion and the continued extravasation of blood.

"Mercy! pardon!" exclaimed the unhappy woman, prostrating herself upon
the floor.

"More air--open the windows--" said the Baron, as he fell back upon the
mattress, exhausted by the efforts he had just made to talk.

Madame de Bergenheim obeyed his order with the precision of an automaton.
A fresh, pure breeze entered the room; when the curtains were raised,
floods of light illuminated the floor, and the old portraits, suddenly
lighted up, looked like ghosts who had left their graves to witness the
death agonies of the last of their descendants. Christian, refreshed by
the air which swept over his face, sat up again. He gazed with a
melancholy eye at the radiant sun and the green woods which lay stretched
out in front of the chateau.

"I lost my father on such a day as this," said he, as if talking to
himself--"all our family die during the beautiful weather--ah! do you see
that smoke over the Montigny rock?" he exclaimed, suddenly.

After opening the windows, Clemence stepped out upon the balcony. Leaning
upon the balustrade, she gazed at the deep, rapid river which flowed at
her feet. Her husband's voice calling her aroused her from this gloomy
contemplation. When she returned to Christian, his eyes were flaming, a
flush like that of fever had overspread his cheeks, and a writhing,
furious indignation was depicted upon his face. "Were you looking at that
smoke?" said he, angrily; "it is your lover's signal; he is there--he is
waiting to take you away--and I, your husband, forbid you to go--you must
not leave me--your place is here--close by me."

"Close by you," she repeated, not understanding what he said.

"Wait at least until I am dead," he continued, while his eyes flashed
more and more--"let my body get cold--when you are a widow you can do as
you like--you will be free--and even then--I forbid it--I order you to
wear mourning for me--above all, try to weep--"

"Strike me with a knife! At least I should bleed," said she, bending
toward him and tearing open her dress to lay bare her bosom.

He seized her by the arm, and, exerting all his wasting strength to reach
her, he said, in a voice whose harshness was changed almost into
supplication:

"Clemence, do not dishonor me by giving yourself to him when I am dead--I
would curse you if I thought that you would do that."

"Oh! do not curse me!" she exclaimed; "do not drive me mad. Do you not
know that I am about to die?"

"There are women who do not see their husband's blood upon their lover's
hands--but I would curse you--"

He dropped Clemence's arm and fell back upon the mattress with a sob. For
Children. By GRACE GREENWOOD, Author of "History of my Pets," "Merrie
England," etc., etc. With Illustrations by BILLINGS.

Boston: Ticknor & Fields.

All "famous ballads" are so close to Nature in their conceptions,
emotions, incidents, and expressions, that it seems hardly possible
to change their form without losing their soul.

The present little volume proves that they may be turned into prose stories
for children, and yet preserve much of the vitality of their sentiment
and the interest of their narrative. Grace Greenwood, well known for her
previous successes in writing works for the young, has contrived in this,
her most difficult task, to combine simplicity with energy and richness
of diction, and to present the events and characters of the Ballads in
the form best calculated to fill the youthful imagination and kindle the
youthful love of action and adventure. Among the subjects are Patient
Griselda, The King of France's Daughter, Chevy Chase, The Beggar's
Daughter of Bednall Green, Sir Patrick Spens, and Auld Robin Gray. Much
of the author's success in giving prose versions of these, without
making them prosaic, is due to the intense admiration she evidently
feels for the originals.

Among American children's books, this volume deserves a high place.

* * * * *

_Mary Staunton; or the Pupils of Marvel Hall_. By the Author of "Portraits
of, my Married Friends." New York: D. Appleton & Co.

This story has a practical aim, the exposure of the faults of fashionable
boarding-schools. "A good plot, and full of expectation," as Hotspur
said; but the author had not the ability to execute the design. The satire
and denunciation are both weak, and are not relieved by the introduction
of a very silly and threadbare love-story.

* * * * *
_Poems_. By the Author of "John Halifax," "A Life for a Life,"
etc.
Boston: Ticknor & Fields.Thus the same grave received this couple, still in the bloom of
life, to whom their great mutual affection seemed to promise a most happy
future."

Twenty-eight months later the Parisian journals, in their turn, inserted,
with but slight variations, the following article:

"Nothing could give any idea of the enthusiasm manifested at the
Theatre-Francais last evening, at the first representation of Monsieur de
Gerfaut's new drama. Never has this writer, whose silence literature has
deplored for too long a time, distinguished himself so highly. His early
departure for the East is announced. Let us hope that this voyage will
turn to the advantage of art, and that the beautiful and sunny countries
of Asia will be a mine for new inspirations for this celebrated poet, who
has taken, in such a glorious manner, his place at the heal of our
literature."

Bergenheim's last wish had been realized; his honor was secure; nobody
outraged by even an incredulous smile the purity of Clemence's
winding-sheet; and the world did not refuse to their double grave the
commonplace consideration that had surrounded their lives.

Clemence's death did not destroy the future of the man who loved her so
passionately, but the mourning he wears for her, to this day, is of the
kind that is never put aside. And, as the poet's heart was always
reflected in his works, the world took part in this mourning without
being initiated into its mystery. When the bitter cup of memory
overflowed in them, they believed it to be a new vein which had opened in
the writer's brain. Octave received, every day, congratulations upon this
sadly exquisite tone of his lyre, whose vibrations surpassed in supreme
intensity the sighs of Rene or Obermann's Reveries. Some of the verses
in this little volume are quite pretty, especially those entitled, "By
the Alma River," "The Night before the Mowing," "My Christian Name," and
"My Love Annie." Miss Muloch is not able to take any high rank as a
poetess, and very sensibly does not tryETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Attractive abyss of drunkenness
     Obstinacy of drunkenness

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS FOR THE ENTIRE GERFAULT:

     Antipathy for her husband bordering upon aversion
     Attractions that difficulties give to pleasure
     Attractive abyss of drunkenness
     Consented to become a wife so as not to remain a maiden
     Despotic tone which a woman assumes when sure of her empire
     Evident that the man was above his costume; a rare thing!
     I believed it all; one is so happy to believe!
     It is a terrible step for a woman to take, from No to Yes
     Lady who requires urging, although she is dying to sing
     Let them laugh that win!
     One day, while the women were
     spinning flax and cactus fibre and the men were
     gathering maize, Hauk descended into the
     settlement and stole another of Suha's daughters.
     The patriarch, whose patience
     had been taxed to its limit, then made a vow to slay the
     devil. He watched to see
     by what way he entered the valley. He silently followed him
     into the Superstition Mountains; he drugged the
     cactus wine that his daughter was
     to serve to him; then, when he had drunk it, Suha
     emerged from his place of hiding and beat out the brains of the
     stupefied fiend.
     
     Some of the devil's brains were scattered
     and became seed for other evil, but there was less
     wickedness in the world after Hauk had been disposed of than there
had been before.'