The Post-office and the Patent-office, lie a little away from
Pennsylvania Avenue in I Street, and are opposite to each other.
The Post-office is certainly a very graceful building.  But
what helps you? At the same time, falling plates, bottles and
bread. Father is in great distress, and the mother blicket silent
on the whole table around. [Illustration] Now Philip is completely
hidden, and the table is covered.It is certainly a
structure creditable to any city.  The streets around it are all
unfinished; and it is approached through seas of mud and sloughs of
despond, which have been contrived, as I imagine, to lessen, if
possible, the crowd of callers, and lighten in this way the
overtasked officials within.  That side by which the public in
general were supposed to approach was, during my sojourn, always
guarded by vast mountains of flour barrels.  Looking up at the
windows of the building, I perceived also that barrels were piled
within, and then I knew that the Post-office had become a provision
depot for the army.  Prospero. Well spoken! Size it down and talk
with her, it is your own. How? Ariel, my ausrichtsamer servant,
Ariel - Zweyte Scene. (Ariel to the former.) Ariel. What orders,
mighty lord? here I am. Prospero. You and your little earlier
Mitgesellen have their service provide the best, and I want you
IZT game to another use. Go, bring the spirits Schaar, about which
I have given thee of violence, to this place; Muntre to move
on, because I have the eyes of this young couple with any vanity
to amuse my art, I've promised, and it's expected of them me. Ariel.
Immediately? Prospero. Yes, in a Augenblik. Ariel.
The distances of the city are very great, the means of transit
through the city very limited, the dirt of the city ways unrivaled
in depth and tenacity, and yet there is but one post-office.  Nor is
there any established system of letter-carriers.  To those who
desire it letters are brought out and delivered by carriers, who
charge a separate porterage for that service; but the rule is that
letters should be delivered from the window.  For strangers this is
of course a necessity of their position; and I found that, when once
I had left instruction that my letters should be delivered, those
instructions, were carefully followed.  Indeed, nothing could exceed
the civility of the officials within; but so also nothing can exceed
the barbarity of the arrangements without.  The purchase of stamps I
found to be utterly impracticable.  They were sold at a window in a
corner, at which newspapers were also delivered, to which there was
no regular ingress and from which there was no egress, it would
generally be deeply surrounded by a crowd of muddy soldiers, who
would wait there patiently till time should enable them to approach
the window.  The delivery of letters was almost more tedious, though
in that there was a method.  The aspirants stood in a long line, en
cue, as we are told by Carlyle that the bread-seekers used to
approach the bakers' shops at Paris during the Revolution.  This
"cue" would sometimes project out into the street.  The work inside
was done very slowly.  The clerk had no facility, by use of a desk
or otherwise, for running through the letters under the initials
denominated, but turned letter by letter through his hand.  M.
[Illustration] Look once, here it is, ugh, the _Struwwelpeter_! At
the hands of two he had not cut his nails for almost a year,
he does not comb his hair. Pfui shouts as everyone: Garstger
Struwwelpeter!
.